Volume 72, No. 12
December 16, 1938
2
NOTRE DAME SCHOLAS1IC
THE REVIEW OF POLITICS
A Publication of the Department of Politics
OF
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
A QUARTERLY MAGAZINE, The “Review of Politics” will be devoted to a discussion of the political problems of our time in relation to their philosophical, historical and institutional background. Particular attention will be given to the issues created by the rise of modern totalitarian governments.
Editor DR. WALDEMAR GURIAN Associate Professor of Politics
Associate Editors
MR. FRANK J. O’MALLEY	DR. F. A. HERMENS
Assistant Professor of English	Associate Professor of Politics
FIRST ISSUE OFF THE PRESS DECEMBER 15th
Subscription	.	Student Subscription
#2.50 a Year	#2.00 a Year
ADDRESS THE REVIEW OF POLITICS Notre Dame, Indiana
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25. 1918.
Z 188
Vol. 72
December 16, 1938
No. 12
'REVIEW OF POLITICS* MAKES FIRST BOW
•
The first issue of The Review of Politics, a quarterly dealing with political realities and theories, rolled off the Ave Maria presses yesterday afternoon. The editors are Waldemar Gurian, Ferdinand A. Hermens and Francis J. O’Malley, all members of the University faculty.
The first issue contains many of the papers presented by the distinguished philosophers and political scientists at the Symposium on Political and Social Philosophy held on campus the first week in November. Jacques Maritain writes of “Integral Humanism and the Crisis of Modern Times”; Carl J. Friedrich of Harvard University contributes “The Threat of State Absolutism”; Mortimer Adler of Chicago University comments on “Parties and the Common Good”; Morstein Marx of Harvard defines “Bureaucracy and Consultation”; and Goetz Briefs considers the “Proletariat.”
Contributions by Father Delos of the Catholic University of Lille, France, Gerald B. Phelan, president of the Institute of Medieval Studies of Toronto, H. C. F. Bell of Wesleyan University of Connecticut, Pierre Mesnard of the University of Algiers, Africa, and Dr. Hans Barth of Zurich, Switzerland, will appear in early issues. Many members of the University faculty including Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., Rev. Charles Miltner, C.S.C., and Willis Nutting will also contribute.
The Revietv of Politics is interested primarily in the philosophical and historical approach to political realities, although the analysis of institutions and techniques will not be neglected.
Award S. A. C. Prizes
The Student Activities Council, through its president, Daniel J. Donovan, this week announced the award of its annual scholarship prizes. These prizes of $25.00 each are awarded each year to the four sophomores having the highest scholastic averages in their respective colleges for the freshman year’s work. The recipients were Albert J. Del Zoppo, Arts and Letters; Ralph A. Gerra, Commerce; James A. Champley, Engineering; Arthur G. Starr, Science.
Irish Awarded Rockne Memorial Trophy At Football Banquet
•
Joe E. Brown had the wit and the larnyx to carry the 1938 football banquet over four hours of laugh hurdles in the east dining hall, last Monday night — although he couldn’t carry some of the fractions Professor Frank Dickenson of Illinois manufactured to prove Notre Dame’s claim to the mythical national football championship. However, the professor clarified matters in the end by stating that
Herex’s Brown
This year he wasn’t toastmaster.
the Irish won the Rockne Memorial Trophy “by meeting stronger opponents than any other eleven in the United States.”
Dillon J. Patterson, president of the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley which sponsors the banquet each year, introduced Toastmaster Brown, who said simply: “I am not going to tell a lot of old jokes and unfunny anecdotes, but I will introduce some speakers who will.... tell some entertaining stories.”
Lawrence J. Lane paid South Bend’s respect in fine style although at one stage he sputtered, searched for a word, and then (with more truth than oratory) spoke of a “revival” of downtown loyalty. Mal El-ward, head coach of Purdue, followed and set the stage for Jimmy Conzel-man by lightly scoring Robert M. Hutchins, president of the University of Chicago, for his magazine article (Continued on Page 20)
MORRISSEY DEBATERS
WIN FROM ALUMNI
By Ed Huston
A young lady has moved into Morrissey Hall. She is Victory, tiny and silver, and she stands atop the Wrangler Interhall Debate Trophy which Morrissey won by defeating Alumni in a tight final debate staged in the auditorium of the Law Building last Tuesday night.
Frank Fitch’s Morrissey s o p h o -mores—Walsh, Holl and Grady—won partly by convincing the judge, varsity debate coach, William Coyne, that the government should continue to use public funds in the pump priming business, and partly because Bob Weaver’s Alumni tri o—Wintermeir. Neuman and Colgan—insisted with greater originality than acumen upon presenting not one, not two, but three unco-ordinated versions of the affirmative case.
Neuman, batting second for Alumni, admitted that pump priming had stimulated business, whereupon Colgan followed with the bland statement that pump priming had not stimulated business. Not knowing which to believe Judge Coyne played safe and awarded the debate to Morrissey by a comfortable 67-52 margin.
After the decision Judge Coyne remarked: “These debates showed enthusiasm and logical reasoning. Morrissey had the better prepared case and deserved to win.”
Al Funk, chairman of the debates, made the presentation of the trophy, congratulated his varsity debate partner Frank Fitch, and then consoled Bob Weaver. It marked, incidentally, Mr. Weaver’s third consecutive and unsuccessful attempt to get Alumni out of the minor leagues.
Sometime after the holidays the whole fracas will be argued over the campus radio station for an audience decision, which will, however, have no influence on Tuesday’s outcome. Morrissey is the 1938 interhall debate champion regardless of the outcome of the radio poll.
Sons of Alumni
If your father, or his father before him, was a student at Notre Dam^ the Alumni office would like you to drop around sometime before you leave for the Christmas vacation just to check up on things. The Alumni Office is located on the first floor of the Main Building.
4
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
COYNE PICKS VARSITY DEBATE SQUADS
THE WEEK
By Bill Donnelly
From the mill of interhall debate competition and a month of intersquad bickering has emerged the 1938 varsity debate team. Coach William J. Coyne named Frank Parks, Milton • Williams, Al Funk and Frank Fitch to “A” squad posts following the final inter-team meeting Wednesday. At the same time, Jerry Flynn, John Wintermeyer, Tom Grady and William Meyers were named as “B” team alternates.
A committee of Mr. Fagan and Mr. Sheehan of the Economics Department, and Mr. Francis E. Moran and
Coach Coyne The men are picked.
Mr. Stephen H. Ronay, of the English Department, aided Coach Coyne in the final selections.
The Parks - Williams, Funk - Fitch give Coach Coyne two veteran duos for the state tournament which will take place at Manchester College, February 24 and 25. The University of Iowa will visit the campus, March 3, and Wisconsin will be met at Madison, March 24. Tentative home debates have been scheduled with Florida, William and Mary, and Cornell.
The national debate is the familiar one which was battered by the interhall teams: “Resolved: That the United States should cease to use public funds for the purpose of stimulating business.
Schoolmen Hear Hoche
Tom Roche, president of the Schoolmen, will deliver a talk, on “How Philosophical Concepts Were Formed from Theological Concepts,” Thursday, Jan. 12, at the Rose Marie tea room.
. After the resume, based on Gilson’s "“Spirit of Medieval Philosophy,” an open house discussion will take place under the guidance of Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., associate professor of philosophy. Tom Hackett will he chairman of the affair.
Dear Santa Claus,
In case you are hard-pressed for ideas (too), here are a few timely suggestions to help you out with a few deserving people:
Mr. Simon Legree Nicholson: One horsewhip to snap at the track men as they go past at the end of each lap.
Mr. S. L. Keogan: Five horsewhips.
Mr. Elmer Layden: One onion.*
Father Broughal: This one column handed in on time.
Messrs. Nelson and Ziegler: One Brenda Frazier apiece.
Mr. William O’Toole: One rhyme for “Rockne” besides “knock-knee.”
Mr. James Costin: One million fan letters telling him how good he is.
Dr. McMahon: One joke.
Mr. F. J. O’Malley: One membership in the “Book of the Month” club.
Mr. Yves Simon: One fur - lined beret with ear muffs.
Hoping this letter finds you in good health and that these suggestions will prove helpful to you, we remain.
Faithfully yours, “THE WEEK”
P.S. We will forget all about the deal you gave us last year if you will leave us a sufficient supply of anecdotes to tide this column over until June.
•
Top of the Week
Happy New Year!
•
Bottom of the Week
The next day.
•
Classroom Ciownings
From the tone of the classroom anecdotes we have been hearing recently, we have concluded that the trend in relations between professor and class is definitely toward the informal. It is incidents like this one concerning the Economics seniors (the whackiest crew that ever charted a cycle) that break down the traditions of staid decorum and colld formality. Before class one day a short while back these Economics majors pulled down all the shades in their classroom so that the room was completely dark, and then they crouched down low in their seats or even on the floor to get completely out of sight. The professor opened the door, and before he could recover from the shock of the darkness confronting him, they all growled out a low, eerie “Boooo”
* Explanation of joke: Since prospects for next fall look so favorable Elmer will need an artificial means of producing the tears necessary for his speeches and statements to the press.
that practically scared the wits out of him.
Another prank the Economics seniors pulled recently was to erase one sentence of an outline the professor had ready on the board before the class began, and to insert in its place a well-known fact about one of the students in the class, to wit — “McAuliffe is a meat-head.” When the class began, the professor told them to copy the outline and some of the students who weren’t in on the joke actually copied that sentence along with the rest of the outline without even doubting its authenticity.
But the professors themselves are not letting any grass grow under their feet; they are playing pranks on their students. For instance, the philosophy professor whose class hid under the stairs while he hurried up over them at nine after, told his class, in order to prevent any recurrence of such an affair, that he would always have a note there for them at the beginning of the period if he were going to be absent. But one day the period began and there was neither professor nor note. At ten after, they were pondering the problem when suddenly the door opened, and. a Western Union boy standing in the doorway announced, “The class is dismissed.”
We almost had a good story out of our Shakespeare class. It is taught in the tower room of the law building and there is a nifty little ladder there leading up through a trap door into the attic. Before class one day, two students climbed up to explore and the class conceived the bright idea of having them hide up there until the professor called the roll. Then each of them was supposed to poke his head down and say “Present” as soon as his name was called. One of the students, who was laying chickie, suddenly announced that the prof was coming, and what did the two fellows do but get cold feet. They were scampering down the ladder just as the prof came into the room. “Oh,” he said, “Santa Claus is arriving early,” or some such typically professorial pleasantry, and the plan had failed.
We have thought of a plan whereby the whole class hides up in the attic and jumps down one by one as the prof calls the roll, but it doesn’t appear practical because of lack of space. Right now we are working on another plan, however, in which the professor himself hides up there, and, just as the class, is going to leave at ten after, he cackles a fiendishly gleeful laugh and leaps through the hole crying, “Surprise! Foiled again!”
DECEMBER 16, 1938
5
SIXTY NEW MEMBERS
ENTER K. OF C.
•
Members of the Notre Dame council of Knights of Columbus celebrated a full day of Columbianism last Sunday when 60 new members were taken into the order.
For the Knights the day started with 8 o’clock Mass celebrated by Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C., chaplain of the council, in the Alumni hall chapel. More than 150 members then attended the Communion breakfast which was held in the University
Grand Knight Murphy
Leads a rapidly growing council.
dining hall. Rev. Frank Cavanaugh, C.S.C., the principal speaker, chose for his subject “Catholic Action.”
Father Cavanaugh defined Catholic Action as the lay and clerical participation in the unfinished work of the crucified Christ. The complete and full Catholic living must be a personal living, he said. For successful Catholic Action there should be a specific application of the inherent truths of Catholic doctrine, toleration of others, and whole-hearted devotion.
The committee in charge of the breakfast was headed by George Mc-Morrow. Other members of the committee were: Robert F. Voelker and Irving Klister.
In the afternoon 60 students and eight candidates from other councils received the second and third degrees of the order. The exemplification of the degrees was in charge of the Fort Wayne degree team, headed by Henry Hasley, state advocate of the order and state chairman of the Catholic Activities committee. James P. Metzler served as chairman of a committee in charge of the rituals. He was aided by Richard L. Walter and James A. Johnson.
Following the degree, the newly initiated members were the guests of honor at a banquet in the Bronzewood room of the Hotel LaSalle. State Secretary George M. Kinzel, Gary, wel-
- .(Continued on Page 21)
College Parade
By Fred E. Sisk
On Paper
Although the football meal for 1938 is now pretty well finished — except for the finger “bowls” — the Xavier University News reports that Xavier is 17 points better than Notre Dame from one viewpoint and three points inferior to N. D. from another angle. Their juggling of figures to attain the desired results goes something like this: N. D. beat Carnegie Tech 7 to 0; the latter won from Akron 27 to 13; Xavier defeated Akron 38 to 0—now hold your hats— therefore, Xavier is 38 points superior to the same team (Akron) that the Irish are only 21 points superior to. Subtracting 21 from 38 leaves 17 which represents the superiority of the Cincinnatians over the Irish. Process number two arrives at a conclusion whereby the Irish are only three points better than Xavier. Ohio U. trimmed Illinois 6 to 0; the Illini were defeated by N. D. 14 to 7; therefore, N. D. is one point better than Ohio, and since Ohio holds a two point victory over Xavier, two and one makes three which is Notre Dame’s bare majority over Xavier.
Address your complaints to the Xavier comparative scoring department.
“Flukes” in the Parade
The man who brags, “I run things in my house,” usually refers to the lawn mower, washing machine, vacuum cleaner, baby carriage, and errands. —Princeton Tiger.
The train robber was holding up a Pullman car, “Out with yer dough or I’ll kill all the men without money, and kiss all the women.”
An elderly man said, “You shall not touch these ladies.”
An old maid in an upper berth shouted, “You leave him alone; he’s robbing this train.”—Annapolis Log.
“Floats” in the Parade
Loyola University students at Los Angeles presented the play “Room Service” recently.... The proceeds of the play will be used to pave the roads on the Loyola campus.... Duquesne University football and basketball trainer not only specializes in hauling water and in rub-downs.... He’s also a singer of no little repute .... A Shakespeare “prof” at the U. of Alabama avers that “Persons who turn on the radio as soon as they come in the house will have terrible minds twenty years from now.”.... Of course, he has no radio on his personal property list, but he admits he might like to hear Charlie McCarthy and Fannie Brice.
CHICAGOANS HOLD CHRISTMAS DANCE
President Daniel J. Ryan has announced that the annual Christmas Dance of the Chicago Club of Notre Dame will be held on Monday, Dec. 26, in the Gold Coast Room of Chi-
Chairman McDermott
Directs “Windy City” festivities.
cago’s Drake Hotel. Joseph E. McDermott, a senior in the College of Commerce will act as chairman.
Charley Gaylord and his orchestra will play for the dance. Arrangements have been made to provide entertainment by the floor show regularly appearing at the Drake.
Tickets will be available on the campus at 229 Sorin, and at the door the night of the dance. The price is $3.00 a couple if the ticket is bought here; $3.50 in Chicago. Reservations may be made either on the campus or at the hotel.
Chairman McDermott pointed out that the Chicago Club dance is always well attended, and emphasized the necessity for making reservations early. The dance is not restricted to members of the club, hence it is permissible for students remaining on the campus over the holidays to attend. Friends of members in Chicago will also be most welcome.
Pittsburgh Club
The Pittsburgh Club has completed plans for its Christmas dance, to he held at the Pittsburgh Field Club, Jan. 2, President Jack McGovern announced Thursday. The entire club has been invited to the football luncheon which the alumni will stage at the Hotel Henry, Dec. 22.
If T.B. is to be licked you must do your part. This is easiest done by licking the back of Christmas Seals. Get ’em now!
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Our Daily Bread
Liturgy
St. Thomas teaches (111. 13.2) that the end of the Incarnation is to renew all things in heaven and on earth (Ephesians: 1.10). This renewal is that “you may be made partakers of the divine nature” (2 Peter. 1.4) St. Augustine says: “He descended that we might ascend, and whilst retaining His own divine nature He partook of our human nature, that we, whilst retaining our own nature might become partakers of His.” The prayer which we say at the commingling of wine and water at the Offertory is: “O God, who in creating human nature didst marvellously ennoble it, and hast still more marvellously renewed it, grant that by the mystery of this water and wine we may be made partakers of His Godhead, who vouchsafed to become partaker of our humanity, Jesus Christ, thy Son, our Lord.” The Word was made flesh to save mankind by forgiving sin. On Calvary, the complement of Bethlehem, the Man-God took away sin. What He did then by the instrumentality of His humanity he continues to do by the instrumentality of the sacraments.
“The gifts we offer to Thou, O Lord, sanctify by the new birth of Thine only - begotten Son: and cleanse us from the stains of our sins.” (Secret: 3d mass of Christmas.)
Mass Calendar: Dec. 18 to 24
Sunday 18 — Fourth in Advent. Simple. 2d Collect Blessed Virgin in Advent. 3d Church or Pope.
Monday 19—Ferial. Simple. Mass of preceding Sunday. 2d Collect Blessed Virgin in Advent. 3d Faithful Departed. 4th Church or Pope.
Tuesday 20—Vigil of St. Thomas. Simple. 2d Collect preceding Sunday. 3d Blessed Virgin in Advent.
Wednesday 21—St. Thomas, Apostle. Double 2d Class. 2d Collect preceding Sunday. Credo. Thomas, the doubting disciple, exclaimed “My Lord and my God” on seeing his risen Master.
Thursday 22—Ferial. Simple. Mass of preceding Sunday. 2d Collect Blessed Virgin in Advent. 3d Church or Pope.
Friday 23—Ferial. Simple. Everything as yesterday.
Saturday 24—Vigil of the Nativity of Our Lord Jesus Christ. Double. Mass proper of the day. One Collect. No Gloria. No Credo. Day of fast and abstinence.
There is no Joy in Slotsville; Read the Very Sod Story of a Gullible Gentleman named Joe
By Ed Fulham
Notre Dame, Dec. 10th Dear Anne,
I received your invitation to your party on Dec. 22nd, and I want to thank you for remembering me. Unfortunately I have a date on that night, and I will have to bow out. I know your party will be a huge success, and thanks again.
Sincerely,	Joe.
Notre Dame, Dec. 10th . Dear Ruth,
It was nice of you to ask me to your tea dance, but I’m afraid I won’t be able to make it. Unfortunately I
Jingle Belles, Jingle Belles; only nine shopping. days till Christmas.
have a date for Dec. 23rd. Thanks again and say hello to your family for me.
Sincerely,	Joe.
Notre Dame, Dec. 11th Dear Dorothy,
I had begun to think you had forgotten me and then.your letter came this morning. I can think of nothing I would rather do than go on that week-end party with you and your family. Unfortunately I have a date for the 24th, and I’ll have to hang around the house Christmas Day. I know you’ll have a swell time and I hate to miss it. Thanks again.
Sincerely,	Joe.
Dear Helen:
Notre Dame, Dec. 12th
Knowing that I owed you a letter I was surprised to hear from you. I want to thank you for asking me to youi' parties, but unfortunately I have a date for the 26th and 27th so I just can’t make it. If you see Bill say hello to him for me. Thanks again.
Sincerely,	Joe.
Notre Dame, Dec. 15th Dear Edythe,
Just a line to tell you how much I appreciated your invitation. I would really like to make it but unfortunately I have a date for the 27th. Thanks again, Edythe.
Sincerely,	Joe.
Notre Dame, Dec. 15th. Dear Mary, That New Year’s Eve party sounds great and I would like to make it. I have a date for New Year’s Eve, and so I’ll have to miss it. Say hello to your family for me, and thanks again. Sincerely,	Joe.
Notre Dame, Dec. 16th Dear Joan,
I would like to make that party you are throwing Jan. 3rd. But it is my last night home and I had better stay with the family. Thanks a lot and say hello to your father for me.
Sincerely,	Joe.
Slatsville, Mo., Dec. 18th Dear Joe,
Just think, Joe, you’ll be home in about two days. I suppose you will think I’m silly for writing when I’ll be seeing you in such a short time. But that’s why I’m writing.
Honestly, Joe, we did have a grand summer, didn’t we? I remember when you left school and how much I missed you at first. I also remember that we planned on having a date every night when you came home for Christmas vacation.
But people change, Joe, and I guess I’ve changed a little, too. I really would like to keep all those dates, but unfortunately I have found myself dated up for almost every night during vacation, and I don’t see how I can break them now.
I know you’ll forgive me, Joe. Anyhow, you’ll be busy going to a lot of parties. Mary, Helen, Anne, and Ruth are having parties and I know you’ll be invited.
I’m going to be free on the afternoon of Jan. 6th, and if you cut any days please come and see me.
. Sincerely,	Betty.
(Author’s note: Joe was last seen heading towards the St. Joe River.)
DECEMBER 16, 1938
7
DEMOCRACY DEFINED BY DR. HERMENS
•
On Dec. 14, Dr. F. A. Hermens, faculty member of the Department of Politics, addressed the Academy of Political Science at their dinner at the Morningside Hotel. Larry Ferguson acted as chairman of the affair and introduced Dr. Hermens who chose Proportional Representation as his subject of discourse.
Among his colleagues in the field of politics, Dr. Hermens is duly recognized as an authority on the topic he discussed. In presenting his case before the undergraduate politics students, the speaker lost no time in proving his right to such a reputation. By way of catching the hearer’s interest the address was opened with this startling but true statement, “Strangely enough most dangers to democracy come at the present time from those who sincerely believe themselves to be its friends. To their way of thinking democracy means absolute liberty of the individual whose rights are not linked with corresponding duties.”
In continuing his paper by proving and clarifying his stand, Dr. Hermens supported his argument by presenting illustrative examples of the outcome of a well meaning method of Proportional Representation. He first cited Germany where the Weimar Republic with its Proportional Representation paved the way for Hitler’s entrance as a dictator. Likewise in Italy “parliamentary paralysis” necessitated dictatorship and Mussolini. The unwieldiness of Proportional Representation forced Dr. Dollfuss of Austria to dissolve the Austrian Parliament. Completing the list of countries which have suffered at the hands of Proportional Representation were named
• Greece, Czechoslovakia, Belgium, Holland and Ireland. The last named was forced to accept P. R. by England, but has since tried unceasingly to free herself of it.
To those who declaim the present system of representation, Dr. Hermens suggests that a minimum of seats be reserved for the minority. Unless this change is made majority groups will be ousted by “reform movements” as has been done in New York. Another danger is racial division which has developed and forced the abandonment of Proportional Representation in several cities.
. In closing his very powerful and scholarly case against Proportional Representation, Dr. Hermens left his audience with the thought that, “There would indeed be real danger for American democracy if Proportional Representation were allowed to produce similar results in other cities, and ultimately in state and national elections.”
Man About the Campus
By Graham Starr
He has it all over the other politicians. Had the Met club election of last year tied up so far in advance that the whole party won unanimously for lack of opposition.
That is typical of the way George Michael O’Neil, of Pelham, N. Y., president of the Met club, does things.
Next to seeing that he graduates in June, guidance of the Met club is his main campus interest. For one
thing he is keeping the club’s ledgers in black ink, which is somewhat of a tradition-breaking stunt.
Although he and Larry Doyle, New Jersey club president, are usually at swords’ points because of the rivalry between the states, they managed to get together to concoct special rate railroad ticket schemes for the holiday excursion to New York. Are known as the railroad tycoons of the campus.
Even though George is the personification of d-a-s-h, he didn’t have enough of that quality the morning after the Notre Dame Army game in New York. He had football Captain Jimmy McGoldrick out with him at the Pelham country club (where George life-guarded for the past two summers). It seems that the Notre Dame team special, scheduled to leave at 5 a.m. was held up for one hour until the captain- showed up.
But then George is always late, even for the T T S S dates he has with “Bea” from over there.
A commerce man who majors in philosophy, the “lover” of Sorin is getting experience at both by selling Notre Dame jewelry.
Will be at the height of his power and glory, etc. at the Met club Christmas dance in the Continental ballroom of the. St. Moritz, Dec. 27.
LAWYERS HEAR FLEA FOR HIGHER ETHICS
•
“I talk for a better bar. I talk for a bar in which the ethics of the profession are at its highest,” Judge Milo Feightner, president of the state board of bar examiners, told the members of the Law club at their smoker held Tuesday evening in the Lay Faculty dining hall.
With these remarks the noted jurist began an earnest plea for the-adoption of an integrated bar, a proposition which will come before the state legislature in the next session.
Judge Feightner explained that under an integrated bar all lawyers of the state will be gathered into one association and required to take out a license to practice law each year as is done in the medical and like professions. “In this manner,” he continued, “the profession could safeguard itself by weeding out the unethical lawyers or disciplining them.”
As the sponsor of the constitutional amendment in 1931, which amended the constitutional requirements of 1851, Judge Feightner brought into existence the state board of bar examiners which yearly tests applicants for admittance to the bar. Previous to 1931, one could be admitted to the bar upon showing he was of good moral character. After 1931, and as amended in 1936, applicant to the bar must have taken at least two years of college work in law and then is confronted with the task of passing the examination.
The Judge illustrated in detail the procedure which the applicant and the board must undergo before the applicant is finally passed upon and’ adjudged competent to practice law in the state of Indiana. As a final word to would-be applicants, Judge Feightner counseled them, “Be calm while taking the examination during the two day session.”
In conclusion, he extended to the Law club practical hints for young lawyers, advising them to affiliate themselves with the worthier manifestations of civic movements, and to take an active interest in governmental affairs.
Thomas Shea, senior lawyer from Toledo, O., as chairman of the event regaled the turn-out with humorous anecdotes of his fellow students, particularly at the Law Review Conference in Iowa City recently. Dean Konop preceded Judge Feightner with a few remarks of greeting.
Help those who most need help. Buy your Christmas Seals now from the Knights. This is a worthy and charitable cause.
8
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
RADIO
By Bernard J. Feeney
No, it’s not the Camel Caravan, but there are rumors! It’s the Christmas Caravan! And the rumors are that it will originate in Washington Hall tonight at 8 p.m. It’s to be a half-hour show. Radio men and the Linnets will be on the boards. Yes, you guessed it. It’s the annual Campus Caravan— the trek of Notre Dame students to all parts of the map for their Christmas vacation. While a yearly event here, this will be the first attempt at dramatization. We look forward to the “train-callers,” the “vacation stories,” and the N. D. Club dances. In case you can’t get over to the Hall to see yourself being dramatized, tune your receiver to 1360 kilocycles, sit back in your easy chair, and watch yourself go!
Also calling for your attention tonight are two other programs of local interest. The Music department is scheduled for its usual broadcast at 8:30 p.m. At this time the directors of the show could not be reached to ascertain the nature of the broadcast, but we can count on them to come through. The second program, the Political Science Forum at 9:15 p.m., has a particularly appropriate topic for discussion this evening. Coming shortly after our “Christmas Caravan,” it deals with automobile trailers! We might suggest this as a “practical solution” for the N. D. trek homeward. Come to think of it, however, we’d hate to see 25 fellows in a “special trailer,” even if they could get special, special rates! If Redman Duggan, Ed Sandstrom, and Joe Nigro, participants in tonight’s Forum, can be believed, the governmental aspects of the trailer business will be discussed. Also coming under their scrutiny is the possibility of 'the trailer as a solution to two of this country’s problems—cheap housing and mobility of labor.
“The Last Mile” for Campus radio programs in December will take place tomorrow night at 6:45 p.m. when the Italian Club presents their “Songs for You.” Decidedly not on the torture side, they will present in their soft and sweet style, “Liebestraum” by Liszt, “Torna a Surriento,” the popular, “My Reverie,” and others. With this broadcast, Campus Radio will bow out of the 1938 picture. The return date to be marked on your dial is Jan. 9, 1939 when Prof. Frank Flynn of the Sociology department continues the Faculty series of lectures.
For good Christmas listening we suggest that you not forget Lionel Barrymore’s portrayal of “Scrooge” on Dec. 23, and the Lux Theatre production of “Snow White” on the 26th. Merry Christmas!
WRANGLERS SELECT STAR DEBATERS
•
As an anti-climax to the recent interhall debate season, the Wranglers in solemn conclave came up with their annual all-star hall debate team. Only the coaches who trained this year’s crop of arguers were permitted to vote on the nominees.
Two teams were chosen and it is unusual that on team number one all the members are from the senior class. On the second squad are a senior, a junior and a sophomore.
Two members of the Alumni hall team, Charles Colgan, Buenos Aires, Argentina, and George Neumann, Chicago, made the select squad and
Chairman Funk His day is done.
Walter Johnson, New York City, rounds out the trio. Lou Radelet, Green Bay Wis., F. G. Barreda, Laredo, Texas, and Thomas Grady, Farmer City, Ill., make up the second squad.
Selection of the teams was announced at the induction banquet of the Wranglers held last week in the LaSalle hotel. Al Funk, chairman of the interhall debates, made the announcement of the awards.
Law Ball Scheduled
Official approval was received this week for present sophomores to attend the annual Law Ball, social event of- the Law Club, Stewart Roche, president, announced.
This will mark the first time in history that second year men were accorded the privileges of juniors, seniors, and graduate students.
Scehduled to be the first school dance of the second semester, the Law Ball is to be held in the Palais Royale, Friday evening, Feb. 10.
Roche declared that details of the Ball will be divulged later.
VINCENTIANS
By Richard Leo Fallon, Jr.
“Hello, Frank?”
“Yes. Hi, Phil.” (Phil Walker, N.D. graduate, at the Vincentian Service Bureau in South Bend).
“We’ve got a coal case down here. The N.D. Conference may be able to help us out. There’s a widow with five children on the south side ... no coal in the house. Let me give you the facts.”
Phil tells Frank (Frank Itzin, Executive Secretary of the Notre Dame Conference, you remember) what conditions surround the family, the income and the family’s background.
Let’s follow up the case. First of all Frank needs time to think it over. But he has to work fast because the weather is unsettled, and without heat there is, of course, danger of sickness. Ordinarily, Frank would present the facts to the members at the next meeting before he took action, but this is an emergency. Father John Kelley and two members are in the office. After Frank’s hurried review of the case with them, the matter is settled. Frank calls the Vincentian Service Bureau and authorizes the purchase of the coal.
Phil then suggests that one of the N.D. Vincentians might visit the home for investigation. Frank agrees — food and clothing may be needed.
The emergency taken care of, he lists the case for discussion at the next meeting, and there, with the facts before them, he calls for volunteer investigators. That one on the couch had his hand up first; he’ll do it. Before visiting the home, he goes down to the Vincentian Service Bureau where he receives final instruction and suggestions.
Back at N.D., he drops in at the office in 23 Lyons to submit his report. His has been a social visit to the home to cheer up the mother and see if further help can be given. If necessary, he’ll go out to the home again, perhaps many times, and after each visit he makes a report to the office. He will describe his work at various times to the members at meetings. Maybe a request for an appropriation will come. Frequently a family needs more milk than its budget will allow. At any time the investigator — “big brother” he will become for the family — may go to the Vincentian Service Bureau for advice, especially on technical points. The Bureau is there to direct Vincentian efforts into the right channels. When the widow’s case is closed, Frank Itzin will make a report to the Bureau so that it can adjust its records. And calling up today what would he say? Right! “Have a great vacation, Phil!” This is our sincere greeting to all of you.
DECEMBER 16. 1938
9
LUCKY LA RAZA'S NIP MEXICAN SUPPER
BOLAND TO SPEAK AT BUFFALO BANQUET
LINNETS ORGANIZE CAMPUS CAROLLING
Perfection in schedule was the order of the day last Sunday morning when the Spanish and La Raza clubs of Notre Dame joined with El Club Santa Teresita of St. Mary’s in their annual Communion Breakfast at the LaSalle hotel. The group had attended Mass and received communion in the Sorin Hall chapel to celebrate the feast day of Our Lady of Guadalupe, the patron Saint of Mexico. A splendid ceremony.
But not so that evening when the across the lake to see “the other half” officers of LaRaza club marched for a dance recital at Saint Angela’s Hall. Cruel fate had intervened, for it so happened that the recital had been planned for Monday evening and not Sunday.
Fortunately for the La Raza boys, the St. Mary’s sisters were enjoying a delightful Mexican supper with such delicacies as chile con came, tamales, papas fritas, galletas and bollos. Well, the boys straddled into the scene in time for the helado, viz., the ice cream, and to avoid embarrassment for the wrong date, were received in true Latin style.
Came Monday night and once again the La Raza board of strategy crossed the Dixie Highway, this time to really view Miss Cuquita Blanco in a recital of dances from Spain, Mexico, and Portugal. She was ably assisted by Eugenia Magda, soprano, and Frances Wishard, pianist.
Father O’Hara Log
The Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame and a member of the United States delegation to the Pan-American conference at Lima, Peru, startled his audiences while speaking on nightly broadcasts from aboard the S.S. Santa Clara by delivering a sermon in both the English and Sapnish. He has the understanding of Spanish peoples which can be best obtained by living in a Spanish country. Father O’Hara is the son of an American consul who served in Latin-America, and he lived and studied in Uruguay and Argentine in his youth.
Alfred M. Landon, of Kansas, defeated Presidential candidate, was among those present at Mass celebrated on the trip by Father O’Hara. Mr. Landon is a member of the United States delegation. Father O’Hara says Mass daily aboard the ship.
The Buffalo Club will hold a testimonial banquet for the 1938 varsity football team at the Hotel Buffalo, Thursday evening, Dec. 22. The guests of honor will be Line Coach Joe Boland, Captain Jimmy McGoldrick, Joe Beinor, and Jack Kelley, ’39, captain-elect.
Jim Britt, the prominent sports announcer formerly of South Bend, has been asked to be toastmaster. Movies
Chairman Ryan “Tails” replace roller skates.
of the Minnesota and Southern California games will be shown. The Knights of Columbus in Buffalo are cooperating with the club in making the preliminary arrangements, chairman Jack Kuhlman announced.
The club will hold its annual Christmas dance at the Hotel Statler, Monday evening, Dec. 26. General Chairman Joe Ryan has signed Gayle Brown and his Pennsylvanians to supply the music. Other committee members are Gordon Love, George Ferrick, James Sullivan, Norman Anderson and Gene Kiefer.
Laetare Medalist Dies
Jack J. Spalding, 1928 Laetare medalist, died in Atlanta, Ga., Friday, Dec. 9, at the age of 82. The attorney was a nationally known Catholic lay leader.
Mr. Spalding is the third recipient of the medal to die this year. His last visit on the campus was in June, 1933, when Tenor John McCormack was awarded the medal.
Mr. Spalding is widely known throughout the South for his fine work in Catholic charities. He was decorated Knight of St. Gregory by Pope Pius in 1927 and served as president of the Atlanta Bar Association in 1929.
Miss Elizabeth Nourse, winner of the medal in 1921, died in October in Paris, and Mrs. William J. B. Macaulay, who received the medal in 1934, died Nov. 25 in Rome.
Christmas Carols had their origin in the pagan ring-dances of preChristian France and England, and one source gives “chorus” as the mother word. In 614 A.D. the Church condemned singing and dancing on the Lord’s Day and thus deprived the people of a cherished custom.
Saint Augustine later saw the Church’s mistake and sanctioned the return of the custom in the form of religious plays and songs commemorating the birth of Our Lord. This was the baptism of carols and the beginning of carolling as we know it, today.
The singing of carols through the streets by children on Christmas eve, to the tune of strolling string-musicians, is a traditionally English custom and will be perpetuated by the Linnets this evening after supper. Mr. Orville Foster will direct the Linnets as they stroll about the campus serenading the various residence halls in turn. Such old favorites as “Adeste Fidelis,” “Silent Night,” and “O Tannenbaum” are foremost on the Linnet’s program.
Heretofore, impromptu groups have sung carols at Notre Dame during the Christmas season, but this program of the Linnets is the first of its kind by an organized group.
Metropolitan Club
At its meeting on Dec. 9, the Metropolitan Club held a lengthy discussion concerning the railroad rate for the Christmas vacation. It was finally announced at §25.00 round trip.
The annual Christmas Dance will take place at the Saint Moritz Hotel in New York City on Dec. 27. Music will be furnished by Buddy Connolly and his band who played a recent .engagement at the Westchester Country Club.
President O’Neil stated the dance is already an assured financial and social success, because of the enthusiastic response of the various committees, the club members, and the patrons. The dance committee includes Edward Farrell as general chairman; Jack Brennan, reception chairman; Jack Kohn, ticket chairman; Ed Tracey, patrons; Fred Honerkamp, decorations; George Geyer, programs; Walter Johnson, publicity chairman.
The Metropolitan Club recently bought the first Health Bond, thus contributing to the Christmas Drive of the Anti-Tuberculosis Campaign sponsored by the Knights of Columbus.
10
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
LINNETS LISTLESS IN MUSICAL REVIEW
•
A near capacity crowd left Washington Hall last Tuesday night convinced that the Linnets’ salute to the 1938 football season was, at best, but a fumbling gesture. Padded dialogue and Mr. Orville Foster’s yen for Cecil B. DeMille stage settings rapidly took out the fizz from what promised to be a sparkling cocktail of campus songs.
However, there was also the conviction that the Linnets were merely suffering from growing pains—that they failed, not because they tried too little, but because they tried too much. A brief sketch of the activities:
Three old grads of ’42 (the scene is of the future) meet in a New York club and talk over the ’38 football season. The old grads sat on the left tip of the stage throughout the performance.
Front and center, raised up high, was Mr. Foster and his organ, a combination which considerably reduced the visibility quotient of the first floor audience. On the right a sports announcer sat before his microphone, and piled across back stage was the Linnet glee club. It would go something like this:
First Old Grad: “That was certainly some game we had with the Army.”
Second Old Grad: “Yep, it certainly was.”
The spotlight would switch right, the announcer would pipe: “Today, the men of Erin (it was always the Men of Erin) fought back from be- -hind to throttle a strong Army eleven. . . .”
Mr. Foster would then give his mighty gaspipe a once - over - lightly and the glee club would sing “On Brave Old Army Team. . . .” Incidentally, the glee club ran the gamut of intercollegiate fight songs in sprightly fashion, though at times we wished they would let go a little faster and if the organist couldn’t keep up, the heck with him.
The show lacked pace. The dialogue was stuffed. The cheerleader looked as if he was trying to shake something out of his cuff. If Mr. Foster continues to increase the size of his ensembles we look forward confidently to the night when the actors will be in the seats and the audience on the stage.
Yet, there were bright spots in the gloom. The glee club has come a long way; the orchestra (what with a Jimmy Dorsey arrangement of “My Reverie”) has definitely gotten into the swing of things; and—what’s most important—the Linnets exhibit the spirit and enthusiasm which will carry them above present mechanical difficulties.
World-Wide Devotions to St. Nicholas Recall His Death at Lycia 1596 Years Ago
By Frank Wemhoff
In 342 A.D. the Bishop of Myra died in Lycia. If the death of a bishop is an important event, it is doubly so in this case because it marks the death of America’s famous Christmas patron, Santa Claus. Santa Claus is known in formal history as St. Nicholas and his feast day occurs on Dec. 6. Yet in many countries, notably our own, the activities peculiar to the feast of St. Nicholas have been transferred to Christmas. Consequently few of us are aware that the great and liberal saint is honored on any day other than Christmas. Also it is not generally known that in various foreign lands the feast of St. Nicholas is considered as great an occasion as Christmas itself.
St. Nicholas was a pious youth. He refused to accept nourishment on certain days until after sunset. During his youth his parents died and the wealth he inherited he distributed to the poor. There is a legend that he secretly tossed three purses of gold through the window of the home of three girls who had been forced into a life of shame by a poverty-stricken father. Thus, upon the death of
“Hm! Must go to Notre Dame”
Nicholas, the custom of secretly giving presents to deserving people continued.
Young Nicholas gave his whole life to God. Upon his return from a pilgrimage to Palestine, he stopped at Myra, the capital of Lycia. The bishop of the place had died. The chapter had been divinely advised to select as his successor a man named Nicholas who should be the first to enter the church the, next morning. Until his death, Nicholas continued the secret charitable work that he had begun as a boy.
“St. Nick, my good patron, send me something very good.” That is the petition of the children of France. The good children invariably receive toys and the evil ones receive canes although no one has ever heard of an evil child when a present was to be expected. The devout French are always careful to see that the children are remembered with trinkets to allay any skepticism in the young minds.
In South Austria no Christmas day is observed at all. Instead St. Nicholas is solely honored. There they (Continued on Page 21)
DECEMBER 16, 1938
II
THEATRE
By R. J. Sadlier
The last column! What is there that can be said, except by way of retrospect? And, even then, there is but a shredded remnant lingering on the borders of oblivion. The Christmas atmosphere has permeated every chink and corner of the campus; all else dwindles by comparison.
Actors! Scripts! Productions! What are they all? Perhaps fantastic pictures conjured while the mind was in some impressionistic state. Surely some illusion of the past. Nothing is, but today—today and Christmas. The past is past. The future?—well, who knows what it has to offer? An old saying goes, “Men propose; the gods dispose.” Come what may, at the moment it matters not. It’s Christmas, and the time for the ground to be covered with snow and for people to be glad and full of goodwill.
An interesting bit of news reaches us from Broadway. It seems that out of approximately 18 plays which have opened there this season 12 concluded their runs in less than two weeks. Either the plays were bad or else the critics were not “disposed.” Not much has been said in this column about critics, if I recall; and, by way of theatrical sidenote, something should be said. Of course, here on campus, their bite doesn’t mean very much. A stone wall either absorbs a Voltairian dripping or it dries up the source. But in that unforgetable canyon, where hearts are broken by a critic’s views, where productions and authors are shattered by the stroke of a vitriolic pen, critics are of import; for to them is given the power to build or destroy. They can make bad plays good and good plays bad. Unfortunate, but true.
The reason? Well, for the most part, audiences are plastic. They read a favorable review of a show, see it, and if they don’t like it they blame it on themselves. After all, the Gods have spoken, and who are they to voice contradiction? However, exception creeps around the corner—aha! When “Hellzapoppin” opened in New York, the greater majority of critics showered an avalanche of vituperation upon this budding hit—for such it turned out to be! A few, Arthur Pollock, George Jean Nathan and Winchell, voiced whole hearted approval; and, strange but true, New York took “Hellzapoppin” to its motherly bosom. Seems that people still like noise, buffoonery, burlesque and vaudeville.
But then, to laugh, and forget everything but what you’re laughing at, is good. Nowadays there is too little laughter. People need a sense of humor. Without it, the world will swallow them, and, when it has sati
ated itself, cast them out to exist— but devoid of life. To be able to live you have to be able to laugh; and to be able to laugh you have to be able to live. A vicious circle? Perhaps. But true, I think. However, before we get off on any more tangents, let’s fall back into step with the season, and wind-up this column for the holidays. Merry Christmas, happy New Year; have a good time—and plenty of laughs. It’s a merry life and a short life. Make it a full one. .
ART
By Dick Metzger
When Michelangelo was painting “The Last Judgment” on the rear wall of the Sistine Chapel he was criticized by some of the inhabitants of the Vatican who objected to nudes being used in the decoration. Biagio de Cesna, the papal master of cere-, monies, was particularly severe in his denunciations. So Michelangelo painted his portrait into the group of sinners in hell. Biago was enraged and went to Pope Paul III to request that his portrait be removed. But His Holiness did not deem it within his power to remove any one from hell. However he did agree to make Michelangelo clothe the master of ceremonies’ corpulent figure. Michelangelo did so — covering his body with the entwining folds of a huge serpent!
Tintoretto, the great Venetian master, was strongly criticized in his work by Pietro Aretino, the professional slanderer of that period. Aretino even went so far as to spread malicious reports about the artist himself.
Nevertheless, Tintoretto soon became the most famous artist in Venice. The vain Aretino decided that he must have his portrait painted'by so renowned a master. Then Tintoretto had his revenge. When Aretino posed on the model-stand he took out a great pistol and waved it wildly about the startled and frightened sitter— finally explaining that he was using it as a measuring stick. Thereafter Aretino carried his slander elsewhere.
Leonardo da Vinci, the “Perfect Florentine,” was perhaps the most talented man that ever lived. Painting was but one of his many talents; yet so adept was he in this field that he has been called the “perfect painter,” the “flawless artist.” Besides being a painter da Vinci was also an architect, an engineer, an inventor, a philosopher, a poet', a composer, a sculptor, a physician, a mathematician, and a practical student of anatomy.
His physical beauty was flawless. He was six feet five inches tall, per-f e c 11 y proportioned, exceptionally strong and an excellent athlete.
MUSIC NOTES
By William Mooney
The question was recently asked of us, “How would you define a musician, or who can be said to possess, a musical mind?” In the opening chapter of Dr. Carl E. Seashore’s book, Psychology of Music the question is fully answered.
“The musical mind,” says Dr. Seashore, “must be capable of sensing sounds, of imagining these sounds in reproductive or creative imagination, of being aroused by them emotionally, of being capable of sustained thinking in terms of these experiences, and ordinarily, though not necessarily, of giving some form of expression of them in musical performances or in creative music.”
A musical mind is a normal mind. What makes it musical is the possession, in a serviceable degree, of those capacities which are essential for the hearing, the feeling, the understanding, and, ordinarily, for some form of expression of music, with a resulting drive or urge toward music.
Dr. Seashore lists four characteristics of sound. They are “pitch, loudness, time, and timber.” In terms of these we can account for every conceivable sound in nature and art — vocal or instrumental, musical or nonmusical. These four characteristics corresponds to four sensory capacities, namely, the sense of tone qual- ■ ity, the sense of consonance, the sense of volume, and the sense of rhythm.
But there is far more to music than the mere physical attributes of sound. Intelligence and technique work hand in hand; they may be said to vary directly. Innumerable exceptions to this rule can be offered, but the rule still stands. Intelligence is musical when its background is a storehouse of musical knowledge, a dynamo of musical interests, an outlet in musical expression, and a warmth of musical experiences and responses.' Intelligence, in most cases, sets the limits of musical achievement.
One who possesses these qualities in a full degree must certainly be considered a musician. But these attributes are strictly technical and common to all good musicians. The appeal to popular approval depends on several other factors; it ordinarily involves some degree of dramatic action; it is modified by the character of the audience, and the personal appearance and mannerisms of the performers. In other words, music is somewhat dependent upon the setting in which it is placed. It is true that setting contributes to the appreciation and should be cultivated with eare, but it is not the music. A good musician is able to separate clearly the music and its accessories.
12
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C______Faculty Advisor
MARK J. MITCHELL___________________Editor-in-Chief
VINCENT DeCOURSEY_______________Managing Editor
Departmental Editors
William P. Mahoney____________________________Literary Editor
William A. Donnelly The Week
Frederick Sisk________________________________College Parade
Graham Starr___________________________Man About the Campus
William Mooney____________________________________Music Notes
Andrew Wilson______________________Splinters from the Press Box
Edward Huff_______________________________________Introducing
News Staff
William C. Fay____________________________________News Editor
F. G. Barreda--------------------------—Assistant News Editor
John Kohn---------------------------------------------_Harry	Penrose
George Haithcock--------------------------------------Joseph	Perkins
Thomas Ferneding______________________________Joseph Miller
George Neumann--------------------------------Stephen Smith
John Ferneding----------------------------------------Thomas	Marker
Edward Huston---------------------------------Richard Anton
Sports Staff
Donald Foskett___________________________■_______Sports Editor
Robert B. Voelker------------------------Assistant Sports Editor
Clarence Sheehan________________________________John Quinn
James Newland John	White
Francis Kennedy---------------------------------------Frank	Aubrey
Art Staff
Tom Powers_______________________________________________Art Editor
Don Driscoli------------------------------------Assistant Art Editor
John Webster------------------------------------Assistant Art Editor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Ave., New York City— Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco.
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to P. O. Box 155, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Vol. 72	December 9, 1938	No. 11
A Thought for Christmas
FOR THE next two weeks the residence halls will be darkened, the classrooms locked, the campus silent. The student body will enjoy two weeks of vacation in celebration of Christmas. And the Scholastic, at this time, wishes you a very happy Christmas.
But before you leave, we would like to leave a thought with you—the thought that beneath the tinsel and revelry of the season lies a deeper meaning for Christmas. This is the meaning that gives point to our rejoicing. More significantly, it is the commemoration of the central fact in the history of the world, the Incarnation.
The kind of cynics who say there is no Santa Claus are the people who have drawn us away from the true spirit of Christmas. They do not believe in Santa Claus, and they have forgotten, if they ever knew, that this is the feast of the Nativity of Our Lord. For them Chrismas is merely an excuse to take a holiday from work.
And these people are causing suffering, even bloodshed throughout the world today. They will not have a happy Christmas. To others they will give only sorrow on that universal day of rejoicing. For not even Kris Kringle can bring back Daddy from a concentration camp; and kind old Pere Noel cannot do much to avert the fearful shadow of war.
The gravity of these situations does not, of course, involve us directly. We are comparatively free, at present, from the worry and strife which besets most of the world. But that is no reason why we should fail to take cognizance of other's misfortunes. For the generosity which goes with the true spirit of Christmas, the same generosity with which God gave His only begotten Son to the world on that first Christmas, demands that we think of others at this time.
In order, then, that the temporal joys of our Christmas may be complemented by spiritual ones, let us keep in mind the real signficance of Christmas with a prayer for our less fortunate brothers, “That we who are bathed in the new light of Thy Word made flesh, may show forth in our actions that which by faith shineth in our minds.”
—Mark J. Mitchell
"Generosity" to the South
WHEN the liner Santa Clara dropped its anchor in Lima, Peru last week, aboard it were the American delegates to the eighth Pan-American Conference. Headed by Secretary of State Cordell Hull, the United States delegation composed of a diversified cross-section of professional and trade leaders were reminded of the importance of this eighth visit to the South American neighbors.
In the past the Pan American Conference has been viewed as a so-called “friendly gesture” to the states south of the equator from a northern friend. Whatever distrust South American attitude has held, however, for the United States has recently been irritated by Hitler’s fight to gain South American trade and respect.
It is the same Hitler—out of his “generosity,” we suppose—who allowed 100 Jewish children to escape from Germany last week. It is the same Hitler, whispering in the ear of South Americans, who ordered these same children searched for anything of value before they left Germany. The same “generosity” which Hitler might show South America was shown these Jewish refugees whom he allowed to take one mark or forty cents out of Germany.
South America has been regarded as a fertile country for trade, fortunes, ideas, and revolutions. Much will depend in the next few weeks whether this southern neighbor and its fertility will listen to the offers of “generosity” of democracy or Nazism. Hence, the import of the Americans’ eighth is a pure “business call”: to persuade the states of South America to accept America’s promise of true “generosity.”—Frederick Sisk.
DECEMBER 16, 1938
13
Sissy Jane's Church
By Clyde Archer
See that church? It’s Sissy Jane’s church, because it was started by Sissy Jane. And Jim Black, the parson, I know him, too. He said he wanted to do something for her, and he sure did.
Yes, I knowed her good. She had gold-colored hair and it always hung long, turning up at the ends around her cheeks to make half moons. She was mom’s special visitor every Saturday night when the restaurant closed. Mom gave her what scraps she had left over. Sissy was always grateful for whatever mom had for her, ’deed she was. Sometimes mom didn’t have nothing to give her. Was she pouty or act like other kids would? Not one bit. No sir! She just said, “Oh, that’s all right. Mother says to say ‘hello’ to you.” And then she’d go home.
When we went fishing, me and Jim Black always cut through Casey’s back yard. Lots of times we’d see this little girl sitting in the kitchen of the Casey house peeling potatoes or doing some other kitchen job. We never went fishing but what we went early in the morning. Jim always though it was kind of funny to see a little girl like Sissy Jane up so early in the morning. “D’ya ever see a kid her age doing kitchen work before?” he asked. “Sure,” I said, “lots of times.” If Jim didn’t know that Sissy Jane done that work at the Casey house because her mother wasn’t able to do it, I didn’t want to start explaining to him. Because Jim is kind of soft hearted about some things. Once he set a trap down on Jerry’s Run. He caught a beaver and danged if he didn’t doctor that beaver’s broke leg hisself ’til it was well and then set the critter loose.
One Saturday night mom give Sissy Jane a kettle of dried fodder beans and a slab of corn bread to take home. Sissy thanked mom and started to leave. “Oh, Sissy, don’t go yet,” mom called. “I got something else for you.” Sissy came back. She smiled at me and sat down again. Mom went into the back room and come back with a box. She set it down on the sink. As she opened it she said, “You’re getting to be a big girl now, Sissy Jane. How would you like to have a pretty white dress?”
“Oh, that would be nice,” .Sissy said excited.	'
Mom pulled out a piece of white material and Sissy jumped off her chair and hurried to mom. Mom handed it to her. '
Sissy stood for a minute looking at the white dress. Then she hugged it close to her and swayed back and forth. She looked at mom with big open eyes. “Oh, Mrs. Gilmore, it’s beautiful!”
Mom smiled and closed the box. She said, “I’m glad you like it, Sissy.” Then Sissy said “Thank you” again and bent down to pick up the kettle of fodder beans and the slab of corn bread. Just as she raised up she coughed and her face got red. Mom
vat	1 ——	Kv
Ortetma# grayer
By John Kohn
Child of Bethlehem, Herald divine
Of Love and Innocence, Goodwillspear;
Come ivelcomed, heart’s blood, soulfire;
First denied with Mary refuge here.
In blazoned Father’s glory mark
To man Thy lesson; Do proclaim Thy realm, vassal rebel man below;
Smite vainglory, clear earth’s dark stain.
Teach us, Incarnate One, fullest
Reivard of service, patience in event; To look far East as wise men
For Thy sign, no other our intent.
said, “Ted, you take Sissy Jane home and carry her stuff for her.” Mom’s voice quivered and tears was in her eyes, and I knowed she was thinking of my little sister Betty who had been dead a long time.
All the way to her house Sissy coughed. When we come up on the porch Mrs. Casey come to the door. “Hello, Mrs. Casey,” I said, and went past her and put the stuff on the table. I come back out and Mrs. Casey said, “I was getting a little worried about Jane. She hasn’t been feeling well lately, and staying out so late won’t be good for her. Then I explained to her, and as I left she said, “Thank you for bringing Jane home.”
The next morning me and Jim took our usual seats in the back of the church. A powerful big crowd was there. All the seats was taken and chairs was set in the aisles for some.
Just before service commenced Sissy Jane came in and stood in the doorway. She looked a little scared
there with her hands clasped together in front of her. She was crisp and pretty looking in the new white dress mom had give her. Jim whispered she made him think of a picture he seen once in a magazine. She looked all around trying to find a place to set down. Me and Jim was seated in close to the wall and couldn’t get out. Then she turned and started to leave. Old Parson Fishborne seen her and he came hurrying down from the choir box. Weaving around the chairs in the aisle, he soon reached the door. He went out the door and soon come back leading Sissy Jane by the hand and took her with him up to the choir box. He made one of the men in the choir give up his chair so Sissy Jane could set down.
Sissy Jane set down like a little doll through the service. Jim watched her all the time and when he went out of the church at noon time he said, “You know, Ted, I feel like I got to do something for that little girl. I don’t know what, but I got to do something.”
But next day Sissy Jane was sick in bed. Mom said it’d be nice if I took her a jar of peaches over to the' Casey house. So I called Jim and we went to the Casey house.
Sissy was in bed and she was coughing hard, big blue lines standing out on her neck. Mrs. Casey got us a chair and a box so we could set down. After a long time I said, “Mrs. Casey, Sissy looked real nice yesterday.”
Jim kept his eyes on Sissy and said soft-like, “Yes, she did.”
Sissy died two days later. When me and mom and Jim went over to see Mrs. Casey, Mrs. Casey said, “Jane left something for you, Mrs. Gilmore.”
Mrs. Casey took a jar down from the mantle. She tipped it and a halfdollar, a nickel, and two pennies dropped into her hand. She handed the coins to mom and said, “Jane wanted all she saved to be used for starting a big church. But-but, she—”
Jim said sudden, “Let me have the money, Mrs. Gilmore. I can build Sissy Jane a new church.”
Mom gave Jim the money and Jim went straight down to the bank. How he done it I don’t know, but he made a deposit with the fifty-two cents on a lot worth better than two thousand dollars. The people got behind Jim and in less than a year we had a new church, the one you see down there.
14
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Legal Profession: A Social Phenomenon
A review by Leon Lancaster
Did you know: that the unsuspecting American public is being overshadowed by a spectre with a brief case in one hand and a volume of Corpus Juris in the other; that this nation is founded on legalistic standards and is governed thereby; that the lawyer has been behind every big governmental and financial movement of the generation; that it is he and not the wolves of Wall Street who should be censured for “big business” piracy; that he wields his medieval phrases to toy with the destinies of our great, free people; that it is the sly, smug attorney who has undermined business?
In substance that is what Mr. Ferdinand Lundberg, author of the much discussed America's Sixty Families, says in an article The Legal Profession: A Social Phenomenon; in the December issue of Harpers'. Mr. Lundberg will tell you all this, and more—and what is better, in a forceful, deft article that slyly appeals to the layman’s sense of inferiority. Make no mistake; our author has done a good job—an excellent one! But, before you take his scathing denunciation of the legal profession to heart and rush over to the Law building to ambush the nearest group of law students on their way to the cafeteria, hesitate a moment, and consider just ■what lies beneath this tirade.
Is ‘Hocus Pocus’ Real?
Mr. Lundberg has selected warnings of never-ending popularity with many people. One has heard his generalizations so often that a forceful presentation of them amounts to conviction of their truth. Some time is spent in the article with denouncing the legal profession for the complexities of the modern world—our many boards and committees, statutes, decisions. But is all this judicial hocus pocus really hocus pocus? Mr. Lundberg would seem to infer that the evils of our modem world are directly traceable to a legal maze—a sort of spider’s web in which has become entangled the world’s trade. Just what would he sanction — some primitive, non-legalistic society bom of the dream of a modem Rousseau? Whatever technicalities there are can be traced to our political-economic system they have become a necessary
adjunct for the correction of the evils this system has fomented.
There is nothing spared in Mr. Lunberg’s attack. He condemns the law’s alleged inability to adapt itself to the existing scheme of things. The law—according to our author—is the only profession that has consistently refused to adopt the latest advances of psychology, sociology or history; that it is nothing more than the mutterings of outmoded Latin rules and phrases from the dusty Middle Ages. There is little need of arguing with Mr. Lundberg on this point; he so ably—but unconsciously—does it for us later in his article. After tearing down the legal system for its cumbersome antiquity, he then turns around and derides the lawyers for always being able to apply a precedent to fit any circumstance of a rapid social innovation. How can either of his arguments survive in the face of such an inconsistency!
Easiest Path Not Always Best
So many of his attacks are built on assumptions that certain things are evil, without deigning to even toss a scrap of reason for his conclusions. In one section he denounces the law for being foreign to capitalism. His condemnation in this respect is built on the law’s insistence of being only incidental to our present economic set-up. That because it has failed to change its essential rules to fit the dictates of trade and commerce as they are, it must ipso facto be at fault. Just what inherent virtue has capitalism? The law’s indifference to it would seem to be ground for something in the nature of praise, instead of condemnation. The law is not merely something to ease the path of business men to a golden goal; it is the system that man has created to best expound the essential, immutable principles of right and wrong. What kind of morality is it that would adapt itself to the economic or political system of the times? That would be nothing but a rule of Utility. Since when has the right path been the easiest one?
But Mr. Lundberg doesn’t confine his vituperations to the legal system itself; he must launch out against the men that enforce it. He makes a statement I would hesitate to repeat as truth — that although individual lawyers may subscribe to a consistent
body of social principles, the profession as a whole does not; that they have no concern during their working hours with “that unofficial moral law to which the layman makes praiseworthy obeisance” — to quote Mr. Lundberg. I think that it would be better to say that although some individual lawyers may neglect some consistent social principles, the profession as a whole upholds them. We— all of us— are only too willing to point out unfortunate exceptions to general rules, and after a forceful recitation of several such to draw the conclusion that is the general rule. This seems to be generally Mr. Lundberg’s fault, but it a common one.
He has several excellent points, and the chief cry that is really justified seems to be that it is a shame that the surplus of legally trained men— and there is a surplus under the present arrangement — cannot somehow take care of those who can’t afford to hire them. But is this really the fault of the legal system, or rather is the capitalistic sytem which has failed to provide so many with the means to secure such legal aid to blame? True, there is a crying need for the law’s constructive efforts to be extended to the lower classes; but is this need confined to the legal profession? Legal advice is only one of the least of the poor’s unsatisfied needs—needs unsatisfied because capitalism has failed to provide the means thereto.
Human Nature Is Law’s Flaw
Of course there are faults with the law and with lawyers. The best lawyers and legal minds are ever striving to correct them. But I have failed to see that the legal closet is the only : one that needs sweeping. Mr. Lundberg’s entire article narrows down to the fundamental proposition that the lawyer is evil because he is as weak and prone to sin and corruption as the layman; the lawyer’s fault lies in his human nature. That is a rather dangerous criticism for one human to make of another.
The whole undertone of this article is really amusing. Through the entire bit flows that philosophy of the uninitiated’s fear of the initiated— a sort of terror of the unknown, with the result that there is a frantic groping in needless defense. I am not
(Continued on Page 20)
DECEMBER 16, 1938
15
THE WEEK IN SPORTS
JOHNNY KELLY LEADS NORTHWESTERN COMES HERE NEXT THURSDAY; 1939 GRID TEAM IRISH REPAY VISIT ON NEW YEAR'S EVE
By Robert B. Voelker
“If we lose any games next year I doubt very much that Southern California will he among our conquerors.” These words vividly portray the spirit of the man who was chosen by the 1938 monogram winners to lead the “Fighting Irish” next season.
John Francis Kelly is his name. Radio announcers call him “Shipwreck.” He was varsity right end this season and his defensive work was outstanding in every game. In the Minnesota game he will be remembered for his offensive play. It was he who blocked Van Every, clearing the path for Lou Zontini on his 84 yard line gallop. As the game was almost over Johnny leaped in the air and pulled down one of Bob Saggau’s passes, taking it out of the hands of two Gopher defensive men, to score the final touchdown of the game.
The role of captain should not be a strange one to “Kei.” This marks the fourth time that he has been selected to lead an athletic team, which is a better than fair indication of the confidence his teammates have in him.
Rutherford, New Jersey, is his home. There he made the all-State teams in both football and basketball. Phil Sheridan, varsity left end candidate, was his teammate at St. Mary’s High, under Coach John Winberry, who was a member of the Irish football and track squads of 1928. Kelly then entered Pennington prep where he excelled in all sports and was the leading basket maker of the state. Rev. Charles Trichler, his pastor, encouraged both Kelly and Sheridan to follow in their coach’s footsteps and continue their education at Notre Dame. Although John’s uncle, William D. Kelly, starred at Cornell in 1915, he chose the “home of the Irish.”
Johnny, a student in the College of Arts and Letters, intends to enter Law School after his graduation and spend the rest of his life in business as a corporation lawyer and, in his spare time, follow the gridiron destinies of the Fighting Irish.
The 45 miles of sidewalks and 17 miles of roadways in the New York World’s Fair 1939 required the use of 207,000 tons of paving material.
A double-header features the 1938 basketball rivalry between Notre Dame and Northwestern. Notre Dame will meet the Wildcats on the local floor December 22, then visit Evanston December 31. Like Notre Dame,
Northwestern lost its high scoring
Cage Captain Brown Trades oval for a sphere.
St. Louisans, in Double Win, Stay Unbeaten
The St. Louis Club soccer team continued its winning ways last week by impressive victories over two strong opponents.
On Thursday the Missouri team kicked its way to a comparatively easy - 7 to 2 victory over the Spanish La Raza Club, and on Sunday the St. Louisans drubbed the Interhall AllStars by a score of 5 to 2.
These two victories bring the total wins of the St. Louis Club to five straight. Although no games are scheduled before the holidays it was pointed out that some high-class tilts are on tap after the Chrismas vacation.
Those in charge of soccer activities on the campus this year are gratified at the way in which students have taken to this sport, which has just begun to come into its own locally during the past two or three years. Already they are laying plans for what should be the most successful soccer year in Notre Dame history. Next year there will be, for the first time, soccer teams representing the seniors, as well as the juniors, sophs, and freshmen.
forwards through graduation. While Notre Dame has been feeling the loss of Nowak, Moir and Wukovits, Northwestern misses Trenkle, McMichaels, and Smith, forwards, and Jake Na-gode, last year’s crack Wildcat center. The seven Wildcat lettermen to return this year have done the majority of the scoring in games with Carleton and St. John’s of New York.
Coach Dutch Lonborg has been rather successful in strengthening the forward and center positions. James Currie, a veteran guard, has been shifted to forward to help Lester Harman and Chuck Melchoir do the scoring. Although not a strong scorer, Currie is the best ball handler and dribbler on the team. Harman, who played just enough last year to earn a letter, has been the most important cog in the Wildcats’ attack. Melchoir is shifty and fast, but has lacked the scoring punch this year. Dick Peil, a South Bend boy, and Walt Kowalski, will probably see action as reserves.
The guard post is the strongest position on the Northwestern squad. It boasts three veterans, Addington Vance, Bernie Davis and Bob Voigts, all of whom have played against Notre Dame. Davis was ineligible in the second semester last year, but has had experience at both the guard and forward slots. He is a good floor general and dangerous on long shots. Vance, the No. 1 guard, ranks as one of the best guards in the conference. He scored 44 points last year. With 200 pounds to hold him down, Bob Voigts is nevertheless a shifty floor man who can score from far out.
Coach Lonborg has no experienced men at center. Leading candidates who have played this year are Bob Koble and Don McCarnes. Koble, another Wildcat, who tips the scales at 200 lbs, has been a reserve for two years but has seen little action. Don McCarnes, brother of Bob McCarnes who captained the ’32 squad, is the tallest man on the squad. He is 6 feet 3 % inches, lacks only experience.
Only change in the Irish set up will probably find Captain Earl Brown oc-•cupying a regular guard post.
16
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ATHLETIC HEADS PLAN FOR WINTER SPORTS; HOCKEY TEAM WILL REPRESENT SCHOOL
By Francis Kennedy
It won’t be long before Old Man Winter pays his annual visit to the campus, and when he comes the Athletic Department will be prepared. For those hardy persons who enjoy going out in the cold weather a program is being planned which should be welcome. Notre Dame will continue to maintain
a hockey team, probably because of the successful season last year. In the one game played, against Illinois, the Irish were victorious by a score of 1-0. This was the only game played away. Home games were scheduled, but because of the unusually warm winter the games had to be called off. This year, however, a colder winter is expected, and games will be tentatively scheduled with nearby schools. Most of the members of last year’s sextet are back, and continued success in the sport is expected.
Two hockey rinks will be erected on St. Mary’s lake as soon as weather permits. These rinks are not for the sole use of the hockey squad though, and everybody with a hockey stick and plenty of nerve will be out there. There will be plenty of room on the lake for those who want to glide, or figure skate, or perhaps engage in a game of “tag” or “crack the whip.”
Just to make sure that it will not be too crowded on the lake, though, a large skating rink will be put into use on Cartier Field.
For those who do not care to venture outdoors during the winter season, the Rockne Memorial swimming pool should be ready by Feb. 1. This is not certain, but the advanced stage of construction indicates that students will be using the pool by the beginning of the second semester.
Information on the annual handball and bowling tournament is not available at present, but it is expected that they will get under way after the Christmas holidays. Last year ping pong and billiards found a prominent place in the winter sports program. Winners of the various tourneys last year were presented with handsome trophies in recognition of their ability.
While most college football teams throughout the country consider the season dead after the last game is played, gridmen at the University of Rochester don’t feel that way. This year, after their season ended, the Rochester boys held a somewhat premature spring practice. Coach Bill Cox, of the Rivermen, says that his chief reason for deevloping next season’s prospects so early is that spring sports generally interfere too much with spring practice.
Indoor sports hit stride—new Memorial promises plenty of this.
Interhallers in Final Practice Sessions
•
With the approach of the opening games, there has been a notable increase in interest among those students who will represent their respective halls in the 1939 interhall basketball league. The practice schedule is nearing its final stages and with this “stretch drive” is ensuing a mad scramble for positions on the various starting teams. Three rounds of the practice schedule have been completed, and there now remains only the final tapering off before the season begins. The opening games will get under way at the conclusion of the Christmas holidays.
The schedule for the fourth round follows: Sunday, Dec. 18, at 9:00 a.m., Dillon-Zahm; 10:00 a.m., Morrissey-Cavanaugh; 11:00 a.m., Lyons-Carroll; 1:30 p.m., Howrd-Old Infirmary; 2:30 p.m., Badin-Off-Campus; 3:30 p.m., Sorin-Freshman. Monday, Dec. 19, at 8:00 p.m., Alumni-Brown-son; 9:00 p.m., Walsh-St. Edward’s.
Basketball Otter
The Kansas City Club basketball team is willing and anxious to take on any campus club. Any team interested please get in touch with Jim Metzler, coach and manager, St. Edward’s Hall. Games are already scheduled with the Montana and Florida clubs.
IRISH MEET CORNELL AND BUTLER HERE
•
Competition i o r the basketball team continues without a let-up for during the holidays Coach Keogan has scheduled two strong teams to keep his boys busy.
On January 2 the Cornell five meets Notre Dame in one of the highlights of their mid-west trip. Cornell is a newcomer to the Notre Dame court. Although working under the unorthodox system of their new coach, Blair Gullion, the Ithacans expect to provide plenty of basketball in their 22 games. The Big Red net squad will be led west on their Christmas trip by Walter Foertsch, captain and guard, who tied the high score record of the Eastern Intercollegiate League as a sophomore. Harold Liebman and George Polzer, both veterans, are slated for the starting forward posts. The two remaining positions will be filled by promising sophomores, Jim Bennett at guard, and “Duke” Ramsey, pivoting his 6 foot 5 inch frame about at the center position. Besides this tall center the Cornell outfit will have the advantage of height in most other positions with most of the squad stretching over the 6 foot mark.
Five days after the Cornell encounter the Butler coach, Tony Hinkle, brings a very promising team to the Irish court. The backbone of the Bulldog squad will be provided by five returning lettermen, while last year’s undefeated frosh squad gives ample material for a strong team and reserves. Although defeated in both of last year’s games with the Irish, Butler made the games close, enough to give this year’s team plenty of concern. The down staters rely on speed and with the Indiana eye for the hoop a high scoring speedy game is promised.
Frosh Fencers Drill
Of the original 70 answering the first call, the freshman fencing squad has been reduced down to about 30, Coach Pedro de Landero announced this week.
The last week of this year will still be devoted to “limbering up” exercises and not until after the Christmas holidays will the freshmen be permitted to handle their weapons. Only those who have their foil and mask will be permitted on the squad.
“I still think this year’s freshman squad shows more uniformity and capability of learning than those of the past,” Coach de Landero said in commenting upon the prospects of this year’s squad.
Groups will be chosen for intersquad competition later on in the season.
DECEMBER 16. 1938
, 17
FENCERS COMPLETE FIRST TOURNEYS
By John White
Coach de Landero had his first opportunity to watch his varsity fencing prospects in action last week as the squad completed three pre - season tournaments. '
In the Foils tournament three preliminary round-robins brought to the finals two men apiece from each of the first two events, and three from the last match. Final qualifiers were: Colgan, Gavan, McEnearney, Leising, Sayia, Gaither, and Schlafly. McEnearney took complete control of the proceedings, grabbing nine wins for first place, and placing ahead of Leising with five wins and one loss. Gavan tied with Schlafly at three and three.
Captain Sal Scarlata carried his sabre to the top-spot in this event by thrusting four victories to one defeat over the steel of his teammate Gavan, who captured a third in the contest with a record of three out of five. Second, boasting an equal score with his captain, but slightly more bedecked with enemy points was Joe Smalley.
Winning once in the opening affair did not seem sufficient to satisfy Fencer McEnearney, for he insisted on garnering a first prize in epee. This he did by losing only one of five matches, and just barely beating out second place Graham, who trailed him by a single point. Gavan, an addict of tie scores, locked with Colgan for third with two wins and three defeats, two points in front of O’Donnell.
Asked what he thought of the play in the tournament, Professor de Landero, with a casual half-smile analyzed. it this way, “Even if one or two of the veterans falter I think I have • capable substitutes to step in and give a good account of themselves. However, I am still somewhat pessimistic about the outcome of the season. Unless the boys devote more time to fundamentals they may be beaten in their very first meet. Yet I hope that the pressure of the new boys will put the veterans into action, and a good team may be the result.”
Another series of tournaments will take place immediately after the vacation on Jan. 7 and 8. Thus the coach will be ready to face Purdue with a sturdy starting team when the season opens Saturday Jan. 14.
“Steve Brodie” is to jump not once but six times every day from a representation of the Brooklyn Bridge— from which the real “Steve” made a legendary leap decades ago — in George Jessel’s “Old New York” in the Amusement Area of the New York World’s Fair, 1939.
INTRODUCING
By Eddie Huff
One semester of high living was enough for Ed Sadowski. The fourth floor of St. Edward’s Hall did not appeal to the mite from Westfield, Mass., who preserves his stamina for George Keogan’s newly varnished hardwood floor, so Ed transported his trunk right back to Carroll dorm, where he had put up as a freshman and sophomore. That was last year.
Now a senior, and the mainstay of Mr. “K’s” Notre Dame basketball
Irish, little Ed can be found one flight down in old traditional Sorin Hall. “Best room in the best hall on the campus,” Ed will tell you.
But the moving around broke up an old trio that included Joe Toner and Ed O’Donnell. Joe is the basketball “coach,” and Ed is manager for the triumvirate.
Notre Dame had polished off a traditional foe in a tough game one night last year. Toner and O’Donnell returned to their triple suite awaiting their protege, Sadowski, who had been all over the floor, playing a “hangup” game. .
Sadowski entered, fatigued. He looked like a tired urchin who had run all the way back from the grocer’s. “Did you bring back nine cents change ?” Tobin bolted.
The mystified Sadowski only glared in a “huh?” attitude.
(Continued on Page 20) ’
FOOTBALL PLAYERS JOIN TRACK SQUAD
•
Preparing for the initial intercollegiate track meet of the 1938-39 season in the latter part of January, Coach John P. Nicholson has been sending his squad of indoor trackmen through drills in the fieldhouse.
“The first meet will probably be about the last week of January. We will meet Indiana and Michigan State, at Notre Dame; Michigan entertains us at Ann Arbor, and we will be here for the Central Intercolleg-iates on March 10-11,” the Notre Dame mentor announced. He also stated that the squad would participate in the Butler and Chicago Relays.
Outdoor track competition will get under way late in April with the Drake or Penn Relays, slated for April 28-29. Ohio State, Michigan State, Marquette are dual meet opponents for the outdoor trackmen. Notre Dame is host to the State meet on May 27. The Central Conference meet on June 2 and the National Col-legiates on June 16-17 complete the 1939 slate.
Coach Nicholson expects aid from a trio of trackmen—Joe Beinor, Ed Simonich, Marquardt and Bob Sag-gau—who have been busy with football until recently. Beinor is the school’s best shot-putter .while Simonich is a major rival. Saggau is a sprinter, as is Marquardt.
Coughlin, Tucker and Marquardt are leading sprinters while Halpin, McMehan and Collins lead the squad of quarter milers. Hester, Olbries and Wilkinson pace the half milers while Greg Rice, who recently won the National Collegiate Cross-Country title, Steve Szumachowski, Bill Donnelly and Jack Martin top the distance runners. Leonas is the best high jumper on - the varsity squad and. Dean is a pole vaulter of note. Lawrence and Reidy are expert hurdlers.
“We have lost more points than have returned,” Coach Nicholson announced as he predicted a team that would not match the all-around strength of the 1938 aggregation. We will be especially weak in the relays.”
Coach Nicholson said that the Freshmen would start organized practice after the Christmas vacation. A large squad is expected to be in daily training after the holidays in preparation for several telegraphic meets to be scheduled with Big Ten Frosh.
Buy Christmas Seals from the Knights and help those who are unable to help themselves.
18
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX By Andy Wilson
Football was definitely over and basketball “in” as the sport of the season at 5:15 p.m., Wednesday, December 7th, when All-American end and basketball captain Earl Brown took his first practice shot at the basket in the gym, having arrived in South Bend from California some 45 minutes before. . . . Two afternoons later he was back on a train — heading for Madison, Wisconsin, with the basketball squad.
Earl played the last three quarters ■of the game against the Badgers, and though his shooting eye was naturally off, looked just as poised and clever on defense as ever. . . . The Irish played sound ball, but after two previous exhibitions of unusual marksmanship, had poor luck with their shots. . . . Some unsteady playing by his two biggest men forced Coach K e o g a n to use five-foot eight Paul DuCharme at center. This speeded and sharpened the Irish attack, but cost the Irish control of backboard-rebounds in the important, hard-fought closing minutes. ... We look now for a string of “on” nights.
Some Unfinished Football Business
—California and Back
The team left two weeks ago Monday on the New York Central, changing at Chicago to the Rock Island. . .. Reporters, well-wishers, camera-men held the train up fifteen minutes at LaSalle Street Station. . . . Most of Rock Island (Bill Hofer’s home town) was at the station to meet the train. . . . More posing and picture-taking. Two men carried a large blue sign, lettered in gold, “Welcome Notre Dame and Bill.” . . . Off across the Mississippi to Davenport, Iowa, home of Coach Layden. . . . Greetings there from his friends and relations. . . .
Kansas City at 1:30 in the morning, where a large crowd yelled for the players until Elmer Layden got up out of bed to quiet them. . . . Mass Monday morning in the dining car, while the train halted out on the Kansas plains. Then monotonously, breakfast, lunch, and dinner, with nothing to do between but sit and study or stare at the world’s flattest country. Nothing but plowed fields and sky, with occasionally a tiny house or a tree sticking up above ground. . . . Gradually plowed fields became less and less, with only dusty prairies, sagebrush, and tumbleweeds in sight. . . . Stop and stretch at Dalhart, Texas. Then over into New Mexico, land of reddish dust and small spiny plants, river-beds without water and high table-lands rising abruptly out of the plains. ...
Tucson, Arizona, early Wednesday morning. ... Off the train for two days, two workouts a day, in temperature that hit 85 in the afternoon. The players all looked languid, came off the field slowly, dripping wet and tired after each practice. . . . The white - walled University of Arizona stadium, with the Tortillitas and the Santa Catalina Mountains aS background. ... High on one peak overlooking the city of Tucson was a huge stone A, whitewashed every year by Arizona freshmen. . . . Schools near the stadium were dismissed Wednesday morning and every kid was in the stands for the first practice—the only open workout. . . . Ten-gallon hats on the players after the first noon-hour shopping tour through Tucson. . . .
Back on the train again Thursday night. . . . Yuma, Arizona, and a 45-minute stop. . . . The team hopped busses to the Yuma High School field and practiced lightly in sweat suits. . . . More autographing and photographing. . . . Onto the train in a hurry. ... In the evening, Los Angeles— more crowds, more nervous tension. To bed early, with special policemen on the team-floor of the Biltmore to keep “fans” and other rest disturbers away. . . .
Mass at the Cathedral Saturday morning. . . . Then a steak breakfast, a short walk, and up to the rooms for a rest. ... A light lunch, and off to the Coliseum at 12:30. . . . Then the game in shirt-sleeve weather . . .
Layden at the half—“Your last 30 minutes. . . . It’s your ball game if you want to take it. . . . Two men who are battling—that’s all the difference between you and them. . . . The fullback runs into three of you—and he keeps his legs pumping and he keeps on going for yardage—because no one of you wanted to drive in there and knock him down. . . . You can’t think, you’ve got to do it. . . . Thirty minutes of the season left— with no one who wants to go out and win!” . . . Not a sound in the lockers after the game. . . . When all are dressed, Elmer calls them up for the ' last time. ... “We lost a tough one —but we have had a grand season. . . . I’m not one to preach . . . but there’s one thing we all can learn from this—when you’ve got success, you’ve got to fight like hell to hold it. ...”
An evening in Los Angeles. . . . Notre Dame football party and dance at the Biltmore Bowl with Shep Fields. ... A few of the movie'celebrities around—Pat O’Brien, Wayne Morris, Vince Bartnett, Johnny Davis.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
BADGERS TOO GOOD FOR IRISH CAGERS
•
A crowd of 10,500 saw Wisconsin’s underdogs outscore the Irish last Saturday night. The Badgers kept the bewildered Notre Darners away from the basket for fully 15 minutes during the first half and thereby managed to pile up an insurmountable lead, winning out 45 to 39.
Credit for the win must go to Andy Smith and Dave Dupee, who staged a scoring spree, netting 28 points between them. Dupee maneuvered in and around the Notre Dame defense all night to ring up six baskets. Smith wound up with eight field goals— three of them coming with four minutes left to play and after the Irish had come within two points of Wisconsin’s lead, 37 to 35.
The game was a slow affair throughout the first half, with Notre Dame trying to hold the Badgers in their back-courts to bring into play the ten second rule. Late in the opening half Wisconsin opened dfc with a flashy attack and brough the count up to 19 to 6. Earl Brown came in and the Irish began to pop a few in for a change. Sadowski got a couple of long ones as did Brown, and the Irish started to play the game they are capable of. The half ended the rally, however, with the score 24-14, Wisconsin.
The second half brought the fireworks. DuCharme came in and began to match the Badgers basket for basket. “Duke” popped in 11 points in the furious going which saw Wiscon-. sin’s lead dwindle to two counters at one time. In the uproarious last quarter with the men going at it hot and heavy, Sadowski and Bell suddenly squared off. Nobody was hurt as the ring suddenly became too crowded, but the terrific play went on.
In a typical last-ditch rally the Irish outscored the Badgers 25 to 21. Had the boys started to really play a little earlier, the story from Madison might have been different. But as it was, that gap of 15 minutes without a single bucket was the undoing of Earl Brown’s gang. Leading the scorers were Duke DuCharme and Eddie Riska with 11 counters apiece. Ed Sadowski bagged eight points and played his usual “floor” game.
Have you, too been looking for the perfect football official? Asa Bushnell, commissioner of the Eastern Intercollegiate Football Association, describes him thus: “The ideal official is the one who notices eevrything but is seldom noticed himself; who is considerate and courteous without sacrificing firmness; who cooperates fully with fellow officials; who is physically able to be in the right-place at the right time; who knows what the rules say and what the rules mean.”
DECEMBER 16, 1938
19
COLLEGIATE WRITERS SELECT ED BEINOR
•
For the past few weeks football-minded America has had little on its mind but All-State, All-Conference, and All-America selections. Everyone from Kate Smith to Bill Stern has picked his own pet all-star eleven. This week, just to add more fuel to the forensic fires that will rage around the dinner tables this winter, the National Intercollegiate Sports
All-American Beinor
For him: More laurels.
Writer’s Association picked an eleven that should indicate more or less what the average college man thinks constitutes an All-American.
Notre Dame players were prominent in the selection of the campus scribes. Only one man, Ed Beinor, however, was placed on the first team. That he belongs there goes without saying, if we are to judge from the numerous other All-America football teams. Notre Dame placed no men on the second team. On the third team we find Captain Jim McGoldrick and End Earl Brown. Ed Longhi was voted the center position on the fourth eleven, while Bobby Saggau and Lou Zontini are in the fifth team backfield. Those receiving honorable mention were: Captain-elect Johnny Kelly, Paul Kell, and Steve Sitko. Among those nominated for positions were: Harry Stevenson, Augie Bossu, and Joe Thesing.
The complete first team is as follows: Ends, Holland (Cornell) and Daddio (Pitt); Tackles, Beinor (Notre Dame) and Wolfe (Santa Clara); Guards, Twedell (Minnesota) and Heikinnen (Michigan); Center, Aid-rich (Texas Christian); Quarterback, O’Brien (Texas Christian); Halfbacks, Bottari (California) and Luckman (Columbia); Fullback, Goldberg (Pitt).
The Knights of Columbus are canvassing the halls in the Christmas Seal campaign. Do your part by taking as many as you can afford.
Historians Organize
Latest of the campus culture clubs is that of the Historians, an organization formed for the purpose of stimulating original research in history, applying past events to present day problems. Walter Johnson, jr., Bronxville, N. Y., is the first president of the group and James H. Moylan, Chicago, is the secretary. Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., is the moderator of the club.
A constitution has been adopted by the members and the first meeting will take place Jan. 13. Mr. Willis Nutting will address the club. The constitution of the club limits the membership to 12 and new members will be accepted in the spring.
N. D, Aids Government
When statistics showed that Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish led the nation’s football teams this year as a drawing card, it indicated that Elmer Layden’s charges were quite a help to the Department of Internal Revenue. For experts have estimated that the government’s ten percent tax on each ticket over forty cents replenish the U. S. Treasury b y approximately $50,000 on each “good Saturday” this season.
Is There Someone You’ve Forgotten?
The Right Gift for HER: GLOVES HANDBAGS MANICURE SETS
The Right Gift for HIM: BILLFOLDS SLIPPERS DRESSING CASE
HANS - RINTZSCH
Michigan at Colfax
fl* fl* fl*
“HEADS or TAILS” you’re CORRECT IN SPIRO 1938
Dress Suits
(Coat and Trousers)
Spiro’s dress clothes are more attractive this season than ever before. Moreover they have been designed to give the wearer the utmost in comfort and at the same time the assurance of correctness in every detail. We’d like to show you modern correct evening wear that will bring you up-to-date quickly.
Other DRESS SUITS at £25 TUXEDO SUITS, £20 to £35
SAM’L SPIRO & CO. Home of Hart Schaffner and Marx Clothes
20
FOOTBALL BANQUET (Continued from Page 3)
“Gate Receipts and Glory. Brown, who was lampooning everybody, introduced Elward as “the coach of the team which plays Indiana each year to see which coach gets fired.”
Jimmy Conzehnan, as usual, explained the unique Washington University pass defense, and then summed up Mr. Hutchins concisely as having “more degrees than a Fahrenheit thermometer.” Brown stepped back into the picture before introducing Bill Kern of Carnegie Tech to read a telegram: “Hitler, has just given the rest of the world twenty-four hours to get out.”
Kern dismissed the Getchell unpleasantness gracefully by saying, “.... the players and coaches of Carnegie Tech made no alibis. They thought the best team won.... however, we are looking forward to next year’s game more than any other on our schedule.” Kern has already invited Getchell to referee the Tech-T. C. U. Sugar Bowl tiff at New Orleans, Jan. 2.
Captain William Wood, the Army coach whose playing days at the Point paralleled Elmer Layden’s in ’24, praised the teamwork of the Irish, and traced the drive and spirit of this year’s eleven to the fine support of the students. Brown turned the meeting over to Elmer Layden. Elmer announced that Johnny Kelly had been elected captain of the ’39 squad, and then named the 1938 monogram winners.
The first monogram winner was the Rev. John F. Farley, C.S.C. Back in ’09 Father Farley filled Longhi’s spot in the Irish line, and the monogram sweater which Elmer Layden presented in behalf of the team was in appreciation of the constant encouragement and inspiration Father Farley has lent the team, particularly this year.
The Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., assistant provincial of the Holy Cross Congregation, congratulated Elmer Layden, his assistants, and the team. He quoted Ed Sullivan’s recent column which praised the sportsmanship of the Irish following the Trojan defeat, and said the character of the team reflected the character of the coaches.
Professor Dickinson then explained his system which is a sort of Culbert- • son affair except that it mixes a double-wing-back with the .hit-and-run. It so bewildered Toastmaster Brown that he didn’t quite know what to say when another Brown, Warren of the Chicago Herald, and Examiner, made the last speech of the evening.
DENTIST
ASSOCIATE* BLOG., SOUTH BEND
LEGAL PROFESSION (Continued from Page H)
claiming that Mr. Lundberg knows nothing of the law, nor that he is in any way inferior to the better minds in the law, but I am saying that his underlying psychology—undoubtedly unconsciously—is that inherent fear of the “city slicker.” This attitude that the lawyer has been inducted into some secret society that has taught him how to cheat the unheeding layman is interesting — the more interesting because of its prevalence.
Whether you agree with the theme of The Legal Profession: A Social Phenomenon or not doesn’t really matter. You must admit that Mr. Lundberg has presented an interesting challenge—and well. His attack is unrelenting, and sympathetic—to a certain type — but I do believe that the exercise of a little more restraint would have afforded his article more power. This is only the first of a series of articles to appear in Harpers by this same author on the various aspects of the Legal Profession; it might prove interesting to follow them in the coming months. Perhaps my criticism is unjustifiable in the face of what is to come, but I must be convinced. Perhaps he has in his mind and in the desks' of the editors of Harpers the solution to the problems he claims the law has conceived. We shall see!	.
INTRODUCING
(Continued from Page 17)
“I though you’d bring back at least nine cents from that dime you were standing on all night,” was Toner’s, explanation.
That is the unique tribute paid to hard-working Edward Marion Sadowski. Ed is a clever defensive forward. His size is minute, but he has a large pair of hands that enable him to bat the opponent’s pass toward the Notre
Specialising in the examination of the eye.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor To
Rogers
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
• /
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Dame hoop. Then his leopard-like lunge takes him away fast so that he is free to pass to his running mate, Ed Riska.
The greatest all - around floorman he ever saw? It’s Paul Nowak, ’38.
When Notre Dame outscored Colgate at Albany last season, the townspeople of Westfield journeyed over in toto to see their boy who this year will receive his B.S. in Chem. Engineering, cum laude.
Sociology Field Trip
Twenty-three students from the sociology classes of the University last Tuesday afternoon visited the St. Joseph County Infirmary. The field trip was sponsored and directed by Rev. John P. O’Connell, C.S.C., instructor in sociology.
The purpose of the visit was to give elementary sociology students an insight into the application of the principles they study in class. Notable instances of this application were seen in the practice of segregating the sexes, maintaining a resident nurse, and providing for bi-weekly visits by a competent physician.
The students, upon request, sang the “Victory March” for the entertainment of the patients.
Be a hero to your kid Brother
Give him .
N. D. BLANKETS N. D. FOOTBALL LAMPS N. D. PENNANTS
Also
Religious Articles 25c and up
Pen and Pencil Sets
Christmas Cards, 5c and 10c
FREE . . .
Christmas wrapping
N; D. BOOKSTORE
' Badin Hall
DECEMBER 16. 1938
21
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS
(Continued from Page 5) corned the new members into the Knights of Columbus in behalf of the state deputy who was unable to attend. In a short talk in which he outlined the work of the state Catholic Activities committee, Henry Has-ley told the new members, “To be a credit to Notre Dame, to the Knights of Columbus, and to your religion.”
Arrangements for the banquet were made by Irving Klister, Robert Voelker, C. Donald Stapleton, John M Curran and Robert J. Doran.
CHRISTMAS CUSTOMS
(Continued from Page 10)
have an odd ceremony before the presentation of gifts. A young man, well versed in catechism, is arrayed in lordly bishop robes and-is assisted by two carefully selected and cherubic looking choir boys. This trio leads the procession into the church followed by a line of small boys dressed as imps. The imps wear black gowns and grinning cork-blackened faces. The imps are left at the church door to signify that mischief has been abandoned on this holy day.
Among the Dutch burghers of New York in the days that Peter Stuyve-sant and his wooden leg ruled the province, the saint was pictured as a robust, roistering, lovable, old fellow who often brought with him his frau, Molly Griteje, to delight the children.
In some parts of Germany, St. Nicholas day is really a preliminary to Christmas. There he is called “Christ Kindlein” from which we get the synonym “Kriss Kringle.” On St. Nicholas eve a red - coated figure
Notre Dame Students
MANY FUTURE JOBS WILL REQUIRE A COLLEGE EDUCATION AND A PILOT’S LICENSE
You may now include flying in your education if you have the written consent of your parents. LET YOUR LOCAL “MEN WITH WINGS” TEACH YOU TO FLY..............................
LOW RATES
$3.00 per half hour lesson. Guaranteed solo for $45.00
Bendix Field	I*hone 3-2455
N. D. representative, E. Minczeski. Phone 4-1913.
i barges into the parlor, sets down his | bulging bag, and calls all the children around him. The children recite verses and the most pleasing ones receive cakes and fruits with a hearty promise of further remembrance at Christmas time.
To the poor people of Bari, on the southeastern coast of Italy, the feast of St. Nicholas is perhaps the greatest day of the year. Here the remains of the hallowed saint are buried. Legend has it that St. Nicholas was originally buried in Myra, but that the merchants of Bari stole the re- | mains in the eleventh century. Bari has thus become the site of an annual pilgrimage in honor of St. Nicholas. Each year on Dec. 6 hundreds of worshippers come to assist in the most reverent ceremonies. The pilgrims walk barefooted, are fed at the priory gates, and are clad solely in the ancient dress of their ancestors. In a mock ceremony in commemoration of the legendary Roman god,
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Neptune, the crowd carries an image of St. Nicholas through the streets down to the sea.. The authentic figure of the memory of St. Nicholas and the superstitious custom of feting Neptune are perpetuated at the same time. After nightfall, the image is returned. Skyrockets and enormous fireworks displays awe the simple country residents and the good people of Bari end the celebration by chanting litanies in honor of their internationally famous saint, the Santa Claus of the Christian world.

RIDE IN COMFORT ra SOUTH SHORE LINE
Fast South Shore Line electric trains “set there on time” even if highways are dangerous or the weather is disagreeable. You always know that you’ll ride in warm comfort and travel in safety ... at less cost than driving. Call off all bets on changeable fall weather—■GO by South Shore Linn.
For more information about.. South Shore Line Service or for information about through railroad tickets telephone C. W. Veach, City Passenger Agent, 301 N. Michigan Street South Bend.

22
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SONG OF THE RUNNING GUARD
Someone has to clear the road, So follow after me,
There’s a pair of punks ahead And I must shake you free;
You can take the headlines, kid, I haven’t time to wait,
You must reach the open, kid, But I’m the swinging gate.
I can hear them cheering you From all the crowded stands,
I can hear the roaring And the music of the bands.
While I smash a tackler down Or see the end is smeared, And you pick up thirty yards—
Along the path I’ve cleared.
SONG OF THE RUNNING BACK
What’s the swellest flash my eye Can telegraph my brain?
What’s the sweetest sight on earth That optics entertain?
What wild exultation, kid,
Will dare to rival mine,
When the guards and tackles show me—
Daylight in the line!
One quick thrust and through I go, Veering from the pack,
Sidestep here, and dodging there, Spin to starboard tack;
Now I’m over, there’s the whistle And the touchdown sign,
All I ask is that you show me— Daylight in the line!
—Bill O’Toole.
Duke university
SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
DURHAM, N. C.
Four terms of eleven weeks are given each year. These may be taken consecutively (graduation in three and one-quarter years) or three terms may be taken each year (graduation in four years). The entrance requirements are intelligence, character and three -years of college work, including the subjects specified for Class A medical schools. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Admission Committee.
STATIONERY
•with Name, Address and College Seal
Late Used Records at..15c
Latest New Decca's at.35c
BAND AND STRING INSTRUMENTS AND ACCESSORIES
“If its Musical — we have if'
Mack's Music Box
228 North Michigan St.
"B" Team Undefeated
The Notre Dame Bees lived up to the form of their topnotch brothers, the varsity. Out of a four game schedule the squad managed to win three games and tie one, to form an undefeated season.
The first game was played against Jordan College, in Menominee, Mich. That game was won 13-12, with Al Lee and Ted Williams leading the attack. The second opponent was Northwestern whom they defeated the score was tied 6-6. McGannon, Doody, and Osterman were the shining lights in this, the toughest game
BOOKS-
the Ideal Christmas Gift
THE BOOK SHOP
130 N. Michigan Street ■	South Bend, Indana
SEND your weekly laundry home by handy Railway Express
Right from vour college rooms and return, conveniently, economically and fast, with no bother at all. Tust phone our local college agent when to come for the bundle. He’ll call for it promptly—whisk it away on speedy express trains, to vour city or town and return the home-done product to'vou—all without extra charge—the whole year through. Rates for this famous college service are low, ana you can send collect, you know fonly by Railway Express, by the way). It’s a very popular method and adds to the happy thought. Phone our agent today. He’s a good man to know.
506 W. South St. 'Phone 3-6121 South Bend, Ind.
A HAPPY THOUGHT FOR THRIFTY COLLEGIANS
of the year.
Against Illinois the “B” squad romped to an easy 33-6 win. Following this game several of the men were moved up to the varsity because of their fine showing.
The final game of the season was against Purdue, and the Irish won a close 12-6 battle. Brilliant play on the part of Bob Koch, Sweeney Tuck, and Wait Kristoff was the deciding factor in this game.
The “B” team was of great value in seasoning potential varsity players, and next year we will undoubtedly see such men as Osterman, Williams, Koch, and others fighting for the top positions on the varsity.
Express
AGENCY, ING NATION-WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE
DECEMBER 16, 1938
23
Date-Dreaming
Did you ever stop to think what a distraction the small desk calendar may .become? Often I have lifted my eyes from the work at hand and before I know it ten or fifteen minutes have passed. Why? Just because the powers of the mind, principally the memory and the imagination, have collaborated with those silly little figures to produce what is commonly known as day-dreaming.
Fifteenth of the month.... Three months ago tonight I was at a prize fight. And then the element of association enters and my mind begins to wander through events of the summer —the job at the dance hall, the picnic of the Notre Dame boys, or the day of the party primaries when I cast
To All of You a Very
my first vote. Hundreds of things rampage in the semi-controlled mind, one displacing another.
Or forward......... Only two more weeks until the start of the Christmas vacation. And again thoughts, one on top of the other, come piling into my mind. Home-cooked meals, midnight Mass, snow, and the Christmas decorations.
And why is all of this? The mind retains fragments of past experiences and they return, some more clearly than others, some suggesting others through association or because of parallelism of occurrence, when the mind is not otherwise occupied. In addition to the past experiences, we can look ahead in the imagination and hence live in the past, present, and future....—John Savord.
Once during a game a Georgia Tech man fumbled, and a Cumberland lineman, shied away, letting the ball bound by him.	-
“Why didn’t you fall on the ball?” asked the Tech back.
The Cumberland hero-that-might-have - been glanced at three Tech bruisers piled on the ball: “Why should I pick it up? You dropped it, didn’t you?”
-	■	1	1	_______lav
’ ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BLOG.. SOUTH BEND
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eye and the making of fine glasses.
♦
ASK US ABOUT OUR NEW PLAN TO PROTECT YOU AGAINST THE COSTLY BREAKAGE OF GLASSES.
1939 a well-dressed HAPPY NEW YEAR
Optometrists and Opticians Est. 1903
314 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
IW AS tURSIONSf
Cleveland ....$ 8.20 Toledo ______$	4.9S
Chicago _____$	2.65
N. Y. City -.$23.25 Pittsburgh __$13.00
by GREYHOUND
GO ANY TIME DEC. 15 TO JAN. 1—RETURN LIMIT JAN. 10 Here’s a present everybody will appreciate—special excursion fares for your Holiday travel by Greyhound! Enjoy a Super-Coach trip in an atmosphere that’s as jolly and warm as the Christmas spirit— at less than half driving cost. Buv extra gifts with your savings!
Sample Round Trip Excursion Fares
Buffalo ____$12.90
Detroit_____$ 6.60
St. Louis __$ 9.00
Boston _____$25.40
Wash. D.C.	$20.55
GREYHOUND TERMINAL Tel. 3-8283	135 S. Lafayette St.
THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY -LEMKONIER LIBRARY-NOTREBAME, LOCAL
Copyright 1938; Liggett & Myess Tobacco Co.
All through the year and all around the clock Chesterfield’s milder better taste gives millions MORE PLEASURE
At Christmas time send these pleasure-giving cartons of Chesterfields— packaged in gay holiday colors—wel-	.
corned by smokers everywhere.
You*ll find Chesterfields a better cigarette because of what they give you—more smoking pleasure than any cigarette you . ever tried—the right combination of mild ripe home-grown and aromatic Turkish tobaccos rolled in pure cigarette paper.
CJhesterfield
the blend that can't be copied ... 0 HAH>YCX>MBINATlON0//Ae world'sbestcigarettetobaccos