


NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE 
.--, 
Entertainment reviews and previews, Out of Bounds '· and a Coming Distractions pull-out calendar of events. In-depth news and sports coverage. 
Read one for the Gipper! Campus Watch plus Week in Distortion and On Other Campuses. 
Campus Life stories to keep you informed of what's happening on campus. Remember: If you see news happening ... you're probably reading Scholastic! 
If you don't have time to write home every week, let us do it for you: Give your parents a subscription! 
x-------------------------------------­
Please send.__ years of Scholastic to: 

Name: -----------"'-----­
Address: ______________ 
City: ______ State: ___ Zip Code; __ 
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $25.00 x -·_ years = $ ___ 
Please send form with payment to: Business Manager Scholastic Magazine 303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, In 46556 

Tb~ol Welcome Back ~, Notre Dame and 
PANCAKE 
Saint Mary's 


HOUSE 
students
l~ btouwt · JAN.. SPECIAL :·. .
February Special 
-ALL MONTH ·-..~ 
All Month 
SAVE •100 OFF 
Save $1.00 off 

OURJUMBO 
our house specialty 
4-EGG Oven-Baked OVEN-BAKED 
Apple rancakes. OMELETS 
-
No Coupon Needed. No Coupon Needed. Serving Notre Dame 
for over 27 years. Now Serving Biscuit & Gravy for $2. 79 on . U.S. 31 North 
Mondays and in Roseland. Fridays only. (Across from the Holiday Inn) Open 7 Days A Week at6:30 A.M. (219) 272-7433 


Barnaby's 
congratulates the victors of the 1994 Cotton Bow 1 

1'lhle JFiiglhll1:ii1mg Jiirii§lhl ojf Notire lDsime 
Come and celebrate another successful football season at Barnaby's. 


the family inn 
Welcome Back Specials





---:_-------., 
. : 
1

1s2 00 OFF 0-~ A_nJ 1
I ¦ 14 P11zal l
I· lod201W~C..,.to..lO,Wt I ! 
I I...:+-,a=+-, 
f51.00 OFF.~~ :i~,J -!-,-a"-+-..... 
I Limil I Coupo" Par Pu,a I 
I I
lsocoFF Any Sanowichl
Purch;m• I

I I _..:-•-··-:t-­
t""'....,,o,j...•U•·•l•kU&."~• 
LCOUPON EXPIRES MARCH 1• e Open Sundays 4 to 10 pm 
CONTENTS 

NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE 
5 NORTHWESTERN 
By Adam Ward 
8 MICHIGAN 
By Rich Christenson 
12 MICHIGAN STATE 
By Jason Conte 
15 PURDUE 
By Warren Junium 
18 STANFORD 
By Jeremy Dixon 
22 PITTSBURGH 
By Jake Schaller 
25 BYU 
By Brian Hiro 
29 
use 
By Bob Belden 
33 NAVY 
By Warren Junium 
41 FLORIDA STATE 
By Amanda Clinton 
45 BOSTON COLLEGE 
By Warren Junium 
48 COTTON BOWL 
By Amanda Clinton 

36 INDIVIDUAL HONORS 
Cover photo by Ken Osgood 


38 SCHOLASTIC ALL-OPPONENT TEAM 
40 FINAL REGULAR SEASON STATISTICS 
Teammates celebrate with senior free safety Jeff Burris. Burris was named Notre Dame's most valuable player for the 1993 season. 
Ken Osgood 
52 FINAL WORD By Kristen Lefere 

FROM THE SPORTS EDITOR 
Saturday, November 13, will be remembered by Irish fans as the highlight ofthe 1993 season when Notre Dame upset number one ranked Florida State in a nail-biting game that crune down to the final three seconds. 
With a number one ranking and the national championship almost secure, Notre Dame entered its last home game of the season against Boston College. After coming back from what at one point had been a 21-point deficit, Notre Dame led the game by one point with five seconds left on the clock. But the Eagles brought out senior kicker David Gordon, and to the horror of Notre Dame and its fans, he scored a 41 yard field goal, crushing the hopes of a Notre Dame national championship. 
The Irish played Texas A&M in Dallas on New Year's Day for the second year in a row. It was not until the last two minutes of the game when a field goal by Kevin Pendergast gave Notre Dame the wiruiing margin of victory. 
Despite a New Year's Day bowl picture that seemed to guarantee Notre Dame the national title, the media and coaches voted for Florida State to be number one. While many may remember the 1993 season as the year Notre Dame was cheated out of the national championship, it is easy to forget that in September this same team was expected to lose to many of its opponents. 
In the first game of the season against Northwestern, the mediocre performance ofthe Irish seemed to confirm the thought that this season would be one of the worst in recent years. But in the Michigan game, the Irish surprised their critics by beating the then second-ranked Wolverines. On September 25, the Irish looked unimpressive once again, scraping past Purdue, 17 -0. But by the next weekend Notre Dame was back to dominating play, avenging its loss the year before to Stanford. And then on October 30, two weeks before Florida State arrived in South Bend, Notre Dame almost lost to Navy. The 1993 football season was a rollercoaster ride for players, coaches and fans. 
Because of its hard work and effort, the 1993 Notre Dame football team almost won the national championship. While the polls may not have declared the Irish the best team in the nation, like the picture on the cover of this issue demonstrates, the 1993 team and its fans know who deserves to be number one. Unlike past years, this team did not have any one star that outshone the rest of the squad. The 1993 squad truly was ateam rather than a group of big-name stars. 
The Scholastic staff hopes the Football Review helps you remember the highlights and the heartaches ofthe bittersweet 1993 season, both today as you read the magazine, and in the years to come as you look back on your career at Notre Dame. · 
This issue would not have been possible withoutJhe-hard work ofeditors, photogra­phers and writers. Notre Dame Sports Information should ·also be thanked for the help its staff gave to this issue, as well as for implementing a closed locker room policy after football games so that all reporters, male and female, have equal access to players. 
As always, please write to Scholastic with any comments. Enjoy! 
-Amanda Clinton 
Scholllstic is pwblish,d waldy throughmd IM school y,,a-acq,t dwring UJZm/rudion ,md t>IWllion paiods Ill IM llni-oasity of Nolr, D,,,,,., Nofr, D-,, IN, 46556 ,md prinltd Ill 7k PllpCS, ~-, Milford, IN 46542. 1ksubscrip1ionrill• is$25.00/y.,,,.,md bw:issMes11ullWiWJk Ill $1.25 /CJ1Tl!I. Th, opimons upr=alin Scholllstic ,,,. f/sos,: oflM ll1llhms,md ediwro and do nor n=ss,zriJy ,.,,,,..,11 tk opinions oftM mliruditorial boll7d ofSchol11sli< oroflk llniT1t:1SityofNolr, D111nt:, ils odministrlltion, ~vlly o, slvdmls. f.dilori,,Js signtd ScholJlstic rq,,tsml th, opinion oflk majorily of IM ,ua,Iit,e tditorial boilrd. Mm11lSCripts ,,,.~. All imsollcilied malcWs ~tk prop­my ofScholllstic. 
Copyright 1994 Scholllstic MllgllZW. All rights rt:SDT>d. &p,odwc• lion in ,d,ok or in pllTI wiJ/und tvrittm pemrission is pro/rilnt,ti. 
l.dters lo Scholllstic ""'51 b, typ,d,mdincliui, fMtvrita's~,addrtSS ,md p"'-nianl,,,. llni-oasi,y sllUlmls should_ inclllli, fMir yatT in scJtoal,mdco/kg,. F11CMltymanbm;5Mll.ldinclMlktheirdq,,atmcrl. All ldras ""'51 r,, signtd. Nllml!S will r,, wiJlwld "I""' ,esp=t in cmiiin 
inslm,c,s. Scholllsticr,s,ro,slMrigld lor,j,d ldterslNd 11r,libdo1LSoro~by 1k UlUl5 of fM llnittd 5,-_ Scltolllstic ll1so will edit for copyfitring, g,a,n,,,llliad or sp,lling ,mm; ,md Scltolllstic styk. &caws, ofsp,u:,, Scholllstic CR111IOf prim .a ldters ,=iv,ti. 
Address 1111 carr,spo,uknc, fo: TM Editor Scholllstic Wort11n< Cmta 
Nor,, n.,,,,,, IN 46556 



NORTHWESTERN 


Polishing Away the Tarnish 
Despite allegations and uncertainties, Notre Dame pulled past Northwestern, 27-12 
.In 1990, just before the season started, a 

by Adam Ward former Notre Dame player sold an uncom­plimentary story about steroid use at Notre Dame to Sports Illustrated. In it he also ,\
September 4, Notre Dame ­
slandered Holtz and his coaching staff. With j'It has become almost routine. At the the apparent distractions surrounding the i 
beginning of every football season, Lou squad, it still managed to muscle out a win """"""--------------------------.........------,,, ,I Holtz and the Fighting Irish football team against a tough Michigan team in the season Senior quarterback Kevin McDougal have to deal with something other than the opener. needed to show his critics that he could first game of the season. Off-the-field The next year an NCAA investigation of replace former quarterback Rick Mlrer. controversy always seems to creep into the the UniversityofMinnesota uncovered more pictureofNotreDame' s season opener. Both controversy concerning Holtz. He was ac­Stadium. fans and critics wonder how the adversity cused of recruiting violations during his Then in 1992, the NCAA suspended se­will affect the performance of the Irish. By time at Minnesota. While this probably put nior captain Demetrius DuBose for the first now, though, all should know that Coach more pressure on Holtz than it did the team, two games of the season. DuBose admitted Holtz and the Irish thrive in the face of he still easily guided the Irish to a victory accepting money and gifts from a long-time adversity. over Indiana on opening day in Notre Dame friend who was also the president of the 
Western Washington Notre Dame Club. Even without their star linebacker, the Irish thrashed Northwestern 42-7 in their first game of the season. 
This year was no different Just before the scheduled start ofthe season, a controversial book hit the newsstands. Under the Tar­nishedDome had fewpositiveremarlcs about Notre Dame or its football program. While many felt that the book would fluster an already questionable Irish squad,Notre Dame· once again proved its critics wrong by beat­ing an improved Northwestern team 27-12. 
The book was not the only distraction 
. plaguing the Irish. There were also ques­tions about the team's ability to score points offensively. The Irish lost its entire starting backfield either to graduation or the NFL. With the likes of Reggie Brooks, Jerome Bettis and Rick Mirer gone, questions sur­faced as to who would fill their shoes. While most were confident that the running back and fullback positions could be filled, many were unsure about the quarterback spot The heavily recruited freshman quarterback Ron Powlus was expected to get the starting call until he fractured his collarbone a week before the season. That left junior Paul · Failla and senior Kevin McDougal to fight for the quarterback position. When game time arrived, McDougal got the starting nod, but Failla was expected to receive some playing time as well. 


With all of the uncertainty surrounding the team's ability, offensive _inexperience and focus, Irish fans were hoping that the game against the Wildcats would answer not only their questions but also their prayers. Notre Dame supporters did not have to wait long'. 
·After receiving and downing the 
opening kickoff, Northwestern took control of the first series of the game at the 20-yard line: When senior Wildcat quarter­back Len Williams' pass ricocheted off of the tight end's hands and into the arms of senior linebacker PeteBercich, the doubts of Irish fans vanished. Bercich caught the ball at the 20 and rumbled into the end zone for an early 7-0 Irish lead. The interception was Bercich's first career touchdown. 
"It was unbelievable. Itwas a dream come true,'' said Bercich. "The ball hit the tight end's hands, and I looked up and there's the ball. The next thing I know I'm like Curly from The Three Stooges, running into the only the second play from scrim­mage, senior defensive tackle Oliver Gibson sacked Williams for a four yard loss. The Wildcats kept their composure and man­aged to squeeze out four first downs before having to punt. 
Now it was the offense's tum to quiet the critics. The Irish took over on their own four yard line, confident that they could march 96 yards for the score. The Wild­cats, however, had other plans. The offensei1as forced to punt after just eight plays and three first downs for 41 yards. The doubts about the team's inexperience and inability to score began to resur­face. 
After both teruns failed to score 
on their next possessions, the first 

~ quarter ended with the Irish ahead 
~ of the Wildcats by seven. 
§_ The second quarter continued 

Cornerback Bobby Taylor Intercepts Len Williams in a similar way with each team 
pass to Mike Senters late In the fourth quarter. The exchangingunthreateningposses­
lnterceptlon was negated by a pass Interference sions. With each series, however, 
penalty. Notre Dame seemed to confirm every Irish fan's anxiety while the Wildcats 
end zone." 
gained confidence and momentum. North­The Notre Dame defense again gave the western used its confidence to score a touch­Irish fans something to cheer about when, on down with only 27 seconds remaining in the half, after a quick but_ impressive 80 yard scoring drive. The drive lasted only one minute and 18 seconds and ended on an eight yard pass from Williams to junior running back Dennis Lundy. Senior kicker Brian Leahy missed the point after leaving the Irish up by one at the half. 
"Wereallyputourheartintoit. Wehadan awesome first half,." said Northwestern out­side linebacker Steve Shine. 
Awesome could be an understatement. Not only did the Wildcat defense prevent the Notre Dame offense from scoring, but italso prevented the Irish offense from crossing 

. midfield. Northwestern dominated in al­most every statistical category at half time including first downs, passing yardage, total yardage and time of possession. The only category in which the Wildcats seemed to 
. trail was the most important one -the score. The Wildcats soon took over in that cat­
rant a sen 
egory as well. Atthe start ofthe second half, afterretuming the kickoff to theNotreDame 


28 yard line, the Irish began their first series of the second half. On the. first play, McDougal fumbled the snap from center, and Northwestern's Shine recovered the ball at the line of scrimmage. 
With the ball on Notre Dame's 28, North­western was poised to take its first lead of the game. Injustfourplays theWildcats did just that, capped by an 11 yard run by Lundy. Northwestern then attempted to make up for the missed extra point on the previous to~chdown by going for a two­point conversion. The attempt failed but Northwestern still had the lead, 12-7•. 
But the Irish did not flinch. On the next series, McDougal proved why he deserved the starting role by leading the Irish offense on their first offensive scoring drive of the year. After marching 63 yards up the field, with a combin~tion of timely passing and smash-mouth running, junior fullback Ray Zellars scored his first career touchdown on a powerful five yard run. The Irish then opted for a two-point conversion to put them up by a field goal. But after an illegal procedure penalty, they had to settle for a point after, by fifth-year senior kicker Kevin Pendergastgiving the lead to the Irish, 14­
12. 
After stopping the Wildcats on their of­fensive series, the Irish managed to score again on their next possession witha29yard Pendergast field goal, increasing the Irish lead to 17-12 at the end of the third quarter. . 
The scoring continued for the Irish into the fourth quarter with Pendergast kicking another field goal and senior free safety Jeff Burris scoring on a two yard scamper into . the end zone. 
The scoring for the Wildcats, however,. ceased at the 13:35 mark ofthe third quarter after the Notre Dame defense tightened up for the remainder of the game. · 
When the final .gun. sounded, the Irish were on top 27-12, but many of the ques­tions that Notre Dame fans were hoping tp have answered still remained. 
Did the book contribute to the less than impressive pei::formance of the team? · Kevin McDougal did not think so. . 
"The book had nothing to do with any­thing. We just started out slow. The total team had to get it together, and after our first score in the second half, I could· feel the confidence build;" he said. 

Although the co~troversy over the book did not seem to be a factor, the. suspect offense was of great concern. The Irish failed six times on third and short and never seemed to achieve any type of offensive rhythm. 
· "If you look at our team -based on today, youmightthinkthatwemighti1otwinagm1i," said Holtz. "But if you look at other things, you might see opportunities for 'improve­ment I must look at the film before I contemplate other things -like suicide." 
'Ole battle between Failla and McDougal for the quarterback position was not re­solved either. 
"It's still up in the air. Both McDougal and Failla did anice job," said Holtz. 
Many of the questions plaguing the Irish remained · unanswered and improvement . seemed to be necessary in orderto challenge the more competitive teams on the schedule.· 
"I'm going to have to watch the film and ask, 'Can we correct things that we did wrong?' Ifwe can, I will feel much better~ If we can't, I will be one sick puppy," Holtz said. "It was not a very impressive perfor­mance but we learned a lot." . 

MICHIGAN 


·DISPBJ~baJIORG 
by Rich Christenson 

September 11, Ann Arbor, MI­
They'll never be able to do it." Statements like these echoed in .I.the ears of the Notre Dame football players weeks before the clash with the University of Michigan. Radio, TV broadcasts, newspaper and magazine articles, predicted "Without Rick Mirer, Jerome Bettis and Reggie Brooks, the Irish will never be able to pull off an upset," and "With the highly touted freshman quarterback 
recruit Ron Powlus in­jured and controversy surrounding the recent release of Under The Tarnished Dome, Notre Dame will be lucky not to get trounced." 
Sports Illustrated 
wrote, "Even the stron­gest Irish team couldn't expect to defeat all of this year's foes. And thisis farfrom the stron­gest Irish team." 
The Notre Dame foot­ball team heard all the skepticism. It heard but did not listen. Instead the Irish decided to do something about it: prove their critics wrong. 
Michigan came into the match up as the fa­vorites, with a regular season unbeaten stteak 



MattCashora 

Irish defenders bring down Michigan's explosive tailback, Junior Tyrone Wheatley. Wheatley tallied 146 of the Wolverines' 169 rushing yards on the day. 
of 20 games and the hoine field.advantage. After last year's fifth· straight Big Ten championship, the Wolverines set their sights higher this year, aiming for the naional title. Though Notre Dame may have been underestimated because of a shaky performance againstNorthwestern, Coa:ch Lou Holtz and the rest of the Fighting Irish were not ready to surrender. 
"Afteronebaddaytheywroteusoff. Wehadsomethingtoprove," said senior offensive tackle Aaron Taylor.So the Irish began the day ready to,convert the doubters. After 
junior flanker Mike Miller returned the opening kickoff 17 yards, Notre Dame start.edits march down the field. Oblivious to-the record crowd of 106,851 fans, the Irish set about proving their merit. 
Six plays and 83 yards later, senior quarterback Kevin McDougal scrambled into the end zone for an Irish touchdown. "Idid not expect to go that far," stat_ed a humble McDougal. "The receivers did a great job blocking." _But could Notre Dame hold back the Michigan offense anchored· 
Kevin McDougal rushed the Irish_past the W{)/verines for a 27-23 victory infront ofa record crowd atMichlgan Stadium 



ALL ·DOUBTS 
SCHOLASTIC 
____,;,; 

by Tyrone Wheatley? When a touchdown against the 6'4"; 299 J!,OUnd Aaron. Taylor Wolverines until Miller. describes another ·player Michigan struck again late (Wheatley) as "big, strong and in the first half. Led in the air really fast," one tends to believe by senior quarterback Todd him. And on the opening drive, Collins and on the ground by Whyatley carried the ball on six of Wheatley' the Wolverines Michigan's first 13 plays. _The marched 89 yards in nine Wolverinesmoved66yardstoget plays as Wheatley pounded within field goal range, where in a one yard touchdown run Michigan booted itself on the to bring the score to 17-10. scoreboard with three points. With only 1:13 left in theJust as the shell-shocked first half, the Irish could Michigan crowd began to re-have opted to sit on their one enter the game, the Irish silenced touchdownleadandheadfor them once again. McDougal the locker room, but Notre again took· charge, hitting -senior Dame still had something to split end Clint Johnson for a· 4 3 . prove. yard gain. Three plays later, Starting on the lrish 35 McDougal found Michigan's yard line, McDougal orches­"si'x th great lakf'-· senior trated the two minute drill, flanker Lake Dawson ~-for a completing passes to both 
spec·tacular 32 .·yard ab. The . . : Brent Tadsen 
gr Dawson and sophomore
lri·sh drive culmi·nated m· a 24 yard No_tre Dame senior tailback Lee Becton dives for the extra yard 
f d split end Derrick Mayes'. 
field goal by fifth year senior as two defenders bring him down. Becton rushed or 66 yar s Wi"th seconds left,
13 

-on 17 carries against the Wolverines 
kicker Kevin Pendergast to give · McDougal dropped back, Notre Dame a 10-3 lead. and finding no receivers open, proceeded to scramble to the left for 
In the second quarter Miller stepped forward with something of 11 yards and a Notre Dame touchdown. Traveling 65 yards in seven his own to prove. With 12 minutes left in the first half, he received plays, the Irish went into halftimewith.a24-10 lead over the third-­a Michigan punt on the Irish 29 yard line from senior kicker Chris ranked Wolverines. · . . · Stapleton. Miller then ran 56 yards straight upfield for another Irish After a half time locker room speech by lrish defensive line coach touchdown. Pendergast made the extra point, giving Notre Dame Mike Trgovac -said to be similar to but perhaps bested by Knute a 17 to 3 lead. Since Ricky Watters' 81 yard punt return in Notre Rockne's "Gipper" speech -the Irish returned to the gridiron to·. Dame's 1988 victory over Michigan, no onehadreturnedapunt for prove to the media, Michigan and the entire nation that the Notre· 
Dame football team could and would win. .Michigan's Wheatley started the second half . with an impressive 49 yard kickoff return. • However two plays later, Collins threw a pass · intended for sophomore wide receiver Mercury Hayes that instead was intercepted by senior free safety Jeff Burris. The well-balanced Irish offense began to crush the Wolverines' spirit Chewing up over six minutes of the third quarter, McDougal completed two passes for 42 yards. Lou Holtz concentrated on the run_ning game, using a plethora ofrunning giants, including jun­ior tailback Lee Becton, junior fullback Ray Zellars, freshman tailback Randy Kinder, and Burris. The Irish drove their way down the field, gaining 63 yards in 13 plays to set up Pendergast BrentTadsen fora 19yardfieldgoal. NotreDamesecureda27­

Sophomore spilt end Derrick Mayes celebrates the Irish victory 
10 lead over a team expected to dominate the 

over the Wolverines. Mayes had two receptions for 34 yards. The offense 
game.

racked up 192 rushing yards and 206 passing yards. 
"In the middle of the third quarter, things started going the wrong way," said Collins. 


1993 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
then found itselfin a fourth and one situation on the Michigan goal line. The Irish went for it, 
· but Burris was stopped short. "Ifwe make it, we score. Ifnot, they're on the one yard line and have to go 99 yards; I like these odds. However, they did end up going 99 yards and made it look like a bad decision," said Holtz. 
In a definite shift of momen­twn, the Wolverines marched 99 yards down the field for an 
. eventual touchdown early in the fourth quarter, bringiJ:ig Michi­gan within ten points of the Irish with a score of27-17. 
Once again the Irish had some­thing to prove that it would take more than one solid effort to
The Irish defense llmtted the explosive Wolverine rurinlng game ,to·two t~uchdown11, both by Tyrone Wheatley. · ·· · · · · ' ' · · · · win a game. In the fourth quar­ter, the Irish defense stopped In the third quarter, Collins was intercepted three times, twice Michigan's offense on its first three drives ofthe quarter. And Notre by Burris and once by sophomore comerbackBobby Taylor. Taylor Dame'soffenseranconservativeplays meant to run theclock out but intercepted the ball and returned it to the Michigan nine yard line not to put points on the score board. with three and a half minutes left in the third quarter. Notre Dame Michigan however, did not give up. Late in the game Collins led 

.... 

S·UBWAY Has A Sandwich For ANY Size Appetite!!! 
Liglit Appetites: 6 Inch Cold Cut Combo 

... -~----\.,,


·~ . 
f • , ....._.. ,. • • 
t...
l · :rdci9f:..r ··Sn· ·ii · e<Mtc· , · ­
Only $1.49! 

SCHOLASTIC 

\ 

\ 
\ 
' 
a 14 play, 80 yard drive, dwindling the Irish: lead to four points with a score of 27-23. 
"When most teams would have 
folded, they continued to play tough," 
Holtz said. 
An unsuccessful onside kick with 
32 seconds left in the final quarter al­
lowed the Irish simply to down the ball 
and end the game. The final score, 27~ 
23, does not reflect the Irish domination 
in Ann Arbor. 
"Notre Dame is a great school. They were an excellent team on defense and up front," said Michigan Head Coach Gary Moeller. 
McDougal finished the game with 12 completions on 21 attempts for 208 ·yards, while rushing for another 66 yards. He earned the respect of many people with this victory. 
"Every time [Notre Dame] comes in 
Mat!Cashore 
Senior quarterback Kevin McDougal looks upfield for an open man.· McDougal led the Irish offense with two rushing touchdowns. 
here they move the ball. It doesn't matter who they have in the backfield," said Collins. 
The Irish win dashed Michigan's hopes in its quest for a National Cham­pionship. 
"Itis a terrible disappointment. This felt like the year. Hopes for the Na­tional Championship are gone. Now our goal is the Big Ten Champion­ship," lamented Collins. 
"Youcan'tworry about what's been 
said," said McDougal in reflection. 
And how true this is. It doesn't 
niatterwhatpeople may write in books 
or comment on TV. What matters is 
that Notre Dame continues to play its 
game. 
And that's exactly what the Irish did. . 
MICHIGAN STATE 



A Ground-Breaking Day 
The Irish rushing attack proved itselfen route to a 3 6-14 win against the Spartans 
than 250 yards per game and never ranking tan team. In a series of Craig Thomas runs by Jason Conte below 14th in the country. and short Jim Miller passes, the Spartans But coming into this season there were went 74 yards on 14 plays in six and a half numerous questions about the Irish ground minutes, putting the first seven points on the
September 18, Notre Dame ­game. For the first time in several years scoreboard.Tony Brooks. Anthony Johnson. Holtz did not have a proven running back to · "This game scares me because Michigan Rodney Culver. Ricky Watters. ·replace his departing stars. Instead he.had to State moved the ball on us so well last year Jerome Bettis. Reggie Brooks. work with unproven backups from last year and we're not consistent enough on offense For the past six years, under the direction and a highly touted freshman class. right now to get into a high-scoring game of Lou Holtz, Notre Dame has been known In the first two games of the season, Lee with them," said Holtz before the game. for its great rushing attack, averaging no less Becton was the only back who distinguished "They had almost 500 yards against us last himself, and the running year, and it seemed like 700. We ended up game remained ques­having to fight for our lives before it was tionable. But for the over. Michigan, State has had a couple of third game of the year, losing seasons, but I think George [Perles] Michigan State was a has them back. I think this is one ofhis better guest at the coming out teams." 
•party for the new breed Tt looked like Holtz's fears were well-of Irish running backs. . .lfounded. But the Irish countered the at­
But at first it looked tack in the beginning ofthe second quarter. like the offense would Kevin McDougal led his unit across the goal have 'to play catch-up. line for a Notre Dame touchdown, scored'by On their first chive of the Farmer on a one yard run. But the Irish still game the Spartans trailed the Spartans 7-6 after Kevin 
· marched down the field Pendergast missed the point after attempt. and scored. Starting After this scoring drive the Irish took from their own 26, command of the game. On the next Notre Michigan State put to­Dame possession, Pendergast redeemed gether what would turn himself by scoring a 26 yard field goal, out to be its best drive of bringing the Irish to a 9-7 lead. And on the 
the day, but to Irish fans next drive, the Notre Dame defense kept it was a wake-up call to a Michigan State from reaching a first down. new and improved Spar-The Spartans punted the ball back to a hun-



12 
SCHOLASTIC . 
gry Irish offense that converted the opportu­nity into a score. 
"It was aclutch performance by the of­fense," said Holtz. "We were much better offensively this week, and I thought Kevin McDougal performed well." "IXTith 10 seconds left in the first half, on ··l' l'the Spartan four yard line, McDougal 
. saw an open Ray Zellars, tossing him · the ball over the middle for an Irish touchdown. _With the extra point ·Notre Dame led the 
game, 1.6-7. 
The offensive 
line aided the rush­
ing attack. "The 
line did a tremen­
dous job blocking 
today," said Kinder. 
"Some ofthe blocks 
and our cohesiveness is fi­nally starting to get there. We are really starting to gel as a unit." 
And with four seconds left on the clock, the Michi­gan State offense took the field. Miller attempted to 

''We don't have to be the best team in the country, we just have to be the best team in the stadium ..." -Aaron Taylor 
throw a deep pass to a group of three Michigan State receiv­ers, but John Covington read the play and inter-
they made were unbelievable, and the holes had one sack and made four tackles for they opened up were huge." losses against the Spartans. Notre Dame Aaron Taylor agreed with Kinder's as­forced Michigan State to punt six times and sessment "Our offensive line worked well, limited the Spartan rushing attack to only 58 

·ANew Star For The Irish 
0 fall the stars on the Notre Dame side of theballduringtheMichiganStategame, 

In celebration as he scores one of Notre Dame's four touchdowns In the game. 
cepted the ball to end the first half. 
While the offense was racking up high numbers, the defense also performed well. TheIrish forced two turnovers, yards the entire game and negative 10 yards in the second half. 
"I thought after the first drive and before the last drive, we played good on defense," said Holtz. "We couldn't have communi­cated better." 
On the first Irish possession of the third quarter, Pendergast was able to hit a 23 yard field goal to increase the Irish lead to 19-7. On the next drive the Irish defense stopped the Spartan offense from gaining a first down. 
Once again the Irish were unable to drag the ball over the goal line, and Notre Dame settled for a 31 yard field goal by Pendergast. 
But with a little over two minutes left in the third quarter Notre Dame scored its first 
freshman tailback Randy Kinder' s star shone  touchdown since the first  half when  
the brightest  He rushed 12 times for 94  McDougal handed the ball to freshman  
yards, averaging 7.8 yards per carry.  His  Marc Edwards on the oneyard line, dodging  
performance earned him the NBC/Chevrolet  the left tackle for a touchdown and bringing  
Notre Dame MVP for the game. "It was a very special game for me," said  the score to 29-7.Again in the fourth quarter the Irish  
Kinder. "I really didn't get much sleep last  offense came together for another  
night But the more times I ran the ball, the  touchdown.  On the Spartan 12 yard line  
more comfortable I felt  I'm not where I  McDougal, under heavy pressure, rolled left  
should be, but I'm workinghardand trying to  and let a pass fly to Becton who was wide  
go in the right direction."  open and scored an Irish touchdown. With  
After Kinder's performance notonly were  the extra point the Irish lead increased to 36­ 
the fans impressed, but he also turned a few  7.  
of his teammates' heads as well.  "We just have a way to get it down there  
"Randy is a great kid and a great runner,"  [to the end zo~e]," said Holtz. ''Usually we  
said senior quarterback Kevin McDougal.  Because he is an East Lansing native, man  just wallow and slop around and somehow  
"In the future he will be one of the great  expected he would play for the Spartans.  get it down there."  
running backs in the nation."  ''It was a big thrill. We showed the worl  With less than five minutes left in the  
Last year Kinder was heavily recruited by  that we can run the ball effectively."  fourth quarter, the Irish gained possession  
both Michigan State and Notre Dame.  -by Jason Conte  and for the first time since the first quarter,  

l
1993 FOOTBALL REVIEW 13 
( 
I 

Notre Dame was unable to convert the drive into any points. And also for the first time since the first quarter the Irish defense let the 
Spartan offense into the end zone. While 
the Irish defense had a slow start, it eventu­
ally shut down the Spartan offensive attack. 
"It just took us a drive or two to realize what they were doing," said Pete Bercich. "But after that we were able to adjust" 
i. 
It was not until their final drive that the Spartans were able to muster up enough 
strength to crack the Irish defense and add onto their seven points. With 18 seconds left on the clock, Miller stayed in the pocket and threw to Coleman in the end zone, hitting him for a touchdown, bringing the final score to 36-14. 
The Notre Dame rushing attack proved itself by breaking free for 269 yards, led by freshman Randy Kinder who tallied 12 car­ries for 94 yards. 
"I had a lot of fun out there today," said Kinder. "I just wanted to contribute and show that I can get in there and be produc­tive." · Kinder was not the only b·ack to come 
through for the Irish. Lee Becton careers. 
"Ourbacks gave us a big boost We knew about Becton and Zellars, but it was nice to see Kinder and some others jump in there," said Holtz. "We wanted to establish our rushing game today. We wanted to establish a Notre Dame.style ~ffense." 
While the Irish running backs were in the spotlight, Kevin McDougal and the receiv­ers quietly put together a very good game of their own. McDougal completed 17 of 23 passes for· 185 yards on the day. While completing 74 percent ofhis passes, he also tallied his first two touchdowns of the sea­son. 
"Wemade a lot ofprogress from last week and that's what our goal is. We don't have to be the best team in the country, we just 
· Ken Osgood have to be the best team in the stadium and Junior outside guard Ryan Leahy tries get better each week. If we do that, we'll be 
to make holes for Notre Dame's rushing game. The Irish rushed for 269 yards all right," said Aaron Taylor. "Weare play-on the day. · ing more confident as a unit. We have more 
confidence in ourselves and each other. rushed 10 times for 76 yards, including an People were writing us off a little earlier in impressive40 yard run. And freshmen Marc the season, but now we are starting to prove Edwards ahd Robert Farmer both scored that we are a good team." 0 their first touchdowns in their collegiate 
14 


PURDUE 
Blame it on the Rain 
On a cold and. rq,iny day, Notre Dame struggled to shut out a persistent Purdue team, 17-0 
by Warren Junium 
September 25, Purdue, IN ­
.w.?o would have thought that Purdue would 
give the 1993 Notre Dame squad a tough time? Butonarainy, miserable day in West Lafayette, the Purdue Boilermakers came close to upsetting the number four Fighting Irish. 
Purdue coach Jim Colletto came into the 64th meeting of these two teams looking to play the role of "Spoilermaker" by letting history repeat itself. Purdue and Notre Dame have met 15 times previ­ously when the Fighting Irish were ranked in the top five nationally. The Boilermakers have won seven of those games, most r~ently in i979. Purdue was looking to make it eight. · 
. In the first half, the Boiler defense shut down a strong Irish offense --:-something that no one expected. The Notre Dame offense was limited to just 136 yards for the entire first half. Senior quarterback Kevin McDougal led an ineffective passing game in the first two quarters. He was three for nine with two interceptions, and his longest cmnpletion was only 15 yards on a second and 10play to sophomore split end Derrick Mayes. 
"Coming out in the first half our offense was out of sync," said Zellars also added to the Irish cause with 31 total rushing yards in the Coach Holtz. "We didn't prepare well, but this is the real Irish first half. offense." "In the first quarter we coul.d not get the ball over the 50 yard line. 
The Irish passing game may have been contained by the Boilers, Their defense played a great game today," said Purdue fullback but the Irish running game made some headway against the surpris­Mike Alstott. . ingly strong Purdue defense. Freshman tailback Randy Kinder led Butin the second quarter junior quarterback Matt Pike got his the Notre Dame rushers in the first half with 51 total yards. During offense rolling. -Pike relied on Alstott for the big play. He the second possession, he threaded himself through the steadfast connected with Alstott on four accounts that totaled 55 yards. Purdue offensive line for a 22 yard gain, and junior fullback Ray Halfway through the second quarter, on a third and seven play, Pike hit Alstott with a pass that moved the Boileis to Notre Dame territory for only the second time in the game. Pike continued this drive all the way to the Irish 25 yard line, where the Boileis teed up fora43 yard field goal. Junior kicker Vito Speciale lined up the field goal, but senior tackle Aaron Taylor blocked Speciale' s kick, which was recovered by Purdue junior holder Brian.Goehl. 





The Irish took over and the offense again faltered. This allowed · Purdue to have another chance to score before half time, but the Notre Dame defense stood strong. · The Irish came out in the second half looking to vindicate 
themselves. Atfirst they could not get their offense started. ThefirstNotreDame drive ofthe half ended on the Purdue 38 yard line when McDougal went wide right and fumbled the ball as he was tackled: ButthePurdueoffensewas also havinga bad day and the Boileis did not capitalize on Notre Dame's mistakes. 
After McDougal's showing in the first half and then his fumble .. in the third quarter, Coach Holtz went to junior back.:.up quarter-··· back Paul Failla. During his first drive Failla was also ineffective. Butthen the Notre Dame defense stepped in again. 
With 5:50 remaining in the third qwirter, Purdue took over the ball on its own 15 yard line. The Boiler offense had a string of successful plays in the.drive but with 4:27 left in the quarter, the· . possession came to an abrupt end. Pike stepped back to pass but was smothered by the Irish defense and fumbled the ball. Notre Dame senior defensive end Brain Hamilton recovered the ball and took off for the end zone. No one could touch him, and Hamilton .. ·.. failed to jump start Purdue continued to give the ball back to ihe 
. 
scored. With time running down in the·third quarter the Irish were  ·.  Irish, butNotreDame~soffensecou1dnotgetthe ball in theendzoiie.  
up 7-0. ·  It seemed that the Irish defense would put the only points on the  
Even with an impressive score by the defense, the Irish offense  board. But late in the fourth quarter the Noire Dame offense finally  
-'got started. With 7:51,remaining, the Irish took  
over-the ball•after a Purdue punt McDougal  
was back-in at quarterback and relied on fresh­ 
man tailback Robert Farmer and Zellais to  
breathe new life into the Irish attack. In this  
drive Farmer carried the ball four times for a  
total of 15 yards. And Zellais carried the ball  
twice for a totafof' 15 yards with.his final carry  
· putting the Irish within field goal range. On a  
fourth downwith four yards to go, seniorkicker  
Kevin Pendergast teed up for· a: 34 yard field  
goal and put the Irish up 10-0. · TheIrish defense again showed its strength·.I.on the kickoff. Pendergast's kick sailed 6()  
•yardstoPurduefreshman linebacJc:erJoeHagins,  
who returned the ball .33 yards before Notre  
Dame junior linebacker Jeremy Sample forced  
. a fumble on the Purdue 38 yard line.  
Thelrish ground· attack took over and ran  
through thetiredand wetPurduedefense. Zellars  
broke throQgh the line fot ·29 yards on three  
carries during the final drive. _The Irish notched .  
··their last touchdown ofthe long afternoon on a · · · ·  

Senior split end Clint Johnson returns the only Purdue kickoff for. the day. one yard rush by freshman fullback Marc He returned the ball 53 yards on the kick •. · 



Edwards, making the fi­nal score 17-0.. 
The weather played a large part in the out come of the game. It rained throughout the en­tire contest, falling hard­est during the first. half. This could explain. the lack of accurate passing. McDougal was only three for nine, and Pike was nine for 14. In the second half, as the rain began to lighten up, Purdue . re­turned to the pass, but Notre Dame stayed with· the rush. 
"I want to give Purdue all the credit in the world. They played hard ·and physical. They won the battle up front. It was a tough battle,"said Coach Holtz. 

Even though Purdue lost the game on the scoreboard, the Boilers felt good about their perfonnance. 
"This game makes our team gain confidence after playing against AR-Ameri­cans," said Alstott 
"I told those guys that if they walk out ofhere with their heads down, I was going to kick them in the fanny," said Coach Colletta. "Today they played a great game." D 
Freshman tailback Randy Kinder sees a hole and breaks loose. Kinder rushed for 75 yards on the day. 



STANFORD 
Revenge Never Tasted So Sweet 
Notre Dame avenged last year's loss to Stanford with a 48-20 victory 

down pass attempt .fell; incomplete. The by Jeremy Dixon defense forced a 23 yard field goal, cutting the Irish lead to 7-3. 
· · On their next possession, the Irish were October 2, Notre Dame ..;_ led by freshman tailback Randy Kinder, .who ended the day with 105 yards rushing to Irish fans knew the victory was secure become the first Notre Dame freshman to when they saw Lou Holtz drinking his .. surpass· 100 yards rushing since 1982. He strawberry milkshake on the sidelines. Holtz, . had a 21 yard run down the left side to move who forgot his necessary shake. before the the ball into Stanford territory. A pass inter-game, had a student manager bring one to ference penalty moved the ball further himduringthefourthquarteroftheStanford downfield to the Cardinal 15 yard line match up that the Irish dominated, 48-20. where, after a two yard loss, Coach Holtz Last year's loss to the Cardinal was wiped · decided to try the option for the first time. It out of the team's memory by the "big play" developed just as planned, with McDougal attack. · waltzing 17 yards into the end zone for 
The onslaught began on Notre Dame's another Irish score. first possession. Starting on their own eight Holtz declared earlier in the week that he · yardline,thelrishmarcheddownthefieldin was abandoning the option because qf 10 plays. A 46 yard play action pass from McDougal's inability to run it "Wedecided senior quarterback Kevin McDougal to jun-Kevin would definitely Ii.ave to learn it; we ior flanker Mike Miller gave the Irish a first made some progress," said Holtz. down at the Cardinal 20 yard line. Four "I knew we were going to run it," said 
plays later, senior comerback Willie Clark rolled untouched around the right end into the end zone togiveNotreDamealeadit would not relinquish. Stanfordcameright back on the next possession though. Coupling senior rurining back Ellery Rob­
. erts' 24 yards rushing with three completions to junior splitend Justin Armour for 49 yards and three first downs, the Cardinal was first and 10 on the Irish 12 yard line before the Noire Dame defense stepped up. On second. down and three, Irish senior defensive line­man Oliver Gibso_n stopped Roberts for a loss and a third McDougal. "It's in [Holtz's] offense. I felt if they were going to let me run it,I might as well run it" 
The Irish only ran the option four times, but it was three times too many for Bill Walsh and Stanford. Ofthe four options the Irishran,McDougal scored two touchdowns and pitched to junior tailback Lee Becton for another. 
"We made some good defensive plays, some fabulous plays, but we still can 'tfathom the option," Walsh said. Keeping up the Irish tradition of strong 
special teams and galactic nicknames, senior split end Clint "Cosmic" Johnson scored one touchdown and set up another. With 47 seconds left in the first half and the Irishleadcutto 14-6byaStanfordfieldgoal, Johnson took the kickoff from the goal line dowri the left sideline to the Stanford 21yard line. McDougal worked the late half magic again with a nine yard .end zone pass to a diving sophomore split end Derrick Mayes 

~ 
~ 
g,::, 
The Notre Dame defense smothers a Stanford ball carrier. The defense forced the Cardinal to lose 43 yards rushing. 
18 
\· 
-the first touchdown for the Irish receivers all season-: to give Notre Dame a 20-6 lead going into halftime'. 
The Irish took the opening kickoff of the second half and again marched down the field. A third down conversion from McDougal to senior flanker Lake Dawson moved the ball into Stanford territory, set­ting up McDougal's second option touch­down.0 nee again, Stanford came back. Senior 
. quarterback Steve Stenstrom picked 
· apart the secondary, leading the Cardinal deep into Notre Dame territory where Rob­erts again took charge. On second down from the eight yard line, Roberts took a pitch that almost scored him a touchdown, b.utjust missed. However, on the next play he found the end zone to cut the lead to 27-13 . 
. On the kickoff, "Cosmic" got0 another chance -perhaps making the biggest and the most memorable play during a day ofthe big plays. Taking the ball from five yards inside the goal line, "Cosmic" Johnson sprinted up the left sideline once more. This time, however, the orily people to catch him were his teammates as they mobbed him in 

Ray Zellars receives last minute instructions from Coach Holtz. Zellars rushed for 41 yards on the day. 
the end zone. 
"We put [the kickoff return] in two or · three weeks ago," said Johnson. "The orily thing new about it is we return it up the 

sidelines. It used to be up the middle." "I didn't want to put it in, but players 
convinced me," Holtz said. The run-back took the wind out of Stanford's sails. The Cardinal had put together an impressive drive only to watch Notre Dame's lead balloon to 34-13. ''We were thinking, if we can hold them, it's our game. But then came the kickoff return for the touchdown, and now we were forced to make big plays," Roberts said. Stanford came right back atthe Irish on the next possession to score on a 30 yard pass from Stenstrom to freshman wide receiver Brian Manning. ButNotreDameagainansweredinthe ig play with a 27 yard run for fresh­man tail back Randy Kinder that was followed two plays later by a crucial third down conversion, a 32 yard reception by Dawson at the Stanford 10 yard line. This set up the Irish option once again. McDougal ran it to perfection, pitching to Becton just as he was hit by two Cardinal defenders. Becton cruised into the end zone to put the Irish up 41-20. "Ithink the defense is getting better, but I still don't think we can stop the option. McDougal is a good option quarterback," said Stanford linebacker Coy Gibbs. On the next Irish possession, the big 


Stanford defenders swarm around a Notre Dame ball carrier. The Cardinal defnese was Ineffective against the lrlsh passing and rushing game. 
play showed up again. Junior back up quarterback Paul Failla. on the only Irish pass ofthe fourth quarter, connected with Mayes for an 80 yard touchdown pass to give the Irish a final margin of victory of 48-20. 
Lateinthe fourth quarter, with Stanford driving deep in Notre Dame territory, junior defensive back Shawn Wooden made a spectacular interception in the end zone. Wooden jumped up to tip the ball, then kept batting it up in the air until he caught it while lying on his back. It was an amazing cat.ch that landed Wooden on the highlight films. .The Irish took part in the day of big 
plays. It only allowed two touch­downs by Stanford's Roberts and Man­ning. Two sacks, one by sophomore outside linebacker Renaldo Wynn, and the other by freshman defensive back Kinnon Tatum and senior defensive end Brian Hamilton, ended potential touch­down drives by Stanford and forced the Cardinal to settle for field goals. Sopho­more comerback Bobby Taylor had a good game covering Cardinal standout 



junior tight end Justin Armour. Senior free safety Jeff Burris had some crushing hits, and junior linebacker Jeremy Sample led the team with 10 tackles. 
"I thought this was a heck of a football game," said Holtz. "In the second half each team answered the challenge. I thought our offense played very, very well." 
"We played an outstanding Notre Dame team," said Walsh. "Their big plays de­stroyed us. I think they'If win all their remaining games." Buoyed by the confi­dence received by destroying Stanford, the team headed home to take on Pitt, coming one week closer to that November match up with Florida State. 
"We made a lot of big plays," said Holtz. And on that beautiful California day, the big plays were all the Irish needed. . 
Clint Johnson celebrates after scoring on a 100 yard kickoff return. 

: 
PITTSBURGH 
Pummeling 
Notre Dame handed Pittsburgh a stinging defeat as the Irish marched to a 44-0 victory 

by Jake Schaller 
October 9, Notre Dame ­
A collective sigh ofrelief could be heard from the Notre Drune faithful as .the Irish rolled through the fourth quarter of their grune with the University of Pittsburgh Pan­thers. Notre Drune' s performance in the first half hardly befitted a terun ranked number four in the nation. When they crune outin the second half, however, the Irish looked un­beatable, and the second half surge was enough to give Lou Holtz his fourth largest victory with the Irish. At the start of the grune the Irish appeared to be on their way to a performance that would turn the contest into an embarrass­ment for Pitt by halftime. The defense sent the hapless Pitt offense three and out, and after a punt, the Notre Dame offense took over possession at their own 26 yard line. After starting out with a 22 yard pass from senior quarterback Kevin McDougal to se~ nior flanker Lake Dawson, the Irish faced a fourth and one. Coach Lou Holtz appeared confident by going for the first down on this play, and again on a fourth and three that Notre Drune faced four plays later. Junior running backLee Becton negotiated the first fourth down conversion with a seven yard run. Then junior fullback Ray Zellars caught a quick dump pass from McDougal, which he turned into a 14 yard gain. Becton ended the 74 yard drive with an eight yard scamper into the end zone. 

The Pitt offense was able to gain ground plays the next time that it had the ball. Sophomore quarterback John Ryan threw to senior wide receiver J uniorGreen for a pick­up of 16 yards, and jupior running back Curtis Martin ran 12 yards for two first downs. But then the Panthers were penal­ized 15 yards on two delay of game penalties and an illegal procedure.call. 
Following another punt from Pitt, 
McDougal and the Irish offense began to · sputter. After driving from their own 19 yard line to the Pitt 35, McDougal overthrew Becton down the middle and was inter­cepted by sophomore defensive back David 
Sumner. 
Ryan did not return at quarterback; fresh­
man Pete Gonzalezreplaced him at the helm. 
"We had decided to play Gonzalez this 
week, to see what he could do," said Pitt's 
Head Coach Johnny Majors. It was not an 
auspicious start. ·On his fourth play and first 
collegiate throw, Gonzalez tossed an inter­
ception. It was an ill-advised throw in the 
left flat toward junior wide receiver Bill 
Davis who had his back turned. Senior 
comerback Greg Lane picked the pass· off 
and returned it to the Pittsburgh 19 yard line. 
Notre Drune took advantage of its field 
position. On the first play McDougal 
handed off toZellars, who ran up the middle, 
broke through a tackle and strutted into the 
end zone. 
·. Despite Knight's fourth down stop, the Irish were unable to capitalize, .and McDougal was intercepted again, this time 
by senior defensive back Maurice Will­iams. Pitt ran two plays for a yard, and the half ended with Notre Dame up by the not­so-commanding score of 13-0. 
In the second half , junior quarterback Paul Failla was brought in to lead the Irish. HemovedNotreDamefrom their own 11 to the Pitt 28, but on fourth down and four Becton was hemmed in for a two yard loss on an option pitch left. 
The defense then held the Panthers and forced them to punt This became the norm as the defense instituted the "Steel 

Curtain," holding the Pitt offense to no first ·_ downs and 11 total yards in the second half. The defense allowed the Panthers across the 50 yard line only once in the entire game and allowed Pitt only 122 total yards, notching their second shut-out of the year. 
With Failla in· at quarterback, the Irish drove to first and gbal from the Pitt nine, fueled by a 34 yard run by Becton. But the Panthers' defense held, and the Irish had to. settle for a field goal. Fifth-year senior kicker Kevin Pendergast booted the 27 yarder and made the score 16-0. 

. McDougal returned when theirish took the field again, anci he took advantage ofhis second chance. Becton ran for 35 yards on this drive, including a terrific 26 yard scam·: per, and Zellars ran for 20, including an i 1-· yard romp for his second touchdown .. 
_''We didn't do anything on offense that gave us a prayer or as much of a chance;"'. said Majors. · · · 
Notre Dame's ensuing drive was 86 yards, taking just two plays. Sopho­more split end Derrick Mayes made up for two earlier drops with a catch where he outmaneuvered Pitt's Williams for the ball on his way to a 55 yard gain. On the next play, Kinder received a pitch right and sped 31 yards into the end zone for the first touchdown ofhis collegiate career. Therun was successful with the help of a crushing block thrown by freshman fullback Marc Edwards that allowed Kinder to turn the comer. On the kick-off, Edwards made another big play, nailing Pitt's kick returner fresh­man defensive back Denorse Mosely after a · 16 yard return. With Paul Failla back under center, the Irish marched down the field, covering 52 yards in 11 plays, in a drive that featured 
Panther defensive back Maurice 
Williams tries desperately to hold on to 
freshman tailback Randy Kinder. 
Kinder had a 31 yard run Into the end 
zone for his first touchdown with the 
Fighting lrlsh. 
23 
-' 

freshman tailback Robert Farmer, senior up 37-0 and Pitt seemed utterly demoral­to the Notre Dame 40 yard line where the fullback Dean Lytle, freshman tailback ized. This showed on the Panthers' next two ball was handled by senior Jeff Btirris, a Randy Kinder and Edwards all carrying the plays. On the kickoff, senior wide receiver safety, goal line running back and now punt ball, with Farmer scoring on a three yard Rod Harpst began a return, but after only returner. After catching the ball, Burris run. nine yards, sophomore defensive back An-side-stepped two tacklers before streaking 
"Kinder, Farmer and Edwards will up the middle of the field, breaking continue to play a big role on our 
Cochran's shoulder tackle at the team. Lee Becton is fully recovered Pitt 30 and continuing into the end and playing very, very well and I also zone for a crowd-electrifying 60 think we should get the ball to Zellars yard return. more," said Coach Holtz. It was just a. matter of running 
· As a running back corps, we are through the holes that the other talcing pride in everything we do," guys created. They did a great job said Zellars. "We labeled ourselves blocking and it was just a matter of 
'As Hard As They Come' at the be­taking what they gave me and ev­ginning of the season because there erything just happened." said was a lot of doubt about our backs Burris. because of the big names that have 
"We were glad to win today, and been there in the past" 
have a winning season. In the first 
According to Becton, the number · half we turned the ball over three Brent Tadsen • · th d. · •
ofbacks also helps them to stay fresh 
Junior flanker Mike Miller deftly maneuvers around tunes -at was . 1sappomtmg.during the game. 
Panther defensive back Denorse Mosley, returning The second half we dominated the 
"Getting a breather gives you a one of the many Pitt punts of the day. game," said Holtz. chance to get your legs back. It really The Irish moved to 6-0 on the helps. A lot of people get a lot of playing thony Dorsett ran into him, and both players season and were elevated to number three in time. And I think that it has made our tripped and fell to the ground. And the first the polls while Pitt slipped to 1-4. Majors running game stronger," Becton said. play from scrimmage, Gonzalez ran into his was impressed with the Irish team that de­
Whatever the reason, the running backs fullback. livered the fourth notch in the loss column. more than pulled their weight with 371 "Notre Dame is an extremely talented Not including, that is, the punt after the.
yards rushing in the game. football team, a solid team all around," said After Farmer's touchdown, the Irish were previous series. Cochran kicked a 35-yarder 
Ma·ors. . 

BRIGHAM YOUNG 

''' 

Despite a boisterous home crowd, Notre Dame's domination in the first half carried it to a 42-20 victory over BYU 
by Brian Hiro 
October 16, Provo, UT ­
The Notre Dame-Brigham Young Uni­
versity clash in Cougar Stadium can be summed up by BYU Head Coach LaVell Edwards. 
"It's the most talked about game we've had in Provo since I've been here," said Edwards. ''We've had a hard time getting the fans to focus on our other games. And I don't think we've ever had ticket requests like this." 
Relating one particularly interesting re­quest, Edwards said, "I got a letter from some people who said· they had Catholic friends. They said if they were able to get tickets, their friends would join the [Mor­mon] Church." 
As if this excitement throughout Cougar Country wasn't enough for Lou Holtz to worry about, UCLA embarrassed BYU, 68­14, in Pasadena the previous week. Rather than devalue the match-up between Notre Dame and BYU, this loss only added to Holtz's concern. 
"You don't want to play 

someone that has a tradition ofwinning, like BYU does after they've lost," remarked Holtz. "I can't think ofa worse scenario for Domination began with Notre Dame's us. We are going to get an angry Cougar." of 66,247 and televised by ESPN, a primary first possession. After forcing a punt, 
Holtz wasn't just blowing smoke either. question was how the unbeaten and third­the Irish took over in Cougar territory. Jun_­Last year, BYU travelled to South Bend ranked Irish would combat BYU's hoister-ior tailback Lee Becton ran for 11 yards on where they ·were beaten 42-16 by the Irish. ous fans. The answer came early as a nearly the first play of the drive. Then· junior But the next week the Cougars returned to flawless first half performance gave the visi­fullback Ray Zellars rumbled for 29 yards the friendly confines of home and domi­tors a 31-0 lead enroute to a45-20 win over over two potential tacklers on the way to the nated nationally ranked Penn State. BYU. end zone and a 7-0 lead. 
So entering the game with a record crowd The touchdown set the stage for a first half where the experienced Irish offensive line continuously pushed back the Cougars, re­sulting in 175 rushing yards and a whopping 



7.3 yards per carry for Notre Daine. 
Meanwhile, the BYU offense couldn't even make a dent in the Irish defense, which had added an improved pass rush to its strength against the run. Twoofits first three possessions ended in Notre Daine sacks, including one by senior defensive end Brian Hamilton that later sent Cougar sophomore quarterback John Walsh to the sidelines with a knee injury. 
"One of our goals at the beginning of the season was to have a good pass rush," Ha­milton said. "We were a good pass rushing team in the spring but it fell offfor some reason in the fall. It finally came together to­night and it felt good." 
Fifth-year senior kicker Kevin Pendergast wrapped upNotreDaine's second drive with a career­long 44 yard field goal. Zellars and Becton con­tributed runs of 18 and 13 yards, respectively, and se­nior quarterback Kevin McDougal hit sophomore split end Derrick Mayes on a 12 yard pass completion to put the , Irish in Pendergast's range'. 
Walsh saw his last ac-· tion of the day on BYU's next possession. · On third down and two, Irish senior defensive tackle Jim Flanigan crashed through the line and ,recorded. the first ofhis two sacks for the day. On that play, Walsh by their merciless treatment of him. He faced the onslaught of a heavy Irish pass rush and -although he did move the team better than Walsh-he wasn't able to engi­neer a touchdown drive until 16 seconds, before the half. 
While the .cougar offense. stal,I~d, Notre Daine's attack contmued to rack up yards and points. Starting from the BYU 47 yard line, the Irish marched down. the fieldon the strength ofBecton' s running. He had two gains qf 14 yards before capping, the drive off with a seven yard touchdown scramble around the left side that upped the big play that broke both the game wide, open Two straight incompletions put the Irish in a third and IO situation from their own, 34 yard line. ,But McDougal bailed them out by eluding the Cougar rush and lofting a pass to junior flanker Mike Miller, whcdigzagged across the field into the' end zoo~ for a 66 yard touchdown, giving the Irish a comfort­able 24-0 cushiqn. 

"Their linebackers would drop back and sit ~t about 12 yards," said McDougal. "Ev­ery ·now and then, you have to go deep. Oh yyah, I lo,ve ,to throw the ball deep." 
Senior free 'safety Jeff Burris ended an­
other BYU threat with an interception. The turnover set the Irish up for their final touchdown of th,e , · half. Freshman · tailback Randy Kinder and freshman fullback 
'Marc Edwards were the stars of this drive, with Edwards . , eventually punching it' in, from. five yards out, padding the lead 
,at 31-0. · ' 
By the time the Cougars notched their first touch­down, a two yard pass from Young to senior wide receiver Eric Drage, Notre Daine was well on its way to a 7-Orecord and a jump to numbertwo in the polls. (Earlier in the day, sec­ond-ranked Alabaina tied Tennessee.) 
Even Holtz was im­pressed with the Irish per­formance. 
"I just want to say we played very well in the first 30 minutes of the 
Mike Bennett football gaine to take an 

aggravated his earlier in-: · "Our players expected a difficult game and we came out here 
early lead. And we took 
jury,forcingjuniorbackup very, very sharp. I_can assure you, there Is nothing easy 
control of the football 
Tom Young into the gaine about playlrig BYU. Nobody looks forward _ a quarterback with to playing BYU, nobody,'' -Lou Holtz 
more than one historical tie to the university. Not only is his brother the former Cougar great and current 49er's star Steve Young, but his great-great-great grandfather was Brighain Young, the founder of the school. · The Irish defense, however, was unim­pressed with Young's lineage, as evidenced 
advantage to 17-0. By the day's end Becton had rushed for 122 yards on 18 carries; marking the second consecutive gaine in which he topped 100 yards. · 
Just when it looked like Notre Danie was facingitsfirstpuntoftheeveningearlyinthe second quarter, McDougal caine up with a gaine," said Holtz. · 
Notre Daine's second half of play was different from its first. For the final two quarters, the Irish were plagued by nu­merous penalties and missed assignments on blitzes that gave B YU hope until the final seconds. "It was very important that we were suc­cessful in the first halfbecauseofthe way we 
\ 
\ 
\ 
\ 


Mike Bennett 
Steve Mlsetlc and Brian Hamilton, 541 pounds of Irish power, dominate the tine of scrimmage. Hamilton had one sack and an Impressive nine tackles on the day. 
played in the second half," said senior offen­sive tackle Aaron Taylor. "We were really focused in the first half and I don't know if we lost our focus or what, but we were unable to move the ball in the second half." 
In all, the Irish were penalized 12 times for 103 yards, including nine for 83 in the sec­ond half. These numbers were overshad­owed by BYU's 14 penalties, which pre­vented the chance of a Cougar comeback. 
In the third quarter both tearris failed to capitalize on scoring chances, BYU on a fumble in Irish territory that was recovered by Irish senior _defensive tackle Bryant Young and Notre Dame on a missed 38 yard field goal by Pendergast. But the Irish fi­nally added another touchdown to the .scoreboard on a one yard plunge by Edwards, his second touchdown of the game, made with just2:36 left in the quarter, increasing the Irish lead 38-7. The drive was highlighted by a 25 yard connection ·be­tween McDougal and senior flanker Lake Dawson on fourth down with eight yards to go on the BYU 33 yard line. 
The . Cougars scored twice in the final quarter to make the fmal score appear re­spectable. The first was a quarterback keeper by Young from the Notre Dame three yard line that capped a 76 yard drive, making the score 38-14. Then, after a 35 yard touchdown pass from junior backup quarter­back Paul Failla to Miller that ended the Irish scoring at 45-14, Young was replaced by junior Steve Clements, BYU's third-string quarterback. He tossed a scoring pass with about a minute to go in the game, making the fmal score 45-20. 
Holtz saluted the Cougar faithful. 
"I mean this: This is the loudest, most loyal crowd I have witnessed in my entire coaching profession -the loudest and the most loyal. There were times when we tried to check off, but we just couldn't hear." 
But according to Holtz the victory was not quite as convincing as it looked. "There wasn 'tanything easy about this contest. I've been in the coaching business for a long time and I have tremendo_us respect for BYU and the program they have," said Holtz. "Our players expected a difficult game, and we came out here very, very sharp. I can assure you, there is nothing easy about playing BYU. Nobody looks forward to playing BYU, nobody." 
. 




/ 
).j 


\ USC 
Broken Promises . 
j 
\ Robinson 'Can't 
Deliver 
The return ofJohn 
Junior fullback Ray .Zellars skirts the Trojan defense.,Robinson broughtfalse running the ball Into the end zone for six more points In Notre Dame's eleventh consecutive defeat of USC.
for 
hopes to the Trojans, who lost their eleventh · straight to the Irish, 
the Trojans
31~13 
and we'll make good use of the break from as a national powerhouse. Beginning on their own 33 yard line, the Irish chewed up
by Bob Belden school nextweekto get better. We arepretty banged up." 7:49 of the first quarter en route to their The Irish fans who flocked to South second touchdow~ in two possessions. Paul 
October 23, Notre Dame ­
, Bend as early as Friday morning barely had Failla, starting his first game at quarterback, stopped Irish hearts for a moment with his
t EveryyearwhenNotreDameplaysUSC, time to settle into their seats before they you notice some children holding up were given an opportunity to dance an Irish bounce pass to Lee Becton on the USC ten signs that read, "Haven't lost to USC in my jig. Lee Becton sprinted seventy yards on yard line that Bectonscooped up and carried 
\ lifetime." Funny thing is, those cute little the second play of the game. The fans did for eight more yards. c~ldren are almost teenagers now, and their not have to wait long for another march '"Maybe I should talk to John Macl.eod hand-made signs g$ed yet another year of when Bryant Young snagged USC quarter­about joining the basketball team," Failla usefulness afterNotreDame's 31-13 victory backRobJohnson for a 10 yard loss on third joked afterwards. overuse. and six. " To finish the drive, freshman fullback 
"This is a very, very big win," said The ensuing drive epitomized the re­MarcEdwards blasted in from two yards out Notre Dame Head Coach Lou Holtz. "We lentless ball control attack Notre Dame for his fifth touchdown of the season and the are coming off of our midterm exam period showcased on its way to establishing itself Irish led 14-0 after fifth-year senior kicker 



Senior defensive end Brian Hamilton gets one hand around his victim, USC quarterback Rob Johnson, as he prepares to shut down another Trojan offensive dr.lve with a quarterback sack. · 
blockade, the duo seemed to si­
multaneously tip the football that 
fell to the ground. 
Notre Dame continued to feed the ball to Lee Becton who turned in the biggest rushing game of his career tallying 177 yards. With Failla deftly executing the option and Becton bouncing off SC de­
fenders, the Irish moved into Tro­jan territory in four plays. A key completion to junior flanker Mike Miller on third and ten kept the drive alive when Miller side­stepped three defenders to stretch for the first down marker. Burris jogged into the end zone at the 7 :22 mark. 
USC wasn't quite ready to give up yet, however, and took advantage of the Irish "bend but don'tbreak" pass defense strategy. Junior quarterback Rob Johnson continued his pinpoint passing at­tack all the way down to the Irish 13 yard line. Following a string of 13 completions in 15 attempts, Johnson connected with Kevin Pendergast's point after. 

USC settled down and went to work on its next possession, moving the ball tJu:ough the air and on the ground deep into 
"No matter what the records are, this is always a good game every year." -Kevin McDougal 
Irish territory. Akeyholdingpenaltyleftthe Trojans with third and goal at the Irish 23, and junior linebacker Justin Goheen nailed senior tight end Bradford Banta at the Irish five to force the field goal unit onto the field. As USC fans were breathing sighs of relief in hopes of some points on the board, the soaring twosome of Burris and Taylor had other ideas·in mind. Leaping in an aerial Deon Strother, who scampered into the endzone with Flanigan and Hamilton trailed him. 
Senior split end Clint Johnson took the kickoff and sprinted to the 40 yard line, dodging defend­ers back to the 30 yard line and finally scampering to · the forty again. The Irish found them­selves quickly within striking dis­tance after Mike Miller stretched his 5'9" frame to its limit, pulling 
· down Failla's pass for a 23 yard pickup. After a failed end zone toss to senior flanker Lake Dawson, the coaching staff made the perfect call, at the perfect time, yielding, ofcourse, the perfect re­sult . The blitzing Trojan line­backers sprinted past a wide open junior tailback Ray Zellars, who received Failla's dump pass and proceeded to leap and run over two USC defensive backs before reaching 
Early in the second half, .it looked as though this would not just be another 

30 
defeat:ofUSC, but rather a thorough beat­ing. '.Zellars showed off his ann for the first time in his career with a 35 yard over-the­shoulder pass to fellow back Lee Becton that placed the Irish at the USC five yard line. The Irish failed to convert the play into p<>ints, however, when USC hit freshman tailback Marc Edwards-four straight times and took over possession. 
With the imposing task ofmoving the ball gest game of his career to date and would probably be the most important of his career. Converting a 41 yard gain over the middle of field, Morton put USC in position to add some respectability to the game. 
"It's very frustrating, but there were a lot ·of positive things," said Morton..('Hope~ fully next year we can get them. I'm glad I had the opportunity to play them.>' 
Another player who had strong feelings 

From the hands of : a waiting Johnnie Morton, sophomore . free safety Bobby Taylor snatches away a Rob Johnson pass. Taylor's Interception came after Morton placed USC deep In Irish territory with a' 41 . yard gain. Taylor . ran the Interception back 47 yards to. begln·.~no~her Irish. scoring drl:ve. 
. ·• .. -.. .. 
.,C 
:,,: 
I 
· 99.yards and the Irish stuclentbodycreating about the game was senior defensive end a deafening din; USC went three and out Willie McGinest, who claimed the only under the heavy pass rush of sophomore .' reason he had stayed at Southern Cal for his defensive end Thomas Knight, who exhil);. · · ited a. talent for timely sacks. · ' 
~~ remllinde~ of:~e game ~oved les!f .· . . We won today's
eventful from the Irish offensive stand-· · , , 
point.'· ·· '_..· game in the trenches. 
I 
Johnnie Morton seemed detennined to To win you have to remind the country at this point that he is one of the premiere receivers in Division I · win up front. college football, regardless of the outcome of the game. Morton said before the game -Bryant Young that the contest would certainly be the big­
.. 1993 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
31 
senior year was to have the opportunity to go out to South Bend and "beat the hell out of the Irish." 
"I'm disappointed; but I have a lot <Jf buddies here and lhope they will get'them next year,1' saidMcGinest "I don't think it will last much longer." · 
USC managed to get into double digits when sophomore tight end Johnny McWilliams scored on an 8 yard toss from 
Johnson. An onside kick gave USC the ball, but Rob Johnson was pressuredby a surging defense. 
The final score was 31-13, and this Notre Dame team was more powerful at every position on the field. Coach John Robinson acknowledged this after the game. 
"I was very impressed with their effi­ciency and power," said Robinson. 'There is no question that we are not as strong as theyare. Wejustweren'tamatchforthem." 
Coach Holtz' s impression of his team was not quite as positive however. . 
"We are not a good team. We have to get better." . 


BRUNO'S 
PIZZA 
1111 1111 
Bruno's North Open for carry out and delivery only. One 20 inch pizza for $14.99. Or one 14 inch pizza for $7 .99 Prices do not include tax. 115 .N. 31 Gust North of campus) 
:1 
I 
32 
I 
273-3890 
Bruno's South Accepting reservations on weekends. Available for private parties and banquets. One 20 inch pizza for $10 (dine in only). 2610 Prairie Avenue 288-3320 
"All.Homemade -100% Real Cheese" We now offer free delivery of our pizza right to Notre Dame's· and Saint Mary's campuses. 


Freshman Robert Farmer faces Middle defensive back Chris Hart ... 

by Warren Junium 
October 30, Philadelphia, PA-
The scene was Veterans Stadium in Philadelphia, Pa, the city of brotherly love. The Naval Academy Midshipmen could not have cared less about being hospi­table to the visiting Fighting Irish. They had only one thing on their mind -an upset. "I said back in May that Navy would by themostimprovedfootball team in the coun­try this year, and they certainly are," said Lou Holtz, Notre Dame head coach. From the opening drive, it was obvious that the Irish would have trouble with Navy as it marched down the field seemingly oblivious to the Irish defense. Navy junior quarterback Jim Kubiak was three for four in completions during the opening drive, and with his accurate passing, he set up freshman kicker Ryan Bucchianeri's first collegiate field goal, putting the Middies up 3-0 only two minutes into the game. 
for an Irish victory, 58-27 
The Irish answered the Middies chip shot and senior flanker Lake Dawson. Becton with fifth-year senior kicker Kevin rumbled fr over 40 yards in four plays, and Pendergast's 32 yard field goal. But Navy McDougal hit Dawson withapassleftforan camebackontheirnextdrivetoscoreagain. Irish gain of 19. Dawson's grab set up 
Kubiak, in his second drive, was able to read the Notre Dame defense and found holes where he could place his passes. He topped off this 50 yard drive with a 31 yard break away pass to junior wide receiver Damon Dixon in the end zone, put­.ting the Middies up 10-3 with a little over three minutes to play in the first quarter. 
The score tradeoff contin­ued, but it appeared that Notre Dame was playing catch-up. Senior quarter­back Kevin McDougal or­chestrated a scoring drive late in the first quarter. In this drive, McDougal relied on 

... and splashes by him for the fifth lrlsh
junior tailback Lee Becton 
touchdown of the. day. · 


I 
'.
i 
to them at the half. Edwards' rush for a There was no ranting or touchdown early in the raving. The seniorsjust 
second quarter, tying the told them what we had to do to win this game." 
freshman fullback Marc 
score. The Midshipmen 

scored two more touch­ 
downs in the half.  One  
with 9:36 remaining in  
the first period on a one  
yard run by senior full­ 
back Brad Stramanak.  
Kubiak tossed a  rocket  
pass to Stramanak that he  
caught in mid-air be­ 
tween two Irish defend­ 
ers,  before  sprinting  
across the goal line.  
The  touchdown  by  
Stramanak marked the  
most points given up by  
the Irish at that point in  The Notre Dame defense stepped up and held  
the year.  It also gave  the Mldles to 93 total yards .In the second half.  
Navy a 24-17 lead over  

Notre Dame going into half time. This was the locker room at halftime. You are telling the first time that the Irish were trailing their me that this is the first time in two years. I opponent at the half in two years. can't believe it Now I know why I felt "Iknewthatitfeltstrangewhenlwentinto strange,"saidHoltz. "Ilettheseniorsspeak 
.--------,---=---------......::....----------......::....---,
Freshmen Shine for Irish 
On an otherwise gloomy day for the longest rush of27 yards setting the Irish up Irish, the highly touted freshmen for a touchdown late in the third quarter. class showed its abilities against the Navy Notre Dame was also helped by Farmer Midshipmen at Veterans Stadium. With and Kinder. They both had touchdowns, impressive perfor-· contributing to the mances by fullback freshman touchdown Marc Edwards and total offive for the day. tailbacks Robert Kinder was second for Farmer and Randy the Irish in rushing with Kinder, the Irish offense 108 yards on 10 carries. was carried through the He dazzled the specta­game, especially in the tors with a 70 yard second half. touchdown run early in Edwards lived up to the second half that put his billing as Mr. Foot­the Irish up for the first ball of Ohio with his of-time. Farmer was also fensive performance an impressive rusher for against the Midies. the Irish. He contrib-Edwards scored three of Mike Bennett uted one touchdown the Irish's seven touch-Freshman Randy Kinder put and 77 yards to the Irish downs, with his _most the Irish ahead 31-24 with a cause.. impressivecomingoffa spectacular 70 yard run. "Kinder, Farmer and 10 yard run through the Navy line· in the Edwards, the three freshman, were very second quarter. By the end of the day impressive today; they played great," said Edwards had impressive numbers. He Holtz. gained 97 yards on 14 carries, with his -by Warren Junium 'The Irish came out 

in the second half a 
different team, a team 
ready to take control. 
NotreDametookthe 
opening kickoff from 
Navy, marking one of 
the last times that the 
Middies would have 
the ball in the game. 
The Irish, on their 
first drive of the half, 
aired out the passing 
game and took advan-
Mike Bennett tage of the weak Navy 
secondary. McDougal 
had two passing se­
quences to Dawson. In the first, McDougal connected with Dawson for a .19 yard gain and on the second, after scrambling from_ the grasps of the Midie defenders, McDougal aired out a 44 yard pass for the touchdown. Dawson's first touchdown of his senior year brought the Irish even with the Middies, 24-24. 
Navy was stopped by the Irish on its next drive, giving the once sputtering offense a chance to take over and dominate the game. On the second play of the drive, freshman tailback Randy Kinder produced one of the most spectacular runs of his young colle­giate career. With second and seven, McDougal handed off to Kinder. Kinder broke through the Navy line and rushed for a 70 yard Irish touchdown, putting Notre Dame ahead for the first time in the game, 31-24. 
After being forced to punt its· next drive, the Irish set up for another freshman to take them to the end zone. After a long drive led by Edwards, the Irish were, again within striking distance. This time McDougal handed off to freshman tailback Robert Farmer. Farmer barreled through the Navy line for another Irish touchdown, giving Notre Dame a 38-24 edg~. 
The Middies did score once more on a field goal by Bucchianeri, bringing them within 11, for a score of 38-27. 
Notre Dame continued to dominate the 
34 

exhausted Navy defense by posting two more touchdowns in the fourth quarter. After a 23 yard run by Farmer in the middle of the fourth quarter, the Irish were set to strike at the end zone one more time. With 
6:51 remaining in plowed through the weary offensive line of the Middies for Notre Dame's sixth touchdown on the day' and Edwards' third for the Irish. 
Next Notre 
Dame's defense 
, decided to get into the scoring action. On first and 10 for the Middies; Kubiak set up to pass and let the ball 
the game, Edwards 
''We tried stunts, everything to slow them down. We just couldn't." -George Chaump, Navy , head coach 

fly but Irish sophomore cornerback Bobby Tay !or made an interception. Taylor slipped through his pursuers and ran across the goal line, scoring a 31 yard touchdown. With Taylor's score, the Irish increased their lead to 58-27. 
Navy tried to retaliate, but the stingy Irish defense of the second half shut down the 
Middies once again, sealing the Irish vic­
tory. 
Notre Dame played 
more physically in the 
second half. They went 
away from their finesse 

plays like the option. We couldn't stop them," said George Chaump, Navy head coach. "They showed their physical su­periority in the second half. We tried stunts, everything to 
slow them down. We just couldn't" 
With the victory over Navy the Irish continued their undefeated season 
and looked forward to Kicker Kevin Pendergast had a busy day, scoring the impending battle a field goal and seven extra points. 
with first ranked Florida State. . 


HONORS AND AWARDS 
Individual Honors and Award Winners 



Lee Becton, tailback 
• 
One of eight semifinalists for Doak Walker Award presented to the top running back in the country by the GTE-SMU Athletic Forum 

• 
United Press International and Football News All-America (honorable mention) 


• 
1994 Mobil Cotton Bowl Outstanding Offensive Player (26 carries for 138 yards) 

• 
NBC/Chevrolet Notre Dame MVP vs. Texas A&M in 1994 Mobil Cotton Bowl 

• 
ESPN Notre Dame MVP vs. BYU (18 carries for 122 yards, 1 TD) 

• 
The Sporting News Player of the Week on offense vs. Florida State (26 carries for 122 yards, 1 TD) 



Bert Berry, linebacker 
• Football News Freshman All-America (third team) 

Jeff Burris, free safety 
• Associated Press, United Press International, Walter Camp Foundation, Newspaper Enterprise Association and Football News All-America (first team) 
• The Sporting News and College & Pro Football Newsweekly All-America (second team) 
• 
ABC Sports Defensive Player of the Year 

• 
Semifinalist (one of 15) for Football News Defensive Player of the Year award · 

• 
Notre Dame National Monogram Club team MVP (by vote of players) 

• 
ABC/Chevrolet Notre Dame MVP vs. Purdue (forced a fumble OI). QB sack that turned into first Irish TD, made 8 tackles overall) 

• 
NBC/Chevrolet Notre Dame MVP vs. Florida State (2 rushing TDs, 5 tackles, 2 PBU) 

• 
Invited to Senior Bowl all-star game 



Lake Dawson, flanker 
• 
Football News All-America (honorable men­tion) 

• 
Invited to Senior Bowl all-star game 



Jim Flanigan, defensive tackle 
• Invited to East-West Shrine all-star game 
Justin Goheen, linebacker 
• Football News All-America (honorable mention) 
Clint Johnson, split end 
• ABC/Chevrolet Notre Dame MVP vs. Stanford (2 kickoff returns for 179 yards, 1 TD on 100 yard return) 
Randy Kinder, tailback 
• 
Football News Freshman All-America (third team) 

• 
NBC/Chevrolet Notre Dame MVP vs. Michigan State (12 carries for 94 yards) 


Greg Lane, cornerback 
•Football News All-America (honorable men­tion) 
Derrick Mayes, split end 
• Football News Sophomore All-America (third team) 
Kevin McDougal, quarterback 
• 
Football News All-America (honorable men­tion) 

• 
ABC/Chevrolet. Notre Dame MVP vs. Michigan (12 of 21 passing for 208 yards, 9 carries for 66 yards, 2 TDs} · 

• 
NBC/Chevrolet Notre Dame MVP vs. Boston 


College (18 of28 passing for 261 yards, 2 TDs) 
36 

Todd Norman, offensive tackle 
• 
Football News All-America (honorable men­tion) 

• 
Invited to East-West Shrine all-star game 



Tim Ruddy, center 
• College & Pro Football Newsweekly All­America (first team) 
• 
Associated Press, United Press International and Football News All-America (second team) 

• 
ESPN Toyota Leadership Award vs. BYU (3.86 grade point average in mechanical engineering) 


• 
ABC/Chevrolet Notre Dame MVP vs. Navy (helped Irish rush for season high 426 yards and score 41 points in second half alone) 

• 
GTE National Academic All-America and Team Member of the Year by CoSIDA 

• 
GTE District V Academic All-America by CoSIDA 

• 
Hitachi/College Football Association Scholar/ Athlete 

• 
Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley Student-Athlete Award 

• 
State Farm/Mutual Broadcasting Student-Athlete of theYear 

• 
Delta Airlines/Mobil Cotton Bowl Scholar-Athlete for i994 

• 
NCAA Post-Graduate Scholarship winner for 1993 

• 
National Football Foundation Post-Graduate Scholarship winner for 1993 

• 
Invited to play in Hula Bowl all-star game (could not participate due to injury) 



Aaron Taylor, offensive tackle 
• 
Lombardi Award winner as college football lineman of the year by Rotary Club of Houston 

• 
One of three finalists for Outland Trophy given to college football lineman of the year by Football Writers Association of America 


• 
One of five finalists for Football News Offensive Player of the Year award 

• 
Associated Press, United Press International, Football Writers Association of America, American Football Coaches Association (Kodak), Walter Camp Foundation, Football News and Newspa­per Enterprise Association All-America (first team) 


• Football News All-Bowl team 
• Nick Pietrosarite Award (by vote of players to individual who 
best exemplifies characteristics of the late Irish All-America fullback) . 
• 
Notre Dame Lineman of the Year by Moose Krause Chapter of National Football Foundation and Hall of Fame 

• 
College Interior Lineman of the Year by Touchdown Club of Columbus, Ohio 

• 
College Football Lineman of the Year by Touchdown Club of 


-
Washington, D.C. 
• 
NBC/Chevrolet Notre Dame MVP vs. Pittsburgh (led Irish to season high 371 rushing yards) 

• 
Invited to Hula Bowl all-star game (could not participate due to injury) 



Bobby Taylor, cornerback 
• 
One of three finalists for Jim Thorpe Award given to top defensive back in nation by Jim Thorpe Athletic Club of Oklahoma City 

• 
Football Writers Association of America and Newspaper Enterprise Association All-America (first team) 


• Football News and College & Pro Football Newsweekly All­America (second team) 
• 
Associated Press All-America (third team) 

• 
United Press International All-America (honorable mention) 

•Football 
News Sophomore All-America (first team) 


• Football News All-Bowl team 
• NBC/Chevrolet Notre Dame MVP vs. Northwestern (6 tackles, 1 PBU, 1 interception brought back by penalty) 

Bryant Young, defensive tackle 
• 
American Football Coaches Association All­America (first team) 

• 
Associated Press, United Press International, College & Pro Football Newsweekly and Foot­ball News All~America (second team) 

• 
Invited to Senior Bowl all-~tar game 



Mark Zataveski, outside guard 
• GTE District V Academic All-America by CoSIDA 

Ray Zellars, fullback 
• Football News All-America (honorable men­tion) 

37 

SCHOLASTIC ALL-OPPONENT TEAM 

Eric Shorter 
Defensive Back 
Boston College 

Antonio Shorter 

Corey Sawyer 
Linebacker
Cornerback 
Texas A & M 
Florida State Derrick Alexander 



Lenny Gomes Defensive End Nose Tackle 
Florida State Brigham Young 
Max Lane 
Patrick McNeil TomNalenOffensive Tackle Offensive Guard CenterNaval Academy Florida State 

Boston College 
Pete Mitchell Tight End Boston College 
Tom Coughlin Coach Boston College Greg Hill Running Back Texas A& M 






38 



Derrick Parker Defensive Back 
Pittsburgh 
Mike Mamula Linebacker 

Vaughn BryantBoston College Cornerback Stanford 

Marvin FerrellRobert Denton Offensive Guard 
Offensive Tackle Michigan State Florida State 




_Leeland McElroy 
Kick Returner 
TexasA&M 
. -·---. 
STATISTICS 
1993 Final Regular Season Statistics 
RESULTS AND ATTENDANCE  SCORING  Rush Pass  Ret PAT  FG  Pts  RUSHING  Att. Yds  Garn  Car TD LP  
Sept4  N'WESTERN  W  27-12  59,075  Pendergast, K.  45  14  87  Becton, L.  164 1044 104.4  6.4 6  70  
Sept 11  at Michigan  W  27-'23  106,851  Edwards,M.  ·  8  48  Randy,K.  89  537 48.8  6.0 2  70  
Sept 18  MICH STATE  W  36-14  59,075  Zellar, R.  5  3  48  Zellars, R.  99  494 49.4  5.0 5  29  
Sept 25  at Purdue  w  17-0  67,861  Becton, L.  6  1  42  Edwards,M.  40  186  16.9  4.7 8  27  
Oct2  at Stanford  W  48-20  80,300  Burris, J.  6  1  42  Fanner, R.  31  168  18.7  5.4 3  23  
Oct9  PITTSBURGH  w  44-0  59,075  McDougal, K.  4  2  26  Burris, J.  16  92  8.4  5.8  6  44  
Oct 16  atBYU  W  45-20  66,247  Fanner, R.  3  18  McDougal, K.  55  85  8.5  1.5  4  43  
Oct23  USC  W  31-13  59,075  Miller,M.  2  1  18  Clark, W.  '23  74  12.3  3.2  1  9  
Oct30  vs.Navy  W  58-27  61,813  Kinder, R.  2  12  Lytle, D.  16  63  5.7  3.9  0  16  
Nov.13  FLOR.STATE  W  31-'23  59,075  Mays,D.  2  12  Failla, P.  18  55  5.5  3.1  0  10  
Nov.20  BOSTCOLL  L  39-41  59,075  Dawson,L.  2  12  Jarrell, A.  1  32  5.3 32.0  1  32  
Johnson, C.  1  6  Rolle, R.  1  9  4.5  9.0  0  9  
Bercich, P.  1  6  Davis, T.  1  8  0.8  8.0  0  8  
Hamilton, B.  1  6  Klusas, T.  2  8  4.0  4.0  0  8  
TEAM STATISTICS  ND  OPP  Taylor,B.  1  6  Mayes, D.  1  7  0.7  7.0  0  7  
TorAL FIRST DOWNS ........  '239  203  Clark, W.  1  6  Dawson,L.  2  4  0.4  2.0  0  8  
Rushing ...........................  154  65  Jarrell, A.  1  6  Thome,M.  1  3  1.0  3.0  0  3  
Passing ............................  77  123  Marsh, D.  1  1  Mosley, E.  1  -1  -1.0  -1.0  0  -1  
By Penalty .......................  8  15  Schroffner, S.  1  1  NDTOTAL  561 2868 260.7  5.1 36  70  
3rd Down Conversion ..... 60-134  65-184  NDTOTAL  36  10  2  47  14  403  OPPTOTAL  331  985  89.5  3.0 9  45  
TorAL NET YARDS ............  4725  3487  OPPTOTAL  9  17  0  20  8  194  
lj,::1 !)I!i  Average Per Game .......... Total Plays ...................... Average Per Play ............  429.5 746 6.3  317.0 753 4.6  PASSING CmJ! Att Y ds TD Int McDougal, K. 98 159 1541 7 5  s 9  Effie 151.3  RECEIVING Dawson,L. Mayes,D.  No. 25 24  Garn 2.3 2.2  Yds Avg TD LP 395 15.9 2 44 512 21.3 2 80  
ij, r !  NEf YARDS RUSIDNG ....... Average Per Game .......... Total Rushes ................... Average Per Play ............. Touchdowns ...................  2868 168.8 561 5.1 36  985 227.5 331 3.0 9  Failla, P. 19 25 281 3 0 2 Zellars, R. 1 1 35 0 0 0 NDTOTAL 118 185 1857 10 5 11 OPPTOTAL 263 422 2502 17 12 '23  210.0 394.0 160.5 119.8  Miller,M. Zellars, R. Becton, L. Johnson,C. McBride, 0.  19 14 12 10 5  1.7 1.3 1.2 0.9 0.5  412 109 153 131 36  21.7 2 7.8 3 12.7 1 13.1 0 7.2 0  66 39 35 43 43  
NEf YARDS PASSING ........  1857  2502  Chryplewicz, P.  3  0.3  34  113'  0  18  
11~  Average Per Game ..........  168.8  227.5  INT RETURNS  No.  YDS  TD  LP  Jarrell, A.  1  0.1  16  16.0  0  16  
1 1  Average Per Gain ........... Percent Completion ........  15.7 63.8  9.5 62.3  Taylor,B. Burris, J.  4 3  100 61  1 0  47 43  Fanner, R. Clark, W.  1 1  0.1 0.1  8 8  8.0 0 8.0 0  8 8  
Interceptions ...................  5  12  Covington, J.  2  7  0  7  Wallace, L;  1  0.2  8  8.0 0  8  
Touchdowns ...................  10  18  Lane,G.  1  29  0  29  NDTOTAL  118 10.7 1857  15.7  10  80  
PENALTIES-YARDS ............ 64-539  71-599  Bercich, P.  1  21  1  21  OPPTOTAL  263 '23.9  2502  9.5 17  53  
FUMBLES-BALLS LOST .....  10-5  16-10  Wooden, S.  1  0  0  0  
TIME OF POSSESSION ........ 341:19  318:41  NDTOTAL  12  218  2  47  Tackles (Solos-Assists):  Goheen (61-31),  
OPPTOTAL  5  11  0  10  Bercich (39-32), Young (44-'23), Lane (47-11),  
Covington (43-15), Burris (36-17), B. Taylor  
PUNTRET  No.  Yds Avg  TD  LP  (45-6), Flanigan (33-18), Magee (33-9),  
SCORE BY PERIOD  1  2  3  4  TOT  Burris, J.  1  60  60.0  1  60  Hamilton (23-19), Gibson (24-10), Knight (13­ 
NorREDAME  72 119 101  111  403  Lane,G.  1  17  17.0  0  17  13), Berry (19-6), Sample (17-2),Wynn (15-4),  
OPPONENTS  40  58  37  59  194  Miller,M.  26  213  8.2  1  56  Tatum  (11-7),  Wooden (11-5),  Nau (6°5),  
Taylor,B.  1  3  3.0  0  3  Dansby (6-3), Graham (4-4), Wagasy (4-3),  
NDTOTAL  29  293 10.1  2  60  Edwards (2-5), Cobbins (2-4), Clark (3-2), Sad- 
KICKOFFRET  No.  Yds Avg  TD  LP  OPPTOTAL  9  86  9.8  0  20  dler (3-1 ), Lytle (2-2), Holder (1-3), Peterson (3­ 
Johnson, C. Miller,M.  10 4  409 40.9 65 16.3  1 0  100 20  0), Grasmanis (2-0), Pendergast (1-0), McBride (1-0), Halter (1-0), Taliaferro (1-0), Maider (0-1)  
Zellars, R.  3  36  12.0  0  19  PUNTING  No.  Yds Avg  Blkd LP  
Edwards,M.  2  22  11.0  0  11  Leonard, R.  18  718 39.9  0  55  Sacks:  Young (6.5-49),  Hamilton (4-25),  
Burris, J. Davis, T. NDTOTAL OPPTOTAL  3 1 '23 64  28 9.3 6 6.0 566 24.6 1351 21.1  0 0 1 0  17 6 100 63  Ford, B. Jarrell, A. NDTOTAL OPPTOTAL  7 12 37 59  262 37.4 398 33.2 1378 37.2 2269 38.5  0 0 0 0  44 58 58 55  Flanigan (4-25), Wynn (3-14), Burris (2-19), Knight (2-9), Tatum (1-12), Bercich (1-6), B. Taylor (1-6), Goheen (0.5-6), Gibson (0.5-6), Nau (0.5-1)  
40  SCHOLASTIC  
~-·· ..  -··-'""··  -·  

\-:--_____----.;:F::.....L=--:::..:0:....:R~ID~A~S.....!!T~A~T~Er_____;___ 

NOTRE DAME REMAINED UNDEFEATED AS MYSTIQUE CONQUERED THE FLORIDA STATE SEMINOLES, 31-24 
Notre Drune Head Coach Lou Holtz de­ yards of total offense in its last 12 regular  
by Amanda Clinton  clared at the pep rally the night before the  season match ups.  
grune.  "Florida State is the best college football  
Butthattaskwasnoteasyconsideringthe  team I've ever seen, and I've been in the  
November 13, Notre Dame ­ Seminole statistics coming into the grune.  grune a long time. They're an awesome  
Mystique. To some Notre Drune fans the word connotes images of the  They ranked fifth in rushing defense with 97.2 yards per grune and sixth in total de­fense with 264 yards per grune. In 20 regular  team. They're capable of beating anybody in the country by 40 points," Holtz said before the grune, and at first it looked like  
Gipper, the Four Horsemen, Knute Rockne  season match ups since the beginning of  Holtz was right.  
and Touchdown Jesus. To others it means  1992, the Seminoles allowed just five rush­ espite a powerful opening drive,  
the intangible feeling that comes when  the Notre Drune offense was stopped  
running onto the field at the historical  short of the end zone. The crucial play  
stadium. ·  crune on a third down with five yards to go  
And to still others mystique is the force  at the Seminole 36 yard line. Senior  
that hovers around the Irish football team  quarterback Kevin McDougal tossed the  
when it somehow overcomes powerful  ball left to junior full back Ray Zellars,  
foes.  who was wide open but couldn't make the  
However, most people agree it is some- catch. After juggling the ball, it fell to the  
thing special at Notre Dame and is an  ground, forcing the Irish to punt.  
intangible aspect of Notre Dame football  The Florida State offense took charge  
that has helped many Irish teruns to vie- and quickly moved the ball down the field  
tory.  in little more than five minutes. Notre  
Mystique doesn't mean much in Talla- Dame received a wake-up call when the  
hassee, Florida. Glitz and slick style are  Seminoles attempted a flea-flicker on a  
much more important than inconsequen­ first down on their own 46 yard line.  
tia1 stories ofdead football heroes from a  Senior quarterback Charlie Ward  
place called South Bend. The week pre­ lateraled the ball to senior tailback Sean  
ceding the game Seminole Head Coach  Jackson, who passed to a wide open  
Bobby Bowden told the media that he  sophomore wide receiver Tamarick  
overheard some of his players calling  Vanover; but Jackson overthrew  
Knute Rockne, Rock Knuteny.  _  Vanover, resultinginanincompletepass:  

While Florida State did not spend any Jeff Burris did a little bit of everything for the Five plays later, Florida State had moved time studying Notre Drune football his-Irish. In addition to pressuring Seminole quarter-the ball 42 yards down the field. On a first tory prior to the game, the Irish gave the back Charlie Ward, Burris rushed for 19 yards. down at the Irish l2 yard line, Ward beat 
Seminoles a lesson and becrune part of that ing touchdowns and only two had been-· a Notre Dame blitz and threw to senior wide history on November 13. given up prior to this grune. Offensively, receiver Kevin Knox, who grabbed the ball "We're not going to be intimidated," Florida State averaged 48 points and 572 at the five, spun toward the side line, beat 

Junior right guard Ryan Leahy clears a path for junior fullback Ray Zellars. 
ball into the end zone. Ward was flushed out ofthe pocket and he threw the ball into the end zone where Wooden batted it down.· As the ball plummeted to the grounds so did the Seminoles' hopes of staying number one. Notre Dame was victor with a final score of31 -24. 
· Florida State learned its lesson. 
"They didn't know what Notre Dame was about, and after being here I hope they do," said Jeff Burris. 
"To me the mystique of Notre Dame is faith in belief," said Holtz. "The biggest problem with this team, I thought, was get­ting them to believe." 
But the Irish did believe on November 13, and the mystique of Notre Dame, with its tradition .of upsetting higher ranked teams, proved.unstoppable for the Seminoles. 0 


BOSTON COLLEGE 
FALL OF THE MIGHTY 
Boston College won 41-39 with a last-second field goal, ending Notre Dame's dream ofan undefeated season 

by Warren Junium 
November 20, Notre Dame ­Notre Dame Stadium stood empty. 
The events of this hal­lowed ground are over, but the memories will remain with ev­ery person who witnessed this incredible football game. This day the Notre Dame dream sea­son was shattered by an upstart · football team from Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts, that came to South Bend for revenge. The Boston College Eagles got their wish and left the stadium on a wave of jubilation after trounc­ing a previously unbeaten Fight­ing Irish team. 
"This is a big game. We knew they were numberone. We tried to forget last year, but it's hard to do. Last year, wedidn'tcometo play. This year, we thought we could win," said Boston College junior linebacker Stephen Boyd. The Irish were in trouble 
from the start of the game. The Eagles received from fifth­
year senior kicker Kevin Pendergast and fumbled twice on the return, butNotreDame could not capitalize on the turnover. Boston College moved the ball well against the Irish defense in its first drive. Notre Dame stopped the Eagles. on a fourth and six play when sophomore comerback Bobby Taylor tackled freshman back Mark Hartsell to pre­vent him from gaining the firstdown. The Irish took over the ball on their own 46. 
Freshman tailback Randy Kinder led the 
Senior outside tackle Todd Norman holds off a Boston College with game. McDougal and defender to clear the path of junior fullback Ray Zellars, who · h. ffi . tarted t ·th th
ISO enses OU WI e first Irish drive with three carries and set up the Irish for a field goal attempt, but disaster struck. On the field goal attempt, the Eagles broke through the line, blocked the kick and Stephen Boyd returned the ball to the Irish 15 before he was surrounded by Notre Dame 
. 
had 80 yards against the Eagles. 
defenders. 
Boston College took over the ball at the Irish 15. It appeared the Eagles would waltz into the end zone, but the Irish defense stood strong and forced Boston CoHege to settle for the field goal by the unexpected hero of the game, senior kicker David Gordon. This put the Eagles up, 3-0. 
Irish possessions opened up with a 20 yard pass by . senior quarterback Kevin McDougal to Notre Dame senior flanker Lake Dawson. The Irish offense folded 
when McDougal fumbled as he was sacked 
and Boston College took over the ball on its 
own 30 yard line. Senior quarterback Glenn Foley showed 
the Irish fans that the Boston College pass­ing game would not be stopped by the highly touted Notre Dame defense. He was five-for-eight in passing completions and threw two bombs that broke the Irish pass defense. The first was from the Irish 49 yard line, when Foley connected with junior split end Clarence Can­non, and on a dump to senior 
;iia;a~r&11 flanker Keith Miller in the middle, which set up the Eagles first touchdown. With 
3:37 remaining in the first quarter, Foley drilled the ball over the middle to senior flanker Ivan Boyd in the end zone for a touchdown and 10­0 Eagles lead. The Irish were not going to Brent Tadsen let the Eagles run away 
ball 1 • th d 
ear y m e secon quarter and went with the airattack. On his first toss, McDougal hit senior split end Clint Johnson with a streaking pass for a gain of 15 yards. McDougal also hit sophomore split end Der­rick Mayes with a big gainer. The big play of this drive, though, was a double fake by McDougal. He aired the ball out for a 29 yard pass to junior fullback Ray Zellars that put.him in the end zone for Notre Dame's first score ofthe afternoon, bringing the Irish to within three of the Eagles. 
. 
45 
fI. 
Ii 
' : ' 
: I 
l'' ' 
, I 
! I I 
Boston College's next possession illus­trated the control and caliber of the offense. "They had great execution. They have a 
. great offense, and Glenn Foley is one of the best quarterbacks in the nation," said Notre Dame senior safety Jeff Burris. Foley proved that he can pass with the best and also intimidate one of the best defenses in the country. On a tailback to quarterback pitch, Foley was surrounded by Irish tacklers, but, with some intimidation on his part, hewasabletostopthemshortandairout a 16 yardpass to junior tight end Pete 
Mitchell. Foley then showed his passing prowess with a 36 yard pass to Ivan Boyd deep in the end zone for the Eagles touchdown and a 17-7 lead. 
Notre Dame continued the scoring trade-off on its next drive. The drive was marred by ineffective pasing, but a bright spot came when junior tailback LeeBecton carried the ball. He had two crucial carries but the team received a 15 yard penalty. A pitch from McDougal ended with a gain of 12 yards. Even with the stuttering offense, the Irish did put the ball in the end zone, bringing them back within three of Boston College. 
The Eagles continued to soar as they ended the half with a one man rushing show. Darnell Campbell, Boston College's senior fullback, led this drive 

with six carries that added to his fourth consecu­tive 100 yard rushing day. Boston College went into the locker room at the half up by 13 on Foley's loop pass to Mitchell for the touch­down. 
Notre Dame was not able to gain control as the Irish of­fense, in for three downs and out, gave the ball back to the Eagles once again. This time, though, Boston College didn't have far to score another touchdown. The Boston College offense ran through the faltering Irish defense to score for a 31-14 advantage. On the kickoff Boston College smprised the Irish with an onside kick that slipped into the Eagles talons on the Irish 48. The Irish stopped Boston College short of the ehd 
zone, and Gordon missed the field goal, wide left. The Irish took over the ball on their own 
23. McDougal relied on Mayes to keep this drive going. Mayes had three receptions over.16 yards in this drive, but the Irish could not cash in on Mayes' receptions, so they had to settle on a field goal that brought them within two touchdowns of the Eagles. 
To open the fourth quarter, Boston Col­lege further hurt Notre Dame by scoring another touchdown. On a play-action fake, Foley threw to a wide open Mitchell in the right comer of the end zone for the touch­down, giving the Eagles a 38-17 lead. Could the Irish come back from this deficit? 
With 10:59 remaining in the game, Notre Dame took over the ball on its own 43, and McDougal immediately went to the air at­tack. He connected with Mayes fora 22 yard gain, and this set up a run by Becton. On a slant right, Becton broke free from two Bos­ton College tacklers and ran 29 yards for the Irish touchdown. Notre Dame Head Coach Lou Holtz gave the nod for the two-point conversion attempt. Becton took the ball in for two, bringing the Irish to within 13. 
On Boston College's next possession, Foley fumbled the snap from the center deep 
The Irish defense had a difficult time stopping the powerful Eagles' offense, which accumulated 4TT total yards. 
Brent Tadsen 


46 
in Eagle territory, and senior tackle Jim Flanigan recovered the ball, giving the Irish . the chance to score again. They did so with a mix of rushing and passing. This time, Zellars graced the end zone for the Irish, bring them within six with 3:55 remaining. Intense defense shut down the previously 
unstoppable Boston College offense, and 
this forced them to punt with 2:51 remaining 
in the game. 
Notre Dame opened what appeared to be the final drive of the game with one of the most spectacular receptions of the year. On a play-action fake, McDougal threw deep down the middle for Mayes, who was blan­keted by Boston College defenders, but he made the catch landing flat on his back at the Eagles 20 yard line. 
With 2:27 remaining in the game Notre Dame had four opportunities to reach the end zone, but the first three fell short oftheir goal. On fourth and four after a play-action fake, McDougal passed to the very back of the end zone. Dawson reached out and grabbed the ball, taking the Irish to their first . 
"It was a great college football game, with lots of excitement . ... I'm very happy, but humble." 
-Tom Coughlin 
lead of the game, 39-38. 
"We didn't quit, and that's why I'm glad to be on a team like this. Once we scored, I thought we had it, but I did realize that there was a minute left, and Foley had been doing a great job," said McDougal. 
But the game was not over. With 1:01 remaining on the clock after the kickoff, the Eagles took over on their own 25. Foley ran the offense that worked well for him throughout the day: the pass. On the second play of the drive, Foley let a rocket go, right at Notre Dame senior defenders Pete Bercich and Jeff Burris, but it squeaked through their fingertips and fell to the turf. Foley returned the pass, setting up a final field goal for the Eagles. 
"I knew that I could make the kick, and I did -all that mattered was that it went through [the uprights]," said Gordon. The Irish football season ended, 41-39. 
"Itwas a great college football game, with lots of excitement. All we ask for is effort and we got it. I'm very happy, but humble," said Boston College Head Coach Tom Coughlin after the game. 
"I am very proud of our team. This was one ofthe great comebacks that I have been associated with. Ourplayers hung in there," said coach Holtz. ''To be down so far and then come back and then for them [Boston College] to come down and kick a field goal, it's heart-breaking." . 


COTTON BOWL 
Lee Becton finds an opening In the A&M line, courtesy of Mark Edwards, left, 
and Lance Johnson, right. Becton rushed for 138 yards. 
A Bittersweet New Year 
A last-minute 24 -21 victory over Texas A&M was not enough to clinch the national title 
By Amanda Clinton 
January 1, 1994, Dallas, TX ­It was supposed to be easy. Notre Dame was scheduled to play in the 1994 Cotton BowlagainstTexasA&M,theteamthelrish dominatedina28-3 victory in 1993.Butthisyearwasdiffer­ent. The Irish entered the match up with the loss to Boston College still fresh on their minds while Texas. A&M looked forward to avenging last year's embarrassing loss at the hands of Notre Dame. And until the last five minutes of the game, it looked as though the Aggies might have their dream fulfilled. "We didn't play well in the first half, except for the open­ing drive," said Lou Holtz, Noire Dame head coach. Senior flanker Clint Johnson ·took the opening kickoff but was nailed on the . 10 yard line. Slowly the Irish began drilling up field. On a second down atthe 16 with 26 yards to go, Notre Dame went with a reverse to junior flanker Mike Miller for a 19 yard gain. Then on a second down and eight on the Aggie 19 yard line, senior quarterback Kevin McDougal ran to­ward the right sideline, cutting past three defenders and running into the end zone, putting the Irish in the lead with a 7-0 score. 
But this touchdown was the last for Notre Dame in the first half. 
Texas A&M immediately countered with a scoring drive. Despite a near interception by senior strong safety John Covington on a third down with 16 to go on the Aggie 15 
yard line, Texas A&M rolled to the Irish eight where junior running back Greg Hill grabbed the hand-off from sophomore quar­terback Corey Pullig. Hill dodged into the end zone to tie up the score. This touchdown marked the first for the Aggies in their last three Cotton Bowl games.Pullig completed 17 of31 passes for238 yards in the game, the third highest in Cotton Bowl history. 
The Notre Dame offense was unable to get a first down on its next possession, so Texas A&M took over. The Aggies drove all the way down to the Irish 22 where on a fourth and 10 they went fora field goal. But the 39 yard attempt was blocked by sophomore comer back Bobby Taylor, his third of the season, keeping the score tied and ending the first quarter of play.To start off the second quarter, the off­
.lensive drives of both squads were squelched by pumped up defenses. On Notre Dame's second possession of the quarter, on a second and 10, McDougal was sacked for the second time in the game by junior linebacker Antonio Shorter. 
"I don't know who the hell Shorter is, but I'venever seen someone so fast," said senior outside tackle Aaron Taylor. "He ran past 
me like I had metal shoes on." 
"I just go out there and just get to the quarterback and do my thing," said Shorter. The loss ofIrish senior center Tim Ruddy due to an abdominal strain was noticed.on 

Jeff Burris butts heads with an A&M running back. 
Burris had nine tackles. 
the offensive line. · By the end of the day McDougal was sacked four times. But Holtz felt the offense did a good job of handling the Ruddy loss. 
"Our players competed well without Tim Ruddy," said Holtz. "That's hard to do with the A&M defense." · • ...·· •· . 
Inthe first half Notre D~e's offense had. atough time eluding the Aggie defense and controlling theTyxaS A&Moffense. 
The Aggies ate up more than seven miutes ofthe clock in the second quarter while rallying a hug~ A&M crowd. On a fourth down with one to go on the 46, the Aggies went for it and came up with a first down on a _quarterback sneak, encpuraging the bois­terous A&M crowd. Theri again on a fourth and one at the Irish 15, Pullig threw a pass to a wide open sophomore·· fullback Detron Smith for an Aggie touchdown, giving Texas A&M the lead, 14-7. · 
"This is a betterA&M tea:rri," said Holtz. "'They have most oftheir starters back from last year/' . · · · . . .... . . Dorthe remaining few minutes of the first .lhalf, Notre Dame was unable to come up with a scoring drive, and the half ended with the Irish trailing the pumped up Aggies. 
· with a halftime score of 14 -7 and Notre Dame losing, it was evident that the defense was having trouble. Not only did the Irish lose defensive coordinator Rick Minter prior to the game when he signed on as head coach at Cincinnati, but all week Notre Dame prepared for the Texas A&M offense 
to use a rushing attack. Instead the Aggies focused on throwing passes to fullbacks and tight ends, confusing the Irish wnedefense. "We challenged our players a little more 
for 138 yards out of the team's total of206 total rushing yards. At the two yard line junior fullback Ray 2.ellars took a pitch left from junior quarterback Paul Failla before powering past the Texas A&M defense and high stepping into the end zone, tying up the score at 14-14. 
"In the second half we were back to Notre Dame football -three yards and a cloud of dust," said Aaron Taylor. 
But the Aggies countered this scoring drive with one of their own. After driving 79 yards down the field to the Irish one yard line, junior running back Rodney Thomas dove over the top into the end zone for an Aggie touchdown, giving Texas A&M the lead, 21-14. The Irish offense came back again to tie 
.1up the score. On a first down at the two yard line Failla handed the ball to freshman fullback Marc Edwards who shoved past Aggie defenders and dove into the end wne, making the score21-21 with more than three minutes left in the third quarter. 
"The great games are when the momen­
at half time," said Holtz. 
According to Irish team mem­bers; Holtz got the team pumped up _ by asking for 22 players who wanted to win to sign . their names on a chalkboard in the locker room. 
The change to the team was im­mediately evident in the second half when, on the first possession ·. of the third quarter, the hish scored. Lee Becton tallied four carries on the drive for 32 yards and helped the team to a first and goal position on the Aggie two. yard line. By the end of the day he tallied 26 carries 
Bobby Taylor, left, and Jeff Burris, right, leap high rw~hadsen 
attempt to block an A&M kick. 


Brian Hamilton breaks through the A&M offensive line as Bryant Young and Jim Flanigan pursue Aggie running back Greg HIii. 
twn goes backandforth," said Holtz. "Itwas one of those games." 
The score remained the same until the last two minutes of the fourth quarter despite an interception by senior linebacker Pete Bercich at the Aggie 49 yard line with 8:42 minutes left in the final quarter. 
"I'm glad I had the opportunity to redeem myself [after dropping the interception that would have clinched a victory in the final · seconds against Boston College]," said Bercich. 
With about four minutes left in the fourth quarter, the Aggies had to punt the ball from their own eight yard line. The kick went 45 yards, but Miller received it and sped down the left sideline for a crucial 38 yards to the Aggie22yard line. Butthe Irish offense was only able to gain eight yards. On a fourth and two situation at the Aggie eight yard line, fifth-year senior kicker Kevin Pendergast nailed a 31 yard field goal, giving Notre Dame the winning lead, 24-21. 
"Webeatan awfully good football team," said Holtz. ''This was an experienced, vet­eran, well-coached, defensive team." 
With over a minute left in the game, the Aggies still had a chance to come back. But on the first play ofthe drive Thomas was hit on his right side by senior free safety Jeff Burris, fumbling the ball. Bobby Taylor recovered the ball for the Irish, but Notre Dame was unable to gain a first down.· 
But the Notre Dame defense was deter­mined to secure the win. On the second play of the drive senior defensive tackle Jim Hanigan sacked Pullig for an 11 yard loss. 
And the Aggies were unable to gain a first down after attempting a hook-and-ladder play on a fourth down with 17 to go on their own 41. Pullig passed to senior wide re­ceiver Tony Harrison who then tried to lat­eral to freshman running back Leeland McElroy, but Harrison had thrown the ball too high. When the pigskin fell to the ground, Texas A&M lost its chance ofwin­ning the game, and Notre Dame clinched its victory. ­
"It feels great to win the Cotton Bowl for the second year in a row," said Burris. "Alot ofpeople doubted ourability to bounce back from the Boston College game. Guess what? We did." D 


Scholastic 
Applications are now available for all of the following paid positions on the 1994 -1995 editorial board: 
Editor in Chief Photo Editor Managing Editor Copy Editor 
News Editor Layout Manager Campus Life Editor Graphic Arts Manager · Sports Editor Systems Manager 
Entertainment Editor Business Manager Departments Editor Advertising Manager 
pplications can be·picked up at the Scholastic office, 303 LaFortune, between 2-5 p.m., onday to Friday. Applications for Editor in Chief are due Friday, February 11. Applications or all other positions are due Thursday, February 24. 
o excperience is necessary. All majors and years are encourage4 to apply/ uestions? Contact Margaret Kenny 631-5029. 
FINAL WORD 
Looking Past the Numbers: 
Reflections of a Student Trainer 
Kristen "Peanut'' Lefere is an off­campus senior English and philosophy major. She has been a student trainer since herfreshman year. 
Unfortunately, when people look back on this football season, the fmal decision of the Asso­ciated Press and Coaches' Polls might jump to mind first For those of us who celebrated in the Dallas streets on January 1, the n~ws of Notre Dame's number two ranking brought an abrupt end to the party. We may never accept the reasoning in this nonsense, but before we forget, let's remember ex­actly what the 1993 Notre Dame football team accom­
plished. . Between the losses to last year's draft and all the preseason controversy, nobody gave this team much of a chance. However, they knew they were better than everyone said. Working as a student trainer, I watched them push through the most grueling fall camp I saw in three seasons here and still shook my head when they said this was the year. After an unimpressive win over Northwestern, I was not the only student hoping the team would just keep the game close at Michigan. With so much talent gone, . more ofus than care to admit feared lopsided losses in more places than Ann Arbor. Still, this team knew they were better than everyone said. On September 11, a stunned crowd watched Kevin McDougal catch fire and Jeff Burris catch almost everything as Notre Dame promptly destroyed Michigan'_s season and resurrected its own. The controversies now secondary, we all seemed to settle into the business of football, something the team had been doing all along. What this team accomplished after that important game at Michigan remains impressive. Working through injuries and through long practices, they played clean and they played hard, doing what they needed to do to get the victory on Saturday. Once they rattled off nine straight wins to set up the since forgotten "Game ofthe Century," they turned most of us, if not the writers, from doubters to believers. Regardless, onNovember 13, this team proved they were better than everyone had said. The Seminoles came in cocky and confident and left winless and whim~ring. But even more impressive is the fact that our guys had enough self-control to ignore the numer­ous cheap shois when they reached the endzone (take 
by Kristen Lefore 
a look at a tape) and enough class to refrain from taunting the Seminoles during the game and in post­game press conferences. 
Unfortunately, you have to win every game if you are Notre Dame and you want the National Champi­onship. Lou is no god to the rest of the world and the NBCcontracthasnotgainedusanyfriends. Inacrazy college football year, we had a more than legitimate claim after the Cotton Bowl victory. I do not under­stand it any more now than I did January 2, but I hope we can remember more about this season than the two fmalpolls. . 
This team gave us some incredible memories. Looking back, we will probably never forget Aaron Taylor and J effB urris achieving All-American status, Tim Ruddy blowing people away on the field and in the classroom, or Bryant Young quietly dominating on the d{:fensive line. But I hope we also remember the leadership these four captains and the rest of the 1993 class gave to the team. Every one of the seniors started a game, an amazing statistic that has to be credited to their attitude as much as their ability. They pushed themselves and one another to work harder than any football team I saw as a trainer, and they unselfishly encouraged and taught the younger play­ers fighting for minutes on the field. 
But most of all, the seniors led the team with class. You did not see Taylor or Burris begging for second chances or bawling before cameras after the Boston College game or when the final polls were announced. We are not Florida State; we are Notre Dame. The seniors understood that. 
All year long, including January 2, this team was more than anyone said they were. Don't remember them for what they weren 'tgiven. Remember them for what they gave everyone-a year to beproud-even though, but maybe especially because, we're not the National Champions. · . 


MAR.K MAZZOLA 



Cushini Aulli~rim 
.Jan 21&22 
27 Vertigo
Z8&29 TheW Son 
Feb 3 Rebel Witholll a Cau11
Feb 4&5 Mallee 
IO · The Philadelphia Sto"
11&12 Cool Runnings 
I 7 Singir1' in the Rain . 
25&26 The Three Musketeers 
24 North By Northwest 
Marl8&19 The Fugilwe 
Marl7 West Side Story 
25&26 Nightmare Before Christmas 
24 
To Kill a Moekinghird 
!pr 8&9 Ru~ 
Apr 7 Knata-Roekne: AH-Ameriean 
ne Program .Jan ZO The Maltese fale1111 

The Pe6ean Brief 
14 AStnetear Named Duin Philadelphia 28 Fair lady The Show Times are at 8pm s1D:3Dpm. 







