
·Ed~orial 

November I 4, I 986 Volume I 28, Special Issue 


Scholastic 
Editor-in-Chief 
Maher Mouasher 
Managing Editor 
Keith Harrison Jr. Design Editor Alex Peltzer 
Production Manager Matthew Bradley 

General Manager 
Phil Coghlan Editorial Larry Burke/Sports Catherine Coffey/Departments Frank Lipo/News Greg Miller/Student Life Lucian Niemeyer/Photography Aimee Starin/Copy Chief Bob Winn/Student Life 
Administration 
Pete Cespedes/Comptroller Julie Gschwind/Advertising Mike Hoban/Circulation 
Asst. Design Editor 
Sharon Dow 
Cover by Reem Mouasher 
The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire edi­torial board of Scholastic or the Univer­sity of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or student body. Editorials, unless otherwise indicated, represent the opinion of the majority of the edi­torial board. 
Scholastic is represented for national advertising by CASS student advertis­ing, Inc. Published weekly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at The Papers, Inc. Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $18.75 a year and back issues are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, IN 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. Copyright Scholastic. All rights reserved. None of the contents may be reproduced without permission. 


Contents 
4 
The Decision Is Made 
By Maher Mouasher 

6 
Planning For The' Future 
By Keith Harrison Jr. 
8 
A Notre Dame Procession 
By Greg Miller 
12 
A Giant Step Forward 
By Greg Miller 
13 
How The Choice Is Made 
Compiled by Frank Lipo 

14 
Hesburgh Through The Years 
Compiled by Aimee Storin 
Special Issue 


The Decision Is Made 
By Maher Mouasher 

Associate Provost Father Edward Malloy is selected the University's 16th president by the Board of Trustees 
When the 1987-88 academic year begins in late August, Father Edward "Monk" Malloy will be at the helm of the· University of Notre Dame. 
The Board of Trustees of the University met at 2 this afternoon, with the selection of a new president the sole item on its agenda. Acting on a recommenda­tion forwarded by its nominating committee, it voted to elect Malloy the 16th president of the Univer­sity. 
Malloy specializes in the ethics of sexuality, war and peace, crime and punishment and biomedical matters, as they relate to the Catholic faith. He is the author of two books and numerous articles and reviews in a wide variety of theological and secular journals. 
In addition to his current job, he serves as associate professor of theology, on the institutional review boards at Saint Joseph's Medical Center and Memorial Hospital in South Bend, and as a member of the board of regents at the University of Portland, a Holy Cross school. 
In May, Malloy will succeed Father Theodore Hesburgh, the man who has held that post for the last 35 years. 



Scholastic 
Special Issue 

Hes burgh was originally scheduled to retire in 1981. That selection process, though, was aborted. The committee handling the search decided that no member of the Holy Cross order was ready to take Hesburgh's place. Hes­burgh agreed to stay for-·five more years until promising young pri­ests received more administrative experience. 
At that time, four young members of the Congregation of Holy Cross were appointed to upper level administrative posts, presumably to groom them for the presidency. 
In addition to Malloy, who was 

named associate provost, Father 
David Tyson was named executive 
assistant to Hesburgh and in 1984 
vice president for student affairs. 
Simultaneously, Father Ernest 
Bartell was named director of the 
Helen Kellogg Institute for Inter­
national Studies and Father William 
Beauchamp was named adminis­
trative assistant to Father Edmund 
Joyce. Beauchamp later became 
executive assistant to Hesburgh 
when Tyson became vice president 
for student affairs. 
For a few years after that, the issue of replacing Hesburgh faded from the spotlight. Last spring, however, the nominating commit­tee of the Board of Trustees, under the leadership of then chair­man of the board Thomas Carney, re-started the search for a new president. He solicited the opin­. ions of the Notre Dame commun­ity on the key qualities that a new president must possess, thus bring­ing the issue to the forefront of 
campus gossip once again. 
From that point, events in the selection process moved fairly quickly. The committee inter­viewed the main contenders and met several times in order to nar­row its selection to a manageable few. A short list soon emerged. In 
November 14, 1986 
addition to the four administra­tors, the name of Father Michael McCafferty, associate professor of law, appeared on the list. While some other names were still being mentioned in relation to the presidency, it seemed unlikely that anyone other than one of the five on the list would be named. 
After mid-September the speculation on the Notre Dame campus mounted. Students, administrators, alumni and members of the Holy Cross com­munity alike discussed their favor­ite candidates. The five candi­dates and the members of the Board of Trustees received mes­sages containing suggestions and nominations from those with any connection to Notre Dame. 
The speculation reached its peak November 2 when the Chi­cago Tribune reported in its Sun­day edition that Malloy had been the University were quick to deny the stories, it was clear that the two newspapers had not based their stories on mere speculation. Even though the official decision was yet to be made, many insiders said that the presidential selection was fast becoming a one-horse race. All signals pointed to Malloy as the committee's choice. 
At its meeting today, the board of trustees confirmed these expec­tations. With the presidential selection the only item on its afternoon agenda, it m_et and laid to rest the rumors. More impor­tantly, it met to decide who will be entrusted to guide the University into a crucial period of its existence. The final result was the selection of 45-year-old Malloy. 
Malloy was born on May 3, 1941 in Washington D.C. He came to Notre Dame as a scholarship basketball player. After an 

chosen president. It quoted "sources close to the University" as saying that the trustees had gra­dually come to regard Malloy as the consensus choice for the presidency. 
On the same day, The Chicago Sun-Times ran a somewhat more conservative story saying that Malloy was the "rated choice" for the presidency. While officials at unimpressive court career, Malloy turned his attention to academics, garnering a B.A. and an M.A. in English between 1963 and 1967, and an M.A. in theology in 1969. He was ordained into the Holy Cross order at Sacred Heart Church in 1970. He then taught at Aquinas Junior College in Nash­ville before returning to Notre Dame to join the faculty in the department of theology. 
s 
Special Issue 

Planning For The Future 
By Keith Harrison Jr. 


Notre Dame gears up for its largest fund raiser as the Hesburgh era draws to a close 
I 
n the last days of Father Theodore Hesburgh's term as University president, 
Notre Dame will kick off a $300 million fund-raising effort, the largest in the school's history. The fund raiser, tentatively titled "Notre Dame: A Strategic Moment," will dramatically alter both external and internal ele­ments of the University. 
Included in tentative plans are the construction of two women's dorms, a classroom building, a theology center and renovations of the Administration Building and Sacred Heart Church. Major increases in funding for financial aid, graduate programs and research also are being planned. 
the fund-raising campaign will not be officially announced until May 9, when Hesburgh will describe it in an address that will be televised to Notre Dame clubs across the nation. But Hesburgh was quoted in last Sunday's Chi­cago Tribune as saying, "We're in the middle of this $300 million drive that we're not going to announce publicly up.ti! I leave here. By then we'll probably' have two-thirds of it in the bag." 
Perhaps the biggest physical change on campus will be a new classroom building. Assistant Vice President of University Relations Richard Conklin has said that the building is tentatively scheduled to be built in the extra parking facili­ties across from the Snite Museum, west of the football stadium. 
The building will be used pri­marily for undergraduate courses, according to Joe Sandman, direc­tor of development. "It will not be for any particular college," he said. Because the College of Arts and Letters has courses which all students must take, however, "it may be one of the primary benefi­ciaries" of the classroom building, said Sandman. Although there is no donor for the new classroom building at this time, "there are some discussions going on right now about that," he said. 
Two women's dorms also will be constructed with money from the fund raiser. The dorms will house a total of 500 women and be located between the Memorial Library and the Pasquerillas. The total cost of the two dorms is estimated at $10 million. 

Donors have been found for both dorms, according to Sand­man. Knott, a Baltimore business­man, is donating the money for the construction of Marion Burk Knott Hall. The name · of the donor for the second dorm is not being revealed at this time, according to Sandman. 
In addition to these construc­tions, funds will be set aside for renovations in the Administration Building and Sacred Heart Church: Work on the Administration Building, which has been budg­eted for $8.5 million, probably will not start for a few years, because, Sandman said, it is not as urgent as the new construction work. Renovation of Sacred Heart Church, budgeted at $3 million, is already underway and will con-. tinue for the next two years. 
Approximately $60 million has been tentatively earmarked for endowed undergraduate scholar­ships. This figure, like most of the goals of the campaign, are responses to the recommendations made in the University's 1982 PACE report, Sandman said. That report suggested that Notre Dame triple the amount of financial aid currently offered before 1991. "We will reach that goal," said Sandman. 
A major part of the money raised in the fund ·raiser is scheduled to go to graduate and research programs. Approxi­mately $42 million, for example, has been proposed to fund Univer­sity research·centers and institutes. Lobund Laboratory is scheduled to receive $5 million. This labora­tory specializes in raising lab animals in germ-free environ­ments. 

Robert Gordon, vice president for advanced studies, said that Lobund is one of the world's lead­ing research centers in this field. "Animals which have been raised there are sent all over the world for research purposes." Other research centers scheduled to receive grants include the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts, the Center for Research in Business and the Microelectronics Research Center. 
Scholastic 



Special Issue 

In addition to the money ear­marked for research centers and institutes, another $38 million ten­tatively is planned for graduate f cllowships endowment and research support. This money will be used for such things as graduate student stipends and grants to sup­port faculty members during sum­mer research projects. 
$42 million is scheduled to endow professorships. The University presently has 95 academic chairs funded to some degree. Academic chairs are each backed by $1 million in savings. The interest earned from this money allows the University to attract top scholars for the chairs by 'offering prestige and a high salary,· according to Sandman. "Father Hesburgh has said that he wants 100 before he retires, and with this fund raiser we will cer­tainly surpass that figure," Sand­man said. 
"The University is making a commitment to improving its gra­duate and research programs," said Sandman. "That's what we have to do to join that elite group of schools, which includes Har­vard and Stanford and Yale," he said. Gordon said, "We're talking about things that are going to make Notre Dame a better place to go to school." 
Despite this emphasis on improving its graduate and research areas, Sandman said the University will continue to improve the quality of its under­graduate program. A concern for social space resulted in plans for the renovation of LaFortune Student Center, the construction of the Eck Tennis Pavilion and the All Sports Arena, according to Sandman. Funding for all three of these projects is included in the campaign. 
Another factor which influ­enced fund allocation for the cam-
November 14, 1986 
paign was the alcohol policy, according to Sandman. "There was the feeling that alcohol use had gotten out of hand a few years ago, so the alcohol policy was implemented. But if you're going to cut down on drinking, you've got to increase the number of alternatives students have," Sand­man said. Because of this, he said, $6 million is scheduled to go to enhance student life programs, 
which range from the Office of Student Activities to University Ministry. 
In addition to its work in gra­duate and undergraduate pro­grams, the fund raiser also will finance projects designed to main­tain Notre Dame's Catholic char­acter. One of these is the construc­tion of a theology center, which is budgeted for $3 million. "That will be a campaign priority, although it's not as far along in planning yet," Sandman said. 
Another such program is the Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry, which is scheduled to receive $12.5 million. This insti­tute makes Notre Dame's resources available to all Church members. One example of its work is Retreats International, a group which trains retreat leaders from across the country. 
But will Notre Dame be able to raise all this money? "There is no question in my mind that we will," Sandman said. "The family, friends and alumni of Notre Dame want us to be among the very best universities in the country. They understand our unique Catholic mission." 





Special Issue 


ANotre Dame Procession 
Perhaps no president of the University of Notre Dame has gained more fame outside the school than Father Theodore Hesburgh. Yet during Hesburgh's 35-year tenure, the longest in the University's history, he also has shaped the face of Notre Dame. In light of today's decision by the board of trustees, it is fitting to pay tribute to Hesburgh's 14 predecessors who have guided the University since its birth in 1842. These presidents not only provided the groundwork but also inspired the vision for many of Hesburgh's achievements. A chronicle of Notre Dame's presidents is also a chronicle of the history of Notre Dame. 
Father Edward Frederick Sorin CSC (1842-1865) 
Edward Sorin, born in La Roche, France in 1814, was ordained a priest of the Congregation of Holy Cross in 1838. While a seminarian, Sorin listened to the bishop of Vincennes, Indiana, who was in France making an appeal for help with his missions in Indi­ana. The bishop's words stuck with Sorin. After his ordination he volunteered to lead a group of six French brothers and novices to America. In a letter to the bishop of Vincennes, Sorin expressed his enthusiasm: "The road to America seems clearly to me the road to heaven." 
Sorin arrived in New York in September of 1841 and made his way to Vincennes. The bishop sent him to the mission at St. Peter's, Indiana, where Sorin at once established a novitiate and soon developed plans for a college. The bishop, however, feeling that the Catholic population was too small in the area, would not permit Sorin to begin a school at St. Peter's. Instead, he granted him permission to begin a school at Notre Dame du Lac, a piece of land near South Bend. 
In November of 1842 Sorin left for South Bend with seven brothers. Upon arrival he immediately organized plans for the college and wrote confidently i­to his superior in France, "This college will be one of ! the most powerful means of doing good in this coun­
i,. • 
!·. try." With $1,500 from the bishop, Sorin built a log chapel and the brick building which is now Old Col­lege. In 1844 a charter was granted by, the legislature of Indiana which enabled the University to grant 
8 
By Greg Miller 


degrees. Formal classes began in September of the same year and Notre Dame granted its first degree in 
1849. 
The school rapidly expanded and by 1863 had an enrollment of more than 200 students. Yet Sorin's Notre Dame hardly resembled the Notre Dame of today. Students came to the school as young as six years old and received elementary, secondary, and college-level educatio•n. In fact, the Minims -the stu­dents aged 6 to 13 -were Sorin's favorite group. 
Father Patrick Dillon CSC (1865-1866) 
Dillon, an administrative assistant under Sorin, became president when Sorin decided to concentrate 
Scholastic 


. . 

, . 
--. . . . . . 

Special Issue 

. 
his attention on his job as Provincial of the CSC. Dillon instituted the Commercial Course, which offered students a cha,nce to study bookkeeping and commercial law. He also laid the foundations for the development of a course of studies in the sciences. 
Dillon took a more liberal approach to the discip­line of the students than Sorin. But a glance at the regulations suggests that, discipline was still quite 

strict: "In winter, on Saturday, at four o'clock p.m., the students must wash their feet. In summer, this regulation is rendered unnecessary by the rule which requires the student to bathe in common twice a week in St. Joseph's Lake." 
Father William Corby CSC (1866-1872) 
Under Corby's administration, enrollment at Notre Dame increased to more than 500 students. In 1869 Corby opened the law school, which offered a two-year course of study, and in 1871 he began con­5truction of Sacred Heart Church. Yet Notre Dame was still a "small" school. The president taught in the classroom and knew most students and faculty members. In 1869 the entire student body and the 
November 14, 1986 
faculty presented Corby with the gift of a 'black horse. Three years later, when he left the presidency, they presented him with a matching carriage. In five years, however, Corby would become president again. 
Father Auguste Lemonnier CSC (1872-1874) 
Lemonnier, a nephew of Sorin, was an amiable and unassuming president. But after a well­publicized drinking incident among the students, Lemonnier wrote a forceful letter in the South Bend papers. He wrote, "I shall prosecute those who shall hereafter sell or give liquor or any other intoxicating drink to anyone of the students of the college, and I will have any such persons punished with the heavi-. est penalties of the law." 
Father Patrick J. Colovin CSC (1874-1877) 
Colovin, who served as vice president under Lemonnier, did not stand in.Sorin's favor. Colovin, an Irishman, planned a St. Patrick's Day celebration despite the objections and displeasure of Sorin. More importantly, student enrollment diminished under his administration: Colovin resigned from the presidency in August of 1877, but many thought that he had been removed. 

Father William Corby CSC (1877-1881) 
When Corby -returned to the presidency, Notre Dame had not yet become a significant academic institution. There were no non-Catholic teachers and no distinctive scholars. Sorin's view of the mission of Notre Dame still prevailed: to produce not Catholic scholars, but good Catholic men for "ordinary walks of life." Most students, in fact, pursued studies to enter the business world and often did not graduate. In April 1879 a fire destroyed the Main building of the school. Corby sent all students home and prom­ised that they would return to a "bigger and better Notre Dame." 
Corby overcame the $200,000 loss and rebuilt the Main building -the building which is now the Administration Building. Corby, however, could not continue the expansion. In addition to his presidency he served as the HolyI Cross Provincial. By this time Sorin had become Superior General of the Holy Cross order. He wrote to Corby to tell him that he would have to relinquish one of his positions. Corby wanted to remain president, but was overruled by Sorin. 

Father Thomas E. Walsh CSC (1881-1893) 
Walsh became president when he was only 28 years old. A favorite of Sorin, he had come to Notre Dame under Colovin's administration to help reverse 
9 


Special Issue 
the declining enrollment. Walsh was most interested in bolstering Notre Dame's scholastic standards. He was discouraged by the small number of graduates in comparison to the total number of students, a dispro­portion caused by the many students who came to Notre Dame for its business courses only. In Scholas­tic, Walsh expressed his hope that the "time will soon come when the greater majority of those attending would be prepared to follow the regular Collegiate Course." 
Walsh reorganized the law school and in 1882 he built the Science Hall. He made Civil and Mechanical Engineering four-year courses of study and also <;tarted a program of studies called "Belles Lettres," for which he recruited distinguished literature pro­fessors. As student enrollment increased Walsh recog­nized the need for more living space and in 1888 laid the cornerstone for Sorin Hall, built in honor of Sorin's Golden Jubilee. 

Another incident related to student alcohol use occurred during Walsh's tenure as president. 32 stu­dents left campus without permission. Sorin decided to expel 2 students who returned to campus drunk and imposed milder penalties on the other 30. These 30, however, protested that all should receive the same penalty or no punishment at all. Walsh, in response, expelled all 32 and told them, "It is better to have a small attendance at the University with good discipline than a large attendance without it. The rules will be preserved at any cost." 
Perhaps ironically, Notre Dame played its first intercollegiate football game during Walsh's tenure. In 1887, following rugby rules, the men of Notre Dame played an informal game against the Univer­sity of Michigan. The very next week Notre Dame organized a Rugby football association. 
Father Andrew Morrissey CSC (1893-1905) 
On his deathbed in 1893 Walsh requested that Morrissey succeed him as president. 1893 also marked the year of Sorin's death, so Morrissey became the first president to be free from Sorin's shadow. Unfortunately little significant progress was made during Morrissey's 12-year tenure. Sounding like Sorin, Morrissey at one point said, "We can never compete with those colleges that have such tremendous endowments! Our very existence depends on giving Catholic boys a good preparatory foundation." 
Nevertheless Morrissey led the construction of the Grotto in 1896, the addition of wings to Sorin Hall in 1897 and the erection of the first gymnasium in 1898. In 1900 student enrollment increased to more than 700, but most students still followed the Com­mercial Course. 
Father John W. Cavanaugh CSC (19-05-1919) 
Cavanaugh was known for his literary gifts and his eloquent speeches. It is appropriate, then, that the number of students awarded bachelor's and master's degrees significantly increased during his tenure as president. As part of his ongoing commitment to improve the academic standing of Notre Dame, Cavanaugh' attracted a number of eminent scholars to the University, established a chair in journalism, and introduced courses in Chemical Engineering. 
Notre Dame rapidly became a significant force on the football field. Yet Cavanaugh resented the impli­cations that Notre Dame should be known as a foot­ball school. In fact, he almost did away with the football program, for it was a money-losing proposi­tion until 1913. But, again ironically, two of Notre Dame's most famous football personalities appeared during Cavanaugh's years as president. George Gipp came to national attention in 1917 and Knute Rockne began coaching in 1918. 
Father James A. Burns CSC (1919-1922) 
Immediately after Burns became president, he divided the University into four distinct colleges: Arts and Letters, Science, Engineering, and Law. In 1919 he eliminated the prep school to make more room on campus for college students. Burns, who concentrated on academic matters, added no new buildings to the campus during his tenure. But in his final year he set the foundations for a large expan­sion of the University. He began a campaign to raise $750,000, which, if raised, would secure $250,000 from the Rockefeller Foundation and $75,000 from the Carnegie foundation. In 1922 Burns resigned to devote his time to fund-raising activities. 
Father Matthew J. Walsh CSC (1922-1928) 
When Walsh assumed the presidency, more than 1,100 students lived off campus, only 135 students were paying for room and board, and Notre Dame had a $10,000 debt. Walsh, discouraged by these 

Scholastic 
Special ls~ue 

facts, f clt that Notre Dame was growing without retaining a unity among students, faculty, and administrators. 
With fund-raising money, Walsh at once concen­trated his efforts on the construction of a dormitory system. He built Freshman Hall in 1922 and Sopho­more Hall in 1923. During 1924 and 1925 he began construction of Morrissey, Howard and Lyons. By 1925 enrollment had increased to 2,500 students, of which 1,471 lived on campus. To further unify the campus Walsh completed South Dining Hall by 1927. 
Academic progress was also made. Crea.it hours were reduced to encourage more in-depth study. Latin and Greek were no longer required for a degree. Walsh also expanded the College of Com­merce, which had been organized in 1920. In 1928 three years of college were made a prerequisite for the study of law. Faculty members increased from 90 to 175 during Walsh's presidency. 
Father Charles L. O'Donnell CSC (1928-1934) 
O'Donnell appreciated both the academic vision of Cavanaugh and Burns and the practical considera­tion of Walsh. He combined both while president. In 1929 he built the football stadium. He also restored Sacred Heart Church and constructed the law school building. In 1931 construction of Alumni and Dillon were begun, in addition to the Cushing Hall of Engineering and a new heating plant. This rapid expansion, which cost the University more than $2,800,000, was made possible in large part through football revenues. 
Academic life at Notre Dame also expanded. In 1929 O'Donnell eliminated the school for Minims, which created more room for college students. He actively sought distinguished lecturers throughout his presidency and attracted William Butler Yeats to campus. O'Donnell also established a new seal for the University, because he felt that the old one was indistinguishable from the seal of the Holy Cross order. Notre Dame was now on its way to becoming the Notre Dame of today. 
Father John F. O'Hara CSC (1934-1940) 
O'Hara, the Prefect of Religion at Notre Dame from 1918 to 1934, concentrated on expanding the graduate school. During his tenure, he made doctor­ates available in Philosophy, Physics, Mathematics, and Politics. O'Hara also carried forward the build­ing program and led construction of a new laundry, the post office, and the infirmary. He also built the Rockne Memorial, Cavanaugh, Zahm and Breen-Phillips. 
Father J. Hugh O'Donnell CSC (1940-1946) 

November 14, 1986 
During World War II, O'Donnell offered Notre Dame's facilities to the armed forces. ihe navy accepted his offer and installed Naval ROTC units on campus. Soon after the installation there were only a few hundred civilian students at Notre Dame. O'Donnell also continued O'Hara's work with the graduate school. He further formalized the graduate program and replaced the previous committee of gra­duate studies with a dean. 
Father John J. Cavanaugh CSC (1946-1952) 
Cavanaugh, one of Henry Ford's secretaries before entering Notre Dame's College of Commerce, graduated from the University in 1923 and worked for the Studebaker corporation in South Bend. Two years later he entered the novitiate at Notre Dame to become a Holy Cross priest -a requirement to become a president of the University of Notre Dame. 
At a I 948 Alumni Banquet, Cavanaugh spoke' of his desire to make Notre Dame a "great" University -a University, Cavanaugh said, which produced a 

:,:~~l'.~iiti~n·raa~nfly'to)His 
stiie~ ·.• -~~fi~, .. Jr~fi·i~ I~pll~g~fwm /.bf! 


!l:%fg0[ro: .t:tt.¥Ait1l;,;r%\'t~~~.Of. 

significant number of graduates who would one day 
assume influential leadership positions. Cavanaugh, 
like many of his predecessors, wanted to make Notre 
Dame a national force not only in football, but in 
education. Yet the irony continued, for in 1950 the 
first Notre Dame football games were shown on 
television -a significant source of revenue for the ·University. 
Cavanaugh reorganized the administration in order to free himself to pursue fundraising activities and to act as a salesman for the Univer·sity. Cavanaugh's reorganization created five vice presidents, who focused their attention on the vari­ous aspects of the rapidly growing University. Father Theodore Hesburgh, at age 32, was appointed executive vice president -the one vice president to whom all the others reported. 
As Notre Dame continued to grow, alumni began to complain that their sons were denied admission to the University in favor of "strangers" with better credentials. Cavanaugh, however, saw these cbm­plaints as signs of a great university. He remai'ned firm in his convictions. Notre Dame had come a long way from Sorin, and Cavanaugh would not turn back. 
Special Issue 
AGiant Step Forward 
By Greg Miller 

S 
ince Father Theodore Hesburgh became president in 1952 his name has become synonymous with Notre Dame. Tremendous growth and world-wide recognition have been the hallmarks of his tenure. 
1,222 2,663 (1986) 
There are now nearly 100 .,________________ 
endowed professorships and almost 1,000 faculty members. The student body also has increased, both in size and quality. Notre Dame now provides finan­cial aid to 65 percent of the student body. Hesburgh has also spearheaded tremen­dous growth within the gra­duate school, which he feels is crucial to maintaining a highly respected reputation in the academic community. 
Perhaps Hesburgh's most significant achievements have been the transfer of 
Changes Under the Dome: The Hesburgh Era 1951-52 Current 
· Enrollment Undergrad 4,381 7,552 Postgrad 598 .bill 4,979 9,676 (Fall '85) 
Degrees Grad 970 1,888 
775
conferred Postgrad 252 
.__ 
Endowment (at 
market value) Annual voluntary support 
Funding for research; 
sponsored programs Annual operating budget 
Library volumes 
Faculty compensation (average) · Total faculty Physical facilities 
Physical facilities' 
replacement value 
Student financial aid 
(all sources, undergrad and postgrad students) 

$9 million $350 million $1.l million $48.3 million $735,000 $15 million 
$9. 7 million $ I 76.6 million 
338,238 1.6 million 
$5,400 $50,800 
(I 985-86) 
389 951 
48 buildings 88 buildings 
$24 million $492 million 
$20,000 $40 million 
governance of the Univer­
source: Notre Dame Department of Public Relations and Information 
sity from the Congregation 
of Holy Cross to a predominantly lay Board of Trustees in 1967 and the admission of undergraduate women to the University in 1972. Hesburgh's insistence on lay governance has led to changes in the organization of the University. One such change has been the choice of Hesburgh's successor -a choice made for the first time by the Board of Trustees. 
Hesburgh has also made signifi­cant contributions outside the University and has compiled a dis­tinguished record of public ser­vice. He has held 14 presidential appointments, has been a national leader in the field of education, and has served four popes. 
He served for 15 years on the 
U.S. Commission on Civil Rights and chaired the commission from 1969 until 1972, when President Richard. Nixon removed him for criticizing the Nixon administration's civil rights record. He was the first priest to· serve in a formal diplomatic role for the United States government, as ambassador to the 1979 U.N. Conference on Science and Tech­nology. 
As an educator, Hesburgh has 
gift 
chaired the Inter­national Federation of Catholic Universities and has significantly determined the direction taken by the contemporary Catholic university. Hesburgh is also an honorary member of the National Academy of Sci­ences. 
Hesburgh has served three popes as permanent Vatican City representative to the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna from 1956 to 1970. In 1983 Pope John Paul II appointed Hesburgh to the Pontifical Council for Culture, which studies ways in which the Gospel can be more effec­tively preached to the world's various cultures. 
Currently Hesburgh is helping to direct a private group which unites scientists · and religious leaders in the
condemnation of nuclear 
weapons. With a $6 million last year from Joan Kroc, 
Hesburgh· established an Institute for International Peace Studies at Notre Dame. 
Hesburgh was boni in l 917 in Syracuse, New York. He was ordained a Holy Cross priest in 1943 at Notre Dame and was awarded a doctorate in theology at the Catholic University of Amer­ica in 1945. He returned to Notre Dame in the same year to teach theology. Just four years later, Hesburgh was appointed executive vice president in the administra­tion of President John J. Cavanaugh -the position which launched him into the presidency in 1952. 


Scholastic 


Special Issue 

How The Choice Is Made 

THE PRESIDENTIAL SELECTION PROCESS AT A GLANCE 
Fall 1952 -A reluctant Father Theodore Hesburgh takes the reins from Father John Cavanaugh, becoming the fifteenth president of Notre Dame. Cavanaugh also names Hes­burgh his successor as Provincial for the Congregation of Holy Cross in Indiana. At this time, it is among the Provincial's responsibilities to make the presidential selection; dur­ing the Hesburgh years, the two become separate positions. Hesburgh chooses Father Edmund Joyce as executive vice president. 
Fall 1967 -A predominantly lay Board of Trustees is created, and the Holy Cross Order transfers governance to it. Future University presidents are required to be chosen from among the Priests' Society of the Congregation of Holy Cross, Indiana Province, by University bylaw. But it is established that the board, not the Provincial and other superi­ors of the order, will choose the next University president. 

1981 -Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president, announces that he will step down the following spring. A committee of the Board of Trustees researches possible suc­cessors for months and concludes that no CSC priest is ready for the job. Hesburgh agrees to stay in office for five more years. Four priests, Father Edward Malloy, Father Ernest Bartell, Father David Tyson and Father William Beauchamp are appointed by Hesburgh to upper-level administrative positions. 
Spring 1986 -Thomas Carney, then chairman of the board, officially begins the search for a new president. He solicits input from faculty, students, alumni and members of the Congregation of Holy Cross. Each of these Notre Daine constituencies gathers informa­tion in its own way. The work of the board's nominating committee, of which Carney is a member, begins. 
October 1, 1986 -The nominating committee, which has already narrowed the field of candidates to five, meets on the Notre Dame campus. It receives reports from representa­tives of faculty, students, alumni and the Congregation of Holy Cross. Trustees are invited to campus to interview the five candidates. 
November 13, 1986 -Following a hectic final week of meetings, the nominating commit­tee. chooses Father Edward Malloy as its nominee for University president. Members of the committee are Donald Keough, chairman of the board; Thomas Carney and Edmund Stephan, former chairmen of the board; Andrew McKenna, vice chairman of the board; Father Richard Warner, provincial superior; and trustees John Schneider, Frank Sullivan, John Ryan and Ernestine Raclin. Hesburgh, although a member of the committee, earlier had removed himself from the process. 
November 14, 1986 -The Board of Trustees chooses Father Edward Malloy as the 16th president of the University. 
Compiled :Py Frank Lipo 

November 14, 1986 

Special Issue 
Hesburgh Through The Years 

~~ VOLUME 94, NUMBER l 

BIC-----S·E-PT_E_M_B_E_R_2_6_,_1_9_5_2 
The Notre Dame 


Top Enrollment Greets New . President 
Largest Frosh Class Swells Mark to 5400 
Another record Freshman class of 
approximately 1600 students is ex­
pected to swell the initial student body 
under newly appointed University 
President Theodore M. Hesburgh, 
C.S.C., to a grand total of 5400. 
Having already overflowed its assign­ment of Zahm, St. Edward's, Breen­Phillips, and Farley Halls, some 70 members of the class have taken up residence in Cavanaugh Hall while others are still waiting to be placed. 
The Office of Academic Affairs an­nounces that 5,115 students had al­ready been enrolled for the present school year-4,700 of whom were ·un­dergraduates. Over 400 graduate census cards have been processed up to this time, in addition to 317 student en­velopes which were not claimed at the end of the registration period. 
In succeeding Rev. John J. Cav­anaugh, C.S.C., who becomes a member of the Provincial Council of the Con­gregation of Holy Cross and special ad­visor to the president, Father Hes­burgh becomes the fifteenth such per­son to occupy that post. He vacates the office of Executive Vice-President which he had held for three consecu­tive years previous to his appointment as President of the University. 
A graduate of Gregorian University, Rome, and the Catholic University of America, Father Hesburgh was an auxiliary chaplain at Fort Myer, Va., during World War II. He came to Notre Dame in 1945 to teach religion, and was chaplain of the married vet­erans attending the University. He was head of the Department of Religion in 1948 for the year preceding his ap­pointment as Executive Vice-President. 
Father Hesburgh's term of office is limited by Canon Law, which states that religious &uperiors cannot hold office longer than two terms of three years each, 
Sept. 26, 1952 


REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH, C.S.C. For New President, 1600 Freshmen 

First Commerce Ball Bids Ready Monday 
Tickets for the first annaul Commerce 
•Ball will go on sale Monday in the lobby of the Dining Hall. The price of the ducats is $4.50. 
The Commerce Activities Council has 
completed plans for the ball, which will 
be held in the Palais Royale Ballroom 
on Nov. 7, with Johnny Long and his 
"Shanty Town" orchestra supplying the 
music from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m. 
Chairman Norb Kraft has obtained 2 
o'clock permissions from the Prefect 
of Discipline for students attending the 
dance. As an additional attraction 600 
tickets to the Oklahoma game on the 
following day have been set aside for 
Commerce men and their dates. These 
can be purchased along with the dance 
bids from Wally Bemard in the Dining 
Hall lobby. 

Dick Harvey is handling the blinti 
date bureau for interseted students, 
while Bill Unger has charge of room 
(Continued on page 21) 

Water Tower, Other Works, Stud Campus 
A welcome sight to the returning students was the silver dome on the northern side of the campus -a new 500,000 gallon capacity water tower towering 182 feet high and 60 feet in diameter, the tank is supplied by three wells. The erection of the 'tower neces• sitated the laying of a new system of water mains to supply the new build­ings. 
Next to the tower and part of the $2,000,000 utility program financed by the Father John C. Cavanaugh Testi­monial Fund is the enlarged power plant. This building, when finished, will supply the expanded campus with heat and power. Two new steam turbines which make double use of the steam supplied by the coal fired boilers will produce the electricity necessary for the campus. Backing up the boilers are two diesel engines. 
The exterior work on the Nieuwland Science Hall is completely finished. The entire building is over 95 per cent com· pleted. The remaining work, the fur­nishing of the laboratories, is now being done and it is expected that completion work will take about six to eight mon1:hs. At present the three lecture rooms for chemistry and physics and five other classrooms are in use. Many of the offices in the building have al­ready been occupied. 
The I. A. O'Shaughnessy Liberal and Fine Arts Building is about three quar­ters on the road to completion. Present­ly, the interior masonry work and thP. partitions are being done. Also, the heating ducts are being installed on the third floor. The building is expected to be completed by May, 1953, and ready 
for occupancy in the Fall of the same year. A sixth floor will be added to the 
tower to give WND extra room, The original plans only called for five floors -the fifth floor to be occupiea by the "student voice." 
9 
Scholastic 
Special Issue 


' &The decision to put the Univer­sity under lay control was not inine alone, but I was certainly part of it. I really thought that was a spectacular thing. It's probably one of the most spectacular things that happened after Vatican Council II because we were the largest single unit in the Catholic Church which took the Council seri­ously and did what they said, which was that lay persons ought to have new responsibilities in the Church com­mensurate with their talents and abili­ties." 
''The national concerns, I think, as I read them, are mainly a kind of unvoiced hope. I think young people today want a better country than we have. I don't mean we don't have a good one ­they want a better one. I'm mainly impressed, I guess, by the international concerns students have." 


·''While the numbers are important because they give you some sense of forward progress, and while balanced budgets are nice because they are better than going broke and bankrupt, when you get down to the core of this place it simply transcends numbers." 
Compiled By Aimee Storin 
as 
C: 

w .!!!o 
W(!J--c ... ~-i:-Eoa:lii-(Dz 
~011.-E.= ..J ""' as E
:::> • A. 0 ... 
me/? 
IJ)~ 

:::> -= 0 
z 

Watch For Next Week's 

Basketbal I Preview Issue 
. '' 
',,. 




