

9 
BER 
008 

05 news 
What You Need to Know
8 
Molly Slavin 
Notre Dame students should know their rights in alcohol-related situations. 


13 culture 
14 So You Think You Can Dance? 
Maddy Zollo 
New organized forms of dancing emerge to establish a presence in today's bump-and­grind club scene. · 
18 Cover: Notre Dame -An Anti-Depressant? 
.Molly Kring 
Scholastic investigates the effect that Notre Dame's competitive yet close-knit environment has on student mental health. 
27 sports 28 Going Pro for Dummies 
Malisha Samarasekera 
Five basic steps to becoming a professional athlete -easier than you think. 
30 Irish Eyes On: Brittany Bock 
Matt Formica 
This Irish athlete talks about international competition and playing without fear. 

32 humor 3 5 Human Relationship Etiquette Forum 
Mike Clemente 
Notre Dame offers its students the opportunity to refine their social networking skills ani:l raise their friendship-earning.potential. 
9 OCTOBER 2008 ISCHOLASTIC I 1 


EDNOTES 
A SILENT PLAGUE 
Last year, 957 students visited Notre Dame's University Counseling Center (UCC). Seventy-five reported previous suicide attempts, and 117 said they were engaging in self-mutilating behaviors. 
Though ND's statistics are slightly lower than the national average, it's still shocking to think that so many of our classmates are silently suffering behind smiling faces and closed dorm room doors. In our cover story this issue, Assistant News Editor Molly Kring takes a look at how our campus culture influences -for better or worse -students struggling with depression and anxiety. 
See pages 18-23 for a variety of perspectives from UCC staff, faculty, 
administration; rectors and afflicted students that shed light on serious mental 
health problems that are often stigmatized and kept silent. 
A NOT-SO-SILENT PLAGUE 
Unless you've been quarantined to your loft with mono for the past month, 
chances are you've heard grumblings about increased underage drinking busts 
and public intoxication citations. From scathing newspaper editorials to enraged 
bloggers and heated dining hall conversations, it's been hard to miss all of the anti-law enforcement sentiment floating around campus. But is it deserved? 
After a chat with the Public Information Officer for the South Bend Police 
Department, Scholastic weighs in on the debate on page 10. (HINT: It's not what you think.) 
Ifyou want to stay out of trouble, check out pages 8 and 9. Managing Editor Molly Slavin talks to ResLife and a local attorney about what to do in sticky situations both on and off campus. 
ON THE LIGHTER SIDE 
Nude models bare their ... souls to Assistant Culture Editor Courtney Ball on page 13. Staff member Claire Kenney hangs out at the stadium drunk tank on page 24. And for a purely visual treat, check out some photos from recent signature dorm events on pages 16 and 17. Speaking of photos, you may have noticed in our last issue that the photos we labeled as ND vs. Michigan were really from the San Diego State game. Turns out we aren't perfect. Who knew? 
Good luck on midterms. We'll see you after fall break. In the meantime, don't forget to visit scholastic.nd.edu for our staffbloggers, old Gipper archives and more! 

Jessica Farmwald Editor-in-Chief 
2 I SCHOLASTIC I 9 OCTOBER 2008 
) . . .' . . .. . . .. , . ..... .. , , . . . ~ ... . . . . 
-You listen to your heart. -You listen to what other people have to say. -You look to the Lord and ask for direction.  
Ifthe first two leadyou to believe that you may have a vocation, then it is time to do the third.  
Vocation Discernment Retreat November 7th -9th Applications·and more information are-available on the Campus Ministry website. campusministry.nd.edu/retreats Applications are due by October 31st.  
CONGREGATION OF HOLYCROSS E D U C A .T I O N • P A R I S H • M I S S I O N  

. · 574-63i-'6385 v·ocatio-~.nd.edu vocatipn.1@nd.edu _ _ 
build your network & stand out. 
-------------------7I I------------------1
I I 
I l I THEIR PROFESSIONAL l I THEIR COLLEAGUES l 
I THEIR COLLEAGUES I
t________________J I I CONTACTS : I L----------------~ -------------------,I 
I
I THEIR PROFESSIONAL l

L-----------------­
CONTACTS l
L ___________________ 
I I 
j I 
I THEIR FRIENDS I
r I ---__________...
I THEIR FRIENDS l I I 
I I 

·-------______., 
j I 
----------------'1
I I 
I______________ THEIR FAMILY ..I
I THEIR PROFESSIONAL l I I 
LI CONTACTS
__________________ :, 
NDALUMNI 
,---------------------1
: THE CAREER CENTER I -l 

I I ------------------,
I ~-I I THEIR COLLEAGUES I 
·---------------------I THEIR PROFESSIONAL I 
L-----------------J
: CONTACTS I
L _________________ ._
I -· I 
: I
l INFORMATIONAL l 
I INTERVIEWS 
r-------------------,


L-------------= 
I CLUBS, ACTIVITIES, I 
I & OTHER AFFILIATIONS I 
YOUR FRIENDS•.
~-----------------------------1 
OUTSIDE ND
II FAIRS, WORKSHOPS, II I L --------------------J I 
.. ------------·. 
I______________THEIR FAMILY .,l
I CONFERENCES, &OTHER EVENTS I 
I I I I 

·------------------------------~ 
;------------,.. 
l THEIR FRIENDS I 
I I 
--•••••••••W••-' 
• ~ • : r • • • •; ~ • /~ C"1 •
~ 
' ... ' . : ' ;' . ..-' ..' 
ALL COLLEGES • ALL MAJORS • ALL CAREER PATHS 
. . ~ 
-Let us k.el-p, Visit us toks: The Career Cen0,~ 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE ;A~!­
V 
careercenter.nd.edu I (574) 631-5200 I ndcps@nd.edu 
Have you Heard the News? 
The Collegiate Readership Program Increases in Popularity 
Mackenzie Kilb 
Election fever has hit campus. Lectures, debates, movies and panels abound for students looking to support their candidate or trying to choose between the candidates. The faces ofJohn McCain and Barack Obama are everywhere, but at the end of the day many students still turn to an old, reliable source for their information: the newspaper. 
Sponsored and promoted by student government and USA Today, the Collegiate Readership Program, started at Notre Dame in 2005, gives students free, daily access to USA Today, The Chicago Tribune and The New York Times at six different locations across campus, including both dining halls, Lafortune Student Center, the parking lot of the Joyce Center and two new locations at Hesburgh Library and the Mendoza College of Business. 
A North Dining Hall employee said she noticed an increase in the amount of students picking up the newspapers this year. "In election years, the numbers do spike," Ryan Brellenthin, junior student government president of academic affairs, says. While the numbers were not yet in, Brellenthin suggested that an escalated interest in politics could certainly cause the levels of readership to go up. 
"This year we did a bigger promotion ofit," said junior Student Body Vice President Grant Schmidt, citing another factor in the increase of readers. Schmidt said they promoted Collegiate Readership during the first week of school with T-shirts, pens, notepads and pins in order to make students aware of the program and also to ensure that everyone knew it was free. 
The program is paid for by student government and is monitored by USA Today, whose database records the number of papers left in the newsstands at the encl of each day. This allows student government to allocate their budget and to make future decisions about the number ofpapers in each location. Grant said over l,000·papers are taken each day, with South Dining Hall receiving the most traffic. 
The goal of the program is to give students "exposure to day-to­day news" and to help them "break free of the Notre Dame bubble," Brellenthin says. 
Schmidt said students often ask why some newspapers were chosen instead of others. Aside from providing their own newspaper, USA Today tries to offer universities access to both a national newspaper and a regional newspaper, which is why Notre Dame receives The Chicago Tribune and The New York Times and not papers like the often­requested The vVall Street Journal. 0 




I_ 
,--­
! ~ 
L=
. ~ 
=--= 
~~~-=--~~~~~ 
1-­
,-­
·==-= 
I;___ ~ 
'§§§~=-=""§~~ 
6 I SCHOLASTIC I 9 OCTOBER 2008 
"Paris Hilton's My New BFF" 
I'm sorry, but this show is over. TTYN. 
Bob Barr visits campus 
The only ticket made up exclusively of old white males visits ND. Coincidence? 
VP Debates 
We'd rather watch "The Office." 
Long Port-a-Potty lines 
When life hands you lemons, shotgun a beer instead. 
Hook-ups during flu season 
One night of passion, two weeks of misery. 
Disability 
Conference, 
Forum opens new dialogue on campus 
Mike Rooney 
What does it mean to have a disability within a college env_ironment? This question is precisely the-issue that was addressed at the Disabilities Studies Forum on October 2 and 3. Open to Notre Dame students, faculty and administrators, the event covered a range -of topics related to disabilities spanning from adaptive technology to medieval Spanish literature. Professor Michael Rembis, the director ofthe Disabilities Studies Initiative ­at the University ofArizona, gave the two-day presentation. He discussed the rising interest in physical and mental disabilities studies as a discipline. He targeted this study's importance and its effect on the student body thanks to a grant that was acquired by Professor Essaka Joshua, the director of the Disability Studies Forum. Joshua, who teaches a college seminar that centers on disabilities, shows her students how disabled people have a very complex and varied personal identity. She hopes to continue this forum into a more definite initiative after the grant has ended in order to increase awareness, but for the remainder of this year she is holding a program ofpapers. "The Disabilities Studies Forum is important to me b~cause it often enables me to carry my teaching and research interests into a real-world setting," Joshua says. She says she feels that these forums will provide the Notre Dame community with a better understanding of and respect for disabled people. ·-0 
. :.. -, • 0 • , ---; • -,-"', -... T ~ 0 ' ~"' ) < : .... -J' i__•.. : -0 • •_ • , • • • ' 
---_, • <.-'\_I •~-.: -• '" 

Bill of Rights 
New amendment helps political groups' campaign efforts 
Sara Felsenstein 

st April, a group of Notre Dame students sought to change a school olicy that seemed to be hindering political discussion on campus. he old policy read: "Allocated funds may not be used in support of · ·candidates whether federal, state, local or university level." 
Junior Grant Schmidt, student body vice president, says, "We realized that the three political party groups [College Democrats, College Republicans and College Libertarians] should have access to use their funds in support of a candidate post-convention because. that's their only job." 
Thi:; resolution needed approval from the Student Senate to be enacted. "It was approved 27~0, so that was a pretty big deal in order to show 

· that this was definitely a change that students wanted to see," Schmidt says. 
Before the amendment there was an unequal distribution of funds among the three political groups. Now they receive equally allocated funds -$2,606.04, to be exact. 
Junior Mark Flanagan, co­presidentofthe College Libertarians, was in contact with senior Student 
Body President Bob Reish throughout last spring's process. "We will be purchasing bumper stickers, club T-shirts, signs and literature in support of Bob Barr," Flanagan says. "From athird-party point of view, we acknowledge and appreciate the equal allocation of funds provided to the three political groups on campus." 
Senior Spencer Howard, president ofthe College Democrats, says, "We have put up posters in dorms with information about Senator Obama's energy policy, and we plan to have a couple more position posters up before the election:" 
"Overall, [the amendment] is increasing political dialogue on campus," Schmidt says. "The university isn't taking a stance; it's these political groups supporting a candidate." 0 
U@W ~ . t11ra 
Worst jobs to have on campus 

Reckers weekend janitorial staff 

Career Center finance major advisor 

Roadkill removal crew 

St. Michael's underwear washer 

The Observer copy editor 
9 OCTOBER 2008 I SCHOLASTIC I 7 · 

NEWS 

Advice for Dealing With the Authorities On and OffCampus 
Molly Slavin 
Picture this: you're an off-campus senior, relishing your newfound freedom. It's your housemate's birthday and you decide to throw him a party. You live right next door to a family of four. You're pretty sure underage people will show up. Do you know how to handle this ,situation? What's the best thing for you to do? 
Alternately, you're an on-campus freshman at a dorm party. You're worried that at any minute, Hall Staff or NDSP is going to rush in and send everyone to the Office of Residence Life and Housing. What should you expect? How should you behave? 
Living on and off campus are two totally different beasts. You have certain rights and responsibilities in both situations. But do you know what they are? 
For many students, a primary concern is what is appropriate in a situation particular to Notre Dame: the dorm party. Associate Vice President of Residence Life and Housing, William Kirk, explains in an e­mail interview, "Students are permitted to hold parties in their rooms. In most cases, when 
8 I SCHOLASTIC I 9 OCTOBER 2008 
NEWS 
parties in residence hall rooms get too wild or out of control and come to the attention of residence Hall Staff, it addresses the issue. Over the last 15 years or so, I can't recall any situations where NDSP has had to be called in to address an on-campus party situation, but it might have happened." 
While Hall Staff is the primary authority for on-campus parties, NDSP can still get involved if students are out walking on the quad, at a dorm dance or, even in some cases, while still in the dorm. Many myths fl~at around campus about whether students can refuse a breathalyzer test and whether it is wise to do so. Kirk says, "Students may certainly refuse to take a breathalyzer and would not face disciplinary action for that refusal, but might still be facing some disciplinary action for the behavior that originally resulted in the drawing of Hall Staff or NDSP." 
While on-campus parties are certainly a concern, many students get into trouble while off campus. Richard Nussbaum, a local attorney and a 1974 Notre Dame graduate, offers some advice for students planning to host or attend off-campus parties. He says, "Moving off campus is definitely a right. Many students think that by moving off campus, they are gaining more freedom. However, there are actually more responsibilities associated with living off campus. You have families as your neighbors. It is so important to be respectful." 
What about an on-campus student who ventures _off campus and gets into trouble there? Are they in danger of additionally getting a ResLife? "They may be," Kirk says. "Consistent with the university's educational mission, there may be a disciplinary response for students who are found to have violated university rules and regulations." 
When asked what the best course of action is for an underage student who is at a party raided by the police, Nussbaum says, "First of all, obey the law. Ifyou're not 21, don't drink. Having said that, I do understand it's going to happen. I can't emphasize enough the importance ofbeing respectful and courteous to officers. The worst scenarios are when students decide to become constitutional scholars and begin demanding their rights."_ As · for the ever-important breathalyzer issue, Nussbaum says, "I don't want to give advisory opinions, but generally an officer needs probable cause to breathalyze a person· in a non-driving situation." 
He goes on to explain that a student technically can refuse a breathalyzer, but that the "net result is not good ifyou do that. The best thing to do, again, is to be respectful and cooperative." 
For of-age students, it is important to realize that there is no set level for public intoxication. A person is presumed legally intoxicated at a blood alcohol level of .08, but "you can be below and still be cited for loud and disruptive behavior. A person can also be above that level and behaving themselves just fine," Nussbaum says. 
And what about resisting arrest? Can students really be charged for hiding in the closet of a house that gets raided? Nussbaum clears up this misunderstancling by pointing out the essential difference between being· charged with and convicted of a crime. "A student can be charged -being convicted is an entirely different story. It's much harder to be convicted than to simply be charged," he says. 
Last butnotleast, underwhatcircumstances are students required to let police into a house? "The Fourth Amendment protects all of us, students included, from unreasonable searches and seizures. Police need a probable cause. They have a right to enter a house if they have a search warrant or if the person who lives there consents to let them in," Nussbaum says. "If someone is violati_ng the law and police deem it an emergency situation, they can enter the house, but they have to prove the emergency if someone contests their _decision." 
For closing advice, Nussbaum says, "I want students to have an enjoyable experience. Respect your neighbors ifyou choose to move off campus. Does this mean you can't have parties and can't have fun? Of course not. Moving off campus is a learning experience for the future." 
Whether students decide to stay on campus or to move off, it's always important to know your rights and how to conduct yourself in a party setting. Arrests and ResLifes aside, take advantage of these four years and remember to always be safe. 
9 OCTOBER 2008 ISCHOLASTIC I9 

At the risk of beating a dead horse further to death, let's talk some more about the recent busts at South Bend bars and the girls' lacrosse house. Don't stop reading just yet -this isn't going to repeat worn-out rants against the police. There will be no pleas for the South Bend Police Department (SBPD) to re-prioritize its efforts. Rather, let's focus on a central misunderstanding students seem to have about these off-campus raids. How many times have you heard this lament from students? "Look at all the crime happening in South Bend! What a waste of time. Why bother us when people are getting shot?" While we here at Scholastic are hardly apologists for the police force, after talking with Public Information Officer Phil Trent of the SBPD, we've come to the conclusion that it's important to realize that these raids are not being conducted by the SBPD. With a few exceptions, these raids are solely the work ofthe Indiana Excise Police, a division ofthe Indiana State Police. The Excise Police's reason for existence is to control illegal alcohol consumption. Say what you will about the usefulness ofhaving a force dedicated to breaking up this time:-honored pastime, but it's unfair to blame the SBPD for diverting resources away from its policing efforts to breakup underage parties. 
The South Bend police force's only interaction with the Excise Police's raids is to come in as_a standby if the Excise Police conduct an especially large raid (like th!! one at the girls' lacrosse house). The Excise Police conduct all th~ arrests and do all the paperwork. The South Bend police never stop their policing efforts to solely patrol for underage drinkers. While they may stop and break up a party if they see one occurring, they never specifically target underage student parties; that is the role of the Excise Police alone. 
It hardly gives any of us great pleasure to go around defending the police. In this case, however, it's important to get the facts of the case before accusing. Focus as much criticism as you want on the relative value (or lack thereof) of the Excise Police, but this is just not the SBPD's fault. It pains us to admit it just as much as it pains you to stop complaining; but we as a university need to recognize where the authority lies in these situations. 
10 I SCHOLASTIC I 9 OcroBER 2008 

----~-::-.-~ 
::::f?,.i ·.:·· ~ ·. -~ --~ l 
.-: 
In the Nude 
Students bare all in the pursuit of art ... and cash 
Courtney Ball 
This is the work-study job offairy tales ... almost. A few lucky Notre Dame students are getting paid $20 an hour to sit back and rel,ix. There is only one catch: They're stark naked for three hours. While they rest and unwind from a long day on Notre Dame's payroll, they must drop their robes and bare all under the close scrutiny of over a dozen of their peers. 
Professor Maria Tomasula advertises for models both on and off campus, and she says she always gets a huge response~ "Some have never modeled before and just want to try it out, others are long-time, professional artist's models who have modeled in our region for years and are from various backgrounds -we get interest from college students from Notre Dame and other area universities, and from local residents -and who represent the full spectrum of human variety, across ages, genders, ethnic heritage, etc." 
Nude models are used for two art studio classes: Figure Drawing and Figure Sculpture. The selected models arrive before class and change into a bathrobe behind a fold-out screen as the art students prepare for the day's work. Then, the moment of truth for the models -they disrobe and strike a pose. 
For many students, standing in front of a crowded classroom naked is the stuff of nightmares. But according to seniors Mike Kelly and Gisela Schmidt, it's the best job they've ever had. 
"The first moment my thought was actually, 'Ah, shoot, I know that girl, and that guy is in my other class,"' Schmidt says. 
For Kelly, public nudity was the easy part. "The hardest part was telling my mom. I caught a lot of flack from both my mom and sister. As far as they were concerned, I was mere steps away from porn stardom," Kelly says. 
Schmidt chose not to tell her parents, but strongly objects to the idea that her modeling should be viewed as pornographic. "Art in general can be anything, but it's in the intention of the viewer and the intention of the person who made it ... In figure drawing I don't see how anyone could see it as negative," she says. 
Amy Karwoski, a senior who took Figure Sculpture last spring, says, "I think there is a vast difference between copying the human figure and sexualizing the human figure. We sculpted everyday poses like walking or sitting. They were carefully chosen poses to make sure that they didn't seem like sexualized figures." 
Tomasula agrees. "There is a very professional and respectful atmosphere in the classroom, as the students are there to !earn and to sharpen their perceptual skills by drawing what is perhaps the most challenging subject there is: the human form," she says. 
The experience produces not only artwork, but also a renewed sense of confidence for both students and models. "You can be the tallest, the prettiest, the most curvaceous if you want. Standing up in front of all those people, it made me feel like I could do anything," Schmidt says. "There was no one there to compare me to. It was very liberating." 
Kelly also feels positively about the experience. "Itwas reassuring to know that I am totally OK with my body," he says. 
The money doesn't hurt either. As most on-campus jobs boast an hourly wage between seven and nine dollars, some students struggle to cover the cost of cab rides on the weekends. In contrast, Schmidt bought herself a red iPod. Kelly funded his spring break vacation with his earnings. 
There is a final perk to this work-study job. "It is a great conversation starter. If a conversation lags, I am like, 'So, I'm a nude model,"' Schmidt says. "You can cross it off ofyour list of things to do in your life." 0 

CULTURE 

I 
L ·····--·--~------­
Maddy Zollo 
There are two girls up on the stage at Club Fever on a Thursday night. One is bending over in front of the other, bobbing up and down to the music, her blond hair falling into her face. The other girl's hips follow her friend's gyrations as she swings her hands in the air and sings along to Usher's "Love in this Club" at the top of her lungs. A few guys stand to the side, waiting for an opportunity to slip in between the girls and get in on the action. Bright lights flash across the crowded dance floor below, but no one else seems . to notice the two girls on the stage. Why? Because they, too, are bumping and grinding up on the person next them. For many people of younger generations, this is what it means to "go dancing." It's a booty-shaking, spontaneous free-for-all, rarely relying on set moves or even set partners. Compare the above scene to what your parents or grandparents meant by "going dancing." Until the past few decades, semi­choreographed dances -from the hustle to the waltz to the jitterbug -made up a significant portion of a dancer's moves. Teenagers gathered around the television to copy the dancers on Dick Clark's "American Bandstand." Disco dance instructors prepared their clients for Saturday night. And most dancers chose a single partner for each song, if not for the entire night. According to senior English major 
.14 I SCHOLASTIC I 9 OCTOBER 2008 
Michael McDonald, a member of campus breakdancing group Project Fresh, the reason that organized dance has lost prestige and popularity is due to cultural changes. "In other countries, dance is part of politics, part of the community -you couldn't be part of the tribe ifyou didn't dance," he says. "In our society, [dance] is only a form of entertainment, so when technology boomed, 
dancing fell out of style." 
It seems fair to say that the style of 
dancing one finds at Club Fever Thursday 
nights takes much less preparation than 
the foxtrots of the past. While managing 
to bump, grind and move with the general 
beat of the music without looking like an 
1<) /? Dancing is e~Jaiivity talking. to musica So when there's a.new form of music, there will 
:::c:~w typl1\J 
-Michael McDonald (i) C,>' 
idiot can be a challenge of its own,· many 
students admit that their generation really 
doesn't know how to dance, at least not in 
the more traditional sense. 
"If there's a white male that can dance to 
a rap song seriously and look in the mirror and take himself seriously, then you give 
me a call," senior marketing major Taylor 
Montgomery says. Montgomery says he 
shares a common view that even though 
grinding is comparatively easy, it has led to 
.people feeling not only inept on the dance 
floor, but also stupid and awkwa,rd. But .what's the alternative? · 
Campus groups such as Swing Club, 
Project Fresh, Ballroom Dance Club and 
Irish Dance Club aim to teach students 
new (and old) ways to move. · 
CULTURE 
"Basically, Project Fresh lets people learn and share [dance moves] at the same time, even if they aren't confident about their skill level," senior management-entrepreneurship major, French and Francophone studies minor Gloria Mwcz, 
them to learn more about themselves a11d=· 
lets [dancers] be able to do things thJy 
wouldn't think they could normally do," /[,_ 
Mwez and McDonald agree that Project 
Fresh is a breath of fresh air from the 
typical grinding dance culture and gives 
people another outlet for expression. But 
will their moves transfer from the floor of· 
the classroom to the stage of Club Fever? 
Mwez says she hopes that the popularity of dance shows on TV will bring alternative .dance styles back into the spotlight. "Shows like 'So You Think You Can Dance' and 'America's Best Dance Crew' are making dancing more a part of entertainment nowadays," she says. "Now people are becoming more aware of different styles and qualities of dance. These shows are 
raising the bar." 
Senior Swing Club President Kaitlin Jensen says, "Dancing could have a comeback with reality television shows like 'Dancing with the Stars,' and they do get the idea of traditional partner dancing back in people's minds." 
Jensen, an Arts and Letters pre­
professional and pyschology major, notes 
that today's popular music, heavily 
influenced by hip hop and sexually-charged 


dance beats, places constraints on the forms 
of dance that have a place in the club scene. 
"Basically for dancing to change on a 
whole, though, music would have to change 
drastically," Jensen says. 
McDonald agrees. "Dancing is creativity 
talking to music," McDonald says. "So 
when there's a new form of music, there 
will be a new type of dance." 
While studying abroad in France, Mwez 
says she discovered a new genre in music, a combination of techno and pop, that has already spurred a new type of dancing ­"Tecktonik" -which blends elements from various dance genres such as breakdancing, R_gp_pj_1.1g a_1:d locking a7-d gl.C>~vsticki11g. _ .. \ 
i Un_!i_½~ other dances, Tec!i\onik fiFs into\ 
~he ayerag~ dubber's n.igli\ life1 "Tecktonif. 
/ \ \
____J 
dancing is pres~nt in evehk clu~ you :go tq," · 
I
' ' 1·· I i ' 1 ' I · ! \ · 
¥wez says.."Ev~ry kid can do it;) saw them \ 
l 
prac~icing 111 th1e tf6e.L~J _ \ I . j \ \j! Who knows?1 Maybe Teckfontk ,vill be .. 
I l ' ' .i ,----1 I jmaki'ng an appearance on the Club; Fev1er 
I . . .,'?' / . / \ \ i .r.a.
stage-someday as-wel!i. -----···•·' ,_,_'CJf 


9 OCTOBER 2008 j SCHOLASTIC j 15 




.COVER STORY 
Saved by the Dome? 
What is it about Notre Dame that 
allows students to hide from the 
climbing depression rates at comparable ­
universities? Steibe-Pasalich attributes 
the lower rates of depression at Notre 
Dame to the university's Christian faith 
tradition, high student involvement in 
extracurricular activities and the close­
knit residential life that many consider a 
hallmark of Notre Dame. 
The high percentage ofstudents living on 
campus creates a community environment not found at many schools. While it is possible for a student to go unnoticed in the busy dorm environment, the close-knit setting engenders relationship building , and acts as a ·safety net for those students who may be on the verge of developing a 
mental illness. 
"We have the unusual luxury among 
college campuses today of having 100 
percent of our first-year students and 80 
percent of all undergraduates living on 
campus," Rev. Mark Poorman, C.S.C., 
vice president of student affairs, says. "This proximity to Hall Staff and to various university offices means that our students have great access to a range of student services." 
Although students have these resources 
available, many do develop various forms 
of depression. "Imagine if you were here 
the whole time, just a student without 
friends, just waiting for the day, a weekend 
you could go home," Amy de la Torre, 
rectress of Cavanaugh Hall, says. "That 
would be very lonely, I think. And that 
would lead to a sadness, and that may not 
be a medical depression but it's definitely 
an issue. The person would appear to be 
depressed because they would be so sad, I 
think. So probably the community, I think 
it has to help. I don't know ifevery college 
has that." 
While many believe that Notre Dame 
does an admirable job of keeping students 
mentally healthy, one cannot help but be 
surprised by the number of people going 
to the UCC and by the many more that 
do not seek help. "I've always felt like 
the number of people who say they have 
depression and actually go to the UCC 
and are treated through there is probably 
much less than the actual number of 
people who have depression," Katie says. 
It's safe to say that those students who 
20 I SCHOLASTIC I 9 OCTOBER 2008 
are clinically depressed at Notre Dame are by no means alone. Even if Notre Dame's numbers are lower than the national average, the question remains: Why are so many students on our campus depressed? And more importantly, what can we do about it? 
"Perfect" Targets 
We live on a campus where the average 
student is the perfect target for depression: 
competitive, intelligent and stressed. "I 
think kids are coming in more stressed out. 
They've had to work harder to get into Notre 
Dame, they've had to be more perfect, more 
driven. The bar is ever higher," Anre Venter, 
director of Undergraduate Studies in the 
Department ofPsychology, says. 
Those who cannot live up to these expectations struggle, some ultimately coping by constructing facades of happiness. These students are afraid to admit they are sad at the risk ofappearing weak or incapable. "We've self-selected into this group where everyone wants to be the best and better than everyone else ... and you have to be happy while doing it. Do I think people 
really are as happy as they try to seem? No," 
Lauren*, a senior who has recently recovered 
from a major depressive disorder, says. 
These competltlve and unrealistic 
standards are causing Notre Dame students 
to pack their planners with everything but 
whatthey need the most: time for themselves 
to rejuvenate. Father Jim Lewis, rector of 
Carroll Hall, says students are increasingly 
forgetting the value of silence in their 
everyday lives. "Among the most notable 
trends is the fact that one's day is filled with 
activities to the extent that, if someone has 
some quiet time, it is quickly surrendered 
for music, texting, cell phone, etc.," Lewis 
says. "Reasonable solitude is difficult to find 
within a dorm· setting, particularly since 
there is nearly always someone who is awake· 
and doing something in the hall. As such, we 
tend to live and even support a hyperactive 
lifestyle, whereby there is no stage ofthe day 
where one begins to wind down." 
The student body has yet to folly realize 
that mental illness is not a distant problem. 
Part of the mental illness stigma on campus · 
may be linked to the fact that many students 
are simply unaware that their peers have·, 
mental health issues. This prejudice hinders 
communication between those who need to 
talk and those who can listen, consequently delaying the healing process. 
Lauren came to Notre Dame her freshman 
year already dealing with depression. While 
she eventually found a support network of 
friends, at first the stigma prevented her 
from opening up. 
"Who wants a roommate that takes anti­
depressants and has weird mental health 
issues? I didn't really talk to anyone here 
when I first got here. I mean, what do you say 
to your roommate?" Lauren says. "People 
make a lot of jokes about stuff, which I think 
makes people not want to talk about it. The 
climate is such that we make fun of these 
things, but we don't really talk about it." 
Venter believes this prejudice against 
mental illness is deeply rooted in the 
consciousness of our country and the 
students on our campus. He says that the 
stigma on Notre Dame's campus will not 
be eradicated until society changes as a 
whole. "Is it possible to change the stigma 
against mental illness on our campus? Only 
if we change the nature of the environment. 
But how do we do that? I don't think that's 
doable. When people walk in here as a 
freshman, what they've had to do to get here 
is the breeding ground for the things they 
might be struggling with," Venter says. 
The competitive environment at Notre 
Dame; coupled with the stressful transition 
from home to college life, . can trigger 
depression among students who already 
possess a genetic predisposition to the 
illness. "That·first semester freshman_ year 
we ~ee a lot ofthat particular type ofsadness 
and depression. Someone who has always 
felt very safe, very protected, very sheltered, 
very loved, all of a sudden is thrown into 
an environment where they don't know 
anyone," de la Torre says. · · , The university especially looks out for 
first-year students since the transition to 
co.llege can be a rough one. "It's their first 
time away .from home, away from their 
parents, where they have felt very secure 
and they know everything, to here where 
everything is new, and all the people are 
·new," de la Torre says. "So something that 
we discuss often at staff meetings is how to 
_reach out to people, and one of the things 
that I've always asked is 'Have you noticed 
if every freshman has a friend?' because you 
don't have to be the most popular person on 
campus, but everyone nec;:,ds a friend. You 
nee_d someone to go to dinn~r with, someone 
to talk to." 
Perhaps it is not Notre Dame that causes 
depression, . but the environments from . 

which Notre Dame freshmen are drawn. are depressed whell really they are simply "Sadness is normal, somethin~ that Many students are coming to school already exhibiting a response to normal life events. we all experience," Megan Brown, ·staff on some sort of mental illness medication, Because our society;, especially at Notre psychologist at the UCC, says. "The and each year the freshman · class boasts a Dame, is increasingly hesitant to admit that difference between normal sadness and higher average SAT score than the last. The one is not always happy;•. we begin to think depression is in our functioning, how long freshman class seems to deal with this stress that our experience of sad11ess is unusual. it lasts and how intense it is. A sad person well, however; ofthe students the UCC sees, Depression is not just artextreme form of may not feel like getting out of bed in the only 17 percent are freshman, compared to sadness.Itssymptomsrunmuch_deeper~han · morning. A severely depressed person the 21 percent of seniors. being in a bad mood. Clinical depression is may not be able to get out of bed in the 
"We see fewer first-year students. I characterized by a loss ofinterest in\1cpvities morning." attribute that to the strong First Year of once enjoyed, a sudden change in weight or The symptoms of depression are difficult 
''Studies program. I think those advisors do appetite, erratic_ sleep patterns, constant enough to deal with on their own, but, · a lot of buffering. The other classes have fatigue, difficulty concentrating, feelings·· · according to some students, when paired less of that kind ofclose academic attention," of worthlessness and frequent thoughts with the stress of college the struggle Steibe-Pasalich says. of death or suicide. True depression is not intensifies. 
I 
something one can snap out of or "get over." "I couldn't sleep, and lack of sleep for -It is beyond a person's control and many several days on end, it put me in just aClinical Depression times is completely illogical to an observer. completely unreasonable psychological Certain life events can trigger depression, state, and I couldn't think, and I couldn't or Just a Bad Day? but no one event is the single cause. read, and I couldn't concentrate or keep my Women are more likely .to experience emotions together," Katie says. "Silly little While depression may-be something depression than men. · The National things ·... if someone was w~lking in front people shy away from discussing, the World Institute of Mental Health estimates that of me and didn't hold the door for me, I'd Health Organization named depression one out of every four women and one out be on the verge of tears ... silly little things. 
I 
the fourth most d~vastating illness in the of every 10 men will experience some type Things that don't matter." 
world today and predicts that it will become of depression during their lifetime; The Lauren's experience was a bit different. 
the second by 2020. Depr~sion is a very average onset age for depression is the mid-"I didn't feel sad exactly, it's more like I just 
I 
real issue, but it must ~lso be noted that· 20s, but some recent research shows that didn't see the point to anything ... I would 
clinical depression is becoming increasingly this age is decreasing with each successive just sit on the floor, and there just didn't 
' 
misdiagnosed. Many people believe they generation. seem to be a,. point to going to school or 
9 OC'J:'.OBER 2008 I SCHOLASTIC I 21 

COVER STORY 
.
················································································································································································... 
·· • ©.CJSfudent/Client Statistics 
~>­17% \ 221/o, ' ' 
\ ' 
doing anything. Like I just felt like I wanted to sit there. The word apathetic isn't quite strong enough. I didn't cry all the time. I just didn't want to do anything. And so I didn't," she says. 
Brown emphasizes that a student does not need to be clinically depressed to visit the UCC. "Normal sadness is still a reason to come into the counseling center and talk about it. Our counseling center isn't just for the mentally ill, and we can do a lot of prevention in talking about issues. At the counseling center, we're glad when people come in the door to talk about their probleins," Brown says. The first intake appointment is free of charge for current students. 
For those students who are unsure 
· whether their symptoms are a cause for alarm, the UCC has created "Let's Talk," 15-minute confidential consultations with a counselor on the second floor ofLaFortune Student Center. With this weekly event, the UCC hopes to target students who are leery of going to the actual counseling center, students who have a quick question about how to help a friend, or anyone who just wants to see if what he or she is feeling is normal. 
Medic~tiQO~ _Creating
,,/ ,,?,iV)U'~· 
Artifi9igl,;:~Fl,~P:1@lDess? 
Contrary to popular belief, anti-depressants do not make people happier than they normally would be, but rather bring them to a point where they are able to function as they did before the illness hit. Anti­depressants, however, are socially taboo. Many are hesitant to recognize depression and anxiety as true medical illnesses and therefore refrain from taking medication. Others believe the drugs simply won't work. A 2006 U.S. government study found that drugs cure depression in only half of medicated patients. 
These findings and the intangibility of mental illnesses have made life difficult for those who are truly depressed. Brown believes this stigma is being replaced at ND with greater acceptance of those members of the student body with a mental illness. 
"We know that there's a stigma about going to counseling. It is a safe place. There is some hesitation about taking medication. A number of people are concerned about side effects, becoming artificially happy. Some of the risks that have been published in the media are associated with suicide. There is some hesitancy, but at the same time people are becoming more educated as well," Brown says. 
For some, even medication has its limits. Katie has been hospitalized for mental illness issues several times while at Notre Dame, which led her to withdraw from the university for a year. 
"It was a really hard thing to withdraw. ND was everything I wanted -to be, to do ­and I loved it. At first it was kind of difficult. 
At home, I felt like I had lost a part of myself ... I wanted to be back in the dorm the next year because the dorm has always played an important role in providing everyday support and interaction with other people that gives me a reality check and keeps me 
in a balanced state of mind," Katie says. 
Although her Hall Staff and the UCC have been very supportive, the university has shown her a mixed response. It denied Katie housing on campus as a fifth-year senior. She says they didn't see her mental illness as something that required that type of accommodation. "The Office of Students with Disabilities was just completely uncooperative with helping me live on campus. They say a student with disabilities has no need to live on campus. People don't really realize how much goes into helping a person with a mental disorder stay stable. I think that's still something that needs to be acknowledged -the complexity of the problem and the complexity of the solution," Katie says. 
Is There Hope? 
Dep,ression isn't something that just goes away one day. It clouds one's life for varying periods of time after the initial onset of the illness. Mental problems have a high risk of recurrence. Students who have dealt with a depressive disorder say that every day is a practice in prevention. 
"I think it's more natural at this point to doubt myself than feel super confident about 
·coVER STORY 
how I'm doing. There's always the question of how far can I push myself," Katie says. 
Lauren says she has fully recovered but is still aware of her triggers and the importance of the relationships in her life'. 
"For me, I think it was the final realization that I could rely on the people around me, and I didn't have to do everything myself, and I didn't always have to take care of everything myself. I didn't always have to be the best at everything, and I didn't always have to be happy, and that's OK. See, I think I was under this misconception that I needed to be happy all the time, and thinking that just made me really depressed," Lauren says. 
. Beneath many smiling faces of Notre Dame students lies a silent undercurrent of depression. The subsect of the student body experiencing this illness often feels they face an environment that is tainted with a stigma against being open about mental illness. Notre Dame has significant measures in place to provide support to those battling the illness, most notably extensive training for Hall Staff and UCC counseling sessions. Venter acknowledges that these efforts can greatly help those students already dealing with depression, but the numbers will not decrease until the environment on campus changes. "I would argue that the only way to change this is revolution," Venter says. 0 
Q&A with senior Sp~nqerHoward, CQ-pr~sident of NAM.I. 
•••••.·••••••••••••••• ' '. ,: ,;·· :·' ~-··········· .._...... _•••·•••••'·;"' ' .... '_· ••• ;.• ' •••••.•• ' _·.-•••••• ' •• ',· i:.·-.-•• ·i ":. ...... ·•••. ·, ._., '·-. "••••• ·-••• '···········......_••• ·•.• 
Tell me about your pers~nalstrugglewithdepression. .•.·· . ·'. . ..· . ..•. 
''As longas I canrnmember,there's been something kind of off; I've been diagnose<:lv.ith d<Juble depression, the kind •. ofdepressionthatis .n1ild and lasts .forever. I've also .. been thr?ugh .several depressive episod.es.Theyprevent m~frow doing sch?olwork, getUng out of bed:,. l'vEJ learned . to dealwith it I've beenin 'andouf ottherapy since I was 17, been to.a psychiatrist numerous times: The meds .didn't seemto work. . . . . 

. ' .. .:· ·. "'.·· . ·. --._ ·. ·-, . ' . ·.·. . . ,' . <--_,. ; .·. ·._ < 
.·. ffc1veyoLJ encountered Jstigma. a;ainstment~I illness oflNotrepan1e's ..cainlus? •···. 
.. You only tefthe people that win be understanding.·,·~ more open. aboufiuhan. mostpeople. I want .peopleto·kriow vVhatifslike.; .it's shapedwhC>l.• am. l.·understand.whya·1otof pe()ple·don't .The fact.that I'm open about it has allowed others tbcome and talkto meaboufit There's klnd of..· .an attitude of'-'fust getover.it,"the.idea.of sriap.ping out of it,butitj~st doesn't work·tha1:w~y: ·>••· 
Do i,ou think th'e cultt.ir~ tJt Notre l);j;,~ has at:~1/f:~ntribute~to your illne;s? ·•. > 
··.• The .cLJltureatND.is aJittle perfectioriistic,You'meither.sick oryou'mhot, wheriinrealityit's.kind .···.·· ... 
ofa spectrum:That can be a little tough, because everyone expects you to be flawless: > .· . 
; ,._' -· :_-. ' ', :·" --' .. '. . .,,,. ,:;· '.__ ,,,: ': '-·. _' . ·, ',-· . ; ' _·-.:,_ ·, '. _-·. '' .:,, .-. ,·. 
. ~h~t. has}tbeenlik~ /J~inf}•.·~ rri~nde~.ling··~ith depre$Si1t> {,~·tf1is'?~n1pusf i•···.····••·.· \ fi ..·.. i/, .. ·•·. 
.• "fhey •. [mE3nldon't··talk.about•it.you.···don'tt~ll<a.bout,lt. lt;s.~.facadecorriplE3tel}{1t·s~hatit1ey , .· ..· .•• feel that's.expectedof th~m. to•b~perfect ....... • a horribleexped~tionbecauseL(s.·.notpossi9le tCl. ·•.•.•···•· < 
.· get there.People put.so mucfrpressur~·onthemselVes;lfyoustruggie; there;s sorriething•wrong .·. 1
>;.·.·.·.·.·.·.. •.'.•·.••.••·.'.·•···.•·•.·.•-.l.·.•.·•.·.·.•.· 
~ith 'fO~Jothe core. asa person. . 
·~F~~ff:Et~tilbf~tj1i~1'1%iti&=fifti.ifg&,h~$h~}••·•. '.I1 _, ! 
orbipoiardisorder, to·geta·beUer .u,nde.rstanding, that this is.sornethingireal·th,at•people go1hrough: •..• /\ 
•·,,.•··.•.•.-.·.·.•.-·1·1
0 
lt'srio.diffE3re~t than gqing through,.~•physical·aHmentPeople understa~dtha.t•sor11uch more'~~sjly, ·.•.. . . . bec,ause.it's tangible.Jhe morePeoplE3 knoVv,abput.1,,Jhe more theyunderstand:·1 gue~s that'swh/ '. .., ·.• .·· J theyha.v9NA~lnow,making.peopiE3aVvare,thattheproblernexists. , .. ' •. ·.·····•··..•···. :, .>·.. ·i ...•i· ... \?Ji ·.. ··.1 thinkwe have.a.greatopportunityhere.tobe aleaderfn1ongst Univ~rsities becaus~vve have th~ / 'L , •1 . community atmosphere: There'$.. somuch thatweaUhavejo learn:_..• ·., guesswnen I think a_bout .c ''····•.•· ,i, 
t,~x~:;~~~,c;e,.~:~;:,an~~~~~~;~;:J;s;;i¼::.;;;~~.i "~\;;J 
...:............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................., 
. National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) 
Meagan Drapalik 
Katie Dunn, co-president of Notre Dame's new chapter of the National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI-ND) says that the Notre Dame community must not avoid addressing the prevalence of mental illness on campus. "A lot more people have problems with depression, a lot more people have problems with anxiety than even their closest friends know," she says. "We basically see the need on the Notre Dame campus not to just hide it, not just sweep it under the rug or leave it to the counseling center, but to try to bring it up and at least talk about." 
To deal with what she calls this 
_"unaddressed need" on campus, Dunn and fellow co-president Spencer Howard formed NAM I-ND this fall. The club is based on the national organization, a grassroots group founded in 1979 that advocates for those struggling with and affected by mental illness, but pays special attention to the concerns of students at Notre Dame. Dunn explains that the Notre Dame mentality affects our perception of mental illness in particular. "We get the idea that we are trying to live up to standards. But mental illness is so personal. You feel like something is wrong with you as a person," she says. 
With their first meeting on October 6, NAMI-ND hopes to provide support for people on all points of the mental illness continuum, as well as launch an educational campaign. The club channels its efforts into two main areas -awareness and advocacy. It also has student-run, peer-to­peer support groups to aid those suffering and their friends. While Dunn hopes that NAMI-ND will continue to expand, she also says that ultimately their goal is to "break the myth" that mental illness is not common and to "let other people know that they're not alone." 0 
9 OCTOBER 2008 I SCHOLASTIC I 23 

CULTURE 

Department of Shenanigans 
As the shouts from the game echoed beyond the walls of the stadium, I sat on the curb outside the stadium jail cell, a journalist disguised in my game-day gear watching for some sign of drunken debauchery. Officially titled the "designation area," and colloquially called the "drunk tank," the stadium jail cell is infamous for sucking in fun-loving drunkards like a black hole, so I was surprised to see so many escape unscathed. For example, a Notre Dame student draped with , a flag bearing the ND emblem staggered past me. In keeping with his makeshift cape, "Captain ND" must have consumed enough for a superhero because he had to be led by a modern­day Good Samaritan -a fan from the opposing team -to 
maintain a vertical position. 
After this comic-book-gone-biblical episode, the drunkards 
seemed to swagger out of the woodwork. They wandered past 
the designation area, some lucky enough to dodge NDSP and 
others not so fortunate. A group of girls stumbled past me, 
followed by a handcuffed redhead, obviously Notre Dame 
affiliated, wondering why the luck of the Irish did not apply to 
him. Other students who had finished their pre-gaming late 
resorted to running in a single-file line, each taking turns to 
sprint to the lead while maintaining impressive coordination. 
Drastic measures are a must when attempting to enter the 
stadium before the second quarter, especially after a rousing 
morning of kegs and eggs. ­Soon, I noticed an increasing number of individuals 
following their police escorts to the prisoner transport car 
and decided that was where all the action had shifted. After I 
carefully peered around the open door into the van, an officer 
asked me to "Step away from the vehicle." Though not wanting 
to mess with authority, I stayed in the vicinity long enough to 
hear an enthusiastic drunk advise me to refrain from playing 
beer pong prior to the game. Thanks for the tipsy tip! 
My thorough fieldwork also led me into the actual drunk 
tank, where my expectations for entertainment were quite 
high. And entertained I was. I was the only sober one at the 
party. As I entered the tank, I overheard slurred snippets of 
a conversation between a police officer and a 23-year-old girl -or maybe she was 22; her story changed many times. Various students fumbled for their IDs, and as the stench of last night's Sbarra reached my nostrils, I decided to retire the -investigative beer goggles and enjoy the game from my seat, 
far from the drunk tank. 
-Claire Kenney 
The views of this author are not necessarily the views of Scholastic Magazine. 

24 I SCHOLASTIC I 9 OCTOBER 2008 

Antonin Artaud's "Spurt ofBlood," long regarded as the archetype 
for Theatre of Cruelty, left its mark on Notre Dame's Regis Philbin 
s·tudio Theatre from September 23-28. Professor Mark Pilkinton 
assembled an exceptional cast to produce a play that had been 
considered unstageable for 40 years. An outright attack on the senses, 
"Spurt of Blood" looks to redefine theatre by stripping away any 
preconception of plot or dialogue and embracing a new reality in 
which communication is not hindered by the restraints of language. 
Despite an extremely limited script, the cast successfully 
physicalized Artaud's vision for an experiential theatre, forcing the 
audience members to remove their veil of reality and see the true 
world in which they live. The audience has all notions of theatre 
ripped away and becomes uncomfortably aware of the action taking 
place. Members were suddenly moved to different seats, confronted 
by strangers, bombarded with popcorn arid forced to give up their 
programs, all in an attempt to challenge their notions ofAristotelian 
theatre. Actors shined as they turned surrealist stage direction into 
a visual playground, taking a once impossible play and creating a · testament to Artaud's work. Final Verdict: "Spurt of Blood" stands out as a sensual experience that all should encounter. 0 
For the French Revolution Fanatic 
Nicole Eggenberger 
"Images from the Era of the French Revolution" is on display at 
the Snite Museum September 7 through Octob~r 19. The exhibit was 
created fO coincide with the French-American Conference being held 
October 6-8, as well as courses this fall at Notre Dame and Indiana 
University-South Bend. 
Anyone who attended the conference or has a class this semester 
on the French Revolution would benefit from seeing the exhibit. It's 
doubtful that anyone else would find it very impressive. The exhibit 
is small, with only 14 drawings, and is located°in a gallery the size of 
a large closet. "Portrait of General Regnie/' c. 1809, was painted in a 
full spectrum of rich colors, but t_he rest of the drawings were done 
in faint pen and black chalk. 
A plaque in the exhibit states: "Artwork at the Snite Museum offers 
a privileged glimpse into the hopes and fears inspired by the French 
Revolution (1789-99)." If you love the French Revolution, then this 
"glimpse" is for you. Ifnot, "glimpse" away. 0 
CULTURE 
Undertones Go Above and Beyond 
Jen Wulf 
Let's just face it-80 percent ofthe Undert~nes' fan base consists of googly-eyed co-eds, and the other 20 percent are boyfriends dragged along for the ride. But those who don't check out their new album, "Stranded," for fear of being grouped in with the swooning masses are missing out. The album is both solid and unique, featuring covers that range from Gnarls Barkley's "Crazy" to Paul Simon's "Me and Julio" to Howie Day's "Collide." 
Newcomers to the Undertones bandwagon will first notice their innovative vocal percussion, which is strongest on their cover of Stevie Wonde;'s "Superstition." The percussion can prove somewhat distracting on a few tracks, however, most notably the "<loo-pas" that frame soloists Joe Varchetto ('08) and Brian Green ('09) on the duet of the Killers' "Mr. Brightside." Varchetto, however, shines on this album, particularly in "Mr. Brightside" where he channels his controlled passion into a beautiful performance. On the _other end of the spectrum, soloist John Fister ('08) confidently tackles "Crazy" and delivers a smooth, engaging rendition of this dorm favorite. 
"Stranded" is a success. For the most part a lighthearted collection of pop covers, it also includes such emotive gems as "Mr. Brightside" and Dave Matthews Band's "Satellite." It is definitely worth a trip to the bookstore, iffor no other reason than the security guards won't let you come to any more Undertones concerts. Or maybe that's just me. 0 
Legends Mellows Out with Rogue Wave This Saturday 
Mike Tresnowski 
The California indie rock band Rogue Wave will play at Legends this Saturday, October 11 at IO p.m. This band follows in the Death Cab for Cutie tradition ofpop music with acoustic guitar accompanied by simple three-note guitar riffs, mellow vocals and cutesy lyrics that don't actually mean anything (i.e. "heaven is a switchboard that you want to fight"). Unlike Death Cab, though, Rogue Wave's pop numbers don't really stick in your head. You hear a Rogue Wave track, think "Well, that was nice," and you move on with your day. · There's nothing too out-of-the-ordinary here. 
I've seen two Rogue Wave shows, both at outdoor venues in downtown Chicago in the summertime. Both times, I was pleasantly occupied for 45 minutes but did not feel any pressing need to explore the band after the show. I do think, however, that the upcoming Legends show is the perfect venue for this band. It doesn't get much more mellow than an· October Saturday evening in Indiana. Rogue Wave's lush autumn sounds will provide a fitting soundtrack. 
So if you are looking to rock on Saturday, this band won't get the job done. Ifyou are looking to get hooked on some irresistible new indie-pop, this show probably won't snag you. But ifyou are a sucker for brown, crinkly leaves, shorter days, and that, "Wow, it's kind of chilly, and I kind of like it" feeling you get this time ofyear walking across South Quad, I encourage you to indulge in a few hours of Rogue Wave's wistful, gentle acoustic pop. 
9 OCTOBER 2008 I SCHOLASTIC I 25 

Making Waves 
The Notre Dame water ski team caps off its inaugural season 
Mary Kaminski 
When junior Adam Carlson used to watch his older brother compete in water ski tournaments for Hope College, h·e couldn't wait to water ski in college -that is, until he realized his college choice didn't have a water ski team. "Notre Dame was one of the only schools in the Midwest who didn't have a ski team at that time," Carlson says. "Purdue, Michigan, Ohio State, Michigan State -they all have ski teams." 
Both Division I and Division III schools in the Midwest had water ski teams, and Carlson decided to add Notre Dame to the list. With the help of senior Steve Feutz, Carlson began the application process to create a water ski club at Notre Dame last fall through the Student Activities Office (SAO). Getting it approved, however, took longer than they expected. 
"We wrote a constitution, a budget, a schedule of events, and we finally got it approved through SAO," Carlson says. "We submitted it all last October or November and finally heard back in August that they approved our request. So it took almost a full year -which was kind of a problem because then we didn't really have much time to set up ·a team." · 
The 20-member roster was created after a few practices at Carlson's lake home in Michigan, about 30 minutes from campus. "After the practices, everybody was still on the team. What happens at these tournaments is you have an A team and a B team -so we had everyone participating," Carlson says. 
Notre Dame's water ski team finished 14th out of 15 teams in their first tournament, but despite little practice and even less competition experience, the team quickly improved. After only a few weeks, the team finished 10th out of 17 teams at the Great Lakes Conference Championships (GLCC) on September 21 at Lake Lottawatta in Hamilton, Ohio. It was the team's third and final tournament of the short water ski season. 
The tournaments consist of three events -a six-buoy slalom course, a five-foot ski jump and trick skiing, "Nobody on the team had ever competed before, ever, in these events," Feutz says. "Plenty of people had the skill to compete, just not the experience. All we could really do to prepare was go through the slalom course a couple of times, then go off the jump a couple times." 
With c6ntinued practice and growth, the NDwaterski team hopes to continue its improvement to become a Midwest superpower. If they finish in the top seven at the conference championship next year, they can move on to the regional championship. "Look at our improvement from the first tournament to the second one -if we improve anywhere close to that semi-consistently, we'll have no problem making it to regionals next year," -Feutz says. 
While the team will graduate Feutz this year, who was the highest individual finisher for the Irish at the GLCC (13th out of 70 competitors), they have a bright future. "As far as the team goes for next year, we had only two seniors on the team, so we will still have about 18 people returning, including three or four freshmen," Carlson says. "Hopefully we will have a good solid base for next year." 0 
.. -­
,-.: !~'~,~~_:_i 
. ,· ~-';.;;,, ')"'~,.. ~ 
. ::__r, ~"'i.J:
__ ·;_
: ;. ·:':';/;'v.,
: •.. 1!(1. '!Y:t"~ ff 
/4, ·1,,,fi'{,P,;~f:-!· 
U_:..-. . [~.-·?·?;~ff;_ 
. ,__ J-~->?r ~·. ~;I 
it:~,;,;r-~t;'.',:•>~;,,·ry;-""7:•-•.,,. _-i!, '"', _.. "J'~ :_,.,.,,.~ -~-~-'•0,~'::f-;.:~:'f:::,/·\./?. . .·,,; .';'r,j);;~ : ;) 
.{;/"\.' , ·_t;.·l'-.~'.r 'I. ,ti $/';/ 
.' :-~-~JI ~ '(_., q '' 
~~: 
.. ' 
-::~~i;\. ,·. 
.'' ' .~-. 

Though we all got trophies for our fourth grade t-ball teams, very few of us actually get to wear a professional jersey with our own name on the back. Senior soccer players and professional athlete hopefuls Alex Yoshinaga and Matt Besler serve as the expert panel, explaining everything from picking a sport to being recruited to eventually being drafted for the pros. By reading these directions, you may not ultimately reach the big leagues (because, let's be honest, that clearly requires major athletic talent) but you will be one step closer to understanding why your favorite athletes get to suit up every week to play the sports we all love to watch. 
Step One: Pick a Sport and Get Good at It 
Both Yoshinaga and Besler began playing soccer at a young age. "I started playing when I was around the age offive," Yoshinaga says. "My older brother played, and I did everything he did. My mom and dad signed me up for a little rec league, and from there on I loved it -and still love it." 
Choosing one sport to focus on can be difficult, but it is necessary to figure out where your passions lie. Despite playing other sports throughout his childhood, Yoshinaga became dedicated to soccer and built upon his love for the sport as high 
28 I SCHOLASTIC I 9 OCTOBER 2008 
school went on. "I played baseball when I was younger and played hockey too, but I was terrible on skates. Inhigh school I played tennis, but soccer was too much so it didn't ~t into my schedule to keep playing [tennis]. I enjoyed soccer so much-ifitwas up to me, and I had a tennis match that day or soccer practice, I would go to practice," he says. 
Like Yoshinaga and Besler, it is important to make sure your sport of choice is also the one you love the most. No athlete can succeed without true passion for the game 
-a concept Besler stresses as necessary when trying to become a profession~}. "The first thing you have to figure out is whether you really love the sport or not," Besler-says. "If your heart's not in it fully, you aren't going to enjoy it in college, and making a living out of it is going to be really difficult." 
Step Two: Realize That Life is a Balancing Act 
Fans may only see their favorite players on the field, but there is much higher degree of commitment needed for excelling in sports · than simply showing up for a 60-minute game. Yoshinaga and Besler say they must maintain a balance between soccer and the other aspects of their lives to keep the sport fun and their intensity high. 
''Another step would be to make sure you remember to take care of your body, especially when you are on your own, and you don't have your parents and coaches with you by your side," Besler says. "You have to get into a good sleeping pattern, eat well and hydrate well. You have to take care of your body because your body takes care of you." 
In addition to maintaining a healthy lifestyle off the soccer field, Besler and Yoshinaga note the importance of making sure that soccer is not their only passion at Notre Dame. Yoshinaga credits his time management skills as the reason he has been able to have a life outside of soccer. "I'm pretty good with keeping my free time, and I'm pretty good at filling it," Yoshinaga says. 
"t enjoy other things too. There are other things to life, so keeping that balance and doing constructive things with my free time is important." 
, Step Three: Remember to (Home)Workout for 30 Minutes a Day 
Athletic prowess is not the. only skill nee_ded to . become a star athlete destined . for the pros -academic ability is also very · important for success. Both Besler and Yoshinaga agree that .;1thout working hard in the classroom, you cannot work hard on the field; Choosing Notre Pame was the first step Yoshinaga, a business management major, . took in making sure his academics 

KICKSTARTING A CAREER Irish soccer players have their eyes on the big leagues. 
were on par with his performance on the field. "I had a few [college] options, but I think the coach here is very good; if you ask me, he's the best college coach you can find," Yoshinaga says. "Plus, it's Notre Dame. It's a great school, and coming out of here, if the soccer thing doesn't work out, I still have a degree from a great college." 
Besler, an Arts and Letters pre-professional and psychology major, has had to maintain a difficult course load while still dedicating his time to soccer -all in the hopes of graduating early this December in time for the Major League Soccer (MLS) draft. "In high school, a step for me was to keep my grades up because ifyou wanted to come here you had to have really good grades," Besler says. "With college, you still have to keep your academics high. My goal is to graduate on time o~ even early so I don't have to copie back and worry about getting my degree later on in life." 
Step Four: Oh, the Places You'll Go 
Like most seniors, Yoshinaga and Besler have a difficult choice ahead of them about what they intend to do after college. Unlike many seniors, however, they must also consider what continent they want to work on once they leave Notre Dame. Soccer players face the unique decision of whether to remain in the United States to play for the MLS or try to break into the European market -a choice that both players have thought about. 
"It's really hard for Americans to go over [to Europe]. Honestly, I'll probably work really hard to try and get drafted by an MLS team. That's probably the safest way to do it. And if it doesn't work out, I'll try and take my chances overseas." 
Yoshinaga also plans to stay in the United States, citing a better fit for his playing style. Job security in Europe can be riskier than in the U.S., and working visas and cultural boundaries can make the transition from college to the pros more difficult. "One of the guys who graduated a couple of years ago signed a contract for a team in England, and his work permit didn't come through 
-so he couldn't play. Their rules are really strict about having people coming in and working, so getting a visa over there is tough," Yoshinaga says. "I think I'd like to start here and stay somewhat close to home. I've been playing here for so long that I have a better feel for playing here over elsewhere, and I know the system so I think I'd just be a 
. better fit here." 
Step Five: Don't Stop Believing 
Besler and 0Yoshinaga have both spent much of their lives training to become professional soccer players. They are fully aware of the difficulty of doing so, however, and have thought about their -lives beyond athletics. Besler plans to take the optometry test and apply for medical school if a career in soccer does not pan out, while Yoshinaga hopes to work for Teach for America. "I want to end up teaching and coaching, and that would be a good alternative for me," Yoshinaga says. "And if that doesn't work out I'm going to take life as it comes and let my 
career come to me." 
While they have alternatives to a career in soccer, Plan A for Besler and Yoshinaga is to stay on the field after graduation. The last step to becoming a professional athlete, Besler says, is making sure the game stays . just that -a game. "You have to make sure you have fun with it still. A lot of the kids on our team that graduated and tried to play professional had trouble because it's so serious," Besler says. "I don't think I'll last if I don't have fun with it." 
Yoshinaga agrees. "If I would ever be tired of soccer, I would be tired of it by now. Hopefully I don't get to the pros and realize that nobody cares about it, but I think my love for the game will hopefully not let me get tired of it," Yoshinaga says. "Every time I go out and I play-whether it's practice or a game or just messing around -it puts a smile on my face. It hasn't gotten old yet." 0 
9 OCTOBER 2008 I SCHOLASTIC I 29 
:}\i:Matt Formica 
~/i?~/(/> : ' ' . 
}?5..·· ...... enior marketing major Brittany Bock has played an integral
·•• 
;_f__\i_•_i_i\t .·· . role in leadin~ the Notre ~ame women's soccer te_am to ~he 
0:f:i. . . top of the nat10nal polls tlus season. The success 1s nothmg (9r•ritiwfor Bock, who has been one of the most prolific players for the \)'.ifi~h:.. Last season, Bock became the third women's soccer player in 
P{ui'iitersity history to couple All-America and Academic All-America \:i1{6n9rs in the same season. She was also the co-recipient of the Big ;f}E:ast's Offensive Player of the Year award. In addition to competing 1l(}6i-.theFighting Irish, Bock has played at the international level and is ,\tuj'rently a member of the U.S. Under-23 National Team. 
)ii(bat sparked your interest in socce1; and did youfeel immediately ~{;itt),-acted to the sport? 
ticidded playing when I was about five years old. Growing up, I played ft:i'Hd(qfsoc~er with my sister. I actually played several sports when I "ft,:,~{younger, such as basketball and volleyball, but I always felt that I 
, .• ·as't:he best at soccer. As a sophomore in high school, I started making iiJ/;'Jciirienational level teams, which caused me to get really excited because j~l;\;ftejlized that I could possibly have a future in soccer. 
'1:f.oiv did itfeel to be recognizedfo1· both your athletic and acade111ic /'i£cf<J111plislnnents last season? 
<i!-)(is definitely an honor to me. Coming to this university, I knew it ;;'.;)',;\~quld be a challenge to excel in school because it's hard to get into, ::;m:.·aM, the. students are all smart. Being recognized shows that I've it(Bee~ putting effort into my studies while dealing with a pretty busy !!••';:'s~hedule. Although I'm not the smartest in every subject, I try to stay 
';;fpcused in school. I spend a lot of time practicing, but I always try to kfin'd,time for academics as well. 
~i){wot;·eDame's athletics Web site describes you as a ''fearless playe1:" ;;1}¢A1,1 you discuss the importance of eliminating fear when you set ~;,J~pt on.thefield? 
{;\]~\,~ry match. I go into I have a "take no prisoners" mentality. It's li,\i.1n.p9rtant to go into the game knowing that you're going to win. I ,;,(tfonsider myself a physical player, and I really enjoy being aggressive ;h)fn,.4 g-~ing into tackles as hard as I can and doing everything I possibly ;;;:ic;a,nto beat my opponent. When you play like this, bumps and bruises · :;a:i,¢ kind of inevitable, but I think I can take a lot of pain and also dish 
l~~i::{b~e ·on the field. 
i.',, 
.pv/ ;does collegiate competition differ from international 
~f,?(pe,tition? .. :)1ll,~gesoccer is very fast-paced and high pressure. Competing at the ::,f~f~ational level, I've found that each country has a different playing ey1i);:;f~~American style is physical and fitness-oriented, while the 
'',",,'ili~g'~tyle is more skilled. International teams really play soccer as \{iil;spqrt. I enjoy playing· other countries to expose myself to 
I:·~·.-,.,--',,:;-,._-:,_.._,:·:··'·.' . , 
. ientstyles of play, and I try to bring aspects of those styles 
·-:-::~·'. 
'\aspirations beyond college? 
nt to play· at the professional .level after college. I've 
t:b play in the Olympics, so that's something I'll work Iw!nt to continue playing soccer until my body won't 
:•})anyrn.ore. When that happens I think I'll pursue a Jes, p~obably in marketing, which is my major. 
Michael Doyle 

The Notre Dame women's volleyball team kicked off Big East play witha yictory over theJJhiy~?~i1:d~~t Friday, September 26. The team was led by sophomore middle blocker Kellie Sciacc.~, \Vh.9te?¢\~~~igM~i Bulls. Freshman outside hitter Kristen Dealy was impressive in her conference debut, .c<:inttiP)ft:i~g}!}l:.k.it. for the Irish, while junior setter Jamel Nicholas chipped in 47 assists for theyictory: 1Jfe t¥a'.rrt'.2~PP,ecr'qff;!h:: traveling to Georgetown and defeating the Hoyas in three straight games, thanks in part to )ti'b.fbf:c1i"ti§tihfui 
kills. . . . . . . •· : j;/,1Jif:1~;f!?i'fi\ 

Minutes before the kickoff of Notre Dame's 3 8-21 football victory over Purdu~ ori Sritu.rday,~~¥tF¥W..• ~.;, basketball player John Hiltz flew over Notre Dame Stadium in a $60 million FIA 18 SuperI:If1:~fHii.f~1;.l:!i," basketball team walk-on, was a battalion commander in the Notre Dame ROTC program gefoffgricl3-#irig}( a degree in civil engineering. After flight school and training, Hiltz was· chosen to. fly as )1' m.{~b..~t-9f:tlfi}l'\J Knights. He recently ~ompleted an eight-month assignment flying in Afgha_pistan and Iraq:i~i!!){d~h'.~~~fJ'' 
six-month stint in January. · · · · .,_. · · · · · 

Senior Erik Condra was announced as the captain of the 2008-2009 Fightin and juniors Kyle Lawson and Ryan Thang will serve as alternate captai Colo., on October 11, playing in the Hall of Fame Game against the Univ at the National Championship Game and a third-place ranking in the U. expectations are high for this year's team. 
ON THE PITCH The ND Rugby Football Club lost to the more experienced and aggressive Ohio State Rugby Football Club 12-32, despite a strong defensive line on the part of the Fighting Irish. 
Listening In ... 
~)eto ta!k about something other than peeing your pants." 
~inaletmlgater 
~~t.South Carolina is SOUTH of North Carolina." ~nterhallfootball players 
~as_a.!s~ the summer my sister mooned Father M.alloy." ~:e'71muscmgstudent . 
tII .11:,really know what happened. All rsaw was the bouncer holding her back while she flailed \JJ\'.ti;'arrrfs and screamed, 'This girl's a [expletive] and won't give it to me straight!"' 

-bewildered student after seeing a bar fight wannabe 
ft{?PY(l=,l would definitely be in Ravenclaw. ~1i~u]l;:3No way, you'd be in Hufflepuff. Guy 1: Screw you! -two students at the Purdue game just befo1·e taking an 011line Sorting Quiz on a BlackberiJ' 
Back In the Day... 
Frozen yogurt is a beloved staple ofthe dining halls, but there was a time in Notre Dame's history when eating a frozen dessert was a traumatic experience, fraught with humiliation and anxiety -at least for girls. At one point, according to my alumni sources, a segment ofthe male population at ND. decided that the women needed to start hitting the gym rather than the tasty delights and banded together to take action. A group of guys actually parked themselves near the sundae station at So~th during meals and held up cardboard signs stating "No Fat Chicks" wh~n girls went to get ice cream. Who needs the cranberry juice fat flush when giving into your sweet tooth earns you the jeers and scorn of loud, obnoxious college guys? Instant dieting solution! On the other hand, I assume mo_st · people would prefer their dining experience to include minimal public humiliation (unless you'i:e the kid whose cup clatters down the stairs at North every meal). Luckily, the fun didn't last very long for these unwelcome nutritional cheerleaders. They were shut down after a week or two. 
-Kathleen Toohill 
I 
I 
32 I SCHOLASTIC I 9 OCTOBER 2008 


Welcome to autumn, my sweet little maple syrup strumpets! The leaves are turning vibrant, fiery shades, St. Mary's Lake skinny-dipping invitations are declining in frequency, and our charming skunks are becoming ever more violent in response to the sprinklers -truly, this is the season of change! But while nature seems to be shriveling up and dying, Gipp can't help but notice the many new blossoming relationships developing between Notre Dame students and South Bend residents. Even during the darkest hours, the coldest days, the most urine­soaked possessions and the smallest jail cells, the miracle of friendship and love lives on! How, you ask, my little acorns? Simply read on to find a tale 973 times more,,inspiring than your latest Wall Street Journal ... 
Some nights, all that an off-campus Domer wants is to curl up in his bed, forget the terrors of neighborhood larceny and pass a quiet night .in the arms of sweet, sweet slumber. Our first hero, Trusting Trig (named affectionately after a Palin), wished for just this one night, but alas, it was not to be. In the wee, dark morning hours, TT awoke to the sound of a grown man fumbling about in his room. Being of the friendly pershasion (and in a half-conscious state of mind), TT decided that his visitor's intrusion must be nothing more than a simple, explainable misunderstanding. Even when said intruder started relieving himself all over TT's bed as though it were his own personal chamberpot, TT somehow managed to laugh it off by repeating the calming mantra: "Crazy townies! These crazy ol' townies!" While trying to usher the new friend out ofhis room, TT was soon joined by yet another visitor: his roommate, the Peeping Piper. Excited to have some backup in the bouncing project, TT updated PP on the situation with one simple sentence: "Dude, check out this townie who has somehow broken into our house and climbed the rickety stairs and opened the door to my room and is now relieving himself all over my bed! South Bend, man!" In response, PP said nothing, but simply walked up to the visitor and said, "Come on, Dad, let's get you to bed." Indeed, the darkness of the night had made Mr. PP Senior unrecognizable -a Club 23-rejected townie nomad this was not. South Bend, you shifty mistress of sorcery! Not only do you seduce the young ones with your festive and wily ways, but even those who have begotten us are not immune! All Gipp can say is, at least it wasn't another type of Father ... 

So while that attempt at student­community relationships proved to be a farce, the Gipp's next story is sure to cheer up those desperate for hope and inspiration amid the task of befriending the South Bend community. This next tale takes place at ·a party with revelers of all ages (including wrong ages). Our defenders of civil justice, hearing the fun and joy bursting forth from the apartment, decided to disperse themselves among the outdoor shrubberies in anticipation of a sting. When the front door opened, chaos did in fact ensue -but one head stood out among the rest. A gentle -soul with the build ofa lumberjack descended down the steps, ready to inquire and engage 
T;PTHeg;PP 
o o o o o at· gipper@nd.edu 
HUMOR 
in civilized and responsible discourse with our authorities. But before one could say, "Is there a problem, my svelte, attractive, punctual community protectors?" the en­shrubbed cops mistook our lumberjack's outstretched hands of peace as an attack ­and promptly beat him down. Confused, our giant tried to resist their blows, handcuffs and accusations, but ultimately to no avail. In the middle of the night, Lumberjack was transported to the county jail. But what could have been a nightmare turned into an opportunity, for Lumbie found ~riendship in the Big House. After a morning of bonding and watching the sunrise, Lumbie left with a future trial but also a standing invitation to visit one new friend's house to his underage heart's content -as long as he didn't drop by unannounced during certain designated "business" hours of the day, as his new comrade described them. There are, after all, some entrepreneurship areas that just can't be learned in our Mendoza College of Business. 
So with these tales, the Gipp only hopes that all you darling Domers will remember this: you can pick your nose, and you can pick your townie friends, but if your townie friend pees on you, it's probably just your friend's dad. 
Anxiously awamng more of your scandalous and shameful shams, 
The Gipper! 
9 OCTOBER 2008 I SCHOLASTIC I 33 


University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, & Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, dunn.54@nd.edu, 1-5550, or Eddie Velazquez at evelazqu@nd.edu 
Office of Campus.Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students 
· and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at mlaffert@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 
corecouncil.nd.edu 

HUMOR 
As Notre Dame seni.ors lm.nt for jobs, the university offers a number ofresources to aid them in entering the professional world. Experts read through their resumes and cover letters before real companies even give them a glance. Real­life recruiters help them practice in mock interviews and even videotape them so students can re-live how weak their answers were. Alumni host dinners so students can learn to,interact in social situations on a professional level. Some members of the student body, however, are not prepared to immerse themselves in the professional world because they are still unsure how to interact with family, friends, small children and animals that are more socially developed than they are. Lucky for us plebeians, Program of Liberal Studies (PLS) majors not only understand "great books" but are also able to commandeer business etiquette listservs to teach us the proper way to live our lives. So fear not, socially-inept students, senior PLS major Mike Clemente has an event catered especially to you and your unique needs. 
1··. ------· . ·--------------------------­( Send ) ( Save Now ) ( Discard ) 
To: jlRISHLINK@listseN.nd.edu · 

Add Cc IAdd Bee 
Subject: [Human Relationship Etiquette Forum &J Attach a file ~ Add event invitation 
B I !l :f· TT· ~ W (§) ~= := . a .a " ~ = =/4¢ « Plain Text Check Spelling 'Y 
In conjunction with the Business Etiquette Forum held on Oct. 2, the ND Alumni-Student Club presents the 
Human Relationship Etiquette Forum on Oct. 10. 
As a future business executive, you need to know professional relational etiquette and how to present yourself in various situations involving human interaction. Relational etiquette is an important skill for students to develop before graduating, as it has an impact on effective social networking, interviewing with potential spouses, and interacting with others in an inter-personal setting. 
Professional Human Relations Coach Michael Clemente, principal of the Mechanism, Function and Utility of Human Relationships Club, will guide participants through the four most efficient steps for successful relationships, while providing insights and tips on everything from "how long to hug a new friend" to "how to cry during a funeral." *Plus, each table will be hosted by a Notre Dame alumnus or alumna,* so you can put the skills you are learning to immediate use. 
By attending the forum, you will be prepared to: 
• 
Know how to achieve success in obtaining sustainable social capital at Notre Dame 

• 
Gauge the value of a potential friend and whether he/she is worth a time investment 

• 
Understand the ratio that supplies the balance of minimum relational input with maximum relational outcome benefits (i.e. "emotional needs" supply and demand chart) 

• 
How and when to say "I love you" in order to achieve optimal emotional impact 

• 
Anticipate and handle problematic friends 


Alumni-Student Club Human Relationship Etiquette Forum 
When: Friday, October 10, 2008 
Time: 7 P.M. 
I 
Where: Mendoza College of Business 
Cost: FREE to ND students 
*To register, visit: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Functionalism (psychology) OR http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Utilitarianism 
*This event is being sponsored by: The Notre Dame Alumni Association, the Notre Dame Career Center and the 
Mechanism, Function, and Utility of Human Relationships Club. 
-Mike Clemente Professional Human Relations Coach 
: ( Send ) ( Save Now ) ( Discard ) 
9 OCTOBER 2008 I SCHOLASTIC I 35 

Q&A with AIDAN FITZGERALD 
Junior accountancy major Aidan Fitzgerald isn't worried about missing anything when he leaves campus to .. dy abroad in Dublin this spring. He knows he will return. After all, Fitzgerald missed his sophomore 
,,following a diagnosis of testicular cancer. After treatment, he returned the following year healthy and .__' to share his experiences. In the chaos ofhis year away, Fitzgerald.counted on the support offamily and _:Ads, who founded the charity group The Aidan Project to raise awareness about the prevalence ofcancer, ecially in young adults. Scholnstic writer Caitlin Wilson sat down with Fitzgerald for an interview . 
. 'bholastic: ·what inspired your friends to found The Aidan Project? 
{Aidan Fitzgerald: One ofmy friends was in charge of Circle Kat the time, and they had an existing blanket­'{ making project, but on a smaller scale. He called me up and asked what I thought about expanding. I told ·.-.Ill it was a great idea. Physically, I thought it was a great idea because I lost all my hair, and the treatment . 'a.de.me cold all the time. But it's also great to know that someone cares about you. Knott Hall and the 
i,;_;);¥fof2009 put everything together. 
;"f;!•/-·i:.:•i?if::;{{\:~:_:.:·~ i?fil);'i{S: Did you expect The Aidan Project to be such an overwhelming success? i%%~/j;'4:F:· {really thought it would just be my friends and the kids from my section who felt bad about it all. I }\)!,?/)d{d11't expect such a big turnout. To see hundreds mobbing the floor making blankets -it was a pretty ';:;:/});;;iP,~,verfylsight. L~st year we had to turn people away during peak hours, so we're moving the event from .;1,:\{ff&\/tlie:hallroom in Lafortune this year to a bigger area. 
'.,'S,Xit?l?•• . 
,f{J0}'./'./'.S.:Howdid you find out you had cancer, and what was your initial reaction? .z}J('..J,X\\;;Ali:vVell, I was playing an interhall football game against Zahm when I got hurt. They took me to the 
:,·)i.l,,//).Sr:J}?Jio~~ital.and did some tests and found that I had internal bleeding. I was young and in good shape, so I 'ht)/i.:/:):;i)C.sh?ulqn't have had internal bleeding. My dad is a doctor, so he took a look at the scans. He saw that they }r/Y(\X_;/f;}//{8uld. mean cancer, so he sent them to the hospital where he works. He made me take an at-home pregnancy /?j/4};"./,{J}~~it because when you have cancer you have the same hormones that pregnant women have. I tested positive. {:-J,{:}fj)\;fo({vasdue last June! My dad called when I was in the dining hall. I still remember who I sat with, where I was }'.}k/,t);)(i~:''.Ji~i_tting, that I was eating a chicken sandwich. I was in shock initially, just joking about it. But I went through 
Jiiflllo~::on,::::::~w::::::don,? . 
•W '. : : They all reacted differently. Some were just speechless. Others started crying. Some people were Jtqlog~tic, like they thought it was their fault that I had cancer.
·'!!:\[;>>::· 
.;,\~hq were the most important members of your support system during your fight against the disease? :':t~J½yfamily, for sure. Both my parents are physicians, so they balanced their professional opinions with ..J{i-Joving family instinct -it was awesome. Whenever I was unsure, I could go to them, and they'd tfp1;¥the next step. My brother and sister were there for me too. My sister was away at school, but she'd 
61::/?)'.~#lland talk to me. My little brother would stay in on Friday nights, when he could be out with his friends, ,J,'. ;},,;-'if.',.~4,rfnt a movie and hang out with me. We got a lot closer. 
'.}:{«(\$tB:b~ difficult was it to miss an entire year of school, both academically and socially? 
' ffA1tJF: .The schoolwork wasn't that bad. I worked full-time, so Ikept my brain in shape. But it was tough to be /·;,0J:i§.8~-tra.ck from my friends. They're all seniors now and graduating, but I'm still a junior. I've met a lot ofthe c,' '}Z/{0'j~!libfs in class every day, and I consider them some ofmy best friends. 
_. if{\{/~/)_:·. 
>P.~;)'ou.think The Aidan Project will continue with as much enthusiasm after you graduate? Will youiri'ilin involved? :ii'd like to think so. My friends and I are doing it nuiv, and we obviously have a vested interest. But my 
~;Ra{who are underclassmen are passionate about it and will ca~ry it on. Regardless of the name, it will ''\irii-\~ !O be a big project for a good cause. People need to be aware that most 111en who get testicular cer ~re between 15 and 35. 
,<>.you have any advice on how we can best give -our support to friends or relatives diagnosed with 
·~~r? 
'Iijrimor is the best cure for anything.Just lightheartedness helps. You're always aware that something is Ag, and you need a distraction. When people came and sat with me, sacrificing their time for me, I really "i~i:iated it. I needed to know that people were there for me just because I meant something to them, not 
,€,2,JieI was sick. Cancer doesn't create your identity. You are defined by how you meet the challenge . 
. iNti 







