Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 3, 1885.
No. 17.
The New Year.
The knell of the old year is pealing, It speeds on the wings of the breeze Away over mountain and valley, And over the deep-surging seas; No sooner it dies in the distance Than peals of rejoicing we hear, Proclaiming the wide, wide world over The birth of another New Year.
The old year is dead to us, truly, He rests ’pon the bosom of yore; Have we treated him nobly, kindly? Have we our minds garnished with lore? Dear friends, has he died without sorrow? On his cheek has there ne’er flowed a tear? If so, let us hail with rej’oicing , The birth of another New Year.
If not, then, with deep-seated sorrow, The loss we’ve sustained let us mourn;
In the grave, brok’n-hearted, we’ve laid him, From us now forever he’s borne.
.Let the gloom that o’ershadowed his dying From the sky of our life disappear;
Let energy, virtue and honor Be ours all the coming New Year.
To our books now, with spirit and vigor, Turn we our attention and care ;
Use we all the moments now flying,— We have not a moment to spare'.
Let “ upward, still upward ” our war-cry;
.	The top of the hill will appear,
If we in our duty ne’er falter, But work well the coming New Year.
Hurra for the dawn of our glory!
Hurra for the temple of fame!
Hurra for our Alma, dear Alma!
We’ll labor to.honor her name;
. Her brow will we wreathe with our laurels, Her onward march e’er will we cheer, In study, yes, hard, zealous study', We’ll labor the coming New Year!
____________	-	J. McC.
A Proof-reader, out for a walk, was met by a Typographical Error; but the Proof-reader did not speak, nor did he even bow in recognition. “ Ha! ha!” chuckled the Typographical Error, “ I knew he wouldn’t see me!”—Ex.
[From ^Donahoe's Magazine!'\ The University of Notre Damn.
On the northern verge of Indiana, within five miles of the Michigan line, and j'ust on the edge of that narrow watershed which slopes towards the Great Lakes, is situated an institution of learning,-which is year by year becoming better known, not only throughout the states called distinctively “ Western,” but also in the cultured East and chivalrous South, and in the adjacent lands of Mexico and Canada; young men from all quarters thronging hither for instruction. This is the University of Notre Dame.	•
Three successive edifices have already borne this title. The first, small but picturesque, was thought to be unsound in its foundations, and when a greater influx of students came, instead of receiving additions, was pulled down to make room for a larger building. After the work of destruction had been effected, it was discovered, when too late, that the maligned foundations had been perfectly reliable. The second college was a roomy, square-built, factory-like structure, with a Mansard roof, and it took fire one warm day in April, during the prevalence of a southwest gale, here the most violent of all the sons of HEolus, coldest of all in winter, hottest of all in summer, and a dry, healthy wind at every season. Urged by the gale, a column of flame and smoke rose in the air to the height of a thousand feet, where it formed a complete arch, bending over with its freight of light<-combustibles, and set fire to a forest a mile distant on the north-east, which continued to burn for several days after. . Not only the main building was destroyed on this occasion, but also the Infirmary, the Music Hall, and several minor structures to the leeward.
A calamity such as this, only partially. covered by insurance, would have dismayed Hearts less stout than those at Notre Dame, into which it rather seemed to infuse a new life. The venerable founder of the institution, Edward Sorin, whose years might have fitly invited him to that repose which q life of energy and usefulness had earned, sprang at once into renewed vigor, and surprised his friends by his activity and self-devotion. The work of rebuilding was at once begun. The disaster only served to show how widespread ' throughout America was the veneration in which this young Alma Mater was already held. Substantial sympathy was expressed in the most effec
262	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
tive shape, and friendship appeared in unexpected forms and localities. A plan furnished by Ed-brooke was selected from among thirty others, and the present structure arose rapidly from the ashes. By September, enough of it was completed to accommodate satisfactorily the returning throng of students, whose increased numbers showed a generous confidence in Notre Dame, in her hour of adversity.
The present edifice is in the Neo-Gothic style, and consists of a centre with two ample wings, the centre being crowned with a dome, and having a front extension, giving the plan the general figure of the letter T, which is the shape taken by the halls, forming the avenues of internal communication through the various stories of the building, except that where the stem of the T joins the cross-bar, there is an open rotunda extending through all the stories, with galleries at each, up to the dome itself. On entering the main doors, the visitor finds himself surrounded by frescoes illustrating the life of Columbus, the work of Luigi Gregori, an. Italian artist, who has been occupied for many years past in decorating the interiors of various buildings here. In the vestibule, the life-size, full-length figures of Columbus and Queen Isabella, from authentic portraits, appears on the right and left,—a fitting introduction to the grand historic series which is to follow, and which begins in the hall itself, with Columbus begging his bread at the door of the monastery, whose truly noble inmates first recognized his worth, and brought his project before the notice of the queen. Opposite we see the departure of the caravels on their adventurous journey, with Columbus kneeling to receive the blessing of the friendly monk to whom he owed so much. Next to this is, perhaps, the most striking picture of' the series, though one of the smallest, representing the mutiny at sea, in which the crew are threatening the life of the great discoverer. The violence of the mutineers is made to contrast admirably with the calm confidence of Columbus. Opposite, land has been discovered, and the ringleaders of the mob“ are on their knees suing for pardon. Next a broad space is devoted to the scene at the landing, where the hero is planting the cross on the shore, surrounded by enthusiastic comrades and awestricken Indians. On the other side of the hall, is the largest picture of all, showing Columbus, on his triumphant return, presenting the aborigines and productions of the New World to Ferdinand and Isabella, enthroned under a canopy erected in the open air, and surrounded by numerous court officials, and an apparently unlimited throng of spectators. After this transitory scene of splendor we see another proof of fortune’s inconstancy: Columbus in chains, the victim of successful treachery, while two Indians, amazed at the perfidy of the white man, appear to be his only friends. Last scene of all, we have his death, re. ceiving the blessings of religion, his chains hanging by his bedside, above the chart of his discoveries. With these last two paintings on either hand, we find ourselves at the rotunda; on whose
pavement of tiles we may stand and gaze upwards two hundred feet into, the concavity of the dome, soon to be decorated with appropriate designs by the same talented artist.
On the right-hand side on entering the hall through which we have passed, is the suite of apartments occupied by President Walsh. In his reception-room are to be found several gems of art, among others, a crucifixion, undoubtedly the work of Vandyck, and a genuine Titian, the subject being the daughter of Herodias, with the head of John the Baptist. On the left-hand side of the hall, is the public parlor, often literally crowded, spacious as it is, with visitors, on exhibition nights and during commencement week. This room is decorated with portraits, chiefly those of former presidents of the University. Opposite to the end of the hall, across the rotunda, is the students’ office, where they procure their stationary and books, and may communicate by telephone or telegraph with distant friends. During business hours, this room is seldom without its throng. From the rotunda to the east and west extend the halls to the study-rooms, with recitation-rooms on either side, airy and spacious, well lighted, and warmed, as are all the buildings, by steam-heating apparatus. In the story above are more recitation-rooms, private rooms occupied bv teachers and others, two large dormitories over the study-rooms, and two finely-decorated apartments in which the Columbian and Cecilian Societies respectively hold their meetings. The Columbian room is painted in fresco with full-length portraits of the benefactors of the University, a category which includes characters as incongruouf as those of Henry Clay and the late Emperor os the French, making a picturesque ensemble; on this floor there is also a museum of Indian relics and other curiosities. In the third story, the greater part of the front extension is occupied by a spacious hall, devoted to the purpose of a college library. Here, besides the usual formidable array of classics 'and works of reference, may be found some curious old volumes dated from the century in which printing was invented, illuminated with initial letters painted by hand after the printing was finished. Quaint modern reproductions of mediaeval work will also interest the aesthete. On this floor and the next above are also numerous private rooms and dormitories, a distinguishing feature of the upper floor being the school of drawing; for the art of drawing makes a prominent figure in the curriculum of the scientific course. We may now ascend to the roof, if you have any desire to obtain an extensive view. If your nerves are steady, we may even scale the dome itself, and the prospect is worth the climb. Northward lie the green hills of Michigan, with the St. Joseph River winding in a deep valley among them. The position of the city of Niles may be made out by the white houses of its suburbs gleaming.through the surrounding shade trees. The greater part of the town lies hid in the valley of the river. Eastward stretch extensive woods, above which the smoke of the foun
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	263
dries of Elkhart may be seen rising. Southward, the view is more limited, a high range of bluffs beyond the river cutting it oft', and causing the river itself to make that remarkable deflection from which South Bend takes its name. The tips of the spires of Mishawaka may be discovered, by one who knows just where to look for them, rising above the woods a little east of south. On the bluffs above is a station erected by the Lake Coast Survey. West of south lies South Bend, mapped out beneath the eye of the spectator, and still further west stretch the Kankakee marshes, for so many years the paradise of the fowler. But the prairie-chickens and ducks, that used to abound there, have been thinned out by the ruthlessness of hunters, and the process of drainage and fencing has robbed the region of its original charm. Northeast, the eye roves over the rolls of Portage Prairie—the old “portage” of the Potta-wotamie Indians, over which, by conveying their canoes from the waters of the St. Joseph to those of the Kankakee, they connected the navigation of the Great Lakes with that of the Mississippi.
From these views of the distant horizon, let us turn our eyes to what is going on more immediately beneath us. On the lake to the north we may witness the boat crews training for the coming regatta. The lake itself is a beautiful blue sheet of water, surrounded by groves, and forms a most attractive feature in the College grounds. There is another lake to the westward, not so large, and surrounded by beds of marl, which make it perhaps, more interesting to the geologist, though less attractive to the lover of scenery. Southeast, on the broad campus, a game of baseball, if it is a “rec” day, may be in progress, and from your elevated position you may command a view of all the details of that attractive pastime. To the south, an avenue of maples shades the thoroughfare to South Bend, two miles distant; and Notre Dame Post Office is visible on the skirts of a pine grove. South-west are the Manual Labor Schools, conducted by the same Religious Community which directs the exercises of the College itself. Here are tailor shops, shoemaker shops, carpenter and blacksmith shops, and an extensive farm with its well-appointed barns and stables. Still nearer to the south-west we see the church, and this is worthy of inspection from within. In the west, a mile away, on the rural banks of. the river, is St. Mary’s Academy, an institution for the education of young ladies, which the tourist will find well deserving of a separate visit.
But it is the intellectual aspect, rather than the material,—the mental landscape, so to speak,— which will interest the visitor to the College as a College. And here he will find classic taste and scientific research—not the mere memorizing of the contents of learned times, but an active participation .in the pursuits and aims of true study. ■The production of the plays of Sophocles, 'with all their appropriate accessories on the stage, by the Greek students of this University; and still more the intelligent interest, which large audiences have unmistakably manifested in the representation,
sufficiently attest the proficiency attained here in a living language, which, however its claims to notice may have been lately questioned by the superficial and soulless utilitarian, is not only among-the most perfect and beautiful that the world has ever known, but is especially dear to Christians, as being the language of the gospel. Moreover, the fact of Greek being a living language is vividly presented to the mind of the student by the exchange of the productions of The Av&nMaria. press with those of Modern Greece, which arrive by every mail from the Orient. It is needless to speak of the perfection attained in the Latin language.in an institution conducted by Fathers of the Catholic Church, among whom that classic tongue has never been allowed to die. The poetry in hexameter and the difficult Horatian measures which from time to rime appears in the periodicals here
• published, bears witness that Notre Dame forms no exception, tp the rule in this respect. Of the periodicals alluded to, The Ave Maria is the most extensively circulated Catholic religious paper in-the United States. It has been now established for nearly a quarter of a century, and shows no signs of a “ decline and fall.” On the contrary, z each year finds it still more widely disseminated, so that it reaches many thousands of hearths and homes, where its pages are the delight of the family circle, and the antidote to the pernicious literature with which our land is rife. The Notre Dame Scholastic, issued from the same printing house, takes a high rank among college papers, as contemporaries acknowledge, and enables the youth destined for the vocation of the journalist,—an occupation whose standing in the social sphere is daily receiving a higher recognition,—to fit himself for the exercise of his chosen profession. Other volumes, from time to time, emanate from the same source: the Antigone of Sophocles, in Greek and English, has here been published. The “Household Library of Catholic Poets,” “Life of Joseph Haydn,” “ Crowned with Stars,” and other works, have found their circle of readers. The dramas suitable for performance in schools and colleges are of merit practically recognized by their frequent representation in the institutions for which they have been designed; and their number is daily increasing.	■
Nor is science neglected. The flora and fauna of the fertile St. Joseph valley give increasing occupation to the naturalist, the fruits of whose labors are preserved in the herbarium and museum. The’ geology of the Great Lake Basin, and the multifarious mineral specimens to be found in the neighborhood, open other interesting fields of science, which have been duly tilled, and the philosophical apparatus appears to have gathered no rust or dust from neglect. The courses of Law and Civil Engineering are in active operation, and that of medicine might be equally flourishing, were it not that the invincible repugnance, which a dissecting room excites in the minds of those who have no vocation to the healing art, has hitherto militated against its establishment at Notre Dame. A preparatory course, in which human and comparative
THE.NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
anatomy are taught by the aid of carefully prepared skeletons, has long been conducted under the care of an eminent and experienced practitioner. A commercial school here has always borne a good reputation among business men, so that its graduates find no difficulty in obtaining employment, which is probably the best test of worth.
The Catholic religion is professed by the teachers and officers of the establishment, but non-Cath-. olics have always availed themselves, in large numbers, of the educational advantage here offered. The Blessed Mother, who gives her name to the University, smiles a welcome to all from her exalted position on the dome, and although no undue efforts are made to proselytize, yet the truths of the most ancient form of Christianity sink deep into manvan ingenuous heart. The sense of honor is seduously cultivated by the officers of the institution, as a ground of moral restraint and self-com-mand on which all may meet on a common footing. The venerable founder of the house, himself a model of the punctilious courtesy which characterized the ancien regime, has always deemed it his duty to cultivate the manners,- no less than the morals, of those to whom he stands in loco -parentis • and although he has long ago resigned the presi-dency into younger hands, his gentle influence is still felt, refining and elevating wherever it extends: his presence inspires an affectionate reverence, and the memory of his teachings will long survive his earthly career. Hence the absence of rudeness has always been a marked feature at Notre Dame. The disgraceful practice of “ hazing ” is absolutely unknown. The newcomer finds himself surrounded at once by kindly faces and hearts, disposed to believe everything good of him, unless his own deeds force them reluctantly into the opposite conviction. The students are divided into departments, not according to the course of study each pursues, but according to the more natural distinction of age, each department having its own campus and gymnasium, its own study-halls, recreation-rooms and dormitories. In the recitationrooms, however, distinctions of age are levelled, and merit alone gives the pupil his standing. The practice of going to and from recitations and other college exercises in silence and ranks, has always prevailed, and contributes much to the reign of order. In the classical and scientific courses, the highest proficiency is required to obtain the academic degrees; the mere fact of a student having , attended class regularly does not entitle him to a diploma; the examination to be passed is something more than a mere formality, and the unpleasant process,, known to college men as “plucking,” takes place quite often enough to inspire a salutary awe. The removal of distracting influences, has also been found to have most beneficial results in promoting attention to solid work’. .
But now let us descend from the roof of the College, and view the interior of the church, as already • suggested. Exteriorly, at .least in its present state, the building is not specially attractive; within, however, it.is a gem. We enter the front porch be'-neath the massive tower, containing a fine chime of
twenty-three bells, the largest of which, weighing seven tons and measuring seven feet, holds a distin-guished place among the bells of the United States, Stained glass admits all the light that enters the sacred edifice, gorgeous dyes of crimson, scarlet, blue and amber, revealing the figures of those apostles, martyrs, and virgins, whom Christianity reverences as its heroes. One large window displays the Descent of the Holy Ghost upon the Apostles in the form of fiery tongues. The figures are mediaeval, such as we expect in stained glass, but without that restraint of artistic freedom which the mediaeval style in feeble hands imposes. Scarcely dimmed by the glare of the bright colors, in the windows, are the frescos and other paintings: which cover the walls of the interior—representing; ■ four years’ work, of the same talented artist, who> is now painting the interior of the College; for . the Church happily escaped the great conflagration of 1879. These paintings represent the pathetic and inspiring scenes attending the birth and passion of Our Lord Jesus Christ. Here we see the “Blessed among Women ” receiving the angelic message;—there she greets her cousin Elizabeth; —anon the cave of Bethlehem with the adoring shepherds is opened to our view—farther on, the Three Wise Men of the East present their gifts of gold, frankincense and myrrh;—and again the Holy Family fly into Egypt from the wrath of Herod, the series coming to a conclusion with that memorable scene in the Temple, when the Child was found among the Doctors of the Law, healing them and asking them questions.
The scenes of the Passion are detailed even more minutely. First we see Pilate washing his hands, having impiously pronounced the condemnation; then the cross is laid upon the shoulders of the Victim, and the occasion upon which He is said to have fallen beneath its weight furnish three-other subjects. His meeting with His Blessed Mother is the most affecting of the series. She comes, attended by Mary Magdalen and the Beloved Disciple John, and even the brutal soldiers make way for her approach, as, with blanched face and bloodless lips, she imprints the last kiss on the Divine Features. In another painting Simon of .Cyrene is compelled to share the burden, and in yet another the women of Jerusalem offer their unavailing tears. The driving of the nails is de-picted in colors that appall, although we cannot but feel hbw much more terrible was the real scene. The death on the cross, the descent therefrom, and the entombment, close the series, and in these subjects Gregori has had to emulate the greatest masters of the art. By the contemplation of paintings such as these the gospel truths are brought home to the humblest intelligence, and impress the hardest heart, where written page or spoken homily would fail. ,	;	.
To discant upon the other, ornaments" of the church—the costly altar, bedecked and surrounded with offerings of the richest and rarest, the painted ceiling whence angels, smileamid the stars of a serene sky, the mouldings and pillars, the tones of the mighty-organ, would exceed the limits assigned
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	26;
to this sketch. Suffice it to say that Notre Dame is one of the few places in the Uniteci States where the majestic ceremonial of the Catholic Church, interesting from its historic associations even to those whose devotion is not thereby attracted, can be c^mpletety performed in all its splendor. Those who have witnessed the procession of Corpus Christi, as it winds arround the lake, with all the rich colors doubled by reflection in the placid waters, with the song of birds mingling with the melody of hymns, will bear us out in this assertion.
Building is still in progress, and the number of students attending seems to keep pace with the increase of accommodations. An edifice, now nearly finished, to the south of the music hall, will be devoted especiallj’ to the use of the scientific department. The laboratory, now in a temporary building, will here be the principal feature. Museums of mineralogy and natural history will occupy other galleries, and a large hall will be devoted to lectures,—not only the special lectures of the scientific course, but popular lectures on science, such as the commercial students may attend with advantage.
The description of the various buildings to be found here, devoted to special objects, would fatigue the reader, though of interest to the observer. A visit to the institution will develop matters for 'thought upon which we have not even touched, and the visitor may be sure of a warm welcome from the good Fathers who direct the establishment, and whose hospitality has become proverbial. During the summer vacation, especially, many resort hither to enjoy the pure air, limpid spring water, and the rural scenery. It is accessible by three railways — the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern, the Chicago, & Grand Trunk, and the Michigan Central. The best time to see the place in all its beauty is in the spring or early summer.. At the Commencement Exercises in June there is always a large crowd of visitors; but we would advise such of our readers as have an eye for the picturesque to choose a time when there is less to distract the mind from the contemplation of nature, say at that brief but blissful season characterized by the flowering of-the lilac; when the cooing of' the wild dove is heard at the dawn of day, and the plaintive note of the whip-poor-will at its decline, ere yet the song birds have lapsed into their summer silence. Then is the time to see Notre Dame in perfection. .	Arthur J. Stack.
“Vidimus Stellam, et Venimus.”
E pulchris oriens sol regionibus Gaudenti spatium pectore principes-
* Invenit minuentes ''
Ad culmen Solymae sacne. .
Fulscens Stella viam regibus indicat, Et montes superant et fluvios leves;
Non est vana fides, jam Adsunt, ecce jacet Sion!
Mirantur prius, at, continue petunt ,Quis sit Ilie Puer? Territus ipse rex
Herodes sapientes
Accersit.—Citius via
Non est nota piis quam celerant pedes
Ad cunas: Domino munera deferunt.
E cuncti^ Speciosus!
Insignis facie Puer!
Se sternunt humiles, et tribuunt Deo, Aurum cum assyria, cortice quze fluit, Myrrha, thusque Sabieum.
Tunc reges Puer aspicit.	.
Subridens; Sobolem sanguine Ccelito Deponit brachiis Mater amabilis: Ob faustum attoniti sunt;
Felices lacrirme micant!
Spectant cbnsimiles Virginis et modo Hie Natiifacies: O satis estfrui .
Fato Ccelicolorum!— Gavisi repetunt domum.
-	J. H.
John Milton.
John Milton, England’s greatest epic poet, was born in London in 1608. His father was educated at Christ College, Oxford, and, although a rigid Puritan, was a great admirer of art and literature, and enouraged them in every possible way. Possessing'an excellent mind, endowed with great musical talents, thrifty and industrious, he was soon enabled to amass a considerable fortune; he was thus able and willing to encourage the talents so early displayed in his son, and to give him every advantage to prepare for a brilliant literary career. After receiving a thorough training in the ordinary branches of learning, .under his private teacher Thomas Young—a Puritan minister—our poet was admitted to St. Paul’s School. Here his unwearied love of study and books manifested itself, and here was laid, the foundation of his future greatness. He displayed an unbounded love for poetry. Spenser and Cowley were his two great favorites. When only seventeen, he left St. Paul’s, . and entered Christ’s College, Cambridge. To this period of Kis life, he owes many of his Latin . poems; they are distinguished for their musical versification and his skillful application of Latin.
He was very successful in his studies, but fell often into disgrace, owing to his intellectual independence and his freedom in expressing his opinion, especially on religious subjects. But these difficulties were of short duration, since he received both degrees at the usual time. Leaving the University, he retired to his father’s country-residence in Buckinghamshire. In'this secluded retirement, free from the noise and tumult of the city, he spent five years, storing his mind with knowledge of Mathematics, the Sciences, and Classical Literature. His chief , productions in this studied retreat were, « L’Allegro,” “ Il Penseroso,” “ Comus,” the “ Arcades,” and “Lycidas.” The last was written as a
266
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
tribute to the memory of his friend and student, Mr. King. The poem is very pretty: descriptions of rural scenery being interspersed with allegories and theological illusions.
Growing tired of this retirement, Milton resolved to gratifv his long-cherished desire of travelling abroad. It is interesting and pleasing to follow him in imagination as he roamed through classic lands, visiting famous seats of learning, thus strengthening his mind and cultivating most beautiful and beneficial talents. After spending fifteen months on the Continent, he was called home, and arrived there about the time of* King Charles’s second expedition against the Scots. His country was now involved in all the horrors of a civil war. He plainly saw she had instant need of his powers; he therefore turned aside from poetry—dutifully, though very reluctantly,—and during the many years that his verses remained forsaken he produced several controversial writings on various subjects.
Milton’s life was embittered by domestic troubles. It was his misfortune to make a hasty and unpremeditated marriage; this produced his famous treatise on “Divorce.”
In 7641 was published his essay on the “Reformation Against the Bishops and Established Church.” His chief object in this appears to have been to simplify the form of worship in the English Church, and to substitute that of Puritanism. About the year 1649, he was made Secretary by the Council of the State; shortly afterwards he was called upon to answer the chief articles contained in his great controversial writings, called “ Galmacius” and “Defensio Populi.”
During the protectorate of Cromwell, Milton showed himself the inveterate enemy of Monarchy, venting his spleen against it whenever an opportunity presented itself. The restoration of the king threw him into great distress. He concealed himself until the anger of the king had somewhat abated, and then quietly retired from public affairs. He had now ample leisure to produce his great epic poem, entitled “Paradise Lost.” This work had been in contemplation for a long period, and required seven years for its completion. The subject of this wonderful poem is in itself sublime; the poem, however, is not in accordance with it. It is true, sublimity is its .chief characteristic, especially of the first few books; still, it fails to awaken a feeling of awe and grandeur, and that respect and reverence for the revealed religion which the subject naturally suggests. Had he been guided by the love and fear of God, and had he desired to render Him more honor and glory instead of gratifying his own ambition, it would have been all that one vyould desire.
The action of the poem carries us beyond the terrestrial regions, and brings us in contact with celestial and infernal personages. The first book treats of the “ Falien Angels,” “ Speech of Satan,” and concludes with a glowing description of Pandemonium, the future palace of the fallendemons. In describing the characters of Satan and his fallen, companions, he attributes to them qualities which
awaken our sympathy, and even admiration. This is entirely inconsistent with the characters of purely evil spirits; they should be so represented as to excite nothing but disapprobation and dislike. The ruined archangel is at one time filled with sorrow and remorse; at another time he is filled with hope, and urges his fallen troops to battle in most earnest language, as is exemplified in the following lines:
“ Powers and dominions, deities of Heaven;	•
For. since no deep within her gulf can hold Immortal vigor, though oppressed and fallen, I give not Heaven for lost. From this descent, Celestial virtues rising will appear
More glorious and more dread than from no fall, And trust themselves to fear no second fate.”
The dialogues in heaven have been justly condemned as being entirely too abstract. Every reader finds them tiresome; and, in many instances, unnecessary. We find, as we proceed to the last books, that his sublimity gradually lessens. Milton deserves much blame for this, since the subject of theme of the latter is “ Man’s Redemption,” a grander, loftier and more sublime subject than that of the first books. In delineating the characters of Adam and Eve, the poet has shown himself master of the beautiful; he has drawn them with remarkable skill and beauty, and invested their home in paradise with many charms—birds, flowers, streams, etc. It excites our interest in the beginning-, and retains it, unbroken, throughout.
In the third book we find the following beauti- • tiful lines:
“ Say, heavenly powers, where shall we find such love?
Which of ye shall be mortal to redeem
Man’s mortal crime, and just and unjust to save? ”
Our author evidently wished to convey the idea that no one but God could redeem fallen man. The offense was against an Infinite Being, and consequently needed an Infinite atonement. -
It is doubtful whether Milton believed in the Trinity or not; Pie is guilty of self-contradiction, which prevents one from pronouncing any definite judgment. In some places,-the Son, according to hisjidea, is not begotten from all eternity. Fie even puts the creation and disobedience of man after the creation of the Son. The Holy Ghost he ignores entirely, as he never mentions Him at all. He “•limits.the knowledge of God the Son, for the Father is represented as relating to Him the fall of the angels, creation of man and his disobedience, and the Son expressing his surprise, wonder, etc.
The war in heaven, so grandly portrayed in the sixth book, seems to be entirely improbable. The machinery used is out of place. “The demons who charmed us in the shades of hell, lose some portion of their sublimity, when their artillery is discharged in the daylight of heaven.” The allegorical interview of sin and death is skillfully carried on in the tenth book. Milton exhibits in this some of his most sublime ideas. His description of sin and death cannot fail to inspire us with horror for the former and fear of latter. We are
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	26?
1
now gradually brought down from the celestial regions to scenes upon earth, and the poem closes with the expulsion of Adam and Eve from their blissful home—Paradise.
“ Paradise Regained ” followed that of “ Paradise Lost.” It is not as sublime as the former, and not in keeping with the subject. He either knew not how to appreciate it, or was not capable of doing it justice.
Milton, regarded as a poet, certainly deserves our admiration. History furnishes, us with no better example of a grander or more profound intellect than his. Viewed as a man, he cannot even claim our respect. He showed himself to be a disagreeable husband and an unkind father. His daughters, who number three, were so neglected that it is said they were unable to write their own names. A short time before he commenced his “Paradise Lost,” he had the extreme misfortune of becoming totally blind. It resulted, no doubt, from his hard study, which began in his early youth and continued to his death. He died in 1674, and was interred at Cripplegate.	G. Harry Smith.
College Gossip.
—Girard College, Philadelphia, has just opened a school of technology. It will not attempt to teach in full any one trade, but to give instruction in the skillful use of tools in wood and iron. This is in some respects a new experiment.
—The son of an Ohio man wrote home to his father, the other day: “ Pa, I am studying so haM I fear it will break me down and I shall take sick and die.” The ■pater fam ilia s replied; “Keep on, my boy, and I will try and come to the funeral.”
—There is a project on foot in Baltimore, Md., for the establishment of a Catholic college for the education of American students for the Josephite Order. The labors of the priests of this Order are confined exclusively to the colored races. The Mother-House is at Mill Hill, London, England.
—The Very Rev. J. W. Hickey, C. M., who, for the past ten years, has so ably filled the office of President of St. Vincent’s College, Cape Girardeau, Mo., has gone to the Church of the Immaculate Conception, Baltimore, Md., where he is to be stationed. Father Hickey is well known throughout the country as an able orator, philosopher, a fine theologian, and a man of great executive ability. —Pilot.
—The Supreme Court of Maine decides in regard to college students that the right to vote in the town were the college is located depends upon the question of intention of residence. If a student intends to remain in the place only until he completes his studies he.cannot claim a residence there such as will entitle him to vote. But if he intends to make that his home in the future, then he may be regarded as a permanent resident and a voter.
—The girls of Vassar College have presented Governor Cleveland with an immense sponge cake,, said to be cooked by their own fair hands. The
young ladies of this high seat of learning are, no doubt, partisans of Mr. Hendricks’, who seems to be a favorite with the gentler sex, and they would like to see that staunch Democrat in the Presidential chair. It was a guileless, girlish plot. The President-elect, being too busy to eat that cake, will live.—R E Freeman? s Journal.
—The students of Mt. St. Mary’s College, Em-mittsburg, Md.,-enjoyed the pleasure of a visit from several of the Hierarchy shortly after the adjournment of the Plenary Council. Among the visitors were Archbishop Elder, of Cincinnati, O.; Bishops Watterson, of Columbus, O.; Northrop, of Charlestown, S. C.; Krautbauer, of Green Bay, Wis., and Gallagher, of Galveston, Tex. Bishops. Watterson and Northrop were formerly members of the Faculty of the College.
—President Porter, of Yale, and President Eliot, of Harvard, have locked horns on the question of Latin and Greek with regard to the Arts’ course. We find the following comment in the Otterbein Record:
“President Porter, of Yaie College, argues that the dropping of Greek out of the academic course by any one institution, as Harvard has permitted to be done, is a breach of good faith with respect to the meaning of the degree of Bachelor of Arts. Notwithstanding the difference of standard between the various colleges, the language of a college diploma is that its possessor is entitled ‘ to the honors and dignities which are by all men, everywhere, accorded to this degree.’ And this does mean that graduate is supposed to have studied four years under the guidance of his college, and that a part of his study has been in the Greek and Latin classics. President Porter’s point seems to be well taken.”	’
—On Sunday, Dec. 7th, the American students celebrated the twenty-fifth anniversary of the institution of their college in the Via dell’ Umilta. Thanks to Mr. Astor’s energetic action, the United States College has not been sold at auction, and will be in the future the Alma Mater of many learned American preachers. The results obtained in a quarter of a century are such that the American people and the Catholic Church have a right to be proud of them. The names of McCloskey, McGlynn, and Chatard would alone be sufficient to illuminate these twenty-five years. Under experienced rectors already trained in the ministry and grown old in armor, the college will keep up its orestige and add new glories to its former renown. The fifty-two students on that day were admitted to the Pontifical M'ass in the Vatican, received Holy Communion from the hands of Leo XIII, and were paternally entertained after Mass by His Holiness in a private audience. The whole day was a sort of home feast for the young students, who rejoiced and amused themselves. Cardinal Simeoni visited them, of course, and was as cheerful as ever. The Rev. Mr. Schulte, the young Vice-Rector who is in charge until the Rector shall be nominated, read an address to the Floly Father, thanking him for the canonical establishment of the col-
o	#
lege. His Holiness replied, expressing his affectionate interest in the welfare of the college. He also spoke of the Council of Baltimore, and talked to almost every student of his diocese and of his My.A-Roman Correspondence of “ N E. Sunp
268	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
I® w wt
Notre Dame, January 3, 1885.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Eighteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame. •
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and. above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms^ Sr.50 fer Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning, former students and graduates of the University.
—We are pleased to learn that the Most Rev. P. W. Riordan, D. D., Coadjutor Archbishop of San Francisco, will shortly visit Notre Dame and lecture before the students. The visits of His Grace are always welcome, and made doubly interesting from the fact that he is a distinguished son of Notre Dame, and ever entertains the warmest feelings towards his Alma Mater. On the occasion of his approaching v^it, an entertainment will be provided in his honor under the auspices of the St. Cecilia Pbilomathean Association of the college. Ata suitable time thereafter, the learned prelate will deliver, his lecture. We have not as yet learned the subject to be treated, but, it is needless to say, that all who attend may be assured of an interesting and instructive evenins’.
O	-	o	_
—It is a pleasure to announce that the services of no less distinguished a litterateur than Charles Warren Stoddard have been secured as a Professor in the University. Mr. Stoddard, as a poet and prose-writer, is well known throughout the United States, and it is not too much to say that his letters from all parts of the world to the San Francisco
Chronicle made the reputation of that journal, and rendered the writer famous wherever the English language is spoken.
An extensive traveller, a poet of rarest power,* a graceful prose-writer, Mr. Stoddard will be a valued acquisition to the Faculty already so distinguished for ability and devotedness. Having been for some years past a favorite contributor to The Ave Maria, he is no stranger at Notre Dame, and will find friends as well as admirers here.
Mr. Stoddard is now visiting the World’s Fair in New Orleans, in company with a high official of the Hawaii Islands, but is expected to arrive in time for the opening of the second session.
—Contrary to expectations, we are enabled to greet our readers thus early at the beginning of the New Year. It is therefore with pleasure we reiterate the wishes expressed in our last number that the readers of the Scholastic may all and each enjoy ' a happy and successful year, with returns of the same, ad mzdtos annos I It will be agreeable information to all our friends, as it is to us, to know that our Alma Mater begins the year in a prosperous condition, and with every prospect of a continuance and even an augmentation of this happy condition. The attendance of the past few months which was large enough to satisfy the most sanguine expectations will, in all probability, be considerably increased before the end of the present month. It is gratifying to note this, as it is an indication of the success attending the career upon which Notre Dame has entered and the labors of those to whom its administration has been entrusted.
As for us, to whom are now held out the many opportunities and advantages which our Alma Mater possesses, it must be our didy to realize, as far as we may, the importance of beginning well another year, another great step in the journey of life. The present is a fitting time to renew good resolutions, and to form rules of life and conduct while at college, if we have not already d.one so. Each one can see for himself wherein he has failed during the year just passed, and the beginning of the new year is an excellent time in which to turn the experience of the past to advantage and to take a new departure.	.
Time is always precious, and particularly so .while at college. Every moment of it should be turned to good aofount. Now it is that hundreds of young men within the college walls prepare the foundation-on which they are to build in afterlife; a good foundation laid, they may build as solid and as heavy afterwards as circumstances will permit. The use of time, therefore, while at college, as well as the selection of the best materials to fill it out, are objects of primary importance.
When, a student enters college it is generally with some definite object in view: either to'fit himself for commercial life, for a professional career, or for scientific pursuits. ■ It is his dutv, by every means in his power, to co-operate with his
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	269
professors and directors in their endeavor to develop and perfect his natural talents. He should make good use of the time and advantages before him, and not squander the former in trifling things, or with such as arc altogether irrelevant to his purpose.
—The Cornell Era, alluding to my comments on political economy as at present taught in most colleges, and to that portion of rhy comments, especially, on the tariff lectures at Cornell in the early part of the year, says:
' “ This is the first time that we have heard these lectures referred to as rudimentary, and we are forced to believe that instead of reading the lectures as delivered, the Scholastic read the short reports of them appearing in the papers. If this is not the case, we fear that the editors themselves express it when they say ‘ they were trying to read,’ rather than reading the lectures. The trouble evidently is that instead of being rudimentary, the lectures were too comprehensive for the intellect of the Scholastic.”
The report of the Cornell lectures that came to my notice was that which appeared in the Cornell Daily Sun, and I presumed therefore that it was a fairly correct one. If not, the Sun is to blame, not I. I judged from what I saw, and I did not see enough to interest me. Although pressed for time, I would certainly have managed to read the lectures, and comment favorably upon them, had they been either interesting or instructive. As to the charge that the lectures were “too comprehensive” for my intellect, I feel confident that some of the intellect on the Scholastic will compare favorably with what is shown in the Cornell papers; ergo, if I could not understand the lectures they were understood by very few persons at Cornell. Is this the truth? The Era intimates that after a preparatory course with our own Prof. Hoynes I could again take up the Cornell lectures and “be better prepared to understand the arguments of such a practical thinker, able editor, and thorough student of the tariff question as Ellis H. Roberts.” Mr. Ellis H. Roberts may be all this, and more; but as I never heard of him before, and know nothing of him except what I have seen in the report of his lecture, I must, for the present, base my opinion on the latter. If he be such as he is represented by the Era, and so much more “comprehensive” in his views on political economy than Judge Cooley, David A. Weils, Emory A. Storrs, W. G. Sumner, the Hon. Frank Hurd,;arid other acknowledged high lights on questions of political economy, it is strange that I have not heard of him before. I have read the lectures and papers of these men, and understand them thoroughly, too, but the Era, nevertheless, intimates- that the lectures of the Cornell lecturers are too “comprehensive” for me! Perhaps they are, in one sense, and that not a favorable one to the lecturers, if I judge them aright at this distance of time. Prof. Hoynes, of the University of Notre Dame, advocates a protective tariff, but if the Cornell editor will read Mr. William H. Arnold’s able articles on free trade, published in the Scholastic some time ago, while on the editorial staff of this pap£r,he
will find it fully as “comprehensive” and more comprehensible than the report of the lecture at Cornell on.The same subject. This although Mr. Arnold was a student at the University of Notre Dame, and not a professor or lecturer on political economy. The tariff is a live, practical issue; therefore an adequate idea of it cannot be obtained by any system of mere theorizing, however excellent.
Exchange Ed. Scholastic.
Obituary.
BROTHER ALBAN, C. S. cl
It is our sad and painful duty to record the death of one known and loved for many years past by the students of Notre Dame. On the 21st of December,* Brother Alban (known in the world as Cornelius Mooney) died at Watertown, Wis., and two days later his remains were consigned to their last resting-place in the cemetery of his community at Notre Dame. The deceased entered the Order, to whose service he devoted his life, on the 20th day of April, 1862, being then in his seventeenth year. After the completion of his Novitiate and a few years passed in study arid teaching, he began, in 1866, those years of intercourse with the students of the University of Notre Dame which have made his name imperishable in the memory of all who had ever been placed under his kindly and paternal direction. As Prefect, he displayed a nobleness of mind, a kindliness of heart and a firmness of character which crowned the administration of his office with marked success and efficiency. During the year 1875 the dread disease, which finally carried him off, first manifested itself, and compelled him to resign the office he had held so long and well, and seek relief in a change of climate. After a year or two spent in the South, with but little improvement, he was transferred to the*College of the Sacred Heart, in Watertown, where he soon felt the beneficial effects of Wisconsin’s invigorating air. The few years that followed, were passed as Professor and Prefect of Discipline in the college, ■which functions he exercised with his usual efficiency. But the amelioration in his health'proved short-lived. Consumption’s relentless hand had too firm a grasp; his life slowly ' wasted away, and at length death.claimed him as its own. Two days before he died he had been engaged'in the discharge of his duties, working for Him to whose love and service he had consecrated his life, so that, it might be said of him that . he gave up his soul to God, like a soldier dying, at his post. .
Brother Alban has left many a friend among the old students of Notre Dame, who will be pained to learn of his sad demise, but who will not forget him in their prayers-before the Throne of Mercy for the repose of his soul. May he rest in peace!	.
5
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Exchanges.
—St. Viateur's College Journal, with its French supplement, presents a good appearance, and contains some interesting articles.
—The Niagara Index. of Nov. i<th. contains an editorial on “ Our Bigoted Friends” which some of our ex.’.s would do well to read.
—The editors of the Hamilton College Monthly deserve credit for a finely illustrated Christmas number of their paper. The illustrations—nine in number—are very good, indeed.
—The editors of The Xavier, St. Francis Xavier’s College, New York, have an eight-page supplement to their regular monthly, filled with prose, poetry, and other matter pertinent to the Christmas holidays.
— The Skirmisher is not by any means one of our best exchanges. The number before us contains several articles by “ S. W. R.,” which might be omitted without spoiling the effect of the paper. One, entitled “ Life,” is merely the translation of an old poem into prose.
—We have received the latest number of the Oscotian, from St. Mary’s College, Oscott, England. It -is a very neatly gotten-up sixty-page magazine, and contains many interesting articles. “The Story of Venice,” by Mark Wilson Lynch, especially attracted our notice.
—The November number of the Stonyhurst Magazine, from the old Catholic college of Stony-hurst, England, is at hand. It contains many well-written articles on various subjects which arc especially interesting to the American reader. It is with great pleasure that we acknowledge the receipt of this publication.
—We find the following editorial item in the last issue of the Argonaut, from the University of O'	V
Michigan:	•
“ The Argonaut was the first college paper in the West to adopt the weekly plan. The large favor the change has met, has led us to make another innovation, in the shape of a double Christmas number. A large editiomwill be printed. Those desiring extra copies, please notify us at once. Extras of the Christmas number furnished at 15 cents apiece.”
The editors of The Michigan Argonaut have shown praiseworthy enterprise in making their paper a weekly, but the assertion that “ the Argo-■naut was the first college paper in the West to adopt the weekly plan ” is a mistake. The Notre Dame Scholastic was the first weekly college ■ paper in the West, our predecessors having made it such more than seventeen years ago, before the Argonaut was thought of, and more than a year before the oldest paper at the University of Michigan, The Chronicle, issued its first number. .
■—The Cynic editors (University of Vermont) having been hedged in bv the Lasell Leaves, the Exchange-editor is try ing to extricate the corps from the pitiless pelting of the sylvan shower. They must have had alate “Fall ” in Vermont, last year. “Leaves, especially dry Leaves” says the unfor
tunate editor,—who seems to be in as deplorable a plight as ourselves when dazzled into a presbyopic state by the brilliant, withering rays of the Canadian Sunbeam,—“ are not particularly formidable antagonists, and yet when they begin to turn such withering sarcasm we must needs listen to their rustling.” To the charge of being a “ Green Mountain editor” the Exchange-man of the Cynic ungallantly retorts: “The charge of ‘greenness’ rankles sorely. We should never have thought of accusing the Leaves of being green. There is just one consolation, we aren’t ‘ bright’ green, and perhaps some time we too can get to be of a dull color. This is a good deal of space to devote to ‘ nothing but leaves,’ but, as Mrs. Partington said, ‘There was a pretty strong prevarication? •” The Cvnic editor is clever, but. he might as well give in first as last: the ladies will have their own sweet way, and he ought to know it.	'
“ When a woman will, she will, you may depend on it;
And when she won’t, she won’t, and there’s an end on't.”
— 7'he Chronicle for December the 6th is by great odds the best number of that paper that we have seen. The editorial matter deals with practical subjects for college students, and the department of “General Literature” is filled with solid, well-written articles. The curiously-inclined literary student will find food for thought and no little amusement in comparing the Chronicles able and discriminating article on “ Carlyle’s Teaching and Carlyle’s Life” with one on the same subject in our sprightly Western contemporary, the Hesperian Student. Able as is the Student's article, it is one-sided, wonderfully so, in its judgment of Carlyle, personally. Take the following quotations as an instance: “Carlyle attained high flights, he has seen much”; granted; “and if sometimes, under the weight of care, he forgets his lofty position we may pardon him; ,to use the words of Confu- ' cius, ‘our greatest glorv is not in never falling but in rising every time we fall.’ ” We may not pardon him. Carlyle was constantly falling, but made no attempt to rise; he lay flat in the mud, crying out like a cross and querulous child, against his fate and against all around him. The Chron-ide writer, on tlie other hand, says truly that “ his own life, his talk, his journal, his letters show Carlyle as a common scold.” Such he was, in the last and most miserable degree. To quote again from the admirable criticism in the Chronicle:
“There is, in short, the same dualism in his teachings that there is between his teachings and his life, and the rift in the lute is simply this: lack of faith—faith in the truth, faith in man. He wanted to see facts as they were, —facts of history, facts of character; and no one, probably, could truthfully say that as mere intellectual portraits of his contemporaries, many of his strongest condemnations are not accurately true. But what are the facts? Do we get them by putting away all sympathy, all love, all faith in humanity? or is the ordinary man right when he pre-. fers to see and judge others through the veil of sympathy.	,
and love—through the mist of idealization which he	|
throws about them? Arejiot, after all, sympathy and love	s
part of the facts of life, and'by omitting them do we get a	J
true picture dr only a distorted image? Is. intellect all?	i
or do feeling and will have some claims, even upon our	j
judgments? Carlyle could not judge men right, could not act rightly or unselfishly, for the same reason that he
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
271
could not judge the nineteenth century rightly—lack of sympathy, and consequently lack of faith. Froude may tell us that Carlyle is a modern Hebrew prophet declaiming against the sins and -weaknesses of his generation, but that must not blind us to the fact, so happily brought out by Mr. Arnold, that the denunciation was accompanied in these prophets with the vividest and strongest faith in the ‘remnant’ and of the capacity of this ‘remnant’ to redeeming which the world has ever seen.
“Carlyle’s life and teaching both illustrate to us the profound truth of the following words of Maudsley: ‘One who is alienated from his kind always ends by becoming alienated from himself, for he is himself truly one as he is and aims to be atone with his kind.’ Carlyle is the Hamlet of the nineteenth century.”
—S. S. Packard’s serial sketches in the Penman's Art Journal—entitled “ A Schoolmaster Abroad”—are picquant and pretty, and the numerous illustrations arc sui generis. Mr. Packard combines in a measure, in his sketches, the descriptive faculty of Bayard Taylor with the humor of Twain. “ Drawing Lessons ” given by the editor-in-chief of the Journal—Prof. D. T. Ames —are just the thing for juvenile classes. Besides Prof. Hinman’s “ Lessons in Practical Writing,”— which have reached the eighth number of the series —a number of other eminent pen-artists furnish contributions. Prof. Ames copies a recent review of his paper by the Notre Dame Scholastic, and adds:
“The foregoing notice is copied for two reasons: First, from our appreciation of the favorable opinion of so able and well-conducted a periodical as is the Scholastic. Secondly, to reply to the allegation of the Scholastic that some of the articles of the Journal had been offensive to Catholics. We are not now aware as to what articles the Scholastic refers, but we are certain that it is quite right when it presumes that such articles were published with no intention to offend. •
The editors of the Journal believe in toleration in the fullest significance of the term, and have not the slightest purpose or wish to reflect upon the religion or politics of any person. They would as soon say what their readers should eat and wear, as to say what should be their religious or political faith.”
—In the Exchange department of the Shurtleff College Review for December we find the fol-o ...
lowing criticism:
“We would like to ask the Notre Dame Scholastic whether it is a College or a Church paper. We like to see a manly stand taken for principle, whether it is a political or a religious one. But, Scholastic have you not papers enough advocating the cause of Catholicism without your aid? We are Baptists here, but for that reason we do not think it the duty of our College paper to give the history of the Church in America or any other place. College journals should confine themselves to College matters. We do not say that everything else should be excluded; but college news ought to be the main feature in a College paper.”
To which we will answer, categorically: No, the Scholastic is not a Church paper, it is a Catholic college paper; we have papers enough to advocate the cause of Catholicism without our aid, but these are not within the sphere of college journalism, where slanders against our religion are frequently to be met and refuted. Neither is the Scholastic, a scientific paper, in the strict-sense of the term, nor a philosophical paper, and yet it is open for articles on science or philosophy, on political economy or history, or on literature, whenever contributors furnish them. It is not surprising that students here should occasionally
select subjects relating to Church history; if the the Church of our Baptist friends had such a glorious history as ours—the grand old Catholic Church, so ancient but always new,—we feel sure they would 'feel inclined to write of it more frequently. The editor of the Review says that “college news ought to be the main feature in a College paper.” That depends upon circumstances. Such a programme might do for a monthly paper like the Review, which could easily be filled with the four weeks’ local news; but it would not answer so well in a weekly paper, like ours. We give the college news, and have space to spare for literary and other matter.
Books and Periodicals.
The Irish-American Almanac for 1885.
Calculated for Use Throughout All Parts of the United States. New York: Lynch, Cole & M$ehan. 12 Warren St. Price, 25 cents.
This so-called “ Almanac ” is a first-class annual; crammed with a variety of useful information, it cannot fail to prove acceptable to everybody. The “Notable Anniversaries” for each day of the month for the twelve months are evidently prepared with painstaking care. The reading-matter —original and selected, scraps, etc.,—constitutes aii interesting miscellany,—just such matter as one likes to find in annuals of this kind. ‘
Scott-Browne’s American Standard - Book of Shorthand Abbreviations. Pocket Edition. By D. L. Scott-Browne, Editor of Brozone's Phonographic Monthly, and Author of the American Standard Series of Shorthand Text-Books. New York: D. L. Scott-Browne. 1SS4. Price, 50 cents.
This is a handy little book of 58 pages, in flexible cover, suited for the pocket. It purports to give an alphabetical list of all the abbreviations in Scott-Browne’s system—500 in number—with reference vocabulary of 3,000 words in common use, words of peculiar construction, and words that have been written with various outlines; besides which there are 400 names of persons and places, technical longhand abbreviations, etc.
The book is an excellent specimen of engraving and press-work. Students of Scott-Browne’s modification of the Benn Pitman system will find it a very useful vade mecum. It is a pity, however, that while the author was modifying that useful but now rather scrubby and antiquated system, he did not modify it still further, and replace unnecessarily long outlines with shorter and better ones. We find here many frequently recurring words and phrases, such as “antecedent,” “history,” “impend,” “ importunate,” “ empannelled,” “ somewhat,” “county court,” “supreme court,” etc., with one or two strokes more than are necessary, —this, too, when the shorter form would often not be a contraction, but a full outline, as in “ rampant,” “antecedent,” “impenetrable,” “history,” “ inarticulate,”,etc., etc. It might be argued in defence that some of the best reporters in the world, like Chiefs Dennis Murphy of the Senate reporto-
-	I
272	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	!
rial corps and John J. McElhone, of the House, are equal to any emergency with their old pth-edi-tion Isaac Pitman svstem, containing outlines equally cumbrous; but, on the other hand, it must be borne in mind that the Gurney writers in the ■ British Parliament do .equally or nearly as good work with the barbarous system of West, published nearly two hundred years ago, which can bear no comparison with Pitman’s 9th edition of Phonograph}’-. What is wanted in shorthand writing is the greatest possible brevity without sacrificing legibility, for even phonography at its best is at times hardly brief enough for the expression of rapid utterance.
Another defect in this little manual is the writing of some positive and negative words like “moral,” “immoral,” “material,” “immaterial,” “mortal,” “immortal,” with the same outline; a defect that ought to be remedied in a future edition. “Collateral” and “collaterally” could also be given distinctive outlines without sacrificing brevity.	’
—The January number of the North American Review presents an essay by Bishop Huntington on “Vituperation in Politics.” Under the title “ The Reunited South,” Henry Watterson presents, with great clearness, the Southern and Democratic view of the political situation as itnow stands. This also is extremely interesting to eveiy citizen, whether he agrees with Mr. Watterson or not. Another question of universal concern which, some think, will soon make itself a national issue, is that of labor and its compensation; and Col. Hinton, in “ American Labor Organizations,” shows with what equipment it will take the field. But the article that the literary reader will first turn to-is Frederic Harrison’s brilliant and incisive discussion of “Fronde’s Life of Carlyle.”- For the scientific reader, Mr. Proctor discusses learnedly “ Herschel’s Star Surveys,” and Prof. Le Conte presents and explains some curious facts in relation to “ The Evidence of the Senses.” Mr. Mulhall’s paper on “ The Increase of Wealth ” is a successful endeavor to render large masses of figures popularly intelligible.	1
—The January number of St. Nicholas opens appropriate!j’ with a poem by Celia Thaxter, entitled “ The'Child and the Year.” Another timely article is the breezy and exciting ice-yachting story by E. Vinton Blake. “ Historic Girls,” a new
* companion series to “ Historic Boys,” by E. S. Brooks,Js begun by the same author, in the same interesting style. Edmund Alton tells a great many more instructive and entertaining things he learned when he was a boy-page “Among the Lawmakers.” There is a spirited, full-page picture of a very-old-fashioned elephant with tusks curved the wrong way, by J. B. Nugent, and a description of it by C. F. Holder.. There is also an “Art and Artists ” paper, by Clara Erskine Clement, about Velasquez, with a reproduction, of . one of his most famous pictures, and a great deal besides of the same bright, healthful, and happy sort. - Published byTVze Century Co.Union Square, New York.
1
Local Items.	1
—A Happy New Year!	J
—“ Meet me at-------, p. m.”
—Classes were resumed this morning.
—It was a very pleasant Christmas here.
—Returns are coming in slowly but surely.
—The Scholastic Annual is going off like hot-cakes.	•
—Henceforth the days will grow perceptibly longer, o
—The Minims had a grand Christmas-tree celebration.
—The study-halls were entirely remodelled during the holidays.
—Rev. President Walsh has received several new applications.
—Where was the Juniors’ Christmas-tree this year? We wot not. ,
—The Minims had a beautiful Christmas-tree in their reading-room. O	-
—Look out for the Home Dramatic Association
next Wednesday night. .
—The present edition of the Scholastic Annual is the largest ever issued.
—Now, settle down to three weeks of hard work for the examinations.
—Our friend John says: “I never thaw a thaw thaw as this thaw thawed.”
—There are indications that there will be a greatlv-increased attendance during the coming session.	.
—By special request, the St. Cecilians are to repeat their late play, in the course of two or three weeks.
—The poet-laureate has met with something un . toward. We anxiously await further particulars from the seat of war.
—The cut of St. Edward’s Hall in the new Scholastic Annual has a remarkably good picture of the Founder of Notre Dame.
—Those having badk-n umbers of The Ave Maria which they do not need will confer a favor by returning them to the office of publication.
—Thus far, there has been no skating worth mentioning; but we have reason.to expect that, ere ' many days, it will be alt that could be desired.
—The students returning from the holidays must ~ have a large quantity of “personals” with them.
Boys, step forward and contribute to our “box.”
—Lost—Three dollars—a two and one dollar bill .
rolled together. Finder will confer a favor by leaving with Junior Prefects or at Scholastic Office. ' ‘	'
—The stay-at-home members of the Scholastic Staff, even if .they do say it themselves, have done pretty well. We expect to hear it said that	i
this number is one of unusual excellence.	!
■	.	li
—Our astrologer’s face is in a horrible condition.	|
He says, however, that the Marquis of Queens- |
...
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
273
bury’s rules were strictly observed, and that the “ other fellow,” is in a far worse plight than, he is.
—Those of our dramatic artists that remained •here during the holidays have prepared a grand literary and musical soiree, which they will take pleasure in giving on next Wednesday, the 7th inst.	.
—Our open-winter weather-prophets were quite jubilant in the early part of the week, but with the cold weather that set in on Wednesday evening their feelings have experienced a corresponding depression.
—The sleighing was excellent while it lasted, and was enjoyed by many. But, alas! it was all too brief. A great thaw, accompanied with rain, set in on last Sunday, and by Wednesday there was not a vestige of snow on the ground, and barely a trace of ice on the lakes.
—The Seniors are indebted to Mr. Walsh and the Herald Company, of Chicago, for a regular copy of the Heraldsvat to the Senior reading-room. The subscription money for* the paper was generously declined, the publishers wishing to make it a contribution of their own to the reading-room.
—A number of students from’ Notre Dame University spent last Saturday in the city on a tour of inspection among the business houses and factories. While in the city these young men conucted themselves in a manner that reflected credit upon themselves and honored the great University of Notre Dame, which they represented. —South-Bend Tribune.
—Rt. Rev. Mgr. Osouf, Bishop of Arsinoe, Northern Japan, and his Secretary, Rev. P. X. Mugabure, Missionary to Japan, took their departure from Notre Dame on the 26th ult., after a pleasant visit Of some days. The amiable prelate had accepted an invitation to take a much-needed rest, after which he proposed to continue his labors in behalf of his suffering diocese. We hope that he will meet with the success the cause in which he is engaged so well deserves. We are glad to learn that he intends visiting Notre Dame again Before he leaves for his see.
—We are obliged to the publisher, Mr. J. A. Lyons, for the tenth number of the Scholastic Annual, published at Notre Dame, Indiana. Excellent as its predecessors have been, this is still ahead in the quantity and interest of its readingmatter.' The great success of the Astrological predictions in the past encourages the author to go deeper into the mysteries of the future, and the events of the coming year are given with great particularity. Any person wanting an excellent calender for 1885 can address J. A. Lyons, Notre Dame, Indiana. Price, 25 cents.— Tpsilanti Sentinel.	•
—On Saturday last, the feast of St. John the Evangelist,—the 27th ult.—the princes gave their beloved Patron a reception at the Palace. The occasion was honored by the presence of Rev. President Walsh, Rev. Father Granger, Rev. Father Cooney, Miss. Ap., Dr. Grimes, of Denver,
Col., and several ladies who were visiting their sons-during the holidays. The entertainment, which was in every way a success, consisted of a handsome poetic address to Very Rev. Father General, delivered, with good effect, by Master Edward Kelly, of Joliet, Ill., and several interesting recitations by the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association.
—We are in receipt of the tenth number of the Scholastic Annual, edited by Prof. J. A. Lyons, of Notre Dame University, and the name of its editor is a sufficient guarantee to anyone that between its covers is enclosed a rare literary treat. A glance at its contents bears one out iri his first belief; for fine efforts poetical and prose from the pens of such writers as Profs. Lyons, Stace, Howard and Hoynes, by Fathers Walsh, Zahm, by Eleanor C. Donnelly, Margaret Sullivan, and others, are there found. We can certainly commend Prof. Lyons for his taste in selection, and contributors for the literary ability shown in their productions.—South-Bend Times.
—We were pleased during the holidays to meet and greet our one-time genial Prefect of Discipline, Rev. Father O’Keefe, now the worthy and efficient President of the College of the Sacred Heart, Watertown, Wis. We are glad to note the sue-cess which has attended his administration of the educational institution over which he so ably presides. It is now in a most flourishing condition; its accommodations being utilized to their utmost capacity, necessitating the erection of new buildings, which will be begun at an early date. The Facuity embraces a number of able, professors and instructors, and the loss lately sustained in the death of the lamented Bro. Alban, the Director of the Commercial Department, will be repaired by the accession of a valued and efficient professor. All in all, Father O’Keefe may be congratulated upon the prosperous issue of his efforts, and’we hope'that his success may long continue.
—We are indebted to Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M., of Notre Dame University, for an advance copy of his Scholastic Annual for 1885. This is the tenth year Prof. Lyons has issued this Annual, and it has become as standard in tire literary world as the New York Tribime almanac is in the political world. The annual for 1.S85 is more bulky than any of its predecessors, and, we think, more care was observed in compiling it. Its literary excellence is one of its most noticeable features. Its best poem is “A Legend of Bretagne,” by Mr. Elliot Ryder, and we believe it to be the best thing he has ever written. It is worthy of Longfellow. The richest reading in the book is the “ Astrological Predictions for 1885.” Only the satirical pen of Prof. Stace. could have produced these. Prof. Hoynes has a sound article on “The Elective Franchise,” and Prof. Zahm a very interesting one on “ Mexico.” The address of President Walsh to’the students at the opening of the scholastic year of ’84 on “ The Work of Education ” is reproduced, and is deserving of the permanency, this book gives it. tc The Hidden Star ” is a delicious little poem by Prof. T. E.
•274
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Howard, of this city. There are nearly a score of Other articles in the book, besides a valuable calender. The Annual will be sent to any address for 25 cents. Address Prof. J. A. Lyons, Notre Dame, Ind.—South-Bend Tribune.
— A party of the “ banner ’’students from the College spent the afternoon of New Year’s day very pleasantly in South Bend. They were the guests of Samuel P. O’Brien, of the Junior department. In the evening, the host vielded his claims to the pressing invitation of his cousin, Edward Byerly, also of the Junior department, and the party adjourned to the Byerly mansion for dinner. Three of the Byerlys, Sr., with Mr. Alexis Coquillard, of South Bend, were students at Notre Dame, in the early days of the College. One of these, Mr. Samuel P. Byerly, who died last year, taught at the College for a while, we believe. Some interesting reminiscences were awakened by the presence of the Notre Dame party. Mrs. Byerly, Sr., a most amiable and accomplished lady, was a resident of South Bend when Father Sorin and his companions first came to these parts. She remembers well the humble beginnings of the great educational institution, now the pride of Northern Indiana, which attracts students from all parts of the United States and Mexico, and whose stately halls and works of art are daily visited with delight by hosts of strangers. To those who have seen Notre Dame only as it is, such reminiscences and stories of the early days of the College, as those given by Mrs. Byerly, prove very interesting. The visiting party will always have a pleasant memory of the New Year’s evening at South Bend.
—The great Festival of Christmas, as is befitting one of the foremost among the solemn festivals of the Church, was observed at Notre Dame with all the pomp and splendor possible. As has always been the custom here, Solemn High Mass was celebrated at midnight in the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart. The celebrant was the venerable Founder of Notre Dame, Very Rev. Father General, who was assisted by Rev. Fathers Granger and Regan as deacon and subdeacon. Additional solemnity and impressiveness was imparted to the midnight celebration of the Holy Sacrifice by the large number of religious and students approaching the Holy Table at the very hour which commemorated the Birth of the world’s Redeemer. The privilege of this Midnight Communion was recently accorded the inmates of Notre Dame by the Holy See, and that the favor is greatly appreciated was testified in the piety and • devotion with which so many profited thereby.
On Christmas Day, Solemn Pontifical Mass was celebrated by Rt. Rev. Mgr. Osouf, Bishop of Ar-sinoe, in Northern Japan. The Assistant Priest was Rev. Father L’Etourneau; the deacon and subdeacon of the Mass were Rev. Fathers Spillaid and Regan; Mr. Thillman was Master of Ceremonies. During the Offertory, the Rev. P. X. Mugabure, Missionary to Japan, sang the Adcste Fideles with splendid effect.- An eloquent and
impressive sermon, appropriate to the Festival of the day, was preached by Rev. Father O’Brien.
from the- “ South Bend Tribune.'”^
Our Needy Poor.
CHARACTERISTIC LETTER FROM THE KIND-
HEARTED VERY REV. FATHER SORIN. .
To the Editor of the '•'■South Bend Tribune ”: The many warm thanks I have received for my late card, conveying the compliments of the season to our best friends, encourage me to take a step further in behalf of the deserving poor. My experience in the New World has taught me some precious lessons. I, too, once went without a dinner because wc had nothing to eat; but a generous friend noticed it, and a little while afterward we had more than wc needed. This is an old recollection, but forty-three yearshave not obliterated it. How often have I not gratefully remembered the kind friend who forced me to acknowledge that that day I had had nothing to eat! It is no wonder, therefore, that I feel for the poor hungry man, or woman, or child 1 This happened at St. Peter’s, Davies County, Indiana, where wc lived for fifteen months before coming to what is now known as Notre Dame. The gentleman was Governor Hayes, as wc called him. He was not a member of any Church, but for all that- he undoubtedly possessed the noblest qualities of heart. He was thirty-five years older than myself. Soon after this we became such intimate friends that I could never go often enough to dine with him at his house. And all this the result of a little assistance in our hour of need!	'
Through the severe weather we have had of Late I could scarcely bear the sight of so many beggars—dozens of them—coming daily to our doors from town, poorly clad, bedraggled with mud or covered with snow, and still anxious, after a walk of three miles and more, to return to their needy ones with whatever relief we could give them. Through pity for them, and especially those of the weaker sex and the children, we have arranged matters a little better. In future we shall send, at 2 p. m., by our commissioner, to the good Sisters at St. Joseph’s Hospital, whatever we can spare for the poor. The Superior at St. Mary’s Academy will do the same, and I venture to say that more than a few of our generous friends will likewise do so occasionally. Thus St. Joseph’s Hospital will become the providence of the needy —not alone those in need of food, but of clothing, shoes, etc. Whatever is done for our fellow-beings in want will be recorded in the Book of Life, and prove.an investment richly compensated with interest. This will be my favorite bank in my old age.	Very truly yours,
- E. Sorin.
For the Dome.
F. M. Baker, South Bend....................$5 00
M. J. Howley, Cairo, Ill.......;.........$10.00
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Saint fflaq/s Academy.
Oue A Hie West of Notre Dame University.
—A very beautiful breakfast plate painted in the studio was presented as a Christmas gift to Father General.
—It is with pain that we learn of the death of Mrs. Gleeson, a near relative of Miss Annie Murphy, of Chicago. Requiescat in ■pace!
—The Adeste Fideles and the Nolite of the season ring out as charmingly as ever. May the Child Jesus grant His choicest blessings to the singers!
—At his third Mass of Christmas Day, which was offered at eight o’clock, the Rev. Chaplain preached an excellent sermon on the mystery of the day.
—An exquisite wall-banner of roses, painted on satin, embedded in the most delicate blue velvet, was received from Miss Della Gordon, of Cairo (Class ’So).
—The two most beautiful Christmas cards on the Christmas tree were, the first for Alice Schmauss, from her friends in Rockford; and the second, for Mary Dillon, from her dear friend, Mannelita Chaves, of Belen, New Mexico.
—Santa Claus is under a deep debt of obligation to Miss Fannie Gregori, whose skillful needle worked marvels in his favor, and whose generosity has enchanted even the fairies of wonderland, since none of them could pretend to excel her in minute dexteritv. *
—“Madame Affable,” of the Junior department (Miss Lily Van Horn), received a beautiful book entitled “ Wild Flowers,” in token of appreciation; “ Miss Eastlake” (Clara Richmond), and “Miss Holmes” (Grace Regan), each received an equally beautiful volume, the “Life of Hadyn”; the first bound in brown, the second in purple. In the three books the honored autograph, “ E. Sorin,” was inscribed.
—Santa Claus brought a tree from his wonder-ful forest up in the land of perpetual snows, and, selecting as his deputies three of the most graceful Juniors, distributed the fruit of the tree among the pupils"" who celebrated Christmas at St. Mary’s. The Juniors’ recreation-room was the scene of his bounty. Very Rev. Father General, Rev. Fathers Shortis and Saulnier honored the dismantling of the branches by their kindly presence.
—On Wednesday, a great treat was afforded to the lovers of the aesthetic, in the pleasure of examining the charming Christmas gift of Mrs. Stude-baker, of South Bend, to Mr. Studebaker, designed as a surprise to that gentleman on the following morning. It consists of a magnificent “Game” breakfast set, painted by Mrs. Studebaker’s own deft fingers in St. Luke’s Studio. No more acceptable or more elegant gift could be presented.
—The rendering of “ New Arts,” twice, in close succession, far from detracting from its interest, was the means of enhancing the pleasure of all
who were so fortunate as to witness the excellent performance on the i6th ult. Indeed we may say that to many it was the first time that the full beauty of the play was seen. The action of Hannah Stumer, Ellen Sheekey, Agnes High, Grace Searles, Sadie Campau, Mary McEwen, Minnie Cox, Eulalie Chapin, Alice Schmauss, Alary Lindsey, Lily Johns, Edna Burtis, as also that of Estelle Hagan and Eva Preston, was very fine.
—The patron chosen by Very Rev. Father General at the time of his ordination was St.John the Evangelist. According to a time-honored cus-tom, felicitations on the happy’ occasion are always presented on the festival of the sain^—Dec. 27th. The programme for Friday'- was as follows: “ Congratulations,” read byr Miss Hayes; song by Aliss Bruhn; recitation from Father Faber, Eulalie Chapin; instrumental selection, Aliss Gove; recitation—“ Nina’s Choice,” from the Scholastic—by Aliss Richmond. The beautiful response by Father General we would gladly transcribe, word for word, did space permit, for it would bring to mind so many* interesting events connected with the wonderful life of the inspired author of the “ Apocalypse.”
—The great festival of the Nativity brought with it the loved and ardently-anticipated Alid-night Mass. There is something intensely thrilling to one possessed of strong and lively faith in the dogma of the Incarnation,—the truth that the Second Person of the Ever-Blessed Trinity “was made flesh and dwelt among us”—in the thought of receiving Holy Communion at the very moment when the whole world, aye, the entire universe, heaven and earth, sky and sea together, are celebrating the birth of that Infant Redeemer who came to ransom the fallen race of man. In the dead of night the joyous ringing of bells rouses everyone from slumber. All hasten to the chapel, where the glowing lights around the stony' grotto display the representation of Bethlehem, as it appeared nearly nineteen centuries ago. The organ peals forth its cheerful notes, and Mass is celebrated with all the splendor of the Catholic ritual. At the moment of Communion every heart is made a Bethlehem, and there, adoring angels whisper, in a voice too sacred for the trifling ear to understand, “Peace on earth to men of good will.” This is the Mass of midnight; then comes the A'lass of aurora, and lastly7 the Alass of day. The Community and Catholic pupils all received Holy7 Communion at Midnight Alass, which was celebrated by Rev. Father Shortis.
New Arts.
“Nor must we think lightly even of refinement of thought, and speech, and behavior, for we know that manners come of morals, and that morals in turn are born of manners, as the ocean breathes forth the clouds, and the clouds fill the ocean.” (Rt. Rev. J. L. Spalding, D.JD., Sermon on “University Education.”)
One who has witnessed the performance of that valuable contribution to academic and .collegiate entertainments, written by Very Rev. Father Sorin,
7
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Superior-General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, and entitled “ New Arts,” will behold therein the interpretation of the above.
That which is worth doing at all, is worth doing well. Our lives are made up of social intercourse. Associations with our friends and acquaintances which are inevitable, cannot be left to the caprice of mood and temper. Laws and rules, more or less binding^, are the natural outgrowth of esteem and regard cherished for our fellow-beings. irood o	K-’ o
• manners, like every other branch of education, are to be acquired, but not without study and close, constant practice. In society they are the only passport. When wanting, nothing can compensate for their absence, not even wealth, talent, beauty, wonderful acquirements, or even genius itself. If possessed, a thousand deficiencies are pardoned.
These declarations are not far-fetched. They are so universally accepted that we may call them’axioms; yet, how few practically understand their application! Dear as perfect propriety is to our senses, how easy it is for even the adept to make an occasional blunder. But if the adept in propriety sometimes fails, what can be expected of one careless in-learning that which belongs to good manners? A lounging, slouching attitude is not a crime, but is a mark of disesteem in the presence of others. Staring about in public places, and laughing loud, are not capital offences against governmental law, but they are shocking to the- eyes and ears of the educated and the right-minded.
Deformity must move the heart to pity, but we must none the less feel a satisfaction on beholding symmetrical features, and a well-developed figure. Those unaccustomed to deal with the voung, however, can scarcely comprehend how much habit has to do with the character of the physical development.- To them it would be simply marvellous 'Were they to mark the results of attention to posture. Three months can transform the “stoopshouldered,” awkward girl, into the graceful sylphlike young lady; whereas, without attention, the same person persisting in a careless habit, would develop spinal curvature, perhaps, or some other incurable disease.
This is one of many points admirably brought out in “ New Arts.” The exciting denouement— tragic interest of plot and plan, affecting scenes to move the eyes to tears, and the heart to commiseration,—none of these constitute the merits of “ New Arts,” but what is far better—practical lessons in the intricate but all-important science of propriety in manners are taught.
It is not to be wondered at that children do not realize their own defects. Youth are sometimes even more insensible. The mentor is charged with the delicate task of bringing about their recognition of that which is often a most mortifying truth; it would be, indeed, a most cruel kindness were the teacher to neglect making the pupil acquainted with imperfections which are easily corrected out of the fear of bringing mortification upon her. “ New Arts,” however,” adroitly spares both mentor and pupil. In all the numerous dra
matic performances in which the young ladies of St. Mary’s have won golden opinions, nowhere have they ever appeared to so great advantage as in this play written for the voung by one who for nearly half a century has been laboring assiduously for youth; meantime he has been a close and profound observer. The comparatively recent champion of Christian education—the learned, gifted and ardent Bishop of Peoria—has uttered in one sentence the highest *eulogium of the subject under consideration.
If morals and manners are so intimately related that the one is but the mirror or reflection of the other, to neglect the scrupulous cultivation of the latter would be most disastrous in its results to the commonwealth.
Class Honors.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
ist Class—Miss B. Gove. ’	.
an Div.—Misses J. Barlow, A. Shephard.
2D Class—Misses M. Bruhn, M. Hale, N. Keenan.
2D Div.—Miss C. Ginz.
3D Class—Misses E. Carney, E. Sheekey.
2D Div.—Misses M. Adderly, M. Ducey, M. Dillon, E. Horn, C. Morrison, M. Scully, L. Van Horn.
4T11 Class Misses M. Fuller, C. Fehr, B. Kearney, M. Munger, A. Murphy, H. Ramsey, B. Snowhook.
2D Div.—Misses E. Call, C. Congdon, A. Malboeuf, L. St. Clair, G. Wolvin.	’	.
5T11 Class—Misses S. Dunne, N. Danforth, E. Don-elly, A. DonneUy. A. English, D. Fitzpatrick, J. Foster, C. Griffith, Alice Cordon, T. McSorley, A. McSorley, G. Regan, L. Williams, E. Walsh, E. Wallace.	*
2D Div.—Misses M. Barry, E. Brady, M. Cox, F. Cummins, M. Fisk, Addie Gordon, L. Hutchinson, A. Keyes, C. Rose, G. Stadtler, E. Taylor.
6tii Class—Misses N. Brown, L. Blaine, C. Cox, B. English, G. Faxon, F. Henry, M. Kearsey, B. Lauer, M. Murphy, S. St.«Clair, M. Schmidt, E. Strawn, Ella Sheekey, H. Stumer.
2D Div.—Misses L. Johns, E. Kearns, L. Murdock, M. Newman, E. O’Connell, M. Reinhold, L. Ryan, F. Spencer, Margaret Smith, M. Shea, C. Torrent, E. Walsh.
7T11 Class—Misses I. Alcott, M. Blair, M. Barr, F. Carmien, S. Campeau, Margaret Ducey, R..Eisenstadt, R. Filbech, B. Heckard, M. Hawkins, M. Helpling, A. High, C. Lang, J. McHale, E. Norris, D. Reynolds, A. Schidler, G. Searls, A. Schmauss, A. White.
Sth Class—Misses F. Hertzog, C. Prudhomme.
9TH Class—Misses E. Chapin, E. Hagan, M. Lindsey, B. Murray.
ioth Class—Misses E. Blaine, V. Johns, D. Lee.
HARP.
3d Class—Miss M. Dillon.
4TH Class—Miss D. Fitzpatrick.
6th Class—Miss A. Shephard.
GUITAR.
3d Class—Miss L. Van Horn.
4TII Class—Miss A. English. ■
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
ist Class—Misses M. Bruhn, M. Hale.
2D Class—Miss B. English.
2D Div.—Misses H. Ramsey, S. St. Clair.
3d Class—Misses A. English, M. Ducey, L. Sheekey, E. Walsh. ’	.	_
4TH Class—Misses B. Lauer, I. Alcott, L. Van Horn, L. St. Clair, Addie Gordon, Alice Gordon.
5TH Class—Misses G. Stadtler, C. Fehr, C. Lang, C. Rose, M. Hawkins, B. Heckard, F. Henry, H. Stumer.