Scholastic is looking for students interested in the positions of
News Editor
Assistant Business Manager
If either of these are of interest to you, please stop by our office at 303 LaFortune or call 239=7509.
AHU suf® @im©©uumg®dl to sijpjpB^o
*FREE CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST
*PRIVATE IN ROOM JACUZZI SPAS
*FREE HBO, CNN, ESPN
*	IN ROOM MOVIES/VCR (over 50 titles)
*	FREE LOCAL CALLS
*	LAUNDRY	S £
*	AAA AND MOBILE RATED SO ® ' - —
FOR RESERVATIONS CALL TOLL FREE:
1-800-347-8016
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
m
Paul Webb
COVER
10
Crisis Update: Pacifism and Militarism
As the January 15 deadline approaches and Bush prepares to launch an offensive, how are students at a Catholic university supposed to react?
NEWS ANALYSIS 12 A Big Mistake
Warwouldbean unprecedented error 14 Defending Our Vital Interests America must defend itself and Saudi Arabia
ENTERTAINMENT
7
Movies Presumed Innocent
7
WEEKLY DEPARTMENTS
Music
The Cavedogs Precious Wax Drippings God's Acre
SPORTS
16
New Year's Resolution
Notre Dame and Colorado meet again to resolve the national championship controversy
2 Editorial
3 Letters
4 On Other Campuses
5
Week In Distortion
6 The Unexamined Life
20 Final Word
DECEMBER 13, 1990
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
Vol. 132, No. 11
December 13, 1990
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Michael C. Wieber
MANAGING EDITOR
Derik T. Weldon
NEWS EDITOR
Trad Taghon
SPORTS EDITOR
Brian McMahon
SPORTS ASSISTANT
Jon Paul Potts
CAMPUS LIFE EDITOR
Kristine DeGange
ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR Dave Holsinger
PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR
Mari Okuda
PHOTOGRAPHY ASSISTANT
Paul Webb
COPY EDITOR
Dave Raedy
LAYOUT/SYSTEMS MANAGER
Patricia Doyle
ADVERTISING MANAGER Tony Porcelli
BUSINESS MANAGER
Jim Fitzgerald
GRAPHIC ARTS MANAGER
Jeanne Naylor
Sclwlasl ic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examination and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN,46556and printed at The Papers, Inc.,Milfbrd, IN46542, The subscription rate is $25.00}year and back issues are available at $125/ copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors snd editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial boardofScholasticoroflheUniversityofNoiTeDame,ilsadminislTaiion, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome, AU unsolicitied materials become the property of Scholastic.
Copyright 1990 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
Deck the Mosque
(with Bombs of Folly?)
m housands of people will not be having I a White Christmas this year. Getting together for the Holidays just isn’t going to be the same for this group either. And the most that many of them can hope for under the Christmas Tree (Cactus?) is a few brightly wrapped packages of unsweetened Kool-Aid.
The ones to which we refer are obviously the men and women sharing powdered eggnog with camouflaged strangers in the deserts of Saudi Arabia. These soldiers, whether they are in defense of American interests or preserving the Standard Oil Company, will have a certain loneliness that' none of us have ever known. Not only will they miss sharing the spirit of the season with
loved ones; they may never get the chance to the bullets kill.
even see their families again.
Students, faculty, staff, and administrators—start praying. These are truly your fathers, sons, mothers, and daughters. They are in the hot sun in the defense of your lifestyle on the other side of the world. We need to offer our support through Christmas cards and Kool-Aid, not only to show them how much we are behind them individually,
if not behind the cause at-large, but also to remind ourselves that they are still members of our family.
Moreover, start praying for a quick and peaceful resolution to the situation. Students our age are supposed to be the first to go if a draft is reinstated. Whether conflict is justified or not, young people will be pulled right out of class (no more student deferments) and sent to boot camp for combat training if Congress goes forward with mandatory enlistment policies.
If this hasn’t hit home yet, one last point should. This means us—students like you and me-are eligible to die for our country. No more toy guns and playing “Cops and Robbers.” This is real life. The guns fire and
If respect and love for others isn’t enough to motivate you to protest this action and call for a quick and nonviolent solution, selfish reasons should—like the preservation of your own lives. Pray for peace, and above all, cherish your families this Christmas season.
If Bush can’t help us, maybe God can.
letters to Scholastic must be typed and include the writer's name, address and phone number. University si udents should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should include their department. All leltersmust besigned. Nameswill be withheld upon request in certain instances.
Scholastic reserves the right to reject letters that are Ube-lousor obscene by the laws of the United Stales. Scholastic also will edit for copy fitting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space, Scholastic cannot print all letters received.
Address all correspondence to t
Tlte Editor Scholfzstic LaFortune Center Notre Dame, IN46556
2
SCHOLASTIC

Alumnus Responds to Controversial Week in Distortion and Ensuing Apologies
Dear Editor:
How dare you succumb to the limpid languishing of those male purveyors of fetally footballistic fodder as well as those femmes fatalisantes from across the way, both of whom among other things have either gleaned nothing the English classes offered on both sides of U.S. 31, or have simply sidestepped those courses in which the admittedly cerebrally assiduous devices of irony, satire, parody, sarcasm, or cynicism were discussed.
Giving them the cognitive benefit of the doubt by assuming this to be the case might you indulge a Jesuit-trained English major in a moment of literary analysis (one would more classically refer to it as an explication du texte but one hesitates the employment of linguistic terms any more baffling than the vernacular) in order to point out the real butts of rebuttle in the ostensibly offensive text: “Pardon me for being gender-specific for a moment, but it seems to me that IF you think of N.D. as being the ‘father’ of this family, THEN it’s only logical [for you] to think of S.M.C. as the ‘mother.’
1.	The author is clearly PRONOMI ALLY distinguishing himself (me) from those (you) who maintain such a ludricrous familial dichotomy. (It should be noted, however, that the infrastructures on both sides of U.S. 31 obviate the possiblities of envisioning any other paradigm of malefemale relationship between the two institutions.)
2.	The elliptical (look it up!) [for you] by its continued maintenance of a second person apostrophic address to the reader— the real culprit—again exonerates the author from espousing the paradign about to parodied.
3.	IF you’ve not followed the analysis thus far, THEN this third point will zoom completely over your cranial cavity as it
involves one of the more basic modalities of deductive reasonings: the “IF...THEN...” sequence. Logic, of course, would appear to have been the major element absent in the buld of reponses received by Scholastic precipitating the tandem of apologias pro scriptura nostra, when their real response should have been QUOD SCRIPTIMUS SCRIPTIMUSl
For those N.D. and S.M.C. students offended by a column entitled WEEK IN DISTORTION (proverbial first clue!) it can either be observed that your reading comprehension skills are limited at best, nil at worst, as you failed to recognize a piece of blatant Reductio ad absurdum prosaic prattle; or if such fallacious folly truly did offend your feministic or even moralistic tendencies, then your only choice, in the words of Hamlet, is to GET THEE TO A NUNNERY for you shall never be capable of hacking it in the real world which lies at either end of that thing called an “Interstate” abutting your playing fields. How one longs for the day when those self-proclaimed martyrs to the persecution of perceived “Ivory Tower” sexism/discrimination have their perculators plugged in by real corporate male chauvenist pigs upon diplomatistic egress from the womb!
As to the purported attack on The Student Weakly (oops! the slip was frivolously Freudian, so pace you pubescently tumescent right wingers) this writer finds no fault with their admitting “slick packaging” approach to infiltrate the on-campus media meatrack as only the dimmest of campus wits have not seen through their ideological machinations. (Where does their funding come from?) Said organ has actually, and most likely unwittingly, rendered those of us engaged in serious pursuits a double service by assuring not only sufficient seating space in the bowels of Hesburgh library during periods of peak movements, but
simultaneously supplies an adequate substitute in the event that one is stranded while utilizing the aforementioned euphemism.
0 temporal 0 mores! Has THE YEAR OF WOMEN rhetoric (and let’s face it girls, that’s all it is—so any of you who actually believe that the feather-weight bill of colloquial, symposial fare meted out thus far is actually changing attitudes or improving lives should also listen to Hamlet!) so blinded people on both campuses that they end up attacking people who are on their side—albeit obscurely and cleverly—and allying themselves with those who would bland them over in a heartbeat at least figuratively as one is wont to question the prowess of real misogynists? If so, then ’tis better that those enlightened ones responsible for said theme would never have been bom.
Advent is upon us. Perhaps it is not for naught that somewhere in the pericopial corpus of scripture readings for the season there is something about “Wake up!” and “Be ready!” as a massive pre-exam cerebral slumber seems to have engulfed said campuses more easily than the numerous snowflakes lying defenselessly in waiting to be cupped, balled and hurled in furtive retaliation to the real sin of the systematic destruction of gray matter and individual volition for which one is paying almost $16,000 per academic year. BAH . HUMBUG! Indeed...
Craig B. McKee Reserve Book Room Hesburgh Library
Although Scholastic does not necessarily agree with Mr. McKee, it is willing to publish responses both praising and criticizing its articles. Ed.
DECEMBER 13, 1990
3
The Stanford Daily Loves Cal
April Pssft&n — Do^y
Big Gam© revenge?
Rodfa’s Thinker, vandalized overnight by unknown prankstera* greets visitors to Meyer Library yesterday morning. It took little time for him to respond to the insolent Inquiry, “Because rm not a weenie^ ha thought
First Visit Yale
i
I
The Chronicle of Higher Education reports that eight University I of Vermont students were caught stealing electronic equipment and	,
other items from a dormitory at S outhem Connecticut S tate Univer-	;
sity.	I
The eight students were pledging the Sigma Nu fraternity at Vermont. At the time of their arrest, authorities found a letter from	|
the fraternity telling the students to first go to Yale University and : steal signs before proceding to other institutions.	|
The University of Vermont has suspended the fraternity to inves- i tigate this alleged hazing. Hopefully officials at Vermont will be lenient with the merry pranksters, especially if they find that these are the same students who stole Fisher Hall’s neon “F” last year. That thing just had to go!
Much Ado About Quaking
Earthquake fever along the New Madrid Fault manifested itself recently in school closings, the purchase of earthquake survival kits, and extended vacations for some residents who live along the fault. Joe Edwards, owner of the Blueberry Hill tavern in St Louis, took the madness one step further.
The Associated Press reports thatEdwards filled his jukebox with earthquake songs that he hoped would help his customers cope with any anxiety they were feeling. Edwards chose over 150 seismic sizzlers for his jukebox, including 13 with titles containing the word shake.
It is not clear whether masterpieces like “Dancin’ on the Ceiling” or “Church Bells May Ring” calmed the patrons of Blueberry Hill tavern, but one thing is certain: Edwards’ gimmick was no sillier than NewsCenter 16’s hardhitting Earthquake Watch coverage. Thanks for being right there on the scene, WNDU. Maybe now you should take your silly satellite truck to Antarctica for up to the minute highlights of ozone layer shrinkage.	□
edited by Derik Weldon
SCHOLASTIC

Beer for Santa
and Other
Christmas
Traditions
Oh boy, it’s Christmas time again, and I can hardly wait to take part in all of those super-neato traditions that have made a simple little religious holiday into something that strains the imaginations of marketing directors around the world as they strain their brains to find some new and inventive way of sticking out of the holiday advertising melee.
We all know the big traditions, you know, giving gifts, stuffing your face with Christmas cookies, hanging your smelly socks on the mantle and hoping that there will be something besides dirt in them on Christmas morning. Ofcourse,inmyhouse, we always lit a big fire in the chimney on Christmas Eve in hopes that all the burglars dressed as Santa Claus would singe themselves upon descending down our chimney. That, and Dad always made sure that we left a beer and bag of chips out for Santa instead of a glass of milk and cookies. He swore up and down that Santa didn’t like them.
I remember always going to bed early and then lying there tossing and turning for about six hours before I finally fell asleep (that is, except for the one year that my parents gave me a drink of their Christmas grasshoppers). I’d usually get about ten minutes of sleep before rolling out of bed at about 6 a.m. to wake my groggy parents, who had been up all night wrapping my presents and never seemed to be too pleased with me when I jumped into their bed. Nonetheless, they gargled a little bit of mouthwash, trudged out to the living room, and saw the fruits of their last three weeks of
DECEMBER 13, 1990
income strewn across the living room floor amid a sea of wrapping paper.
But I’m in college now, and we have new and exciting Christmas traditions in this big, highly traditional University. I mean, how could I make it through the Christmas season here without being part of the excitement as eight buck naked dudes ran through the second floor of the library with the names of Santa’s reindeer scrawled across their derrieres. (Just who is it that writes the names of the reindeer on those guys’ tushes?) Living in a dorm with a bunch of wacky guys stressed out from finals can also lead to some interesting Christmas traditions, like Mob Caroling, a new favorite at St Ed’s. Just like the traditional Glee Club caroling (only extremely off key and a lot more obnoxious), the noble lads of St. Edward’s have donned their bathrobes and hockey masks and taken up their golf clubs to spread Christmas cheer to the women’s dorms on campus for two years now.
Even now, I still have a problem understanding the paradox of Santa Claus. Exactly how did he teleport from comer to comer, shopping mall to shopping mall, tavern to tavern ... and was he only there when I was looking? Of course, I’m a lot older now and I know that these Santas are just a bunch of guys who are out to make a fast buck during the holidays, but just where do the shopping malls come up with that many overweight guys who are willing to sit in a chair and hold screaming kids on their laps for eight hours ata time? As akid, I also always wondered why were there so many
dudes on street comers ringing bells and begging for money — and why didn’t they stop when Mom put some money in their little bucket? I thought the point was that Mom gave them money, and then they were supposed to stop making such a racket. It sure didn’t work at home, though. No matter how much I rang that bell, I never got anything but a kick in the butt from Mom.
Now that I’m an adult, I get to get in on these great adult holiday traditions like getting to drink the “big people punch” at Christmas parties. Of course, these Christmas parties are always followed up by New Year’s Eve parties, where I somehow end up getting punched by the big people’s drinks. Now I understand why Mom and Dad never wanted to get up on January 1. At least most of the bowl games that Dad wanted to watch were on at night
There’s another adult Christmas tradition that I think most of us would rather not take part in, especially this year. Somehow, Father Christmas has always ended up having to visit the troops somewhere. Really, most of out great wars have either started or had major battles take place around Christmastime. Valley Forge, Pearl Harbor, the Tet Offensive, and now President Bush has decided to throw a little Christmas tete a tete in Saudi Arabia. That’s one Christmas tradition I hope we can put an end to, but for now I’m just going to kick back, drink some egg nog (what the heck is nog, anyway?), and watch Miracle on 34th Street again. Merry Christmas to all, and to all a good break.	□
by Chris Kozoll and Dave Holsinger
5
DART, QUANTUM PHYSICS, AND YOUR SCHEDULE
i
’’i
si
*
I
Dear Dr. Head: DART troubles me deeply. I have nightmares where that disembodied voice tells me horrifying, disturbing revelations about the meaning of life and what they really put into liverwurst. In consulting the DART book recently for some means of destroying this electronic menace, I came across a troubling dilemma. Most lecture classes are three (3) credit hours, but you don’t actually spend three (3) hours a week in those classes. Labs, on the other hand, are only one (1) credit hour, but I always spend at least five (5) or six (6) hours in those classes. Does DART somehow fold space-time, or am I just getting screwed?
Tom N., sophomore, St Edward’s
Tom, try drinking a glass of warm milk before you go to bed. It will help to cure those nasty nightmares. Also, DART doesn’t know diddley about what really goes into liverwurst. Only I know that.
/
In response to your question, Tom, the solution is really quite simple. This apparent dilemma is readily solved by using the Law of Conservation of Credit Hours, recendy formulated by physicist Stephen Hawking (apparently he wondered about this while he was in school, too). Since Arts and Letters majors are getting more credit-hours than they deserve in their lecture classes, the lost credithours must be made up somewhere else within the system. DART naturally turns to Engineering and Science majors, since they work too dang much anyway and probably won’t notice the difference. On average, 180 credit-minutes per Arts and Letters major per week are lost and therefore transferred to Science andEngineering majors. This means that you can expect to spend three (3) extra hours in the lab in addition to the one (1) hour that you’re getting credit for. If you find yourself spending more time than that in the lab, you’re probably a good-for-nothing slacker, and you risk throwing the whole delicate system out of whack by contributing too many credithours back into it
Dear Dr. Head: If seven worms, while in line for a movie, badmouth Nancy Reagan, then why is it that we are forced into an deleteuous, albeit illuminated, fish-oil producing trough, which is really only an excuse for Siskel and Ebert, who, the worms (previously mentioned) had debated about expressly, i.e. the value of a subjective rating upon a work of art - to get an antiMarxian attitude toward highlighters, as the illuminate, and
fish oil because worms are used to catch fish, usually by small boys or old crotchety men, which is used to produce fish oil; notwithstanding the above, which of these is a good time to leave the beach?
A.	it’s raining
B.	dusk is descending
C.	the fat couple next to you has finished [CENSORED] You’re Doctor Head. You figure it out
Otis, year unknown, Grace.
Otis, don’t ever drop acid in a fish market again. There’s enough surrealism in the world already.
In response to your question about leaving the beach, though, I’d have to say that you really don’t want to be outside much later than 2p.m. ifyou don’t want to risk a serious bum. Your prime tanning rays will be between between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m., with secondary prime tanning rays occuring between 1 p.m. and 2 p.m. Be sure to use at least a number 15 sunscreen, Otis: it sounds like you’re messed up enough already without skin cancer.
Dear Dr. Head: What the heck is “lake effect snow?” I’ve heard about it ever since I got here from California and I was wondering if maybe you could explain it to me.
Curious Sun Bunny, freshperson, Siegfried
Curious, maybe you and Otis [above] ought to take a Meteorology course together. You both seem to be deeply lacking in your knowledge of how our planetary weather system functions.
Anyway, I’m glad that you asked aboutlakeeffect snow, because the weatherpeople in South Bend aren’t very knowledgeable about this, either. Lake effect snow, contrary to popular belief, did not get its name because it is precipitation caused by cold air blowing across Lake Michigan, which is subsequently deposited on our fine community. Rather, lake effect snow got its name because the snow which lands on our campus leaves a nice lake effect on North Quad after it melts.	□
Dr. Head is having an identity crisis. He needs your mail now more than ever to assure himself that you still need him. Address all correspondence to Dr. Head, c!o Scholastic, 303 LaFortune.
6	SCHOLASTIC

PRESUMED INNOCENT
Alan J. Pakula directed this summer’s blockbuster film Presumed Innocent in the same manner that the killer in the film plots the crime: methodically. Like the killer’s victim, though, you may stuggle and want to leave, but Pakula keeps you in the theater against your will, giving you bits and pieces until you reach a point where all you want, like the victim, is for the end to come so that the suspense will stop... well, killing you.
Pakula’s film revolves around New York defense attorney Rusty Wallace (Harrison Ford) and his attempt to prove himself innocent of the murder of his ex-mistress and co-worker (Joann Whalley-Kilmer). Based on the best-selling novel by Scott Turow, Presumed Innocent will disappoint Turow fans, as the film discards the author’s first person narrative because Wallace knows something we do not. Of course, Pakula cannot have us knowing something ahead of time.
Pakula makes us spend most of the film inside the courtroom and the various law offices surrounding it The cinematography reflects the bleak interior that reflects
Rusty’s chances of being acquitted. The backgrounds are so drab that they lull you to sleep until Pakula very effectively brings in another piece of evidence to shock you.
One must be very patient with Presumed Innocent. It is not some courtroom drama here and a lot of action there, like 1987’s Suspect. Instead, it is like a nice drive across Iowa. The flat parts are long and often tedious but they make you yearn for the rolling hills that are to come.
Pakula’s cast includes people designed to carry you through the flat parts. Ford, as Wallace, seems limited by his role. We are accustomed to him solving his problems by action, and Wallace, though agreeable enough to action, seems several times on the verge of giving up. This is not the Ford we are used to, and some may find his inertia unappealing. Still, there is no one in Hollywood who I would rather watch sweat out a life or death situation. Ford carries the movie and, more specifically, its slow parts, on his back at a risk to our image of him as the swashbuckler.
The supporting cast is sturdy, also.
Whalley-Kilmer, as the victim, causes everyone in the theater to take notice. Fresh off her sultry performance in Scandal, she brings that same sense of sexual darkness and foreboding right into the middle of Wallace’s marriage. Bonnie Bedelia, as Wallace’s anguished yet faithful wife, turns a rather plastic role into a very convincing one. Raul Julia, totally miscastas Wallace’s defense attorney, appears to be better suited in Macy’s, selling sportscoats. Brian Dennehy, intent on appearing in every major supporting role from 1980 on, is once again very solid as Wallace’s turncoat boss.
Presumed Innocent as a whole is also very solid, and is made more so with an ending that carries more surprises than Raymond Burr in a 50 gallon vat of cottage cheese (large curd). I absolutely recommend it, especially if you enjoy seeing Joann Whalley-Kilmer smoking across the screen and Harrison Ford doing what he does best, trying to find his way out of the smoke.
by Noah Cooper Noah Cooper is a freshman who lives in Pangborn Hall.
THE CAVEDOGS
Top 40 music just can't touch this
The Cavedogs
Joy Rides for Shut-Ins
In the beginning, before pagan scientists from Silicon Valley made it possible for synthesizers to litter the rock and roll airwaves, God created three instruments: a six-string guitar, an electric bass, and a drum. With these simple tools in hand, humble but ambitious young artists all across America have begun to write a significant chapter in our nation’s musical history.
On their new release Joy Rides For Shut-Ins, The Cavedogs continue in the proud tradition of the three-piece band. Until recently, Hfisker Dii was America’s premier
power trio. Their unfortunate break up a few years back left a void, but The Cavedogs appear ready to quench the thirst of music lovers who still enjoy an innovative band with the talent to play instruments and sing—all at the same time. Produced by Ed Stasium, whose recent work with Living Colour has brought out the edge in their sound, Joy Rides becomes all the more effective in the hands of this gifted guitarband producer.
Joy Rides For Shut-Ins opens with ‘Tayter Country,” a quick little number punctuated by Mark Rivers’ frantic
DECEMBER 13, 1990
7

OlitSO®
I drumline and lead vocals in the style of early Elvis Costello i material. In their * acknowledgements, The t Cavedogs thank Scruffy the Cat and other, lesser known bands for their help and inspiration. Scruffy fans will be pleased with The Cavedogs’s sound because it contains much of the same i bouncy, freewheeling intensity.
Yet lyrically, The Cavedogs are more reminiscent of !	Minneapolis’s Soul Asylum.
J	On “Leave Me Alone,” The
J	Cavedogs come to the frustrated
conclusion that, “The things I want just will not come around.” Guitarist Todd Spahr, as if to t free himself from the agony of that line, then launches into a driving solo that clearly shows ; his vast range as a player.
s Inspiration for rocking tunes
like “What in the World?” and “Step Down” comes from the childish dishonesty so prevalent among people in modern relationships. Bassist Brian Stevens shines on these two songs, providing a dense rhythm which combines with the other pieces in a giant wall of sound. The lyrics here are dripping with real life hopes and pains. “Pump Up the Jam” can’t touch these songs. The Cavedogs, you will find after just one listen, are genuine—not a passing fancy for the artistically deaf.
On “Proud Land,” the pace slows and The Cavedogs take time for more social and economic commentary. With a military-style beat that is, to say the least, mock patriotic, the song’s chorus proclaims, “This proud land is not real, you know.
They feed upon the weak.” Even without constant chord assaults by Todd Stahr, the song has a rich, full sound due to the efforts on bass and drums.
This twelve-song offering contains no weak points because it always strikes a balance between lyrics and melodies. Yet, even with the serious message in many of their songs, The Cavedogs seem not to take themselves too seriously. After all, rock and roll is as much about energy and musical joy as it is a vehicle to change the world with criticism. In a world that can sometimes feel fragmented and senseless, there is still music like this which unites people in an educated, entertaining way.
Joy Rides For Shut-Ins will make a fine addition to any underground/college music
lover’s collection. For those of you who are new to such music (yes, this is addressed to 95% of Notre Dame students), it is definitely worth taking a chance on this band. Surprise your friends! Purchase a disc they have never heard of before. You all must be pretty sick of “Only the Good Die Young” and “Funky Cold Medina” by now.
For a preview, you might consider listening to WVFI. The DJs up there are sure to play a Cavedog cut if you request one. Music with brains is their specialty—may it always stay that way.
by Derik Weldon Derik Weldon is Scholastic’s Managing Editor and another person who believes that there should be "more sports coverage on WVFI."
MIDWESTERN ALTERNATIVE ROCK
It's not an oxymoron anymore, thanks to Chicago bands Precious Wax Drippings and God's Acre
Being an impudent snob from the East Coast, I had always been wary of good music actually existing in the Midwest i1	For years, I thought that
!	“Midwest rock” meant some
guy sporting a brown leather bomber jacket and faded blue jeans, driving a red Ford pickup.
1 They sang about things relevant to Midwesterners: girls with two first names like “Bobbie |!	Sue” or “Fannie Mae,” farms,
li	tractors, heartland-type jive, and
i.	red Ford pickup trucks.
I However, as a result of my
joyful five semesters here in the Hoosier state, I have finally come to appreciate Chevy trucks—no, make that Midwest rock and roll. I have also come to recognize Chicago as the Mecca of great, original rock and roll in the Midwest. I guess it hasn’t been corrupted yet by the factional elitism that has more or less destroyed alternative music in New York or L.A. While I could name approximately twenty bands from theChicagoareathatfitthe bill of “great, original rock and roll,” I have decided to
concentrate on two bands who have just released their debut LPs—Precious Wax Drippings and God’s Acre.
Precious Wax Drippings
After History
Precious Wax Drippings released their new album, After History, on Amoeba records back in September. Already, it has sold over 100,000 copies and has launched the band to the proverbial “national spotlight” as far as alternative bands go. The band had released two EPs prior to After History : Ain’t We a Wishin' Bunch, on Landmind records, released in 1987, and Rayon, released on Pravda records in 1988. While the first EP is long out of print (and is quite valuable in collector’s circles), I regard Rayon as one
SCHOLASTIC
of the most phenomenal seven inches of polyvinyl chloride ever released by Western civilization. The lineup of PWD is as follows: J. Little on lead guitar and vocals; John Herndon on drums; Jim Garbe on rhythm guitar and vocals; and Bill Little on the bass.
After History answers the sonic wall of emotion established by the first EPs. The album launches into a romp through the realm of power rock in “Brontosaurus,” a primal track where striking similarities can be drawn to Jane’s Addiction wherever the guitar and vocals are concerned.
Throughout the rest of the album, the diverse sound of the band immediately produces a wealth of comparisons. Frantic cuts such as “Consternation” and “40 Seconds” seem to draw influences from early eighties pop-punk. Other, slower songs, such as “Shadow” and “Sleeptime” have a more traditional structure, reminding me a bit of some Long Ryders-influenced material. My favorite track, “Rayon,” is a cleaner version of the one included on their second EP of the same name. Let me tell you, the fading bagpipe that wails the song open in “Rayon” creates a lonely yet moving tune that merges with a fantastic bass line. I urge you to threaten Tracks and Orbit with fire and brimstone if they don’t have this album in stock.
PWD builds up its strengths by combining such a wide variety of guitar-rock styles,
incorporating the band’s urban environment with its agrarian surroundings. Like myself, if you always wanted rural rock
bands like Drivin’ and Cryin’ or the Long Ryders to give a bit more of that punk-garage “oomph” to their music, then Precious Wax Drippings should satisfy your cravings nicely.
God's Acre Is a throwback to those grungy, dirtball bands that your mom would never let you listen to when you were little.
Those of you who grew up on Kiss, the MC5, The Guess Who, The Stooges, Black Sabbath, and all those scummy, longhaired freaks of old would appreciate another Chicago band, God’s Acre. These raggedy grunge-rockers definitely prove that they’re the Windy City’s answer to that noisy, 70’s “Seattle Sound” released in such great volume these days on Sub Pop records. While some have called them “one big Sub Pop cliche,” it is interesting to note that God’s Acre have been around for over three years, and have developed their influences beyond all those heavies from the Pacific Northwest. Their first single, “My Real Cool Time/She” (Amoeba Records), was released in 1988, ata time when Mudhoney and their Seattle
cohorts were just little fishes in a big alternative pond. In 1987, the song “She” won firstplace in an over-the-air battle of the
bands on Northwestern University’s WNUR.
What is strange about God’s Acre is that their first full-length album, Ten Gospel Greats, has been put out on a label known for
its association with chalk-faced, black-clad, morose and gloomy “Sprocket”-ites: Wax Trax records. The only thing that God’s Acre has in common with Wax Trax is that they both hail from Chicago. Regardless of these musical chasms that separate God’s Acre from their labelmates, it is a welcome diversion to all that electronic stuff.
The strongest tune on the album is the opening track, “Wood.” It was released earlier this year on Teriyaki Asthma, Volume 4 (C/Z Records), and is built around the strong, hard-driving twang of bassist Mark Blade. Peter Houpt’s vocals are arrogant and mesmerizing, reminding me somewhat of Mudhoney’s Mark Arm. Houpt takes his voice a step further in
“Wood,” creating a strange harmony of vocal distortion.
Two other faves of mine, “Hot
Mama” and “Riff-O-Rama,” build off of the self-gratification and mightiness that exemplified the cock-rock heroes of the seventies stadium bands. Both songs seem to poke fun at the
sexist attitudes and rehashed guitar chords of all those bands that used to turn up on “Don Kirshner’s Rock Concert” when we were kids. In “Riff-O-Rama,” drummer Brendan Burke even dusts off the old cowbell and gives it a few well-placed clangs. For all you digital afficionados, the CD contains an eerily realistic, but definitely punk cover of Mountain’s - “Mississippi Queen.”
If your taste in Midwest music consists of seeing lame, Casiotone equipped dance bands that do cheesy Paul McCartney covers, then bands like Precious Wax Drippings and God’s Acre aren’t for you. However, if a little emotional rock and roll, built on the rock outcasts of the past tickles your fancy, check out whatPWD and God’s Acre have to offer. They prove that Chicago has the best “scene” when it comes to alternative rock.
by JeffJotz JeffJotz is the Music Director atWVFI. This will probably (unfortunately) be his last article for Scholastic this year, but maybe you'll be seeing more of him next year. In the meantime, keep listening to WVFI.
DECEMBER 13, 1990

CRISIS UPDATE:
PACIFICISM AND MILITARISM
As the January 15 deadline approaches and Bush prepares to launch an offensive, how are students at a Catholic university supposed to react?
If Saddam Hussein does not withdraw his troops from Kuwait by January 15, a time span of a little more than one month, President Bush, with the blessing of the United Nations, has threatened to use “all necessary means” to force Iraqi troops out of Kuwait. Saddam’s army consists of over one million “well paid, well trained Republican guards” and as we have seen in the news, he does not hesitate to resort to biological or trench warfare. Should war ensue it would not be an easy or painless victory. Saddam is willing to lose thousands of men per day and win at whatever the cost.
In the December 10, 1990 issue of Time, the war on our side would be unlike any other. Never before would so many strategic and tactical doctrines be put to the test, and never would such technologically advanced weapons be employed.
As Americans, we can rest assured that we would be fighting with state of the art equipment as opposed to Iraq’s World War I style weapons consisting of minefields, earth berms, razor wire and trenches. Our forces have laser-guided bombs, heat-seeking missiles, devices to electronically halt all communications between enemy troops and their headquarters, and infared devices that turn nightinto day for soldiers. But does this equipment work in hundred-degree heat and in tons of sand? Are our troops as well trained and prepared as those of Iraq? What will be the cost of an American victory?
10
These and dozens of other questions plague both the Pentagon and the American people every day.
Should Saddam not withdraw by January 15, an allied aircraft strike would attack military or infrastructure targets in Iraq, according to Time. Such an attack would entail minimal loss of life, and the loss of perhaps a dozen aircraft If Saddam remains steadfast, the U.S. would challenge the Iraqi air force and then proceed to attack ground installations, carpet bombing roads and other strategic targets. This move would claim considerably more lives and perhaps as many as 100 aircraft
If after many days of bombing, Iraq was still not backing away, allied tanks and infantry would move through southern Iraq and isolate the enemy in Kuwait. An amphibious landing form the Persian Gulf is also a possibility along with frontal assaults on Iraqi forces in Kuwait, according to Time. This of course, would be the worst-case scenario. In a land attack allied forces would possibly lose 200 aircraft and as many tanks and armored personnel carriers. In addition in a ten-day attack, approximately 3,000 people would die and 13,000 would be wounded in a ten-day attack.
As a response, Time suggests that Saddam Hussein would launch missiles carrying poison gas against the Saudi oil fields, shake the alliance by attacking Israel, begin terrorist attacks outside the Middle
East to frighten U.S. allies, and parade captured U.S. airmen through the streets of Baghdad or execute foreign hostages. Saddam has shown that he is willing to violate established wartime rules and stop at nothing.
In respect to the tumult of world issues facing us today, we at a Catholic university are confronted with several conflicting options. Should we choose to support Bush in launching his offensive, we violate some of the basic teachings of the Catholic church, namely the Just War theory. On the other hand, as a world power, it is our duty to protect and to defend our allies as well as defend our own country’s best interests. If that means exerting military force, Bush’s strategy is beyond reproach. If that means setting an example of peace, non-violence, or pacificism, maybe the White House acted irresponsibly and should be judged harshly for its carelessness.
Drew Buscareno and Emily Neufeld are officers of Pax Christi, a pacifist group on campus. Pax Christi is a national peace organization that promotes charity, Christian teachings and peaceful solutions to the violent problems that face our world today. Here on campus they meet every Wednesday, holding scripture readings, silent prayer, and according to Buscareno, “heated discussion” about current topics and how Catholic teaching should be applied to those situations. Once or twice a semester, Bishop
SCHOLASTIC
Gumbleton, the auxiliary bishop of Detroit, and national president of Pax Christi comes to speak and to inform the local group about national events. Needless to say, Drew and Emily, along with their group, take a dim view of recent developments in the Middle East
“Uncategorically, in every situation, I cannot separate the means from the ends. By sending our military into action, Bush is promoting evil. V iolence is evil and in direct conflict with the Catholic teachings. A J. Muste, an American pacifist leader said, ‘There is not way to peace. Peace is the way.’ I think that is the approach we should be taking,” Buscareno said. Neufeld added, “We as Catholics, must remember to pray very hard, that is the most important thing, and to express our concern to our government.” To promote prayer for the soldiers and encourage their pacifistic stance, Pax Christi has been passing our prayers printed on small flyers. Last Friday, Bishop Gumbleton visited to preside over prayer and to assist in the distribution of the flyers.
In direct opposition to the philosophies embraced by Pax Christi, ROTC at Notre Dame has come to play an important part in the activities on campus concerning the Gulf crisis. If nothing else, they represent the power of our country’s military force and make us students consistently aware that it is our friends who are being shipped off to fight this war. Many here, including the members of Pax Christi, feel that ROTC has no place at a Catholic university and that its presence undermines the teachings of Catholicism.
“I don’t feel that ROTC should be on a Catholic campus,” Buscareno said. “I only hope that in such a time of crisis, the ROTC students are getting counseling from supervisors concerning what’s going on in the gulf and how the Catholic teachings on war and peace apply to this.”
At the same time, ROTC plays an important role. They hold the sometimes precarious position of a military force on a Catholic campus. Professors and students involved in the military on campus do not see this as a violation of Catholicism in any way.
“I am so proud to be in uniform at a Catholic school,” says Lieutenant Colonel Douglass Hemphill. “The University of Notre Dame is the best place for ROTC
Paul Webb
Carrie Dwyer shows off Kool-Aid headed for the soldiers in Saudi Arabia
because the kids start out with values. This school reinforces those values. Ethical values and responsible decision making help them conduct their lives based on a solid foundation. They act out of responsibility, not out of convience.”
Hemphill continued by explaining that a soldier is the last one who wants a war because he is the first to get shot. “None of us look forward to that eventuality,” he said. He also stated that in the military, there is a belief in the need for a force to defend American values. “I can cite the example of how military force exerted by the United States brought the ColdWarto an end. Ifeel that this proves conclusively that this form of deterrence is effective,” saidHemphill.
Acknowledging the different philosophies embraced by students and peace groups on campus, Hemphill stated, “At the University of Notre Dame, there are a number of different views, however the goal is the same: the creation of active, loving, peaceful solution sto the world’s troubles. People approach the solution from different directions, different perspectives. Working together, we can come up with a solution. If everyone felt the same way, we might overlook an obvious answer that was apparent to one person and not to another. I do not feel that there is a conflict between the two groups. A conflict happened in 1968 when people were screaming at each other. We disagree, but I think that there is respect in that everyone has a right to his own opinion. What is going on is not a violent disagreement.”
Erin Lavelle, Board Manager of SUB, has chosen to overlook the complicated politics of the situation and focus on
supporting the young soldiers who find themselves in the desert at Christmas time.
“It doesn’t matter whether you agree or not with President Bush’s actions. What is important is that we support the guys in service. We are not supporting Bush, we are supporting the morale of the enlisted men. You can’t pick and choose political situations. They need our support all the time.”
To help do her part, Erin has organized "Kool-Aid for Troops." This program is designed to collect money to purchase Kool-Aid for the soldiers in the desert who consume gallons of water per day and appreciate the diversion of taste. Cans have been placed at LaFortune and at other places around campus for the collection of change. “Even if you don’t have change, you can sign the two Christmas cards at the Information desk in LaFortune. The important thing is that we not become desensitized. The soldiers are sitting over there for so long, we can’t forget them, especially around the holidays.”
As January 15 approaches and tensions in the Middle East grow more intense, it becomes less and less important whether we are pacifists or whether we advocate military action. Our brothers, husbands, sons, and friends may lose their lives for the United States in the greater glory of protecting that for which we stand. We can only give them our unwavering support and pray that God will guide the judgment and lives of both those giving the orders and those giving their lives.	□
by Kristine DeGange
DECEMBER 13, 1990
A BIG MISTAKE
JEFFREY LONG ARGUES THAT AN OFFENSIVE MILITARY ACTION BY THE UNITED STATES WOULD NOT ONLY BE A TREMENDOUS POLITICAL ERROR, BUT ALSO WOULD LEAD TO THE DEATHS OF
THOUSANDS OF AMERICANS AND IRAQIS
For the United States to take offensive military action against Iraq would be a i dreadful mistake of unprecedented magni-i tude. This is the opinion of a large and growing number of American citizens that I . President Bush would be wise to heed.
'	First of all, even the most optimis-
tic projections indicate that a war against j Iraq would quickly result in tens of thousands of American casualties. Even should >	America win such a war, and succeed in
'■	driving Iraq from Kuwait, or even force
i: Saddam Hussein from power, the cost in j human lives would be enormous. Not only i would tens of thousands of American sol-j	diers die, but hundreds of thousands of inno-
8	cent Iraqi civilians would be killed, most of
f: them women and children.
f:	Apart from the fact that such car-
| nage is a crime against humanity on a ;	massive scale, there are also important po-
|	litical ramifications to consider. If the
| United States beat Iraq into submission by j killing hundreds of thousands of civilians, j which is inevitable in full-scale modem warfare, the masses of the Arab world would i be outraged. Arab opinion, already largely dubious of American intentions in the | Middle East, would certainly turn against | theUnited States. Such widespread hostility would render future American diplomatic
12
initiatives in the Middle East extremely difficult. America needs to think aboult the future, and not just short-term gains. Saddam Hussein is already a hero to many Arabs, especially the poor Arabs of Jordan and the Israeli-occupied West Bank and Gaza. To make him a martyr would only exacerbate the problem of anti-American
Young Americans like these have never experienced a full-scale war
sentiment int he Middle East
Furthermore, is America ready to lose tens of thousands of its young people in a war? Like the generation that fought World War I, the young people of this country have never experienced a full-scale war firsthand, only brief “surgical operations” like the invasion of Panama, and hit-and-run
SCHOLASTIC
9
attacks like the bombing of Libya. Most young Americans’ experience of war is confined to the cinema and television. Through movies like Rambo, our generation has been shown a picture of war that makes it look glorious, in which the “good guy” always wins.
This is similar to the view of war propagated in Europe before World War I. War was touted as a glorious and honorable nationalistic enterprise. The result: What was, at that time, the bloodiest war in human history and the devastated “Jost generation” described by Emest Hemingway. Are we prepared to see our friends, our brothers and sisters, our fathers and mothers (yes, mothers have been sent to Saudi Arabia too) returned from the Middle East in coffins?
Secondly, are we willing to make such a sacrifice for goals that seem to change on a weekly basis? Are American troops in Saudi Arabia to prevent Saddam Hussein from invading that country, to drive him from Kuwait, or to prevent him from developing and using nuclear weapons? It is important to note that many respected political analysts on both the left and right are highly critical of the scale of America’s intervention in the Middle East and the possibility of war. These critics are not only Democrats and traditional anti-war activists, but retired four-star generals and people like Patrick Buchanan and Jeanne Kirkpatrick, who maintain that America’s vital interests are not, in fact, threatened in the Persian Gulf. The ever-changing rationales the White House keeps offering for American intervention, and possible use of force, give the appearance that President Bush is merely making up excuses for performing an action to which he has already committed himself — without consenting Congress or the American public. Bush would be wise to heed all of the opinions being voiced, and give the opposition on both the right and left a fair hearing, instead of spouting rhetoric and playing upon the public’s emotions to stir up hatred for Saddam Hussein and support for an American counter-invasion.
And what about the rationales for use of force against Iraq? Why does the United States have so many troops stationed in the Persian Gulf? Is it to protect the world’s oil supplies?
Saddam Hussein obviously wants
to sell oil. If he attempted to drive up prices unfairly, an embargo could be placed on Iraqi oil. Such an embargo already exists, and the world economy has not yet collapsed. No matter how much oil Hussein controls, he must still compete on the world market. The laws of supply and demand, and not the whims of a dictator, are the ultimate determining factors of oil prices.
Even if oil was a more viable reason for attacking Iraq, there remain two problems, a practical one and a moral one.
Thepractical problem: a warwoiild almost certainly result in the destruction of the oil fields. This would be far more de
Peace activists try to raise public awareness on campus
structive to the world economy than the fields falling under the control of Saddam Hussein.
The moral problem: If oil is the reason for American intervention, a highly unjust situation exists in which the poor are being made to fight for the interests of the rich. A large percentage of the American armed forces is made up of minorities who have joined the military because it is the only way they can escape from poverty in this country. If war breaks out, it is the poor, those who have the least to gain from fighting for this country, who will be losing their lives for the wealthy oil companies.
What about the issue of nuclear weapons, an issue that our President has raised only recently, though it has long been known that Iraq is trying to develop these weapons? Surely the United States cannot allow a demonstrably aggressive dictator like Saddam Hussein to develop nuclear weapons. But what about Israel, a country that has occupied parts of Lebanon, Syria, Egypt, and Jordan, and has not yet withdrawn from much of this territory? What about South Africa, a country that terrorizes and routinely makes military excursions into
its neighbors? What about Pakistan and India, which from the time of their independence have been either at war or on the brink? What about China, which invaded Tibet within recent memory, systematically destroying Tibetan culture and scattering
the Tibetan people throughout the People’s Republic? All of these countries possess or very likely possess nuclear capability, and have been no less—and in some cases more — aggressive than Iraq. Has the United States acted to stop the nuclear proliferation in these countries with aggressive military action? There is an implicit element of anti-Arab and more general anti-Third World racism in America’s present Middle East policy. This element is a holdover from the age of colonialism that we would be wise and just to dispense with permanently.
In short, the solution to the Persian Gulf crisis is negotiation, not offensive military action. Offensive military action, especially at this point, when the United Nations’ embargo has yet to make its full effect felt, would be both immoral and unwise. In the words of the Statement of the Position of the Gulf Crisis Action Group of Notre Dame, “we...are outraged that a war may begin in the Gulf because of greed and the desire to demonstrate military might. Therefore, we strongly urge our nation’s leaders to recognize and diligently pursue peaceful alternatives to this grave crisis.”	□
By Jeffrey Long
DECEMBER 13, 1990
13
o
©effeimdlnmg
Paul Webb
ROTC students are trained to use gas masks in the event of chemical warfare.
Daniel Casey supports the United States’ defense of Saudi Arabia and the protection of American Rights in the Middle East
A mericans have never been accused of /jL being overly sophisticated when it comes to world politics, and the justifications for military involvement around the globe since the end of World War fi have rung a little hollow. South Korea and South Vietnam were hardly model democracies and were of questionable
strategic importance. To argue the use of force in either of those scenarios required an interpretation of world politics that viewed these nations as important pawns in A U.S.-Soviet chess game. While questions of sovereignty were used piously by various American presidents to justify our military involvement, the real reasons were selfish — the prevention of a worldwide encirclement by aggressive Communism, real or imagined. Fail to protect the pawn and the rook will fall — so went the theory.
The Gulf Crisis does not fit the Cold War paradigm. The Soviets are in worldwide retreat, and there is no dominant will in the Arab world marshalling either Islamic fundamentalism or Ba’ath Party socialism. There is no hungry Russian bear seeking warm water ports, and no Khomeini threatening world terrorism and Jihad. With
no obvious ideological enemy, the American public has been expressing its opinion in traditional fashion — it can’t make up its mind.
Into this intellectual vacuum it is easy to inject political emotionalism — politics Holly wood-style. Charlie Sheen the soldier discusses his experiences in the trenches. Penn and Fox weigh in with equally informed opinions. There shall be no more Vietnams while we control the airwaves, they say, and even the mighty Nightline gives an hour to discussing the other burning politico-entertainment issue of our time—the Madonna video. College students nationwide hold tye-died protests over the class composition of the military, not realizing that the college deferment is a thing of the past. They too could experience the draft. All of the political talk in these
arenas swirls in a last reminiscence of psychedelia that is more a product of Madison Avenue advertising than a reflection of reality.
People, wake up. There are some very valid reasons to support the projection of force into the gulf. Some are listed below.
One: the government of Iraq as presently constituted presents a threat to the region’s security and the world’s oil supply. Iraq’s government is a military dictatorship interested in fulfilling the personality cult of one man — Saddam Hussein. Hussein’s past history is one of aggression: provoking war with Iran, ruthlessly eliminating all political opposition within Iraq, and waging a war of extermination against the Kurds which would make Pol Pot proud. While the analogy between Hitler and Hussein may be a bit exaggerated, one must admit that the
14
SCHOLASTIC
similarity goes beyond a mere interest in monumental statuary or modem uniform fashions. Do not think that if America withdraws, Saudi Arabia will not look very much like Poland in 1939. Allowing Hussein to gain control over the world’s oil supply is simply intolerable. This control would give him the power to set world oil prices, and thus control the world economy. The fledgling governments of Eastern Europe would likely be the first victims as economic aid dries up. These states are already unstable enough without inflicting economic chaos upon them. Western Europe, Japan, and then our own economy would eventually be irreparably damaged by Hussein’s stranglehold. We simply cannot allow this to happen.
Two: the United States needs to assert its willingness to defend its vital interests. I am not advocating a war in order to show everyone that we mean business. The Persian Gulf oil supply is truly in our vital interests. A failure to protect these interests implies an American withdrawal from the world political scene. A failure to project force when necessary, implies a lack of concern with the world or its politics. The failure to protect the oil supply would likely destroy the United States as a world power both for economic reasons — our economy wouldbe in ruins—and political reasons— no one would take the threat of American force seriously. The world is far too dangerous a place to create such an impression.
Three: Baghdad’s attempt to build nuclear weapons would seriously affect the balance of power in the region. Personally, I do not feel that Baghdad will ever gain control of nuclear weapons — the one nuclear power in the region, Israel, will never allow this to happen. But Israel using force to remove an Iraqi nuclear threat could very well provoke another bloody conflict in the region between Israel and the Arab nations. It is far more preferable to use military force to remove Hussein with the backing of the Arab world and the United Nations than it would be to have an angry, powerless United Nations forcing daily United States vetoes of resolutions condemning Israeli aggression. The future of American diplomacy in the region may depend on our removal of Baghdad’s future
nuclear threat before such unpleasant realities come to pass.
Four: use of force, or the real threat of it, would give teeth to the United Nations. Resolutions supported by the Security Council would carry with them the weight of possible military intervention. This is likely to deter aggression in the Third World, or at least make the United Nations a force to be reckoned with. It is an odd irony of the postCold War world that the United Nations, the favorite child of the American Left, has now found support among conservatives to support the notion of world peace. The time is ripe for the creation of a new world order. The United Nations could provide a meaningful framework for solving world problems.
While some advocate unlimited patience in dealing with Hussein, these proposals are fraught with risks of their own. Economic pressure on a nation is worthwhile, and is preferable to hasty use of military force. However, it is possible that the United States public is underestimating the ability of Iraq to withstand such pressure. Emerging nations like Iraq can do without amenities which the American public could never tolerate losing. For Iraq, sustainment of a war economy during a long war with Iran was not particularly difficult There was no political opposition to Hussein’s unpopular war with Iran, despite casualties proportionately greater than those suffered in America’s bloodiest war, the Civil War.
Soldiers like Chris Toner may need special training to fight a desert war.
Iraq may be impervious to economic factors since the sufferers of economic sanctions have no political voice.
Additionally, there is no guarantee that the economic blockade would not develop leaks. A rapprochement with Iran is not out of the question, nor is a negotiated understanding with Jordan or Syria. Holding together a political and economic coalition in the Arab world is not an easy proposition. This is the land of the bazaar.
While the world demonstrates patience, the Iraqi military continues to dig in. An attack on Kuwait would involve higher American casualties six months from now than they would on January 15. If Hussein is given time to prepare a large conscript army between now and then, American battlefield deaths will rise proportionately.
Protests to wars like Vietnam are understandable—even military experts will concede that South Vietnam was not crucial to American security. But public protests to a necessary war are a threat to America’s future. Do not equate Iraq with Vietnam, or 1990 with 1968. The stakes are far more important now than they were then. The future of America and the world depend on the withdrawal of Saddam Hussein from Kuwait and the elimination of his government as a possible threat to Saudi Arabia, Israel, and the world’s economic future.	□
by Daniel Casey
DECEMBER 13, 1990
15
New Year's Resolution
Notre Dame and Colorado meet again in Miami in an attempt to resolve the national championship controversy
BY JON PAUL POTTS
Hold on.
Hold on one minute.
Didn’t the Irish teach these Buffs a lesson
in number one ranked-pressure last New Year’s night?
And they’re back for more?
One year to the day after the Irish defeated the top-ranked Buffaloes of Colorado in the Orange Bowl, Notre Dame will be
Colorado Sports Information
McCartney brings the Buffaloes to the Orange Bowl ranked number one for the second straight year.
playing another top-ranked Buffalo squad in the same Orange Bowl in Miami on the first day of 1991.
You would think that the Buffs would have had enough of the Irish last year, when Notre Dame won 21-6 to dash Colorado’s hopes for its first ever national championship. In that game, Colorado dominated the first half offensively, but failed to score,
leaving the game scoreless at the intermission. But in the second half, the Irish put on a clinic in smashmouth football, scoring three rushing touchdowns while rolling up 279 yards on the ground for the game.
In 1990, despite their 10-1-1 record (compared to the perfect 11-0 Buffs the Irish faced a year ago), the Buffaloes may be a better team than they were a year ago. Still coached by Bill McCartney, they have held the number one ranking in this topsy-turvy season for the past month and are working on a nine-game winning
streak.
Their 1990 schedule was much tougher than the slate they blew through in 1989. McCartney coached his charges to victories over two conference champions— Texas and Washington- and defeated two conference runner-ups- Illinois and Nebraska. Colorado played one of the toughest schedules in the nation; their opponents racked up a combined 58.9% winning percentage and they played five teams who will compete in New Year’s Day bowls.
The strength of this team may be the front seven on defense that is led by 1990 Butkus Award-winning outside linebacker Alfred Williams. Williams stands an intimidating 6’6" and goes at a strong 230 pounds. The senior racked up 88 tackles and recorded an amazing 12.5 sacks this season. By comparison, the entire Irish defense only sacked the quarterback 18 times.
Joining Williams at the other outside ‘backer position is his partner in quarterback terrorizing, Kanavis McGhee, who is no slouch himself at6’5" and 250. McGhee was one of twelve finalists for the prestigious Butkus which Williams won, and for good reason. He had 94 tackles and notched 2.5 sacks. Eleven of the tackles were for losses, earning him third-team All-American honors from the Football News. The inside linebacking positions are manned by Greg Biekert and Terry Johnson, who both earned player-of-the-week honors at one point or another this season.
Up front, the Irish offensive line will have their hands full with the trio of Joel Steed, Garry Howe and Marcellous Elder. Steed is the leader of the three, sacking opposing quarterbacks 7.5 times for losses totaling 47 yards.”
All together, these seven men limited opposing teams to a mere 114.2 yards rush
16
SCHOLASTIC
I
ing per game, good for 20th in the country, and limited opposing backs to 2.9 yards per carry, the 16th best in the nation.
On offense, the Buffs play typical Big Eight-style football, rushing out of the one-back, I-Bone formation, and passing only in long yardage situations. The offense is piloted by junior Darian Hagan. Hagan finished fifth in the Heisman trophy balloting a year ago, but inconsistency and several injuries contributed to a sub-par season in 1990. He remains a dangerous player, though. He passed for 1,538 yards and 11 touchdowns and he is always a threat to tuck the ball in and head for the open field. In the 1990 Orange Bowl, he rushed for the Buffs only touchdown, and was a nuisance for the Irish
all night, racking up 106 yards on the
ground.
Senior Mike Pritchard is Hagan’s primary aerial target Pritchard was voted most valuable player by his teammates this year and will chew up the Irish secondary all night if he goes unchecked. He is a legitimate deep threat, catching 28 passes for 28.6 yards per catch and six touchdowns.
But the big gun on offense for Colorado is Eric Bieniemy, a spectacular fireplug of a runner who enjoyed a sensational senior campaign that was good enough to place him fourth in the 1990 Heisman balloting. Colorado’s all-time leading rusher stands only 5’7", but he is lightning quick and very tough to bring down. For the season, he rushed for 1,628 yards and ran up 100 yards on the ground every game he played except for one— when he got 99 yards and three touchdowns against the Texas Longhorns. The Irish will have to stop Bieniemy if they hope to shut down the Buffalo attack.
The game will be won or lost at the line of scrimmage.
The Irish must contain Williams & Co. or NBC’s cameras may spend a lot of time focusing in on a grimacing Rick Mirer after another sack or mean hit by the Butkus Award winner from the Rocky Mountains. On the other side of the ball, Lombardi Award winner Chris Zorich, Michael Stonebreaker, and the rest of the Notre Dame front seven must contain Bieniemy and the Buffalo ground attack
that ran all over the opposition this season, clouded. Notre Dame’s firstpriority will be, The big picture, as it was last year head- of course, to take care of business and defeat
ing into the New Year’s Day bowl games, is Colorado. Since Colorado occupies the top
Colorado Sports Information
Bieniemy Is Colorado’s all-time leading rusher.
Colorado Sports Information
Williams sacked opposing quarterbacks 12.5 times on the way to winning the Butkus Award.
spot, the fifth-ranked Irish should logically receive some first-place votes from Associated Press voters for beating the number-one ranked team. But there are some other things that have to happen if Irish fans hope to be celebrating the nineteenth National Championship in Notre Dame’s storied football history the morning after the Orange Bowl.
First, Georgia Tech, who is unbeaten and ranked second, has to lose to Nebraska in the Citrus Bowl. The Yellowjackets snuck up on the country in this crazy season and would legitimately claim the title if they win their game and the Irish defeat the Buffs.
Second, Notre Dame fans will have to root for the hated Hurricanes of Miami to defeat the Longhorns in the Cotton Bowl. The Longhorns are ranked third in the nation and the Southwest Conference champs could claim the title if both the Buffs and Georgia Tech lose.
If all this works out as outlined, everyone ahead of
DECEMBER 13, 1990
17
number four Miami and number five Notre Dame will lose, and since the Irish beat the ‘Canes in the regular season, and defeated the number one team on New Year’s Day, they could be voted the “mythical” national champion which, in the 1990 season, will really be mythical.
The wildcard in the national title deck of cards, however, will not even be played on New Year’s Day. On December 28th, the sixth-ranked Seminoles of Florida State will play tenth-ranked Penn State in the aptly
Hagan ran for 106 yards last year against the Irish.
named Blockbuster Bowl in Miami’s Joe Robbie Stadium. Florida State crept up on people after a miserable first half of the season, and Penn State has rebounded from two opening losses to post nine straight victories, including their huge 24-21 upset of Notre Dame on November 17 that, more than any other game this fall, threw the bowl picture and the national title hunt into mass confusion.
How will this game affect the voters in the final poll? If the Nittany Lions win, they could pull votes away from the Irish, and the Hurricanes could be crowned the champs. Who knows what will happen? This season is calling out, nay, screaming, for a playoff to settle the chaotic parity in whose grips college football currently struggles.
What can be concluded by all this? On New Year’s Night, the Irish will once again be playing the scoreboard-watching game— as long as the scoreboard that they pay attention to the most is the one in the endzone of the Orange Bowl. □
Who's Number One?
The Division I football National Championship is the most confused prize in all of sport.
While every other sport in collegiate competition ends its season with a clear-cut, unanimous champion, Division I Football is a muddled, oft-disputed mess.
The uncertainty is due to the method by which the winner is picked. There is no general rule for voting in a consensus champ. What works one year may not work the next. Schedule toughness, head-to-head competition and point-differential are sometimes used to determine the winner. At other times, these criteria fly out the window and the voters appear to play favorites. Why isn’t there any uniformity?
The answer is obvious.
Today’s system is flawed. The sports writers who exercise the privilege to crown the champion often vote based on personal preference instead of clear-cut voting guidelines.
The defenders of today’s championship race say that bias is not really a factor and that the system is fair. But recent history indicates there are incongruities in voting. Last year’s final rankings illustrate this point The University of Miami won because they defeated Notre Dame in the regular season, not because of their Sugar bowl victory over Alabama: head-to-head competition determined the winner.
If this precedent is logical, why was it disregarded in other voting? Why was Michigan ranked ahead of USC in the final poll after the Wolverines lost to the Trojans in the Rose Bowl?
In this season’s championship picture, things are as crazy as last year. Notre Dame defeated Miami and has the same record as the ‘Canes, and yet they are ranked behind Miami. BYU defeated Miami the first game of the season, and they also have the same record as Miami, but they are ranked behind the Hurricanes. Georgia Tech is the only undefeated team in the country, and they beat then-number one Virginia, but they are ranked second behind a Colorado team that is 10-1 -1, thanks to a controversial fifth-down touchdown against Missouri. It seems that the national champion needs a prominent image and clout off the field to win the title.
It is time for a change.
There are two systems bandied about by the media and the collegiate athletic community: a national playoff system, or a modified bowl plan that would reveal a true champ.
The playoff system seems to be the most popular idea. Opponents claim, and rightfully so, that a playoff would make the season too long for the players. But if the season were cut down by two games, inconsequential early season tune-ups such as Miami-Eastern Carolina and Notre Dame-Purdue could be eliminated. With a sixteen-team playoff field, the regular season would only be extended by one week, with the title game being played on New Year’s Day.
The victor would inarguably be the best team, just as in basketball when a true, undisputed champ emerges from March Madness. In such a system, little opportunity for bias to manifest itself.
A modified bowl system is also an option. In this package, the networks retain then-bowls, but on New Year’s Day the top two ranked teams would play for the prize, winner take all. This is, unfortunately, based on the voting process used today.
Change will not happen anytime soon, however, what with so many conferences tied into lucrative contracts with specific bowls, such as the agreement that binds the PAC-10 and Big Ten winners to the Rose Bowl.
The final polls of the 1990-1991 bowl season will undoubtedly cause an uproar. Whoever is crowned champ will undoubtedly be disputed. It is time for a change to ensure that the best team gets the prize.
-Jon Paul Potts and Chris Sullivan
18
SCHOLASTIC
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
Greg Louder: Louder, a freshman from Acton, MA, recorded his first career shutout with an outstanding performance against Lake Forest. Louder turned back 28 shots as the Irish defeated Lake Forest to improve Notre Dame's record to 8-6-1 on the season.
Comalita Haysbert: Haysbert, a junior from Randallstown, MD, had a great day against the Orangewomen of Syracuse. Haysbert scored a career-high 26 points and ripped down nine rebounds to lead the Irish in both categories as Notre Dame defeated Syracuse 71-66.
GREAT SUBS FOR GREAT STUDENTS
For the next football game or	Your Blue & Gold card Is good
your next party, call Subway for	for a 50c discount off any
a delicious Party Sub or Party footlong Subway sandwich. Platter!
Subway opens at 8:00 a.m. on CALL 277—7744	days of home football games.

State Road 23 and Ironwood
DECEMBER 13, 1990
19
■■■■■
Leac!*
Beeeive
Sean Scanlon defends student government’s sponsorship of a pro-life trip to Washington
1 believe that the decision by Rob Pasin as student body president to support the Right to Life trip to Washington, D.C. was not only correct, but important in establishing the leadership of student government on campus. Many groups on this campus claim to influence either the majority of students or at least a sizeable minority, yet it is rare that any of their actions results in an important or aggressive response. I do not want to suggest that the validity of an action lies in the reactions to it, but many “substantial” and “important” decisions elicit no response due to their mundane nature. The last time a student reaction reached influential proportions was the response to the suspension of student funds for the snowball fight, which was student-inflicted damage anyway.
The issues in the decision to support the Right to Life trip are much more substantial. Students now know thatstudentgovemment politicians will not separate their personal view from decisions made in office because they will lose credibility with most everyone except The Observer. The emphasis in the editorial criticizing the decision seemed to want our elected leaders to separate beliefs from their decisions. To take this philosophy a step further, why have elections? Why choose one person over another since it is reasonable to assume that the majority of candidates are literate and capable? All we really need in office is a good-looking,
friendly “yes-man” (or woman) who will not actually lead or even influence the flow of student body decisions.
This is a great lack of faith in the student body along with an arrogant assumption that the select controllers of the newspaper monopoly on campus should be our moral leaders. We do not vote on who controls The Observer. We do vote on who will be in a position to make decisions in student government, though. Get it?! If you do not ask the questions important to you and seek out how student government will run until after you elect the people, you have no excuse for bitching.
It appears that the truth behind the editorial criticizing the decision is that The Observer leaders are pro-choice and against protecting the unborn. The argument about the funds being used so unwisely was essentially empty and tried to support pro-choice through the back-door. The pro-choice assumptions were offensive because the authors abused their positions to attempt a subtle support of the pro-choice position and hide it in an incorrect argument.
What is needed in situations like this is straight ahead and clear language which would communicate the issue behind the argument. What I am asking for is lucid language that does not try to subtly sway people to one belief or another on such an emotional issue. Personally, I am fully in
support of choices that protect the lives of unbom children and therefore I support i these decisions. This is very simple to say, ; but very important for clarity.	'
I hope that attention to clarity will become i very important next spring, becauseif it does the student body elections should be radi- | cally different. Instead of asking candidates how they intend to improve parking, the questions might be “Will you support a Right to Life trip,”'or even more challenging, “Would you support a pro-choice group?” I hope people ask the questions that will affect them and then vot according to ' those answers. I also hope that if a candidate	!
cannot lead by example, he or she would not be elected.	I
This hope, though, is justa dream. Student	।
government on this campus is only given the	i
authority that we students put behind it, and 1 we are very apathetic in that respect The | most the majority does is their tuition contri-	I
bution. Perhaps it’s the general administrative intimidation which pervades all aspects of students lives, but more likely, it is laziness. The example provided by Rob Pasin I and Fred Tombar is leadership and the rest I of us, including The Observer	editors,	I
should take note.	□	I
by	Sean	Scanlon	.
Sean Scanlon is a Senior History andTheol-ogy major.	i
fl
20
SCHOLASTIC
CHH€NK€LBI€N’S "KaO
L »ve£5iry
lu
tl
LAlb BACK^
O F
BV 1 & EoR. «>£■ CJicl- jam p _ 3uccc£y -1 £-.
ISN'T ft THROAT
IS fAOD€ST
LIK6S it H.6RG:
gAFn-fcb By B6AWTY OF BABe S
PO€S N T HAV£
STUPid NICKAJAM6
LoVgS
VNCL4 StHMfeMK£t8l«Nl
Docsai't- HAue 6<RLF^ieA/0 at uwt
NOT F«orA CMiCAbo
note — 3oy / a>/^L
Hasn't start6d
CRANMIN& FOR RM MLS
6oAi_ 1S To A4A*JA6€ NISHT OAK
VoT^S DeMoctATlC
Does wot Wavc DRiMKtN6 Problem
< <J vi


Merry Christmas
From thestudent Union Board
LUe'll see you neut year at ...
QODDmft®r l?©sft “SU
-Beacon Bowl, January 31
-Shear Madness, February 1
-Blizzard of Bucks, February 2
-Snow Football Tournament, February 2 & :
1©©
-February 4
§ ® [p On © m © O’© 1B ft © F © T	(F©§ftB©® D
-February 10-15
SlpirBnig]	WBp
-March 17-23
DDBlM©!? ^©©ft©!?
-"Same Time Neut Vear," March 25
£©DD®§0®Q®
-April 5 & 6
TT©sft®0
-April 20-28
non-profit organization
US POSTAGE
PAID
Notre Dame. Indiana
Permit No 10