
No-t^e. ^bame kJa/L Readied, 200
^bean Pauwi OcydUiued Jledu/ie £e>ue&
Photo by Guido
Pictured here are Dr. John A. Scannell, Head of the Department of Physical Education, and the men behind the 14th Annual University Boxing Championships. Navy Specialists John Durdack and Jack Houghton, together with A. J. Buono of the phy-ed. department, will direct the training of the fighters, while Bob O'Toole, promotion manager of the “Scholastic." and Robert Riordan, "Scholastic" editor, will handle publicity and stage the program.

2
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 84
MARCH 23, 1945
NO. 2
200 N. D. Men Make Supreme Sacrifice
Thirty-two Men Missing; Thirty-one Captured
With the announcement of the death of Sgt. Patrick R. Maschke, the total number of Notre Dame men known by the Scholastic to have died in World War II reached the number of 200. Those missing in action moved up to 32; and those captured advanced to 31.
Herein the Scholastic lists the latest report on war casualties, as received at the editorial offices: •
★ 173 Lieut, (jg) Hercules Bereolos, ’42, killed in action after a plane crash in the southwest Pacific, March 31, 1944. Previously reported missing in action.
★ 174 George Mortimer O’Connor, ex. ’43 (Lieut.), killed in action while leading an attack on the west coast of Leyte.
Sgt. John L. Wiggins, ’43, previously reported missing in action in Holland, is now a prisoner of war.
Sgt. Anton Pojman, Jr., ex. ’45, previously reported missing in action, is now a prisoner of war.
Lieut. Charles S. McKelvy, ex. ’44, previously reported missing in action, is now a prisoner of war.
1st Lieut. Samuel S. Lawler, ex. ’38, previously reported missing in action, is now a prisoner of war.
"BENGAL" FINALS MAY 4
Date of the finals of the University Boxing Championships has been changed to Friday evening. May 4th, in order to give the entrants more time for training. Bob O'Toole, student program manager of the SCHOLASTIC, announced this week.
Originally scheduled for April 20th, the revised setup allows an extra two weeks for conditioning of the participants. The semi-finals will be held on Thursday, April 26th, with preliminaries running in the week prior to that date.
1st Lieut. Leo J. Fomenko, ’35, previously reported missing in action, is now a prisoner of war.
★	175 Captain Thomas F. Ruckelhaus, ’28, killed in action. He was previously reported as missing.
★	176 Lieut. Donald R. McKay, ’36, killed in action in the Southwest Pacific, Nov. 10, 1944. Previously reported missing.
★	177 David Barry Higgins, ex. ’45, killed in action.
★	178 Lieut. Robert W. Kneeland, ex. ’46, killed in action, Dec. 2, 1944 on Biak Island.
★	179 Pvt. Richard P. Froehlke, ex. ’45, killed in action in Luxembourg, Dec. 20, 1944.
Sgt. Herbert F. Clark, Jr., ’44, missing in action, Dec. 21, 1944 in Germany.
★	180 Pfc. Robert P. Tait, ex. ’45, was lost on the troop transport torpedoed and sunk, Dec. 25,1944.
★	181 Lieut. John L. Ryder, ex. ’45, killed in action on Dec. 29, 1944, in Italy.
★	182 Lieut. Arnold J. McGrath, ’22, killed in action in the Southwest Pacific, January, 1945.
Pfc. Edward V. Minkowski, ex. ’47, missing in action, Jan. 3, near the Belgian-German border.
★	183 T/5 Stephen F. O’Rourke, ex. ’44, killed in action, Jan. 9, in Luxembourg; previously reported missing.
★	184 Lieut. Donald C. McDonald, ’39, killed in action in Belgium, Jan. 15.
★	185 T/5 Hugh F. McHugh, ex. ’44, killed in action in Belgium, Jan. 25.
Capt. John Sherman, ’31, missing in action; no details available.
★	186 Lieut. Edward K. Delana, Jr., ex. ’45, killed in action over the Asiatic sea, Jan. 31.
(Continued on page 19)
CAMPUS RED CROSS
DRIVE IS SUCCESSFUL
Mr. Herbert E. Jones, business manager at Notre Dame, announced that the University had exceeded its quota for the recent Red Cross drive, hitting well over $2,000.	•
’ The success of the campaign was due largely to the faculty members for their unselfish contributions. Of the total, the faculty contributed over one third. The rest was divided among the other employees of the University who gave a little less than one third while the student body plus the administration composed the remaining one-third.
In this drive the student body contributed only one half as much as in the previous year. This was due partly to the unsettled condition on the campus occasioned by the beginning of a new semester and the lack of workers and organization. The Student Council, an important factor for this type of work, had not yet been organized to help put over such a drive among the student body.
The halls won honors for contributions in the following order: Zahm, Sorin, St. Eds, Cavanaugh, Breen-Phillips, and Alumni.—Dan Daniszewicz
"Scholastic" to Appear On Thursday Next Week The SCHOLASTIC will appear one day earlier next week, on Thursday, March 29. because the regular publishing date will fall on Good Friday.
All contributors are admonished to have their copy in the editorial offices in the basement of Cavanaugh by Sunday night.
A few positions on the SCHOLASTIC staff are still open. Those men interested in writing for the magazine are invited to come to the editorial offices in the basement of Cavanaugh Hall between 7:30 and 9:00 on Sunday evening.
3
EDITORIAL
c&he ZNotre Qiame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moritanis
FOUNDED 1867
till iiiitiiiiitittitiiiHiiu i«lt ttiHiiiiliiiliiilitMimiiuiiiiitiiiiitiiieiiiiMii till »HKiKK»ii«K«HKKUKimKK
KtKKKiKttKKtKKKIIIIKKKKKIKItKIKIKKKIKIIIKKIIIKKIIIIKKKKKKKKKKKIIKKKIKaKKKIKKKK
THE STAFF
ROBERT RIORDAN. Editor-in-Chief
EDITORIAL STAFF
GENE DIAMOND GEORGE DESPOT JAMES REGAN -james f. McCarthy AL KUENZLI . RALPH HAYMAN BOB O'TOOLE -
Navy Associate Editor
• Managing Editor
- Sports Editor
- Feature Editor Advertising Manager Circulation Manager
- Promotion
COLUM N ISTS
POWER - WALTERS E. F. GILLESPIE ART WAGNER
The Green Banner The College Parade • Swabbie's Log
FRANK GUIDO -	-	-	- Photography
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C. - Faculty Advisor
SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS
FRANK GRIMALDI JACK FREESE , GERARD HEKKER
JOHN FEENEY
J. J. TENGE DAN DANISZEWICZ
JOHN MILES OCTAVE EMOND BOB MALNON
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los-Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
4
"So You're 4-F?"
In the colleges and universities of our nation at war are some men who are not contributing directly to the war effort, and on this ground they are often subjects of considerable criticism. These men are part of the nation’s 4-F’s.
The men against whom this criticism is directed are all registered under the selective service act. They are as anxious to serve their nation’s cause as any men in uniform and many of them volunteered their services to the armed forces before being called under the draft law, but they were rejected both times. They were not accepted because of circumstances over which they have no control—they may be unable to serve for either natural or accidental reasons, but the fact remains that they are below minimum military standards and could not be accepted.
Some of these college men are not employed in war work, although others of them are doing either full or part time war work in addition to their classes. In respect to these men in college, the critics are committing the fatal mistake of short-sightedness, for in condemning the 4-F’s in college they condemn the American educational system itself.
In recent years the United States has relied more and more upon its colleges and universities to train its leaders. Today, many men who might otherwise be receiving this education are being trained for war. Thus the responsibility which in peace time would be placed on the many men annually graduated from colleges and universities must be placed on the shoulders of the smaller number now graduating which is composed chiefly of 4-F’s and discharged service men who have returned to college. This responsibility is even greater today than ever before because the job of the United States and her leaders in the post-war world is a vitally important one.
The U. S. Navy has realized the necessity for college trained men in the post-war period, and this is evidenced by such programs as the V-12 and the recent order concerning the Naval ROTC whereunder officer candidates received their college degrees in their chosen fields. At the same time the Congress has placed considerable emphasis on the providing of college education for returning service men under the G.I. and Rehabilitation programs.
The peoples of the entire world are looking for the leadership of the United States to guide them through the crossfire of false ideologies which is raking the moral principles upon which a lasting peace must be built.
“So you’re 4-F?” Remember then, that it will be your job to provide the necessary leadership which our nation and the world will need during the interim following the ending of hostilities and until the young men of America can again complete their college educations as in the past and rise to positions of outstanding leadership in a Christian world at peace.—R. R.
Dean Emeritus Roscoe Pound Honors Notre Dame Again
Faculty and Students Hear Noted Jurist and Author Fourth Consecutive Year; Will Resume Series Tonight.
By RALPH HAYMAN
The Notre Dame Law school was honored for the fourth consecutive year with the presence and enlightening lectures of Roscoe Pound, Dean Emeritus of the Harvard University Law school. The first of a four lecture series that will treat on the “Development of Constitutional Guarantees of Liberty,” was presented on Friday evening March 16.
Dean Clarence E. Manion, of the College of Law, presided over the meeting which was attended by Reverend J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, Indiana Senator Homer E. Capehart, and Aaron Huguenard, president of the Indiana State Bar association and a Notre Dame alumnus. Many members of the South Bend Bar association were also in attendance, as were students of the law school and their guests.
Leading Contemporary Authority
Born in 1879, Dean Pound, who is considered by many as the foremost jurist of all time, began his career in the latter half of the nineteenth century, being admitted to the bar in 1891. Steadily increasing his knowledge of legal matters through relentless study and observation of new trends in the field he has become one of the leading contemporary law authorities. The possessor’ of numerous degrees, he held the honored position of Dean at Harvard University Law school from 1919 to 1936, and has taught virtually every subject in the law curriculum.
It was at Dean Manion’s solicitation that the speaker elected to discuss the development of constitutional guarantees of liberty. Dr. Pound, in his initial lecture, dealt with the development of these guarantees in Medieval England from the time of the Norman Conquest to the Reformation. In this historical approach of the subject of individual rights it was demonstrated how the guarantees have grown up “by the exigencies of a balance between those who wield the force of organized society and the individuals subject to their authority.”
The speaker then pointed out that from the beginnings of law there has been a conflict of the political aspects of law versus the philosophical—that is whether the law proceeds from the government or government from law. Finally with the English Magna Carta the principle of government proceeding from law was established, he asserted. “The
king ought not to be under any man, but to rule under God and the law.”
What is Future to Bring?
As for the postwar development of constitutional guarantees of liberty Dean Pound went on to say that they were uncertain, but that in the past English speaking peoples have stood firm for their birthright of liberty. Referring to the period from 1791, when the first nine amendments of the Federal Constitution were drawn up, until the second decade of the present century the speaker pointed out that both the Federal and State constitutions manifested the zealous guarding by the citizens of their liberties. As an example, the Fourteenth amendment, applicable only to the states, was inserted in the Federal Constitution, despite the fact that it appears in most state constitutions and is applicable only to the State’s protection of these liberties. The period was onew hich was significant by the frequent allusions in state constitutions to the safeguarding of these liberties.
Commenting on the future, Dean Pound stated, “Whether that period has come to an end in the present generation only the future can say. If it has, I see
Dean Roscoe Pound and Dean Clarence E. Manion
no basis for assured prophecy of what course the development will take in a new period. But thus far, on the whole, all English-speaking peoples have stood firm for what they have regarded as their birthright of liberty.”
Tudors and Stuarts Significant
In his second address of March 24, Dean Pound spoke of the era of the Tudors and Stuarts, a period which lasted from the Reformation to the Revolution of 1688. This so called second period “begins in the time of what Maitland calls the three R’s, Rennaissance, Reformation, and Reception of Roman law.”
It is interesting to quote in part, Dean Pound’s comparison of the Tudors and Stuarts. In this connection he says, “While the Tudors were hot tempered and high spirited, they were not unreasonably obstinate like the Stuarts. Like Edward the First they knew when it was time to give in to the insistent demand of the nation for adherence to law. From time to time their rule was resisted but it was not subverted. Yet this very caution, this wise stopping short when it was time to yield, this (Continued on page 18)
5
Former President of Notre Dame Appointed Bishop of Buffalo Diocese
Bishop John F. O’Hara, present military delegate for the United States armed forces and former president of the Universtiy of Notre Dame has been appointed as bishop of Buffalo, N. Y. by Pope Pius XII.
Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., in response to the appointment issued the following statement:
“Notre Dame salutes her distinguished son, Bishop John F. O’Hara on his appointment by the Holy See to the diocese of Buffalo and bespeaks God’s blessing on his administration. Both clergy and laity will come to revere him as a true shepherd of souls and non-Catholics of the city as a true friend and benefactor.”
Bishop O’Hara, until his recent appointment, has been serving as auxiliary bishop to Archbishop Francis J. Spellman in the latter’s capacity as military vicar for the United States army and navy. As auxiliary, Bishop O’Hara has been supervising the active and reserve Catholic chaplains in the armed forces and has been the ecclesiastical head of the immediate families of officers and enlisted men.
Bishop O’Hara was consecrated titular Bishop of Milasa, Turkey at ceremonies held in Sacred Heart Church on the Notre Dame campus in 1940, but the
Bishop John F. O'Hara Administering Confirmation
diocese has been extinct, as an active diocese, because it has been under Turkish domination.
A native of Ann Arbor, Mich., Bishop O’Hara served with the Notre Dame faculty and as Prefect of Religion, before he became president in 1934, following the death of Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell.
South Bend D.A.V. Backs "Cavalcade of Stars"
The South Bend Chapter of the Disabled American Veterans and the Woman’s Auxiliary Unit are sponsoring a show entitled the “Cavalcade of Stars,” featuring the Bennett Brothers Circus combined with the “National Hillbilly Jamboree” and the “Hollywood Thrill Show,” on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday; March 23, 24, and 25 in the auditorium of John Adams High school.
The appearance will feature some of the nation’s most publicized performers and musicians and will highlight daredevil feats and mountain music as well as the entire Bennett circus troupe.
Seats are now on sale at Walgreen’s Drug Store, Colfax and Michigan streets, in South Bend. The tickets are §1.00, §1.50, and §2.00 plus tax. Performances will begin at 8:15, each evening.
Special Drill Team
Organized in V-12 Unit
At the request of the commanding officer, a special drill team has been organized among the V-12 trainees to give special exhibitions at the various reviews which will become more common during spring.
The drill team will be composed of all volunteers with or without previous competitive drill experience, and will work on complex and multiple-command maneuvers as well. They will strive for precision on the more common movements such as the faces, flank movements, column movements, and inspection procedure. The special drill team will also work with rifles, and will execute the various marching manuals. ,
In line with an increase in drill activity corresponding to the continued clement weather, it has also been announced that regimental drill competition will be held in the near future to determine the company in the V-12 which is the most proficient in drill. All drill competition will be supervised by Ensign B. H. Hum-mon, drill officer and barracks officer. Ensign Hummon will be assisted by the athletic specialists who serve as company instructors.
Chemical Engineers Plan
Open House Meeting
The student chapter of the Chemical Engineers began their semester’s activity by the election of Chapter officers on March 7, 1945. The newly elected chairman, Charles Madden, assured the group that the coming semester would find the organization as active and progressive as it has been in the past. The outgoing officers were congratulated for maintaining the standards, high caliber, and activity of the A.I.Ch.E. which has marked it as one of the most progressive groups on the campus.
At this meeting future plans were discussed and ideas for new and novel meetings were welcomed. Because of this discussion, it was decided to have ah Open House meeting on Wednesday, March 28, at 7:30 in the Unit Operation laboratory. This meeting will be open to all chemical engineers on the campus. Equipment in the laboratory will be displayed and explained by senior students. Further plans will be laid for the semester including business and social activities.
The prime purpose of this meeting will be to acquaint freshman chemical engineers with the course they are about to take and introduce them to an organization in which a membership will guarantee them an enjoyable and profitable time.—Jim Better
6
Band Organizing Lags; Hope is Still Hopeful
By OCTAVE EMOND
The Notre Dame Band, Mr. H. Lee Hope, director, is getting off to one of its slowest starts in recent years. An apparent shortage of available talent has been holding back the organization of the new unit. In spite of innumerable war-time difficulties the band has thus far done remarkably well, even to the extent of producing one of the best units in its history last semester.
The civilian turnout has been most disappointing. So far this semester only ten civilians have evidenced sufficient interest to be classed as regular members. This situation is in sharp contrast to that which usually prevailed in peace time. Then the director was able to choose the best musicians from a group of over 100 contestants. Those were the days of tryouts and reserves both of which have long since fled these hallowed halls.
The only other group available at present to round out the membership of the band are the men of the local V-12 unit. Last semester the V-12 regimental band numbered approximately 60 men all of whom were eligible to play in the University Band. This semester, after a 50 percent reduction in the V-12 unit, their band still numbers close to 60 men. Some of the instruments and all of the music is used jointly by the V-12 band and the University Band in which the V-12 men are still privileged to play.
Perhaps now that the early semester confusion has abated and the men of Notre Dame have had a chance to settle into a well established routine, the band will again begin to rattle the old timbers of Washington hall. An excellent schedule has been arranged and it is hoped that in the very near future the band will again be able to “shake down the thunder.” You be the judge; watch the bulletin boards for news of the first concert.
Student Council to Elect
New Officers Monday
The newly elected Student Council will hold its first meeting of the semester in the basement of the Law Building on Monday night at 7:30. Retiring president Robert Riordan will preside over the meeting until new officers are elected.
Results of the hall elections held last Wednesday and Thursday nights were not available before the Scholastic went to press, but all elected and appointed members should attend this organizational meeting in order that the semester’s activities can be gotten under way.
V-12 Chapeau Styles of '45; Spring Officially Arrives as Navy Men Don White Caps
Roommate, pass the Clorox and the Rinso for I would bathe my crowning glory, this night. Stand aside, while I ' burrow gopher-like into the seabag and ■ rescue that white sombrero from its months-old mausoleum of disuse. Discard those ugly blue chapeaus but not in the furnace as sentiment would dictate. Save them till November when you shall use them again as harbingers of a long, hard winter. But now, it is legal to be a white-hatted human being and we had best make the most of it.
The first question is “How will we wear it?” and here you call upon large and lucid volume known as the “Koran of the White Hat.” During the months of watch-cap misery, you found that there were four fundamental positions. 1) You could place the thing deftly but carelessly atop the cranium and allow it to gather to a point, a la Denny Dimwit. 2) If you possessed the dual qualifications of an egg-shaped head and the ability to outrun Specialist Wardley, you might place it on the backmost extremity of the head in what is commonly known as the “careless rapture.” 3) The ultra-stylish might set the cap rakishly over one ear. (Here there was always the danger of being mistaken for a St. Mary’s girl). 4) A final style, usually employed by men on both the demerit and deficiency lists consisted of tugging the cap down over both ears and both eyebrows in sheer despondency. None of these styles is applicable to the new headgear mainly because shape and not drape is paramount with the chic successor to that amorphous ball of yarn. ■
Never wear the white hat unless the brim has been shaped. If you tend toward the plumb, straight-line effect, the only acceptable figures are the square and the rectangle. The octagon and the isosceles triangle are out for the duration except in boot-camps and sea scout stations. Never wear the hat perfectly round and perched atop the head lest you be mistaken for a bell-hop or a Marine (or both.)
The human head has been so constructed as to accommodate the white in any position and at any angle of perch. As a matter of helpful suggestions for beginners, it will be noted that the curly-haired seaman will make a bigger hit with the chow hall girls if he sets the white hat on the back of his head and allows his waves to run wild. The baldheaded trainee is advised to procure a hat which is two sizes too large and to remember the Kreml-ad warning, “He
took off his youth when he took off his hat.” The only position in which a white hat does not look sporty is squared. (Page three, paragraph one — Station Regulations: “The white hat will be worn squared over the right eye.”
The white hat is to be kept clean at all times. Never allow the brim to become grimy or you will be mistaken for a midshipman. The usual cleaning methods employ soap and bleach; however chalk or whitewash will suffice in the event of a surprise inspection. An immaculate white hat will enhance your appearance like foam on a short beer.
The difference between Mabel’s reaction to the flat hat and her reaction to the white hat is the difference between a howl and a sigh. In dress blue baker you will put indoctrinating midshipmen to shame and eliminate that “poor relation” feeling whenever you are passing Walsh Hall. So pass me that white sombrero, Roomie, and leave me show my face in public.—Gene Diamond
New Members Admitted
To Commerce Forum
Getting off to an early start, the Commerce Forum held a short business meeting Wednesday evening, March 14. The purpose of the meeting was to vote on the new member candidates chosen by the inteiwiewing committee. This committee, headed by Tom Bergen, ably assisted by Frank Linehan, Mike Garry, Francis Malone and John Vaughan, presented the names of the five candidates they had selected to the group for their approval. The men approved were: Bill Sullivan, Bill Schmidt, Chris Cochrane, Bob Cunningham and Dan Daniszewicz.
Following the business the members were fortunate to hear a short, but excellent, talk on “Retail Advertising” by Dick Murphy, president of the Forum last summer, who was in town on business.
Officiating in his new capacity as president, Frank Linehan introduced his fellow officers who are: Tom Bergen, vicepresident; Brendan Biggert, program chairman; and John Vaughan, publicity director.
After a few words by Professor Edmund A. Smith, faculty moderator, the meeting was adjourned.	,
7
June Graduates Organize for Purpose of Putting Out Commencement "Scholastic"
The graduating class of June ’45 met this week to organize committees to work on the Commencement issue of the Scholastic. Plans have been accepted by Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., faculty advisor of the campus weekly news-magazine, for this final graduation number, and the matter has been put in the hands of the graduates.
Photographers from Bagby Studios of South Bend will visit the campus on Tuesday, April 10, for the purpose of taking pictures of all the graduates for this final issue of the semester. A committee is already at work attempting to set up a definite schedule of the time each graduate will have his picture taken.
In order to facilitate the work of this committee, and of the various other committees handling personal write-ups of each graduate, it is mandatory that each civilian, NROTC, V-12, and Religious . student, who will graduate in June submit his 'name to Tom Bergin, Room 130 Sorin hall before 7:30, Tuesday evening, March 27. It will be impossible to consider anyone in this final issue who fails to submit his name and local address before this specified time.
It was voted that all those interested in participating in this final “Graduation Number” will be charged $3, this amount to be used in meeting expenses. Anyone who wants his picture in the issue will have to have it taken on Tuesday, and cannot submit his own photographs. Similarity of photographs is a prime requisite of neatness, and the committee feels that it does not want any pictures that do not appear to be of the same tone, shade, background etc. It will therefore be required that all those interested in having their pictures in the magazine have them taken on April 10.
The committees that have already been chosen are: Committee on Pictures— George Haley, Jim Retter, and Frank Linehan.
Committee on Write-ups—Jack Allen, Tom Bergin, Elmer Gillespie. All photography will go through Al Lesmez, chairman of the issue. Special-features editor is Robert Riordan.
As time progresses, other committees will be chosen, and it is hoped that each graduate will contribute work of one nature or another. . . . either written material, manual work, or ideas.
It is requested that seniors be prepared to state what time on Tuesday, April 10 it will be possible for them to
have their pictures taken. This date, April 10, is definite, and is the only day that Bagby Studios will have their photographer on campus.—Al Lesmez
Prof. Campbell is First Lecture Series Speaker
Professor T. Bowyer Campbell, B.D., of the University’s history department, will deliver the first of a series of lectures on current events in the Law Building auditorium at 7:20 p.m., Tuesday, March 27, according to an announcement made earlier this week. The series, which calls for one talk every two weeks, and which will include informal discussions is being sponsored by the Young Christian Students’ (formerly Catholic Action Students’) organization with the general aim of creating a better friendship along intellectual lines between faculty and students and informing the students more fully and more effectively on current events. The series is under the general chairmanship of Stratton Easter and his assistants, Jack Schneider and Bill Murtagh.
Professor Campbell, whose general subject for Tuesday will be Japan, is well qualified to discuss problems concerning the Orient since he spent considerable time there as a Christian missionary. A member of the University’s faculty since 1931, he specializes in Oriental History. He will be introduced by Robert Riordan, editor of Scholastic, who will serve as student chairman for the evening. The entire program will be very informal and Professor Campbell’s
ATTENTION ALL GRADUATING SENIORS
Civilians, NROTC's, V-12's and Religious students who expect to graduate this June "must" submit their name and local address to:
Thomas P. Bergin 130 Sorin Hall
before 7:30, Tuesday night, March 27.
This is for the purpose of facilitating the work of the committee in charge of the Graduating Issue of the SCHOLASTIC.
It will be impossible to consider anyone in this final issue who fails to submit his name and local address before this date.
address will be followed by a general discussion
Others who will take part in the series are Professor Waldemar Gurian, Ph.D., formerly of the University of Berlin, who will speak on Russia; Professor J. H. Sheehan, A.M., head of the University’s department of economics who will discuss Labor; Professor Walter Langford, M.M.L., of the language department who will talk on Argentina; and Professor W. H. Downey, A.M., of the economics department, who will have Post War Problems as his subject.
An effort is being made to have Sumner Welles, former under secretary of state of the United States, and the author of Time For Decision, deliver the final lecture. An agreement has not definitely been reached but if Mr. Welles does appear it will be during the latter part of the semester.
The series is entirely a student undertaking and all are invited and encouraged to attend any or all of the talks.
Student Chairmen of the lectures will be Robert Riordan, Joe Menez, Bill Tully, Henry Lulli, and Al Kuenzli.
Holy Week Observed
On Campus Next Week
Holy Week will again this year be observed in full here at the University, one of the few places where such full solemnity is carried out.
Complete schedules of the week’s program -will be posted on all bulletin boards and all students are urged to cooperated fully with the Prefect of Religion in this annual occasion.
In keeping with the age-old plan of observing this period commemorating the Passion of Our Lord, the Blessed Sacrament will be exposed for adoration in the Lady Chapel from Thursday morning following the procession after Solemn Mass until the mass of the Pre-Sanctified on Good Friday morning.
As always, Notre Dame offers students an unusual opportunity to live their religion and everyone is urged to take advantage of the blessings of this devotion.
Glee Club Concert
Its membership drive closed, the University Glee Club this week began daily rehearsals in preparation for the first concert of the semester, an appearance in Kankakee, Ill., April 18. Thirty-six men will make the trip, and selection of the personnel for the occasion will be one of the duties of Director Daniel H. Pedtke.
Other activities of the club will include the election of officers for the present semester, offices in the organization being, elective rather than appointive.
8
JUST FOR A CHANGE.
NO REGULATIONS
To a notice on the duty office bulletin board, “Notice! Study hour and reveille regulations will be observed!” Someone inserted “No”—the result: “Notice! No study hour and reveille regulations will be observed!” Of course, everyone immediately suspected that this was an unofficial insertion: but the very idea that some “good dope,” saying that we would not have to live by regulations for a few hours, appeared on the duty office bulletin board, was a happy thought.
❖
COMPETITION WITH JANITORS FOR LATEST DIRT ENDS IN MEMORY "DECOBWEBBING"
Ordinarily this column is supposed to write itself, but so far this week it has not turned in very much copy. So with the deadline nearing we went into competition with the janitors in getting the latest dirt. These efforts did not tiirn in very much copy for this week either; therefore the bulk of this dribble for today will be left-over hash which has accumulated in the dark, cob-webbed corners of our memory.
NO HANDS IN POCKETS! WHAT ABOUT TOKENS?
Back in the days of winter when we wore peacoats, an order came out stating that since gloves were the uniform wiith peacoats, at all times, at no time were trainees to have their hands in their pockets, as was commonly seen both on the station and “on the beach.”
After the reading of this order at the noon muster, some alert trainee asked, “Suppose you have a bus token in your pocket, what then?”
SPRING
Alas, spring is here
The grass has riz
I wonder where the birdies is
SAID THE ENGINEER TO THE PRE-MED
At chow the other day an engineer remarked to a pre-med: “You pre-meds talk about the darndest things at the table. What’s the big idea? Are you striking for the engineers’ desserts or something?”
DAILY INSPECTIONS CHANGE STANDARDS OF GOOD HAIRCUT
Because of the fair weather of the last two weeks, daily personal inspections have again become common. This change has also brought about a change in the standards which go to make up a “good haircut.” Now, “your money’s worth” is not judged by how well the the barber cut the hair, but rathei’ how
close he cut the sides and how much he cut off the top.
“WHEN IRISH EYES ARE SMILING" DEDICATED TO IRISHMAN
One day last week on the “Reveille Review,” broadcast over WSBT between 6:30 and 7, we thought we heard the announcer say that the next number, “When Irish Eyes Are Smiling,” would be dedicated to the Irish Athletic Specialist who was the Junior Officer of the Day for the Navy V-12 Unit. It seems to us he said his name was Zeke O’Zuckowsky.
COLLEGE EDUCATION HELPS
On the last pay day of last semester Ed Sanders, then company commander of Company B, was lining up the company in alphabetical order. To do this he recited the alphabet from A to Z. After he had finished Elmer Schmidt said, “Absolutely correct. I just knew this college education would do something for you, Ed.”
Classwork Takes More Time Every Day
HOW TO DEMAGNETIZE A MICROTOME
And now we plunge deeply into science. A microtome is an expensive, delicate, little gadget used for- cutting tissue sections, in thousandths of a millimeter, for microscopic examination. Sometimes this instrument becomes magnetized and the problem of demagnetization results. One suggestion is to turn the thing halfway around, so that the poles are changed, and then hit vigorously with a sledge hammer. Sounds reasonable to us; but then what would you use to cut the tissue sections with?
❖
NAMES ARE CONFUSING
Company Commander: “Knock it off or we’ll take a ‘lap’ around the barracks.”	.
Good old Charley Lapp of days gone by: “Let’s leave ‘Lapp’ out of this.”
First Roundtable Meet
The Economic Roundtable, campus international relations discussion club, held its first meeting of the semester last week. Robert Kasper, Indianapolis senior, majoring in economics, presented the paper for the evening on “The Post-War Treatment of Japan.”
Long term planning for peace in the future was emphasized throughout the talk. Without ignoring the immediate problems, Kasper suggested that “a more fundamental change is called for in the political, economic and educational system of Japan.”
That rational and just treatment of Japan is necessary in effecting such changes was one of the major points of the talk. Mr. Kasper maintained “If the birth of a democratic free Japan is desired, we must be willing to come frequently to the aid of the laboring nation, giving whatever assistance is consistent with our immediate security.”
Harry Walters, commerce senior, was chairman of the meeting and led the discussion that followed. Mike Garry, Roundtable president, announced the group’s plans for the current semester.
9
N. D. Coaches Shift to Cornell, Iowa, and Cleveland Rams; Ronzani to Coach Here
By JOHN FEENEY
JI < I
Considerable turn-over in coaching personnel has taken place in the Athletic Department of the University since the close of last semester with at least two additional appointments to be made.
Leaving the University to assume his new duties as athletic director and head football coach of Cornell University in Ithaca, N. Y., is Ed McKeever, who, until his recent resignation, held similar positions at Notre Dame. McKeever will take over at the Ivy league institution on April 1 following a short vacation. With the former Texas Tech grid luminary will go Pat Filley, Notre Dame’s two-time captain and a 1943 All-American at guard, who will serve as line coach. Thus the mentor and captain of the 1944 Irish team that registered eight victories as against only two defeats will be reunited at the home of the Big Red.
Replacing McKeever as the temporary successor - of Lieut. Frank Leahy, on leave with the U. S. Navy, is capable Hugh Devore, line coach of the Fighting Irish for the past two years. The cocaptain of the 1933 N.D. pigskin aggregation was named to his new posts shortly after McKeever’s resignation was announced. He is now conducting spring practice.
Adam Walsh, member of the 1944 N. D. coaching staff and captain of the great 1924 Irish eleven, recently signed a long-term contract with the Cleveland Rams of the National Professional league. Walsh served under McKeever since leaving Bowdoin University on leave of absence. His place on the board of gridiron strategy has not been filled at this writing.
Another former N.D. coach and player, All American halfback Creighton Miller relinquished his ties with his Alma Mater and signed as backfield mentor of Yale University, New Haven, Conn. Miller played under Leahy in 1943 and won the unanimous plaudits of coaches,
Students interested in participating in the 1945 Bengal Bouts may still enter. These men may report to the boxing room below the north stands of the old gym. Civilians must present elegibility slips which may be obtained from Dr. McMeel at the Student Infirmary.
sportswriters, and fans for his sterling play on one of Notre Dame’s best teams of all time.
Still another Irish tutor—the head man of basketball, Clem Crowe, has been lured elsewhere. Definite official confirmation has come from Iowa City, la., that the former N. D. grid and cage performer, who recently completed a successful first year as coach of the Blue and Gold basketball squad, has signed a contract to direct the football destinies of the Iowa Hawkeyes for the 1945 campaign. Further additions to the coaching staff are in the making and will be announced when completed.
A newcomer to Notre Dame is Gene Ronzani, former Marquette and Chicago Bear footabll star, Ronzani was signed by Hugh Devore. He will serve in the capacity of backfield coach. Ronzani was captain of the 1932 Marquette team and since then has been a player and coach in the Chicago Bears’ organization.
Other members of the coaching staff who still remain at Notre Dame are Jake Kline, head baseball coach and football assistant and Wally Ziemba, football and basketball assistant.
Tennis Tryouts Scheduled to be Held Tomorrow
Coach Walter Langford has set tomorrow afternoon as the opening day for candidates for the tennis team to report. The tryouts are scheduled for 1:30 and •will be held on the asphalt courts north of the Navy Drill Hall. Coach Langford is hopeful of a large turnout of candidates for the team in order to supplement holdovers from last year’s Western tennis champions and co-holder of the National Intercollegiate title. In case of inclement weather, the opening trials will be held Monday on the same courts at 4 p.m.
Returning from last year’s championship team are Charley Samson, Bill Tully and ’ Jim Griffin. Only the number two man of last year’s first four men, Jerry Evert, is not returning. Samson, the number one player last year, was run-nerup in the National Intercollegiates, losing to Francisco “Pancho” Segura. Coach Langford stated that a large schedule has been arranged including games with most of the Big Ten schools.
Thirty Report as "Bengal"1 Date of Final Bouts
By BO3 3'TOO "Scholastic" Premotion
Workouts for the University Boxing 1 ferr Championships, to be decided May 4, got dacl underway this week, with approximately * the 30 entrants presenting themselves for duc( advanced instruction in the art of the A
“squared circle.”
Navy Athletic Specialist 2/c John Dur-dack is in charge of the training sessions, held daily in the Boxing Room of the Old Gym, ably assisted by A. J. Buono of the department of physical education, and Specialist 2/c Jack Houghton, also of the Navy staff.	*
“We do not expect as large a turnout for the bouts as in previous years be- p cause of the decreased enrollment,” Dur-dack said, “but we have a number- of fine boys, some with previous experience in the Bouts, and we’ll be ready when the first bell for ring activity sounds.”
Specialist Durdack has had extensive experience in boxing affairs, from the standpoint of entrant and promotion. A member of the boxing team at the University of Pennsylvania in his under- . graduate days, Durdack later fought throughout the state, first as an amateur, later professionally.
Reporting at Notre Dame in August-of last year, he went to work on the summer bouts, assisting Marine Sergeant ’ Joe Santos. When Santos was trans-
uatt 1945 Ben assi; was boxi hem supt
Bi ing of t port Inst chai as v ent poss henc
Bi agei ann< gott licit; orgs the his colo:
Trading punches in thi
10

Basketball Roundup Shows Several Notre Dame Records Fall Before Irish of '44-'45
By JOHN FEENEY
jal" Workouts Begin;
touts Changed to May 4
3 3TOOLE
'rcmotion Manager
ferred at the end of the semester Dur-dack took over boxing instruction for all
* the University phy ed classes and introduced wrestling as an intramural sport.
Assistant Instructor A. J. Buono graduated from the University in December, 1942, having twice participated in the Bengals, first as a contender, then as assistant trainer. Specialist Houghton was recently transferred from full-time boxing coach to general instruction, hence will be able to lend his time to ’ » supervision of drills only occasionally.
Because of the difficulty of rearrang-f ing their other free-time activities many of the entrants have been unable to report regularly for the daily drills, but Instructor Durdack expects to put his charges to work seriously next week. He as well as Buono and Houghton, is insistent that all entrants get into the best ( possible physical condition for the fights, hence cut down the possibility of injuries.
Bob O’Toole, student promotion manager of the bouts for the second year, announced this week that his work has gotten underway and that plans for pub' licity and staging of the bouts have been organized. Mr. H. Lee Hope, director* of the University Band, has signified that ’ his aggregation will be on hand to add color to the evening’s entertainment.
hes in the Bengals
Records recently released by the University’s Publicity Office show that Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish eagers; in addition to posting a new all-time N.D. mark for season’s scoring, also eclipsed numerous other marks throughout the 20 game trail that netted a satisfying total of 15 victories as against five setbacks. The N. D. men of the hard court, under the capable handling of Head Coach Clem Crowe and his assistant, Wally Ziemba, opened their campaign by racing past Kellogg Field and finished by pasting Detroit University’s quintet with a crushing defeat. In between these two easy triumphs, the Blue and Gold basket-eers beat some of the nation’s classiest quintets—including Great Lakes, Kentucky, New York University, Purdue, and Iowa Pre-Flight — and established themselves as a combination to be respected by even the mightiest. Their offensive average was a staggering and record-breaking 62.5 a game.
All told the Irish poured some 1,241 points through the iron hoop, chalking up a new mark in this depai-tment. The talented first-stringers — forwards George Ratterman and Johnny Dee, Center Vice Boryla, and guards Bill Hassett and Frank Gilhooley—provided the biggest portion of this total but notable and timely contributions were made by Paul Gordon, Jim Kartholl, George Benigni, John “Jay” Mullen, Bill “Zeke” O’Connor, Bill Roberts, Andy Sobek and Paul Lammers. The regulars, plus Gordon and Kartholl, were awarded monograms.
Boryla, the elongated and accurate
Notre Dame Official Basketball Scoring Record for 1944-45 Season	1944-45 Record Dec. 6 Notre Dame. 89; Kellogg Field, 28 *
PLAYER	POS. a FG FA FM PF TOTAL	9 Notre Dame, 68; Miami, 34
Boryla	C 20 130	94	62	66 322	12 Notre Dame, 71; Alma. 30
Dee	F 20 109	71	33	53 251	16 Notre Dame, 57 ;-Wisconsin. 46	'
Ratterman	F 20	99	51	36	30 234	19 Notre Dame, 91 ; Loras, 44
Hassett	G 19	69	45	26	49 164	23 Notre Dame, 46; Iowa. 63
Gordon	F 18	26	24	13	32	65	27 Notre Dame, 49; Purdue, 47
Gilhooley	G 20	26	25	11	45	63	
Kartholl	G 14	11	10	7	19	29	Jan. 2 Notre Dame, 32; Purdue, 44
Benigni	G 13	9	11	4	17	22	6 Notre Dame, 58; Great Lakes. 59
Mullen	F 8	9	5	1	3	19	10 Notre Dame. 49; Iowa Pre-Flight, 44
O’Connor	G 9	8	2	2	9	18	16 Notre Dame, 79 ; Marquette, 56
Roberts	C S 8	3	1	7	17	20 Notre Dame, 55; Great Lakes. 51
Magnusson	F 5	6	0	0	6	12	27 Notre Dame, 59; Kentucky. 58
Sobek	G 8	5	4	1	6	11	
Lammers •	F 7	3	2	2	1	8	Feb. 2 Notre Dame, 52: DePaul, 56
Goheen	G 2	2	0	0	1	4	3 Notre. Dame, 56; Northwestern, 37
Mirrington	F 2	1	0	-0	0	2	10 Notre Dame, 66; N. Y. U„ 60
Gasparella	C	1	0	0	0	1	0 Murphy	G	2	0	0	0.1	0	14 Notre Dame, 51; Iowa Pre-Flight. 38
	17 Notre Dame, 55; Marquette, 56
Kennedy	G 1	0	0	0	0	0	27 Notre Dame, 71; Northwestern, 66
Fitzgerald	G 2	0	0	0	0	0	' Mar. 6 Notre Dame, 87; Detroit, 43
Totals 	 521 347 199 346 1241	Totals 1,241; Opponents, 960
pivojt man, tallied 31 points against Detroit and 322 during the entire campaign for an average of 16.1. These feats bettered previous attempts and his performance against Detroit also gave him the field house record. In addition his total of 13 field goals against the Titans stands unapproached. Energetic little Billy Hassett, N.D.’s candidate for AllAmerican honors, registered 22 markers against Marquette in the first game with the Hilltoppers to establish an all-time mark for a Notre Dame guard.
Crowe’s quintet sank 89 points against Kellogg Field in the opener to set a new mark for points in a single contest by an Irish team. Less than two weeks later, however, this total fell as the Crowemen blasted the boards for some 91 points against the Loras Duhawks. Against Northwestern, in the final tilt, the locals hit for 71 and the Cats netted 66. Thus, together, the two clubs had 137 points for the evening, more than had ever before been racked up in a lone contest in which the Irish participated.
Coach Crowe, in his first season at Notre Dame, did a magnificent job of moulding a potent, sparkling quint, using for the most part, inexperienced players. This auspicious beginning is simply a continuation of the work Crowe did at Xavier University in Cincinnati where he turned in an enviable won-lost record.
In all, 20 players took part in Notre Dame varsity basketball competition during the 1944-45 campaign with 16 of them scoring.	•
The season’s record.
11
Irish Gridmen Open 1945 Spring Practice;
54 Aspirants Report to Head Coach Devore
After a one day delay, necessitated by Indiana’s inclement and unpredictable weather, Notre Dame spring football practice opened Wednesday with 54 candidates—the smallest number in years— reporting to Hugh Devore, new head mentor of the Irish. Workouts for the aspirants to the many vacated positions on the N.D. eleven will be conducted for 30 days.
Only four 1944 monogram winners were on hand to greet the recently-promoted Devore and his assistants. Present and presumably available for varsity duty in 1945 were Bob Skoglund, last year’s first team left end; Elmer Angs-man, regular fullback; Pete Berezney, second squad tackle; and John Mastran-gelo, reserve guard. In addition to these there was an assortment of inexperienced under - draft - age freshmen, 4 - F’s, and Naval trainees from which Devore will fashion his first N.D. team.
Expect More Help in July-
Later the Irish pigskin master may have the help of three more lettermen— namely quarterback Frank Dancewicz, center Frank Szymanski and guard Fred Rovai. These players are not enrolled at the University at the present time but there is reasonable possibility that they may return on July 1 for the summer semester.
Typical locker room scene as spring practice opens
Wednesday’s opening session also marked the initial appearance of Gene Ronzani, formei’ Chicago Beai' star, who will act as backfield tutor during the coming season. Ronzani was recently signed to replace one of the staff’s departed coaches — Clem Crowe, Adam Walsh and Creighton Miller. Two other additions may be made later. Until then Devore will depend upon Ronzani and Wally Ziemba, member of the staff since 1943.
Back-Breaking Schedule Maintained
Notre Dame will maintain its traditional back-breaking schedule in 1945. In the face of this, considering the dearth of seasoned personnel, Devore will be hard pressed to develop a combination to match the 1944 record of eight won and two lost, compiled by a McKeever-coached eleven that included such luminaries as Bob Kelly, George Sullivan, Pat Filley, Nunzio Marino, Marty Wendell, Chick Maggioli, George Martz, John Adams, Joe Gasparella, Doug Waybright, and Mike Davlin.
Coach Devore is the 18th head football coach that Notre Dame has had during its 56 year football history. The Irish teams have a splendid record of 341 wins, 75 losses and 27 ties over this period covering almost six decades. Discounting ties the winning percentage is .820.
Irish Open Baseball
Season; Kline Optimistic
Clarence (Jake) Kline will be starting his 12th season as head coach of the Notre Dame baseball team when the Irish take to the diamond for their first game of the 1945 season in three weeks. Jake assumed the baseball reins in 1934 and since that time has had but two losing seasons, 1934 and 1941. In all, the teams under Coach Kline have won 107 games, losing 77, and tying one for a percentage of .578.
Coach Clarence Kline
Coach Kline is a native of Williamsport, Pa. where he attended St. Joseph’s High school. Kline entered Notre Dame in pre-World War I days, and played on the 1915-16-17 baseball teams, captaining the club in his last season. His feat of hitting three home runs in one game in 1917 to defeat Michigan is still remembered by old-time Notre Dame baseball fans. Kline passed up several big-league offers to enlist in the Army in 1917 and was overseas for almost two years.
Jake then managed several minor league teams until he returned to Notre Dame in 1931 to become assistant freshman football coach. In 1934 he was named to his present capacity of head baseball coach, and since that time he has also been an assistant football coach.
With three monogram men returning from last season and with several newcomers showing promise, Coach Kline is optimistic concerning this season’s team. He is hopeful that the team will be able to come through a schedule of about 20 games on the winning side of the ledger. The team will have to go some to beat the record of the 1936 team which won 16 contests while losing but three, but Coach Kline hopes that last year’s record of 11 and 11 can be topped by this year’s nine.
12
Billy Hassett Wins Berth On Argosy All-American
The dynamic spark plug of Notre Dame’s 1944-45 cage quintet, blonde Billy Hassett, has been placed at one guard post on Argosy’s basketball All-American selections. The Argosy choices, culled from a survey made by some 1,000 coaches and sportswriters, were announced in the latest issue of the magazine. In all, 15 players were given spots on the elite
PERSONAL STATIONERY for MEN
Highest grade rag content bond. 50 sheets and envelopes to the box. Monarch size, 754 x 10%, with, large envelopes.
Price including printing $3.00 Unprinted $1.50 We will pay postage.
DON MERRILL, Printer 60 Hollywood Avenue East Orange, N. J.
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
| FLOWERS I
I make the perfect I
EASTER Gift
Place your out-of town orders early to avoid telegraph expenses and last-minute rush.
mythical team, with five of them earning first team berths.
With the Irish whiz at the guards was big, potent Bob Kurland of Oklahoma A. & M. Kurland, in contrast to the five foot, 10-inch Hassett, stands seven feet and is the tallest player in intercollegiate
Billy Hassett
basketball. The forwards picked were Don Grate of Ohio State and Dick Ives of Iowa, while George Mikan, the player of the year and DePaul’s illustrious pivot man, rounded out the five.
Hassett, who eclipsed all existing N.D. records for individual points by a guard in a single contest when he potted 22 against Marquette recently, was scheduled to leave for New York City last Wednesday, there along with the others named to the star group, to be present at a testimonial banquet and to receive a gold wrist watch.
Plans to have Argosy's team participate in a series of exhibition games along the Eastern Seaboard were aban-
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at
South Bend’s Leading Jeweler
doned at the request of the Office of Defense Transportation.
Hassett, coming to N.D. after playing the 1942-43 season with the crack Georgetown five of that campaign, paced N.D. defensive play this year and proved to be the right element needed to hold the untried Irish team together. Reflecting Hassett’s tremendous value to the Blue and Gold is the fact that Notre Dame received its only decisive defeat at the hands of Iowa’s Big Ten champions in a game in which Hassett was unable to play because of injury.
When you’re down-town . . .
Books Stationery Greeting Cards Gifts
THE BOOK SHOP
130 N. Michigan
NAVY
MEN!
Here’s where you can get
Delicious Italian and American Dishes
REASONABLY PRICED, PERFECTLY PREPARED.
Make Sunny Italy a first stop on your liberty night!
ooo
PHONE 3-0678 for reservations
| WILLIAMS | i	7he	1
:	West of the Oliver Hotel i
I	PHONE 3-5149	j
..........aiaiaa«iiBiiaaiaaiiaiiaaaaaaiaaaiiiiiiaaa»tiiiaaaaaaaaua|^
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
A Notre Dame Tradition
13
Saggau Returns to U. S.
Lieut. Bob Saggau, of Denison, Iowa, former Notre Dame football and track star, is returning to this country from the Pacific theater of war with Navy Air Group 11 for leave and reassignment. Lieut. Saggau has completed his second combat tour. A veteran of the Solomons campaign in 1943, Saggau has won the Air Medal.	.
Halfback Bob Saggau
Saggau was twice reported “killed in action” while he was in the Pacific area. Saggau was a left halfback on the Irish teams of 1938-39-40 and was also the leading sprinter on the track teams of those years.
The wife and child of Lieut. Saggau now reside in Cleveland while his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Henry Saggau, live in Denison.
Schedule Announced for
1945 Irish Golf Team
The Notre Dame golf team will engage in seven matches in addition to participating in the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament according to the schedule just approved by the faculty board in control of athletics. Candidates for the golf team have not yet reported but it is expected that Rev. George Holderith, golf coach, will issue a call within a short time.
The schedule will open with a match against the University of Detroit here on April 29 and will close with the N. C. A. A. tourney June 25, with the site yet to be chosen. The official schedule:
April 29, Detroit, here; May 5, triangular match with Northwestern and Minnesota, at Evanston; May 12, Wisconsin, here; May 19, Purdue, here; May 21, Michigan, at Ann Arbor; May 26, Wayne University, here; Michigan State (date to be arranged); and June 25, the N.C.A.A. tournament.
The only veterans of last year’s team which suffered but one defeat in the regular season are Jim Clynes and Tom Kennedy.
14
Irish Trackmen Close
Indoor Season Tomorrow
Notre Dame will be represented by a large track team at the Purdue Relays to be held tomorrow in the last indoor meet of the season for the Irish. Coach “Doc” Handy is expecting to take about 15 men to the meet.
Those scheduled to make the trip and the events in which they will compete are: O’Neil and Walsh, high hurdles; O’Neil and Entrickin, low hurdles; Vos-burg and Struble, pole vault; McKeen, high jump; Kelly and Scott, shot put; Provost, Jones, Prosche and Tully, distance medley; Prosche, Jones, Duarte or Schirmer, and Tully, sprint medley; Schirmer, Jones, O’Neil, Entrickin or Provost (foui* to be chosen), mile-relay.
Last Saturday in the Chicago Relays the Notre Dame mile-relay team of Jones, Schirmer, Provost and O’Neil finished first in the University mile-relay in the time of 3:33:7. They competed against Drake and Marquette.
EASTER GIFTS for "Her" —
Come in and choose from our fine selection ....
JEWELED PINS BRACELETS COMPACTS LOCKETS
KRAUSS JEWELRY CO. 207 N. Michigan St.
• Greeting Cards
• Artists’ Supplies
• Picture Framing
I. W. Lower Co
DECORATORS
128 North Michigan Street
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Dr. E. J. Cain OPTOMETRIST
I Flowers tor Easter . . .
You'll want to send flowers — just the right gift for Easter. Always a wide selection of cut flowers, corsages, and potted plants at
SmUi Hewl Cunp&uf
Phone 3-8227	114 South Michigan Street	South Bend =
WELCOME NOTRE DAME MEN!
For a pleasant evening, you are cordially invited to visit
The LaSalle Dining Room in the LASALLE HOTEL
Enjoy dinner music Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Saturday evenings rom 6:30 - 8:00 p. Sundays 12:00 - 3:00 p. m.
By JIM REGAN
were present, Wally Ziemba, Jake Kline, Hugh Devore, Hugh Burns and John McAllister also attended. Head Coach Clem Crowe was unable to attend because he was in Iowa.
With but few veterans returning, Coach Hugh Devore faces a difficult task in moulding another strong Irish football team. However, we feel that Hugh is capable of producing the best team possible with the material which will be on hand. Several new men have looked good in the spring practice sessions and Coach Devore is hopeful of discovering a few “diamonds” from among these hopefuls.
Another difficulty confronting Head Coach Devore is the assembling of a coaching staff. No sooner had an announcement been made that Gene Ron-zani had been signed as a backfield coach when the announcement of Adam Walsh’s resignation was made known. This was followed a few days later with the report that Clem Crowe had signed to coach Iowa University. These two vacancies will probably be filled in the near future.
* * *
Before drawing down the curtain on the 1944-45 basketball season, members of the Irish quintet held an informal party at “Rosie’s” last Thursday. In addition to the members of the team who
Earlier the basketball monogram men had chosen an all-opponent team for the past season. Jack Tingle of Kentucky and Paul Hoffman of Purdue were the forwards; George Mikan of DePaul, center; and Dick McGuire of Great Lakes and Herb Wilkinson of Iowa, guards.
* * *
Al Grenert and Sid Tannebaum of New York University, a team beaten by the Notre Dame basketball team this season, were named to the All-Metropolitan New York basketball team by
Appropriate
GIFTS
For
Notre Dame Men!
The
New Notre Dame
Scapular Medal
$l,.95
with chain
Beautifully manufactured in every detail by expert workmanship. You'll want one for yourself or as an attractive gift for a friend.
SIX CONVENIENT CHICAGO STATIONS
The South Shore takes you direct to downtown Chicago. Six convenient stations — Kensington, 63rd St, 53rd St., Roosevelt Road, Van Buren St., and Randolph St. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
While they last!
Although the supply is limited, we have a very attractive line of
Easter Cards
Also you won't want to miss our fine selection of gifts for Mother or sweetheart — just the right thing to send home for Easter. Come in today!
NOTRE DAME
BOOK STORE
Badin Hall
Hours:
Week Days—8 a. m. till 4:15 p-m.
Saturdays —8 a. m. till 1:00 p.zn.
15
New York sportswriters. New York University’s record for the season was still impressive enough, however, to gain them a bid to the N.C.A.A. tournament now being held.
*	* *
Johnny McHale, a student at Notre Dame last semester, is currently with the Detroit Tigers in their spring training camp at Evansville, Ind. McHale, a discharged serviceman, attended Notre Dame before he entered the service and was a member of the baseball and football teams. He returned to school last semester but did riot return for this semester so that he may attempt to gain a place with the Detroit Tigers as a first baseman.
*	* *
“Notre Dame of the Pines” is the name that has been selected by Eugene “Scrap Iron” Young as the name of the boys’ camp which he is establishing in Louisiana. Young, long-time trainer of the University athletic teams, resigned in December.
* * *
Bill Shakespeare, All-American halfback at Notre Dame in 1935, was in the news lately when he performed a heroic deed in battle which won for him the Bronze Star and an immediate field promotion from second to first lieutenant. Shakespeare with a brilliant maneuver, extricated himself and men under him from a dangerous position while capturing five Nazi soldiers single-handed. Shakespeare entered the Army as a buck private about two years ago and worked his way up through the ranks.
This tiny dot in the Pacific...
SAIPAN
0	12	3	4	5
MarpiPt.
SCALE OF MILES
Anchorage
Tanapag Bay $ LJ
Agingan Pt.
TANAPAG
GARAPAN
LAULAV
Nafutan Pt.
Magicienne Bey
CHABMi
KANOA
Outdoor Track Schedule
Includes 2 Home Meets
Two home meets are included on the schedule for the outdoor track team which was released this week after having been approved by the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics. Notre Dame’s tracksters will open their season at home against DePauw and will engage in a dual meet with Illinois at home. The remainder of the eight meets are away from home.
The schedule is as follows: April 21, DePauw, here; April 27-28, Drake Relays; May 5, Drake, Iowa Preflight, Wisconsin, at Iowa City; May 12, State meet, Bloomington; May 19, Illinois, here; May 26, Western Michigan, at Kalamazoo; June 2, Central Collegiates, at Milwaukee; June 9-16, Nationals (tentative date and site not yet chosen).
Since the Notre Dame indoor season ends tomorrow with the Purdue Relays, Coach Handy will have exactly four weeks to ready the team for the outdoor
has more communications equipment than a city of 190,000 people I
The little island of Saipan today has communications facilities greater than those of Hartford, Connecticut.
Without this vast array of telephone, teletype and radio apparatus—much of it made by Western Electric— Saipan could not play its key part as an army, navy and air base in the great drive our fighting forces are making toward Tokyo.
When you realize that Saipan is only one small island —and that many more bases must be taken and similarly developed—you get some idea of the job still ahead.
Today the manpower and manufacturing facilities of Western Electric are devoted to meeting our fighters’ increased needs. That’s why there is not enough telephone equipment for all civilian requirements.
Buy all the War Bonds you can—and keep them!
Western Electric
IN PEACE...SOURCE OF SUPPLY FOR THE SELL SYSTEM. IN WAR ...ARSENAL OF COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT.
opener.
16
Qfwen HanneA,
... By Harry Walters and John Power
MYSTERY OF THE WEEK
What’s going to happen to Breen-Phillips, now that all the lads have abandoned their castle on the Dogpatch road?
Rumors are flying faster than the spaghetti at Rosies (paid adv.).
Some say it’s going to be used as a home for transient football coaches.
We say it could be used as a storehouse for green bananas.
REASONABLE FACSIMILE
Young Jim Clynes, a mean man with a mashie, found the solution to the nation-wide shortage of golf balls. It seems that the recapped affair sold today last our Jim about ten strokes or one hole. He has discovered however, that the Dining Hall mystery balls cannot be sliced, slashed, split, cracked, cut or even dented. “They float too,” adds Jim.
OUT OF THE SANDTRAP
Spring has come to Notre Dame and with it the golfer. Passing motorists on the Dixie now have two things to worry
about: 1) flying golf balls, and, 2) St. Mary’s girls.
Incidentally the lasses from the other side of the tracks once requested -that they be allowed to play the Notre Dame links. With customary diplomacy, we reply they can use it if we can wade in their pool.
❖
CAMERA CLUB NEWS
Another bright young man on the campus has come up with a solution to a shortage. John “Mickey Mouse” Arcadi recommends dining hall coffee as a film developer. We hear that John, seeking the finer things of life, wandered over to St. Mary’s to take a picture of the average girl. He had to take three pictures. She wouldn’t fit on one.
❖
YOUTH ON THE CAMPUS
John Bresnahan is the original Massachusetts fox, ex-mayor of Dogpatch and currently Brother Conan’s chief henchman. His chief claim to fame is that he discovered Bob Schuessler and made him
HOLD THAT HAIMIHH
BOOKS
For Your
Reading Enjoyment
“The Sad Sack”
His biography in cartoons from Yank Magazine by Sgt. George Baker.
the "Aa. / Man" in heft ti^e?
Stay “solid” in Her affections with an Easter gift from
Woman'&
“Tomorrow Will Sing” “Shape of Danger” “Lower Than Angels” “Captain From Castile” “Apartment in Athens” “Of Smiling Peace” “The Apostle”
“Yankee From Olympus’ “Immortal Wife”
“Lake Michigan” “Rolling Stone” “Guide to the Peace”
Hartnell's "White Shoulders"	' in " in	perfume, 5.00* and 18.50*	
		cologne, 2.75* and	5.00*
Hartnell's "Menace"	in	perfume,-5.00* and	18.50*
	in	cologne, 2.75* and	5.00*
Pearl "Choicer" Necklaces	in	white, pink or blue	— 1, 2
	and 3 strands — 2.00*		-10.00*
Matching Pearl Ear rings
white, pink, blue — 1.00*- 10.00
And a complete line of other popular novels, recent best sellers, fiction and non-fiction, at
NERS
NEWS CENTER • CI6AR STORE 127 W. Washington St
"In the J. M. S. Building"
RU
* plus 20 % fed. tax
Accessories, first floor
17
the man of the world he is today. Very active in things extra-curricular, he is the executive vice president of the “Get the Swings Back on Sorin’s Front Porch” movement. He has recently developed an interest in a young lady who works in the local auditing office and the last time we saw him he was pouring over Finney’s Principles of Accounting to find out what she meant by Depreciation Reserve.
❖
DEFINITION OF A MORNING CHECK
Religious officials say “It’s a disciplinary matter.”
Discipline officials say “It’s a religious matter.”
Oscar Appleknocker, a Cavanaugh Freshman, says, “It’s a pain in the neck.”
APOLOGY
We’re sorry that we said those Saint Mary’s June grads are 100 years old. They aren’t. They sent us their birth certificates and some of the youngsters don’t begin collecting Social Security for three more years.
INTERIOR DECORATING DEPT.
The furniture season is over. No longer do nondescript freshmen wander through the halls, asking “Ya gotta lamp fer sale, Mack?” No longer do upper class smoothies, invade Zahm selling “an
original Louis XIV armchair, a Chippendale bureau and a Persian rug” for three bucks and a bus slug.
There are at least four freshmen who boast a room furnished with the curtains which graced the “Gipper’s” room and the desk lamp that Bertelli used.”
Some Johnny-come-lately’s were unable to obtain these luxuries and have to be content with the bed, desk and chair so graciously provided by the school until next season rolls around. Oh, it’s a fright!
DEAN EMERITUS POUND
(Continued from page 5)	.
timely making of concession, which enabled them much of the time to rule despotically, might have gradually enabled encroachment destructive of the constitution. The Stuarts had no such cautious discretion. They obstinately opposed all legal restriction and so brought about their ruin and the establishment of legal guarantees of freedom.”
The third and fourth of the lecture series, consisting of analysis of the history of such guarantees in the American colonies up to the institution of the Federal Bill of Rights in 1791, will be presented tonight and tomorrow night at 8 o’clock in the Law building auditorium. An invitation has been extended to the public.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY’
X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661
702 J. M. S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND, IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER. M.D. M. J. THORNTON, M.D,
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING	PHONE 3-2S74
T’es le bienvenu, vieux frere... Have a Coke
( GREETINGS, OLD MAN )
... a way to show friendship to a French sailor Even foreigners visiting our shores for the first time respond to the friendliness in the phrase Have a Cuke. There’s the good old home-town American spirit behind it... the same as when you serve Coke at home. Coca-Cola stands for the pause that refreshes,— has become a bond of sympathy between kindly-minded folks.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCACOLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
18
200 N.D. MEN MAKE SACRIFICE (Continued from page 3)
★	187 Lieut. John J. Kelly, ’33, killed in action, late in January in the Pacific.
★	188 Lieut. Charles T. Lewis, ’43, killed in action in France, Feb. 2.
★	189 Major John C. Grobmeyer, ’41, killed in an airplane accident over France, Feb. 6, 1945.
★	190 Lieut. Theodore J. Knusman, ’38, killed in action, Feb. 8.
★	191 Capt. James P. Birder, ex. ’45, killed in action on Feb. 7, while serving with the 82nd airborne division. He is the son of Professor Birder, head of the speech department at the university.
★	192 Robert G. Perry, ex. ’46, died from an accident at St. Louis University, Feb. 19, in St. Louis.
★	193 Cpl. John W. Disser, ex. ’34, died in service from injuries sustained in a fall aboard the deck of the exchange ship, Gripsholm, which was returning him from a German prison camp, on Feb. 24.
★	194 Pvt. Theodore J. Dorosh, ex. ’48, killed in action in Belgium during February.
★	195 Sgt. Joseph T. Gibson, ex. ’46, killed in action in Germany, Feb. 15.
★	196 James H. Gillis, ex. ’46, killed in action in Germany, Nov. 23, 1944.
★	197 Lieut. John F. Kinsman, ex. ’45, killed in action in the Philippines, on Feb. 19.
★	198 Lieut. Patrick E. Murphy, ex. ’45, killed in action in Burma, India, ’ Feb 4.
★	199 William C. Florence, ex. ’39, killed in action; no details available.
★	200 Sgt. Patrick R. Maschke, ’44, killed in action in Germany on Feb. 12.
Holy Cross Prisoners Liberated
Word has been received from the War Department to the effect that the members of the Holy Cross mission group, captured at Manila in the Japanese invasion shortly after Pearl Harbor, have been liberated. The group includes Rev. Jerome Lawyer, C.S.C., Rev. Robert McKee, C.S.C., Brother Rex, C.S.C., and Brother Theodore, C.S.C. The group also included two nuns from St. Mary’s College, and 13 members of the Canadian province of the Congregation of Holy Cross. One member of the Canadian province was reported missing.
All the captives were freed from the Los Manos prison camp, south of Manila —the most recent camp liberated. All the members of the group were .reported by army authorities to be in fair condition. All will return to the United States by the first available transportation.
The new two-button jacket style is just right for the casual Shetland fabric. This jacket with your favorite gabardine slacks is relaxing just to look at. In all good Springtime shades.
$18=
Others $13.95 to $35
ON THE COUiEK... MICHIGAN $ HMHM6T0N
19
Copyright 1945, Liggett a: Myeks Tobacco Co
RIGHT COMBINATION ★ WORLD S BEST TOBACCOS
Come on Chesterfield
wene changing to anew outfit...
Yes, if s a lasting friendship... well-earned by Chesterfield’s three top qualities ...
MILDNESS * BETTER TASTE COOLER SMOKING
And when your G. I. Joe steps out of khaki into a
blue pin-stripe and he’s home for keeps, you’ll again
enjoy Chesterfields together and agree that nothing
measures up to their...