I
I
i
i
j
j
CAMQ
More people, an slicing CM&S titan w before!
B. .1. Beynolds Tobacco Co.
Winston-Salem, N. C.
choice: quality

s GORDON MacRAE'S Latest Capitol Release
7 Sim (fflTJfllWUS
MARK the name: Gordon MacRae. You’re going to be hearing more and more of him, for this newest platter of his is really a record for the books.
Another record for the books is the fact that all over America more men and women are smoking Camels than ever before!
Why? You’ll find the answer in your “T-Zone” (T for Taste and T for Throat). Try Camels. Discover for yourself why, with smokers who have tried and compared, Camels are the “choice of experience”!
(MBS
SUIT ME
BEST!
TURKISH ©> DOMESTIC BLEHD W& "CIGARETTES '"'"J



with a hangover. The Cadets, too, are off their rollers. The spit-and-polish boys are not only crying for Irish blood, but they want as much of the scalp and flesh as they can get with it.
TOP OF THE WEEK
Notre Dame man: “What ever happened to that famous West Point spirit?
EARL BLAIK & CO.—BANKRUPT
November 11 is Armistice day. Earl jp’laik and his associates would like to have the holiday moved up to November 8. Their reasons are simple. Gone are Doc Blanchard, Glenn Davis, Arnold Tucker, and the 32-game winning streak. Gone are the punchless, push-over Notre Dame grid machines of ’44 and ’45. Gone is the draft. All that remain of the once-famous West Point wonder teams are memories. But, if you think that 57,000 paying pedestrians came to South Bend just to see a dream a-walking, you’re crazy. Every honest American (and otherwise) knows there’s still some kick left in the Army mule’s hind quarters. The big question is: “How much?”
This week millions of gallons of printer’s ink has been used to ballyhoo the so-called “Game of the Year.” The big
The scalpers are active, too. After Army’s loss to Columbia, a pasteboard dropped in value from §300 to S299. To get a ticket today you’d have to offer your 1947 Cadillac and plenty of boot. Students are finding it difficult to transfer their tickets. When they enter the stadium, they’ll be required to show their ID cards, athletic books, birth certificates, dog tags, life-size photographs of themselves, and be able to repeat the oath of allegiance to the United States.
Between the halves, the Cadets will parade onto the field. In behalf of the recruiting drive, they’ll spell out: “JOIN THE ARMY AND HELP BEAT NOTRE DAME!”
To save the newspaper scribes a little time, we have interviewed some of the
visiting firemen and herewith offer some of their opinions on the outcome of tomorrow’s fracas:
Joe Stalin: “If the Army crosses Notre Dame’s border, I’ll order the Red legions into Turkey immediately.”
Bill Stern (in his NBC booth): “John Lu jack is back. He has the ball; he laterals it off to Sitko, no to Livingston. Wait-a-minute, that’s McGee, no Brennan, no it’s Ratterman, no Coutre, it’s Smith or Panelli. Leahy scores again!”
Jimmy Durante: “I’m surrounded by assassins. People to duh right-a me, people to duh left-a me, a post to duh front-a me. Millions-a people; dat’s what there are. But, I’m still-a novelty. Excuse me, Mrs. Roosevelt, I dint see yuh!”
General Eisenhower: “Let’s walk to the game. I’ll not run. I will not run!!”
Westbrook Pegler: “Football is but a communistic venture aimed toward destroying the roots of free enterprise. We must destroy football; we must destroy commercialism; we must destroy some= thing.”
Walter Winchell: “Destroy Pegler.”
Frank Leahy (before the game): “Army is big, (sob) Army is fast, (sob) I’ll settle for a scoreless tie (SOB).”
Earl Blaik (after the game): “Anyhow, we play Missoula State Teachers next year.”
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
West Point Cadet: “Haven’t yuh heard. We’re waiting for it to come out in a movie!”
sideshow down in Washington has been pushed off the front page into the women’s section; Joe Stalin couldn’t get a j^ine of type even if he challenged Harry Truman to a wrestling match in Red
Square. Lovers have ceased writing Dorothy Dix about their helpless helpmates. They now ask for advice on where to purchase Army-ND tickets. Why this sudden mania for football? We dunno. Could be the lack of vitamin B-17 in the daily diet. Maybe it’s the beginning of another depression. Could be the last game of the Army series. We do know, however, that everybody has suddenly blown his top.
In South Bend, there seems to be no hope. To get a room in a local floppery, you’ve got to promise to pay off the “funded” debt of the State of Indiana, prove you tip with nothing but §50 bills, and prove you’re married.
Students from both West Point and Notre Dame are in a bad way too. Campus rah-rahists have ground the fkrmy mule into hamburger, goulash and oorsch. The local campus looks like a New Orleans Mardi Gras celebration
PIC’S Notre Dame Representative: John Defant
Have you seen the new PIC?
You should.. . it’s the best buy in magazine? for college men-
3
I
No. 1 gift with seniors at 20 universities «
(
Again this Christmas, Parker “51” is the world’s most-wanted gift pen. In fact, seniors at 20 great universities voted Parker more-wanted than the next three makes of pens combined! All in all, 77 surveys in 29 countries confirm this preference. • Incomparable in its styling and performance—the “51” makes all writing a pleasure. So perfectly balanced—so responsive —so smooth gliding. And only the “51” is de
signed for satisfactory use with remarkable new Parker Superchrome—the super-brilliant, superpermanent ink that dries as it writes! • Choice of custom points to suit your individual style of handwriting... and smart gift colors. $12.50; $15.00. Pencils, $5.00; $7.50. Sets, $17.50 to $80.00. Parker V-S Pens, $8.75. Pencils, $4.00. The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wisconsin, U. S. A., and Toronto, Canada.
4
LETTERS
MORE ABOUT CHEERS
Dear Editor:
By this letter I don’t mean to criticize but I would like to ask a question. Why don’t the students stand up and really give out with cheers when both the band and the team come on the field? It’s truth, the students stand and cheer when the team comes on but they pay very little attention to the band. Last year I saw a couple of Florida U. football games and there was more spirit demonstrated there when the band came on the field than has been shown here so far and fcU. of F. didn’t win a game last year.
Bill Anhut,
225 Breen Phillips
P. S.: Have the cheer leaders forgotten the Irish chant?
Dear Editor:
I should like to register a calm and placidly ruminated shriek of protest against this week’s idle bickering promulgated by Messrs. Pfaff and Fraier as regards the previous week’s review of Aurora Dawn by my good friends Mr. Gorman and Mr. Murphy.
Poor indeed is the literary situation when two such sorely blackened penpots as the two forementioned plaintiffs be allowed to level a wagging finger and escape unscathed. Take up, if you will, any last year’s edition of the Scholastic and note but for a moment the Notre Doters column which was then the private verbal gymnasium of these two revelers in sophomoric bombast. Wade, if you can, through any portion of the rhetorical mire. Mark the generally foggy wording. Note the precocious jests and inane tirades. Heed the overall “eggbeater in an inkwell” appearance. Really, when Pfaff and Fraier find it necessary to attack our good reviewers with such unseeming ferocity, methinks the air becomes redolent of sour grapes.
Cheerfully yours,
Alden Jay Scriba, 108 Lyons Hall
This injured minnoiv should surely produce an interesting rise.—Editor.
GIVE US MORE
Dear Editor:
Congratulations to the University officials responsible for bringing the Juil-liard String Quartet to the campus. This Jas undoubtedly the best entertainment presented at Notre Dame in some time. Those students who could have attended
the concert and did not were decidedly the losers. May the success of this presentation point the way to more entertainment of the same caliber in the not too distant future.
Al Motzel, 243 Lyons
Dear Editor:
Approximately two weeks ago I lost a light tan raincoat.
Identifying marks: Lipstick on the collar, slash pockets, very light weight and size: not too big.
I am not sure about the place of loss but any help proffered in this weather will be greatly appreciated.

song goes
as the Anny
Arrow’s
"WOODLAND WOOL"
Ties *1
These handsome, neat-knotting and wrinkle-repulsing neckties are 100% pure wool and sell for one small dollar. Pay no more.
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES
W-...—. — --- ------------------»■
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
Please return or notify Joe Shelly in 344 Farley Hall.
Thank you.
Joe Shelly,
344 Farley Hall
Dear Editor:
I have just learned that a Notre Dame student and a St. Mary’s student were killed and that two others were injured as they were crossing the Dixie Highway last Saturday evening. I am sure the campus was saddened by this tragedy.
It seems to me that both Notre Dame and St. Mary’s might well consider construction of a lighted tunnel under U. S. 31 at the St. Mary’s gates. That spot (Continued on Page 31)
Or just about every man-jack of you, veterans, peagreen freshmen and all, will appreciate the colorful fall assortment of
5
Campus Clubs
By BOB CASURELLA
SWEET SEVENTEEN
Seventeen representatives from 17 campus clubs were present at the final organizational meeting of the inter-club bowling league. They elected officers for and ratified the constitution of the Kam-pus Keglers Klub, formed to administrate campus bowling. Ernie Huffman, of the Pittsburgh Club, was elected president. Jim Silk from Boston was elected vice-president. Chicago clubber John O’Brien is the secretary, and Fred Shadley, of the Pittsburgh Club, is the treasurer. The club plans to schedule 24 teams in two divisions. At last report three new teams have already signed up, leaving room for four more teams in the league. Any club interested should contact Ernie Huffman at 364 Cavanaugh. The next meeting of the Kampus Keglers Klub will be held Nov. 25 in the Law Building. Schedules will be presented to the teams at this meeting. Bowling will begin about the thirtieth of the month. The campus has long been in need of a club and an activity of this type.
ROSES
The Utica Club of Notre Dame held a giant steak dinner in the Rose Room of the LaSalle Hotel in downtown South Bend last week. Said Utican Phil Aquino, “The company was marvelous, the steak delightfully delectable.” Mr. John H. Sheehan, head of the Economics Department was the guest speaker.
Texan Coy McGee (several Confederate papers call him cog) moved into the presidency of the Rebel Club as a result of the elections held last week. Joe Sig-naigo from Memphis became his helper, winning the vice-president slot. Paul (Doubles) Owen of New Brunswick, Ga., won the three-man race for treasurer. Bill Leonard from Fairfield, Alabama, was elected corresponding secretary. This group of officers will serve until February, when year-tenure men will be elected. They will go down in Rebel history (club that is) as the interim-termers. Nothing prevents them from running again in February, however, and possibly becoming year-tenure men. The Rebel Club is planning another big Mardi
Gras dance sometime in February. ’Twill be one of the events of the year.
CALUMET CALL
The boys of the newly formed Calumet Club are now hard at work contacting all old Notre Dame grads in the Calumet-East Chicago area. Purpose: to form a Calumet Alumni Club to work in cooperation with the Notre Dame Calumet Club. The boys also discussed tentative plans for a Christmas Dance to be held in Gary, Ind.
The Washington, Maryland and Virginia Club issued directories to all of its members, containing home addresses, phone numbers, campus addresses, etc. It is part of a campaign to get the guys from home to know each other better.
ITALIANA?
The name is still tentative, but the club formed to investigate Italian culture elected its officers last week. John Panelli was elected president; Frank Lombardo, vice-president; John Alfieri, secretary, and Ray lannuccillo, treasurer. Meetings are to be held bi-weekly, the next one being Tuesday, Nov. 11, in Room 101 of the Law Buildnig at 7:30.
Those members of the Buffalo Club who went to the Navy game last week, went directly from the game to Buffalo. There they saw the Cleveland Browns and the Buffalo Bisons play. Kind of a shuttle mission. At the last meeting of the club Tom Kelly was named chairman of the Christmas dance, and Bob Reid chairman of the Easter dance. Ray Russek is in charge of the Buffalo bowling team.
AFTER SEVEN YEARS
The Milwaukee Club of the University of Notre Dame has been reorganized by Bill Roberts, Frank Hushek, Jim Ott and Dick Noll after having been in an inactive status for some seven or eight years.
At its last meeting on October 27 officers were elected as follows: Bob Duden-hoepher, president; Dick Hoy, vicepresident; Jim Brennan, secretary; Bill Roberts, treasurer. The constitution and
(Continued on Page 34)


WILCOX, J. (dissenting)
It looks as if I was getting to be a regular dissentei' on the Scholastic Court. Comes now another plaintiff, complaining that he does not wish to take the Army Cadets unto his bosom, and immediately comes one of the editors, denying all the material allegations of the said complaint, and for answer, saying that everybody must frisk upon the greensward with the Black Knights for auld lang syne, tra-la. My inquiry is, is Saturday going to see a football game or a croquet match? I am perfectly willing to exude familiarity and love on the aforesaid Cadets, but no^ next Saturday. I’m not saying “pour iv
on.
The Cadets said that twice, re
member? The echo of the chant ought tc take care of the matter.
And in Chicago, a theater is featuring “The Spirit of West Point,’ with Blanchard and Davis attempting to rival Maurice Evans in the thespian art. On the same bill with this masterpiece is “Another Fine Mess” with Laurel and Hardy. All of this simply proves the trite old saying about birds of a feather.
Before I leave West Point, a word of apology. Last week I appropriated a poetic bit from the West Point Pointer. It was bad, all right, but somebody, either the typesetter or I, left out the last line of the first verse, making the poem worse than it actually was. That line was “I’ll lay an even bet.”	i
YOU AIN'T WORTH SO MUCH DEP'T. '
The lack of a proper sign at the scen^f । of the St. Mary’s tragedy recalls other signs I have seen. They say “CATTLE CROSSING,” and they are erected by the munificence of the sovereign State of Indiana, so better to perpetuate the lives of the sacred cows hereabouts. Perhaps the highway department, or who- i ever has had the buck passed to him by I now, does not think that the hides of g students are worth as much as the hides a of cattle. Something is out of propor- 1 tion somewhere.	a
IF MUSIC BE THE FOOD OF LOVE. . g LOVE WILL STARVE ...	|
Marring an otherwise perfect per- a formance by the Juilliard String Quartet S last week was a composition by one Bar- 0 tok. This epic consisted of an intricate 9 series of cello moose-calls, which were 9 plaintively answered by the viola and 9 the violins. Bartok was probably a Hungarian fish peddler gone very wrong i^^M deed, who attempted to follow in the g
(Continued On Page 34) g
-6
! ^The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
THE STAFF
FRANCIS J. KEENAN, Editor-in-Chief
JOHN A. O'CONNOR  Associate Editor EDWARD J. SNYDER  Associate Editor JOSEPH WILCOX Feature	Editor
PETER BROWN  Sports Editor SHAUN McDERMOTT  News Editor ROBERT STOCK -------------------- Associate News Editor
JAMES FERSTEL --------------------- Photographic	Editor
<1DONALD BIRREN Art	Editor
E. A. CORDESMAN  Art Editor
WILLIAM GORMAN  Librarian ROBERT KOPF  Circulation JOHN CLARK --------------------------------- Circulation
M. E. VARGA------------------------ Advertising Manager
JOHN S. BRENNAN Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
oiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiittiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiaiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiftiiiiioiintiiii........
Meet the Editor
Now here’s a lad for you: Jim Ferstel, 19, from Wilmette, Ill., Scholastic photographic editor. An efficient, ambitious, dependable lens man, Jim is responsible for most of the best pictures in this year’s Scholastic, as well as last
year’s Dome.
A law student, Jim is a member of the Blue Circle and edits the Liturgy Club bulletin.
But for all his impeccable dress Jim is not the typical newspaper photog. He is too much of a gentleman. Instead o f shoving people around, insisting on promptness for appointments, and generally acting like a ruffled prima donna, Jim coddles his subjects, treats them like human beings, smiles them into the right pose, and thereupon
snaps the shutter. His work reflects his personality: bright, dependable. The staff swears by a fine fellow to work with.
CALENDAR
Nov. 7 RALLY ROUND THE FLAG, BOYS. Pre-Anny game whoop-up may bring out the usual crop of uncultured jokes and misfiring speeches, but we hope not. Let’s fan the fires wtih a few short, meaningful words, rousing martial music, and a pandemonium of cheers. Everbody’ll be there. They’ll hear our spirit voiced from here to the Hudson.
Nov. 8 NOTRE DAME vs. ARMY. This is what we’ve been waiting for. The campus should be humming with visitors, weatherman permitting. South Bend will never again see so much teeming, jumping, money-spending life. There’ll probably be some tickets available at cost, as a few scalpers are always caught holding the satchel at the last minute. The Irish look like three-tcuchdown favorites.
COLFAX, Forever Amber. Nice reception for entertainment-seeking guests, eh? Legion of Decency says nix. Picture itself is typical of what Hollywood movie moguls will do when the chips are down. For all their self-administered absolutions and cultural crossing themselves, they will film anything for a price, even if it directly thumbs its nose at Christian principles and American standards.
VICTORY DANCE. The Drill Hall’s concrete floor will get a sanding down from several hundred swishing soles on this gay Saturday night.
Nov. 9 RIVER PARK, Fre Alivays Loved You, with Philip Dorn and Catherine McLeod. This technicolor production has received favorable reviews. Good
‘	story, good music. Hard to beat.
STATE, Variety Girl and Seven Were Saved. The first picture has a whole carload of talent, including Crosby and Hope; the second film has seven too many characters.
MEDIAEVAL INSTITUTE presents Prof. Stephan Kuttner of the Catholic University of America delivering a lecture entitled “Legal-Canonical Science and the Mediaeval World.” Room 101, Law Building; 4:30 p. m.
Nov. 11 ARMISTICE DAY. The newspapers manage to keep it alive.	.	.
RIVER PARK, Lady in the Lake. Robert Montgomery in one of his rare appearances on the screen snoops around in a novel murder mystery. Reports from reviewers who first saw it last spring say it’s pretty fair stuff. Companion feature, Wife Wanted. There’s some discussion as to whether Kay Francis, who stars (1) in this picture, is older than Dame May Whitty. For your information she is not.
PALACE, Living in a Big Way. Gene Kelly hoofs through this colorful musical, which is moderately good entertainment.
Nov. 13 GRANADA, Moss Rose, and Under the Tonto Rim. The first is a fair to middlin’ murder yarn and the second is a classic no college man will want to miss.
7
fyu&HL Ute	.
Scalpers to the Wall!
For all the hoopla and hurrah connected with the gala Army week-end, one dissonant note sounds through to jangle the other harmonious sports symphony. This is the open flaunting’ of University regulations and Christian principles of business conduct by members of the student body engaged in selling game tickets that have fallen into their possession.
Scalpers among the students have been most bold in their malicious finagling, greedily howling for heaven-high prices for tickets that are much in demand. This smacks of selfishness and pocket-book gluttony.
Never before has it been so apparent that to see Notre Dame play football is a rare privilege. We have lots of supporters across the country who would give a good bit to watch the Irish go rolling down the field. Many a spiritual alumnus sits by his radio with his family cheering the team on, thumbs his rosary for the Blue and Gold, and thinks a darn sight more of Notre Dame than some of the more mouthy students hereabouts.
But this fellow and many like him will not get to see the Army game, or any other for that matter, even though he may be within driving distance. He isn’t lucky enough to be on the mailing list, and ’he’s not a season ticket holder. He can’t afford the exorbitant price demanded by student scalpers.
By their blood-sucking acquisitiveness the student scalpers cater to the sugar-daddy clientele. Only the big-town gambler or theatrical moneybags can kick through with the cash the leeches are demanding. Football Saturdays are more and more becoming holidays for economic royalists. The “haves” can come to see Notre Dame. The “have nots” must sit by the fire and spin.
There is no moral ground for justifying scalping. The University has done all it can to keep tickets out of the hands of abusers. Now it’s up to the conscience of the student who has lucky possession of extra game tickets.
Scalpers should go to the wall!
Beware of Homicide Highway
This is directed to students and West Point cadets who must pick up dates at St. Mary’s Saturday night for the victory dance .
At all costs take the bus!
Your lives are in jeopardy if you cross Homicide Highway on foot!
By midweek no measures had been announced or taken for your protection.
You are not even classed with cattle, for even they are protected at crossings in this state.
The highways will undoubtedly be cluttered with speed-crazed drivers. Unless you fancy yourself, and your date perhaps, splattered all over the road, you won’t go to or return from the dance on foot.
Go by bus. Heaven only knows you’re taking enough of a chance entering St. Mary’s College from Homicide Highway by bus. However, feather-brained drivers , disrespectful of speed limit signs, have much greater respect for buses than they have for a line of humans in the middle of the road. They might bang up their cars a trifle if they plow into the bus. They’ll only chop you up if they careen into you.
Last week there was much haggling over the crossing, but as usual, NOTHING WAS DONE!
8
The president of St. Mary’s College reported that, “We F have done everything that a private institution could do to t make it safer.”	(.
Arthur Peterson, superintendent of state highways with- ?, in the city limits of South Bend, voluntarily laid the problem 5 before the Northern Indiana Superintendent of the State | Highway Department, but not before he had reported that i no appeal for protection at the crossing had ever been made. I
Later in the week, representatives of the governor’s traf- 1 fic safety commission viewed the scene of the accident to j study how to prevent such accidents. Apparently, study is b still going on.	|
There were many more reports of activity being carried r on by the two schools to alleviate the condition. But nobody i has done anything to erect even temporary precautionary I measures.	j
So tomorrow night once again everybody crossing Homif / j cide Highway is a potential corpse. Here’s hoping that a j corps of guardian angels will be on hand to lead the students i and their dates to the buses, where the odds for a safe jour- i ney are at least even.	;
Weekend of Weekends
For 363 days Notre Dame students, alumni and friends i with football fans in general have batingly waited for tomorrow to arrive. With tomorrow but one day away let us briefly consider what there is on tap that will make this week end, and tomorrow afternoon in particular’, stand out forever in the memories of those fortunate enough to witness the events.
Foremost in the minds of most observers is the fact that tomorrow brings to a close a long and glorious football rivalry which, during the 34 years of its existence, has followed the rise of the two institutions involved to the pinnacles of their respective fields. For today West Point has assumed unquestioned leadership among the world’s military academies, while Notre Dame occupies a similar position at the top of Catholic higher education. And appropriately') enough, both schools will unveil, come tomorrow afternoon,'’ football teams which will do justice to their accomplishments in other fields of educational endeavor.
More immediately, perhaps, football fans have in mind the Army-Notre Dame games of the past three years, the combined scores of which read thus: Army 107; Notre Dame 0. From everyone’s standpoint last November’s 0 to 0 tie was completely unsatisfactory. No clear measure of superiority was established by either team; and from Notre Dame’s point of view the game certainly offered no consolation for the two previous war-time years. So from this aspect, too, 1:30 p. m. tomorrow afternoon will be the beginning of two breathtaking hours.	|
The game tomorrow, as the focal point of the week end’s | activities, will be surrounded with the color- befitting the | nature of the extravaganza. Tonight’s pep rally marks this | season’s high point in such affairs, featuring the extremely | popular Glee Club and two of the most expert rally speakers | on the campus, Father Thomas Brennan and Dean Clarence I Manion. The Victory Dance on Saturday evening will bring g to a formal close the week end’s activities, but with grey- | clad cadets on the campus, wonderfully imaginative hall * decorations spotting the campus, along with the pretty face^^l all Notre Dame men look for so eagerly, there will be nd' L end to color—that is until classes resume on Monday morning, »
I ’The Notre Dame Scholastic
; ;	Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing
t	at special rate of postage, Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 89. NO. 7	NOVEMBER 7. 1947	NOTRE DAME. INDIANA
tsi
a
Sr
Topsy-Turvy Town Awaits Army Game
Sons of Slum and Gravy to Reach Campus Of Beans and Sausage Tomorrow Morning
SIGN GALLAGAN FOR LAWYERS' BALL
rs
By JOHN A. O'CONNOR



to
si

A martial spirit pervades the Irish camp tonight, as, poised outside of town the black, grey and gold legions of Army, the arch-foe, wait to swoop onto the stadium’s green tomorrow for the Game of the Age, the finale in a long and cherished series.
When Capt. Joe Steffy leads the Brave Old Army team out of the tunnel at 1:30 tomorrow afternoon he will be trotting at the head of the first line of West Point footballers ever to battle Notre Dame on her home field. The Blue and Gold has been waiting for this opportunity for a long time, anticipation whetted by the war-years’ humiliating squash-ings, and last fall’s bitterly-fought impasse. Leahy’s lads will be two-touchdown favorites.
The town’s been topsy-turvy for more ^jhan a week. Hotels have been sold out since way back, even to last summer. Private homes have generously opened theii- doors to admit sack-seekers. Police officials have foreseen traffic and parking snarls, and have supplemented the force with auxiliary officers. The University itself has called all morning classes off, foreseeing the desire of every student to enjoy to the fullest the festivities of the day.
Programs and copies of the Scholastic are already becoming rare collectors’ items. Hawkers expect a field day. Only the weatherman can dampen the lively and expectant enthusiasm that permeates the campus and the hordes of visitors that clog the sidewalks and stand in impatient queues at caf, sodafountain, bus-stop and coffee-bar.
For the Cadets it may be Der Tag. They come like sheep to the slaughter, but they are still potent, still conditioned, ’till a dangerous striking force, and may
skip away with the last laugh come final gun-time.
Three outstanding performers
re-
turned this fall to bolster Coach Earl Blaik’s machine. Capt. Steffy at guard is a corker. Goble Bryant at tackle has had experience at Texas A. & M. in addition to his varsity time at the Point. He’s a hard man to move out. Elwyn “Rip” Rowan is a low-charging rhinoshouldered fullback. Around these three Blaik has built his eleven, sparkling with such familiar fearsomes as Bobby Stuart, break-away half, Jim Rawers, passcuddling end, and quarterbacks Galliifa and Gustafson, the latter alternating at half.
Army’s long win series was snapped recently by Columbia’s vengeful Lions, and thereby hangs a tail. For the pressure is off at the Point now, and they’ve settled down to playing the game in a much better psychological state than they found themselves in at the first of the season. No doubt about it, Army is up for this contest.
In the Irish encampment the feeling is tense. Early injuries have been overcome to the extent that Swistowicz may (Continued on Page 33)
THE LONG GREY UNE AT ATTENTION
At St. Mary's and all along the St Joe — wild anticipation
Plans for the Notre Dame Law Club’s biggest social function of the year, the Law Ball, neared completion this week. To be held on November 21 in the Indiana Club, the formal, impressive Law Ball features this year the music of Ted Gallagan and his orchestra.
Co-chairmen for the festivities are Law senior Don Hummer of Defiance, Ohio, and junior Tom Tierney of Chicago. They promise the best Law Ball in a long series of successes, and point to Gallagan’s reception in Indianapolis as proof of their statement that the Law Club has never seen anything like it. They even promise a punch bowl, strictly prohibition style, of course.
Queens for the occasion are Mrs. Don Hummer and Mrs. Tom Tierney, wives of the co-chairmen.
Bids for the affair are five dollars, with only Law students eligible. Out of 250 law students, the co-chairmen confidently expect a large crowd. As Notre Dame’s only professional school, the Law school considers it as shining high on the University’s social soirees.
9
Ray McKinley, Former AAF Orchestra Head, Due To Hit Top In 1947 Musical Ratings
The appearance of the great Ray McKinley orchestra at the Sophomore Cotillion on November 21 holds promise of being the outstanding musical event of the school year.
Ray has been heard on some of the best selling Majestic records to be released this year. He has scored heavily with “Red Silk Stockings,” “Jimminy Crickets,” “Ivy” and “Howdy Folks” plus other top waxings. The platters have all been hailed by leading critics who are fast hopping aboard the McKinley bandwagon.
No newcomer to music, Ray was cofeatured with Bill Bradley in the latter’s band some years ago, gaining national recognition. He led his own crew for a short time until the war broke out and the master drummer found himself in Air Corps khaki.
After completing his basic training.. Ray joined the Glen Miller AAF Orchestra. He helped Miller secure the right men for the band that was to represent two million GI’s and which went on a world-wide broadcast “I Sustain the Wings” in 1944. Later that year he went overseas with the band and wrote the hit tune “My Guy’s Come Back” with pianist Mel Powell. With the AAF orchestra, McKinley appeared wherever American troops were stationed in Europe and received a Bronze Star when the orchestra was disbanded.
At a dinner at the Press Club in Washington, the band played a final command performance for President Truman and McKinley did a drum sole requested by General Eisenhower who had seen him do it in Europe.
Returning to civilian status in 1946 McKinley immediately started to reorganize his own orchestra. With a complement of all ex-servicemen and a few of the key men from the AAF Overseas Orchestra, Ray made his post-war1 debut. A progressive man from a line of progressive people, Ray had his entire library done by the brilliant arranger Eddie Sauter. The modern touches by Sauter have made the Ray McKinley orchestra the most talked-of in 1947. He is in line for many music awards at the end of this year. Featured with the band for their* appearance here will be Teddy Norman and Lynn Warren, two of the best band vocalists in the country.
Jim Groves and Jim Padgett, co-managers of the Cotillion, have laid plans for a Sunday morning breakfast for the dance-goers, if enough money is made at
the Friday affair. Although ticket sales went slowly last week because of the student trip, the committee reports a tremendous advance in their output in the last few days.
1946 SOPH. COTILLION Tremendous advance in ticket sales
Jet Aircraft Films Shown At Meeting of Air Club
Movies of jet propulsion aircraft were shown at the last meeting of the Notre Dame branch of the Institute of the Aeronautical Sciences. Forty-five members, including three faculty representatives, saw the two films, one of which showed the development of the Army’s P-59 Airacomet, its jet power unit and the principles of jet flight. The other picture dealt with the military applications of the P-80 Shooting Star.
Movies of the P-47 Thunderbolt will be shown at the next meeting of the IAS on November 13. Future activities planned include a trip to the Studebaker plant, a talk by an airline representative, a film on General Electric jet engines, and a dinner party next month.
Volume 8, Number 1 of The Burble, monthly publication of the students of the Aeronautical Department, returned to the presses following a two-month and a half-year layoff. Editor-in-Chief Ernest Tursich is assisted by Gerald Gass, Leo Vetter and Walter Marut and a staff of seven contributors.
Crossing Probe Is Continued By Council
At a short meeting presided over on Monday night by Ralph Thorson, chairman pro tern of the Executive committee, the Student Council continued to regard the recent tragedy on the Dixie highway as the most important current problem with which it has to deal. Maurice Mahon, who was commissioned last week to discuss the matter with heads of Portage Township, reported that the latter were unable to alleviate the danger* to pedestrians at St. Mary’s crossing, but that they did suggest that Notre Dame students sign a petition demanding that state authorities act immediately to prevent future tragedies from occurring on the highway at that point. Thorson requested that the hall1''* representatives circulate the petition in their respective halls so that it may be sent to the state road commissioner through Father Barry’s Office of Student Activities as soon as possible.
One councilman suggested that such Notre Dame alumni as State Senator Tom Leahy may be willing to inaugurate action to remedy the situation. Another member of the Council pointed out that, since a Victory Dance will be held again tomorrow night, something should be done to insure safe passage across the highway at that time.
Other business disposed of by the Council included a motion to install stretchers and first aid equipment in the residence halls on the campus, in case of emergencies. The motion was passed without discussion.
Because no tickets are available, the^f Council was informed, the Band will not be able to entertain at the Northwestern game a week from this Saturday.
—Bill Bradley
Architect's Exhibition Planned for Weekend
The Architects’ Club of Notre Dame will hold a departmental exhibit of students’ work in the Architecture Building on Saturday and Sunday of this week. Wayne Smith, newly elected club prexy, ; is in charge of the exhibit and will be assisted by Lido Shiamana and Joe Kruyer.
The work shown will include recent designs submitted in national competition through the Beaux-Arts Institute, and a selected assortment of water colors, pencil sketches, and charcoal studies. .. This activity is the Club’s contributioi<7^ to the Homecoming Festivities, and is open at no charge to all campus visitors. B
10
Cavanaugh Concerts
MONDAY, NOV. 10
Emperor Concerto No. 5 in E Flat .................... Beethoven
Gaite Parisian .......Offenbach
TUESDAY, NOV. 11
Symphony No. 3 (Eroica) .... ................... Beethoven
A Night on Bare Mountain .....
............... Moussorgsky
WEDNESDAY, NOV. 12
Sonata in F Minor (Appassionata) ................... Beethoven
Rhapsody in Blue .....Gershwin
FRIDAY, NOV. 14
Concerto in E Minor for Violin and Orchestra .....Mendelssohn
Italian Concerto in F Minor_Bach
All students and faculty invited to the Cavanaugh Reading Room Noon Hour Concerts, 12:30 to 1:30.
Freshmen Set Pace In Interhall Debating
With representatives of the two freshman halls setting the pace, the interhall debating tournament entered the semifinal round this week.
On Wednesday, an affirmative Breen-Phillips team made up of Lou Duerinck, Riverside, Illinois, and Quintin Marlow, San Antonio, Texas, tangled with Frank Hieber, Berwyn, Illinois, and Larry Gill-ing representing Morrissey Hall. Joe Shelly, Chicago, and Joe Dukert, Baltimore, carried the Farley colors in an affirmative argument against Tom Nin-Ijneman, Tomah, Wisconsin, and Gregory ' Shinert, Charleston, Arkansas, of Cavanaugh Hall.
In the preliminary rounds, the B.-P. standard bearers beat a Dillon team consisting of Jim Fitzsimmons, East Orange, New Jersey, and Tom Keenan, Dover, New Hampshire. Morrissey’s team put forth winning negative arguments against John O’Donnell and Howie Chittenden, of Lyons. A negative team from Badin made up of Jim Allgeyer, Washington, and Tom Coyne, Chicago, defeated two Washington, D. C. men from Alumni Hall, Guy Perenick and Charles Carter, but bowed in a tussle with Cavanaugh. Farley’s debaters garnered an affirmative "win aganist two Illinois representatives of Walsh Hall, Bob Finnegan and Art Owens.
Tournament finals are scheduled for 7:30 next Tuesday in the Law Auditorium, and will be open to the public. . Winners in the final debate will be nam-^If^ed campus champs and will be awarded Notre Dame blankets inscribed with their names.—Joe Dukert.
Symphony Orchestra, Led by Prof. Ingersoll, Concentrates on Mozart For First Concert
By TOM HANIFIN
Working with a unit of 25 studentmusicians, the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra regularly goes through its rehearsal paces under the expert and en thusiastic guidance of Mr. Fredric Ingersoll, assisted by Mr. Charles Biando. This relatively unknown campus musical group is now operating under an authorized constitution, and is progressing rapidly as regards unity, morale and enthusiasm under the student leadership of President Paul Folchi, Vice-President Dick Eykholt, Secretary Bill Gibbon. Treasurer Ed Ketterer and Librarian Bill Cullen.
The present schedule calls for two concerts this year, the first tentatively planned for December. This concert, which will also feature solo artists, is to have as its major work Mozart’s Symphony No. 40, the G Minor. It is on this symphony that the group is now concentrating its efforts.
The Notre Dame Symphony is ably conducted by Mr. Fredric Ingersoll, a professor of the Department of Music, who, it seems, has been teaching here at Notre Dame for two or three generations. Perhaps not fully that long, but Mr. Ingersoll is quite unsure as to just how long he has been here on campus and gave 30 years as a very minimum period. A significant and wealthy background in the musical field more than qualifies him for the conducting post. A graduate of the Oberlin Conservatory of Music here in the United States, he also
NOTRE DAME SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA (ANCIENT PICTURE) Leading off with Mozart
studied in Berlin and one year in Geneva, Switzerland. He has been acquainted with many leading composers in both the romantic and modern schools of music and he is one of those unquestionably lucky individuals who has had the rare experience of witnessing a concert conducted by the immortal romanticist, Johannes Brahms.
During the last summer semester, an orchestra here in the music school pre-’ sented a concert featuring the works of Bach, notably the Double Violin Concerto. This performance was well received, in fact roundly praised, by those who heard it. It is interesting to note, however, that this summer symphony (which comparatively few now on campus have heard) was composed of beginning, intermediate and advanced students, while the present organization is made up of only those student musicians whose ability and talent are sufficient to cope with the precision and intricacies of a Mozart symphony.
As a subsidiary group, the orchestra has given birth to a string quartet composed of Edward Cyprus, first violin; Paul Folchi, second violin; Wayne Chandler, viola, and Charles Kopp, cello. In line with the present trend toward a revitalizing of the public interest in chamber music, the quartet is planning a separate concert schedule. However, the dates and number of these concerts are as yet undecided.
The Notre Dame Symphony is toiling hard to bring you a worthy concert this winter. So far all is going well. But no one would repulse any new, ambitious violin, oboe or bassoon players who might want to have a try at the G Minor.
11
Not All Music With Band Initiation ':t
Hope's Clan Initiates Fledgling Trippers, Dubbed 'Schmoes,' With Pummel-ing, Pounding, Pushing.
By VERNE F. KELLEY
It all started Friday night. A few sadistic individuals had already made it rough on the initiatees by forcing them to undergo inspection at the band room of their positively ridiculous outfits, and were now drooling over the thought of things to come later during the trip to Cleveland. Midnight Mass ended and the troop paraded over to the Dining Hall for quickly disappearing sandwiches which eventually proved inadequate. Humiliation, Inc., began to function properly in the lobby of the Cafeteria, giving the poor defenseless band members-to-be an idea of what the various consequences of their initiation would amount to.
At the Dining Hall the “Schmoes,” as they were called, were lined up in the lobby waiting to be served the food. They wore a stunning get-up comprised of dungarees, T-shirts, lipstick on forehead, and placards informing everyone of the individual’s name, address, girl friend (and her measurements), and what said .girlie secretly called said initiatee in
DUCK-WADDLE
It accomplished the purpose
12
RETURN TRIP
Undoubtedly ... a little tired
those certain moments when one is apt to lose one’s head, and, as a result, forget to keep quiet.
The whole affair was enjoyed by the many spectators, who kept pressing lighted cigarettes to the balloons the “schmoes” held above their heads. Little inscriptions were written on the T-shirts of the characters to add even more humor. On one recent unsuccessful candidate for class offiice, the Initiation Committee had printed in large lipstick letters, “I RAN FOR SOPHOMORE TREASURER.”
But, as time ran out, the students also ran out to catch the train at the St. Mary’s siding. The elder members of the Band made the initiatees carry their luggage, and quite a few backs were nearly broken in this manner. However, the train was reached, boarded, and the process of destruction was begun.
Many impromptu solos were rendered by the “Schmoes” at the harsh command of the “Fatas,” this last title given to the decrepit members by the initiatees in self-defense.
There was a poem which every “Schmoe” was asked to recite from memory, thanks to Drum Major Jim Kress, of Detroit, who almost dropped his two-foot fur hat in the excitement. A line from the easy-to-learn selection follows: “Plesaurus bristow bigarrus tegagoble.” And they meant every word of it!
.Finally, around three in the morning to be exact, the “Schmoes” were herded toward the baggage car. Many a knee
shook, and many a voice queerly changed pitch as they were blindfolded and shoved headlong into the car where blood-curdling yells rent the air. Back and forth, from side to side, stumbled the Schmoes as they were pushed, rather viciously, around the circle of power-mad “Fatas.”
“Let me have him,” and “Shove him this way” were popular cheers stuttered about the smoky atmosphere. After the last one had passed through the decapitation squad, the whole group was allowed to unblind, and then forced to duck-waddle down the aisles of the train cars, quacking as loudly as possible, so as to wake as many of the sensible stu-^» dents into insensibility. It accomplished the purpose.
With this over, President Nick Rhodt announced that the tired, but gleeful, band members had been made into a single unit and everyone was a full-fledged bandite. Congratulations were bandied about among the various members. Mohaves Lou Twardzyk and Duane Hull, both trumpeters of a sort thought the crowd behaved itself remarkably well, and no one fell out a window to put a damper on the fun.
Then a suggestion was promulgated. Someone mentioned, “. . . sleep.” Another mad dash took place as all staggered for their seats to try to regain two I lost hours of precious slumber. During | the night an occasional “quack” arose I amid the wild snoring. The majority I ignored it.-	I
Saturday noon found the Band readj^l to march to the Stadium on the lake- ri
i ^ront from their place of housing, the 1 Auditorium. Playing as they went, and attracting a large audience which fol, lowed them to the game, the organization moved onto the field before the encounter । as the green-jerseyed squad loped off. A salute to the fans and the Navy was pre-| sented, and the Band raced to their seats.
At half-time, the Lakewood High School band preceded the Irish musicians on the gridiron, showing to good advantage. Then the classy-strutting Kress , led the blue-coated group across the yard stripes for a show highlighted by the formation of a ship while the song “Sailing” was vigorously played.
The game ended in the right way; the Band marched back to the Auditorium supplemented by the Lakewood High majorettes. The music hasn’t been written Sfchat can swing like those girls!
That night some of the boys played with Bill Callen’s Orchestra for the Victory Dance in the Hotel Carter, and from reports, quite well. Others had dates or just sort of “crawled.”
Sunday was a day of rest, as most Sundays are. The Band split up, some taking the 12:30 train, some the 4:00 while others waited for the 1:15 a. m Monday. In general, everyone had a good time. Oh, undoubtedly, they were a little tired, but still opinions seemed to be very favorable for continuing the practice of the Band going on the student trip. In fact, there was some talk of trying to make the Northwestern trip, but you know how these rumors are.
The Band has since been working on the Army show to be presented tomorrow. The crew is more unified because ^some thirty-odd new members have been enrolled as part of the organization, and unity always makes for something worthwhile.
Ended in the right way
Blue Circle's Aims And Activity Stressed
In 1922, the need for an attendant group of men to work with the Student Activities Council crystallized in the organization of the Boosters Club, later renamed the Blue Circle. The Blue stands for the Blessed Virgin, the Circle stands for the higher motives of sacrifice, unity and charity.
The members of the Blue Circle use common sense and sober judgment to advance every sphere of activity. They foster all things that are truly Notre Dame in spirit. The Blue Circle knocks the knockers by advancing conservative and constructive views on student problems. They are able to stamp out prejudice, tear down the fences of self important cliques, or fight unwarranted excitation.
Men of high caliber so characterized by a willingness to do hard work are selected by the members of the Student Council at the beginning of each school year for the Blue Circle and a member of the Council is placed in charge.
It is an honor and a mark of distinction foi- a Notre Dame man to become a member of the Blue Circle. In the past, Blue Circle membership has inculded such men as the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University of Notre Dame, Rev. Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C., University Registrar, Mr. John V. Hinkle, director of Public Information and Mr. Charles M. Callahan, director of Sports Information. These men thought enough of the spirit of Notre Dame to work and work hard for its achievement during their undergraduate days and their labors continue even now.
Last year, in its first year of operation after a lapse of fifteen years, the Blue Circle did much to foster and pro
mote school traditions, customs and “advance every sphere of activity.”
Good ideas, and the willingness to give unselfishly of time and effort spelled the difference between mediocrity and success. The feverish activity of the football rallies, the decorating of the Drill Hall to the wee hours of a Saturday morning, the careful planning of me fall Freshman Orientation and the New (1948) Student Manual, highlight the past and the future in the Circle’s scope of activities. Taking hall collections for various drives, ushering for University functions, passing out tickers, and posting signs, included some of the routines in jobs that the Circle carried out.
Above all, however, there was a spirit of cooperation and hard work. These two qualities typified the Blue Circle man.
The multitudinous list of activities which the Blue Circle promoted last year we have not space to print, but an example of their work is the way we play host to visiting athletic teams. Last year St. Louis University gave our basketball squad a sincere welcome in that city. The compliment was returned 200fold on the campus of the Irish when St. Louis played here, a month or so later. Hospitality Committees are set up to make the out-of-towners feel just as much at home as possible. This spirit of sincerity and genuine fellowship typifies the Blue Circle.
Law Club Hears Lectures By Dr. Hermens. Rep. Grant
Keeping up with the major political problems of the day, the Law club last week heard lectures from two authorities in the field: Dr. Ferdinand A. Hermens, professor of Political Science and authority on Proportional Representation, and Robert A. Grant of South Bend, Republican congressman from Indiana’s third District and a graduate of Notre Dame’s Law school.
On October 30 the club, holding its second smoker of the year in the American Legion Post 50, heard Dr. Hermens attack Proportional Representation as the greatest threat to American Democracy today. He stated that its peculiar structure allowed majority rule to be defeated and permitted small splinter parties to gain control. He cited as proof the plight in which Germany found itself after it had adopted P.R., tracing the rise of Hitler through this system.
Last Monday night in the Law auditorium Rep. Grant outlined the record of the Republican Congress and the new tax legislation planned by the GOP for the next session. He also presented his stand in favor of the Taft-Hartley Labor Act.	. ■
13
Wanna Get Rich Quick? Forget Parlays!'
By BOB VIERHILE
The other day some joker posted this sign on a campus bulletin board: “A special meeting of all football parlay operators will be held in Room 421 of the Law Building tonight. A short talk will be given on the effect of parlays upon poultryless Thursdays.”
Parlay Is Big Business
Had this meeting taken place there might have been more discussed than cooked chickens on Thursday. In fact, had anybody taken heed of this lefthanded notice, he might have ended up as the cooked goose himself. You see, it is rumored about that the parlay is scorned upon at Notre Dame in such a manner as would make even Boris Karloff’s spine feel like the inside of a cake of ice. The fact remains, however, that the parlay is big business at Notre Dame and elsewhere.
Each week around Wednesday dozens of little men scamper around the campus like spies from the Kremlin. Cautiously, they make their ways into the thirteen campus halls. Carefully, they avoid the rectors. This done, they proceed to go from door to door peddling their wares like dispirited women dispensing WCTU propaganda. If they suddenly sight a black robe coming down the hall, their hearts start ticking like a shelf full of cheap watches. Like little angels, they knock on on each door so softly you’d think they were suffering from a case of broken knuckles.
"Just for You ... a Good Deal"
“Pssk,” whispers the parlay hawker, “just for you I have a good deal. I have in my hand here a Lucky parlay card which is the same thing as finding a hundred bucks in the street.”
The potential customer thinks over the proposition, thinks to himself that it is a long time since he is finding a hundred bucks in the street or any other place for that matter. “What teams yuh got to pick from?” answers the weakening student.
“Personally,” replies this guy who calls himself only Bill Somebody, “I am playing the first five teams to win. They cannot lose even if the opposing teams are showing up with clubs and blackjacks. Take Osceola Teachers over Trample Tech, Hapless State over Mono Poly, Brigham Back over. Denver State College for the Near-Sighted, and Arid over Mum.”
14
To pass up such a sure thing would be like staying out after midnight to test the rector’s reaction. At least, this is what the student is thinking as his fifty-cent piece is slowly burning a hole through his pocket and causing him great pain. “I’ll play a buck on the first five,” says the sucker. “When will you be back to pay me my winnings?”
“Sunday,” gurgles Bill Somebody, “Sunday I will be back to present you with your Rockefeller fortune. You will be thanking me many times over for letting you in on such a good deal.”
Well, that was one week that didn’t have a Sunday in it. Mum got its dander up and dumped Arid 65-0; While Denvei-State College for the Near-Sighted put on their bifocals long enough to thump Brigham Back 3 to 0. And that was just another parlay player who bit the dust.
How do the parlays work? Well, we might inform you to begin with that they all operate in one direction—toward the
LUCKY
SFORT PARLAYS
GAMES FOR SATURDAY,
>£■* 22 ..tennesse^S
5 7
•9 11
13
15
17 IS
1'WAKE FOREST
3' TEXAS V. ’ ?
HOLY CBOSSi/y" PUHDUE ’INDIANA \ V MISSISSIPPI STZ/ COLOMBIA- ’ GEORGIA TECH -' MICHIGAN - ’J LS.U.
! 21" NO. CABOLMA
i 23 -H.CJLA.
25 rJOSSOUBI \
27 - BOSTON COLLEGE ' as so. caufqb»ia
- 3UYAI£jP^-:^J
2
•i" siit"
.6.'.bbowkW^^
i lowA'ngg^
35;
«I; NOTBEDAIS
-43"an'
5
• 10
11
18
U
13
14
IS
17
18
1»
RO
23
21
27
. 32
42
33	34	&	36	37	38	88	4B
43	44	45	46	47	41	43	M’
. Orel* Team* Clearly	-
FOOTBALL PARLAY CARD $1,500 a week from student wallets
originator, the demon who works out the points. At present, there are well over a dozen varieties of parlays being distributed in and around South Bend. Only six of these sucker traps have found their way to the Notre Dame campus. But these six are enough to extract almost $1,500 a week from poverty-stricken student wallets. The names of these “local” parlays lend a touch of daring and adventure, to the “pick-and-pray” racket. For instance, Notre Dame is being satiated with Victory, Lucky, American, National, Odds-on-Derby, Pointless, and Sure-Fire parlay cards. But, don’t be fooled by the clever names, they’re the^j simplest parts of the parlay system. "
No Hit-Miss Proposition
The average parlay lists 20 games for the sportsman from which to choose. It would be a simple matter to choose five teams from the list who will massacre their rivals on the following afternoon, if it weren’t for a hitch. That little hitch comes by way of giving to the underdog team enough points to put him on a par with his power-laden opponent. Here, too, is where the savvy comes in. Here is where the parlay system rears its head as one of the biggest rackets in the country today. The system of giving points is no hit-and-miss proposition dreamed up by some armchair quarterback. Not on your life; the points are figured closer than a movie star’s waist line. A nationwide system has been set up whereby information can be directed from the football field into the parlay racketeer’s headquarters with all the efficiency of a^. business comptometer. Experts keep a closer watch on Notre Dame’s rivals than do Frank Leahy’s professional coaching staff. Every major team in the country is scouted not on a week-by-week basis but on a day-to-day basis. You see the parlay schemers have more at stake each week than most of the college elevens who don pads and jerseys each Saturday afternoon. A careless point given to Army next Saturday afternoon could mean the loss of thousands of dollars in sucker money. In a racket like that you don’t make mistakes very often.
Peddlers Get 20%-30%
Of course, there are the parlay peddlers. These boys do the dirty work for the big boys with the big ideas and names which are likely to appear in most of the nation’s post offices. Just for the record the parlay peddlers get from 20% to 30% of the take, which, in an averag^gj; - week here on campus, runs to about $12^
per man. The average player plays about 9 80 cents. You can figure out the total take from here—it all adds up to a lot of dough in the wrong pockets.
How about the odds on winning? Like any other game of chance, somebody is bound to win. But, brother, you stand about as much chance of winning as you do winning a bet on one of Joe Louis’ opponents. If you’re a math major, we’ii give you some figures. Discounting the odds that you are playing against the individual cards, the chances of your taking home the brass ring from the weekly football merry-go-round are about 30 to 1. If you call that easy money, I’ll take mine the hard way.
Take Notre Dame’s first four games, for instance. The point makers gave Notre Dame opponents points in every match. The Irish footballers rolled over the allotted number in two matches— £ Pittsburgh and Nebraska; they fell short against Purdue. And for the Iowa game the geniuses called it right on the nose— most of the lads gave Iowa 21 points. This game of football is getting to the point where a quarterback has to check his parlay card before he calls his next Play.
Those suckers who have bit and felt the sting of the point-maker’s fangs will remember that all teams must win before you can collect your six bucks for one. All ties just mean money in the syndicate’s coffers.
On the reverse side of most parlay cards there is a little note which reads: “This card is to be used as news matter only, and as a trade stimulator. It is not to be used to violate any laws.” The Prefect of Discipline’s Office doesn’t believe in “trade stimulators.” Nuff said!
£ California Club Charters Cut-Rate Christmas Convoy
A chartered bus will leave for California come the Christmas holidays ferrying the coast students home for the Yule season. This was announced at the last California Club meeting by newly elected treasurer Brad Bennett. The trip is open not only to Californians, but to any other interested parties wishing to take advantage of this economical passage to the coast.
Burlington-American transit lines will handle the transportation, round-trip tickets selling for about $60 or less. The schedule will be arranged so that the bus will leave South Bend the day school lets out, and will make it back to Notre Dame in time for the resumption of ' classes in January.
Interested parties are urged to contact Bennett in Alumni Hall or any of the following newly elected club officers: ® Bill Vangen, president; Kevin O’Shea, vice-president; Joe Concannon, secretary.
Eye-Wise Artists Quickly Retract Criticism Upon Finding Their Own Roost Is No. I Eyesore
The fourth floor of the Main Building is a long way up. It is really the fifth floor, as anybody knows who has ever climbed to it. When the Main Building was erected from the still hot bricks, picked up by Sorin himself, no less, the floors were numbered according to the European plan, which does not begin to number the floors until the first one above the ground. What we call the first floor they call the ground floor. Thus it was with the Main Building. Anyhow, whatever that may contribute to the matter at hand, the Main Building is very high, and to get to the fourth (or fifth, as you prefer) floor is a climb worthy of a healthy mountain sheep with its insurance paid up. Once you get there, you are confronted with the newly scraped and painted Art Department, which is so oddly out of place among the dusty relics of a bygone era.
The Art Department’s quarters, long an eyesore to the eyesore conscious Art Department, was no sight for sore eyes. In fact, the Art Department looked upon it with a jaundiced eye. Although the Art Department had long been painting everything from things of beauty and joys forever to the Dali-like monstrosities, it had never painted itself. The height of the place had discouraged ordinary painters who had feared to venture into the ether long enough to give the woebegone old walls a new look.
Last summer the Art Department, headed by Mr. Stanley Sessler, could stand its shame no longer, and decided to hide it with a new coat of paint. They prettied up the place with brand new brush jobs. They did it with green and pink paint; not exactly soft, subtly nouanced pastels, but bright, beautiiul solid colors. As a result, the rooms in use by the Art Department look like oases in the desert of old busts, brooms, and accumulated trash which surround it.
The Department also branched out, occupying several more unused rooms, which it decorated. The junk which had accumulated there since Tige was a pup went out with the skeleton of Tige. Attractive exhibitions of painting and sculpture now brighten the erstwhile grim walls.
In the surroundnig unreclaimed desert, things are just as bad as ever. All around the walls of the corridor are horrible murals, featuring the bloodiest battles of the Civil War. Rumor says that these classics formerly belonged to an itinerant lecturer, who lugged them around on freight cars while giving lectures on their themes in the hinterland. The lecturer eventually came to a bad
end, dying of alcoholism, and the murals, through the intervention of Beelzebub, wound up in the Main Building.
The Art Department is the gateway to the dome, which is reached by means of a precarious ladder- arrangement which takes off from the floor above. This floor is reached by a winding stairway, which is cluttered with the unsavory bones of departed pigeons, which are not on the grass, alas, but on the stairs. The pigeons somehow got into the building and, as they were unable to get out again, being bird-brains, thsy perished abysmally.
The demise of the pigeons is very sad, but no sadder, one is led to remark, than a close look at the mural on the inner side of the dome. This was done by Gre-gori, who must have quivered with fear of falling as he did it. It looks as if he held his brush on a long pole and did it from the ground floor. Incidentally, from the first few floors it looks all right. But from the fourth or fifth it belies Gregori’s. claim to fame. He did much better in the Church.
In the days when the Main Building housed Carroll and Brownson Halls, which were barracks-like, the Art Department used to find traces of midnight wassail among the easels. It was discovered that the Main Building is a maze of stairways in walls, peculiar closets, and huge, vacant spaces which are really rooms with no floors. The Main Building, as a fire mercifully destroyed an even worse previous structure, was rebuilt from the memory of an amnesiac amateur. The result is just what you’d expect. This is none of the business of the Art Department, but they have to live with it.
But when the Art Department got through with part of the mess, it ceased to look like an anteroom in Hell. For that, congratulations to the Art Department, and may its tribe increase.
St. Joseph's Alumnae Dance Slated for Middle of Month
The Alumnae of St. Joseph’s Academy are having a semi-formal dance on November 14. Known as the Scholarship Ball, the affair has had a large success in the past. This year, as always, the dance will be open to Notre Dame students and guests. The guests, incidentally, do not have to be alumnae of the Academy. Dancing will be from 8:30 to 11:30 and Bud Simpson will furnish the notes. Tickets will be on sale at the door of the Palais Royale.
15
'Operation Cleveland' Leaves Trippers Weary ।
Verging on complete exhaustion and nervous collapse, Notre Dame’s student trippers were pondering the question of how to catch up on back sleep this week, as they dragged their weary carcasses around the campus with only memories and a few bruises to remind them of Cleveland and the Navy game.
Students were in general agreement that the town and the game were well worth the dough it took to see and enjoy them. Some were not quite so enthusiastic about their blind dates at the Victory Dance, but even so, there are a number of Notre Dame men yet wearing slightly silly smiles.
The occasion began last Friday night, Halloween, when the trippers gathered at Sacred Heart Church for midnight All Saints Day Mass while ghosts and spectres roamed the countryside. Rev. Joseph Barry, C.S.C., director of student activities, celebrated the Mass for the intentions of a safe trip with no injuries to the team.
Immediately afterward, the mob, one thousand strong, broke for the dining hall and a pretty good breakfast. From there columns of travelers marched down the lonely road to the St. Mary’s siding where two of the New York Central’s greyhounds stood straining at their leashes. The greyhounds managed to restrain themselves fox* another 45 minutes, but finally the trip got under way. Most of the students dropped off into dreamland before Elkhart, following the band initiation.
A drowsy crew emerged from the Cleveland Union Terminal about 9 a. m. to greet the town with a spine-tingling “Go Irish, Beat Navy!” With the whole morning free, most of the invaders headed for substantial additions to the dining hall’s breakfast in several of Cleveland’s restaurants. Sight-seeing and visiting occupied the rest of the morning. Relatives and Notre Darners from Cleveland were deluged with requests for snoozing space for Saturday night.
Shortly after noon the students, the band, and the rest of the 84,074 spectators who were able to get tickets surged across the foot. bridges to the Municipal Stadium to view the impending battle between Notre Dame and the Naval Academy. The crowd was the biggest in the Stadium’s 16-year history.
The weather was perfect; sunshine and ^isp fall air made the afternoon ideal’for big-time football. It was perhaps a little warm for the players, but
(Continued on Page 33)
COMMUNION RAIL AT MIDNIGHT MASS Prayers lor the traveler
MIDNIGHT SNACK IN DINING HALL Food for the hungry
MIDNIGHT RESPITE AT CLEVELAND'S PUBLIC AUDITORIUM Sleep for the weary
16
Scholastic Sports
Knights Loom Threateningly As Irish Follow Their Quest for Top Position On Gridiron
By BOB LEANDER
Frank Leahy’s 1947 football team which has gradually accumulated converts as it trekked slowly but inexorably along the Saturday trail to gridiron greatness encounters the Black Knights * of West Point tomorrow in what may not be Notre Dame’s most rigid test of the current season, but yet a game towards which both elevens have been pointing since last Fall’s stalemate in Yankee Stadium.
Never a team that was interested in moral victories, the Irish thirst for a clear-cut triumph over Army remained unslaked following the 0-0 deadlock last year. And the fact that the Cadets arrive slightly soiled from the rough treatment accorded them by Lou Little’s Columbia Lions does nothing to detract from the expected brilliance of tomorrow’s game. In fact it may have served to add increased incentive to the Cadet causa—misery, as they say, loving company.
Colonel Blaik’s squad arrives in South
NOTRE DAME'S FRANK LEAHY Look at him, boys . ..
Bend well recommended. They opened against a reasonably adequate Villanova team and experienced little difficulty in disposing of it, 13-0. True, both their scores were the direct result of Wildcat fumbles on the 14 and 23 yard lines but nevertheless, Army managed to dominate play all afternoon and failed to see their goal line threatened. Bill Gustafson picked up the first Villanova bobble and went the full distance on the next play. The other score, commencing as it did on the 25, required two carries, one by Bobby Jack Stuart for 21 yards and the climax plunge by Winfield Scott.
The following week Colorado ventured to West Point only to find itself greeted with a seven touchdown reception and denied the privilege to score. The visitors stood humbly by and watched no fewer than 18 Cadet backs tear their heavier, but vastly outclassed, line to shreds. Rip Rowan furnished the big punch, scoring two TD’s and otherwise acting as fit replacement for the departed Doc Blanchard.
It was for Illinois to strike the first blow at West Point pride this season. The Illini duplicated Notre Dame’s 1946 effort battling the Gold and Grey to a scoreless standstill. It should be noted, however, that the Cadets entered the game as six point underdogs, a fact which failed to impress them as they repeatedly turned back determined Illinois thrusts. On their part, the Pointers—as against the Irish last season—refused to open up, attempting only four passes all afternoon, none of which was completed. .
Helpless Virginia Tech was next on the docket; it offered only token resistance, surrendering 40-0 before the onslaught of four Army teams.
Then followed the Columbia uprising which saw the Cadets’ streak snapped at 32 games. Not since the Navy melee in November of ’43 had a Blaik team known defeat. Moreover, the Lions were the first eleven to cross the Army goal line this Fall, and they crossed it not once but three times, converting after each (Continued on Page 24)
Cadet Sports Scribe Characterizes Army As a Driving Unit
By CADET M. I. HERBERT ’
West Point POINTER Sports Writer
When the 1947 football season rolled around, Coach Earl Blaik of Army found himself face to face with the bleakest prospects that had garnished the Highlands in four years. Gone from the eleven that had won nine and tied one in 1946 were three backs, two ends, a tackle, a guard, and a center. Yet Blaik, together with Herman Hickman, Army line coach, and Assistant Coach Andy Gustafson, has re-built the Army team into a driving, cohesive unit—a squad that approaches the all-important struggle against Notre Dame with an enviable record of four victories, a loss, and . a tie in six games.
At ends, where the Cadets were supposed to be weakest, Jim Rawers and John Trent have shown surprising strength. Rawers played behind Barney Poole in ’46, and Trent is a 184 pound newcomer up from the plebe team. Bert Aton, six four and 210 pounds, has played at least a third of every game, is adept at pass-catching.
Goble “The Gobbler” Bryant, an AllAmerican last fall, paces a quartet of top-notch tackles. Bennie Davis (210), a reserve last year, plays behind Goble, while Chuck Galloway (185) and Phil Feir (200) operate on the left side of the line. Feir is playing his second year of varsity ball, and Galloway is making (Continued on Page 24)
ARMY'S EARL BLAIK ... could he be worried?
17
Scholastic Presents Pictorial Highlights* c ]
1928—NOTRE DAME DEFEATS ARMY, 12-6, AT YANKEE STADIUM Johnny Niemiec (arrow) of Notre Dame fades to pass as Cadet line charges in
TOP: 1931—ARMY STOPS N.D. IN SNOW, 12-0 Moose Krause (arrow) gets a strangle hold on Army back
RIGHT: 1929—THE GREAT RED CAGLE (arrow) IN ACTION Cagle around end. Man without headguard is Jack Cannon
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUPS
NOTRE DAME	ARMY
No. Name	Wt. Pos. No. Name	Wt
38	Jim	Martin ......  (205)	IE	88	Jim Rawers .......(205)
81 Capt. George Connor (220) LT 77 Phil Feir ...................(200)
72	Bill	Fischer .......(230)	LG	61	Capt. Joe Steffy .(190)
46	Bill	Walsh .......  (205)	C	58	Bill Yeoman ......(180)
58	Marty Wendell ......(198)	RG	63	Joseph Henry .....(190)
76	Ziggy Czarobski ...(213)	RT	73	Goble Bryant .....(200)
82	Leon	Hart ........(216)	RE	80	John Trent .......(184)
32	Johnny Lujack ......(180)	QB	16	Arnold Galiffa ...(185)
37	Terry Brennan ......(173)	LH	42	Robert Stuart ....(175)
14	Emil Sitko .........(175)	RH	24	Winfield Scott ...(170)
67	John Panelli	(190)	FB	33	Elwyn Rowan ......(180)
Game Time: 1:30 P. M. Central Standard Time.
18
(Fast Notre Dame-Army Gridiron Clashes
1929—ELDER'S 98-YARD PASS INTER CEPTION RUN SINKS ARMY, 7-0
Jack Elder (arrow), hero of the game, hurdles a pile of tacklers for a long gain in the third quarter
TOP: 1943—IRISH CONQUER ARMY, 26-0
Jim Mello slices off tackle for a first down
LEFT: 1930—IRISH BEAT ARMY, 7-6
Marchy Schwartz ends 54-yard touchdown run in Soldiers Field
ROSTER OF PLAYERS
NOTRE DAME	ARMY
No. Name Pos. No. Name Pos. No. Name Pos. No. Name Pos.
1	Earley .......  B	44	Leonard .......E	15	Gustafson .....B	61	Steffy _______G
3	Brown ........  B	45	Michels ......E	16	Galiffa ......B	63	Henry ---------G
8	Tripucka .......B	46	Walsh ........C	21	Shelley ......B	65	Barnes .......G
12	Ashbaugh ......B	52	Grolhaus .......C	24	Scott .....  ..B	66	Fastuca _______G
15	O’Connor ......G	54	Sullivan ......T	25	Gabriel ...... B	67	Drury _________G
19	McGee ..........H	55	Swistowicz ....B	27	Gillette ......B	71	Galloway ______G
20	Smith .........H	57	Lally .........G	28	Mackmull .....B	72	Donohoe _______T
21	Statuto .......C	61	Russel .......T	33	Rowan ......  B	73	Bryant ________T
22	Gay ..........  B	62	Simmons .......B	42	Stuart ______ B	74	Davis --------T
24	Coutre .....,...B	63	Budynkiewicz „„T	43	Cossentino ___B	7/	Feir _________T
26	McGehee ........T	64	Urban ...... ..T	44	Vinson .......B	80	Trent --------E
27	Espenan .......E	69	Clatt ........B	46	Burckart ____ B	82	Aton -------- E
30	Gompers .......H	73	Gaul ..........B	55	Bullock ......C	83	Graham E
33	Kosikowski ....E	74	Signaigo ..... G	57	Livesay _____ C	8/	Kulpa --------E
39	Oracko ........G	80	Cifelli ____ ..T	58	Yeoman _______C	88	Rawers ________E
40	Livingstone ___H	83	Wightkin .....E	60	Lunn ________G
42	Waybright .....E
19
INTRODUCING...
By TOM McNALLY
While the battle of the Titans in Yankee Stadium last November 9 settled the S64 question for practically no one, there was one point on which 74,000 witnesses could be called upon to testify: namely, that a certain George Sullivan had played one of the finest games at tackle glimpsed in many a New York moon. The adjectives describing Sully’s game that day varied from “sensational” to “terrific” and it was no coincidence that he received the lineman-of-the-week citation, in company with Army’s great Joe Steffy.
Recognition of this kind was nothing new for George. In 1943 he came to Notre Dame as a 17-year-old boy prodigy and subsequently moved in as second string tackle on a national championship eleven just three months after finishing high school. He might have gone one notch higher but blocking the way was Jim White. ’Nuff said! However, Sullivan saw action in every game and, against Georgia Tech, added his contribution to the gala proceedings by scoring a touchdown on a recovered fumble. Then, after the season, George busied himself with the shot-put on the indoor track team and consequently became the first 17-year-old in years to win two monograms.
In March of 1944 George enlisted in the Navy but stayed on at Notre Dame in the V-12 program for the following season. The national championship team had packed their bags and left—coach, kit, and caboodle—and Coach Ed McKeever was hard-pressed to find replacements particularly at the flanks. Hence, Sullivan played the final three games at left end after some outstanding tackle play in the earlier games. In fact, he not only played that position but achieved honorable mention on many All-American teams at end as well as at tackle besides acting as field captain for the injured Pat Filley.
Soon after, he was transferred to Princeton and then to Columbia for his commission, followed by a year’s duty aboard a destroyer which operated in the western Pacific and China Sea. Then, in July of 1946, he was discharged in Boston and soon was back fighting for his old job and fifth monogram.
The sixth of his letter collection was added in the track season when he captured the Central Collegiate Championship in the shot with a heave of 49' 9^".
(jetPUfg, Sullwan
Early last summer he followed this up by bringing home the New England championship in the shot and discus amidst competition from every top-flighter in the East.
That about brings us up to date on George’s athletic career. But the saga of Sullivan only begins here, for he is one of the most popular and best liked men on campus. Last year he was cochairman of the Junior Prom and president of the Monogram Club. He was reelected to the latter post this year and his intention is to help it regain some of the prestige lost during the lean war years and make it once more one of the
GEORGE SULLIVAN Boy prodigy matured
strongest on campus. Also, he’s serving his second term as president of the Boston Club. In addition he carries an 87 average as a senior majoring in Economics and plans on taking law at Georgetown next year.
.George is a product of East Walpole, Mass., and Walpole High School. While there he did everything but teach classes. Item: he received 10 letters spread more oi* less evenly over football, basketball, track, and baseball. Item: he was co-captain of the football and basketball teams and captain of the track team. Item: he was state champion in 1942-43 in the shotput. Item: he was president of the senior and junior classes, president of the student council and president of the honorary society.
Yes, George has crowded many thrills and excitement into his 21 years. But we’ll all be waiting for the climax on November 8!
Harriers Take Loyolas Cross Country Title
Notre Dame’s harriers, undefeated to date, will attempt to add the Indiana State championship to their victory string tomorrow at Bloomington. Strongest competition for the Irish cross country men will come from Indiana and Purdue. Indiana won the state title last year.
The fifth consecutive win for the Irish
came last Saturday with a decisive victory in the Loyola University three and one-half mile invitational run in Chi
cago. N. D. with 26 points had just half as many as second place Wisconsin which had 52. Drake, last year’s national champions took third in the contest,
their first defeat since 1943. Don Gehr-man, the Big Nine mile champion won

the ■event in a record time of 16:40
breaking the record set by Ollie Hunter of Notre Dame in 1942.
Howard Johnson of Drake was second and four Irish runners followed. Jim Murphy, Cornie Styers, and Bill Leonard tied for third and Jim Kelly captured sixth place. Jim Kittell won eighth, and Bob Mitchel and Lou Tracy took 17th and 29th respectively.
The strength of the Irish harriers lies in the fact that they have seven men capable of running the three to four mile distances in good time, and no quitters. Some of the other squads have better individual performers, but do not have the depth of the Notre Dame team. The depth of the Irish team makes them formidable, because of the fact that they can put five scorers across the finish in< the low scoring brackets.—Jim Howard^
Annual Championship Held By Frosh X-Country Men
The Irish freshman cross country team, coached by Johnny Lyons, with one triumph over the varsity B team held their annual frosh championship last Wednesday on the school course. They will meet the Varsity B squad in a return engagement some time during the next week, probably on Wednesday.
Tony DeDamio won the first contest for the freshmen, flashing over the two-mile course in 10:10. Lou Lepry was second, edging Merle Fleming of the varsity team. Frosh Vai Muscato came up fast to take fourth place. Coach Elvin R. (Doc) Handy scored nine places in the contest and the final result gaveiL«( the fledglings 98, the varsity B squad • . 110.—Jim Howard.
20
0keMe4f>r& Ckatteb
By JOE CHENEY
The Notre Dame players who saw action against Navy last Saturday agreed that Navy had more “punch” than any opponent that they have met so far this year.
LIVINGSTONE TOPS
Bashful Bob Livingstone was overanxious to make good against Iowa two weeks ago and, as a result, jumped the count which resulted in the Irish being penalized for man-in-motion. The players and students have wondered all season why a man like Livingstone sat on ^the bench. Last Saturday he was given what looked to be a “last chance” and he showed the 84,000 fans that he’ll be a valuable asset against Army. We’ve got a hunch that he’ll hit peak tomorrow afternoon against Anny providing Coach Leahy gives him the green light.
KEY TO IRISH DEFENSE
The key that locks the Notre Dame goal line door is diminutive Pete Ashbaugh. He seems to have a sixth sense when it comes to stealing give-away signs from the opposing linemen as to which side of the line the ball-carrier intends to crash. On pass defense there isn’t a better back in the country. Pete is respected by the other players and his few words of wisdom are heeded by the younger players on the squad.
Ashbaugh grew up on football. His father was captain of Brown University’s gridders in 1913 and he coached ^Pete at Youngstown South High School. According to Pete, one of his greatest thrills in high school came when he completed a 70-yard pass to Bob Dove, former All-American end here at Notre Dame.
When Coach Leahy saw Ashbaugh back in ’41, he decided that Peta was too small for college football. As a result, Pete was cut from the squad. It was a low blow to the kid who played with footballs before he learned to walk, so Pete asked for an appointment with the new head coach.
Leahy told Pete that he would give him another chance that afternoon. Since it happened to be Sunday afternoon, he was a bit disgruntled but ha changed into his football uniform and reported to Cartier Field. Ed McKeever, then Leahy’s assistant, appeared in sweat togs, and Pete was ordered to throw a few blocks at him. With the boss standing near-by, Ashbaugh flattened McKeever with some vicious body blocks. His
passing arm also looked as if it might come in handy if anything happened to Angelo Bertelli. So Pete was told to pick up his uniform the following afternoon.
Those were the days when big men like Jim Brutz, Lou Rymkus, Wally Ziemba, “The Tree” Adams, Johnny Yonaker, and fellows their size were the only ones that looked good to head coaches all over the country. Compare them with our team this year. Wonder if fellows like McGee, Lank Smith, Bill Gay, and Larry Coutre would ever get inside Cartier in those days.
ZIGGY ALL THE WAY
The Notre Dame team will never have to worry about being too nervous before a game as long as Ziggy continues to hold the floor. The “Aiderman” began talking when he arrived at the Circle wearing a new cap from Gilbert’s and didn’t stop until the train pulled in Sunday night.
On the way back Ziggy took over the club car where cokes and coffee were the strongest drinks sold. He entertained the St. Mary’s seniors, who made the Navy game their student trip, with songs and speeches. At one time there were fifty-seven guys and gals sitting on the floor, standing in the aisle, and sitting on the tables enjoying one of the greatest free floor-shows of the weekend. Tackle Gasper Urban contributed his share by singing “I Wuv A Wabbit” with plenty of humorous dramatics.
Maybe it’s a good thing that Southern Cal is the last game on our schedule this year. Ziggy may be grabbed by some smart talent scout and signed to a seven year with option contract.
PREDICTION:
Notre Dame 41; Army 0.
NSA Delegates to Discuss Regional Convention
In conjunction with the Student Council the NSA delegates will meet Monday evening at 7:30 in the basement of Farley Hall to discuss the past NSA Regional Convention at Terre Haute and the NSA program for the coming year.
Although Notre Dame as yet is not a member of the NSA, steps are being taken to effect membership, as Catholic leadership must be present if the NSA is to be a representative group. The first step will be an open forum to bring the student body up to date on the status of the NSA and the advantages to be had by accepting membership. The second and final step will be to hold a campus wide election to decide whether or not Notre Dame will become a member by ratifying the NSA National Constitution.
Irish Avenge Loss; Sock Purdue Squad
In a return match held last Sunday on the University soccer field, the Notre Dame soccer team defeated Purdue by a score of 3 to 0. The Boilermakers had previously held the Irish to. a scoreless tie in a game at West Lafayette.
The game featured outstanding defensive play on the part of both teams, but the first half was marred by arguments with the referees by the Purdue team. The Irish were unable to rally their offensive strength until late in the first quarter when Kappock drew the Purdue goalie out of position with a pass to Rey de Castro who proceeded to toe in the first marker. Early in the second quarter Joe Wu scored the second Irish marker on a penalty shot which the Purdue goalie was unable to trap. Purdue threatened immediately afterwards but was unable to count due to fine defensive play by Fallais, the Notre Dame goal keeper, who made several sensational catches of the Purdue kicks.
In the second half, the Purdue aggregation was unable to threaten the Irish goal. Meanwhile the local squad continued its fine offensive play and in the third period scored the final tally of the afternoon. On a series of passes between Kappock, Miller and Pinto, the ball was carried deep into Purdue territory where Miller scored with an assisting pass from Kappock. The Notre Dame offense bogged down thereafter and was unable to score though several opportunities were afforded. Kappock, Pinto, Miller, Pallais, and the two fullbacks, F. Pinto and R. Ibanez played brilliantly for Notre Dame while the Boilermakers received splendid representation from Fritas, Siero, and Rarag.
Starting Lineups: NOTRE DAME POS.	PURDUE
Villavicencio ---L.	W......... Barry
Samaniego .......L.	I...---------Kos
Wu ..............C............ Estell
Rey de Castro	—Ji.	I....... Fritas
Kappock .........R.	W............Gut
Hinsman .........L.	H.......Hyneman
Duarte (Capt.) - C.-	H......... Siero
Gwynn ...........R.	H....... Orifice
Ibanez ......R. F. B........ Ludvigsen
Pinto .......L. F. B......... Andersen
Pallais ........ G..............Rarag
FOUND
1 very good topcoat 1 Schaeffer pen. 1 Waterman pen. 1 Eastbrook pen. 1 lead pencil (Parker), several jairs eye glasses. 1 pair san glasses. 1 bill (money), loose currency, books, textbooks, expensive notebooks.
Please apply at Dining Hall Office.
21
Pitching Half Of Rockne-Dorais Combination Is Forgotten Star Of Army Football Opener
By ED SNYDER
The powers that govern football schedules will ring down the curtain on 34 years of Army-Notre Dame rivalry tomorrow, but it will be a long time before they blot out the memories of some of the colorful gridiron performers who rose to fame in the past classics.
High on the list of all-time all-timers stand the names of Notre Dame’s Four Horsemen, Seven Mules, and such individual lights as Jack Elder—Johnny Come-Lately with a 98-yard touchdown run in 1929; the immortal George Gipp, and the late Jack Chevigny, who years later won an Army game for the Gipper, Frank Carideo, Marchy Schwartz and a list of others that would fill pages. The Army’s had some long-remembered men, too, headed by the slippery-hipped Red Cagle, whose intercepted pass in 1929 spelled defeat for the Black and Gold, plus a list of greats before and after the redhead’s time, capped by Mr. Outside and Mr. Inside of 1944-45-46, Doc Blanchard and Glenn Davis.
But whoever you want to name on that list of Army-Notre Dame series stars there’s one man whose name always ends up in the top position, Knute Rockne, followed closely by his cohoi*t in gridiron skullduggery, Charles E. (Gus) Dorais.
Whenever talk rolls around to football Rockne will turn up somewhere. Around Notre Dame it’s hard to find a professor,
KNUTE ROCKNE
The receiver
clergyman or sage who hasn’t a favorite Rockne yarn to spin. But what about Dorais?
Except for folks around Detroit, Gus Dorais, a plain-spoken, silver-thatched diminutive chap, seems to have been relegated into obscurity. Although he nevei* found his pigskin partner’s footsteps to be his own size, he nevertheless has piled up an enviable record in the world of football and outside.
When he entered Notre Dame in 1910, Gus Dorais weighed 145 pounds and stood five feet seven. Today he answers to those same specifications. He captained the 1912 Irish eleven, starred in track and baseball, the latter* sport getting the credit for developing his accuracy as a passer. In the summer of 1913 along with Rockne, he perfected the art of passing to a receiver on the dead run and mostly on that form of attack the Irish castigated Army, 35-13, that fall and started on a march to football fame.
During the 1919 season, Dorais coached Irish backs. The remainder of his years in the business have been spent as head coach at Dubuque, Gonzaga, the University of Detroit, and for the past five years with the cellar-stalled Detroit Lions of the National Football League.
Along his career Dorais picked up
some interesting distinctions. He was the first football coach to be a member ofS-Detroit City Council. He has lasted longer than any previous Lion mentor. He founded the now-famed Athletic Round Table of Spokane while at Gonzaga, where his student manager of football was Harry Lillis (Bing) Crosby. Yet there’s one distinction about Gus Dorais that is the most remarkable. If he gets a chance to hear the Army-Notre Dame game tomorrow he’ll probably chuckle over it.
For in 34 years the man who helped launch the Army-Notre Dame series to a place of renown in the grid world has seen only one Army-Notre Dame game— the one he played way back in 1913!
N.D. Hoops+ers6'3"; $ Practice In High Gear
Height is the old ace in the hole in basketball. Of course, it isn’t everything, but few coaches like to be without it. Assistant Coach Tom Brennan is doing his best to see that Notre Dame is well stocked with aces this season.
As an experimental measure he has been grooming a club which finds Paul Gordon and K. C. O’Shea at the guards and at the pivot post he has been trying Johnny Foley, a 6’5” beanpole from Worcester, Mass. Foley, a former All-New England high school center, appeared in seventeen games at Notre Dame last season, most of them briefly. His best game was in the Garden in New York where he, along with Jimmy O’Halloran and O’Shea, sparked the club to a 64-60 victory over N. Y. U. Should Fole^ make the grade at center it would leav^ Leo Barnhorst, 6’3 and Johnny Brennan, 6’4”, available for forwards. The combined scoring contribution of Barnhorst and Brennan last season was 494 points which helped set a team record of a 1,573 total.
A lineup consisting of Gordon, O’Shea Foley, Barnhorst and Brennan not only appeals to Gaelic hearts, but it affords an average height close to 6’3”. With the alleged murderous schedule it must face, the Irish can use every inch. Available for that important reserve duty will be boys like O’Halloran, a trouble shooter type of player who starts like the wind, Buster Hiller, Heinie Kaufmann, Joe and Andy Sobek, Dick Kluck, Don Gatens, Tom Johnson, Johnny Goonen and Jim Fritsch.
The opener is only a month away at which time Johnny Wooden brings his -Indiana State outfit to the fieldhouse®^
—Dave Warner
•splinters
from the Pressbox
OVER THE GOALPOSTS
With Pete
Tomorrow will see the temporary end of the most illustrious series in collegiate gridiron history—the Army-Notre Dame rivalry. There have been older relationships between universities but never has any of these other series come close to matching the ND — Army tilts in color, action and interest. We here at Notre Dame, hate to see the end of it, and we hope that there is an early resumption.
Some of the alltime records in the historic competition bring back memories.
There were a handful of spectators at the first game, played at West Point in 1913 . . . Stecker of Army ran 68 yards for a score in the 1931 game, the longest gallop from scrimmage in the series . . . In 1941 Hank Mazur* of the Army punted 74 yards from the line of scrimmage . . . Johnny Lujack passed 64 yards to John Yonakor in the 1943 contest . . . “Monk” Meyer ran back a Notre Dame punt for 65 yards and a score in 1936 . . . the longest run on a pass interception came in 1929 when Jack Elder, Irish sprint star, nabbed a wayward Ca-£ det pass near his goal line and rambled all the way for the only score of the day . . . Notre Dame attempted 29 passes in 1944 and had eight intercepted, both records . . . The Cadet powerhouse in 1945 ran for 294 yards and passed for 147 more, totalling 441 for the all-time offensive mark . . . McQuarrie’s 31 yard field goal in 1919 for Army is tops in that department . . . The Irish rolled up 21 first downs in 1921 to set a record.
Notre Dame has an overwhelming edge in wins over Army, finishing on top 22 times to 7 for the Cadets with four games ending all even. The margins of victory tell a different story, however. In 17 of the 33 games, the winner was seven points or less better than the loser. The Irish have never approached the 35 point total they registered in the 1913 opener. Their biggest margin has been 26 points, achieved in 1943. Army’s largest point total and victory edge came in . the 59-0 slaughter of 1944.
The Irish have scored 408 points m 25 games, being shut out in eight con-

The advertising man who thinks up something new to add to a famous cig arette every other year must have come in contact with the Notre Dame Athletic Association sometime this year. The
NDAA came up with the most surprising addition to its agenda since Do rail passed to Rockne in 1913 to upset Army and start a new chapter in inter collegiate football. Lasi Sunday an NDAA - s p o n -sored varsity soccer team played Pur due’s soccer team on the field Avenue.
next to Notre Dame
Possibly, this might be a foreshadowing of things to come. It could be that the “we don’t need it” attitude of the NDAA is departing. The lack of minor sports, which has been a sore spot with the students for years, might now be rectified.	•
I doubt very much if anyone was caused any due amount of pain or inconvenience in bringing about the new addition. This addition provides a new op portunity for more students to participate in varsity athletics. Prior- to the addition of the soccer team there were seven varsity sports open to students: baseball, track, fencing, golf, tennis, football and basketball. These seven sports provided an opportunity to about one-tenth' of the student body to participate.
tests. Army has totalled 311 points in 19 contests, having 14 whitewashings on their record. An average score would read 12.3 to 9.4 in favor of Notre Dame. Army has never scored on a Leahy-coached Notre Dame team. In 1941, 1942, 1943, and 1946 the Cadets failed to cross the Irish goal.
Army will give the Irish line its severest test thus far this season. The boys from the banks of the Hudson have been averaging over 280 yards a game oy rushing. Their passing attack is not what it was during the Blanchard-Davis-Tucker era, and little danger is expected from this quarter.
Last year at the football banquet Father Cavanaugh said that Notre Dame does not have to knock herself out tc get athletes because almost every Catholic boy who has any ability wants to play for Notre Dame. At the time Father Cavanaugh said this, he was talking specifically about football. He was answering the critics of Notre Dame’s consistent power. It would not be difficult now to spread that statement to cover all sports. If the University provided for teams in other sports besides the above mentioned eight, and put the time in tc make them the usual Notre Dame variety of teams, there would be no difficulty in getting men to compete. High school athletes would beg for a chance to be a member of the Notre Dame swimming, wrestling or boxing team.
Notre Dame is not a member of the Western Conference, but she abides by all its rules and regulations. We have fine relations with most of the member schools in one sport or the other, but the relations are limited by the small number of varsity teams here. Would it not be to our advantage to have teams in every sport in which the Conference competes? Actually, the advantage would be twofold. More students would have a chance to represent Notre Dame in intercollegiate athletics and the University would have a .wider scope in which to increase her friendly relations with other universities. It is true that at first the teams vrould not be at a par with the teams of other schools who have been competing for years. This is to be expected for the first few years. However, it should not be considered an obstacle because there has never been a Notre Dame team which stayed down for the count.
There are facilities for most of the neglected sports on the campus. Probably, there might be a little crowding for the first few years. But, when the new super fieldhouse is built in 10 or 15 years, the teams will be able to move in with both barrels blazing. The slow formation period will have passed.
There is plenty of room for teams in 150-lb. football, swimming, wrestling weight lifting, boxing, crew and gymnastics. If these and other minor sports were added with full squads, the onetenth ratio could be advanced to a one-third to a one-fourth representation of the student body.
23
Knights Threaten Irish (Continued from Page 17) marker to eke out their narrow 21-20 upset.
Last week’s humiliation of Washington and Lee, 65-13, was not the fault of anyone with the possible exception of the W & L schedule maker. Once again Colonel Blaik cleared his bench of every available athlete while his quarterbacks ran only straight football. It was clear that Washington and Lee should never have wandered outside its own cozy conference which includes such gridiron nonentities as Hampton-Sydney, William and Mary, Davidson, and Randolph-Macon.
Tomorrow the wraps come off. Both Notre Dame and Army have employed fewer than a dozen plays to date, but undoubtedly, tomorrow the circumstances will call for much greater imagination on the part of the quarterbacks of both teams. Johnny Lujack and Frank Tri-pucka, who together have completed 62 of 103 passes, will find their task made a good deal easier through the deletion of several names from the Notre Dame injured list.	'	.
Mike Swistowicz, forced to miss the Navy clash is chomping at the bit as is Ralph McGeehee. Pep Panelli seems to have recovered partial freedom of motion in his left elbow and be should be able to play. Coy McGee found his well-taped ankle of no assistance in attempting to outdistance the hard charging Middie line and as a result his average gain sloughed off to a mere 5 yards per try. A week’s rest coupled with the ministrations of Hughie Burns should
ready the lean Texan for a better day tomorrow. The team as a whole, al-although unanimous in selecting last week’s game as the toughest physically this season, came through in good shape and should trot out against Army at full strength.
But when Steve Oracko sends the pigskin end-over-end at kick-off time tomorrow you can take the record books and chuck ’em away. Foi- Notre Dame is playing Army, and in the course of two gruelling hours native genius is very apt to find itself supplanted by a quality called “sticktuitiveness” which appears only on rare occassions but which has been known to upset even the sturdiest of applecarts. This one may not be so easy.
Army a Driving Unit
(Continued from Page 17) his first appearance in an Army uniform this fall.
Another mainstay of the last two West Point elevens, Joe Steffy, captains the Rabble and teams up with Joe Henry at guard. Sal Fastuca, a sophomore from Pittsburgh, and Ray Drury, a * senior playing his third year, help shore up Army’s forward wall behind Steffy and Henry. At center, Army has Bill “Yo-Yo” Yeoman, last year’s second string pivot man. Yeoman played a year at Texas A. and M. before entering the Academy, stands six feet one and weighs 190.	*
Harvey Livesay (187), a senior, and Tom Bullock (185), a junior from Eldorado, Arkansas, back up Yeoman, play mostly on defense.
Arnold “Pope” Galiffa (190), quarter- , backs the Cadets from Blaik’s smooth running “T”, and when Galiffa isn’t calling them, Charlie Gabriel, 170 pound streak of lightning from North Carolina, is. Gabriel was a little-All-American at Catawba College before reaching the Point, and promises to be one of the nation’s finest signal-callers before his eligibility runs out. Both Galiffa and Gabriel will be playing two more years.
On the offense, Blaik teams Galiffa with Bill Gustafson and Winfield Scott at halves, and “Rip” Rowan (185) at fullback. On defense, rugged John Shelley from Oklahoma replaces Scott. Rowan and Gustafson (180), are Army’s two hardest charging backs, and Scott is reputed to be as fast as Glenn Davis. Bobby-Jack Stuart, Tulsa All-American in ’44, and out of competition with a hernia last season, hit his stride against £ Columbia and should be handling the ball a great deal more in the remaining games. Amos Gillette and Bobby Vinson, a pair of sophomores who hardly weigh 300 pounds between them gave Illinois a great deal of trouble, will be seen in every game Anny plays.
Rudy Cosentino (200), is Army’s heaviest fullback, and looked like a second Blanchard in early games. James Mackmull, third string fullback, does all of Army’s place kicking and kicking off, has added eleven points after touchdown in four games.
As a team, Army is lightei- and not as fast as the 1946 Rabble, while for the first time in three years Blaik finds himself at least two deep in dependable talent at every position.
LOOKIN' FOB HELP
Terry Brennan'sfacial expression gives a plea for help as a Navy tackler prepares to haul him down
BIDIN' FOB A FALL Bill Fischer moves in to halt Navy's McCully
END OF THE TRAIL
Navy's Bill Hawkins comes to a dead stop after hitting a "stone wall" • of two Irish tacklers
24
• INTEI HALL ECCTEALL
By JOE ARCHIBALD and TOM ADAMS
Cavanaugh and Lyons continued to dominate play in their divisions of the interhall football loop this week as the former knocked off St. Ed’s, 14-0, while the latter, the defending champions, edged Walsh, 6-0. In other contests, Zahm dropped- Farley, 7-0; Badin defeated Morrissey, 7-0, and Dillon and Alumni battled to a scoreless tie.
Zahm, 20; Farley, 0
After suffering defeat by Cavanaugh Hall, a highly rejuvenated Zahm eleven came back to thrash the boys from Farley to the tune of 20-0 last week.
Bob Welch wasted no time when he went over to score from the 10-yard line early in the first quarter. Left-footed Ray Loy added the extra point. Then, in the third period Ed Foley, Zahm halfback, accounted for the second score. $ Loy again made his attempt for conversion perfect. Hard-running Bob Welch tallied again in the third quarter to gain top scoring honors for the day. This time Loy did a rare thing by missing his kick.
Farley’s team didn’t look up to par, and as a result, they couldn’t make their offense click. “Jarring Joe” Moschella, Farley center, was outstanding both on offense and defense, however.
Dillon, 0; Alumni, 0
A winless Alumni team managed to hold a one-win Dillon squad to a scoreless tie in their contest played late last week. Both teams played a good brand of ball, but strong forward walls prevented any spectacular play. This tie virtually puts both teams out of the running for the western division championship.
Cavanaugh, 14; St. Ed's, 0
Cavanaugh Hall displayed a well-balanced attack in turning back a game St. Ed’s eleven, 14-0. The Cavanaugh gridders drew first blood in the opening quarter when Bernie Powers culminated a sustained drive by scoring from the two-yard line. Jim Presley, Cavanaugh’s versatile halfback threat, added the extra point from placement. The final Cavanaugh marker came in the third quarter when “Speedy” Wolfe received a 30-yard pass from Quarterback Powers to score. Presley again converted.
Dick Sheridan and Jack Crain were outstanding for St. Ed’s, but were unable to score against a formidable Cavanaugh defense.
Lyons, 6; Walsh, 0
The defending champions from Lyons Hall won a 6-0 decision over a crippled Walsh squad, in a rough-and-tumble battle. After being turned back by three successive Walsh goal-line stands, the Lyonites finally scored when Quar
terback Don Buseck went over from the Walsh one-yard line late in the first half. Tom Hanifin’s pass to Joe Fahey for the extra point was incomplete.
In the second half the Lyons offense was bottled up by a stubborn Walsh line. Walsh threatened the Lyons goal in the final stanza when Pat Shannon connected with a 50-yard pass to Don Jost on the Lyons 27-yard line. However, the Walsh attack bogged down at this point, and Lyons was able to regain possession of the ball and defend their lead until the game ended.
Badin, 7; Morrissey, 0
Badin Hall struck early in the first quarter to hand a winless Morrissey squad its third consecutive defeat of the season, 7-0. The Badinites took advantage of a Morrissey fumble in the opening period, and scored the only touchdown of the game on a pass from Chick Beaulieu to Chuck Culligan. DiGirolamo’s place-kick added the extra point.
Student Opinion Says, "Look Out Pointers!"
Captain Connor’s squad is scheduled to spend 60 minutes Saturday afternoon showing the boys from West Point a few tactical maneuvers in the fine arts of offense and defense. When taps finally blow, a wiser, but sadder, Army eleven will respond to the call.
The coffee cup crystalgazers one bumps into in the Caf think so at any rate. Student optimism has hit an alltime high this week. If these local soothsayers are light, LOOK OUT ARMY.
Bob Kane—St. Paul, Minn., Cavanaugh Hall; N.D. 70, Army 0.
“Nothing is too good for the Army. So what will the Army get? . . . Nothing!”
Austin McNichols — Beaver Junction, Wyoming, Dillon Hall; N.D. 102, Army 0.
“Army can’t score without the ball . . . time is the big element.”
Bob Schneider—New York City, Off-Campus; N.D. 41, Army 6.
“We have been waiting too long to let this one pass without a big score.”
Norb Geier—Cashton, Wis., Morrissey Hall; N.D. 21, Army 0.
“Army will throw everything they can against Notre Dame. They have nothing to lose after the Columbia defeat.”
Joe Saidy—Rochester, Minn., Walsh Hall; N.D. 21, Army 0.
“I don’t think Army will be able to score either by ground or air. We should have no trouble doing it either way.”
Jack Hubbell—Yakima, Wash., Off-Campus; N.D. 50, Army 7.
“Army should be good enough to get one touchdown off the fourth string.”
Bill Dwyer—Chicago, Ill., Walsh Hall; N.D. 28, Army 0.
“If Illinois’ line can hold them, Notre Dame can certainly do the same. We could run up a bigger score against Army, but we are not the outfit to humiliate any team, regardless of how much we want to beat them.”
AL FURMAN 210 pounds — Ugh!
Uh! Furman, Pukish and Karl Top Campus Lifting Records
Three Notre Dame weight-lifting records have been recently shattered at Father Lange’s bar-bell emporium.
Irish weight-tossers in the light, middle and light-heavy divisions have surpassed their Spring tops with smashing lifts that establish new University marks.
Capt. Al Furman, light-heavy, hoisted 210 pounds; Paul Pukish, middleweight, tossed up 190 pounds, and Bob Karl, lightweight, pushed up 165 pounds in the strenuous military press.
Frank Harty leg-pressed 550 pounds ten successive times for a repetition mark in the heavyweight class.
25
MuSIC ’ Books ’ Radio
This season, Fred Allen and his obnoxious cronies from shabby Allen’s Alley decided they didn’t like their eleventh floor suite in Mr. Hooper’s Radio Tower. They wanted to take up residence in the starlight penthouse. And they got it by bribing the landlord. Last week, Mr. Hooper announced that Allen and his crowd are now tied with Bob Hope and his peasants for first place by his rating. Allen takes the air every Sunday night at 7:30 over WMAQ, Chicago’s NBC outlet.
Except for its advertising, which begs the common laborer to become the automaton of United States Steel, “The Theatre Guild Of the Air” is one of the best theatre programs on the radio. It presents 55-minute adaptations of the world’s best stage plays, most of which the New York Theatre Guild has produced.
In the past two years, the program has presented such plays as “The Man Who Came To Dinner,” with Fred Allen as Sheridan Whiteside, “The Philadelphia Story,” and the “Male Animal.” All of the programs are excellently produced and directed, and can be heard over WENR at 8:30 on Sunday night.
All the script assignments are given out usually to “name” writers, or established free-lancers with many air credits. Nevertheless, newcomers can occasionally write the scripts. The producers are always looking for writers who know something about play structure either as professional playwrights or longtime students of the drama. It is also advisable that the writer live in or near New York, and have radio connections.
If you go to dinner early on Saturday, and return to your room by noon, you can listen to “Grand Central Station.” It is aired over CBS on Saturday from 12 to 12:30.
The producers and the directors of “Grand Central Station” are specialists in mystery and melodrama, but they also stage romances and stories of young or old love. However, they announce that they dislike comedy and “hate farces.” They also claim that outlines or synopses of scripts, and scripts with unhappy endings will be rejected.
The stories the program presents resemble the stories in such slick maga
26
zines as Good Housekeeping, McCall’s, and the Ladies’ Home Journal.
One basic requirement for a script is that it must begin in New York’s Grand Central Station or thereabouts. But those that begin right at the train entrance gates are preferable. If you are thinking of writing one, remember that the amplitudinous station contains newsstands, offices, studios, and a multiplicity of other things as well as trains. You might also remember that you’ll receive S150 if they accept your script.
According to Liberty magazine, the best place in New York to see the big stars of the high-pressure ulcer set is the Colbee Restaurant in the CBS building. Colbee Restaurant, the magazine claims, is to radio personalities what the 21 and the Stork are to writers and actors. Arthur Godfrey, Ginny Simms, Percy Faith, and many other prominent radio people are said to consume food and drink there.
This columnist does not want to contradict any statement for which Liberty magazine can produce conclusive proof as it does in its pictorial article. But he merely wishes to point out that this is not the only rendezvous of the inhabitants of radio fame. From one of his most reliable sources, he learns that some of the biggest radio celebrities meet each other at the Hotel Algonquin in the heart of New York City.
From another authoritative source, he is also told that others also meet and eat and gab and drink at Connelly’s, a small bar between East 43rd and East 44th streets.—Jack Hummel
Post-Game Dance to Be Held By Northwestern U. Group
Notre Dame men will dance at Northwestern from final-gun time to the drowsy hours of the morning, come November 15. The Off-Campus Women’s organization from Northwestern is sponsoring a shindig at Scott Hall, room 300, starting at 4:30, right after the ref calls the slaughter to a halt.
The hall is located opposite the Wildcat campus, on the corner of Sheridan Road and University Place. The sponsors will furnish a lorry-load of babes.
Cleveland Club Holds^ Gala Pre-Navy Rally
Notre Dame’s perennial-undergraduate alumni raised the roof in the Rainbow Room of the Hotel Carter last Friday evening when the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland held its traditional Notre Dame-Navy pre-game rally. The speakers’ table was occupied by many dignitaries of the University of Notre Dame and the United States Naval Academy, plus then* distinguished alumni. Master of ceremonies was Warren Brown, noted sports writer, who very ably introduced the main speakers adlibbing humorous quips as he went along.
The Reverend John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, talked on the value of competitive sport—par-.s ticularly intercollegiate athletics — in these troubled times, stressing the importance of preparedness through both physical and mental development.
Capt. Edmund B. Taylor, director of athletics at the Naval Academy, in the main highlight of his talk said, “People have asked me why Navy, year after year, plays such a tough schedule. The reason is this. We at the Naval Academy believe that competitive athletics, especially football, is an intimate part of our training of future Naval officers. We feel that by playing the best teams, win or lose, we are achieving that aim. When we lose we want the other team to know that they’ve been in a football game. When we win, we want to be able to say that we have beaten the best.”
Capt. Frank T. Ward, commandant of midshipmen, told of a game he witnessed between Notre Dame and Georgia Tech in 1929 exemplifying the determination of Notre Dame football teams.
“Notre Dame had the ball on the fifty yard line and Jack Elder ran all the way for a touchdown, but the play was called back because of off-sides. From the forty-five yard line he did it all over again only to be called back for the same penalty. For the third time, Mr. Elder being well ‘pooped,’ ran sixty yards to score. Three times in a row on the same play Elder ran fifty, fifty-five, and sixty yards. That is the type of team Notre Dame turns out, and that is what Navy is up against tomorrow.”
The rally was brought, to a close by the unscheduled appearance of Joe E. Brown, who is starring in “Harvey” now playing in Cleveland. Joe summed up what the other speakers had said, in his own inimitable way, and made the piea “to remember the boys who gave so much that we might enjoy the right to carry on in our American traditions.’ '
—Dennis J. O’Neilt
•COLLEGE PARADE
By JOHN ARMSTRONG and JAMES O'RIELEY
ODDS AND ENDS
Michigan State Neivs announces that work on a new 50,000-seat stadium is about to begin, and should be completed by the 1948 season.
With funds recently granted by the National Foundation for- Infantile Paralysis, doctors at Southern California are making headway in their search for a polio vaccine. An antigen, which has proved successful two-thirds of the time has been developed.
The Minnesota Daily reported that two new glockenspiels have arrived, but tahey seem to be having trouble in finding anyone who can play them. It looks as if they’ll have to send in for them too.
Professor Thomas Murphy of Notre Dame was the guest speaker of the Newman club at Purdue University.
The Purdue Exponent also discloses that a P-5 IB fighter plane has been purchased for educational purposes of the R. 0. T. C.
TROUBLE AT TROY
The Texas Conference announces a new post-season bowl game to be played at Wichita Falls. It will be known as the Kickapoo Bowl. Officials of the Conference say no opponent for the Conference champion has been selected as yet, but we suspect there will be a mad scramble for this dubious honor soon.
* A major disaster almost occurred at the University of Southern California a
couple of weeks ago. George Tirebiter, the canine mascot of the Trojans was ‘dognaped,’ but through his quick thinking the poor pooch escaped in time for a celebration of his being named new campus mascot. Officials of the University believe he was taken by “traitorous Trojans” trying to frame U. S. C.’s opponent, California.
Looking at a pre-Pitt game Daily Lantern from Ohio State University, we were stunned with pity by this confident headline in the sports section:
“PANTHERS WILL BE NEXT.”
It makes one wonder- sometimes if life is not all it seems to be.
An interesting comment on the art of drinking is brought to us by the Queen’s Journal of Queen’s University in Canada. One of their students says: “Canadians and Queen’s students in particular don’t know how to drink; too many drink just to get drunk. We should cultivate a more mature appreciation for good drink.” Very frank, and very true.
STOLEN FROM IOWA U s FRIVOL
My wife ran off with the butler, I’m satisfied. Furthermore my house burned down and I haven’t any insurance. I’m satisfied. And to cap everything off business is so bad I’m going bankrupt, but in spite of everything, I’m satisfied. I smoke Chesterfields.
GUNFIGHTERS
The Daily Northwestern reports that one of the fraternity houses in the north
quads has had. burglars within its hallowed walls recently. The burglars were in quest of not money, not clothes, not food, but—ping pong balls and net! Upon being surprised one dark night this month the thieves took off into the night and were hastened in their journey by pistol shots, apparently fired by some zealous cops. The inventory of supplies taken at the house reveals that the burglars’ enterprise for the evening resulted in a “net” loss.
THE NEW LOOK
. . . Everybody talks about it, but nobody does anything about it, except Ted Hays, bewhiskered Northwestern junior. Hays is registering his protest against what he terms “Some fashion designer’s get-rich-quick plan.” By letting his beard grow “until both the girls and their knees begin to see the light.” He says he doesn’t know one male who approves of these nineteenth century throwbacks, and “If they can do that I’m going to follow along and show them the nineteenth century male. I look weird in a beard; they look weird in the skirt.”
RECIPES FOR SUCCESS
The Michigan State Neivs reports that five forlorn males are now upholding the honor of their sex in that realm so sacred to femininity, the Home Ec school. These men are preparing for careers in the hotel or restaurant business and are apparently enjoying their courses as well as the unique position in which this pursuit places them.
ATTENTION!!
This item of hysterical scare print comes from the Purdue Exponent:
The Women’s Christian Temperance (Continued on Page 34)

Orders are Now being accepted for The Scholastic’s
FOOTBALL ISSUE
which will be off the press December 12
This issue carries a resume of ALL Notre Dame Games . . Pictures of the Players and Coaches . . Game Shots . . Biographies
Mail 50 cents (no stamps please) to
FOOTBALL ISSUE -	-	118 Main Building, Notre Dame, Indiana
27
NOTRE DflME NAMES MAKE NEWS*
New Approaches
Keeping Notre Dame in the Public’s Eye . . .
Recently the President of the University of Notre Dame, REV. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., received a letter from the main offices of the New York Railway System in New York City which carried the following information: “To help commemorate the many years of pleasant relations between The New York Central and the faculty, student body, and graduates of the University of Notre Dame, we are featuring Notre Dame in the initial series of college menu covers to be carried on dining cars over our system. . . .”
Down Kentucky way radio station managers were out to prove the old axiom that the early bird gets the worm. By midweek no less than five broadcasting stations had applied to RAY DONOVAN, round, jovial publicity agent for the Irish basketball squad, for broadcasting privileges on the Notre Dame-Kentucky cage contest scheduled for Feb. 2 on the Notre Dame court. The Wildcat hoopsters, ably tutored by Coach Adolph Rupp who led them to a highly successful season last year, boast tne return of last season’s starting five men.
LMIIRSm OF NOIRE MME
n rtHtdmrtl	el Hei*
G'Ws «	tBartang	in
rhr	'•mn, a hn
trvm the iWiJ «null badXn* k» one
Uan* an mruiimeM	Mwirsn.
Mt
f A Uniirv at rnw? thtu 'HP tdwtart offm I itvnn tn rtw	*4 Ant Lttwn.
Vwnocn’tnK leaiacnr aaj
•« enr OmjMau	The	ten arrt
t	nat' hat «n I “00	«nn*»n«
»r< *«rt* tfC itan* it a	xkni. tat ’aaa-
»u»«ienn Fu«e Fawn welcomed.
XumaSh.	J O'*, 'uf wudwn tajv h run-’
C«rtat»c »rc aim nun} non-Cxb^kc* rhe IKMte and on the AuOumk Baatd Ttuttorw	*
rr-Jw	4*1 if at
PraoJfj
Ur&ut »Ar g-U atU Har dm »	iktt
fUMr* >t /A* ear hoarti
f'fvllMr. \utff Ztaw.
««r Arwrrj fotfrrr Lorr tin. Duw*

Bedel* ami MraaMppt Radmadl Cnmd t* -ilfik opmuotn Xd nut bfftm tot mw} ywo. «jJ n wm «• JtrtJ chnseffe •er^Kt *B otmoni u» Cbcafo T»w» !«dr rataad w» raaawd the ■Northern toduM Knlraad Cmp ,
* p»ny aad Ute became pm of rhe fume Lett State and Mkhncur StsuttaM. ptcdeceaar of New York Count m ita ana.
NEW YORK CENTRAL'S NOTRE DAME MENU *To commemorate pleasant relations'
Over in Vetville members of the juvenile population turned out in full array to celebrate the Notre Dame housing units first Halloween. A free lance photographer caught tot TONY NICKRAS, Jr., delivering the age-old “feed me or fear me” ultimatum to Mr. and Mrs. GENE STENDER, who judged the first course of action to be the most prudent; fed him; sent him on his way to badger other Vetvillers. . . .
Old Acquaintances
Out in Indianapolis, Indiana, a former Notre Dame student, AL FEENEY, was elected mayor of that city on the Democratic ticket. Mr. Feeney was a familiar figure in the athletic contests at Notre Dame when he was on the campus in 1912, ’13, and ’14. He captained the basketball squad during that time and played center on the football team in the first Army game.
TIGHE E. WOODS of Chicago, Illinois, a Notre Dame graduate, assumed his new office as Federal Housing Expediter in Washington on October 31. He succeeded Frank R. Creedon. . . .
TONY NICKRAS, JR. & THE STENDERS Halloween loot
Bridges & Books
In Niles, Michigan, on Wednesday, November 5, Mr. DONALD J. PLUNKETT, an associate professor of biology at Notre Dame and the assistant head of the Biology Department, addressed a meeting of the Tri-County Dental Association. Professor Plunkett spoke on the recent trends and developments in dental research. . . .
Assistant Professor of History MARSHALL T. SMELSER has recently written a new textbook, New Outline of American Colonial and American Revolutionary History, which is to be published by the Barnes and Noble Company of New York and will be released sometime next spring. Mr. Smelser, who is a recognized authority on the history of the American Revolution, is a newly appointed faculty member at the University of Notre Dame. . . .
Crime & Criticism
On the student trip to Cleveland and the Navy game this past week end, calamity of the worst sort overtook JoE HIPP of Lyons Hall. Dome Photographic Editor Hipp was peacefully trying to garner a few extra winks of sleep during the train ride back to South Bend>jP? Sunday night when some uninhibited thief pilfered his cherished camera prac
28
tically from under his very nose. . . .
Graduate Student VINCENT P. HOGAN of Port Angeles, Washington, made the news recently in the Chicago Sun when he rebuked an uninformed individual for making a fallacious public statement regarding the neutrality policy of Ireland in the recent world conflict. His letter,' published in “Letters to the Sun” on October 30, illustrates clearly and factually the major reasons for Ireland’s neutrality, as he expresses regret that people can be “so void of political understanding at a time when real clarification of political problems is needed.” Vince was a delegate to tne International Student Congress and has travelled extensively in Ireland, England and Europe recently, so he ought to know. . . .
DR. PAUL C. BARTHOLOMEW Better drivers
Dr. PAUL C. BARTHOLOMEW, professor of political science, went on record for compulsory high - school driving courses throughout the nation’s secondary schools in a paper delivered last week before the annual meeting of the Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences. He pointed out that the states with the most stringent licensing laws have the best safety records.
In expressing his concern over the nation’s traffic accident plight Dr. Bartholomew hit upon a noteworthy observation. “An automobile is not by nature dangerous ... it is the automobile pius the human element that adds up to a dangerous potential. ... In some respects an automobile may be said to acquire certain of the characteristics of the driver, to express in its activity something of his personality — aggressiveness, selfishness, caution, conservatism.”
LAW SCHOOL OPEN HOUSE
The Notre Dame Law School's annual open house will be held this year - on November 8. immediately after the Army game in the Law Building. All law students and their families, law faculty, law alumni, and members oi the local bar are cordially invited to attend. Refreshments will be served.
Pirates Of Penzance To Open December 4
Gilbert and Sullivan’s operetta, “The Pirates of Penzance” will be the musical fare served up by the University Theatre in Washington Hall the evenings of December 4, 5, 7 and 8. Sunday afternoon, December 7, a special matinee performance will ba presented for the religious.
Student tickets may be obtained upon presentation of ID cards in the basa-ment of the cafeteria from one to four in the afternoon from December- 1 to 4. Public admission will be $1.10 per person, including tax. Tickets may be purchased at the South Bend Tribune offices, or at Elbel’s and Copp’s Music stores.
Ralph Thorson and John Laughlin will alternate in the lead role of Major-General Stanley. The pirate king will be portrayed by Roy O’Neil and Lou Almasi; Samuel by John Commerford and Robert Hochman, the Sergeant of Police by Bill Mills and Phil Finnegan, Frederick by Robert Ruetz.
Feminine roles in the production will be taken by St. Mary’s girls. Felicia Schroeder and Sophie Karras will take the part of Mabel while Frances Banson and Marie Nussbaum will take turns portraying Edith. The role of Kate will be filled by Petrina Mitchell and Peggy Gardner; that of Ruth by Elaine Bruck and Jean Metzger.
Among the chorus of pirates and police will be Louis Almasi, Dudley Birder, Don Curran, William Donze, Robert Duffey, Phil Finnegan, Norbert Geirer, Robert Hochman, Howard Hornung, George Jones, John Laughlin, Frank Malzone, Larry Metcalf, Bud Marshall, Harry Reich, Robert Schlosser, David Schoen and Victor Smith.
General Stanley’s wards will include Marilyn Brennan, Rose Marie Buzolits, Mary Dale, Norma Jean Eckstine, Mary Fleming, Sophie Karras, Elaine Karth, Jean Kramer, Bernie Lang, Gretchen McRafferty, Patricia Moran, Marie Nemeth, Marie Nussbaum, Betty Nolan, Gerry Posvic, Nannie Shanahan, Angelina Sparcino and Marion Wieland.
—Joe Dukert
Dr. Kuttner Lecture Series Begins Nov. 8 in Law Bldg.
Dr. Stephan Kuttner, professor of Canon Law at the Catholic University of America, will speak on “Legal-Canonical Science and the Mediaeval Mind” tomorrow in a series of talks which will continue through Wednesday. The lectures, the second presented by the Medi
aeval Institute through the William Grace II fund, will be held in the Law building.
Born in Germany, Dr. Kuttner was forced to flee to Rome in 1933 due to the Nazi persecutions. When the persecutions spread to Italy he came to the United States on the advice of Vatican authorities and was appointed to the staff of Catholic University. One of the greatest living authorities on the history of Canon Law', Dr. Kuttner is the only layman in this country and one of the few- in the world to hold a university professorship in that subject.
Dr. Kuttner is a co-founder of the learned periodical Traditic published by the Cosmopolitan Science and Art Service Inc., and is still one of its two editors. He is also a consultant to the Library of Congress.
N.D.'s Largest Alumni Crowd To Witness Army-N.D. Game
The largest alumni football crowd in Notre Dame’s history will witness the Army Game on Saturday. This statement is made by James E. Armstrong, Alumni Secretary, on the basis of the allocation. of only two tickets to each alumnus for his personal use.
This means that the alumni section in Notre Dame’s stadium will contain 7,000 Notre Dame men, by far the largest actual alumni gathering in history. Presence of alumni from Mexico, the Philippines, Alaska and all of the 48 States of the Union bears out this forecast.
The alumni sections have been sold out many times before, but alumni were permitted in those instances to order four or eight tickets with no restriction as to personal use.
Special trains and planes from many alumni club areas are also evidence of the unprecedented alumni attendance and interest.
Alumni *registration at the campus entrance is planned.
Half of the 48 State Governors of the University of Notre Dame Foundation and a large percentage of the 145 city chairmen appointed by Father Cavanaugh under the new program, will also attend the Army game this week-end.
Because of overtaxed housing and dining hall facilities no formal meetings are planned as on previous football week ends, but the new Foundation Offices in Carroll study hall will hold open house for these visiting officers during Friday and Saturday.
29
.....

PHILIP MORRIS is so much better to smoke!



PHILIP MORRIS offers the smoker an extra benefit found in no other cigarette. For Philip Morris is the ONE, the ONLY cigarette recognized by leading nose and throat specialists as definitely less irritating.
Remember: Less irritation means more smoking enjoyment for you.
Yes! If every smoker knew what Philip Morris smokers know, they’d all change to PHILIP MORRIS.
s MP MORRIS
TRY A PACK
TODAY
30
• LETTERS
(Continued from Page 5) is a hazardous crossing even in the daytime. Whatever the cost of such a project, it would be trifling indeed compared to the lives of other students who might meet the same tragic fate in the future.
Jim Murphy, ’47,
2306 Colfax Street, Evanston, Illinois
Dear Editor:
I was wondering why there was no Michigan Club here at the University. There are city, state, and sectional clubs here, yet there is not a Michigan club. Was there ever one. Perhaps if it was put up to them, enough would be interested. I think that Sigler would ap-@ Prove.
A freshman Michigander Bill Dougherty
LIBERALISM BLASTED!
Dear Editor:
As per usual, the Scholastic has a column devoted to the liberal faction on the campus. Last year we had such columns as “The Humanist.” What a laugh. This year we have “The Scorner’s Seat.” Another laugh.
From the general context of this column it appears that Mr. Wilcox reads only such publications as the infamous Chicago Sun, PM (and Max Lerner) ’4~ and other liberal rags. Let me suggest that he read Our Sunday Visitor, Today’s World (now edited by Hamilton Fish, but formerly a Catholic group publication) and our own Ave Maria. Then let him read the Chicago Tribune and a Westbrook Pegler. He will find a great similarity in the policies.
Surely the editor of the Scholastic could afford to present both sides of the question for those of us who tire of Wilcox’s liberal utterings. I suggest that the Scholastic find a “right-wing” columnist or arrange to print editorials from the Ave Maria.
A few issues back Mr. Wilcox ridiculed the Chicago Tribune’s expose of Communist propaganda in textbooks now Being used in many of our schools. Now, anyone who followed the expose realized exactly what the Chicago Tribune was doing. Not Mr. Wilcox. He takes issue on the English question (making several slurring remarks) and not on Russia or Communism which was the main theme, but, many did get the point and something is being done to rid many of the schools of this “left-wing” filth. If the editor will kindly permit me, I’ll quote (for the benefit of Mr. Wilcox) from " Our Sunday Visitor, Nov. 2, Religious Section, page 9, column 3: “In the Tribune, Chicago, there appeared recently a
series of articles carrying irrefutable proof that Communist ideas have been deliberately implanted into children’s minds by textbooks glorifying the Soviet system, and criticizing the way of life we have known in the United States for a century and a half.”
Who is right, Mr. Wilcox or Our Sunday Visitor?
S. A. M.
(Name withheld)
Dear Editor:
Subject: Rebuttal to “Comes the Millennium”—Oct. 24 issue.
Not only did you fail to print my letter as it was written (which changed the complete meaning of the first para
Back Again! Pleated Bosom
Tuxedo Shirts
You’re the man
A Van Hensen 11 \ VAN TUX
|l B
’ I They’re still hard-to-get, these wonderful
They’re still hard-to-get, these wonderful
pleated front and french cuffs. Collar attached, in low-setting regular and new wide-spread models. Van Heusen master sewmanship in every detail. §5.95 at your Van Heusen dealer. Phillips-Jones Corp., New York 1, N. Y.
I Van Heusen dress shirts, for dress-up \ occasions on and off the campus! Snowy,
graph), but J. Wilcox did a beautiful job of twisting the context of the entire letter. I wish to congratulate him.
Being a member of two national unions, I get their union newspapers and notice a definite similarity between the writings of J. Wilcox and the writing of Reuther, Magey, Pressman, Murray, etc., men who have complete disregard for facts, but not on the sympathies, ignorance, and emotions of the “common man.”
What does J. Wilcox mean when he says that Pegler is a reactionary? What is J. Wilcox’s meaning of reactionary? He states that Pegler is an ardent supporter of laissez faireism, and that Pegler isn’t sued because of tolerance and

most likely to succeed,,.in
31
the editor’s cautious scissors. (Here, by the way, J. Wilcox admits that Pegler doesn’t print lies). Now bearing in mind the economist’s definition of laissez faire, I dare J. Wilcox to show PROOF of these contentions.
Refutation suggests a debate, and debates are based on contentions backed by facts. If J. Wilcox can’t abide by this first rule of debating, I advise him not to participate.
J. B. McCarthy South Bend, Ind.
CHECKLESS AND FUNLESS
Dear Editor:
Just prior to the Iowa game, I was checkless and cheerless, fundless and funless. Then a buddy saw the light and I found myself with a beautiful twenty buck bill to tide me over. Rosy visions immediately clouded my perspective as I dreamed of those extra plates of beans and sausages that I could now splurge the gang to in the caf.
Life really looked good, even though my St. Mary’s girl had jilted me for a South Bend Central water boy, my G.I. insurance had lapsed for the third time, my Rubin N.D. 20% discount card had vanished, and my pool card had wound up with 11 out of 12 (wrong, that is!)
Then came life’s crudest blow. I lost the 20 bucks. Not so much as a pack of free matches had I obtained from its vast source of purchasing power. Thus, once again I am checkless and cheerless, fundless and funless (yes, I know—tne Army and the Russians have a word for it!)
Strictly fer laffs I am conducting a campus-wide search fer same. Description of the missing link (between self and existence) : Color—Dirty and faded old green, black, white and blue combination—probably covered with germs; Shape—about 2%" by 6"—rectangular form; Other Marks of Identification— Didn’t have it long enough to see whose photo it carried—think it was Truman’s; Further Identification—Covered with the figures 2 and 0, usually together; Instruction—If returned within 30 days, the returnee will be liable to all the beans that he can eat right here on the campus. If returned after 30 days, sorry —no beans! Therefore, don’t wait! Act today or you may be too late.
Please address all money orders to: Leo C. Nolan 238 Badin Hall
THE "BED PUDDLE"
Dear Editor:
Of the numerous things that I’ve disagreed with in Scholastic pages during past years from editorial and other pens.
V.A. Plans to Expedite Subsistence Payments
Beginning next month, Veterans Administration registration offices will expedite payment of subsistence checks due to veterans enrolled in educational institutions under the G. I. Bill by conducting a survey. In a personal visit to each school, the regional Veterans Administration registration officer or contact representative will list by name and “C” number those veterans whose subsistence checks are past due. These names will be forwarded to the Regional Veterans Administration manager and steps will be taken to insure that the dispatch.
list is handled with greatest possible
No attempt is to be made to contact every veteran individually, but rather tc give veterans a chance to report to Veterans Administration authorities the non-receipt of subsistence checks.
The special procedure is an emergency measure established because the volume of subsistence checks in Illinois, as well as in other regions, has resulted in delay in payment in some cases. Veterans starting school this fall have already been advised by the Veterans Adminis tration to make plans for the delay by providing themselves with enough money to tide them over the first 45 to 60 days
Veterans at the University of Notre Dame who have not received their September and October checks by the tenth of November should report the delay tc the Office of Veterans Affairs, Room 143 Main Building.
never has anything struck me as being so positively puerile as did a letter in your present issue. I refer to the “Red Puddle” brainchild of one Dan Garvey.
The super-sanctimonious comment on the letter by the Editor is too pathetic even to go into. So I’ll proceed to deal ■with the genius himself.
None of us has any love for the Army as an institution but just what kind of a mentality could come up with such an idea, even “After many years of drudgery, suppression and depression,” is beyond comprehension.
It is just possible, Dan Garvey, you feel that the fact that you are an exinfantryman needs some publicity. Every dog has his day, so here is your chance, you unique person. And sport, you really are unique! It seems apparent that you are in need of some sort of a blow — so, if you would like it I know where I can find my Combat Infantry Badge. This you can have to wear about the campus, and thus receive the adulation from the rest of the student body that is your due.
Bill Roney 237 Alumni Hall
Former Irish Greats ? In Pro-Coach Ranks
By TOM HYNES
Recently we went into the back-stage of pro football and brought out the exIrish greats who are now playing in the oplay-fr-pay group. Today we will again go back-stage and take a glance at the ex-Notre Dameprs who are now coaching pro ball.
Back in 1921, when the National League was formed, Earl (Curly) Lam-beau was head coach of the Green Bay Packers. Today, twenty-six years later, he is still coaching the Packers. In his twenty-six-year reign he has compiled a sweet record of 204 wins, 81 losses and 22 ties. This includes his two victories _ and one defeat thus far this year. He is the granddaddy of pro coaches and the granddaddy of ex-Notre Dame men now coaching, with one exception. Charles (Gus) Dorais, a teammate of Rockne, beats “Curly” a few years for this title. Gus is also coaching the pros, but he did not start out with them. He gave up the coaching position at Detroit University to take over the head coaching job of the Detroit Lions.
The former Notre Darners who have won the League title are Chilly Walsh who led the Cleveland Rams (now the Los Angeles Rams) to the title in ’45. “Curly” Lambeau has taken the title six times in ’29, ’30, ’31, ’36, ’39 and ’44. He won the Eastern Division crown in ’38 but lost the playoff to New York.
Up to now we have talked about the head coaches but we believe a little
space should go to one Heartly (Hunk) . Anderson, line coach of the Chicago' Bears. Hunk was line coach under
Rockne and replaced him when Rockne died. The job he has done with the Bears stands out.
Jim Crowley stepped down from the commissioner of the All-American Conference to re-enter the coaching profession taking the reins of the Chicago Rockets. This year Sleepy Jim is having trouble winning his first game.
Other former Irish who are coaching in pro ball are: National League, Joe Bach with the Lions, Art Bergman, Washington Redskins, Richard Smith, New York Giants, and George Trafton with the Los Angeles Rams. The New All-American League has Clem Crowe (war-time basketball coach here) with Buffalo along with Charles Jaskwich and Lou Zontini, player coach. Helping Paul Brown at Cleveland we find Creighton Miller while Ed (Slip) Madigan is in the’ Dons camp, and Maurice Smith is with the San Francisco Forty Niners.
32
| MAN
About the Campus
An active man in an active organization is Bill Braun of the Cleveland Club and Badin Hall. Bill is the president of the Forest City club, and along with Dennis O’Neill and Bob Stock and a few other hearty souls spearheads the drive on campus to put Cleveland boys out in front.
Bill is 25, and a C.B. vet. He served with the 50th Battalion at Midway and Wake, but his mid-Pacific duty does not deter him from thumping for Ike Eisen-howei’ for President come ’48.
A
Braun’s an architectural design major, and is counting on getting into contracting work on graduation next June.
“Can’t see any sense of planning on graduate work,” drawls Bill. “My one objective right now is to get my degree.”
Bill really pounds the stump for his home city; thinks Cleveland has the best alumni organization in the country, and backs his claim up with the facts of the scholarship fund and prize set up by the grads from the Ohio metropolis. Seems by the terms of this scholarship, backed by a $10,000 fund, any Cleveland student, in dire financial straits, can negotiate a loan from his fellow club members that will see him through. Tops he can get is three hundred bucks.
The Cleveland prize is a $50 package to the outstanding Cleveland club member on campus, hence they’re all in a ^sprint to see who can generate the most constructive activity. '
For six months Bill pounded on the drums in the V-12 marching band here at N.D. Now he’s pounding his head In the Engineering College. Says he hasn’t got time for any more music making. Hasn’t got time for that old job on the Scholastic, either. He used to do a weekly column, but shelved that too when the books started to weigh heavily. In fact he’s been so busy that he’s had to retire as vice-president of the Architecture Club. But he manages to fill the bill as delegate to the NS A and mail carrier in Badin Hall. If he keeps this stuff up, he’s liable to get that fifty buck prize himself.
Topsy-Turvy Town
(Continued from Page 9)
start at full and John Panelli may see see some action. Stories circulating early Bn the week had Lu jack running from full. Tomorrow will tell, but it is doubt
ful, with the forthcoming Southern Cal hurdle braced in the middle of the Irish march, that Coach Leahy will use Johnny too much from that battering spot.
The biggest crowd of the season, a sellout from the minute the tickets left the printing office, will watch for the punt-return potentialities of Coy McGee, the break-away threats of Lank Smith, the pass gobbling of Bill Wightkin, and the inspired line play of such new headliners this fall as Johnny Frampton, Doug Waybright and Bob Lally.
Meanwhile, preparations are underway for- the victory dance that tops the day off tomorrow evening at the Drill Hall. Blue Circle representatives have busied themselves arranging dates for lonely cadets with St. Mary’s finest. Local taverns and clubs expect a bonanza, in fact are already enjoying the pregame flow of silver into their alcoholic coffers.
The whole town’s jumpin’. Tonight’s rally sends the team off with the heartiest good wishes of every member of the student body. The Army has come to town, and for the Irish, the long-awaited hour draws near.
Whistle-time is 1:30 P. M. Don’t ba late.
says Dentyne Chewing Gum.**
“My eyesight may be weak, but 1 can always see Dentyne. It stands right out for flavor. Yes, sir, Dentyne Chewing Gum’s in a class by itself for refreshing, long-lasting flavor. And it sure helps keep teeth white, too!”
Dentyne Gum—Made Only by Adams
'Operation Cleveland'
(Continued from Page 16)
since few of the Irish were in for more than 20 minutes, the trippers were not concerned with the heat. The final 27-0 on the scoreboard and the departing “Beat Army” chant climaxed the daylight side of the trip.
From there on the fun really began. Darkness found N.D. men hitting every corner of the city in the quest for postgame celebration. The Victory Dance at the Carter welcomed most of the trippers, but night clubs, theaters, and movie houses were heavily patronized, too. Alumni and student parties all over town disturbed neighbors for miles around ’till early Sunday morning. A hilarious time was had by all.
Three hundred students returned Saturday night on the N.D. Special, but the rest continued the commotion Sunday night before stumbling aboard the NYC at 1:30 Monday morning, along with a bedraggled Clashmore Mike and several equally bedraggled cheer leaders. Sleep came easy for most, except those unlucky enough to have one of the non-tilt chairs. A non-stop trip and a jerky arrival at 5:45 a. m. brought the 1947 student trip to an uncomfortable end.
33
READINGS BY SHAPIRO
Karl Shapiro. prominent poet, Pulitzer prizewinner, author of four books (PERSON. PLACE AND THING. V-LETTER. ESSAY ON RIME and TRIAL OF A POET), and al present attached to the Library of Congress, will give a series of readings from his own work in the auditorium of the Law Building at 4:15 Friday, November 14.
Campus Clubs
(Continued from Page 6) by-laws were also ratified at this meeting and all students who reside within a 35-mile radius of Milwaukee, either North, West or South, are eligible for membership. In the cases of students who reside within a radius larger than 35 miles, and who wish a membership, their entrance will be voted upon with little chances of refusal.
Plans are being made for a stag party to be held in a few weeks. During the Christmas vacation a formal dinner dance will be held and also a very informal barn dance.
In order for these functions and the activities of this club to be successful, active interest by everyone is needed. On the campus now are approximately 12 eligible students, so at our next meeting how about seeing all of you there? The date, time and place of our next meeting will be posted on all bulletin boards so please be on the lookout for it.
College Parade
(Continued from Page 27)
Union added 800 new unions and more than 100,000 new members last year.”
To add insult to injury, the Exponent reports that the ratio of men to women in that institution stands now at 58.1 to 1. The “routine for living” for males is,
“Early to bed Early to rise Your gal goes out , With other guys.”
FASHION NOTE
The Pratt Institute’s Prattler predicts that the “new monogrammed benzedrine containers will be a ‘must’ with every B. M. O. C. who intends to maintain a 2.0 average.” The Prattler goes on to state that these containers can be obtained at “the better Fifth Avenue stores” and hold “approximately a week’s supply of tablets (less if you’re going steady).”
The Scorner's Seat
(Continued from Page 6) wobbly footsteps of other composers of modern so-called music. The resulting cacaphony, dissonance, whatever it may have been, was most certainly not music in any recognizable form. Undoubtedly I know nothing about music. I think, however, that I can recognize it. Bartok wasn’t it. Modern music and Mr. Bartok, you may go to the blackboard and write five thousand times, “Mr. Beethoven, any resemblance we may have to you is purely coincidental.”
"THE OWL IS GOD ..."
The most disturbing thing about the investigation of the film industry was the apparent assumption that anyone who lampoons a member of Congress is per se a Communist. In the case of certain members of Congress, such as the Honorable (sic) John Rankin, of Mississippi, this attitude is quite conceivable and understandable, for if open criticism of such Congressional bric-a-brac is banned, demagogues of Mr. Rankin’s stamp will have a better chance of feeding their constituency on some more fluff. It is paradoxical that some of the members of Congress who are howling so loudly for censorship now, and of the newspapers who are supporting them, are the very Congressmen and the very newspapers who raved and ranted during the war that our civil liberties were being taken away by the government. It all depends, perhaps, upon whose toes one treads.
If the investigators in Washington had their way, nobody would be able to portray a villain in a book, a movie, or a radio show without consulting Mr. Thomas and his keepers of the public politics as to whether or not he were a proper type of villain. If you write a story and a Congressman or a businessman in it is a villain, you are a Communist and you had better go right straight back to Russia. What kind of juvenile hogwash do they call that?
I am no Communist. The Communists would remove all the fundamental rights upon which this country rests, including the First Amendment to the Constitution. But nevertheless that very amendment guarantees to every man the right to speak openly and without fear of coercion. I believe in that amendment, and I do not like the idea of politicians and publicity hounds appropriating the right to censor public media of expression, whether they be Communists, Democrats, Republicans, or the D. A. R.
THERE'S A PAPER SHORTAGE .. .
Yes, there is. And considering that unfortunate circumstance, I am unable
to understand why newspapers insist upon filling a large portion of their Sun-\t» day editions with claptrap about what Mrs. Hootsnoot is doing and what they are wearing in Miami this fall. Most people, including most women, do. not care whether Mrs. Hootsnoot lives, dies, or gives birth to a litter of kittens. As to what they are wearing in Miami this fall, it is probably too expensive foi* what there is of it.
OH JOY. OH GLADNESS . . .
For the first time in my life I have a seat on the 50-yard line, for tomorrow’s game. Last year’s army game? You should do such things to my blood pressure.
ROOM FOR RENT
Very nice double room with semiprivate bath. New home, within walk- ' ing distance of Notre Dam®, Oil heated. Hot water, shower, phone.
507 Ostemo Place or call 3-2644
A career in life insurance selling can be both profitable and satisfying . . . with your income limited only by your own efforts. Many of our representatives earn $4,000 to $9,000 a year, and more! We invite you to send for our scientific Aptitude Test, which measures your qualifications for this interesting work.
If you qualify, you may become eligible for our 3-year on-the-job training course, with a 2-year compensation plan which will not make you dependent upon commissions. After that, the Mutual Lifetime Plan offers liberal commissions, and substantial retirement income at 65. Write today to Room 1104.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY of NEW YORK
3* Nassau Street S&r Alexander E. Patterson New York 5; N. Y.	President
34
ON THE TELEPHONE, TOO!
This is broadcasting as you see it.
What you do not see are the thousands of miles of telephone wire an<f cable that link broadcasting stations from coast to coast... that make national networks possible.
The administration of these vast broadcasting links requires the varied skills of college-trained men.
And this is but one of the many interesting phases of the telephone business. There’s opportunity and adventure in telephony.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM