Vol. XXIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, April 26, 1890.	No. 33
Temptations.
The balmy woodlands smile with foliage rare, Besprinkled with the gems of summer showers;
A little boy is gathering forest flowers:
His heart leaps high, as with the tenderest care
He plucks the violets, humble yet so fair.
Thus quickly pass the pleasant May-day hours Till eve draws nigh, and, lost ’mid maple bowers, He would find home—but who will tell him where?
We mortals, too, are, like that little child, Misled by Pleasure’s momentary charm;
Yea, oft we are confronted by our doom, Before we see that we have been beguiled.
’Tis then too late to hear the heart’s alarm, We cannot turn when we are at the tomb.
Frederic Emil Neef, ’92.
General Robert E. Lee
BY J. L. HEPBURN {Law ’91).
In speaking of our great generals we should not always select the successful for exclusive approbation, but judge them solely by their deeds and their conduct in battle, whether defeated or victorious. And now, after twenty-five years have passed away and the sectional strife and bitterness of the late unpleasantness are slowly giving way to an era of good feeling; while the two sections of the country, North and South, are clasping hands across the yawning chasm of hate and rancor, it is meet that we should do justice to the greatest General of our late war—Robert E. Lee.
Henry Lee, the soldier of the Revolution, Washington’s favorite cavalry officer—better known as “Light horse Harry”—was the father of the subject of this sketch.	.	'
Robert Edward Lee was born in iSo/.atStrat-ford, Westmoreland County, Virginia. At the
age of eighteen he entered the Military Academy at West Point as a cadet, and graduated in 1829 at the head of his class, with the usual rank of second lieutenant, and was assigned to the engineer corps. In 1836 he was promoted first lieutenant, and in 1838 captain. During the Mexican war he was particularly noted for his coolness and gallantry, and is frequently mentioned in the official reports of General Scott, “as distinguished for felicitous execution as for science and daring.” At the end of the war he had attained the rank of colonel. He was appointed, in 1852, Superintendent of the Military Academy at West Point. In 1859 he was again brought prominently before the country by being in command of the regular troops sent from Washington to suppress the insurrection of John Brown at Harper’s Ferry.
Such was the life of Lee up to the commencement of the civil war. The training he had received in the numerous campaigns in Mexico and in the military operations on the frontier stood him in good stead for the more important part he was to play hereafter in the great drama of the Rebellion. At the outbreak of the war, Lee was in Texas. Returning to Virginia, he immediately sent in his resignation to Gen. Scott, then Commander-in-Chief of the United States Army. It undoubtedly cost him a severe struggle to sever his connection with the army, for he stated in his letter of resignation that he would have resigned before “but for the struggle it has cost me to separate myself from a service to which I have devoted the best years of my life and all the ability I possessed. Save in defense of my native State, I desire never again to draw my sword.” This plainly shows the true feeling he had in this grave crisis.
He had to meet the question whether he should take part against his native State or not,
5i8	tHE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
and he decides it in these words: "With all my devotion to the Union and the feeling of loyalty and duty of an American citizen, I have not been able to make up my mind to raise my hand against my relatives, my children and my home.” So he reluctantly bade adieu to the nation he had served so well, and went to battle for his native State and for the principle which he thought was right; and we now find him entering upon a career which has made his name so famous in the annals of civilized warfare.
On the 23d of April, 1861, Lee was appointed by the Governor of Virginia Major-General of the State Militia; and when the Government of the Southern Confederacy was firmly established at Richmond he received the rank of Brigadier-General of the Confederate Army. After thebattle of Seven Pines he was appointed to the chief command. On the 27th of June, 1862, he fought and won the desperate battle of Cold Harbor, forcing General McClellan to retire to James River. At the battle of Manasses, or second Bull Run, on the 30th of August, he again defeated the Union forces; and although beaten at Antietam, after a bloody battle, he took sweet revenge by vanquishing General Burnside at Fredericksburgh, and again in May repulsing General Hooker with immense loss in the famous battle of Chancellorville. It was here that brave and noble soldier “Stonewall” Jackson was mortally wounded. It proved a terrible loss to the Confederate Army, as Jackson was Lee’s greatest reliance. It is evident he felt this calamity deeply; for when he heard of Jackson’s disaster, he wrote to him the following touching words: “ Could I have directed events, I should have chosen, for the good of the country, to have been disabled in your stead.”
After the battle of Chancellorville Lee decided to act on the offensive, and carry the war into the Northern States. After two or three minor battles he advanced as far as Gettysburg, Penn., when he found himself confronted by a large force under General Meade. Both sides made extraordinary preparation for the battle, as they knew it would be the deciding point of the war. For three days the conflict raged with unabated fury, but at last Lee was compelled to retire. It was here that Hancock cov-• . ered himself with glory, and Pickett Brigade • .made their famous charge. The defeat of Lee . was undoubtedly the heaviest blow yet suffered by the Confederate Army. It was the beginning of the erid; for Grant, with an immjensely superior force, now began to push Lee. towards . Richmond. He encountered Lee’s army in the . Wilderness, and here began a series of battles
unparalled during the war in dogged hard fighting and loss of life. Grant’s overwhelming force at last prevailed, and Lee stood at bay within the fortifications of the city of Richmond. Here he fought as no man fought before. Grant made charge after charge only to be repulsed with terrible slaughter; yet the losses were always made up by reinforcements which were continually pouring in from the North. At last, overpowered by numbers and superior resources, Lee was compelled to evacuate his capital. Grant followed him, and at Appomatox Courthouse succeeded in stopping his retreat and forcing him to surrender. He surrendered his enfeebled, half-starved army of 10,000 men to Grant’s splendidly equipped and magnificent army of 150,000 men. He received honorable terms, being paroled with his army. Thus ended the greatest war of modern times.
The war being over, Lee withdrew at once from public gaze, and retired to his home a private citizen. He accepted the result, not vindictively, or in sullen vexation of spirit, but frankly, and with a firm conviction that it was his duty. He was soon called forth, however, to become President of Washington College at Lexington. He continued to discharge the duties of his office until his death, which occurred on October 12, 1870. Thus passed before the eyes of the world, and into the shadow of the tomb, the lofty figure which will live forever in the memories of the Southern people, as in every heart.
General Lee was unquestionably the central figure of the war; his sagacious counsels, his splendid power of execution, his unerring judgment, and the intuitive genius for war made him, in his sphere, the first of living leaders, and ranked him with the greatest who have lived in his time. He was the exponent of the Southern power of command.
In comparing him with Napoleon we find that Napoleon was an imperial genius, and no more; but Lee was not only a mighty leader, but an humble and faithful child of God as well. Civil honors, were it the highest in the gift of the country, could not add one cubit to the stature of his glory. And the time is not far distant when he will take his rightful place alongside of Washington and Grant as one of the three greatest heroes of their country.

A.Polish prince was accustomed to carry the * picture of his father always in his bosom; and on any particular occasion he would take it out, 1 and, looking earnestly upon it, say: “Let me do nothing unbecoming so excellent a father.” .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
5r9
Thomas Jefferson.
BY JAMES R. FITZGIBBON, ’9I.
In the galaxy of great names that shine above the horizon of oiir country, there are some stars whose light never grows dim, whose names we are never tired of hearing. It is my intention in this article to dwell briefly on the career of one of our truly great men—a man whose name is familiar to every true American; a man whose life history is contemporary with the history of our States during their darkest hour; of a character which grows brighter as years flow onward, more noble as history’s effulgent rays beam upon it—Thomas Jefferson.
Born in a city now chiefly famous for being his birthplace; reared in the atmosphere of Christian charity and benevolence, the stories of his youthful days are but tales of joy and happiness. When a boy he drank deep of the fountain of culture and erudition, and arose with every energy refreshed and invigorated by the draught. He was an idealist without an idealist’s faults. He never ranged beyond the realms of the possible, and what his imagination reared with fairy ease in youth’s happy period, his brain in afterlife built with the toil of sleepless nights and anxious days.
At the early age of twenty-five years we find him one of the leading figures in the House of Burgesses, Virginia. Here it was that in one day he abolished the whole system of entail, and by this movement humbled aristocracy and built up the principle of democratic simplicity-that has immortalized his'name; here it was that he acquired that indomitable will that made him a leader instead of a follower, a commander rather than a private.
When he reached the age of thirty, the clouds that had gathered on America’s former peaceful sky were blackening as the smoke of tyranny and oppression ascended upwards. Americans saw the conflict approaching, saw war with all its horrors being thrust upon them, and with the war-cry of their forefathers—“ God defend the right! ”—upon their lips prepared for the struggle.
Amid circumstances such as these, great characters are moulded. It is in the time of peril that character shows itself, and with one stroke determines the will of the man. It is then that he raises himself in the minds of his fellowmen, or lowers himself to unenviable depths of obscurity. When the Revolutionary war was forced upon our colonists—a war that
was destined to make the greatest Republic the world has ever seen—when men had to choose between being servile dependents of another country, or freeing their own if possible, that was a time to try men. It was a time when there was no neutral ground for men of character; it was a time when men gifted by Heaven with mighty will-power and noble ambition placed their fortunes and their lives at the disposal of the colonists. First among that noble band, which future ages shall revere as the embodiment of manly character, stands the author of the Declaration of Independence, our immortal Jefferson.	,
While a member of the Continental Congress, he was intrusted with the task of writing the Declaration of Independence. The framing of this document was no ordinary work; it was a work that no ordinary mind could conceive; it was a work that involved in it the most vital interests of a noble, patriotic people. It was a work that would bring this people under the notice of the greater powers of Europe. How well Jefferson has framed its several articles is evidenced by the high regard in which it is held by all men of to-day. It remains unscathed by the criticisms of a century—remains as a perpetual monument to Jefferson’s greatness. Following the ratification of the Declaration of Independence came America’s war. After eight years of trials and hardships; after eight years of suffering, borne with heroic fortitude, America’s independence was secured. Out of that stormy period, arrayed in youthful beauty, fair Columbia arose. With honor and justice as her bodyguard, she stands to-day as she arose then, the fairest flower of the world’s creation.
When peace was finally secured, when the soldier returned to his oft-despoiled home to live the remainder of his life in the enjoyment of dearly-purchased liberty, the work- of Jefferson was just beginning. It is the duty of the statesman to mould into a substantial body the creation of the soldier. To bring order out of chaos, to firmly establish principles that had hitherto existed only in the mind, became the work of Jefferson. His days and nights were given to the dearest object of his heart—the permanent safety of those nobly-founded states. And as a reward for his labors the people conferred upon him the highest honor in their power —they made him their chief magistrate.
His life as President needs no eulogy at my hands. The masterly manner in which he piloted the ship of state through the troubled waters, so fraught with perils during the strained relations of his government with France, alone suf
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
fices to place him, where impartial history has placed him, as the greatest of our Presidents.
After serving two terms as President he re-t-ired, like another Cincinnatus, to his home at Monticello, Va.; but his interest in public affairs had become a part of his nature and could not suddenly cease. He was the power behind the throne throughout the administration of Madison and his successors even until the time of his death. But there is a power that greatness cannot stop; there is an unseen hand that knocks alike at the “palace and garden gate,” and summons man to meet his Creator. None can hope to stay the execution or escape death. But.seldom has the scythe of Father Time chosen two such illustrious victims as on July 4, 1826. The morning sun-awoke a sorrowful world. The joy shed broadcast by the golden King of Day ill-suited the mournful gloom that pervaded America’s shores. For once our glorious Fourth, made still more glorious by its being the fiftieth anniversary of independence, was spent in sorrow, for Thomas Jefferson was dying, for John Adams was dying. Separated by a broad strip of territory, the two men who did so much for the cause of independence yielded up their lives on the same memorable day. Jefferson was the first to be called; Adams died with the words “Thomas Jefferson still survives” struggling from his lips the moment before they became silent forever.
Prophetic words were thine, O Adams! Thomas Jefferson does live; lives in the hearts of the men for whom he did so much. Still the memory of Jefferson is held sacred by America’s sons and daughters; and as long as America remainsanation; as long as the flag of the Union shall wave its starry folds over the Republic of the West; as long as we shall prove ourselves worthy of our glorious destiny as being the terror of the oppressor and the hope of the oppressed, so long shall the name of Thomas Jefferson be uttered amongst us with reverent lips; so long shall his spirit animate every patriotic effort; ennoble still further every achievement for the weal of humanity, inform and vivify every heart that beats for the glory of God and the progress of man.
An official stenographer of the German Imperial Parliament has calculated the exact rapidity of speech of some of the most celebrated German statesmen. Rickert, a leader of the free trade Independents, he says, talks in a minute 153 words; Count Herbert Bismarck, 144; Singer, the.Socialist, 121; Bamberger, the best known bimetallist among the Independents, 129;
Stumm,. the coal baron, 148.
Books We Have Bead.
VI.
“Dolph Heiliger.”
During the time of the English Governor Cronburg, there dwelt in Manhattan a widow known as Dame Heiliger. As her husband had left her little money, she lived on the profits of a small store and on the sympathies of her neighbors. Dolph, her only son, was always ready for mischief. Peter de Groodt, her best friend, predicted that the boy would some day end on the scaffold. This same good man secured him a position, as apprentice, to Doctor Karl Lodewick Knipperhausen, whose'pupil had lately died of consumption — a circumstance which recommended the place greatly to Peter de Groodt. Dolph learned his new profession but slowly, and he played tricks with the urchins about the street whenever the Doctor went to his newly-bought farm. This very farm became a great annoyance to the Doctor. One morning his tenant came to him and said: “I will not stay any longer in your place, for I am troubled every night with spooks and hobgoblins.” The Doctor became much frightened, and he tried his best to find a new tenant. When he gave up his unsuccessful search in despair, Dolph agreed to go to the haunted house and sleep in it during the night. At dusk Dolph started for the dwelling accompanied by Doctor Knipperhausen and Peter de Groodt. As they entered the house, a swallow’s nest falling down the chimney caused the last two to run back to Manhattan. Dolph, who had seen the reason of their terror, bolted every door and window and then lay down on a mattress in the corner of a large room. Suddenly he was startled by the clattering of footsteps upon the stairs. The noise came nearer, passed by him and finally was lost in the distance. The second night he was aroused by the same noise, but this time he saw an aged man, clad in Flemish fashion sitting on a chair near his bed. Soon he rose and beckoned Dolph to follow. Dolph, however, was so much terrified that he dared not stir as long as the sound of the ghost’s footsteps could be heard. On the third night he was still awake when the old man entered and motioned him to come. Dolph jumped from his couch, lit a taper and walked behind the ghost, who disappeared in a well. Dolph returned to the house, fell fast asleep and dreamed of a sea-captain of dark complexion, blind in one eye and small of stature.-At sunrise, as he was passing a wharf on his way to Doctor Knipperhausen’s, he saw the captain
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
521
of his dream on a ship ready to sail. As soon as the seaman caught sight of Dolph; he told him to step aboard. The latter obeyed and the sloop set sail.
On the second day of his voyage Dolph was washed overboard: but being a clever swimmer, he reached the bank. He roamed through the woods, until he struck a party of hunters, whose head was Mynheer Antony Vander Heiden, a rich Dutch farmer of Albany. Herr Antony, as they commonly called him, was a jovial fellow, and took a liking to Dolph on account of his athletic abilities. He took him to his house and acquainted him with his only child, Mary Vander Heiden. Dolph became attached to the maiden at once, and therefore, he concluded, as he went to bed, to leave Albany the next day.
The sun woke him late in the morning when, to his great amazement, the picture of the haunted houseman looked down upon him. Dolph rubbed his eyes because he believed himself dreaming again. But he had made no mis-o o
take; the exact counterfeit of his nightly visitor stared him in the face. He dressed quickly and went to meet his host in order to inquire-about the mysterious picture. “That is a portrait of Killian Vander Spiegel, a rich ancestor of mine by my mother’s side,” said Herr Antony. “Before he died he buried all his money in a place unknown to us.” Dolph remained for some time buried in thought. He remembered that his mother’s family name was Vander Spiegel, and he persuaded himself that his miserly ancestor had hidden his gold in the well of the haunted house. To the great dismay of Herr Antony and his lovely daughter, Dolph returned to Manhattan. He made a short visit to his mother and then went to the haunted house. With fishline and hook he angled about in the well, till after many hours of patient labor, he brought up a silver bowl filled to the top with gold pieces of a strange coinage. For several days he continued to bring up vessels of precious metal, so that he became a rich man in a little while. He married Mary -Vander Heiden and brought his mother to Albany to live with him. Peter de Groodt congratulated her often upon her son turning out so great a man, whilst the people of Manhattan now considered his boyish pranks as splendid jokes.
The foregoing storyis a brief resume of Washington Irving’s “Dolph Heiliger and the Storm-Ship,” in which the author seeks to show how much Dolph was despised when poor, and how much honor was paid him when rich. Those who had ridiculed him most were afterwards eager to praise him for anything he did. Wash
ington Irving writes in a simple style and presents his characters true to the time in which they existed. If he had not tried to imitate Addison, but had endeavored to be more original, his name would be placed first on the list of American authors.
A. Alrichs, ’93.
Electrical Notes.
—During the past two months many changes and improvements have been made on the Edison incandescent light circuits at Notre Dame. Over 400 of the old style lamps were replaced by new and improved ones. Among the additions is a concealed circle of Edison lamps within and near the top of the dome. The cir- . cle is 124 feet in circumference, and the lamps will illuminate the heroic figures in Gregori’s recently finished allegorical painting. This masterpiece is painted upon the ceiling of the dome, which is 140 feet in clear height from the first floor of the rotunda. On account of the “widespread prevalence” of the incandescent lamps throughout the University buildings 27,000 feet, over five miles, of copper wire has been required, and is now in place.
—After eight years of constant service and praiseworthy efficiency, the Van Depoele electric arc lights have been discarded at Notre Dame. They have been superseded by the well-known, highly perfected, self-regulating dynamo; and the steady, brilliant, 2000 candle-power lamps of the Thomson-Houston system. This company’s arc light apparatus, invented and perfected by Professors Thomson and Houston, has often been endorsed by scientific and commercial authorities in Europe and America as “the best in existence.” The truth of this assertion is indicated by the company’s prosperity. More than 500 local companies use this system, and over 75,000 lamps have been sold. At the general factory in Lynn, Mass., 2500 men are \ employed, and the weekly pay roll amounts to 527,000. The annual business of the company exceeds Sio,000.000, and the net earnings last year were above S2.000.000.
—The Electrical World of the 5th inst. says that the first German Catholic church to be lighted electrically is the Strassburg Cathedral. Arc lights have been used outside with grand effect and inside with incandescent lamps. It was feared that the electric light would spoil the dim religious aspect, but the interior, as a whole, is said to be highly satisfactory.
—The committee appointed by the Senate of the New York Legislature to investigate the methods of electrical distribution for lighting and power purposes issued its first report on the 27th ult. The sessions were held in New York city, and the committee called as witnesses many of the most prominent electricians in the United States, and also solicited the written opinions

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of eminent English electricians. “It appears,”’ says the report, “that sixteen persons have been • killed in the city of New York during the pas.
three years from electrical currents, most of them being employees of electric lighting companies. The cause for most of these deaths appears to have been carelessness on the part of the electric companies in using poorly insulated or badly arranged conductors and in neglecting other precautions required for safety.” “The remedy for these evils (danger to human life), in the opinion of your committee, lies in the speedy burial of all electric light and power conductors in New York city and in all other cities having a population of 125,000 or more, and the enforcement in all cities and towns where central station electric lighting is carried on of such rules and regulations as shall compel the companies properly to construct and maintain their plants and adopt such precautions as are required to insure safety to the public.” “The testimony, including that of the representatives of the New York Board of Fire Underwriters, shows that the fire risk in connection with electric lighting is no greater than in the use of gas, if as great.” Unlike some legislators and newspaper editors who have attempted to deal with electrical matters, this committee did not find it advisable to recommend any arbitrary or impracticable laws. The report says: “Considering the testimony taken, we do not think it possible for the Legislature to form satisfactory rules and regulations for application to an industry - which is not only highly technical, but constantly developing and presenting new conditions, rendering rules proper this year possibly obsolete next year.”	”
—The result of the telegrapher’s fast sending tournament, held recently in New York city, was a surprise to all interested. It was expected that the best record in the first class would, as heretofore, be made by a man from the broker’s or the Associated Press offices; but the first prize was awarded to a railroad operator, Mr. B. R. Pollock—“a countryman who had come over from Connecticut without any flourish of trumpets,” and made the remarkable speed of fifty-two words a minute. Many of the competitors and spectators insisted that Mr. Pollock’s sending was imperfect and unreadable, but the judges decided otherwise. Messrs. Kihm, Waugh, Roloson and Gibson, former champions, were among the objectors, and will arrange for another contest.
—The reports of occasional quick work accomplished by the telegraph are very misleading to people who use it but seldom. They are led to expect much better service than is usually performed for them. The possibilities in telegraphing are far ahead of the ordinary achievements. When Mr. Gould desires to exhibit to a distinguished visitor the efficiency of the Western Union cable system he can step into the Wall street office, send a message to a Lon
don address and receive an answer within three to five minutes. Let the visitor enter the same office alone and unknown and send a message to a similar address, and he will wait three to five hours or more for an answer. The result of the Cambridge-Oxford boat race at Mortlake, England, on March 26, was told at the American end of the cable one minute and thirty seconds after the finish. Not long since the writer had occasion to send an urgent message from Cambridge to a prominent New-York address, and eighteen hours elapsed before the answer was received. The quickest and best work in telegraphing is done in the stock-jobbing, sporting and sensational news service. President Green, of the Western Union company, has testified that the receipts of the New York office of the Western Union included $700,000 annually from pool rooms and sporting places. Through wires and the most rapid and careful operators are assigned to this work. The usual practice in telegraph offices has been well stated by an old and well-informed operator, Mr.F.A. Stumm: “From the receipt to the end of the delivery, managers, agents, operators and messengers fairly tumble over each other to ‘rush’ the quotation or the broker’s message, while in contrast to this, and to bring it out fairly, I might say they vie with each other in going to sleep over any other commercial or social business.”
o:

it


ephone company was made public a few weeks ago. The total net earnings for the year 1889 were equal to 26.7 per cent, of the capital stock. At the end of the year the company had 757

exchanges, 471 branch offices, 193,213 miles of S
wire, 185,003 subscribers and 444,861 instruments in the hands of licensees. The average number of calls per day per subscriber is 6.7; varying, it is said, from 2 to 15 in different exchanges, while the average cost per call varies from 2 to 13 cents.
—Notwithstanding the many and vigorous

phatically object to such an ignoble use of their pet force, it seems certain that the New York electrical execution law will be put into effect next week. No one is more fully aware of the certain and instantaneous life-destroying power of electricity than the makers and handlers of electrical apparatus; but they deplore the progress of -this enactment which is liable to cause exaggerated and needless alarm. The electrician who instructed and assisted the law makers has been thoroughly scored by the electrical press, and by the fraternity at large he is looked upon as a Tipperary man looks upon an “ informer.” It is said that the Auburn prison officials have decided to admit representatives of the press associations as witnesses, and it will be interesting to observe how the “quid nuncs” will evade or defy the law which provides that no details of the execution shall be published.
M. O’Dea,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Exchanges.
—The Scholastic bows its best acknowledgments to the Spectator.
—The Cadet is the neat and tasteful representative of St. John’s College, Denver.
—The Niagara Index intimates in a late number that the Index may soon be transformed into the Niagara University Magazine.
—An able treatise on “Law in Civilization,” in the current number of the College World, atones, in part, for the nudity of its literary columns.	- _
—The Journal of Heidelberg University for April contains the text of “An Amendment Changing the Name and Enlarging the Purposes” of that Institution.
—A good thing in the latest number of the bright little 5Z Viatetirs College Journal is a thoughtful contribution on “The Reconstruction of the Southern States.”
—We notice a decided improvement in the latest number of The Philosophian Review, over the issues recently preceding it, particularly in the quantity and quality of its literary matter.
—The weekly edition of Browne's Phonographic Monthly is one of the most valued of our exchanges. It is the only weekly shorthand publication in America, and is full of bright and vigorous articles on matters pertaining to the phonographic art.
—A college paper has a distinctive sphere in which politics, national or local, should have no place. When such a publication becomes a partisan of any political measure it ceases to be representative of the students of the college from which it is issued; for it can hardly be supposed that college students are a unit in political belief. A college paper has no more right to dabble in politics than has a secular institution to discriminate in matters of religion. We have in mind, particulary, recent editorial utterances of the College Transcript and the Hesperian, and we would suggest that the accomplished editors of those journals would do well to find other vents than the college press for their ebullition of political wisdom. To mutilate a trite quotation, the college man would do well to give all men his ear and few his voice until he has put off his academic gown to don the toga of active citizenship.
—The Baker University Index, which, by the way, is one of the best of our Western exchanges, has an able editorial on the limitations to editorial writing in the college press. The writer justly observes:
“ In the first place, the college paper is a class paper having a peculiar constituency to serve. This is just as true of the college paper as it is of the Scientific American or the Homiletic Review. It must confine itself to its sphere. It cannot be a newspaper, for the newspaper field is fully and ably occupied. Nor may it fashion itself after the monthly magazine, whose sources are
boundless and whose field is the universe. And, since the paper is hedged in by these limitations, the editorial is likewise circumscribed. The editor has large discretionary power, it is true, but he makes a serious mistake, if he uses it to freely.”
The article is worth careful reading, and we would especially commend it to those college editors whose throbbing brains evolve the luminous bolts of thought that coruscate in the editorial columns of college papers.
College Gossip.
—A young teacher of an intermediate school wished to communicate with a teacher at one of the grammar schools about a mile away recently. For this purpose she chose one of her bright scholars and dispatched him with a note directed to the young lady. When the messenger arrived at his destination the teacher happened to be illustrating some lesson to her pupils at the blackboard. She therefore sent word to the boy to take a chair. When at leisure she summoned the boy, who was supposed to be seated in the corridor, but he had disappeared. The young lady was nonplussed; but the mystery was solved when, some time later, the boy returned, bearing with him the chair which had been given him to sit upon. He had accepted the invitation to “take a chair,” and had carted it upon his shoulders to the school he came from. The teacher after she had recovered from the shock of seeing him drag the strange chair up to her and deposit it by her side with a conscious air of duty well performed had sent him back with it. He was pretty well tired, out when he returned, and his only explanation was a sob, and “you told me to take it.”—Providence Journal.
Keep Pegging Away.
This world is a world full of pitfalls and snares, Of Lilliput pleasures and Gulliver cares;	.
With people more ready to curse than to bless,. With little to cheer you and much to depress; But the best thing to do is—believe me, I pray— Face your duty, be brave, and keeping pegging away. The pitiful creatures of envy, indeed, Will jeer or will carp if you fail or succeed, There are those without number who lack not the will To give you a kick once you’re started down hill. Don’t let them disturb you; don’t mind what they say; Turn your eyes to the light and keeping pegging away.
Devotion to duty a lever will prove Wherewith you can myriads of obstacles move;
You may find that life’s gold overmatches the dross In striking your balance of profit and loss. Be steadfast and patient, be hopeful and gay; To business attend and keep pegging away.
With the honey of life must some wormwood be mixed, As the daintiest rose by a thorn is transfixed;
But the honey’s more sweet from the leaven of gall, And the rose rudely pierced the most fragrant of all, You’ll find your reward great and lasting, some day, If strong in your faith you keep pegging away.
'	—Chicago Herald,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
}3ut)tist)rD nitro 5aturoao During Ecrm Ctmr at N. IB. S-ntucrsitD.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Notre Dino, April 26. IS 90.
Staff.
J. W. Cavanaugh, ’90,	H. P. Brelsford, ’91,
H. A. Holden, ’91.
J. E. H. Paradis, ’90,	C. T. Cavanagh, ’91,
J. B. Sullivan, ’91,
■ Joseph E. Berry, ’91,	W. Morrison, ’91,
F.C. Long, ’91.
—The Catholic Union and Tinies, of Buffalo, N. Y., commemorated its nineteenth anniversary last week by appearing in a complete new dress of type and the publication of articles • specially contributed by some of our best Catholic writers. We beg leave to add our congratu-lations to the many of which the able editor, Father Cronin, has deservedly been made the recipient, and hope that the Union and Tinies may long continue the noble work in which it has been hitherto so successfully engaged.
—The American Catholic Quarterly Review is now under the chief editorial direction of the Most Rev. P. J. Ryan, Archbishop of Philadelphia, assisted by the Rev.Ignatius F.Hortsmann, D. D., Rev. L. V. McCabe, of St. Charles’ Seminary, and Dr. George Dering Wolff, editor of the Catholic Standard. Under the guidance of the gifted Mgr. Corcoran the Review held a commanding position in the field of American Catholic literature, and steadily increased that power and influence which it was designed to wield in the domain of modern thought. Since; the death of this learned prelate the publishers have pondered long and seriously upon the future editorial direction of so important an undertaking. How fortunate they have been is made known in the opening sentence of this paragraph. The distinguished metropolitan, whose fame in literature is as widely extended as that of his eloquence, will impart new life and vigor to this sterling periodical, ably direct the scholarly work of his learned associates and lead the publication on to greater glory and greater success in the fulfilment of its noble mission. The Review now enters upon a new era with' the brightest prospects, and we wish for it many long years of prosperity to continue its work of combating the errors of modern scientific thought, and display before the world the grandeur of the work of human reason when aided and guided by the light of Faith.
A Letter to a Friend who had not Chosen His State of Life.
There is no doubt that much of the unhappiness of life in our new countrv—where Catholic doc-trines are so well taught, but Catholic traditions are as yet unformed—is due to the fact that the importance of vocation is not recognized.
If a young man have a longing for a higher life— a life far away from the bitter strife and competition of the world—he naturally looks to the priesthood. But it often happens that his previous- training, or the bent of his real vocation, unfits him for the Order of Melchisedec. Too often, despondent and perplexed, he goes back into the turmoil to be cast about as a cjnp.in restless waves, and, perhaps, to be torn to pieces. He is unhappy; he feels that he has missed something in life: what this something is, he does not discover until too late. He has lost that most necessary of all things for peace in this life and happiness in the next—his vocation; and he has missed it because he has not been taught the meaning of the word vocation, which has a solemn significance for those who find it and an awful one for those who miss it. He finds himself “fit for nothing,” or he succeeds, perhaps, in gaining the material resources of life, and yet carries through all an aching heart.
This applies likewise to women, but not more forcibly than to men.- How many young men are leading aimless lives, buffeted by the winds of the world, in anguish, in danger, in fear, in perplexity! How many have become spiritual wrecks, because they have never found their vocation!
It seems that misunderstanding and ignorance are responsible for this rather than perversity. They misunderstand their relations to God; they are ignorant of the meaning of the word “vocation,” and they foolishly imagine because they have not the peculiar bent- or the education sufficient to fit them for the priesthood there is no place for them in the cloisters of the Church. But what a mistake this is!—what a terrible mistake! In the religious life there are many mansions; and the man or woman who doubts his or her fitness for life in the world must carefully consider this.
These thoughts have been suggested to me by O	OO	J
the knowledge of how little Catholics in America seem to understand the meaning of the word vocation, and:by the observation of the religious life at Notre Dame. As a writer and observer, I knew the religious life only from my acquaintance among some of the best priests in the world—those of America; but I had never before come close to the life of a great Religious Community, and the knowledge of the spiritual losses occasioned by the missing of vocations and the sight of the beautiful
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
and edifying lives led here in religious love and peace have induced me to write you these words.
Here there is a place for every one. Paternally blessing and directing is the venerable founder of Notre Dame, Father General Sorin, whose name is a household word; and from him to the priests, each having his fitting place, we pass to the Brothers who, for the sake of the honor of God, to whom they are consecrated, perform the necessary works of all departments. The most cultivated scholar hcr_* finds place, in Christ, next to the most illiterate man who is learned only in the highest love, the knowledge of Faith.
Notre Dame is a town in itself. It comprises eight hundred acres. Seven miles away is a farm of fifteen hundred acres. Entering the precincts of Notre Dame, one is in a new world. A magnificent church, decorated by one of the greatest artists of the Vatican, and rivalling the cathedrals of the Old World, is a shrine for the Blessed Sacrament— the centre of all love. The presence of the Blessed Virgin is acknowledged everywhere. At night her figure, crowned with stars, flashes through the darkness of the wood, and at certain times the great bell—the largest and sweetest in America—tolls out. At Corpus Christi the clear waters of the lake reflect the blue of her banners; in fact, with practical work for God is united a daily life in which all surroundings are religious, o	o
The new Seminary o'f the Holy Cross, over which one of the most famous of Roman theologians will soon preside, is a home for neophytes for the priesthood; the Novitiate and Professed House, in their simplicity and seclusion, make one see in their atmosphere a glimpse of that peace which surpasses all understanding. But Notre Dame must be seen to be appreciated; it holds a place for every human talent or avocation. Here the gardener sweetens his work by making in letters of lilies the name of the Blessed Virgin; there the shoemakers labor in peaceful meditation—for those missionaries, perhaps, who from the shadow of Holy Cross go forth to add new worlds to the heritage o	o
of Our Lord.
Off in the farm the Brother who has found peace in cheerful effort for the glory of the Blessed Virgin, drives the cattle home; near, in the college, the prefects—specially fitted by God for the difficult employment—guard the boys from evil as a shepherd guards his sheep. At Notre Dame there is a place for every one. Teachers are sent out to parochial schools having been fitted for their work in the spiritual atmosphere of the place. Each man finds the avocation most suited to him,for here there is work for all. And to the end that Catholic education, which must depend on the efforts of those who sacrifice themselves for it, shall be propagated—
’ 525
to the end that the Godhead of Christ and the purity of His Blessed Mother maybe the better proclaimed and understood. The Community is, as it were, the root from which these tender, white lilies spring.
The Community of the Holy Cross has not lost any of the spirit of the Church, while it keeps itself in sympathy with the movement of America towards enterprise and material progress. Nowhere have I been so much struck by the adaptability of our Church to circumstances as at Notre Dame. The Community, directed by the burning faith of the venerable Founder and animated by his zeal, has cleared the wilderness. It is a child of God and of America; it has done its pioneer work. It now remains for you, who are seeking your vocation in life, to ask yourself whether you cannot get nearer to God and to His peace by helping to keep alight the crown of stars that glows on the forehead of Our Lady at Notre Dame.
As I have said, nowhere have I been so much impressed by the spirit of cheerfulness, of obedience, of energy, of unostentatious spirituality, of peace, and of devotion to the cause of Christian education than here. The Brother at Notre Dame, to my mind, has solved the great problem which the Emersons, the Hawthornes and the Danas have tried in vain to solve; he has found how to lose himself in work for God, and to bear the lily of purity that he may gain the palm of triumph at the end.	.
Maurice Francis Egan.
A Traveller’s Musings.
II.
I do not quite endorse the Carlylean dictum as to the relation between the snow line and human progress or activity, although, as we advance towards this line from the North, or recede from it towards the South by the Illinois Central Ry. we find striking evidence that the great literary dogmatist has here spoken the truth. Even in the Prairie State, with much the same soil, natural advantages and railroad facilities, agriculture, farm dwellings and out-houses, country towns in the southern do not compare favorably with those of the northern portion of the State. Much more marked is the contrast as we travel through the states of Mississippi and Louisiana. Egypt, Ill., so named from some resemblance to the land of the Nile, in the richness of its soil, and the partial overflow of the great rivers by which it is surrounded, does not, by any means, exhibit the wealth, comfort and improvements which might be derived from its ample natural resources, its inexhaustible fer-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
tility and valuable forests of hard wood. No - doubt, the poisonous miasms generated in its stagnant or sluggish waters and in the bottom lands are a bar sinister on the escutcheon of its progress. Chills and fever are said to be as prevalent in many localities there to-day as they were in the famous Wabash Valley a half century agone.
It was with feelings of reverence, nay, of awe, that we entered the muddy but classic—to use an euphemistic expression—suburbs of Cairo; for we remembered the brilliant, critical, exe-getical, philological, philosophical, syntactical and facetious poem engrossed on the pages of the Scholastic, March 30, 1872, and Sept. 18, 1875, which the tenuis umbra, or ghost of Pharaoh’s daughter, materializes on the same spot, at the command of the versatile and accomplished wizard of the North. We were filled with apprehension lest Miss Mahmieh-Meiothph-Thothma-Ptha, the beloved offspring of the strong-jawed, hook-nosed Rameses the Great, might burst her cerements and wreak dire vengeance upon us for having had her chiliadic repose in the Chambers of Cheops disturbed by so many and such complicated archeological questions as the brain of a sphinx could never have excogitated.
Our fears were groundless. Neither the shade of the beautiful but sarcastic princess, neither Osiris nor his consort Isis, nor their dog-headed companion Anubis; neither bull-headed Apis, nor light-giving Ka, nor pygmy Phthah, came to “revisit the glimpses of the moon.” Our eyes were, however, greeted by the apparition of a defunct feline Thomas, who had once been a member of the royal lady’s household and had received divine worship from the enlightened .inhabitants of Memphis, had been embalmed, mourned and honored with a tomb amid the massive columns of the magnificent Romaseum. With arched spine and corrugated caudal appen-. dage he stood upon a rider-rail, and thus began his doleful wail, of which the following is but an imperfect translation from the ancient language of Egypt:
Let ole* * * * § Built take heed With his syntactical screed
* For "old”—by apocope and paragoge.
f For “Bullion” by Elision—The abbreviation of the grammarian’s name gives us that of a great performer on the violin. The fells domestica meant to dwarf Bullion into utter insignificance by reminding us of the great musician, though Themistocles remarked he could convert a small town into a large city, even though he were not able to play on the fiddle. The words in the text also contain an opprobrious epithet for the man who has worried the brains of so many young aspirants to a correct knowledge of American—as they refer to an animal of the genus bos—not exactly a ward boss.	-
And prosaical prosody His syneresis, systole, Dieresis, diastole Synesis, heterosis Ecthlipsis, antiptosis, Choriambic pentameter Archilochian heptameter The great dragon Apap, • Will devour all his sap * And terminate his grammatical rhapsody, f As to the Kat of the princess, You need not adjust your lenses;§ Its in Biban-el-Molook or Chops,|| A counting her numerous mops,^[ Rhadamanthus wont give her permission To cross the Atlantic, a fishing;
For the Ohio, oh!
Is on a dreadful go—woe!
Fuming and foaming,	'
Booming in the gloaming.
I cannot vouch for the fidelity of the above rendering, as our hirsute interlocutor was rather deficient as to his early education as well as in the venerable vernacular of the pragmatic Pharaohs. Had the paternal Bennett Law of Wisconsin been enforced amongthe pampered, playful kittens of ancient Mitsraim, there is no doubt that our green-eyed ghost of an unguiculated quadruped would have furnished a poem coming up to the standards of Horace and Quintilian, well worthy the pages of Forum,Nineteenth Century, or even of our peerless and scholarly Scholastic.
Cairo, at the confluence of the Mississippi
* Sap. for sapientiam, by poetical license, as we say ' verb. sat. sap. The mouser threatens vengeance in accordance with the old proverb: Quos Deus vult perdere, prius dementat. Pussy was no Tom Noddy. He has the faculty of expressing with one word several distinct but apposite thoughts. Here he also means the dragon will devour the sap, i. e-, the blood or life principle of the great grammaticus. Sap may also mean a dolt, a simpleton.
f Rhapsody. If used in the modern sense of the word, this term is not quite parliamentary, and shows much incandescence. Anger, however, according to moral philosophers, may be sometimes legitimate when it is founded not on personal grievances but on public grounds. Such was the anger of Paul and Elias and the Father of the Macchabees, and perhaps of poor old King Lear when moved almost to madness by the unfilial conduct of his daughters: “No, ye unnatural hags, I will do such things; what they are, yet I know not, but they shall be the terrors of the earth.”
J Besides the body and soul, the Egyptians attributed to man a Ka which means anglice—a vital principle of living substance which remained with the body after death, the soul having passed through the valley of demons. Statues or sculptured portraits of the deceased were placed near the body, so that the Ka could find another abode in case the bocly were completely destroyed. .The doctrine of the Hoosier soul-sleepers may be traced back through some ancient heresies and philosophies to Egyptian necrology.
§ Lenses: by synecdoche for binoculars, eye-glasses or goggles.	.
- || For Cheops by syncope, Wide Scholastic 1872.
Tf Mops. The young lady no doubt used them to keep out of her. apartments or premises the annual overflow of the Nile, as Mrs. Partington tried to mop up the Atlantic

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
527
and Ohio, is a city of 15,000 inhabitants. During the “late unpleasantness,” it formed a very important base of supplies for some of the Union armies as well as a radiating point for river military expeditions. Here many thousands of the wounded were cared for. Some of them, renewed in strength, returned to. the field of honor; others, crippled for life, went back to the vacant fireside; others again met death with fortitude, though their hearts went out to the loved ones at home. A grateful country sings over them:	.
“ My sons not vainly have died, For ye your country glorified! Each moment as in death ye bowed On high your martyred souls ascended; Yea, soaring in perpetual cloud This earth with heaven ye blended, A living chain in death ye wove;
And, rising, raised our world more near those worlds above.”
The Sisters of Holy Cross, every one of whom was a Florence Nightingale in self-sacrifice, and many of them much more, were the ministering angels to the sick in the various government hospitals. Their skill and unremitting attention, day and night, rescued thousands from the very jaws of death. I have met many a war-scarred veteran, during the last quarter of a century, who confessed that he owed his life to their motherly care. Each and every good religious was a missionary preaching by example the truth that the Church is the mother of true Christian charity which knows no distinction of creed, color or country; and that she is that fertile soil in which all the heroic and most ennobling virtues of the New Law grow to their full perfection and maturity. The war-record of those angels of mercy has rendered the burning of a Charlestown convent forever impossible. Such filthy fanatics and reverend ruffians or roaring rigmaroles as Fulton, whose name is synonomous with the quintessence of sulphuretted hydrogen, may indeed emit an odor of death and corruption, but the pure winds of heavenly truth will blow back into their nostrils, and into those of their willing dupes, the skunkish effluvium of calumny to their eternal shame and confusion. Of such modern Gnostics, as well as of those contemporaneous with him, Jude the Apostle wrote, calling them “Raging waves of the sea, foaming out their own conusion; wandering stars for whom the storm of darkness is reserved forever.” Not only the hospitals of Cairo, but those of Mound City, Ill., Memphis, Tenn., Louisville, Ky., etc., bear irrefragable testimony to the heroic devotion and
sublime self-abnegation of the pious and practical Sisters of Holy Cross. And yet these good Sisters are but a type and illustration of the spirit which animates every religious order or congregation approved by the Church. S.
New Orleans, March 2,1890.
Personal.
—C. H. Ilgenfritz, ’70, of Clarksville, la., was a welcome visitor to Alma Mater a few days ago.
—Charles Deppin, ’66, is one of the leading business men of Louisville, Ky. He promises to visit his Alma Mater at Commencement.
—M. V. Monarch, Owensboro, Ky., passed a few pleasant days at Notre Dame during the week visiting his two sons in the Junior department.
—Charles A. Tinley, ’85, is the popular Democratic candidate for county attorney of Covington, Ky. He has the best wishes of his many friends at Notre Dame, and he well deserves all the success that may attend him.
—Among the visitors during the week were: Mr. and Mrs. J. D. White, New Carlisle, Ind.; George Davis, Marquette, Mich.; P. E. Payne, Owensboro, Ky.; C. H. Covert, Toledo, Ohio; Mrs. M. Lawler, Mrs.'J. Ryan, Chicago; Mrs. Alice Glandon, Lafayette, Ind.; Mrs. C. Flynn, Alpin, Colo.; N. C. Schiltz, Harper, la.; T. D. Healy, ’82, R. Healy, Ft. Dodge, la.; Mr. and Mrs. T. Flanganan, Mr. and Mrs. C. E. Hearn, St. Paul, Minn.
—Rev. D. A. Tighe, ’70, is the genial pastor of Holy Angels’ Church, Oakwood Boulevard, Chicago. Since his ordination, Father Tighe has led a particularly active life. Few men, indeed, confreres have accomplished more than he during the past ten years. During that short time he has built five or six churches, besides doing an amount of other work that would seemingly have taxed the strength of any one man. He is now pastor of one of the finest and largest parishes in the city, and has his church, school and residence on one of the most beautiful of the many beautiful boulevards of the great metropolis. May success await him in the future as it has always attended him in the past! '	.
—Mr. J. J. McGinity, of Denver, Colo., was a most welcome visitor during the week. His stay, however, was, as usual, short. Like all Western men, and particularly like all Denver men, he cannot tarry long in any one place. He had something on the tapis in two or three different places that claimed his immediate attention, so he said, and he hied himself to his home at the base of, the “Rockies” almost before one had time to get a good, square look at him. If we only had a magnetic mountain like that of the Arabian Nights, or something of
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
equal attractive force, we could probably bind him to one place long enough to go over some of the memories of auld lang syne. “Mac.,” as he is known among his friends, is one of the “ old boys ” to whom Alma Mater always extends a cordial welcome. -	•
Obituary.
Paul Williams. '
The sad intelligence reached us during the week of the death of Mr. Paul Williams at Sedalia, Mo., on the 14th of last January. The deceased was a student at Notre Dame during the years ’62, ’63 and ’64, and was gifted with such noble qualities of mind and heart as to make him a favorite with his professors and fellow-students. In after-life he ever showed himself the true Christian gentleman, and his worthy life was fittingly crowned by a peaceful, happy death. His many friends at Notre Dame have learned with deep regret of his demise, and extend their sincere sympathy to his afflicted relatives. May he rest in peace!
—Rev. James McGlynn, who wa's a student of the University from ’69 to ’72, died on the 1st inst., at Oshkosh, Wis. May he rest in peace!
Local Items. -
—Season tickets.
—What a funny coat!
—The Juniors have an Umpire.
—The tennis clubs are numerous and prosperous.	'
—That building is going up at an astonishing rate.	.	.
—And still they come! The Juniors have a fifth nine.
—Muskegon is expected on Tuesday. Get here, gentlemen!
—The “Invincibles” are open for dates. Apply to the manager.
—That “rec” Tuesday afternoon was much enjoyed. Come again.
—Cycling is just now on the boom. ’Tis a pleasant and healthful exercise.
—Rev. President Walsh has the thanks of the “princes” for a grand new Everett Piano.
—The base-ball season is open all over the civilized world, but “what’s the score?”
—“Dutch” is a.captain; he was elected at the last meetingof the Junior Base-ball Association.
—“Bird’s-eye-view!” said the innocent baseballist, as the treacherous sphere bounded against his visual bail.
—The band grows better with age. Long may it be with us, and, like a thing of beauty, “be a joy forever!” /	.
—The Junior “gym’’ looks;gay with aTset
of new benches against the eastern wall. Of course, the penmanship fiend and wood-carver have taken possession.
—M. Hannin has been elected Captain of the Junior First Special, and he has picked out nine good men. Arrangements are being made to play several games with outside clubs.
—The Library hours are from 9.30 to 12 m., and from I to 2.30 p. m. on week days. . On Sundays from 9 to 10 a. m., and from 1 to 2 p. m. At any other time the Library will not be open.
—The members of the Staff are under obligations to Mr. Coyne and Prof. Egan for the handsome spread they enjoyed at “The Lilacs ” last Sunday. They all report a lovely time, and wish to extend their thanks to the kind hosts.
—Very Rev. Father General Sorin returned yesterday (Friday) morning from a visit to the Houses of the Congregation in Canada and New Brunswick. We are glad to state that the venerable Father Founder has been greatly improved in health by his trip.
—At the last regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association held on Monday, April 1st, in St. Edward’s Hall, Masters Loonie, Elkin, McPhee, Roberts, Zeigler, Morrison, Washburne; Myers and Gilbert took part in a lively debate. Masters O’Neill, C. Connor and Falvey delivered declamations.
—Last Wednesday evening the Seniors were invited by the members of the Crescent Club to attend one of their sociables in .the Academy of Music. All enjoyed a pleasant evening, and before retiring the guests expressed their appreciation of the courtesies extended to them by the members of the club. Brother Paul generously treated all to refreshments.
—The eighth regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was held Wednesday evening, the 16th inst. The criticism of the previous meeting was read-by Mr. C. Scherrer. The debate for the evening was postponed, and the members proceeded to transact miscellaneous business. Under this head a committee was appointed to deliberate upon the necessary preparations for a public entertainment.
—A meeting of the Junior Archconfraternity was held in the reading-room Thursday morning with the Rev. T. E. Walsh presiding. The election of officers for the current session resulted in the choice of the following: James M. Brady, President; James Fitzgerald, 1st Vice-President; Pierce A. Murphy, 2d Vice-President; Geo. T. Weitzel, Secretary; Fred E. Neef, Treasurer; Otto H. Ibold, Censor. The meeting closed with a short address from the Director, Rev. D. J. Spillard.
—The Columbians held their regular meeting on Tuesday evening in the Columbian room, Prof. Brogan presiding. After the usual routine business had been transacted, Mr. T. McKeon gave an able criticism on the last meeting; Mr. Wm. Ford read the new Constitution and By-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	529
laws which were drawn up by a select committee. Messrs. Grimes and Walsh read humorous selections, which were well applauded; Mr. J. Denis read an article on “The Hereditary Peerage of Great Britain and Ireland.” The article was well written, showing a good deal of historical research and clear manner of expression. The chairman made some interesting remarks upon the subject, after which the meeting adjourned.
—Rt. Rev. Joseph Dwenger, D. D., Bishop of Fort Wayne, honored Notre Dame .with a visit on last Sunday evening. On Monday morning, in the Church of the Sacred Heart, he conferred the Order of Subdeaconship on the Rev. Messrs. Kirsch, O’Connor, O’Connell, Warken, and Zubowitch, of the Congregation of Holy Cross. Mr. Chusko, C. S. C., received Minor Orders. We congratulate the reverend gentlemen on this important step towards the sacred dignity of the priesthood, and hope for them the speedy realization of their best wishes.
—Base-Ball.—Notre Dame vs. Goshen:—The opening game of the season was a clean walk away for the ’Varsity nine. The Goshens, with Inks, late of Indianapolis, in the box, played miserable ball, and showed themselves to be badly in need of practice. The game was called about 4.15 Thursday afternoon, and Captain Kepner, of the visiting team, was first at the bat. He retired in a moment at the request of Mr. Fitzgibbon, who made short work of the sky-scraper sent out in his direction. W. Inks secured a two bagger, however, and reached second. He started down to second on a hot liner towards first, but he was not quick enough to keep out of the double play which was neatly made by Bronson and Cooke. For the N. D.’s, Kelly got a base on balls, Fitzgibbon was assisted to his seat by Patrick to Witt, and Kelly was caught while attempting to steal second; Hayes took a base hit, but got no further than first, as Cooke fanned out. Notre Dame, o; Goshen, o.
In the second both sides scored. Witt got a base on balls, got second and third on Fitzgibbon’s error and came in on a wild pitch by Long. Campbell, Long and Jewett took advantage of their opponents’ errors and scored. Kelly added to the disorder by driving out a three bagger, but did not score as Fitzgibbon went out on a grounder to B. Inks. Notre Dame, 3; Goshen, 1.
Toms opened the third by striking out, and Herbert proved his fidelity to the cause by doing the same. Kep-ner managed to hit the ball to Hayes; but it did him no good, as Hayes soon had the ball in Bronson’s hands. For the home team, Hayes struck out; Cooke got a base on balls, reached second on Witt’s error, which gave Bronson first; but Inks caught George on third in an attempt at a bold steal. Campbell retired the side by striking out. Notre Dame, 0; Goshen, o.	-
Kelly’s error in the fourth gave W. Inks a life on first; but he found that to steal second was out of the question while Jewett and Cooke were in the game. ,Ivory fell an easy victim to the curves of Capt. Long; “ Lefty” Inks made a hit and stole second; “Grover” Witt was hit in the ribs, took his base and stole second, while Inks glided to third. There was a chance for a run, but Kelly pocketed the foul fly McDivitt sent towards him, and Goshen took the field. Long should be under many obligations to Mr. McDivitt for the favors he received from him. McDivitt fumbled the ball to give him first; A. McDivitt threw wild to give him second and third, and, by a glorious muff, Mr. A. McDivitt, of Goshen, allowed him to score. Flynn knocked a foul fly to Witt, and sat down. Jewett struck out. Kelly did the same, but with the assistance of Ivory he managed to run around the bases and score. Fitzgibbon also piled up three strikes, and was thrown out at first. Notre Dame, 2; Goshen, o.
In the fifth inning Long struck out in succession Patrick, Toms and Herbert. In the sixth he did the same for Kepner, Inks, and Ivory, and dismay was printed on
the faces of the Goshenites. B. Inks fanned the air in
the seventh, but then George took pity on them, and as Witt was unable to find the ball, he gave the poor fellow a base on balls and sent him to first rejoicing. McDivitt sent him to third by a pretty base hit; but the corpulent “Grover” came to grief when he tried to get home; Jewett and Kelly closed in on him—and he died. By this time McDivitt had reached second and was hoping to get in when G. Kirk Patrick was wildly waving at the curves of Long. Long had a grudge against Toms and hit him with the ball, as |that worthy reached first. He, guileless youth, was caught by the old, old, “ catcher’s ’’ trick, and Goshen had lost the game. It was in the sixth that Notre Dame was boss of the game. Will Inks, or “Anson’s colt,” was in the box for Goshen, and he was liberally pounded. Campbell opened with a single, but died on second. Long got first, took second on a balk, when his old friend McDivitt, recognized him and, proceeded to make a brilliant error to let George score. Charley Flynn did not find anything; Inks threw him and was fanned. Then the cannonading began. Jewett sent a three-bagger to right, Kelly sent a ditto to ditto, Kelly sent the same, to the same Hayes was satisfied with a double, while Cooke modestly took a single. He then stole second and third, but there he was left as Bronson struck out. It was rich. The features of the
game were Long's phenomenal pitching, Bronson’s excellent catch, Ivory’s steady work behind the bat, and “ Grover” on first. The following is the score:
Notre Dame. a.b. r.
Kelly, 3d b.................  3	2
Fitzgibbon, c. f............. 4	1
Hayes, s. s...................4	1
Cooke, 2d b.................. 3	o
Bronson, 1st b.b.....*....... 4	.0
Campbell, 1. f............... 2	.1
Long, p..................-...-3	3
Flynn, r.f................... 3	o
Jewett, c.................... 2	2
B.
1
1 o
1 o o
1
P.O 1 1 o
7 o o o
10
A. -E. 2 i
O I I O o o
I o o o 13 o o o
4 O
2
Total...........................
10 8
Goshen.	a.b.	r.	b.
Kepner, 2d b.................. 3	o	o
W. Inks, p. and 3d b......... 3 o 1
Ivory, c.......................3	o	o
B. Inks, p. and 1. f................ 301
Witt, 1st b...................  o	1	o
McDivitt, 1. f. and 3d b...... 3	o	1
Patrick, s. s................. 3	o	o
Toms, r. f.................... 2	o	o
Herbert, c. f...............-	2 o o
P.O.
1 8 o 6 o o o o
A. I
6
3 o I
I o o
E. o
I
o 2
4 o
1 o
Total......'................
22 I 3 17* 14 10
Earned Runs:—Notre Dame, 4. 2 Base Hits:—Hayes, W. Inks. 3 Base Hits: Kelly (2), Fitzgibbon, Jewett. Double Play: R. Bronson to G. Cooke. Bases on Balls: Witt (2), Kelly, Cooke, Fitzgibbon, Jewett. Hit by Pitched Ball: Witt, Toms. Struck Out: By Long, 12; By B. Inks, 3; By W. Inks, 6. Passed Balls: Ivory (2). Wild Pitch: Long. Time of game: 1.40. Umpire: A. E. Leonard.
* Flynn out: hit by batted ball.
—The Philodemics.—The entertainment pre-sented.by the Philodemics, Saturday, April n, was a very great success, and deserves a more extended notice than it has yet received. The Philodemics have always been numbered among the ablest and most active organizations of the University, and it was the unanimous opinion of those.who were presen that their efforts on this occasion fully vindicated their right to the distinction. The musical portion of the programme consisted of three selections: two quartettes and a trio, and the young gentlemen certainly acquitted themselves in a most creditable and satisfactory manner. ’	•
In the opening address, Mr. Louis Chute set
53°
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

forth the advantages that result from literary-societies. He showed that college organizations —a feature almost peculiar to America—afford ample opportunity for the development of the intellect and for proficiency in the most practical of all sciences—that of knowing how to use knowledge already acquired. His expression was gfood, his language forcible, and he was highly applauded; Mr. Ross Bronson followed .with an oration on “The Great Emancipator.” He evinced considerable elocutionary ability, which, coupled with a good voice and an elegantly-worded discourse, proved very effective.
In an oration entitled “Two Civilizations,” Mr. G. Cooke presented a careful study of the characters of the Cavalier and the Puritan. His manner was beyond reproach and his matter thoroughly tasteful. J. McGrath followed with an historical critique entitled, “The Crusades,” which gave evidence of great research on his part and of considerable grace and facility in setting forth his opinions. “Thomas Jefferson” received due attention at the hands of Mr. J. Fitzgibbon, who dwelt admiringly on the public and private life of the Sage of Monticello, and presented a very correct appreciation, of his character. His oration was carefully prepared and he was enthusiastically applauded.
A scene from Henry IV., Act I., formed a pleasing finale. Mr. N. J. Sinnott personated the .king in an admirable manner, and proved himself the possessor of no ordinary histrionic power. His correct intonation, subdued earnestness and careful reading of the text were heartily appreciated. Mr. F. Chute did Hotspur with perfect taste. His facial expression and. his movement displayed careful training. Mr. P. Fleming in the minor part of Northumberland evinced dramatic powers well worthy of cultivation. His clear and distinct enunciation deserves special commendation.
It is generally conceded that, on the whole, this entertainment was the best ever given by the Philodemics, and when we consider the fact that the young gentlemen who took part in it have had no previous stage experience, we cannot too highly commend their earnestness and ability. We hope to hear from the Philodemics soon again.
Boll of Honor.
•	SENIOR .DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Adelsperger, Ahlrichs, Allen, Blackman,* Bo-vett, Blessington, Bunker, H. Brannick, Barrett, Burger, Brelsford, Bachrach, Cassin, Cassidy, Campbell, C. Cavanagh, L. Chute, F. Chute, T. Coady, P. Coady, Curtis, Cartier, J. Cavanagh, Dillon, Dorsey, Dennis, Dyer, fas. Dougherty, Darroch, Dunkel, Fitzgibbon, C. Flynn, F. Flynn, Fehr, Fack, J. Flynn, A. Flynn, P. Fleming, Gar-fias, Galen, Gough, Grothous, Houlihan, Herman, Heard, Hackett, B. Hughes, E. Hughes, Hummer, .Hempier, Hoover, Hayes, Higgie, J. S. Johnson, Jewett, J. A. Johnson, Karasynski, Kearns, J. King, Krembs, Kohlman, Keyes, Lesner, Langan, Lair, Lancaster, W. Larkin, A. Larkin, Lane, F. Long, Latson, Mulroney, McDonnell, Mithen, McConlogue, Mackey, Morrison, Meehan, Metz, ger, Mandrul, J. Newman, H. O’Neill, O’Shea, Parker,
Powers, Paradis, Pyplacz, H. Prichard, F. Prichard, Portilia, Paquette, Prudhomme, Paris, Quigley, Rebillot, Reynolds, Rothert, Reedy, Robinson, L. Sanford, N. Sinnott, Steiger, Schaack, J. Smith, Soden, Scherrer, D. Sullivan, Seymour, Standard, O. Sullivan, Stanton, Talbot, F. Vurpillat, Youngermann, Zimmerman, Leonard, Berry.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adler, E. Bates, B. Bates, J. Brady, T. M. Brady, T. T. Brady, W. Brady, Bradley, Barger, Barclay, Ber-gland, Burns, Crandall, Collins, Coilman, Coe, Delany, Demps'ey, Drumm, DeLormier, A. W. Funke, A. M. Funke, J. Fitzgerald, Gibert, Garrison, Gross, Galen, Grund, Howard, Hambaugh, Hack, Hesse, Hahn, R. Healy, P. Healy, Hagus, Higgie, Jacobs, Kearney, V. Kehoe, L. Kehoe, Kutsche, Leonard, Lenard, Murphy, Maurus, Maher, D. Monarch, Merz, Mitchell, Mier, McCartney, Jos. McPhilips, A. McPhillips, Jas. McPhillips, F. McKee, McIvers, F. Neef, A. Neef, Neenan, Otis, O’Mara, O’Neill, Palmer, Priestly, Pomeroy, Prichard, Quinlan, Quill, Roper, Stanton, Scott, Seerey, Sokup, Sutter, Stapleton, Smith, Treff, Tivnen, Weitzel, Weise, Ward, E. Whalen, T. Whalen, Wertheimer, White, Zinn, McNally.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adler, Ayres, Ball, F. Brown, O. Brown, Blake, Burns, Barbour, Bixby, Cornell, Crandall, W. Connor, C. Connor, Covert, W. Crawford, A. Crawford, Crane, Coon, Croke, Durand, Drant, Elkin, W. Finnerty, T. Finnerty, Frankel, Falvey, Fuller, W. Furthman, C. Furthman, E. Furthman, Funke, Flynn, Girardin, Greene, Gilbert, D. Gilkison, A. Gilkison, Grant, J. Griggs, C. Griggs, Girsch, Hill, Henneberry, Hoffman, Hamilton, Hendry, Holbrook, Jonquet, Krollman, King, Keeler, Kuehl, G. Klaner, Kern, Lonergan, Londoner, Lonnsberry C. Lamberton, H. Lamberton, Levi, Loonie, Loomis, Montague, Maternes, Marr, H. Mestling, E. Mestling, McGuire, McPhee, McPhillips, Marre, Mosier, W. Nichols, C. Nichols, O’Neill, Oatman, Priestly, C. Paul, C. Packard, J. Packard, Roberts, Ronning, Ryan, Stone, G. Scherrer, W. Scherrer, Stephens, Thornton, Trujillo, Vorhang, Vandercook, Washburne, Wilcox, Wever, Walsh, Weber, Wilson, Wolfe, C. Zoehrlaut, G. Zoehrlaut, Zeigler.
* Omitted by mistake for some time.
The Deadly Cigarette.
New York, April 19.—“Let any boy who smokes cigarettes look at me now and know what I have suffered, and he will never put another in his mouth.” These, were almost the last words of Samuel Kimball, 16 years of age, who died at St. John’s Hospital, Brooklyn, last Friday. As he lay upon his cot, he was indeed a sad spectacle, and a glance at him undoubtedly would have been a forcible warning to millions of youthful cigarette smokers. His body was of a deadly yellowish hue; his face, arms, and trunk were emaciated, and his legs were swollen to twice their normal size. His sunken cheeks, livid lips, and dull eyes gave a ghastly appearance to his face, more like the face of the dead than the living. The fresh air came through the hospital window and played around his head, but every breath that he took cost an effort, and at times it seemed as if he would strangle to death. No nourishment had passed his lips for hours, and his life was rapidly ebbing away. A faithful nurse sat at his bedside chafing his hands and trying to cheer his last hours. His case at first puzzled the physicians, but an examination showed that he was suffering from a dropsical condition of the legs. He experienced great difficulty in breathing, and the action of his heart was extremely weak, though there seemed to be no structural break. His system seemed completely filled with nicotine, and his stomach, liver, and kidneys were unable to perform their functions. He experienced great difficulty in taking nourishment, saying that it burned him like fire. The physicians at the hospital say that young Kimball smoked no more than many other young men, but he was of a peculiarly nervous temperament, and the cigarettes were poison to his system.—Chicago" Inter-Ocean.'
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
531
St Mapy’s Asademy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—Mrs. W. Purdy (nee Munger), Class of ’86, spent a few days of last week at St. Mary’s, much to the delight of her many friends.
—The Graduates spent last Thursday at St. Joseph’s Farm, where they had a most delightful day, made doubly pleasant by the kind welcome extended them.
The Dawn.
Night’s dark mantle’held the morning
In a gentle, close embrace;
But another day is dawning—
Morn now shows her beauteous face.
Casting off her sombre covering,
Morning robes herself anew;
Purple raiment near is hovering, Which she dons with pearls of dew.
Then she comes arrayed in glory;
Zephyrs herald her approach;
To the flowers they breathe the story— “ Day comes in her golden coach! ”
“Tender bud, unfurl thy banner, Lift thy coverings of green;
Sing, ye birds, in joyous manner;
Hail the advent of your Queen!”
Now with timid, joyful stirring
All the blossoms lift their heads; Through the air the birds are whirring, As they leave their downy beds.
Then, in silence, Dawn advances;
E’en the birds their twit’ring cease, And a flush her grace enhances
At this deferential peace.
Lo! a burst of gladsome singing .
Welcomes then the' Queen of Day;
From the wood and vale ’tis ringing: “ Morn has come—awake! ” they say.
“Sons of men, forsake your slumbers!
Night on sable wings has flown;
Sing with us in joyful numbers, For bright Day ascends her throne.”
Kittie Morse (Second Senior Class).
Modern Manias.
No doubt all the world is a unit on the question that “ a sound mind in a sound body ” is one of the chief blessings of life. Still though one may contemplate with comparative indifference the fact that his name appears on the sick list of the family physician, with what warmth
would he not resent any reflection on his mental health! Yet, as a nation, can we lay rightful claim to the possession of this “sound mind” ' to which the adage refers? No better answer .to this question can be found than that which follows from a consideration of the customs, fashionable frivolities and foolish fancies that are so potent in our modern society.
Thus, when the tidal wave of aestheticism swept our shores, few escaped its drenching. In consequence of this new cult, the sunflower was raised to a pedestal and worshipped; the daisy-adorned vase and garden; old and hideous china—newly stamped and fired—was gazed upon all day by dames with brains as badly cracked—figuratively speaking—as the clay; flowing locks and a vacant stare were cultivated, and Oscar Wilde reigned supreme. It may be said, in passing, that the importation of this lackadaisical individual shows the expediency of a high protective tariff, for the effects of his coming have not yet wholly disappeared; however, the score against England has been partially effaced, since Buffalo Bill has been feted and lionized by the London aristocracy.
Though the reign of the sunflower was of short duration, Anglo-mania still survives; for, journeying through the country during the summer months, one constantly meets individuals who, from their appearance, might be classed as Englishmen, but who in reality have a birthright claim on the protection of Uncle Sam. The foreign-looking hunting-cases, the large checked ulster, and the eye-glass, jammed into one of the visual orbs, giving to the wearer a scarred, distressed appearance, are all marks of Britain’s hand; but the accentbetrays thesecret, and the would-be Englishman is laughed at for his pains.
Just now it is’the proper thing to claim descent from some English lord or duke, and, failing in that, from one of the passengers in tt&Mayflower, until we are lost in astonishment at the capacity of said ship, and are forced to conclude that it must have possessed elastic properties' to accommodate so many passengers. Did Dickens intend a satire on aspiring Americans when he described the Boffin ancestry?	'
Another evidence of the eagerness of the average American for the startling and the new was evinced, not long ago, in the avidity with which he seized upon the blue-glass remedy, destined, so its devotees thought, to cure “all the ills that flesh is heir to”; but after weeks of basking in the blue light, the patient found that great boon, health, as far off as ever, and abandoned the blue-glass remedy as' a
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
delusion and a snare, only to adopt ano th er equally fashionable and senseless—the well-known mind cure.
Verily, this is an age of inventions! The muscles that in the days of our grand-parents were expanded by chopping a cord of wood, of doing the washing for a family of seventeen, must now be developed by contrivances invented for that express purpose; thus bicycles and tricycles throng our streets, much to the annoyance of the unwary pedestrian, forced into a chance encounter with them. Now polo on skates is attracting public attention, and man, not content to war with the members God gave, must needs charge at his fellow-being with sword and lance; the mediaeval custom has been modernized, and now four wheels take the place of four prancing feet; the skating craze of a few past summers is again revived, and history repeats itself! Again another mania seizes the public mind, and in the sultry days of July and August, when aught that bears even a remote resemblance to manual labor is frowned upon by the rising generation, our languid maidens and indolent youths run madly to and fro over the lawn, and why? Because tennis is the craze of the hour.
But eachnewfad is profitable to some one: now the manufacturer congratulates himself as he sees the road to fortune open before him through the making of antique furniture; for our modern housekeeper is unhappy unless her parlor reproduces the drawing-room of colonial times, with its quaint tables and its high, straight-backed, spider-legged chairs, to whose support one instinctively refuses to trust his weight. Further, the spinning wheel, for a generation - or more banished to the dark and dusty attic, is now brought forth from its hiding place and given the place of honor in the domicile of today. Again, the domain of fashion furnishes an extended field over which manias rove at will, and every passing style is raved about and dutifully followed. In obedience to its mandates, fair tresses revert from “naturally curly” locks, to a structure on the top of the head, then slowly descending, develop into a Psyche knot; or, perhaps, raven locks change suddenly into shining golden masses. Nor is the literary world behind in the race after novelties, as the phonetic spelling craze, threatening to revolutionize all literature, will bear-witness; so, too, may be classed among the manias the much-talked-of Volapiik, now quietly laid to rest in the graveyard of dead languages. .
However, to enumerate all the manias that have caught the popular fancy would be a her
culean task, for their name is legion; but those referred to seem to point to that inborn desire of human nature for the wonderful and the new. And, after all, the/sternest of moralists ought not to quarrel with them, since they result in that variety which gives spiciness to life.
•	Gertrude Clarke
(Second Senior Class}.
Boll of Honor.
[For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, correct deportment and observance of rules.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Adelsperger, Ansbach, Ahlrichs, Bates, Balch, Bernhart, Bogner, Bovett, Byrnes, Butler, Clarke, Cunningham, Currier, Curtis, .Crilly, Churchill, Cochrane, M. Davis, C. Dempsey, Deutsch, E. Dennison, S. Dempsey, Dorsey, De Montcourt, Donahue, Flannery, Fosdick, G. Green, Gordon, Hammond, Healey, C. Hurley, K. Hurley, Hurff, H. Hanson, Holt, Hagus, Hannes, A. Hanson,Hellmann, Hutchinson, Hamilton, Haight, Hepburn, Hughes, Kimmell, Koopmann, Lynch, Lauth, F. Moore, N. Morse, K. Morse, Maher, S. McPhee, McCarthy, McHugh, McCune, Murison, M. McPhee, Marley, M. Moore, Nickel, Norris, Nacy, Otis, Patier, A. Ryan, Roberts, Rinehart, Regan, Rose, Rinn, Rentfrow,Stapleton,Spurgeon, Studebaker, Schiltz, Schaefer, M. Schermerhorn, N. Schermerhorn, Thirds, R. Van Mourick, Violette, Wurzburg.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Burdick, E. Burns, Black, Clifford, Carlin, M. Davis, B. Davis, Girsch, Hickey, Holmes, C. Kasper, S. Levy, Mabbs, McGuire, Meskill, Mestling, A. O’Brien, O’Mara, Patrick, Palmer, Philion, E. Quealy, E. Regan, Reeves, Ruger, Shirey, M. Smyth, J. Smyth, Sweeney, Soper, A. Tormey, E. Wagner, Waldron, M. Wagner, K. Wood, Wright, N. Wurzburg.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses L. Adelsperger, Coady, Crandall, M. Egan, N. Finnerty, H. Girsch, M. Hamilton, K. Hamilton, L. McHugh, McCarthy, McHugh, Porteous, S. Smyth.

Class Honors.
Graduating Class—Misses Bates, Dempsey, Flannery, Hammond, Healy.
First Senior Class—Misses T. Balch, Horner, C. Hurley,K. Hurley, Hurff, McFarland, Moore, Morse, Van Mourick, Curtis, Deutsch, English.
Second Senior Class—Misses Adelsperger, Ansbach, Davis, Nacey, K. Morse, Nesterf Nickel, Piper, Ouealy, Stapleton, Thirds, Violette.	~
Third Senior Class —Misses Bogner, Cunningham, Dennison, Holt, Haight, Hepburn, Hughes, Lynch, A. Ryan, Spurgeon.
First Preparatory Class—Misses Bero, Butler, Churchill, Dempsey, Donahue, Davis, G. Green, Fosdick, Hull, Kelso, Kimmell, Lauth, Lewis, McHugh, Murison, Moore, Norris, Pugsley, Rinehart, Schaefer, Ernest, Burdick, Levy, Reeves, M. Smyth.
Second Preparatory Class—Misses Byrnes, L. Bovett, Cochrane, Cooper, Dorsey, Farwell, Hagus, M. Harmes, Hutchinson, A. Koopman, Mullaney, Schermerhorn, Clifford, Cooke, O’Mara, Soper, Wagner,Wurzburg.
Third Preparatory Class—Misses A. Ahlrichs, Reilly.
Junior Preparatory Class—Misses Black, M. Davis, E. Davis, Evoy, Patrick, Regan, Ruger, Sweeney, Young, McGuire, E. Wagner.
F i rst Junior Class—Misses Hickey,Holmes, Mabbs, Shirey, Robbins, Wright, Waldron, Adelsperger, Hamilton, McHugh.	-
Second Junior Class—Misses Carlin, E. Ernest, L. Mestling, Porteous, Egan, Finnerty, Girsch, Coady.