Start Smoking Camels Yourself!
Smoke only Camels for 30 days and find out why Camels are America’s most popular cigarette. See how mild and flavorful a cigarette can be I
Yog wilt, -fool l/dhy dortf you fry Camels today ?
|Jon/ fa ^iwEstarted../|
Jane Greer says: “I was a band singer when a picture magazine asked me to pose in the new WAC uniforms. Hollywood saw my picture, liked it and overnight I was in movies.
From then on, it was hard work and perseverance.”
f STARTED SMOKING CAMELS
after fryihg mahy brahds. T
-fbuhd Carnets'mildness and flavor
-far more eojoyabfe ihao -the rest
Cj	MUXSS and FLAVOH.
AMELS AGREE WITH MORE PEOPLE
THAN ANY OTHER. CIGARETTE 1

GLASSES FITTED
SATISFACTORY OPTICAL SERVICE IN SOUTH BEND FOR OVER 50 YEARS Lenses Ground in Our Own Shop.
J. BURKE Optometrist DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. M. I. MITTERMAYER Associates
228 So. Michigan St.

Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
FALL SUITS
Yacht Club Flannel is one of the
lire we stretching things a bit? Maybe — but when you find out how mild and sweet and refreshing the Medico pipe can be, you’ll go for Medico, too! It’s the replaceable filter in Medico that makes the big difference. That little filter traps dangerous nicotine and tars, disagreeable juices and flakes.
That’s why countless smokers, beginners and old timers alike, who never enjoyed the pleasures of a pipe, now enjoy the clean mild fragrance of Medico — the pioneer in filtered smoking.
classics of the flannel world . . . it’s smooth, it’s supple, and the colors are unusual and outstanding. It’s wonderfully tailored and styled by Mt. Rock for seasons
of handsome wearing.

Use Your Charge Account.
Parker-Winterrowd, Inc.
115% - 117% No. Main St. — Upstairs
Try a Medico Pipe. See why Medico’s filter has sold over a billion to date!
YOU’LL LOVE THE FEEL OF ssss-: MEDICO CRES* J „ ^ MEDICO V.E.Q. ‘J
MEDICO FILTER PIPES
Wife nritty if styles al sins Write MttiuFiHSlK.,II.T. 22,fWlMklit X
Italian Home Cooking
Five Minutes from the Campus
Pizza Spaghetti
Ravioli	Chicken
Chops Steaks
CLOSED SUNDAYS
You’re always ivelcome at . . .
ROCCO’S
537 N. St. Louis, on the Bus Line
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED.
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 S. MICHIGAN
Next to Avon Theatre 7-5477
October 30, 1953
3
NABICHT BROTHERS
Navy Menu
FRIDAY—Wonderful Selection of Seerfoods SATURDAY—Steaks, Chicken, Seafood OPEN-WEEKDAYS: 11 A.M. to 9 P.M.
SATURDAYS: 11 A.M. to 12 P.M.
CLOSED SUNDAYS
NOTRE DAME 36 Nabicht Brothers Predict:	NAVY 7
South Bend’s Oldest Catering Family
Nabicht Brothers
Private Dining Rooms for Special Parties
1415 LINCOLN WAY WEST	2-3138
Editor:
I am beginning to wonder what kind i of men we have here at Notre Dame.	I
They are getting pretty low when they a start stealing things from hall decora- | tions.	|
I obligingly loaned my eyeglasses to	d
the chairman of our decorations, only	|
to have them stolen. And this was not | all that was stolen. The boys that | worked on the decorations put in long	I
hours and great effort in order to do	I
a good job. Jack Sorano, the chairman, did a commendable job in making faces f for our dummies out of clay. Some of these faces were also stolen.
This wave of thefts necessitated our taking the display down immediately after the game. We were not even privileged to let it remain for the Sunday visitors to see. We were forced to take it down before other valuable articles were stolen.
It does not matter to me who it was that stole my eyeglasses, but I think it would be just for that person to return them. The glasses will do no one else any good. If the person who is guilty has not the decency to return them to me himself, at least he could turn them over to someone who will.
The case of the Unapproachable Alumnus
OR... How do you get that gift horse to open his mouth?
Roccy Tannone
118 Dillon Hall
Once there was a Wealthy Alumnus who was also a Soft Touch. Tie an Old School Tie around your neck and he’d give you his shirt to go with it.
One day he realized that this habit of always saying “Yes’’ to the Big Question was costing him a Pretty Penny. So he became a Hard Man to Get To. Letters, phone calls and personal visits all encountered a secretary with a face like a flint and a 4-word vocabulary. ("He’s out of town.”)
This was Rough on the Old School, but nobody had a solution—until the football coach, a Brain in his own right, came up with a Magnificent . but Simple Idea. He dashed down to the Western Union office and dis-
patched a Telegram saturated with Old School Spirit and dedicated to the theme that unless some Noble Soul came through pronto, the eleven would be playing barefoot and jerseyless.
The ice jam was broken. A Fat Check arrived the next day. Today things are back on a Normal Financial Basis.
There's nothing more practical than using Telegrams to Hurdle Barriers and get to the Guy (or the Gal) you want to talk to. When you want something . . . Cash from Home, a Date with a Dreamboat, an Interview with the Man who does the Hiring . . . it pays to Make your Bid via Western Union.
105 N. Main St.
Telephone 3-6101
Right in Our Own Back Yard!
Editor:
After reading in the Scholastic about the problem that the freshman boys have concerning their social life, we would like to inform them that many girls here are as unsatisfied as they.
As an example, almost as many girls stayed .here at school last Saturday night as went out to the Victory Dance. I would like to add that these were girls that any normal American boy would enjoy escorting to a dance.
Don’t you think the boys themselves could do something about this?
Sincerely yours,
A Few St. Mary’s Freshmen
‘Scholastic’ doesn’t usually print anonymous letters, but due to the large number of such letters treating the same subject, we use this as an example of same.—Ed.
The Scholastic
by Ken Murphy
Top of the Week
Decorations, decorations everywhere . . .
Sequel To An Ode
Poor State is dead
They took it in the head
From a team Kessler said
Was one of the breathers on the Irish sked.
Festival Time
Notre Dame’s version of the Parade of Roses was held
last weekend under the official title of “Homecoming Weekend.” All the halls went ape on the fifteen bucks allotted them for decorations and every one of the residences had pretty unique displays—that is, all except one.
It seems that some “dirty crook” swiped the decorations that Walsh Hall had all laid out and consequently the Walshites had to be satisfied with a sheet one of the maids had left lying around. But the seniors immediately put their ingenuity to work and emblazoned the sheet with a bright red “Who Stole Our Decorations?”
It didn’t make any difference though, gang. You see, your reporter was so taken in with all the color and spirit of the whole affair- that he went out and conducted his own special decoration contest. And here . . . (there will be a short pause while the echo of the rolling drums subsides) . . . are the results.
Decorations of the WEEK Contest:
1st Prize: The scoreboard immediately after the final score was posted.
2nd Prize: The interior of the new Student Center.
3rd Prize: A few of the football fans.
Journalistic Decorum
Jim (Got a chaw on ya?) Prunty informed us the other day that he had never had his name in the local rag and asked us if we could oblige. But, being a close adherent to the journalistic code, we told him that we could not display any signs of favoritism, so we’re not going to mention his name.
Passing Thought of the Week
Guglielmi's—the first one in 23 games thrown against Tech for a touchdown.
In Retrospect
We see they’re still walking up and down the front steps of the Main Building. If you want a particular instance,
you should have been on the quadrangle at approximately 3 p.m. last Sunday afternoon. A group of tourists was reclining on the steps in various forms of relaxation all the way from the bottom step to the main porch. For those of you who didn’t read last WEEK’S Scholastic, (meaning you guys in Farley who didn’t get them), there is a tradition around here that nobody uses the front steps of the Main Building until he has graduated from the University.
And for the benefit of those who aren’t reading this WEEK’S Scholastic, I’ll mention it again next WEEK.
Wine, Women and Song
We feel it oui- duty to take to task our brother columnist who last WEEK stated that there is no college social life in the neighboring community. Why, there are all sorts of opportunities for a red-blooded Notre Dame boy to further his social opportunities.
Just think—any night of the WEEK you can go down to South Bend and take .in a really great movie. That is, if it’s not condemned, as quite a few of the recent ones have been. But then, there is always Joer’s. That is, if you’re over 21.
And if you are under-age, why all you have to do is stand on a street corner most any Saturday night and hop on the bumper of one of the souped-up South Bend hot rods as it screeches around a corner in the midst of one of the high school victory parades. Yes sir, you can raise all sorts of whoop-de-doo if you really try.
Or, foi- those more intellectually inclined, you can just give up the whole thing as a lost cause and stay in your room and study.
Song of the Week
“Happy Birthday, Dear Johnny.” First time in the history of the University that the Victory March was shoved out of the number one spot in the top ten tunes. But it’ll be back on top next WEEK . . . after all, Lattner has but one birthday a year, even if he is an All-American.
Of Football Polls and Pollsters
According to last WEEK’S poll of the nation’s football coaches, the Fighting Irish were only three points shy of the all-time record of 346. Obviously a few of the pollsters were influenced by Cole Mines smashing victory over Shiloh Corners and consequently threw their votes to the Miners.
Prediction of the Week
Our psychic sports editor won’t pick the exact score of tomorrow’s game as he did last WEEK. If he were that accurate, he’d be out playing the parlay cards instead of writing sports columns. You know, that isn’t such a bad idea.
Bottom of the Week
. . . and not a drop to drink.
Hospitalized Leahy Sees Irish Practice Via TV
The Fighting Irish scrimmaged in hospitalized Frank Leahy's private room at St. Joseph Hospital in South Bend this week via a special television hook-up set up by WSBT-TV for the ailing coach. After viewing his first practice session on TV, Leahy said, “. . . that he saw more on TV than he did in the flesh.”
The scrimmage was televised direct to St. Joseph Hospital by a special station open only to Leahy who was confined to his room by an acute attack of virus enteritis which struck him during the Notre Dame-Georgia Tech game last Saturday.
If all goes well “the coach” will be on the field directing his charges against Navy tomorrow afternoon.
Leahy communicated with his assistant coaches on the field by a direct telephone circuit from the hospital to Cartier Field.
A 1,200-foot cable connected the camera on the field with a micro-wave station atop the Notre Dame Stadium. The telecast was then beamed to a second station at the hospital, which was in turn connected to the receiver in the coach’s room, according to Arthur iR. O’Neill, chief engineer for WSBT-TV.
The micro-wave circuit facilities were installed by the Indiana Bell Telephone Co. and purchased by the station. The telecast was on a completely closed circuit and could not be picked up by any other ordinary receiver.
October 30, 1953
5
DR RW TURBOW \OPTOMETRIST
OCTOBER 30
NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL (4:30 p.m.)—At long last the new science building is dedicated. The Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., archbishop of Philadelphia performed the ceremony this afternoon.
FIELD HOUSE (7:30)—The pre-game pep rally returns to its indoor home—where it belongs. Here, at least, you can hear what the speakers have to say.
STUDENT CENTER—Immediately following the rally, the Student Senate takes another stride in the right direction with an open house party. SMC and ND students, as well as guests are invited. Price: 25 cents stag; 50 cents per couple. Bobby Brown and his Spotliters will provide music for dancing.	•
COLFAX (through Oct. 4)—Though a bit on the tear-jerker side at times, Little Boy Lost (A-l) is pretty appealing entertainment. “Der Single” in his own inimitable style, performs very well in a role calling for little humor or crooning.
GRANADA (a week)—Joan Crawford does what amounts to a solo performance in Torch Song (A-2). She plays a temperamental actress who is put in her place by a blind pianist (Richard Wilding). The story then ends. This ought to make you very happy if you happen to be in the audience. The co-pic is Sea of Lost Ships.
PALACE (7 p.m. and 9:30 p.m.)—Nat “King” Cole, Sarah Vaughn and Ralph Martieri exhibit their talents in person in the “Biggest Show of ’53.” The prices are kinda high, but it’s bound to be a great show. It has been for the past two years anyhow.
AVON (indefinite run)—The Moon Is Blue (C) still around. (See editorial).
OCTOBER 31
STADIUM (1:30 p.m.)—The Greenshirts strive to make Navy rung number five on the championship ladder. The Middies are hoping for an Irish let-down. We’re pretty sure the ND coaches insured against such possibilities during the week. '
DRILL HALL (8:30 p.m.)—The seed of inspiration still grows wildly in the imagination of the Senate publicity head. This week he’s dreamed up the “Middie Dip.” Don Gels and his orchestra will provide the music; the price is the same as usual. As an added attraction, there will be a band leading contest between a St. 'Mary’s and Notre Dame student. Shades of Sammy Kaye!
PALACE (through Oct. 6) Golden Blade (A-l), starring Rock Hudson and Piper Laurie, is one of those hero of the people jobs which involves in its plot the ever-present beautiful princess. A lot of action and really not bad entertainment. The same cannot be said for co-feature, The Stand at Apache River.
NOVEMBER 1
GROTTO (3:00 p.m.)—St. Mary’s and Notre Dame students join in reciting the rosary in commemoration of All Saints Day. There will also be Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament. In case of rain, the ceremonies will be held in Sacred Heart Church. A Senate sponsored open house in the Center will follow.
RIVER PARK (through Nov. 4)—Gentlemen Prefer Blondes (B) is back again and this time nobody is even curious, much less anxious. Definitely the bust of 1953.
NOVEMBER 5
COLFAX (a week)—Jane Wyman and Sterling Hayden star in the film version of Edna Ferber’s novel, So Big (A-l). Film experts rate it “excellent.”
— OPTICAL REPAIRS —
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated
“Bring In The Pieces’3
--- EYES EXAMINED---------
207 W. Washington
Oliver Hotel Phone 4-5777
You Always Get a Square
Deal at Breen’s
WATCHES DIAMONDS RADIOS SHAVERS EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING
BREEN’S
Jeweler
325 So. Michigan St. Ph. 7-3630
WE ARE NEW “THE TWINS RESTAURANTS” Prop, by Brother and Sister
Come and Try Our “Pizza and Spaghetti” The Real Italian Way We Also Have Home-Made Chili Just the Way You Like It!
713 E. LASALLE

The Scholastic
t
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor PATRICK C. CARRICO
Managing Editor ♦	LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate Editor WILLIAM F. NOONAN
PAUL FULLMER ....................News
FRED C. ECKART ............  ....Copy
JOHN A. ADAMS ......Assistant Copy PAUL J. LaFRENIERE....Assistant Copy JOHN E. SLAVICK ....___Features ROBERT B. FROLICHER ..........  Sports
JERRY D. BAIER _____Advertising B. JERRY CAMPBELL ..........Circulation BOB FOWLER_________Editorial Cartoonist DICK HAIRSINE______Photography Coordinator
JOHN P. DEFANT....Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Bill Burnett, Dick Connelly, Car-roll Dowden, Ellis Joseph, John Manion, Jim Mason, Dick Norton, Jim O’Brien, Henry O’Bryan, Pete Sturtevant, Mike Ward.
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Dick Bennett, Gordon DiRenzo, Bob Fowler, Jim Galde, Bob Huddleston, Bob Mackey, Gerry Trafficanda, Ed Turner, Dana Weithers.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC Is published weekly during the school year, except during. vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
OUR COVER: We couldn’t help devoting this week’s frontage to the members of the Irish football team who subdued the gallant Tech team last Saturday and thereby strengthened their hold on the top of the nation’s pigskin poll. It’s only fitting, we think, that we run a natural sequel to last week’s “Wreck Tech” cover with the outcome in a panorama design. Call it sweet revenge or mere satisfaction, we’re convinced Notre Dame partisans will relish the result.
Our thanks to commercial artist Al Baumler and the Indiana Engraving Company for helping us with the composition.
THE NOTRE DAME
Scholastic
Vol. 95 October 30, 1953 No. 6
This Colored Moon Business
The Moon Is Blue, a film currently showing at one of the local theatres here in South Bend, is causing quite a controversy all over the country.
The picture has been denied a Production Code seal and the. refusal has been upheld upon appeal to the board of the Motion Picture Association. Several West Coast theatre chains cancelled their showings when public opinion throttled boxoffice receipts. The National Legion of Decency condemned it. of course, with a “C” rating on grounds of indecency. Francis Cardinal Spellman and Cardinal McIntyre denounced it as a definite “occasion of sin,” and advocated that all Catholics avoid it, period.
Motion Picture Herald, the movie industry’s digest, naturally had nothing but praise for the production. Although its editors oversell even* movie that hits the nation’s screens, it can’t be denied that most outside critics agree with their . ... * °
terms. They call it a “clever, brilliantly written, flawlessly acted and directed bedroom comedy.”
So where does all this leave the Catholic who is genuinely interested in seeing a supposedly good technical production, but is stymied by moral obligations? Frankly . . . right in the middle.
*	o
The “occasion of sin” tag that has been pinned on the movie is used with reference to the ordinary’ person. If you’re a critic, or if you consider yourself above ordinary, then it’s a personal matter of conscience. Bqt jf jou’g an ordi-narynersorj, you’d do best in staying away from The Moon Is Blue. Your ab-Wice from the ticket office, together with that of five thousand other Notre Dame students, will convince local managers that the movies like this one won’t sell in South Bend, and it will save you from similar predicaments in the future.
A Respectable Showing
Mid-season bouquets usually do nothing but jinx the winning team, but Scholastic’s editors feel justified in taking the big gamble and giving the Notre Dame gridders a well-earned pat-on-the-back for their sterling performance last Saturday afternoon in which they lived up to their reputation at the expense of an outmanned, but gallant, Georgia Tech team. One of the visitors’ assistant	!
coaches may have overdone it, we think, in saying the tide turned when captain	i
Don Penza “won the toss and elected to receive,” yet the victory was a decisive one.
Admittedly, the Tech game was our season. Speculation on Georgia Tech’s position as a stumbling block in our title-bent schedule began about this time last year, and — frankly enough — kept many coaches, students and alumni awake at night. But now that it’s all over, few can deny the Irish the poll position they now hold in national ratings.
For those who sincerely doubt the Irish power, the remaining schedule — which includes ’52 Ivy League champion Penn, ’52 Pacific Coast titlist Southern California, and a powerful Southern Methodist team that dumped pre-season Southwestern favorite, Rice — should serve as a decent proving ground.
After the test last Saturday afternoon, we’re convinced Notre Dame will make a respectable showing.
- 7
October 30, 1953
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildrool Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
"Safari as I’m concerned" said Sheedy's gal, "your hair looks like some* thing the cat dragged in. Purrhaps you better spring for some Wildroot Cream-Oil, America's favorite hair tonic. Keeps hair combed without
greasiness. Removes loose, ugly dandruff. Relieves annoying dryness. Contains Lanolin. Non-alcoholic.” So Sheedy roared down to his druggist for Wildroot Cream-Oil, and now he’s feline mighty fine. All the girls paws and stare when he passes. So you better leopard on the bandwagon and try Wildroot Cream-Oil right meow. Scratch up 29? for a bottle or handy tube at any toilet goods counter. And ask your barber for some Wildroot Cream-Oil on your hair.Then you’ll be the cat’s whiskers!
WOMS INI Mill
UHMS DITkESS
REMOVES IOOSE DlWJuit-
*0/131 So. Harris Hill Rd., Williamsville, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
ENGINEERING SENIORS...
North American Aviation Los Angeles will interview here
Monday, NOV. 2
A representative of North American Aviation, Inc., the company that designed and produces this country’s top fighters, the new F-100 Super Sabre Jet and F-86 Sabre Jets, will be on the campus Monday, November 2, 1953, to interview winter graduates for positions at the coimpany’s Los Angeles, California, and Columbus, Ohio plants.
Junior engineering positions are available at North American. For details contact the Placement Director as soon as possible.
Has your picture been taken for the Dome or Scholastic?
Now you can obtain copies of all photos taken by Dome and Scholastic photographers at these low prices.
1 print - - - 75c 2 or more prints of same photo, each 65c
All prints are regular news size—8x10 glossies
Place your order at
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLICATIONS
Basement of Farley Hall
The Scholastic
The Scholastic
Volume 95, Number 6
Notre Dome, Indiana
October 30, 1953
Short Ticket Sales Cancel Student Trip
The Office of Student Affairs has announced that the student trip to Philadelphia for the Pennsylvania game, Nov. 7, has been called off because an insufficient number of tickets was sold.
Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vicepresident in charge of student affairs, in commenting on the trip failure, said it was regrettable that “due to lack of student interest and support, the University was forced to make a necessary cancellation.”
A minimum of 300 tickets was needed to reserve a special train for the game, Father Norton said. Of these, the University marching band took up 110 so that only 190 tickets had to be purchased by the student body. Although the ticket stand remained open two extra days, only 120 of the required number of tickets were sold.
Father Norton said he was especially sorry to see all the work and planning of both the Blue Circle committee and his own office go to waste. Arrangements for the trip were made last Spring with the New York Central Railroad and the Adelphi Hotel in Philadelphia.
“Such distant trips have presented similar difficulties in the past,” Father' Norton said, “but no previous student trip was ever canceled.”
Refunds to those students who paid for the trip are currently being made. The football ticket office has agreed to hold tickets for any of those students who still wish to attend the Penn game.
Classes will be held as usual on Friday and Saturday.
RETURN DOME PROOFS
All those who had their pictures taken for the Dome should return all the proofs immediately to the basement of Walsh Hall. Next Friday, Nov. 6, is the latest date for returning the proofs.
DR. GEORGE E. UHLENBECK	ARCHBISHOP JOHN O’HARA
Speaks ...	... and Dedicates
Archbishop O'Hara, Dr. UNenbeck Figure In Nieuwland Science Hall's Dedication Today
Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., archbishop of Philadelphia, will dedicate the Nieuwland Science Hall this afternoon at 4:15. The former Notre Dame president will bless the $2,500,000 structure which houses classrooms, laboratories, and offices of the University’s Departments of Chemistry, Physics, and Mathematics.
Dr. George E. Uhlenbeck, world renowned physicist and faculty member at the University of Michigan, will be the principal speaker at a University convocation tonight at 8:30 in Washington Hall. Doctor Uhlenbeck will receive an honorary Doctor of Science degree from Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University. The title of the physicist’s address will be “The Spin of the Electron.”
An academic procession from the Administration Building to Washington Hall will precede the convocation.
Doctoi' Uhlenbeck is both a distinguished theoretical physicist and an outstanding teacher. When he came to the United States from Holland in 1927, he was already recognized as the discoverer of the electron spin. Since then he has made many significant and lasting contributions in virtually all fields of
physics. He is a native of Batavia in the Dutch East Indies.
The dedication activities got underway last night with a symposium on “The Development of Science at Notre Dame.” Dean Lawrence Baldinger of the College of Science presided at the symposium which included papers by three department heads: Rev. Henry J. Bolger, C.S.C., physics; Dr. Andrew Boyle, chemistry; and Dr. Arnold E. Ross, mathematics.
Humanities Courses Important
Dean Baldinger outlined the history of the College of Science since its beginning in 1865, and stressed the importance “of courses in the humanities and social sciences in the program of those who are preparing for careers in science.” These courses, he said, “are especially important at the present time when the scientist is called upon to make decisions concerning the use of destructive devices.”
Among those attending the dedication events are the members of the University’s Advisory Council for Science and Engineering which held business sessions on the campus today. The council
(Continued on page 33)
October 30, 1953
9

Notre Dame Invites Coast^to-Coast Industries To Underwrite Forty-Five Distinguished Profs
The University of Notre Dame soon will invite corporations from coast-to-coast to underwrite the addition of 45 distinguished professors to its faculty, it was announced recently by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., director of the Notre Dame Foundation.
Father Cavanaugh, who served as i president of the University from 1946 :	to 1952, outlined a new program for
■ faculty development before campus ; meetings of Notre Dame’s alumni board of directors and the Advisory Council for the College of Commerce. The latter group is composed of 34 nationally known executives of business and industry.
“Just as the corporation symbolizes private enterprise in America, the University of Notre Dame is a symbol of private education at its finest,” Father Cavanaugh declared. “Because we believe that, for the good of the country, strong tax-supported .institutions of higher learning should co-exist with equally strong private colleges and universities, we are approaching corporation executives, confident that they will welcome the partnership which we propose for the education of morally responsible leaders for the nation,” he said.
Funds for faculty development are Notre Dame’s most pressing problem, the former University president explained. He pointed out that “the University has been extremely fortunate in recent years in the acquisition of new buildings through generous benefactions. Notre Dame now has the largest enrollment in its history. Our president, Father Hesburgh, has concluded that Notre Dame must concentrate on expanding and strengthening its faculty,” Father Cavanaugh asserted.
Program Complements Present Faculty
“Our Distinguished Professors Program in no way deprecates the splendid corps of professors who now make up. Notre Dame’s 560-man faculty,” Father-Cavanaugh stressed. “These men are the holders of advanced degrees from most of the great universities in this country and abroad,” he pointed out. “But our postwar enrollment was so sudden in its pressures that we now have a student body of 5,400 as compared to a 3,500 pre-war group. What with the nationwide teacher shortage,” Father Cavanaugh continued, “it has not been possible to insist upon or to secure the permanent faculty additions essential to the long-range development of the University.”
Father Cavanaugh explained that members of the faculty leave each year for more lucrative positions in industry or industrial research with many of them turning to private business. “It is our hope to replace these men with the best teaching faculty that we can secure and to encourage the academic advancement of our continuing faculty members as well,” he said.
Father Cavanaugh disclosed that Notre Dame already has tested its Dis-
FATHER CAVANAUGH
“Concentrate on Expanding Faculty”
tinguished Professors Program in certain selected cities. He indicated that the response of corporation executives in those cities has been “both enthusiastic and encouraging.” He praised the efforts that industry is making to extend support to private education “which has given industry so many of .its present leaders.”
“Education, too, deserves credit for its effort to meet the problem,” the priest-educator observed. “All schools, including Notre Dame, have studied carefully their programs in the light of their purposes. Notre Dame, like the Committee on Financing Higher Education, is convinced that increased costs cannot be entirely passed on to students without excluding from higher education many young people best able to profit from it,” Father Cavanaugh said.
Notre Dame Education Costs Less
“Despite the problems brought on by inflation Notre Dame still is able to give its students their education at approximately 30 per cent below the actual per student cost of operating the Uni
versity,” Father Cavanaugh said. “This is possible,” he explained, “because about one-fifth of the faculty are priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross who receive no salary. It is also possible,” he continued, “because of gifts to the University from its alumni and friends, support from government and industrial grants and fellowships, and auxiliary enterprises, including athletics.”
Monday Night Deadline For S.S.Test Applications
Application forms for the Selective Service College Qualification Test have been received by the Department of Guidance and Testing, and are now being distributed to all students who qualify for the test. This year the test will be administered on Thursday, Nov. 19, on the Notre Dame campus.
Application forms may be obtained in Room 251 of the Main Building from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Department of Guidance and Testing is not open on Saturdays.
The deadline for mailing the applications is midnight, Monday, but it is advisable to mail earlier in order to assure a return of the admission ticket to the test.
“All students who are eligible should take the test this fall,” advised Mr. Edward E. Quinn, head of the Testing and Guidance Department, “as the national draft call will be stepped up to 45,000 men per month, beginning in January.”
Mr. Quinn added that while general preparation for the test is not practical, a review of elementary physics and English might be helpful. The three-hour, multiple choice examination tests linguistic and grammatical skills and mathematical reasoning ability.
The tests are corrected by the Educational Testing Service in Princeton, N. J., and the marks are then sent to the local draft boards. Students may obtain their marks direct from their board about a month following the test.
The passing grade for an undergraduate student is 70. However, local boards sometimes require a mark of 75 for students who intend to do graduate work.
In addition, the testing department will administer the Graduate Reciord test to all seniors who plan to attend graduate schools. Applications foi- this test may also be obtained in the testing office.
Students who wish to take the Law School Admission test must write to the Educational Testing Service for admission to this test.
10
The Scholastic

Dillon Display Popular With Students.Visitors
After the big homecoming weekend, discussion ran rampant on the merits of the official decoration contest decisions. Although the judges had their work cut out for them in choosing the best of the displays, public opinion didn’t agree with their decisions.
Of 90 people polled, 37 chose Dillon’s display as the best, while the choice of the judges, Howard, ran a close second with 27 votes.
Thirty-one of those interviewed were visitors to the campus. A breakdown of this group reveals a tie between Dillon and Howard, each polling twelve votes, with the other seven votes being shared by Lyons, Morrissey, and Badin.
One campus veteran stated that “I’ve seen them all, and I honestly would have to pick that old wrecked car in front of Dillon as the best, although I liked the idea that the boys from Walsh had.”
One of the campus visitors thought that “Howard had the best display, but that Badin’s was the cleverest.”
Of seven students residing in the Old College who were interviewed, six gave their support to Dillon, while the other one agreed with nine men of Badin who thought that they should have won the contest.
Only two of the students interviewed were residents of Dillon. The results of the poll reveal that quite a few of the students agreed with their opinions.
Frosh Resume Social Affairs With Three Dances Sunday
Freshman social activities pick up again this week with three get-acquainted dances scheduled for Sunday afternoon from 2-5.
The men of Breen-Phillips Hall will be entertained by the young ladies of St. Mary’s Academy. The recreation room of the Academy will be the site of the dance.
Cavanaugh residents will meet the girls from St. Joseph’s Nurses Home at the Vet Rec Hall.
Zahm Hall dwellers will journey to downtown South Bend to meet the Daughters of Isabella. The dance will be at St. Patrick’s Hall.
After a week’s lull there will be three more frosh socials on Sunday, Nov. 15.
Cavanaugh Hall men will attend a dance in the rec room of St. Mary’s Academy. The Breen - Phillips - St. Mary’s College gathering will be held at the Vet Rec Hall. The frosh from Farley Hall and the future nurses of St. Joseph’s Hospital will dance in the rec room of the nurses’ home.
Howard's Irish Entomologist Snares Trophy; Dillon, Lyons Second in Senate Display Race
Following the prophetic “Wreck Tech” theme, the hall decorations contest highlighted the 1953 homecoming weekend.
Howard Hall’s Irish Entomologist netting a “Yellowjacket” was adjudged the winner of the contest, meriting the travelling trophy for its decoration. Dillon and Lyons Hall tied for second place, each gaining certificates for their award. The third-place certificate was
HOWARD’S IRISH ‘BUG-CATCHER’ Sting Stopper Cops Top Award
awarded to St. Edward’s Hall. Badin Hall won an honorable mention.
The Student Senate, who sponsored the contest, contributed $15 toward each display. The remainder of the cost, none exceeding $30, was met by the individual halls. Each display was under the direction of the particular hall president.
The official judges for the competition were Rev. Thomas Cady, C.S.C., Dr. William Burke, and Prof. Frederick Beckman.
The decorations were judged Saturday morning on the bases of originality, creativeness, imagination, and expression. The inclement conditions of the past weekend were also taken into consideration.
President Jim Richards of the Senate presented the travelling trophy to Howard’s president, Tom Crehan, between halves of the Tech contest. Rev. James E. Norton, vice-president of student affairs, also extended the University’s congratulations.
The first-place display consisted of a tall, gallant Notre Dame man handling an insect net. This gayly-colored young man was in the process of snatching a
yellowjacket, which represented Georgia Tech. The ’jacket was on his way to a flower labelled “32” — Tech was seeking its 32nd consecutive victory.
The Dillon decoration employed an old wrecked auto which was stopped in its tracks by a Notre Dame ballplayer, representing Captain Don Penza. Mangled bodies of Tech players were strewn on the ground and were protruding from various sections of the automobile. >
At Lyons a locomotive called the “Rambling Wreck” was made to plummet out of a “tunnel” — the archway of the hall — against a ND ballplayer who halted the onward assault of the victory train.
Third place St. Edward’s displayed a rocket with a Notre Dame player dinging and ready for the take-off.	!
Badin’s unusual display featured a I “path” of several progressively elevated j states of the Union which a Notre Dame ’ man was to scale on his way up the victory road.
The trophy winner for last year’s homecoming against Oklahoma was Farley Hall.	i
The judges recommended that future i decorations be judged both Friday eve- । ning and Saturday morning because of i the contributing lighting effects possible i only in the evening.	;
-------------- 1 ;
Coach Sommer Announces Season's Debating Schedule	!
The Debate Team’s season swings in-	!
to high gear with Prof. Leonard Som- ; mer’s announcement that Notre Dame ; will be represented at a number of debate activities in the near future.	!
Professor Sommer accepted an invitation to Purdue University’s annual tournament to be held Nov. 21. The team’s members will be striving to repeat last year’s performance when they captured two of the four positions on the tourney’s “all-star” team. In addition to the individual citations, last year’s squad was awarded a. Wachtel Achievement Plaque for outstanding team performance.
In keeping with University policy of extending speech opportunities to as many men as possible, twelve ND representatives will meet the underclassmen of Midwestern schools at the University of Illinois, Navy Pier, tournament on Dec. 12.
The Irish speakers for this event will be selected at the completion of the comprehensive training program now in progress for the new men.
October 30, 1953
11
1 j
i Student Theatre Oldtimers Shine in New Roles ; Despite Needless Dialogue, Slow Second Act
I
5	By GAVIN KING
Erwin Trowbridge is good at picking horses. In fact he is better than good. He is infallible. His selections always win. But greeting card verse-writer Erwin had never yet won any money. For him, picking horses is just a hobby: he never bets.
But all this talent does not go to waste. Patsy, Charlie, and Frankie, three hapless “horse experts,” cash in on Erwin’s unique talent. The three are approached by the expert, who unwan-tonly is drunk. The usually abstemious Erwin is slightly disgusted with Audrey, his wife, and more than slightly disgusted with obnoxious Clarence, his brother-in-law. Erwin leaves childlike Audrey and Clarence at home and heads for the office. But his blues drive him to bars. It is at Lavillere Hotel Bar that Erwin meets the three men trying without much success to pick some winning horses.
Expert Trowbridge gives them a winner, and another, and another. Patsy, Charlie, and Frankie give this godsend ten per cent of their takings. Erwin is interested. But he’s drunk too. He passes out and into bed at the Lavillere. Audrey, who does not know where Erwin is, becomes worried. Her worries are augmented after her absent husband doesn’t return home the next morning. Mr; Carver, the poet’s autocratic boss, is also worried. He suspects that some rival greeting card firm has kidnapped his Mother’s Day specialist.
But as suspected and expected, everything resolves itself nicely: Mr. Carver retrieves his employee; Erwin is richer because of his ten per cent cuts and a boost in salary; the three men are happy on their horses.
This is Three Men on a Horse, and this is quite entertaining despite a good deal of needless dialogue, a dragging second act, and an exceedingly mixed-up atmosphere. It is entertaining because of its funny plot involving quite laughable characters: a comical verse-writer; a childlike, lovable wife; an obnoxious brother-in-law; three broken-down horse lovers; a dizzy moll; a lackadaisical, comical bell-hop. All combine to offer an entertaining, light-headed comedy.
Gerry Godwin, Denni Egry, Joe Brennan, Rody Oppenheim, and Dick Gerck-en play Erwin, Mabel the moll, Frankie, one of the three “horsemen,” Audrey, and Mr. Carver exceptionally well. Funny-man Godwin is as funny as ever, although perhaps a bit too inebriated in Act 2. Funny-woman Denni Egry is as
funny as ever. Brute Farce gangster Joe Brennan is just as effective. Newcomer Rody Oppenheim has a perfect voice for Audrey. And Dick Gercken is, as usual, good.
Yet it is amazing that the play even opened Friday. Director Tumpane and associates certainly deserve congratulations for opening, and doing such a good job, only two weeks after beginning rehearsals. It isn’t easy to learn lines for a three-act play, to make sets for it, to rehearse it, and to perform it in but two weeks’ time. Hard work is deserving of a reward. And a reward was received: a well-staged, well-done show.
Fr. Hesburgh Names Eleven New Advisors
Two University Advisory Councils are eleven members stronger as a result of recent appointments by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, president of Notre Dame.
Named to the Advisory Council for Science and Engineering are W. R. G. Baker, vice-president in charge of electronics, General Electric Co., Syracuse, N.Y.; George E. Stoll, vice-president and general manager, Bendix Aviation Corp., South Bend; Charles H. Cushwa, president, Commercial Shearing and Stamping Co., Youngstown, Ohio; and Joseph Becker, research physicist, Bell Laboratories, Murray Hill, N. J.	'
Also named were Walter J. Murphy, editor, Chemical and Engineering News, Washington, D.C.; John P. Kiley, president, The Milwaukee Road, Chicago, Ill.; and R. S. Lynch, president, Atlantic Steel Co., Atlanta, Ga.
Newly appointed members of the Advisory Council for the College of Commerce include Clyde E. Broussard, president, Beaumont Rice 'Mills, Beaumont, Texas; Jerome J. Crowley, president, The O’Brien Corp., South Bend; Robert Sargent Shriver, Jr., The Merchandise Mart, Chicago, Ill.; and C. R. Smith, president, American Airlines, New York, N. Y. The new members attended the Fall meeting of the Council on campus today and the dedication of Nieuwland Science Hall.
The two groups will meet on the campus semi-annually to consult with the University administration and the Deans and faculty members of the respective colleges.
FRANK J. SHEED
Lectures on Study of Theology
Sheed Begins Theology Lectures Here Nov. 10
Mr. Frank J. Sheed, noted author, lecturer, and lay theologian, will visit the University to deliver two lectures on the study of theology on Nov. 10.
The opening discourse will be “The Importance of the Study of Theology for Catholic Laymen.” It will be given - in Room 127, Nieuwland Science Hall at 8 p.m. Admission is by ticket only.
At 8 p.m. in Washington Hall the following evening, Mr. Sheed will speak on “How to Study Theology.” This talk is open to all the faculty and students.
These talks are part of the series of religious lectures, scheduled throughout the year, under the sponsorship of the Department of Religion and the Committee on Self-Study of the Arts and Letters School.
Mr. Sheed, an Australian of Irish descent, is the founder of the international publishing house, Sheed & Ward. This company “aims at presenting Catholicism positively and at being a medium of expression for the whole Catholic world.”
Mr. Sheed has written several books, including Theology and Sanity and Communism and Man. For the last 25 years he has spent much time lecturing throughout England and America on Catholic doctrine and the Catholic point of view.	‘
Commenting on the visit of Mr. Sheed, Rev. Joseph H. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., head of the Department of Religion, says, “In my opinion Frank Sheed is the outstanding Catholic lay theologian. I am happy that he is willing to give these lectures at Notre Dame.”
12
The Scholastic
Small Loan Fund Expects $40,000 Business; Student Senate to Handle All Applications
The Student Senate-sponsored small loan fund that was initiated last year, is operating again and expects to handle student loans amounting to $40,000 during the school year, Rick Hicks, Senate treasurer, has announced.
The University administration, with Rev. Alfred Mendez, C.S.C., in charge, originally handled small loans to students, but last year the job was turned over to the Senate in the hope that more students might benefit from the service and that it could become a permanent project of the Student Senate.
In the first eight days of operation this year, 45 applications were received and $1,900 was loaned to students. No applications were rejected among these first applicants.
Any Notre Dame student may borrow up to $50 on a no-interest basis and is given 30 days in which to repay the sum. If at the end of that time he has failed to make the payment, he is given a two week notice and if he should still fail to pay, the Student Senate notifies his parents of the indebtedness.
To apply for a Ioan, the student must obtain a form at the Student Senate office in Room 122 of the Main Building. Then a committee from the Student Senate decides on the merit and the amount of the loan. The sum may be either granted, reduced, or refused by the committee. After a one day waiting period, the student whose loan has
Catholic Interracial Council Meets in Chicago Tomorrow
An informal luncheon of the college program committee of the Catholic Interracial Council of Chicago will be held tomorrow at 12:30 p.m. in Chicago.
Guest speaker will be Rev. Martin Carrabine, S.J., regional secretary of the Sodality of Our Lady. The program is under the direction of the Newman Club, University of Illinois, Navy Pier.
On Nov. 21 and 22 the official program for the 1953 interracial collegiate conference will get underway at St. Joseph’s College, Rensselaer, Ind. Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., University of Notre Dame, will be the principal speaker for the opening day.
The aim of the conference, which will involve students attending colleges and universities in Illinois, Indiana, and Wisconsin, is to make students familiar with the principles of interracial justice and charity, and with their application to practical problems.
been approved, may pick it up in the Senate office.
“Usually the requested sum is granted, except when it seems to be out of proportion or unnecessary,” said Hicks.
The office hours for obtaining loan forms are from 3:30 to 5 p.m. on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday.
Students applying for loans on Tuesday will receive them on Wednesday, and those applying on Wednesday will get theirs on Thursday, but if application is made on Thursday the loan can’t be obtained until the following Tuesday.
In approximately two weeks the loan office will be moved from the Main Building to the new Student Center.
Rev. Jerome Wilson, C.S.C., vicepresident in charge of business affairs, is the faculty advisor for the project. Joe Daley, Senate secretary, and Hicks form the loan committee.
“Students are urged to repay the loans promptly so that others may benefit from the service because we have only $5,677 with which to work,” Hicks added.
Guidance Bureau Schedules Frosh Admission Test Reviews
Members of the freshman class will be scheduled for interpretation of their admission test scores beginning next week, it has been announced by Mr. Quinn, head of the Department of Guidance and Testing.
As in the past an interpretative leaflet will be provided each student in order that he may have a record of his test scores to keep or to send home to his parents.
Students will be scheduled in small groups according to alphabetical arrangement, regardless of their colleges. All freshmen are urged to watch for the schedules to be posted on the bulletin boards of their residence halls, and to read carefully the instructions for obtaining their records without confusion and delay.
After the students have been interviewed in small groups and given then-test scores, anyone desiring individual counseling or further explanation of the test scores can arrange for such interviews on his own.
Mr. Quinn said that “The freshman class as a whole seems to be a little superior in all aspects to the classes preceding it in the last several years.”
Frolicher Joins Sand As Prophet Renowned
History repeats itself!
Last year’s Scholastic Sports Editor Jack Sand picked the big game of the year, the Irish-Oklahoma tussle, right on the nose, 27 to 21. Not to be outdone by his predecessor, this year’s occupant of the pressbox, Bob Frolicher, came through on the 1953 Homecoming weekend with the exact pick on the Tech battle, 27 to 14.
Both amateur prognosticators are | senior journalism majors in the College I of Arts and Letters.
Sand, now an assistant to Mr. Charles Callahan, sports publicity director of Notre Dame, is the author of the weekly predictions of national college games •now running in the Scholastic. He has hit for a .727 percentage so far this year.
Although all those on the inside realize that the predictions were merely stabs in the dark, the two editors really rubbed that old crystal ball and uttered the magic words.
Frolicher recently served as managingeditor of the Journalist, newspaper of the Department of Journalism. He headed the initial issue of the 1953 year.
After this two-year streak, Sand remarked that, “whoever inherits this job next year will really have a tough time living up to the fabulous luck, or you might call it skill.”
Both Frolicher and Sand claim that all the scores are “just hunches.” “We just happen to pick them and they come out that way.”
FROLICHER and SAND
Without a Crystal Ball
October 30, 1953
i
1________________________
13
JEANNE McMANUS
Musical Words for Commercemen
'Bankruptcy Ball' Plans Vocals by McManus
Jeanne McManus, featured singer for Hal McIntyre’s orchestra, will provide the Commerce men with some eyecatching and ear-fetching diversions at their second annual ball, Nov. 21, this year pessimistically tagged the “Bankruptcy Ball.” Setting the stage for the Iowa weekend, the dance will be held in the new Student Center from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m.
“Bankruptcy Ball” may be more than alliteration if Chairman John Gross-pietch goes through with his “Operation Orchid.” He and his committee are planning to have a shipment of baby orchids flown in from Hawaii and presented at the door to the ladies. Financial wizards on the ball committee contemplate doing this at no extra cost to bidholders.
Octet and Michuda Entertain
During the orchestra’s intermissions, ballgoers will be entertained by vocal selections of the Glee Club Octet and a violin solo by Leo Michuda.
Rounding out the weekend for the ballgoers will be the game on Saturday, and a Communion Breakfast on Sunday. The breakfast will be in the Morris Inn following the 9 o’clock Mass at Sacred Heart Church.
Usual arrival and departure deadlines will be enforced.
Assisting Chairman John Grosspietch in the management of the ball are Hugh Bray, business manager, and Dick Cas-tellini, publicity director. Tom Stubler is in charge of tickets, Phil Brehm heads entertainment, and Jim Deline is providing refreshments.
New York University Offers Scholarships To Outstanding Legal-Minded College Seniors
Outstanding American college seniors interested in a career of legal leadership may apply now for a $6,600, three-year Root-Tilden Scholarship offered by the New York University School of Law, Dean Russell D. Niles announced recently.
Applications for the 20 Root-Tilden Scholarships to be awarded next year must be made by Feb. 15, 1954. Final selections will be announced late in April and recipients will begin their study at NYU in September.
In the tradition of the men for whom they are named, Root-Tilden Scholarships are awarded on the basis of superior academic record, potential capacity for unselfish public leadership, and active extra-curricular participation in college life.
On Par With Rhodes Grants
Dean Niles pointed out in his announcement that leaders in the profession consider the opportunities created by the Root-Tilden Scholarship program to be “on a par with those of the Rhodes Scholarships for study at Oxford.”
“The scholar will receive his legal education at NYU’s new five-million-dollar Law Center building under a faculty of distinguished legal authorities,” he said.
“General and individual instruction in fields allied to the law will help him develop his public leadership potential and also give him every chance for success as a jurist.
“A series of special seminars and informal meetings with some of this nation’s prominent lawyers and judges will equip him practically as well as academically with a working knowledge of the law, public affairs, and opportunities for specialized' public service.”
A candidate must be over 20 years of age, but not over 28, when his law training begins at NYU, and be an unmarried male citizen of the United States.
Each of the scholarships carries an annual stipend of $2,200 to cover tuition, books, and living expenses, so that the student will be free to devote his time to his studies. Although the award is made initially for one year, it is renewed for the second and third years if the student maintains a high standard in legal and general scholarship.
College seniors interested in the scholarships should apply immediately to: Dean of the School of Law, New York University Law Center, New York 3, N. Y.
Under the terms of the grant, 20 scholarships are awarded annually on a
competitive regional basis, with two scholarships allocated to each of the ten Federal Judicial Circuits. A candidate whose application is accepted is first screened by a state committee consisting generally of the Chief Justice of the State, the president of the state bar association, and the publisher or editor of a leading newspaper in the area.
Nov. 13 Set as Date For Advertising Test
Dates have been announced for the eighth annual test for the selection of young men and women of the Chicago area who have an aptitude for work in advertising. Held under the auspices of the Chicago Chapter of the American Association of Advertising Agencies, the test for this locale will be given in room 202 of the Commerce Building on Nov. 13.
While many persons feel that they should “be in advertising,” they often have no way to determine whether they have the ability and temperament which would suit them for a career in that business.
Open to College Seniors
For a fee of $20, the A.A.A.A. test gives those who take it an opportunity to find out whether they have the requisite qualifications.
Although the examinations are open to nearly all who wish to take them, college students must be in their senior year.
Those who make high marks in the test are encouraged to “go on from there” in seeking employment, as the examination is given only to determine the general qualifications and not for fitness for any specific job opening.
Between 1,000 and 2,000 young people are hired over the United States ,each year by advertising agencies, and many more in fields related to some other phase of advertising work.
Renewed After First Year
However, a considerable number of persons who take the test each year do find their work in advertising. Out of all the candidates who participated nationally last year, 30 per cent are now in advertising, and 28 per cent are in related fields.
Details and application blanks may be obtained by writing to Box 1151, Chicago.
14
The Scholastic
Smith Installed New K.C. Grand Knight
The newly elected officers of the Knights of Columbus were installed in their respective positions last Monday evening. The ceremonies took place in the basement of Walsh Hall and were conducted by Anthony DeDario, district deputy of the South Bend area.
Jerome Smith was installed as the Grand Knight of this council. He hails from Hammond, Ind. and is a junior in the combination AB and Law course.
The Deputy Grand Knight is Joseph Shelley, a senior from New York, and is in the College of Commerce.
The other newly installed officers are: Walt Bernard, chancellor; Jack Lee, warden; Dick Miller, treasurer; Ted Ewing, advocate; George Zimmerman, financial secretary; Al Walter, recording secretary; Tom Armstrong, inside guard; and Dick Rust, outside guard.
Appointees to the council are: Vince Raymond, lecturer; Joe D’Antoni, five point chairman; and the five men under Mr. D’Antoni: Lou Basso, membership chairman; Bob Maley, fraternal activities chairman; Gene Cralley, council activities chairman; Dick Rust, publicity chairman; and Bill Bord, Catholic activities chairman.
Lou Basso noted that the first degree initiations will take place Monday. Anyone interested in becoming a first degree member at this initiation may contact Basso in the basement of Walsh between 4 and 5 a.m. every afternoon.
Applications for'Who's Who' To Be Submitted by Nov. 15
Sixteen days remain for- submitting nominations for membership in Who’s Who Students in American Universities and Colleges. All applications should be submitted to the chairman of the Blue Circle Who's Who Committee, 156 Alumni, not later than Sunday, Nov. 15.
Only seniors and graduate students are eligible for nomination. Applications may be submitted either by the applicant himself or by any member of the' student body.
Applicants will be judged on the basis of scholarship, cooperation and leadership in academic and extra-curricular activities, service to the school, and promise of future usefulness.
In addition to the national awards— including a certificate of acknowledgment, recognition in annual publication, and benefits of student placement service—the Student Senate will give a banquet for those selected.
Nominations are unlimited for this student honorary organization.
first Round Moot Court Opens Wednesday; Eiberger, Helling to Represent ND in Chicago
Thirty-two prospective attorneys will present their cases before the mythical annual session of the Moot Court next Wednesday and Thursday. The occasion will be the first round of elimination in the annual affair sponsored by the College of Law.
Eight courts will try the cases of the 32 men in the presence of eight South Bend area attorneys and a like number of Law faculty members and senior students. Following these preliminary rounds the ranks of those participating will be cut in half.
Will Judge Individual Showing
During the eliminations the men are paired off, with one duo arguing for the plaintiff and the other backing the defendant. The men will be judged for their individual case presentations and not on their team showing. It is possible foi- one plaintiff and one defending attorney to have both their names inscribed on the permanent Dean Manion Plaque found in the Law Lounge. Each winner will also receive a $50 cash prize. The final round in this year’s eliminations will be held next October rather than the usual middle of June date. In past years the ultimate session has been held on the weekend of the Alumni reunions. However, in order that more students may witness the event, the date has been moved back to October.
Last year’s winners, Carl Eiberger and Joe Helling, will represent Notre Dame in Chicago during the Seventh District Moot Court eliminations, Nov. 19-21. Acting as an alternate will be another finalist from last year, Will Pollard. Represented in this competition will be colleges from Illinois, Indiana, Wisconsin, and Michigan.
Trio Could Enter Finals
Should the local trio emerge from this competition victorious, they will travel to New York City where the national finals will be held Dec. 4 and 5. The question to be considered in national Moot Courts this year deals with a teacher who refused to answer questions put to him by the un-American Activities Committee' concerning Communist affiliations. He was subsequently fired by the university that employed him because of this refusal. Upon his death his wife files for a pension claiming that he was unjustly fired.
This case will also be tried in two of the first round elimination courts next
week. These sessions, which are slated to begin at 7:15 p.m. in the Law Building rooms, are open to the public free of charge.
'Moonlight Bay' Motif Prevails For Engineers' Nov. 13 Dance
Dick Carlton, who plays “America’s smartest music,” has been engaged for this year’s Engineers’ Ball—“Moonlight Bay”—to be held in the Student Center Nov. 13 from 9 pan. to 1 a.m.
Smooth and rhythmic offerings as well as outstanding vocal arrangements have made Carlton’s band one of the most sought-after’ aggregations in America.
Carlton’s band has been featured across the airwaves by National, Co- ’ lumbia, Mutual and American Broadcasting Companies. In addition, it was also heard on the Fitch Bandwagon on NBC.
The world’s largest hotel chain, the Statler, has featured this group periodically in the world famous Terrace Rooms for the past four years. Carlton has played for one of the world’s most noted dignitaries — the King of Sweden. Carlton was also musical director for General MacArthur’s headquarters.
Bids for the semi-formal affair are priced at $3.75 each and are now on sale at the main entrance to the Dining Hall.
In charge of arrangements is Jack Nashert, aided by William Till, business manager; Ed Christiano, ticket chairman; and Lee Brockway, publicity chairman.
DICK CARLTON
Tech Men’s “Tune Factory”
’ October 30, 1953
i
15
FATHER O'BRIEN PREACHES TO SMOKY MOUNTAIN NATIVES
An Audience Found Drowsing in the Shade
i Fr. O'Brien Probes Remote Southern Regions ' Searching for 'Inquirers' as Potential Converts
“I am a Catholic priest, a professor from the University of Notre Dame,” says Rev. John A. O’Brien as he introduces himself to the people of No-Priest land. The subject of numerous national magazine articles, Father O’Brien is an annual summer missionary in the South.
These people live in a land where there are fewer Catholics than in China, Japan, or Africa.
Father O’Brien’s regular trips to the South originated with a letter from Rev. Ambrose F. Rohrbacher, pastor of St. John’s at Waynesville, N. C., pleading for help. On this letterhead were two maps. One map showed the huge eight counties in Father Rohrbacher’s mission where there existed only a handful of Catholics. The other map was of Eire. Both land areas were approximately the same size, but the proportion of Catholics in these two areas showed the enormous need for priests in the South.
Father O’Brien decided on a “friendly invasion,” a mission of good will to these Faithless inhabitants.
Spaldon Underwood, a pre-medical student here, helped Father O’Brien distribute literature to the natives “. . . so they could have something more con
crete than my voice to carry home with them.”
Opens Summer in North Carolina
Father journeyed to Waynesville to begin his mission into No-Priest land. Waynesville is 30 miles from Asheville, and is situated back in the Appalachian Mountain district. “Mountaineers live there today just as they did 100 years ago,” explained Father O’Brien.
They are largely self-supporting except for an occasional trip to town. It is here that Father greets these mountaineers with a friendly word and an introduction to the Catholic Church. “Many of these adults never heard of the Catholic Church before,” explained Father, “in fact the Catholic Church is as unknown as Mohammedanism in this part of the country.”
Father O’Brien preaches at street corners, in vacant lots, at the front of grocery stores, in athletic fields and in courthouse squares. “In fact I preach anywhere I can get an audience,” confessed Father.
Father O’Brien often conducts question and answer periods. Sometimes this lasts for a full hour, sometimes only a half-hour. But the curious minds
of the natives have started their search for truth, and Father O’Brien urges them to attend his inquiry classes. When Fr. O’Brien leaves for some new place he turns these inquiry classes over to the pastors who nurture their students to conversion.
Father has been making these trips to No-Priest land for the last seven years. He tries to lighten the burden of the priests who are forced to maintain parishes spread over hundreds of miles of territory.
“The response was very encouraging,” said Fr. O’Brien, “quite a number signed up for the inquiry classes, and that is the goal of my street preaching. Just to get these classes started before leaving is reward enough.”
Five Converts at Jacksonville
Father O’Brien spoke to his largest crowd in Jacksonville, N. C. Marine officers, enlisted men, and families came down from nearby Camp Lejeune to listen. These crowds stirred the interest of the native population, which quickened and spread. Fr. O’Brien would “. . . stand every evening on a street corner and speak for about an hour, then answer questions for a half-hour or sometimes a full hour.” Many were started in inquiry classes which were continued after he left. On the last day in Jacksonville, Father O’Brien relates, “I was privileged to baptize five adult converts.
“Students shouldn’t take a passive attitude toward this critical situation in our own country,” Fathei- said. “We should do all we can to help our Godless brothers. We believe firmly in the power of prayer here at Notre Dame and that is one of the best ways to help our brothers in the South. Remember them in your prayers and Holy Communions.
Great Need for Help
“There is a great need to help these people in No-Priest land with whatever resources we have to spare. They have no means to help themselves. We must help build schools and convents to house our missionaries.”
Father O’Brien urged the students of Notre Dame to take an active part in this effort to establish the Church in No-Priest, land. “Anything you can do will help. Prayers,-alms, and even Catholic literature sent in care of the pastors of these parishes would help. The idea is to inform these people that there is a Catholic Church and that it is the true Church.”
16
The Scholastic

TRIESTE: ONE MAN S OPINION
By TIM DEVEREUX
“If the port of Ti-ieste is given outright to Italy it will be an isolated port and an economic burden to the Italians; but if both Italy and Yugoslavia hold it and co-operate, the port would be an economic asset.”
Those were the words of Prof. Stephen D. Kertesz of the Department of Political Science, when asked for his opinion on a successful solution to the Trieste problem.
Kertesz, who served as Hungarian minister to Italy in 1947, said: “A compromise solution should be worked out between Italy and Yugoslavia with the friendly co-operation of the United States, Great Britain, and France.”
Kertesz did not criticize the United States and Great Britain, nor- did he think they committed a diplomatic blunder when they announced the worldshocking decision that the administration of the Zone A of the territory of Trieste would be given to Italy.
Private Consultation Might be ‘Wiser’
“Although a private consultation with each of the nations might have been wiser,” said Kertesz, “the United States and Great Britain might have aroused even greater animosities if they attempted to contact Italy and Yugoslavia privately before the announcement of their decision.”
The problem is complicated by the fact that a Western Big Three declaration promised to Italy the whole Trieste area. But this was before the Italian elections in 1948, and since then, Tito’s split with the Cominform occurred.
Italians expect Trieste, in return for their fulfilling the demands of the Atlantic Pact and for their future adhering to the European Defence Community, not to mention the promise made in 1948. The Yugoslavs emphasize that Trieste belonged to Italy only during the Fascist regime, and then the Yugoslav population was mistreated.
Appointment Left Hanging
During the Second World War Italy invaded Yugoslavia but lost the war. Tito’s partisans defeated the Italians, and conquered Trieste. They evacuated it forty days after an Allied ultimatum. The problem was submitted to the Peace Conference and the Italian peace treaty created the Free Territory of Trieste under a governor to be appointed by the Security Council of the U.N. This appointment never took place because of the East-West differences. Thus,
Zone A has been administered by Anglo-Americans and Zone B by the Yugoslavs.
“Russia’s plan to internationalize Trieste under the United Nations is a trick,” said Kertesz. The Russians want the Italians and Yugoslavs to continue on unfriendly terms with each other, thereby succeeding in keeping Italy as a questionable ally of the West in NATO’s line of defense, which stretches to Greece and Turkey. “Trieste holds a strategical position in this link and, therefore, co-operation between Italy and Yugoslavia is necessary,” he said.
‘Emotional Factors' Involved
The real difficulty is that “emotional factors are involved and rational arguments are not easily accepted on either side,” said Kertesz. Nonetheless, the common interest of the Italians and Yugoslavs demands a co-operative solution which at the same time would be a benefit to the Free World and would secure for Trieste the necessary hinterland.
October 30, 1953
Dancers on the patio are silhouetted against the ultra-modern lounge decorated by Mrs. Laura Jenkins of New York who did the interiors for the White House.
A shy kiss was the illustration on the “Fashioned in Fantasy” dance
program.
Jean Terry, the vocalist of the Morrowmen.
Two cats cavort to the jazz of	Two couples take a breather in the
Buddy Morrow.	lounge.
Id
couples at the Cotillion try out Notre Dame’s dance floor for the first time on the second floor of the $175,000 Center.
ndred
a

A New Setting
'.-I

After years of the Palais Student Center.
And a beautiful setting it they stood and stared at the
Royale and the Rock, the Sopho mores finally had their Cotillion in a new setting—the LaFortune
was for "Fashioned in Fantasy." As the dance-goers entered the refurbished Old Science Hall, change that had come over the b uilding. Gone were the dusty museum cases, and in their place
was a beautiful and spacious lounge with card rooms, club rooms, and a patio leading off from it instead of classrooms. And upstairs, the scene of the night’s festivities, Notre Dame finally has its own dance floor. Lining the walls of the lounge are paintings and prints in a modern vein by architecture students. They fit in perfectly with the over-all architecture and with the furniture, the most comfortable on campus.
The entire decorating job was done by Laura Jenkins of N ew York, and all in all, the sophs and their dates were agreed that with her help the Center tops both the Rock and the Old Palais.
33
-3a


A soph's date with her favor —a chain ring with an engraved N.D.

choice.
Buddy Morrow leads his band in the beat that made him the Sophomore’s
October 30, 1953


College ... Continental Style
This is the second in a series of two articles on European university students by Walt Clemens, who spent a year at the University of Vienna. The sketches were done on the spot by Walt, who is now a junior in political science here.
—Ed.
The nature of an Ivan, a Franz, or a Giovanni stops short of the hands-in-pocket casualness of oui- College Charley. Efforts to throw off the tradition that prohibits the erecting of buildings highei- than the town’s cathedral become strained in adopting Yankee customs.
The real spirit of the people is better found in their own ways, such as Vienna’s Faschingzeit, the month-long ball season before Lent. Johann Strauss used to whip from one ball to another, directing the crowds’ favorites. A couple of balls per season means a real financial hardship for the Austrians, but the old and young come at nine, do the circling “Wienerwaltz” till five, and singing, walk home because taxis are too expensive.
Folk dances of Austi-ia, Italy, and Yugoslavia top any imitations they try to adopt from us. Likewise, they seem more at home with the classics. No one ever looks more content than Italians eating their lunch during intermission at the Barber of Seville.
Every night students wait hours in lines for 12-cent standing places to the Viennese Opera, perhaps the world’s finest. Standing sections in Yugoslavia divide boys and girls, thus insuring full attention to the music.
Speaking of that Belgrade Gospodica, she, the German Fraulein, and most Italian Signorinas are more accustomed to work than Miss America. The Gos-
By WALT CLEMENS
groups of boys and girls to go hiking on Sunday afternoon, but for a pair to enter a movie without a chaperon, they would practically have to be engaged.
Complications arise from the distinction foreign languages make between formal and familiar use of “you”.
When to begin the familiar with your beau is a problem. Austrian tradition assigns the big switchover from “Sie” to “du” to a night at a wine garden in Vienna’s suburbs. The couple locks elbows, downs a glass of wine, kiss, and are then entitled to “du” as they please.
Fresh Heuriger wine is the Austrian’s favorite drink, but beer is his economic standby. “Vino,” white or red, is served in the Italian “Mensa”. Ivan’s Yugoslavia gets pretty cold, and he likes brandies, like “Slibovitz,” even for breakfast.
Coffee Stolen From Turks
Europe’s most sociable drink, however, is coffee. This all began when a 1687 Austrian student raided the Turk’s supply tent as they camped around Vienna during a siege. He brought back the Turk’s coffee that is now called “Mocca,” the black coffee that steams from copper cans on the tables of sidewalk cafes all over Europe.
Over a Mocca, Europeans may become reflective. Their outlooks are greatly influenced in that 99 per cent of the Franzs and Giovannis, plus 37 per cent of the Ivans are baptized Catholics. But for 60 per cent of these theoretical Catholics in Austria and
Italy the Church is only a place in which one is baptized, married and buried.
This tendency of taking the Church with a grain of salt arises partially from human failings of clergy in politics, over-pompous rites, and the absence of competition from other faiths as in Yugoslavia or in America. _
Yugoslavian students are forbidden to attend Catholic services under pain of losing their scholarships, but judging from the large percentage of men, women, and children defying the government by daily Mass attendance,, it would seem that Yugoslav students, although now under cover, will one day be strong leaders in the fight for religious freedom.
Meanwhile, the 40 per cent remaining active Catholics in Italy and Austria stand toe-to-toe against Socialists and Communists in their country. They organize themselves in Catholic fraternities. I made a retreat in an old monastery with such a group and was quite impressed to find the Retreatmaster sliding over the usual rundown on vices and virtues, and emphasizing for three days how Catholics must unite before nations can come together.
He pointed to excessive rivalry on pilgrimages, feuds within orders, variations of prayer formulas within the same language, and urged that young people wipe out these archaic bickerings. As a direct result of this retreat, the Viennese group arranged for fifty Italians to visit Vienna over Pentecost-
Here was Catholic Action in action!
Strong Catholic or not, Franz, Giovanni, and Ivan want peace above all. All know first hand that no one wins in war. Austria, struggling to regain her own two feet, needs the economic
podica helps repair train tracks destroyed in the war before going to the beach during summer vacation, and she, like most European girls, wears no lipstick.
Courting customs are very much different in Europe. 'In Italy it’s fine for
LEFT: Yugoslavian students must attend Mass in rear of Church for fear of being seen by Communists. RIGHT: Student cell meetings are dominated by one well - indoctrinated leader, specially chosen.
? The “Schuhplatten,” one of Austria’s I native folk dances is being revived by students.
I
cooperation of her neighbors. Franz r believes that the new concepts of “Euro-5 peanism” uniting nations by economic, | political, and spiritual bonds, is the | first step to world peace.
i Many Austrians come to America as I exchange students and upon return to
Europe they dedicate their lives to deepening their nation’s understanding of Americans, and vice versa. They try to explain aggravating
The flag and Boy Scout trousers tell the nationality of American hitch-hikers.
characteristics of Americans abroad— boisterous military and heavy-walleted tourists; and reciprocally, they try to help us to sympathize with the Russian as an individual, while condemning the dictatorship behind him.
Ivan, like the Russian Communist, is
somehow a product of circumstances. His historical subjection reached a horrible climax in the civil and religious wars of the last decade, in which one out of nine Yugoslavians lost his life. Under a strong leader, Ivan hopes to rebuild his crippled country. Each plays his part. Students must study where, how, and what Tito tells them. Schools send out prolific stocks of information on their five-year plans.
The Communist cells I met in government dormitories, seemed sincere as they told of fighting Nazis with pitchforks and homemade hand grenades. Their toes have been tramped on too hard. The entire country seems depressed. Many feel that strong government is the only way to consolidate this battered land.
Giovanni is in between. He feels a bit apart from plans of northern unity. His talk of Communism differs from the Italian peasants. Giovanni is not hungry for food, but for ideas.
A Cousin in New York
All three try to accept that the tourists and military swarming their homelands are not representative of the United States. Every Italian seems to have a cousin in New York. The letters and packages this cousin sends from New York bolster up Old World faith in the Democracy across the sea.
American students generally agree that whenever they approached a foreigner as a person and not as a curiosity or object of pity they found a welcome mat at his door.
That welcome mat also entails some
Work on war-destroyed railroads by boy and girt
alike during the summer is
almost a requisite if Yugoslavian students expect to retain their scholarships.
searching questions. The European wants to know: Why immigration laws? Why a McCarthy? Why poll taxes? Why tariffs? Why are you touring our land instead of us touring yours?
Different Europeans see their futures differently. Franz’s Austria, overloaded with educated people, once had an Empire to absorb its culture. Minus the Empire, minus industry carted off to Russia as war reparations, Austria offers Franz nothing. He may get to Switzerland, Sweden, or America. Otherwise, he may be like the two doctors of philosophy who swept the floor of our student home.
Italy’s unemployment problem means thin pickings for graduates, but commerce-men and engineers still get good positions in shipping and industry.
Expanding Yugoslavia offers Ivan a thousand opportunities. Year-by-year curbs on personal freedom tighten, but until freedom comes, Ivan has a job, a pension, and a party card.
The European’s loose school system wouldn’t click too readily here, but it produces a self-sufficient, cultured character in Europe. Our comforts are unknown to him; our problems of no car, or of a small TV screen pale next to problem of where his next meal comes from.
Peace is his goal. Despite all differences, he respects America and what it stands for. With this in view, an appreciation of differences and admiration for each other’s qualities, I think Old and New Worlds are' on the right road.

22
The Scholastic
53E5S55S535533S35E53353533335S535333353S533533SSS53SSS2
Capsule Corner
Dean Schoenherr Attends Centennial
Dean Karl E. Schoenherr, of the College of Engineering, recently attended the Centennial of Engineering celebration on the campus of the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor. He was appointed Notre Dame’s delegate to the meeting by Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of academic affairs.
WNDU Wins National Recognition
WNDU copped eighth place in a con-* test to select the best newscast broadcast by the 65 college campus radio stations who carried Lucky Strike programs last year.
Each of the participating radio stations submitted three typical newscasts to the contest judges, who made the 4 awards on the basis of newscasters’ delivery, impartiality, and placement of emphasis on the various items in the news.
Col. Coutlee Attends Conference
Col. Melie J. Coutlee, professor of Air Science and Tactics here, attended the AFROTC conferences at the Illinois Institute of Technology recently.
Conferences and lectures dealt with new methods in classroom teaching.
Army ROTC Announces Enrollment
The Army ROTC campus unit announced this week that a total of 615 cadets are enrolled in all phases of the ROTC program. There are 242 freshmen and 249 sophomores in the basic, course, and 85 juniors and 59 seniors in the advanced division of training.
The unit will commission 72 officers in the coming year. It was explained that several of the juniors in the program are also taking senior courses, thus qualifying them for an early commission.
Enrollment Soars to 5,401; ND Shows Increase of 200
r The correction of inaccurate figures in a recent article, has set University enrollment at its greatest in 112 years, 4 according to the University’s office of Academic Affairs.
Enrollment for the Fall semester reached a peak of 5,401, an increase of more than 200 over the 1952-53 school /
year. Included in the student body are 1,420 freshmen and 389 graduate students.
Notre Dame’s College of Commerce is the largest of the University’s five colleges with an enrollment of 1,495. The College of Arts and Letters, established in 1842, has 1,375 students. Other enrollment figures include College of Engineering, 1,281; College of Science, 617; and the College of Law, 244.
The Notre Dame student body represents every state in the Union and more than 30 foreign countries. Approximately 300 students, many of them Korean veterans, are enrolled under the GI Bill of Rights. Nearly 2,000 of the students are members of the Army, Navy and Air Force ROTC units on the campus.
Msgr. Calip Invested As Papal Chamberlain
Very Rev. Osmundo A. Calip, a Filipino priest studying for his master’s degree at the University, will be invested here today at 3 p.m. as a papal chamberlain to the Holy Father by the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., archbishop of Philadelphia. The public is cordially invited to the ceremonies which will be held in Sacred Heart Church on campus.
Pablo Pena, acting Philippine consul in Chicago, will represent his government at the rites. Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of academic affairs, will be the University’s official representative. Among specially invited guests are’ members of the Philippine Catholic Guild of Chicago as well as Philippine students from Notre Dame and other colleges and universities in this area.
Celebrates Mass Sunday
A testimonial dinner honoring Monsignor Calip will be held tonight in the Faculty Dining Room on campus. He will celebrate a Solemn Mass of Thanksgiving in Sacred Heart Church Sunday morning at 9 a.m.
Monsignor Calip is vice-chancellor and assistant superintendent of schools in the Archdiocese' of Nueva Segovia in the Philippines. Currently, the 41-year-old priest is serving as a teaching fellow in the Department of Modem languages while studying for his master’s degree in education. He received the Purple Heart while serving as a chaplain with the' Philippine Liberation Forces during World War II. In recent months he has preached in many American dioceses in behalf of the Church in the Philippines.
W OU like Chatter
You’ve often heard them yell, “He’s a man!’’ on the football field. The fans give that well-known yell when they are showing their approval of some of the valorous deeds of the players. We don’t have that yell in the radio game but if we did we certainly would use it to honor the man this article is about.
Bob Montgomery, a sophomore student in the Old College, came to WNDU this Fall. Bob is what we hope for, and seldom get, as far as radio experience is concerned at WNDU. He began getting this experience six years ago in Wisconsin Rapids, Wis.
After leaving WFHR in Wisconsin Rapids in early 1948 Bob worked fourteen months at WGL in Ft. Wayne, Indiana, until June of 1949. This would be enough experience for him to be more than welcome at WNDU, but Bob did not stop here. He continued by getting two and one-half years more radio experience at WEAU in Eau Claire, Wisconsin. To top all of this off Bob worked at WCOW in Minneapolis and St. Paul, Minnesota, until last January.
Notre Dame is the twelfth school Bob has attended, having gone to two grade schools, four high schools, three colleges, radio school, dramatic school, and dancing school. In the line of higher education he has attended Wisconsin State College and Catholic University of America.
His activities have not been limited to radio. Right now he is a member of National Society of Disc-Jockeys, National Association of Gagwriters, Toastmasters International, Young Christian Workers, and YCS. He formerly was a member of many other organizations which are too numerous to mention here.
He has held many jobs, 26 in number, which have ranged from bingo-calling to street car conducting. His radio career began in a small way at the age of ten—using a potato masher as a microphone. The jobs he has had in radio have not been limited to one field either. Bob has done news, disc jockey work, master of ceremonies, participation shows, and almost any other phase of radio you can think of.
I’m sure those of you who have heard him on the air have enjoyed him a great deal. To those of you who have not heard him be sure to do so and you will become a fan of his as so many others have done already.
—Joe Casurella
October 30, 1953
23
Campus ROTC Heads Discuss Military Policy
The Graduate Student Association presented a discussion on “The Military Aspects of United States Foreign Policy” last week to explain our role in
THE MILITARY SPEAK
Address Grad Student Group
international affairs. The guest speakers were: Maj. Joseph Chimento, United States Air Force, Maj. Roy Bass, United States Army, and Com. J. A. Masterson, United States Navy. The speakers were introduced by Mr. Edward O’Connor of the graduate group.
Major Chimento told of the strategic importance of the arctic region in aerial warfare. The explanation of man’s progression in the knowledge and use of maps brought out many surprising facts about the regions in the far north.
Major Chimento stated, most of the world’s land, population, important cities, and resources are located in the northern hemisphere. He also stated that the shortest distance between the northern hemispheres is through the Arctic Circle. He added further, “The nation that holds the poles will hold the world.”
Major Bass, concerning himself with “Western Europe and Germany,” pointed out the big problems facing General Gruenther as supreme commander of Allied Powers in Europe. Some of the major important problems, Major Bass pointed out, are that General Gruenther is the commander of a coalition of an international armed force and that he has the job of defending a valuable territory from a country that possesses the initiative.
Major Bass disclosed startling figures of how Russian numbers in manpower,
supplies and military strength outnumber ours. Major Bass said that “the best way to defend Europe is to be strong enough so that Russia will think twice before attacking. The odds against us are being reduced each day.”
Commander Masterson concluded the evening’s discourses with his talk on the problems of the Far East. He discussed the problems of defense. A problem, as the commander pointed out, was the attitude of the other nations if and when another war breaks out.
He discussed the situation in Korea and how it is so valuable in the defense of Japan in case of an all-out war. The commander stated, “At one time the German submarine campaign against the .isle of England almost crumbled her. Now Russia has five times as many submarines as Germany had then, and Russia now has much better intelligence and material. The commander said, concerning the atomic bomb, “We must be prepared to use them (atomic bombs) and defend against them.”
New Center's Interior Amazes Dance-Goers
Have you seen the new student center? If you were not one of the lucky few who attended the Cotillion this past weekend, make it a future “must” to visit the latest addition. There will be an opportunity to view the addition tonight after the pep rally.
The student center, which was made possible through the contribution of Mr. and Mrs. Joseph A. La Fortune of Tulsa, Okla., was completed just minutes prior to the initiation of the ’53 Cotillion.
Although the Old Science Building, into which the new center has been incorporated, has retained its dull, buff outward appearance, it has taken on an inward air of luxury and beauty which would lead one to believe he was in the lounge of the Waldorf Astoria.
“Modern” is the key word describing the interior decorations. When one enters the two-story structure, the first thing to catch his eye is the coloring. Different shades of color lend a levity which is completely congruous with the design and furniture.
Modem art contributions from the University’s Department of Art maintain the atmosphere and support the general theme. Indirect lighting in the ballroom, accompanied by common direct lighting, makes it possible to obtain almost any degree of illumination.
The center is definitely formal in appearance and the days of the “Rock” as a formal dance site are fast coming to an end.
After polling a few members of the student body and their dates, it was
found that the new Notre Dame “Palace” had, in general, completely overwhelmed them. Many just gaped at the place and buzzed for quite some time on its general appearance.
Although its beauty was the general topic of the Cotillion, a few of the wiser ones delved a little deeper into the subject. They realized that the initial shock would wear off in time but the facilities and accommodations offered by the center would remain to entertain the Notre Dame man and his guests for many years to come.
Complaints were practically non-existent, but a few did think that the center was a trifle small to accommodate 500 couples. One student, however, pointed out the fact that the adjoining rooms and alcoves in the main ballroom were used little during the Cotillion.
V i
Student Senate Chooses Baier Center Manager
Jay Baier, a senior in the College of Commerce, was chosen by the Student Senate to be the new Student Center manager at its weekly meeting Monday night. He will be assisted in his duties by Phil Brehm. Both will maintain separate office hours in the Center. Each is in complete charge of the Center during his attendance.
Duties of the Center’s managers will be those of public relations, keeping accounts, and managing the activities in the Center. The center will be supervised by the Physical Facilities Committee of the Senate which is headed by John Reidy.
The job is estimated to take approximately 28 hours per week with the managers’ salaries set at $1 per hour.
The first organized activity for the entire student body in the Center is scheduled for tonight. A Notre Dame-St. Mary’s party is on tap with Bobby Brown and his Spotlighters providing the music. All the facilities of the Center will be open at this time. The charge is 25 cents per person with dancing from 8:30 to 10:30 p.m.
24
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
Navy Sets Sights on Unbeaten Irish
Pennsylvania Upsets Undefeated Midshipmen; Trojan Power Routs Rival California Squad
While the Irish were driving nails into Georgia Tech’s 31-game victory streak, six remaining opponents were doing a creditable job in their own games, four emerging victorious while two were set back on their heels. Pennsylvania whipped this week’s rival, Navy, 9-6. It was the Midshipmen’s initial loss of the season.
Penn’s Ed Graminga’s 25-yard field goal with only seconds remaining in the final quarter provided the Quakers with the needed margin over the Midshipmen. Stew Haggerty recovered Phil Monahan’s fumbled pass on Penn’s 38-yard stripe. End John Lavin caught his eighth and ninth consecutive aerials, bringing the pigskin to the point where Graminga kicked.
The Quakers’ first tally resulted from a recovered fumble and the powerrunning of Fullback Joe Varaitis, who carried eight of eleven times in ensuing plays before taking a handoff and cracking over right guard from the two for the score.	,
Navy’s lone touchdown came as a result of the freak play. Penn’s sophomore signal-caller, Bobby Felver, tried to pass on fourth down on the Navy 27, but Middie tackle Jack Perkins hauled him down at midfield. Before he fell, Felver tried to ground the ball by a desperation pass. End John Hopkins gathered in the errant toss and romped the distance untouched for- the score.
Iowa’s Hawkeyes surprised Indiana, 19-13, with its unheralded aerial might which wiped out the Hoosier’s brilliant fourth-quarter comeback. Late in the fourth period, the Hawks gained possession of the ball and travelled 55 yards before Lou Matykiewicz threw to End Frank Gilliam for the tie-breaking marker.
Iowa’s initial touchdown came also as a result of a pass. With only three seconds left in the half, fourth-string quarterback Paul Kemp came off the bench to pinpoint Bobby Stearnes in (Continued on page 32)
ND Out to Gain Fifth Win Against Middies
By ERWIN ALFONSUS
Tomorrow afternoon the Fighting Irish after successfully breaking Tech’s 31-game steak, will engage in their third consecutive home assignment, seeking their fifth straight win of the present campaign against the invading Midshipmen of Navy.
Navy has a 3-1-1 record on the season by virtue of a 6-6 tie with William & Mary, a 55-7 victory over Dartmouth, a 26-6 win over the Big Red of Cornell, a sound drubbing of a highly-regarded Princeton eleven, 65-7, and an upset loss to Pennsylvania, 9-6. Prior to their loss to Penn the Middies had been unbeaten since their loss to Notre Dame last season.
This game marks the 27th renewal of their series that started back in 1927. Of the past 26 games Notre Dame has won 21, lost four, and tied one. The Irish last dropped a decision to Navy in 1944 when the Middies vron, 32-13. The only tie occurred a year later when the Midshipmen came from behind to knot the score at 6-6. Although the
UP Photo
Lattner Celebrates With A 101 yd. total	Heap Heads Down Sidelines As Irish Move
IRISH HALT TECH’S UNBEATEN STRING AT 31 GAMES, 27-14
October 30, 1953
25
JOHN WEAVER
Guides Fast-Moving Torpedoes
Irish hold such a wide advantage in the victory column, the majority of the games have been fairly close.
Seventeen of the 26 games were decided by two touchdowns or less, and ten of the contests by seven points 01’ a smaller margin. Last season Notre Dame defeated the Navy at Cleveland in a hard fought contest, 17-6.
Best Since '45
This year’s Navy squad is classed as the Academy’s best since 1945. Coach Eddie Erdelatz’s crew is chiefly noted for its defensive ability, but several lopsided victories this season have boosted the Middie’s offensive stock. Navy has nine lettermen in the starting eleven and a total of 14 lettermen on the squad.
Captaining the Navy eleven and playing at the center position in a forward wall that averages 198 lbs. is Dick Olson. This 192 lb. senior is a two monogram winner, and backs up the right side of the line on defense. Sophomore standout Ronny Beagle, a 186 lb. graduate of the plebe squad ranks, is the flanker on the left side of the line, while his teammate at the other end is Don Fullam, a 204 lb. senior’ and double monogram winner. Fullam’s replacement at end is John Hopkins, who has been the leading scorer for the Middies in the past two games.
Burly Jack Perkins, a senior, is the Navy’s left tackle, while junior Hugh Webster plays at the right tackle post. Webster and Perkins tip the scales at 195 and 215 lbs. respectively.
Eisenhauer Big Gun
All-American Steve (Ike) Eisenhauer mans the left guard post on offense and is the middle linebacker on defense. Eisenhauer is a 201 lb. senior, and a standout on the Navy line. Jim Leach,
a 196 lb. senior, handles the right guard assignment on offense, and plays at guard on defense.
Juniors compose the Navy backfield, which averages 184 lbs. a man. John Weaver, a 183 lb. quarterback, operates the T for the Midshipmen, and does most of the passing, punting, and placements. George Welsh is his able replacement at quarter. Bob Hepworth, promoted from the junior varsity, and Jack Garrow alternate at the left half slot, and Phil Monahan is the right halfback and safety for the Navy. Hepworth weighs in at 183 lbs., while Garrow and Monahan weigh 171 and 192 lbs., respectively. The defensive alignment for the middies finds Hepworth or Garrow at left half and Weaver at right half.
Completing the Navy backfield is 178 lb. fullback Joe Gattuso, who shares the punting duties with Weaver. Gattuso is the middle linebacker on defense.
Navy is highly-ranked in the East and in the national standings, and desspite their* loss to Penn last Saturday, the Midshipmen should display the form that brought them their impressive
PROBABLE STARTING LINE-UP
NAVY	NOTRE DAME
Beagle ...... IE	..... Matz
Perkins .... LT	..	Varrichione
Eisenhauer .... LG	...... Lemek
Olson (C.).„. C ....... Schrader
Leach ........ RG	....	Mavraides
Webster ..... RT	.... Hunter
Hopkins ______ RE	..	Penza (C.)
Weaver ...... GB	....	Guglielmi
Hepworth .... LH	 .....  Heap
Monahan ...... RH	.. Lattner
Gattuso ...... FB	__ Worden
Kickoff time—1:30 C.S.T.
victories this season. Their defense has been tight from game to game, and is expected to be a real test for the Irish.
Last Saturday afternoon the Fighting Irish, living up to every letter of their name, soundly whipped Georgia Tech, 27-14, in Notre Dame Stadium, and put an abrupt halt to their 31-game winning streak.
Neither the cool air nor gloomy day could quell the pep of the Leahymen or of the 58,000 top-coated fans. It was Notre Dame all the way, and as usual, the score gave no indication as to how superior they were on the gridiron. As for Bobby Dodd’s Techmen, they just didn’t have it last week. They never gave up and the defeat was not one to be ashamed of: they just met a typical Irish team that was not ready to be beaten, and would not be beaten.
Before the game was five minutes old, Notre Dame had marched from their
“IKE” EISENHAUER
Big Gun on Forward Deck
own 20 yard line across the Yellow Jacket goal. With Joe Heap showing the way by a 33-yd. jaunt around left end and Johnny Lattner raising havoc with the center of the Tech line, “Bull” Worden literally smashed over for the initial score.
Tech’s mythical lightning-fast T sputtered, stalled and refused to take effect until it was too late. It wasn’t until the third period that the “Engineers” were able to tally. After a Guglielmi pass was intercepted by Freshman Wade Mitchell on the Georgia 30 yard line, the southern visitors momentarily came to life.
Led by a speedy right-halfback by the name of Bill Teas and All-American Leon Hardeman, Tech worked the pigskin down to the Notre Dame two yard line and Quarterback Mitchell sneaked over for the touchdown. Mitchell added the extra point and the score was tied, 7-7.
Aroused by the deadlock, the Irish fought back. With Guglielmi in full command, Notre Dame moved right down the field, and climaxed the drive with Heap taking a 9 yd. pass from “Gug” for the second score. Again Mavraides’ toe was true and Notre Dame led once and for all, 14-7.
Hunter Recovers Fumble in End Zone
The spirit-breaking play came in the Tech end zone. Tech’s Carlin, back to punt, took a bad pass from center, and Art Hunter pounced on the free ball for a fast six points, with 4:05 remaining in the third quarter.
Georgia Tech had one more spurt left. Teas took McHugh’s punt on Tech’s 45, only to be nailed one yard later. On the very next play, Mitchell passed 45 yards to the same Mr. Teas who snared
(Continued on page 28)
26
The Scholastic
St. Ed's Eleven Rolls On in Eastern League; Alumni Holds Slim Lead in Western Divbion
As the third week of interhall football competition came to a close, St. Ed’s gridders still held the lead in the Eastern league, while Marty Vieth’s squad still are tops in the Western loop.
Led by fullback Jim McCauley, who accounted for 20 out of his team’s 21 points, Farley’s gridsters thumped Zahm, 21-0.
Farley scored the first time they got their hands on the ball. Minutes after the kickoff, McCauley took a handoff, broke straight over center, and went 55 yards for the T. D. McCauley also converted, and at the end of the half the score remained 7-0.
The second touchdown came midway in the third quarter on a pass play that covered 45 yards, from Quarterback Tom Edwards to McCauley. McCauley again converted. With about two minutes remaining in the game, Edwards again hit McCauley with a pass, and the hard running fullback went all the way for the third time. This also covered about 50 yards. Center Ed Green added the 21st point by placement.
Reverse Earlier Defeat
The victory reversed an earlier loss to Zahm and set the record of the boys of Jerry Miller at 2-1.
Vic Potochny ran well for the losers, although Zahm did not seriously threaten at any time. Ray Miller turned in a good game on defense for a Zahm squad that was hampered by several injuries. The loss also left the record of Coach Swede Metress’ lads at 2-1.
In the only game played last week in the Western league, the once-beaten Lyons squad battled the undefeated eleven of Morrissey to a scoreless deadlock.
Joe Sassano’s Lyons combine just missed being the first team to upset the big Morrissey eleven this season, when their first half tally was erased due to an offside violation-on the play. A Don Costello fifty yard pass was good for six points, only to be called back when the officials detected an offside infraction.
Defense Stiffens
In -the last quarter the powerful Morrissey gridders marched to the Lyons-men’s fifteen yard stripe on a series of plays only to be halted by the forward wall of the opposition. However, they were then pushed back fifteen yards by a penalty.
As the final seconds were ticking off, Lyons took to the air, but an intercepted pass ended the Lyons threat and the game.
Gene Carrabine’s charges now have a 1-0-1 record on the season, while the men of Sassano boast a 1-1-1 record.
St. Eds won their third straight game by defeating Off-Campus, 6 to 0, in a hard fought defensive game. Center Bill McManus blocked an Off-Campus punt on the 31 yard line to set up the winning touchdown. After three line smashes had lost a yard, quarterback Peter Fieweger threw a 32 yard scoring pass to halfback Gene O’Connor, which proved to be the only score of the game.
Weather Hampers Play
The extreme cold and wind made ball-handling and passing extremely difficult. Fieweger completed 2 out of 7 passes for St. Ed’s. Skip Carlin completed 2 out of 5 passes for Off-Campus. St. Ed’s made six first downs to four for Off-Campus. Carlin and O’Connor sparked their respective teams on offense.
Breen-Phillips and Cavanaugh battled to a scoreless deadlock in another standout defensive game last Friday. Both teams showed spurts of power but neither was able to make a sustained drive to score.
The longest run of the game was made by tailback Rich Lasky of Cavanaugh who went scampering around end for 25 yards. Cavanaugh was unable to overcome the B-P defense though, and could not capitalize on their opportunity. The standout lineman on the Cavanaugh eleven was Jim Navarre, a charging tackle who led his line mates throughout the game on both defense and offense.
First Forfeit
Breen-Phillips was sparked offensively by quarterback Bob Wepe. Defensive standouts were guard King Coale and tackle Bill McGlarnon, both of whom also displayed offensive powers.
Last week’s game was the first time that either team got out of the loser’s column this season. Both have records of two losses and a tie.
Howard’s interhall football team forfeited to Dillon in their regularly scheduled contest and has dropped out of the league. The Howard players were unable to find time to participate. The score of the game goes into the record books, 1-0.
Frosh Sailors Enter Midwestern Tourney
Notre Dame’s freshman sailing team, regarded as one of the strongest in the school’s history, will compete in the Midwestern Sailing Championships on the Maumee river at Toledo, Ohio tomorrow.
It will mark the first time that the Freshmen Championships have ever been held in the Midwest. The boats that will be sailed are the eleven foot nippers.
The Irish Freshmen squad includes skippers Tom Burke, Pete Raffetto, Ray Samiento, Art Bracken and Jim Stockwell. The freshmen have been sailing
IRISH “DINKS”
A G.l.T. Design
every weekend at Diamond Lake in preparation for the Regatta.
In addition to Notre Dame, the schools that are represented in’ the regatta are Toledo, Depauw, Michigan, Oberlin, Cincinnati and Xavier.
Intramural Touch Grid Loop Scheduled to Start Monday
Intramural touch football will get underway with a tournament starting Monday, Nov. 2. As yet there are only four teams organized to play, but it is hoped that some new entries will be made before the tournament starts.
Mr. Fallon, director of the program, urges any individual or team that might be interested in playing touch ball to contact him in the Rock before the Monday deadline. Lack of response has already resulted in the postponement of the original starting date which was last Monday.
Games will be played in the late afternoon on the fields west of the stadium. Each member of the winning team will receive a medal for his effort.
October 30, 1953
27
*	„ 3,	- .X.X . 1. "	3-—M—. '	'v , 33.* 3. X3AV3 A 3	-3 3 *• « V	-C^ — 3 A 33_> »*-* '	- —• *^*^3
by Bob Frolicher
Accuracy Is the Best Policy
Although “Minnie” Mavraides missed the final attempt for point after touchdown against Georgia Tech last Saturday, his fourteen points without a miss is the best any Irish PAT specialist has done since the war
years. The closest rival to Mavraides’ record was Fred Earley, a member of the ’43, ’46 and ’47 squads, who booted 11 straight without a miss. The only other extra point attempt the Irish failed to connect on this season was in the Purdue clash. In 1951 he kicked 19 extra points and one field goal and last season shared the PAT and field-goal kicking chores with Bob Arrix.
Mavraides, however, does not limit himself to points after touchdowns and kickoffs. In his first two years on the Irish squads he held down an end position. At the beginning of the 1952 season he was shifted from wingman to offensive guard and defensive tackle on the right side. Mavraides has operated at the right guard post since the start of this season and has done well on both offense and defense. His double-duty ability stood out particularly in the last
Longest Continual Rivalry in Existence
The Notre Dame-Navy clash tomorrow will only be the third game of the 27-game series to be held in the Irish stadium. The initial game was held in 1930, the Irish defeating the Middies, 26-2, in the dedication game of the Notre Dame Stadium. The two teams first met in 1927, the Irish coming out on top 19-6, and have met every year since. This is the longest continuous intersectional collegiate football rivalry now in existence.
Navy displays another tough defense for the Leahymen. The Middies have allowed only 32 points in their first five games. None of their opponents have tallied over a touchdown, and the only team to score more than seven points was the Quakers in the 9-6 upset victory last week.
All Around Field Day
There was no stopping Notre Dame’s starting backfield last week, as each of the individual members gained close to five yards or better per carry. Quarterback Ralph Guglielmi led in total yardage, picking up 38 yards in six carries, while completing seven of 16 tosses for 88 yards and another TD. Joe Heap paced the running backs with 68 yards in nine tries. However, Johnny Lattner displayed last season’s All-American form and gained a 101-yard total, while “Bull” Worden followed close behind with 96 yards in 21 carries.
Prediction of the Week
The Middies will be out to sink the Irish tomorrow and cut short any hopes Notre Dame has towards the National Championship, but it will be the Irish who will turn the big guns on Navy, downing the Midshipmen, 21-6.
“MINNIE” MAVRAIDES The “Educated Toe”
two Irish encounters.
1 g
Badinites Gain Crown	|
On 1-0 No-Hit Battle	|
Morey Ciceralli’s no-hit pitching and	|
Jack Murray’s two-out first-inning	i
home run gave Badin a 1-0 victory over B-P, its second consecutive interhall championship, and brought the curtain down on another interhall baseball tournament. Ciceralli’s victory was his third in the four tournament games Badin participated in.
Amazingly enough, Ciceralli allowed only three hits in the three games he pitched. Murray’s home run in the first inning was all the cushion he needed. Morey proceeded to set the frosh of B-P down throughout the rest of the game without yielding a single base knock.
Tight Pitcher’s Duel
As the score plainly indicates, the game was a pitchers’ duel. The hurling of Paul Besser, B-P’s talented mounds-man, should not be overlooked. After Murray connected for his circuit clout, Besser settled down and was as stingy as Ciceralli with base hits. Badin tapped him for only two hits throughout the remainder of the contest.
For Badin it was a repeat of last year’s performance. The Bogmen managed to capture the 1952 fall tourney also. Breen-Phillips played well throughout the tourney and showed an abundance of talent.	I
In advancing to the finals, Breen-Phillips had to beat the Alumni Blue a and Gold teams. Badin vanquished Sorin, Alumni (Gold), and B-P.
Mr. Fallon has announced that the Spring Interhall Baseball tourney will j get underway during the first week after Easter vacation.
ND Stops Tech
(Continued from page 26) the .ball on the Notre Dame 10, and r scored standing up. Mitchell converted, and the score read: Notre Dame 21, Georgia Tech 14.
Then, just to celebrate Lattner’s 21st birthday, the Irish drove from Tech’s 40 for the final score in nine plays, with Lattner having the honor of scoring. “Minnie” Mavraides missed his first conversion in fifteen attempts, and Notre Dame led 27-14.	y
Notre Dame played the caliber of ball that even the most cynical of sport’s scribes would have to admit was what V makes up a Championship team. It was Notre Dame’s fourth win this season and sixth in a row; the 82nd victory of a Leahy-coached Notre Dame eleven.
28
The Scholastic
College Keglers Meet To Organize League
Sunday night, November 1, marks the date for the annual organization meeting of the Midwestern Intercollegiate Bowling Association. Paul Pfohl, Association Secretary, will represent Notre Dame at the Chicago convention. Most important item on the agenda will be the formation of a schedule. Each of the Association’s eight teams will compete in 14 matches, two with each of the seven other teams.
Beginning about the middle of November, the season lasts until March 1. At this time the tournament to decide the season’s champion will begin. Notre Dame will be the host for this year’s tourney. Other Association schools include De Paul, Valparaiso, Loyola of Chicago, and St. Joseph College of Rensselaer, Ind.
Notre Dame is fortunate in having four returning members from last year’s team. They are Bob Rich, Paul Pfohl, Wally Clarke, and Jack Battel.
Anyone wishing to compete on the Notre Dame MIAB squad should contact Pfohl; There will be a 15 game roll-off. The six highest averages will automatically qualify to represent Notre Dame in the Association.
The Kampus Keglers swung into action last Sunday afternoon at the Palais Royale with 24 teams competing. They have been divided into two leagues, the Blue and the Gold. The Keglers this yeai- will have an 18 week season, and besides the eleven regularly scheduled matches for each team, there will be four or five position matches. Then there are the season championships and the annual Sweepstakes. The Gold teams start at 12:45 each Sunday, and the Blue teams begin at 3:15.
Cindermen Gain Initial Win; Tackle Hoosiers Tomorrow
After three straight losses, Coach Alex Wilson’s cross-country team captured its first meet of the season, dropping Marquette at Milwaukee, 26-30, last Friday.
Jack Alexander again was the Irish pacesetter, but he had to take second place to Bob Allen of the Hilltoppers who traveled the 4.2 mile route in 22 minutes, 46 seconds. Tom Lemkuhl of Marquette was third.
Out of the next seven places, the Irish took five. Up until last Friday this was something they were unable to do, that is, dominate the top ten. Their inability to capture over half of the first ten places caused their earlier
losses to Michigan State and Wheaton.
The remaining competitors finished in the following order: Al Schoenig of the Irish, fourth; Bill Lenihan of Notre Dame, fifth; George Water of Marquette, sixth; Dick De Schriver of Notre Dame, seventh; Jim Daly of the Irish, eighth; Clark Wagnerin of Marquette, ninth; and Jim Hernon of Notre Dame, tenth.
In their next meet, the Irish play host to the Hoosiers of Indiana on the Notre Dame cross country course this Saturday.
Hunter Breaks Into Scoring; Recovers Fumble for Tally
Right tackle Art Hunter became the first Irish lineman to score a touchdown this season when he recovered a fumble in the end zone last Saturday in Notre
ART HUNTER
Breaks into Scoring Race
Dame’s conquest of previously unbeaten Georgia Tech.
In other statistics Joe Heap, Irish left halfback, moved ahead of fullback Neil Worden in the rushing department of the starting eleven ? picking up 68 yards in nine carries to boost his average to 5.4. However, Worden leads in total yardage with 282 yards in 56 carries and an even 5-yd.-per-carry.
Worden continues to dominate the scoring race, pulling away from last week’s co-leader, Ralph Guglielmi, by chalking up his fifth TD against the Engineers. “Gug” is in second place while Heap took over third with his one touchdown pass reception last week.
Quarterback Guglielmi still remains above .500 in passing with seven of 16 in the Tech clash for a combined total of 347 yards, three TD’s and a .511 percentage.
Runkle's Gym Squad To Begin Workouts
Notre Dame’s intercollegiate gymnastics aggregation, under the tutoring of Coach Ray Runkle, will begin workouts soon in preparation for the 1953-54 season.
At the organizational meeting of the Gymnasts in the Rockne Memorial last week, the coach outlined this season’s program for the 30 prospective squad members in attendance.
The meeting was presided over by Dave Engels, a South Bend boy who is at the helm of the club this year. Other officers are Neil Vasconcellos, Honolulu, T. H., vice-president, and Mark Healy, Streator, HL, secretary-treasurer.
The tentative and incomplete schedule as announced by Coach Runkle lists the season opener on Dec. 12 with Michigan at Ann Arbor. Other contests will be with Northwestern at Evanston on Jan. 16; Iowa and Illinois at Chicago on Feb. 19; Chicago and Illinois at Chicago on Feb 26; Big Ten at Ohio State on Mar. 20, and NCAA at Illinois on Apr. 1-3.
Two Home Meets
The squad is allowed to schedule two home meets and two away during each semester. Three of the four home engagements this year will be with Western Illinois, Kansas State, and Purdue.
Besides these intercollegiate meets, the Gymnasts will provide some halftime action at home basketball games and will also stage several exhibitions during the season.
The club’s first appearance in the field of exhibition will be here in South Bend at Mussel Junior High School on Nov. 20. Other exhibitions will be' given at Howe, Ind., and at Culver, Ind.
Training the cheerleaders for their gymnastic maneuvers at the football games is another assignment Coach Runkle and his crew are carrying out this fall.
Besides the three officers of the club, Coach Runkle has several other men who show promise of developing into outstanding members of this year’s squad. They are Bill Foohey, Penns Grove," N. J.; Reggie Grimm, South Bend; Ed Hannan, Paducah, Ky.; Evie Hatch, Baltimore; Bob Riley, New York; Jack Soldo, Bethlehem, Pa.; and Rocky Tannone, Port Chester, N. Y.
Coach Runkle still needs men to bring the squad’s strength up to the 65 he hopes to have on the roster by the time competition gets underway. Anyone interested in joining the Notre Dame Gymnasts should contact Mr. Runkle or any of the club’s officers.
October 30, 1953
29
Placement Schedules Ten New Companies
Next week will be another busy week for graduate students and seniors who complete their courses in January, 1954. Ten companies will interview, in the Placement Oilice, those interested in applying for positions.
The Archer-Daniel-Midland Co. will start by interviewing B.S., M.S. and Ph.D. candidates in chemistry, chemical engineering, and business administration.
The Bendix Products Division will be offering job opportunities to mechanical, electrical, civil and aeronautical engineers on Monday.
A third set of interviews will be offered Monday by North American Aviation, Inc., to mechanical, electrical, civil and aeronautical engineers who will hold either B.S. or M.S. degrees.
Three sets of interviews are also on tap for Tuesday. Commonwealth Associates, Inc. will be interviewing only architectural, electrical and mechanical engineers. They will be followed by Standard Oil Co. representatives who will talk to B.S., M.S. and Ph.D. candidates in chemistry and chemical engineering.
The United States Steel Corp, will close the day by speaking with architectural, electrical, mechanical, civil and aeronautical engineers.
The only interview on Wednesday will be conducted by the Socony-Vac-uum Laboratories and is open to B.S., M.S. and Ph.D. candidates in chemistry.
Thursday will see three more interviews given. The first will be offering job opportunities to mechanical, electrical and civil engineers interested in working for the Detroit Edison Co.
The Johnson Service Co. will be next to speak to mechanical, electrical and civil engineers. '
The General Electric Co. will con
clude the week by interviewing M.S. and B.S. chemical, metallurgical, electrical and mechanical engineers as well as B.S. and M.S. candidates in physics.
Only those officially registered with the Placement Bureau are eligible to apply for these interviews. Those interested in the above interviews should go to the Placement Bureau, Main Building, as soon as possible to be scheduled.
University Schedules Concerts and Talks
The calendar for the 1953-54 concert and lecture series has been announced by Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vicepresident in charge of student affairs. Also listed were the theatre and music presentations for the coming year.
Fr. Norton said that the University sponsored concert and lecture programs have been integrated with the musical and dramatic productions so as to avoid any conflicts in scheduling.
The committee in charge of the programming consists of Fr. Norton; Mr. Thomas J. Stritch, head of the Department of Journalism; Dr. Eugene J. Leahy, of the Department of Music; Mr. John Tumpane, director of the University Theatre; Pat Carrico, editor of the Scholastic; and Phil Bolin, from the Student Senate.
On Nov. 10 Rudolph Ganz, pianist, will appear in Washington Hall in collaboration with the concert and lecture program. He will be followed by another University Theatre presentation, Dec. 3 through Dec. 6, also in Washington Hall.
The Glee Club is slated to give its annual Christmas Concert on Dec. 13, while the Band will appear on Dec. 15. Both are scheduled for Washington Hall.
’Operation Football1 Trainman Headache
You won’t find Notre Dame, Indiana, listed on any railroad time table or flight schedule, but it’s the destination of as many as 28 special trains and 175 private planes—and as many headaches —on Fall Saturdays when the “Fighting Irish” play on their own gridiron. An average of 10,000 cars and dozens of busses also converge on the Notre Dame Stadium in the few hours before gametime.
Many of the special trains actually unload their passengers on spur tracks right on the University’s 1,700 acre campus. Other- trains transfer their passengers to busses at the depot or railroad yards in South Bend. The four railroads serving South Bend— New York Central, Grand Trunk, Pennsylvania and the South Shore—hire up to 400 extra employees to service the special trains while the fans are watching the football game.
Eugene M. Daly, who coordinates operations for the New York Central, says that arrangements for some of the special trains are made a year in advance. The specials come from as far away as Denver, Atlanta, New York and points in Texas and Oklahoma. The trainmen’s biggest headache developed in 1947 when a record 51 special trains arrived in South Bend for the last Army-Notre Dame game. “We couldn’t have found track space for an extra hand-car on that weekend,” Daly says.
With years of experience the South Bend railroad men take “Operation Football” in stride. Occasionally a train’s departure is delayed because some of its passengers become lost after the game. But by 8 p.m. the stadium is deserted, the campus is quiet and the last of the special trains has whistled farewell to another football Saturday at Notre Dame.
30
The Scholastic
University Calendar For 1953-54 (REVISED OCTOBER 9, 1953) Fall Semester 1953
Nov. 1 (Sun.)—All Saints Day.
Nov. 11 to 25—Preregistration with the Deans for courses in the second semester of 1953-54. (See Academic Regulation 113, General Bulletin). (CHANGE).
Nov. 16 (Mon.)—Midsemester reports of deficient students.
Nov. 26 (Thurs.)—Thanksgiving Day (no classes).
Dec. 1 (Tues.)—Latest date for acceptance of transfer students within the colleges (of Notre Dame only). (CHANGE).
Dec. 8 (Tues.)—Feast of the Immaculate Conception (no classes). ’	_
Spring Semester 1954
Feb. 3 (Wed.)—Latest date for all class changes, and for sophomores, juniors, and seniors to drop from ROTC. (CHANGE)
Feb. 15 (Mon.)—Latest date for freshmen to drop from ROTC. (CHANGE)
Feb. 22 (Mon.) — Washington’s Birthday (no classes). (Senior Class Exercise will be held at 10:30 a.m., Washington Hall. Seniors required to attend).
Mar. 24 to Apr. 2—Preregistration with Director of Students’ Accounts for rooms.
Mar. 29 (Mon.)—Midsemester reports of deficient students.
April 6 to 13—Preregistration with Deans for courses in the first semester of 1954-55 and for the summer session of 1954. (See Academic Regulation 113, General Bulletin).
April 14 (Wed.)—First day of Easter vacation (no classes).
April 26 (Mon.)—Classes resume at 8:30 a.m. (CHANGE)
Nev/ Choir Comprises Both Students.Faculty
A newly formed campus choir of the University made its first public appearance at the 11 o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church last Sunday. The choir comprises joint membership from both the lay faculty and student body, and, beginning on Nov. 8, will continue to make its appearance regularly each Sunday at the' 11 o’clock Mass.
It is planned to make this Mass a congregation-sung High Mass, offering to students and friends attending the opportunity to actively participate by singing the Ordinary of the Mass with the' choir. For the present the primary function of the new choir will be to sing the changing Propers each Sunday, and to assist and lead the participation of the student body at the Mass.
The Moreau Seminary Choir, which has served and continues to serve the University each Sunday at the 9 o’clock High Mass is not a University campus choir.
With the formation of this new unit, more active student participation at Sunday Mass is anticipated. The Campus Choir was appropriately founded in the year of the Golden Jubilee Anniversary of the famous Motu Proprio of Blessed Pope Pius X on the
Dec. 16 (Wed.)—Latest date for comprehensive examinations and dissertations of undergraduates.
Dec. 19 (Sat.)—Christmas vacation begins after the last class.	:
Jan. 4 (Mon.)—Classes resume at 8:30 a.m.
Jan. 4 to 18—Pick up Spring Semester certifications in Students’ Accounts. (CHANGE)
Jan. 11 to 25—Registration for Spring Semester for all students now in attendance, in office of Academic Affairs.	;
Jan. 22 to 29—Semester examinations in all courses. (CHANGE)
May 3 (Mon.)—Latest date for comprehensive examinations and dissertations of undergraduates.
May 17 (Mon.)—Latest date for acceptance of transfer students with the colleges (at Notre Dame only).
May 27 to June 3—Semester examinations in all courses. (CHANGE)
May 27—Ascension Thursday (no classes).
May 30 (Sun.)—Memorial Day.
June 5 (Sat.)—Senior Class Day Exercises.
June 6 (Sun.)—Commencement Exercises.
Don’t Get Us Wrong
Feb. 1—Monday morning until 11:30 a.m. ONLY —Registration for new incoming students only with the Director of Students’ Accounts and with the Deans for courses in the second semester. (No new students will be permitted to register in courses at the University after 11:30 a.m. Monday, Feb. 1). (CHANGE)
Feb. 1	(Mon.)—Classes begin at 8:30 a.m.
(CHANGE)
true norms of sacred music of the Church. On Nov. 22, 1903, as one of the first official acts of his pontificate, Pius X published this celebrated document in which an urgent plea was voiced for the restoration of Gregorian Chant, polyphony, and active participation of the laity in the official church liturgy.
The Campus Choir was made possible through the efforts of Rev. William J. McAuliffe, C.S.C., who is training and directing the new organization, and through the enthusiastic response and support of the various faculty members and students enrolled. Faculty members and students interested in joining the new choir, should contact Father McAuliffe at 268 Alumni, or come to rehearsals held on Sunday afternoons at 4 and Wednesday evenings at 7:30 in Room 247 of O’Shaughnessy Hall.
O’SHAUGHNESSY HALL LOST & FOUND DEPARTMENT
Articles lost in O’Shaughnessy Hall may be reclaimed in Room 345 of that building. Owners will be notified by postcard when articles found in the Liberal Arts Hall contain names and addresses.
Former Grads Publish Novels, Broadway Hit
Four Arts and Letters graduates of Notre Dame are the authors of recently published books, one of which has a play opening soon on Broadway.
Vern Sneider, a 1940 graduate, is the author of The Teahouse, of the August Moon, a novel whose setting is in Oki-nowa. The book has been adapted for the stage by John Patrick. Warmly received by New England audiences, the play will open in New York at an early date. Sneider’s second novel, A Pail of Oysters, tells of life on Formosa under the Nationalist occupation. He plans at least two other* novels with settings in Japan and Hong Kong. .
Richard Sullivan, who was graduated in 1930, has five novels to his credit. His latest is 311 Congress Court, a story of a family and how its members react when faced with eviction from their long-time home. Sullivan is also the author of Notre Dame, the story of his alma mater, and The Fresh and Open ■ Sky, a collection of his short stories. He has taught creative writing at the University since 1936.
Joseph Breig, a 1928 alumnus, has written a tribute to the head of the family in A Halo for Father. Breig is assistant managing editor of the Cleveland Universe Bulletin, and a columnist for the Ave Maria published at the University. Among his other works are The Devil You Say and God in Our House.
Bob Blake, who received his degree in 1940, has recorded his 18 months of world travel in PH Take the High Road. His lack of material resources were more than compensated by the rich literary and historical assets which he took with him to the romantic corners of Europe, Asia and Africa.
Jan Brueghel Painting Given to Art Galleries
The Notre Dame art galleries received notice of another addition Wednesday. “Massacre of the Innocents,” a painting by Jan Brueghel the Elder, a noted 17th century Dutch artist, has been donated to the galleries, Curator Paul R. Byrne has announced.
The painting is the gift of Dr. M. L-Busch, head of the Mission Hospital at Huntington Park, Calif. It is the sixth painting that Doctor Busch has given to the Notre Dame galleries in recent
years.
“Massacre of the Innocents” depicts King Herod seated on a throne directing soldiers in the slaying of children as described in the New Testament-
October 30, 1953
31
O'Shaughnessy Galleries Display da Siena Painting
A valuable 13th century painting, recently identified as the work of Guido da Siena, has been loaned to the University’s galleries by John F. Cuneo, prominent Chicago art collector and president of Cuneo Press, Inc.
“Virgin and Child Enthroned,” believed to be the earliest Italian primitive painting in America, was recently purchased by Cuneo from an interior decorator for a modest sum. Subsequently, the painting was identified by Dr. Maurice Goldblatt, art authority and director of the Notre Dame galleries, as an authentic work of Guido, founder of the Sienese school. Goldblatt estimated the value of the painting at 8250,000.
According to Goldblatt, only two other examples of Guido’s work exist in the United States and neither is as
I CONQUERED MY
important as the Cuneo painting as a milestone in early Italian art. The Sienese school in da Siena antedates the Florentine and thus can be credited as the first group to revive Italian painting after the Byzantine.
On Exhibit Until Dec. 31
“Virgin and Child Enthroned” will be exhibited at the University galleries in O’Shaughnessy Hall until Dec. 31 along with four other Italian primitives, two from the Cuneo collection and two others from the collection of Richard E. Berlin, New York City. All five of the paintings have the Madonna and Child as their subject.
Also on view in the O’Shaughnessy Hall galleries until Nov. 12 are 36 modern paintings, assembled for Notre Dame’s recent Festival of the Arts. The public is invited to visit the galleries from 2 to 5 p.m. and 7 to 9 p.m. daily except Oct. 31, Nov. 21, Dec. 5 and Dec. 25.
Future Opponents
(Continued from page 25) the end zone. Iowa had intercepted a Hoosier aerial and moved to the Indiana 5-yard line before the touchdown pass.
Dusty Rice provided the third assault for the Hawks when he swept right end for four yards and a TD after his mates had moved the ball 96 yards.
North Carolina found itself completely baffled as Zeke Bratkowski and John Carson combined in an aerial display that left the Tarheels panting, 27-14. Carson was making sensational acrobatic catches all afternoon even though the Tarheels had placed two men to cover him. The string-bean end caught Bratkowski’s first heave on the five-yard line and went over for the Bulldogs’ first tally.
North Carolina broke into the scoring column late in the third period when Larry Parker outdistanced the Georgia line and scooted around right end for 13 yards. The other Tarheel touchdown resulted from a recovered fumble on the Georgia 12-yard stripe by North Carolina. Len Bullock sneaked over from the one seven plays later.
INFERIORITY COMPLEX
. Arthur	s
in one h°ur """
You con really dance after the first lesson!
When you can swing out on the floor and dance expertly, you, too, will feel proud—not inferior any more! Arthur Murray himself had a complex in his youth—and overcame it by becoming an expert dancer. And today experts trained by him will help get rid of any "I.C.” that hinders you-in society or in business.
In just a few hours your "dated” dancing will be transformed—you’ll know the latest steps—you’ll be a popular partner. Don’t wait! Phone MU 2-4647 or come right to the studio for a Free 15-minute dance analysis.
Copr. 1948-Arthur Murray Inc.
ARTHUR MURRAY
2-3339
120 E. WAYNE ST. SOUTH BEND
Trojans Roll Over Bears
Defending Pacific Coast League ( Champions, Southern California’s Trojans featured a pulverizing defense that forced the Golden Bears of California to fumble continually, grinding out a 32-20 victory. On power plays ( the Trojans moved 58 yards for a J score in the first period.
Three more touchdowns in the second period had the Bears reeling. Short 4 i drives of seven, five and four yards put three more tallies in the Trojan scoring column. The last score came after a 66-yard thrust.	‘ ’
Southern Methodist’s Mustangs, Southwest Conference favorites, were treated roughly by the Kansas Jay- . hawks before squeaking by on a fourthperiod score, 14-6. Halfback Don Mc-Illhenny made a clutch pass interception and raced six yards for the tally 't' that broke up a tie.
The Mustangs’ first score came on a run by tackle Jack Gunnock who . retrieved a Kansas fumble in midair early in the second quarter and rambled 39 yards to score.
The Jayhawks took advantage of a 0 penalty against SMU to get their only J tally. Jerry Norton, SMU back, was charged with interfering with an in- ^4 tended pass receiver, Ralph Moody, on the Mustangs’ 4-yard line. On the third play, halfback Don Hess hit the right guard slot for the touchdown.
32
The Scholastic
I
Nieuwland Dedication (Continued from page 9) :	is composed of 29 nationally prominent
I	executives and is headed by Dr. E. C.
। Kleiderer, executive director for research and control, Eli Lilly and Co., Indianapolis pharmaceutical house.
College Started in 1865
The College of Science was established in 1865. Its new home, Nieuwland Science Hall, described by a visiting British scientist as “the finest building of its type in the world,” is named for the late ’ Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., who developed the basic formula for synthetic rubber.
Included in the three-story buff brick structure are more than 30 large modern laboratories, several amphitheater-type classrooms, a library, and many offices i and conference rooms. The largest of the 16 modern chemistry laboratories provides working space for 96 students and can accommodate four class sections alternately.
Each student station is equipped with outlets for hot and cold water, gas, air, . 4 vacuum, high pressure steam, and variable electric current. Special hooded stations at the end of each aisle provide protection for highly inflammable or explosive experiments. Each laboratory is movable for easy access to service lines and maintenance.
NROTC Drill Unit Welcomes Middies With Pre-Game Show
Two Navy teams will take to the field in the Notre Dame stadium tomorrow. To complement the Middies’ football squad, a drill team composed of Notre Dame’s NROTC unit will perform in a pre-game demonstration.
The unit will form on Cartier field at 12:45 p.m. and at 1:17 will depart for the stadium. They will march en masse onto the field while the band plays “Anchors Away.”
The NROTC unit will then face the flag and salute for the hoisting of the colors, following which the drill team will spell out a few cheers.
Civil Service Executive Discusses Federal Jobs
Philip M. Sansotta, Civil Service representative of the South Bend district, will speak on the opportunities for government employment at 1 p.m. in Room 203 of the O’Shaughnessy Building.
Mi\ Sansotta will outline the opportunities offered in the Civil Service program, and especially in the new junior management-assistant program.
A question period will follow the talk, and questions regarding government service will be answered by Mr. Sansotta.
The lecture wall be open to all students.
Fr. J. Cavanaugh First
In K. of C. Speaker Series ,L Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., immediate past-president of Notre Dame, will speak at the Knights of Columbus 4 meeting next Monday evening. He will give his talk in the regular- council chambers in the basement of Walsh Hall at 7:15 p.m.
Father Cavanaugh was president of J the University from 1946 to 1952. He is currently director of the Notre Dame Foundation, which originated during his first year as president of Notre Dame. When Father Cavanaugh took office in 1946 he began a building program on campus. This program has thus far resulted in the erection of Fisher Hall, the Morris Inn, the Nieuwland Science Building, and the most recently completed O’Shaughnessy Liberal and Fine Arts Building.
This talk is the beginning of a se-| ries of speeches to be sponsored by the Knights of Columbus this Fall. Other speakers scheduled for this series are: Timothy Galvin, noted lawyer and past deputy supreme knight, and Herbert Jones, business manager of athletics.
Only §4^0?
Fantastic!
A^alking away from the ruins of his flying saucer, the tiny creature opened his emergency kit. Peering into it with his middle eye, he beheld a stack of
greenbacks, packs of chewing gum, and a sheet of instructions which read: “In this kit you will find everything you need to live as a college student. All college men wear clothes and chew gum. Buy clothes, chew gum constantly... and good luck!”
Scratching his left antenna with his lower left hand, he tore off half of a five dollar bill, popped it into his mouth, and scuttled into a nearby college shop. “Let’s see your finest shirt,” he squeaked.
The trembling clerk handed him a Van Heusen Oxfordian. “Gleeps, that’s really a mimsy!”, screeched the little fellow, feeling the luxurious Oxford fabric. “How much is it?”
“Only §4.50,” quavered the clerk. “I have them in the smartest new colors... and white to boot. Plus roll collars, button-downs and new short collars.”
“Only $4.50? Fantastic!”, piped the creature. “I’ll take one of each!"
Carefully he counted out twenty sticks of gum and laid them on the counter. “Keep the change,” he chortled, putting the shirts under his middle arm. And munching merrily on a crisp ten dollar bill, he waddled out.


October 30, 1953
33
Needless to say, there is a time and a place for such things as screaming and wise-cracks—but the students of Notre Dame do not seem to be aware of it.
by Gordon Bergquist
There are many things for which the Notre Dame man is noted. Among these are such fine qualities as loyalty, devotion to his religion, and his acceptance into any crowd. But there is one quality that the Notre Dame man does not seem to possess; indeed, often it seems as though he goes out of his way to do his best to repress it. I refer to manners.
There is one thing to be said for fraternities, at least— they attempt to give their members a few of the basic social graces and observances. The causes of the lack of manners in the Notre Dame student are probably various.
The main one is perhaps the all-male atmosphere that
pervades the campus. I do not mean to imply that the Notre Dame student is in any way vicious, but there are definitely a number of rough edges that need polishing.
As a start, let’s take the Dining Hall. I must confess that it’s a welcome change to sit with a freshman who politely asks, “Salt, please,” instead of screaming, “Salt down.” Another point: I think many will agree that there is too much noise in the Dining Hall. I realize that not much can be done about the clatter of hundreds of knives, forks, and teeth, but there is no need for the violent banging on plates and wild chanting that seems to pass for spirit. Perhaps it is tradition to split the ears of the person next to you, but tradition is not always good.
The screamers and beaters don’t seem to realize that a good portion of the student body would like to eat in peace— not in pieces. The place for the violent and raucous demonstrations of the proverbial Notre Dame spirit would seem to be out on the campus.
It is no wonder that many students ■with dates shun the company of their fellow students. What girl likes to be leered at and, as soon as her back is turned, be exposed to intentionally loud comments? The porch of Sorin seems to be a favorite place for this type of character to hang out. The gibes and wisecracks from Sorin on Sunday mornings have caused many a student to guide his date back from church by devious paths.
But many other Notre Dame men are guilty in this matter also, not only on the campus walks but in downtown South Bend. Fortunately, the South Bend female populace is better conditioned to the “collegiate” remarks of the “collegiate” men in front of Joer’s and Walgreens.
In the residence halls, just as the majority of students have succeeded in getting soundly to sleep, there are
always a few that insist on banging doors, strumming ukeleles, and screaming down the hall. In short, they manage to disrupt the rest of anywhere from 40 to 100 students. They seem to feel that everybody should be in as good spirits as they; that anyone who wants to sleep at midnight is a complete fool; and that any poor student who is studying out in the hall for a big test tomorrow should have his head examined.
Indeed, many students seem to give the impression that anyone who studies at all is a little touched in the head. They burst into rooms, yelling and wrestling. They play radios as loudly as possible and always manage to leave their doors open so that everyone else can have the benefit of their taste in programs.
Undoubtedly, the Notre Dame man is not intentionally this way, with the exception of a very few misguided souls. I think that the Notre Dame man is naturally boisterous and that you cannot change him. In fact, I don’t think that you could change him. But there is definitely something wrong. From the time a freshman hits the campus he is aware of a different type of life. He is now a college man. Therefore the things that were in good taste in his home life have become taboo and vice-versa.
Why it should be that the things that he would never think of doing in his home become perfectly all right and even necessary at college, I cannot say. Perhaps it is the result of reading too many novels of college life. The student seems to have gotten his own idea of what is collegiate. Here at Notre Dame, therefore, it has become “collegiate” to constantly scream, to snap comments at helpless couples, and to take over the town of South Bend like a plague of locusts.
University Econ Profs Win National Honors
Three Notre Dame economics professors received commendations and awards from national societies last week.
The board of Directors of the American Arbitration Association, New York City, recently appointed Bev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., associate professor of economics, to membership on its national panel of arbitrators.
During World War II Father Fitzgerald served as a hearings officer for arbitration cases in the capacity of public panel member of the Sixth Regional War Labor Board located in Chicago.
John H. Sheehan, associate professor of economics, attended meetings of the Foreign Commerce Committee of the Chamber of Commerce of the United States in Washington, D. C., Oct. 21 and 22. Since 1951 he has been an economic consultant of this committee, which makes recommendations to Congress on foreign economic policy.
Professor Sheehan is also co-author of two recent publications of this committee, “Southeast Asia and the Economy of the Free World” and “Whither Bound Japan, Economically.”
Rev. Edward Keller, C.S.C., of the Department of Economics, acted as one of the conference leaders of the Palm Springs Conference of the Merchants and Manufacturers Association of Los Angeles. He also attended a meeting of the National Labor Relations Committee in Washington, D. C., this past Tuesday.
MASS SCHEDULE
Monday, Nov. 2—Feast of All Souls.
Tuesday, Nov. 3—Tuesday within the Octave of All Saints.
Wednesday, Nov. 4—Feast of St. Charles, Confessor, Bishop.
Thursday, Nov. 5 — Thursday within the Octave of All Saints.
Friday, Nov. 6—Friday within the Octave of All Saints.
Saturday, Nov. 7 — Saturday within the Octave of All Saints.
r
i r
1
V
I
I
*
34
The Scholastic
STUDY IN EUROPE NOW
Again the Institute of European Studies offers students an economical European study and travel program.
Student groups live and study in Vienna, Austria, taking the English taught courses at the University of Vienna. They spend eight weeks travelling through nine countries of Europe and North Africa.
The Second Semester group sails Feb. 6,1954, on the Ryndam and returns to the U.S. in July 1954. Entire cost of program is $1035.
Price includes:
Room and board for 5J4 months. Round trip ocean transportation. Travel expenses through 9 countries. Tuition at University of Vienna. Special field trips and lectures.
Application deadline —	'
December 1, 1953.
If you are interested please fill out this coupon and you will receive complete Second Semester information. Mail to:
THE INSTITUTE OF
EUROPEAN STUDIES
A non-profit corporation
7325 South Maryland Avenue Chicago 19, Illinois
name
College
address
city	zone state
SPAGHETTI RAVIOLI CHICKEN	STEAKS
We Cater to Banquets and Parties
The new tradition at Notre Dame is...
Flamingo Restaurant Open Sundays 610 NORTH MICHIGAN
3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
CHOICE OF
YOUNG AMERICA
AND
£
&
Ml
Don't you want to try a cigarette with a record like this?
Hits
Copyright 1955, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
_J la Chesterfield Quality Highest 15% higher than its nearest competitor and 31% higher than the average of the five other leading brands...based on recent chemical analyses giving an index of good quality for the country’s six leading cigarette brands. The index of good quality table—a ratio of high sugar to low nicotine—shows Chesterfield quality highest.
2a No adverse effects to nose, throat and sinuses from smoking Chesterfield. From the report of a medical specialist who has been giving a group of Chesterfield smokers regular examinations every two months for well over a year.
3a First with premium quality in both regular and king-size.
Much Milder with an extraordinarily good taste.


