THE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
In This Issue:
NEWS
Seniors Present Flag . . . Lopez Misses Boat for Junior Prom . . . Bengal Bouters Speed Up Pace . . . Sheed Lectures Tonight . . . The Week . . . Man About . . . College Parade.
SENIORS TO HOLD TRADITIONAL WASHINGTON DAY RITES
SPORTS
Nickmen Out to Take Indiana Thinlies . . . Spartan Cagers Here Monday . . . "Punch Kill" Kell Confident He Will Trim “Terrible" Joe Race . . . Fencers Prep for Lawrence Tech . . . Splinters . . . Introducing .. . Brushing UP.
•i
In Cap and Gown They March to Give
February 18. 1938
fhs on America’s	J “the
Ho. 293
htndudng AMERICA’S IEAMNC MUMMY "IfteMan WhoKilled'Lincoln
Meet the mummy who tours under this banner: $1000 REWARD TO ANYONE WHO CAN PROVE THAT THIS IS NOT JOHN WILKES BOOTH. He has been bought and sold, kidnaped and seized for debt. He’s been chased out of towns for “not having a license,’’ and threatened with hanging by indignant G. A. R. veterans. You’ll find his strange story in your Post this week.
'John Wilkes Booth** on Tour by ALVA JOHNSTON
Insteadof apiano,., I SEEM TO HAVE BOUGHT A LION!
...How What?
At the auction, Mr. Benedict hadn’t raised his hand more’n a fraction... and now he owned a lion! What would Miss Satterlee say when he returned without the grand piano for the Female Seminary? By the author of Drums Along The Mohawk.
Mr. Benedict and the Madagascan Lion by WALTER D. EDMONDS
Al CA HOW MUCH HLOU SCHOOL DO
YOU NEED?. What's wrong with education, and what we can do about it, by Dr. Robert M. Hutchins. AND stories by Booth Tarkington, Ann Morse, Everett Rhodes Castle and M. G. Chute; serials, editorials, fun and cartoons.
THE SATURDAY EVENING POST
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailins at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 191". Authorized June 25, 1918.
Z188
Vol. 71
February 18, 1938
No. 16
DRAMATIC SEASON TO OPEN MARCH 3
Three one act plays, “Moonshine,” “Refund,” and “Dark of the Dawn,” will be presented by the Notre Dame Dramatic club in Washington Hall on the night of March 3.
“Moonshine,” a story of the Kentucky mountains, will reveal what happens when the revenue officer goes “hunting” for Luke Hazey, a moonshiner. The part of the officer will be played by Art Mulhern while the gun-toting hillbilly will be played by Vernon Witkowski.
Father and Son Plot
“Dark of the Dawn” is a melodrama revolving around a complicated plot of father and son. The background of the play is the latter part of the Thirty Years’ War. Vernon Witkowski will take the part of Basil Tollocho, Colonel of Horse in the Imperial Service. The hardboiled, rough and ready Andreas Bucquoi, captain-lieutenant in the emperor’s army, will be taken by William McVay. Frank Winninger, nephew of Charles Winninger, of movie and radio fame, will play the role of Gerhard, County von Mandersperg. William Arnold will play Hugo von Mandersperg.
“Journey’s End” Later
“Refund” is a hilarious comedy about a student who, after being graduated from school, feels that he hasn’t been given a square deal and goes back to collect all the tuition that he paid. The student, Wasser-koph, whose name means “water on the brain” will be played by Harold Sitt. The principal of the school will be acted by Ray Sadlier. The roles of professors will be taken by Jerry Hogan, Vincent Doyle, and George Wallace.
On March 17 a light, fast-moving vaudeville show will be given. The general theme will be the observance of St. Patrick’s Day with appropriate songs, skits, and dances.
A drama of the World War, “Journey’s End,” will be presented by the club on March 29.
Professor Thomas E. Mills, of the department of speech, is directing the activities of the club.
MANION. MULLIGAN TO TALK ON NINETY-THIRD ANNUAL WASHINGTON DAY PROGRAM
By R. J. Anton
Clarence E. Manion, professor of law, will deliver a speech, “The Soul of the Constitution,” Tuesday, Feb. 22, as an important feature of the Washington Day program. The 93rd commemoration at Notre Dame will begin at 10:00 a.m. when the members of the faculty and the senior class will march in a body from the Main Building to :	* Washington Hall for the flag presen-
CONSTITUTIONALIST MANION
The Examiner called him “Dean.”
Judge McGoorty Joins Law School Faculty
•
The vacancy on the Law faculty, paused by the death of Judge Wil-nfetn Cain, was Ailed this week by QK appointment of Judge John Peter McGoorty of the Cook County Superior Court in Chicago. Announcement of the appointment was made by Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice-president of the University.
jfdge McGoorty will give instruc-tijms in court procedure at Notre Dame. He will spend only one day a week at the University because of his duties of his bench in Chicago. The course that he will teach is one that has been favorably commented on by persons outside the University, it is popularly known as the “trial court.”
tation ceremonies. Following this Thomas P. Mulligan, class orator, will deliver an address: “Washington and the College Man.” Chester A. So-leta, C.S.C., has been selected to deliver an ode of his own composition, immediately after Mulligan’s talk. In keeping with the tradition begun in 1897, John C. O’Connor, president of the Senior Class, will present a large American flag to the University. This flag will be accepted by Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, and will become the official flag for the ensuing year.	-
Following the acceptance by Father O’Donnell, Mr. Manion will deliver his address and then the program will close with the singing of the “Star-Spangled Banner” by the entire assemblage.
Jerome Magee, senior engineering student from Buffalo, N. Y., as chairman of the program, has selected the following students to act as ushers: John Tobin, William Clifford, Eugene Dolan, John Anton, George Kedwin, Robert Browne, and Raymond Longstreth.
These Washington Day exercises had their origin 93 years ago when the University arranged a program in observance of that day. The first flag presentation, however, was not made until 1896 when the Senior Class president presented a flag to Rev. Andrew Morrissey, C.S.C., at that time president of the University.
Leo F. Welch, senior Commerce student, and head of the Cap and Gown committee, has announced that the gowns and mortar boards will be distributed from 8:00 to 9:30 a.m. on Tuesday morning in the basement of Walsh Hall. . The seniors will be arranged according to colleges and will assemble at the Main Building at 9:45 a.m.
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
JUNIORS AND SCHOLASTIC IN "MYSTERY MUSIC" OR "WHAT BECAME OF LOPEZ"
By Vincent DeCoursey
Once upon a time there was an orchestra leader named Lopez and the Scholastic said that Lopez would play for the Junior Prom and every one felt happy and said that they would attend the prom and say “hello” right back when Lopez said “hello everybody” and then when they found out that
Lopez couldn’t come everyone said “hello Lopez” anvwav only they left off the “o”.
Lopez rolled out of the prom scene at five minutes to three this past Friday. The Scholastic rolled off the presses at three o’clock. The Prom chairmen rolled into hiding at five minutes after three. The night of the Notre Dame Prom we wonder if Mr. Lopez, pounding out a special arrangement of “Nola” neath the waving palms on a Florida beach, will give a thought to Mr. O’Toole and his cohorts who pounded their heads against any convenient wall till early this week. We doubt it.
But the sweet balm of healing music is still to soothe the soul of the persecuted men who are in charge of the dance. The Prom must go on. Fighting bravely against the “cruel clutch of circumstance” their heads remained “bloody but unbowed”; they carried on and have arrived at a happy solution of most of their pressing problems.
A band, and a good band, has been contracted. It is the outfit of Little Jack Little, long a favorite of Chicago (Palmer House) and New York (Hotel Lexington) dancers. With the settlement of the band question came the announcement that the ticket sale would be held Wednesday and Thursday, February 23 and 24, in the basement lobby of the dining hall. The tickets will be on sale both days from 11:00 a. m. to 7:00 p. m. Decoration plans and the “favors” scheme were not revealed.
As announced last •week in the Scholastic, prices for the dance will be: five dollars for the Prom itself, two dollars and a half for the dinner dance Saturday.
And so the mystery of the vanishing bandman is gone! All is at rest — the puzzle is no more.
No one was deceived; it was no one’s fault; it was just one of those things. Everything was apparently set, and them------! !
So, Gentlement . . .
For any inconvenience that the article might have caused .... for any labored explanation that was sent home to “Tess” .... the juniors .... and the Scholastic .... wish to beg .... your pardon.
Lopez speaking: From Florida
Life Insurance Writer Speaks To Class
Last week Dr. Richard E. Wyatt spoke to the insurance class, a senior course in the College of Commerce. He was first associated with the Equitable Life Assurance Society of New York, and later he worked in the field of industrial pensions. More recently he has been acting chief technical advisor in the Office of the Actuary, Social Security Board. He is also a co-author of a recent book entitled, The Social Security Act in Operation.
Dr. Wyatt is now visiting 28 cities in an endeavor to advance the educational work of the American College of Life Underwriters, which is pri-.marily interested in setting high professional standards in the field of life insurance selling.
He spoke to the insurance class upon his experiences in these several fields of insurance, the opportunities for young men in each, and the work of the American College of Life Underwriters.
LOGIC LEADS DOUBLE LIFE: HUNTINGTON
By Robert Sheppard .
“Logic has long led a double life. Logic has nothing to do with truth. Mathematics has no more to do with truth than logic.” These are a few of the statements that startled students attending the public lecture which climaxed the first session of the two day mathematical symposium last Friday evening. This two day meeting, which was held for the purpose of discussing the application of algebra to geometry, brought to Notre Dame the country’s major mathematicians.
The public lecture of the symposium was delivered by Dr. Edward V. Huntington, eminent mathematician and professor emeritus of Harvard University. In his lecture entitled “The Duplicity of Logic,” Dr. Huntington accused logic of having led a double life. Explaining his apparently iconoclastic statements, he said :
“Logic does not deal with truth but only with propositional functions, which as such, are neither true nor false. Nothing proved by logic can possibly be true! Since mathematics and logic are now known to be one and the same, if anything is wrong with logic the same thing must be wrong with mathematics.”
Though mathematics has also led a double life, this very duplicity, according to Dr. Huntington, is a source of strength rather than of weakness.
One of the truly great advances of modern mathematical science, Dr. Huntington declared, is that mathematics is no longer confined to the limited field of number but now belongs to every domain in which truth is sought.
The technical sessions of the symposium were opened Friday morning with remarks on the purpose of the symposium by Dr. Karl Menger, of the Notre Dame mathematics department, host to the gathering. The first talk at Friday’s session was given by Dr. Marshall H. Stone of Harvard. Other participants in this session were Mr. Garrett Birkhoff, also of Harvard; Dr. Oystein Ore of Yale, and Drs. Saunders MacLane and James K. Senior of the University of Chicago.
Members presenting papers at Saturday’s session included: Dr. John von Neumann of Princeton, Dr. A. Adrian Albert of the University of Chicago, and Dr. Emil Artin and Dr. Arthur H. Milgram of the University of Notre Dame.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
5
SHEED TO TALK ON
SHAW TONIGHT
BENGAL BOUTERS HOLD DAILY WORKOUTS UNDER NAPOLITANO AND ASSISTANTS
By Graham Starr
“The Significance of Bernard Shaw,” is the subject which Dr. Francis J. Sheed, noted publisher and prominent member of England’s Catholic Evidence Guild, will discuss tonight in Washington Hall.
Dr. Sheed is the founder of the internationally known publishing house of Sheed and Ward, and has spoken here at Notre Dame on many other occasions.
One of the founders of the Catholic Guild in England, Dr. Sheed has explained Catholic doctrine to crowds of uninterested or merely curious non-believers in hundreds of openair speeches. Consequently he has become a very interesting public speaker. In this connection the Commonweal says of him, “Personally he is one of the most prominent lay leaders of English Catholic action. In that group he is a foremost
Publisher Francis Sheed
A step from Hyde Park to N. D.
organizer, and a most successful speaker.”
Such famous authors as Belloc, Chesterton, Ronald Knox, Maritain, and Christopher Dawson, have written works to be published by the firm of Sheed and Ward. In addition to being a very successful publisher, Mr. Sheed is also an author, translator, and philosopher of merit.
Since the opening of their London office in 1927, Mr. Sheed and his wife (Maisie Ward) have worked at presenting Catholicism positively and employing their publishing company as a medium of expression for the entire Catholic world.
Mrs. Sheed is the daughter of Wilfred Ward (the biographer of Cardinal Newman), and will lecture here on February 25, her subject being “G. K. Chesterton.” She has been selected by Mrs. G. K. Chesterton to write the life of the late Catholic apologist and wit, using the correspondence of G. K. Chesterton as an aid in her biographical work.
“Clear the decks for inaction!” Cancel all dates and appointments, and leave the night of March 18 wide open! For, one month from tonight, there will be action aplenty at the local fieldhouse in that great sporting spectacle sponsored by the Scholastic — the seventh annual showing of the Bengal
Air Travel Pushed By Vincentian Agency
The Vincentians have made the students air conscious, according to Frank Itzin, executive secretary of the local conference. Itzin bases his statement on the results of tickets sales recently completed. Since the St. Vincent de Paul Society was appointed the official campus representative of the American Airlines, student air travel has more than doubled.
The Vincentian’s agency was announced immediately preceding the Christmas vacation and sales at that time were gratifying. The students who used the airline facilities at that time were so enthused over the economies and the comforts of this modern mode of travel that they decided to take advantage of them a second time.
These same students found that they could reach their respective destinations from four to five times faster than would have been possible using some other means of transportation. The speed and economy of the planes appeared especially attractive to those who wished to take advantage of the “long week-end.”
Itzin has compiled a few statistics illustrating advantages of flying. The more important of these include such features as: a $15.00 round trip fare to Minneapolis; special car service from the Palmer House to the Chicago Airport, and free meals during the flight.
“The man is doivn!”—A Flash-back in Bengal History.
Boxing Bouts.
Over half a hundred contestants, the largest number to turn out in Bout history, are training daily in anticipation of the day after Saint Patrick’s, when they will get a chance to show the world that they really are the “Fighting Irish.” Mr. Napolitano, and assistants Phil Walker and Ed Broscoe, are teaching the pugilistic art each Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, beginning at 4:00 p. m. Last minute contenders have no time to lose, as a three weeks’ period of training is required for en- ' trance in the Bouts.
A notable in the world of sports will be obtained to act as honorable referee of the “highlight of the winter sports season.” And as an added attraction, Prof. “Joe” Casasanta will be present with his entire 100-piece band to play between the periods of slaughter.
Then there’s “Terrible Joe” Race who intends to tear Paul Kell limb from limb in the Bengal wrestling classic. But “Punch Kill” has other ideas on the subject. Rumors have it that every time he falls down in the gym, pieces of equipment fall off the shelves in Jim McAllister’s quarters, so great is the vibration. Judging from last year’s demonstration, it is necessary to warn patrons to wear raincoats and carry two or three soft pillows.
Tickets will be on sale next week, and the price is only a quarter. Besides furnishing an evening of-navy (Continued on Page 21)
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ST. THOMAS WEEK PLANS BEING MADE BY SCHOOLMEN; SET DISPUTATION DATE
By Joseph Miller
The Schoolmen, headed by William Mahoney, are making elaborate plans for the week of March 6th in honor of the feast of St. Thomas, the patron of Catholic Schools. Sunday, March 6th, there is -to be a special sermon at all the masses in Sacred Heart Church on the merits of St. Thomas and of his
KNIGHTS INDUCT 58 AT INITIATION
•
With 58 of the 98 candidates who received Knights of Columbus degrees at the second district initiation Sunday, Feb. 13 members of the Notre Dame Council, it was fitting that the local council should act as host. Other
intensive love for Catholic education. On Monday, March 7th, the feast proper is to be celebrated. This is to be featured by a popular lecture on St. Thomas.
Thursday, March 10th, is the ten-

Schoolman Mahoney
Eats, Sleeps, Thinks Philosophy.
tative date for the important annual philosophical disputation. This disputation is in charge of the faculty advisers, consisting of Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C., and Rev. Albert L. Schlitzer, C.S.C. The general student chairman of the affair is William Mahoney.
The complete subject of the disputation is to be “The Natural Law.” The formal defender (defendens) is Edward McDonough; while the formal objectors (arguentes) are Jerome Ledvina, William Botzum, Frederick Crollard, James Blunt, and Thomas Kavanaugh.
The formal disputation will be immediately followed by an open discussion from the floor. Robert McGrath has been appointed to answer all of these formal objections.
Two other talks are scheduled: James Nemey will talk on “St. Thomas, Apostle of the Modern Mind,” and George Keenen on the “Liberalistic and Thomistic Views of the Natural Law.”
Californians Feast
President Jack Crowley, at the California Club smoker last Friday night, discussed the first arrangements for the annual banquet in June. Plans were also laid for another smoker in the latter part of February.
Bishop Walsh Reveals Experiences in China
Bishop James E. Walsh, general of the Maryknoll Mission Society, delivered a fascinating address in Washington Hall Wednesday evening on conditions in China. Bishop Walsh has recently returned from eighteen years of mission work in that country.
“One word can tell the story of the Orient,” said Bishop Walsh: Change, and its sequel is opportunity.” There has been in China, throughout her lengthy civilization, a strong tendency to resist change and love inertia. Buddhism is essentially a fine religion, but it is negative, static, and without the qualities necessary to inspire change.
Since 1911, when the first Chinese republic was formed, there has been much enlightenment on the part of Chinese m regards to governmental and social changes. The old obsolete government of individual provinces by men of unscrupulous character, who, in spite of their attraction to the philosophy of Confucius, were very prone to accept bribes and tax tyrannically, has been cleared up.
Bishop Walsh praised very highly the late Joseph Lo Pa Hong, who is often referred to as the “Chinese Apostle of Charity.” Mr. Lo Pa Hong was the most influential business man in Shanghai, and undoubtedly the foremost Chinese exponent of Catholicism. He was a great philanthropist and benefactor. He built five hospitals in Shanghai as well as a free normal school. La Pa Hong led a laborious and inspired life. Catholicism lost a truly great man the other day when the Japanese put an end to the beneficent works of China’s “Apostle of Charity.”
The Bishop also made mention of the murder of Father Donovan by Chinese bandits a few weeks ago. Father Donovan was the first Mary-knoller to be killed in the Orient.
Betty Coed has rhythm, but Joe College has almost twice as much. Tests given at Miami University showed that while the women’s score was a bare 39—or eleven points below an average struck on the basis of 10,000 similar studies throughout the United States—men students achieving a rating of 67.
Grand Knight Quinn
His headache is just beginning.
district councils represented at the initiation were: South Bend with 22 candidates, Michigan City with ten candidates, and Elkhart with eight candidates.
The various committees that arranged the details of the ceremonies were headed by James L. Quinn, Grand Knight of the Notre Dame Council. Quinn also made the speech of welcome to the visiting councils.
The third degree was in charge of Thomas Robinson, district deputy of Benton Harbor. The rituals of the second degree were conferred by the Niles degree team under the leadership of Grand Knight Edward Dunn of Niles.
Immediately following the initiatory work, a banquet in honor of the newly initiated members was served in the ballroom of the Columbia club. The after dinner speeches were Jed by Joseph E. Boland, Notre Dame line coach, who acted as toastmaster. The principal address was delivered by the Rev. William J. Gorman, chaplain of the Fourth Degree in the northern district of Illinois.
Activities of the local council during the coming week will be featured by the visit of Grand Knight Quinn to several officers and members an exchange meeting at LaPorte, Ind., Tuesday evening.
Club Mixes Seasons
President John Cottingham, senior in the College of Commerce, has announced that the Cincinnati Club will sponsor a spring dinner in the near future.
Plans are also being formulated for an Easter dance to be held immediately before or after the vacation. Arrangements are being handled by Tom Bond, Herb Gardner, and Joseph Moorman.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
—
Music Notes
MARQUETTE NON-DECISION DEBATE OPENS SEASON; RADIO CONTEST NEXT
By Paul R. Locher
Many who saw George Shapiro direct the Little Philharmonic Orchestra on Monday night came away from Washington Hall somewhat puzzled. It could be admitted that the orchestra had played very nicely, the individual members were capable, and the program had included many familiar favorites, but there had been something lacking in performance until the concert drew near to the close. The fact that several less familiar numbers were then more enthusiastically received contributed to this impression.
The program had opened with the overture from “Mignon,” followed by a group from the “Rustic Wedding” by Goldmarck. This so-called symphony consists of a wedding march with variations, a bridal song, a serenade, a garden scene, and a dancelike finale. From the first there seemed to be a lack of animation and spontaneity from the orchestra, but it was casually attribued to the choice of selections themselves.
With the announcement of Debussy’s “Clare de Lune” and “Arabesque,” the audience stirred expectantly, but the orchestra’s interpretation led one to believe that his first reaction was perhaps the right one. The playing of “To a Wild Rose” and “To a Water Lily” by MacDowell made such a judgment insistent.
Fortunately, toward the end the orchestra shook themselves from this lethargy and played with a more evident conception of the music. Perhaps it was significant that this change seemed to occur with the se-lection, “Perpetual Motion” by Strauss which Mr. Shapiro elected to preface with a remark that it was not as classical as the others. “Pizzicato” by Deslibes, as an encore, awoke an enthusiasm which was not satisfied by “Flight of the Bumble-bee” by Rimsky-Korsakov, and a Hungarian dance by Brahms. Mr. Shapiro had struck a responsive vein with his rendition of these numbers that made one wish he had revised his entire program to open with his encore group.
However, it was encouraging to note that the enthusiasm of the audience was not so much concerned with a distinction between classical and non-classical selections, as they were with the music as presented. The part of the program emphasized the fact that there is a great deal more to music than simple precision in playing and achievement of correct tonal qualities. It was realized that there must be a grasp and a conception of the music as a whole by the
(Continued on Page 27)
By John J. Kohn
The Varsity debating squad held its first contest of the current season and
stood up well against the ambitious Marquette orators in a non-decision affair
The question under consideration for the Varsity engagements is: “Resolved: That the National Labor Relations Board shall have the power to
Bourke Upholds TVA In Round Table Talk
Not to be outdone by their more publicized brethren, the Wranglers, the Round Table announced plans this week for an enlarged and more vigorous membership. This club meets weekly at the Rose Marie Tea Room to hear and discuss current economic problems. Those wishing to apply for membership in the club should contact John Savord, or Frederick Sisk (Howard), or Richard Bergen (Dillon).
The regular weekly meeting of the club Monday night was featured by a paper on the Tennessee Valley Authority presented by John T. Bourke. In the paper which was entitled “Yardstick—and What Else” Bourke showed that TVA is not an emergency undertaking but has been considered by the government in one form or another since the presidency of James Monroe.
Little was done by the government, however, until 1933 when President ' Roosevelt suggested the organization of TVA to Congress. The motive for the establishment of TVA which received wide publicity at that time was the creation of “a yardstick to determine the cost of producing electric power in order to see if the rates of private power companies were just.”
According to Bourke, “because of the argument waged against TVA on this score by the privately owned
enforce compulsory arbitration in industrial disputes.”
Upholding the negative side of the question, the Irish debaters presented strong arguments against the use of compulsory arbitration. They pointed to the countries of New Zealand and Australia as examples where, after a test, compulsory arbitration had failed. Further arguments advanced by Mulligan and Osborn tended to show that too much power was placed in one bureau. Failure of state labor boards in Kansas and Colorado were cited to substantiate the inability of local boards to settle large industrial disputes.
The Marquette men maintained that the growing number of strikes, riots, and labor disturbances were the result of the inadequate power of the National Labor Board. If strikes could be settled hurriedly and amicably, they maintained that no blood would be shed when differences occur between capital and labor.
The Hilltoppers concluded that the employer must be given some consideration in industrial disputes as the recently enacted Wagner Act is definitely pro-labor.
The next scheduled debate for the Irish will be with the Kent College of Law in Chicago on Sunday evening, Feb. 27.
Tom Proctor and Robert Schmelzle, senior law students, will vie with their Chicago confreres by defending the negative side of the question, “Resolved: That the United States should extend armed protection to foreign investments.”
The debate will probably be broadcast over station WLS at 7:00 pjn.
power companies the more important aspects of TVA have been lost to sight. These are inland navigation and flood control. Incidental to these are provisions for recreation, distribution of electric power to those not already served, and finally as a ‘yardstick’ to measure cost of producing power.”
In support of this Bourke said that the opening of navigation on the Tennessee River would mean the development of a section richer in mineral resources and equally as rich in agricultural potentialities as the valley of the Mississippi.
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
FAMOUS THEORIST JOINS FACULTY
•
Canon Georges Lemaitre, Ph.D., visiting professor of mathematical physics, who participated in the mathematics symposium held in Washington Hall last week, has joined the University faculty and will assume his new duties during the current semester.
The noted mathematical physicist spent several years as a research student at Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. In 1927 he became professor of mathematical physics at the University of Louvain, and a few years later joined the faculty of the Catholic University of America as a visiting professor.
Canon Lemaitre has arrived at a new theory of the expanding universe through a partial application of Einstein’s theory of relativity, although he relies, for the most part, on tenso-calculus and a simplified mathematical system.
By actual dimension of space, Canon Lemaitre judges the extent of the universe to be ten thousand million years. The theory further advocates that the rate of expansion of the universe is now in a period of acceleration and slowly gathering speed. Canon Lemaitre will explain his theory during the coming semester.
Spanish Club Contest
The annual Cervantes Medal contest, promoted by the “Institute de los Espanos” of New York, is once again being conducted for the members of the Notre Dame Spanish Club.
The Cervantes Medal was donated to the Spanish Club by Professor Pedro de Landero of the Notre Dame faculty. It was awarded to the student who in the opinion of the contest judges (N.D. Spanish instructors) submits the best essay in Spanish, on some phase of the life or works of Cervantes, noted Spanish author of Don Quixote. All essays submitted for criticism will become the property of the University.
Paul Doran of Galesburg, Illinois, and a ’37 graduate from the College of Commerce, was the recipient of last year’s Cervantes medal.
April 10 is the final deadline set for turning in all essays, and announcement of the winner will be made on April 23. Final presentation of the award will be made at the class day exercises during Commencement.
/-----------------x
Man About the Campus
Jerome (Jim to his friends) Magee bears the distinction of being one of the six aeronautical engineers safely navigating his course through four years of lab, math, etc. Starting at the bottom of the ladder of education he climbed rung by rung, to the highest point on the ladder, aviation. He is now mixing business
with pleasure by flying about the countryside as a technical advisor (with all that the term implies) to a fellow student, who owns a plane.
Jim build up quite a reputation as a football and hockey player at St. Joseph high school back in the home town, Buffalo. Had to give up his football career at Notre Dame in his junior year because of a knee injury. He has represented Notre Dame on several occasions, however, under the guise of a hockey player. We pin our hopes on him in the coming clash with the Illinois hockey team.
He scorned politics in his first two years, but in his junior year, he was elected treasurer of the Aeronautical Club. Jim blew his trumpet for the right band last year, and as a result we find him chairman of the Washington Day Exercises.
He used to have a great deal of trouble getting up for morning prayer, but recently the rector provided a remedy. Alumni’s “Rum-dum row” just loves to have Jim get up in the morning now, for he always starts the day with a song (Oh, yes, we forgot to mention Jim is quite a singer. His friends are still looking for the fellow who dubbed him the “Irish Tenor”)
Jim worked as clerk last summer in the Statler Hotel in Cleveland. He has kept his outside activities in
SHAPIRO DISAPPOINTS IN MUSIC OPENER
By Fred E. Sisk
George H. Shapiro, conductor of the Chicago Little Symphony Orchestra, formally opened the 1938 music season for Washington Hall last Monday night with a program of operatic and light concert selections. General opinion labeled the group on the most part as listless and their renditions as lacking any great degree of emotion and aesthetic beauty.
“Mignon Overture,” by Ambroise Thomas, was the initial selection played by the Little Symphony, followed by Goldmarck’s “Rustic Wedding,” which interpretation was devoid of feeling. The third number preceding the intermission was composed of three selections from “The Jewels of the Madonna,” by the composer, Wolf-Ferrari.
After the short intermission, Debussy’s two compositions — “Claire de Lune” and “Arabesque No. 2” — were offered. MacDowell’s two classical flower selections — “To a Wild Rose” and “To a Water Lily” — were played and followed by “Perpetual Motion,” a dainty and lively number, written by Johann Strauss.
The encores by the Little Symphony were more outstanding as popular selections than the body of the program. The first encore was “Pizzicato,” by Delebes, after which came the popular and well-known “Flight of the Bumble-Bee,” by Rimsky-Korsakov, and one of Brahms’ “Hungarian Dances,” which concluded the program.
Met ClubActiveToo (?J
The Metropolitan Club of New York held a meeting last night in Badin Hall. The most important business of the evening centered upon arranging the time for the Dome picture. As soon as the Dome staff make the arrangement, the time and place will be posted.
Following the precedent set by the St. Louis Club, the Gotham lads also did something different by way of having a musical group at their meeting. The four-piece band played everything from “Dipsy Doodle” to “The Sidewalks of New York.” Another precedent was broken when the secretary read the minutes of the last meeting.
Before the meeting adjourned, President Condon announced that a bowling tournament, as well as a golf and swimming contest would be sponsored by the club.
Cleveland as private as he has kept his heart interests — we are dubious of both.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
9
TO SWING DIXIE JAM IN "ABSURDITIES"
By Harry Penrose
Uncle Norbert’s baton hits the downbeat, the banjos strum away on their first chord, Brother Willis gives the old bass drum its first punishing beat, the trumpets blast the patrons from the front seats, and Notre Dame’s first blackface orchestra begins the overture to the “Monogram Absurdities of ’38.”
Upsetting tradition, defying any and all Notre Dame standards and creating a panic in general, the heads
Manager John Donnelly
Wants them short, but full-bodied.
of the “Absurdities” decided that the campus needs a good dose of “Birmingham Blackface” at its best. Ergo, they have engaged the most select talent available and are swinging it into top-notch form, — much to the disgust of the Morrissey Hall students in whose hall they practice.
Not being satisfied with the South’s primate material, the directors of the show have also engaged the Notre Dame dance band to help provide musical entertainment for the audience. With their talents, good old “Northern Swing” will curl William Shakespeare’s mustache from his portrait as he gazes down upon the first-nighters.
Following the advice of New York experts, regular musical-comedy technique will be employed. A uniform plot will be woven around the various skits that are used and the famous beef-trust chorus will be used in the finale and between skits.
Although tickets are not yet printed, the managers plan to use the same seating plan as last year. The whole first floor will be reserved every night and the balcony will be available, at a reduced price, for those Man o’ War’s who gallop ’cross campus from the Dining Hall every
(Continued on Page 23)
THE WEEK
By Harold A. Williams
Notes on February 14th
Brother Post Office reported an extraordinary increase in the volume of mail received last Monday. No figures were available but Brother said that the Monday record would probably stand until about five days before the Junior Prom. We forgot to ask him if any of the professors received valentines. The campus telegraph office received 522 valentine form messages and sent out 1,213. Number 208, “At miles between us we can laugh, our hearts entwined by telegraph,” was the most popular incoming message. Number 206, “If you were seven and I were nine, I’d say, ‘Please be my Valentine,’ ” was the most- popular outgoing message. Three extra messenger boys were required to deliver the telegrams. Those in charge of the dining hall showed that at heart they are downright sentimentalists when they served heart-shaped cookies along with the pineapple slices. Mr. George H. Shapiro, conductor of the Little Philharmonic orchestra, slipped up on the opportunity of the day when he didn’t play “Hearts and Flowers.”
Personal Service
Last Saturday we went over to the library and asked for such and such a book. The librarian went into the stacks and returned with two books and a big smile. Said the librarian, “The book you asked for has 532 pages. Here’s a book by the same author and it covers practically the same thing in 348 pages. The time you would save in reading the second book would allow you to take in ‘Hurricane,’ a swell movie.”
We took the 348 page book and the librarian’s advice. We would just like to add here that there is nothing in “Hurricane” that couldn’t be matched out here at some time or another. We’re referring to the weather, or course — not Dorothy Lamour.
Telephone conversation.
The other night someone finally answered the phone in Alumni. Said a sweet voice: “Listen, kiddo, go up and call so and so in 313. If he isn’t in try 330; if so and so is out try 117. If they aren’t in you might try 257.” The fellow stepped out of the booth, lit a cigarette, got a drink, talked a few minutes with friends, stepped back into the booth, told her they were all at Matt’s and hung up before she could ask for anyone else.
•
Question of the week.
What happened to Mr. Lopez?
String Bean Survey
Taking a tip from the recent highly successful tea survey conducted by the Comptroller’s office, The Week presents its string bean (green and yellow) survey. After answering the following questions please tear out the questionnaire and hand it to Mr. Tommy (“Smiley”) Owens. Thank you.
QUESTIONNAIRE
1.	Do you eat the string beans served in the dining hall?
Yes.......
Of course not......
Ha ha ha________
2.	Would you like string beans more than the usual six times a iveek?
Yes.......
No________
Just try it and see what happens......
3.	Would you like string beans for breakfast, too?
Yes.......
Never thought about it________ Anything but that ham_________ 4. Hoiv do you like your string beans?
Just the way the cooks (ha ha) prepare them......
The way Mother makes them________ Raw..............................
Addenda
Among those being considered as honorary referee for the Bengal Bouts on March 18 is Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt. . . . Walter Hagen, Jr.’s picture was on the back cover of the Open Road for Boys magazine last month along with an endorsement of Daisy air rifles. ... A fellow from Cavanaugh solved his share of the seating problem at the 6:40 show of “Topper” last Saturday night by bringing his own chair. . . . Howard Hall is conducting a jacks contest. The winner will challenge the jacks champion of the Osceola High School. . . . Bill Gallin is attending Friday meals regularly since he found a good sized pearl in the oyster soup. . . . Among those being considered as honorary referee for the Bengal Bouts on March 18 is Vincent Lopez. . . . The Dillon boys pulled a variation of the old marble goof by taking a picture of two Juniors shooting marbles against a background of a huge crowd waving pennants and megaphones. The picture was sent to the Collegiate Digest with the heading, “Finalists in the University of Notre Dame’s marble championship.” . . . Among those being considered as honorary referee for the Bengal Bouts on March 18 is Babe Ruth.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
College Parade |
By John A. Callaghan
Purty Purty
Two mosquitoes once lit on the features
Of two fair and peroxided creatures. When asked by what right, They replied, “We’re not tight— We’re just seeing the game from the bleachers.”
—Quadrangle.
Weather Report
Yesterday: Fine.
Today: Fine.
Tomorrow: I’d better take those books back to the library.
—Oregon State Barometer.
—o—
Comparison
We have heard the miserable college student compared to a lot of things but the Hermonite comes up with a new one — it compares the poor creature to no one less than Columbus. And furthermore it goes so far as to give reasons:
1.	When Columbus started he didn’t know where he was going.
2.	When he got there he didn’t know where he was.	.
3.	When he finished he still didn’t know what it was all about.
4.	He did it all on someone else’s money.
Scramblings
The Log tells about the missionary who put a collar and tie on a Kentucky mountaineer and the mountaineer stood in the same place for four hours, thinking he was tied there. . . . Look out fellows they’re organizing. Oglethorpe university coeds have formed an “Ugly Club” to protect their rights against un-chivalrous males. Their leader declared, “We never turn down anything. If a cigarette is offered and we don’t want it ourselves, we have to take it and give it to one of our sister members. Although we’re not exactly gold diggers, we’re going to take everything we can get.” . •. . Nice girls. . . . The total value of the 3,000 fraternity and sorority houses in the U. S. is $85,000,000. The average house is worth $28,118.40. . . . This yip is from the Pauw Wow. Do right and fear no man. Don’t write and fear no woman. . . . Parks College, Missouri, lost its gardener recently when the school’s 65-year-old ban on smoking and dancing was modified. “Such - worldly practices are not conducive to the development of Christian characters,” he said as he resigned.
(Continued on Page 22)
PARKS TO HEAD NEW WRANGLER SETUP
•
Frank Parks, junior Arts and Letters student, has been appointed by the Wranglers as chairman of the annual oratory contest sponsored by that organization. Increased interest in the contest has led to an increase in the scope of the contest according to Parks.
Formerly known as the Indiana Catholic Oratorical contest, the name
Wrangler Parks
I.	C. 0. gets a re-birth.
has been changed to the Notre Dame Catholic Oratorical Contest. Invitations, some 60 in all, have been tendered to high schools and academies not only of Indiana, but also from Michigan and Illinois. Several representatives from Chicago and Detroit are expected to participate.
The date of the contest was set for April 2 and 3. A banquet will close the contest. Further details of the contest will be announced at a later date.
At the meeting of the Wranglers last night in the seminar room of the Law building, John Tobin delivered an address in the defense of the unicameral legislature. Citing the example of Nebraska as a state that has found the system practical, the speaker presented strong arguments to support his contentions. Sentiment among the members was, as usual, divided, with most of the weight opposing the speaker.
Sponsor Special Trains
For the convenience of Notre Dame students who plan to spend the Washington Birthday holidays in Chicago, the Chicago campus club will sponsor a special train to Chicago. The train will leave at 1:00 p.m. on Saturday. Special rates will be available. Students desirous of riding on this train should see Bill Armel, at 203 Walsh Hall.
At its last meeting, in the faculty dining hall, the club had a record attendance of 155 members. Refreshments were served, followed by movies of the Minnesota-Notre Dame football game of last fall.
f Calendar ]
Friday, February 18
Meeting, Scholastic, editorial staff 6:30, general staff, 7:00; Lecture, Dr. Francis Sheed, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m., “The Significance of George Bernard Shaw.”
Saturday, February 19
Track: Varsity vs. Indiana, at Bloomington; Fencing, varsity vs. Lawrence Tech, field house; Movie, “Slim,” with Pat O’Brien and Henry Fonda, Washington Hall, first show for frshmen only, 6:40, second show, 8:20.
Sunday, February 20
Student Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6, 7, 8:30, 10 a.m.; Meeting, Vincentians, Knights of Columbus chambers, Walsh Hall, 11:00 a.m.
Monday, February 21
Basketball game, varsity vs. Michigan State, field house, 8:00 p.m.; Meeting Round Table.
Tuesday, February 22
Washington’s Birthday, no classes; Senior Flag presentation and exercises, starting at 9:45 a.m.; Movie, Washington Hall, “Toast of New York” with Edward Arnold, first show for freshmen only, 6:40, second show, 8:20 p.m.
Wednesday, February 23
Thursday, February 24
Meeting, Wranglers, seminar room, Law Building, 7:45 p.m.; Meeting, Italian club, 8:00 p.m., Badin rec room.
’Catalyzer1 Feature
Featured in the latest issue of the Catalyzer is an article on Refrigerants by A. F. Benning. Mr. Benning received a Bachelor of Science degree from the University in 1928. Since graduation he has been employed in the Jackson laboratory of the Du Pont de Nemours Company. The article tells of the more recent developments of refrigeration and the new types of gases used. Mr. Benning describes the desirable properties found in these gases and points out that each gas now used has at least one defect.
The editorial deals with an article appearing in Fortune magazine, praising the chemical industry. It points out many of the recent developments which chemistry has given to humanity.
Missouri Club Rests
At their last meeting the St. Louis Club decided to curtail their immedi- • ate activities until they have replenished a weak treasury.
Because of the enforced inactivity, the members spent their time in reviewing past accomplishments.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
II
4 IN THE JUGGLER VEIN h
The Last Gesture
Tuesday, like fluttering crows, our capped and gowned seniors will march in the annual flag presentation ceremony. The Goldwyn influence has crept in and a few suppressed souls have decided that this year’s class is one that will contribute a few lurid pages to the University’s history.
The rumor is about that Jack Anton, who has been nursing a Shah of Persia complex, is to appear in the march carried on a litter by four husky freshmen who have been ordered to address him as “His Rotund Highness.” A few’ of the short chaps like John DiMatteo want page boys on hand in case the Cap and Gown Company slips up and gives them gowns made for fellows such as Paul Nowak and Bud Sherwood. If that happens the page boys will then be put into service toting the ends of the gowns and tossing roses to the spectators.
The marching ditty is to be “Boolean Algebra and Topology,” the only thing anyone remembers from that math symposium. Chanted slowly, and with a rising cadence, it’s a pretty good imitation of Ravel’s “Bolero.”
“Ach” Mullen has trained the boys in “Der Hoch” step of which he is a master. This is a little thing he picked up at Heidelberg along with the saber scars and sauerkraut menus. On down the Rhine it is known jocularly as “The Duck Waddle,” being a modified version of the “Goose Step.” Despite the fact that about fifteen steps of “Der Hoch” will pound your rubber heels up through your shins the boys have determined to use it for precision’s sake.
With all this promised color and preparation it begins to appear that we’re going to have something magnificent. And with the expected sideline comment of freshmen and sophs it will be something you can’t afford to miss.
Short Story
Girl: “Hello. This is nice, meeting again”
Mickey McFarland:
Girl: “Oh well.”
Solution
Paul Kell was being watched by two freshmen as he stepped on.the
scales in the caf. The machine registered fifty pounds. “Gosh Bill,” said one, “he’s hollow.”
Here and There
With the annual letdown after semester exams the rumors have begun circulating, embellished a little with each telling, that the Chicago Club plans building a club house on the campus, but is having trouble with the question of its site now that the Rockne Memorial is to occupy that corner of the golf course . . . that Hal Kemp is slated for the Senior Ball is another . . . Probably the tops is that seniors next year’ will have unlimited two o’clock permissions, all-night lights, and this year’s class will get back the so-called “senior week” . . . that the Met Club is
For the 94th time. . . . “He did it ivith his l?l hatchet.”
out of debt . . . The most unpopular man of the week is Vincent Lopez after the- breaking of the Junior Prom contract ... Hal Rizzi claims that his mother’s final adminition that no one would take care of him out here so he’d better look out for himself was correct. He was left in town the other night by cherished pals without a dime and the hands of the clock just a few minutes off curfew. . . . Valentine of the day was the one received by Stan Partyka. It read, “To our own drugstore cowboy. Hope this will fill your heart as much as we fill your cokes.” And the signature was “The Walgreen Girls.” . . . Larry Larkin, not having heard the jingle of coin for some weeks now had to send that Cranston, N. J., girl one of those canned Western Union valentines collect.-. . .
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C-S-C.............Faculty Adviser EUGENE F. VASLETT......................Editor-in-Chief
LOUIS DA PRA---------------------------Managing Editor
Departmental Editors
Harold Williams The Week
John Callaghan College Parade
John F. Clifford_________________Splinters from the Press Box
Thomas Healy_____________________________In the Juggler Vein
News Staff
Vincent DeCoursey______________________________News	Editor
George Haithcock______________________Assistant News Editor
Frederick Sisk Graham	Starr
Robert Sheppard______________________________Vernon	Sneider
Joseph Miller________________________________Thomas	Marker
James Dempsey__________________________________John	Kohn
William C. Fay____________________________Fructuoso	Barreda
James Gorman Richard Anton
James Hufnagel
Sports Staff
Mark J. Mitcheli______________________________Sports Editor
Frederick Digby_______________________Assistant Sports Editor
Nick Lamberto Charles Callahan
Andrew M. Crowe_______________________William A. Donnelly
Andrew F. Wilson_________________________Robert Voelker
Clarence Sheehan______________________________Ed Brennan
Eddie Huff
Ari Staff
George Elmore____________________________________Art Editor
Tom Powers_______________________________________Ed Kort
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Ave., New York City— Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco.
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 237 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Vol. 71	February 18, 1938	No. 16
The Way To Peace
ON Tuesday of next week we observe the birthday of the greatest American. Traditionally, exercises befitting the occasion will be held on this campus.
This week is National Defense Week. Appropriately enough, this event falls at on opportune time. Preceding Washington’s birthday, thoughts of which bring up the great advice — “no foreign entanglements,” the subject of National Defense is usually viewed rationally enough. Pertinent again, is the fact that at this very moment the nation’s of the world are about to embark on the greatest naval race ever seen. And fortuitous, perhaps, is the propaganda now’ being sent out by the organization or organizations that sponsor the famed Oxford Oath — “I swear never to support the United States in any war it may undertake.”
Letters received at the Scholastic office reveal that these organizations are attempting to rally all college students around them in support of the oath. One would think that they would know enough not to send a pledge such as that to Notre Dame where fighting Irishmen abound. But no, they even sent a blank petition to be signed by the students in support of the oath — its still blank.
Washington’s birthday, National Defense Week, the naval race, the Oxford Oath, these are the issues that have cropped up at the same time. In some manner
they all have something in common, they are all concerned with peace.
Washington’s birthday and National Defense Week are perfectly harmonious; in order to stay out of war these days one must be strong at home or suffer the consequences. The naval race seems to be inevitable and in accord with defense week; this country cannot afford to let any greedy foreign power become stronger than she on the sea. But the Oxford Oath — how can any real American sign that and say he is an American? Real Americans don’t sign, because when that oath is taken the person enters with such organizations as the Young Communists League, and the Associated Students’ Union. You can’t be a real American and get together with these.
Others may use this oath as a way to peace. Here at Notre Dame the peace movement is held in Sacred Heart Church. One doesn’t have to sign a petition or see his Congressman in order to become part of a peace movement.
▼
Things are not as They Seem
A DOWNTOWN impressario last week began the first of a so-called series of jam sessions on a Sunday afternoon, purporting to render the latest and most modern developments of “swing music.” To the casual observer, noticing the many persons who availed themselves of the opportunity, some of them college students, the event carried a significance as to the respect and love of university students for the classics. It would seem that the masterpieces of music hold no allure among the present generation of students.
How false such a conclusion would be was evidenced by the almost capacity house which heard the popular symphony concert presented by Mr. Shapiro’s Little Symphony Orchestra on the following Monday evening. The concert made a very popular and tremendous “hit” as it were with the ordinary college student, who found much to be enjoyed in Debussy, MacDowell, and Brahms, as much, if not more, than some profess to enjoy in Raymond Scott and Larry Clinton.
Too, most of those who find pleasure in the more artistic bits of music composition were greatly gratified to see such an imposing crowd at a symphonic concert in this day of “swing,” noticing a remarkable growth in the popularity of concert music concomitant with the growth of “swing.” In other years it was seldom that a program of the Little Symphony Orchestra type would attract such a large audience. This, too, would aid to negative the view that college students no longer are interested in fine music, but only in music forms which are popular fads.
▼
Canned Sentiment
INFORMATION emanating from the local Western Union office this week tells us that nearly two thousand Valentine Day form messages were received or sent from the campus. In this day of formalism and stereotyped conveniences such a method of expressing sentiment to loved ones must be applauded as uniquely efficient, convenient, and as not calling forth any tremendous mental upheaval on the part of the sender.
Indeed, such is very convenient, but do you not think that it will lead finally to the extinction of personal thought? Surely after many years of such formalism, no one will possess the creative power of forming a valentine from the heart as sincere and simple and as heartfelt as Joyce Kilmer’s supremely beautiful “A Blue Valentine.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
The Diary of Henry Lee
By William Cullen Fay
Being an interpretation of Milton’s Essay on education in the form of a diary which might have been written by a young Virginian entering Milton College, Sttssex, in the fall of 1756.
August 27, 1756
My candle has flickered down to half-a-finger’s length and my first day at Milton College is almost done. Do I like England? Certainly I am homesick for the big white house, and the James, and Dolly and her puppies. Virginia is on the other side of the world and sometimes I think I shall never see the white puff of field cotton again. Do I like this English College? I cannot say as yet.
Our master, Mr. Thayer, impresses me. I am sure I shall like him. At convocation this morning he quoted the words of the founder of our college, John Milton. “The end then of learning is to repair the ruins of first parents by regaining to know God aright, and out of that knowledge to love him, to imitate him, to be like him, as we may the nearest by possessing our souls of true virtue, which being united to the heavenly grace, makes up the highest perfection.” I must remember these words. My years in England will be a profit if I but shape myself to them . . . met my teacher, a Mr. Grayson. He is very young, and much similar in appearance to Mr. Bob, my father’s overseer. He spoke most kindly to me and I know I shall like him.
August 30, 1756
Had an altercation with my roommate, this morning. He is a big burly fellow. I hear that his father is a general in the King’s Army. Surely he is packed with swagger. He calls my speech “quaint” and my waistcoat “provincial.” I considered one of his remarks concerning my ■waistcoat ill-timed. I knocked him down. He made no attempt to strike back, but said something about “Provincials who can’t fight like gentlemen.”
I like not the overbearing manner of the soldiers that I meet. They are over - confident now that the tide seems running against the French. Methinks their scarlet coats would make an admirable target against the
green Virginia woods. I should like to play hide-and-seek with rifle balls with a few of them in the forest behind Deacon Anderson’s barn. Methinks the guard would' be “called out” and that soon. . . .
September 6, 1756
My roommate’s eye is quite well again. Of late, my waistcoat goes unnoticed, and I am free to pursue my Latin and Greek. Mr. Grayson seems quite determined that I shall be proficient in both languages within the next twelvemonth. He is fond of saying that we must know many tongues and the solid things in them. On Sundays, -we even essay the Hebrew, and I understand that as W’e advance we shall undertake the Chaldean and Syrian dialects.
Mr. Grayson is schooling me assiduously in grammar, not overlooking that my pronunciation be distinct and clear. I have noted that my tendency to slur my vowels brings faint smiles from my classmates. However, they make no comments. . . . Mr. Grayson often gathers some twenty of us in a circle and reads the rural writings of Varro and Cato. He is also prone to take up the Greek and read to us of Mela and Pliny. I like to think of him as Socrates, youthful and kindly. His teaching is bom to the Chiton. Then, when our attention lags, he will stop and casually question us of navigation, or physics, or natural philosophy. I like the informality of it all.
Succeeding entries for ’57 and ’58 have been lost. Following entries are undated but so general as to apply to any of Henry Lee’s days at Milton.
This morning Mr. Grayson took some ten of us into the yard to fence. ’Twas my first experience with the foil and tonight I find both my back and legs cramped and sore. Mr. Grayson is very quick and none of us could touch him. He seeks to teach us to use the weapon exactly, to guard and strike with edge or point. . . . My roommate stomps mightily and lunges lustily but he strikes little but air, and that admirably. Mr. Grayson says I am supple and quick and will soon make a fine foilsman. He must convince me of this.
After a short rest Mr. Grayson
paired us off to wrestle. As luck would have it I was opposite my roommate. He attempted to clasp me close and throw me, but I knew he was the stronger; so I stayed away and dodged and circled. Soon his breath shortened, and seeing my opportunity, I took him from the side and threw him.
Hitherto I have not described the general appearance of the College nor the grounds. The College Building is a solid four-story affair, built of good English stone. Within are the rooms and studyhalls, plentiful enough to provide for the 125 students and 20 teachers . . . objection to my room is the draught which chills in winter. Mr. Grayson has quite a pleasant room on the same floor with mine, and I spend many enjoyable evenings with him.
In the center of the yard before the College is a statue of John Milton, and inscribed on its base are the words: “I call therefore a complete and generous education, that which fits a man to perform justly, skillfully, and magnanimously, all the offices, both private and public, of peace and war.” . . . The College is circumscribed to the north, south, and east by thick English woodland. To the east the land is cleared of trees and cultivated at intervals. The College is situated on a roll of knoll and the view on a clear day (which are few and interspersed amid many rainy ones) is very pleasant. . . .
September 20, 1759
I find it much more pleasant to live alone. My roommate has departed— off to join the war, rumor has it. Further, that he is now with Wolfe before Quebec. I do not worry for his safety. I am quite sure that a rifle ball backed by a double charge would bound backward from his scalp, and the tomahawk reinforced by Jove’s thunderbolt would be equally as impotent.
September 2U, 1759
I am enjoying the comedies which Mr. Grayson has set forth for my reading. The Greek are most to my taste—though I find much to interest me in the Latin and Italian. Mr. Grayson is also grounding me thor-(Continued on Page 21)
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Week in Sports
■ 1 ■——4^
STRONG MICHIGAN STATE TEAM MEETS IRISH HERE MONDAY. STATE IMPROVED TEAM
Still feeling the effects of the one-point defeat by the strong Marquette five, the Notre Dame basketball team faces another opponent, the Michigan State team of Lansing, Michigan, in the local fieldhouse, February 21.
The Spartans are stronger than most of us think. They beat Butler, nosed out Michigan, and were defeated by ______________________________________________ Wisconsin by only two points. v
Howard Kraft, the former Niles high school court star, will play his last game as a member of Coach Ben Van Alstyne’s Michigan State team. In recognition of his basketball record, both at Niles and East Lansing, he will be presented with an appropriate gift at the half. Coach Chester E. Davidson, who guided Kraft in his high school days, will make the presentation.
Van Alstyne was one of the men who helped develop the delayed offensive in basketball. For years his teams used set plays, moving slowly and cautiously. Now he has revolutionized his style in favor of the fast break, and uses set plays only for variety, to throw the opponents off stride.
The Michigan State squad shows an ample supply of veteran stock, including: Howard Kraft at guard, Bill Carpenter and Leo Callahan as forwards, and Ben Dargush at center. From the start of the season Alstyne has had reserve trouble, so he has turned to the sophomores for help. .
His sophomore - studded combination, including Charley Henry, Martin Hutt, George Falkowski and Frank Shidler have been seeing considerable action and will no doubt be in the fray with the Irish. Alstyne Believes his sophs are the best he has coached since the Grove brothers, Art, Hagan, Wayne Scott and Fred Den Herder were thrilling fans ten years ago.
Falkowski, Spartan high-score man, is perhaps the most effective operator around and beneath the basket. He is the loose-limbed type, with rubbery legs and arms that permit him to twist about for seemingly impossible shots. Hutt and Shidler are good on the long shots and the Callahan-Kraft combination is superb in the passing attack. Len Ostemik, high scorer last year, is exceptionally accurate on the long shots and is effective in retrieving rebounds.
Center “Giz” Nowak
New York here he comes.
New Hockey Team
Next Monday, February 21st, at Champaign, Illinois, the Irish of Notre Dame will take another fling at the sport of ice-hockey. The locals will encounter the University of Illinois sextet and it will be the initial clash of the season for both clubs.
The starting lineup for Notre Dame is Bob Magee and Tom McKenna on the wings, Jack Frost at center, Greg Kelly and Jerry Magee at defense, and Joe Sullivan in the goal. Others expected to make the trip and see action are Charley Car-
IRISH FENCERS HOSTS TO LAWRENCE TECH
•
Lawrence Tech of Detroit will invade the Notre Dame fieldhouse Saturday afternoon for a match with the Irish fencers, and, judging from the comparative scores of the two teams, the match is expected to be a very close one. It is scheduled to get under way at 1:00 o’clock.
Notre Dame will be seeking their third victory of the season and their second in a row, having defeated Ohio State here two weeks ago. The Irish lost their opener to Purdue, then came back to defeat Detroit before losing to Chicago. It will also be the fifth match of the season for the Lawrence team. They have defeated Highland Park Junior College and the University of Detroit, while losing to Ohio State and Michigan State.
The Lawrence Tech squad has been strengthened by the return of Al Blodgett, star foil man who has been ill, and the discovery of varsity material in William Bishop and Tony Fortunski. The latter were entered in the foil bouts against the University of Detroit last Saturday and made good by winning. Captain William Osis of the invaders is a colorful fencer, worthwhile watching in action. He fences with the three weapons and together with Michael Fernandez, who also fences with the three weapons, are liable to give the Irish a setback. Fred Goodyear, a valuable sabre man and Gene Jakubowski complete the Lawrence Tech squad.
Coach de Landero of the Irish is still worried about his foil and epee fencers, and believes that the outcome of the meet will depend on the result of these two events. By winning either the foil and the epee and breaking even in the sabre bouts, Notre Dame may win. Captain Jack Zerbst, Sal Scarlata, and Gavan are expected to lead the Irish. Mercado, Colgan, and Graham are also being counted on for points.
roll, Jim Brown, Bill Mullins, John McIntyre, Dick Leahey, and Don Stapleton.
Goal-tender Sullivan may be called the coach, captain, and manager of the Notre Dame team. He is mainly responsible for the existence of the group, and did much to bring about the outside engagement with the “Illini.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
15
Brushing Up
BENGAL ASPIRANTS BEGIN REAL TRAINING WITH BOUTS ONLY ONE MONTH AWAY
By Nick Lamberto
Ed Brennan, the former conductor of this column, is now devoting his time to baseball. He was second baseman with the Varsity last year.
Track Coach John Nicholson says that the reason he invented the starting blocks was to cut out the delay in running off of track meets. The blocks, invented in 1929, give each runner uniform starting conditions each time and eliminate the necessity of digging holes.
Jack Elder, record-holder in the 75-yard dash (:07.4), lost to George Simpson the first time he used the blocks in his specialty. Jack stumbled as he came out of the blocks but recovered in time to finish second in :07.5.
Track bigwigs were lief to accept records made with starting blocks when they were first invented . . . said they gave runners a mechanical advantage in their race against time. Opinion is still divided on the subject but the majority favor starting blocking. Whether the blocks aid the runner or not, which is doubtful, they do cut out unnecessary delays. Then too, they prevent the runners from alibiing that his “starting holes gave way.”
Squibs and Such
Nine members of the Marquette cage squad hails from Illinois . . . almost as bad as the Indiana influence at Southern California. Phil Walker, Bengal Bout instructor, learns that fancy footwork down at Dolly’s dance school every night between 6:30 and 7:30. Hank Lui-setti, Stanford’s basketball phenomenon, has averaged 15 points per game for the last three years . . . his two year total as a sophomore and junior is 826 points. Jack Bunn, Stanford coach, says he’d want Lui-setti on the team even if he never shot a basket . . . (that’s one way of looking at it). Chuck Chuckovitz, Toledo’s cage flash, scored 106 points in the first four games of the season ... in one of the four he chalked up 41 points. In the recent Purdue-Ulinois game Purdue stalled for 15 minutes of the final period . . . Purdue’s center Gene Anderson at one time had the ball under his arm for five minutes without changing either his position or the position of the ball.. . the Boilermakers should have tried that when Notre Dame played them last, year . . . then maybe we’d have gotten a good look at them.
By Charles Callahan
Keep that left hand up! Get inside his right! Keep moving! Keep your chin down! Punch straight, don’t chop!
Go over to the exercise room of the fieldhouse any Monday, Wednesday, or Friday afternoon and these are the instructing commands that will pester
Handball Team Planned
Handball will have a suitable representative at Notre Dame this winter if the interest of the students is great enough. That is the situation at present. A team will be coached again this year by Father Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C., who has volun-tered his services through his great liking for the game. Former players or others who desire to try out for this team are urged to get in touch with Father Brennan at St. Edward’s Hall.
If co-operation of the students is forthcoming, a schedule will be drawn up and a series of matches official or unofficial will be played throughout the balance of the season. Incidentally, the meeting with the University of Chicago, which took place last Saturday and was mentioned in Chicago papers, was unofficial inasmuch as Notre Dame’s team was a pick-up group. However, with these men as a nucleus it is felt that a team can be assembled which will take Chicago’s measure in a return match.
Handball has always been popular at Notre Dame, and with the promise of an untold number of courts in the new Rockne Memorial, interest in this excellent conditioner should be increased.
Bengal Boxers mix it up.
your eardrums. It is on those three > days that Professor of Boxing Napolitano, and his two associates Walker and Broscoe, give out the “do’s” and “dont’s” of the manly art to a large squad of hopefuls. Fifty-four boys are taking part in the tri-weekly sessions now, and this number will probably increase..
Out of this group will emerge the eight winners of the Scholasttc-sponsored Bengal Boxing Tournament. They and their finalist opponents will receive sweaters. Each sweater is adorned with knitted boxing gloves into which is entwined a miniature “N.D.” Heavy sweaters go to the winners, while lighter duplicates are awarded the runners-up.
Among those working out are two of the 1937 champions, and also three others who went to the finals before meeting defeat. Seeking to retain their titles are Russell Dolce, junior from Chicago, who won the featherweight crown, and Jim Brown, a sophomore from Rockaway, New York, and present holder of the junior welterweight championship.
Most prominent among the ’37 finalists returning is Phil Dahar. As a frosh, two years ago, he was the heavyweight king. Last March, Dahar drew a bye into the finals—at the request of the other heavies—and then was upset in the closing seconds of the last round K.O. fashion. The other two finalists are Dick Thompson, welterweight, and Vince Gurucharri, featherweight.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
By Mark J. Mitchell
It’s a far cry from the plains of northern India to the cinder track of Cartier Field. The competition is a little different too. But William Vincent Clifford has proved that it makes very little difference where he runs, or what the competition. For in two years here, he has won two monograms and has equalled the all-time Notre Dame records of :09.6 seconds for the hundred and :06.2 for the 60 yard dash.
Bill Clifford has had some experience
that few track men or even college students in this country have ever thought of. He spent the early part of his life in Gary, Indiana. Suddenly at the age of eleven, his father, an engineer in the steel mills, was moved to India. Bill went with him. Their destination was a small town in northern Bengal, near the Nepal border. Darjarling it was called, and it boasted about 25,000 inhabitants.
Young Bill attended St. Joseph’s College in Darjiling, and it was there that he first pulled on a spiked shoe. He ran a good deal over there, despite the fact that it rained three months of every year. He was a sprinter even then, but he found some heavy competition from the native Indian boys who ran in the same meets. Then he was laid up for a year. A leg injury so crippled him that he could not walk. Some even thought he might never walk again.
In 1932, when he was fifteen, he returned to the United States. Entering Horace Mann High School in Gary, he proved that he could still walk. He even showed evidences of being able to run pretty well. For he cracked ten seconds in the hundred, and got himself a couple of
monograms. in the two years he was at
Horace Mann. In his senior year he was elected captain of the track team.
That was in 1934, and Don Elser, also from Horace Mann in Gary, was beginning to feel his oats as an athlete at Notre Dame. Bill thought anything that was good enough for Don would suit him, so, in the fall of 1934 he enrolled at Notre Dame.
Bill has gotten along well since then. He won his monogram as a sophomore, and ran on what was probably the best sprint relay team Notre Dame has ever seen. Jack Frawley, Bucky Jordan, and Eddie Boyle were the other members of this outfit which made an excellent showing in the Drake Relays of 1936 by winning both the quarter mile and half mile relays. Incidentally, Bill remembers that meet as the most enjoyable one he has ever competed in.
Last year Bill was a good sprinter in the indoor meets, but when they turned him loose on Cartier Field, he ran wild. In the Navy meet on May 8th, he won the century in :09.6 to tie the all-time Notre Dame record set first by Wasson in 1912, and equalled by Jack Elder and Bill McCormick. Though he pulled a muscle in the Indiana State meet, the injury was not serious, and has not bothered him this year.
Against Marquette a week ago he failed to qualify. Then, last Saturday against Illinois he wound up and came through with a victory in :06.2 to tie the Notre Dame record held jointly by Elder and McCormick. According to Coach Nicholson, Bill is a very unusual type of runner. If he is behind in a race he just ties up in a knot. But let him get ahead, and you may as well say good-bye to your race. Nevertheless Nick thinks very highly of him, and the admiration seems to be mutual. For Clifford says, “Nick’s the best there is! And you can quote me on that!”
WALSH AND CARROLL PACE CAGERS
•
With but two more rounds to be played before the championship games, the race for play-off positions in both leagues has taken no definite standings.
Top honors in both classes of Group II are held by Walsh with an unblemished record in three heavyweight contests and five lightweight contests. In Group I, Carroll leads both divisions. Their heavyweight team has three wins with no defeats chalked up against them and their lightweight boys have still to suffer a loss in four games.
The nearest contender for the leadership of Group II in the heavyweight division is Lyons with four wins and one defeat, while the Alumni lights with four victories and one defeat threaten their fellow Seniors. Zahm and Brownson are pushing the leaders in the heavyweight division of Group I and St. Ed’s is pushing the lights.
Now that the fortunes of the respective divisions have settled down to the two or three leading teams, which seem to be well matched, a good deal of “hot basketball” can be looked for in the next two rounds. On February 20th the heavys from Lyons meet Walsh and have a chance to take over the lead as will the heavyweights of St. Ed’s in their meeting with Carroll.
The results:
Heavyweight division — Group I: St. Ed’s 17, Freshman 12; (other games postponed). Group II: Lyons 20, Sorin 13; Morrissey over Alumni (forfeit); Howard 21, Dillon 20.
Lightweight division — Group I: Zahm 17, Brownson 15; Freshman over St. Ed’s (forfeit); Carroll defeated Off-Campus (forfeit). Group II: Walsh 12, Sorin 6; Alumni 20, Dillon 20.
February 13 — Morrissey over Alumni (forfeit); Howard, 20; Dillon, 14; Sorin over Lyons (forfeit); Walsh over Badin (forfeit).
. Schedule for sixth round:
February 20 — Group II: 9:00, Dillon vs. Morrissey; 9:15, Howard vs. Alumni; 10:00, Walsh vs. Lyons; 10:15, Sorin vs. Badin. Group I: 1:30, Off-Campus vs. Zahm; 2:20, Cavanaugh vs. St. Ed’s; 3:10, Carroll vs. Brownson; Freshman, bye.'
Bill looks like he is well on his way to a successful season. He will be the nucleus of another excellent sprint relay team. And if he doesn’t leave some new individual records behind before he hangs up his spikes—you can blame somebody besides Bill Clifford.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
IRISH CAGERS HOT AS BUTLER IS BEATEN
9
By Andrew F. Wilson
Last Monday the Notre Dame basketball team overwhelmed Butler at Indianapolis, 45-22. Ten minutes of almost top-form play gave the Irish a 17-point lead at the half, the whole 17-point margin coming from the work of Moir and Wukovits. Moir scored 8 points in the first ten minutes, while Wukovits scored 9 points, mostly in the last ten minutes.
For the early part of the game Moir and Wukovits outshot Merrill and Cosgrove of Butler, giving the Irish a 10-7 lead; then Wukovits, Nowak and Sadowski began to rush in for short baskets as the Irish passing, growing smoother and swifter, loosened up the Butler defense. Steiner made one foul shot for Butler in the last ten minutes of the half, while Wukovits hit three more goals and a foul, and Nowak, Sadowski, DuCharme and Mike Crowe threw up one goal apiece.
With the score 25-8 at the start of the second half, Butler clicked for five points in two minutes, then went along for 13 more minutes with but one foul shot, as Irish subs ran the score to 41-14. An eight-point Butler spurt, two free throws by Carson, and a field goal by Shields ended the game at 45-22.
Eighteen men were used by Coach Keogan, 13 by Coach Hinkle, with Shields, Wagner, and Emmett Crowe making their first varsity appearance of the season. Moir and Sadowski played only the first 15 minutes, Ertel replaced Nowak five minutes after the start of the second half, Jordan and Klier replaced Brown and Wukovits in the middle of the last half, so altogether the first-stringers played slightly more than half the game.
Tommy Wukovits, covering the court with his usual slick smoothness, was high-scorer for the night with four goals and six fouls—14 points. Paul Nowak played well on defense, committing but one personal foul. Contrastingly, his reserve, Mark Ertel, played over-aggressively, committing three personals in less than ten minutes.
The whole Irish defense, after a distressing lapse against a “hot” Marquette team, was again back to normal, guarding as closely and following the ball as sharply as only Notre Dame does. This was Notre Dame’s 15th victory in 18 games this year, and the ninth win in a row over Butler.
"Joe Jab" Invades Kell Camp — And Gets Hisself a Job As High-Class Press Agent -
By "Joe Jab" ..
(Editor’s Note: The Bengal Bout wrestling match between Joe “Our Boy”
Race, Notre Dame football guard, and Paul “Kill ’em” Kell, Notre Dame
football tackle, scheduled for the night of the finals in the Bengal competition,
March 18, has been attracting such widespread public appeal and national
attention that the SCHOLASTIC has as- . signed “Joe Jab,” special correspondent, to conduct weekly rounds to the training camps of the two principals, and to report his findings in weekly letters to Mark Mitchell, sports editor. This is the second of the weekly series in which “Joe Jab” gives his first impression of “Kill ’em” Kell. Last week “Jab” was appreciating the charity of the training quarters of “Our Boy” Race, of whom he admittedly owns a “piece.”)
Dear Mark:
While riding over to the Kell domain last week I happened to dwell upon the possibilities of this Bengal Bout wrestling business. You remember John “Phog” Fogel who was defeated in last year’s great match by “Our Boy” Race. Did you ever hear of “Phog” again? The answer is an emphatic “No, Sir!” And why?
Well, when a wrestler has been defeated in the Bengals he just isn’t fit for later duty in anything. The loser
“Punch Kill” Kell
“Out Boy” Joe is in for a bad night.
gets a big monument—of limestone. This comes from the nature of the Bengals which are decided by the “Sudden Death” route. It is because of the “Sudden Death” angle that the Bengals draw the huge throngs.
It is a known fact among the sports scribes that the Mgrs. of Madison Square Garden and the Chicago Stadium, to take only the big ones, are smart in keeping their houses “dark” a month before and a fortnight after the Bengals. Fight promoters are very recalcitrant about competing with the Bengals for patronage of, what has become known poetically as, the American dollar.
Yes, Sir! This Bengal thing is some great shux in the world of sport. It’s liable to be introduced to
“C’mon back an’ fight, Joe”: Kell.
the Olympics any year now. That’s why we think we’re smart in being involved in the deal. Somebody tells us the other day that one of. our dollars, resulting from our “take” of the gate can keep over a million Bengals from starvin’. We figure that this is pretty economical board.
We’re turnin’ all these possibilities over in our mind as we approach the “Sleepfull Holler” training camp of “Punch ’em Paul” Kell. And the guy’s little rendezvous has its attributes. We are wondering though, whether this “Punch ’em Paul” can fight; that is the big thing. But what interests us on the side is our chance of representing “Punch ’em” with the public press. Already we are public relations man for “Our Boy” Race, and I told you about how we bought a half interest in his abilities.
Well, we get into a press conference with Kell and his Mgr. At first I think that the Mgr. is the wrestler; he’s that big.
First thing out of the dugout, “Kill ’em” is callin’ me “Chum.” He presents us to Mgr. Stupkiewicz, whom he conventionally addresses as “Mister” to us. Then “Kill ’em” retorts, “If I can’t cut this Mgr. down to my size I CAN cut down his name to almost any size. From now on my Mgr. is ‘Stoop.’ ”
This is all copascetic with us though, because the managing ed calls those length monickers “head-
(Continued on Page 20)
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX )
By John F. Clifford
TH1NLY-PSYCHOLOGY
Opposite Scrap’s den in the varsity locker rooms where every track man can see it as he steps off the Toledo is a sign—a brief, but forceful reminder of a certain evening last year when an Irish track team met an Indiana track team. It reads,
1937
INDIANA 60	NOTRE DAME 26
These words fairly howl of subtlety and Nicholson psychology. One can’t help read them without seeing the question between the lines: “And what are you going to do about it?” By some strange quirk of circumstances it so happens that this faint reminder was posted the week before the 1938 meeting of Notre Dame and Indiana. And similarly strange is the fact no one seems to know—or, perhaps more specifically, wishes to reveal—who is responsible for the uniquely significant position on the varsity bulletin board of this literary pep-talk. The guilty person “ain’t sayin’ ” and Nick “ain’t sayin’.”
After catching a few hasty glimpses of this 1938 edition as it breezed past the tape and over the bars, the concensus of opinion among those in the know is that John P. has assembled a fair-to-middlin’ bunch of athletes to carry the track destinies of the Irish to greater heights this year. We agree. But we find it difficult in writing up this track team and, at the same time, restraining the complimentary epithets that they so aptly deserve. The Illinois meet last week produced some great times and revealed the pleasurable information that Notre Dame not only has a strong individual representation in all events, but has as well a three-man depth in everything except the high jump. As we said, it is hard to employ nonchalance in describing the Irish after seeing their performances against Marquette and the Illini. To speak too highly now—so early in the season—is to lead with our chin. Notre Dame has been upset from her bed of roses before, as you perhaps well remember. And yet the very fact that these goings-on of 50.2 (which Pete Sheehan turned in on his leg of the relay), and Francis’ 1:57.6 in the half, and Danny Gibbs’ record-smashing vault, and Bill Clifford’s 6.2 in the “60” without being pushed were recorded so early in the season, makes us throw all journalistic restraint toward the gridiron and basketball court, and look for even bigger and better stuff from Nick’s track team in meets to come.
V
HIGH POINT
To-morrow night it’s Indiana: another good track team if we can believe what we read in the papers. This is the meet the Irish have been pointing for ever since that drubbing handed them by the Hoosiers a year ago. It is the big night of the indoor season, and any meet thereafter, with the exception of the CIC, will be just an anticlimax. It is the night when every man has to come through in grand style to win—and that includes everybody in the pole vault and the shot, the two events in which Indiana is not up to scratch with the Irish.
John Francis and Greg Rice will bear much of the responsibility in the distances; and an onerous responsibility it will be with Tommy Deckard and Jimmy Smith to compete with. Deckard and Smith together with Don Lash and Trutt, were members of Indiana’s four-mile relay team last year which nicked the Irish in the Butler relays after Rice had built up a commendable lead as lead-off man. Deckard’s 4:15 mile last week was the high spot of the Indiana victory over Ohio State. He will meet Rice and Francis tomorrow, the former having done 4:16 last year, and 4:20 early this year. Both look good to give the Hoosiers a run for their money when they meet again. Then there is “OI* Man Rivah” Gene Gormley who “just keeps rollin’ but don’t say nothin’.” If this week’s workout is any indication, Indiana distance men will find it hard to shake Gene from their heels. Much depends upon the distance men for a victory—they will make up the pendulum that will swing the meet.
WINTER SPORTS PLANS IN MAKING
•
Yes, fellow-sloths, the open season on inactivity, loafing, and in general that feeling of nothing-to-do is past. The old familiar armchair will give up its burden starting next week. Ehner Layden and his New Deal for Notre Dame, a winter sports program, will take office. To replace the endless bridge, penny ante, and bull sessions, Mr. Layden will sponsor a program which features billiards, bowling, handball, and possibly (if the strong-arm men demand it) pingpong.
As in previous winters, since the December solstice, that excess energy of yours has been piling up, piling up — until an outlet for it is absolutely necessary or else it is liable to go off with a bang. Realizing the situation without need of a straw vote, Mr. Layden will be closeted with his cabinet — in particular Mr. John Donnelly, early next week regarding details of the plan and the result of their consultation will be the annual indoor-sports program.
A rumor has it that the easterners will attempt to lobby for a Duck-Pin bowling division — if the support of the Baystaters and Nutmeggers can be counted on. Until the opening of the session, prospective entries are expected to get in form as this competition will be stiff and the rewards handsome. The rules will be published next week. There is no doubt that Notre Dame is a place of real opportunity for cue-handlers, handball whangers, and bowling ball fin-gerers. A kid may be born the son of Republican parents and still grow up to win one of these tourneys. So keep that in mind you amateurs — it is not always the cleverest man who wins!
NOTICE
In case you are one of those who would like to take up boxing, but feel that because of no previous experience your chances are nil—chase the idea away.
At least two-thirds of the former Bengal champions never donned the war-gloves prior to entering Notre Dame. Furthermore enrolling in the boxing classes does not necessitate your entering the Tournament. Come over and take the lessons three times a week. You would have to pay more than a little to a private instructor for what you can receive here for nothing.
When it comes time for the Tournament to begin, and you find that there are too many boys in your weight-class of far superior skill, then don’t enter. However, you’ll still possess a pretty fair knowledge of one of sportdom’s greatest pastimes.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19
ILLINOIS SWAMPED BY NICK'S MEN. 80-24
•
By Clarence T. Sheehan
Coach Nicholson’s track squad overwhelmed the mini last Saturday in the Notre Dame fieldhouse, thus accomplishing a feat which no other team representing the Fighting Irish this year could match. This victory was achieved in a most impressive manner as the Blue and Gold scored slams in five events, erased two records from the books and matched another, while the visitors managed to recover long enough to break a record in the low hurdles. The final score—80-24.
Dan Gibbs led both teams in scoring with eleven points to his credit, broke three records in the pole vault, by clearing the bar at 13 feet 8 3/4 inches, won the broad jump and gained the show position in the low hurdles. Jack Robinson, Big Ten hurdle champ, who cleared the low hurdles in 7.3 seconds, one-tenth of a second better than the old meet record, and won the high hurdle event, crowded Gibbs for individual honors. Bill Fay-monville, Junior weight luminary, put the shot for 46 feet 2 1/2 inches, one half inch greater than Don Elser’s meet record which was made in 1936. Bill Clifford finished the sixty yard dash in 6.2 seconds tying the meet record which Jack Elder set way back in 1929.
A victory by Diefenthaler in the high jump was the only first for Illinois besides the aforementioned victories achieved by Robinson in the high and low hurdles. Leonas was forced to be content with second place in the high jump, going out at 6 feet 4 inches, the winning height. Beinor was second to Faymonville in the shot put with Gragg of Illinois coming in third. Gibbs, whose vault of 13 feet 8 % inches broke the Notre Dame Indoor Record of 13 feet 4% inches set by Johnson in 1931; the Notre Dame Gym Record of 13 feet 5% inches established by Siebert of North Central in 1935; and the meet record of 13 feet 6 inches made by Seely of Illinois in 1933, was followed by Langton an Dean who tied for second place. Both vaulters made 13 feet but missed the winning height by a very narrow margin. Gibbs, Reidy, and Tucker finished in that order to sweep the broad jump. 23 feet 4 inches was the winning distance.
Notre Dame swept both long distance events. Bill Donnelly won the mile, followed by Martin in second, and Rice and Francis relegating themselves to third place by their
IRISH AND INDIANA FURNISH MIDDLE-WEST'S GREATEST TRACK BATTLE TOMORROW
Spurred by the too prominent sign in the varsity locker room which reads “1937—Indiana-60, Notre Dame-26,” the Notre Dame track team left for Bloomington at one o’clock this afternoon for its toughest dual meet of the season—tomorrow’s encounter with Indiana University. Indiana has a slight ________________________________________advantage because the meet is held in * its own gymnasium, but the fact that
, ‘.‘Nick”
His year (we hope)
own volition. Gene Gormley won the two mile run in 9:38 flat and was followed across the finish line by Szumachowski and Rice.
Johnny Francis finished the 880 in the fast time of 1:57.6. Pete Sheehan’s 52.3 was the best recorded in the quarter mile. Clifford, Shields, and Coughlin scored a slam in the 60 yard dash, while Captain Bill Mahoney scored a third in the high hurdles and edged out Gibbs in the low hurdles to cop second place. The Irish relay team, composed of Halpin, Bernard, Mahoney, and Sheehan, easily won the mile relay in 3:27.5.
the Hoosier team had to extend itself to beat Ohio State by a 50-45 score last Saturday might work against it. A track team is seldom “hot” two weeks in a row at such an early point in the season.
Coach John P. Nicholson has been pointing his boys particularly for this meet and they should be ready to give their best performance thus far tomorrow. Dan Gibbs, one of the best collegiate pole vaulters in the country this year, should win his specialty easily, and if Hal Langton, who is always a question mark, and John Dean, who still lacks experience, can repeat the 13 feet jumps they made last week, Notre Dame should sweep this event. The shot put trio of Bill Faymonville, Joe Beinor, and Mike Mandjiak also stand a good chance to shut out all Indiana competition.
Judging by comparative times Bill Clifford and Tom Shields should take first and second in the 60 yard dash while Steve Coughlin might nose out Allen of Indiana for third place. However, the sprint is one of the most uncertain events, and it is dangerous to count too heavily on points there.
Captain Bill Mahoney, who has had the misfortune to race against such stars as Bob Shurilla of Marquette and Jack Robinson of Illinois in the two meets thus far, has a good chance to win the 70 yard high-hurdles tomorrow. It is uncertain whether there will be a broad jump or a low hurdle race in the meet. Ted Leonas will do battle with Tuthill of Indiana in the high jump; he should win if Nick’s prediction that he’ll be .“hot” tomorrow is correct.
Judging from these events the meet would seem to be decidedly in Notre Dame’s favor, but Indiana’s great strength lies in the mile relay and every event from the quarter mile up. Sam Miller of Indiana, who has won quite a few important races in the East this winter, set a new fieldhouse record of :49.6 against Ohio State last Saturday. Neither of Notre Dame’s quarter milers has come within two seconds of that time.
The mile should be one of the most spectacular races of the day. In a mere dual meet it will have a faster field than the mile in most big meets (Continued on Page 23)
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Speaker Hits Shipping
The Notre Dame chapter of the Propeller Club was praised for its consistently progressive attitude and interesting program in a letter from Mr. Tode, honorary national president. The letter was read to the members at the last weekly meeting.
The program of the evening centered about a paper given by Joe Leising, secretary of the club, on “The New Era in Shipping.” Mr. Leising gave a description of the new combination freight and passenger boats being built by the government, commenting on the numerous advantages which will result from this new trend in the merchant marine. He reviewed the advantages to the shipper from the low cost of tins new mode • of transportation and the increased markets open to producers because of the opportunity to use numerous small ports.
Mr. Leising severely criticized the obsolete merchant marine of the United States, pointing to its disadvantages, not only because of the trade it loses to the better shipping facilities of other countries, but also its inconvertability in time of war. He referred also to the subsidy agreements which the government is putting into effect and to the new liner which is to replace the Leviathan, now being scrapped in Scotland.
After the discussion, yearbooks were distributed to all members. The yearbook consists principally of a detailed account of the Merchant Marine Conference, dealing primarily with the present conditions of shipping, its problems, and its future.
Now, three rahs for Lopez. . Little, Rah, Rah, Little!
Club Plans Program
At the first meeting of the new semester of the Kansas-Oklahoma Club in Badin Rec last week, preliminary plans were discussed for the third annual Rockne Memorial program.
President Al Dreiling of Victoria, Kansas, appointed Rchard Stueve of Tulsa, Oklahoma, chairman of the program. The necessary committees were also named. The date for the program was tentatively set for Sunday night, March 27.
President Dreiling is especially anxious to secure a large freshman attendance, although others are welcome to attend.
Utica Club Program
The Utica Club, under the leadership of President Henry Lepsie, announced its plans for a meeting some time next week.
An Easter dinner with its Notre Dame alumni is also planned for the benefit of the club members.
At the pre-Lenten smoker to be held by the club, a guest speaker is to be present, who will deliver a short address at the club’s next meeting before the holidays.
Tentative plans will also be discussed for a Communion breakfast of the group at a later date in the semester.
Colonels To Take Trip
With fifteen members attending, the Kentucky Club of Notre Dame held a meeting on Thursday evening, in Room 118 of the Main Building. Plans for the Dome picture of the club were discussed.
Roger Huten, a club member, entertained his fellow-Kentuckians with a speech on the manufacture and merits of Kentucky-Bourbon Whiskey. This talk preceded a general discussion of the proposed trip to Louisville, which the club will take during the Easter holidays. At Louisville the club members will be guests of the alumni. Tentative arrangements for a vacation dance have been made.
Father O'Hara at Meet
Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, will represent Notre Dame at the joint celebration of Washington’s Birthday given by the Harvard Club of Cincinnati and the University of Cincinnati.
The celebration will consist of a symposium of the question of “Preparing the College Student for Citizenship” and will highlight the first triennial regional Harvard Club meeting that day in Cincinnati. Approximately 50 institutions in the four-state area have notified the local Harvard Club they will represent.
RADIO LOG
Programs for the week of Feb. 18 to the 24th inclusive:
Friday: 8:00-8:15, Sports Review; 8:30-9:00, Little Jamboree.
Sunday: 11:00-11:15, St. Mary’s Musical.
Monday: 4:30-4:45, Student Session; 7:15-7:30, Faculty Talk.
Tuesday: 4:30-4:45, Miniature Theatre; 7:45-8:00, Old Cronies.
Wednesday: 4:30-4:45, Journey Without Maps; 7:15-7:30, Music of the Masters.
Thursday: 4:30-4:45, Periscope; 7:15-7:30, Music of the Nations; 7:45-8:00, Music Hour.
Note: Music of the Masters is to be produced from the downtown studios.
JOE JAB
(Continued from Page 17) line haunts,” and we like to make tilings easy for everybody and the Bengals.
Mgr. “Stoop” is a pretty big article all right, but “Kill ’em,” or “Punch ’em Paul,” as we sometimes refer to him, is no mite either. He must indicate all of 235 with Mr. Fairbanks’ balance. This worries us a little at first because “Our Boy” Race tips only about 205. “Our Boy” is built like a tank, though, so we don’t fret much.
Gradually like, we lead up to the angle that “Phog” didn’t go so well last year in the Bengals because he was without newspaper prestige. We must be impressing Mgr. Stoop and “Kill ’em” Kell ’cause before long they very timidly request me to handle their journalistic affairs. We don’t jump at the offer, though, ’cause that’s not big-time like. Finally we let them feel that although we’re pretty well rushed with other duties that we’ll stretch a point of friendship and take up their reins of public representation.
Finally I ask “Punch ’em Paul” for a press statement and he admits that, whereas he didn’t feel nearly* so confident before the interview, he now feels that he’ll give “Our Boy” all the Race that he wants in the quest for the Bengal wrestling title.
His exact words, as a f actly matter, were: “We can’t lose now, can we?”
We were going out the gate when this was uttered, but if you had been close to me you could have heard me mumble, under-the-breath-like, “I’ll say we can’t.”
It looks like I’m going to have to stick with this nomine de guerre because it won’t be very pleasant being sandwiched by “Punch ’em Paul” Kell and “Oui' Boy” Race, who now come under the dubious head of “My Laddie Boys” of the wrestling mat.
May we keep our identity a secret in the heart interest of,
Your colleag-u-ee,
“Joe Jab.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
THE DIARY OF HENRY LEE (Continued from Page 13)
oughly in the principles of Political Economy. I find them not so difficult as the philosophies which beset me sorely last year. . . . Mr. Grayson remarked this noon that soon he would put me to writing, for already I knew quite as much as he. A pleasant compliment, cordial but undeserved. However, I am looking forward to my thesis and a play which I would like very much to write. . . .
February 10, 1760
The roommate has returned. He boasts much about Quebec. I doubt he did more than climb the bluff. He is more eslovenly than ever in his work and an idea rattles within his head like a stone in a jug. He has brought back some tobacco and fogs the room with its damnable fumes. Luckily, my thesis has been completed these three weeks, and the play is already roughly written. Mr. Grayson is assisting me with the third act, which has been troublesome. He holds some hope that the play may be acted at the town theatre ere I leave. The Post brought a letter from father' this morning, which contains the news that the Annabelle will clear from London on the 1st of April. I must be aboard her. . . . Tonight, leaving appears difficult. ... A riot occurred in the town this morning. Some say it was the now few Puritans protesting against the theatre. But Mr. Grayson says it was more
“Noiv, hoiv can we get “Lopez” out of that Prom song.”
/ . -
All students interested in submitting for publication in the Scholastic short stories, poems, familiar essays, essays in historical or literary criticism, are invited to bring manuscripts to the Scholastic offices in the Ave Maria Building, Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday evenings between 7 and 8 o’clock; or to room 328 Main Building, mornings from 9 to 11 or evenings from 8 to 9 o’clock.
likely street ruffians. All ills, nowadays, are laid upon the hapless Puritans. . . .
February 21, 1760
The Post brought another letter from America this morning — this time from Cousin Will. Father is feeling somewhat better and the prospects of my early return has been a tonic to him. I am glad. . . . More unrest in the colonies, chiefly over the new taxes. I fear there will be trouble ere long. There is pride and stubbornness on both sides. And money, also. Pride and money—two combustibles, and the flame is smouldering. I have made many friends here, Ted and Froggie and Woodie. If war comes, I would be their enemy, and Mr. Grayson’s too. Mr. Grayson speaks often of a man named Burke who, he says, has good ideas if people would but listen to him. I pray they will.
March 23, 1760
My last letter at Milton—the last of four pleasant years. Our master,
Mr. Thayer, spoke most kindly of me in chapel this morning. I shall always remember him. . . . My play was acted in the town theatre this evening. Mr. Grayson and I watched together. In the privacy of my own diary I may write without undue flattery that my efforts were well received. Mr. Grayson spoke highly. We walked home slowly, he and I; and we said goodbye at the gate. Most likely we shall not meet again in this life. True friends are so rare, and so rare are our brief moments with them. , . . Now it is London, The Annabelle, Virginia, — and home. There is longing within me for the big white house on the James. Father will meet me at Jamestown. Home— everything is in that word. But I shall miss England. I have lost Grayson, who has been a brother to me. I know now that a father’s price is an older brother. . . .
Now it is goodbye. Some day, if God wills, I wish a son to follow me here. He must know Grayson as I did . . . yet we must have such a school in the colonies. Once I am settled in Virginia I shall write to Grayson. He would be of greater worth to Virginia than 10,000 slaves. . . . More, we are kin planets, and our orbits must cross again.
The candle has burned almost out. My years here are spent. I have studied diligently and sought to know God aright. I have made dear friends. And now, as I lay down this pen, my gladness is freaked with sorrow.
BENGAL BOUTS (Continued from Page 5) double punches, band music, corkscrew blows, bone-breaking wrestling, and other pugilistic thrills, the Bengal Bouts will contribute all proceeds to the Bengal Mission Fund. •
The eight classes of fighters are: Bantamweight, 118 pounds; featherweight, 126 pounds; lightweight, 135 pounds; junior welterweight, 142 pounds; welterweight, 147 pounds; middleweight, 160 pounds; light heavyweight, 175 pounds; and heavyweight, above 175 pounds.
The winners in each class will receive special sweaters as prizes.
There will be a small charge for preliminaries, whose dates will be announced soon. Not to be sneezed at, ‘ preliminaries have oftentimes been on a par with the finals.
For details about veterans such as Tom Leahy, light heavyweight champ; Phil Dahar, heavyweight champ of 1936; Vince Dollard, Carl Fricke, and Slim Thompson, see the Scholastic sports section.
Don’t forget the Bengal Bouts on Friday, March 18, at 8 p. m. They’ll be good whether you’re in the ring, in the stands, or hanging from the rafters.
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
COLLEGE PARADE
(Continued from Page 10)___
. . . Silly-gism: We go to college to improve our faculties. Our instructors are our faculties. Therefore we go to college to improve our instructors. ... A student at Ohio State is named George George. . . .
—o—
Change
One of the recent issues of the Denver Clarion was printed and folded the wrong way. At first we
RIGHT OF WAY
All the Way
... on the
SOUTH SHORE LINE
No traffic to delay you and no - dangerous intersections when you GO by South Shore Line. You are clear of the highway— you ride safely and comfortably in all kinds of weather. It actually costs less than driving your own car.
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
•
The Safe, Fast Dependable Way To Chicago
S0UTHnSeHOR[
thought that it was the fault of some mechanical defect but no, for right on the front page (which was the last though numbered the first) was a neat explanation. “Not to cause confusion but to aid in dispersing it, according to the Clarion staff, is the reason for instigating such a drastic change as a reversal of pages, the first time this has been tried in the history of English journalism. Having noted for some time that the average right - handed newspaper reader opens his paper from right to left and reads it backwards, accordingly, Editor Love decided to make the last page (in his edition page 4) his main one in order to let the reader see the most interesting news and then be able to turn at once to whatever page he desires.”
This according to the further account is not an attempt to be humorous but merely an attempt to open an age-old argument as regards reading printed matter. We are of the school of readers who look at the back page first and we liked the idea.
TOBIN says:
IRISH MIXTURE
CORKTOWN
COOKIE JAR
are blended to suit the taste of pipe smokers who like quality tobacco. We stand back of this claim.
MclNERNY & COMPANY CIGAR STORE
IIO North Main Street
Lunch	Billiards
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eye and the making of fine glasses.
—♦—
Intelligent service Reliability 34 years' experience are our endorsements.
Optometrists Est. 1903
314 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
MISSION CLUB PLANS CHICAGO DANCE
•
With radio and stage personalities galore the Gold Ballroom of the Congress Hotel will offer one of Chicago’s finest Washington Birthday celebrations in the annual Bengal Benefit Dance sponsored by the Bishop Crowley, C.S.C., Mission Club.
In an announcement issued this week through President John Buckley of the Chicago campus club, Rev. Francis Quinn, C.S.C., in charge of arrangements for the dance, said that several well-known stage and radio performers have volunteered their services for this event, to be held on Monday evening, Feb. 21. Among those present will be Estelle Winwood, Bramwell Fletcher, Helen Chandler, Jessie Royce Landis, and other players — all members of the cast of Noel Coward’s “Tonight at 8:30,” Chicago’s newest theatre sensation, now playing at the Harris Theatre.
In addition Father Quinn has procured the services of two noted radio entertainers—Vivian Dellachiesa, who has been a featured singer on national networks for some time, and Eddie Loftus. These are only a few of the features promised by Father Quinn for next Monday evening. Others include numerous door-prizes, and ample facilities for card games. For this latter diversion a special room has been set aside.
The dance will be informal and, as announced previously, the music will be supplied by Keith Beecher and his orchestra. An erroneous announcement was made recently on the campus to the effect that tickets for this dance would be $1.00 per couple; the correct price is set at $1.00 per person, or $2.00 per couple.
Arrangements for the dance are being handled on the campus by the Chicago campus club, under its president, John Buckley. Students may procure tickets through members of the club.
Phone 4-3601 Hours 10 to 5
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
ORTHODONTIST
420 Associates Bldg.
Dewey School of South Bend Orthodontia 1919 Indiana
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
THINLIES AT INDIANA
(Continued from Page 19)
of a dozen or more schools. Olympic runner, Tommy Deckard, won the mile against Ohio State last Saturday in 4:15.5. He was followed by his team mates Jim Smith, the lanky colored boy who ran 4:11 in the state meet here last May, and Mel Trutt who won the State Meet half mile in 1:54 that same day. In the National Intercollegiate Mile won by Charlie Fenske of Wisconsin last June, Smith was second, Trutt was third, while Greg Rice was fourth. Both Rice and Johnny Francis should be in good shape for tomorrow’s race, and both of them should do well under the 4:20.5 mark they made in practice three weeks ago. The pace should be fast, but the fact that none of the runners will want to set it might cause the race to be a comparatively slow one decided by the final sprint.
The two mile should be a dual between Rice and Deckard, with Steve Szumachowski, Gene Gormley, and Jim Smith all potentially dangerous.
MUSIC NOTES
(Continued from Page 7)
conductor, which could be imparted to his men so that it would be translated, in turn, to the audience with a certainty and inevitability of expression. And it was, this quality was sadly lacking in the interpretation of the early selections. Too much attention seemed to be paid to individual excellence of performance, and not enough to a realization of the total effect to be acquired. But then, all seems to be well when all ends well.
Saturday’s opera presents Lauritz Melchior and Kirsten Flagstad in “Lohengrin” by Wagner.
Specializing in the examination of the eye.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor To
Rogers
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our oivn laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8211
"ABSURDITIES" SOLICIT
(Continued from Page 9) time a feature presents itself at Washington Hall.
All those embryo scenarists and playwrights who are aspiring to gain recognition — and the five dollars award — still have until Sunday, Feb. 20, to submit their skits to James Quinn (Sorin) or John Donnelly (Sorin).
The skits should be short enough so that they can be presented in 15 or 20 minutes, but full-bodied enough so that they do not drag or seem thin. The Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., and the Rev. Cornelius Hooyboer, C.S.C., are to be the judges of the contest.
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Fitting and Proper
The collar attached dress shirt is the smartest and most comfortable thing for black tie occasions. Try Arrow s Shoreham. It has the non-wilt Aroset turn down collar, a soft pleated front, and the Mitoga tailored fit.............$3
AkWW
o*-
Every smoker remembers with pleasure the day he found out about Chesterfields.
Chesterfields give you a different kind of smoking pleasure...
mildness that’s more refreshing taste that’s more satisfying aroma that’s more appetizing
Mild ripe tobaccos and pure cigarette paper, these Chesterfield ingredients are the best a cigarette can have. Chesterfields SATISFY



Copyright 1938, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
..youllfind MONS. PLEASURE in Chesterfields milder better taste