Hickey-Freeman	Society Brand	Dobbs
DEDICATED TO THE PRINCIPLES OF SUPERLATIVE QUALITY and COURTEOUS, CONSCIENTIOUS SERVICE
Here — You. are always a Guest before you are a Customer
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.
2
Sir:
The Green Banner hit it right on the head last week with the observation that the Army will probably think that the entire student body hit them after they run into the Fighting Irish next Fall. Coach Leahy and his crew won’t pull any punches in that contest—but how about letting the rest of the school pitch in? Why not make the prediction literally come true? Why not let all Notre Dame men fight for that one victory they want above all others by selecting the Army game for the Student Trip? Surely anything less than our full support for* the team would belie our proposed policy of retribution.
Let’s begin working for that goal right now; the earlier we start, the more momentum we’ll pile up; we’ll roll into New York next Fall with power against which even a merger of the armed forces could not prevail! We’ll hit them with more than the student body. Army will feel the full weight of our Campus, our Dome, our History, our Home—the traditional Spirit of Noire Dame!
Sincerely,
W. F. Donnelly.
Amen, ive say.
Navy Man Receives Presidential Award
“For extraordinary heroism during action in support of beach reconnaissance by underwater demolition teams at enemy Japanese-held Iwo-Jima.” Such is the heading of the Presidential citation awarded LCI (G) Group 8 of which Gunners Mate 1/c L. L. Adkins, attached to ship’s company here, was a member. Adkins was presented the citation Monday by Captain J. Richard Barry.
The Silver Star, the navy’s fifth highest award for bravery, was presented to Adkins on Feb. 18th for his stellar role in the battle of Iwo-Jima. During the battle the LCI on which Adkins was stationed was hit by a shore battery and Adkins organized a damage control party in an attempt to keep afloat and fighting.
^Rust Craft
Easter Cards,
A wide selection
Vets Seek Training
There are now approximately 92,000 veterans enrolled in schools and taking on-the-job training under the GI Bill, the Veterans Administration estimates, and approximately 40,220 taking advantage of training under Public Law 16. It is estimated also that about 463,000 veterans will be in training under both laws by next fall.
of EASTER CARDS for every person at
NEWS CENTER
127 W. Washington Street
“In the J. M. S. Building"
3
^he SNotre Qiame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victuals Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
College Parade
Br THOMAS M. HIGGINS
Despite the fact that March 31 has come and gone and we | were not announced as the winner of this year’s Laetare	|
Medal, do not imagine for a second that we are embittered.	|
Nothing like that. Instead we shall buckle down to making i a greater contribution to the field of literature, mindful at all times of the motto inscribed on the medal, "Magna €st veritas et praevalebit” (Truth is mighty and -will prevail).
. . . Next year may be our year!

JOHN DEFANT, Editor
Now we’ve heard everything! A professor at I.U. has come out with the bold statement that finals are not necessary in the appraisal of a student’s ability. — Uh-huh, but haven’t Notre Dame students been claiming that for many years?
JACK HUMMEL -	-	-	-	- Managing Editor
PAUL WEYRAUCH -----	Sports Editor
GEORGE COLLINS	----- Navy Editor
JOHNNY WALKER -	-	-	. Feature Editor
COLUMNISTS
THOMAS M. HIGGINS -	-	- The College Parade
SAM SMITH ----- The Crow’s Nest BILL BRAUN, FRANK McCARTHY .	. The Green Banner
ED CASO, JOE PIEDMONT -	-	-	- Soph Soap
¥
PHOTOGRAPHY
JIM FERSTEL	AL KUNTZ
FRANK CACCIAPAGLIA	CHRISTY WALSH
CONTRIBUTORS
JACK SULLIVAN BILLY SLAVICK JOE RENINGER GERARD HEKKER PAUL ABRAHAM MICHAEL GREENE BILL PFAFF
DAVE WARNER • RAY CHAMBERLAND PETER PESOLI BILL LEAVEY ’
¥
REV. C. J. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C. ARTHUR COUGHLAN -	-
M. E. VARGA -	-	-
JAMES JOHN JOE CHENEY JIM REGAN JOHN THOMAS DICK DEITZ JIM CLEMENS PETE BROWN JIM MALER MEL GODDARD DICK DOWDLE CLARENCE ZIMMER
Faculty Advisor
- Circulation Manager ■	-	- Advertising
(Cover by Frank Cacciapaglia)
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles— San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
4
And another new one. — At Swarthmore, the Jayvee basketball team engaged the women’s squad in a hardwood contest. (Final score, 35-21, J.V.) — There’s-a good idea to swell the SMC Building Fund—schedule a contest between the AllDixie squad and ND’s All-Americans. ’Twould be worth a small fortune.
Here’s a dandy excuse for the weak among us. . . . The script is contributed by the St. Benedict’s Rambler.
Officer: How did you get so completely intoxicated?
GI: I got in bad company, sir. I had a bottle of whiskey and the other three didn’t drink.
At Penn State, a professor of textiles suggests that the way to make white shirts last longer is to shave often. “Tough whiskers are hard on shirts.” — The Coeds must have bribed him; methinks that tough whiskers are a mite harder on the cheek than on the collar.
WJOTW Department—Contributed this week by the Detroit Varsity News.
1st Student: What is youth?
2nd Student: I’m a Thophomore. What ith youth?
Hooray! At Miami U. Professor C. H. Sandage states “. . . the adage that two can live as cheaply as one is an erroneous conception.” — Now the girls from “The Rock” will have to find a new angle of approach to use on you strong-willed men.
A coed spends half her time polishing her nails to improve her looks. The other half of her time is spent polishing the apple to improve her marks.—Boston U. News
Here are some Daffinitions culled from the Utah State Student Life:
Wolf—a modern dry cleaner—works fast and leaves no ‘ ring.	;
Dress—too long for a bathing suit.
Sweet Adeline—bottle hymn of the republic.
------	'	I
The Butler Collegian defines a pedestrian as a man who^ has two cars, a wife and a son.	|
1
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 191". Authorized June 25, 1918.
4
VOL. 87. NO. 3
APRIL 5, 1946
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
Laetare Medalist Noted Historian, Author
By REV. THOMAS T. McAVOY. C.S.C.
Gov. Gates Formulates
Plan to Aid Veterans
Rev. John J. Lane, C.S.C., Director of Veterans Affairs, and Mr. Edward J. Murray, Director of Students’ Accounts, represented the University at a meeting Monday afternoon in the office of Governor Ralph F. Gates for the purpose of getting instructions and have explained to them the working of the new Veterans Educational Assistance Program which Governor Gates inaugurated through the Indiana Veterans Affairs Commission. Officials and representatives from 17 Indiana universities attended the meeting in the Governor’s office, and expressed the need for the plan in their particular schools and their desire to participate in the plan.
Governor Gates informed the group that the State had perfected the plan following the request from the heads of several of Indiana’s leading universities and colleges who had called on the State for financial assistance to Veterans attending their schools who were several months behind in receiving the payments due them under the G. I. Bill of Rights. Following these requests the Governor conducted a survey of all Indiana recognized colleges and universities to determine just what the actual need along this line might be, and found from the 27 universities and colleges polled that 13,177 veterans were attending Indiana universities and colleges under the provisions of the G. I. Bill of Rights. The survey further showed that these Veteran students are on an average from two to six months behind in the receipt of their Federal benefits, and that out of the total number of Indiana students, 2,254 were in dire need of temporary financial assistance from other sources in order to remain in school, by reason of the delay occasioned in the receiving of the benefits they are entitled to from the Federal Government.
The Governor explained that the new plan would make it possible for any G. I. student who was a bona-fide resident of
S.A.C. Announces
Election Results
The Student Activity Council announced the names of the 11 men elected by the students in each hall and approved by the faculty to serve on the Student Council this semester. They are:
Paul Abraham, St. Edward’s Hall, Wheeling, W. Va.; James Wise, Breen-Phillips Hall, Cherokee, Iowa; Arthur Ulrich, Cavanaugh Hall, Columbus, Ohio; Richard Stack, Walsh Hall, Mattituck, N. Y.; Ralph Hayman, Sorin Hall, Philadelphia, Pa.; Thomas McMahon, Alumni Hall, Corning, N. Y.; George Kierman, Dillon Hall, East Chicago, Ind.; Nicholas Willett, Badin Hall, Buffalo, N. Y.; Steven Valetick, Lyons Hall, Farrell, Pa.; Francis Feeney, Howard Hall, Cumberland, Md.; and Robert Hayden, Zahm Hall, Beacon, N. Y. .
The men appointed by the deans of the five colleges to serve on the Council are:
James F. McCarthy, Arts and Letters, Pittsburgh, Pa.; James J. Coleman, College of Science, Westfield, N. J.; John S. Vaughn, College of Commence, Wellesley, Mass.; Robert G. Brown, College of Engineering, Sioux City, Iowa. The name of the student to represent the College of Law is still pending.
The three men elected by last semester s Council are:
Brendan A. O’Grady, New York City; James D. Sullivan, Helena, Mont.; John Cauley, New Hartford, N. Y.
Commander Hutchinson appointed Harold E. Huling to represent the N.R.-O.T.C. unit, and Clare E. Leser to represent the V-12 unit.
Indiana and who still is, and who is attending an Indiana college or university, to secure a temporary loan through their school treasurer of state, funds which are to be repaid as soon as the Federal benefits to which the individual student is entitled are received by him. The Gover-(Continued on page 33)
Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, last Saturday announced the award of the Laetare Medal to Dr. Carlton J. H. Hayes, war-time ambassador to Spain and an internationally distinguished historian and author. In the following article Father McAvoy, long an intimate friend of Dr. Hayes, reveals' the character and genius of the man who this year was awarded the highest honor Notre Dame can bestow on a Catholic layman.
Professor Carlton J. Hayes, the recipient of the 1946 Laetare - Medal, is the most distinguished of several Amei-ican historians whose scholarly paths have led to the doorway of Mother Church. And
his life in the Church has been much like that of the chief American convert of a century ago, Orestes A. Brownson, not one of peaceful repose after reaching a haven but one of active service of truth with every faculty at his command. He represents the true ideal of the Catholic layman who faithfully carries on his duties in public and private life with a zeal that is not only honorable in the eyes of all good citizens but meritorious in the sight of God and the Church. He is a master of his art, a clear and forceful teacher and writer who can analyze (Co.ntinued on page 28)
5
Speech Dept. Head to Produce "Mikado"
Cecil Birder, head of the Speech Department and famous producer of Gilbert and Sullivan operas here on ths Notre Dame campus, will direct “The Mikado,” which will be presented May 27, 28, 29, and 30. This production will be the sixth Gilbert and Sullivan opera staged by the Notre Dame Savoyards under the capable direction of Mr. Birder. The operas previously given were: “The Gondoliers,” “H.M.S. Pinafore,” “Trial by Jury,” “Patience,” and “Rud-digore.” All were enthusiastically enjoyed by students, faculty, and graduates who attended.
Mr. Birder is a graduate of the Notre Dame Law School, the Alviene School of Speech, and Stock Theatre in New York. He studied at Blackrock College, Dublin, Eire, and is an exponent of the late Dudley Buck, pupil of Jean de Reszke. He was coached by Katherine Hoffmann, who will be remembered as Madame Schumann-Heink’s accompanist.
As a student here at Notre Dame, Mr. Birder played in “David Garrick,” “Alias Jimmy Valentine,” “The Dictator,” and “As You Like It,” under the direction of Rev. William A. Maloney, C.S.C., and Charlemagne Koehler. His actual stage experience was with the Gilbert and Sullivan Repertoire Company, Glendalough Opera Company, and the New York Light Opera Company. At the invitation of the National Broadcasting Company, he presented Christmas programs for seven consecutive years. He appeared with the Minneapolis Symphony Orchestra and for two years he toured with William Jennings Bryan appearing on the radio with him as a soloist.
Before joining the Notre Dame faculty in 1940, Mr. Birder taught at the University of Minnesota and the Colleges of St. Thomas and St. Catherine of St. Paul, Minn. He was also director and tenor soloist of the Church of St. Stephen in Minneapolis, and narrator for the Bach Society while at the University of Minnesota. '	<
Mr. Birder is looking forward to his coming production and believes that it will be as much of a hit as his others have proved themselves to be. His experience and ability are above reproach.
“The Mikado” will be presented Commencement Week for the alumni, graduates and their parents. Students who are interested in taking an active part in the production should watch the bulletin boards for the notice pertaining to “The Mikado Try-outs.”—Joe Cheney
6
Juniors Prepare for Gala Prom
Weekend; to be Held in 'Rock1
By JIM BUTLER
Plans for Notre Dame’s first post-war Junior Prom, to be held in the Rockne Memorial on May 3rd, are progressing rapidly under the leadership of Joe O’Toole, general chairman of the dance weekend, and his six committee heads, each of whom promises to. have his respective assignment fulfilled in plenty of time to make this the most gala weekend in northern Indiana since V-J Day.
The forthcoming Prom is the last big University dance to be held on the “wartime” basis. In pre-war years, only Juniors, and regularly-enrolled students above the rank of Junior, were allowed to attend the spring Prom, and freshmen and sophomores were given the dubious privilege of sitting on their window sills and watching the imported talent stroll by on the arms of more fortunate upperclassmen.
But this semester conditions will be different. Chairman O’Toole has announced that—along with those students whose academic standing would ordinarily admit them to the dance—bids will also be issued to any student enrolled in the university who has reached his twentieth birthday, regardless of his class rating.	’
So let’s face it, lads. What with all you civilians, ex-GI’s and otherwise, eligible for the big weekend, and with bids limited to three hundred because of the
capacity of the Memorial, there’s bound to be a lot of out-going mail leaving the local P.O. this week addressed to the little woman back in Weehawken or Sheboygan. Now’s the time to flip your coin and decide on the lucky woman; the accent of this year’s Prom is definitely on “imported” females from ye olde home town, whether she’s the one-and-only or the chick you’ve been trying to impress since ’way back in high school.
And here the ever-present question arises: “Who pays the train fare when I bring my girl to South Bend?” Well, for the benefit of war-weary dischargees, who probably haven’t been spending too much time boning up on Emily Post the past few years, we’ve written a pleading letter to that grand dame of etiquette herself, asking her for some sort of solution to this perplexing problem. Pending publication in the South Bend Tribune, Miss (or is it Mrs. ?) Post tells us that the young lady always pays her own train fare, unless the boy volunteers to pay it for her—and we can dismiss that last point. So there’s most of your financial trouble taken care of already. And, in case you’re positively flat after the big weekend, the girl can even settle her own hotel bill without fear of breaking any rules of etiquette. Simple, isn’t it?
As for the costume of the evening, the dance committee has promised to bring a tailor on campus, in the very near future, to measure you lads who aren’t able to latch on to a tux of your own, or whose fathers just aren’t the right size. The rented tuxes and tails—either is acceptable, since the Prom wouldn’t be in the summer tux season—are all measured to order, and delivery is guaranteed in plenty of time for the dance. Rental fee, too, is nominal, so there’s another worry out of the way.
Some more details you won’t have to think too much about. . . . The local hostelries will all be setting aside blocks of rooms for the femmes from out of town, with the best rooms at the low
est rates (not a paid adv.)
Campus
florists, employing a direct order arrangement with one of Chicago’s largest floral houses, will take corsage orders on the campus and deliver the flowers either to you or to your little woman downtown, all at reduced student prices. . . .Sev

eral “big name” bands have been con- J tacted, and the music committee promises to have a complete evening of sweet
(Continued on page 32)
1
i
Dr. Waldman Urges Civilian Control of Atom Energy Program
Civilian control of the atomic energy program in the United States during peacetime is essential “if the nation is to avoid decay and possible disaster,” Dr. Bernard Waldman, associate professor of physics at Notre Dame, who aided in the development of the atomic bomb, said in a special interview.
Dr. Waldman was one of the four American scientists to witness the atomic bombing of Hiroshima last year. He has been at Notre Dame since 1938 conducting nuclear research in atomic energy, and directing experiments with the Notre Dame electrostatic generator, one of the few atom-smashers of its type in the world.
Endorsing the McMahon Bill for civilian control of atomic energy now being considered by the Senate, the Notre Dame scientist declared: “If we have military control, scientists will be driven from the field entirely. As a matter of fact, right now the large majority of scientists who worked on the project have left. Army control is not conducive to free and unfettered research. We have drained our store of knowledge and under military conditions, we cannot do the research necessary to make further progress.
“We actually are in an armaments race right now,” stressed Dr. Waldman, “and will be as long as the military has control. The disturbing thing about it is that, in the long run, this nation .could not win out in any such armaments race. Eventually, we must lose.”
Dr. Waldman believes that the proposed atomic tests in the Pacific will not provide any new information, and that the tests are unnecessary from a scientific viewpoint. “From what we already know of the bomb,” he emphasizes, “we can estimate right now what will happen when the bombs are dropped.”
■ Commenting on the widely-publicized “atomic age,” Dr. Waldman expressed the opinion that although there have been great strides made in the atomic energy program, the age of “fancy gadgets” using atomic energy is in the distant future. '	'
“Certainly there have been important changes in the atomic bomb,” declared Dr. Waldman, “and I can say that the destructive effect of the latest bombs is far greater than those that were dropped. As a matter of fact, scientists refer to those early ones as the ‘Model T.’	’
“It is unfortunate, however, that the general public has been misled into believing that the age of atomic energy miracles is at hand—with all kinds of
Veterans' Hold First Retreat
They had their fingers crossed when they showed up for the opening conference in Cavanaugh Hall Reading Room Saturday last. There are a lot of places you would expect to see Notre Dame Students on a Saturday night, a lot of things you might expect them to be doing. This was different. Surprisingly enough the crowd grew as the retreat progressed. It was still growing when the time for the last conference arrived, one o’clock Sunday afternoon. More than a hundred left that last talk on Comradeship at Notre Dame to make the outside Stations of the Cross and renew their baptismal vows at Calvary.
Some fellows handed in their impressions of the retreat. A typical remark was, “It was a surprising success.” Everyone seemed to like something different. Some were impressed by the rosary
Vets pause at Station on way to Calvary	—Photo by Cacciapaglia
fancy gadgets. It’s not at hand at all; it’s in the distant future. Actually, atomic energy could be used for large scale power plants within—say—five years or so. And the production of radioactive products for research and medical purposes is an actuality right now. But I’m afraid we are a long way from the age of “atomic miracles.”
Dr. Waldman classifies as “very foolish” the idea of passing out the atomic bomb to all nations under present world conditions.
“The nations of the world,” he said, “through the United Nations Organization, must set up a workable basis for
said in common at the Grotto Saturday. Others liked the liturgical Holy Hour best. Some others stressed the Dialogue Mass, the discussion period, or the talk on the Spirit of Notre Dame. All admitted that the retreat brought them something they needed, aided the transition from life in the service to life at school. Most recommended that it be provided for all Vets who come here from service, but in this they were only echoing the advice the Bishops of the country passed on to the Chaplains.
The retreat this week will be for Dillon and Alumni Halls. The same schedule will be followed with a few improvements. An even larger crowd is expected this week although someone has warmed the Veterans Club that they will be censured by the South Bend Chamber of Commerce for alienating Saturday night business.
cooperation. When this is done atomic energy information as well as all other scientific information could be freely interchanged. But this can’t be a one-way deal. It must be an interchange in the fullest meaning of the word.
Dr. Waldman also expressed the belief that a nation with ample resources and productive ability could develop an atomic bomb within five or ten years.
“After all, the basic knowledge of nuclear fission and nuclear energy is common knowledge to the entire world,” he pointed out. “All we did was gather that knowledge and apply it. Other nations could do the same thing.”
Navy Awards Medal
To Dr. Schoenherr
One of the nation’s highest awards, the Distinguished Civilian Service Medal, was conferred on Dr. Karl E. Schoenherr, Dean of the College of Engineering at the University of Notre Dame, in a private ceremony on March 25 at Washington, D. C., it has been learned at the University.
Dr. Schoenherr held the position of Chief of the Hydromechanics Division at the David Taylor Model Basin, the Navy’s large shipbuilding laboratory in Washington, throughout the period of the war. In this capacity he had charge of the testing and development of new types of ship hulls, propellers and of many new underwater weapons and devices of a highly classified nature.
In the citation ordered b.v the Secretary of the Navy, James Forrestal, it was stated, “He contributed substantially to the successful prosecution of the war and by tins outstanding contribution distinguished himself in a manner deserving of the Navy’s highest civilian award.” The medal was bestowed on Dr. Schoenherr before the entire Naval Laboratory staff, by Rear Admiral Herbert S. Howard, U.S.N., Director of the Laboratory.
Dr. Schoenherr, who was born in Karlsrub, Germany, is a graduate of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and holds an M.A. degree from George Washington University and a doctorate degree in mechanical engineering from Johns Hopkins University. He joined the faculty of the University of Notre Dame last November.
The author of several important articles, among them sections of “Resistance and Propulsion” and “Rudders and Steering of Ships,” in “Principles of Naval Architecture,” published by the Society of Naval Architects and Mechanical Engineers, Dr. Schoenherr has been an eminent authority and frequent con-tributor in the advancement of Engineering in the United States for many years.
On Tuesday, April 9th, the combined Commerce Department will present a lecture in the Amphitheatre of the Biology Building at 7:30 pan. Representatives of the Departments of Business Administration, Finance, Accounting, and Foreign Commerce will take part in this meeting which is sponsored by the Y. C. S.
Fort Wayne N.F.C.C.S. Regional
Council Meets at St. Mary's
Delegates from six colleges and universities in northern Indiana and Southern Michigan gathered at St. Mary’s College last Saturday for a regional council meeting of the National Federation of Catholic College Students. Notre Dame, Nazareth College in Kalamazoo, Aquinas College in Grand Rapids, St. Francis College in Ft. Wayne, St. Joseph’s College in Collegeville, and the host college, St. Mary’s, were represented. Frank Grimaldi, architecture senior at Notre Dame and President of the Ft. Wayne Region, presided.
The chief topic on the agenda was the establishment of plans for a Ft. Wayne Regional Congress to be held at Aquinas College on May 4-5. Elaborate plans for the congress were drawn up with the central theme of the discussions to be the “Spiritual Rehabilitation of the Nation.”
The council meeting held recently was a gathering of student leaders in the schools of the Ft. Wayne Region of NFC CS at which reports of student activity on the campuses was reported, and plans were made for the remainder of the school year, with the congress in Grand Rapids to take the spotlight. Student activities are grouped under regional commission units which stress Catholic Action in the various student interest fields. Notre Dame holds the regional commission chairmanship in the fields of Veterans Affairs, Catholic Action Clubs, and Student Governments. Other commissions in the Ft. Wayne region are: Liturgical study and activity, Missionary work, Student Press, and Inter-Racial Affairs. The purpose of the NFCCS is to unify, stimulate and coordinate activities in these various fields in all Catholic Colleges throughout the nation.
At the outset of last week’s meeting, Father William Cunningham, C.S.C., of Notre Dame, the Ft. Wayne regional chaplain, read a report concerning the feeling prevalent among outstanding administrators in Catholic colleges and universities with regard to the future of NFCCS. He stated that the NFCCS is regarded as vitally necessary because of the very reason for its establishment: To assist both college administrators and students to give energetic and practical application to the teaching of the Holy Father and the Church’s leaders regarding the formation of a Christian-minded apostolate among the Catholic laity (both during college life and as a preparation for adult leadership in the apostolate after graduation); and to contribute to the spreading and deepening of a high-
ly trained Catholic opinion by a) acting as a medium for the exchange of ideas and experiences and b) representing the j Catholic student body in national and international life.
I
The outstanding report made to the regional council was the one submitted 1 by Jerry Wayno of Notre Dame, who is chairman of the Regional Commission for Veterans Affairs. The influx of vet- | erans into colleges and universities j throws an immense amount of importance upon this commission and the club at Notre Dame is prepared to meet the challenge, having made thorough plans for such phases of veterans affairs as the crystallization of the Catholic college veterans opinion on current topics of national and international controversy. This work at Notre Dame has the Discussion Group of the vets club as its hub. Thomas McCaffery, who is chairman of this group within the vets was also a delegate to last week’s meeting.
The Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., advisor for the Veterans Club of Notre Dame, was also present at the council meeting and elaborated on the plans of the club as presented by Wayno.
The meeting was under the guidance of Frank Grimaldi of Notre Dame, who is president of the Ft. Wayne Region. ; Official delegates to the session from	j
Notre Dame were George Igel, John St.	j
Germain and Pat O’Meara.	j
At least a dozen delegates from Notre	■
Dame are expected to attend the Region-	i
al Congress in Grand Rapids May 4-5. i Announcements concerning the congress | and other NFCCS activities will appear ! in future issues of the Scholastic.	j
Fr. Cunningham Elected Vice President of NCEA
Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., Director of Studies, and Rev. William Cunningham, C.S.C., represented the University at the regional meeting of the National ; Catholic Educational Association at the Palmer House in Chicago last week. Father Cunningham was elected General 1 Vice-President of the Association. Pre- I viously he had retired as Chairman of i the Board of Review of Colleges. Father Kenna was Notre Dame’s representative at the meeting of the Catholic Association on the topic: “General Education.”
On March 25th, 26th and 27th Father Kenna and Father Cunningham were also active, representing the North Central Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, also held at the Palmer House in Chicago.

8
Let's Get Acquainted .. •
By RAY CHAMBERLAND
This week we shift our scene to the Publicity Office located on the second floor of the Main Building. With our typewriter and camera set up we are ready to work. Our subject is Sue Grace.
Sue Grace
Like most people Sue was born at a very early age, in the thriving metropolis of Biloxi, Miss. Sue was born with a love for adventure. From her tiny crib she would listen to all the radio stories telling of the thrills of the theater. So being a woman of great determination, she prepared for the stage. At the age of nine she took first prize in a dancing contest and immediately became the “Miss Broadway” of the fourth grade. Sue lost her ambition to become an actress when she moved to South Bend and entered Central High School. While registering at that academy of learning she discovered that they offered a dramatic course with special emphasis on writing. Ah, that was—it a playwright! But Sue, being farsighted, also took a course in Commerce.
Her high school days were carefree ones. She took in all the “hops,” followed the athletic teams, and even used to meet her friends at Walgreen’s.
Upon graduating from high school in ’41 there was little work for playwrights, so Sue fell back on her commerce course and took the position of office girl in a small office. After remaining at that assignment for two years Sue decided it was time for a change and accepted the position of secretary to Walter Kennedy, then head of the Sports Department at Notre Dame. When Mr. Kennedy was promoted to Director of Publicity Sue
N. D. Law Dean Speaks At Toledo Institute
Labor has no rights and neither has Capital in the basic theory of American Government, Clarence E. Manion, Dean of the College of Law at the University of Notre Dame, declared at Toledo, before the labor section of the Institute of Industrial Relations.
“Our political organization,” stressed Dean Manion, “recognizes no such thing as ‘Labor,’ ‘Capital,’ ‘race’, or ‘class.’ On the contrary, the American constitutional system is built upon the reciprocal rights and duties of God-created individual persons. This fundamental of Americanism must be kept in the forefront of all our discussions about so-called ‘social’ and ‘progressive’ legislation.
Dean Manion pointed out that “if, in order to accomplish many just and desirable protections for American workers, we must first become ‘class conscious’ in -the Marxian and -European sense, then it would be. far better for Sr all of us to forego and forget these protections regardless of their inherent justice and propriety.
“ ‘Class consciousness’ is a deadly political virus,” he continued, “that has plagued the old world in virulent form for the past one hundred and fifty years. Continuously throughout that period, it has convulsed the people of Europe with the wasting and painful torments of wars and revolutions. The American constitutional system was expressly designed to vaccinate the American people against this dreadful contagion. Every economic and social set-back suffered by our people as a whole is directly traceable to a temporary deviation from the principles of truth and justice first promulgated in the American Declaration of Independence.”
Stressing that there is but one acceptable starting point for any discussion of any plan for the improvement of our industrial relations, Dean Manion continued :
“That starting point is the common recognition of the undeniable fact that the American System of free men in a competitive society where God-given rights are protected by written constitutions and reasonable laws is the crown-
went along as his personal secretary. Upon Mr. Kennedy’s resignation Colonel John V. Hinkel took over as Director and Sue’s superior. She is quite content at her present position and hopes to continue at it for many years. Her love for the art of writing has not been lost as Sue hopes that some time in the near future she will come up with a Pulitzer Prize winner.
ing achievement of human civilization. In the maintenance of that system and in the conservation of that achievement evary person in this land has an incalculable stake. Any proposal, however ‘progressive,’ ‘liberal’ or otherwise attractive and beneficial it may be made to appear, which would change the American system of a classless society of com-' petitive men and women is, ipso facto, bad. If we cannot agree upon this truth which American history proves so conclusively, then all points of contact are dissolved and we may as well resign ourselves to endless conflict and the ultimate slavery of governmental despotism.”
The Notre Dame educator emphasized that “no government,” and certainly not American government, can be expected to create justice, or be a source of rights. Rights and justice are rooted in the moral laws of God Himself. At most, governments can merely implement and project the moral claims which each individual man holds against society and his fellow man.”
The Toledo Institute of Industrial Relations/ now in its third week, is under the auspices of the Toledo Co.uncil of Catholic Men, with the cooperation of the University of Notre Dame.
N.D. Radio Club to Air
Four Programs Weekly
The Notre Dame Radio Club with 43 members, 26 of which are Veterans, is planning to produce four weekly shows this semester. Jim Kress,-who produced many fine shows back in 1941-42, has been appointed chairman of the club. Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., is the University advisor.
The tentative plans presented to the club members were enthusiastically accepted. Both South Bend stations have been contacted by Kress and Mr. Hinkel, publicity director of the University. WSBT plans to allow two 15-minute spots and WHOT will save one 15- and one' 30-minute spot for the Notre Dame radio programs.
According to Kress, the following programs will be presented: a variety program will fill in the half-hour space and the 15-minute programs will be devoted to a weekly drama, a sportscast, and a musicale. Both WSBT and WHOT must check the scripts before the programs are accepted. The specific time of the broadcasts have not yet been made known by the stations, but the club hopes to launch its first broadcast sometime next week.
Anyone desiring to join the club may do so by contacting either Father Burke or Jim Kress. You will have a chance to participate in the broadcasts, write sci-ipts, or perform technical duties.
9
THE HORN BLOWS AT MIDNIGHT
Ghost of Washington Hall Rides Again
If, perchance, you residents of the Zahm-St. Ed’s-Cavanaugh triangle hear the dulcet tones of a trumpet coming from the vicinity of Washington Hall, or if you should notice an ectoplasmic gentleman astride a vaporous steed riding up the back stairs at the enchanted hour of midnight, you may be assured that it is not Harry James on the trumpet, or is the phantom horseman an indication that you should change your brand. Notre Dame will know that with these signs, IT has returned. IT being the fabled ghost of Washington Hall who has come back to compete with the ancient movies which are equally ghostly (next week: Ben Hur) and the prehistoric news reels.
Most of you are not aware that old Washington Hall was once inhabited by a trumpet-tooting, paper-shuffling ghost with a flair for riding transparent horses. So gather ’round the campfire, kiddies, while we tell you this strange tale of long ago.
It was the year- 1920 when most of you had yet to celebrate your first birthday and Washington Hall looked much the same then as it does today. At the time of our story, part of the music hall was used as a dorm for student professors. One of these student profs was John Buckley, who, in early December, was pursuing his philosophy course. On this particular night John was working on, of all things, his epistemology theme at the unholy hour of two o’clock. Now we realize that people who work in epistemology themes at two o’clock are to be watched closely, not imitated. But nevertheless, John was a level headed boy. Soon he was attracted by a strange noise as if someone were rattling papers under his door. Knowing that the mailman was hardly that ambitious and being a deeply religious fellow, John rushed to the door, a rosary in one hand and a baseball bat in the other. To open it? Silly boy, to lock it as it had never been locked before. Upon reporting his experience to the other boys, they merely laughed and told John that his epistemology was getting the better of him. So the event was soon forgotten.
Pio E. Montenegro was a normal science student and he felt quite proud of his private suite in the Science Hall. But he would have given his right arm for a cot in Grand Central Station on a certain chilly December night. Pio decided that he needed a drink of water to slake his thirst before retiring and since the day of indoor drinking fountains had not arrived for Science Hall, Pio braved the
elements to partake of a hand pump located outside. As he returned he heard a disturbance from the vicinity of Washington Hall. Turning he saw IT, a shadowy form of ghostly white heading straight for the stairs. (In those days stairs led to the second story of Washington Hall on the south side of the building.) Pio then recognized the figure, it was the unmentionable astride a phantom charger. The figure climbed the stairs and upon reaching the top, promptly disappeared. This so completely unnerved Pio that he spent the rest of the night in a ceaseless vigil on Washington Hall corridors. He told the boys all about it in the morning and they laughed nearly as long and loud as they did at John. But some of them were beginning to wonder.
The elusive ghost of Washington Hall is caught by photographer Frank Cac-ciapaglia in full haunting regalia.
Then things really began to happen. Boys were awakened in the small hours of the morning by a terrific trumpet blast and the sound of pattering feet beside the bed. The big mystery about this was that this nocturnal serenade was given to only one fellow at a time. Incidents are recorded where a boy in an upper bunk would hear the low note and the pattering feet but his roomie would continue blissfully asleep. If the trumpet tone was loud enough to awaken one, why not all? Who was rattling papers under doors? Nobody knew and nobody in his right mind was going to try to interfere with the ghost. Consequently pandemonium now reigned on the campus. Washington Hall residents went to and from chow as a man. Where one (Continued on page 32)
10
Colorful California
Club Elects Officers
Last week’s super - heated weather brought Notre Dame Californians out of long hibernation. About 30 boys from the sunny slopes of the Pacific gathered together in the Law building to reactivate the long dormant California Club, and elect as its president, Frank Perez, of San Francisco.
Organized to promote better N.D.-California relations, boost Notre Dame stock in the Golden State, and foster a social activities program for its members, the Club went on to name energetic Maurice Chase of Fresno as vice-president, Christy Walsh as secretary, and Dave Lloyd as treasurer.
Mentioned as a possible innovation was the procurement of Club blazers, designed in the colorful California motif. Such jackets would probably be of flame-orange satin, brocaded with clusters of purple grapes, green limes, and snow-capped blue mountains on the front, a gigantic ocean breaker on the back, and sleeves spattered with the addresses of movie queens. No mention was made of how far this idea would go.
The members and their home towns; Thomas J. McCafferey, Vallejo; Daniel Donohoe, Napa; Russell Fahey, Oakland; Bill Vangen, Huntington Park; Dave Lloyd, Los Angeles; Jack Boyd, Berkeley; Mike Frawley, Los Angeles; Tom Lauerman, San Diego; John A. O’Connor, Santa Monica; George Dixon, South Pasadena; Christy Walsh, Los Angeles; Joseph Concannon, Livermore; Patrick Haniein, Gustine; Richard Hearn, Los Angeles; Maurice Chase, Fresno; Joseph Keough, San Diego; Louie Joseph, Lynwood; Arthur 0. Aragon, San Bernardino; Thomas F. Burke, San Francisco; Charles L. Stahl, Long Beach; Frank W. Robinson, Jr., Buena Park; Gene J. Long, Long Beach; Jack Painter, Long Beach; John Glaab, Long Beach; Edward Hamel, Long Beach; and Martin Matich, Colton.
—John A. O’Connor
Student Enrollment at Notre Dame 3,402
According to figures released by Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., Director of Studies, Notre Dame has a total enrollment of 3,402 students. The College of Commerce leads the field with 1061 students. * The enrollment in the various colleges is as follows:
Arts and Letters, 787; Physical Education, 111; Science, 361; Commerce, 1061; Law, 154; Graduate School, 111; and Engineering, 811.
CAMPUS CLUBS
,,	...	• . By JERRY OLWELL	,
* * ' | - * ..................................... .	i' -	‘	.
If .the Democratic Party is attempting
national re-organization it -would be well for it to take notes from our campus. During this past two weeks more than a score of different clubs re-organized. This column cannot attempt to cover them all each week, but during a two week period we will bring you personal notes on all the clubs. For an introduction let’s drop in on a few of the past meetings and see what transpired. . . .
The VETS CLUB, largest on the campus, held elections at their second meeting. Though attendance was rock bottom Jim Webb and Jim McCormick roped in enough votes to hit the bell for president and vice-president, respectively. Ed Dixon, Sergeant of Anns elect, suggested that some parliamentary procedure be injected in the meetings. Noble idea, Ed! In fact all the clubs should follow suit!
“Hizoner” Don Degman, an Astoria, Long Island, boy, guided New York’s representative group through its first meeting. He announced elaborate plans for the coming semester which included frequent tea dances down town, chartered planes and trains for trips home at the ends of the semesters, and dances in the elite hotels of the big city, during the summer and Christmas vacations. Looks like Mike Weinberg and Herb McDade and others like them will finally have to ask a girl out.
Sun-tanned Frank Perez is the guiding hand for his fellow Californians as they step through the Indiana mud puddles this term. They have planned an agenda for the next few months in true Hollywood style. Frank was outstanding in his snappy sport coat, strictly a la Frisco.
“Erin Go Braugh,” or “Carey for Prexy” was the cry for the Boston Club, and in true Irish spirit Bill was elected president of Mayor Curley’s Indiana fifth column. It was noticed, however, that there was a non-Irish member of this organization. Curley won’t like that. Joe Praught had a short one-day tenn as secretary elect of the Boston group as he was called to the service recently. Ait Brady was chosen to succeed him. Lots of luck, Joe, from 1,800 fellow students who know.
All coal miners and steel workers got the call this p'ast week as the Philadelphia Club returned to the campus. They had the honor of hearing Mr. James
Armstrong, Secretary of the National Alumni, speak. Prior to Mr. Armstrong’s talk the group elected Ralph Haymon their “big wheel” for this semester.
We all extend our hearty welcome to a newcomer, the Columbus, Ohio, Club. This group extended an invitation to all men of central Ohio. Chairman George Igel announced that election of officers will be held at their next meeting. Dick Prendegast, of Columbus, was conspicuous by his absence during this meeting. Dick, an active'student of Notre Dame until recently when he was called into the Army, is now recovering from a severe case of malnutrition. Better end this chatter at this point.
(Officers of campus clubs wishing to insert news of club activities are requested to turn in all stories to Jerry Olwell, the Publications Office, 118 Main Building; or the Scholastic editorial office in the basement of Cavanaugh Hall on Sunday and Monday nights after 7:30 p.m. Only news of exceptional interest will be printed if turned in after Monday night.)
K. of C. Vaudeville
Finals on April 11
From a wide field of talent, eight acts have been chosen to appear in the finals of the Knights of Columbus Vaudeville Show on the evenings of April 11 and 12. Washington Hall will be the scene for the final rounds and the entire student body is invited to be. on hand. There will be no admission charge.
In the preliminary trials from which the finalists were able to emerge, presentations by individual vocalists, quartets, comedians, a magician, an accordion solo, and other features were included. The winners of the next session will receive the $60.00 worth of prize money being offered by the University knights.
Judges for the vaudeville will be drawn from either the faculty of the University or from South Bend as were those who selected the eight acts from the preliminary contestants. The applause accorded the finalists will be a determining factor in the selection of the winners as well as the novelty and entertainment ' value of the presentation itself.
11
That Building
across
the Lake
By JACK SULLIVAN
It’s safe to say that almost everyone on the campus has, at one time or another, inquired wonderingly, “What’s that over there?”—That, referring to a vine-covered edifice on the northern shore of St. Mary’s Lake. The building so much in question is Holy Cross Seminary, and is greatly responsible for the famous University of Notre Dame, since the majority of priests now at the University once began their careers under its roof.
Holy Cross Seminary
Today, this “starting point” where men begin their journey in the footsteps of Christ is especially worthy of attention. Sixteen veterans are enrolled at the Seminary, and have begun their studies for the priesthood in the Congregation of Holy Cross. They are pictured elsewhere with Fathei- Edmund Murray, C.S.C., recently returned to the teaching staff of the University after service as Chaplain with the 104th (Timberwolf) Division in the European campaign where he received the Silver Star for gallantry under fire.
In this group are veterans who fought at Iwo Jima, Bougainville, Guam, the invasions of Africa, Italy, Normandy, the Battle • of the Bulge, and the Central Europe and Rhineland campaigns.
Of the men pictured above, Walter Eidson and Charles Wiehrer were formerly students at the University, and James Igo. was enrolled at the Seminary before serving three and a half years in the Navy. All 16 are attending the Seminary under the G.I. Bill of Rights.
Upon their arrival, the veterans participated in a special retreat, and then turned to the duties and tasks confronting all aspirants to the priesthood. Although the Seminary specializes principally in high school courses, these men reside there, some making up subjects and others attending classes at the University. With the exception of scholastic activities, these ex-G.I.’s live the same as do their fellow-seminarians. Rising is at 5:20 a.m., followed by Mass, breakfast,
and house-cleaning. Classes at the Seminary begin at 8:05 and' end at 3:30, after which there is Religion, Spiritual Reading, Rosary and Visit to the Blessed Sacrament. Then there is supper, followed by Study, Night Prayer, and the day ends at 9:30.
Every day after breakfast, the seminarians devote a period of time to housecleaning. On Saturday this becomes an all-afternoon job, what with potatopeeling and other menial tasks. The cooking is done by nuns, but everything else is accomplished by manpower. There are no maids, but ’tis said that the veterans run a close professional second regarding these “details.”
The housing shortage felt on this side of the lake was also experienced at the Seminary. The normal capacity is 150, but with 200 prospective seminarians still in Service, and with 20 returned Servicemen already living in campus residence halls, “doubling and tripling-up” will probably occur in the near future.
Community life receives due stress at the Seminary, and the men are encouraged to extend their friendship to all instead of forming groups. To emphasize this, the men study and eat together, and also sleep in dormitories housing between 20 and 30. (Shades of Carroll Hall!)	.
Recreation is far from forgotten at Holy Cross Seminary. In fact, there are at least four periods during each day
■when the seminarian can avail himself of numerous diversions offered. In proper seasons touch football, basketball, or baseball comes into use, while handball is a year around sport. In addition, there is swimming or skating at St. Mary’s Lake, attendance at athletic contests at the University, and at concerts, plays and moving pictures at Washington Hall.
Since that day when Father Sorin first stood on the snow-covered shores of the lake, contemplating the forested land, great changes have taken place. He and his fellow - Religious have done their work well. Not only had he founded a university in the forest, but he has assured the success of Holy Cross in the United States. For besides the establishment of a university he had also founded a seminary and a novitiate at Notre Dame for the training of the future priests and Brothers of Holy Cross in the United States. Today, this Seminary is a modern, picturesque building, surrounded by broad lawns and spacious trees. Father Richard J. Grimm, C.S.C. is the Superior, and is ably assisted by Father Collins, C.S.C., and Father Wil-, son, C.S.C., Director of Vocations.
After completing the required courses at Holy Cross Seminary, the men will spend one year at St. Joseph’s Novitiate, Rolling Prairie, Ind., located about' 20 miles west of Notre Dame. This will probably be the most difficult period of their lives, and at its close, they will take temporary vows of poverty, chasti-
r.	11
12
ty, and obedience. After the year’s Novitiate the newly professed seminarians will return to Notre Dame to continue their religious training at Moreau Seminary, and their academic training under members of the faculty of the University of Notre Dame. If their progress is judged satisfactory, the seminarians are
Seated from left to right are: Father Murray; Russel Neighbor, Chicago, Ill.; Peter Tomashek, Shawano, Wis.; Walter Eidson, Berrien Springs, Mich.; Joe Swierczenski, Duryea, Pa.; John Birkmeyer, Buffalo, N. Y. Standing left to right: Milton Partridge, Cincinnati, Ohio; Charles Weiher, Wapakoneta, Ohio, Ed Dolan, Sharon, Pa.; Dan Kennerk, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Harold Pear, Portland, Oreg.; Robert Dever, Dorchester, Mass.; Fred Barr, Peoria, Ill.; John Weihrer, Reading, Pa.; James Igo, Lexington, Mass.; Nicholas Langenderfer, Swanton, Ohio; and James Wall, Miamisburg, Ohio.
150 Navy Men Receive Commissions in June
Approximately 150 men now enrolled in the NROTC program at Notre Dame will receive their commissions in June. A recent navy V-12 bulletin which allows men in their seventh term having a minimum of 120 credit hours, 24 of which are in naval science subjects, to be recommended for commissions, is responsible for the impressive increase in the number of graduates.
Lieut. Commdr. Roy Aaron announced that he had received information which permits relaxing requirements in a few special cases. The following is the statement released by Mr. Aaron:
“The seventh termers who have gone through the program on the fully prescribed basis, having 24 or more naval science credits, may be recommended for
then allowed to take final vows at the end of three years. And on the completion of their college courses they are awarded the degree of Bachelor of Arts at the University of Notre Dame. Further study takes them to the Community’s theological house at Washington, D. C., or to Rome.
commissions regardless of Bulletin 353 provided their academic work has been satisfactory and if they are good officer material.
“The trainees who failed a naval science course thereby giving them less than 24 hours of credit in naval science subjects may be recommended for their commissions if they are otherwise satisfactory and have completed the academic requirements.”
The remainder of the men enrolled in the program who won’t be eligible for commissioning in June may either be placed on inactive duty and continue their* training in the NROTC under the new peacetime program, or they may apply for their discharge under the point-system plan. The peacetime ROTC program which has been sent before Congress provides that all men enrolled in the program will have their tuition as well as their books and incidental fees paid for by the Navy. In addition the
Fr. Keller Addresses Industrial Institute
The so-called “indictment” of the American system of free enterprise as “a system for the few” is disproved by statistics, the Rev. Edward Keller, C.S.C., Director of the Bureau of Economic Research at the University,* stated at a labor session of the Industrial Rela-. tions Institute in Toledo.
The Institute, sponsored by the Toledo Council of Catholic Men in cooperation with the University, opened in Toledo last week and will continue through April. The Bureau of Economic Research at Notre Dame was organized in 1937 to make special studies on financial, industrial, economic and similar problems.
Father Keller said, in part: “The main economic argument against our free, enterprise system is that it is a system for the few—that through' excessive concentration of wealth and income the great mass of ■workers are kept to a poverty level of living.
“Available statistics disprove this contention.
“While there is proof of inequality in both wealth and income distribution, there is no proof, except to the contrary, that there is effective concentration of either wealth or income.”
Father Keller then explained that income is merely the cost of producing goods and services, and must necessarily be reflected in the prices consumers pay for the goods and services.
He also declared that the most important problem of distribution of income was maldistribution industrially and geographically, such as between agriculture and industry and between the. North and the South.
The problem of inflation and cost of firing was discussed at some length by the Notre Dame economist. He added that the reason for inflation was the high level of war income, that the war prosperity was a false prosperity and could not be continued into the post-war period without serious danger of disastrous inflation.
Father* Keller also stressed that the only method of preventing run-away inflation was by filling the inflationary gap with goods and services—production and more production.
men will receive a salary of $50.00 a month. After receiving their diploma and commission the men will be required to serve for 15 months of active duty.
13
Here, Where the World is Quiet. . .
Two Ionic columns flank the classic entrance to the Notre Dame Library. Behind this ivy-clad facade lie some of the treasures of the world; the things which make our modern civilization worth -while.
Up under the eaves of the building- is one of the largest, most valuable Christian art collection in the Middle West. In 1917 the Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C.. then President of the University, obtained from Monseigneur Marois, Vicar General of Quebec, Canada, one hundred and thirty-six paintings, purchased in Rome from the noble Braschi family, kinsmen of Pope Pius VI. Some of the canvases on display belonged at one time to Cardinal Fesch, an uncle of Napoleon I, some of them to the Capuchin monks of Benevento, and the rest to the Sciarra-Colonna family. Seventy-four of the paintings were selected to adorn the walls of the galleries. To enlarge the work and make the collection representative of the best in Christian art, Mr. Charles A. Wightman of Evanston, Illinois, a collector and lover of the beautiful in art donated, in memory of his wife, Cecila, an addition of one hundred and eight masterpieces as a memorial of a lifelong devotion to her beloved Church. This addition brought the total to two hundred and twenty-five works of art which fill more than four large rooms and constitute what is known as the Wightman Memorial Art Gallery.
In 1932 the Wightman Gallery was augmented by the presentation of the Wickett collection, donated by Mrs. Frederick H. Wickett as a memorial to her husband, a prominent Chicago attorney.
A casual stroll through the rooms of the gallery will reveal such outstanding canvases and drawings as, “A Self Portrait and Landscape,” by Rubens; Van Dyck’s “The Crucifixion;” and “The Madonna of the Oak,” by Francesco Penni, who studied under the great Raphael. The works of the seventeenth century Spanish Artist Murillo are on exhibition as are those of Tintoretto, landscape painter, John Constable.
The Wickett collection includes a four-poster bed from the Medici Palace in Fiesoli, dating from the sixteenth century. The most striking feature about the bed is its small size which indicates it was occupied by one of the young Medici’s Among other items in the collection are an intricately carved oak table belonging to Pope Clement XII, a gilded mantlepiece of the Borgias and a red tapestried chair, a favorite of Queen Alexandria, wife of Edward VII.
When viewing these works of art, the visitor frequently inquires as to their value. It is extremely difficult to set up a counterpart in money for some of the irreplacable treasures on display. The real value lies in the intangible combination of composition, harmony, color and grace. Perhaps the words of Dom Gregory Gerrer, O.S.B., LL.D., former curator of the Wightman Art Gallery, give a clearer concept of the value of the collection. “Some of these pictures have wandered far since they were finished by their respective artists, some of them
The Madonna Enthroned—North Italian School. Done toward end of-XIV century, painting represents Virgin in clothes deep red and blue. Probably painted by a Venetian artist.
have even been in the possession of persons hostile to the Church or or persons who did not understand their meaning and hence had no due appreciation of them. These works of art are now again in a thoroughly Catholic atmosphere and they again teach, in the potent manner of art, the beauties of the Catholic faith and Catholic life. And it is certainly proper that there be a gallery of Christian art at the University of Notre Dame in which the students may have the opportunity to study great pictures, with profit of the best kind.”—J. Walker
14
A corner of the Wickett Room. The carved figure on the pedestal is of polychrome
and gold. Noteworthy are the ormolu
gilt credence table and seventeenth-century Venetian processional lantern.
A room in the Wightman Art Gallery. Of great interest is the University's fine collection of Russian icons, paintings overlaid with manipulated garments of silver or gold.
15
THE MADONNA AND SAINTS painted by an unknown artist of the French School. Bulletin of the National Society of Antiquarians of France identifies it as authentic XIV century, between 1385 and 1392. Painting hung originally in the home of St. Bridget in Borne. Pope Pius IX gave this house to the Congregation of Holy Cross. The artist anticipated action of the Church by painting halo about St. Catherine who was not canonized until 1482.
THE CRUCIFIXION by Sir Anthony Van Dyck (1599-1641) is one of the prizes of the University collection. The middle-aged woman kneeling in adoration is presupposed to be the donatrix. The picture is noteworthy for the luminous quality of the Savior's body and the unearthly splendor of the eclipse of the sun. A pupil of Rubens, Van Dyck soon made his reputation as portraitist of James I of England, of Cardinal Bentivoglio, and of Charles I of England, of whom he painted 36 portraits. Darling of the English aristocracy he returned to Antwerp, his native city, in 1640 to meet with a magnificent welcome. After Ruben's death he became the acknowledged head of the Flemish school. He returned to London shortly and died there. Master of drawing, chiaroscuro, purity of coloring, Van Dyck is one of the few painters accorded a first rank by all critics.
16
Notre Dame Scientists Contributed Much to Success of Atomic Bomb
MICHAEL G. GREENE
A blinding flash, a roar, a column of smoke—then devastation. Thousands of Japanese bombs drop and leave destruction in their wake. They had cursed the bombers, tended their wounded, mourned their dead, lost their property, and still they fought desperately, fanatically. But when the atomic bomb was dropped on Hiroshima, the nation’s back was broken; their strength made useless; their faith turned to fear. It was the atomic bomb that won the war and saved so many young, American lives.
For years men of science all over the world patiently labored trying to solve the riddle of the atom. Finally, during the feverish years of war, American scientists came to understand, partially, that riddle and hence came the atomic bomb.	.
Notre Dame scientists contributed much to the success of the atomic bomb. Dr. Bernard Waldman, Rev. Henry Bolger, C.S.C., Mr. Walter Miller, Dr. William Hamill, and Dr. Marcellus Wiedenbeck are men whose names will not be soon forgotten in the world of science. Four of these men have worked tirelessly at Notre Dame for several years experimenting with atomic energy. The fifth. Dr. Waldman, granted leave of absence by the University in April of 1943, entered government service for further experimentation with atomic energy.
Upon his release from the University, Dr. Waldman was sent to the Los Alamos laboratory near Sante Fe, N. Mex. The head of the laboratory, Dr. Oppenheimer, had gathered there the outstanding scientists of the United States. Men like Dr. Enrico Fermi, Italian physicist and Nobel Prize winner, of the University of Chicago, Dr. Hans Bethe of the University of Cornell, and Dr. Niels Bohr nervously worked trying to beat the Axis to the atomic bomb.
When the first experiment was made in the New Mexican desert, Dr.Waldman was there, and he, with the others, heaved a sigh of relief when its results were studied, for he knew that an an-swei- to the universal prayer for peace had been found. With other Allied scientists, Dr. Waldman acompanied bombers over Hiroshima to observe the effects.
Meanwhile, the other four men and their associates were not idle. In October of 1942, Notre Dame, along with several other colleges and universities, notably the Universities of California, Columbia, and Chicago, had been contracted by the Office of Scientific Re
search and Development to experiment with atomic energy. Father- Bolger, head of the Physics Department, was named project director.
When the war started the “Manhattan District Project” came into being, and took over the O.S.R.D.’s contract in March of 1943. Then experimentation of atomic energy for use in the atomic bomb began at Notre Dame.
The instrument that our scientists used to experiment with atomic energy is the pressure type electrostatic generator which was capable of developing energy up to 4,000,000 volts.
Little, at the present time, can be revealed about the bomb itself or those connected with atomic research. We do know, however, that en extremely powerful and dangerous force has been discovered, and, to an extent, controlled. We know that atomic energy is not just an immaterialized dream, but a physical reality whose power can be, in a limited degree, calculated and predicted.
The future alone can tell whether this tremendous power will be the means to aid mankind or to destroy it. The public can only have faith in the men who control atomic power. But as long as there are scientists such as we have at Notre Dame, we need not fear that our faith will be betrayed.
Polish Club to Meet
The Charles Phillips Polish Club will meet on Apr. 11, at 7:30 p.m., in Room 1 of the Law Building. The purpose of the meeting is to project important plans for the immediate future. All students of Polish descent are urged to attend. A special effort ■will be made to acquaint new with old members.
N.D. Man Receives
Commendation Ribbon
Seoul, Korea, March 4—For outstanding service as aide de camp to Brig. General Leroy J. Stewart, commanding general of the Seventh Infantry Division, First Lieutenant Donald P. Casey, class of ’42, has been awarded the new Commendation Ribbon. Now anxiously awaiting his voyage home for discharge, the 25-year old officer hopes to outrace the stork expected this month by his wife, Mrs. Mary L. Casey of 811 N. 17th Street, Lawton, Okla.
At Notre Dame Lt. Casey was “Scholastic” staff photographer and active with the Commerce Forum, Wisconsin Club and the Wranglers.
Spring-struck Scarpe Seeks Tracheoplyter
By JOHN A. O'CONNOR
Dapper Mr. Higginbotham, N.D. Biology Professor, took off on business last week, but before his departure shrewdly assigned his students a springtime botanical field problem lest they should relax their pursuit of the biological muse.
Unlike his classmates, who chipped twigs off budding trees around the campus and down by the lakes, freshman Brill Scarpe strolled over to swanky Harter Heights, scanning the residences for arboreal specimens.
Armed with a pencil, pad, and a light lunch (one chickweed sandwich wadded up in a wet sack), Scarpe assailed the garden of Mr. MacGregor, South Bend citizen, where he gazed with open mouth and profound admiration at the manifestations of the Spring season. Tender yellow-green shoots were poking through the moist earth, wee violets peeked out through the mosses, sweet spermato-phytes were popping up all over, fresh chlorophyceae perfumed the air, while overhead chattei-ing robins hopped from budded bough to budded bough. So overcome was Scarpe with the charms of the new season that he failed to see Mr. MacGregor come around the corner of the house, rake in hand. Scarpe reached up, tenderly snapped a small limb off the blossoming magnolia.	.
“Hey, bud, watcha doin’ there!”
Scarpe, startled, “Oh, hello there, I’m from Notre Dame. I’m just trying to get a sample of a tracheophyte for my biology class. The prof went away and before he left he assigned us. . .”
(MacGregor, coming closer) “Dat ain’t no trashofidera, dat’s a magnolia, an it’s mine. What I wanna know is whatcha doin’ in my yard hackin’ my trees apart?”
(Scarpe, apologetically) “Oh, huh, I just took a little twig so I could make a drawing for my biology class. You see our teacher went away and told us to . . .”
(MacGregor, ever closer) “I don’t care what your teacher told ya, dat’s my tree an’ I don’t aim to have it pulled up by the roots by some slob from Notre Dame!”
(Scarpe, first mildly, then in a demanding tone) “Well, after all, I only took a little twig like the prof said, and besides just what’s wrong with Notre Dame?”
With that MacGregor lunged at him.
Today Scarpe is in the Infirmary recovering from rake wounds in his Basid-iomycetes.
17
Dearth of Experienced Centers and Ends Bothers Coach Leahy
Baseball Team Opens
Indiana >4
BY PETE BROWN
“At the moment we lack an experienced center and experienced ends.”
These words were uttered by Head Football Coach Frank Leahy in discussing the potentialities of the Irish squad.
To fill one of the gaps, Coach Leahy expects Jack Zilly back on the campus in September. He is about due for discharge from the Navy. Zilly was a running mate of George Murphy, captain of the ’42 squad. Also coming back into the fold is Jim Flanagan, a substitute on the same team.
The center spot is the biggest question. Bill Walsh, regular center last season, expects his draft call before next season. Herb Coleman, pivot man on the ’43 National Champions, signed a pro contract. He still had two years of varsity competition left.
Ed Tobin and Luke Higgins of the ’42 squad have returned. Tobin played on the Iowa Pre-flight Seahawks in ’43. This was the team that was upset by the undefeated Irish 14-13.
Since the last time that Higgins wore the green, he fought all through Europe as an infantryman. A tackle in ’42, Higgins at his own request has been changed to guard.
All-American John Mastrangelo, back from last year’s team, also holds a featured place in the center of the line.
Ziggy Czarobski, a regular tackle on the ’43 Championship team, is back after a hitch in the Marines. His regular berth on that team shows his capabilities.
Another ETO vet is Bob McBride, a guard in ’42. During his travels in Eu-
N. D. Tennis Team
Rounds Into Shape
The near-perfect tennis weather of the past week has rounded Coach Walter Langford’s tennis team into condition faster than usual. A limited number of challenge matches have already been played, opening spirited competition among candidates for the Navy trip late this month.
Coach Langford said Monday that no startling changes in the lineup had been made as yet, but some will probably come later on. He added that practice activities will expand when the squad is able to move onto the clay courts, perhaps by the end of this week.
18
rope, McBride was a prisoner of the Germans for six months. He has been shifted to tackle.
The backfield is an imposing aggregation of talent. Lu jack - Cowhig - Kelly -Livingston - Mello.
John Lujack stepped in and aptly filled Angelo Bertelli’s shoes on the ’43 team. He expects to sever connections with the Navy by September and return to his quarterback post for the Irish.
Jerry Cowhig played fullback in ’42. He was hampered all season by an abdominal muscle injury. However, he did get a chance to display his wares in the first Iowa Seahawk game by scoring two touchdowns in the 28-0 rout.
Two years at Notre Dame and one at the Naval Academy rate Bob Kelly as one of the best backs in the country. In three years Kelly has been a conformable pupil of three different coaches: Leahy, McKeever and Hamburg. Now he is returning to his original prof.
Another key figure in the Seahawk upset was Bob Livingston. Just out of the Army a month, Livingston is returning to the campus in a few weeks. He served in the Pacific.
Jim Mello, teammate of Kelly, Lujack and Czarobski on the ’43 champs, expects to return in September. Mello was a member of the 1944 Great Lakes Bluejackets.
Aftei" going over some of the returning vets, Coach Leahy went on to say that the team would be a good one. But it must be remembered that the opponents of next year have improved also. All the games will be hard fought contests with close scores.
Illinois, the schedule opener, will have Julius Rykovitch and Claude Young in its backfield. Young was acclaimed one of the greatest players in the nation for his play with Fleet City Navy last year. Rykovitch filled out the backfield of Lujack, Kelly and Mello while stationed in the Marine V-12 Detachment at Notre Dame in ’43.
Pittsburgh, Purdue and Southern California, according to reports, have improved tremendously.
Navy is still a power. And The Team, Army, has lost but three of the first 33 members of last year’s squad.-
Ending the interview, Coach Leahy stressed that his main fear is the team may lack the coordination of a unit that has played together for several seasons.
The 200 man baseball squad which l; answered Coach Jake Kline’s call for | candidates on March 15 has been shaved | down to fifty. Kline’s aim is to have a | home roster of thirty. But the veteran | coach realizes there is always the pos- I sibility of overlooking talent when large ’
turnouts prevail. Therefore, in the near future there will be notices posted for baseball aspirants to report to the athletic fields south of the Engineering and Law buildings.
Meanwhile, Kline, taking advantage of the ideal baseball weather of the last two weeks, has been sending his charges through two and one half hour drills daily on Cartier Field. So far only three positions appear to be cinched. Behind the plate when the ump cries, “Play ball” at the opening game will be the veteran New Haven, Conn., fence buster, Tom Sheehan. In the outer pastures Frank Gilhooley, captain of last year’s nine, and Jack Mayo are reasonably certain of starting assignments. Both are steady, dependable players afield and at the plate. From the quintet of Elmer Raba, Joe Gehring, Scarpelli, Frank Parise, and Bob Sesterhan, all of whom have shown great promise, will emerge the third starting outfielder.
Things are not as definite at the infield stations. Left hander Donnie Grieve and Ray Peti-zelka are waging a duel for the first base job. Petrzelka has an advantage of height, but Grieve is no slouch with the stick. The keynote position finds George Schneider, Eddy Cor-dasco, and Steve Kozlik running neck and neck. Of the three, Kozlik is the only one who swings from the left side of the plate. At the all important short stop position hustling Pete Koblosh, possessor of a howitzer arm, is giving Billy Hassett a tussle for the position. Hassett has a definite edge over his adversary in experience and hitting. Moving over to third base, Frank Ciszcon, never-say-die Johnny Dee, and Ken. Cave are still in the fight for the nod.
Coach Kline has indicated that he ex- : pects to carry more than the usual number of batterymen on the squad this ; spring. In the catching department Shee- ; han’s stand-ins include “Stash” Krivik, Jim Pressley, Tom Coccitto and Bill Dioguardi. The mounds corps of “Kew- ; pie” Barrett, Dick Smullen, Walt Ma- fl hanah, Dick Kluck, Pat Mulvehill, John fl Hillbricht, and Sherman have been get-fl ting plenty of necessary work during fl the drills. Barrett, who will probably fl toe the rubber in the opener, has shown fl
«
Reason Against
tpril 12; Squad Cut to 50
I

the same form which gave the Louisville redhead a low earned run average last season. Hillbricht’s arm has been giving him trouble and Sherman, a big fellow, though he has plenty of stuff on the ball has yet to find control.
Approval of the schedule is being held up by last minute changes, but the release should be ready by next week. The University of Indiana will definitely help inaugurate the 1946 diamond season for the Irish. The Hoosiers come here for a two game series, April 12 and 13.
Trackmen Capture Two Firsts at Relays
i Amidst a light concentration of small 11 arms fire precipitated by a score of false i starts and to the accompaniment of a :! din, the product of 15,347 vociferous J’ track enthusiasts — the largest assemblage ever to witness an indoor track ( event—the Gold and Blue of Notre Dame • captured two firsts, a second, and four thirds in the 10th Annual Chicago Re-j' lays.
1 Bucking the stiffest of competition in ;! every event, Madill Gartiser chalked a J first and three thirds in the high hurdles ; to lead the Irish entourage which in! eluded Bill Tully, who placed second to ; Bob Rehberg of Illinois in the 1000 yard run. Ex-G. I. Bill Leonard after setting Y the pace in the Banker’s Mile for 6 laps ; ran a very close third to Tommy Quinn and courageous Les MacMitchell.
■ ’ MacMitchell picked himself up from ■ , the boards on the far turn after apI parently having been mousetrapped and I climaxed his spectacular sprint by chal-■ I lenging tape-breaker Quinn with a final I surge which fell but three feet short of I ' victory. Leonard, too, incurred diffi-■ | culty when in making his turn into the ■ i‘ last lap he stepped off the boards, thus ■breaking his stride and possibly mean-flb ing the difference between hirst and fll third place.
H' Pitted against Drake and Marquette, fl ‘ the N. D. relay team negotiated the mile ■ i :3.6 faster than either Iowa or Ohio fl ■ State, winners of the other mile relay fl events. Jones, Kenny, Sabota, and Purfl ; cell, displaying excellent form and fine fl 1 condition, were clocked in 3:25.
fl . The fans applauded and Notre Dame fl . was proud of a determined little two fl r miler, Jimmy Murphy. Though already fl.';, twice lapped by the leaders with but fl j six circuits to go, he doggedly fought his ■ rrl way through a melee of sweat suits, fl . officials and carpenters to finish his race fl which some minutes earlier had gone to
Training for Bengal Bouts Like Burrowing into Notre Dame Bus
By CHRISTY WALSH
Ever try burrowing your way into the first stage-coach out there at the bus stop after evening prayer, say on a Friday night? If so, by the time you have managed to escape from the little red wagon and set foot on terra firma once again, you will get just a “rough” idea of what some of the fellows go through in training for the Bengal Bouts.
According to trainer Dominic Napolitano, title contenders in training from three to five o’clock every aftemoon work out the equivalent of a twenty round match.
Napolitano, otherwise referred to as Nappy, points out a very definite shortage of lightweight boxers, particularly in the 120 and 127 pound classes. Merely because you gentlemen feel miniature in
Coach Napolitano and trainee
Forrest Efaw. National Champion Efaw covered the distance in 9:18.3.
In a matched relay, the University of Illinois shattered a House record held since 1942 by Notre Dame. The Illini •mile quartet knocked five-tenths of a second from the old mark which stood at 3:19.2. McKenley crossed the finish line 20 yards ahead of the Michigan anchor man.—Bob Leander
comparison with some of the entries, you must understand a man of this class need not fear facing some huge hulk of humanity. Take Nappy’s word for it, there are three weeks left to train, quite sufficient time for any ambitions you may entertain.	•
This year, sponsored by the Knights of Columbus, the Bengal Bouts are proving to be the scene for the return engagements of a number of last year’s contestants. Those of you who attended the Bengals last year may remember Bob Pasquarella, ex-Navy, who met Bill Summerlin in the finals; Bob was responsible for Bill taking the count in the first 19 seconds of the first round. Thus Mr. Pasquarella, who calls Philadelphia and Dillon his home, took the 135 pound class championship.
Another winner last year, Ralph Deem, fought in the 165 pound class to win over Bill Bevington on points, a TKO nonetheless. Ex-Navy, Ralph will have the gloves on again this year.
“Little” John Trave is back again this season. A critical shortage of size 16 shoes forced John last year to enter the ring barefoot in his encounter with Tony Cash. Said Tony Cash took 2 minutes, 28 seconds before lying down on the canvas to rest(l). As for Mr. Trave, shoes and all are housed in Dillon.
In the worth watching department: among other men who will have plenty to back up those gloves of theirs are Harp Dougherty—now engaged in Spring football training, and Frank Bonotto of Breen-Phillips.
This week, Napolitano, who is in charge of the training program, announced that Kermit Rousseve and Anthony Buono are to assume their duties as assistants, effective immediately.
Actual mles and regulations covering the Annual University Boxing Championships are presented here for your edi-ficaion. The proposed weight classes in the Bengal Bouts shall be the same as those used in intercollegiate tournaments: They are:
120 lbs.; 127 lbs.; 135 lbs.; 145 lbs.; 155 lbs.; 165 lbs.; 175 lbs.; Heavyweight.
The bouts will be run according to intercollegiate rules. This body of rules affords the individual boxer the highest degree of protection possible. They are set up to eliminate all dangerous roughhouse tactics and places a premium on skill, speed, agressiveness, and boxing ability.
19
Splinters from the Press Box
BY PAUL WEYRAUCH—Scholastic Sports Editor
AMERICAN LEAGUE — New York, Detroit, Washington, Boston, Cleveland, St. Louis, Chicago, and Philadelphia.
NATIONAL LEAGUE — St. Louis, Chicago, Pittsburgh, Boston, Cincinnati, Brooklyn, New York, Philadelphia.
Relays from the Relays
•‘Doc” Handy’s track men ended a very successful indoor season last Saturday night in the Chicago Relays at the Stadium. The relay team consisting of Fred Jones, Pat Kenny, Ray Sabota, and Bob Purcell came home first in the Mile University Relay with a time of 3:25. Bill Tully made a fine showing in the 1,000 yard run, taking second to veteran Bob Rehberg of Illinois, and Jim Murphy took a fourth against tough opposition in the two mile run. Medill “Bud” Gar-tiser was consistent in three hurdle races, taking third in all three and in each case being beaten by the same men, Ed Dugger of Dayton, Ohio, and George Walker of Illinois.
Ace of the Irish track squad, Bill Leonard, was clocked in 4:18 as he took third in the Banker’s Mile. However, this was one race where the outcome might have been different had it not been for the rough tactics employed by the contestants. Throughout the race the boys were pushing and hitting each other. The famed Les MacMitchell fell down and. our own Bill Leonard was forced off the track when the eventual winner, Tom Quinn, passed the two. By the time Leonard got back on the track and into stride, he was running last. When he went to pass another man in the final stretch he was hit in the face. In the meantime Mac Mitchell came back to finish second behind Tom Quinn of the New York Athletic Club. Leonard finished third. How much of the shoving and pushing was intentional is questionable but no fouls were called. For several seasons now the Chicago Relays have proven to be a graveyard for outstanding track men with upsets being the rule more than the exception.
East-West Game
Leo Klier returned to the campus last Sunday afternoon after completing his college basketball career by playing the New York Herald-Tribune's first annual East-West all-star basketball game. “I’m glad it’s all over,” said Leo, and he had every right to make that remark for he has just gone through a strenuous season and emerged as a real All-American.
Klier started and played 30 minutes of the game for the West all-stars coached by Harold Olsen of Ohio State. Leo had trouble hitting under the basket but came through with two of his spe
20
cial long shots during the second half. The East team won the game, 60 to 59, aftei- staving off a last minute rally by the westerners. Vanderweghe of Colgate led the East scorers with 16 points. Kenny Sailors, Wyoming All-American, topped the West five with an equal number, 16, while Bob Kurland, Oklahoma Aggie, All-American center, hit for 13.
The West team had only one scrimmage together prior to the game. The team members were the recipients of gracious hospitality in New York. The boys took in a stage show and the fights and, as did the True magazine All-American guests, a few night spots. Leo Klier flew back to school but admitted he didn’t enjoy the ride except for the time it saved.
Batter Up!
Believe it or not, the baseball season is just around the corner with the opening game on the 1946 Notre Dame schedule coming up one week hence when the Indiana Hoosiers visit Cartier Field. Coach Paul Harrell of the Hoosiers had the biggest baseball turnout in four years this spring but has now cut the squad down considerably. Says Harrell, “We have quantity galore but we’re going to be short on experience. We’ve had more pitching and catching candidates this spring than we had squad members the past few years.”
Indiana has lost several of its stars to pro baseball. Ted Kluszewski, fencebusting outfieldei- and pitcher Mike Mo-dak belong to the Cincinnati Reds while the Cubs took Don Dunker though they recently gave him his unconditional release. Dunker was a pre-war standout for Indiana and later was a steady hurl-er with the Great Lakes nine.
Four two-letter winners and five other lettermen of the 1945 squad are scattered among the candidates for the team. Harrell probably will open the season with an all-veteran infield composed of Al Kralovansky, George Cherry, Roy Kilby, and Bob Miller with Ed Cohen catching. So, let’s get out the field glasses so we can see the Cartier scoreboard and enjoy the ball game.
It's Fun. Anyway
This prediction business is hopeless but some fool around here has to pick the National and American league 1946 finish, so here goes and with no rhyme or reason:
Former B. C. Star Coaches Backfield
By MEL GODDARD
Another T-formation expert has been added to the football coaching staff. Head Coach Frank Leahy just announced the signing of Eddie Doherty, former Boston College pass master, as backfield coach. Eddie knows his way around on a football field. He played for Leahy in his freshman year at BC, and then developed into one of the outstanding passers and field generals in the East as the regular quarterback on the Eagle elevens of 1941-42-43 under the coaching of Denny Meyers. He played in the Orange Bowl game Jan. 1, 1943, when BC lost to Alabama 37-21, in the Ea'st-West game of 1944 which ended 14-14 and was named on All-Eastern and All-American teams.
Doherty was in the navy midshipman’s school at Notre Dame for about foui-months in 1944, receiving his commission May 31, 1944. He went to a PT school in Rhode Island, and after finishing his training saw service in the Philippine and China areas. He got back to the U.S. in February of this year and was discharged as a lieutenant, j.g., March 16.
The new QB mentor, who is 27, married, the father of a nine-month-old son, and a native of Andover, Mass., attended high school in his home town, then St. John’s prep at Danvers, Mass. While in high school he participated in baseball and track in addition to football, but limited himself to football while at Boston College.
Eddie knows how it feels to coach a winner as he was boss for a year at St. Cecelia H. S. in New Jersey, directing the football team to an undefeated and untied season. He would rather not discuss that infamous Holy Cross game of 1942 in which the unbeaten Eagles of Boston College were smeared, 55-12. He prefers to talk about the team which will carry the banner of the Fighting * Irish next fall. He was here in the Navy long enough to get that famous spirit, and it is easy to see that he enjoys working for the best coach in the country. Of course, the thought of those 240 pound tackles clearing the way for his backfield boys is not causing him to lose any sleep.

IMICIICIM
By JIM CLEMENS
The brightest light in Notre Dame’s galaxy of track stars is William George (Bill) Leonard, currently one of the outstanding milers in college competition and well on his way to being the greatest miler ever developed beneath the shadow of the golden dome.
Born in Schenectady, New York, on August 21, 1923, Bill matriculated at Nott Terrace High School, where, under the expert tutelage of Bill Eddy, he developed into one of the premier schoolboy milers in the country. He climaxed three years of competition there by placing second in the mile in the National Scholastics held at Madison Square Garden, February, 1941, turning in the very commendable time of 4:28.
Leaving behind him a brilliant record in which he established new school marks for every race from the quarter-mile to the mile, including the metric distances, Bill entered Notre Dame in September, 1942, and promptly became the first freshman to win a monogram at the South Bend institution since World Wai* I when the University relaxed its restrictions against freshmen pai-ticipat-ing in varsity athletics, and he established himself as a star on the 1943 track squad in his first year of competition.
That spring he ran a very neat 4:17.7 mile in the Outdoor Central Collegiate Championships, and while running the third leg of the distance medley relay at the Penn Relays he fashioned a brilliant 1:53 half-mile. During the indoor season he teamed up with Frank Con-forti, Dick Tupta, and Don Curry in setting a new University of Notre Dame record for the two-mile relay at the Illinois Relays in the sizzling time of 7:46.7, and helped to establish another Irish record in the four-mile relay when he, Tony Maloney, Frank Conforti, and Ollie Hunter, .scampered home in 17:31.1 at the Purdue Relays.
The war interrupted what had been a meteoric rise to stardom when Bill entered the Army, in June, 1943. Serving with the 30th Infantry Division, he went overseas in January, 1944, and landed on the beach of Normandy one day after D-Day. Continuous fighting through five campaigns which netted him as many Battle Stars, in addition to the Bronze Star and special citations from the Belgian and French governments, left him little time to do any running, so Bill kept his spiked shoes in
his duffle bag until he returned home in the Fall of 1945.
Immediately upon his discharge November 5th, Bill returned to the campus of Our Lady, and lost no time in rounding into shape for the 1946 track season. His first race of the indoor campaign just closed was against Les MacMitchell in the Millrose Games at Madison Square Garden, where he finished fourth to America’s mile ace in the highly respectable time of 4:21.7. Seven straight mile wins against college competition followed, in which Bill was established as the best college miler in the country. Then came the Chicago Relays last Saturday, and the Notre Dame ace went down to defeat at the flying feet of Tommy Quinn and MacMitchell in the famed Banker’s Mile, though he did himself proud in lowering his own best time of the season to 4:18.7.
A sophomore in the Department of Physical Education, Bill hopes to coach
high school track in the East when he graduates, but first he wants to leave some records for future Notre Dame milers to shoot at, and with two more seasons ahead of him it seems almost a foregone conclusion that he will.
Nebraska on '47. *48 Gridiron Schedules
Last week Head Coach Frank Leahy announced that the Notre • Dame-Nebraska football series, which ended 21 years ago, will be resumed in 1947 on a two year home-and-home basis.
The first game will be played here on Oct. 18, 1947, and the second in Nebraska’s Memorial Stadium. In announcing the continuance of this series, Mr. Leahy commented:
“I am very happy to announce the resumption of our athletic relations with Nebraska, and especially the scheduling of two football games. Notre Dame and Nebraska are natural rivals. Their football series in the past provided some of the keenest competition in gridiron history.”
The series, started in 1915, is contended by many to have been the most viciously fought in the history of the game and it was because of these bitter feelings that the two schools mutually agreed to sever relations after the 1925 contest.
Thus far, both teams have won five and lost five with one tie being registered in 1918. Following are the scores of the previous games.
1915—Nebraska 20; Notre Dame 19 1916—Notre Dame 20; Nebraska 0 1917—Nebraska 7; Notre Dame 0 1918—Notre Dame 0: Nebraska 0 1919—Notre Dame 14 ; Nebraska* 9 1920—Notre Dame 16: Nebraska 7 1921—Notre Dame 7 ; Nebraska 0 1922—Nebraska 14; Notre Dame 6 1923—Nebraska 14 : Notre Dame 7 1924—Notre Dame 34; Nebraska 6 1925—Nebraska 17; Notre Dame 0
Interhall Athletics
Begin After Easter
Despite the advantageous weather , of the past few weeks, play in the outdoor sports of Interhall athletics will not begin until after the Easter vacation, Mr. John A. Scannell announced this week. The condition of the playing fields is not very good as yet, but Dr. Scaimell expects the fields to be ready for practice and informal games by next week.
The sports on the interhall curriculum this semester include baseball, softball, and volleyball. Competition in golf and tennis will also be held if sufficient interest is shown. The large field south of the campus will be utilized for the majority of the games.
Coach Elvin R. “Doc” Handy thinks that with another season of cross-country behind him, Bill will be capable of a 4:10 mile, which will shatter all previous marks at Notre Dame. “He compares favorably to Greg Rice and Ollie Hunter right now,” said the genial Irish track mentor, “and I look for him to be one of the greatest milers of Notre Dame history before he graduates.”
21
HARRY STUHLDREHER, '25
Head Football Coach and Director of Athletics University of Wisconsin
(Editor’s Note: This is the fifth in a series of articles on Notre Dame men who have distinguished themselves in collegiate coaching at colleges and universities throughout the nation.)
Since his graduation from Notre Dame in 1925, Harry Augustus Stuhldreher, head football coach and director of athletics at the University of. Wisconsin, has continued to reap the fame and glory to which he became accustomed in the days when he quarterbacked the now legendary Four Horsemen and Seven Mules. Each new success has increased his esteem in the minds of the men of the football world.
Harry Stuhldreher was born in Massillon, Ohio, October 14, 1901. He was raised in that town and got his first taste of football when he played for Massillon high school. Before entering Notre Dame in 1921, he gained additional experience playing at Kiski prep.
Upon entering Notre Dame, Stuhldreher roomed with Chet Grant, who was then varsity quarterback. He immediately beat out Elmer Layden for the quarterback post on the freshman squad, and by mid-season of his sophomore year, Harry had replaced Frank Thomas as varsity signal caller. With Layden switched to fullback, the Four Horsemen first played as a unit against Carnegie Tech in that 1923 season.
The “Little General” — he usually tipped the scales around 160 pounds — was an exceptional blocker, a good defensive man, a steady punt handler, and an expert passer and pass receiver. Although Crowley did most of the passing, against Carnegie Tech in 1924 Harry awed spectators and players alike by completing 18 out of 21 passing attempts.
On the field Stuhldreher was a thinker. If the opposing ends were crashing, he would circle them. If the tackle and end were widely split, he would run off-tackles or cut-backs. And, if the opposing line was too tough, he would order a passing attack. For all his cleverness Harry made one costly mistake against Georgia Tech in 1922 when he passed incomplete over the goal on second down. In those days that constituted a touch-back, consequently, Tech took the ball on their own twenty.
Crowley, Layden and Stuhldreher were unanimous choices for all-American in 1924, and Harry graduated the following
June. The fact that he also was a thinker off the gridiron is evidenced by his graduating average of 89.15.
Going directly into the coaching field in the fall of 1925, Stuhldreher went east to Villanova college, where he installed the orthodox Notre Dame system. In his 11-year tenure at Villanova, Harry raised the football standards of that school to heights never before attained as he compiled a record of 65 victories, 25 defeats and 10 ties.
In May, 1936, Harry Stuhldreher joined the ranks of Big Ten coaches at Wisconsin, and he soon made his presence felt. The Badger teams gradually responded to the Stuhldreher treatment until they gained confidence and national acclaim in 1942 with nine wins and a single loss. Not blessed by a navy program during the war years, this member of the Four Horsemen carried on defiantly and now has added 36 wins, 45 losses and four draws to the Wisconsin record books.
Stuhldreher also has an enviable record as Wisconsin’s athletic director. Under his guidance a new second balcony was added to their field house, making it one of the finest in the Midwest, and the building of new teams in boxing, wrestling and rifle.
On an equally important plane are Stuhldreher’s contributions as good-will emissary of Wisconsin. There is scarcely a Badger alumni club in the land before which he has not spoken, and he is in great demand among high schools, service clubs and various other organizations. His annual travel mileage consistently runs into the tens of thousands.
—Tad Wieman
O'Neil Chairman
of Senior Dinner
John O’Neil of Sorin Hall will head a committee sponsoring an informal dinner of the Senior Class to be held in the near future. Members of the Senior Class will be contacted by card and complete details will be announced in next week’s Scholastic. Chairman O’Neil will be assisted by a committee as yet unannounced.
It is hoped that this get-together ■will be as successful as the one held at the Ramble Inn the first week of this spring semester. It ■will be one of a series of social affairs designed to bi-ing members of the Senior Class together frequently in the next three months.
Army Not Only Game
On Grid Card—Leahy
Athletic Director and Head Football Coach Frank Leahy declared that the Army game on Nov. 9, in New York, is “not the only game on the Notre Dame schedule.”
Coach Leahy said he has been receiving phone calls, telegrams, letters and personal visits, and the question is always the same: “How are you going' to do against the Army?”
“Naturally,” stated the Notre Dame mentor, “we are worried, very much so in fact, about the powerful Army team. However, the Army game is the sixth on the schedule. Here at Notre Dame the schedule is a tough one and we must take our opponents one at a time. The game that is uppermost in our minds right now is the opener on September 28 against Illinois at Champaign.”
Dr. Waldman to Speak on "The Atomic Age"
Dr. Bernard Waldman of the Department of Physics, will give a lecture in Washington Hall, at 8:00 o’clock Wednesday evening, April 10. “The Atomic Age” will be the subject of Dr. Waldman’s discussion.
Dr. Waldman is extremely well prepared to discuss the progress made in the scientific world with regard to atomic energy. He is recognized for his recent work in connection with the development of the atomic bomb, the world’s most talked-about and least-understood missile of destruction.
The speaker joined the faculty of the University in September 1938. He taught and assisted with atom smashing experiments at Notre Dame until February of 1943, when he left the campus on a leave of absence to assist with work on the Manhattan Project. Dr. Waldman’s work on this project first took him to Los Alamos, N. Mex., where the initial experiments with the atomic bomb were held.
From Los Alamos Dr. Waldman was transferred to Tinian, an island in the Marianas group, upon which were based the B-29s that dropped the two atomic bombs on Japan. Dr. Waldman flew over Hiroshima and observed the first use of an atomic bomb in modern warfare.
In the course of his lectures, Dr. Waldman will exhibit movies showing the use of the atomic bomb in the destruction of Hiroshima. These movies were taken from the observation plane accompanying the Superfort that dropped the bomb.
All are invited to attend this lecture, which is presented primarily for the students, under the sponsorship of the University of Notre Dame Lecture and Concert Series.—John Minzing
22
By JIM LARRICK
One of the most representative Dante collections in the United States, com- • parable to that of Cornell which houses ’ 12,000 of the 15,000 works available on the Florentine poet, is to be found in the northwest corner of the second floor of the University Library.
The collection was begun by Rev. John A. Zahm, C.S.C., eminent writer, scientist and explorer, while he was procurator of the Congregation of Holy Cross in Rome in the early years of this century.
Father Zahm had asked permission of his superiors to buy some special volumes on Dante which he had found during his travels through Italy. The permission was granted and soon rare books and bills began arriving in what seemed an unending stream. Frantically his superiors cabled Father Zahm to stop purchasing what at the time was construed to be a luxury; he was running the infant university into the red. Strangely, their cables never seemed to reach him, for they always arrived at the place where he had just been. And so was launched the beginning of the present collection of over three thousand carefully selected volumes.
It appears that Father Zahm was especially interested in the Divine Comedy and the personalities of Dante and Beatrice, since the majority of his pur
The Florentine bard amid a collection of illuminated incunabula and thumbsize miniatures oi the Divine Comedy.—(Photo by Ferstel.)
chases were concerned with these. Since his death, on the basis of a fund which he bequeathed to the library, all significant works on any phase of Dante’s works oi- life have been added to the University’s collection by Mr. Paul Byrne, chief librarian.
One of the most noteworthy sections of the library are the fascicles. It seems that nearly every village and hamlet in Italy can boast a Dante Society with a few scholarly members who present reports on various aspects of Dante’s life and writings. These reports are printed with only copies enough for the members and perhaps a few extra for friends and patrons of the Society’s library. They are jealously guarded by the members and Father Zahm more than once facetiously remarked that he procured his copies at the risk of his life. Today they form a unique and singular addition to the collection, something which few other libraries in the United States can claim.
The collection today numbers about 3,000 volumes with others being added constantly. Each new book or report is carefully evaluated as to its contents and whether or not it would be a definite complement to the collection.
A special room on the upper floor of the University Library houses this collection. It is decorated with pictures,
busts, statues and several death masques of Dante. The room is filled with row upon row of books in magnificent bindings, some heavily back-boned with thick ridges after the mediaeval manner. Here one can find the Divine Comedy in every major language, from Dante’s own Italian to Chinese. Approximately twenty majoi* languages are represented and many minor tongues. The majority of editions, as is to be expected, are in Italian.
Many rare editions are to be found, including five incunabula editions printed in 1477, 1481, 1488, 1492 and 1493. The 1481 edition is especially interesting. There are three illustrations, one of them having been used twice. The reason for this is that the printer found that the paper on which he first tried to print the engravings would not take ink. Different paper was found that would give a better impression. The plates were to have been inserted in their* proper places in the text after -the sheets had been printed, but for some reason this was not done and so today there are only a few copies containing the full number of plates as planned.
The size of the various volumes range from huge folios to small miniatures which must be read with a magnifying glass. The printing on one is so small that the complete Divine Comedy is contained on a sheet of paper approximately one and a half by two feet. One of the smallest editions of the Divine Comedy, which is complete in every respect, is little larger than an air mail stamp.
One of the most superbly illustrated volumes in the Library is the famous edition of the Inferno, illustrated with engravings by William Blake. As a hobby, Walter Chrysler, Jr., founded the Cheshire House Press and planted fine editions of the classics. Twelve hundred copies of the Inferno were printed and then the plates were destroyed. This edition is one of the most beautifully illustrated and printed editions of modern times. Today it is a collector’s item.
Armstrong Addresses
University Press Club
James E. Armstrong, national alumni secretary, addressed the University Press Club last Friday night. He spoke of the traditions of the Scholastic during its 79 years of continuous publication and related humorous anecdotes of other Notre Dame publications’. ' :
Especially interesting was his account of the brief but meteoric career in the early twenties of the Notre Dame Daily, which, despite its name, was printed four times weekly. The Daily failed to be self-supporting and its short span of existence ended, after being published two and a half semesters. ' ~
23
A NOTRE DAME FAMILY ALBUM
BY LEONARD DENTE
If the Notre Dame scouts have an eye for future football material they might cast it on the John F. Quinn family of Wilmington, Delaware which is featured in the March issue of the Ladies Home Journal series on “How America Lives.”
During the football season, the article enlightened us, “if a Notre Dame game is being broadcast, Mrs. Quinn will put off a batch of ironing to do on Saturday afternoon while she listens to the game. ‘When Notre Dame makes a touchdown, she says, ‘I start yelling with the crowd and all the kids yell with me, even the ones who are too young to know what it is all about.” The loudest voice in the rooting stand is that of young Jimmy Quinn, age 10, who already shows promise on the local parish team.
Who said big families are old-fashioned? Well, they’re not with the John F. Quinn family. Pretty Kitty Quinn, age 33, who wears a size 11 frock, and John Quinn, who at 38 looks like a Hollywood heart-beat, have nine bouncing beautiful youngsters, a whole staircase full, from one to thii-teen years. This is certainly one family that doesn’t coincide with the recent Gallup Poll which stated that 68 per cent of America thinks the
The Quinns of Wilmington are grooming a backfield for Notre Dame.
ideal family should consist of no more than three children.
The Quinns will tell you that though they often have to scrape the bottom of their resources to keep the family fed and dressed respectably, they haven’t lost a yen for stepping out of an evening. Often Kitty and John traipse off to the movies like a pair of young lovers, which they are. John gets $3,600 a year for his job at the Wilmington Auto Sales Company. Half of this goes for food which is bought on one weekly shopping tour and neatly stacked up in the pantry.
The moment you step into the house you become conscious of order and neatness. The linoleum shines like a mirror, and the windows hold white froths of starched curtains. It is not only the house which has the well-scrubbed look; the children, all nine of them, have it too. Everything functions to the tempo of a good-humored routine. From the sprays of green ivy planted high on the shelves out of reach to the brightest curl on the youngest one’s head, you see the touch of a devoted mother’s hand.
Kitty wants a piano so the girls can learn music. John dreams of the day his boys will play football at Notre Dame. And Notre Dame hopes their dreams will come true.
Architects Organize;
Elect Lang President
Sixty-two Department of Architecture students attended a meeting last Wednesday, March 27, and organized the Notre Dame Architects Club. Joe Lang, a junior from Pittsburgh, Pa., was elected president of the club.
Elaborate plans have been drawn up by the architects. Aside from the social aspects, the men behind the Notre Dame drafting boards hope to present campus exhibitions of their works, publish a club newspaper, organize sports teams, and hold stimulating club meetings featuring the presentation of papers on architectural subjects by students, profs, and practicing architects.
Other officers selected last Wednesday were: Joe Oravec of Sharon, Pa., vicepresident; Buzz Huelsbusch of Effingham, Ill., treasurer; and Jim McCaron of Fort Wayne, secretary. McCaron is in charge of a committee to draw up the club constitution. A club moderator has not been selected as yet.
Eminent Botanists
Visit University
Dr. Panchanan Maheshwari, chairman of the Department of Biology, University of Dacca, Bengal, India, arrived here Sunday night for a three weeks’ stay as guest of the University. An internationally known authority in the field of plant embryology, this distinguished visitor is carrying on his extensive studies in the University’s famous botanical libraries. On April 11, at 7:30 p.m., Biology Auditorium, Dr. Maheshwari will give an illustrated lecture for the pre-medical club on “Economic Botany in India” and present another lecture the following day in the Biology Seminar on “Plant ' Embryology in Retrospect and Prospect.”
Prof. Maheshwari is on an 18 months’ tour devoted to study in various American universities and expects to return to India via England and Sweden by July, 1947.
Prof. Edwin B. Matzke, Department of Botany, Columbia University, New York City, is scheduled to arrive on April 3 for a short visit and is to open the Biology Seminar with his lecture on “Cell Shapes.”
Dr. Arthur Cronquist, of the New York Botanical Gardens, visited the University on April 1 and studied various important type collections in the Greene Herbarium in connection with his revision of the goldenrods of the Eastern United States.
24
FLASH . . . with only three weeks of the semester gone Joe O’Toole has succeeded in finding a loophole in the student manual ... a revised edition has already gone to press . . . Pep Panelli has cathode and anode tonsils . . . every night when he gargles all the radios on his floor get jammed with static. . . .
ADVENTURE IN SOUTH BEND . . . Floyd “Crash” Bradley and Elmer “Get your money’s worth” Raba found a short cut into The Palais Royale . . . ten minutes later a ticket taker made an appearance on the fire escape . . . and that wasn’t a sack of potatoes that was tossed off the South Shore Sunday night either . . . though it could have been a Sad Sack. . . .
ANTI-CLIMAX . . . With elections pretty well out of the way there is big talk of forming an EX-presidents’ club . . . ex-campaign managers take note . . . Bill Summerlin who lasted only 19 seconds in last year’s Bengal Bouts hopes to shatter the betting odds and go 25 or better this time . . . and from the Szymanski training camp comes rumor that Big Frank will push leather with Joe Flood . . . another- boy to watch in the Bengals is Paul “Tex” Porter. . . .
EX CHAMPS ... Bob Gorsky of Walsh Hall once won a prize for doing tricks with a Yo-Yo . . . Jim Patterson of Lyons took first prize in a cattle judging contest when in a 4-H Club back home. . . ’.	.
CORPORATION NOTES . . . Standard Oil has finally succeeded in running a pipe line through the Sorin Sub . . . the walls in St. Eds are so thin that one desk lamp does for two rooms. . . .
SURPRISE ENDING . . . thinking it was a closet, Bob Welch of Alumni Hall came in late Saturday night, hung his clothes in the Dumbwaiter, reached for his pajamas . . . and was picked out of a laundry bag at St. Michaels on Monday morning . . . Baldy Blomfield was caught chipping Gold Leaf off the Dome again ... he takes it to the bank in exchange for pin money . . . there is no end to the things that you can get from box tops . . . last Monday afternoon some stude tried to take off and fly from the fourth floor of Breen-Phillips in something that looked like a Superman cloak . . . his friends arrived just in time and pulled him in by the heels. . . .

BILL BRAUN and FRANK McCARTHY
GIs RETREAT . . . congrats to the organizers of the first All GI retreat and to those who sacrificed their weekend to attend it . . . the good example has been set and it wouldn’t hurt the rest of us to follow it. . . .
MELLO DRAMA ... a pretty girl dropped a paper napkin in the Caf the other day and four students dove for it . . . and returned the girl a handful of confetti . . . Bill Stockman went on a cigar smoking bender this weekend . . . he was first discovered by his buddy, Dave Lavine, who knocked on his door and was nearly smothered by the smoke that was forced out of the transom. . . .
FACTORY SCENE . . . Tom Brogan’s room is so crowded that every time he tries to sit down he has to use two chairs . . . Norman Hehct is still tearing up his room trying to find a bottle of beer. . . .
IN DOUBT . . . there is still some question as to who can cross the campus the fastest . . . Bill Leonard or Dean Murphy . . . and who said that the chow was getting worse ... it still costs one ticket per meal . . . the Sunday afternoon FEMstag at St. Mary’s has lately been confused with the T Formation . . . they made bed check again last night and not a bed was missing . . . John Nolan still thinks that SNAFU is a German sneeze . . . and in answer to many inquiries . . . no . . . you don’t have to pass a physical to get a Bar Permit. . . .
SOCIETY . . . while Breakfast Clubbing at the Huddle the other morning we saw an RO deliberately sit down on a cup of hot coffee . . . being well reared has its drawbacks too . . . and in closing may we say that the difference between the fellows who are campused and the fellows who have midnight is . . . only temporary. . . .
Sun Sports Editor to
Address Press Club
The University Press Club will meet Thursday, April 11, in 118 Main Building at 7:30 o’clock. Warren Brown, sports editor of the Chicago Sun, will speak at the meeting.
All Scholastic staff members are asked to be present.
A.A.A.S. Meeting
Held in St. Louis
The first post-war meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science was held last week in St. Louis, Mar. 27-30, with several thousand scientists in attendance. The Department of Biology was represented by Rev. Robert J. Sheehan, C.S.C., head of the Department. Dr. Theodor Just, J. A. Nieuwland Research Professor of Botany, represented the American Midland Naturalist.
In connection with these meetings, Dr. Just organized as Secretary of the Paleobotanical Section, Botanical Society of America, its programs and presented a paper on “The Relative Value of Taxonomic Characters” as part of a Symposium on “Paleobotanical Taxonomy.” Similarly, as a member of the program committee, Dr. Just organized one meeting for the History of Science Society and Section L and addressed this joint session on “Modem Schools of Plant Morphology and Their Development.”
Dr. A. T. Cross, until recently of the Depai-tment of Biology and presently of the Department of Geology, University of Cincinnati, likewise presented a paper in this symposium on “Some Basic Problems in the Classification of Paleozoic Seeds,” prepared in collaboration with Dr. J. H. Hoskins, chairman, department of botany, University of Cincinnati.
Funk and Carbine Co-
Chairmen of Senior Ball
Fritz Funk of LaCrosse, Wis., and Bill Carbine of Rutland, Vt., have been appointed co-chairmen of the Senior Ball by President Bill Carey. Both men are seniors in the College of Commerce majoring in Accounting. All further arrangements will be announced in the Scholastic. It is hoped that full committee appointments can be published next week. Current plans call for a full Senior weekend that will extend from Friday evening to Sunday noon.
It was'also announced that James McCarthy of Pittsburgh, Pa., will act as Senior Editor of the Graduation Issue of the Scholastic. McCarthy is a Senior Journalism major. Those interested in working on the staff should contact the editor in 234 Walsh Hall. It is hoped that this issue will be the most representative graduation Scholastic since the Dome was discontinued in December, 1942.
25
By JOE WILCOX
Are you up a tree? Better come down, laddie, you might be up the wrong one. You might be up one of the arboreal rarities that Notre Dame values more than a star halfback. It would not go well with him who decided to treat one
of these uncommon trees with disrespect. Not many students are aware of the fact that some of the trees that beautify our campus are far from being of the common, forest variety. And so, pal . . . and that includes you, ’possum over there in the elm in front of Dillon . . . come down out of that tree.
While the campus sports all the trees common to this part of the country, there are a few varieties which are pointed to with special pride. For these are the trees which are not indigenous to the area. For instance, there are the magnolia trees, now beginning to flower, which stand in front of the Main Building. In addition to giving the Gawgia boys that old nostalgic feeling, they’re spectacular when in full bloom. Magnolias are not so uncommon as to be considered rare in the north, but they are not common by any means. Their native habitat is the mild climate of the south.
Aptly enough, there are three or four Irish lai-ches on the campus. The native American variety of larch, also called the tamarack, dwells among the dank, dark swamps and fens. The European larch, on the other hand, is more a denizen of the daylight. It is larger, greener, and much more stately. The tamarack always looks half drowned . . . perhaps because it is half drowned. While it is considered an evergreen, the Irish larch loses its foliage in winter and is now be
coming green again. There are very few Irish larches in this country. .
Then, there is the very rare sweet gum tree, with its star-shaped leaves and odd bark. The one specimen on the campus, and one of the very few in this section of the country, may be seen between the administration building and Washington hall. The California cypress, while plentiful in that state, is not often found in the midwest. It is a rather unhappy looking tree; it misses the company of its fellows and the California sunshine. However, it manages to sur--vive. So does the yellow-wood tree, between Washington hall and the Science building, which is native to the south, where it is highly prized for its wood, which forms the base for a kind of dye. Also in the main quad is the laurel oak, a rare member of the oak family and not native to this locality.
Those oddly shaped pines which spread everywhere and get nowhere are Scotch pines. They are native to the bonny heather and the rough highlands, and their shape is accounted for by the tough time they have keeping alive in the inhospitable surrounding of their native land. We also have, among the genus pine, the Norwegian, southern, and Austrian pines in addition to the native white variety. The tree surgeons are constantly watching the Austrian pine for the aristocratic disease, hemo-
phelia, but apparently ours spring from common stock, for all are flourishing.
The hand-shaped sycamore behind Corby Hall has an old Indian legend to its credit. According to the old tale told by the Potowatomie Indians who used to roam the shores of St. Mary’s Lake, it marks the spot where a friend of a' Potowatomie chief was killed by a vengeful paleface. The tree supposedly grew where the Indian fell, with its branches lifted in supplication. There are many other sycamores on the campus; the syc- ■ amore forms a part of the many other legends and traditions connected with this part of Indiana.
Behind the power plant stands the Kentucky coffee bean tree, so called from the peculiar shape of its bean-like seed container. The inside of these beans is used to make paste. This particular tree is one of the tallest on the campus.
In addition to these more unusual trees, there are also many more varieties. Birches, elms, oaks of several types, maples, both hard and soft, the native white birch of Hiawatha fame, the forlorn but beautiful weeping willow, the poplar, the horse chestnut, one of which shades the south side of St. Ed’s. There is also the woods . . . where one cannot see the trees for the forest.
Notre Dame has cause to be proud of its trees. They make the spacious campus more beautiful . . . particularly in the Spring of the year. They shade us 4 in the hot summer days. So, student, spare that tree!
Fr. McAvoy to Judge Knights Essay Contest
At the request of Mr. C. Clyde Atkins, of Miami, Fla., the chairman of the History Essay Contest conducted annually by the Florida Knights of Columbus, Father Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., head of the Department of History, has been invited to act as judge of the essays submitted for the 1946 contest. The contest is open to all students of Catholic schools and high schools or to students of other high schools where there are no Catholic schools.	’
The subject for the essays this year is the history of the student’s own parish. The limit of the essay is 1500 words and about 160 essays are expected to be submitted. For the winning essay the State Council of the Knights of Columbus will give an engraved' cup to the winner and a similar cup to the winner’s school. The contest closes on April 15, and no essay mailed after that date will be considered in the contest.	*
26
74® &UMULr&
Spring with all its beauty and head colds has returned to the campus and the fancies of the young men of Notre Dame lightly turn to thoughts of what the girls have been thinking of all winter. That the navy unit is aware of the difference in the atmosphere is seen in the trade-in price of a Sunday afternoon ticket to St. Mary’s. It has jumped to three Chesterfields and a week-old copy of the Scholastic. Ah, this inflation is terrible! . . . Signs of Spring were also apparent in the early appointment of Jack Schneider to the post of general chairman of the final naval ball, occasionally referred to as, “The Last Chance Dance.” If the excellent committee with which Jack surrounded himself will forget personality clashes, this should reach the height in dances held by the men of the combined units. . . . Jack tells me that the identity of the band will not, as seemed to be the custom, be kept secret until it’s too late to return tickets. It seems that the idea of holding a contest to see who could pick the correct band lost money last term. . . . But there is one thing the unit is known for: We always get the latest bands here . . . just as late as we can get them. . . . Oscar Birdbrain is starting a campaign to place a name band upon the stand for this climax to RO • training at ND. He is using the undercover or Rinso White method of catchy slogans. To wit: “Swing and Sweat with Charlie Barnett” and “Music Fair, Music Foul, Music played by Teddy Powell.” In case you don’t know who Oscar Birdbrain is, he is the fellow who answers the telephone in the duty office with, “Hello, yes this is Morrissey, who in the hall do you want?”
OVERHEARD AT THE NAVY CLASSROOM GARAGE
Lieut. Kehrel: “Driver, how did you puncture that tire?”
Duty Driver: “I ran over a milk bottle.”
Lieut. Kehrel: “What’s the matter? Didn’t you see it?”
Duty Driver: “No, the kid had it under his coat.”
POETS CORNERED (AND SHOT)
Early to bed And early to rise, Makes your girl go out With other guys.
TO THE NEW V-5s ON CAMPUS
Classes are run on the honor system at ND: The prof has the honor and the students have the system. ... In case the civilians can’t recognize the V-5’s from the RO’s and V-12’s, the V-5’s are the ones who bump into you on the walk when the afternoon TWA goes over. They are the boys with the airplanes on their calendars instead of Varga and Petty creations of loveliness. Oh well, Kipling says, “A woman is only a woman, but a good cigar is a smoke.”
RO'S ARE TALKING ABOUT
Justin Ciconnetti’s “find” last week. He forgot to take his address book from his pocket before he sent his clothes to the
		
For Appointment Phone 3-0678	CYR'S BARBER SHOP "South Bend's Leading Barber Shop" SAVE TIME BY CALLING FOR APPOINTMENT	5 Barbers Manicurist
W. E. Cyr, Prop.	100-102 South Main Street	Chair No. 5
HAND BAGS
HansZ-Rintzsch
PIPES
Michigan at Colfax
"Where you wait for the Bus"
PHONE 3-5149
• You might not be able to pull a rabbit out of a hat but you can send flowers to make her Easter happy.
UlILLIflfllS THE FLORIST
West of the Oliver Hotel
SAVE WIRING EXPENSE BY ORDERING EARLY
ND laundry. When he got his laundry back the book was on top, all intact, plus 12 names and telephone numbers neatly added. . . . The friend of Burrows who has such a stern look, because when young he was frightened by the rear of a ferry boat. . . . The discussion Pat Stanton and “Chow Hall John” had last Monday noon when John took his first shower of the year, and in milk too. John claims that actually he was being very considerate in stirring Pat’s milk with his thumb. His other fingers were dirty.
❖
DEFINITIONS NOT FROM WEBSTER
Chivalry: A man’s inclination to defend a woman against every man but himself.
Golf ball: A thing a man runs after when he can’t run after anything else.
❖
FAMOUS LAST WORDS
(Chow Hall Version)
“Put a double helping on my plate.”
LUGGAGE
LEATHER GIFTS
Telephone 3-2200
27
Former N. D. Professor Has Unique Army Record
An outstanding record as a convert maker has been compiled by a former Notre Dame professor during 46 months of service in the United States army. 1st Lt. George M. Reichle, who was a professor of speech at the time of his entrance into the service, has given instruction to 41 officers and enlisted men while serving as an enlisted man in the field artillery and as an air forces information and education officer. The 41 entered the Catholic Church.
Lt. Reichle was recently awarded the Army Commendation ribbon by order of the Secretary of War for outstanding work at Luke Field, Ariz., and Hobbs Army Air Field, Hobbs, N. Mex. At both the air force stations his program attracted considerable national attention. The order announcing the citation also gave special commendation for his superior initiative, leadership, and instructional ability demonstrated at the army air forces training command school recently established at Randolph Field, Tex., to train air force information and education officers. Since last January he has been chief of the information and education department of the army air forces’ training command, with headquarters at Barksdale Field, La.
He has served in the information and education department of the air forces since May, 1944, except for three months spent as an instructor at the Military Training Instructors’ school in San Antonio, Tex., training officers in the technique of handling troops. He was also given a citation for his work at this installation.
His spare moments at present are spent in writing a book, That American Army, which he hopes to have on the market following discharge.
Laetare Medalist (Continued from page 5) ■ the currents of modern history and give an intelligent appreciation of its accom-o plishments. Those who have heard him speak know that he can speak forcefully in any controversy, particularly because of his command of historical fact.
Read himself into the Faith
Dr. Hayes was not born into the Faith, nor did he arrive at his strong convictions by theoretical deductions. On one occasion he spoke of the great possibilities of a young man who was entering the historical field with a background of Catholic philosophy and theology. But such was not the way he entered the field of history. Using the historian’s
28	•
technique of adding fact to fact, he has, however, built extensive knowledge of the processes of history which is also comprehensive because of its detail. Yet, he says most sincerely that his philosophy of history is that of St. Augustine, particularly as set forth in the first books of The City of God.
In his teaching at Columbia University and in his writings he has added to the old notion of history as simply past politics the fullness of the cultural and the spiritual which has changed recent American history textbooks to account rather for the whole man than for a political animal. In so doing, however, he has successfully resisted the dangerous tendency to make history a merely pragmatic study of contemporary civilization.
Hitler burned Hayes' books
Long before the war trials of Nuremberg, Dr. Hayes condemned the extremes of nationalism. As he once humorously remarked, he wrote his Essays on Nationalism and Historical Evolution of Modern Nationalism too soon. Fifteen years afterward less competent writers reaped popular acclaim for discovering what he had exposed so early in the century. Hitler, however, did honor him by having his books burned. Although opposed to extreme nationalism, Professor Hayes has constantly served his country with true patriotism, especially in World War I and World War II. In the preliminary struggle to the second war he had been an interested but impartial observer of the Spanish Civil War and when such a person was needed for the critical post of Ambassador to Spain before our invasion of Africa, he left his scholar’s sanctum to give his services to President Roosevelt. The value of his work at Madrid was great in the saving of human lives alone. In this as in all his earlier labors Dr. Hayes was not pushed about by partisan clamor, and his recent book on his wartime mission contains the same calm exposition of fact which has ever" been characteristic of his teaching and writing.
The Professor has been a busy man and has spent long hours at his books, but he has never been too busy to help the young aspiring student. His students, as his close friend and best pupil, the late Parker T. Moon, testified, might wince at his insistence on dates and facts but they could be sure of a fatherly interest in all they did accomplish. He and his charming wife, who has shared so completely in his labors, welcome the young Catholic scholar to their home.
Active among Christians and Jews
There are two characteristics of Dr. Hayes which should especially endear
him to Catholic college students. The first, is his love of justice and truth. He has been one of the most active workers in the National Conference of Christians and Jews. He insists on justice for^all and has been the soundest opponent of the stupid national and racial prejudice which have caused most modern wars and persecutions. The second characteristic is his great and deep interest in Catholic college students whether they study within or without Catholic institutions. Not only by his fine example but by word and deed he is constantly working for the day when the Catholic lay leader will have proportionate representation in the civil, the social, and especially the intellectual life of the country.
Oh! What It Seemed To Be Full Moon and Empty Arms Juice Head Baby I’ll Be Yours
Do You Love Me?
COPP'S MUSIC SHOP
122-24 E. Wayne St.
Don't make a last minute dash lor an EASTER GREETING CARD you have forgotten . . .
LOOK FOR IT AT
LCWEC’f
128 N. Michigan St.
History Dept, to Begin
Lecture Series Apr. 11
The faculty and students of the De-pai-tment of History will begin Thursday evening, April 11th, a series of three discussions on the historical aspects of the problem of “Church and State.” The plan for the meetings, which will be held in the lounge room of the Rockne Memorial, is to have two members of the History faculty present brief papers on historical problems of the relationship between Church and state, after which the meetings will be thrown open for general discussion. While the discussions are primarily for students majoring to History, all students are welcome to attend since the nature of the topic and the informality of the meetings will be of interest to all who are taking history classes.
In the first meeting, on Thursday evening April 11, at 7:30 p.m., in the Rockne Memorial Lounge, the general topic will be the problem of Church and State in the Mediaeval period. The brief opening papers will be given by Professors James Corbett and Robert Tschan, both of whom are specialists in Mediaeval History. The chairman of the meeting, will be Brother Edmund Hunt, C.S.C., Professor of Ancient History.
The second meeting will be held on Thursday evening, April 25, when the discussion will be led by Professors M. A. Fitzsimons and W. D. Nutting on the topic of Church and State in Modem European History. The final meeting will be held Thursday evening, May 2nd, on Church and State in American History, and the discussion will be led by Father Thomas T. McAvoy and Professor Aaron Abell.
LAST ANNOUNCEMENT Breen Oratory Contest
Date of Preliminaries—April 11-12, Main Bldg., Room 327, 4:15 p.m.
Date of Finals—April 15, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
Eligibility of Contestants—Open to any student who has not yet completed his eighth semester.
Time Allotment—8 to 10 minutes.
Length of Oration — Approximately 1,000 words.
Percent of Quotation—10 percent.
ORATION MUST BE ORIGINAL
Prize—Breen Medal in Oratory.
All entries are to be submitted to Mr. Leonard Sommer, 213 Sorin Hall.
LAST ANNOUNCEMENT
Our New Men’s Shop Is Ready for Easter
A setting worthy of our Quality Brands . . . we feel that our resplendent Spring merchandise never looked better than it does today in the well-appointed surroundings — ready for your convenient selection . . . Come, visit us!
STREET FLOOR
X
29
TROUBELD TIMES
Bud: What’d the rector say when you put in an extended weekend?
Frank: He took it like a lamb. Just said “Bah!”
OR—
There are some who never gripe
When they’re down to their last snipe They are of that exclusive type Who blow smoke rings—with a pipe!
A NEW DEPARTMENT of Catholic Religious Goods
Rosaries Prayer Books Medals Bracelets
Gold Cross and Chain
THE BOOK SHOP
130 N. Michigan St.
Dinners
ARE AGAIN BEING SERVED IN THE •
I HI I AII KCOH
OF THE
Oliver Hotel
. SUNDAYS — 11:00 A. M. to 8:00 P. M.

By ED CASO and JOE PIEDMONT
CAMPUS QUIPS
Scene: The Infirmary.
Doctor: The best thing for you to do is to give up girls and smoking, get up early every morning and go to bed early every night.
Jim Dillon: Somehow, doctor, I don’t deserve the best. What’s second best?
Bill Sherman: Which do you think women prefer—men who give in to them or the other kind?
Dick Smullen: What other kind?
Prefect: My boy, are you following the Ten Commandments ?
Freshman: I don’t know, Father. It’s all I can do to keep up with the notices on the bulletin board.
“Red” Daley is Lyon’s candidate for “Homely . . ? I mean, Homely Philosopher of The Week” by reason of his following statement: Nature is truly wonderful. A million years ago she didn’t know we were going to wear spectacles, yet look at the way she placed our ears.”
ADAM FOOL REPORTS
Dear Citizens:
I set myself down, pencil in hand, to write you a typed letter. Please' excuse
the pen. I don’t live where I just moved to. I’m sorry we are so far together, I wish we were closer apart.
My aunt died and is doing nicely, and I hope you are the same. She died fifteen minutes before a fine New Year’s day. Her death just leaped out. The doctor gave her up, so she died, leaving a family of one cat, two cows, and three sons, Atchison, Topeka, and Santa Fe. My sister has the mumps, and like the late lamented aunt, is doing nicely. She is near Death’s door, and I hope they pull her through.
When I went west recently, I saw a sign reading “This Will Take You To Tulsa,” so I got on it, and the darn thing didn’t move.
B.T.W. (By The Way), I am sending your coat by parcel post as it is too heavy to send by Express. I cut off the buttons to make it lighter. You will find them in the left front hem on the right back pocket.	.
If you don’t get this, write me, and I’ll send it to you.
ADF
Absent-minded Professor: “Er . . . this vase of flowers on the table, my dear—what’s the meaning of the day?”
Wife: “Meaning? Why, today is your wedding anniversary.”
Professor: “Indeed! Well, well ... do let me know when yours is, so I may do the same for you.”
And again, brethren it is written in the Student Manual:
It’s the little things that bother And put us on the rack;
You can sit upon a mountain But you can’t sit on a tack.
❖
To finish off the week in our own inimitable style, we offer the following:
A mother took her seven-year-old daughter to a very progressive modern school. Among the questions asked by the principal was this one: “Are you a little boy or a little girl?”
And the little girl answered, “I’m a little boy.”
Well, the principal went on at great length, scaring the poor mother to death by saying the child was psychologically confused, that she should be put with a group of problem children, that she wasn’t quite bright, etc., etc.
On the way home, the mother said, “Darling, why did you say you were a little boy?”
Her daughter gave her a long look.
“Well, when anyone asks me a dumb question, I give a dumb answer.”
30
Prom Chairman O'Toole
Solves Dance Troubles
Since the Prom committee announced that the Junior Class will hold its formal dance May 3rd in the huge ballroom of the Rockne Memorial, telephone officials at the cafeteria switchboard report that the telephone lines are longer than the lines which circled throughout the halls of the Main Building on registration day.
As soon as the Prom news was released, excited students stormed Dance Chairman Joe O’Toole’s executive mansion, temporarily located in the east wing of the third floor in Dillon Hall, seeking info concerning the choice of band, extent of permissions for the week-end, costs of bids, and whether or not brown shoes go well with tuxedos.
O’Toole, however, kept his composure and fired back answers to the preceding queries. Said Operator O’Toole, “The band hasn’t been selected yet; the cost of the bids hasn’t been determined yet; and no brown shoes! . . .
Elaborating a bit on Joe’s statements, here is what is known for sure. Several name bands have been contacted and the committee hopes to announce the engagement of one of the top bands in the land next week. But these darned booking agents! . . . Naturally the price of the bids will hinge on the choice of the band, but we have the assurance of the committee that the price will not exceed the national debt. Those attending will still have enough left after the week-end to purchase their long-awaited textbooks.
Many of the phone calls are being directed to the campus across the highway. The gals at “Sweetbriar-on-the St. Joseph,” in addition to being close at hand, are tops as dates. (Ed. Note: We really mean that . . . we love ’em!) Undoubtedly the St. Mary’s officials will be very co-operative and liberal with permissions for that evening. So, remember, if a date you’d fixie, and you want it quix-ie, then buzz a pixie from across the Dixie.
Anyone wishing to attend is urged to make known his intention as soon as possible as the number of couples will be limited to about three hundred. All Juniors and students over twenty years old are eligible to attend the Prom. So make your dates early, men, and plan to be active participants in the big Junior week-end beginning on May 3rd.
Electrical Engineers
Display Lab Equipment
The Notre Dame chapter of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers met in the Engineering Building last week with Chairman R. E. White presiding. Following the business meeting
a demonstration of equipment in the Electrical Engineering laboratory was made.
The Institute’s calendar for the remainder of the semester includes talks by Mr. Arthur Nissen and R. E. White on Amplidyne on April 10; an analogy between electrical and mechanical systems by Al Wiggins on April 24; a talk on radio and radar by Jack Ley on May 8; a discussion of the atom smasher by Dr. Waldman on May 22; a dinner on June 5; and election of officers on June 19.
Save Europe Now Group Meets in South Bend
The Notre Dame Glee Club and Band appeared in a special concert for the Save Europe Now Committee of South Bend mass-meeting at 8 p.m. Thursday, April 4, at the South Bend Central High School. The committee had arranged the meeting to arouse greater interest among Americans of all creeds in trying to help the starving peoples of Europe.
The principal speaker at the meeting was Chaplain (Major) George B. Wood, Austin, Minn., Protestant chaplain of the famous 82nd Airborne Division and World War II hero. Chaplain Wood has just returned from overseas. He was introduced by the Rt. Rev. Msgr. John S. Sabo, Dean of the Catholic Clergy in South Bend and Co-chairman of the committee.
The Save Europe Now Committee is composed of a number’ of prominent Catholic, Protestant and Jewish clergymen and lay persons. The Rev. Dr. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., Dean of the Notre
19 Trains Daily to CHICAGO
First two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning at 7:30 A. M. and until 9:30 P. M. there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly service from Chicago, too. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
-Dame Graduate School, is Co-secretary. The committee also includes the following persons from Notre Dame: the Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., Dr. Willis D. Nutting, Dr. F. A. Hermens, and Lieut. Col. John V. Hinkel.
If you plan to shop for Easter
or if romantic thoughts in Spring demand Gifts especially for “her”
VISIT
5OU™nshor[
3i
Horn Blows at Midnight
(Continued from page 10)
went, they all went. No one was left in the hall alone. Groups of the more hardy students from other halls tried to ambush the ghost by sleeping on the stage. Nothing happened during such excursions, and Washington Hall men were left to their own devices in combating the ghost. But something had to happen, and it soon did.
Harry Stevenson resided on the third floor and each night he would descend to the second floor for a drink. Harry seriously believed that this ghost routine was so much canal water. After refreshing himself he started toward the stairs when out of the blue came a shrill blast of a trumpet close by his ear. Harry didn’t look back to see if it was Gabriel, he just ascended the stairs in nothing flat. The boys were really scared. After all, you don’t ordinarily hear trumpets blowing in your ear at midnight, especially if no one is behind you.
But the ghost was apparently blowing a farewell to Harry for that was the end of his musical endeavors, paper shuffling, feet pattering, et al. So, with this we conclude our mysterious chronicle of Washington Hall’s ghost. Who can say when he will return? And, oh yes! When you come in from your next midnight be sure to lock your door and close your transom. You might even swallow the key. If you’re from Zahm and vicinity, keep on the lookout for IT has been rumored to be riding the night again.
Last night I saw upon the stair, a little man who wasn’t there. He wasn’t there again today. . . . Who knows?
—Johnny Walker
Junior Prom
(Continued from page 6) and swing for those in attendance. The band chosen for the dance will be announced within a few days. ... As for transportation, there’ll be car permissions, and the committee is already making South - Bend - to - the - Rock arrangements for those who can’t talk their “old man” into the loan of the family automobile.
And now let’s get down to business with those special delivery letters and the long-distance calls. It’s a good idea not to wait until ten days before the big week-end itself to get in touch with Linda or Luella; if you write now, you’ll relieve the strain on the hotels, the little woman, and yourself. That way, you‘11 have more time to study in the next few
Flowers for the Easter Parade will delight her . . .
WIRED ANYWHERE OR DELIVERED
SOUTH BEND FLORAL COMPANY 114 South Michigan Street	Phone 3-8227
fyn, Jloite Men . . .
weeks (it says here in fine print).
Don’t worry, either, about being the only one to “import” from San Francisco or Saint Petersburg. Back in the “good old days” of pre-war dances—and we intend to revive those days with this Junior Prom—there were women from 46 states and 13 foreign countries represented at one of these N.D. affairs. Lotta women, huh? So throw yourself down at your desk, put a little thought into that letter to the sweetest one on earth—and relax. You’re all set foi’ the biggest week-end of the semester.
We’ll be seeing you at the “Rock,” lads, on May 3rd, with your own little sample of “personality” clinging on your arm and a broad smile on your face. So get going on that correspondence to the home front—remember, only four short weeks till the Prom!
Williams College Votes to Reinstate Honor System The students of Williams College recently voted to reinstate the honor system which was dropped during the war. To become operative, it now needs only ratification by the faculty. March rounded out the first century of the institution of the honor system on the campus, having been officially adopted at a meeting of the faculty on March 18, 1846, after the students by a large majority had voted for its introduction.
In practice, each student signs an honor statement that he has neither given nor received aid during an examination. There are no proctors and a maximum of freedom in the examination is allowed. All violations are dealt with by a committee of ten undergraduates, who impose sanctions, thus placing the responsibility for its success or failure upon the student body itself.
32
The Notre Dame Scapular Medal $1.95 with chain
The Notre Dame BOOKSTORE BADIN HALL
Lack of Court Loses
Budge, Riggs Match
Don Budge and Bobby Riggs, two of the United States’ all-time great tennis players, are passing up Notre Dame on their present professional tour after a match had been scheduled on the campus for April 10. The lack of a suitable « playing surface with seating space caused the University to turn down the offer.
Tennis Coach Walter Langford said that if the match had been played, it would have been in the Navy Drill Hall, but fire department officials ruled that three additional exits were necessary to make the hall safe. Only a small crowd could have seen the match in the drill hall, under present conditions. The gymnasium was available but the floor was too short, and the Rockne Memorial could not provide adequate seating space.
JEWELRY GIFTS
for All Occasions
Purchases Gift Wrapped Free of Charge
Leading Credit Jewelers
BLOCK BROS.
Comer Michigan and Washington
Est.
1900
228 South Michigan Street Evenings by Appointment
■ Glasses CORRECTLY Fitted J. BURKE
W. G. Bogardus—E. C. Beery OPTOMETRISTS AND MFG. OPTICIANS
Campus Centenary Publications
"Notre Dame—100 Years”-$4.00
"Collected Poems of Charles ”L. O'Donnell, C.S.C.”_$2.50
THE SET—$5.00 • PUBLICATIONS OFFICE Notre Dame, Indiana
George-Dining Hall Captain Extraordinary
We would venture to state that few of you would attach much significance to the name Beauchamps. But if we were to ask about George, of the dining hall, all of you would certainly know that we were speaking of a genial, silvery haired gentleman who directs us to the proper seat at our daily sessions in the dining hall. Behind George’s cheery greeting lies the experience of a man wise in the ways of the world—a man who knew the blistering heat of an afternoon in Mor-roco, the quaintness of Japan, and the smoky democracy of Pittsburgh, Pa.
George’s story begins in France, his birthplace. A son of a French Minister to the Court of St. James, George spent a large part of his boyhood in England. When he was but sixteen, he joined the French Foreign Legion and sailed for the story-book port of Algiers. While on his tour of duty in Algiers, George came upon a group of Americans who were engaging in theii- favorite foreign sport, talking about America. They spoke of a place called Pittsburgh. That was all George remembered, just Pittsburgh. But to him it was a tangible part of a nation he longed to see. The Foreign Legion, George related, had rather an unsavory reputation as being the last resort of the thugs of the world. Hence, he deserted in' 1904 and came to the United States on the S. S. Neio York.
Upon arrival in the United States, George headed directly to Pittsburgh, the only place he felt he knew in America. His first job was one that kept him in a tunnel running mule carts from one portion of a steel mill to another. Thinking that some fresh air would do him good, he joined the army in 1910 and became attached to the 7th Field Artillery of the 42nd Division, the far-famed Rainbow Division. His arniy service took him to Mexico, where he battled Pancho Villa under the command of General Pershing. After serving his enlistment George went back to France to visit his home. Upon his return to the USA he rejoined his old outfit just in time for the first World War. His service lasted two years and six months.
It was after his discharge from the army that his travels really began. Whatever’ George would hear about of
Trainer Dominic Napolitano announces that, with three weeks yet remaining—it still is not too late to enter the Bengals.
Those men, small of “stature." in the 120 and 127 pound class will find their classifications less crowded. Mite and might, do mix.
interest, he would set out to see. He followed Lincoln’s life thru Illinois and Indiana, went to Yellowstone to admire the punctual eruptions of Old Faithful, traveled to South America, Canada and the mysterious ports of the Orient. He did all this by working his way, by being the proverbial jack-of-all-trades.
In 1942 his wanderings came to a halt at Notre Dame, where he met his gracious wife, Catherine. They live in South Bend at 613 Walnut Street, a residence which has seen as many as fourteen Notre Dame students in one group calling on George and Catherine.
George’s job necessitates that he be something between a traffic cop and a dutch uncle. Occasionally George has to call down some prankish student- who has a flair for putting salt in the sugary or removing the bottom of the straw containers. He resolves these difficulties with a fatherly word, “You wouldn’t do that at home, would you?”—Johnny Walker
Langwell, Bennett
Speak in YCS Series
Monday evening April 1st, the Department of Modem languages contributed the first in its series of “Help Yourself,” sponsored by the Young Christian Students of the University.
Mr. Earl Langwell, head of the Department of Modem Languages, addressed the group on the Department in general. The aspects of modem speech as it applies to practical necessities of the day was discussed by Mr. Walter Langford. Mr. William Bennett spoke on, “Linguistics,” and illustrated his talk with screen projections of Gothic and Old German print.
Indiana Veteran Plan
(Continued on page 5)
noi’ explained that the Indiana Veterans Affairs Commission was created by the last session of the Indiana General Assembly for the sole purpose of assisting Indiana Veterans in rehabilitating themselves into private life and rendering them such other assistance as might be possible from a State level, and in helping them to secure the rights and benefits to which they are entitled from the Federal Government, and he further pointed out that it was the desire of the State to see that not one single Indiana Veteran had his schooling retarded by reasons beyond his control.
Mr. Murray will administer the plan at Notre Dame. Students desiring to take advantage of it may consult Mr. Murray at his office in the Main Building.	'
33
N.D. Veterans Favor Realistic
Policy Toward Russian Expansion
By CLARENCE ZIMMER
‘‘I hope I can scare you to death . . . I shall try,” Kenneth Crawford, Washington Correspondent for Newsweek, told a New York audience the other day. Mr. Crawford had returned from two years in Europe as a war correspondent. To an expectant audience he continued: “Russia is doingprecisely what Germany did 10 years ago. We are doing precisely what we did 10 years ago. The Soviets are determined to dominate the world. I think we should call the Russian bluff, and call it hard.”
Such is the opinion of Mr. Crawford. There are a lot of people with the same opinion, while there are some who believe otherwise. The issue is foremost with most Americans. But what do our Notre Dame veterans think? It was decided that a poll be taken to find out, and the results appear below. These are the opinions of our own Notre Dame exservicemen, given when asked, “Should the United States go to war with Russia?”
One of our fellow students from Sorin has this to say:
“I think that we should call Russia’s bluff. To begin with, Russia does not have the money for an immediate war. Besides, right now she is actually weaker than we are. This would surprise the world, especially Russia, and would eliminate any disastrous future war which could very well be fatal for the United States.”	.
Another Sorinite has this opinion:
“Definitely. Our mistake was in elevating Russia to her present powerful position with too much help during the war without the necessary restrictions. We should only go to war as a last resort, but if there is no other way out, we should do it now, before the problem of controlling her later on gets to be insurmountable. Russia must be taught now to take her place in the family of nations, and she must realize her responsibilities to the world.”
A Badinite, veteran of many flight missions over Europe, who prefers to remain anonymous, has this to say: “To me the Russian situation is one loaded with dynamite. I think that Mr. Budenz hit the nail on the head when he said that Russia, through subversive activities, is pointing to the destruction of this country. We may as well get over the fact that we aren’t playing for pennies any more. We’re going to have to talk turkey in strong language. When she talks tough, we’re going to have to talk
34
tougher and be prepared to back up our statements.”
Another Badinite claims:
“I believe that the Russian people themselves do not want war. It’s just the leaders, as was the case in Germany. The leaders are having a hard time keeping the Russian soldiers on the farm once they have seen capitalistic countries, which have a higher standard of living.”
Another man from Badin was extremely emphatic in stating this opinion:
“Yes. The definition of Communism states that the collectivized state can be achieved only by revolution. Communism does engage in political and labor union activities, but these are only a preparation and training for the great, violent struggle necessary to overthrow capitalism. And Russia is Communistic. I was shot down in Yugoslavia, and came in contact with Tito’s men. They are extreme Leftists, and have killed several priests. I believe we should get them now, before it’s too late.”
One man from Walsh had this to say:
“Yes, I think so. The United States is too gentle, Truman called off the recent atom bomb tests just because Russia would rather not have it so. The time to hit them is now, and finish that Communism which the Russians want to spread all over the world.”
Back in Sorin, one ex-soldier expressed this opinion:
“No. Although I think that war with Russia is very possible, I think that we should clean our house first, so that we may take as positive an attitude with Russia as she takes with us, and so the people of the world will recognize in Christianity, western civilization, their true hope. We should cooperate with Russia, but we must never sell out our heritage at another Munich.”
Well, there you have it. As can be seen, a majority favor immediate war with Russia.. To say the situation looks pessimistic would be a gross understatement. Seven out of every ten Americans think there will be a war within the next 15 years, while 4,9% believe it will come in the next ten years. One thing is certain, Catholics everywhere must take their place in a campaign of prayer for a peaceful settlement, and that if war- must come, it will be for the best. Swift once said that war is that mad game which people just love to play. It certainly begins to look that way.
Many Prima Donnas at Ohio State Univ.
Columbus, Ohio—(ACP)—One out of every four Ohio State coeds is interested in becoming a prima donna. A poll taken revealed that the vocational interests of the coeds were music, fashion design, air transportation, interior decoration, the theater, personnel work, radio and social administration.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST ❖
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS TELEPHONE 4-5661 702 J. M.S. BUILDING SOUTH BEND. IND.
•
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
. DENTISTS 503 SHERLAND BUILDING PHONE 3-I2S4	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
•
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY 825 SHERLAND BUILDING L. E. FISHER, M.D. M. J. THORNTON. M.D.
TELEPHONE 3.4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP LEONARD A. ROSE, D. D.s. CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLOG. . SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING PHONE 3-2S74
•’A
Ji
Items ef Interest in lite Fields ofCh«micfry,<n9mG<^
NYLON-PRODUCT OF PURE RESEARCH
TVTYLON exists today because of curi-11 osity—the curiosity of a group of Du Pont chemists who wanted to know more about polymerization, that strange process by which small molecules of a chemical unite to form larger molecules with entirely new and different chemical properties.
Du Pont chemists began a study of polymerization in 1928. They experimented with dibasic acids and within two years had succeeded in forming polyesters with molecular weights up to 25,000. In the spring of 1930, on removing one of these "superpolymers” from the molecular still, one of the chemists •noted that it could be drawn out into a thin strand, like taffy candy. But, unlike taffy, it was not brittle when cooled. In fact, the cooled strand could be further drawn out to several times its former length and when so drawn became not only stronger but elastic!
This original ester polymer had a low melting point and was sensitive to water. Nevertheless, it suggested that some related type of polymer might produce fibers which would be of practical use in textiles.
Numerous superpolymers were synthesized and tested. Finally, in 1935, a polyamide was prepared. From it, the first nylon filaments were made—by forcing the molten polymer through a hypodermic needle!
Nylon Polymer Developed
Further experimental work resulted in the development of a polymer that possessed the desired characteristics. This material was later christened nylon.
But the job was not yet done. Research chemists—particularly physical chemists—and chemical engineers were called upon to devise practical methods for making the polymer and for spinning and drawing it into high-quality yarn. Mechanical engineers were given the task of designing plant equipment to carry out the processes. Organic chemists were required to develop new dyeing agents and to find a size to make knitting possible. At one time or another more than 230 research men, engineers and marketing specialists worked on the giant task of converting this child of chemical curiosity into a marketable product.
RESEARCH LOWERS PRICE OF SYNTHETIC UREA
Lower prices, as well as new processes, can result from intensive research. Take synthetic urea, for example. In 1930, urea sold for about 80f a pound. Great promise was held for this compound as an industrial chemical for fertilizer and plastic use—if an inexpensive manufacturing process could be found.
By methods then in use, ammonia and carbon dioxide were heated to about 150°C., forming urea and water in equilibrium with the unconverted original compounds. The yield of urea was approximately 43 %.
Research by Du Pont chemists and engineers showed that, by adjusting the proportions of the reactants, raising the temperature and increasing the pressure, conversion could be improved materially. But the corrosive mixture resulting quickly chewed up the best grades of steel available.
Long investigation by metallurgists, chemists and chemical engineers finally produced an autoclave in which the operation could be carried on a production basis. Today, Du Pont is able to sell synthetic urea for less than a
pound. Men of Du Pont take pride in the fact that their work has made it possible to reduce the price of urea from the "drug” class to a level where it can be used as a fertilizer by the farmer.
Questions College Men ask about working with Du Pont
"WHAT ADVANTAGES DOES DU PONT
OFFER A RESEARCH MAN?"
To men interested in pure or applied research, Du Pont offers unusual advantages in equipment, facilities and funds. Men of Du Pont are constantly developing new processes and products, and seeking improvements for established processes. Investigation in the fields of organic, inorganic and physical chemistry, biology and engineering suggest the diversity of the activities of Du Pont research men.
RES. U.S. PAT- Of t
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING
More facts about Du Pont—Listen to “Cavalcade of America,” Mondays, 8 P.M. EST, on'NBC
...THROUGH CHEMlSTtr
E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS A CO. (INCJ WILMINGTON 9», DELAWARE
35