il
Dotre Dame Scholastic
Disce-QVASI-SGmPGR- VICTVRVS- • ViVG-QVASI- CRASMORITVRVS*
Vol. XXXVIII.'
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, December 3, 1904. No. 12.
A Song of Summer.
CING me a song of Summer,
Of flowers and birds and bees,
Of rivers aflame with sunlight, Of the banks with their willow trees.
Sing of the happy urchins
That plash in the summer pool, With hearts attuned to nature And free from the bands of school.
Sing of the summer woodland,
With its shining, bubbling spring, Of the wren, the thrush, and robin, That make the forests ring.
Love, as -you will, the winter, Its frost and ice and snow, .But sing me a song of summer, All full of the summer’s glow.
E. P. B.
Thomas Jefferson.
LOUIS M. FETHERSTON.
HEN we look back to the time when our present Union was in the process of formation we find the people divided into two classes, the squires or yeomen and the cavaliers. When the tide
of colonization swept across the Alantic it divided itself into two parts. One settled in New England, the other in the South. To New England , came the squires and yeomen, mechanics and artisans, who settled in compact little communities and were governed by their town meeting. To the South came the cavaliers who had drawn their swords for King Charles, and who,'at his fall, left their homes in England, preferring exile to Cromwell. They settled along the banks of
the navigable rivers; and since their plantations were so extensive, government by the “town, meeting” was impossible, and the English county system was -adopted. The local government was controlled by the principal men of the county; It was with these two classes that the founders of the nation had to deal. Their interests were different because their mode of government and their manner of living were different; and among the great men who linked together the "opposing interests of these two classes, perhaps no name after Washington stands out with greater prominence than that of Jefferson.
Thomas Jefferson was born April 13th, 1743. An early ancestor, John Jefferson, who represented the Flower de Hundred in the Jamestown Assembly in 1619, had emigrated from Wales, and Thomas inherited a tendency towards political life. His father, Peter Jefferson, was a man of some education, a land survevor and a man of powerful physique and strong mind; His mother was Jane • Randolph, daughter of one of - the .most refined and cultivated families in Virginia.
His early education was given under his father’s direction at Tuckahoe where he studied English grammar and the psalms and hymns of the Episcopal Church. His father also taught him to ride, hunt and to manage a boat; and, more valuable than all he instructed him in the clear, careful penmanship for which he afterwards became famous. At the age of nine he was placed in charge of Rev. W. Douglas under whose o	o
direction he began his classical studies. Here he remained until the death of his father in 1757. He then entered a school in charge of Rev. James Maury and remained two’years at the end of which
i82	notre dame scholastic.
time lie entered William and Mary’s College in Williamsburg, Va. Here lie finished his classical and English studies, also French and Italian. After leaving college he studied law for two years under George Wythe and began to practise in 1767. In 1769 he was elected to the House of Burgesses and entered on his political career, and in 1774 wrote a pamphlet: “A Summary View of the Rights of British America,” which attracted considerable attention both in England and in America. The arguments of this pamphlet afterwards formed a part' of the resolutions adopted by the Continental Congress.
Jefferson was elected to Congress and was the third youngest member who had a seat. After the battle of Bunker Hill he was appointed on a committee to draw-up a document justifying the Revolution. Throughout his term he.was noted, not for his oratorical ability but for his aptitude in drawing up state documents. His voice and his shy temperament prevented him from joining in those animated debates for -which those Congresses -were noted. For him the pen was mightier than the tongue and it is the former that has contributed greatly to make his name immortal. -
In 1776 he Took the place of Richard Henry' Lee as chairman of a committee for drafting the Declaration of Independence, and -was in the same year elected to the Continental Congress, but declined to serve as he wished to aid Virginia in drawing up her state constitution. In this document we see traces of his theory. He abolished the law’s of entail and primogeniture, also limited the death penalty to the two crimes of treason and murder. He did away wuth the state established church and cancelled the existing law- of imprisonment for debt. In 1779 he was chosen governor, and after serving one term, in this capacity declined a renomination and returned to the legislature.
He was elected, to Congress in 1783 and took part in the ratification of the treaty of peace. In 1784 he was appointed commissioner, in connection wuth Franklin and Adams, to negotiate foreign commercial treaties, and in the following year wras appointed minister to France. He remained there four years,—four years through which the mutterings -of the coming Revolution
w’ere heard and which culminated in its outbreak. His ability w7as so highly recognized that he w’as asked to assist in drawling up a constitution for France, which he wras forced to decline for political reasons. He returned to America in 1789 and wras appointed Secretary of State by Washington, in which position he was to come in contact with his great antagonist, Alexander Hamilton,, and thereby bring about the division into tw-o great political parties. The first disagreement between these tw’o great leaders arose over a bill for a United States Bank. The bill wras introduced by Hamilton, but wras opposed by Jefferson on the grounds of unconstitutionality.
According to Jefferson, Hamilton wras the head of a monarchical party. He believed in a strong central government and a destruction of the sovereignty of the states. Jefferson’s scheme of government, probably influenced by his stay in France, wras being-put aside, and hence arose that great contest that, was to put a seal on his glory and bring him to the highest office of the state. He declared that the people were sovereigns and should rule instead of the strong central government suggested by the Federalists. He supported the French Revolution against the Bourbon, kings, and held the strongest predjudices against .England. “France,” he said, “is our friend; England, our enemy. We are bound to France by gratitude, by a treaty of alliance, by the sympathy -which one republic can not but feel for a sister republic struggling for life. No tie, no treaty’ of any sort, binds us to Great Britain.”
When Washington announced that he would not accept a third term of office, public attention wras directed to two men. If was wrell known that Washington favored the election of Adams. In fact, he made no secret of his choice, and exercised all his influence to secure the election of the Federal candidate. Had Washington remained out of the contest, there is no doubt that Jefferson would have been elected by a large majority; but the name of Washington was held in such esteem by a large number of persons that his wishes decided their political action. In speaking of the contest Col. McClure says: “The contest between Jefferson and Adams developed into, the most , defamatory campaign ever known in
* . ■. -
NOTRE bA ME. SCHOLASTIC.
183
the history of American politics. In no modern national campaign have candidates and parties been so maliciously defamed as were candidates and parties when Jefferson and Adams fought for power in the contest of the Fathers of the Republic. Jefferson was denounced as an unscrupulous demagogue and Adams as a kingly< despot without sympathy with the people and opposed to every principle of popular government. . The contest ended in Adams being elected
President and Jefferson Vice - President.
When the contest of 1800 opened, however, Washington was dead, and Jefferson won over Adams by eight electoral votes. In this campaign, as in all others before it, the rule had been that the person receiving the greatest number of votes should be declared President, the one receiving the second largest number, Vice-President. Aaron Burr, who had. been the avowed candidate for Vice-President of the Republican party, received equal votes with Jefferson. The matter was brought before the House of Representatives, and after some delay, Jefferson . was chosen. The action of Burr in allowing his name to be presented for President was the cause of his political ruin. In order to avoid the possibility of a tie vote in the future, it was declared that the
candidates for President' and Vice-President should be so specified on the ticket.
The election of Jefferson opened a new era for the Republic. The Federalists, who had been his rivals, were soon to go to pieces,, and the party whom he represented were to continue in power until the time of Andrew Jackson. Jefferson began his administration on March 1, 1801. The story that he rode unattended to the Capitol ona white horse to take the oath of office seems to be. unfounded. He walked to the Capitol attended - by militia and was greeted bv a salute of guns.
' His first administration was taken up by troubles with Spain and France. These were :finally settled by the purchase of the territory of Louisiana. During his second administration troubles arose with England over the impressment of American seamen and interference with oui* commerce, which ended in the war of 1812.
. - On the 4th of March, 1804, Jefferson _ handed, over the reins of government to his .
successor, James Madison, and retired to his home at Monticello. His time was now taken up with the management of his vast estates. In a letter to General Kosciusko, he says: “I am retired to Monticello, where, in the bosom of my family and surrounded by my books, I enjoy a repose to which I have long been a stranger. ... A part of my occupation, and by no means the least pleasing, is the direction of the studies of such young men as ask it. They place themselves in The neighboring village and have the use of my library and counsel and make a part of my society.”
In 1812, the reconciliation with. John Adams, his old political antagonist, took place, and the two remained the best of friends until their death. In the sefenitv of old age each came to recognize the other’s greatness, and when at midday on the 4th .of July, 1826, Adams lay dying at his home in Massachusetts, his last words were: “Thomas Jefferson still lives.” Three hours later, Thomas Jefferson passed away at Monticello.	•
Perhaps the best tribute paid to Jefferson was that bv Henrv Clav when in an address delivered in the House of Representatives he said: “Next to the. notice which the opposition has found itself called upon to
bestow upon the French Emperor, a distinguished citizen of Virginia, formerly President of the United States, has never for a moment failed to receive their kindest and most respectful attention. An honorable gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr. Quincy), of whom, I am sorrv to sav, it becomes necessarv for me, in the course of my remarks, to take, some notice, has alluded to him in a most remarkable manner. Neither his retirement from public office, his eminent services, nor his advanced age, can exempt this patriot from the coarse assaults of party malevolence. No, sir. In 1801 he snatched from the rude hand of party usurpation the violated Constitution of his country— and that is his crime. He preserved that instrument in form and substance and spirit, ' a precious inheritance for generations to come, and for this he can never Be forgiven. How vain and impotent is party rage directed against such a man. He is not more elevatedt by his lofty residence upon, the summit of his own favorite: mountain, :
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
184
than he is lifted by the serenity of his mind and the consciousness of a well-spent life above the malignant passions and bitter feelings of the dav. No; his own beloved Monticello is not less moved by the storms that beat against its sides than is this illustrious man by the howlings of the whole British pack, set loose from the Essex kennel. When the gentleman to whom I have been compelled to allude, shall have mingled his dust with that of his abused ancestors, when he shall have been consigned to oblivion, or, if he lives at all, shall live only in the treasonable annals of a certain junto, the name of Jefferson will be ’hailed with gratitude, his memory honored and cherished as the second founder of the liberties of the people, and the period of his administration will be looked back to as one of the happiest and brightest epochs of American history; an oasis in the midst of a sandy desert.”
A Change of Opinion.
Every once in a while we hear of sweeping changes in the beliefs of people. Those who were formerly bitter and antagonistic come around again with another turn of the wheel mild and conciliating. The conservatives of one generation are the radicals of the next. The latest reversal of opinion—though we have heard them several times before, but never so violently,—is that of the Anglican church knocking at the door of Rome. According to a recent Chicago daily, Bishop Doane made a stirring plea for the reunion of the Episcopal and Catholic churches before a convention of the Protestant Episcopal church.
This means much. It seems to indicate a general spirit of unrest and dissatisfaction with the Established church and a longing for the days when the Papal supremacy was recognized in England. It indicates too the new attitude of the people at large toward Catholicism. The days of bigotry and prejudice are giving way to intelligent investigation, and the Church stands again before her lost children. W. A. Jamieson.
Let truth serve love, and love fulfil itself in joy.—Spalding.
Varsity Verse.
THE VIOLET.
IN mountain glen- refreshing cool All carpeted with mossy green
Beside a clear and limped pool A pure and simple flower is seen.
Abiding 'neath a bower of fern
So modest and retiring; yet
From other flowers I fain would turn To seek the dainty violet.
•	S.
TROUBLE IN LEES.
There’s a town that’s called Lees, Illinois, Where, not long ago, all the-boys -
Collected a packet .
And made such a racket
That now all of Lees’ ill o’noise.	.
'	•	R. C.
OF FROGS.
Two little frogs sat near a stream
Their arms around each other’s waist
A modest flea gave such a scream
■ As made them break away in haste.
Little Johnny ate ten frogs
Just for a little joke;
He got so verj’, very sick
That mother thought he’d surely croak. .
. W. L ,0’B.
DEPRECIATING COIN.	-
There was a young man from St. Denis
Who unlawfully swallowed a penny, So to prison he went, Although “ in - a - cent ’ ’—	’
Hard luck for the man from St. Denis. .	s.
A THIRD-FLOOR JIAN.
I once knew a fellow in Sorin
Who always got out of bed roarin’;
He’d tear round all day
' As happy and gay
As a lark in the high heaven soarin’.
MOUNT EVEREST.
I stood beneath eternal snow
And watched in awe each lightning flash, That clearing, whirling clouds below
Awoke the thunder’s dreadful crash.
J. M. R.
.	A DREAM. .
. Deep in the drowsy fastness of. a dream
There loomed a road with tombs on either side. I questioned; and a guiding voice replied: -“ Such is man’s life, when cherished hopes have died.” > . .	\	S. F. R.
A GLIMPSE OF WINTER. ‘
The snow is falling fast; the days of joy are o’er;
The ice is smooth and thick beside the kitchen door. . The cook is stepping down—alas, she’ll step,no more,
For she is falling fast; her days of joy are o’er.
• .	A. McF.
. *
Hui'EE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Simond Legacy-
JOHN P. RYAN.
George Simond, one of the earliest immi-' grants to the United States, was a wealthy, retired Scotch merchant. He and his two sons came to America not in search of fortune but in order to find a home where, unmolested, they could worship God as they pleased. Mr. Simond was a kind but stem father, and even though his two sons were grown men he insisted on having his own wav at all times. This characteristic soon caused a breach in the family which death itself was unable to bridge.
A few vears after their settlement in America the two young men decided to many. In both cases their choice was opposed by the father. After trying in vain to obtain his consent they married against his wishes, and as a result were promptly disinherited. This was not regarded as a serious calamity by either of . the offenders, for they felt sure that in the long run they would inherit their father’s monev. The reason for this confidence was plain. Mr. Simond had no .relatives and he was opposed to leaving money in public hands for founding charitable institutions. He firmhr believed that such a practice encouraged pauperism.
At length Mr. Simond died without becoming reconciled to his sons. Then the unexpected happened. The brothers found that though they themselves could never enjoy their father’s riches their descendants might. , Mr. Simond, with his usual determination, had carried out his threat. He loaned, his entire, fortune to the United States Treasury for a period of ninety-nine years. In his will he requested the Secretary ot the Treasury at the end of the stated period to turn over his wealth to the heirs. He further commanded that these heirs should present themselves on the appointed day at exactly ten o’clock in the morning. In case no claimant appeared the money was to remain with the government. The brothers of course realized that it _ was impossible to break the will... They could not {-hope to force, a
loan especially:when that, government was
falling body drew from the driver a cry of government:to give back a legal joy: “Now, I’ll succeed without murder!” The carriage sped rapidly to a tough, portion
185
badly in need of money. Angered and enraged they turned upon each other. Each one accused the other of being the cause of their misfortune, and as a result of their quarrel the families drifted farther and farther apart. . When after long years the loan was about due, the Secretary of the Treasury, pursuant to the articles of the will, notified the heirs of George Simond. Only one descendant of each brother was living. They were two men of vastly different character. One, Frank Simond, was a poor, honest, hard-working mechanic. The other, Harry Burr, related through his mother, was neither honest nor thrifty. Even those who professed to be his friends hated him in their hearts. It was the money his father had left him and which he was fast squandering that they cared for.	.
When Burr heard that there was but one other heir, and a poor mechanic at that, he determined to obtain the entire legacv by fair means or foul. As the appointed day approached Frank had many narrow and unexplainable escapes from death.. One day the large pulley under which he worked suddenly and without any apparent cause dropped to the ground. Luckily he had just been called to the office; as it was, his bench and tools were scattered in all directions. Another time he found his chisel placed in such a position'against a large dynamo that had he been careless in picking it-up he would have been instantly killed. These things happened too often to be regarded as mere accidents, and Frank’s suspicions were aroused. Finally he had recourse to one of his friends, a well-known detective named Walton. A plan of action was agreed upon, according to which Frank was to" continue his work at the shop and in every way to conduct himself as if he suspected nothing.
The very next evening a message came to Frank purporting to summon him to a very dear friend who had been injured while
riding. A carriage was waiting, and with no
thought of danger he started immediately. Thev had gone but. a'short distance when Frank became drowsy and then fell unconscious upon the floor. The sound of the
186	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of the city and stopped before an old house that seemed deserted. No sooner had the driver, whom we recognize as Harrv Burr, reached the ground than' he was joined by two tough-looking men. Buit gave them hurried instructions, and after seeing his stupefied victim safely guarded within the house he drove away.
In vain did the police search for the missing man. They arrested and questioned Burr, but could not hold him on any legal charge, Burr was- never more active in all his life than he was dui-ing the next- few days: He appeared to make every effort to find his - rival and carried his deception so far as to deceive even the police. No sooner, however, was Burr certain that he was not watched than he took pains to secure his prisoner. There were only two days left and Burr spent these almost entirety with his victim. The last night he stayed until late, and then all excited hurried home to bed in order to get up early. Immediately after sunrise he was again with the prisoner. Confident, now of victory he began to taunt him. First he mocked Frank’s honest life, then his trust in God, and finally, unable to elicit any notice of his insults, he asked how much Frank would take for his share. At last looking at his watch he saw it was half-past nine. He then paid his accomplices, and told them to release the prisoner in about one hour.
Upon leaving the old house Burr hastened to the nearest cab stand and was driven to the Treasurv offices. Along the’ entire route, he felt strangely nervous and two or three times told the driver- :tojgo faster. Fifteen minutes after he had left the'-house, Burr alighted from the cab and eritered-the hallway leading up to the office. Hardly had he entered before he staggered1 back astonished. Coming down the stairs surrounded by a crowd of ' congratulating -friends was Frank \ Simonds Before Burr could speak he heard the-Tfeasu'ry- clock strike eleven.- Amazed he pulled' out his watch and found it still pointed to half-past nine. Then he realized that ?iri/his excitement he had neglected to wind7 his watch the night before and it had runfdown at halfpast inner Unable to'explain-the appearance" of Simbnd-and crazed bv-defeat he hurried back to the deserted ■ Kbuse.- <	.
Here again he was too late. His accomplices had released their charge, but gave Burr a note which the prisoner had left. Burr hurriedly read it, then cursing his luck showed it to the others, It was an advice to leave the country signed by Luke Walton. Burr then realized that the detective had impersonated Simond in order to shield him from danger, and that it was Walton whom' he-had made prisoner. He followed the advice..
Spencer, Sidney -and Greville.
JAMES R. RECORD.
Some three-score and five years after Dante’s death at Ravenna, there lived and worked in London an imitator of-the great Florentine; an imitator indeed in a double sense—in style and in the difficult task of transforming a crude, unpoetic dialect into a language that within a short time nourished the myriad mind of Shakspere; flowed in cadence and rhythm from Milton ; sank into music at the touch of Keats and rose strong and resonant for the eloquent Burke. The germ of poetry thus instilled and faithfully cherished by Geoffrey Chaucer, very unlike that inspired in the Italian by Dante, received but scant nourishment from Chaucer’s immediate successors. Quarrels between the mighty York and equally strong Lancaster'; domestic strife at home, and constant effort to maintain peace abroad allowed Englishmen no time for study or reflection. The love of country superseded the love of books, and it seemed as if Chaucer’s decided efforts toward the formation- of an- English literature had been without1 avail. 5 —
: -An interval brief enough to enable the barons to recuperate their armies and the yeomanry' to-renew their devastated fields, elapsed between the close of the War of the Roses and the outbreak of religious trouble.- We therefore can well understand why no great poetry appeared after Chaucer and before Spencer; war, religion, government occupied learned and unlearned alike. . Indeed -had there arisen in the fifteenth century ;a great 'English;, poet, he: perhaps would have /received little or. no encourage-
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ment. A Milton even would have had a difficult task before him, had he attempted to address in verse those warlike earls and nobles, and ambitious princes.
With Elizabeth, however, came peace and prosperity in the literary world; a reaction from the former dearth of poetry naturally ensued and went to an extreme. Everyone took to composing verses—I dare not term it poetry: the ladies of the court; the virgin queen herself; her courtiers and statesmen; royal favorites clustered about the shrine of the Muses. “War” was the subject of many; “Beauty” inspired still more; “Love” was open to all and eagerly sought bv all. “Phillis’’too had numerous admirers who sang her praises without end. This age produced a large amount of trash; yet one can not deny that many fine bits of poetry resulted from this sudden revival. .
As we noticed before, conditions in England on the accession of Queen Elizabeth favored ^reatlv a - revival of culture, a renewal of learning, an awakening of that true love for poetry so long dormant. Despite the fact, however, that conditions were so favorable, thev alone and unaided could never have provoked the revival. To Italy must we ascribe the cause. The restoration of culture to Western Christians begun bv the monks, assisted bv Dante and fostered at the papal court of Leo X. swept with majestic and hardy strides from Italy through Spain, over Germany, across France to England. Its standard-bearer in the latter country was Edmund Spencer, the imitator of Chaucer. His assistants were principally Sir Philip Sidney and Fulke Greville (Lord Brooke) and connected with the last two are Raleigh and Dyer. *
The custom prevailed about Elizabeth’s court for those writers not of noble birth to attach themselves to noble patrons, by this means securing protection and in many instances financial aid. Thus we see
Spencer dedicating' “Shepherd’s Calendar” to Sir Philip. Sidney^ who not only was of noble extraction in his own right but was furthermore a favored nephew of Lord Leicester’s. Spencer, ''Sidney and Greville were the most famous of the famous circle of poets surrounding Elizabeth’s throne. The writings of Sir .Walter. Raleigh are-scantyf
187	■
and fame in his case rests upon gallantry, romance and adventure. Dyer, who with . -Greville is referred to in Sidney’s lines,	•
Join hearts and hands, so let it be: Make but one mind in bodies three,	, .	"
was more a. man of action and of affairs than of letters. His connection with Sidney and Lord Brooke keeps his memory alive. Spencer is the greatest as well as the oldest of the group;. Sidney easily comes second; and Greville can have no higher claim than .. .	=
third.	.
Sidney introduced Spencer at court, t obtained for him Leicester’s regard and. secured him an appointment in Ireland under Sir Henry Sidney, the poet’s father. . Spencer and Greville were undoubtedly firm friends since Sidney was their mutual com- . panion through life. .	.
The country was especially dear to Spencer who often signed himself with the- rustic name of Colin Clout. Spencer was pleasure- -loving, while Sidney was grave, dignified but outspoken. Elizabeth rejected his counsels on account of his bluntness in speech. We can think of no better illustration of Sidnev’s frankness than his letter of remonstrance . to Elizabeth when a rumor frightened England with the news that the virgin queen would marry the Duke of Alencon. For his daring, Sidney was severely reprimanded and forced to retire from the court in disgrace. .
The poetry of Greville is limited to a . professional audience; it is scarcely known beyond that; yet what other fate could the author expect for verses written “in his, y youth and influenced by familiar exercise with Sir Philip Sidney?” The poems are, however, the efforts of a noble character and deep thinker. Spencer’s works on the contrary are known to all; Sidney’s deserve . to be, but are not. Lord Brooke at bottom. /
had many of the true poet’s gifts; one that he lacked was the Elizabethan charm, . -distinguishable in Spencer’s and Sidney’s compositions.	\
Sir Philip Sidney’s fame relies not entirely bn his merits, however great they may be as a poet: Tie is renowned as a statesman, to whom' many difficult missions were entrusted; history honors him as a general who died a warrior’s, death; romanceand tradition celebrate. him as one of their heroes'. .	. \	’.M: m
188	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Spencer, too, claims distinction—though in no such degree as Sidnev—as a soldier. Both Spencer and Sidney were unfortunate in their earlv love affairs, and though we have no definite account, we can with reason assume that Greville too had some “Rosalind” or “Stella” to provoke amorous sonnets. It is fortunate for us, however, that Greville’s ardor was not of such a type as to make the series, if a series ever existed, worthy of preservation.
Sidney’s poems, like Greville’s, were the work of a voung man, for he died when but thirty-two. Everyone is familiar with the legend connected with Sidnev’s death on the battlefield, the legend of the cup of water and wounded soldier. Spencer died several years later, broken in health, despondent, ruined in fortune, but nevertheless lamented by England. Greville survived’ his friends for a number of years.
' Spencer enjoys as much fame now as ever; Sidney, however, dating from the time of Milton’s rebuke to Charles I. (who solaced his prison hours with the “Arcadia”) has declined in popular, estimation. Spencer was a man fond of pleasure, capable of great efforts, illustrious; Sidney’s was a noble character, straightforward, Christian-like; Greville was equally noble, firm in friendship and much given to deep thought.
The Poetry of Burns.
MICHAEL J. SHEA, ’04.
As a song writer - Burns is far superior to all other English poets. His poetry7 is comparable with’ the productions of any English writer, and is the best that English literature can . boast of in the lyrical field. Unlike many others he chose no. lofty or heroic theme on which to expend' his genius, but wrote about the natural everyday? happenings of his own life. The subjectmatter of the majority, of his poems was taken from his own experience. As he himselt declares, he sang of “the sentiments and manners he felt and saw in himself and his i^stic competys about lum?’ '
_ dUs'-'songs, which 'have' gained ' for him a . ^uftyTand 'supreme' place Tin English literature, were written, not merely as lyrics,
but to be sung with musical setting. The old Scottish airs to which they are set had been crooned into Burns’ ear in his babyhood, and he had heard them sung again and again throughout his youth. He set down the words as he remembered them, added and retouched them,—in some cases rejected the old words and composed a new song of his own to be set to the old Scotch tune. A' fact that may account for the superexcellence of the songs over the rest of Burns’ poetry is that he gave his whole heart and soul to their composition, and was so enthusiastic over the revival of old Scottish songs that he refused even the slightest remuneration for his contributions. Hence one writer calls them “Burns’ free gift to the world.”
Burns’ poetry is above all’ simple and unaffected. He wrote not for a few but for all. His themes appeal to all alike, and are appreciated by every reader because they bear witness to the sincerity of the writer and his sympathy for man, animal, and even the flowers of the field. In • literary history’ Burns serves as the turning-point between the artificial age of Pope and the natural, more poetic period of Wordsworth, Shelley’' and their fellow writers. The qualities which characterize Bums’ poetry are not found united in any previous writer, and. ..are almost . directly7 opposite to the prevalent tone of the preceding literary epoch. The sentiment in his poems is genuine and intense, and does not degenerate into mere sentimentality. He is the poet of love, true and sincere, as may be seen in the following four lines which Scott said contained the “essence of a thousand love tales.”
- Had wc never lov’d sae kindly, . . Had we never lov’d sae blindly,
Never met—or never parted, We had ne’er been broken-hearted.
Although Bums is first of all the poet of love, yet there is in his poetry7 another element, perhaps more interesting in that it is the predominant and distinctive note of the period. This quality—an interest in nature—was introduced by7 Burns and is displayed in many of his best poems. This element in his poetry is interesting and attractive, not alone because it belongs to a new kind of poetry, .but because it comes from a heart of undoubted sinceritv and sympathetic love for every created being.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
His tenderness toward flowers is evinced in his exquisite poem “To a Mountain Daisy,” and his kindness toward the brute creation in his lines “To a Mouse” whose nest he had overturned while ploughing. This attitude toward nature is displayed in the following lines from his poem “To a Mouse,” addressed in a sympathetic or, rather, apologetic tone to the “Wee sleekit, cow’rin, tim’rous beastie”:	r
I’m truly sorry man’s dominion Has broken Nature’s social union, An’ justifies that ill opinion
Which 'makes thee startle
At me, thy poor earth-born companion An’ fellow mortal!
Yet he never allows this interest in nature to supersede or overshadow human interest. In the poem, “The banks an’ braes o’ bonnie Doon,” we do not read of the “bonnie Doon,” but listen to the plaintive lament of a young maiden for her lover. The blooming wild flowers and the gav song-
O	0*0
birds distract her saddened heart:
Ye banks and braes o’ bonnie Doon, . How can ye bloom sae fresh an’ fair?
How can ye chant, ye little birds. An’ I sae weary, fu’ of care 1
Thou’ll break my heart, thou warbling bird, • That wantons thro’ the flowering thorn; Thou minds me o’ departed joys—
Departed never to return.
Burns was a true Scot, and patriotism is the motive of some of his best productions. Like all his countrymen he was filled with enthusiasm by reading of the brave deeds of Bruce and the early patriots, and from this source he often drew the theme of his song. The proud, democratic spirit that declared “A man’s a man for a’ that,” was animated by a strong and intense love ot country. His national anthem rings forth like a trumpet-call and stirs the blood of every true patriot. Who would not be roused by such lines as these:
Wha will be a traitor knave?
Wha can fill a coward’s grave ?	.
•	Wha sae base as be a slave?
Let him turn and flee!
Wha, for Scotland’s king and law, Freedom’s sword will strongly draw, Freeman stand, or freeman fa’.
Let him on wi’ me!	.
Of this lyric Carlyle said: “So long as there is warm blood in the heart of Scotchmen, or man, it will move in fierce thrills under this war ode.”
189
Burns took a deep interest in all the questions of the day, and expressed his convictions firmly and fearlessly. He defended the people, and inveighed bitterly against the oppressive, unjust actions of the nobility.. Great titles and lordly pomp were hateful to him, a fact shown bv the following lines:
Princes and lords are but the breatlWof kings;
“An honest man’s the noblest work of God.”
This democratic spirit must have been natural to Burns, for he was bom and brought up in lowly circumstances and passed the greatest portion of his life in poverty. Honest poverty he considered not a drawback but a benefit and blessing. Hence in “The Cotter’s Saturday Night”— a beautiful picture of his own father’s household—he prays for Scotland’s
sons of rustic toil that
Heaven may their simple lives prevent _ From luxury’s contagion weak and vile.
It is this characteristic of Bums that led one of his critics to declare that “ Bums is by far the greatest poet that ever sprang from the bosom of the people and lived and died in an humble condition.” This same fact may perhaps explain the profligate actions of the latter part of his life. His actions were such as could not escape censure; but on the other hand, when the circumstances and surrounding conditions of his life are known, it is wonderful that he could do as much as he did. Nathaniel Hawthorne, after visiting Scotland, considered it a marvel that Bums could have preserved his genius under such adverse circumstances. He was horrified at the appearance of Bums’ farm at Mossgiel, and said: “Itis sad to think of anyone—not to say a poet, but any human being—sleeping, eating, thinking, praying and spending all his home life in this miserable ’ hovel.” Hawthorne could not account for the fact that Bums was not a worse man with such “squalid hindrances” to his moral and intellectual development. On Dean Swift’s tombstone is inscribed in Latin an epitatfi composed by himself,—
UBI SAEVA INDIGXATIO ULTERTUS COR .
LACERARE NEOUIT—
which might fittingly be writen over Bums’ grave. Let us in our admiration of his work pass over his errors with sympathy and indulgence. -	...	.
190	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame Scholastic
Published every Saturday during Term Time at the University of Notre Dame.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana. .
Notre Dame, Indiana, December 3, 1904.
Board of Editors.
THOMAS D. LYONS, ’04.	-
MICHAEL J. SHEA, '04 JOHN M. QUINLAN, ’04
STEPHEN F. RIORDAN, ’04 CHAS. L. O’DONNELL, ’06 . .	HENRY M. KEMPER, ’05
JOHN F. SHEA, ’06	EUGENE P. BURKE. ’06
ROBERT R. CLARKE, L. ’06	WILLIAM A. BOLGER, ’07
—Last Thursday, at St. Louis, marked the close of one of the most successful and gigantic undertakings in the history of the World’s Fair building. In point of elaborate expenditure and architectural magnificence the Louisiana Purchase Exposition sur- . passed anything ever before attempted in that line of effort. The World’s Fair -at Chicago, in 1893, precipitated a financial . pianic which made itself felt .throughout the . United States, and stunted for years the wonderful, growth of the Metropolis of the West. Paris has not yet fully recovered from the staggering blow dealt to its permanence by the Fair of 1900. The PanAmerican Exposition at Buffalo, was a. disappointment and a failure. All precedent and all previous experience notwithstanding, with hope and confidence the management of the Louisiana Purchase Exposition set out to make a success of their well-laid plans. The result has justified their expectations. “They builded better than they knew.” For months before the formal opening, which' took place last May, the ., grounds on which was to stand this monument of modern achievement, were the scene . of ceaseless : activity. . What: has come, of, this planning and this labor is too evident
to. be here considered. But the end is not yet. Though the Fair has proved beyond a doubt a financial and constructive success, it remains to be seen what ultimate benefit this “boom-town” property has done the city of St. Louis.
—Now that the question for the intercollegiate debate, has been fixed on, some remarks on the subject of interest in debating work may be timely. In the first place, evervbodv at this Universitv who is able to debate ought to try for the team; and, secondlv, all ought to be able to debate. All can not make the team, it is true, but even those who fail are much to the good bv reason of the work they have done and the experience they have had; besides, those who are unsuccessful directly and indirectly help those who win out; hence the former are serving their college as truly as the latter, while the profit to themselves is not diminished, unless their failure is due to lack of effort. Furthermore, since debating at this institution is not an accidental happening but an established and constant part of the college course, and since there will be intercollegiate debates four years from now as well as next session, then this vear’s impossible beginner may eventual^ work up to a place on the team; this, however, is not. the real good of this long striving,— he .has been attaining his end; he has been gettingthat good all along. To have striven is what gives value to success, just as it takes defeat out of failure. This year particularly, there should be a long list of entries, in the preliminaries—the worth of the three finallv chosen can, we believe, be gauged, by the number and earnestness of the contestants. It ought to _be the purpose, then, of every eligible student to make the team as good as possible, either by getting on himself, or by giving others the help they will surely get from his trying to do so.

—An undue amount of discussion has arisen from a statement made bv Sir Edward Clarke a few days ago at a Thanksgiving Day banquet. That . gentleman jocosely referred to. the liberty we .take in; applying the . name America to ..the United . .States
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
only, regardless of other countries on this , hemisphere. Sir Edward’s criticism was immediately placed before the public through the medium of the newspaper. A defense on our part is entirely unnecessary, for no subject of the British crown, whether he resides in England or in Canada, desires to be called an American. The Dominion has never questioned our claim to the title. The inhabitants of Mexico and of South America refer to us as the American people. Nor have they displayed any intention of disputing our exclusive use of the name America.	-.
In passing we might mention a. few facts about the history of that name. As everyone knows, it is an instance of’ the irony of fate that this country derived its name from a Florentine, Amerigo. Vespucci, a man of some literary ability, but never a. discoverer, who came to this countrv after Columbus’ discovery seeking riches. Articles . written by him led a German / geographer . to believe • that it was he who. first found • the land. Accordinglv he suggested that the newly-found land be called America. This intimation was readily adopted. Thus it happened that the Western Continent was christened America, a name that? is cherished by the citizens of the United States, and one after which our national._ hymn, “America,” was called. Yet, though we love the name, we can not constitu-. tionally claim it as our own, for we are legally the United States of “America.”; The appellation, America, probably . arose from the fact that the United States have always occupied the most prominent place among the nations of the New World. We are entirely satisfied with our legal title, but we do not resent being called Americans.
A Royal Singer—A Poet King.
The fifteenth century was, on the'whole, a barren one for literary activity in England. Indeed it was not until the dawn of the seventeenth century that any poet flourished whose name could be placed7 in a line with Chaucer’s on the scale of literary excellence. His works had hosts of imitators, but they all -lacked the inspired genius . which makes the-great poet, their lines being for the most
part mere mechanical make-shifts, lacking, the subtle touch and vividness which gained' for Chaucer the title, “Poet of Laughter, and Tears.”	. .
Among the professed disciples of ; Chaucer one of the first, and perhaps the best, was -James I., the unfortunate king of Scotland.' This romantic Scottish prince was . born at Dunfermline in 1394. At that time the intrigues of jealous princes kept the kingdom ’ . in a turmoil; so in order to save him from the cruel.hands of his ambitious uncle, the' Duke of Albany, it was decided to send the child to the court of Charles V. of France.
The vessel in which he' sailed- was' seized 'while off the, English coast, and the young prince, then eleven years of age, was forcibly detained by Henry IV. of England. This political captivity lasted for nineteen years. Henry, however, furnished the prisoner with liberal means of instruction, and as a result" he became well-grounded in the English classics and in the science of his day. He was endowed with the finest natural gifts,-and during his enforced sojourn’ in' England' he made the most, of all the opportunities that were presented to.him. In the leaming: and social accomplishments:which.abounded at Henry’s court, the young prince^became an adept. He took, a prominent part .in. .all knightly and . athletic contests; and’it is-recorded of' him that “he"was:weell leernit^ to Techt with the swerd, to joust, to tour-- • nay, to worsil, to sing rand to dance.” : As a. musician; he gained great repute, . and . so -well did:he perform uponthe harp that the. : musical critics of the time compared him. . with: the legendary Orpheus. w .
It was while a prisoner in the tower; of. Windsor that James produced., theKing’s. -Quhair,” his best and longest poem.;:.The : “King’s Quhair,” which means King’s Book, . is written ; in -Chaucer’s seven-lined ; stanza called, the “ rime roval from ■ its use ..bv. James. The work is composed . oft about -two hundred stanzas, and was first printed' in 1817 from the only existing manuscript which is still preserved: in the Bodleian Library at Oxford. .The poem tells how on . a lovely spring morning the poet looks from his prison window into : the . castle . ‘ garden full of ; shady '.alleys,, hawthorn; hedges and r attractive arbors .set Lwithy^-ic. ,
The sharpe greene sweete juriiperJW:v.i *4^^ .
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
into a. song of English. itongue . and at the
192
He was listening to the sone; of the “little sweete nightingale”—the song consecrated to lovers—when, casting his .eves down he beheld a lady of rapturous beauty, and at once his heart was filled with an absorbing love. The incident is precisely like Palamon’s first sight of Emilv in Chaucer’s “Knight’s Tale,” and in the same words of Palamon, the poet addresses his ' lady,	-	,
Oh, sweet, are ye a worldly creature Or heavenlytliing in the likeness of nature? Or are ye very nature the goddess
That have depainted with your heavenly hand This garden full of flowers as they stand?
Then after an allegorical vision, according* to the reigning taste, the royal prisoner is transported in turn to the courts of Venus, Minerva and Fortune. He wins their favor and receives instructions in the duties of a lover. After the interviews he is. awakened from his sleep b\’ a white turtledove sent by Venus to encourage him in his. suit. .His heart is filled with happiness by this good omen, and he . breaks forth
thanksgiving which ends-, the poem...- , -
The “King’s Ouhair” is somewhat overladen with ornament and with the popular allegorical devices of the time, while here and there many burdensome repetitions are indulged in. Nevertheless, it is, on the whole, a sweet and tender love song. There is a refinement and an exquisite delicacy pervading it, banishing every gross or impure thought and presenting female loveliness clothed in all its chivalric qualities. The lady who walked in the garden on that spring morning was Jane Beaufort, a niece of Henry IV. She was wedded to the poet after his release from captivity and became queen, of Scotland in 1424. Their married life, however, did not last long; Twelve years after leaving England. James was assassinated by Sir Roger Graham, and his Scotch ■Highlanders who were opposed to . the vigorous reforms instituted by .the king. His faithful wife was wounded while, trying to defend him. Thus the’whole life of. this royal singer was, like his poem, a romance. ■ In estimating the value of James’ work we should not forget that, as. Washington Irving said, “he was schooled in adversity and reared in the company of. his own thoughts.”
Although we can not assert for the roval bard any originality either in his conceptions or the style ol his poem—for it is apparent that Chaucer had furnished him with the inspiration and given him a model to follow,—still we must bear in mind that out of the host of imitators he produced by far the best imitation.’ It is refreshing to note the candor with which he acknowledges his indebtedness to Gower and Chaucer in the concluding stanza of the Ouhair:
Maisters dear
Gower and Chaucer that on the steppes sate Of rhetorick while they were livand here, Superlative as poets laureate,
_ In morality and eloquence ornate, I recommend my book in lines seven And eke their souls unto the bliss of heaven.
The effect of James’ imitation of Chaucer was to fix a new standard 6f literary taste and to popularize the use of the East-Midland English in which he and his disciples had-written. ..The poems.of James I., Lydgate . and Occleve, helped. to. refine. and polish the same time to
.prolong the..Chaucerian traditions among the later poets.. It is certain that after the time of James. I. and his contemporaries, the English language never slipped back into the chaos.of dialects that had prevailed before Chaucer’s time.	.
The plain, unadorned and semi-prosaic style of the metrical romance and rhyming chronicle began to give place, to a delicacy and refinement of imaginative feeling, a richness and elegance of style and an artistic harmony of verse hitherto unknown among English poets.
The poetical work of James also exerted a powerful influence on succeeding Scottish poets.. Chaucer, was almost unknown among his literary contemporaries of the upper country, but after the “Ouhair” had been written his influence and traces of his style might be noted in the productions of/many < Scotch writers. Thus it seems as if fortune had decreed that James should be the medium through which the style and spirit of the polished English school was to be transplanted^ to the j cruder literature of his native land, .so that - every Scotch poet after, his time either sought or unconsciously got some inspiration from, the great English master.; . .	: .	. .	..	J.~F. Shea.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Athletic Notes.
Now that Purdue’s riafht to the title of State Champions has been established without a doubt, our athletes will lay aside their moleskins and prepare for the battles which will take place on the diamond and track. Track prospects are very poor, and we will hardly be in a position to contest Purdue’s claim for the honors; but Capt. O’Connor has very fair prospects for a winning team, and may possibly issue a call for candidates before the Christmas vacation. Our infield has but one vacant place, but there ought to be a warm fight for the honor of filling the positions held by Salmon, Stephan, Kanaley, and the others who have not returned to school.
AC AC	'
Now that the excitement, the triumphs and the disappointments of the football season are a thing of the past the students at Notre Dame are preparing for a season of indoor sports. Basket-ball has always been popular at Notre Dame, and present indications seems to predict that this winter will be no exception to the general rule. Manager Dalv has not decided whether to have a Varsity five or not, but the Inter-hall contests usually bring out enough excitement to suit the most exacting rooter. Corby Hall has the largest number of veteran players, as besides the men who made up last vear’s team several stars from Brownson who are in Corby have signified their intention of trving for the Hall team. Sorin and Brownson have several good men who should form the nucleus of fast teams. If the men of the different halls wish to make this winter’s league as successful as the ones of past years they should organize at once, elect captains and managers so that they will not be hampered by lack of-time after the Christmas holidays.
' ■ ’ & & ■ - **
Besides basket-ball there is some talk of bringing indoor baseball . into prominence again. This sport, while very popular , some years ago, was forced to one side by polo, basket-ball and other winter games, but the past year has served to restore a great peal of its lost popularity. Notre Dame is
*93
fortunate in possessing excellent facilities for indoor baseball, and if the plans nowbeing formed are successful, the long, dreary days of winter will be greatly enlivened.
' * * * ■ , .
. Although the time for actual playing- is still a thing of the distant future the magnates of the famous “Big Four” Baseball League are hard at work preparing for what they confidently expect will be the banner year of the league. Manager Lantry of the “Rag Tails” is busy looking up new material to fill the places. made vacant by the players who have left him for the National, American and" K. I. T. Leagues. Captain Uhrick has not signed his contract yet, but both he and Rush are expected to be on hand when the team leaves for its spring training trip to Haneyvill. : Ben Reisner will have full control of the Champion “Rudy Jay” team, and he reports that he has signed a number of promising players, and expects to have no trouble in retaining the championship. Nothing has been heard from the “Ping Pongs” or the “Dolittles,” but there are any number of applications for the franchises. “Judge ” Church, from the East, -wishes to get his “Kiawa Tossers” into the race, as do several other influential men of Notre Dame. The Ban Johnson of the league, Mf. O’Reehey, who was also its press agent, wall not be in charge of affairs this season as he accepted a position as chief consoler to the “Mud-Hens” of Toledo where by his great knowledge of baseball, Gaelic and other things, he is expected to help Toledo -win at least One game a months His successor has not been selected as yet. Full details of the first business meeting wall be given as soon as possible.
* *
President Voigt of the Tennis Association has practically completed the details of the tennis tournament between Purdue and Notre Dame, -which will take place at Notre Dame shortly before the holidays. Notre Dame is fortunate in having a large number of good players . to defend its honor. Although no teams have been entered in the Intercollegiate or State contests,, if the proposed tournament is successful it will mean that Notre Dame will have representatives at Lafayette next spring. Football
194	NOTRE- DAME .SCHOLASTIC.
and other things have interfered with the practice oi some of the men, but now all are working faithfully to be in shape for the, contest when it comes off.
No sooner were the last of the worries of the football season over than Manager Daly plunged into the task of arranging his track and baseball schedules. The class bf games which have been secured since Mr. Daly took control of athletics at Notre Dame is a sufficient guarantee that the members of the Varsity of 1905 will have ample opportunities to win further honors for Notre Dame and themselves. Captain O’Connor has decided that there will be no call for candidates until after the holidays, but then the aspiring ball-tossers will have plenty df chances to show their mettle-
. * «
Coach Holland expects all the candidates for the track team to report as soon as school opens in January. There has been • a decided slump in track athletics at Notre Dame during the past two years, and prospects do not look any too bright for the coming season. But - Coach Holland is a man whose reputation for .developing “green” men is not merely local, and .if the men who. can do anything at all in track or field work, will report to him and follow his instructions to the letter, they can be certain that if there is any talent at all in them it will be brought to the front. This is the only way we can hope to regain our past honors, for a squad of six or seven men would, but serve to make more prominent the lack of spirit and loyalty of the students.	..
* * - The football season which ended on Thanksgiving Day proved to be one of the most successful the students of Carroll Hall have had-in many a day. Although the members of the different teams were smaller than in years past and were unable . to take part in the Inter - Hall series, still the contests for the supremacy of the hall and- with outside elevens -were close and interesting And brought to light an unusual number of young players of marked ability. The . question of the Hall championship remains in .^.dispute, .as - Heyl’s; men, who
claimed the right to the title, were tied after a hard fight bv B. Vital’s “Wonders.” These two teams were made up of the largest bovs in the hall,, and it was from them that the team which played Benton Harbor was chosen. Mahoney, Heyl, Kelly, Diersson, Rowan and Clarke, are boys who will be heard from on future Varsity teams. The crowning event of the year for the lighter teams was their game in Chicago which was won by Carroll Hall. Symonds, Beers and Tillit are. the men who will be looked upon as leaders next year and their playing this season . promises future successes for Carroll. Then came the ex-Minims. These little fellows surprised the whole school by their vim, dash and general knowledge of football. Besides completely snowing under the Minims, they defeated every team that had the temerity to line up against them. Eddie Connolly was the star performer in all the games, but Symonds, Roberts, O’Connor and the others deserve credit for their share of the work. '	.
'	*	•Sr
* *
The “ All-Indiana ” eleven, as selected by several of the leading papers of the state, is as follows : — Wellinghoff (Purdue), centre; Beacom (N. D.) and Coval (De P.), guards; Allen (P.) and Emis (P.), tackles; Shaughnessy (N. D.) and Shank (Wabash), -ends; Hall (Indiana), quarter-back; Clarke (Indiana) and Thomas (Purdue), half-backs; Krull (Purdue), fall-back. All the papers give praise to Silver and Draper, the latter being the acknowledged man for full-back, but his absence from the final game at Purdue being counted against him.
- •» " * *
The Faculty Board of control has awarded monograms to Shaughnessy, Fansler, .Funk, McNemy, Sheehan, Beacom, Healey, Coad, Donovan, Murphy, Silver, Guthrie, Church, Draper, Waldorf and Bracken.
■ ~ ■ . - * ■ ■ • - - -
The annual football banquet was tendered the members of the Varsity Wednesday at the Oliver, and as is usual with such affairs the evening was spent talking,over the incidents of the past season. Manager Daly- presided, and .toasts were responded to by Coach Salmon, Captain Shaughnessy, Mr.; McWeeney, Beacom, and Silver. Late

NO TRE DAME SCHOLA STIC.	195
in the evening the election for captain of the . 1905 team- was held, arid resulted in the election of P. A. Beacom, the giant guard of the past two years, and. Nat Silver as alternate. The choice of the Varsity meets with the approval of the entire student body, who firmly believe that their idol, “Pat,” will lead the team .back into its proper place in the football world. Beacom has been on the Varsitv during the past two years, and the record he has made for himself has been remarkable. When he first reported for practice he .was big, strong and willing, but lacking in knowledge
O	O’	o	o
of even the rudiments of the game. A vear on the second team and his untiring energv has made him into a lineman second to none in this part of the country. Besides his ability as a player, he is quiet and unassuming, and his election is mark of his power of making and keeping friends. In congratulating the new captain the Scholastic feels safe in saying that if given the proper support Beacom will- do all that is expected of him—and that is saying a great deal.
O	„	~	.
The official football picture was taken Thursday. A copy will appear in the Christmas Scholastic. .	'
One of the pleasantest features of the trip to Lafayette was the “Football Hop,” given by the Lafayette Council, K. of C., in honor of the Notre Dame eleven. The. hall was tastefully decorated by the colors of Notre Dame and Purdue, and refreshments were served during the evening. The team attended in a body, and all wish to express their appreciation for the many courtesies extended them by Grand Knight Otiinn and the other members of the Knights of Columbus.
Trainer Holland is enjoying a much-needed rest after his troubles of the past season. The lack of material and the necessity of playing certain men when they should have been on the side-lines was .too much for all the skill “Tom” or any other trainer possesses. With circumstances anyway near equal “Tom” will have his men in as good condition as any man in the West, as the condition of last year’s team proves.
.	.	. Robert R. Clarke.
Personals. .
—The friends of Edward Hammer, student ’02—’04, will be pleased to learn that he has successfully passed the Civil Service examinations and is now filling the responsible position of tenement house inspector in New York Citv.
—It is very gratifying to chronicle the marked success of Tom Jones, a commercial graduate of last vear. Since leaving the University Tom has been holding the office of cashier in one of the leading banks in Anderson Ind. The host of friends which he made here as a student wish, that. this bright promise may be fulfilled. .
—Again we hear of the remarkable success of the men. who completed their studies under Colonel Hoynes. This time the news is from' Mr. George A. McGee, LL. B. ’01, who was elected State Attornev of Ward Co., N. D., in the recent elections. As a student George distinguished himself by his earnest application and serious study, and wre feel safe in predicting for him an even brighter future.
—Cards are out announcing the wedding of Mr. Oscar Garza of Saltillo, Mexico, and Miss Angela Amaya, which took place on Oct. 29, at the Cathedral of Monterey. Mr. Garza is pleasantly remembered here at Notre Dame having paid us visits a number of times while his two brothers were students. The Scholastic desires to join the Facultv and students in extending him their best wishes on this happy occasion.
—Word .reaches us from Helena, Montana, * of the recent election of Mr. Albert J. Galen, LL. B. ’97, to the office of attorney general of that state. Mr. Galen was elected by . the largest plurality given any candidate on the state ticket, leading by 2000 votes. Very seldom do men reach such a high office as this so soon after their graduation.' We congratulate Mr. Galen on the great honor he has received from the people of his state and we are confident that he will perform the duties of his office with that same integrity that marked his work at Notre Dame.
—Visitors’ registry for the week:—Mr.-M. Devine, Mr. John Van Dyke, A. M. Brennan, Mrs. P. Brown, Chicago, Ill.; Mr. and Mrs. R. C. and Air. R. R. Reinewald, Fort Wavne, Ind.; Air. Frank Keenan, Philadelphia, Pa.; * Miss Pearl Wininger and Air. J. A. Bon, Plymouth, Ind.; Air. Charles A'larble, Battle Creek, Alich.; Air. and Airs. C. Horace Kiracofe, Huntington; Indi; Mrs. N.D. Gray, Baltimore, Aid.; Dr. W. J. Alathews, Austin, Texas; Air. Clarence Wvant, Niles, Alich.; W. J. Ryan, A. Waisemen, E.AI. Rentenbach, Hancock, Mich.; W; H. Curtice,- Eminence, Ky.; ..Miss. Octa Hickock, Sandwich, Ill.
196
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Local Items.
—A gold watch was found bv Bro. Alphonsus. The owner may obtain the same by identifying property.	.
. —On account of the size of the Christmas number the issue of the Scholastic for December 10 will be omitted.
—Barnum O’Neil’s famous one-ring hippodrome gave an exhibition last Sundav afternoon in the vacant lot back of Sorin. The culminating feature of this brilliant exhibition was the bare-back riding of Alademoiselle Silver on the ferocious E quus Latinus.
—A prominent member of the ’06.class, has recently tried to outdo Whitcomb Riley in the production of love lyrics. His latest effusion, a sonnet to AI. B., is replete with feeling and noble thought. It tells with exquisite sadness the story of an unrequited love, and places the author in the gallery of the world’s immortal lovers.
—Prof. Edwards, honorary President of the Ohio State Club, tendered the members of that association a delightful smoker in the Brownson gym last Saturday evening. Alusic and dancing were enjoyed until the clouds of fragrant smoke rendered it impossible for the dancers to find their way. Speeches were made by prominent members of the club expressing their gratitude to the host for his delightful reception. Refreshments were served, and after a few more - dances the party broke up, the guests wending their way homeward, weary with the pleasures of a most enjoyable evening. Each guest was presented with a unique pipe as a memento of the occasion.
—The weeklv meeting of the Browning Club was held last Saturday evening at the club’s headquarters. The poem “ Porcelsus ” was read and analyzed before a critical audience who heartily approved of the position taken by the physiocrates in their demands for a high tariff. The club was entertained with another paper by President Robinson, entitled “A Critical Age.” After the literary program was finished the club adjourned to partake of a luncheon provided by the exigencies; of the occasion. The following menu was served:	.
■	'	Cider—de la jug ,	...
.	ice-cream—with spoons Fudge
.	Cake—in. spong£	Apples—unpeeled	-
-	Cigars Matches	.
Eau—de pump.	‘	-
—A strenuous game was recently,invented in Sorin to relieve . the monotony. of the situation. It is a modification of nosey poker and football, but it has also a, few striking- features of its own. Mr. Louis Wagner, from across. the; road, evinced a
desire to take part in the festivities, but retired after the first round with a badly damaged head-gear. Mr. O’Gorman was official umpire, and when in doubt as to the decision he always penalized Coontz. At the most interesting part of the game the referee entered on the scene and stopped the contest on account of darkness. When the points were counted it was found that Opfergelt was the winner, he having no hat and three bumps to his credit. The entire company then adjourned to the piano, and gave an artistic rendition of “Big Chief” in the key of Baa flat.
—The St. Edward’s Hall Athletic Association organized last Thursdav for the scholastic year. The . meeting was well attended, and the enthusiasm shown speaks well for the future success of the different teams. The meeting was called to order by Professor Reno after which the balloting for the officers of the association took place. The following officers were elected: President, Joseph Brennan; Vice-President, J. Prada; Secretary, Francis Shick; Treasurer, James Woods. Besides the election of officers a committee on Track Athletics was chosen. The committee is composed of J. Brennan chairman, John Cavanaugh, B. Roe and J. Prada. The duties of this committee will be to arrange for and cany out an indoor meet to be held in the gvm some time in March. The meeting was held in strict accordance with Reed’s Parliamentary Rules, as will all future meetings of the association. Before adjourning it was decided to hold the next meeting on Dec. S, when committees on handball and basket-ball will be ehosen.
—Owing to the large number of entries for the Breen Oratorical medal it was necessary * to hold a preliminary contest in order to reduce the contestants to a smaller number. This contest was held in Washington Hall last Wednesdav afternoon, eleven men competing. From the eleven speakers four were chosen to compete in the finals which will come off on December 7. The lucky four and the order in which they stood were Jamieson, 1st; Malloy, 2d; Gavin, 3d; Fahey, 4th.
The eleven men who competed, together with their subjects, follow in the order given: Wm. Robinson, “Samuel Adams;” Edward Kinney, “A Vital Problem; ” Edward O’Flynn, “The Labor Problem;” Bernard Fahey, “Alary Queen of Scots;” George McFadden, “Hamilton the Builder;” James Corbett, “ Pope Leo XIII.; ” Patrick Alalloy, “Henry Clay;” John McGinn, “Power of the Papacy;” Wm. Jamieson, “A Becket;” S. A. Gavin, “Martyr of Alolakai; ” Thomas Welch, “Abraham Lincoln.”
The Judges were Fathers Fitte and Schumacher, and Professor Ewing, Hoynes and Karr. .	..