R\S 

3 I MARCH 2005 
NEWS 04 
SERVING THE UNDERSERVED Dave Poel/ Notre Dame's Haiti Program helps battle lymphatic filariasis in the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere. 
CAMPUS LIFE t6 

LEAD-ING BY EXAMPLE Mike Laskey 
Scholastic profiles a mentoring organization that seeks to instill middle school students with leadership skills vital to their futures. 
Scholastic's annual parody sacred, not even the camp 
ENTERTAINMENT 26 
AMERICAN IDOL,THE IRISHWAY Sarah Barrett 
Notre Dame puts its singing sensations to the test to 
determine the next Irish Idol. 

SPORTS -34 

A PROGRAM BACK IN FULL SWING Chris Meskill 
The author covers the recent coaching change in Notre Dame's golf program. 

HUMOR 38 

LUMBERJACKIE Erik Powers 
Notre Dame du Lac ... a perfect town? Poobah! 

From the Editor . . . . . . . . 2 Spring Fashion . . . . . . . . 12 Staff Editorial . . . . . . . . . 4 Campus Watch . . . . . . . 29 ND Notebook ........ 5 Scholastic Interview . . . . . 40 
SCHOLASTICMAGAZINE 

-/ 
. --------------~ -~ --------•------. 
look for ISSUE 12 on APRIL21·  Starting from Scratch, but Relying on a Time-Honored Scholastic Tradition It's time once again for the annual revival ofNotre Dame's most time-honored and noteworthy tradition. No, I'm not speaking of Rally in the Alley, nor am I referring to a Saturday football game against the Michigan Wolverines. With this installment of Scholastic, the staff of the magazine once again presents you with Sarcastic, our annual satirical.issue. Asthe newly established editor in chief, I realized I needed to pull myweight, so I tried in earnest to contribute to the numerous parodies ofNotre Dame life found within the pages ofSarcastic. Alas, allideas were turned down· by the staff. I had a great joke, I swear. You decide its worth: "How do you make a tissue dance?" "Put a little boogie into it!" I don't understand why, but the staff was not amused. So I got their suggestions instead. What they came up with was not printable anywhere in the magazine. As a last ditch effort, I turned to the outgoing seniors of the Scholastic Staff. The result? As always; pure genius. To the seniors: Your hard work and dedication have made this issue, and all others this year, possible. Good luck in your future endeavors; I am positive you will bring the same vigor and excitement to your careers (or to changing the channel ofyour parents' TV) that you always brought to Scholastic.  Vol, 146, No. 11 • MAR 31 2005 SCHOLaSTIC Editor In Chief Mo Ertel Managing Editor Lauren Wilcox Executive Editor Christopher Meskill Executive Copy Editor Doug Schlarman Executive Design Editor Davld·Redenbaugh News Dave Poell, editor Daric Snyder, assistant Arts and Entertainment Claire Sobczak, editor Mike Laske)\ assistant Sports Nicole Domer, editor Michael Kim, assistant Humor Erik Powers, editor Design Nick Abrams, assistant Nell Ryan, assistant Amy Meyers .Jana Stewart Julie Ruffin Photography Brenna Mannion, editor Phil Hai~ assistant Krisdn Keve, assistant Distribution Bryan Lowery Advisor Robert Franken '69 COVER DESIGN NICK ABRAMS  
Bye for now, Borginson ...  


Each issue that the Scholastic Staff has turned out to the waiting reading public has been done so under the co-greatness of Mike Borgia and Annie Robinson, our previous co-editors in chief. Your invaluable leadership and indomitable spirits have made Scholastic into what itis today. As 5 a.m. rings in at the Scholastic office in the basement ofSouth Dining Hall, your presence is truly missed. An­nie: Remember to never have children. Both they and you will appreciate the decision in the long run. And Borgia: Someday, you will be able to mimic the Euro-trash fashion ofyour thesis advisor. Just read "The Invisible Man" a few more times; you're almost there. Scholastic thanks you both from the bottom of its little heart. 
h~# 
Mo Ertel Editor in Chief 
2 SCH0LASTICFROMTHE EDITOR 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 
Published0 blweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN 46556.The endre contents of Scholastic Magazine is copyright 2005 University of Notre Dame, All rights reserved, No contents of this magazine, either In whole or In part, may be reproduced In any manner without written consent of the publlsher:Be my lobster. Scholastic Magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material.All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic Magazine, Lafortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556.To be published In the next Issue, letters must be received by 5:0!1_ p.m. Monday before the Issue, Delicious chocolate covered babies.All letters must include the writer's name, address and phone number.Ail letters must be signed. Names will 
·be withheld upon request in certain instances. Scholastic reserves 
the right to edit ietters for space. Requests for corrections made 
more than 21 days after publication cannot be guaranteed.The 
subscription rate is $35 per year.Available back issues are $2.50 
per copy; please specify volume and number, or date, Copies of the 
annual football review are available at $5 per copy.Advertising rates 
available on request. The opinions expressed In Scholastic Magazine .are not necessarlly those of the University of Notre Dame or the 
student body. ' 
31 MARCH 2005 



Lifetime service opportunities with multinational organization for graduating s~niors. 

ANSWER~ THECALL'6f 


Judgment Calls 
Opinions and observations 

0 

CONSTRUCTION 
ON CAMPUS 
Because nothing says "spring" quite like caution tape and heavy machinery on South Quad. 


GRASS 
The snow probably isn't gone for good, but we're happy to see the green stuff while it lasts. 

SARCASM 
Sure, it seems funny, but we know you're hurting deep down inside. 


CADBURY EGGS 

· Just because we can. 
0 INSIDEND.COM _ • Because registration wasn't confusing and frustrating enough alrea,_dy. 

:;·-c --_, ~r: ,... -• f ·-: ~--~--~ ·~ r-.~-\ l ~-7 ___f,-,7 _.... -.\':_ '. ;---.-,-· --., '\----~ 
,1~ ·-'-; ,\ \ t____ ' ~--, l / ', ' ' ' f i ' ~-• • ' I ! . "·~ '. : ' .: ~-j \. ~f r--__ l .j ,-; f ; J ; ; l -.\ \ ,' ; i -, ' \ ' ~ \ r 
~h:ej Pola~izing· Poletni'c-lcifJPcirty-Politics\ 
One nation ... indivisible? 

SCHOLASTICEXECUTIVE STAFF 

America is in the midst ofits most dangerous war in recent history. Each faction in this ongoing battle is diametrically opposed to the ideological framework within which its adversary operates and thrives, and long ago were the days in which two rivals were more deeply divided. It's safe to say that this vitriolic clash stands as an undeniable threat to the fabric of the American nation; descriptions of the melee appear in newspaper headlines and TV news programs across the nation, the fervor has spread to Americans' workplaces, and college campuses have found themselves obsessed with the seemingly never-ending warfare. 'What is damaged in this ongoing conflict cannot be counted like bodies on a battlefield. Rather, what is wounded is the unity ofthe American nation. 'Who, then, are the guilty warring par­ties? They are you and me, every time we hold steadfastly to political dogma without listening to the other side. The weapons ofthese factions -liberals and conservatives alike -are words. 'What originally begins as debate between the two parties quickly reverts to mudsling­ing and name-calling. Recalling their respective arsenals ofinsults, liberals tune out the views oftheir conservative counterparts, slating them as uneducated bible beaters; meanwhile, conservatives shout about the amorality ofelitist liberal tree huggers. The lists of insults pile one on top of the next, and free and open discussion is left by the wayside. 'What remains isn't compromise or resolution; instead, white noise fills the political air ofAmerica, and the status quo persists. The already gaping political gulf continually broadens still wider and wider, with the seemingly unbridgeable middle ground becoming a no-man's land. But what's the benefit ofthis? Previously life-altering polemical topics in politics are reduced to infantile cries of "You're a liar!" and "So are you!" without any lasting regard for an issue's initial importance. 'When such immense national decisions as the repeal ofRoe v. UTade and the passage of a constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage loom at the steps of Congress, what good will a futile screech of"Women deserve to choose!" or "Preserve the sanctity of marriage!" really do? Love her or loathe her, in an unprecedented move for both liberals and conservatives, Hillary Rodham Clinton recently took the· time to step away from the white noise of her personal politics to consider the national abortion issue. Citing abortion as a "sad, ·even tragic choice," Clinton reexamined her three-decade-long stance on abortion in an attempt to meet anti-abortion activists in what was thought to be unbridgeable middle ground. Manyinvolved in the abortion debate assume ·an immoveable sense of righteousness oftheir respective side. However, instead oftirelessly plugging onward with this same immovability, Clinton recognized America's potential to reduce the number of abortions through education and state-funded programs that will assist women who choose to give birth. She took a great step towards bridging the political poles and aiding citizens nationwide. Regardless of whether or not you agree wholeheartedly with a set of seemingly incendiary political maxims that an opposing party may present, it is. only through such open and reflective discourse as Clinton's that the noise of trivial bickering can 
4 SCHOIASTICNEWS 31 MARCH 2005 

Impeding Intrusions of Identity 


Notre Dame intercepts identity theft with ndlD 
SCHOLASTICNEWS STAFF 
In recent years, the crime of identity theft has become a rapidly growing threat. Consumer Sentinel, the Fed­eral Trade Commission's theft complaint office, received approximately 253,500 identity theft complaints nationwide dur­ing the past year, with 4,274 reported by the state ofIndiana. South Bend recorded 197 incidents ofidentity theft-the third most in any Indiana city. Identity theft is extremely damaging financially to the victimized party. Ac­cording to estimates by the Federal Trade Commission, each incident of identity theft results in a loss of $1,000 for the average victim. The U.S. Secret Service estimates that consumers nationwide col­lectively suffer from annual monetary loss­es of approximately $745 million due to identity theft. According to Con­sumer Sentinel, 28 percent of reported identity theft com­plaints in 2004 were 

the result of credit =====~=~~~=~.......... of identity theft on 
campus community. 
Although it previously used Social Security Numbers (SSNs) as primary identifiers of faculty and students, start­ing in June, the university will employ a new identifier called "ndID." This will replace the current use of SSNs on class rosters and on other lists produced by the university, such as student and fac­ulty club rosters. SSNs still will be used for functions related to admissions and financial aid, but otherwise kept separate from other personal data. 
According to University Registrar Dr. Harold Pace, the change was timed to correspond with a significant upgrade to many ofthe university's data services that will occur this summer, thereby reduc­
ing the potential for 
transitional problems . 
"We've been planning 
to do this for years," 
Pace says. 
.J. h 
I 
5 T e extra security d w is not in response to any specific incidence 
card fraud. In addi­tion to potential financial losses, victims of fraud frequently are forced to deal with the task of clearing credit records, which is a lengthy process in which the victims must provide adequate evidence demonstrating that the debts accrued in their names have been done so illegally by another party. According to data compiled by the Identity Resource Center, the aver­age identity theft victim spends 607 hours clearing his or her credit records. 
In the wake of the identity theft epi­demic, many institutions entrusted with personal information have been pres­sured to increase their security meas:ures in order to prevent important personal information from falling into the wrong hands. Notre Dame is among these insti­tutions and plans to change the manner in which the university identifies its faculty and students this coming summer in an attempt to enhance the security of the 
31 MARCH 2005 
campus. "We're just responding to a lot of requests we re­ceived from students and faculty," Pace says. There have been several incidents where university databases have been in­filtrated briefly by hackers. Despite these compromises, Pa;.:e says that no personal information has been accessed from the outside, and the breaches of security were fixed quickly. The new ndID adds an extra layer ofsecurity for members of the Notre Dame community, because even if the data were accessed, the ndID could not be abused to the same extent of an SSN. 

The ndID will be printed on ID cards issued after June 2005. A variation ofthe nine-digit identifier can be found on current ID cards: An ndID can be deter­mined by placing the number 9 in front of the first eight digits of the number that starts with "00," located above the barcode on the back of the ID card. D 






Top.5 
Ways to Cure Mid-Semester Boredom 
5. 
Read Scholastic, then read 
it again. 
Proven to reduce your chances of contracting Ebola. That's got to mean something to you. 
4. 
Wallow in sorrow over 
your faulty NCAA Tournament bracket . 
For those of us who weren't 
high on codeine when filling· 
out our bracket, this will kill at 
least half a day. Vermont over 
Syracuse? It's time to admit 
you have a problem. 
3 Eat yo.ur weight in Easter 
• candy. The campus squirrels manage to do it and they seem pretty content. Plus, Peeps are part of 
_a heart-healthy diet. . 
2. 
Gild everything possible. 
And not just in gold. Wouldn't you love to own the bragging rights to Notre Dame's Bronze Era? 
I Learn all the words to your 
• favorite Kevin Costner film and quote it to your friends. 
Nothing will waste two hours 
of your life quite like "The 
Postman." 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 5 


l j 
i 
Serving the 
Underserved 
ND's Haiti Program helps battle disease in the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere 
DAVE POELL Imagine awaking one morning to . discover that certain parts of your body had grown to sizes grossly dis­proportionate to the rest of your body. Then imagine having to cope with the prospect ofliving out the rest ofyour days in a society that perceives you as a gro­tesque outcast. With an array ofphysical abnormalities that most would consider freakish, forget about the possibility of holding a steady job or being able to walk into a room of people without encoun­tering looks of disgust you thought were reserved for the Elephant Man. Such a scenario is not science fiction but rather the result of a disease known as lymphatic filariasis (LF), which affects over 120 million people in 83 countries worldwide. In 90 percent of LF cases, the disease is caused by the microscopic, parasitic worm, Wuchereria bancrofti. This disease is transmitted to humans via bites by mosquitoes that already have the parasitic worms living in their blood. Once inside humans, the worms travel to the lymphatic system where they can mate and eventually produce millions of new worms. The presence of the worms prevents the lymphatic system from func­tioning properly, causing fluids to collect in the arms, legs and breasts and creat­ing an extreme swelling of the regions, known as lymphedema. Such swelling and reduced functionality of the lymph glands make it more difficult for the body to fight bacterial infections in the skin and lymphatic system. This results in a hardening ofthe skin -a painful condi­tion known as elephantiasis. Of all the countries in the Western Hemisphere affected by LF, none is as distressed by the debilitating disease as Haiti. It is for this reason that the Rev. Tom Streit, C.S.C., founded and directs Notre Dame's Haiti Program, which strives to eradicate LF from the endemically-affected country by 2012. Current estimates suggest that as much as 28 percent ofthe population in hyper­endemic areas suffer from disabling conditions attributed to LF, and in the area surrounding the city of Leogane, where Notre Dame bases its LF opera­tions, more than half of the population is infected. Currently, Streit coordinates Notre Dame's Haiti Program with the assistance of Sarah Peterek, whose of­ficial position is marketing manager for the Haiti Program. 

Streit's involvement with Haiti began in 1993, when he first traveled to Haiti to research LF for his doctorate in ento­mology. At the time, the attitude of the international community toward LF was one ofapathy. "Nobodyhad looked much 
Current estimates suggest that as much as 28 percent of the [Haitian] population in hyper-endemic areas suffer from disabling conditions at­tributed to [lymphatic filariasis]. 
at this disease, but there were assumptions that not a lot could be done," Peterek says. After the completion of his doctorate in 1994, Streit started mapping out Haiti's 133 counties in order to determine where exactly the cases ofLF were located and how severe the cases were in relation to their geographical location. 
Over the course of the next five years, Streit's research be­gan to produce useful scientific data on the problems ofLF in­fection. In 1999, Streit applied for and received a five-year, _$5.2 million grant from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation that would fund his research of LF. The grant -which Streit will reapply for after its expira­tion this year -helped expose the explanations behind the Haitian LF problem and was the impetus for the establish­ment of Notre Dame's Haiti Program. With the program in place and its objectives well-



A DEBILITATING DISEASE Overt manifestations of lymphatic filariasis can foster the collection of fluids in the limbs. 
defined, Streit was ready to mold his passion into the joint collaborative effort that it is today. Working with physicians ofLeogane's Hopital Sainte Croix (Holy Cross Hospital), government officials in the Haitian Ministry of Health (MSPP) and the Centers for Disease Control & Prevention (CDC), the Haiti Program is now a part ofa nationwide campaign that seeks to discover and implement the most cost-effective strategies for the eradica­tion ofLF in Haiti. 
Currently, there are three main ap­proaches that the program employs toward the goal of LF elimination, the first ofwhich being a project that stresses the importance ofsleeping under bed nets during the night in order to prevent bites from disease-carrying mosquitoes. By bringing in experts from the Mendoza College of Business and Notre Dame's design department, Streit has managed to combine an endeavor to empower a weak economy that suffers from a staggering unemployment rate of 67 percent with a campaign that raises bed net awareness. 
Instead of importing bed nets from 
6 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
31 MARCH 2005 


'··.·....:. ~ _···-.:;.i . .,.._ .... 
•'-~-.,._. --~·-·. HAITIAN SUPPORT (left) Salt is harvested on the island by a principal owner of a salt pond, located in Gomiives. (right) In Leogane, mass drug 
administration (MDA) campaigns are used to fight LF. 
other countries, Streit gave the Haitians ownership of this project, encouraging them to manufacture the nets themselves. To facilitate this, Professor James Davis traveled to Haiti along with other pro­fessors in Notre Dame's Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies to teach classes in entrepreneurial ventures. Necessary materials for the making of bed nets were collected, and groups of Haitian women utilized these resources, starting the manufacture of bed nets as part of their own micro-enterprise. To raise awareness among the Haitians and increase the sales of bed nets, graphic design Professor Robert Sedlack trav­eled to Haiti and conducted a marketing campaign that stressed the importance ofbed net use. 
A second vehicle for LF elimination is the mass distribution of diethylcarbam­azine (DEC) and albendazole tablets, which kill the parasitic worms in the in­fected person's system. The first such dis­tribution effort occurred in 2000, when the drugs were given to 110,000 people in the Leogane commune. Since then, dis­tribution levels have continued to rise. In 2004; the drug successfully ~as given to one million people. Haitians receive the drug through annual mass drug admin­istration (MDA) campaigns coordinated by the, Haitian government. While effec­tive, the MDA campaigns are logistically difficult..~-. ,.,..,,,. •·•;,., "It's very high labor and ,J:'lijr,iti'o~}i1i1" very high cost per person ,;{:1 • · per year," Peterek says. .3¥ ' _, 

The third means of LF _:/i; ,,.·1·· •.. prevention is the passive }i0. L. · · . ~0 drug delivery via salt that ~­is fortified with DEC and 
3 I MARCH 2005 
iodine. Lack of iodine in their diets is another malady of the Haitians that can result in goiter and cretinism. The use of the Haitian salt supply as the medium for DEC delivery as opposed to pills is ideal for several reasons. Chief among them is that DEC-fortified salt results in fewer side effects than DEC pills, and salt al­ready is prevalentin the diets ofHaitians. "[Salt]isalowcost,high-availableproduct harvested on the island," Peterck says. To further bolster salt-fortification efforts, the Haitian government is encouraging the increased usage ofdomestic salt in the nation's diet in tandem with its approval ofDEC-fortified salt. 
The design course, DESN 418: Ad­vanced Industrial Design Project, has chosen to assist the Haiti Program this semester by developing designs for the packaging and dispensing of the country's salt and exploring the specifics of salt production. The course predominantly covers industrial design, but has brought in the collaborative efforts of three MBAs and three graphic designers under the direction ofprofessors Joseph Guiltinan and Sedlack, respectively, in order to further the research ofsome of the more economical and social challenges of the salt-fortification project. Professor Paul Down teaches the industrial design · aspect of the course. "Haiti's salt-producing capabilities are at a very primitive level compared with other emerging countries," Down says. "Industrial designers are involved in trying to ensure an economical way of increasing the quality and volume of 
salt that the country produces." 
Each year the Haiti Program sends 
· a handful of graduates -usually four 
or fewer -to Haiti in order to grant 


them an opportunity to work and conduct research in those areas of science germane to the program. Since the program spe­cializes in a particular discipline of sci­ence, the number ofstudents assigned to Haiti is low in comparison to other Notre Dame study abroad programs. Currently, three students are stationed in Haiti. 
NaimaJoseph is a senior Arts and Let­ters pre-professionalmajorwhose passion for Haiti can be traced to her Haitian heritage and her interest in biological research. She had planned on conducting research in Haiti in conjunction with the program last year, but was precluded from doing so because of the volatile political climate.•Still, Joseph says she looks for­ward to working with the program while exploring effective means oftreating and preventing LF. "I'd love to go down to Haiti and look at more clinical approaches to solving this problem," she says. Specifi­cally, she would like to treat the intense fever symptoms and lymphatic problems associated with the disease. Joseph says, "We have a variety of different medical approaches that we haven't even started to explore with the Haiti Program." 
Although the program is not perfect and still has much work to accomplish, Streit's dream for Haiti has persisted despite adverse factors. Political unrest, natural disasters, the emigration of doc­tors and Haitian skepticism of the gov­ernment have all hindered ·the progress of the LF campaign to varying degrees. Streit remains confident yet humble when evaluating the program's future. With a smile across his face he says, "The Hai­tians deserve all the credit, not me. The people are very trusting and they're so grateful to get anyone who cares about their health." . 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 7 
~S€1-:101.tAS'EIG 

Transitioning from Tragedy 
9/ I I commissioner discusses the future of national security 
CLAIRESOBCZAK 

Utter nausea, fear and anger en­veloped Americans as they sat in silence while horrific images of planes crashing into skyscrapers and people jumping out of buildings 100 stories high flashed across TV screens nationwide. No one who lived through Sept. 11, 2001 will forget the terror the events of the day elicited, but like most tragedies, the memories have faded, no longer as haunting as they once were. Despite being three-and-a-half years removed from the tragedy, Americans still are dealing with the emotional re­percussions of the event, leading them to desire increased national security and leaving a lingering fear of future attacks in their minds. In 2002, President George W. Bush acknowledged the disquiet of a nation dealing with tragedy by establishing the National Commission on Terrorist At­tacks upon the United States, also known as the 9/11 Commission. The commit­tee, which commenced in July 2004, was created to provide Americans with a thorough account ofthe terrorist attacks, as well as to propose to Congress future national security improvements. Many important political figures of both parties were involved in this com­mittee; key among them was Lee Ham­ilton, an Indiana native who served for 34 years in Congress as Indiana's District 9 representative until he was appointed vice-chair of the 9/11 Commission by Bush. As a congressman, Hamilton chaired subcommittees under the House Committee on Foreign Affairs to promote democracy in Eastern Europe and peace and economic growth in the Middle East. 
He also was involved in the Arab-Israeli Peace Conference and is currently the president and direc­tor of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. 
On March 22 and 23, Hamilton brought his expan­

"Ignoring problems today will only make them continue to grow in the long term." 
-Lee Hamilton, vice-chair of the 9/11 Commission 
sive knowledge to Notre Dame, which welcomed him to speak to the public about his views on terrorism and Ameri­can foreign policy. Hamilton divided his lecture into two distinct sections. His first lecture, entitled "Fighting Terror­ism," took place on March 22 at the Marie 
P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts and targeted steps the United States must take to fight terrorism and maintain security. Hamilton began with the clear acknowledgement that terrorism is Amer­ica's primary security problem, despite the fact that the United States has not been attacked since Sept. 11, 2001. Knowing that the threat of terrorism still is grave for all Americans, he emphasized the need for a cohesive national strategy to combat terrorism. "It is bringing together all the 
tools of American power to create a counterterrorism policy that will stop terrorism," he says. "We must first identify the threat and know the enemy. Then we can design a strategy for the 
enemy." 
In their attempts to recognize the ad­versaries ofhomeland security, Hamilton and the 9/11 Commission were able to single out America's most threatening combatants. Reigning top among these is Al-Qaeda, the terrorist organization con­nected with Osama Bin Laden. Although Al-Qaeda poses a large threat, Hamilton cited the Islamic fundamentalism that fuels Al-Qaeda as the greatest hazard to American security. "The ideology ofradi­cal Islam is dangerous and will continue long after Osama Bin Laden is captured and killed," Hamilton says. He ad~its that American security underestimated Islam's culturally-uniting ideology, and that the infrastructure ofAmerican intel­ligence must be reconstructed to combat proponents of radical Islam adequately. 
One of the main goals of the 9/11 Commission was the achievement of better cooperation between all depart­ments of the United States government, and Hamilton feels there is serious work left to do. "Integration is key," Hamilton 
says. "America can no longer rely solely on its military strength to seek results, but rather needs a comprehensive strategy, includ­ing better diplomacy, foreign aid, economic policies, financial action, law enforcement, as well as border and homeland security." He stresses the need for constant communica­tion between border agents, law enforcement officials and govern­ment intelligence in order to ensure that terrorists are identified and stopped before they can commit another deadly attack. 
Another point stressed by the 9/11 Commission is the need for widespread multinational coopera­tion in opposing terror. "We cannot 
not root this enemy alone. We can­not track down terrorist financing 
without working with Saudi bankers. We cannot secure international travel without international standards. And we cannot build peace in places like Afghanistan without allies sharing the responsibility," Hamilton says. The members ofthe 9/11 Commission hope that the United States will be able to achieve its goals for a new Middle East, specifically lower unemploy­ment rates, improved education and bet­ter healthcare. "Once the United States learns to integrate rather than alienate, then oppression will cease in the Middle East," he says. 
Reform· of American intelligence was also a key repercussion of 9/11 discussed by Hamilton in his lecture. He identi­fied the problems in the intelligence system that contributed to the attack. "We failed to share our information and paid a mighty price for it. We did not act jointly, in no clear direction, and no one connected the dots." 

Hamilton discussed a delicate ques­tion that has burdened Americans since the day of the attacks: "Are we safe?" Ultimately, he believes that we are safer, but not yet completely safe. According to Hamilton, America never can eliminate terrorism completely, but it can reduce the risk by identifying vulnerabilities in security, killing known terrorists and improving Islamic relations. 
Hamilton shared insight into his unique perspective on post 9/11 America: "Amer­icans look at all their problems through the prism of terrorism. Countries are concerned that we aren't concerned with their problems as well as ours. We must oping nations is for the United States to have a robust engagement in world affairs," Hamilton says. 

He concluded by advocating a three-prong strategy for the coun­try: America should have tough­minded leadership, should only act alone as a last resort and should be characterized by bold initiatives in foreign policy. "This nation also needs to anticipate better in the future," Hamilton says. "Ignoring problems today will only make them continue to grow in the long term. America needs to be expecting the changes that will happen in the fu­
ture and deal with them before they 
get out ofhand." 
Lee Hamilton realizes that ter­
rorism is the most pressing issue for Americans today, and it will continue to play a large role in their future. IfAmerica chooses not to act immediately, terror­ism will persist, and the country may be forced to use its global dominance. Hamilton admits that the United States government is not perfect and has made mistakes in the past; however, right now is a pivotal time in history, and America's decisions will determine the actions ofthe rest ofthe world. "Problems will continue to grow if we ignore the long term re­percussions," he says. "American policies must never lose sight of global realities." 
. 

LEE HAMILTON An expert on national security issues, he reviews a copy of the 9/11 commission report. 
exert our power in ways that balance all our preoccupations, for terrorism is not the only problem America needs to combat." 
When Hamilton's lecture reconvened on March 23, he developed his final point of the past afternoon in a lecture entitled, "How to Use American Power." Hamilton stresses that despite American preeminence in military, economic, technological and cultural power, it "must never lose sight of global relations [ ... ]The world looks to the United States always asking the same request: We need your help," Hamilton says. 
·Although Hamilton identifies America as a driving global force, he recognizes the shifting alignment of world powers. According to Hamilton, the United States needs to focus its energies in more areas than the Middle East alone. Nations such 
as China and India, with their massive populations, increasing economies and budding military forces, are beginning to pose potential challenges to American security. The senator also is troubled by globalization and swelling turmoil in the world. Hamilton believes that countries are becoming more and more dependent on each other to maintain their resources and advance technologically. He reflected on the interconnectedness of the world system and how global "winners" and "losers" become established because of globalization. Not all nations benefit in such a competitive global trade market and only the most influential nations can escape severe economic losses. "The only way to stay dominant in world affairs and avoid future conflicts in our devel­

3 I MARCH 2005 SCHOLASTICNEWS 9 

DomeLights I 5 former players have appeared on 
COMPILED BY ERIK POWERS 

the· cover of Sports Illustrated 
BringYour Best Game 

.2 former players have been chosen for The ice has melted; the squirrels are thin; and Olympic basketball teams once in a while the sun breaks through the clouds 
I player has scored all 21 points for 
of ethanol. What can this mean? Bookstore 
his team in a game

Basketball's back! And with it return ski suits and 
prom dresses as uniforms; such team names as "We .26 years ago a team of "Chumps" won 
Aaaargh But Pirates" and "Offin the Shower"; and the title 
pregame warm-ups that make the game more fun 
.15 years ago they repeated 
but seriously decrease a team's stamina and coordi­
nation. For those teams actually looking to do well, 
I game has been decided by a coin toss 
here's hoping that history repeats itself: 
Q&A 

With the quintessential Notre Dame basketball fan 
Jeremy Truelove 
Ifthere ever were a paradig;m for the hardcore basketball fan,Jeremy Truelove would fit the bill. With his riotous school spirit, his support ofthe Notre Dame men '.I-basketball team, and his ambitions to become the athletic director ofa high-profile university, Truelove may be the ultimate Notre Dame fan. This seniorfinance maj01; who hailsfrom Albion, Ind., took the time to share some insight about his brilliant undergradflate career as the ultimate fan. 
What is the most memorable Notre Dame basketball game you've seen? 
It's a toss-up between knocking off Boston College this year and the second round NCAA tourney win against Illinois my sophomore year in the RCA Dome. I still remember the 20-1 chants and the thrill ofmoving on to the Sweet 16. 
Who, in your opinion, is the best basketball player in Notre Dame history? 
Adrian Dantley (ND '76). Seeing him at the All-Century presentation during the 

HTTP:1/WWW.ND.EDU/-BKSTRIHISTORY.HTM 

Source: Official Bookstore Basketball Web site: http://www.nd.edu/-b/atrlhistory.htm 
Pitt game was neat. But Matt Carroll was good, too. 
What's the story and motivation behind the kilt, yellow wig and face paint? 
At a pep rally freshmen year all the guys in my dorm dressed up in kilts and face paint. I went to the basketball game after the pep rally, got good reviews, and have dressed up like that ever since. 
Ever get nervous that the kilt is going to come off when you're jumping up and down? 
No. I used to when I got started, but it's routine now. I'mmore concerned about it being pulled off by some drunk guy. 
Someone asked for your autograph at one of the games this year. Do ,you consider yourself a celebrity on campus? 
No. Most people don't recognize that I'm that guy on campus. I guess it's the face paint that's holding me back. 
Do you believe that the student section can influence the outcome of a game? 
Yes, especially when the student section 
and the rest of the crowd work together 
to be loud. It works. 
What's the longest you've waited outside Gate 11 at the J.A.C.C. to see an ND basketball game? 
I got there at 11 p.m. the day before the Boston College game this year. (Tip-off was at 7 p.m. the following day.) 
The men's basketball team crumbled in the end. Did. you ever think that would happen, especially considering the preseason hype of possibly reaching the Final Four? 
I thought it could have happened, since some people were saying the team didn't quite gel. In the end, they didn't gel, es­

. pecially on defense. 
What does the yellow-haired, kilt­wearing, face-painted guy do when 

· he's not at basketball games? Fulfilling my RA duties in St. Ed's, hang­ing out with the guys in my dorm, and watching basketball with them on TY. 
What will you miss most about the student experience at the basketball games? 
The thrill of·winning close games and hanging out with other guys who are as passionate as I am about Notre Dame basketball. 
-Michael Ki.m 
10 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
31 MARCH 2005 


!1 ' ' ' 
· -• I ;1 . 1· ..--•"..,!· ... ·. : l i .
1 

i '\ · I ' , \ ..-, ' ' i ! ' . , • 
i ' ' ·-_j / .,\, < ' ,\ \ ' _) ; i ' i • \ j ' 


r..1 ~);A.1.---u;:l·R;:1..:.1~/ -=~~Di--­
l\"t.1;~t~•;i fF'I .. ,_. ··.. l~+'-3., IT '--'F;\:• 
• 
Business Manager 

• 
Assistant Business Manager 

• 
Writers 



E-mail Scholastic for an application at scholast@nd.edu 
published since 1867 
The Dome yearbook is taking applications in the following departments: 
Senior section Campus Life Year-in-Review Sports Academics Photography Organizations Technology 

Next year the Dome celebrates its centennial. Be part of the staff of this special edition. E-mail Dome@nd.edu 
________________:______-1.l~WI~~l-I. F_E-1-------------------~ 

t's beginning to look like spring is finally here in South Bend·. Whether you consider yourself a fashion maven or are driven witless at the thought of picking out a new look for spring, _e:veryone can use a few tips for a successful w~rdrobe ch~nge into 
the warmer months. Scholastic provides some style help, tellmg you what you should buy to make your sprmg look shme; what you can wear from-last season while still looking modern; and w~at should be banished to the back of the closet or tossed to the 
curb. 
**@*B~'**·@ 
NECKLACE 

This season is all about the necklace. Throw on multiple gold chains, grab some chunky wooden beads, or play up spring's ethnic trend with an international find: ThinkMoroccan, Spanish and Indian. The necklace is spring's go-anywhere piece, so wear a different one every day, no matter what else you have on. 
GOLD 

Gold has given up its role as the tried-and­true hue for accessories and now can be found on almost any article of clothing. Besides showing up on bags, jewelry and shoes for spring, gold has made its mark on embellished shirts and skirts as well. Pair a sparkly gold shirt with jeans and sandals for day; dress it up for night with a brocade skirt. 
JACKET 

Cropped jackets were all over the runway for spring, and right now they're in all the stores. vVork the new safari trend with a fit­ted, belted khaki jacket, or go loose for the warmer weather with a boxier cut in a range of fun spring pastels. 
NAUTICAL 

Sail away to the islands, or at least pretend you're doing so with some of spring's;new nautical pieces. Look for anything in white and navy -especially wide-leg pants and blazers with brass buttons -to accent your new aquatic state of mind. 
CORAL / 

Brighten up any outfit by wearii:ig coral. Wearing it simply as a color is fine, cir be bold and sport a coral-print trench or shirt. Throw on some coral jewelry or hunt down some new sandals trimmed with the vibrant hue. 
MINI-BAG All your favorite bags now come in tinyver,.. 
sions oftheir larger selves. Clip your mini-bag"-· onto a larger tote in either a matching pattern or contrasting color, or wear it alone for a night out. These bags have just enough room for money, an ID and lipstick. 
***@KEEP**@* 

FEMININE SKIRTS ·Spring always calls for pi:etty cl0thing, so reuse last season's feminine pastel skirts. Pencil styles still look right, hut go for volume with fuller skirts to loolc completely current. 
EMBELLISHED ACCESSORIES 

Last fall's sequin-~encrusted bags and 
cardigans still look fresh. Hang onto your 
shimmery tanks and shoes to make a pretty 
daytime outfit a litde more glam for night. 
FLATS 

Your feet can take it easy for at least one 
more season. Flats were shown with every­
thing from clamdiggers to evening gowns 
this spring, so enjoy the extra respite from 
stilettos. 
TRENCH. 


Last spring, trenches in every color were the rage. Keep wearing your trench this spring, .but make it look a little more modern by 
ditching the fabric belt and replacing it with . a colored satin ribbon. 
PONCHO 

Love it or hate it, the poncho has displayed some unexpected staying power. Withspring's hippie-chick, ethnic vibe; you still can wear your poncho. Grab fashion bonus points ifit's crocheted or sporting an inte~p.ational kick. 
POLO SHIRTS 

Good news fof all you ].Crew gids: Pol~ shirts are big this spring, and notjust in their usual preppy combinations. Dress up your 
. usual polo with jewelry and a cuteskirt, or buy one of the new dressy versions currently in stores. Look for satin accents or safari-in­spired details. · 
***@BANISH**@* 
-BROOCHES · · The brooch was big in the fall, but it lociks 
passe for spring. Pack away your pins and replace them with funky necklaces or embel­lished accessories. 
HEAVY-METAL BAGS 
Bags with big chain handles or lots of metallic accents are too heavy and serious for spring's light, playful vibe. Keep your heavy-metal bags at home for nciw, and carry awicker tote instead. 
SHORT-SHORTS It's time to abandori. those cut-off jeans with the pockets hanging out and the lat~ 
· est color of "IRISH". shorts from the bookstore. For spring, you should be in slim-fitting Bermuda shorts that can be .dressed down for day and up for night with a blazer and some platform wedges. 
KITTEN HEELS 
There's no in-between this season; heels are either high or non-existent. Leave the kitten heels alonefor spring. Instead, buy a pair of gladiator sandals or cute and campy espadrille wedges. 
UGGBOOTS 
Yes, they keep you warm in the winter. There is absolutely no reason, however, to wear them in the sprfog, especially with mini­
. skirts. Leave the cold:weather gear at home once the temperatures start to rise; it only weighs down your look and leaves people wondering ifypu forgot to check the weather 
forecast. · · · · 
BELLYSHIRTS ., 
With th~ arrival ofwarmer weather comes the temptatio~ to wear much less clothing, but spring's relaxed ~J?.d prettymood leaves no room for skin-tight, belly-haring tees. Leave the navel exposure to Britney Spears antl re, placeit wit,h a slim-fittfrtgJacketor layet,s of multi.:.co_lored tanks. '. D 


12 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 31 MARCH}005 / 

The M.O. .B. Mentality 
Notre Dame's brass band is a unique sonic experience 
KATIEGALEONE · 
With four trombonists, three trumpeters, three saxophon­ists, two percussionists, one guitarist and one tubaist -and a reper­toire that covers everything from Marvin Gaye to Snoop Dagg -Merten's Own Brass Band (M.O.B.B.) transcends any­thing students typically expect from a college band. Although he cites it as most comparable to the The Dirty Dozen Brass Band of the late '90s, M.O.B.B.'s founder and namesake Matthew Merten feels that "[M.O.B.B.] really is unlike any other band." Grounded in the New Orleans brass­band style -a precursor to jazz ­M.O.B.B. blends funk, rock and hip-hop together, creating a unique and electric sound. Merten, a graduate student in mu­sic, increases the _band's range; not only does he play trombone, but he also doubles as the band's front man, often bringing his singing and rapping skills to the mix. M.O.B.B. guitarist Colleen Clark testifies to Merten's vocal abilities, adding: "He does a mean Marvin Gaye." When Merten, who had been a member of a brass band before attending Notre Dame, discovered that the university did not offer its students a similar opportu­nity, he did something about it. Merten invited fellow members of the Depart­ment ofMusic, as well as members of the Notre Dame Jazz Ensemble and other school-affiliated ensembles to help him create a Notre Dame brass band. His ef­forts were rewarded, and at the beginning of the 2004-05 academic year, M.O.B.B. was born. 
For many M.O.B.B. members, the band offers an opportunity to relax and have fun. And it is for this very reason that its music is so infectious. "It sounds fun because we're up there having fun," Merten says. "It's fun to have a band that [ ... ] rocks." 
The passion of the band and its pen­chant for having a good time definitely seem to be contagious. On St. Patrick's 
"People who have seen [M.O.B.B.] know what we're about; it's a party.'' 
-Matthew Merten, M.O.B.B.'s founder and namesake 
Day, an informal performance at a house on St. Pete's Street transformed into a pseudo-parade through the streets of South Bend. According to Moses James Papier, a freshman trombonist, "We ended up marching around on the streets. People were coming out of their houses, following us with pots and pans and bringing their own instruments." 
It is this kind of audience participa­tion upon which the band thrives, and 
M.O.B.B. more than encourages the en-thusiasm ofits audience members.Junior David Taffany, one of the band's saxo­phonists, echoes this, explaining, "The more the audience gets into it, the more we get into it. We feed off each other's energy." In fact, M.O.B.B. has had crowd members join in the act and boasts quite a following among some local high school students, who sometimes show up to its gigs with instruments in tow. M.O.B.B. welcomes these fans with open arms, al­lowing them to come up and jam with the members of the band. 


Merten loves performing and feels the band markedly improves every time they step on stage. "I think our best show is always our last show," he says. M.O.B.B.'s impressive show at the Collegiate Jazz Festival reflects this statement. Proving how good its best is, M.O.B.B. received the only standing ovation of the festival for its performance; the showing also earned the band a perfect score from judge Andre Heyward from the Lincoln Center Jazz Orchestra. 
In order to understand its sound, 
M.O.B.B. must be experienced first­hand. When the friends of sophomore James Weicher, a M.O.B.B. saxophonist, ask him whatM.O.B.B sounds like, he re­plies: "You have to see it. I don't know how to describe it." Merten thinks that most people hear brass band and automatically think that M.O.B.B. is a pep band, but he says that this is not the case. "People who have seen us know what we're about; it's a party," he says. 
If you are interested in experienc­ing what can only be referred to as the 
M.O.B.B. mentality, you should catch it while you still can. With Merten and fellow graduate student and band member Ryan Berndt graduating in the spring, the fate ofM.O.B.B. is somewhat uncertain, but current members are dedicated to M.O.B.B.'s survival. "vVe're definitely going to try to keep it going," Clark says. But as long as the band's still playing, check M.O.B.B. out at Legends on Thursday, April 7, at 10 p.m. And, as Merten reminds, "Bring your pots and pans." D 

3 I MARCH 2005 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 13 
~SG~OltAS7flG NEWS--_;---------------------­


:~ 
.~-•' ,. .
,.// t' . 
.. "" 
, 
4,..: 






tti2?.ti;i!)it/~:i~r~~i,i ~f.!~., . 
LEARNING TO LEAD Students use creativity and brainstorming techniques in their small group exercises. 
LEAD-ing by Exa111ple 
MIKELASKEY

While completing research for a paper on public schooling last year in his First Year Compo­sition class, sophomore Steve Cartwright discovered some information that trou­bled him greatly. "I found that after­school opportunities, particularly ones that focus on character and leadership development for kids, tend to be much more abundant in high-income areas. In looking at schools in low-income areas, after-school programi;, other than those that focus on academic enhancement, are few and far between," Cartwright says. Refusing to leave this information lifeless in the pages of an essay, Cartwright set out to create such a leadership develop­ment program for junior high school students in an attempt to fill the gaping void of leadership in the South Bend school district. Enlisting the help offellow sophomore Meg Towle, Cartwright began the ardu­ous process of creating a student group from scratch. "We arranged a couple of focus groups ofpeople we knew on cam­pus," Towle says. "A lot of great ideas came out about how we wanted to tackle the organization." Towle and Cartwright molded these ideas into a set ofbasic pro­gram goals and a 10-week curriculum for what became known as LEAD-ND. At the heart of LEAD-ND's creation was an emphasis on :learning through ser­vice, as the program intends to develop service projects selected and planned by the youth par:icipants without adult direction. "We designed the program to have kids assess needs in their own com­munities and develop creative solutions to fix them," Cartwright says. 
Cartwright and Towle took their blueprints for LEAD-ND to the Of­fice of Student Activities, where they were referred to Notre Dame's Institute for Educational Initiatives (IEI). This organization ultimately provided the primary backing for LEAD-ND. "The vast majority of LEAD-ND's funding comes from the IEI and the Notre Dame Schools Partnership Program, which pro­vides small grants to ambitious students," Cartwright says. "The IEI has been the most supportive entity I've ever encoun­tered on campus." 
With funding and a curriculum set, LEAD-ND e:stablished a relationship with Jefferson Intermediate Center in South Bend, which became the "pilot site" for the program. Angela Buysse, Jefferson's vice principal, selected 30 seventh and eighth-graders to participate in LEAD-ND. The students chosen were identified as students with the potential to develop into what LEAD-ND calls "non-:traditional leaders" -people who would have never considered themselves capable of holding a leadership position without outside encouragement. 

14 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 31 MARCH 2005 
mws:1------------------------, 

This past winter, LEAD-ND selected 10 Notre Dame undergraduates for its first volunteer corps through an applica­tion process. Sophomore Krystal Hardy from Selma, Ala., was chosen to be the corps leader, serving as a liaison between the mentors and the coordinating cqm­mittee led by Cartwright and Towle. "I come from a pretty low socioeconomic background, so I wanted to participate in a program off-campus with young people who come from a similar background," Hardy says. "I wanted a way to keep in touch with the real world." 
After a two-day orientation program in January, Hardy and the nine other volunteers began to prepare for LEAD­ND's 10-week run at Jefferson. From the program's first session, the volun­teers were impressed with the students they encountered. "The kids at Jefferson are very energetic. They always have a lot to say," Hardy says. "They're a really bright group overall. While they might not be straight-A students and might get in trouble every so often, they need to hear that they can be a leader and that they can make change." 
Each weekly two-hour session atJeffer­son follows a set format, beginning with a large-group activity meant to introduce the day's theme. For instance, in the fifth week's session that focused on creativity and brainstorming, the students broke up into small groups and had 10 minutes to build the tallest structure possible using only paper cups, plates and masking tape. After the large-group activity, the stu­dents break up into Reflection and Action Planning -or RAP -groups. These preset groups, which are each composed of 10 students and three volunteers, break down the day's theme and use it to help develop their own service project. Rang­ing from park beautification to preparing lunches for South Bend's Center for the Homeless, the_projects will be completed on Saturday, April 16, in conjunction with National Youth Service Day. 
Behind the scenes, Towle has served as LEAD-ND's coordinator for National Youth Service Day (NYSD), a service effort never before observed in northern Indiana. "NYSD is the largest service event in the world; over one millions kids participate eve'iy year," Towle says. "Various 'Lead' agencies organize the event in their communities, but there has never been such an agency in the South Bend area. We've essentially assumed the role of informal 'Lead' agency by mak­ing a call for projects among community groups in South Bend and by alerting the local media." 
The NYSD festivities will not be lim­ited to LEAD-ND participants but is open to all interested youth in the area. "We've been contacting over 30 agencies and organizations in the area, and we are expect­ing 400-500 youth to be participatingin a service project on NYSD." The day will begin with a rally, which will be hosted by Jefferson and will feature 99.1 WSMK DJ Branson Saks as en­tertainer and keynote speaker. However, the bulk of the rally will be left to the LEAD-ND 

A POSITIVE INFLUENCE Volunteer corps members seek to bring out leadership skills in underprivileged students. 
students, who will serve as emcees and performers in what Towle anticipates will be "a fun and energetic display of youth talent." After the morning's rally, the groups will head to their project sites and work until the late afternoon. 
As the program's culmination in NYSD rapidly approaches, Towle and Cartwright are looking closely at LEAD-ND's fu­ture. "We want to be able to expand," Cartwright says. "By the time [Meg and 
I] graduate, we want to have a program in most if not all of the 10 intermediate centers in South Bend. We'd also like to get this going at the high school level, as there aren't many after-school opportuni­ties for high school students either. We basically want to be a program that's out there to reattach kids to their schools, and to help them realize that they have a strong enough voice and enough talent to influence their environment." 
LEAD-ND is currently recruiting for its 2005-2006 volunteer corps. Visit http://www.nd.edu/~leadnd for more information. 


HUDDLEMart 
IF O O D COURT 
' 

Yeah College!! ~ 
Pro-&ay/Straight Alliance 
Press up to prott10te heterosexuality/ en route to Career Fair 
Prott1ote non­-prhtuiry colors/ fsuna11d Relief 
Pro-antisocial ) behavior ~ ...V






~-'., ·ne \ 


otr Dia 
Pro-&ilding of the Pott1e! · 
If you love Jritney, go barefoot! 

. Pro-Prep! 
-<,--Wear green, support confon,dty and diver­sity sitt1ultaneously! 
---Anti-Puppies! Pro-Lance 
Red \ 011 V-Pay for sappy k\ 

rott1ance /dott1estic violence awareness! , ·)( Prott1ote ffydratiott! ~2Pac Lives! 


Judgment Calls 
Judgy-Wudgy was a bear ... 
-NIHILISM 
That must be exhausting. 

NARCISSISM 
We love us.We really love us! 

0 
GONZOJOURNALISM 
The recipe for a perfect Sarcastic: 
Wild Turkey and ether. 

PRISM 
Shiny. Colors. Different. 

IDEALISM 
Totally overrated. 

CANNIBALISM 
CUBISM 
It's hip to be square. 

0 JOURNALISM 
Life full of coffee hangovers and void of money. Left with tragically self-inflated ego. 


·O PESSIMISM 
....J 

Okay, we were wrong, South Bend does kinda suck. 
SCHOLASTICEXECUTIVE STAFF 

ep, we admit it, that editorial about South Bend was totally off the mark. 'What were we thinking? The truth is, Sarcastic was going through some rough times back then. We did a lot of things we never thought about doing before. We 
said a lot of things we didn't mean. But those times are over. And yeah, South Bend is pretty darn lame. 
Honestly, what were we thinking? Ethanol stench? Yeah, we love it. We want to bottle it and take it with us when we graduate. Nope, it's not gone. Stupid, stupid Sarcastic Executive staff. Lets check the map: 

Hey, see anything you like? Nope, us neither. This is a white space. 
This is ajoke. T¾ arejust kidding. lmt do notactually h(ll)e to 'take pictures ofsquirrels. Why can'tyou imdersttmd that? Eeediot ... 
.; 

Gurley Leep Buys out Notre Dame 
Fight song to be replc\ced by "Beep Beep, It's Gurly Leep:' 

JOHNROCKEFELLER 
In a landmark business deal sure to shake the very core ofMichiana, Gurley Leep Auto Dealerships of Mishawaka has obtained sole ownership of the University ofNotre Dame. "From the moment I saw the first Day­Glo purple Godzilla erected on Edison that weren't Dodges from D6," said Notre Dame junior Terd Ferguson. 
Since car sales will continue year-round on all Notre Dame quads and in all uni­versity parking lots, University Park Mall has agreed to allow students to park and tailgate in its spaces. 
Dame senior Olive Juice. "Combing the high-end fashions and perusing the latest in hair extension technology at the UP Mall will be great with a Natty in hand." 
"This also gives me the opportunity to get my morning run in," Juice said ofher daily 5-mile jog from the Gurley Leep 

Rd., I knew that Gurley Leep truly had the best interests of this fine university at heart," University President-elect Jit­tery Jigglins told Sarcastic. "I mean, why just sell out the largest student parking lot when we could also slap the Gurley Leep logo on the Dome as well?" The purchase ofNotre Dame by the com­pany was met with little surprise by most Notre Dame students. "I mean, it was pretty obvious this was coming when they started towing any cars Q&A With the best damn book period Sarcastic landed an exclusive interview with du Lac '97-'98 to see what's changed in the third most pop11lar book on campus. What's up? Because a genuine and complete expression  "Now I can combine my two loves­parking lot to Debartolo Hall. "It's a much shopping and shot-gunning," says Notre more efficient use ofmy time." D BRING YOUR GREEN HAT Notre Dame students are now forced to walk from· the parking lot at University Park Mall since Gurley Leep purchased Notre Dame and alloted all student lots for car sales. Oh, but at least my first amendment Effective January 1 through March 15 yearly, rights are respected, right? special rules are in effect for student parking The University reserves the right, as stated in in any faculty/staff lots and in certain student  

oflove through sex requires a commitment to a total living and sharing together oftwo persons in marriage. The University believes that sexual union occur~' only in marriage ... 
OK ... Can I throw a raffle on campus? Any raffles sponsored by a student organization or residence facility must first be approved by the director of student activities. Alcohol and cash may not be awarded as priz~.. 
the housing contract, to enter rooms without a search warrant ... 
That doesn't seem fair -can I protest that rule? 
All demonstrations must be registered in writing with the assistant vice president for residence life ... 
Don't you think you're impeding the social development ofstudents by enforcing these inflexible codes of conduct? 
lots. 
This is rough. I need a smoke. Smoking is prohibited in all buildings, stadiums, and vehicles owned, leased or operated by the University ofNotre Dame. 

Fine. Beer me. 
Intoxication, whether on or off campus, public or private, is a violation ofthe standards of University ofNotre Dame and subject to University discipline. D 



31 MARCH 2005 SARCASTI_C 21 

T 
VOL. PI . 



INSIGHTFUL COLUMN 
Sudan 
Awareness 
Week ... and 
How Drunk I 



Got Last Night 
So apparently this week is Sudan Awareness Week, and I think that this is such a terrific cause that! wanted to give you my enlightened, well­researched thoughts on it. Wait, that's a lie. Actually, they make everyone at The Obfuscator write one of these ·columns if we warit to get a paycheck. I'm not even kidding, it says it on the door. So now I have to talk about Sudans. But what Megalomaniac I really Upps want to talk about 
associate produc­
is how tion po infofview 
editor assistant

·drunk I got 
_1,:--._Bo_t; ,-,.;S'!:.1""-t. 
It was crazy, man. I was-Iike, "Woah, I'm totally wasted," and then I stumbled a lot and puked 
on my roommate's bed. It was 
so different from all the other 

. drunk boasts you're subjected to every Monday morning in chemistry class. Oh no, this was way better. Like I said, I was totally wasted. I even stumbled 
·and said funny things. 
Alright, but about Sudans. My editor says I can't just write about my drunken antics. That's allowed only after the ICPA awards. Anyway, I think we should be totally aware of Sudans. They get way better gas mileage than SUV s and they can fit more passengers than coupes. They're a pretty good mix. 
But, dude. Last night? Totally wasted. Blitzed. Krunked up. Crippled. Blasted. Sloshed. Lit. Pie-eyed. Pastered. Zonked. Dude, I was pretty drunk. I was totally stumbling and I even made fun of this one dude's mom. That's good comedy. 
Right, but Sudans. They're hot. And sexy. Trust me, I know what I'm talking about. After all, I'm the associate production point of view editor assistant. So drive a Sudan. But not a four-cylinder one. Don't give in to those tree-huggers. They don't get drunk. But me? Wow. Stumbling. Speech-slurring. Have you ever done that while drunk? I doubt it. 
The views expressed in the Insightful Column are completely stupid and totally reflect the opinions ofThe Obfuscator staff. 



BFU~ 
The Independent Compilation ofTruncated 
. . . · · THOURSDAY, S.MA 
Student Protest ~ 
By AMBERG. SAMPLES The Chick That Gets Around 
The Office of Student Activities approved the regul protests yesterday, stipulating that student protest spa to a 3-foot by 4-foot space only between the hours of on Tuesday mornings. Designated protest areas are S1 Joseph's Lake Beach, and the intersection ofDorr Ro 
Asked ifhe is satisfied with the outcome ofmany, Director of Student Activities Ryan McSti:flin said he "The only objection brought to my attention was one who threw an non-aesthetically pleasing recycling bii window ofthe Student Activities Office," he says. 
According to the 50-page document outlining the r submit an 11-page proposal, stating the cause for whi protest and the reasons they believe their issue desen, seven-member committee comprised ofadministrat01 the proposal and make a decision. In addition, an app 
Weis Promises to "finally get [ND] some rei 
' 



Summer fashion: Like, so stylin' 
By BROOZED EGO Spleen Fashion Web Site Visitor Spring is just around the comer, girls, and the word on the streets of South Quad is that once the temps get above fifty, bare arms are totally in. Tanks, tanks, tanks. Say it again and then one more time just to make sure you'vegotitOther must-haves? Flip-
The 
flops -strappy r -and sunglasse: eyes!) 
It's easy to mal fashionfaux pas, careful not to get gabardine confus you'll end up likE challenged on ou know, those hapl< don't know madr Nantucket Reds! know, you're mb< with tartan plaid : cats living togeth, 
But above all, l remember that in, the best fashion a 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 01 

Siobhan Mc­Bill Brasky Gee 
Sarcastic Sarcastic Editor Editor 
"Did you real~ "You know I work · just walk 3 fee for Sarcastic, fi·om your offic right?" to ask us this? 

, . 

-. ·--------·---~-" 
Jil!JWWW ...., • ' 
C:..::::::::::: Jr·· -· · ..., V<f@Mtth@@P xt 'l:iinY.rr&t•·•1iffira-iihilE
* 

HE 



;cATOR 
rAP Stories Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

ations for student ce must be confined · 4 a.m. to 5 a.m. tepan Fields, St. ,ad and U.S. 31. veeks' deliberation, 
was very pleased. 
misguided student 1 can through the 
ules, students must 
ch they wish to 'es such attention. A :s will then review licant must write 
,pect" 

trator's 
Obfuscator SPLEEN 
ubberized footwear ,. (They shield your 
s:e a sUllliller so listen up! Be seersucker and ed. Otherwise, : the stylistically­r campus. You !Ss peons who as capris from their 
Next thing you ing novacheck md it's dogs and er -total chaos. adies, always dividuality is ccessory. Take 
0 YOU GUYS WANT TO ANSWER "QUESTION OF THE DA y"? 

Wendy Testaburger 
Sarcastic 
Editor 

y 
:t "Is he for real?" :e 
.. ,•: . '. ,· •.', ', ~---~·>:,1 :~}: \.: ~\< ::•! 1.;,·£,:~;:!:i~ Did the recent Obf11scator headline ''.Wei's'addresse·st
,pace Approved 
·, Mendoza" cau'se you to think buildings'wo'uld.talk;;, 
' ·. , -'. · ';. · back? · ·:"'.'_·:, ;::":'',: '.-'/>::: 

, : V~tc!,yl_l:IIP.m·.thiiFri?a~aiour\\7ebsilc:!,1 .' ~,'
f:; ~~-~}, 

a 17 page-essay stating why he or she wishes to be the Editrix-in-Chief of The Obfuscator. Ifthe committee approves the proposal, students must return it within 24 hours with any revisions recommended by the committee. They must also submit any materials they will use at the protest including signs, t-shirts and armbands, and sign over the rights to their firstborn. "We seek to foster an environment where students will 
learn more about their Catholic beliefs and why we think the beliefs of other non-Catholic groups are wrong," McStiflin said. 
Passionate FlexPoints activist Katie O'Katieson says all students should celebrate this day as a momentous occasion in Notre Dame history. "We have been fighting so long for university-sanctioned demonstrations. It is so awesome to see this happen before we graduate," she says. "We hope to catch our true target demographic now ... or at least drunk people leaving Reckers." 
A mass of Notre Dame students gather at Stepan Fields at 
4:20 a.m. in the landmark pre-approved protest space. 
risks and explore your inner fashionista.Venture outside with an un-popped collar and trot about U gg-less. It's just what that Betty Friedan lady meant by "liberation!" Unless, ofcourse, your risky outfit involves camo cargo pants paired with a drab oversized Nirvana T­shirt. So. Totally. Gross. 


Brian Fellows 
Sarcastic 
Editor 

"Don't ask me. I'm on heroine. " 

News In Plaid Briefs 
Napo/ean Dynamite Officially Overquoted into Oblivion 
Flick joins the ranks of Old Schoo/,Zoo/ander 
The Obfuscator Decrees: Nautical References Still In 
Terms Stay Afloat In Turbulent Waters 
Campus Life Council Votes to Permanently Padlock North DeBartolo Doors 
Outraged studentAttempting to enterthrough them was "like the O'Shag clock,'an exercise In futility" 
Notre Dame Seniors react to 2005 Commencement Speaker: "Whaaaaaa??!?" 
O'Shaughnessy: Not for 4th Graders Anymore 
Hall acquires desks for students weighing over 50 lbs. 
Right to Lifers"and Vagina Warriors 
The Obfuscator looks at keeping them both sepErate. 
Ducks or Squirrels? 
The other other white meats. 




Fenway 
Sarcastic 
Editor 
"Funny faces are funny!II" 





Fringe Campus Nevvspapers Merge 
United in hopes to increase circulation, alienate everyone 
DONKEYLIPS 

At a press conference in the Cole­firms that drive our economy, and we hate stories and riveting summaries of student man-Morse Centeryesterday, two the existence ofindependent females and government meetings, so I stick to the campus newspapers announced a metrosexual men." traditional campus paper," says sophomore 
merger that will consolidate Notre Dame's "We'll be on a mission," Liburall says. Jim Lynn. student media landscape. "Uncommonly "Once our paper hits the bins ofO'Shag, No numbers regarding distribution Unsensical," generally conceived as a people will think twice about earning quantities were provided at the press "liberal" publication, will unite with its money from business transactions.'' conference. "I guess we didn't actually do "conservative" counterpart, 'The Gaelic "Or not repressing their evil, twisted any matl1 in our planning," Liburall says. Monger.' "This is a landmark day for homosexual tendencies that are strictly "We just talked about how cool it would Notre Dame student papers with low and explicitly forbidden by Leviticus 20: be to have a paper called 'Uncommonly readership," says Lucy Liburall, editor 9," Wases added. When informed that Gaelic.'" of "Uncommonly Unsensical," "I'm Leviticus 20:9 was actually the verse that The first issue ofthe publication will in­very upset that no one attended this called for death for any man who curses clude an article exposing national fast food press conference except that annoying his father, Wases says, "Well, then we want chain KFC for underpaying its chickens, 
2,~ 
lti"'
i~'Obfuscator' reporter and that damn sexy them dead too -Jesus hates infidels!" and an editorial arguing for the systematic 
-~
Sarcastic editor.'' Student reaction to the issue was mixed. elimination of homosexual squirrels on $ 
:,:n 
The two papers claimed that the rea­"Wait, what two papers are you talking campus. The first publication is scheduled sons behind the deal were not the tradi­about?" freshman Mary O'Key says. O'Key for April 17, to simultaneously commemo­tional merger motives, such as revenue then declined to comment on questions rate the feast of some unimportant saint 
?.t1i.·
enhancements and cost-saving synergies. regarding political or socioeconomic is­and the 15-year anniversary of the U.S. ~:.r 
r~
)'.'\:·
"This is all about unity over hatred," says sues, claiming she needed to return to her invasion of a small banana republic no \·i "Gaelic Monger" editor Allen Wases. crossword puzzle. one remembers. . "Theyhate the existence ofthe for-profits "I basically only like to read abridged AP 
I 


It's Raining Benz , 
Free cars provided through "College Drivership Program" 
I
ROBERTGOULET

S 
11 
tudent government has decided to solve the problem,"' Bob says. students could already decide to buy cars i;; purchase 4,500 Mercedes-Benz con­Bob gave a presentation at the last student for themselves. "It is your responsibility to ?k vertibles for the student body yester­government meeting, where he stated that make everyday purchasing decisions for ~­day, on the heels of a successful "College participation in this program was higher . the student body," Bob reminded student ~~1: Drivership Program.'' The program, which at Notre Dame than any other school in government. h ran for the past three weeks, distributed the country. "Now that you're giddy with When asked to explain the economics f;, 
free cars to students. "Since so many stu­school pride, please give me some money," dents accepted the free cars," student sena­Bob says in his presentation. Bob also asked tor Tom Dickens says, "there is obviously student government to ignore the fact that .



~=:?:::i!i:~~~;;:~~~ .~ 
a high demand for them. Therefore, it for that scam?" Sarcastic requested (~fj was smart for student government to buy them in bulk for the students.'' 

..,,.-~i,-]:-r,--~-,,-~
i~;!l:":,~;ftE;;;1Ei
Slick Bob, local car salesman, devel­oped the program for the Notre Dame 

a crude sketch ofa student urinating t.'I; campus. "I saw that driving was low into a drain, with the word "money!" 
l~{
around campus, so I knew Student _etched above the urine stream. i,, Government would be stupid enough to fall for this scam ... wait, replace that last clause with 'brave enough to 
, wi!:J:~:::.will t:,:,a:,,::;k,:;:,e:,::,e-::::,f,:-fe:::,,~~t=::e:::I 



Jigglins' T-Mobile Sidekick Hack--------·­
Rev. Hunk Polloi "embarassed" about text message blasting him 
RICHARDCRANIUM 
The Swarovski-encrusted personal digital assistant of high-profile Notre Dame President-elect the Rev.Joe Jigglins was hacked on Saturday, exposing his phone numbers, e-mails and phone-captured photos. But most contro­versial was the release of a text message trashing former university President the Rev. Hunk Polloi. The anonymous hacker who was actually present at the meeting provided Sarcastic with a copy of the message, the full text of which can be seen at right. Jigglins reportedly sent the message to university Vice-President the Rev. Thor Larksman who was seated just several feet away during a recent board of trustees meeting .. According to the text provided, Jigg­lins' message to Larksman bashed Polloi unabashedly, cleverly implying that Pol­loi often speaks in monotone and bears resemblance to Herman Munster, a char­acter from the popular 1960s sitcom "The Munsters." Also at right is a sketch ofPal­loiJigglins composed during the meeting. The message further suggested that Polloi had ceased breathing-perhaps implying that the former university president is not exactly a "people person." Sarcastic still has not received word on Polloi's respiratory situation. 

The message was allegedly sent during a lengthy speech given by Polloi, although no sources can recall what the speech was about. Upon receiving the message, Larksman shot up suddenly, mumbling "no, I'm telling you, the alcohol policy wasn't my idea. I got set up! The trustees ...". The source claims that Larksman then giggled like a young schoolchild and promptly left the room, shouting "intonation, here I come!" 
Polloi was in the middle of meeting with former U.S. president Bill Clinton and former First Lady Hillary Rodham Clinton when he received word that the message had been leaked. He quickly released a statement saying that this was just the third time he had ever been em­harassed as university president. . 
obtained the above excerpt from Jigglins' Sidekick message sent to Larksman and the above snapshot of Herman Munster, allegedly defiled by Jigglins. 

LAUGHING THROUGH THE PAIN Polloi was meeting with the Clintons when he received word ofJigglin's text message and announced that he was "embarassed." He quickly sought sympathy from the former U.S. president and first lady, but unfortunately Bill was distracted by a group of interns and Hillary was a cold-staring automaton. 
31 MARCH 2005 SCHOLASTICNEWS 27 

CA 


The Gipp mal<es headlines ••. sort of ... 
Greetings, Gipplings! It seems th:at since the last "Campus Watch" was published, Uncle Gipp stirred up just a little bit of controversy. Apparently my colleagues at The Irish Rover didn't take too kindly to one of the Gipp's comments ,about their opinions of the fairer sex. The editors even accused the Gipp of implying that The Irish Rover's female staff members have been brainwashed. by the patriarchal culture. To be honest, the Gipp isn't even sure what this means. Now, I love a good clash ofwords and· wit, but come on guys (and girls, of course): Take a joke! You might not have noticed, but "Campus Watch" has never been too strong on intelligent political and social commentary (or on humor, in some people's opinions). Ifyou going to hand out as many disses as you do, you should be able to take a few in return. 
Speaking ofwhich, the NDToday.com message board crowd continues to speculate about the 
Gipp's gender. I see there is no pleasing you ... 
Anyway, enough internal business for now. One tipster, in response to the Gipp's pleading for tips in the last issue, sent in a story that occurred at a football game in the fall. While the tale is an oldie, the Gipp assures you it's a goo die. It appears that the subject of our story was a regular protagonist of Gipp tips a few years ago but somehow fell off the map. Or maybe his friends finally had pity on him and stopped sending in every outrageous 
moment of his downwardly spiraling life. But the Gipp is convinced that some people are just here to amuse/shock others, and that they should just accept that. Our subject, we'll-call him "Steve," must've had a beer or two prior to the game because he got into a shouting match with a female student ·and ended up slugging her in the face. Yes,. you read that correctly. In what was probably the only good move they have ever made, the stadium ushers quickly escorted Steve out ofthe stadium. 
Around 10 p.m. that night, Steve's friends became a little concerned when they finally noticed (nice friends) his abscence since his strong showing in the stadium. As a joke, one of his friends 

called the South Bend Police Department to ask ifthey had seen him. Turns out that the boys in blue had been getting acquainted with Steve for several hours at the station. Apparently our hero wasn't finished when he left the stadium. Once outside, he began arguing with a cop about President Bush's policies, despite the officer's warnings that ifhe didn't leave he'd be arrested. Needless to say, the cop wasn't in the mood for a political discussion and made good on his word. Steve's friends went to pick him up around 11 p.m., but Steve was still too intoxicated to be released. Note, dear Gipplings: He was arrested around 2:30 p.m. Apparently Steve since has cut back his alcohol intake pretty steeply. Smart move. This is probably a good time to remind the readers that just because the Gipp writes about it doesn't mean he thinks you should go do it. But ifyou do, e-mail me the story so the campus can have a laugh, or a collective head-slap, at your expense. 
In other news, those rumors are true about Charlie Weis buying BobDavie's house inGranger, Ind. Davie reportedly . plans to include in the sale some of his ND memorabilia. Yeah, we'd like to get rid ofthose memories, too. 
One more football item: T~e Gipp recently noticed an interesting item for ~ale on eBay. The seller, eb~~_fl_.·-"' e 
named "redspawnshop" (which also happens to be the name of a nondescript pawnshop southeast  -QJ)i{  
of downtown), is offering a Notre Dame 2003 Gator Bowl ring that he "received from the player  www.eBAY.c~M  
himself." The lord of the ring, being the good fella that he is, insists that he will not tell you who  

the player is, so don't even ask. However, he does provide potential buyers with this subtle hint: "The player was not proud of this"game, and since he was starting offense and got knocked out of the game very early, he decided to get rid of this memory." Considering that only 11 players start on offense and only one was injured early in the game, this shouldn't be too hard to figure out. Ifyou still can't get it, you can buy the ring yourself, which still has the mystery man's name engraved in it. Last time the Gipp checked, the bidding was up to $436.13. 
j . 

Well, hopefully you're missing football, because this "Campus Watch" definitely came with an off-season theme. Keep sending in those tips. 

31 MARCH 2005 SCHOLASTICCAMPUSWATCH 29 




~ * * "('J y:{ 
Artist:JackJohnson Albu11z: In Between Dreams 

For a graduating Notre Dame senior, the search for a proper analogy to describe the past four years begins and ends with the musical career of Jack Johnson. Johnson's fresh­man musical work is much like the freshman year of a typi­cal Notre Dame student; '\ starting from humble and unassuming beginnings, that which was once rel­atively nondescript grasps for the achievement offirst-tier status. ' With time, the freshman wallflower blossoms into ultimate hotness sopho­more year. Basking in the glamour of newfound popularity, sophomore year brings the Johnson-Notre Dame stu­dent corollary once again closer, with both factions reveling in their great times at bars, writing songs about surf-

Matuba Ja,panese Restaurant & Sushi Bar
*** * 6

Where you won't get a "raw" deal 
JESSICAWHITE 

ust a short distance from campus, 
South Bend's Matuba Japanese Res­
taurant and Sushi Bar is an excellent 
local spot to enjoy sushi and other Asian 
cuisine. Relatively unknown to students 
but popular with the locals; Matuba of­
fers students a comfortable yet uncon­
ventional dining adventure. 

Matuba's spirit ofwelcome is immedi­ately evident; the one-room restaurant features an intimate, cozy atmosphere, with pictures of flowers and samurai, · as well as other Japanese-inspired art decorating the walls and ceiling. The 
J 

ing, all the while drinking and singing 
to great times we don't remember with 
friends we'll never forget. '· 

Then came the pressure of the big time. 
The responsibility of the big time, indeed, is a cruel mistress, and Jack Johnson's career faced the CORE class of its own. However, a legion of adoring and somewhat misled 
", fans bolstered Johnson 
~ through these difficul­
i ties, quick to support him 
/ in his attempt to entertain · 
/ the soulster in all ofus. 
~ And what entertainment it 
j.:r was! However, Johnson surely 
s-underwent the same disillusion­
ment with fame that students find when college, parents' money and life in general quickly slip away like sands through the hourglass. As college-aged Johnson lovers campus-wide lay glisten­ing in the sunless afternoon, comforted · by an unshaken conviction in the care­
· 

restaurant's soft lighting illuminates a fish tank full ofpoi that greets custom­ers at the entrance, and tucked away in the back ofthe room is a small bar where patrons can mingle with the talented chef as he prepares the sushi. 
Upon entering the restaurant, a friendly server will greet you warmly. You then can choose your own table and sip plum wine as you peruse Matuba's expansive menu. Once settled, you may find the gyoza (pan-fried dumplings) or the soft-shell crab delight to be excel­lent starters for your Matuba dinin~ 

CD REVIEW 

free frolic of a gentle surfer's melody, 
they forgot that life is not always so 
perfect. They forgot that college ends 
in four years, and that Johnson fore­
warned that he would quit after two 
albums. This utopian lifestyle was not 
meant to be. 

In a snap back to reality that can be likened to the malaise that ensues upon a senior's realization that nine-to-five jobs are calling, "In Between Dreams" may be received by some fans as a mis­take. It must, they cry, be an accidental release of im,postor material. His third studio album, however, refuses to live up to the quality that Johnson has de­livered on previous outings. The dude's too laid-back to bother with substance, what with living in a shack in Hawaii and spending most ofthe day riding the surf. And I can almost guarantee that "Banana Pancakes" is the worst song you'll ever hear while at Notre Dame. Unless you're five-yearing it. I'm not calling anything prematurely. . 
-.• .. H experience. :For the main course, move on to one of their specialty items, like the katsu-donburi ( deep-fried pork cut­let and egg) or the unagi-donburi (eel served over rice.) Or, perhaps you would rather pick from their sushi a la carte list, which contains over 20 varieties of sushi. Also, their makimono roll (hand roll) menu lists over 35 different selec­tions, which range from the typical tuna to the pricier lobster special roll. For sushi neophytes, the bento (dinner box) selection would be a smart choice. From $13.95 to.$15.95, the dinner box allows 
30 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 31 MARCH 2005 

,----------------------li:§Il:@l§l##Ite!J)l!lll}'..~:$:1.i:fii1U!JijENTERTAINMEr5i't7----------------------. 


you to sample three pieces 
ofsushi (tuna, Ironwood Road to McKinley Avenue. You ~ salmon and shrimp), four California rolls, won't get a "raw" deal at Matuba. 0 ~~T~BA--~~-~ eight tuna rolls and your choice of side. 
~~~~~~~ 
J/1~--~As an added bonus, all entrees are served with miso soup, tangy salad, steamed rice 
~~hffj"•t• ~•1f'!~ii#t> . ..f ~-~::;i~.tBAR l
and green tea. Matuba's dishes are available for car­
2930East McKin,Jey Ave.·
ryout, and a special weekday lunch menu 
;(2J9)251-Q6?4 : : . .. --­
is available with smaller portions for your 
.• Dinnefhifurs: ..
enjoyment. Normally, the cost of sushi tends to run on the more expensive side, 
MoniS1t,:Sp.nz....·.~_-9p:m,
butMatuba offers decent prices that could 
:Cn:rryoutlunch _hours: X: ­
fit into a student's budget. So treat your­
_Mon"7 1fri, 1La.m.c-'-•2p.1JZ/
self to an affordable meal and travel down 
3LJNl(05

Ever dream of becoming a singing sensation? Do you think you are a vocal wonder? If so, check out Legends Nightclub at 10 p.m. on Thursday, March 31, and make your vivacious vibrato heard at Karaoke Night! Karaoke lasts until midnight and will be followed by Brew and View, which will feature the flick "There's Something About Mary." 
&{.:'1l"'n~
Rd~tor4~/El~Wr,?/ 

Head to St. Joseph's Drive (which runs between Breen Phil­lips Hall and the CSC) at 11 a.m. on Saturday, April 2, for the 
"Spring Run." This annual fundraiser, sponsored by RecSports and ND Food Services, is a great way to stay in shape while raising money for the Rebuilding Together/Christmas in April campaign-anati9nwide program in which more than 250,000 volunteers spend one Saturday in April renovating homes and community facilities for low-income, elderly and disabled residents. The "Spring Run" includes SK-and lOK-runs for the athletically-able, as well as a two-mile walk for those who haven't seen the treadmill all winter. Events will begin at 11 a.m., and there will be free t-shirts and post-race refreshments for all finishers. 
~ 
(;J:f'fII.ff~_#~~-:JJ11,.. J\lJ t)} .
Experience Catholic Literature in AmericaToday 

Take a trip to the McKenna Center for Continuing Education to check out "The Aesthetics ofBelief Conference for Catholic Writers," which runs from Sunday, April 3 until Tuesday, April 
5. The conference will feature an assortment of Catholic poets and writers who will read and discuss their works, giving insight into the current state ofCatholic literature in America. Guests will include writer Katherine Vaz, poets and journalists Paul Mariani and Demetria Martinez and novelist Tim Gautreaus. A panel discussion on Catholic literature in America today, chaired by Valerie Sayers, will take place on Tuesday, April 5. For more details and a schedule of events, visit 
http://www.nd.edu/ ~alcwplactivities.html. 
~l-· tn~
c<;'(fifi F~ ·' Fid~(i~omes to Campus 
Didn't get your fill of Irish culture on St. Patrick's Day? Have St. Patrick's Day festivities left you with a lingering craving for all things Irish? If so, check out Celtic-inspired fiddling virtuoso Natalie MacMaster on Friday, April 8, from 8 p.m. -10 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall of the Marie P. Debartolo Center for the Performing Arts. MacMaster's distinct style, which combines an earthy mix of bluegrass and Celtic folk, hails from Canada's Cafe Breton Island and has inspired collaborations with such renown artists as Luciano Pavarotti, Faith Hill and Carlos Santana. 
/2;1 u~ ,,;> llflm~ 
~fff I. E~ /4? f I V.Jt ;?'}
Ledrn abouet: "e Hop~or Lasting Peace 
Bring all ofyour friends to the Hes burgh Center Auditorium on Tuesday, April 12, from 4:15 p.m. -5:15 p.m., for the panel discussion, ''.Jerusalem Women Speak: Three Women, Three Faiths, One Shared Vision." Sponsored by Partners for Peace and the Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, three women will share their firsthand experiences ofthe on -go­ing Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Having witnessed the brutality and deterioration of their home country, these women have committed themselves to educating American audiences about what can be done to establish lasting ~eace. 
-Compiled by Sarah Barrett 

3 I MARCH 2005 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 31 


JUST LIKE THE SHOW (left) Marcus Jackson, Debbie Brown and Carmen Forte offer advice to a participant. (right) Sophomore Tim Masterton performs soulfully. 
Talent Abounds on These Can,pus G,rounds 
Fierce competition in Notre Dame's Irish Idol sing-off ... Simon Cowell would be impressed 
SARAHBARRETT

Although South Bend, Ind., is in­The judges -women's volleyball show was Carrie Campbell, a senior in comparable to Los Angeles, New coach, Debbie Brown; last year's Irish Walsh Hall, and Matt Kinsella, a senior York City, San Francisco and Idol, Marcus Jackson and Glee Club in Keenan Hall and host/emcee of the 
Houston -and Notre Dame does not member, Carmen Forte -sat on desk football pep-rallies. 
house the likes ofKelly Clarkson or Ru­chairs in a cold, empty room with The showwas a huge success; it includ­
ben Studdard-the talent here is none­director/producer Megan Furman for ed everything from prayer to bust-shak­
theless incredible. Months ofpreparation three days judging both the adroit and ing to acoustic guitar playing. The crowd 
and practice led 75 Notre Dame and Saint •· the inept amateur aspirants. sang along to the songs, waved lighters in 
Mary's students to Crowley Music Hall Judged on vocal performance, stage the air, threw roses up on stage and even 
from Feb. 28 to March 2 for auditions to presence and entertainment value, the gave a standing ovation for Ritter after 
become this year's "Irish Idol." Although top 10 contestants were revealed, notified her performance. · 
some contestants were more serious about of their superior standing and given the With the first round completed, judges 
their endeavor than others, songs ranging opportunity to sing on stage before their Jackson, Fmte, and Deanna Gumpf­
from "Somewhere Over the Rainbow" to peers to win a $500 check, a paper crown who stood-in for audition judge Deb­
"The Star Spangled Banner" were per­and the lofty title of "Irish Idol." bie Brown -convened and announced 
formed before a judging panel. After having overshadowed the 65 the top three performers. Stephens, 
. other students with · Duran and Masterton were selected their captivating for their superior skills on the stage and performances at both asked to perform one more song in order rounds of auditions, to determine a winner. From this point Joanna Bat, Terri on, the crowd became the judge, gaining Baxter, Beth Du­the ability to declare 2005's "Irish Idol." ran, Robbie Hazen, Serenading the crowd with a soul­Donisha Lewis, Tim ful and passionate remix to his own Masterton, Tiara song "Dedication," Stephens, musically TorresPage, Matt known as "Da Natural," began the final Patricoski, Molly Rit­round of the competition. Jackson, hav­ter and Jeffery Z:}ne ing heard Stephens perform before, began Stephens prepared a the judges' comments saying, "You did song for the cham-a great job. That was the most heartfelt pionship competition performance! have ever heard from you. on March 31. I'm speechless. I looked into the crowd 
Emceeing for the and saw a gleam in everybody's eyes." 

32 SCHOIASTICENTERTAINMENT 31 MARCH 2005 
With a tough act to follow, Duran pulled through excellently. Singing "Don't Stop Believing" by Journey, she had the judges and the crowd fascinated by her intense passion. Speechless, Gumpf commented on Duran's act saying, "You are a great performer." " 
The cliche "last but not least" accurately describes Tim Masterton's performance of Simon and Garfunkle's "Bridge over Troubled Waters." Choosing not to use a microphone, Masterton closed his eyes and sang from the heart. His effort and talent were well rewarded and reflected in both the judges' and the audience's response. Masterton was named Irish Idol by popular vote, and Jackson ap­proved of this decision, commenting, "You know you are badass when you don't need a mic." 
Masterton, with $500 check in hand and swarmed by friends and family to congratulate him, was incredibly grateful. "I cannot believe I won. I am speechless. I did [Irish Idol] last year and got second, so I was hesitant about doing it again this year. The money does not even matter to me, I would have done it without the 

--.;_---------------------lli§l~~@i:::I!te~ltt!li./.~:!-iiii!I!J@ENTEI:ltAINMENt1---'----------------------, 
money," he said. "I won't give it back though; it will pay for many pints in Dublin in the fall. It was definitely a great experience." , Created in the spring of 2003 as a take-off of the Fox television show "American Idol," Irish Idol has gained prominence on campus. It has moved from being a small show between mostly freshmen and sophomores performed in the LaFortune Ballroom to a competition between all classes performed in Legends that awards large prizes to all of its 10 finalists. Producer/Director oflrish Idol Megan Furman has been in­
The contest is summed up best by volved with the show since the beginning. Forte: "Irish Idol is not just about the She comments on her experience with the 
singing; it's about making the audience competition: "I love doing it. The reason 
beg for more." . I do this is because I wish I was them. I've just never been a singer. There is a lot of talent on this campus that's not seen and I just wanted to let people know and put it out there. I feel so bad [that the students who audition] can't all make it-they all have a lot of talent. They're amazing." 

\ r•·•·-•· --· ·i; n 
: > I /::\\ -z;:-' l/ ( i i\ ' ---.\ I .:, ' •. " _.-,,fii'·, _\ : i \ 
.. ·worsttve)ar:111 :sports? 

! i 
So, ladies and gents, this is the last edition of "Meskillaneous," as I'm changing positions at Scholastic. I could look at the bright spots for the year, but it's much more fun to focus on the negative. So, I :figured I'd look back and recount the five worst sports moments of the past academic year. Get ready; it's about to get ugly. 
No. 5: Bulked on BALCO 

I know I've written about this topic in the past, but I figure I'll summarize the issues. Many baseball players have been using steroids to push the boundaries of their physical fitness. The consequences are dramatic for both the sport and the athlete. Records set and awards won be­cause of an unfair advantage gained by performance-enhancing substances taint the history of the game and decrease the impact of honors held by athletes in the past, who achieved their awards steroid­free. The Olympic Committee would never stand for such an insult to its organization; I don't know why Major League Baseball does. 
No:4: A Frozen Sport 

I thinkwe can all agreethatthemillions ofdollars that professional athletes make each year is not enough. Let's face it; many of these guys barely are able to purchase 
STATZONE 
Bryan Lowery brings you ... 


34 SCH0LASTICSPORTS 

CHRISTOPHERMESKILL 
the bare necessities of survival, like, for example, seven Hummers. Therefore, when the overall sport is losing money because it is spending 76 percent of its gross revenue on players' salaries, the National Hockey League Players' Association should refuse to play. Are you kidding me? All sarcasm aside, it is an absolute shame that team owners are forced to have a season-ending lockout to discipline money-hungry players. Salary discrepancies arise in almost every business, but to complain to the point of lockout is selfish, especially considering the substantial salaries that 
these professional athletes reveive. 
No. 3: The Ron Artest Show 

Just when basketball was beginning to recover from the Kobe Bryant trial, now this happens. I was embarrassed as a basketball fan to witness Ron Artest's actions. I can agree that fans can get out of hand at times, but that is why guards are posted at every stadium in the nation. As evidenced by Artest's fight, violence between athletes and fans is becoming an all-too-commo.n reality. Fans have to realize that athletes are under an extreme amount of pressure during games, and it's easy for them to· lose their tempers. Meanwhile, the athletes should let the stadium police officers do their jobs while 
No. 1 Fencing: 

The Notre Dame fencing team -claimed its seventh National Title on Sunday, March 20, at the NCAA Cham­pionships in Houston, Texas. This is the second title for the Irish in the last three years, with previous victories in 1977, 1978, 1986, 1987, 1994 and 2003. As a whole, the Irish performed well, they do theirs and just play the game. 
No. 2: AnotherTrojan Championship 
USC is dangerously close to surpassing Notre Dame in national championships. I• didn't think I could handle having 
·· Michigan in front of us in all-time win percentage, and I know I wouldn't be able to cope if the Trojans were in front of us in championships. It is even more frustrating when the Trojans make their case for the title by thrashing us by 31 points and winning the Reisman for the past three years. Charlie Weis has stated thatTrojanHead Coach Pete Carroll has never been too effective against him; I sure hope he's right about that. 
No I: The Curse Reversed 

It's my opinion that the Boston Red Sox's World Seri_es win was the worst thing to happen in sports this year. This completely changes the dynamics of the greatest rivalry in the history ofany sport. Boston gained support from its fans from the sheer futility of its baseball efforts; fans love rooting for the underdog. But, then again, I hold contention to any team whose main claim-to-fame was a magi­cal, imaginary curse that accounts for its suclciness at baseball. Oh well; it made the -New York-Boston feud great. And, plus, I'm still going to chant "1918." . 
advancing five of six fencers to the title round. Crowned champion in men's epee, senior Michal Sobieraj was the only Irish fencer to win a title match. With this victory, Sobieraj joins Molly Sullivan ('88) as the only Notre Dame sen.tors to w!n a weapon title. 
2004 Olympic gold medalist and Irish·sabre Mariel Zagunis won the sil­
31 MARCH 2005 
jSG801.::AS;TTIG ~PORTS; 


TOM
IRISHEYES 
THORNTON 

junior southpaw Tom Thornton is the top returning starter for the Irish pitching staff, which is one of the best in the na­tion. While leading the Irish to a 51-12 record and a Big East .. 
title in 2004, Thornton received Dean's L~t accolades with an impressive 3.81 GPA in his double major of anthropology and film, television, and theatre. Taking a break from his athletics and academics, Thornton sat down with Scholastic to talk about his passion for film and this year's baseball season. · 


How difficult is keeping iep with schoolwork while away from campus on road trips? 
It can get pretty difficult fast because; when we start traveling, it's. a couple of weekends before mid-semester exams when the semester starts picking up aca­demically. _But, by and large, the professors are really good at accommodating you. Dealing with the travel and the school is just a matter ofprioritizing your time, which, in a way, is easier than you would think. When you're on the road and not playing games, you basically spend a lot of time in the hotel. We have time at the end ofthe day to get our work done and take care ofbusiness. 
Who is yourfavorite professor at Notre Dame? 

Professor Carol Nordstrom. One thing I loved about her was that she came into the class just laughing. She made anthropology so much about delving into the culture and dealing with the people in a way that made the class incredibly fun and enjoyable. She was just pure sunshine. She'd come [into class] and just light 
~~~~ , . 
Wbo! yourfavorite actor ofall time? 

I'm a bigJ ack Lemmon fan, especially for the variety ofthe characters that he has played. Later on [in] his career he did a lot more serious roles. He always showed a great vivacious life that he would put into each· character. He brings out a lot of depth in the characters he plays. There are certain roles that he just fits. 
. ' : . . . 
As a diehard Red Soxfan, what wouldyou do ifthe ~nkees offeredyou a contract? 
I grew up about half an hour from Fenway Park, loving the Red Sox and hating theYankees. If [theYankees] were to draft me and offer me a contract, frankly, I don't·know what I'd do. Ifthe situation were right, yeah, I'd sign. There's always a trade possibility. But you cross that bridge when you get to it. On the bright side, I'd be playing nine or _10 games a year at Fenway, at least .. 
What goals do you have for the season? 

We have a really exciting team this year, with great pitching depth and an ex­plosive offense that's really going to shock some people. We really believe that we can competewith the best, which we've shown in years past. Our goal is to take it to Omaha and win the national championship. Ultimately, anything less than that would be a disappointment. We firmly believe we can achieve that. We're looking to come out there and shake things up a little bit, and go out and win another Big East conference title; 
-Mike Laskey 
ver medal on the women's side, while sophomores Amy Orlando and Patrick Ghattas tooksilver inwomen's epee and men's sabre, respectively. Zagunis was busy the following weekend, winning her sixth world championship title and ninth medal attheJuniorWorld Cham­pionships in Linz, Austria. 
Nine of Notre Dame's 11 fencers were awarded All-American honors for the season. Included in this list are seniors Sobieraj, Andrea Ament and Alicja Kryczalo -all three of whom earned All-American honors over four consecutive years. Kryczalo also took second place in foil, becoming one of three Notre Dame fencers to win four NCAA inedals. This NCAA Tourna-


OPPONENT: RUTGERS WHERE: PISCATAWAY, N.J. WHEN: SATURDAY, APRIL 2, 12:00 P.M. AND 2:30 P.M. EST 
Notre Dame heads into Saturday's double-header tied with Rutgers and Boston College for first place in the Big East. With the opportunity to move ahead of the Scarlet Knights, the Irish certainly will bring their "A" game to New Jersey. Expect strong pitching coupled with some clutch hitting from junior shortstop Greg Lopez to propel Notre Dame past Rutgers, 4-2 and 7-4 for the sweep. 
CHRISTOPHERMESKILL 
EXECUTIVE EDITOR 
After a tough six-game losing streak, Notre Dame's pitching has solidified. After Olvey's and Samardzija's performances against Seton Hall, I predict that the Irish will maintain their dominance on the mound. Notre Dame takes two, 7-3 and 5-2. 
MIKEBORGIA 
EDITOR EMERITUS 
Key to the Game: Notre Dame's pitching really has shown through the past few games. Sophomores Derik Olvey and Jeff Samardzija demonstrated their dominance, holding Seton Hall to three runs in last weekend's double­header. In order to keep up with Rutgers, the Irish will need two strong starts from their squad. 
ment gave Kryczalo the women's record for career wins (84-8) in the NCAA Tournament. 
These numbers are impressive and with the youth on this team, it is prob­ably true that Notre Dame fencing will continue to break records for years to come. . 
3 I MARCH 2005 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 35 




: .· 
.-----------------:.:._-----'' . -~·_sPORi"s0:;--'-------,-------,---------­
A Program. Back .. 
New Head Coach Jim Kubinski's 
1n Full s~&nn 
adjustments get Irish golf back on track · 'YT I 
CHRISTOPHERMESKILL 
Immediately following the media frenzy that struck over the firing of Notre Dame Head Football Coach Tyrone Willingham, a surprisingly similar, yet less publi~ized coaching change occurred in Notre Dame's golf program. In late November, rumors started to spread about three-year Head Golf Coach John Jasinski's possible resignation due to undisclosed personal reasons. Jasinski validated these rumors on Dec. 7, when he officially tendered his resignation, sending Athletic Director Kevin White in search ofa golf coach and adding to his already exhausting football dilemma. The upcoming coaching change proved difficult for a number of Irish golfers. "For a while we were really down about what happened, and we had to adjust to it," sophomore Cole Isban says. "We wanted to get someone in here and fill the position well." Empathizing with Isban, junior Eric Deutsch says, "[It was difficult] not knowing what was going on. [Assistant Coach Chris] Whitten helped make the transition go very smooth, and, witho9-t him, it might have been very bad." Two weeks after Jasinski's resigna­tion, Jim Kubinski, an assistant golf coach at Duke, learned of the opening and· contacted the Notre Dame Athletic 
. Department, which added him to its short list of candidates. Kubinski was granted a number of interviews where he estab­lished himself as the frontrunner for the 
· position and, onJan. 28, he was hired as the prograni;s new head coadh. Kubinski readied himself for the diffi­

(i:,)·-~·~, 
culties inherent in taking over a program 

i . ' · ..:• 
midseason, recognizing that loyalty to Jasinski might pose an early roadblock to teani unity. "It was tough as a new coach coming in, since there were some

~\II~~~ 
allegiances [to Jasinski]," Kubinski says. "I understand that there are some trust . factors when y~m've been under a coach for a while who probably recruited you." PERFECT POSTURE Sophomore standout. Cole lsban hits a clean iron shot on the fairway. He has been In order to break down some of these 
a key contributor to the Irish thus far this season. . barriers, Kubinski immediately scheduled 
36 SCH0LASTICSPORTS 31 MARCH 2005 

individual meetings with every member of the team. On Feb. 11, Kubinski spent half an hour with each of Notre Dame's 15 team members. Overall, Kubinski received a positive vibe from the group. "I really just felt welcomed," Kubin,ski says. "I think the guys wanted to get on board." 
Kubinski quickly got them "on board" in his first week on the job with an ex­pedition to Orlando, Fla., for an alumni golf tournament. While this event did not have any effect on Notre Dame's national ranking, it did, however, give Kubinski his first chance to evaluate the team. And he liked what he saw: "I was pleasantly surprised at the amount of talent here at Notre Dame," Kubinski said after wit­nessing the team's performance. 
Kubinski's initial assessments led to some adjustments in the roster for the Tulane Invitational on Feb. 28. When Kubinski decided to use freshman Ed­die Peckels, who had seen limited play­ing time under Jasinski, Peckels did not disappoint his new .coach. Sinking a set of birdie putts in a sudden death playoff, Peckels helped lift the Irish into first place in the tournament. 
The result of the Tulane Invitational proved to be no fluke, as the Irish went on to take fourth and second in their next two tournaments. In the meantime, Kubinski has started to map out other plans for the program. He hopes to cut the team to 10 or fewer golfers in the next few years. With six juniors currently on the team, graduation largely will handle this size issue. Kubinski noted that the advantage of carrying a smaller team is that each individual player's skills will be assessed and addressed accordingly. "The big thing is the attention that each player gets individually," Kubinski says. "As long as you keep that competitive level up among those eight to 10 guys, I don't think there is any problem with having a smaller squad." 

Individual players have expressed approval of Kubinski's coaching style, especially ofthe significant attention he has been pay­ing to· each player's game. Deutsch, for example, is pleased with the adjust­ments that are being made to his swing. Kubinski and Deutsch are in agreement that a few changes could be enough to make Deutsch competitive at the profes­sional level. Commenting on his progress, Deutsch says, "In order to pursue golf as a career, which I would like to do, I need to make the change." 
While the individual changes being made to the squad are reason enough to expect a transformed golf program, incoming recruits will play a large role in carrying out that about-
GET INTHE HOLE Junior Eric Deutsch putts his way to victory in an early tournament. Head Coach Jim Kubinski has worked with Deutsch's stroke in order to advance his game. 
face. While Kubinski is not responsible for this year's recruiting class, he is opti­mistic aboutJosh Sandman (Greensboro, N.C./Southeast Guilford HS). "I think Josh will add a lot to the program," Ku­binski says. "He certainly put up a lot of good numbers in junior golf." Unaffected by Jasinski's resignation, Sandman com­mitted to Notre Dame on Dec. 16. 
In his first month on the job, Kubinski has implemented great changes and has seen considerable improvement. The first three tournaments marked three of Notre Dame's highest four finishes this academic year, a sign that his adjustments have been effective in bettering the team. As just the sixth coach in the illustrious 76-year history of the Notre Dame golf program, Kubinski has demonstrated his ambition and vigor early with this Irish squad. If Kubinski's career follows these early trends, he will garner the respect that came to the other five men who have held his position. . 
r -.... ____ --------.. -------------------------·--------------,---------------------.---------------· -------·-----------------.--------------------------------., I 
A Look at· His Resume 
Jim Kubinski, a 1.993 graduate of Springfield College in Mass., has been immersed in golf his entireEfe. As a:· three-time letter winner and two-time team captain, he was selected twiceto the Northeast-10 All-Conference Team. His junioryear, he was awarded the Springfield College Maroon Club Award for academic and athletic achievement. He has spent the last five years working as a golf instructor and assistant coach for the men's and wo_men's teams at Duke, earning a number of accolades jn his time there. With the : men, he was nominated for Assistant Coach of the Year by Golf Coaches' Association 
.of America. Meanwhile, he c_oached the women's squad to aNo. 1 ranking and a third­place finish at the 2004 NCAA Tournament. He also has spent time cin the Carolinas Section PGA. · 
I I 
·----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------· 


31 MARCH 2005 SCH0LASTICSPORTS 37 


~~Dura01 ~IC.,,,,,¼~% 






Student I: Have I ever told you how great my memory is1 Student 2: In fact, you have! 
"I was drinking, passed out, woke up in a bar, was drinking, passed out, woke up in a bar, was drinking, passed out, woke up at a football game ... It was time travel. And then I knew I was offically in college." 
-overheard student 
"I have an overbearing obsession with Fabio. I guess it began when I was a small child, when he was in those butter commercials. It just didn't make sense that it couldn't be butter." 
-male student at SDH 
Student I: Not to sound like a dominating wife over my boyfriend... Student 2: But you are. Student I: I can't help it though. 
"Says here I can purchase a replica of the ring from "Lord of the Rings" for $500. Or I could get beaten senseless, give $250 away.and still be better off." 
-student reading SkyMa/1 
Protecting the important landmarks on campus: 
Although we aren't sure if the plants . pictured are covered for fear of crosss pollination, we do know that only part of the plants get this special treatment. Construction work on South Quad appears to necessitate the "bagging'' of trees. 

96 Years Ago 
A Dangerous Throw 
Sometimes we hear rumors about other colleges. Usually it's in the context of teen pop icons: Will Hilary Duff room with the Olsen twins at NYU? Or promiscuity: Do RAs at state schools really hand out condoms? Without getting struck by lightning? According to an 1889 Scholastic, these other schools -complete with students, statues and "college spirit" -have existed for at least a century: 
"College rowdyism, dignified by Eastern exchanges with the appellation of 'college spirit,' manifested itself [. ..} when a party ofundergraduates, while out on a lark giving vent to their 'spirit,' threw a rope around a statue ofone ofYale's most honoredprofessors, now deceased, and pulled it to the ground, damaging both statue and pedestal [. ..} We are pleased to observe that this kind of'spirit' does not exist in the 'Wild West."' 
Whether it's Welsh Fam, Keough, O'Neill or Mc­Glinn, at least the Wild Wild West Quad knows better than to lasso statues, living or dead. 
-Erik Powers 
38 SCHOLASTICHUMOR 

31 MARCH 2005 

ERIKPOWERS 

Welcome to {du Lac] I Such aperfect town I Here we have some rules I Let us lay them down I Don't make waves I Stay in line I And we'll get alongfine. 
n "Shrek," we're led to believe that a draconic synergy of
I

scripture, Victorian chastity and Joe Domer/Betty Basilica 
conformity inevitably leads to utopia. Maybe it eventually does, but in the meantime there's a smidgeon oftrouble in Notre Dame du Lac. The past month alone has pitted the Progressive Student Alliance against Taco Bell, Bengal Bouts against hunger and South Dining Hall's Foxy Roxy against non-athletes. The campus has been divided into groups for and against slave wages, starvation and post-menopausal jersey chasing. But while these disagreements threaten the homogeneity ofthe bubble, at least they have been brought to the surface for discussion. 
A much more dangerous threat seditiously undercuts the balance of the student body: FlipSide. According to its Web site, FlipSide is "NOT an 'anti-drinking' group [but exists] to provide alternatives to drinking to those who desire it[... ] whether it be for a night or a lifestyle." 
Not anti-drinking? 
Poobah! 

The student group creates sides by its very name. How is there going to be a FlipSide without 
an "unflipped side"? Whether Flip.:·· 

something works well on paper than Side acknowledges it or not, tension 
how it chugs along in real life. already exists between prudes and 
There are also positive health ef­lushes. Prudes fail to see the point of fects ofdrinking. In order to improve spending exorbitant amounts oftime 
skin tone, you're supposed to drink in an altered state of consciousness, 
eight glasses of water a day..Eight cramming into overcrowded rooms cans ofKeystone, which is so watered and displaying hedonistic behavior. down it should come in a clear plastic Lushes think that.if prudes are going bottle, brings a bright red glow to al­to be spending their Friday nights most anyone's cheeks. Drinking at a watching movies and playing board party can also burn calories. Frequent 
games, they should find a babysitting dancing, hooking up and trips to the job and at least get paid for it. keg can be more grueling than a walk 
What the opposite sides miss are their inherent similarities. Most drinking games contain deci­sion-making and motor skills no more complicated than play­irig Monopoly or Double Dutch jump rope, the same games FlipSiders enjoy on the weekends. Meanwhile, FlipSiders and drinkers seek the same escape from South Bend to Funville. They should share a hayride instead ofsideswiping each other's tractor trailers. 
However, FlipSide fails because it overlooks several more prudent ways to ensure that students have fun on the weekends without imbibing alcohol. It could become the O'Douls ofso­cializing, offering similar style and substance ofalcoholic alter­natives minus the mind-altering effects. Would the choice not to drink have the same polarizing stigma ifFlipSide sponsored Dr. Pepper case races, Hawaiian Punch shotguns at tailgates or root beer pong tournaments? 
Ok, m3,rbe it would. 

It's not kool and the gang to drink alcohol at a rate where you're going to start losing family, friends and functioning organs. But it's just a fact that binge drinking is as ingrained a part ofthe college experience as the freshman 15; not everyone likes to look at it, but pretty much everyone picks it up after a while. College is the time to find the right balance between sobriety and cirrhosis. You've got four years to minimize the what-ifs that you'll have later in life, like, "WhatifI had gone to thatpimps and hos party junior year? Would I still be getting divorced from my third wife?" Or how about, "What if! had just done that century club, then stolen that golf cart with the gals? Then would I have lost my right hand when that tree fell on me on my way back from the library?" Shoot, these things might happen anyway, but while you can't worry about fate, you can get an ulcer from doubt. 
And an ulcer can be a lot worse than the so-called "negative" health effects of drinking. Much has been made oflosing brain cells to alcohol, but what doesn't kill us makes us stronger. So, by extension, whichever brain cells alcohol doesn't kill, it increases their productivity. You might have less to work with, but your efficiency will go through the roof! And, as all business 
majors know, it's more important that 

up to the third floor of DeBartolo. And drinking is also a great way to make friends. Most of the people you'll lean on the shoulder of and tell all about your hometown and how much you love this song will probably be little more than an awkward, "Hey, what's that person's name? Should I wave hi or should I look away? Oh, thank God my cell phone went off!" when you walk by them on the way to class the next Monday. But you'll also forge some of your tightest friendships while shivering in a cab or slipping on ice on the way back from TC. Maybe Notre Dame du Lac isn't meant to · be such a perfect place. But if you watch the wrestling scene in "Shrek," you'll see that he boozes before he overcomes the obstacles between him and a best friend, galpal and home. . 
Note: The views and opinions expressed in this column are those of the writer and not necessarily those ofthe Scholastic staff. 
31 MARCH 2005 SCH0LASTICHUMOR 39 

The Scholastic Interview 



Whom do you most admire? 
I'd say Father Hesburgh. He always led this universlty with dignity and class. He's always been ofhelp to me personally when I needed guidance. 
I would like Notre Dame to be more ... 
Exciting. I attended school here in the '70s, where there was always an era ofexcitement -whether it was academically, athletically or spiritually. It was a great period to be in school. It seems nowadays that Notre Dame is a little too reserved. 
Of what contribution to the Notre Dame community are you most 
proud? 

I really enjoy every day because ofthe students 
I have the opportunity to teac~. It is a real 
pleasure every day to walk into the classroom. 
What would make your job easier? 
It's really not ajob. This is fun. 
What is your greatest regret? 
Probably my greatest regret is that I didn't tell some ofmy former faculty members how 
much I appreciated them -and some of 
40 SCHOLASTICINTERVIEW 

EDWARD 
HUMS 
Edward Hums is in his 16th year of teaching as a professor ofaccountancy at Notre Dame. Additionally, he was a 1975 ND graduate and student athletic trainer for Notre Dame's 1973 National Championship football team -and has the ring to prove it. He juggles his teaching duties with playing on and coaching the university's faculty hockey team. He also serves as the faculty moderatorfor Circle K 
them are gone now. 
What is your favorite Notre Dame 
memory? 

That's pretty easy. The first day I went to 
work at Notre Dame was the day I met my 
wife. It was March 1, 1975. On that day, I 
met Shirley. It probably took me a little time 
to get up enough courage to ask her out. 
What or who is the greatest love of 
your life? 

My sweetie, Shirley [ .. ~]who has put up with me all these years. •Ifit's not the long hours I spend teaching, it's the long evening hockey games. 
What is something that students 
might not know about you? 
When I was a student, my; ca'I° was a Checker Marathon Cab ... a station wagon cab. 
What would you like your legacy to 
be? 

Just as a teacher who puthis heart into-his . teaching. 
31 MARCH 2005 


WVFl's Currentiii~)!IIJ~I 
The· self-depreca.tiq~. D.9rbf?.9Xf§Jf · hel . the f act"thaf ..·· ...P•··eh, 1€!.Jfrf ~;'fi
P. . .....•.: .......,.R........;:,.;c·,:·.;•s,,•:..•·• be elitists. PILJsthe?Gra: ,r"·:>; 
Sweet!.<•: 
/,•,:;:'.,·;111111 
·Gene'ral Stl.Jcfen }t.•.. .,.,, 
. ;1illlilf 










