“ST THOMAS and the Philosophers	Christian Cultural Dy-
Meet Tonight	namic”—the subject of
Robert Pollock of Fordham University — continues, at 8:30 o’clock this evening, the second annual philosophical symposium which opened this morning in the auditorium of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering.
(See page 5)
LAST WEEK a presi-Freshmen Vote dential poll of 177 for Roosevelt Seniors conducted by The Scholastic endorsed Roosevelt by an impressive majority. This week a poll of 190 Freshmen students in Zahm and Cavanaugh Halls gave added impetus to the third term boom.	(See page 6)
♦
NOTRE DAME’S bas-Keogan’s Men ketball team will be End Home Stay favored tomorrow evening when it entertains John Carroll University in the semi-final home game. Tuesday night the Irish will play their last home game when they meet the strong Marquette Hilltoppers, only team to defeat them twice last season.	(See page 12)
BUSIEST den of ac-Bengal Boxers tivity on the campus In Top Stride these afternoons is the boxing room in the Rockne Memorial. At about 3:30 every day the prospective Bengal champions stream in from their classes, and begin the daily grind which will put them in tip-top shape for the bouts. (See page 13)
The late Rev. Francis T. Wenninger, C.S.C. — “....Exemplary priest and distinguished scientist...^ the University suffers a real loss...(See pages 6. 10. and 11)
pack d!Oice appfcs
on bolloin.too!
-o» V is


Such ton. o '0,1 '*P ” l P,CS arc found
SS^
°">e, 77,e
on bottom
or the Po^t -iust "•oreadver,’ In J939

Crtibinfr
the
,c»diIIC tha
CAN MARRIED PEOPLE “KEEP YOUNG" BY TRAILING THE YOUNGER SET? What do you think of married people who continuously horn in on young people’s parties? Here’s the story of a husband and wife who tried to find the fountain of youth that way... and what happened to them. A short story in this week’s Post, You’re As Old As You F'd, by RICHARD SHERMAN.
I NEVER KNEW THAT ABOUT QUAKERS!
Do you know how the Quakers can run a world-wide relief organization on an annual budget of only $ 80,000? How they got the Nazis’ permission to enter Germany and to help the Jews? What they did in Spain? ... An eyeopening article about an army that quietly fights for peace, not for war. Read 100,000 Quakers May Be Right, by
HOW TO CATCH A CROOK WITH ROD AND REEL. Crunch and Desperate put to sea, in this week’s Post, on their most dangerous adventure to date. An adventure that started as an innocent big-game fishing trip and.ended with guns in their ribs and the Poseidon headed for.nowhere. An exciting yarn on page 12 of TheSaturday Evening Post. Crunch Goes Haywire, by PHILIP WYLIE.
WHY NO "BLITZKRIEG" IN THE BALKANS? The countries that touched off the last war aren't even in this one. Why? And for all their rich possessions, Stalin and Hitler have so far kept hands off. Why? Meet the Balkans’ crafty strong-arm squad —Carol, Boris, Paul, Metaxas_-and Gen. Ismet Inonu—and you’ll know. Don’t miss TficeBalkans Play It Safe, by JOHN T. WHITAKER.
WALTER D. EDMONDS’ NEW CIRCUS NOVEL.
The prize-winning author of Drums Along the Mohawk recreates the romance and glamourous adventure of two young runaways with a small-time traveling circus, a hundred years ago in upstate New York. Start reading-this colorful new Post novel. Second part of eight.
STANLEY HIGH.
"SHE’S A CHAMP!" "SHE’S A QUITTER!" Queer horse, “ The Lady.” She was a chestnut darling with the legs of a dancer, and each hoof left a print the size of a teacup’s rim. A born racer—who mysteriously quit every race at the half-way mark. ..The heart-thumping story of a horse trainer who refused to lose faith, The Lady H as A Flop, by BORDEN CHASE.
THE MAN WITH 3500 VALENTINES. In a packrat’s paradise in two rooms on 42nd Street in New York City, Sy Seidman has an amazing collection of 3500 old valentines, a dozen of which appear in color in the Post this week. The unique story of a hobbyist who collects everything from fans and souvenir hankies to banks and presidential songs. See—Roses are Red.
AND... The exciting solution of Leslie Ford’s murder mystery novel; another chapter in Dime Store, the life of F. W. Woolworth, merchant prince: short stories, editorials, poems, cartoons, and Post Scripts—all in The Saturday Evening Post this week.
THE SATURDAY EVENING POST @
The Notre Dame Scholastic
3
College Parade by Jack Willmann
Off — on the Wrong Foot
To shun the serious and court the facetious we note in several papers that a “mirage” is defined as the place where the little man who wasn’t there keeps his automobile. The N.J.C. News goes one step further in tracing that gentleman’s ancestry. Much detailed research revealed that said diminutive fellow who was absent had a mother and father— transparents.
❖ Darn Well Told
Prof: “What did you find out about the salivary glands?”
Pre-med: “Nothing. They’re too darn secretive.”—St. John’s Epitome.
Good for What Ails You
The world of science is literally up in arms over a question of deep concern to the student-in-the-parked-car. It started when California’s Dr. Katzoff advanced his “kiss to the death of germs” theory which claimed that heat is the greatest antiseptic, and therefore heart-to-heart, soul-to-soul, heavenly kisses are self-purifying. Such a theory to Pitt’s Dr. Carlson, director of Men’s Health Service, is so much baloney. He scoffs at the example that fervor will sterilize any transmutation of bacilli in the osculation process. There is something, however, in the idea that the modern girl uses enough lip-stick and other paint to kill any germs.
Ode to a Corn Merchant
I think that I shall never hear A band more pleasing to the ear Than one that all in all comprised Those corny licks I idolize!
Some rippling rhythm, an Osborne slide, A trombone gliss, a cello ride, Some stop and go, a tic-a-toc, A gutty harp, some music box.
Some may like a torrid horn, ' But as for me—I thrive on “com.”
—Navy Log.
❖
The Leisure Class
Position means everything to those practitioners of posture, but an instructor at Columbia University declaims such theories as propaganda. He opines that all students would get better grades if they could study in bed without sitting at attention. That is only the natural converse of the practical student opinion that it is easier to sleep in class than
in bed, especially in an upper bunk. There is an outside corroboration of this theory in humorist ’ Bob Benchley’s short, “How to Read a Book.” But then Bob couldn’t read in bed, either. History also comes to remind us that Abe Lincoln lay horizontally afront a fireplace to do his studying. However, this is really a matter “it ain’t how you do it, but what you do.”
Ohio State Prof Say:
He who has facile tongue in cheek will have sharp brain in head, or to put it in the quotacular, “An intelligent person is one who can use language •with facility, one who has linguistic capabilities.” This deduction was made by a psychology teacher who based his statement on the freshman intelligence tests which are mainly linguistic, consisting of comprehensive reading, analogies, opposites, and synonyms. The extrovert who dances, dates, and pursues extra-curricular activities has an edge over his opposite. And while even the dullest frosh has a higher intelligence
s “And I Don’t Belong to the American Youth Congress!”
rating than the average American adult, the professor declared that colleges are getting soft in that much shoddy work is tolerated today. Depression periods find a higher I.Q. because only those students who have bright, parents have enough money to attend college. -
—Pttrple Parrot.
Cardinal Cost Accounting
Now is the time when all students, good and otherwise, write home for their parents to come to the aid of the budget. Co-educational Wisconsin was the scene of a commercial survey to get the inside on Joe and Josie Cardinal’s spending habits. Including board and room expenses, the average monthly bill amounts to sixty dollars. The coke bills are topped by the expenditure for a fluid that comes in bottles, cans, barrels, or long and shorts. Cigarettes and movies rank high on the expense sheet, and it is an interesting note that the girls spend almost as much for dances as do their escorts. Ergo, it costs as much to be eligible for a dance date as it does to be eligible to pay for one of the same.
❖
Add Confuciana:
“When a man looks down at the mouth, there’s usually a pretty face above it.”
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Week By Frank Wemhoff
CAMPUS OPINION
Top of the Week
Ironically, in defeat . . . three athletic losses in one day.
Begin the semester
The old street cars back on duty . . . the semi-annual resolutions are again polished to make this the semester that everyone has been promising to study in . . . all class schedules have been arranged to suit the students . . . spring is always conducive to hard work . . . wire posts being set up throughout the main quadrangle to keep the seat-savers from triangling through to Washington Hall . . . nice new shiny cuts . . . next stop, Easter . . .
«£♦
Famous last words
. . . Please see me after class.
Here and there
... At “Gone With the Wind” . . . “How many please?” . . . “There were five but three of us died” ... In a weekly mag: “Is the generation of flaming youth passing?” . . . Only the smarter ones ... At the “rock”: “How’d you learn to dance?” . . . “Went to a dancing school” . . . “Abx, huh?” . . . Wonder where Confucius found the time to write his jokes . . .
Lenten Mortification
. . . Read the Scholastic “Week.”
A Perm
Little cuts from Classes Little breaks from bans
Make a mighty student Join the moving vans. ♦
With the thinlies
... In spite of the shellacking things didn’t look too bad . .. Bob Saggau rated the biggest blow for his great surprise victory in the sixty-five yard dash . . . Dean still reigns as the vaulter with the most ability to wear the sawdust becomingly . . . Hank Brosey concaves a bit around the middle but has the power to be Notre Dame’s best shot putter since Don Elser . . . Here Bereolos turned white when one of his sixteen pound heaves lobbed dangerously near a group
of late-comers ascending to their seats. . . . Marquette had a lone and unnecessary rooter in the balcony fortified with a little one hundred proof . . .
Specks and crumbs
. . . The Periscope was pushed off the air last week to make room for a program by the Holy Rollers . . . Prof. Holton forgot himself the other day and started lecturing his psychology class on the first semester work again ... A Purdue man earned his way through college by breaking in pipes . . . It’s about time that some humanitarian started agitating for a Russian relief fund. . .
Come into my parlor
... It seems that the loquacious Bill, barber extraordinary, ran into a sharp freshman recently. As that rare gentleman stepped into the chair, Bill said: “Your hair needs cutting badly.” And the reply came back, “Nope, I had it that way the last time.”
Fable
. . . Once upon a time there was a little-known fellow who was given the honor of putting on a dance. No one bothered to find out if he had any talent but he had done such a good job of passing out blotters at a class election that they decided to take a chance. His first important task was to worry the editors of several papers into putting certain pictures on a prominent page. Of course, he had forgotten that every dance chairman since one immortal Joseph Blow had rated such pictures. But scrupulous efficiency was the keynote of his program. Then he failed to extend the traditional press courtesies after the dance had received more than the usual amount of publicity. If he traded on the good will established by previous dances and impaired the recognition of future school dances, it must be overlooked. Accidents, when they are such, will happen. Moral—don’t put all your eggs in one basket ... it may have a false bottom. We hope no one around here ever does that.
Do you believe Washington’s advice, “Avoid entangling alliances,” is wisest for this country? Or do you believe more alliances with foreign powers would promote world peace?
Cavanaugh — Francis Ebner: “Yes, I think that Washington’s policy has proved to be the wisest one possible. If the United States had made more alliances than they did, the only possible result would be the entanglement of the United States in more foreign wars. The influence which they might have had because of these alliances might have done some good for a while, but eventually some country would have started trouble anyway. When this happened, the only possible result would be the United States entry into a war.”
Brownson — Richard Ginnane: “It seems to me that Washington had the best idea when he advised against foreign entanglement by the United States. That’s the trouble with some of these countries in Europe that are at war. They make alliances with other countries, and then when one country goes to war they are obligated to help them. Let the United States keep its interests right here in this country, without going abroad to make alliances.”
Freshman — Gerald Hogan: “When you come right down to it, the peace of the world more or less rests with the United States. We have proved ourselves to be the leading power in the world, and the tendency would naturally be for other countries to follow us. If we make foreign alliances, then, our influence would go a long way toward keeping peace in the world. A country would hesitate before making trouble with a country allied with the United States.”
Morrissey — Bill Horne: “More foreign alliances and less trouble in the world! If the United States were to spread her influence around all over the world, any country that is inclined to start a war will realize that they have one of the strongest countries in the world to contend with. As it is, Germany and some of these other countries just walk in and take what they want from smaller countries. If these smaller countries had a great power such as the United States behind them, it would seem unlikely that larger countries would risk really serious trouble to attack them.”—Ray Donovan
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Z 188
Volume 73
February 16, 1940.
No. 16.
Philosophers Convene For Second Annual Symposium
C.S.C., of the University’s department of graduate philosophy, follows Mr. Horton with a discussion of “The Relevance of the Thomistic Conception of Religion.”
Two-day Session Will
Close With Round Table
“St. Thomas and the Christian Cultural Dynamic”—the subject of Robert Pollock of Fordham university—continues, at 8:30 o’clock this evening, the second annual philosophical symposium on “Religion and Modern Society” which opened this morning in the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering.
Bernard J. Muller-Thym, assistant professor of philosophy at St. Louis university, spoke this morning on “The Character of History in a Secularized Society.” Discussing the possibility of history as explained by Christian and non-Christian philosophies, he said:
“History to be possible demands a world of unity and order and this unity exists in its source, the divine providence each of the things existing in this world stands in its existence. This is the Christian explanation. But if a nonreligious person, who denies order and providence, considers the course of human events, he must distort history in such a wise as to destroy it.”
Also on the morning program, A. C. Pegis of Fordham university spoke on “Nominalism and the Educational Ideals of a Catholic College.”
This afternoon, Francis J. O’Malley of the Notre Dame faculty spoke on “Contemporary Literature and the Religious Attitude Toward Life.” Mr. O’Malley blamed the disintegration of religion in the modem world for the anti-Christian attitude of D. H. Lawrence and Robinson Jeffers, the confusion of James Joyce, and the vacancy of Marcel Proust. Authors such as Paul Claudel, the dramatist, Gerard Hopkins, the poet, and Sigrid Undset, the novelist all project a legitimately religious atti-.. tude toward life, thereby proving, Mr. O’Malley pointed out, that the power of
religion persists. But most contemporary writers do not know how to save themselves; their experiments with secular humanism, the Marxist economic, the rationale of science and even primitivism have scarcely been successful. These contemporary writers are looking out upon the ruin of rationalism and they must discover some principle by which to save the world from this spiritual and intellectual bankruptcy. Mr. O’Malley concluded by stating that “any attempt to achieve a new culture on merely rational or human bases will fail, and the modem mind to save itself from catastrophe will once more have to accept the real value of spiritual knowledge.”
The Rev. John K. Ryan of Catholic university also spoke during the session this afternoon. His subject was “Religion and Nationalism.” Tonight at 8:30 Robert Pollack of Fordham university will close the day’s program with his public lecture on “St. Thomas and the Christian Cultural Dynamic.”
The program resumes tomorrow morning at 9:30 o’clock when Walter M. Horton of Oberlin College delivers his address on “The Present Position of Protestantism.” The Rev. Leo R. Ward,
Speakers—Francis J. O’Malley, Rev. L. R. Ward, C.S.C., and Daniel C. O’Grady
“The Secularization of the Human Person” is the theme of a round table discussion tomorrow afternoon at 2:30 o’clock, in the auditorium of the Law building. This round table, which is the closing activity of the symposium, will have as participants, Richard Gabel, of DeSales college; E. Jordan of Butler university; Rev. William H. Kane, of the Dominican House of Studies, River Forest; Samuel C. Kincheloe, of The Chicago Theological Seminary; and Daniel C. O’Grady, of the Notre Dame philosophy faculty.
The first symposium was held during the fall of the last school year. Such outstanding philosophers as Jaques Mar-itain, Desmond Fitzgerald, Dr. Yves R. Simon, Dr. Waldemar Gurian, and Dr. Mortimer J. Adler presented lectures. Dr. jGurian and Dr. Simon are members of the Notre Dame faculty; M. Maritain, a member of the L’Institut Catholique, is now visiting the United States.
This year finds a greater number of men from American universities on the program. Also, the speakers, although basically concerned with philosophy, are concerned with a greater variety of educational fields than was the first symposium.—John Casey
6
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Mourn Father Wenninger
Bishop O’Hara Pontificates At Solemn Requiem Mass
A quarter of a century of priestly life and of great scientific and educational achievement came to a sudden end as the Reverend Francis T. Wenninger, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Science, died in his office in the Biology Building, last Monday morning.
Father Wenninger’s funeral was held in Sacred Heart Church on Wednesday morning. The Most Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., former president of the University, and newly-consecrated Auxiliary Bishop of the Army and Navy Diocese, pontificated at the Requiem Mass. Others officiating at the Mass were: Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, arch priest; Rev. Henry Bolger, C.S.C., deacon; Rev. George Baldwin, C.S.C., subdeacon; Rev. Frederick J. Gassensmith, C.S.C., honorary deacon; Rev. William Minnick, C.S.C., honorary subdeacon; Rev. William R. Connor, C.S.C., master of ceremonies. The Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., long an intimate friend of Father Wenninger, delivered the sermon. The Rev. Kerndt M. Healy, C.S.C., read the Office of the Dead. Pall bearers were: Rev. Richard J. Collentine, C.S.C., Rev. Wendell P. Corcoran, C.S.C., Rev. Stanislaus S. Kuszynski, C.S.C., Rev.
“... loyalty to Alma Mater... charity to fellow-man”
All at the University are deeply shocked at the sudden death of Father Francis Wenninger, dean of the College of Science. Exemplary priest and distinguished scientist, he had a very important part in the development of the science program at Notre Dame, particularly of the premedic course. In his lectures, he was always careful to portray the harmony that must exist between religion and science, and ever championed this truth before the various scientific gatherings throughout the country.
Father Wenninger was also the faithful and competent master of ceremonies at the various liturgical exercises in Sacred Heart Church, and only recently acted as personal assistant to Bishop O’Hara at his consecration.
Although occupied chiefly with his academic work, he found time to take an active part in the civic life of South Bend, and very often appeared as guest-speaker before the different civic organizations.
Until the very end he was faithful to the assignments given him, and in his death, the University suffers a real loss. He will always be remembered for his loyalty to Alma Mater and his charity to fellow-man. May his soul rest in peace with the Master Whom he served so well while on earth.
—Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C.
William P. Lennartz, C.S.C., Rev. Michael A. Mathis, C.S.C., Rev. Andrew I. Schreyer, C.S.C. Interment was in the Community Cemetery.
Born in Pomagen, Austria, on October 27, 1888, Father Wenninger came to the United States as a boy. Shortly after his arrival in this country he became cognizant of his priestly vocation and entered the seminary on August 23, 1903. He received the cassock on July 8, 1911 and was professed in the Congregation of Holy Cross on December 14, 1913. Father Wenninger was ordained to the priesthood here at Notre Dame, on July 27, 1916, by the late Most Reverend Peter J. Muldoon, D.D., Bishop of Rockford.
He received his Bachelor of Letters degree from the University of Notre Dame in 1911, and then went to Washington, D.C., where he received the degree of Bachelor of Sacred Theology from the Catholic University of America, in 1916. In 1917 Father Wenninger received a Master of Science degree from the University of Notre Dame, followed by a Doctor of Philosophy degree from the University of Vienna, in 1928.
In addition to his extensive teaching career in scientific fields and his duties
as Dean of the College of Science, Father Wenninger found time for numerous outside activities. For several years he was coach of the University debating teams and until his death he was in constant demand as a public speaker and lecturer on both scientific and religious subjects. He was for many years master of ceremonies at all campus religious functions at Notre Dame.
Roosevelt’s Lead Grows
As Frosh Halls Ballot
Franklin Delano Roosevelt will take the presidential oath January next for the third consecutive time, if the votes of the Notre Dame student body reflect accurately the sentiments of the general public. Last week a presidential poll of 177 seniors conducted by The Scholastic endorsed Roosevelt by an impressive majority. This week a poll of 190 Freshmen students in Zahm and Cavanaugh Halls gave added impetus to the third term boom. The Democrats polled 121 votes, of which President Roosevelt received 83, Vice-President John Nance Garner 16, and Social Security Administrator Paul V. McNutt 7. A scattering of votes voiced sympathies for Secretary of State Cordell Hull, Postmaster General James Farley and Alfred E. Smith, former presidential nominee.
The Republicans garnered 69 votes. Thomas E. Dewey, district attorney of New York City, received 26 votes—20 more than his nearest rival, Arthur E. Vandenburg, senator from Michigan. Robert Taft, senator from Ohio, was third with 4 votes, and Former President Herbert Hoover received 1 vote. Following is a table with the votes of each candidate listed by first, second and third choices.
DEMOCRATS	1st	2nd	3d	Total
Roosevelt ....		83	20	6	109
Garner 			16	27	34	77
McNutt 			 7	32	25	64
Farley 			 3	12	9	24
Hull 			 5	2	1	8
Smith 			 2	3	3	8
REPUBLICANS				
Dewey 		....26	11			37
Vandenburg	.... 6	15	10	31
Taft 		.... 4	10	20	34
Hoover 			 1	1	1	3
Summary: Roosevelt polled 5 times as many votes as his nearest Democratic opponent, Garner. He received 3 times as many votes as the leading Republican candidate, Dewey, and twice as many votes as all the Republican candidates. Last week the Democrats controlled 58 per cent of the votes—this week 61 per cent. Dewey increased his lead over Vandenburg by a considerable margin. Roos
The Notre Dame Scholastic
evelt also gathered an overwhelming lead over both Garner and McNutt, also over Dewey. The total vote including previous returns from Senior halls:
DEMOCRAT	REPUBLICAN
Roosevelt....225	Dewey .........116
Garner........175	Vandenburg	....111
McNutt .......159	Taft ........   97
Next week the Sophomores of Lyons and Morrissey Halls will be polled.
—Robert LeMense and John Powers
Pettengill To Address
Seniors, Washington Day
And 95 years have passed. ... On Thursday morning the Senior Class will gather in Washington Hall to witness the impressive Washington Day exercises. Rich in tradition, this ceremony originated when the Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., was first president of the University.
Principal speaker will be the Honorable Samuel B. Pettengill, well-known attorney and former congressman from South Bend. His address will be entitled “Washington and the Constitution.” Harold V. Boisvert of the College of Commerce, and who is from Waterloo, N. Y., will give a brief commemorative speech. Then as president of the Senior Class he will present the flag of the United States to Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University who will express his sentiments upon acceptance.
William P. McVay of the College of Law, and who is from Bradford, Pa., will deliver an address entitled “Washington—His Problems and Ours.” Quoting from Washington’s “Farewell Address,” he will interpret its ideals and principles as applicable to present-day problems. Norman F. Bourke of the College of Arts and Letters is chairman of the program.
Seniors in cap and gown will assemble in the Main Building at 9:30 and march in procession to Washington Hall at 10:00. Gowns can be secured the same morning from 7 to 9:30 in the basement of Walsh Hall.
The Notre Dame Symphony orchestra, directed by Prof. Daniel Pedtke, will open the program with Ippolitow-Ivan-ow’s Processional and then the Overture by Wagner. The audience will join in singing Francis Scott Key’s “The Star Spangled Banner,” and the Symphony orchestra will conclude with the Recessional by Tschaikowsky.
Although Washington Day Exercises
have been held on the campus since 1845, the first flag presentation was not made until 1896 when the Senior Class president presented an American flag to the Rev. Andrew Morrissey, C.S.C., then president of the University. The program has always been a traditional activity of the Senior Class.
-—Jim Brugger
For the ninety-sixth time. . . .
Registrar Reports An
Increase In Engineers
Registration figures for the second semester just released by the Registrar’s office show that enrollment this semester is 3,144 students, as compared with the record 3,245 of the first semester. The figures reveal many strange things, such as the fact that the College of Engineering has grown by 176 members, while Commerce and Arts and Letters have each lost. The College of Law and the Graduate school both registered small increases. The enrollment by Colleges:
Arts and Letters ...............   916
Physical Education .............. 115
Science ......................... 283
Engineering .....................489
Commerce ......................1105
Law ............................ 98
Graduate....................... 138
Total ...............3144
—Jim O’Donohoe
Lab Visit To Feature
Second Haas Lecture
. Professor Arthur Haas of the department of physics will deliver the second in a series of five lectures on the “Modern Conception of the Physical World” in the auditorium of the Engineering building, Monday evening, at 8 o’clock, under the auspices of the department of philosophy.
Professor Haas will discuss “The Structure of Matter.” Experimental demonstrations will be given, followed by a visit to the high voltage laboratory of Dr. George B. Collins, in which new and important discoveries in the field of “atom smashing” have been made.
Last Monday evening Professor Haas delivered his first lecture, stating that matter is, in the final analysis, built up of three kinds of ultimate particles: positively charged protons, neutral neutrons, and negatively charged electrons. The weight of one trillion trillion neutrons amount to about 1.7 grams.
Besides these stable elementary particles, physics also knows stable ones which exist only temporarily for an extremely short period. They are the positron and the recently discovered mesotron. Due to their instability, they can exist for only about the billionth part of a second, and cannot travel a distance more than 100 feet.
Modem observations contradict both the principle of conservation of mass and the principle of conservation of energy in their original sense. Disappearance of mass, however, results in the production of an equivalent amount of energy, just as a definite amount of energy is required for the production of a definite amount of mass.
Mr.' Haas ended his lecture by stating that three kinds of forces are acting between the elementary particles: universal gravitation, electrical forces, and recently discovered, extremely powerful forces, which, however, are effective only at extremely small distances of about the trillionth part of an inch and become entirely insignificant at distances only 100 times greater.—Don Heltzel
Seniors Win Prizes
Three Walsh Hall seniors were awarded mentions in Cleveland, Ohio, on Feb. 3, in a competition for the annual prize of the Illuminating Engineers Society. The awards, given for the best designs of the interior of a women’s specialty shop, went to: Robert Schultz, Joseph Hennessey, and Bernard Eilers.
8
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Student Forum
THE RIGHT OF FREE SPEECH TODAY
William P. Mahoney
Voltaire once wrote that he might not
agree with what another person said hut he would defend to death his right to
W. P. Mahoney
say it. That intelligent plug for the right of free speech might not receive much applause in this country today. Despite the fact that its blessings are secured to us by law in all the fulness for which Voltaire longed, the right is suffering from a recurring illness. It is an illness
that promises to become even more serious as the flames of hate and prejudice are fanned by the winds of economic and political interests.
History shows that oui* people appreciate the marvels of free speech only after it has been denied them in times of persecution. Then they are ready to defend it at the cost of their lives, for only then are they fully aware of its value and meaning. Such was their feeling after the Revolutionary War. But with intervening years of peace and prosperity, the right has been remembered in name and forgotten in spirit. Today it is being compressed to half its normal size by unselfish, unthinking people who want to shelter their own views and smother the untasty views of others.
The right of free speech is one phase of that liberty which belongs to man by his very nature. As a free creature of God, he is free in nature and must enjoy liberty of action and expression. Otherwise he is less a man and more a brute animal. The founders of our government recognized the right of free speech and did all in their power to guarantee it to us. In the Declaration of Independence they provide for the right in the word, “liberty,” calling it an “unalienable” right, and stating further that man enjoys this right because he is the creature of God. This much no firm believer in the American form of government would deny. But, though they nominally hold to the right, many sincere people, who appear in the newspapers under various titles as crusaders for “Americanism,” would deny this right to others. In their feverish effort to secure the blessings surrounding the
right of free speech they are destroying them.
But the crusaders really do not advocate the right in its constitutional meaning. Actually they show by their actions — and we will attribute more to their actions than to their words — that they will keep the right from those persons who believe and express ideas not consonant with their own; or, conversely, they will limit its use to expressions with which they are in accord.
This seems to me to be the widest latitude which most people in this country will give the right of free speech today. Legally it is much broader. And for good reasons it should be much broader. The final authority, the authority supposed to be followed in any and every application of the right of free speech, is the Supreme Court of the United States. The Supreme Court decides, among other questions, disputes arising under the Constitution. It has passed on the right of free speech many times. Its judges have express two views, tabbed liberal and conservative. But since both views are vastly more liberal in scope than the view entertained by many of our zealous leaders, I shall mention only the one which is the law today, the conservative view.
According to the Supreme Court, the right of free speech is not unlimited. It is not a license to utter any kind of speech. As a judge said in the recent case of Gitlow vs. New York, “Reasonably limited, this freedom is an inestimable privilege in a free government; without such limitations it might become the scourge of the republic.” It has limits. But its limits are overshadowed by its great breadth of permissible speech. A man has a constitutional right to utter anything except that which naturally and directly would result in violence, or which would legally injure another in his person or property.
As a matter of practice, therefore, a man may mount the soap box and, no matter what his creed may be, speak on any subject he chooses, so long as his speech does not tend to cause his listeners to engage in some form of violence. He may be a communist, and he may be discussing communism, but he has the constitutional right to speak so long as his speech does not naturally have this unlawful effect. The effect of the
speech, then, and not the speaker or the subject, is the test of the validity of the right’s use. As Justice Holmes summed it up, “You cannot shout fire in a crowded theater.” Meaning, of course, that you can on all other occasions.
There are several reasons why this great breadth has been given to the exercise of speech. Where there is free competition in ideas, the best ideas will come to the fore. When put to a severe test from free criticism, only the true ideas will survive. On the other hand, any suppression might be the suppression of the true and the just. The greatest possible freedom of expression is desirable, and that is the degree encouraged by the decisions of the Supreme Court. Then, too, there is the danger of making martyrs out of fools when the fools are refused the right to speak freely. They become great in the eyes of others by the mere fact of suppression, whereas, if they were allowed their word, they would lose their glamor. And finally, the danger of precedent is avoided. By that I mean that if this right is ever refused any one minority, a precedent will have been established by which the liberty of other minorities with beliefs temporarily unpopular will suffer.
Only a firm and impartial assertion of the right in every case can renew it to the vigor and health it enjoyed in the post Revolutionary days. A constant guard against suppression must be maintained. • Let us never be carried away with the impulse to wrench free speech from others just because wre dislike what they are saying. Our emotions in the matter are not the test of the validity of the right’s use. When they become the test, tyranny will reign. On the other hand, a quiet tolerance of a lawful, though distasteful, exercise of the right of free speech by others will preserve it for the future.
Trick Billiard Artist
And Choir Here Today
The billiard sharks of Carroll Rec will take a back-step this afternoon when an expert shows them how it’s done. Charlie (Show me a shot I can’t make) Peterson will give a demonstration that’ll probably leave the locals wondering whether they have ever played the game before.
This evening at 8 o’clock the St. Elizabeth Glee Club of Chicago will give a concert in Washington Hall. The group of colored singers has received much praise for its rendition of spiritual, folk songs, swing music, and the classics. Garfield Henry is the director.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
9
God’s Meaning Is Lost
To Most People—Sheed
“People aren’t sufficiently interested in God even to doubt His existence,” said Mr. Frank J. Sheed, prominent
Catholic author and pub-Hlisher, in a talk on Monday evening in Washington Hall before a large audience. Mr. Sheed had for his topic, “The Modern Idea of God,” and drew largely on his personal experiences of many F. J. Sheed years for the material of his speech.
He said that while pure atheism is rare, practical atheism — acting as if there were no God — is almost universal. Concerning evolution, he declared that while evolution has become a com
pletely dead issue, it did, however, do a great deal of damage. “The Trinity has ceased to be the object of devotion, for people feel that there is in the theory of the Trinity something offensive to mathematical and scientific minds.” The other damage done by the controversy between evolutionists and divines is that “a certain jargon developed by churchmen has done more to destroy the average man’s faith in God than anything else.”
“The root of all trouble is that people don’t know what they mean by God.” He further stated that people are not prepared for the idea of a personal God. “However,” he said, “there is still a belief of God in the average man, but not a very strong one. The instinct to adore (at least in England and America) seems to have been left out of this generation.” Therefore, the problem that faces religious is to nurture the spark of religion which is in most men.
a bit more successful than Mr. Giede-man and discovered, besides the incredible hat and the English accent, a pleasant personality plus a wealth of observations on theatres.
Mr. Speaight, instructor in Shakespeare since the second semester, has been appearing on the legitimate stage since he trod the boards at Oxford and has seen much of the lights of Broadway and London in the course of his engagements.
The “Bard of Avon” provided the first vehicle for Mr. Speaight, and was followed by R. C. Sherriff and “Journey’s End,” and T. S. Eliot and “Murder in the Cathedral.” Last to fill Mr. Speaight’s acting prescription was Mr. Orson Welles.
Mr. Speaight came to America last February at the invitation of Orson Welles to play in Welles’ production “Five Kings”—the streamlined version of a group of Shakespeare’s historical dramas. The play lived a brief five weeks. However, it was not to be judged by its record of performances, according to Mr. Speaight. “It was a gigantic undertaking; one which required a great amount of work. Personally, I would have liked to see it succeed for it was an experiment which had great possibilities. However, in the end it proved too ponderous,” he commented.
During this same period Mr. Speaight appeared in five radio shows featured by Orson Welles. Commenting upon the preparation for a regular Sunday evening broadcast, Mr. Speaight said: “I never knew if the show were going to start. In England we practised a week for such a production; but here only a few days were required. It was amazing the way Mr. Welles worked.”
At present Orson Welles is in Hollywood where discussion has arisen over his beard and his genius. Neither are very tangible according to Mr. Speaight.
The London theatre, it was learned, though not dead, is not faring so well because of the war. The theatrical scene has shifted, temporarily at least, from England to America and this is the main reason why Mr. Speaight is in the United States at present. He is enrolled in the Officers Emergency Reserve and is subject to call for duty at any time; but will remain in America until needed.
Mr. Speaight is the author of two novels, The Legend of Helen Vaughn and The Unbroken Heart; and a biography of St. Thomas of Canterbury.
—Don Heltzel
More Jobs Available
For 1940 Grads—Dooley
“With the establishment of placement bureaus by alumni groups in different cities, and with knowledge of the local bureau spreading to employers, there has been a considerable increase this year in the number of requests for graduates,” says Mr. William Dooley, head of the Notre Dame Placement Bureau.
The bureau has been established by the University to help graduating seniors in their search for jobs. This year Mr. Dooley has received aid from bureaus established in different cities by groups of alumni, among which “the New York and Chicago groups have done a wonderful job in helping to place students.”
The greatest demand this year has (Continued on page 21)
Mr. Sheed enlivened his talk with many humorous incidents which happened to him while lecturing on the street corners of England. A short question period followed the talk.
—Bill Welch
Mr. Speaight, Actor,
Arrives In Tweed Hat
That slight, medium-sized man, wearing a strange, green-tweed combination of hat and horror, who has been seen walking the campus the last two weeks is Mr. Robert William Speaight, English actor and author. For half of these two weeks Mr. Speaight has successfully dodged Mr. Giedeman, The Scholastic photographer, and the net result has left The Scholastic with no picture to accompany this article.
However, a Scholastic reporter was
“Although the demands vary with different employers . . .in the majority of cases personality and character are of equal importance with academic record.”
10
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
William C. Fay, Editor-in-Chief
William C. McGowan, News Editor
Frank Wemhoff, Literary Editor
William Kelleher, Art Editor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco.
TuE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor, 259 Alumni Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evenings in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building;
Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff. 7:00 P.M.
Across the Editor’s Desk
A Lover of Excellence
ONE CANNOT love excellence without hating mediocrity, and it is difficult to pursue the object of one’s affections with the moderation that is patient of the warnings of prudence. He who loves, forgetful of self, scorns every measure in his devotion.
Father Wenninger loved excellence. He had a vast, an almost explosive, impatience with mere pretence, with sham appearances of slip-shod work of any kind. He could not understand how anyone could give but half, his heart to his work, how he could be so lacking in pride of achievement, in common self-respect, as to do anything short of the best that lay in his power. That attitude characterized his whole life. There were many things he would not undertake, for like all men in whom there is genuine intellectual honesty, he knew and recognized his own limitations. But to whatever task he set his hand he gave the full measure of his talent and his ability.
This was true in his private as well as in his priestly and professional life. Whether as seminarian or student in college or university, the same industry and enthusiasm and attention to the details that make for excellence characterized his own work as later on he strove to inculcate and make habitual in the students whom he taught. It was these qualities, rather than any extraordinary natural gifts, that won him high honors, even in his undergraduate days, in the work of the classroom and in
Donald Foskett, Managing Editor
James Newland, Sports Editor
Richard Metzger, Art Editor
Rev. C. Laskowski, C.S.C., Faculty Adviser
oratory and debating, and in more mature years graduation with the highest distinction from the Faculty of Philosophy of the University of Vienna.
Though making no pretence at being a theologian, he understood that difficult science as few, outside the ranks of specialists, understood it. As a priest, therefore, he was wise and sure in giving counsel, zealous for the strict observance of the liturgy — he left in manuscript form a treatise on rubrics, and one on the liturgical school year at Notre Dame — and generous without stint in assisting those -who brought their problems of conscience to him.
But it is in the field of teaching that these qualities appeared more perhaps than anywhere else. It was his work of predilection, one to which he gave the greatest part of his time and in which he took greatest pride. To the question sometimes put to him by friends: Why don’t you try to write and publish more than you do? his invariable answer was: “Well, because I feel that I could not do that without slighting my work of teaching.” That always came first. It was his deliberate choice of a life work. Generations of students, as well as those of us who knew him intimately, can testify to his unwearying patience in explaining his 'subject, to the fidelity with which, year after year, he spent long hours weekly reading and meticulously correcting written assignments and quizzes. They know that if he was exacting in the tasks he set them to do, severe even in the application of
academic standards, he was no mere driver of men. He would not lay upon their shoulders burdens that he himself would not carry. Example was as much as, if not more, a part of his conception of leadership than precept. He believed thoroughly in the old adage that it is the first duty of a teacher to make himself needless, that is, to make his students able to walk by themselves, confident in their own powers and certain that they can see their way safely from one point to another. It was reward enough for him if they succeeded in doing so.
Competent though he was in his own special field to teach on the higher levels, yet his favorite work was with beginners. Next to the news that some former student of his was doing successful work, nothing gave him keener satisfaction than the discovery among his freshmen of someone whose talent and disposition gave promise of future distinction.
To him teaching was not only an art, but the highest of ail arts, inasmuch as in it ideas are not impressed on matter only, but both ideas and ideals are ingrained into the very fiber of living souls. As in every art the artist extends something of his own personality into his subject-matter, so in teaching he believed that a teacher should first be what he strives, in the measure permitted by difference of personalities, to make his students become. This requires vastly more than the acquisition of knowledge through contact of mind with mind. Indeed it requires nothing less than that the whole man who is the teacher should address himself to the whole man who is the student. It implies both example and precept, both knowledge of the subject and love of the student, both charity and justice, both sympathy and severity, both a stem realism and an enthusiastic idealism. It aims at inculcating manners as well as morals, discipline as well as knowledge, reverence as well as reason.
His passing is above all the passing of a great teacher. For that reason it will not be easy to fill his place. Great teachers are few. Though he is gone, he has left us the legacy of his edifying life, a life devoted whole-heartedly to the cause which we who remain will be able to carry on the better for having known his example. In the annals of the university his name and his services will be cherished in grateful remembrance along with those of Fathers Kirsch, Nieuwland, and Albertson, whom he loved and with whom he worked. In the hearts of those who knew him his memory will be cherished as a splendid teacher, a priestly priest, and an ever devoted and loyal friend.—Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
“ Eternal liest...”
Sermon delivered by the Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., at the Requiem Mass of the Rev. Francis T. Wenninger, C.S.C., In Sacred Heart Church, Feb. 14, 1940.
“Eternal rest grant unto him, 0 Lord, and let perpetual light shine upon him.”
These words, like the refrain of a song, recur repeatedly in the liturgy of the Church’s service for the dead. To some it may seem strange that in our prayers for the dead we should speak of them as though they were still living. But to us who are of the household of the faith, it is not strange at all, for our prayers do but express our belief. Our belief is that the dead are not wholly dead, that the hand of death touches only the body, but that the soul which animated the body, on being separated from it begins a new and immortal life. If therefore we pray God to grant rest to our beloved dead, and to let perpetual light, the blessed light of His own countenance, shine upon them, it is because we believe that, freed from the body, they are capable of active repose in the enjoyment of God, of that endless ecstasy which comes of seeing Him face to face.
It is in that sense that Father Wenninger is dead. And therefore we who today mourn his passing are not like those who' mourn without consolation and without hope.
It is a curious and a regrettable circumstance of life that we neither notice nor appreciate our fellow workers rightly until they are gone from us. Familiar contact with them places a quietus on our critical spirit. The good they do we acknowledge, perhaps, but for the greater part take for granted. We see it too closely to see it rightly. But once they drop from our ranks, once we miss them from our midst and know they will not return, we begin to see what manner of men they were. It is then that memory put to the task sketches for us some connected pattern of their lives, and lets us see in perspective how each part is related to all the rest, — how the lights and shadows complement one another, how the pain and the laughter, the work and the play, the hopes and the disappointments, and the successes and the failures, each added its little touch and brought out the rounded fulness of the whole.
Today as we look back on the life of Father Wenninger we can see such a pattern. As in every pattern, so in the
pattern of his life, there is a dominant characteristic, one which in large measure explains all the rest. What characterized his life was a passion for completeness, that is, an idealism which fired him with a restless ambition to do well whatever he undertook to do. It is that which explains his love of hard work, his tremendous capacity for work and,, alas, his tendency to overwork. It explains
Rev. Francis T. Wenninger, C.S.C.
+ FEBRUARY 12, 1940
Boni at Pomagen, Austria, October 27, 1888 ; received the cassock, July 8, 1911; professed, September 14, 1913; ordained, June 27, 1916.
his rigorous devotion to the duties that religious obedience, or the obligations of his appointments, or the demands of friendship imposed upon him. It explains also, what some who knew him failed to understand, that is, his open impatience and apparent severity with those who, working with him or under his direction, if they failed to bring to that work something of his own passion for order, for precision, and for perfect performance. It explains, too, the great confidence that those who knew him had in his judgment. Then sensed the sureness of his mind, the generosity of his heart and the integrity of his character, and they brought him their problems knowing that he would probe them to the depths and find a solution if one could be found. It explains finally the
two monuments that he built for himself. Every teacher builds for himself a monument in the souls of those whom he instructs. It appears in the quality of their personal lives and in the success of their work. Seen under these aspects, his monument looms high indeed. Few in our midst could point to so many former students now willing to acknowledge that their success in life owes so much to our instruction as he could. His second monument is built here on the campus, for no one familiar with the history of the development of the College of Science, and especially the biological department of it will hesitate to grant that it was mainly due to his devoted service and wise direction.
But there is one thing above all about Father Wenninger which the passion for excellent work does not explain. Despite all his love of books and his devotion to the problems of science, he displayed in his intimate personal relations the heart of a child. Like a child, he could laugh at any time and at almost anything. Like a child, he could be easily pleased and as equally displeased, he could be quickly hurt and as quickly placated. He was quick to forget an offense, and grateful for the least favor done him. This, I say, was not due to any effort; it was simply his natural disposition, coupled with a genuine love of human beings. It was, I think, why he habitually had a word of greeting for everybody, why he was so ready and willing to do them a service, why, in a word, he had such a host of friends.
His going was sudden, but it was neither unforeseen nor unprepared. He knew his condition as well as any physician might. He knew and frankly said that some day he would go quickly. And yet, because he was habitually prepared to go, that knowledge neither saddened nor frightened him. His death was something that he had as carefully prepared for as he had for any event in his life.
And now that he is gone, gone after such a laborious life, a life in which religion meant doing the full will of God as he understood it, it is most fitting that we who remain should pray that he may now enjoy the rest which he so richly deserves, and that vision of God which is the final end of every man.
12
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Notre Dame Favored Over
John Carroll Cage Team
WELTERS STAR IN BE]
End Home Season Against Marquette Tuesday Night
Notre Dame’s basketball team will be
favored tomorrow night when it entertains Coach Tom Conley’s John Carroll
K. Oberbruner
University basketball team in the semi - final home game. Tuesday night the Irish will play their last game before local fans when they meet the strong Marquette Hilltoppers, only team to defeat them twice last season.
It will be old home week for Coach Tom Conley, former Irish football and bas-
ketball star, when he brings lais John Carr oil Streaks to the campus. Tom was captain of Rockne’s last national champion team and also played guard on George Keo-gan’s aggregation in 1930. But this time he’ll be attempting to beat Notre Dame. His Streaks have won 8 out of 14 starts to date and are still in the running for Cleveland’s Big Three title.
Both Detroit and Toledo have beaten John Carroll twice this season. These two teams are on the Irish schedule, Toledo having fallen victims 38-30 last Monday. Detroit is the final team on the list.
Although the Irish are favored, there is a possibility of an upset at the hands of Coach Conley’s boys. They have come from behind three times this year to beat supposedly better teams.
When Marquette’s Hilltoppers invade the fieldhouse Tuesday to ring down the curtain on local basketball, they will be met by a Notre Dame team with revenge in its heart. For Marquette was the only quintet to trounce the Irish twice last season.
They dealt a stunning 47-22 walloping to the locals here and then came out on top in Milwaukee, 58-50. Coach Keogan’s men are loading their big guns with baskets for the Toppers and they will be ready and waiting. Marquette’s • 47-22 victory last season was the worst
defeat the Irish suffered in nearly 17 years under Coach Keogan.
Five Notre Dame stars will play their final home game against Marquette. Heading the list are Captain Mark Ertel and Rex Ellis, alternate centers, who are third and fourth, respectively, in scoring. Gene Klier, guard, who is fifth in scoring; Ken Oberbruner, utility forward; and Don Smith, starting guard, are the other seniors.
A great scoring battle between Eddie Riska and George Sobek, Notre Dame forwards, and Bob Deneen, forward, and Ralph Amsden, center, for the Hilltoppers, is in prospect. Deneen recently dumped in 21 points against Kentucky and 20 against Chicago to run his season’s total to 132 for 13 games, eight of which Marquette has won.
Last Monday night Keogan’s men handed out a 38-30 licking to Toledo University after dropping a 52-43 decision to N.Y.U. the previous Saturday. Playing before a packed house in Toledo, the Blue and Gold showed their recuperative powers by outlasting a fine host team. The Rocket’s record up to this time had been 18 victories in 21 starts, but they couldn’t click against the Irish. Ellis and Riska led the Notre Dame eagers while Nash was the sparkplug for Toledo.
The Irish suffered their first defeat of 1940 when they were beaten by N.Y.U., 52-43, before 18,070 persons at Madison Square Garden. The Violets’ superiority from the foul line decided the contest as they made 16 out of 24 while the Irish could get only 7 out of 13. Accustomed to playing the comparatively rough Big Ten style of . basketball, the locals found it hard to keep themselves in check, as evidenced by 20 fouls committed as oppossed to N.Y.U.’s 10. Notre Dame also missed a greater number of shots than usual, making only 18 baskets in 85 attempts while N.Y.U. made the same number in 57 tries. Riska led the Irish with 17 points, two less than Stevens of N.Y.U. who had 19.
Riska still leads the Irish scoring with 187 points in 16 games, 15 less than his last year’s total of 202. Sobek is in second place with 129 markers and is followed by Ertel with 111 points.
—Chuck Faii-ell
Busiest den of activity on the campus these afternoons is the boxing room in the Rockne Memorial. At about 3:30 every day the prospective Bengal champions stream in from then* classes, and begin the daily grind which will put them in tip-top shape for the bouts. Clad in sweat suits of all sizes and descriptions, the fighters shadow box, jump rope, furiously pound the heavy punching bag, peck at the light bag, and end up by facing some other contenders in the ring.
Into that ring step novices and experienced boxers of all weights. For about ten minutes they throw leather at each other, and are interrupted by the sharp voice of Mr. Napolitano, the man who knows all the tricks. “Nappy” watches each man closely, points out faults, and praises improvements.
Most interested to us are the boys who hit the scales at 145 and 155 lbs. In any boxing tournament these are the fighters who bring the most thrills to the spectator. At this weight they are fast and tricky. And possess a good, solid punch.
Some of us remember when Jimmy Brown was enough to discourage any 145 pounder who was thinking of entering the bouts. That was before last year. Then, out of Illinois came a freshman, Rod Maguire, carrying dynamite in both fists. These two met in the finals, and Maguire was victorious by a comfortable margin. This year both Brown and Maguire are back. Jim will be out to avenge last year’s defeat.
v B fi
IM b st le t( A
G r d I; Si
r ci w
n: R
Y1 P gi y
a: is c: ri G s] o w
V p n It si r<
Riska and Company Promise to Smash the j
The Notre Dame Scholastic
13
BENGAL WORKOUTS
Splinters From The Pressbox
by Frank Aubrey
But there are othei’ 145 pounders who will have a lot to say about whether Brown and Maguire will even get to the finals. Dick Leahy, a boy who gave Maguire his toughest fight last year, is back in the fold. Charlie Dillon will step into the ring with a long, cutting left hand. He and Leahy staged a roughtough battle for three rounds last March. Another promising boy is Junior George Greene. In last year’s bouts George was J disqualified on a technicality which I should not crop up again. Greene r throws the hardest right hand in his ! class, and should provide the other boys with an interesting evening or two.
Loping around the gym with a determined scowl on his face is rugged Bob Ronstadt, 155 pound champion of two years ago. Bob was defeated in the prelims a year ago, and is eager to regain the crown he won in his freshman year.
Two big obstacles in Ronstadt’s path are Bill McGrath and Harry John, finalists of last year. John is the personification of a perfect left jab, and has a rugged right hand to back it up. McGrath throws his fists at breakneck speed, and, although he is not a knockout puncher, he can cause plenty of woe with his rapid fire delivery.
Tony Buono, standing about 5' 2" with shoes on, is a newcomer in the 145 pound class. Tony is short, but the most rugged fighter at his weight. His legs are tree-sturdy, and his arms and shoulders look like they are capable of releasing plenty of power.
—John Patterson
■he Marquette Monopoly Tuesday Night
Throughout the past few weeks the grim figure of Kenesaw Mountain Landis has stalked the sporting pages of the national dailies. Columns have been devoted to the Landis decree that the Detroit Tigers and other miscreant set free their serfs. More columns went to his proposal for remodelling the majorminor chain agreements. Baseball fans all over the country began to work their jaws. Hardly a sportswriter, sportscaster, or baseball mogul has hesitated to inject his hog-wash into the resulting melee. Old K.M.’s name has been batted back and forth — and he’s been eulogized and denounced. He has been compared with Lincoln, Hitler, and John L. Lewis. After weeks of this, the pro or con Landis argument has been allowed to settle quietly to rest. But having been mum during the uproar, we can’t resist the temptation to take one more kick at the battered carcass of the discussion.
We belong to the school which holds Mr. Landis to be another Lincoln. Membership in this group is not exclusive, for very few people own stock in a baseball club or system, and it is these few who are chartei- members of the Landis-is-another-Hitler school. We are purely objective in the matter, neither owning baseball stock nor holding a brief for the serfs — though to be truthful, a friend of ours had a brother-in-law who played with Kansas City once. Well, here’s the situation.
Put yourself in the player’s position — the unfortunate slave of organized ball. They devote their lives to developing their baseball skill, spend months and even years of tiring effort, usually to the exclusion of all other skills, in acquiring the poise, ability, and finesse needed to play big-time ball. But can they market their ability — can they sell their wares to their own best advantage? Take Joe Soak, for instance. His big chance comes along — he’s seen by ’ a major league scout, signed to an iron-bound contract, and directed to the club’s farm team. Once in the system or chain-gang, Joe must play his best at the salary given him until he achieves recognition by the majors due to his prowess with the stick or grace afield. However, if he belongs to the Yankee chain, for instance, and is a second baseman, — well brother, he’s got a long wait, because a second baseman like Joe Gordon is going to be around quite a while.
Now if Joe Soak were not held to such a strict contract — which puts him under the thumb of the magnates, so to speak, the Clevelands or the Chi-sox would have grabbed him long ago. But as conditions are now, Joe must hang around, playing ball day after day for Kansas City or Newark with only two prospects in view: eithei- he must outlive Joe Gordon, or else be fortunate enough to get traded to a club which is perishing for a second baseman.
Anyone can see this is certainly tough on an infielder such as Mr. Soak. Still he can’t get discouraged and quit to join another team, because if he does, he’s blacklisted and cannot play with any other organized league since he is already the property of the Yankees. Furthermore, he can’t get paid what he’s worth, because he’s a minor leaguer and they don’t see the big dough.
Mr. Landis, believing as you and I and Abe Lincoln, that slavery is an instrument of uncivilized and decadent generations, has drafted a document which will save Joe Soak and his ilk from early graves. . In a word, K.M. believes it would be a good thing if a guy like Joe, playing for the Yankee chain, could sign up with the Clevelands or even the Dodgers if the Yankees couldn’t use him. Thus, while the Yanks would have priority rights to chattel such as Joe, if they did not exercise these rights, and another club did have a use for him, this other club could sign him up. This is where the owners put up their biggest kick, for after they’ve discovered Joe in the bushes, brought him along, taught him all he knows in preparation for the day when Bill Dickey, for instance, can no longer totter, along comes the Yawkees or the Shibes and snatches Joe up. Why go to the expense of maintaining a minor league farm system if something like this is going to happen? “Our class C and D farms never pay their way,” says the big moguls. “They couldn’t exist without big league support, and if Landis’ proposal is adopted, scores of minor leagues would fold up without our assistance.” If that’s true, something must be wrong with the rules of baseball. Mr. Landis is only interpreting .the rules in ruling as he did, and he himself is moving for a change by offering his revision plan. The whole thing isn’t likely to be settled to the approval of all concerned, but along with Mr. Lincoln we think that poor guys like Joe Soak should be given a break no matter what the owners say.
14
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Introducing By Pete Sheehan
Stephen Francis Coughlin, sprinter and promoter extraordinary, is without a doubt one of the most colorful figures on the Notre Dame campus. Participation in numerous activities, change of courses, transfer from one hall to an- _ other, and an easy going, talkative manner have given him more publicity than a candidate for class office could ever desire.
He has already won two monograms
in track and last spring was elected president of the Monogram Club. He should be an authority on advising new students about the course they should take because he spent his first two years in Commerce and Physical Education before deciding that he was cut out to be a journalist and switching over to the A.B. school. As a freshman he lived in nearly every hall on the campus and since then has made no fewer than seven changes.
Steve entered St. Philip’s High in Chicago where he starred at left halfback. After two and one-half years he transferred to De Paul Academy. His roommate, Walt Hagen, charges that Coughlin changed schools because his brother joined the De Paul faculty, but Steve claims he wanted to run for Coach Tom Haggerty, developer of Ralph Metcalfe.
At De Paul he gave up football and concentrated on
his running. In ’36 he stepped off the 100-yard dash in the amazing time of :09.8 and finished the 220 yard event in :21.8. He was recognized as the high school champion of Chicago in both events.
In June of the same year he competed in the National Catholic High School Tournament, which is an annual feature of Senior Week here at Notre Dame. He holds the distinction of being the only athlete in the history of this tournament to break two records in one afternoon. His record of ten seconds flat in the 100-yard dash was bettered by Ed Maher, now at Villanova, in 1937 but his time in the 220 yard race •— 23 seconds — has not been equalled.
Steve then entered Notre Dame and
was the sensation of the freshman squad. In his two years of varsity competition he has scored many points but never reaches his peak until the races are transferred from the gymnasium to Car-tier Field. Steve came to Notre Dame determined to leave a record behind, and we are sure that his name will be among the record holders on next year’s programs.
The boys in Morrissey Sub never have
to search for entertainment when this member of Coach Nicholson’s squad is around. Early this fall, when the cream-colored walls bored him, Steve got himself some white paint and painted, not only the walls, but everything in the room. One night he went down town and came back with a fresh hair wave, and his two companions have been preaching ever since — “never bet Coughlin that he is afraid to do something.”
Statistics: Stephen Francis Coughlin. Born in Chicago, Illinois, on August 30, 1918. Height, 5 feet, ten inches; weight, 175 pounds. He will receive his Bachelor of Arts degree in June and hopes to enter the public relations field.
Thinlies Face Midwest
Track Stars At Illinois
After a solid defeat last Saturday by Marquette’s track titans, the Notre Dame thinlies will move into even tougher competition tomorrow when Coach John Nicholson sends his boys into the Illinois Relays at Champaign.
There the Irish will meet the best competition the Midwest has to offer. Approximately 500 athletes from 28 institutions, representing the cream of the Big Ten, the Big Six, the Missouri Valley Conference and several non-confer-ence institutions will crowd the campus of the University of Illinois to match their skills and abilities.
Michigan, considered by many as the favorite to cop high honors, will feature Captain Ralph Schwarzkopf, “the greatest two-miler in Wolverine history,” who holds records of 9:05.3 and 9:15.3 on outdoor and indoor tracks. Joined by three other veteran milers, Schwarzkofp and company are expected to win over teams from Michigan State, Drake, Indiana, Missouri, and Marquette.
Even closer competition may be expected in to the two-mile relay where Ohio State will defend its laurels against Indiana’s team which spotlights Campbell Kane last year’s national indoor 880 champ. It is in this event that the Hoosiers have threatened to break the world mark of 7:41.6.
Another strong Indiana entry is in the shot-put. There Archie Harris, the colored boy who last year unofficially bettered the world’s record in the discus, seems to hold a commanding position over his division.
In the one-mile relay Michigan again seems to cloud the scene with three members of its quartet, Breiden, Paly-eat, and Leutritz back from the squad which last year set an outdoor 3:14.7 record in that event. Illinois’ mile-relay team will answer the Michigan challenge with a record holding squad. But perhaps the person who will carry the colors of the Illini will be Ray Cochrane who will risk his record in the 400 meter hurdles. Michigan State’s number one man seems to be Walter Arrington, favorite in the high jump, who two weeks ago nosed out Notre Dame’s Leonas.
Against such a conglomeration of track finery, Coach Nicholson will hopefully enter a small compact Notre Dame squad. Dependent upon later circumstances, a mile relay team composed of Schiewe, Roy, Halpin, and Collins may be entered. In one of the novelty events/, the 300 yard dash Schiewe will again be entered. Then it will be Dean and Leonas
The Notre Dame Scholastic	15
j j 4 j 4 i i J
4 1
i
»
16
The Notre Dame Scholastic
in the pole vault and high jump respectively, and Brosey and Sullivan in the shot-put. An entry in the broad jump is doubtful. Hester will be matched in the 1500 meter sprint and Olbrys in the 1000 meters. Three Irish entries in the high hurdles, Reidy, Schiewe, and Lawrence, will attempt to take that event. Reidy and Schiewe will then move into the low hurdles.—Tom Powers
“They float through the air....
Fencers Lose To Maroons;
Meet Ohio State Tomorrow
Coach Langford brought the Notre Dame fencing team back from the Midway last week defeated but pleased with their showing against the Big Ten champs, Chicago. “Whereas the score stood 13-4, last year, we were beaten only 15-12, Saturday,” he said. Led by Joe Smalley with six winning matches, the saber and epee men built up a 11-7 lead but weakness in the foils proved the undoing of the Blue and Gold, losing all but one of the nine bouts with the light sword.
The saber wielders continued their winning ways but especially pleasing to the squad was the 6-3 score registered in the epee. Captain Sayia and Joe Smalley both with perfect days topped off notable performances by whipping Chicago’s ace, Loyal Tingley, national epee champion.	.
With the season half over, the Notre
Dame fencers find themselves with a .500 record, having suffered losses in their last two matches. However, tomorrow afternoon they hope to swing again to the winning side against the swords of Ohio State in a home engagement. By comparative scores the Buckeyes are figured to win. In their meet with Chicago they lost by only one point. Coach Langford has been figuring things out and thinks, “If we can take four or even three of the nine foils bouts, the saber and epee appear strong enough to carry us through. It will be close throughout, but we’re aiming to take them.”—John Quinn
Gymnasts Open 1940
Exhibitions At Cleveland
Nineteen artists of the parallel and horizontal bars, comprising the Notre Dame gymnastic team, opened their 1940 tour of exhibitions this week.
First, on the stage of the Moreland Theatre at Cleveland, Ohio, the Notre Dame gym-men appeared before full houses for two performances, last Tuesday. Then on Thursday, in South Bend, they entertained Studebaker employees at the Studebaker A. A. Clubrooms. Engagements for appearances at Fort Wayne next Tuesday and at the South Bend Y.M.C.A. Thursday are tentative. Other shows at various cities and a performance at Washington Hall are planned before closing the season at Toledo on March 10.
The group, known as the “Leader Corps of the Department of Physical Education” is under the direction of Mr. John Scannell, head of the Department. Members of the corps include Captain Joe McKeon, Chet Sullivan, Tom Hoyer, Paul Patten, Dan Cullinane, Joe Laiber, Pat Putnam, Don Smarin-sky, Walt O’Meara, Mike Corgan, Milt Peipul, Bill Demling, John Thompson, George Sullivan, Bud Kerr, Jack McIntyre, Lou Zontini, Chuck Rifile, Dick Ames, and William Mooney, pianist.
The program includes exhibitions in wand drill, high horizontal bar, tumbling, ground pyramids, Indian club drill, parallel bars, elephant vaulting, and parallel bar pyramids.
Rockne Memorial News
A squash tournament, a life-saving class, leatherhanded lads cooperating in a doubles handball tournament and quintets functioning as units in interhall basketball — that’s the current program of activities in the Rockne Memorial.
Interhall Basketball
Dillon and Alumni are tied for leadership in League I of the lightweight division in the interhall basketball league with records of two victories and no defeats. Sorin is on top in League II with a pair of wins and no losses. St. Ed’s and Brownson, and Cavanaugh and Freshman lead Leagues HI and IV. Howard, Cavanaugh, Lyons, and Alumni are leading their respective divisions in the heavyweight league.
Next week’s schedule: Heavyweight division — Monday: Howard vs. Sorin; Carroll vs. Zahm; Walsh vs. St. Ed’s; Dillon vs. Cavanaugh. Wednesday: Lyons vs. Brownson; Breen-Phillips vs. Off-Campus; Alumni vs. Badin; Morrissey vs. Freshman.
Competition in the lightweight division next week follows: Thursday — Dillon vs. Alumni; Walsh vs. Lyons; Sorin vs. Morrissey; Zahm vs. Breen-Phillips.
The closest game recorded last week was between Brownson and Breen-Phil-
With the greatest of ease....”
lips, with the Brownson boys winning, 48 to 47. Cavanaugh’s team, was the highest scoring combination of the week with 53 points.
Last week’s results: Heavy division — Carroll 28, Sorin 21; Dillon 36, St. Ed’s 25; Howard 30, Zahm 17; Cavanaugh 53, Walsh 27; Lyons 44, Off-Campus 31; Brownson 48, Breen-Phillips 47;
The Notre Dame Scholastic
17
Alumni 31, Freshman 12; Morrissey 37, Badin 24. Lightweight division — Dillon 33, Lyons 13; Alumni 40, Walsh 24; Sorin 29, Breen-Phillips 27; Zahm 26, Morrissey 17.
Handball and Squash
Play has started in the doubles handball and squash tournaments. One game a night is the schedule in the doubles, which has over 50 entries. The squash meet, with 22 competitors, is expected to be completed within a week.
A novice handball tournament will begin upon completion of the doubles tourney. All men who never- played until they enrolled at Notre Dame are eligible for this tournament.
Life Saving
A senior life saving course began last Monday night. This course will be followed later by an examination for seniors who wish to become instructors.
Frosh Tracksters Crush
Iowa In Opening Meet
The freshman track squad opened its season in an ideal manner last Friday by rolling up a mass of first and second place wins to defeat Iowa’s Hawkeye frosh team, 78 to 12.
In sweeping the two-mile, the shot put, the 880-yard dash events, and registering first and second place wins in every event except the 440-yard dash, the Frosh squad displayed plenty of power and gave promise of even greater-achievements later in the season. Because of restraining Big Ten rules regarding freshman competition, the meet was held via telegraph with the Iowa and Notre Dame boys performing- in their own gyms and wiring the results to each other.
Unusually good marks were established. Notre Dame’s Delaney registered a heave of 49 ft. 9% in. in the shot put that, had it been in Intercollegiate varsity competition, would have bettered the Notre Dame indoor record for the event.
In the 60-yd. dash, Gibson and Wood, both of Notre Dame, scored a :06.5 to tie for first and display some remarkable sprinting.
Other results of Notre Dame entries follow: Mile run: Riordan, first: Hunter, second. Time 4:30.7. 440-yd. dash: Tupta, first. Time :51-8. S80-yd. dash: Tupta, first: Preister, second; Con-forti, third. Time 1:59. 60-yard high hurdles: Nicholson, first; Dillon, second. Time :08.1. 60-yd. low hurdles: Dillon, first; Wood, second. Time :07. 60-yd. dash: Gibson, Wood, tied for first. Time :06.5. Two-mile run: Maloney, first; Crimmins, second ; Brehner, third. Time 10:05. Shot put: Delaney, first; Ziemba, second; Hearn, third. Distance 49 ft. 9^4 in. Pole Vault: Smith, first; Wietoff, second. Height 12 ft. 6 in. High jump: Murphy, first; Nicholson, third. Height 5 ft. 10 in.
Braille System Is Fast
As Longhand Says Mario
Up on the second floor in Sorin Hall is the room of Notre Dame’s only blind student, Mario Pieroni, a senior in the College of Law. The average visitor will be surprised at the similarity of this room to all the others on the campus; at least it is not the type of room one would expect of a blind student. Books, floorlamp, radio, carpets, phonograph; all these and other things tend to make the room seem typical of any Notre Dame student.
“That’s one of the things I like best about the student body here at Notre Dame” said Mario when I remarked on the appearance of the room. “You say my room looks like any other student’s, and that is just how the fellows make me feel—like any other student.”
“I have yet to run across someone
THE MAIL BAG
St. Mary’s of the Assumption, Port Richmond, Staten Island, N. Y.
Editor, The Scholastic:
I enclose a card, the humor of which may serve your comic strip.
Respectfully, (Rev.) Thos. Ferris
The Enclosed Card
Dear Father:
I am sending your request under separate cover. For your five copies of No Smut there -will be no charge, for I know that they will be well used in your case.
Yours very truly, Frank E. Gartland, c.s.C. Prefect of Religion
here who greets me with ‘I’ll bet you don’t remember who I am.’ And that,” he added, “is one thing I really appreciate. They don’t let me feel conscious of my blindness.”
By this time I was seated in Mario’s easy chair surveying the room more closely. Besides the radio, there is a phonograph in the room. Appreciating the fact that law students are usually not swing fans, I asked him the reason for the phonograph.
“No, not swing records,” he answered. “That’s my fiction library. I borrow records from a library established by Congress, and these records read, as it were, the entire story to me.”
Football was in the air that day, with the Southern Cal game coming up, so I asked if he had seen many of the games since coming to Notre Dame. Mario said
that he had attended nearly every game,' and really had enjoyed them. He has a system for “seeing” these games; that is, he gets two or three fellows to sit with him and explain the plays as they see them. It makes it just as interesting to him as to any student in the stands.
He employs the same method at the movies, the main problem here being to have someone along to explain the changes in scene. Following the same subject, I asked what he did for exercise.
“I like to take hikes, but that is not always possible if nobody is around to accompany me,” he answered. “I get along by myself when I stay on the campus though. Perhaps I even know my way around the campus better than some of the Freshmen do yet,” Ke added ■ with a smile.
“Do you ever get to use the Rockne Memorial?” I asked.
“Oh yes, I use the pool regularly,” was the surprising answer. “Right now the guards are giving me tips on diving. Swimming, you know, is about the only sport in which the blind are really interested.”
Mario’s desk is littered with heavy paper punched with numerous little holes, the identifying marks of the Braille system, so I asked if he’d explain how he takes notes and does his class work.
“You see these two metal pieces?” He asked. “Well, they’re called a ‘stylus and slate’ and are used for writirig in Braille. I can take notes just about as fast as anyone writing in longhand,” he said. “I use a typewriter, of course, for my written assignments.”
I suspected that by this time Mario was becoming tired with all these questions, but he still smiled pleasantly. With this as encouragement, I asked him what he had for hobbies.
“I’ve always had a soft spot for steam locomotives,” he answered, “and so being around moving trains is one of the things I really enjoy. Some day I hope to hop a freight. You know, just for the thrill.”
“Then, too, I hope to build a couple of libraries for myself before long. One of American folk tales as far back as they go; the other of records of representative American music.”
One final question, I decided. “Mario, what is your impression of the Dome?”
He thought a while, and then said, “I think of it as a symbol, a symbol that is more or less hovering over the administration building with the sun shining on its golden sides. To me,” he continued, “that Dome represents three of the most treasured years of my life. I’m sure I shall never forget the kindness shown me by everyone at Notre Dame.”
—John Casey
The Notre Dame Scholastic
OUR DAILY BREAD
LITURGY
Cardinal Howard says that the Prayer of the Church is pure Doctrine. Although its appeal is chiefly intellectual, nonetheless it is for the whole man. Learning while one prays is also a pleasant emotional experience. The ceremonies that accompany the words and, so to speak, spell out the meaning, are a further stimulus. A good illustration of this fact is the chapter on “The Mass as a Religious Dance” in The Papers of A Pariah by Robert Hugh Benson.
A much quoted president of a university has declared that it is possible for a student in an American university to go through his four years without having read one of the great books in its entirety. More than that, as you know, a student in a Catholic university may go through his four years without having read a Life of Christ, or even one of the four Gospels in its entirety. How many indeed will have read the complete text of one daily Mass!
Love comes from understanding. The glow of what our fathers suffered for the faith is slight defense in days when the attack is not with bludgeons but with the subtle weapons of the intellect. “See therefore, brethren, how you walk circumspectly, .... redeeming the time because the days are evil.” (Ephesians 5, 15-16).
Mass Calendar: February 18-24
Sunday, 18—Second of Lent. 2d prayer, St. Simeon, Bishop, Martyr. 3d, the Saints (A cunctis)
Monday, 19—Ferial. Mass proper. 2d prayer, the Saints (A cunctis). 3d, the Living and the Dead {Omnipotens). 4th, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Tuesday, 20 — Ferial. Mass proper. Prayers as yesterday.
Wednesday, 21—Mass proper. Prayers as on Monday.
Thursday, 22—St. Peter’s Chair at Antioch. 2d prayer, St. Paul. 3d Ferial. 4th, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Credo.
Friday, 23—St. Peter Damian, Bishop, Confessor, Doctor. Mass: In medio (Common) 2d prayer, Ferial. 3d, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Credo.	-
Saturday, 24 — Vigil of St. Matthias, Apostle. Mass: Saturday in Lent. 2d prayer, the Vigil. 3d, Bl. Virgin {Concede). 4th, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Alternate mass: the Vigil. 2d prayer, of Saturday. 3d and 4th, as above.
Talks On Konnersreuth
Gain Wide Popularity
The Rev. Hugo H. Hoever, O.Cist., professoi' of philosophy at Notre Dame, recently discussed the spiritual and moral significance of Theresa Neumann, the German stigmatist, who has lived only on Holy Communion since 1927.
Father Hoever first gave his talk, “The Marvelous Events at Konnersreuth,” Jan. 11, in LaPorte, Ind., where members of the Notre Dame branch of the K. of C. were guests of the LaPorte Knights. He gave this talk a second time on Jan. 15 when he spoke before the members of the Catholic Forum in South Bend.
Father Hoever spoke last Monday before the National Council of Catholic Women in South Bend. An audience of 400 attended this lecture.
Father Hoever ascribes the phenomenal increase in interest in Theresa Neumann to the false report of her death that was widely circulated in this country a few months ago.—John Dinges
Rockne Memorial Used
Daily By 800 Students
“Rockne often regretted that the general run of students—those not out for varsity sports—had no place for recreation. And Rock dreamed of a place where everyone could work out,” Thomas E. Mills assistant coach back in the 1920’s, commented as he glanced over the records of the realization of Rockne’s dream—the Memorial.
Mr. Mills, former University speech professor who devotes full time to directing Memorial activities now, believes the §600,000 building has more than served its purpose.
“The Memorial is open-every day for everyone, and even though physical education classes may use a part of the pool, there is room for all. No one will be excluded,” the director emphasized.
The Memorial will celebrate the first anniversary of its opening March 1, with the general average of students using the facilities hovering between 700-800 daily. As many as 1,000 have been counted on top days. Judging from the added crowds during Lent, officials feel that the boys are not frequenting the downtown corners as much and that the Memorial has been a big help in keeping students “at home.”
Genially, Mr. Mills outlined the rise and fall of the Memorial use. “When the pool was first opened last spring, about everyone on the campus gave it a trial. In two weeks the novelty wore off and attendance became normal. In the fall
the attendance increased. Basketball has been the most popular winter sport. As many as 75 have been playing at one time and now an attendant is on hand to ration facilities when the demand is too great.”
A wide variety of sports make up the program, including handball, basketball, squash, swimming, diving, badminton, volleyball, boxing, wrestling and light apparatus. Preparations for the Bengal bouts have taken up nearly all available space for boxing.
Plans are under way now to make a Rockne room in one of the foyers of the Memorial, dedicated to Rock’s personal belongings, pictures and letters. Rockne’s friends are contributing to the plan.
One of the outstanding features is the sun-lamp room which is open from 3 to 5 p.m. daily, except Sundays. About 200 use the room for 15-minute periods each day. Freshmen are being trained to develop the habit of using the Memorial for recreation, Mills pointed out. All freshmen physical education classes are held there, in addition to work by the group in John A. Scannell’s department.
Priests, brothers, students, and lay faculty alike are making use of the Memorial. The swimming pool and sunlamp attract the faculty members most. And, according to Mr. Mills, groups of faculty members often get together for a basketball game, or regular handball matches.
During the football game weekends, the Memorial was one of the favorite meeting spot on the campus.
—Bill Scanlan
THE BOOK SHOP
Notre Dame Headquarters for Books Stationery
Pens Pencils Greeting Cards
• 130 N. MICHIGAN STREET
The Notre Dame Scholastic
19
THEATRE
Slightly less than a year ago South Bend saw the organization of a new theater group. South Bend neither smiled nor frowned on it; she merely raised an eyebrow in lukewarm curiosity. It was a new thing, you see, and new things must prove their worth. Even the seemingly few persons that first heard of the venture knew it only by its name, The Community Theatre. Who was behind it? What was its purpose? Whence did it spring? People wondered, and people went out to see for themselves. They were greeted by a very inauspicuous first production called “Three Taps At Twelve.” Some were disappointed; others refused to comment. All this occurred in the Spring of 1939.
South Bend then forgot about The Community Theatre until a sudden flurry of publicity announced a fall season
QiaifiiiiiimmiiiiiiiaittiiiiiHiiiiimtiiiiitstiiiiniiMtmiiimtitiuQQ I GENUINE ITALIAN I I SPAGHETTI and RAVIOLI |
|	Spaghetti	Spaghetti with	|
2	Ala Cart	Mushrooms I
I	30c	55c	|
|	Spaghetti with	Spaghetti with	:
1 Meat Balls	Chicken	|
i	40c	60c	|
|	Spaghetti and Fresh	|
=	Ravioli	Lake Fish	E
= Half and Half	___ =
[	40c	Sea Foods	|
|	HOWELL'S	CAFE	|
miiiaaiaiiiiiiiaaaaiaiaiitiiii»»iiiniiiiiiniaiiiiii»niiiiiiamiiniHti»ai|«l
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
SUCCESSOR TCT ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
opener entitled “A Full House.” Again audiences saw no sparkling entertainment; but they did see a cast of capable people and a clever stage setting. This promise of better things to come accounted for a second withholding of judgment on the group. “Blind Alley,” . a mental duel between psychoanalyst and criminal, followed in late October. Audiences liked this and went spreading tidings of great joy. The Community Theatre was a growing thing. More people were hearing of it, and many wished to join. A program of one-act plays followed, and just recently “It’s a Wise Child" was seen. Now in production is a carnival story, “The Barker,” scheduled for late March.
The original idea was conceived by Duke LeBrun, gaunt-faced gentleman who is now the Theatre’s technical director. He and Robert Drain of WSBT proposed the scheme to Mrs. Harris, supervisor of the Community Recreation Center, and to Mr. Floyd Merriman, director of public recreation for South Bend. Mrs. Harris and Mr. Merriman caught the spark of enthusiasm that was emitted by the LeBrun-Drain combination, and so the project began under the sponsorship of the Board of Recreation.
Since that time, about a year ago, The Community Theatre has acquired a membership of nearly 120 persons all concerned in some way or another in the vague art of acting. There is nothing exclusive about the organization since the only qualification for membership is a role in a regular production; and anyone interested is invited to try out.
The group, and most especially its board of directors, merits a Winchell orchid for the bulldogged persistence and energy exhibited so far. Duke LeBrun himself swears never to stop for a min-uute until the dear dream, the ultimate goal, is achieved — a modem, fully-equipped civic playhouse. And South Bend could certainly use one!
—Vern Witkowski
VINCENTIANS
Recently a case illustrating the point that a conference necessarily limited in funds must supplement the work of public and private agencies, through the office of the Notre Dame Conference of the Society of St. Vincent de Paul.
The case concerns a man who needed glasses. His work was of such a nature that without them he simply could not carry on. No agency was authorized to supply glasses for him. A referral from
the Vincentian Service Bureau in South Bend initiated action by the Notre Dame Conference which resulted not.only in securing the glasses but also in establishing contact with a family that had been away from the Church for years.
As the Manual of the Society points out, it is the spiritual aspect of the work that is so vital to Vincentian activity. Objections on the part of those who feel that the poor are already adequately provided for, are forgotten when it is
MOW ME DOWN!
I'm Flying on a Rail
OOUTH SHORE schedules demand speed, and plenty of it. But always with complete safety. You ride in relaxed comfort over an allelectric line in an all-steel car.
Enjoy Speedline luxury at low cost. For detailed information call
C. W. VEACH
City Passenger Agent
Ticket Office
301 N. Michigan. St.
Phone 3-3111
20
The Notre Dame Scholastic
realized that the Society is composed of men who are working for their own spiritual welfare, as well as for the material and spiritual benefit of those in need.
<<
Through the crowd of students shuffling out of the dining halls after lunch today, members of the Conference made their way to the faculty dining hall.
“Why the books tucked under their arms for afternoon classes and why all dressed up? Something special must be on. A picture for the Dome?”
Something “special” was on. Mr. George Gillespie of New York, president of the Society in the United States, was at Notre Dame today for a picture of the work of the Conference. In the limited
time between grace after the noon meal and the bell for 1:15 classes, members demonstrated through the discussion of a case the efficient handling of the work by young men properly advised.
YOUR RELIGION
It is said that intellectual curiosity is the beginning of philosophy, but that the fear of God is the beginning of wisdom, that science is the evidence of things
New Souvenir Items •..
•
Religious articles Desk equipment Pennants
Blankets Lamps
WE ANNOUNCE . . .
a change in hours:
From Monday, Feb. 19, we will not close at noon — open continuously — from 7:30 a. m. to 4:15 p. m. every day but Sunday.
Notre Dome Bookstore Badin Hall
seen, and faith the evidence of things unseen. In science things show us what they are; in Revelation God tells us Who He is, and what He wants us to do.
Now it would seem that with these two sources of truth on the deepest problems of life and of destiny the mind ought to be satisfied and at rest. Yet such is not the case. For although to the problems that reason alone cannot solve Revelation gives an answer, the answer always contains elements that transcend the power of reason fully to understand. So reason, not doubting— for the rational basis of faith is too clear to be doubted—but fretting over the obscurity which still remains struggles on to obtain a clearer vision of what it knows a priori cannot be completely grasped.
A case in point is the mystery of predestination proposed, usually, in question form: “If the omniscient Creator knows, as it is granted He does, prior to creating me that I shall be among the eternally reprobate, then 1) How can I be free to escape that fate, and 2) How can He, consistently with His goodness, create me at all?” The question is raised, not only by freshmen desperately trying to forestall a class quiz on more 'relevant matters, but also by upperclassmen of more serious mind and reflective habits.
The former part of the question is easily answered. Foreknowledge of an event is not the cause of that event. Thus I am certain now both that you and I are going to die. Yet obviously neither of us will die because I have foreknowledge of it. On the contrary, I have foreknowledge of it because mortality is a property of man. Again, I know in advance, let us say from conversation with your close friends, that you will agree with a certain opinion which I will propose to you. You do not agree because I foreknow it, but because you have freely reached that conclusion by your own thinking. Similarly, God foreknows all that we are ever going to do, but we do not do it because He foreknows it; He foreknows it because to His omniscience, - being immune from the limitations of time and change, we have already done it, and freely done it. Knowledge is not casual; it is merely apprehensive of what is or can be.
The latter part of the question is not so easily answered. Still, our answer can show that there is nothing in the doctrine of predestination contrary either to the divine justice or the divine goodness. As to justice God not only gives to man all that is due to his nature, i.e., full freedom of action, and maintains perfect fidelity in His promi
ses, but He also bestows upon him gratuitously sufficient grace to initiate salutary acts, so that if man freely corresponds with this grace he will infallibly be saved. Full justice then on God’s part, and in addition abundant generosity. No fatalism, nor determinism, but complete respect for human liberty.
It is senseless, therefore, to say: “If I am among the number of the predestined, God will certainly save me, and if I am not, then no effort of mine can prevail against my destiny. So it is futile for me to bother about it.” (Diet. Apol. v, 4, 258). It would be as reasonable to argue: “If I am destined to crack my head on the pavement, nothing can preserve me from such an accident; and if I am not so destined then no such accident can overtake me. So it matters little whether I plunge out of the fifthstory window or not.” (2) For the assumption is that I am not free to conduct myself in such a way as to avoid the accident,—a thoroughly false assum-tion. As men are saved by freely accepting the grace which God offers them, so they are lost by freely and culpably rejecting it. God is the author of salvation, man of damnation. Volenti non fia iniuria.
Bedford Stripes
Featured in March Esquire
*2.25
Arrow Bedford ties to match, $1
MAX
ADLER
Michigan at Washington
The Notre Dame Scholastic
21

As for God’s goodness, one might simply say: What is just is good. God’s predestination is just. Therefore it is good. But a truth stated as sharply as this often irritates rather than convinces the mind. Yet it is evident that the concept of moral goodness is inseparable from justice. When Our Lord said in the parable of the vineyard: “Friend, I do thee no wrong,” the expression was as much a defense of goodness as of justice; of goodness inasmuch as the Master of the vineyard had provided the workman with an opportunity to earn a wage, and of justice inasmuch as he paid him what he had promised. The sign of goodness is the abiding will ao communicate it to others. This the Creator does initially in creation and continuously in providence. As Existence is the basic good and as without it no other could be conferred or received, it follows that were God to deny it to anyone He would deny him any mark of His goodness whatever. God’s universal intention, conditioned only by man’s willingness to cooperate by the acceptance of His graces, that, as all have been redeemed, so all will be saved, is explicitly revealed. (See Mt. 11:25, 30; 22:8, 14; John 10:14, 16). Is God to be thought unkind because some men stubbornly refuse to accept His benefits?
Let anyone say how God could make a man free—i. e., make man at all— and leave him free, and then make it impossible for him to be the master of his o^vn destiny. “It is not my will,” saith the Lord, ‘ that the sinner should die, but rather that he be converted and live.”—Charles C. Miltner, C-S-C.
MORE JOBS AVAILABLE (Continued from page 9) been in accounting, sales, and engineering. Due to the wars in Europe and the consequent increase in airplane production in this country, most of the aeronautical engineering students will probably be placed before they graduate.
When asked which qualities were sought most by employers, Mr. Dooley
ARROW’S
SEMESTER SHIRT
BEDFORD STRIPES (Featured in the March Esquire)
said, “Although the demands vary with different employers and different jobs, in the majority of cases personality and character are of equal importance with academic record.”
Regarding the question of whether the June graduate or the February graduate had the better chance of finding a job, Mr. Dooley pointed out that there is certainly less competition,in February because of the smaller number of graduates, but on the other hand most of the large companies arrange their employment schedules to take care of June graduates.
For those who might be interested, Mr. Dooley said that there is always a large demand for salesmen and those interested in that sort of work.
—Bob Fitzgerald
Here’s a shirt so far ahead in smart style that even a semester’s wear won’t date it.
Makes you swell WITH PRIDE...
Button into one of our new Arrow fancy shirts . . . and see how your chest expands, how you throw back your shoulders. For the patterns, the pick of the world’s fashion centers, are really something to be
Thin, well-spaced corded stripes on soft-hued color grounds in blue, tan, and green distinguish Bedford Stripes as the find for 1940. As with all Arrows, they’re Sanfor-ized-Shrunk (fabric shrinkage less than 1%).
Break out some folding money and buy an assortment of these fine shirts today before they’re all gone. $2.25 each.
Arrow Bedford ties to match $1.
ARROW SHIRTS

22
The Notre Dame Scholastic
RADIO
To the average American, radio is chiefly a source of entertainment. Music, innocuous drama, news summarizes, and sports broadcasts constitute the hulk of the radio programs you and I hear. We are not overwhelmed, as are European listeners, with a continous bombardment of propaganda either good or bad. Incidentally, the only bad propaganda is that issued by the opposition. The biased reports and fictionalized news issued by the side one favors personally are usually much more accurate than anything that the other side could possibly offer!
Our radios are free, to a great extent, from violent controversial programs in social and political fields. This is because the government, through its licensing power exercises great control over the policies of stations, and restricts the activities of the broadcasters accordingly. Then, too, the radio is liable, together- with the speaker, for any damage suits that might be brought as a result of a program that might injure some particular group. A newspaper can state that the opinions in any article are those of the author and establish a defense in that way. A radio station is unable to do this and must, in selfdefense, censor all programs.
This censorship is to be endorsed because it does keep radio entertainment on a high level of morality. It keeps evil and immoral theories of economics of government from being poured into the thousands of homes that constitute the listening audience.
This question of radio censorship is growing to be the most perplexing problem the broadcaster faces. On one side, are aligned those who feel that the radio public, which numbers so many of an impressionable age, should be protected to some extent from crack-pot theorists and criminal realists who would implant their ideas in a nation’s mind. On the other side, stand those who feel that radio censorship is a violation of the right of free speech, that only a country that permits open and uncensored discussion of any topic can truthfully call itself a democracy. Censorship is an interesting subject and should be more familiar'' to the average man than it is at present.—Ray Kelly
The Log
4:00—Tues.: Academy of Politics 7:30—Tues.: Music of the Masters 7:45—Wed.: Faculty Talk
4:00—Thurs.: Periscope
7:30—Thurs.: Sportscast
7:30—Sat.: Little Jamboree
THE Headquarters far Coca-Cola, HUDDLE Pipe Tobacco and Candy

Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Co. by COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
1107 Beyer Avenue
Everywhere Coca-Cola carries a conviction of quality. Four generations have known and enjoyed this drink. Millions of times a day, people the world over experience the thrill of its taste and the refreshed feeling that follows.
Show appreciation of our advertisers by patronizing them.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. HARRY BOYD-SNEE
EYE. EAR. NOSE. THROAT
PHONE 3-1395	. J. M. S. BUILDING
(Dr. 0. Qruniy
Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments 434 Associates - South Bend
Office Phone 3-2574
DR. H. R. FRASER REGISTERED PODIATRIST
SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 4-8989 SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
OFFICE 4-5661
RES. 3-4080
ucas DENTISTRY — X-RAYS
702 J.M.S. BLDG.
SOUTH BEND
(Drs. (Probst cm2 Single,
DENTISTS
405 Associates - South Bend Phone 3-1254
3
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
1
3
I
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
1
L. E. FISHER.
M"- J. THORNTON.
I
DENTISTS 430 SHERLAND BUILDING
TELEPHONE 3-4269

ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BLDS., SOUTH BEND
DISC - CUSSION
A few weeks ago the name of Raymond Scott suggested either an inimitable quintet or distinctive compositions. Today it suggests a fourteen piece orchestra. A few weeks hence it should suggest “the best” — sweet, swing, or novelty, especially if he can retain his present guests: Jack Leonard and Nan Wynn. Scott’s first recordings show only the swing and novel sides. Of his first four pressings, I like “Just A Gigolo,” “Peanut Vendor,”. “Business Man’s Bounce,” and “Huckleberry Duck,” in that order. I’ve always maintained that mere musical ability is not the test of a good band: Scott obliges with something new in arrangements. Watch him come up.
“Oh, What A Lovely Dream” and “My Rosary of Broken Dreams” aren’t particularly good songs. Del Courtney’s version of them isn’t particularly good either. You might try them if you don’t sleep well.
Hal Kemp has done Saxie Dowell’s “Playmates” with the Smoothies vocalizing, and “Thank Your Stars,” featuring Bob Allen on the lyrics. You’ll enjoy the first for a while anyway and the second for a little longer. It isn’t a spectacular disc but it is worthwhile.
“It’s A Blue World,” one of the better new numbers, has been recorded by both Tommy Dorsey and Glenn Miller. Dorsey, aided vocally by Anita Boyer, is excellent. Dorsey, De Witt, and “Angel,” on the other side, are less good. Miller is Miller on both “Blue World” and “Faithful to You.” Eberle, of course, fills in a chorus.
Johnny Green has recorded two of his biggest hits: “Body and Soul,” and “Out of Nowhere.” Green is my idea of what a piano player should be, and his orchestra backs him suitably.
When bands of the future are being discussed, Will Bradley’s name is invariably mentioned. Of his several records, “Old Doc Yak” is, by far, the best. Bradley’s brass is peerless and Ray McKinley takes good care of both
South Bend, Ind.
Skate for health . •. it’s good exercise ...
PLAYLAND ROLLER RINK
(Melody Gardens Ballroom)
TWO SKATING FLOORS — ONE FOR BEGINNERS Every night except Monday — Matinee Sunday, 1:30-4:30 p. m. Students always 25c “A Good Way to Make Money for Your OniF
the drum and vocal passages. “Memphis Blues,” its mate, is just another swing number.
Connie Boswell and Bing Crosby have done “Between 18th and 19th on Chestnut Street.” It’s unusual, clever, and like everything else of Crosby’s, tuneful. “Wrap Your Troubles in Dreams” is an old favorite (of mine, at least) which is nice to hear again. Bing here makes it obvious why he is America’s favorite singer.—Bill Geddes
Hunter College is doing special research on the study habits of its undergraduates.
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
36
years of experience at your command.
years of reliable, competent service.
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eyes and the making of fine glasses.
Optometrists and Opticians
314 South Michigan St.
MR. PAUL BYRNE, LIBRARY,
NOTRE DAME, IND.
Chesterfields
are
ANN MILLER, star of stage and screen, now appearing in George White’s Scandals, is definitely the out* standing dance discovery of our time ... and a discovery more and more smokers are making every day is that CHESTERFIELDS are COOLER, BETTERTASTING and DEFINITELY MILDER.


AND BETTER-TASTING
You’ll always find these two qualities at their best, plus a far cooler smoke, in Chesterfield’s Right Combination of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos.
Make your next pack Chesterfield and see for yourself why one smoker tells another They Satisfy. You can't buy a better cigarette.
MAKE YOW NEXT PACK
Copyright 1940, Liggett & Myeis Tobacco Co.
(Jhesterfield
The Cooler, Better-Tasting, DEFINITELY MILDER Cigarette