litigator "STORMWIND" ALL-WEATHER RAINCOATS
$25.95
Destined to be one of the most popular coats on the campus . . . and here’s why. Tailored by Alligator, one of the finest names in men’s rainwear. Styled like a topcoat, yet it is waterproof. Complete with warm wool zip-out liner that will keep this coat comfortable even in the coldest weather. Come in and try one on soon.
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS 1/3	1/3
IN JUNE IN JULY
SHOP WAY: 1/3 IN AUGUST
SUCCESSFUL MEN
LOOK THE PART . . .
Think of the successful men you know . . . most of them look successful, don’t they? That’s because they are careful of their personal appearance . . . they dress the part. That’s a good habit to form right now . . . and the Campus Shop is ready to help you. Get what you need now — charge it the Campus Shop way.
GILBERT'S @ampu.s&op<|
On the Campus—Notre Dame
On Campus Max Shulman
(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf”, “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
THE TRUE AND HARROWING FACTS ABOUT RUSHING
It is well enough to sit in one’s Morris chair and theorize about sorority rushing, but if one really wishes to know the facts, one must leave one’s Morris chair and go out into the field. (My Morris chair, incidentally, was given to me by the Philip Morris Company, makers of Marlboro Cigarettes. They are great-hearted folk, the makers of Marlboro Cigarettes, as millions of you know who have enjoyed their excellent cigarettes. Only from bountiful souls could come such mildness, such flavor, such filters, such pleasure, as you will find in Marlboros! For those who prefer crushproof boxes, Marlboro is available in crushproof boxes. For those who prefer soft packs, Marlboro is available in soft packs. For those who prefer to buy their cigarettes in bulk, please contact Emmet R. Sigafoos, friendly manager of our factory in Richmond, Virginia.)
But I digress. I was saying that in order to know the true facts about sorority rushing, one must go into the field and
investigate. Consequently, I went last week to the Indiana College of Spot Welding and Belles Lettres and interviewed several million coeds, among them a lovely lass named Gerund McKeever. (It is, incidentally, quite an interesting little story about how she came to be named Gerund. It seems that her father, Ralph T. McKeever, loved grammar better than any
thing in the world, and so he named all his children after parts of speech. In addition to Gerund, there were three girls named Preposition, Adverb, and Pronoun, and one boy named Dative Case. The girls seemed not to be unduly depressed by their names, but Dative Case, alas, grew steadily more morose and was finally found one night dangling from a participle. After this tragic event, the father abandoned his practice of grammatical nomenclature, and whatever children were subsequently born to him—
♦ * ♦
The Philip Morris Company makes, in addition to Marlboro, the new unfiltered, king-size Philip Morris Commander— choice tobacco, gently vacuum cleaned by a new process to assure you the finest in smoking pleasure.
eight in all—were named Everett.)
But I digress. I was interviewing a lovely coed named Gerund McKeever. “Gerund,” I said, “were you rushed by a sorority?”
“Yes, mister,” she said, “I was rushed by a sorority.”
“Did they give you a high-pressure pitch?” I asked. “Did they use the hard sell?”
“No, mister,” she replied. “It was all done with quiet dignity. They simply talked to me about the chapter and the girls for about three minutes and then I pledged.”
“My goodness!” I said. “Three minutes is not very long for a sales talk!”
“It is when they are holding you under water, mister,” said Gerund.
“Well, Gerund,” I said, “how do you like the house?”
“I like the house fine, mister,” she replied. “But I don’t live there. Un
fortunately, they pledged more girls than they have room for, so they are sleeping some of us in the bell tower.”
“Isn’t that rather noisy?” I said.
“Only on the quarter-hour,” said Gerund.
“Well, Gerund,” I said, “it has certainly been a pleasure talking to you,” I said.
“Likewise, mister,” she said, and with many a laugh and cheer we went our separate Wai’s—she to the campanile, I to the Morris chair.
O 1961 Mm Shulman
GLANCES
You think you’ve got troubles? Chris Foley, a frequent contributor to the Scholastic, tells of a summer romance that was never to be... page 7.
The Scholastic empties the mail box in the “Repercussions” column... page 9.
“News and Notes” highlights tonight’s Lameliters concert, and other items... page 11.
Campus political clubs have certainly come into their own in the past year; read about their present and future... page 12.
Noise, dirt and holes in the ground herald the University’s “Expansion to the East”; see .. . page 14.
Student architects meet with faculty on .. . page 15.
Learn what’s “In and Around Town,” plus “Kibitzer’s Komer" on . . . page 17.	,
For the nostalgic among us, the mood of Notre Dame, 1929, is reproduced via an old Scholastic item; . . . page 18.
If “to see ourselves as other see us” is really so desirable, the ND man should check his image in Larry Sicking’s cartoon feature on . . . page 19.
And a backward look at Freshman Orientation through the eyes of a freshman ... page 20.
A preview of “the big one,” ND-MSU at East Lansing . . . page 25.
“As We See It,” a non-objective view of the sports world; plus ND’s hottest major leaguer, Carl Yastrzem-ski appear on . . . page 26.
For a roundup of the week’s doings in other sports, see . . . pages 28-30.
Occupying the “Forum” this week are Edmund Burke, Young Democrats’ president, and Gary Hoban, who speak in defense of the liberals deprecated by last week’s contributors.
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mad at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School rress Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
4
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
GMUHesitafaf
Vol. 103 No. 4
October 20, 1961
Founded 1867'
editor-in-chief
THOMAS WEISS
associate editor
MICHAEL ZWETTLER
news editor
JOHN McCABE
features editor
THOMAS HOOBLER
sports editor	'
WILLIAM CARY
copy editor
PHILIP LARRABEE
art editor
THOMAS HANSEN Patrick Saxe Robert Sajnovsky
layout editor
STEVEN PODLAS
business manager JOHN WARD .
Robert Buckley
. circulation manager JAMES CREAGAN
faculty advisor
DONALD COSTELLO
BRAVO: The 1961-62 Artists’ Series, reappearing after a year’s absence, opened Thursday night, October 12, with a performance of classic music and dances from India by Indrani and her company. The performance was one of the most entertaining and original offerings seen in Washington Hall in some time. Our congratulations to the Senate International Commission and the Artists’ Series committee headed by Father Carl Hager, and our best wishes for future successes.
TAKE A BOW: The four-page center insert, “The Sublime Tradition,” in this Scholastic issue, is prepared entirely by the editors of the Notre Dame Alumnus. Our thanks to the Alumnus for making this service available to the Scholastic again this year.
WATCHING THE STORE: We can understand that, if there is to be an effective student government, provision must be made for an interim body of some sort between the opening of the first semester and student elections. Thus, of course, the stay Senate. What we do not fully understand, however, is the nature of this stay Senate — its capacities and limitations. Since it cannot really be considered a representative body, it would hardly seem that it should exercise the power of a full Senate. And among the areas necessarily outside its jurisdiction, one would expect at least to find matters of relatively high finance — e.g., the Mardi Gras budget. Yet the present stay Senate, perhaps in keeping with a long tradition (which, we feel, should be re-examined), is in the process of approving a budget that proposes a profit of $40,775 and involves, at least indirectly, important changes in the management of the raffle, chief among which is the higher price of raffle tickets.
We seriously question the approval of a proposal of such importance to the student body by any other than a fully representative Senate. Such action ought to be postponed until the new senators are installed, if representative student government is to have any meaning. Or, if this is inexpedient due to a need for immediate approval, then the Senate should definitely consider an earlier date for student elections.
This is not the first time in recent years that the actions of the stay Senate have been subject to question. There is clearly a need for a thorough delineation of its capacities and limitations. Once again, however, we think that student elections at the earliest possible date would be the best solution.
NEVER THE TWAIN SHALL MEET. In this week’s “Forum,” we present the final in a series of articles by and about young campus liberals and conservatives. While each article has been valuable as a statement of the attitudes and beliefs of the more articulate shades of student opinions, each, unfortunately, is characterized by a common fault symptomatic of a common inability to communicate.
The problem is that each author speaks as one possessed by a vision rather than as a participant in a rational discussion. They have not, and do not seek, any common ground for a meaningful exchange of ideas. Yet they delude themselves into thinking that they are talking to one another, that they are appealing to reason. We have in fact seen a parade of manifestos masquerading as intellectual dialogues.
In the end we find, it seems, that Mr. Clarke has not at all been talking about the same thing as Messrs. Baroody and Kolbe, who have, in turn, been talking about something quite different from what Messrs. Burke and Hoban discuss. It now appears that the object of the first attack was the “pocketbook conservative” who sees freedom solely in terms of getting and spending. The young conservative reply asserted boldly that “liberals” are merely fashionable rebels for the sake of rebellion. Finally, we have the countercharge that conservatives are in effect blind Don Quixotes tilting at windmills.
The unfortunate thing is that each of the writers sets up a clay idol to shatter with his semantical grape-shot and thinks that he is arguing a position. Certainly there is a place in political debate for sheer, unabashed rhetoric, but when the smoke of forensic battle has cleared, it’s a shame to have all parties to the dispute shrug the whole business off as irrelevant. One wonders whether the young conversative and the young liberal are not both so isolated in their positions that rational discussion is quite impossible.
5
WONT
EVEN IF
YOU DO
Adler SC’s are guaranteed not to shrink out of fit or your money back. Lamb’s wool, in men's and women’s sizes, in white and 12 other colors. Just $1 at fine stores.
ADLER SC’s

ADLER SC’s AVAILABLE IN WHITE AND COLORS AT
WYMAN’S DEPT. STORE ROBERTSON’S DEPT. STORE “Fine Stores Everywhere”
The Scholastic
I’M SURE that at some time or another you have gone beyond the usual perfunctory preparations for a date and really made an earnest attempt to present yourself as a suave bon-vivanting man of the world. I mean you washed even if you are not in the habit of washing, put on a shirt even if you fairly live in your Munsing-wear, and perhaps swabbed on a pint or two of PerStop even if nobody around your house really cares.
And why did you extend yourself to these limits of personal grooming? Admit it, you fox you, there was some beauteous damsel, some fair little
Any guy could fall for a girl like that, but I determined from the first that no cheap fortune-hunter should win this maid, so great was the amour that lay in my heart.
You can well imagine how anxious I was to make absolutely sure that everything was perfect for that allimportant first date. I determined that my personal appearance should leave nothing to be desired. Accordingly, on the morning of the big day, I gathered before me all available written matter on personal appearance, relying heavily on advertisements in newspapers and magazines. In order to be strictly scientific, I
Indeed not. No sir, Jeff, you’re just out of luck, fella.
This tale of course has a happy ending, as Jeff wises up and sudses the old mop with instant Prell and dances his now immaculate head off with Monica at the big dance. It was a close call, though, and you can just bet that I immediately hustled down to the beauty parlor for an extra strong shampoo to at least give them cooties a run for their money.
My hair now free of all foreign matter, I figured I was done with that part of my anatomy. Fate is cruel sometimes, however, friends, for the very next ad took up the case of Jim,
a summer romance
by CHRIS FOLEY
chickadee in this henhouse of life, who caught your eye, turned your head, and made your heart turn flipflops.
’Twas just the case with me last summer, friends. “Bosh!” you will say. “Not you! You are too serious-minded, too level-headed, too concerned with the contemplation of the finer things to this life to become involved in a summer romance. Besides, you’re as ugly as a goat.” That is what you will say, but that is
because you have never seen the object of my affection. Her name was Dimaggio O’Rourke, the only daughter of Irish parents, both insatiable baseball fans.
It is, I fear, quite impossible to describe her beauty here. Mere words are not enough. Angelic, exquisite, lovely, ravishing, stunning, adorable, gorgeous, give but an impression, not a true feeling of the heart, for they are just conventions of the human kind — mere words. Numbers are a little better, for when I tell you that her father is worth a cool six million I’m sure you all know what I mean.
October 20, 1961
sorted all the material, starting with hair preparations and ending with foot remedies. I must admit that I was at first cowed at the bulk of the material, as I had never realized all the things that could be wrong with a chap; the sort of things that make the girls shy away and the other fellows say “Tch, tch, X could be such a stud except ...”
'IakE HAIR, for instance. Or more specifically take the case of Jeff, an athletic young man who in the first panel of a sort of comic strip ad wins a gigantic yacht race by skillfully maneuvering his vessel past all others in a particularly spectacular display of yachtsmanship. In the second panel Jeff is being presented with a huge cup in recognition of his triumph and everybody is congratulating him on being such a terrific skipper.
Jeff, however, has his eyes on Monica, a luscious little morsel who also appeared in the first two panels, and in panel number three he suggests that they could make beautiful music together at the forthcoming big yacht club dance. The fourth panel is the shocker, however, as Monica tells Jeff that she can’t make it, and tells him in such a way that makes it clear that she wouldn’t go with him if he were Bull Halsey himself.
Why? wonders Jeff in a thought indicated in panel five. Why? I wondered to myself. The moment of truth comes in number six. DANDRUFF. Yes, Jeff is suffering from seborrheac dermatitis, and in the worst way. You think Monica is going to rest her pretty blonde curls on a shoulder covered with greasy white flakes?
who is shown bolting singlehandedly through a bevy of brawny tacklers to post a big six points for State, six points being just the total needed to win the big game. “Jim has done it again,” we learn from an unidentified fan, leading us to believe that Jim rather makes it a habit of winning big games for State. Strange as it may seem in the face of these facts, however, Jim can’t get a tumble from Betty, buxom blonde cheerleader, who screams her lungs out for old State but seems to positively abhor its most distinguished gladiator. She in fact confides to an equally buxom brunette cheerleader that “Jim’d be OK if he could wear his helmet to the homecoming dance.”
Instantly my mind shot back to the tragic tale of Jeff, the dandruff-damned yachtsman, fearing that Jim suffered from the same malady. But no, it seems that Jim has a subtler, if not less miserable deficiency. From Spunky, energetic and sympathetic manager of the football team, we learn that “Chicks don’t dig guys with mussed up mops.” Jim’s sin is clear — he has relied on inferior hair dressing and consequently has unruly locks that cause all the femmes to utter a deprecating “ugggg” instead of the affectionate “mmmmmmm.”
Fortunately the solution is simple enough, it’s Brillcreme and a little dab’ll do ya, and believe me guys I hustled right out and bought many many dabs of that wonderful stuff and when I returned to my clippings I had that confident feeling that comes with the knowledge that every little curl is scrubby clean and plastered in the exact location on the cranium it was meant for.
7
By NOW I was so immersed in my preparations that I had cast aside all other considerations and thrown myself completely into my grooming. It became sort of a game, as I would look at the happy people in the first picture of the ads, pick out the one miserable wallflower over in the corner, and try to ferret out for myself why fate and the coeds frowned on this poor wretch. In the next case this was rather difficult, as Bobby was to all appearances a pretty cool guy. Yet he had a problem. Bad Breath. As a matter of fact, it must have fairly stunk, because nobody and I mean nobody would go near the poor guy. All the gang was gathered around the fireplace there in the ski lodge, everybody that is except Bobby, who for lack of toothpaste was the object of the scorn of both sexes.
I skipped down to the last panel, saw that Bobby was getting his yum-mies while thanking his lucky stars for Pepsodent, and proceeded to brush until my arms ached. Far beyond the normal limits for cavity protection and fragrant breath I scrubbed, discarding worn out toothbrushes right and left. When finally finished, I popped the teeth back into my mouth, anchored them firmly in place with liberal applications of Poligrip, and went on to check out my next possible weakness.
Now the next guy had a problem the likes of which you never saw. There weren’t even any girls running around in the whole first panel, so bad off was this guy. He was all alone, he and his acne. Big red splotches all over his face, his mouth pulled downward in dismay as he hovered over a mirror, this poor chap was in such a mess that I feared not even the miraculous efforts of Clear-asil could save him. Save him it did, though, and such a change! By the last picture he had nary a blotch, all his pimples having been banished to wherever unwanted pimples go. And did the dollies go for him? Bet your life, gang, they were practically smothering him. To top it all off there was Pat Boone telling me that Clearasil could do the very same thing for me! You can imagine the hopes that aroused in a scabby old trooper like myself and the speed with which I roared down to the drugstore.
Along about this time I was perhaps suffering from a touch of overconfidence. I had met all the challenges thus far, and felt that I was ready to meet the world; ready even to make my bid for fair lady. How short-lived my confidence! Paraded before my eyes was that ageless yet
sickenly pathetic panorama of George, the skinny kid who goes to the beach and gets sand kicked in his face by a big bully. One look in the mirror disclosed the horrid truth that any big bully who had a mind to, or even a little kid or maybe even a husky girl could kick veritably beaches of sand into my face and I couldn’t do anything on account of I didn’t have a mighty chest. I didn’t have mighty arms or legs, either, and this isn’t something you can ready right away like dandruff or bad breath.
Give up, you say? Never. Instead I went into one of the most spirited demonstrations of dynamic tension you have ever witnessed. I mean pitted my right arm against my left for hours on end. And weight lifting: I picked up everything in sight, straining every little underdeveloped muscle in my underdeveloped body to its absolute limit. And eating: I ate almost as many things as I picked up, cramming one thing after another down my throat without regard for bones, wrappers, etc. I could feel myself building up by the minute; my chest was mightier than I had ever dreamed and I pictured myself giving the sand kicker such a smack that he would have to slink off to find some other guys not as mighty as I to pick on.
^[^)U CAN imagine how late it was getting, for building the body beautiful of course takes time. I barely had time to let Arthur Murray teach me how to dance with the grace and ease that wins the admiration of men and women alike. To tell the truth, I didn’t even bother with removing unwanted body hair, because I couldn’t quite decide which was the unwanted and which the wanted. Also I wasn’t able to obtain any shoes that make me look four inches taller, but achieved the same effect by standing on tiptoes.
Naturally there was no question about clothes. Gilbert’s Campus Shop had long ago provided me with the
perfect apparel for eating out with the folks, the country club dance, and the drive-in movie with my best girl. Hurriedly I slipped into these wondrous garments, taking care not to stretch them with the several inches of solid muscle I had so recently acquired.
I was all set, you might say, and I was, except for one thing. Have you ever known anyone who is a pretty decent person except that this person has some habit which bothers you? Alas, friends, I fear that I have such a habit, try as I may to overcome it. The whole thing is that I’ve got a foul mouth — always have, and people quite often take offense at the profanities and obscenities that just seem to slip out despite my best intentions. It isn’t so bad when my parents are around, as my mother just boxes my ears and says “Don’t mind the young’un, he’s got a foul mouth.”
That night, however, I was of course strictly on my own, and as I drove to the house I kept whispering “Don’t be crude” to myself as a sort of reminder. Not that I’m a barbarian or anything; its just that these things just slip out sometimes.
My excitement was at a fever pitch by the time I arrived at the palatial O’Rourke residence. Her mother greeted me at the door and said “My, my, you’ve got suave hair and no dandruff and no acne and clean teeth and a mighty chest and mighty arms and legs and the latest in collegiate attire and you look at least four inches taller standing on your tiptoes and you don’t smell half bad. I bet you dance divine.”
“Yeah,” I said as modestly as I could. “Where’s the broad? I mean where’s your daughter?”
“Oh, she’s getting ready,” Mrs. O’Rourke informed me.
A HE NEXT thing that happened was that I was invited by Mr. O’Rourke to view his gun collection. He had quite a large collection of all sorts of firearms, ranging from revolutionary war muskets to the latest hunting arms. It seemed as good a way as any to pass the time as well as make a good impression on Mr. O’Rourke.	x
*	* *	'
Well, the date	didn’t	come	off	so
well, althought you must admit that I tried pretty hard. It was my fault, I guess, but I do believe that I only made one slip-up the entire night. It all happened when Dimaggio came (Continued on page 34)
8
The Scholastic
REPERCUSSIONS
WHOSE VOICE?
Editor:	■
Re: “We the Students of the United States ...» October 6, 1961. It seems reasonable to me that “. . . a national union of student governments in order to facilitate the exchange of ideas and concrete practical programs for improving student governments ...” is appropriate. However, this national union should not be a sounding board for the national political views of its members.
What strikes me as strange is that Mr. Meece’s primary objection is that he is unable to tout his conservatism. He makes little mention of fault in the apparent purpose of the NSA whose individual members evidently lack the quality required to join an organization which has as a purpose the expression of political opinion.
Dennis Hall 108 St. Ed’s
RE: CHEERS Editor:
It is the policy of the cheerleaders to lead small rhythmic cheers after every two plays on the field. Only at timeouts do we have longer cheers such as — Notre Dame Spell it Out, etc. This policy was adhered to for the first game, therefore I do not see how you justify your down-grading remark about the cheerleaders which appeared in the Oct. 6 issue. We will try to be at our best next weekend in order to mend any wounds which your article may have caused.
Terry McGlinn 253 Sorin
Editor:
Again the nearly complete absence of cheerleading was noticed during last Saturday’s game. Naturally this state of affairs has forced the students to use their own cheers or to lapse into silence instead of keeping the morale of our players high.
Since at Notre Dame, unlike at other more fortunate schools, the cheerleaders have no decorative function, I would like either to see them doing their job or not to be there at all.
Franco Vigo 401 Walsh
A FINAL WORD Editor:
The parallel between the Beatniks and Buckley’s followers in the "buckbeat” article which I wrote was, I believe, a legitimate one. Since right wing campus political groups are social units, they are naturally af
October 20, 1961
fected by the thoughts and values prevalent in the world around them. Thus, many people are joining these groups merely because rebel groups are socially “in” and because the Conservative program would be economically advantageous.
However, I did not mean to leave the impression that there is not a valid, theoretical “right wing” position, based on solid philosophical principles. On the other hand Mr. Baroody and Mr. Kolbe need to recognize that there is also a valid “left wing” position which is based on those same principles. Both groups— not just the right wing — realize “the inseparability of economic life from its spiritual aspects.” What is in question is a practical method of insuring decent economic conditions for those who deserve them. And it is difficult to see how, with no restrictions on the way one’s dollar is used — with no income tax, no minimum wage, and no social security — everyone who deserves it will be living a decent life and will have the adequate income which is required for spiritual development.
I hope, then, that when the two conservatives refer to “Mr. Clarke and others of his ideological bent,” they are being careful to! define “ideology” in such a way as to allow someone like Pope John XXHI to be of that same “ideological bent."
Wade Clarke
DISSENTING DELEGATE Editor:	.
As a member of the Notre Dame Delegation to the 14th National Student Congress, I would like to clarify certain remarks made by Mr. Meece in his article on the Congress.
I realize that he, as a member of YAF, was quite dismayed over the fact that his organization, with its sum total of 20 votes on the Congress floor, was unable to change the complexion of the Association to that of the far right (is this any better than the far left?).
Further, as a member of the Young Republican Club, I would have to question his definition of “entrenched liberal.” Four out of the five recently elected National Officers were supported by the notoriously moderate Notre Dame delegation.
His great concern over “Taxation without Representation” is indeed commendable — it costs less than 20?* per student for all expenses incurred through our membership in NSA.
Though I will agree that Notre Dame has to give much consideration to its position in NSA (and, in fact, it is presently doing so), I must con-(Continued on page 34)
J E WEEE » S
your HEADQUARTERS IN SOUTH BEND FOR
LDIAMONDARINGS
a
Top
Bottom
Evening Star Engagement Ring $225.00
Bride’s Circlet................... $	60.00
Emerald Cut Engagement Ring $425.00
Bride’s Circlet................... $	30.00
Wonderful selection of Artcorved Diamond Rings from $50. All fully guaranteed for diamond quality and Permanent Value.
★
CREDIT (with no interest) AND LAY-A-WAY
AVAILABLE TO NOTRE DAME MEN
★
121 W. WASHINGTON CE 4-1311 Authorized Aftcarved Jewetee
9
SOUTH BEND: 138 S. Michigan Street	■
Tues.-Wed.- Fri.-Sat,9:30 am to 5:30 pm • Mon., 12:00 to 8:00 pm ‘Thurs./til 8:30 pm
10
The Scholastic
LIMELITERS SING TONIGHT
Folk music under the guise of “institutional satire” comes to the Notre Dame Fieldhouse tonight with the appearance of the nationally famous trio, the Limeliters.
Combining foot-tapping rhythm with cold, almost philosophical prose, the trio has become a total success.
Head of the group, Lou Gottlieb, who incidentaly served for a while as arranger for the Kingston Trio, is a paradox of show business. Before taking up bass-plucking for a living, Lou received a Ph.D. in musicology from the University of California.
Alex Hassilev, who alternately strums guitar and banjo, is a reformed actor who spent one year at Harvard (“my parents consider it the status school”), and finished his education at the University of Chicago.
Not to be outdone, the rotund tenor and classical guitarist Glen Yarbrough speaks five languages and was educated at Mexico City College. He was a successful solo folk singer before he joined the group.
With their background shining through their music, the trio appeals both to serious-minded and lighthearted people who aren’t used to seeing intelligence at work in modern-day entertainment.
RALLY SPARKS FUND DRIVE
The North Dining Hall was the scene, last Tuesday night, of a two-hour Challenge Rally, the kickoff of a campaign to raise $18 million. Simultaneous gatherings were held by alumni groups in 125 cities across the nation. Fifty-four of the largest groups were linked with the campus rally by a special telephone network.
Most of the telephone portion of the program emanated from the campus. However, there were also speakers from the rallies in New York, Detroit, Chicago, Dallas and San Francisco. Among the speakers were the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University; the Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president; I. A. O’Shaughnessy, honorary chairman of the drive; J. Peter Grace, national chairman; Joseph I. O’Neill, Jr., general appeal chairman; Walter Fleming, Jr., president of the Alumni Association; and Chris Buckley, student body president.
Entertainment was provided by the Notre Dame Glee Club which originated its performance in Chicago’s gigantic McCormick Place. Coffee and desert was served to the campus audience, estimated at close to a thousand persons.
The $18 million will be used for the
construction of a new library and two graduate residence halls, faculty development, student aid, and a nonacademic employees retirement program. At least $12 million must be raised for Notre Dame to qualify for a $6 million grant given by the Ford Foundation last year. Pledges for special gifts totaling nearly $8 million have already been received.
SMC PRESENTS LECTURES
For the fifth consecutive year St. Mary’s College will present the Lilly Endowment lecture series, a program for Christian culture. Based upon the lines drawn by Christopher Dawson, the program examines the development of Western civilization stressing the dynamic role played by Christianity in shaping social institutions and patterns of thought.
The purpose of the lectures, besides giving force and scope to the undergraduate program, is to demonstrate the vitality of the Christian tradition and to illustrate its significance for man in the past and present. This year its focus will be on Chinese and Japanese cultures.
This year's series includes the following: Nov. 2, Norman St. John-Stevas, on the staff of The Economist, “Law and Morals”; Nov. 16, (both this lecture and the one above begin, at 1:00 p.m.) Y. P. Mei, State University of Iowa, “Confucianism and Chinese Culture”; March 6, (all of the following begin at 7:30 p.m.) Gaines Post, University of Wisconsin, “Reason of State in the Middle Ages.” April 3, Agnes Mongan, Harvard University, “Representations of Saint Francis and his Symbols in Art”; April 12, Jaroslav Pelikan, University of Chicago, “Athens and Jerusalem: A Tale of Two Cities.”
> ECONOMIST SPEAKS
Last Tuesday evening Milton Friedman, noted economist and son of Rutgers, Chicago, and Columbia, came down from Chicago to give a talk to the Young Republicans entitled the “Road to Hell.”
Friedman singled out two threats to America, one external the other internal. The former was from evil men, the Communists, the latter from good men or those who seek good ends through governmental action. These good men Friedman said were more threat to our freedom then all
October 20, 1961
11
the half-baked perverted bad doers in existence. Convinced of the justice of their cause, these so-called good intentioned men become fanatical and unwavering in their insistence on the need of direct governmental control on both federal and local levels.
Calling for limited government, that is one with few and defined functions, Friedman closed his talk with an appeal for greater public awareness to combat what he saw as America’s greatest challenge.
IRC BACKS LECTURES
The International Relations Council, a South Bend organization, is sponsoring a series of lectures dealing with world affairs and featuring noted speakers.
The following lectures will be offered: Nov. 9, Dr. Hans Kohn, professor of modem history at the City College of New York, on “Nationalism”; Dec. 12, Dr. John Useem, professor and head of the Sociology and Anthropology Department at Michigan State University, on “Americans in India”; Feb. 15, Lemont K. Richardson, Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, on “Gold, the Dollar and Current Economic Problems”; March 20, Dr. Fredrick B. Pike, a Notre Dame history professor, on “Can We Slow Our Rate of Loss in Latin America.”
Lectures are open only to members of the Council, though series tickets, entitling the holder to membership, may be purchased from Dr. E. L. Eliel of the Chemistry Department, current head of the organization. Price of membership for students is only one dollar versus four dollars for others. All lectures will be at St. Mary’s Little Theatre and begin at 8:00 p.m.
NOTRE DAME'S POLITICAL FUTURE
After three years of slumber, the campus political clubs are showing signs of stepped-up activity this year. The Young Republicans and the Young Democrats both are planning an eventful program.
The political clubs achieved official status three years ago after a small band of students, backed by some influential alumni, including Paul M. Butler, then National Chairman of the Democratic Party, overcame objections by the Administration to this type of student activism.
The constitutions of the clubs still contain restrictions severely limiting their activities and effectiveness, but some of these restrictions are being viewed in a different light. For instance, Article VII, Section 3 of the YRC charter states, “No field trips of any kind shall be sponsored by the Club.” Nevertheless, the GOP’ers (with University approval) are tentatively planning a field trip to Washington, D. C., during the second semester to see Congress in session. Section 3 is now interpreted as only forbidding the Club to send representatives to national YR conventions, but allowing it to sponsor purely educational trips like this one.
Both Young Republican president, Joseph Baroody and Young Democrat president, Edmund (Terry) Burke feel that with the minimum leeway their clubs can become the effective groups they were intended to be.
The Young Republicans already have over 200 members, compared to 140 last year, and are hoping for
400. This would give the Young Republicans a higher percentage of the total enrollment than is usually attained by campus political clubs.
With over 75 members on the freshman squad alone, the Young Democrats are also optimistic for a record membership this year. The YDC is currently soliciting applications for membership on the executive board. This body will include three freshmen who will be the leaders of the three precincts being formed on the freshmen quad to bring politics closer to each member.
Among the lecturers the Young Democrats plan to present this year are Miss Frances Perkins, Secretary of Labor under President Franklin Roosevelt; Congressman John R. Brademas of South Bend, who is currently in Russia studying the Russian educational system; and Sen. Eugene McCarthy of Minnesota.
The Young Republicans will sponsor a talk by Senator Barry Goldwater of Arizona at a banquet in February. This December, Senator John Tower, the Texas Republican who won Lyndon Johnson’s former Senate seat, will lecture at Notre Dame.
The Young Democrats and what Baroody calls the “right of Nixon” Young Republicans are planning debates to bring the clubs and their views to the campus attention.
In an attempt to find out what Notre Dame students think politically, The Scholastic questioned one (Continued on page 15)
12
The Scholastic
BUCKLEY AND SENATE POSTPONE THE BUDGET

NABICHT CAFETERIA
1415 Lincolnway West AAA Approved Cafeteria ★ FREE PARKING
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist
AFRAID OF CONTROVERSY?
Every week Notre Dame football games get more exciting, and every week Notre Dame Student Senate meetings get duller. Two weeks ago there was some spirited debate over the Mardi Gras budget, but last Monday there was no debate at all in the record 35-minute session.
Monday was excusable since half of the Senate’s pre-election skeleton staff was at a special dinner for future law students; but there does seem to be a lack of expression of opinion this year.
The Senate has become a highly efficient budget passer and clearing house for ideas germane to the operation of student government activities. Regarding the expression of controversial opinion, they couldn’t care less.
Unusual activities by the students have always engendered opinion from the Senate in the past, e.g., Thilman’s, “the human channel,” commendation of the U.N., the Scholastic editorial on the riot, the Frankie affair, etc. The stands taken in all these instances may not have been the most intelligent, but at least the Senate was anxious to express itself.
The Senate might have commended the fine display of spirit at the Purdue game or some stand might have been
consideration of the budget would be postponed until next week.
Jack Clark asked Buckley’s permission to remove his coat, “May I remove my coat? It’s awful warm in here.” Buckley replied, “Everyone may remove their coats.”
Greg Weismantel reported on the social commission. They have been making at least $200 on every dance. Student affairs commissioner Terry McGlinn reported that St. Mary’s girls would be admitted free to big screen T.V. in the Field House tomorrow. Don’t come to us, we’ll come to you.
When Mike Connor reported that orders for Senate pins would be taken on the arrival of the new Senators, Jack Clark said, “I got one for sale."
Ron Nasher, chairman of the Mardi Gras raffle told the Senate that he had consulted numerous organizations on the price of raffle tickets. They all considered $1 a minimum price for a ticket.
The raffle section of the Mardi Gras budget was passed unanimously and the meeting adjourned.
CLASSIC
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
212 S. Michigan
CE 4-4874
RUBIN CLEANERS
Save 20%—Use Student Discount Card
217 E. JEFFERSON
Downtown—on the Bus Line
Complete Laundry Service
Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 40 Years!
taken on the raid at St. Perhaps a stand or opinion instances would have been but no one even bothered to the matter.
If the Senate wants to
Mary’s, in these unwise, consider
increase
awareness and “communication” on campus, it is going to have to take stands on matters of controversy.
Here’s what happened Monday:
Chris Buckley, SBP, reported that due to the absence of some senators,
October 20, 1961
MICHAELS & MANN, Inc
118 S. Michigan
The classic lines of the “V” sweater made more interesting with low pockets and contrasting trim. Combinations of Olive, Grey and White. In fine wool, sizes 38 to 46.
$10.95
13
EXPANSION TO
THE EAST
Construction of the Memorial Library, a Student Activities Building, and married students’ housing is progressing rapidly.
Extensive steam plant revisions have been completed, and groundbreaking for a radiation chemistry laboratory is scheduled for next Jan. 1. In addition to these five major projects, new athletic fields have been laid out east of the Stadium as Notre Dame’s development program moves forward.
Towering thirteen stories above ground, the $8 million Memorial Library will be the largest structure yet erected at Notre Dame. It will be one hundred eighty feet high, about level with the Golden Dome. Scheduled for completion in 1963, the air conditioned Library building will house two million volumes and provide study facilities for up to half of the University’s six thousand students at one time.
The tower section will be used primarily for research while the first two floors will be largely for undergraduate study. However, additional space in the tower, the two lowest floors, and the basement will be allocated to an auditorium, the Mari-tain Center, the Mediaeval Institute, the University Archives, the Notre Dame Library Association, the Committee on International Relations, a Treasure Room for rare books, the Notre Dame collection, technical services, and audio-visual facilities. There
will be special reading areas for the humanities, social and business studies, and science and technology.
A new, circular Student Activities Building is rising north of the Library site between Juniper Road and the University power plant. Featuring an anodized aluminum geodesic dome with a gold exterior, it will serve as a social center for dances and parties and also will seat three thousand persons for convocations. It will have floor lines for basketball and a movable stage. Though the building replaces the Navy Drill Hall, no ROTC drill will be held there. The $350,000 structure will be completed in January.
Six apartment buildings for more than a hundred married students and their families are in various stages of construction at the northwest comer of the campus off Highway 31. A million dollar loan from the U. S. College Housing Agency has financed the project.
The apartments are all-electric and will rent for $65 per month, plus utilities. Two buildings are already open. The remainder will open at the rate of one a month from November through February. Immediate accommodations are still available in the unit scheduled for occupancy in November. The previous regulations regarding occupants have been considerably relaxed. Presently any person connected with the University as a student or faculty member may
rent an apartment for as long a term as he desires.
Each building will house six families on the terrace level; six families will also live on both the first and second floors.
Construction work totalling $2.5 million has been completed at the steam plant. Silos for coal storage, coal handling equipment, concrete storage tanks for oil, and a large new boiler to replace the smallest of the three now in use have been added. An addition was erected next to the steam plant to house cold water “chiller” equipment. The system will draw cooling water from St. Joseph’s Lake, pipe it through underground conduits from the plant to future air-conditioned buildings, including the library and radiation center. The operation will not affect the lake level, since withdrawal will equal return at all times.
Groundbreaking for the $2.2 million radiation laboratory is tentatively set for next Jan. 1. The U, S. Atomic Energy Commission will build east of Nieuwland Science Hall, on property leased to it by the University for 99 years. Laboratory equipment will be operated under the AEC in new annual research contracts. Notre Dame was selected as the site in recognition of the radiation work done here by Dr. Milton Burton and his associates. The laboratory’s completion will free the basement of Nieuwland for other uses.
East of the stadium 15 acres have been converted to athletic use. Night lighting has been provided on two of five new varsity football fields.
HERODOTIANS BEGIN ACTIVITIES
With next Tuesday’s faculty panel discussion of graduate works in history, the Herodotians begin their year’s activities. Prof. James E. O’Neill, moderator of Notre Dame’s undergraduate history club, hopes to have several guest speakers during the year. Among these will be:
Prof. Walter Gray and Prof. James Ward, speaking on the centennial of the unification of Italy.
Father James Zatko and Father Patrick Dolan, discussing the Oder-Neisse Line.
Prof. Matthew A. Fitzsimons, talking on contemporary British Diplomacy, and Father Coier and Prof-Aaron Abell, speaking on federal aid to education.
At the last meeting, officers were sworn in. John Beall, elected last May, was confirmed as president. Tom Bishop, the vice-president, Tony Basche, the secretary, and Eugene Wackerley, the treasurer, also took office.
14
The Scholastic
ND's Political Future
(Continued from page 12) hundred students, chosen at random, on their political views. Though certainly inconclusive, the percentage of students questioned is greater than that achieved by the many and varied national opinion polls.
The questions and results: were as follows:
“What is your preference, the Re- , publican or Democratic Party?”
Republicans: 25%.
Democrats: 41%.
No preference: 34%.
“Are you now a member of either the Young Republicans or the Young Democrats, or planning to become one?”
Yes: 14%.
No: 86%.
Of the 14 students who said they were members or would-be members of one of the two clubs, seven were Republicans. In light of the fact that the majority of students professing a preference of parties indicated the Democratic Party, it would seem that the Young Republicans have had a more vigorous and successful recruiting campaign.
Perhaps it is a bit early, but the following question was also put to those questioned. “If the 1964 election were held today, whom would you like to see in the White House — John Kennedy or a Republican (Goldwater, Nixon, or Rockefeller, whomever you prefer) ?”
Kennedy: 66%.
Republican: 31%.
Undecided: 3%.
Kennedy picked up much of his support from the “no preference” group, probably because he is the incumbent.
Then there was the freshman who said he was a Republican but couldn’t decide between Goldwater or Rockefeller. Nixon was out of the question because he “is too far out.”
CALL THIS NUMBER
Anyone wishing to announce activities in the Scholastic should call extension 515 between 2 and 3 P.m. on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, 7 to 11:30 p.m., Sunday and Monday. Written announcements can be addressed to John McCabe, 334 Dillon; slipped under the door of the Scholastic office in the LaFortune Student Center; or mailed to the Scholastic. The deadline in all cases is 9 p.m. on Monday before the issue in which they are to appear.
Student Architects Meet With Advisors, Teachers
The initial meeting for the 1961-62 school year of the student chapter of the American Institute of Architects was held on Oct. 5. This meeting was preceded by a special program during which the freshmen students of architecture met their faculty, their student advisors, and Mr. Montana, head of Notre Dame’s Department of Architecture.
At the regular Architects’ meeting, the new officers, Robert Canizaro, Joe Giattina, Steve Enright, and John Studebaker, presided. The meeting was mainly concerned with the organization of committees to carry out the year’s activities, which include a lecture series, an educational film and slide program, a banquet, the Beaux Arts Ball, and this year the sale of Christmas cards. The members were also reminded that the national architecture honor society, Tau Sigma Delta, was installed last May and, after being initited to the rules and business of the society, the charter members are ready to select new members this year. The Sigma Chapter here on campus is run by Paul Murphy, chapter master; Robert Canizaro, treasurer and Jim Cassidy, secretary.
SPECIAL COMPLIMENTARY OFFER
SOPHOMORES Get your tux tor THE COTILLION
•
TUXEDO RENTAL in conjunction with
GINGISS BROTHERS of Chicago
•
Styled by After Six •
formal complete with COAT, TROUSERS, CUMMERBUND TIE and SUSPENDERS
ONLY . . .
$8.60
Corner of MICHIGAN and WASHINGTON
FOR COLLEGE MEN
Learn the Pleasures of Fine Tobacco
Enjoy the Original Extra-Mild Cavendish in the Handy “Poly" Pocket Pouch
(landed in Holland by Dovwa Egbert, Royal Factorial
AMPHORA, is cool, even-burning, long-lasting. Its pleasurable smoking qualities have won loyal friends—it outsells all other tobaccos in its class! If you haven’t tried AMPHORA, be our guest. Simply fill in the coupon below and mail it. You will receive a complimentary full 2-ounce pouch.
ROMICK’S international tobacco co.
11918 Vose Street, North Hollywood, California
Gentlemen: Please send me a complimentary full 2-ounce pouch of AMPHORA. I enclose 10# coin to cover cost of handling and mailing, (PLEASE TYRE OR PRINT)
NAME-------------------------------------------------
STREET _____.----------------------------------------
CITY, ZONE, STATE------------------------------------
UNIVERSITY___________________________________________
Only one offer per person. Not good offer Dec. 31, 1961.
15
October 20, 1961
PROJECTS OF THE BELL SYSTEM
Unretouched time exposure shows Echo I communications satellite (long line) crossing the heavens right to left. Shorter lines are stars "in motion."
range from the reaches of space
Our job is providing communications of all kinds, wherever needed—whether in the northern snows to flash word of possible enemy missile attack, or in your home or college, or in serving the nation’s business.
When we can’t fill a need off the shelf, then we start fresh and create the answer to the problem. We've done that hundreds of times.
We began transatlantic radiotelephone service in 1927. Then we developed the
world’s first undersea telephone cables to speed calls between continents.
We handled the world’s first telephone conversation via satellite. And we have started development of an important world-wide communications system employing satellites.
When industry and government needed a way of gathering huge amounts of coded information from distant points, we were ready with our vast telephone network and Data-Phone, which can
transmit mountains of data at extremely high speeds.
And so it goes-Long Distance service, Direct Distance Dialing, the Transistor, the Solar Battery-a succession of firsts which goes back to the invention of the telephone itself.
Universal communications-the finest, most dependable anywhere-are what we deliver. Inside: for home, office, or plant. Outside: on land, under the sea, through the air.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
16
The Scholastic

Of Special Interest. The Bayanihan Dance Company will come to Saint Mary’s next Tuesday evening. This world famous Philippine group presents an enchanting and colorful program of native dance rivaled only at the Goomba Club in Nassau. It is a composite of the many cultural influences inherited through centuries of migration — you did read Hawaii, didn’t you? Each of the 36 dances is easily understood and danced in a language of body not needing translation. They are concerned with the five areas of influence: the mountains, the Spanish fiesta, the Muslim, the region, the farm. The troupe has been very popular wherever it has been. Better, almost, than sylphing....
The Presbyterian Players in town present Thurber's The Male Animal. The Presbyterians are a non-denominational group of “Benders” who put on a four-show season every year. This is their first. They were founded in 1946 and are the first Little Theatre group in town. All are amateurs, but their presentations have always had good reviews and have been very popular. They perform at the Social Hall of the First Presbyterian Church, 300 West Colfax: very near the heart of downtown. Very much worth your while....
The Morris Auditorium comes through with a “really Big Show” ... all week long. The Shrine Circus, all of them, will be there today through Sunday. Seven Big Shows . . . the big top in South Bend, yet. But the Auditorium isn’t a Madison Square Garden.
As soon as they clean up after the elephants the Mazowsze Polish Dancers will hit town for a night (next Thursday). They have a cast one hundred strong (and I mean strong) to leap and hop about. They are reputed very colorful too, and, while their routine can hardly be as ancient as the Bayanihan — it is at least as zesty.
Then next week — the Battle of the Bands (next Friday) whence Purdue and Northwestern will attempt to show that they are better than our very own Irish. . . . And we can’t let them do that. Order and sportsmanship are the words of the day since the judges will hardly be able to rule us the best (as is °Vr due) lest the partial audience restrain themselves. Add to all of that the Limeliters in concert tonight at the fieldhouse and the Fightin’ Irish at East Lansing tomorrow and you have your hands full for this entertainment week.
Avon Art. Academy Award Nominee Melina Mercouri scampers across the Grecian scene in Never On Sunday. It is gay, it is flighty, it is funny. But unfortunately they say it is immoral too — for everybody — and thus it has been condemned for us all. So there you are! It’s never even on weekdays.
Campus Clubs. The Italian Club will show Portrait in Black tonight at seven in case you don’t like the Limeliters. And the Dixie Club affords a chance to catch a great flick: Cat on a Hot Tin Roof. A good chance to see that cat if you missed her the first time round. Liz Taylor stars . . . how could you forget? next Thursday at six-thirty. Both are in the Engineering Auditorium.
Colfax. There has been so much said about the “Japanese Bride” problem that Bridge to the Sun is a welcomed relief. It’s a true story and turns the tables a little: it tells of Gwen Terasaki, a Tennessee girl, who falls in love with a Japanese diplomat just after the outbreak of World War H. The film describes the torments of the American girl as she fights the conflicting emotions of love of husband and love of country. Add to that the strain endured from suspicious, nagging Japanese police and you can appreciate her despair and sense of exile.
(Continued on page 22)
October 20, 1961
Today’s column will try in its small way to pinpoint some of the major reasons that you, my reader, always pay up at the end of the session. Since I shall speak in fairly general terms, I hope to offend neither the “system” player nor the “straight bridge always wins” addict. If I do, at least postpone the lynch mob until I get this column written. My editor will get me first.
The average casual bridge player plays a hodgepodge of various standard American bidding conventions which he graces with the name “Straight Goren, partner.” One of the most horrid examples that comes to mind is the example of the opening no-trump. A player who has made a no-trump bid, whether of the weak or strong variety, has made a limiting bid; and his partner alone has the right to place the final contract.
Time and time again I have watched people charmed by their hand so much as to parade their values over and over again despite all of the anguished efforts of partner to call a halt. Then I have also watched games and even slams missed because the opener did not know if his partner’s response was forcing or not. A sane approach is the Stayman Convention, recommended highly by almost all leading players.
When responder feels that the hand has game possibilities, he has three choices: a minor-suit game, a majorsuit game, or one in no-trump. A minor-suit game is unattractive, because it requires better-than-average game points, and the same tricks can often be made in a lower no-trump game. So unless the hand is totally unsuited for no-trump play, experts prefer to play their minor-suit fits in a cheap no-trump game. Besides, notrump games have sometimes gone down because declarer lost control of a suit and a safer game in an eightcard major suit fit goes unbid.
The Stayman System solves most of these problems very neatly. Any suit bid at the two level other than two clubs or two no-trumps is a shutout bid and demands a pass. Require-
(Continued on page 23)
17
THE GOOD OL* DAYS
Beginning with this issue and reoccurring at irregular intervals, the Scholastic takes a look at the “good old days” — as reported by Scholastic writers of the past. This issue, we take a look at 1929, when the Irish were 10-0 and National Champions; when a group of students — among them some boys named Richard Sullivan and Francis J. T. O’Malley — organized a new campus literary magazine, the Scrip; when the new football stadium was nearing completion; when G. K. Chesterton (yes, the real one) gave a series of lectures at the University; and when, as now, the favorite topics for discussion in the Scholastic were spirit, apathy, and academic excellence.
©-
The following excerpts are from the Nov. 15, 1929, issue of the Scholastic. The subject of the article was the pep rally held for the Southern California game.
The first “Rockne Day” in the history of the University was celebrated Tuesday. A special Mass held in Sacred Heart Church opened the day’s celebration, which concluded with a great ovation by the students in the evening. The student body paid tribute to their great coach in a torch light parade and a five-minute session of lusty cheering.
On Wednesday, the individual halls held pep meetings to organize for the gigantic rally which took place last night at the bonfire. The fuel for the bonfire which the different halls had been laying in for the last few days was judged and pushed into one gigantic pile, surrounded by eight telephone poles, which were set up and donated by the American Telephone Company. The silver loving cups in the wood-gathering contest were won by Sophomore Hall and Off-Campus.
The climax of Notre Dame’s greatest rally week was reached last night. After dinner the 83-piece University Band paraded the campus and gathered the students from the 12 halls into one huge procession. The off-campus students gathered at the intersection of Notre Dame and South Bend Avenues and paraded to the site of the bonfire, escorted by a delegation of firemen and policemen. The
giant wood pile had been soaked with crude oil and was touched off at 7:30 o’clock. Traffic was routed south of the fire. Many of the South Bend public joined the noisy throngs at the scene of festivities.
A brilliant flash closely followed by a loud report suddenly attracted attention from the monstrous bonfire which was lighting up the countryside for miles around. Fireworks of all varieties were shooting from the wings of an aeroplane soaring above. Captain Charles Bowers of the Shockley Flying Service, in charge of the plane, dropped bombs from the plane at an altitude of 2,500 feet, and these were responsible for the deafening reports and glaring flashes experienced throughout the course of the events of last night.
The enthusiasm of the students over what Jerry Parker so correctly called the world’s biggest bonfire, was a revelation to him, he said. Fox Movietone and Pathe Sound News recorded the festivities in sound and picture.
Wonder what the people in the Infirmary thought of that one.
©-
Next we have an editorial from the Dec. 6, 1929 issue, which takes note of the athletic and academic excellence which characterized the 1929-30 school year.
In the course of the past seven days, two events, of more than ordinary significance for anyone connected with the University of Notre Dame, have written themselves into the roster of current happenings.
A magazine expressive of undergraduate creative writing and thinking has made its appearance on the campus; and the football team, upon the occasion of winning its final game, finds itself called by many, “National Champions.”
Both events are cumulative in the sense that they represent a totality of effort, a summing up of endeavor, on the part of those concerned. But they are more than this; they are expressions of student life pitched to high points in two quite disparate fields of achievement. And in each
field a high degree of success has been achieved.
When we say “success” we are not succumbing to a current craze for making the word a fetish; there are many failures that are far more glorious than any success; but we do wish to point out that the quality of endeavour that hewed out Scrip and an aggregation of “National Champions” must be rather first rate.
Not that we have any illusions about this so-called “National Championship”; we well realize that football is, after all, only a game, and supremacy in it but a mark of very special aptitude to rise superior to a host of one’s competitors.
The magazine represents not only a new vehicle of expression but a contribution to tradition as well; and we must keep clearly in mind the fact that white flamed words will still light man on his way, long after amusements are lost coins in the byways of life.
But, too, let us keep in mind that Notre Dame has kept the balance by attempting in both fields — has, in both fields, succeeded — and succeeded uniquely!
Well, Scrip folded in 1945; and as for National Championships, we’ll remain (either cynically or hopefully) silent.
©-
The last editorial is about apathy (we think); we plan to save it for the next time somebody tells us how good the Scholastic used to be — in the “good old days.”
A question heard with increasing frequency these days is that which runs somewhat as follows: “Well, we’ve got the afternoon off. Where shall we go?”
In itself, a harmless enough question: in its consequences, which are usually, “go to the movies” or “sleep," comparatively harmless: but, in its significance of a certain type of thinking, rather sadly indicative of a lack of concern with the main business we have in hand — the business of living.
College years should mean the putting on, as it were, of a new man; the transforming of a many times raw youth into a sensitive, thinking being, who couples with his youth the chastening, yet inciting knowledge, that he, while one in many, is nevertheless one out of many; and this “outness” is lent color by the added broad viewpoints he attains to while in college.
Now books and study are, of (Continued on page 22)
18
The Scholastic
the sublime TUmTIM'
kn intellectual service of the University of Notre Dame 1 ■ for the constant-enrichment of the minds . V >
1 < of Notre Dame's diverse family.' - '.
THE UNIVERSITY
: '
By Frederick D. Rossini
wish to indicate to you in a general way from '	,, A university has responsibility for knowledge in. . _
my standpoint the importance of the current fund J the world, its custody, extension, communication, and campaign for the future of our University.	? preservation, and for the development of persons \
This paper was delivered at the Leadership Confer- . ence on the campus August 27-28.	.	_
( Dr. Rossini is Dean of the College of Science at the 1 University of Notre Dame. He is also the Graduate School’s Associate Dean and Chairman of the newly J created University Research Council.
In addition to these academic and administrative posts, Dr. Rossini has been elected head of two national'organizations of scientists. He is presidentelect of Sigma Xi, the professional fraternity for the
encouragement of scientific research, and will become president of that organisation for a two-year term beginning in 1963. He is also president of the Albertus Magnus Guild, an organization of Catholic scientists.
t x Dr. Rossini became head of Notre Dame's science ' school in 1960 after a ten-year association with the < Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa., where he was Silliman Professor and head of the department of chemistry as well as director of the Chemical and Petroleum Research Laboratory. ,
For twenty-two years, from 1928 to 1950, Dr. ^Rossini was a scientist at the National Bureau of Standards, Washington, D. C., advancing from research chemist to chief of the section on thermo-> chemistry and hydrocarbons.
Notre Dame’s science dean is a member of the	J •"‘'V rvrvvr —	V
National Academy of Sciences and the author or co- ' ca and at many prof essional society meetings. » author of eight books and approximately two hundred <	-	- --	.	..
scientific papers. He has received numerous profes- Dr. Rossini s professional affuiations include the -•	- . r r .......	- -	-	1 American Chemical Society, the American Institute of -
Chemists, the American Physical Society, tlie American j Institute of Chemical Engineers, the Faraday Society, American Petroleum Institute, American Society -for;; Engineering Education, American Society for Testing Materials, American Association for the Advancement '':
1 of Science, Philosophical Society of Washington, Catho- - . lie Commission on Intellectual and Cultural Affairs, the Catholic Association for International Peace and x several fraternities. »-	?
Society section there in 1959. k -	)
, Dr. Rossini has exercised leadership in scientific affairs in this country and abroad for many years. ' He served as Chairman of the National Research’ Council’s Division of Chemistry and Chemical Tech-- nology from 1955 to 1958. die was regularly attended __ the conferences of the International Union of Pure and,.
Applied Chemistry and was appointed by the. State Department as head of the American delegation to the Conference at.Zurich in 1955. ‘	\
' He is a member of the Policy Advisory Board of the Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne, III., and he also serves on the Scientific Advisory Council for .the
. Rock Island Arsenal of the U. S. Army .Ordinance , Corps. He has also been a member of the National ■ Science Foundation’s Advisory Panel for Chemistry and its Divisional Committee for the Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences.'	\
‘ A native of Monongahela, Pa., Prof. Rossini, re-., ceived an undergraduate degree in chemical engineering and a master of science degree; from Carnegie Tech in 1925 and 1926 respectively. He was awarded a doctorate in chemistry • by the University of Cali- -fornia in 1928. He delivered the annual P. C. Reilly Lectures in Chemistry at Notre Dame in 1949 and
has also lectured at Western Reserve University, . Howard University, the Catholic University of Ameri-
sional honors and holds'honorary doctorates from ' Carnegie Tech, Duquesne University, Notre Dame, and -Loyola University of Chicago. In 1934 Prof. Rossini received the Hillebrand Award of the Chemical Society of Washington, D. C., for his work on the thermo-
, chemistry of hydrocarbons. He received the U. S. Department of Commerce Gold Medal Exceptional Service Award in 1950, the Pittsburgh Junior Chamber of Commerce Award for Chemistry for 1957 ,and the . , annual Pittsburgh Award of the American Chemical
< Knowledge it proud that he has team'd so much; / Wisdom is humble that he knows no. more, (Cowper)
'S'	’	- C : .	'	'	- ■ ■ T
< ;<
; capable of holding this knowledge, of understanding
- it, of interpreting it for the benefit of mankind, and
1 ' of extending its frontiers through original research. ! 7 ,( The university must collect all existing knowledge in 1 the several disciplines of its structure; it must digest this knowledge and transmit it to the coming genera-' tion through appropriate channels of instruction; it ' (must add to the body of knowledge through research < in original investigations; and it must preserve all
4 A such knowledge Afor future generations through li-
' brary and related facilities.' A university exists for
' the promotion of free inquiry and the advancement v „71 of learning. z	; i 7,	'7
' • /' 7 7 A' 7'7 •• ■; - A ■ ' ' .	y7	;
/. z , Action of Elements . ’	', z
'<7 A " 7. 7-7 ;	" 7	A . Lr. •	, /
' / x A university consists of people — its faculty, its administration, its graduate students, its undergraduate students, its alumni, and its friends. What a uni-1 versity becomes arises from the fusion of the efforts and aims of all these people. Our University can be-
A come as great a factor in the life of our country as
'' these people make it. There are no bounds. We are ' limited only by our imagination, our creative ability, . \ /and our resources. >	7 1 '	• <
T. “ Academic Catalysis
7 ■ 'V ‘ , ■ • ;	. a> ’ a - '■ •	; a
We must encourage cooperation and cross-ferti- : lization among all the different disciplines of knowl-
-j edge in the University. Some of the most significant advances in modem knowledge have come from areas ' where two neighboring disciplines come together and a large channel of knowledge between them is sud-
v idenly opened up. Special methods of investigation developed in the one field are found to be most useful
' ' in the other, with the result that answers are obtained \
' 'to many problems that would otherwise remain un-
/
solved.
■ *
Role of the Computer
' .	■ \	’ A_, j ~ I -	,
., ' A : '	.>.'/■ 1 ' . -.A ■ ' i ■ A
. One of the most effective-of our operations for ; bringing together investigators and,' teachers from , z different fields is the high-speed computer: These . fabulous, albeit expensive, machines can; do in one A hour or less what formerly required many man-years of work. Further, we can with these computers solve , , problems which were formerly absolutely impossible. , The high-speed computer can be used with great
, Tools for the Job
/<■
To do the best job, our University must have the. best faculty, the best graduate' students, the best V undergraduate students, and adequate support and facilities for the tasks to be performed. ' ? :t In the old days, a university could operate in a ’ simple way, with little paraphernalia and equipment ' , —as with a professor and his student seated on the a. two ends of a log. But the extent and complexity of ! man’s knowledge have increased almost beyond imagination. Children in grade school are now learning ' what we learned in high school. Children in high ' school are now learning what we learned in college. ' t, Students in college are now learning material former-C ' ly given in graduate school. And students in graduate ' school now learn things which are, new to our pro- < lessors. ■; - <■ ■ / J \
.' ' ' 7 - , Streamlining Reeded
; A '	■ ; '	, - J Ay A , ,y'7 'A' . A '
■ 7 . To meet the challenge of this burgeoning task, we must eliminate all’duplication and superficialties
1 , in our courses of instruction, and, most Importantly, r we must develop more effective and concentrated ways of teaching and methods of learning. To solve
- the new problems bpm,of the increasing complexity, J we must develop new and powerful methods and , 7 techniques and apparatus and equipment, To carry ' on the mathematics associated with these develop- ; ments we must use high-speed computers in many J areas of learning. >	,	-
‘SCIENCE FOR LIFE* —■ - RELATED READING:'
1.	On Modern Technology and Peace. 1953 Christmas Message of Pope Pius XU. Avail-' able from National Catholic Welfare Conference, 1312 Massachusetts Avenue, N.W., . i   - - . „ —. —	\
Washington 5, D.C.
' V
2.	The Price of Excellence — A Report of De-1 cision-makers in American Higher Education. A statement of the Problems and Policies Committee of the American Council on Edu-
, cation, dated October 1,1960. Available from American Council on Education, 1785 Massachusetts Avenue, N.W., Washington 6, D.C. A
3.	Goals for Americans, The American Assembly. Published by Prentice-Hall, Inc., Englewood, Cliffs, New Jersey, 1960.
4.	Scientific Progress, the Universities, and the
- Federal Government. A .statement by the President’s Science Advisory Committee, from v
' the White House, dated November 15, 1960.
1	Available from the U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington 25, D.C. (Price 15,
7 cents)	. ■
5.	Investing tn Scientific Progress, 1961-1970.
, Concepts, Goals, and Projections. National Science Foundation, 1961. Available from the National Science Foundation, Washington 25, > ;
A D.C.	..v ' ■'	-	. '
: Que sau-je? (What do I know?)—Motto on the seal of Montaigne
V	I	'	i	f	,-J	-
effectiveness in the sciences of biology, chemistry,
' geology, mathematics, and physics, -in all branches of engineering, in business administration, in population studies, in the handling, storage, and retrieval '
f of information, etc. We are looking forward to having on our campus within the next year or two one of the top computers available in the world.
Imperatives of Excellence K 7
- , Our University is dedicated to the pursuit of ex- J /cellence in all of its work-in the classrooms, in the -halls, in the activities on the campus, and on the athletic fields. We have the job of producing well-trained ! and humanely educated graduates who will help pro-
/, vide the moral and intellectual leadership needed in . our country arid the world. 1	' ' *	7
। We must make serious effort and exercise constant -scrutiny along three liries: '/' •	, '
/ 1. To,provide topflight instruction to dur under-graduate and graduate students to prepare them as
j well-balanced persons of good moral fibre, ■with a “ 7 disciplined intelligence, ready to participate fruitfully • in the affairs of human society. ' v / . '
2. To conduct research in all fields of learning, /! including science, engineering, business administra- . '	tion, arts and letters, and theology, and to conduct
z	this research with vitality and dedication to the discovery and service of truth. t ’	•	,
7 7 ; 3. To interpret our knowledge, and the meanings \ and implications of our findings, for the benefit of the people of our country and the world.
:	\ A Emphasis on Fundamentals 1
In our instruction of undergraduate’ students, we, must place strong emphasis on basic fundamentals
v inall branches of knowledge, for two important rea-
\ sons: (1) the quantity of factual knowledge has be- ' come so tremendous that a person would be drowned
, \vith the mere thought of trying to hold it all; (2) /competency in the knowledge and application of the ,
fundamental principles is what leads to new dis-, . . coveries and inventions of things not learned about < k in books and never before known to the world. <
Our undergraduate education must he a coordinated program involving the broad basic subjects, , certain selected advanced subjects, and courses in u humanistic and social studies and theology. The in-struction in all these areas must be arranged in such i a way as to inculcate in each student a real desire to '7 continue learning after graduation throughout his, entire lifetime. ,	-	'	; 7
v !	' Product: A Scholar '
•In this educational’process, the student should , ’ acquire a. thorough, integrated, and broad understand-j !nS of the fundamental "knowledge in his field. He
From The Price of Excellence:
“The-price of excellence in every aspect of higher education is' high and, inevitably Hsing/ But it is, and will be, less than the cost to the American people of settling for the, wasteful/ ineffectiveness of educational mediocrity?’ , / ,
- should acquire a real competence in orderly analytical/ " Z I > thinking, to reach sound, creative conclusions. He should acquire the capacity to communicate ideas to others, both orally and in writing, to provide full and ! adequate expression of his professional and personal powers. He should acquire/ the ability to/learn for ' \ himself as a scholar, to keep abreast of the changing A ■ knowledge and problems of his profession. He should , acquire a philosophical outlook, and a proper and
. godly sense of values. A	'
- ;	' // , .	' . ; / . '.7 - : / ' W // „■ - '
, V 7 ... J ■ ' '7 ■ - • 7'7 , ■ ' / ■, z1
. .	1	The Scientific Age	■ ,7
। Our world has entered upon a new age, the scientific age. In this scientific age, man finds himself in 7 a new relation to the atom, to the cell, and to the universe. Tremendous advances have been made in' all areas of science, in nuclear and 'atomic energy, i • in medicine and health,! and in the science of outer ) space. Notwithstanding the magnitude of these l scientific advances, many scientists feel that the1 surf ace \ has just been scratched — that we are on the verge k
<	-1	u
' of a, tremendous adventure into scientific territory now known only to . Almighty God. To proceed on ' > this adventure rightly, man needs to learn how to 7 manage the affairs of human society wisely and tin- .
/selfishly —to see that the fruits of our 'scientific!
> work are distributed equitably in a way that will help '; all the peoples of, the world. To do thls, scientists must work hand in'hand with scholars of other fields.
The basic purpose of science is to learn about and ' understand everything that God has made, including man, all living animals and plants, and all thei physi-' cal world comprehended by us, here on earth and
far out into space.
Diffusion bf Knowledge	'?'*
' ‘	.	/ . :	,	■	, A ■
' In the old days, relatively few people in the world
' knew science and scientists. Today,-science touches 7 everyone in their daily living. Many people'who have never studied science in school now know many things '!
■ about science that our foremost scientists did not j 1 'know a century ago., From our magazines and news- I' v papers, and radio and television, we learn about chemical elements and compounds, about vitamins and , hormones, about atoms, electrons, protons, and neu- , trons, about uranium and plutonium, about atomic \
Knowledge and timber shouldn’t be much used till they are seasoned. (Oliver Wendell Holmes) /
From Investing in Scientific v
-	Progress: '
“All peoples have innate capacity for intellectual pursuits, including science.” z
“Public understanding of science adds to the breadth and quality, of the nation’s scientific endeavor.”	.	.	.	. '
"Every person should understand what science' ' really is about and what it can do.”
“From the time of Franklin and Jefferson, the people of the United States have had faith in both the intellectual and the material benefits that science can bring. We have continually expanded our scientific knowledge of the universe, of living things, and of social organization. Our past investment in science has brought us double reward: a highly developed technology which has helped to keep us free, and a continuing enlargement of our understand-
/ ing which has helped to enrich our freedom. To- j day, far more than in the past, scientific progress determines the character of .tomorrow’s civilization.”	<	/
'fission and atomic fusion, about. the universe, galaxies, and new stars, and about missiles, satellites, and interplanetary travel. All this is knowledge that was possessed by no human person not too many
\ years ago. .	>
Accelerated Progress
Since the year 1789, when George Washington was inaugurated as our first President, just 53 years before this University was founded, the following changes have occurred: the population of the United States z has increased 45 times; the speed of human transportation has increased over 50 times; the power of our explosives-has been multiplied several million / times; the speed of communication has increased t r over 10 million times. -	/ _
scientific considerations. Every citizen, of our world today must develop some understanding of science to guide and protect those who are dependent on him.' •	■■■'■	'
Wealth of the Spirit
We must remember that the true and great wealth of our nation is not our material goods but • our human minds. We must not confuse the material marvels of our mechanical age with the things of the mind and the spirit of our civilization?1 The vast , , , mechanical advances of our country are good only in so far as they give us more time to develop our . v ? mental and spiritual qualities. The people of our country have produced material assets which have . brought a standard of living and a degree of comfort - never before achieved by so many in one land., With’ ’ these material gains, our country has attained a position of leadership in the world not hitherto accom- ? plished by peaceful means. Here then we have a responsibility to build up the mental and spiritual qualities of our country, not only for the preserva- * tion of our own nation, but also that we may help j other countries faced with the threat or fact of com-munism. We must with all our might guard against a lowering of vitality in our social institutions and a loss of spiritual values, which would result in moral bankruptcy and national ruin. In particular, we must dedicate ourselves to fostering high mental and spir-. itual values in the young people of our country. 1
s Our Opportunity
Among all the universities of the United States, the University of Notre Dame is in an extraordin-arily unique and powerful position to carry on this mission of a great university — to be, as Father Hes- ' burgh has said, both a bridge and a beacon.
Given the needed resources, the University of \ Notre Dame can be a big leader'in producing the k men who will be guiding the destinies of our country' " : and the world in the decades to come. !
Bene fits of Technology
Science has brought to man a great understanding , of Nature. Engineering and technology have fashioned the findings of science into devices that , have created for many people in the world a great material ,■ welfare, increased comfort, and better health, with ? improved forms .of food, transportation,' and communication. Science is becoming intimately and irretrievably connected - with the social and political structure of-our society, so that few national deci-' slons of government can be made without sound
x , No pleasure is comparable to th* standing upon th* pantag* ground of truth. (Francis Bacon)
“Well, it's not exactly like checkers.”
FROSH
Way back in September, before most upperclassmen arrived at the University, the freshmen underwent a mystical process — designed to integrate them into the University community with a minimum amount of pain — called Freshman Orientation. This issue we present pictures, with comments by the editor, of various phases in the orientation process, together with a description of how it feels to be “oriented.”	-
BY JOHN FESTA, '65
Freshman Week at Notre Dame
amounted to a quiet effort at getting acquainted. The campus was filled , with friendly faces.
Especially on the ; first two days, while I a few hundred parents were to be seen kodaking the cam-j pus, bearers of the ■ brotherly circle of blue were in abundance. It was a crusade with these
campus knights, whose manner of interposing themselves between you and embarrassment would have been called divine intervention in a less enlightened age.
There was a spirit of general satisfaction pervading the dining halls on Saturday afternoon. Few slices of ham went cold on the plates. Then one or two cynics started the rumor that it may all be a ruse, a salivary diversion to camouflage from Mom the raw truth of college gastronomies. “Time will tell,” prophesied the cynics.
In conception only was the sports program adequate. The hacking duels behind Farley were great sport. No one really minded that the bowling tournament was postponed until next year, or that the life guard “on duty” at Saint Joseph’s Lake was an entity few people physically encountered. There were still golf and tennis... somewhere.
Intergrating students into the life of a university is a persistent problem. Notre Dame is fortunate to possess a
“ . . . dewy-eyed and Dooleyized '
The Scholastic
technique like the freshman mission. She is also fortunate to have possessed a man like Tom Dooley. It became difficult to avoid leaving a conference both dewy-eyed and Dooleyized.
A different kind of conference was the pep rally. Coach Murphy had a few suggestions for things the student body could do instead of calling his athletes crude names. It could “pat them on the back,” for instance. The coach discarded the microphone when it became uncooperative. Without it, he was nearly eloquent at times, even though half of his audience was plunged into pleasant deafness. The Orwellianlike “hate” broke up with fifteen hundred aroused frosh going in search of backs to pat.
The freshmen were hauled back
and his band displayed much skill in parrying the thrusts of a less witty audience. It was almost as riotous when, later, at the Guidance Department’s examinations, the director informed the group that “M,” in, the box marked “sex,” did not mean “monthly.”
Orientation was drawing to an end. The mixer put the icing on the cake. Blue Circle came into its own as it smilingly escorted beaming misses up the long walk from the bus stop to LaFortune. Oriented, docile after a week’s “adjustment,” the new boys stood on the lawns assessing relative merits as the first of four busloads arrived from Chicago. The ' girls seemed likewise “adjusted.”
Orientation ended not with a bang, but a whimper.
“And then Sister said that any boy without a coat and tie certainly wasn't to be trusted."
“We're Number One!"
into the field house to suffer, like Job, beyond the ordinary endurance of human beings. The occasion this time was a court martial before Father Woodward’s military tribunal. Described were the extreme lengths to which the United States Government goes to insure that every young man’s “form” is sent by Father Woodward to the local draft board. Proceeding lb gentle, fatherly tones, the ROTC commandant discussed the many horrors that one is likely to experience should he unwittingly succumb to the constitutional provisions of the Selective Service Act. Draftee! “Do you Want to be a draftee?" the speaker Wanted to know. “No. Never!” we answered. “Not if it’s tantamount to Undergoing ordeal, or registering as conscientious objectors. Sign us up, please, lest we become, like Wakefield, °utcasts of the universe.”
A lighter note was played when Dean Sheedy, in consort with seven Professors from liberal arts, took on be freshman class in a rough scrimmage in Washington Hall. The dean
Activities Night: another two dollars, and another member of the Pierre, South Dakota Club.
October 20, 1961
19 2 9
(Continued from page 18) course, of paramount importance in the winning of this new armour; but, ranking with them, is that knowledge communicated to us through the still more articulate voice of Nature.
Today the word Nature might be said to be in almost ill repute; constant usage and reference to the word for purposes not always consonant with its truly exalted meaning, have lent it a savour of professionalism that would be actually rankling and repellent were it not for the innate grandness of the name.
By Nature we mean tossing leaves, and the calm, passive amusement of tree trunks; grass crackling under foot; the sun flattening long fields into Are; a curving road, a straight road, that leads over the hill and, beyond that, up and down another hill; stars pasted on the vault of the sky; the moon whitening fields of corn, drifts of leaves, tufts of grass, rippled glass waters, into sweetly troubled awareness of its presence.
And this is the Nature that has that something to tell us which is an integral part of our education and culture, that something which is held by many to be the whole of education and culture.
Now we will not always have such an opportunity to really know Nature and listen to her whispered words, as we have here at Notre Dame. Such an opportunity, when seen from the vantage point of the Whole, becomes nothing short of a sacred duty.
Then, too, we can always supplement our reactions with those of the great artists in literature, in music, in painting, and in philosophy.
Where we stand dumb and uncomprehending before the red symphony of a sunset, Keats and Jeffers have stood alert and responsive; it is our privilege to hear them tell of the outgrowth of their alertness and their responsiveness, and make it ours, in order that we may make the sunset (which is the heritage of the most abandoned idiot) more wholly ours; and, once finding it ours, know that something has been added to our being, something that will go with us to the facing of those eternal tasks that are performed in the shadows of breakfast and luncheon and dinner.
And now, though we may lay ourselves open to a charge of circuitous answering of a question, we hope we have given one reply to that Tuesday-Thursday query, “Where shall we go?”
Shall we tell him?
22
'In Town'
(Continued from page 17)
Hindenari, the diplomat (James Shigeta), wants to stop the war and build a “rainbow across the Pacific.” Gwen, his wife (Carroll Baker), wants to forget the war . . . because she wants a family safe from her emotional conflict.
Doesn’t it sound vaguely American? This movie is an excellent portrayal of miscegenation that we don’t often think of.... A “now you know how it feels” sort of thing. But it isn’t all heavy. It is dotted regularly with humorous spots and comes off very nicely, particularly considering its heavy theme. My only complaint: it wasn’t done in Technicolor.
{Bridge: 1:00 — 3:00 — 5:05 — 7:05 — 9:10.)
The Granada. People obviously like perversion . . . either that or it scares them. In any case Splendor in the Grass is being aired for a second week. Audrey Christie, Natalie Wood, Warren Beatty, and Barbara Loden head the cast. The story moves but is a
Get Your Tickets Now
Shrine Circus
Morris Civic..... approx. $1.50
Mazowsze
Morris Civic ... $1.50	— $4.50
Bayanihan
O’Laughlin..............$3.00
Presbyterian
Box 932, S. Bend .. $1.25 — $3.25 season.
little degenerate and doesn’t say a thing. I hope that it didn’t attempt to . . . though Warner will have its way. It is star-studded and well filmed . . . but kind of rolls around in the gutter.
{Splendor: 1:15 — 3:50 — 6:25 — 9:00.)
River Park. Pepe stars Cantiflas — one of the world’s greatest comedians. But poor Cantiflas was exploited to no avail in a weak imitation of Around the World in 80 Days. Only a very few laughs keep this tremendously slow show from falling off its framework of a multi-starred supporting cast. The plot is poorly done — and the story poorly told. It’s a shame. Poor Cantinflas. Poor Cantinflas’
white horse. Poor George Sidney (he lost two million dollars . . . ).
With it is . . . ta, ta, ta . . . Gidget Goes Hawaiian. I can say no more. A take off on a Pacific Lauderdale — minus crowds and a riot. It’s a nice long double feature. Too bad there’s not a balcony at the River Park.
Ikiru plays on next Wednesday, , night only. Another of the Indiana series. . . . It’s Japanese and if it is anything like the Ballad of a Soldier — it’s great.
{Pepe: Week — 9:00; Sunday — 7:30. Gidget: Week — 7:15; Sunday — 1:45 — 6:50. Ikiru: 7:30 — 8:30.)
The State. The Hustler is supposed to run for another week . . . although we can’t be certain. If it is still around, however, it is the picture to see. Paul Newman and Piper Laurie star in an ultra-tense gangster spectacular.
“Ours is a contract of depravity...” is how Sarah Packard begins a book and unwittingly sums up the entire show. She and Eddy (Newman) tie up for a jag but naturally enough the affair turns into something worth remembering. Eddy is the hustler and, it seems, a loser. Sarah is depraved, twisted, crippled . . . besides which she drinks. She also sports a spree of philosophy. And she is a much better boozer than author. Eddy finds that booze and pool cues don’t mix — not that it puts either of them on the I wagon. Her philosophy degenerates j and the loser takes heed and becomes | a winner.	{
Laurie and Paul are great and per- j form their roles splendidly. Jackie ; Gleason does better than expected in j a not too demanding supporting role. ■
The whole thing is a little rough j around the edges and it tends to drag j in places but the story is solid and j original — the drama is tense enough j to make it worth seeing ... by all ] means.	j
{Hustler: 1:20 — 3:05 — 6:20 — f, 8:50.)	j
Washington Hall. On the Double j with Danny Kaye. A swinging spoof \ about a large scale hoax on the j Germans by an American misfit. The j comedy part is supposed to emanate j from the personality difference be- j tween the American rookie (Kaye) | and an English officer (Kaye) but it [ never quite comes off. There are	;
custard pies to be thrown and cos-	j
tumes to be donned. Fairly slapstick. j But Kaye’s humor does manage to । eek through the clouds of weak plot and you do actually laugh. Dana j Wynters supports.	j
{Double: 6:30 — 8:30.)	|
The Scholastic I
'kibitzer's korner'
(Continued from page 17) ments are a five-card suit and a weak (less than eight points) hand. Two clubs is a forcing and artificial bid, asking partner to bid any four-card major suit which he may have. The only problem is if opener has both hearts and spades, is which he bids spades first and mentions his hearts later. The advantage are manifold. The hand can be placed in a safe partscore contract or reasonable game without a fear of partner bidding too much or too little.
If opener has guts or more points than he promised, he may optimistically bid an eleven-trick game, drag his feet at four of his suit, or bid the no-trump game on guts alone. Whatever he does is more or less a guess, and guesses at a penny a point are apt to be expensive. If you make a one-level suit bid, there is little danger that partner will pass you out, and hy the time you reach the three level, you will know more about each other’s hand and guess less.
Finally, one of the expressions that grates me the most is “We don’t play one-bids.” Well, frankly, neither do I, except an opening no-trump bid; a Pass in response to an announced
Q'tmiiiHmmmiiiiiiiitiimiiiiiiiimiimMmmnnmmnmmimimmiimtiituimiittiiiitiiHitiitiiiitiiiiiiimittiiiitiitiimiii....iiiumiiiQ
LOUIE’S
TUXEDO RENTAL
222 S. LAUREL
Phone AT 7-0575
9 Blocks West of Michigan St.
Between Washington
And Western On Laurel
opening bid shows a rather ghastly hand, and it is not too far-fetched to suppose that the hand definitely belongs to them. Thousands of points are thrown away every time this unimaginative and ultra-conservative brand of bridge is played. Especially poor reasoning is to allow them have a one-bid when they have a partscore because “it is one short of game, so let’s give it to them.” Reason tells us that quite likely the hand belongs to us and we should bid and make a part score to put us on an footing or inflict a devastating penalty upon our overoptimistic opponents.
Therefore, we must find ways and means to reopen the bidding and get to the part-score or even game contract that may well be ours. A conservative estimate would be about seven points for a reopening bid, because partner’s inaction would indicate that the hand is really theirs, and it is just as well to let sleeping dogs lie. A double is for take-out, though partner could pass it for penalties, and a one-trump reopening bid can be scaled down to about ten points, balanced hand, and a stopper in opener’s suit. If your hand is unsuited for either of these, simply bid a suit of your own. Just don’t pass.
— Wallace J. Guillaume
BEST BUYS IN PAPERBACKS
•
NEW AMERICAN LIBRARY
Catcher in the Rye Salinger
Salinger’s Nine Story Salinger
Bread & Wine
Silone • . Act One Moss Hart •
Night They Burned the Mountain
Dr. Tom Dooley
The Edge of Tomorrow Dr. Tom Dooley
Deliver Us from Evil
Dr. Tom Dooley
Andersonville
Kantor
Atlas Shrugged
Ayn Rand
Handbook of Chemistry & Physics
Special Price $7.50
Notre Dame Bookstore on - the - campus
0
October 20, 1961
23
had a
one-man.
conference about,your
You:
Why the gold bars?
Future You:
You’re needed... just as your father and grandfather were. It’s an obligation that a lot of qualified college men have to meet. If we don’t...
You:
All right. But what can I do for the Air Force?
Future Tout
The Air Force needs college trained men and women as officers. This is caused by the rapidly advancing technology that goes with hypersonic air and space flight. Your four years of college have equipped you to handle complex jobs.
You:
Say I was interested...how can I get to be an officer? Future You:
You know about Air Force ROTC and the Air Force Academy. Then there’s the navigator training program. You’ve probably heard about Officer Training School...where the Air Force takes certain college graduates, both men and women, and commissions them after three months of training.
You:
Starting salary is important. What about that?
Future You:
Add it up. Base pay, tax-free allowances, free medical and dental care, retirement provision, perhaps flight pay. You don’t have to be an eco major to see it adds up to an attractive package.
You:
I’ve been thinking about getting my Master’s.
Future You:
As an officer you can apply for the Air Force Institute of Technology. At no cost, and while on active duty some officers may even win their PhJ). degrees.
You:
Tell me more.
That’s the job of your local Air Force Recruiter. Or write to Officer Career Information, Dept. SC11O, Box 7608, Washington 4, D.C., if you ■want further information about the navigator training or Officer Training School programs.
There’s a place for professional achievement in the U.S. Air Force
The Scholastic
24
THE BIG LINE
Daryle Lamonica fades to pass protected by The Big Line which will play such a vital role in tomorrow's game with Michigan State at East Lansing. Notre Dame hasn't beaten the Spartans since 1954.
GAME OF THE YEAR: NOTRE DAME vs. MSU
by TERRY WOLKERSTORFER
A chant unfamiliar on the campus since 1949 — the year of Hart, Sitko, Martin, Williams, and an undefeated National Championship team at Notre Dame — has been heard again this fall, booming through the Fieldhouse, spoken in quiet tones in the halls and at meals, and echoing frantically through the expanses of the Stadium: “We’re Number One!”
By tomorrow afternoon at four-thirty that chant will be proven either fantasy or fact.
For tomorrow at 1:30 p.m., E.S.T., the unbeaten Fighting Irish square against the unbeaten Spartans of Michigan State at East Lansing, in a game that could well be the collegiate football Game of the Year. A loss to the Spartans would, in all Probability, drop the Irish from the Top Ten, while a victory could vault the rapidly-rising Notre Dame team into serious contention for the national grid title.
As they host the Irish, Michigan State boasts a formidable record: they have outscored their opponents 79-3 and shut out second-ranked Michigan, 28-0. Notre Dame, on the other hand, holds 19-6, 22-20, and 30-0 victories. Thus the stage is set for tomorrow’s critical and traditional clash, which niust be billed as a battle of running attacks and rock-wall defensive lines. The Irish will run from their tra-ditional pro-type straight-T, with the „Partans operating from a unique Bi’line” multiple offense, featuring the winged-T.
In size, speed, depth, and experience the Spartans have perhaps the est personnel Notre Dame will face ?1 season. Conversely, the Irish ave the best-manned squad Michi-&an State has faced to date.
At right end the Spartans will October 20, 1961
start 6-4, 230-pound sophomore Matt Snorton. He will be backed by senior Art Brandstatter, a two-year starter who handles the kicking for State. The Irish will counter by starting Denny Murphy at the right flank. Murphy will be supported by Jim Kelly, John Murray, and possibly John Powers. The counterparts of Irish left ends Les Traver, Clay Stephens, and Tom Goberville will be Lonnie Sanders, who played 281 minutes in 1960, and Larry Hudas, a 6-4, 200-pounder who was switched from halfback in spring practice. At end, the Spartans hold a decisive advantage in size and experience over the Irish.
At tackles, Notre Dame seniors Joe Carollo and Bob Bill, George Williams and Roger Wilke, give the Green the edge over the Spartans, who will start Tom Winiecki and Jim Bobbitt. Notre Dame’s tackles outweigh MSU’s by three pounds to the man.
Guard advantage. With co-captains Norb Roy and Nick Buoniconti leading the charge and followed by Ed Burke and Bob Lehmann, Fran Grau and Mickey Bitsko, Notre Dame’s guards should outplay Michigan State’s by a good margin. Ed Budde and George Azar are MSU starters.
The center position is strong on
HUGH (DUFFY) DAUGHERTY
both squads, with neither rating a particular advantage. Irish starter Tom Hecomovich will be the best center on the field, but the Michigan State reserves may be a shade better. Defensive specialist Clay Schulz will bolster the middle of the line when MSU is on offense.
At quarterback, Notre Dame rates the nod, with Ed Rutkowski and Frank Budka backing up starter Daryle Lamonica. State will start junior Pete Smith, who has capable replacements in sophomores Doug Miller and Dick Proebstle and senior Don Stewart. The Spartans will sorely miss team captain and defensive ace Ed “Rocky” Ryan, who has been lost for four to six weeks because of injury.
Though Irish halfbacks Dabiero and Sefcik, Minik and Costa are good, MSU may have the best halfback corps in the nation, including such big, fast men as Gary Ballman, Carl Charon, Dewey Lincoln, Sherman Lewis, and Herman Johnson.
With the physical soundness of Notre Dame’s fullback trio — Mike Lind, Gerry Gray, and Jim Snowden —questionable, the fullback nod must go to Michigan State, with proven performers in Ron Hatcher, George Saimes, and Roger Lopes, an outstanding sophomore prospect.
Guts and determination. The physical assets of Notre Dame and Michigan State must be regarded as nearly equal. On one premise only Notre Dame must be chosen the favorite: they are a gutty, hard-nosed team, determined that they will not and must not lose, and convinced that they can win. Or as their fiery and inspirational halfback, Angelo Dabiero put it: “We’ve already convinced ourselves that ‘We’re Number One.’ Tomorrow we’re going to convince everyone else.”
25
Cltt AS WE / V See IT
‘ by JOHN BECHTOLD
Tomorrow is the day of decision for Notre Dame’s football team. By the time the sun sets Saturday evening the sell-out crowd of 76,000, plus millions more across the country, will be either comparing this Irish squad to the national championship units of the past or wondering how gung-ho the students of Notre Dame were to shout “We’re number one,” at just an above-average team which was beaten by the first really good team it faced.
I feel Notre Dame will beat the Spartans of Michigan State. I make this prediction not as a Notre Dame junior who has decided that THE year of victory is here, but as a native of Michigan who has followed the exploits of Biggie Munn, Clarence Peaks, and Earl Morrall closer than those of Frank Leahy, Johnny Lattner, and Paul Hornung.
The goal of this year’s Notre Dame team was best summed up by senior end Les Traver, “We’re an angry team. We want to beat Michigan State because of last year.” The two goals of the Spartans before this season did not include the Irish, however. Their two goals were to beat arch-rival Michigan and win a trip to the Rose Bowl.
A wild rumor last winter has since become a fairly accepted fact: Duffy Daugherty has to take the Spartans to the Rose Bowl to remain head coach at Michigan State. While this may shock many outsiders, the reasons for this are many. Not the least of these is the fact that Michigan State’s greatest football coach, Biggie Munn, is unhappy in the athletic director’s chair and wishes to return to the pressures of big-time coaching. The relationship between Munn and Daugherty has been outwardly cordial, but really cool, since Munn publicly criticized Daugherty during Duffy’s unsuccessful, two-victory debut season seven years ago.
While the Irish have waited a year for this game, Daugherty remarked after the Spartan’s great victory over Michigan last week, “I hope the team remembers we have a game with Notre Dame next Saturday.” After the Irish, Michigan State plays five Big Ten games in a row. Winning those games is more important than beating Notre Dame. But to the Irish, Michigan State is THE game of the year.
26
From boyhood dreams to the big league:
Carl
Yastrzemski
by BOB CH1APPINELLI
Not since Mickey Mantle transported his bulging muscles and blond crew cut from Commerce, Oklahoma to the Centerfield position at Yankee Stadium has baseball had a more promising or exciting rookie than the Boston Red Sox’s Carl Yastrzemski.
Like Mantle, Carl Yastrzemski has the task of filling the enormous gap left by the retirement of one of baseball’s superstars. In Mantle’s case it was Joe Dimaggio; in Yastrzemski’s case it is Ted Williams. Carl did not succeed fully in his task this year, but then, neither did Mantle in his freshman year.
Accorded the Rookie of the Year award even before President John Kennedy served up the season’s first pitch, and additionally pressured by predictions of a .300 plus batting percentage, Carl Yastrzemski did not have the great year which so many people had predicted for him.
And yet, when you forget the predictions and concentrate on the record book you find that Carl had a good season, with or without asterisks. He vigorously defended Fenway Park’s left field wall with leaping catches, kept strict order among enemy baserunners with a lively arm
YASTRZEMSKI: The Family Man
The Scholastic
which cut down many of the league’s more daring runners and, in general, covered his left field position like it hasn’t been covered in Fenway Park for years.
At bat, he led the Sox regulars with a .266 average, 231 total bases, and was the team’s second leading run producer, sending more than 80 runs home.
When asked how he felt about his first major league season, Carl said, “It was rough, I guess, because of all the publicity that was bestowed upon me. I went out trying to have < a great season and to please the fans, i but I found the going a bit tough. I > was glad that I was able to come	j
back and have a good month and a	I
half at the end of the season.”	)
really blowing
you have to realize
YASTRZEMSKI: The Student
At one stretch during the latter part of the season, Carl was hitting over .400 for a period of three weeks, and gave indications of having really arrived as a big league hitter. As Carl pointed out, “During the first Part of the year everybody tended to discredit me rather than credit the pitchers. Here I came into a league with fellows like Jim Bunning, Frank Lary and Whitey Ford, all eight or nine-year veterans and big winners, and it took me quite a while to get used to their stuff. About my third time around the league, however, I began to go on the offensive rather than the defensive.”
Carl added that Manager Mike Higgins deserves “all the credit in the World” for his improvement. “Even when I went down to around .210 he stayed with me and gave me confidence.”
Carl mentioned that during the early part of the season he attempted to poke a few balls over the very neighborly left field wall at Fenway, but soon ended those shots. As he said, “I think that wall is over-Publicized. The baUs that I did hit °ff the wall might have been home runs in other parks. Often a well hit ball will just be starting to take off when it hits the 40-foot-high wall and bounces back for a double. On tne other hand, I did hit some balls °ff the wall which would have been
*n other stadiums.
During the last part of the sea-I Was bitting everything to right eld. Of course, it’s 380 feet out ere and the wind always blows in, ut you have to take these things inconsideration. When the wind is
October 20, 1961
that you aren’t going to hit the ball out every time and therefore must go for singles.”
But this is the adult Yastrzemski speaking. Let’s go back to his childhood in New York. Then Carl had two dreams which are shared by many youths today. He wanted to go to Notre Dame and he wanted to be a big league ball player. Both dreams came true.
In the fall of 1957 Carl came to Notre Dame on a baseball scholarship. The following year he signed with the Boston Red Sox and spent his first year at Raleigh where he hit a mere .388. This fine year warranted a promotion to Minneapolis where he was converted from short
YASTRZEMSKI: The Fan
27
.• '>3
>4
stop to second base and finally to left field.
But during this time Carl was not just a ball player. He continued to attend classes here at Notre Dame during the fall semesters of each year and is now a second semester junior, majoring in Business Management. At the present rate of advancement Carl will graduate from Notre Dame in 1964.
When asked about the transition from baseball to studies, Carl disclosed that his chief problem is in finding sufficient time in which to study, and still devote enough time to his wife and family.
Because of the length of the baseball season Carl starts each semester approximately a week late. Added to this handicap is the one of making the transition from the carefree life of a ball player to the more regulated one of a student. Carl noted that in baseball his hours are irregular and
his spare time is college he has to and devote much to studies.
Concerning the
his own, while in regulate his time of his spare time
future, Yastrzem-
ski hopes either to open his own business in Boston after his playing days are gone or to join some business firm.
In regard to next year, he hopes to cut down on his strikeouts, improve his average, and hit a few more homers.
Judging from his excellent late season performance, Carl should really begin to achieve his potential next year. Only 22 and still maturing physically, he is expected to easily attain his modest 1962 goals. And as far as his future business plans — well — just don’t bet against him.




INTERHALL FOOTBALL
In opening games last week, eight of the twelve teams failed to score. Farley vs. Cavanaugh and Stanford vs. Keenan ended in a scoreless tie. Lyons-St. Edwards beat Morrissey, 12-0. Howard whipped Zahm by the same score. Dillon blanked Sorin-Walsh, 14-0. Badin-Pangborn upset Off-Campus, 6-0. Alumni, the pre-season favorite, was idle.
^kWTURBOW \0PT0METIUST
EYEGLASSES REPAIRED
CONTACT LENSES INQUIRIES INVITED
EYE EXAMINATION
OLIVER HOTEL
207 W. Washington —Phone CE 4-5777
NICOLA'S
Cracker Crust Pizza
CE 4-6688
Free Delivery to Circle and WNDU Parking lot from 5:00 P.M. on the hour.
Restaurant in back at 607 No. Michigan
You’ll find that learning to dance at Arthur Murray’s is quick, easy—it’s fun
and costs less. Studios open daily 12 noon-11 pan.
WILL YOU ACCEPT A HOUR
Lennon Looks Forward To Improved Irish Nine
Notre Dame’s baseball team has bounced back from last year’s disapointing 12 won, 17 lost season to come up with what Coach Jake Kline calls a “very promising ball club.”
“Last year we were hampered with several injuries, and also a lack of spirit, which held back a lot of our potential,” said Kline. “However, we seem to have regained the spirit we need for a successful season and the situation on the whole looks encouraging.”
Under the supervision of Coach Kline’s assistant, Chuck Lennon, fall baseball practice is in full swing. Lennon said there was a wealth of good material from which to pick a team for the coming season and outlined the probable choices for the various positions.
Starting at first base will be Ed Naspinski, with Dick Wolfe playing second string. Dick Rusteck, a pitcher, will also be able to fill in here. At second base will be George Sefcik, with Tom MacDonald and John Matthews in reserve. Dick Panther and Ty Demetrio will also get some work at second. Rich Gonski is the probable shortstop, with Al Cooper and John McCoullough backing him up. At third will be Jim Woolwine, Jim Drury, and Dave Cooper.
The outfield will include Bill Brutvan in center, Dave Hansen in left, and Tim Reardon in right. Jim Stouffer and John Counsell will be the principal substitutes here. Walt Osgood will do most of the catching, with Fred Nemec following. The four principal starting pitchers at present are Mickey Walker, Phil Donnelly, Rich Riesteck, and Paul Petticlair. Jim Fitzpatrick, Mike Boehm, and Dick Tushla will do most of the relief work.
Lennon said that the team lost a lot of its hitting power through graduation last summer, but has excellent hitters in Naspinski, Sefcik, Gonski, and Osgood.
TRIAL
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 East Wayne • Call: CE 2-3339
A QUALITY LINE OF
EVERYDAY AND CHRISTMAS GREETING CARDS
A different quality line of greeting cards is being offered for sale to individuals and clubs. There is no competition and the quality of the card results in easy sales. Act quickly if you want your share of the high commissions. Samples on approval. Write:
EMERSON PRESS
Dept. A, 5th & Hamilton Aves. Pittsburgh 6, Pa.
28
Harriers Compete for ND Invitational Crown
Notre Dame’s number two fall sport, cross-country, moves into its third week of activity this afternoon ■ on the Burke Memorial Golf Course with the running of the annual ND Invitational. Starting time for the four-and-a-quarter-mile grind, in which about seven schools will compete, is 4:00 p.m.
Entered once again this year, and a heavy favorite to retain the team title, is Western Michigan University of Kalamazoo. Gone from the Broncos are Gerry Ashmore, durable harrier who took individual honors last year, and John Bork, 1961 NCAA half-mile champion. But leading a group of fine, well-conditioned runners is Dick Pond, a performer ND saw plenty of last year.
Bowling Green, Central Michigan, Kentucky, Slippery Rock State Teachers, Central State of Ohio, and Ohio University round out the list of team j entries.
Heading the list of individual runners are Dick Shirey of the Slippery j Rock Rockets and Bill Maurer of ) Kentucky.
For Notre Dame enthusiasts, probably the only thing to cheer about for the last two weeks has been the running of sophomore Frank Carver. On Oct. 6, Carver took first place in	f
a dual meet against the Chicago	j
Track Club and again last Friday re- j peated the feat against Indiana Uni- ] versity. On each occasion the op- j ponents pushed five men across be- j fore the Irish could get a second one j over, thus defeating Coach Alex Wil- j son’s squad by 20-35 scores.	;
Much of Notre Dame’s team is j either inexperienced or slow. Senior ; Captain Tom Dempsey has been dis- ( appointing. Ray Wherley, an improv- ; ing newcomer, currently holds down the number three spot. Jim Webster, j another new face, turned in his best » time against the Hoosiers in finish- | ing fourth for the Irish but is far j from being a point-getter in meets. j Veteran Bob Latsko, plugging away j in his fourth year, did poorly against ] IU after a good start at Chicago. I
Coach Wilson’s finest group of j freshman in quite a while is now | making the laps on the golf course, j so maybe there will be improvement i next year. Meantime, Irish fans can j root all the louder for a good foot- j ball record.	j
—J. C. Higgins	;
The Scholastic	j
FUTURE OPPONENTS
Four of the undefeated Irish’s future opponents were victorious while three were vanquished in last week’s play. Northwestern, Pittsburg and Duke met defeat; tomorrow’s opponent, Michigan State, and Iowa remained undefeated. Navy and Syracuse also won.
Michigan State took the Big Ten conference lead by whipping rival Michigan, 28-0, before 103,000 fans in Ann Arbor last Saturday. Quarterback Pete Smith passed and ran his team for 295 yards while the Michigan State line held the Wolverines to 92 yards rushing.
Eight fumbles helped Minnesota whip Northwestern, 10-3, last weekend. Wildcat fullback Bill Swingle, the country’s leading scorer, was | effectively stopped by the Gopher j line. Northwestern’s only points were | scored on a 22-yard field goal by i Dave Damm. The Wildcats’ eight ! fumbles brought the team total to I twenty-one in the first three games. ! Navy took advantage of the mistakes of an outclassed Cornell eleven to trounce the New Yorkers, 31-7. Sophomore quarterback Ron Klemick again showed his potential as he j scored one touchdown and set up two others. Greg Mather, the Middies’ great kicking ace, scored a field goal and four points after touchdown to Pace the scorers.
The University of West Virginia Upset Pittsburgh 20-6 in a game that i featured two touchdowns by sub halfback Roger Holdinsky. He scored one | °n a 30-yard pass from quarterback Dred Colvard and crossed the goal line later by sprinting 31 yards. West Virginia penetrated Pitt’s defenses early in the first quarter rushing 74 yards for the touchdown. Pitt’s only touchdown came late in the second Period as quarterback Jim Traficant sneaked over from the one yard line.
Syracuse upended Nebraska 28-6 with the help of two touchdowns by halfback Ernie Davis and another on , a 49-yard pass interception by Walt Sweeney.
Iowa defeated winless Indiana 27-8 as the Buckeyes scored in every period while keeping the Hoosiers to one goal in the fourth quarter. Reserve Iowa quarterback Matt Szykowny sparked a successful passing attack ^hich netted 128 yards and one touchdown.
Georgia Tech shutout Duke University, 21-0, with a second-half rally that furnished the Yellow Jackets 'vith three touchdowns and gave Duke its first defeat.
October 20, 1961
IRISH LINEMAN OF THE WEEK Ed Burke, 248 pounds of mayhem and brute strength, epitomized the play of the Irish last Saturday as he punished Trojan quarterback Bill Nelsen with a relentless rush which dropped Nelsen for a total loss of 28 yards.
Not this: a student who drowses over books no matter how much sleep he gets.
If you sometimes find studying soporific (and who doesn’t?), the word to remember is NoDoz.® NoDoz perks you up in minutes, with the same safe awakener found in coffee or tea. Yet NoDoz is faster, handier, more reliable. Absolutely non-habit-forming, NoDoz is sold everywhere without prescription. So, to keep perspicacious during study and exams—and while driving, too— always keep NoDoz in proximity.
The safe stay awake tablet—available everywhere. Another fine product of Grove Laboratories.
RAH! RAH!
ALBRIGHTS
: MODEL 22AW
For all details see your campus Raleigh dealer.
Raleigh bicycles were made for college life and the student body. And speaking of bodies a Raleigh is measured by frame size, not wheel size.
For example: Collegemen over 5'9" specify 23" frames. Men under 5'9" specify 21" frames.
Try a Raleigh out on Campus — You’ll feel better for it — Raleigh you will!!
2720 Lincolnway West Mishawaka Telephone BL 5-8988
IRISH BACK OF THE WEEK
Ed Rutkowski, given a chance to display his wares, drove Irish 83 yards for a score, going the last 12 yards himself. All told, Ed gained forty yards in five carries, showed ability to move the team.
This: perspicacious... sharp! NoDoz keeps you awake and alert—safely)
29
Plan now for your BERMUDA College Week 1962 bigger, busier, better than ever!
•	Informal welcoming dance to start the fun.
•	College Day at the Beach...the biggest beach party of the year.
•	All-day cruise to historic St. George. Luncheon, Calypso music, Gombey Dancers.
•	Round Robin Tennis Tournament
•	College Week Golf Competition.
•	College Talent Revue.
•	Fun Festival with jazz concerts, choral groups, dance contests.
•	Barbecue Luncheon.
•	Sightseeing.
•	Special Golf and Tennis Trophies. ALL YOURS AT NO CHARGE
The BERMUDA Trade Development Board
620 Fifth Ave., New York 20, N. Y.
ND SOCCER TEAM BEATS BOILERMAKERS
Last Sunday the Irish Soccer team scored a decisive 4-1 victory over the Boilermakers of Purdue to even their season’s record at 1-1. Leading the way for the Irish victory were halfback Hernon Puentes and captain Josef Echelle.
The game started out as a tough, close match. Then in the first quarter halfback Puentes notched the first Irish goal. Later in the second quarter the Notre Dame eleven tallied again on Fran Juda’s goal to make the score 2-0.
In the third quarter, Charlie Wong booted across another goal for Notre Dame to give the Irish a 3-0 lead. Captain Josef Echelle put the Irish ahead for good with a security goal on a fine kick in the third quarter. With the Irish ahead 4-0, the Boilermakers scored their lone goal against the Irish second team.
Puentes was the offensive hero for
the Irish with his one goal and fine play, and Echelle starred a bastion of strength on defense.
The Irish team-play, with fine ballhandling and passing, was an important factor in the ND win. Goalie, Juan Simon, Captain Echelle, and company were impenetrable on defense in limiting the foe to one goal. The Irish were definitely an improvement over their 8-0 loss two weeks ago to nationally-ranked Washington U. of St. Louis.
Tomorrow, the Irish invade Indiana Tech for a soccer homecoming duel with Tech’s soccer team, ranked second in the Midwest.
Starting for the Irish will be Juan Simon, goalie; Fred Slamin, Bob Chau, fullbacks; Pete Aizupitis, Bob DaBois, Jack Noon, halfbacks; Charlie Wong, Herman Puentes, Fran Juda, John Makanju and Joseph Echelle, forwards.
SIC FLICS
3



“Gee, honey, you’ll never pass your physics exam unless you learn to loosen up!”
..s *' ? s ,
(llGAI’^ETTES
21 GREAT TOBACCOS MAKE 20 WONDERFUL SMOKES! aged mild, blended mild - not filtered mild-they satisfy
The Scholastic
30
COVER: “The Limeliters" in contrast. That is what Robert (Duffy) Gradusky gives us in this week’s realistic cover. We feel the sound of this trio will bring us a Friday night to remember.	—Tom Hansen
SUPER SMOOTH SHAVE
Get with it, man! You belong in the indispensable WEATHER CHECKER
New*wetter-than-water*action melts beard's tough, ness—In seconds. Remarkable new “wetter-than-water” action gives Old Spice Super Smooth Shave its scientific approximation to the feather-touch feel and the efficiency of barber shop shaves. Melts your beard’s toughness like hot towels and massage—in seconds.
Shaves that are so comfortable you barely feel the blade. A unique combination of anti-evaporation agents makes Super Smooth Shave stay moist and firm. No re-lathering, no dry spots. Richer and creamier...gives you the most satisfying shave...fastest, cleanest—and most comfortable. Regular or mentholated, 1.00.
Whether the weather is balmy or biting, you’re ready with Weather Checker, knockout new H«I’S style with zip-out Orlon pile lining. 40" long-it has a Bal Collar, raglan shoulders, slash pockets, center vent, sleeve tabs. In washable fabrics—at stores that are “with it". $25.
S H U L.T O M
Don't envy H-LS... wear them
®ctob
er 20, 1961
31
DOING IT THE HARD WAY by horn (GETTING RID OF DANDRUFF, THAT IS!) ' '
easier 3-minute way for men: FITCH
Men, get rid of embarrassing dandruff easy as 1-2-3 with FITCH! In just 3 minutes (one rubbing, one lathering, one rinsing), every trace of dandruff, grime, gummy old hair tonic goes right down the drain! Your hair looks hand-
FITCH
LEADING MAN’S
SHAMPOO
* somer, healthier. Your scalp tingles, feels so refreshed. Use FITCH Dandruff Remover SHAMPOO every week for positive dandruff control. Keep your hair and scalp really clean, dandruff-free!
FELLOWSHIP FUNDS
SEEKING SCHOLARS
Applications for Danforth and Woodrow Wilson fellowships are now being accepted by Prof. Frank O’Malley in 348 O’Shaughnessy Hall. Nominations for the Wilson Fellowship must be submitted by faculty members to regional councils by Oct. 31 and those for the Danforth grant by Nov. 1.
Both fellowships are designed to aid seniors who will enroll in graduate school next year and who plan careers as college teachers. They offer stipends of up to $2,000 plus allowances for dependents and direct payment of tuition and fees.
Prof. O’Malley may nominate up to three candidates for the Danforth award. Approximately a hundred fellowships are awarded each year based on intellectual promise and personality, integrity, genuine interest in religion, and potential for effective college teaching. One of Notre Dame's three nominees received a fellowship last year.
The number of Wilson applicants is not limited. After nomination by a faculty member, each nominee sub- | mits a transcript of his academic rec- j
TRI-MILITARY BALL
The Tri-Military Council of Notre Dame presents its annual ball on Nov. 17 featuring Peter Palmer and his voices. Tickets will go on sale Wednesday from 7-9 p.m. in 127 Nieuwland Science Hall.
ERASE WITHOUT A TRACE ON EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
Don’t meet your Waterloo at the typewriter—perfectly typed papers begin with Corrasable! You can rub out typing errors with just an ordinary pencil eraser. It’s that simple to erase without a trace on Corrasable. Saves time, temper, and money!
Your choice of Corrasable in light, medium, heavy weights and Onion Skin in handy 100-sheet packets and 500-sheet boxes. Only Eaton makes Corrasable.
A Berkshire Typewriter Paper
E : PITTSFIELD, MASS.
ord, three letters of recommendation, and his own statement of purpose to a regional board. About 25 per cent of the students nominated are invited to interviews in which each student is interviewed by a committee. About half of these receive fellowships and a majority of the remainder are given honorary fellowships. Last year’s Notre Dame graduates were awarded 14 Wilson fellowships. The University now ranks tenth among colleges in the U. S. and Canada receiving Danforth and Woodrow Wilson awards.
The Danforth Foundation had its start in 1927 when William Danforth, a St. Louis, philanthropist, donated his fortune to the project. The Woodrow Wilson Foundation began at Princeton in 1945 and grew progressively until a 1947 Ford Foundation grant made possible the current thousand fellowships a year.
The Scholastic
EATON PAPER CORPORATION
FORUM
LIBERALISM...
AN APPEAL TO REASON
by Edmund Burke and Gary Hoban
The liberal is used to tolerating the Unjust assaults of the misinformed, but last week’s “expose” of conservatism seems to have compounded confusion with total ignorance. The conservative’s labeling of a liberal as a “rebel without a cause” is nonsense. The liberal is not a mere “aginner”; a man without values, a man without roots.
Liberalism is the philosophy of common sense. It does not close its eyes to the past, but it refuses to live in blindness during the present. It is not bound to a dogma of change for the sake of change, but it is devoted to an honest investigation of the human condition. The liberal is an idealist whose whole philosophy is orientated toward interpreting all human endeavors in the light of those values which ennoble the spirit of man. But he realizes, as the conservative doesn’t, that he is not infallible, that it is not for him to anathematize those who do not share his views.
The liberal position is not the product of rebellion, nor it is the idle speculations of the social philosopher. Liberalism attempts to come to grips with the problems of the day. It is willing to seek change if change is needed, to preserve tradition if tradition is worth preserving. Theodore Greene in his book on the liberal spirit explains that liberalism “ ... signifies an open, receptive, and generous attitude — an attitude essential lor all free social co-operation and human progress. It signifies a critical rather than a subservient attitude to tradition and convention — yet an attitude hospitable to whatever in tradition is worthy of preservation.”
The new conservative, in his great concern for finding the absolute values October 20, 1961
on which to base his philosophy, seems to have more than an accidental, external relation to the Puritan of the Cromwellian Era in England (c. 1660). Groping his way over life’s tortuous trail, the Puritan was suddenly visited with a personal, divine revelation of the truth, and then, clutching this truth firmly in hand, sallied forth to do battle with the dragon of iniquities, the “whore of Babylon.” The new conservative, groping his way over the winding path of life, is also visited by an apparition of truth, which he finds in his own concept of a transcendent order. Grasping this truth, and clanking shut the visor of his mind; he “ . . . charges into battle with it as a sword and shield,” as last week’s article would have it.
Both the Puritan and the new conservative, after they have experienced their revelation, feel that they possess the truth in an exclusive manner. There is little to be gained by checking the outside world to confirm the validity of their vision. If the truth is one, as it is simplistically said, then those professing to have it are right, and all others are always wrong. This is the position that the conservative would appear to have reached. Mutually exclusive categories are thus established, leaving the small minority of the elect with a monopoly on truth.
The liberal refuses to see everything in black and white terms, for he realizes that he cannot possess that absolute vision of absolute values which the conservative seems to claim for himself. Rather he insists on periodically examining his situation to make the adjustments necessitated by changed conditions. Fully aware of the dynamic nature of man and of society, he expects changes, and as
well as he can foresee, prepares for them.
Nor is the conservative’s attitude toward truth the only place in which the taint of the Puritan ethic can be seen — for in his attitude toward private property and public charity the conservative also reveals traces of his New England Puritan forebears. If man’s economic life is “inseparable from its spiritual aspects," then it stands to reason that his economic life must partake of the divine. The same Calvinist attitude toward wealth which produced the harshly repressive Poor Laws in nineteenth-century England can be seen in the new conservative’s attitude toward the poor, who as we read, “are always with us.” Very like the Poor Laws, too, are their current suggestions on how to deal with the needy. These British laws, which succeeded in crushing the technologically unemployed beneath its criminal provisions, were aimed, topically enough, at the so-called “welfare cheaters” in England. The fundamental law of Christian charity, “what soever you do unto these, the least of my brethren, you do unto Me,” seems to have been largely ignored in both cases in a pietistically optimistic insistence on individualism.
The conservative position has always seemed to have a rather pessimistic view of man. It seems to deny that man has any potentiality for greatness; that man, since he is in a fallen state, is at best a rather limited, perhaps decadent creature. The status quo becomes a symbol for a human condition which at best is not good, but, if lost, could be worse. The liberal, on the other hand, has an abiding faith in the dignity of every human being. The mystery of the
33
Redemption gives hope that man may improve his lot; it gives him assurance that man can share in the supernatural order. For the liberal, man is not the slave of his own indecision, but he is a creature capable of meeting the challenges of his destiny.
It seems as if the campus conservative is becoming profoundly distrustful of society. In his retreat to his own little world, he seems to deify himself and his possessions and to damn those around him. From his lofty throne of truth, this all-knowing sibyl can venture to condemn the liberal, on the other hand, has an ignorance. He accuses the liberal who negotiates with Communist govern-
“It seems as if the campus conservative is becoming profoundly distrustful of society. In his retreat to his own little world, he seems to deify himself and his possessions and to damn those around him. From his lofty throne of truth, this all-knowing sibyl can venture to condemn the liberal as an incorrigible child of ignorance . . .”
with that of the Church. St Thomas, for one, will have to take issue with them, for he teaches, “Hence whatever certain people have in superabundance is due by natural law to the purpose of succoring the poor._” During this past summer, Pope John XXHI reminded the affluent nations of their moral responsibility to increase their foreign aid programs in behalf of less fortunate countries. Obviously, this advice could not be well received by the conservative, for a long time ago he seems to have forgotten about the corporal works of mercy.
Words are like the products of a craftsman—no matter how well fash-
Repercussions
(Continued from page 9) sider this article as a chauvinistic attempt to disseminate the YAF’s “party line” on NSA and not as an objective analysis of the present situation.
Jan P. Tabaka 366 Dillon
A GOOD IMAGE Editor:
We would like to thank the members of the student body for their participation in the Oklahoma game. The attitude they maintained in backing the team, we feel, justified the confidence the administration has shown in them by the new administrative policy. We’re sure the spirited but orderly behavior was an inspiration to people viewing on national TV.
From the band’s point of view, it is a privilege to represent the student body on the field at half-time. We hope that they will continue their support from the stands and we’re sure the band will find it a pleasure to continue to put on good half-time shows.
Con Nolan
Band president Ivan Gradisar Band vice-president
ments of flirting with the enemy. Yet, does the conservative’s call for the immediate annihilation of the Red menace reflect any comprehension of the nature of the struggle?
Senator Fulbright, Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, gives an insight into the nature of this problem when he observes “... that it is these [right-wing] extremists who are advocating a ‘soft’ approach. Their oversimplifications and their baseless generalizations reflect the ‘softness’ of those who cannot bear to face the burden of a continuing struggle against a powerful and resourceful enemy. A truly ‘tough’ approach ... is one which accepts the challenge of Communism with the courage and determination to meet it with every instrumentality of foreign policy ... and with willingness to see the struggle through as far into the future as may be necessary.”
It is impossible for the liberal position to approve foreign aid for “selling” American ideals to nations that are more concerned with bread than ideology. The liberal spirit, if it is true to itself, is motivated by charity, not by a selfish code of ethics. The conservative will have a rather difficult time reconciling his position
ioned and suited to the needs of the day, they ultimately tend, over the years, to wear out The terms “liberal” and “conservative” as applied to opposed political philosophies, have survived better than most Yet with at least five generations of wear, they have tended to become blurred as different connotations have been added to them. Today there is a great danger that a dialogue between the two positions will descend to the level of the inane. A nineteenth-century conservative position is, in many important respects, unrelated to much of American conservative thought. Similarly, a nineteenth-century “liberal” of the John Stuart Mill school is quite different from the liberal of today.
No doubt this debate between liberal and conservative will continue for quite a while. It is impossible to say which side will emerge the victor. But, perhaps the exigencies of our time will demand that the liberal position prevail. And one will come to agree with the President of the United States when he explains, “If the rule of reason brings you to the position that happens to be the liberal position, it is the one you have to take, but not just because it is liberal.”
Summer Romance
(Continued from page 8) downstairs, beautiful as ever, I might add, and announced that she was ready to go. Right then I ruined the whole romance, I’m afraid.
You might think that I missed a spot of dandruff, or my bad breath broke through, or my chest wasn’t mighty enough, or I said something vulgar, but it wasn't anything like that at all. It was something else.
You see I shot her father, and I must have done a very good job of explaining how it happened, because right away both she and her mother got all upset and I could see that the whole date was pretty much ruined. There was quite a lot of blood and all this moaning from her father, although I’m quite sure that it was just more or less of a flesh wound and not something to worry about. I even tried to make a little joke about the incident (concerning the insurance), but there were doctors and police and such all around as there usually is on such occasions, and nobody seemed to think it was too funny. I left just ahead of the stretcher, and I’m afraid I did not, in general, make a very good im-pression.
34
The Scholastic
from abstract ideas...fundamental knowledge at Esso Research
Adsorption rather than diffusion may be the controlling mechanism in the transport of liquids through elastomers.
This new hypothesis is supported by evidence obtained by Esso Research scientists using a novel photo shadow method for continuous measurement of swell in elastomers. As a result of these fundamental studies, more intimate knowledge of structure and increased understanding of segmental motion may make possible more precise predictions of polymer behavior.
Increasing the cross-link density in an elastomer network appears to de
crease the diffusion coefficient to an extent not predicted by the diffusion theory. Observations also show the seeming contradiction that increasing the path length with immobile obstructions, in the form of a variety of carbon black particles, also increases the apparent diffusion rate 2.5 times.
Re-examination of well known equilibrium uptake data poses such questions as: Why does a butyl rubber vulcanizate sorb twice as much cyclohexane as n-hexane when the latter has a much more flexible structure? How does a butyl elastomer distinguish be
tween the flat plate structure of benzene and the chair structure of cyclohexane whereas natural rubber does not?
Critical experimentation, together with mathematical studies, have strengthened the thesis that the solvent molecules pass into the elastomer by successive adsorption on successive planes. The elastomer chains appear to play an active role in the transport process rather than the passive one required by diffusion.
... adapted from a scientist’s notes at EssoResearchand EngineeringCompany P. O. Box 45B, Linden, NewJersey.

* 4
It's whats up front that counts
,garett
FILTER-BLENDlup front, ahead of Winston’s pure white filter proves Winston has it. Mild, flavorful tobaccos specially selected, then specially processed for filter smoking. That’s[HLTER-BLEND]. Quite a smoke. Next pack you buy, make it Winston.

■


Also available in crush-proof box.
B. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO. WINSTON-SALEM, N. C,