
It pays to look over the wall
The industry that succeeds today is the one that looks outside its own "back-yard” for ways to make itself more valuable.
For many years, Bell System men have been working out ideas to increase the use and usefulness of the telephone. For example, they prepared plans for selling by telephone which helped an insurance man to increase his annual
business from $1,000,000 to $5,500,000 —a wholesale grocer to enlarge his volume 25% at a big saving in overhead— a soap salesman to sell $6000 worth of goods in one afternoon at a selling cost of less than 1%!
This spirit of cooperation is one reason why the Bell System enjoys so important a place in American business.
BELL SYSTEM
4 NATION-WIDE SYSTEM OF INTER-CONNECTING TELEPHONES
4
October 23, 1931
One
MAGAZINES	PAPERS
UNIVERSITY CAFETERIA
and
SODA GRILL
DAILY SPECIALS
Open 6:30 a. m. to 9:40 p. m.
CIGARS	CIGARETTES
DANCING
Friday — Saturday — Sunday
Dick Snyder and his. Detroiters direct from the Gray Stone Ballroom.
0 r PARK PLAN ZDC DANCING
Palais Royale
We Have The Solution To Tuxedo Problem
°n°
Excellent Garments For Rent at Reasonable Rates.
°n°
Used Tuxedos for as little as $15.00.
■ °n°
The Best Woolens used in Custom Tailoring.
°n°
Better Cleaning
At
Carl’s Tailor Shop
Dry Cleaning—Pressing—Kepairing—Alterations
110 EAST WASHINGTON
Autobiography of
Knute K. Rockne
The fascinating narrative of his life from Rockne’s own vigorous pen . . . additional chapters by Mrs. Rockne and the Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C. . - . profusely illustrated . . . much exclusive material . . . handsomely printed and bound ... an intimate, personal remembrance of the great coach. Facsimile signature and autographs. As the edition is strictly limited	_
To Avoid Disappointment Order Your Copy Noiu
THE BOOK SHOP, Exclusive Distributors, 130 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Indiana.
Please send me.............copies	of the Autobiography of
Knute K. Rockne (Limited Edtiion) at $5.00 the copy. Remittance enclosed ( ) ; send C. O. D. ( ).
Name ........................................
Address...........................................  _......
City
Tivo
The Scholastic
Senior Coach Heartly “Hunk” Anderson
October 23, 1931
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
Entered as second-dass matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3,1917, authorized June 35, 1918.
NEIL C. HURLEY....................................Editor-in-Chief
HENRY B. ASMAN
Managing Editor
Associate Editors
WILLIAM W. CORR
MYRON CRAWFORD JOSEPH LOPKER
JAMES CARMODY
LESLIE RADDATZ WILLIAM BLIND
News Staff
EDMUND STEPHAN..............News	Editor
F. GRANGER WEIL____Assistant News Editor WALTER KENNEDY JOSEPH DEGNAN P. J. V. CORCORAN LARRY DUNDA MITCHELL TACKLEY '
Department Editors PAUL J. HALLINAN.............The Week
JOHN PICK.................College Parade
LOUIS E. BRENNAN..........Book Reviews
JOHN CONLEY...............Campus Clubs
WALTER JOHNSON............Features Editor
JOHN RYAN..............Music	and Drama
Sports Staff JAMES KEARNS..............Sports Editor
T. EDWARD CAREY IRVING B. HALPER JAMES McFEELEY, Jr. JOSEPH KURTH EDMUND MORIARTY
Desk Editors GEORGE DUQUETTE LLOYD TESKE J. DON SULLIVAN WILLIAM FLYNN
Business Staff
ANDREW McGUAN..........Circulation Mgr.
RAYMOND J. NABER, Ass’t. Circulation Mgr. FRED BAUER, JR......Advertising Manager ROBT. FITZSIMMONS, Ass’t Advertising Mgr. JOHN P. HESS........JOSEPH SIMON
J. ALBERT SMITH HARRY McGOWAN JOHN F. STOECKLEY.—Graduate Manager
Volume LXVII
OCTOBER 23, 1931.
Number 5.
SUMMARY
NEWS	PAGE
John Kramer elected new S. A. C. president__ 5
Scholastic to sponsor gigantic minor sports tourney_6 Pittsburgh sports editor believes national champion-
ship possibly to be decided Saturday______ 7
Alumni being organized to choose future Notre • Dame students______________________________10
FEATURES
Associate football manager from the south has a hobby in boats_____________________________12
Chicago locks forward to Mrs. Fiske in “Against the Wind,” says John Ryan__________________13
John Whitman, collector of degrees_________________16
Telling the world about Notre Dame is John Kien- ’ er’s job—by Roy Scholz_____________________17
‘ EDITORIALS
Minor Sports Program; Student Ticket Distribution; A Suggestion to Mr. Kramer; The University Theatre____________________________19
SPORTS
Notre Dame faces a confident Pittsburgh team tomorrow ____________________________________ 5
Drake crushed by sensational Notre Dame offensive last Saturday 21
Wisconsin first, Notre Dame second, in quadrangular cross-country meet at Evanston---------21
Interest increases in interhall campaign as undefeated field is reduced to four____________25
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, October 23—Scholastic staff meetings, editorial board, 6:30 p. m., Publications office; news and sports stiffs, 7:00 p. m., 222 Main building.—Patricians’ meeting, 7:30 p. m., Law building.—St. Louis club meeting, 7:30 p. m., East room, Walsh hall.—La Raza club meeting, 7:45 p. m., West room, Walsh hall.
SATURDAY, October- 24—Football, Notre Dame vs. Pittsburgh, 2:00 p. m., Stadium.—Movies, “Daddy Long Legs,” 6:40 and 8:15 p. m., Washington hall.
SUNDAY, October 25—Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m., Sacred Heart church.—Auburn club meeting, 10:00 a. m., East room, Walsh hall.—Utica club meeting, 10:30 a. m., West room, Walsh hall.
MONDAY, October 26—Rocky Mountain club meeting, 6:30 p. m.,’ East room, Walsh hall.—New Jersey club meeting, 7:45 p. m., East room, Walsh hall.
TUESDAY, October 27—Scribblers’ meeting, 6:30 p. m., Howard hall “rec”.—Blue Circle meeting, 6:30 p. m., South basement, Library. — Southern Michigan club meeting, 6:30 p. m., East room, Walsh hall.—Connecticut Valley club meeting, 7:45 p. m., East room, Walsh hall.
WEDNESDAY, October 28—Wranglers’ meeting, 8:00 p. m., Law building.
THURSDAY, October 29—Spectators’ meeting, 8:00 p. m., Law building.
Four
The Scholastic
♦ THE WEEK ♦
Anachronism
S the smartly-stepping bandsmen made their first appearance of the year at the Drake game last Saturday, the largest-in-the-world airship, the Akron, sailed into view. It stole the show.
The huge, silver-surfaced dirigible, which has been delighting the lake-dwellers of northern Ohio since its maiden trip, was paying Indiana and Illinois a visit on its 48-hour trip. Over the golden dome it made a striking symbol of modernity and tradition.
The band, playing as sprightly as usual, could not compete with the Akron for the crowd’s attention. Neither did the enormous stadium-arched rainbow or the point-a-minute tactics of the boys on the field. It was the debut of the ship in collegiate circles.
JUNE AND FOREVER
UST three times, the Notre Dame senior dons his cap and gown. He is now being protographed for the Dome; he goes academic on February 22 when the University gets a new flag; and he will be graduated in the educational ensemble next June, the deans permitting.
These phases of our hero’s career cannot be lost to posterity. Like the psychological, phonographic, anatomical, anthropological and medical data on the “Aristogents,” —America’s “best” men,—the minutiae of our graduates must be preserved. In a hundred years, the Dome will reveal how you and you appeared back in the days when Racketeer was king and Booty was his profit.
Joe Steffel, the genial picture-man from Georgia and Manhattan, is “at home” in the Walsh Hall basement. Seniors are sliding into the folds of black gowns, under the brims of mortar-board caps. It’s suggestive of June.
PERENNIAL PUBLICITY
REPARATORY to the opening of the year’s dance season, the chairman of the Cotillion’s publicity committee last week threw out the first adjective from the front window of the Palais Royale. It broke into a thousand exclamation points when it landed in the middle of Boul’ Mich.
A new stunt from China is here passed on to the committee. Hsueh Chi-hsi was a movie actor. His manager was a clever boy. When Hsueh was supposed to have a finger cut off in a picture the manager bribed another actor to cut it off actually. When the show was exhibited, the finger in a bottle was used as a publicity gesture.
The orchestra, the programs and the ticket-sale are to be the greatest, we suppose, in Cotillionary history. It’s refreshing to find a group of youths so buoyant in the face of the present “economic crisis.” Only a dance committee could be so sanguine.
Birdies of prey
ANTERING is the vogue. Many journalists are setting to type the results of their snooping on great men. Social and political rumors find a-ready market; examples: Mirrors of 1932, which calls Hoover our “first hair-shirt hero”; and Washington Merry-go-round which reveals the “all-too-human fallibilities” of our national figures.
Notre Dame’s gossip is seen each week in the Wink’s new feature. Campus foibles and follies are well covered. The Birdie Whispers, and how the owners of thosfe whispered names shiver! One senior has threatened a homicidal coup-d’etat of the entire Scholastic staff if his name appears again.
The fun seems to be in the anonymity of the gossipper. If you knew who was disclosing how you spent a week-end wash-out in Chicago, you could maim him and end the chatter. As it is, there’s more fun guessing who the snooper is than reading what he writes.
OUR MUSEUM
VER in that corner of the campus is a football field that looks like a pasture (and is). On the field is a gang of boys who look like the Walsh hall champions (and are). At the quarterback position is a gentleman named Crawford who looks like the president of the Cleveland club (and is).
The reason that Mr. Crawford is occupying Niche No. 3 in the Week's museum is that he has never been in a lost football game. He played on Carroll in 1928 when the team walloped all other contestants for the Main building title; he managed Sophomore and last year played for Walsh. This year’s Walsh has him again. Whenever any of these teams dropped a game, Mike simply wasn’t playing.
The interhaliers are at it again. Legs, arms and head-gears fly about promiscuously. Walsh is at it again, too, trying to hold their 1930 championship. And Crawford’s probably at it, too. But it isn’t his biggest duty.
THE DEATH OF A SCIENTIST
HOMAS EDISON once spoke of “philosophy and the rest of that ninny stuff.” Yet he had an inquisitive mind, sought the truth insofar as it existed in the practical truths of nature. His death is a land-mark in scientific thought and activity.
Around the campus, the effect of the man’s genius is astonishing. The gay lights of Alumni and Sorin, as well as the flood-lamps to prevent “skivers”; the click of the several telegraph wires near Brownson rec’ room; the radio and the phonograph heard through 90-average windows; the English quizzes multigraphed on scores of sheets; the movies,—these can be traced to the opera of this remarkable man of Menlo.
Thousands sat in darkness for three minutes to honor Edison during the (Solden Jubilee three-years ago. The silence said more than volumes could to the eager old man. It was a tribute that Edison understood. -
October 23, 1931
Five
NOTRE DAME FACES PITT
Pin CLUB ARRANGES FOR “TECH” SPECIAL
Panthers Come West Unbeaten, Untied;
Confident of Stopping Blue And Gold
Students Can Obtain Roundtrip Rate of $15.31.
The Pittsburgh club has made arrangements with the Pennsylvania railroad to run a special train to Pittsburgh for the Carnegie Tech game, the week-end of October 31, if t twenty-five tickets are sold. The round trip price has ben set at $15.31, and includes sleeping accommodations to and from Pittsburgh.
In order to give the club such a low rate the railroad is requiring all those who intend to take the trip to make a deposit on their ticket by Tuesday afternoon, October 27. The deadline for deposits is Tuesday afternoon, October 27. The train will leave South Bend Friday evening at eleven o’clock and arrive at Pittsburgh Saturday morning at eight o’clock. It -will leave Pittsburgh Sunday night at 11:15 p. m. and arrive in South Bend at seven o’clock Monday morning.
Each purchaser of a railroad ticket will be given the opportunity of securing a ticket for the Carnegie game in the A. A. office. Deposits on the tickets and the tickets themselves may be secured from Jerry Wilson in 101 Sorin hall.
Clevelanders to Hear Manion
Clarence E. Manion, A.M., J.D., professor in the College of Law, will be the guest of honor and speaker at the Cleveland club banquet to be held Wednesday, October 28, at 6:30 p. m. in the Turkish room of the Oliver hotel.
All members of the Cleveland club are expected to be present. The freshman representative will be chosen at the banquet by the first year members of the club.
John A. Kiener is chairman of the committee in charge of the arrangements. The price will be $1.25. Tickets may be procured from Kiener, Jim Uprichard, or Joe Strauss.
Kramer Named New President OfTheS.A.C.
By Granger Weil
John Kramer, of Fort Morgan, Colorado, a senior in the College of Commerce, has been elected chairman of the Student Activities Council to take the place of Herbert P. Giorgio, who
John Kramer
Newly elected S. A. C. president recently withdrew from the University. The election took place at a meeting of the council held Tuesday.
Robert Law, who was the other candidate for the position, was defeated by Kramer by a vote of ten to six. Both are first year S. A. C. members.
In order to accept the chairmanship of the S. A. C., Kramer was forced to resign his position as chairman of the Blue Circle, to which he had been appointed recently by Giorgio.
By Giorgio’s withdrawal a vacancy has been left in the membership. A man will be chosen to fill this vacancy by a vote of the council to be taken soon.
During the time he was chairman of the Blue Circle, Kramer was very active in planning and aiding the pep-meetings. He was a member of the reception committee of the cotillion in his sophomore year and was a -member of the ticket committee of the prom last year.
Notre Dame Favored, However, On Showing Against Drake; Luch Leads Pitt Attack.
By T. Edward Carey
University of Pittsburgh’s powerful Panthers, undefeated in four starts, are here tomorrow to make a deetermined effort to halt Notre Dame’s winning streak, now going into its third year. The game which is expected to attract a crowd in the neighborhood of 35,000, marks the beginning of a series of contests between the South Bend eleven and Pennsylvania talent, the Fighting Irish taking on Pitt, Carnegie Tech and Pennsylvania on successive Saturdays.
The Panthers are considered one of the strongest teams in the east and will present a squad powerful on defense, well skilled in fundamentals, polished on offense, and wealthy in its reserve strength. Thus far this season they have taken the measure of Miami, Iowa, West Virginia, and Western Reserve. Jock Sutherland used his second and third teams in whipping the heavy Red Cat eleven, 32-0, last Saturday.
One of the largest delegations that has ever followed a team out of Pittsburgh is expected to entrain for the Notre Dame stronghold today. Led by a large group of students making the student trip, the Panther backers will be much in prominence tomorrow.
The Panthers’ main strength lies in their pile-driving fullback, Johnny Luch, with Captain Eddie Hirchberg at left end, and Quatse and Mac-Murdo at tackle opening the holes for him. Luch’s plunges were good for 98 yards in the first half against Reserve, after which the statistician lost track. He also scored three touchdowns, playing on a soggy, rain-soaked grid. Pitt lost only two men from their powerful eleven of last season, and will undoubtedly play with a vengeance in their attempt to atone for their 35-19 defeat suffered (Continued on Page 29)
Six
The Scholastic
SCHOLASTIC WILL SPONSOR MINOR SPORTS PROCRAM FOR UNIVERSITY
Promotion Committee of Moriarty, Magarrall, Lynch, and Borda Arrange Contests
The Scholastic, in an effort to elevate the minor sports to a position they hitherto have not enjoyed, will sponsor a minor sports program that will begin in the very near future.
The program has received the whole-hearted approval .and the promise of cooperation of all who have been acquainted with the plan.
The salient feature of this program is that the proceeds of all the contests will be turned over to the Bengal Mission fund under the supervision of the Reverend John O’Hara, C.S.C. Interviewed as to his views on the idea, Father O’Hara has expressed his whole-hearted approval and cooperation.
Prominent among the affairs scheduled on the Scholastic’s program is a boxing tournament which will be staged some time during the month of February. From the interest manifested in this event in the past, despite mismanagement last year, it is expected that with this added effort it will surpass all other such tournaments in attendance as well as in the amount of entries. It will be under the supervision of William Magarrall, Scholastic sports writer and popular figure in campus boxing circles.
The first contest on the program is a handball tournament which will get under way within three weeks.
There will also be conducted a wrestling tournament. It is a known fact that certain of the huskier members of the football squad have been renowned as devotees of the popular sport of the mat.
The advent of spring will likewise bring activity in the form of an indoor and an outdoor swimming meet, as well as a playground ball tournament.
The German club held an organization meeting in the basement of the library last Tuesday evening. Dr. Paul Menje was made faculty advisor of the club.
In an effort to stimulate interest among the contestants it has been announced that medals will be awarded to winners of the different events. It is expected that this will increase the normal amount of entrants and plans have been made to accommodate a record number of entries, due to the wide spread campus interest, and also because of the attractive prize being offered.
Neil C. Hurley, editor of the Scholastic, who originated the idea of the gigantic program, explained his views when he proposed the plan this week.
“We are taking just those minor sports that are not covered in the University’s program of athletics,” Hurley explained. Our desire is to produce contests for those students who have an interest in these sports, by offering prizes that will in themselves attract a great number.
“The entire proceeds that we take in from any of the activities, principally the boxing show, will be turned over to Father O’Hara for use in the Bengal missions.”
The handball tournament, which will get under way next week with a call for entries will be the first of the activities to swing into action.
As evidence of the Scholastic’s desire to promote minor athletic contests is the tennis tournament which is now in its final stage. In response to its call for entries of this event recently there was the largest turnout in the history of local tennis.
All the contests on the schedule will be conducted by the Promotion committee of which Edward Moriarty, Joseph Borda, John Lynch, and William Magarrall are members.
Applications to the Spectators may still be obtained from the president of the Club, Edmund A. Stephan, 236 Alumni hall. AU blanks must be filled out and handed in before Wednesday, October 31.
PROMINENT SCRIBES IN PRESS BOX TOMORROW
Newspaper Men From Entire Nation Flock Here.
In the Notre Dame stadium press box tomorrow will be newspaper men from all over the country who will be here to watch two of the country’s leading teams in action and who will be watching for All-American timber.
Warren Brown, sports editor of the Chicago Herald-Examiner, heads a contingency from the Windy City that will include Irving Vaughan, football critic for the Chicago Tribune; Jimmy Corcoran, famous for his “Cork Tips”; James Crusinberry of the Chicago Daily News; Paul Mickelson of the Associated Press; and George Kirksey of the United Press, who make Chicago their headquarters.
From downstate Indiana: Blaine Patton, Indianaplois Star; Bill Fox, Jr., Indianapolis News, and Eddie Ash, of the Indianapolis Times, will come up for the game from the Indiana capitol. Ohio is sending Robert A. French, Toledo Blade; H. H. Hartley, Toledo Times, and Jake Frong, of the Dayton Journal.
The Panthers will have a large number of home-town rooters in the box when Jack Sell of the Pittsburgh Sun-Telegraph, Chester L. Smith of the Pittsburgh Press, Harvey Boyle of the Post-Gazette of the same city, start to tell about Mc-Murdo, Hirshberg, Reider, Heller, and the rest of Jock Sutherland’s stars.
From Missouri comes W. J. Mc-Googan of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch and W. W. Smith of the St. Louis Star. New York will be represented by Bob Ashley, who punches a typewriter for the New York Post, and Harry Sylvester, who is mid-west correspondent for the same newspaper.
Claire M. Burcky, special writer for NEA service will be here, as will Walter J. Coyle of the Akron Times-< Press and Ronald McIntyre of the Milwaukee Sentinel.
In addition to these there will be a number of small town sports editors and correspondents. Two seats have been reserved for correspondents of the University of Pittsburgh Weekly, who wiU cover the game for the few Pitt students who did not come to Notre Dame to witness the fray.
o
October 23, 1931
Seven
WELL KNOWN WRITERS CONTRIBUTE TO REVIEW
PITTS SPORTS EDITOR CONCEDES
N. D. EDGE IN TO-MORROW’S RATHE
George Trevor’s Famous Story Will Appear, Says Petritz.
The Rockne memorial edition of the official Football Review will reprint George Trevor’s New York Sun article, “Happy Landings,” it was announced this week by Joseph S. Petritz, editor of the 1931 book which will make its appearance on the campus shortly after the close of the season.
The announcement followed word from Mr. Trevor, one of the most brilliant sports writers in the East and one familiar to all Notre Dame students from the seaboard, that he will be unable to write a special story for the Review because of a new assignment with the Sun which keeps him roving constantly.
“Knute Rockne,” says Trevor, “was my friend—I loved him as did all who came in contact with him. That’s why it’s hard to say no regarding the article and yet I must—for I could not do the subject justice.
“I would not be content to do a rash job on so important a subject which will appear in a memorial to the greatest of all coaches.
“I would much prefer your using one of the articles I wrote after his death—into those I put my whole ।	heart. The one entitled ‘Happy Land-
ings’ I thought caught the Rockne creed better than anything else I have written.”
Word also came this week from the Pacific coast that it will be represented by Mark Kelly, president of »	the Pacific Coast Sports Writers’
Association, sports editor of the Los Angeles Examiner, and a Notre Dame graduate.
Kelly has been recognized as the leading sports writer from his section of the country and is to the Coast •	what Arch Ward of the Chicago Trib-
une is to this section, and Francis Wallace of the New York Daily News is to the East. These latter men are also Notre Dame graduates and both are writing for the Rockne memorial edition of the Review.
A ladies auxiliary of the Masons, which is having a convention in South Bend, visited the campus in buses on Wednesday.
Claims Fine Panther Aggregation Will Be Unable To Match Super Eleven
By Morris Cohen
Sports Editor, Pitt Weekly
Special to the Notre Dame Scholastic.
Pittsburgh, Pa., October 22.—Pitt faces its greatest test in years Saturday afternoon when it meets the Notre Dame varsity at the latter’s new stadium in a battle which will possibly determine the national collegiate football champions of 1931.
Despite the great showing of Sutherland’s team this year, Pitt fans concede the Panthers little chance to win this g ame. News wires have brought stories to Pittsburgh of the greatness of the present Notre Dame team, and these have been augmented by the reports of Bill Kern, assistant Pitt football coach, who has scouted the Irish in their games played thus far.
The Pitt team this year is a good one. It has not been scored upon in its four games to date and has never failed to roll up at least 20 points upon any of its opponents. But nevertheless, it is not as good as the team representing Notre Dame which came to the stadium last year to give the greatest exhibition of football seen in Pittsburgh in many years. According to reports, the Irish are stronger this year than they were last season.
Pitt fans still remember that clear October day last year when Pitt’s then undefeated, unscored upon eleven took the field against Notre Dame. They failed to make a first down in three tries at the line and punted to Carideo who was downed on his own 40 yard line. Pitt was then knocked here and there by the charging Notre Dame linemen and interfering backs who paved a clear path of 60 yards
Juniors Will Sponsor Pitt Dance Tomorrow Night
The Junior Class of Notre Dame is sponsoring. the football dance to be given in the K. of C. ballroom to-- morrow night following the Pittsburgh game. The dance is being arranged through the combined efforts of John Finneran, president of the
for Marchmont Schwartz who scored a touchdown without being touched by a Pitt man.
The final score of that game was 35-19, but critics here who saw that game are of the opinion that Notre Dame could have piled up 75 points instead of 35 had it so desired.
Sutherland and the Pitt fans felt this setback keenly, and it has been no secret in Pittsburgh that it has been the good doctor’s desire since that time to atone for the defeat.
Sutherland has a veteran team this year. Every regular with the exception of Bobby Hogan, the quarterback, is a letterman; while the line is composed entirely of seniors. The team is a vast improvement over last year’s brigade, but it is the Pittsburghers’ belief that it does not quite measure up to the standard of Notre Dame teams.
There is no doubt that Pitt will fight hard against the Irish this week, but Sutherland in his usual pessimistic prediction contends that the Panthers have little hope to win. Pittsburgh fandom, usually a confident lot, have forsaken this attitude and are offering odds of 2 to 1 that Notre Dame will win.
A defeat for Pitt will rob it of its chances for national championship honors but it will not affect their standing in the east to such an extent that a defeat will eliminate it from consideration for the mythical championship of that area.
From a Pittsburgh standpoint, the ■ Panthers are expected to put up one of their best games; but men who are willing to back their trust in the team with hard cash are as difficult to find as a sound bank.
class, and Arthur Lavery, who was appointed chairman.
Announcments have been sent to the University of Pittsburgh, and a large number of students making the trip to Notre Dame are expected to be present.
Eight
The Scholastic
COACH SOLEN AMAZED BY POWER OF ’31 TEAM
Drake Mentor Not Downhearted; Filled With Admiration.
Special to the Notre Dame Scholastic.
Des Moines, Iowa, Oct. 19.—Coach Ossie Solem and his battered squad of Drake football players returned home today after one of the worst lacings in their history. Though they were still smarting from the efffects of Notre Dame’s 63 to 0 triumph on Saturday, the Drake mentor and his charges had nothing but the highest praise for the South Bend eleven.
“I’m not downhearted over our defeat,” said Solem. “I’m stunned, amazed at the sheer power of their attack, the brilliance of their defense.
“I’ve followed this game for a long time and have seen practically every team that has been rated as great in the past twenty years. Never, anywhere, have I seen a team with the versatile attack, speed, deception and reserve power of this Notre Dame team. Nor am I attempting to alibi when I say that it is the greatest team I have ever seen in action.
“We’ve faced Notre Dame six times now,” he continued, “but I never before saw a Notre Dame club with the ability and power this one has. The Drake team I sent in there was better than some of the other ones that I’ve used against the Fighting Irish. They were simply outclassed.”
Regarding the Notre Dame defense that yielded only 62 yards to the Drake backfield, Coach Solem produced some more superlatives. “I’ve never seen a line that could compare with the one or ones that Anderson used against us Saturday.”
Looking ahead at the remaining six games on the Notre Dame schedule, the Drake leader concluded his remarks. “I feel sure,” he said, “that this team will bear out my opinion that it is the greatest Notre Dame team of them all.”
Duquette New Desk Editor
George Duquette, a senior in the School of Journalism, was appointed desk editor of the Scholastic this week by Neil C. Hurley, editor-in-chief of the publication. Duquette has been interested in journalistic publications on the campus for several years, although this is his first season on the Scholastic.
See Cleveland As Site of 1932
N. D. -Navy Game
—
Jesse C. Harper, athletic director of the University, and Lieutenant J. L. Hall, athletic director at the United States Naval Academy, inspected Cleveland municipal stadium this week as a possible site for the football game between Notre Dame and Annapolis in 1932.
After viewing the stadium with its 80,000 seating capacity the two conferred with city manager Daniel Morgan. The officials remarked that no decision would be reached until full consideration had been given to the number that might attend the game in Cleveland.
Speech Contestants Meet
The initial meeting of the contestants for the Breen oratorical medal was held last Monday in the Main building. It was attended by thirty students who are members of the speech classes at the University and was presided over by Mr. William Coyne, an instructor in speech.
It was announced that preliminaries in the Breen contest would not be held until November 20. The contest is scheduled for the first week in December.
Each year there is much interest manifested in this contest as the winner of the medal is eligible for competition in the Indiana state contest. During the past three years students from Notre Dame have twice won first place and finished third once.
Any student who did not attend the meeting and who wishes to take part in this contest may do so by giving his name either to Professor Kelly or Mr. Coyne of the speech department.
Grad Now In Helena, Mont.
William B. Jones, a graduate of the Notre Dame College of Law with the Class of 1931 and former freshman football coach, is now associated with the firm of Walsh and Nagle, in Helena, Montana.
Mr. Jones is also engaged as football coach at Mount St. Charles College of that city.
N. D. PRESS CLUB MEETS
Banquet Will Be Held Saturday, November 21.
The Press Club held a meeting in the Journalism room of the library last Tuesday evening at 7:00 o’clock with Edmund Britz, vice-president, presiding in the absence of Art Him-bert, president, who was ill.
Definite plans for the banquet to be held on November 21 were started with the appointment of a committee to take charge of arrangements. Bill Fitzgerald is chairman and he will be aided by Drew Schibler and Roger McGovern.
Kermit Escudier, senior Press club member, entertained the meeting for thirty minutes by giving an educational talk on his trip to Egypt last summer.
Neil C. Hurley, editor of the Scholastic; Joseph Petritz, sports publicity director of the University, and James Kooms have been asked to address the organization in the future.
The next meeting is to be held on November 3, in the faculty dining hall. Refreshments and entertainment will be included in the program of the evening.
Jewelry Sales Supervised
Freshman halls on the campus have been canvassed during the past few weeks by unauthorized salesmen of supposedly campus jewelry, according to reports received by the Scholastic.
In order to keep out these salesmen, who in the majority of cases overcharge the students, the University appoints a concessionaire, who arranged for correct prices and sees that only legitimate jewelry is sold.
Authorized salesmen are equipped with a letter from either Edward J. Kelly or Robert Leppert, holders of the concession this year. Personal jewelry with the Notre Dame monogram or coat-of-arms, together with a complete line of presents, can be procured at 211 Walsh hall.
Benediction Ends Mission
Mission services conducted by the Reverend Wendall Corcoran, C.S.C., held this week for the parish of Sacred Heart church, will close with the Papal benediction given after the celebration of Holy Mass on Satur-- day at 6:30 a. m.
October 23, 1931
Nine
BUILDING IS TORN DOWN
One Wing Of Old Engineering Structure Is Removed.
Demolishment of the eastern half of the old engineering building has been progressing rapidly all week to clear the way for the habitation of Dillon hall by freshmen early next week. Though half of the old edifice will remain to house engineering equipment until the completion of the newr engineering building in December, nearly all of the yard fronting Dillon and Alumni halls is now cleared.
Three hundred freshmen will be moved into Dillon hall Monday or Tuesday of next week. Workmen are now nearly finished with the final touches on the structure. The tiling that has been taking much of the time is now completed.
The center of attention just now is the new Engineering structure, already assuming a pronounced outline and becoming more definite in structure every day. With the exception of the Commerce building, now awaiting the insertion of its new glazed globe, the Engineering building is the only remaining one of the extensive five-year plan as yet incomplete. The edifice will be completely finished by December.
A. B. Lectures Begin
Lectures for freshmen student enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters began Wednesday afternoon in Washington hall. Professor Andrew Smithberger of the English department spoke on “Making the Most of Your Time.”
The committee on student scholarships has arranged the following program, approved by the Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the college:
October 28, at 3:15—“Religion and Citizenship,” Fr. F. Cavanaugh.
November 4, at 1:15—“The Art of Reading,” Prof. Frederick.
November 18, at 2:15—“The Age of Freedom,” Prof. Phillips.
November 25, at 3:15—“Common Sense Hygiene,” Dr. Berteling.
December 2, at 1:15—“Language and Life,” Fr. Miltner.
All freshmen in the Arts and Letters school are required to attend these lectures. Freshmen from other colleges, however, are cordially invited to attend.
Campus Opinions
Question : “Are you in favor of doing away with the custom of giving corsages for class dances?”
George Wenz, Lyons hall, sophomore: “In order to relieve most of the fellows from any embarrassment that might be caused by this custom, I am of the opinion that the bestowing of corsages should be done away with for this year at least. However, this idea of making it a tradition would be foolish. It is only the result of the chivalrous instincts in a man, and, who knows, some day the fellows may have some money?”
Jim Griffin, Lyons hall, sophomore: “It seems probable to me that most of the men attending class dances at Notre Dame are not in favor of buying corsages for their guests. The bids for the dances, especially the Prom and the Ball, are quite expensive in themselves, and, coupled with the costs associated with a week-end, total an amount sufficiently large. I think, therefore, that this practice should be abandoned at Notre Dame.”
Walter J. Kilgallon, Alumni hall, junior: “I favor the abolishment of corsage bouquets at college dances. Any week-end, such as that of the coming Sophomore Cotillion, entails an almost prohibitive number of incidental expenses J for the depleted pocketbooks of today. We shall all owe the sophomores a vote of thanks if they establish the precedent of class dances without corsages.”
Art Ruffe, Alumni hall, junior: “I believe that corsages should be done away with at all college dances, especially in this time of depression. There are hundreds of people who need help right here in South Bend. Why' waste four or five dollars on a date you’ll probably never see again. Sophomores, get this!”
Robert L. Davis, Howard hall, senior: “I am very much in favor of the opinion of abolishing corsages at the Notre Dame dances. I think it is an unnecessary expense to the student, who usually has a hard enough time anyway to get funds enough to attend the dance. I also think that in this light the girls will agree with me.”
O’SHAUGHNESSY HEADS INTERHALL DEBATING
Wranglers Will Again Conduct Annual Contest.
James O’Shaughnessy, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, was appointed chairman of the interhall debating committee last evening by Neil C. Hurley, president of the Wranglers, the University honorary forensic society, who annually conduct this competition among the freshman halls.
Coaches will be appointed next week to supervise the instruction of candidates. Actual competition will begin within two or three weeks, O’Shaughnessy announced.
The meeting was held in the Rose Marie tea room and was the first of the monthly banquets that the organization will hold throughout the year.
Besides O’Shaughnessy, all of the Wranglers were called upon for short talks. Enthusiasm ran high during the affair as the members laid their plans for the 1931 season.
A cup will be awarded to the winning team, which will rest in the victor’s hall until some other team will be able to wrest it away.
O’Shaughnessy, in accepting his appointment, commented upon the success of interhall debating in the past.
“There is no question,” he stated, “that the Wranglers may take a large share of the credit for the successful Notre Dame debating teams. Our interhall contests are each year incentives for possible varsity timber, and we may rest assured that through the efforts of the various coaches, who come from our ranks, many a great debater is uncovered.”
Dean McNutt Visits Here
Dean Paul McNutt, head of the College of Law at the University of Indiana, was a guest of the Notre Dame Law school Friday, October 16. Dean McNutt spent the day meeting members of the faculty and student body.
The students of law are making arrangements to secure Dean McNutt to give a lecture before the Notre Dame Law club in the near future.
Ten
The Scholastic
New Library Collection Donated To University
Francis O’Neill, retired captain of the Chicago police department, has presented his private library of 1500 volumes of Irish history and Irish music to the University. This collection has been the life hobby of Captain O’Neill.
Included in the collection are many beautifully bound and illustrated books. A set of Shaw and Nodder’s "Naturalists Miscellany” published in 1790 has from fifty to one hundred brilliantly colored plates in each volume. The colors are as bright today as the day they were applied.
A copy of Wood’s “Giants and Dwarfs” has been made doubly interesting by extra illustrations. There is a fourth edition of “Real Life in Ireland by a Real Paddy” with the highly colored engravings by Aitkin and others. The collection includes a set of the short-lived Dublin Penny Journal, 1832-36 and several other rare Irish periodicals. A first American edition of Thomas Moore’s “Life of Sheridan” is also included.
Captain O’Neill is an author, and due to his efforts many of the old Irish melodies have been set to music and preserved for future generations. He is the author of “Irish Minstrels and Musicians” and “Irish Fold Music,” and the compiler of “The Music of Ireland.”
This collection supplements the Hibernian collection already in the University library, and it will be especially helpful to graduate students working in the field of Irish history.
Mr, E. J. O’Donnell Dies
Word has been received of the death last Sunday in Grand Rapids, Michigan, of Mr. E. J. O’Donnell, father of the Reverend Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C. The funeral was held Wednesday morning from the family home at 223 Sheldon Ave., Grand Rapids and in St. Andrew’s Cathedral of that city.
Father O’Donnell served as Prefect of Discipline of the University for a period of eight years, and is now president of St. Edward’s University, Austin, Texas.
Cotton Problem
Is Outlined In Economic Class
“The Cotton Surplus Situation” was the title of a paper by Frank Denny delivered at a meeting of the Economic’s seminar held Tuesday. Denny in his reading outlined for the class the problem of a cotton surplus in the south and the solutions which have been offered for this problem.
The inability of the south to rid herself of the cotton surplus of the last crop at prices which would pay for raising the product, was given as the problem. One solution offered at Washington was the suggestion that everyone use two mattresses on a bed.
However, in the discussion which followed the reading it was brought out that the real trouble lay in a faulty distribution of wealth, as there was a good market for the crop if the people had the money to buy.
Joseph L. Apodaca, instructor in economics, will deliver a paper on “The English Situation” at a meeting of the seminar, October 20.
New Club Reviews Books
The first complete distribution of books took place at the regular meeting of the Bookmen last Monday evening in the west seminar room of the Law building. Activities of the newly organized club have been somewhat impeded through failure of books to arrive, but it has now begun to function in earnest. The next meeting will be held next Monday evening at 7:30.
Northern N. Y, Club Meets
At a meeting of the Northern New York club Tuesday evening, Al Seymour, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, was elected president;. James Munn, vice-president; Harold Desnoyers, secretary; and Joseph Dunn, treasurer.
Plans were discussed for a Christmas dance to be held in the Elks club, Malone, N. Y., on Dec. 28.
ALUMNI TO AID SCHOOL IN CHOOSING STUDENTS
Will Interview and Recommend Prospective Students.
A plan whereby alumni of Notre Dame will aid the Registrar’s office in the selection of Notre Dame students is being put into practice through the co-operation of Registrar Robert B. Riordan, and James E. Armstrong, Alumni Secretary, and is now in its initial steps.
Alumni have always shown an interest in -having representative boys from their respective communities enroll at Notre Dame, but this interest has suffered from lack of organization and principally from a failure to get the information necessary for the student himself.
The first step in the program is the information of the alumni. Catalogues are being sent from the Registrar’s Office to all officers of Local Alumni clubs in the sixty-seven communities so organized. The Ahvmmts for November is carrying an article by Mr. Riordan on the requirements for entrance to the several colleges of the University.
The second step will be personal interviews with prospective students by alumni officially selected for this purpose in the applicant’s community. These interviews will go beyond the academic requirements and should, in the natural order, bring to Notre Dame those boys who best conform to the ideal “Notre Dame man.” Recommendations by alumni are already required in the student application, but this definite personal element will be introduced as rapidly as arrangements with the Local . Alumni clubs can be perfected.
Student mortality, the dropping out in the first or second year of men who have fulfilled academic entrance requirements but who are not fitted for the type of life at any particular institution, is one of the problems of modem education. To overcome these and other difficulties, the co-operation of the alumni with the Registrar’s Office should do much toward solving this problem at Notre Dame.
The Philadelphia club got together last week. Various matters were debated by members.
October 23, 1931
Eleven
JOHN PERONE RECEIVES BLUE CIRCLE CHAIR
Kramer Makes Appointment To Fill Office He Vacated.
John Perone, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, has been appointed chairman of the Blue Circle by John Kramer, president of the Student Activities Council. The appointment was made by Kramer to fill the place left vacant by himself when he was elected president of the S. A. C., this office having been vacated by the withdrawal of Herbert P. Giorgio from the University.
Perone was this year elected to membership in the S. A. C. from the engineering school. He has had charge of the pep meetings this fall and will continue to plan them in addition to his duties as chairman of the Blue Circle. He is a noted comedian and has given performances before many of the clubs on the campus.
Last year Perone held the office of vice-president of the American Institute of Electrical Engineering and has been very active in the organization.
200 Senior Pictures Taken
Photography of senior pictures for the Dome of 1932 has been in progress in Walsh hall during the past week. According to Paul J. Hallinan, who is in charge of the photography, more than 200 sittings were made. The remainder of the senior pictures will be made before the end of next week.
All those who are to be graduated have now received appointments, and cards giving the exact time will be mailed out immediately to those who have not as yet had their sittings. Those who did not receive one of the original check-cards are requested to call at the studio in Walsh hall immediately for an appointment. Thursday, October 29 will be the last day for doing this.
Proofs will be back two weeks from the date of sitting. They will be distributed at that time, and seniors will signify their choice of the poses for the Dome. Juniors will be arranged for appointments in a different manner, but all third-year men will be photographed.
Freshmen Suffer, But Now Are Full-Fledged Engineers
A. I. E. E. Hear Head of Railway
Here This Week
A. J. Dietrich, ’23, district manager of the Indiana and Michigan Electric Company delivered a brief history of electric light and power in the United States at the bi-weekly meeting of the A. I. E. E., Monday, October 19. Using his company as an example of the growth of the power industry, he concluded by crediting the late Thomas A. Edison with the design of the earliest types of stations.
Other speakers on the program were John Scanlon,’J. Perone, M. Quinn and J. Joseph. These men delivered technical papers on various phases of the electrical industry.
Beliefs To Be Expounded
Catholic, Protestant, Jew and agnostic will speak from the same platform at the South Bend senior high school auditorium, this Monday at 8:15. Each speaker will be allotted thirty minutes for a statement of his religious beliefs.
Dr. John A. Lapp, head of the sociology department at Marquette University; for seven years head of the social action department of the National Catholic Welfare council; former president of the National Conference on Social Work, editor of a number of books, principally along the lines of sociology and economics, will speak on “Why I Am a Catholic.”
Rabbi William M. Stem, head of the South Bend community chest and spiritual leader of Temple Beth-El, will state “Why I am a Jew.”
Reverend Elmer Ward Cole, president of the South Bend Ministerial association and pastor of the First Christian church, will discuss “Why I Am a Protestant.”
Clarence Darrow, Chicago criminal lawyer and “big minority man,” will state “Why I Am an Agnostic.”
By sprightly dancing, singing, and wrestling one hundred and twenty-five thinly-clad barefooted freshmen Wednesday evening became bona fide members of the Engineers’ club. They tripped lightly to the tune of prodding exhortations and music of resounding paddles.
Some executed gyrations that would have shamed a professional exponent of aesthetic dancing. Their singing, although very enthusiastic, was somewhat forced. Chanting to the command of “sing, dam you, sing” these freshmen revealed talent but many a perfect high “C” was stopped by a sudden dampness from above.
While some danced and sang, others not to be outdone (by command) wrestled with themselves. Having no opponents they rolled around in the arena applying to themselves double toe holds, head locks and full-nelsons.
All blindfolded the freshmen nervously awaited their fate while the mob cried “brand ’em,” “lynch ’em.” They stood about in groups waiting to pay homage to “King Ungula and Queen Orifice.” Those who sat down by request, stood up much quicker without request.
As they swore oaths of allegiance to the King and Queen some cringed with fear, others wriggled and shimmied, many leaped backward from the royal bowing platform as if charged with electricity.
The inimitable John Perone as King, and Regis McNamara as Queen, portrayed inklings of royal blood- not only in costume but also in ruthless commands. Larry Fisher’s initiation committee was well organized and armed. Refreshments served after the initiation lacked only ointment.
The representatives from Northern New York met for the first time as an official organ last Monday evening. Plans for a Christmas dance were discussed and officers of the club elected. Al Seymour is president, James Munn, vice-president, Harold Desnoyer, secretary, and Joseph Dunn, treasurer.
Twelve
The Scholastic
A Man About the Campus»Joe McKean
OCTOBER ‘ CATALYZER”
APPEARS THIS WEEK
By Edward J. O’Brien
Everything in 107 Sorin is well-managed. But then why shouldn’t it be with Joe McKean, associate manager of football, and Charles Span-genberg, manager of basketball, residing there? We’ll talk about Joe now; Charley, perhaps, a little later.
Mac is a very active fellow. Besides his managerial duties, he is a member of the Blue Circle, Commerce Forum, and the Louisiana-Mississippi club. Yes suh! Joe is from the sunny south, down good old New Orleans way. To be exact, he lives in Alexandria, Louisiana. But his heart is in New Orleans and presently you shall see why.
After finishing his Commerce course here at Notre Dame, Joe intends to go into the brokerage business. He is majoring in finance. Then there are southern belles in New Orleans, one of whom appeals to Mac, judging by the picture on his desk.
There are quite a few lakes in that section of Louisiana, I suppose. Building motor boats to use on these lakes occupies Joe’s time in the summer. He and his brother John (Dillon hall) have made several crafts and have used them on hunting and fishing trips in the bayous.
Other ships seem to interest him to see the stacks of steamship catalogues piled in his room. But Joe says he is using them merely to help him select a reliable company for a student tour of Europe, which he is planning for this summer. He says the expenses will be as low as one semester at Notre Dame (with no b. r. t.). This tour will probably be managed as well as is the football team this year.
Before coming to Notre Dame, Joe had made up his mind to try managing. He knew he could not play football but he wanted to be connected with it at Notre Dame in some way. His work since ’28 must have been
There was an organization meeting of the Spanish club last Wednesday in the basement of Walsh hall. The president made a few announcements concerning the activities of the group.
entirely satisfoctory to be recognized by upperclass managers who voted him to his present job.
He has charge of the personnel of the team. Perhaps he may be called the “detail” man. It is McKean’s work to see that the members
Joe McKean
Associate Manager of Football
of the football team are started safely to their destination and returned. So far, no one has been left behind, although several managers may have been forgotten in the rush. But Joe still has harder duties to perform. He must protect the coaches and players from over-anxious alumni and “hand shakers” who would give advice or demand side-line passes.
Joe feels he derived much benefit from his managerial work. Having cribbed the idea from his colleague, John Grams, he wishes to be quoted directly: “I have learned to unite my efforts with others to complete a given task. To observe the individual qualities of every man under me and appreciate his psychology gives me keen pleasure. Understanding one’s associates thoroughly, is, to me, a big asset and one which may be applied in later life. There are probably many other ways in which I have benefited and these I hope to be able to use later.”
The Iowa club met last week and elected a new secretary. Members were assesed the necessary amount to obtain a new charter. A banquet was announced for Wednesday evening, October 28.
Uhlmeyer Contributors Feature Article of Chemists* Paper.
By Lawrence Dunda
The October issue of the Catalyzer, the first number of the publication for the present school year, made its appearance on the campus this week. It is published by the Department of Chemistry and edited by the Chemists’ club.
The main article in the first issue was written by George A. Uhlmeyer, Ch.E., ’23, now associated with the People’s Power Company, Moline, Hl. The subject is “The Sales Engineer in the Gas Industry,” treating of the almost unlimited opportunities offered to the young engineer in the gas industry, of the present economic importance of this field and of the extensive use of gas in the home, including the more recent development of gas for the heating of homes. The possibilities for the use of gas in the future are also discussed.
In this first issue are also found reports of the meetings of the associate organizations of the Chemists’ club, the Engineers’ club, the Pharmacy club, and the Academy of Science. An editorial is entitled “Unity.” The regular column of “Personals” is interesting and informative. The light, chatty-column entitled “Ramblin’ ’Round Chemistry Hall,” completes the general contents.
Joseph Toussaint is editor of this year’s Catalyzer. F. Jenny is associate editor, and G. Hennion, assistant editor.
President Lists Evils of Youth
Co-education, liquor, and automobiles are the primary evils of the American educational system, according to Dr. Clarence Cook Little, former president of the University of Michigan, as a result of a thorough survey of the schools and colleges of the country which he recently completed.
However, Dr. Little brings no indictment against students for yielding to the extraneous elements of modern civilization. “Until you show our students,” he says, “something of the charm and mystery and wonder of life, you cannot expect them to pay less attention to the emotional transitions.”.
October 23, 1931
Thirteen
ST. MARY’S TO HOLD CONCERT ON SUNDAY
Proceeds Will Be Donated To Charity; N. D. Invited.
In the interests of a charity crusade being carried on by St. Mary’s college, a concert will be held at 3:00 p. m. Sunday in Angela hall on the St. Mary’s campus. Students of Notre Dame are invited. Admission will be one dollar.
The program arranged for the concert is as follows:
1.	Victor Herbert Favorites (arranged by Saenger) 1st violin—Dorothy Dering, Joan Burke 2nd violin—Louise Bittorf, Emily Kriter Cello—Mary Louise Kramer Baso—Josephine Bray Piano—Harriet Neufeld
2.	Original monologue—A Dark Sketch Malvina Reynolds
3.	(a) The Carpenter Shop from The Biblical Suite...............Louise Roby
(b) Catch Me.........Robert	Schumann
Crystal Elaine Groom
<1. Dance— Louise Barthman
5.	Vocal Trio—
(a)	Cradle Song ............Brahms
(b)	Little Chinese Mandarin...Phillips Julia Mary Hackett, Caroline O’Connor, Rita Graham Piano—Mary Besch
6.	Valse Bluette..........Dergo-Saenger
Scherzo................Maria de la Cour
Piano—Mary Louise Kramer
7.	Pantaloon—A. Fantasy......J. M. Barrie Pantaloon—Virginia McMullen
Columbine—Louise Barthman Harlequin—Virginia Ward Clown—Isabel Kelly
8.	O Thou Sublime Sweet Evening
Star......................Franz	Liszt
Trombone—Mary Louise Beilstein
Piano—Emadelle Griffin
9.	Sous Bois......................Staub
Piano—Rose Marie Mikes
10.	Clown—
Louise Casabeanca
11.	Maid’s Dream—
Mary Louise Felber
Mary Louise Kramer
12.	Vocal Solo—Time, You Old Gypsy Man Janet Crowley
13.	Hungarian Dance No. 5— St. Mary’s Orchestra
So. Michigan Club Meets
The Southern Michigan club will hold its regular meeting next Tuesday evening at 6:30 in the east room of Walsh hall.
MUSIC AND DRAMA
By John E. Ryan
The announcement that Mrs. Fiske will open her engagement in Chicago on Monday evening, playing in Carlos Drake’s new comedy, “Against the Wind,” is welcomed by those who delight in a bit of good fun. Unusual interest has been aroused by rumors to the effect that the comedy is concerned with people and events of the North Shore.
To see Mrs. Fiske play is one of those experiences of a lifetime. One looks back to it, wondering when anything of the sort will happen again. If you heard the Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., speak on the spirit of Notre Dame at the “World’s Premiere,” you have a parallel experience. Haven’t you wondered whether you will soon hear anything nearly so good? Well, so it is with Mrs. Fiske.
“Ladies of the Jury,” a play woefully weak in itself, was Mrs. Fiske’s vehicle of a few seasons back. The plot was shoddy, yet her performance made the play. As one critic put it, “In the warm glow of Mrs. Fiske’s sturdy assault it becomes the framework for a sweeping performance, rich in suggestion, continuity, and always, surety.”
Stagecraft keeps no secrets from Mrs. Fiske. Experience has given her an enviable assurance. If her speech is clipped and hurried, it is for a purpose. If she taps.with her famous lorgnette or sniffs impatiently, you may be sure that it is not because she is in a hurry to leave the theatre. Call it intuition, if you like, though in all probability it is simply the habitual attention to detail that marks the great artist.
This habitual attention, certainly, is not mere chance; it is science. Possibly you prefer “art” to “science,” arid if you do we still have no quarrel. But in the case of Mrs. Fiske we like to use the word “science” to denote those mechanical perfections which designate the finished artist. She uses the word herself to express a fine precision—absolute precision—
of performance, and attributes per
fection of art, or of “science,” to Anna Pavlowa, whose technique she ardently admired. Alexander Woolcott once quoted her as saying, “Fluency, flexibility, precision, virtuosity, science— call it what you will . . . Watch Pavlowa dance, and there you have it.”
One remembers, in connection with Mrs. Fiske, the slurs she cast in the direction of Mr. Granville Barker, with whom the repertory idea was a great favorite. That this is an age of specialization, in which the repertory idea is a ludicrous anachronism, has long been her widely flaunted belief. Mr. Barker she referred to as “harmful and pernicious.” His production of “Androcles and the Lion” she praised without qualification, while she accused him of slaughtering “The Doctor’s Dilemma.”
Mrs. Fiske is known to have become enraged only once on the sub-ect of dramatic criticism. That was the time that some naive columnist gloated over the manner in which Mr. Tyrone Power “stole the show” in the production of “Mary of Magdala,” when as a matter of fact, it was known all along that he would take the play because of the very nature of his position in the cast. Power had been chosen for that very purpose, but to have someone crow over the fact was more than she could bear.
The mention of Tyrone Power prompts us to remind you, in case you have not noticed, that the Civic Shakespeare Society has opened for its three week engagement in Chicago, and next week will present “Julius Caesar.” Mr. Power will take the part of Brutus, in a performance that will be among the season’s best.
Photographic Work Begun
The photographic work for the Campus Club section of the Dome of 1932 was started Wednesday, in the south basement of Walsh hall. Clubs are requested to watch for bulletins giving the date for their respective pictures. All members are to appear promptly and on the exact date.
Fourteen
NEW HEATING PLANT UNDER CONSTRUCTION
Hickey Erecting Building On St. Joe Lake Front.
A new heat and water supply plant is being built by the University. This move was necessitated by the increase in the number of buildings on the campus, which strained the present plant beyond its capacity. The new plant will be located beside the old ice-house on St. Joseph’s lake. The construction work is being done by Thomas Hickey of South Bend from plans drawn by Albert Kahn, Inc., architects of Detroit.
Additional water pressure in case of fire will be pumped by the new plant in addition to its other- functions. The machinery will pump water from St. Joseph’s lake and furnish steam heat necessary for the many buildings of the. University.
All equipment will be of the latest design. The building itself will be modern in every detail. Numerous windows will allow sunlight and fresh air to reach the workers inside. Operating machinery will take the coal as it is dumped into a hopper and slide it into a crusher from which it emerges onto an electrical conveyor. This conveyor deposits the coal in the boxes located directly above the four boilers, each of which generates 400 horsepower.
The distributing system which was in use in connection with the old plant will be used in the new building by tunneling to the main center of distribution.
Publisher Visits Campus
Victor J. Ridder, publisher of the daily German newspaper, Staatszei-tung, visited the University Thursday and delivered a series of lectures before the students of the boy guidance department on this work being carried on throughout the country. He has been especially interested in Catholic boys’ work in New York.
The publisher is enroute from New York to St. Paul, where he has other newspaper interests.
Officers to See Penn Game
The reserve officers of the local district will attend the Notre Dame-Pennsylvania game in a body here Saturday, November 7, as a part of the program of their contact camp, to be held November 7 and 8.
NEW FRENCH CLUB HAS MEETING; REORGANIZED BY PROFESSOR DUBOIS
A meeting of the newly organized French club was called last week by Professor Benjamin Dubois, the recently appointed moderator. William B. Dreux, last year’s president, had charge of the meeting.
The business of the meeting was deferred until a later time as the attendance was small. This was undoubtedly due to a misunderstanding about the club. Last year, under the guidance of Father Hoffman, the organization was conducted more like a class, and credit was given to the French students for attendance.
This year, however, Prof. Dubois, the moderator, has devised a new plan. Only students who have had two years of college French or three years of high school French may join. No scholastic credit will be given.
Prof. Dubois is making plans for the production of a short French play and is anticipating several entertainment features for the year. An effort will be made to get in contact with the French club at St. Mary’s to bring about an exchange of lectures.
President Dreux has requested that all students who can satisfy the requirements for membership be present at the next meeting. The election of officers and the discussion of business will take place.
Golf Course Is Improved
The program of the improvements upon the University golf course is steadily being pushed ahead, Reverend Raymond Murch, C.S.C. stated this week. The third green has been reconstructed and a few mounds are being built around it, in addition to replacing the traps. Work upon green number one, which began last Wednesday will likewise materially improve the course.
The date for closing the golf course has not yet been definitely set, but will probably be early in November. It will be announced by Father Murch during the coming week.
New Jersey Club Meeting
A meeting of the New Jersey club will be held Monday, October 26, at 7:45 p. m. in Room 2 of the Main building. Plans for the Christmas dance and Other coming activities will be discussed.
The Scholastic
SCRIBBLERS HOLD MEETING
Frank O’Malley Gives Interesting Talk On Robinson.
The Scribblers held their first formal meeting of the year on Tuesday evening in the recreation room of Howard hall. Frank O’Malley read an essay entitled “Robinson, the Ageless,” . a discussion of the poetry of Edwin Arlington Robinson.
At the outset, O’Malley labeled Robinson as possessing a genius for character insight that comes to him in direct line from Robert Browning, with this immediate difference: Browning is the poet of optimism, whereas Robinson is the poet of fatalism. The writer declared that the faith of Robinson is this fatalism; the poet preaches that the hopes, the joys, the tragedies of mortals are but part of a great ineluctable plan, and suggests the further conception that he who bows in submission and goes forward, knowing the inseparable sureness of his fate, is the man of nobility.
In conclusion, O’Malley hazarded the prediction that Robinson will live in American literary history long after the present flurry of writers is passed and gone, stating that if we judge Robinson by the twin measure of fecundity and excellence, we shall truly recognize his permanent worth.
The paper as a whole, and particularly the statement with regard to Robinson’s fatalism, stimulated considerable discussion.
Louis Brennan, president of the Scribblers, announces that applications for membership are now being received. All students seriously interested in creative writing are eligible to apply. Each application should be sent to Louis Brennan, Corby hall, and should be accompanied by two specimens of the student’s creative work.
Glee Club Contains 130
Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, head of the department of music at Notre Dame, announced in the early part of the week that the complete personnel of the University glee club for the year 1931-32 includes all students now trying out for it. The personnel numbers 130 members, the largest in the history of the club.
Mr. Casasanta announced that any student wishing to try out may do so by reporting to him. No one will be allowed to try out after Nov. 1.

October 23, 1931
Fifteen
STUDENTS LIST BELIEF
Fifteen Denominations Other Than Catholic Named.
A tabulation of the religious beliefs subscribed to among the members of the student body was made public this week by the Reverend J L. Carrico, C.S.C., Director of Studies.
Of the total of 3172 students enrolled for the present semester, 2928 reported themselves to be Catholics. The remaining 244 are distributed as follows: Sixty-two set themselves down as Protestants without specifying the denomination; thirty-six as Jews; thirty-five as Methodists; twenty-six as Presbyterians; seventeen as Episcopalians; sixteen as Lutherans; six as Baptists; five as Chrisctians; three as Congregationalists; threea s Evangelicals; three as Greek Orthodox; two as Apostolic; one as First Brethren; one as Christian Scientist; one as Ethical, eleven as having no religion; seven merely as non-Catholics; and nine gave no indication.
31 Foreigners Registered
Another evidence of the diverse character of the student body at Notre Dame is to be found in the fact that persons from twelve foreign countries are at present enrolled here. The records in the office of Registrar Robert B. Riordan reveal them to be' distributed as follows: eight from Mexico, two from Cuba, two from Peru, one from Chile, one from San Salvador, one from Palestine, one from Panama, two from Spain, and one Englishman from China. One from Greece and another student from Palestine have registered, but have not yet arrived.
Wallace Writes Two Books
Francis Wallace, the author of “Huddle,” a story of Notre Dame life, published last year, has just brought put two other books: “Stadium” and /“O’Reilly of Notre Dame,” a story for boys.
Wallace, an alumnus of the University and a very close associate of the late Knute K. Rockne, is well acquainted with student life here and with the Notre Dame system of football. “Huddle” was well received on the campus, and these two new stories will probably prove popular.
SHORTER CLASSES ON SATURDAY; DINNER TO BE AT ELEVEN
In order that the public may be accommodated at the University dining hall before the game tomorrow, dinner for the faculty and students will be at 11:00 o’clock, according to an announcement by Father J. L. Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies. All of the regular Saturday classes will be taught, but the class periods are to be shortened from the regular fifty minutes to thirty-five, with the regular ten-minute interval between classes. The periods will be as follow: the first from 8:00 to 8:35; the second, 8:45 to 9:20; the third, 9:30 to 10:05; and the fourth, 10:15 to 10:50.
This special schedule will also be followed November 21, the day of the Notre Dame-Southern California game.
Classical Society Renamed
Organized in the spring of 1929, the Classical Society of Notre Dame decided last week to change its name to the Patricians. The president of the Patricians is Francis J. O’Malley, and the secretary is John Pick. At the first meeting of the society for this year, Mr. O’Malley outlined the purposes of the organization, stating that they were three: universal, university, and singular. The universal purpose is to preserve the classical spirit in literature and the fine art;s the university purpose: to promote and sustain a genuine interest in the classical arts and literatures at Notre Dame, and the singular purpose to balance the attitudes of the members of the society by acquainting them with some of the methods and results of classical scholarship
Saginaw Valley Club Meets
The Saginaw Valley club, comprising all men from Saginaw, Michigan, and the neighboring cities of Bay City and Flint, has been organized. The purpose of the club is to afford an opportunity for all men from these cities to belong to a Michigan organization.
Officers have been elected, and at the last meeting plans were discussed and committees appointed for a Christmas dance. The officers are as follows: Honorary President— John Fredericks; President, Harold T a p p i n; Vice-President, Edward Kerns; Secretary and Treasurer, Roy Catizone.
PRE LAW CLUB HEARS E. J. COOLEY ON CRIME
Noted Sociologist Addresses Club Last Tuesday.
The Pre-Iaw club was addressed by Edwin J. Cooley, instructor in criminology and social pathology at the University, on the administration of criminal law, last Tuesday evening.
After his lecture Mr. Cooley conducted an open forum and while answering questions of the members he discussed some of today’s legal problems. The regular routine of the meeting was shortened to give more time to Mr. Cooley’s speech.
Cooley stressed the needs of the legal profession at present. Law schools must maintain high standards so that those who begin to practice law will be well prepared. Lawyers must have high ideals and good traits of character. Criminal lawyers must be upright and honest.
The improvement of the situation rests in the hands of those now* studying law. Our present code of criminal law, which gives the defendant every possible chance to prove his innocence, is being outrageously abused by shyster lawyers. It was drawn up by honest men with the intention to preserve liberties and rights of mankind, but today it gives the offender too great an opportunity to avoid justice.
Professor Cooley served on the advisory council to the Wickersham crime commission. He has, moreover, long been prominently associated with committee and experimental work on sociological subjects. His knowledge and experience has made him a national authority on social work.
The Pre-law club is still open to those who wish to join. Dues are fifty cents a semester. The next meeting -will be held in the Law building Tuesday evening, October 27.
New Jersey Club Picture
A picture of the New Jersey club for the Dome will be taken Monday, October 26, at 12:30 in Walsh hall basement. Every man must wear a coat and tie.
Not to be outdone by the more numerously represented districts on the campus a Wabash Valley club made its initial appearance of the year last Wednesday.
The Scholastic
Sixteen
Degrees Are Just a Hobby With Mr. Whitman, It Seems
By Tighe Woods
If you should happen to stroll over to the new Law building some late afternoon and go upstairs very quietly to the new library, you would see a very strange, and not at all judicial-looking sight. On a desk in the comer you would see a pair of well-proportioned feet encased in well shined black shoes. Upon coming closer you would see that the feet were owned by a gentleman of no mean stature, a gentleman whose well rounded physique is a shining example of right and wise living.
In the University bulletin this gentleman is known as Professor John H. A. Whitman, B.L., A.B., A.M., J.D.! His home is in the east. He was born in Providence, Rhode Island, in 1888.
When the question of a college education was given the floor in the house of Whitman, the young man was told to go west, north or south, anywhere but the east, and he would some day be the pride of Providence. John decided on the north and he enrolled at College de St. Laurent at Montreal.
Unlike the ‘Spectators Club’ application blank we couldn’t embarrass our subject by asking him to relate some of his intellectual activities, but we have discovered that he received the degree of Bachelor of Laws there in 1912. After linishing at St. Laurent he took two years of graduate work at Laval university in Montreal and then returned to St. Laurent to teach for three years. He was instructor in French and English at his Alma Mater.
That keen curiosity, so precious to legal minds, finally caused John to come west where giant industries
Prof. Pettit Speaks on Negro Movement in U. S.
Professor Maurice L. Pettit will address the Indiana district convention of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People tonight, on the subject of “The Necessity of a Negro Youth Movement in the United States.” Mr. Pettit has spoken before National Probation
were the commercial envy of the nation and brilliant minds vied with each other for intellectual supremacy. His first position was in the prep school at Notre Dame where he pre-fected	in	Carroll hall	and	taught
American Literature	and	Latin.
When	the	prep school	was	discontinued	he	became Law	librarian to
succeed Father O’Brien.
John Whitman was not satisfied with merely holding a position; he decided to have a hobby. And that hobby was collecting degrees. In 1925 he received his A.B. -from Notre Dame and in 1927 he received his M.A.
The average college man says ‘M.A.’ in a tone of respect but John decided that a mere M.A. didn’t rhyme with his name, so in 1930 he added Doctor of Jurisprudence to his calling card.
Among the upperclassmen, Professor Whitman is known as “John.” And in this case, calling a professor by his first name is not a mark of disrespect. Only a few have achieved that distinction here at Notre Dame. According to the precepts of that indefinable student psychology, in the language of the campus, it means ‘he rates.’ And as any law student will testify, when he is lost in a sea of torts and contracts, John is a sure haven in time of storm.
Association and other noted sociological bodies on this and kindred subjects. He is director of field work for students of the University majoring in probation work and is chief boys ’probation officer in the St. Joseph county juvenile court.
The convention will be held at the Herring House in South Bend.
CONBOY NEW TREASURER OF PRESIDENTS CLUB;
CHARTER OUTLINED
Philip Conboy was appointed treasurer of the Presidents’ council by President Charles Hitzelberger, at a meeting of the council held Sunday. A committee was also formed under Leo Schiavone and Anthony Bontem-po to act as an advisory board to the Presidents of the new club.
Tentative arrangements for the adoption of a charter for the various campus organizations were discussed and brief consideration was given to the territory rights and boundaries of the clubs.
The council spent part of its sessions in making plans for the union of the smaller clubs for the purpose of entertainments, and drew up schedules of meeting times and places for clubs having no place in this regard. Discussion also took place on plans for the council’s banquet to be held in the near future.
The next meeting will be held November 18.
Bishop Noll Confirms 425
A class of three hundred presented by Reverend John F. DeGroote, C.S.C., were confirmed by the Right Reverend John F. Noll, D.D., LL.D., bishop of Fort Wayne diocese, in services held Sunday afternoon in Sacred Heart church. One hundred and twenty-five were confirmed in the morning by Bishop Noll in St. Patrick’s church in South Bend. In the morning services Reverend Joseph Maguire, C.S.C., pastor of St. Patrick’s church, presented the class, assisted by the Reverend Paul Doherty, C.S.C.; Reverend William R. O'Connor, C.S.C., and Reverend J. J. O’Rourke, C.S.C.
Bishop Noll will confirm in all of the South Bend churches during this month.
Pettit Attends Meeting
Professor M. L. Pettit, of the sociology department, went to Indianapolis on Thursday,* October 22, to attend a meeting of the Indiana Association of Economists and Sociologists. Mr. Pettit has been very active in the field of social pathology. He was recently elected president of the Indiana - Probation Association and is at present the director of field work in the South Bend juvenile court. Professor Pettit is also the head of 'the Child Guidance clinic in South Bend.
October 23, 1931
Seventeen
FATHER MURRAY NAMED HEAD OF NATIONAL CHARITIES BOARD
The Reverend Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C., head of the department of Sociology, has recently been appointed chairman of the committee on Protective Care of National Conference of Catholic Charities.
This committee deals with problems in the field of Criminology, and is of nation-wide interest. It is composed of twenty-eight men including such executives as Judge Francis B. Allegretti of Chicago; Reverend Francis Lane, chaplain of the Elmira, N. Y. Reformatory; Joseph P. Murphy, Chief Probation officer of the Newark, N. J. Juvenile Court; Frederick A. Moran, New York State Parole Commissioners; and John P. Bramer of the New York State Probation Department.
La Raza Plays Soccer
The varied activities of the La-Raza club was demonstrated again last Sunday afternoon when its soccer team met the South Bend Vikings, a team of Swedish professionals, at Kaley field. The Notre Dame undergrads held their more experienced opponents to a 2-0 score in a hard-fought game which saw the La-Raza players the favorites of a crowd of more than 500 spectators.
Two practice sessions are on tap. for this week in preparation for the game with the Worker’s Sport club next Sunday morning. The game is scheduled for 9:30 on the soccer field in back of Sophomore hall.
The personnel of the La Raza team includes J. Zabarthe, A. Canepa, G. Valdez, L. Muniain, M. Yriberry, C. Yriberry, R. Melian, J. Melendez, E. Roxas (captain), J. Arce,- and L. Arce, and L. Brias. R. Rodriguez, R. Grimaldo, G. Larrain, and A. Maren-co are substitutes.
Studies Law In Europe
Stephen Mozniak of Akron,' Ohio, who has been spending the past three years in research and study in International Law in Europe and principally in Warsaw, Poland, visited the University last week.
Mr. Mozniak was graduated from the College of Law at Notre Dame in 1929.
The Texas cowboys held a powwow last week in the basement of Walsh hall.
Publicity Dept. More Than A Big Name---It’s a Big Job
By Roy Scholz
General News Publicity Department of the University of Notre Dame. Big title. Big job. At its head is John A. Kiener, a senior in the College of Commerce who greets you with a warm smile and hearty hand shake. Here is the man who collects, arranges, and spreads the news. He is quite tall and when asked, informs you that his home
town is Rocky River, Ohio, a suburb of Cleveland. Experience with publicity is not lacking; he has worked on the Scholastic for several years and last spring was appointed managing editor, a post which he resigned in order to accept the present position.
From John’s office the general news of the University is dispatched to every Catholic paper, and to several hundred dailies.
How many new campus buildings; what are they to be used for; how many students enrolled for the current year; news of all the traveling campus societies, such as the band, glee club and debate; news of all extra-curricular activities. That John’s job to ferret out and send to the right place. Every piece of news not pertaining to sports is gleaned and sent to the correct place.
Father Wenninger Speaks to Academy of Science
The regular meeting of the Academy of Science was held at 8:00 p. m. Monday evening in Science hall. John F. Weiner, president of the Academy, opened the meeting. It was decided that each member was to be assessed a fifteen-cent fee to cover expenses for the year. A report on the work of planning a program was given by the executive committee.
Important events such as the awarding of the famous Laetare Medal and first told to John, then soon the mail and wires are busy and the papers all over the country receive the news.
But before all this news can be sent out it must be collected and arranged—this gives John Kiener his job.
Few people know of the many important scientifical discoveries that take place on the campus. The origin of the airplane and the wireless telegraph is attributed to Notre Dame scientists. In order to acquaint the outside world with the importance of the various scientists now on the faculty of Notre Dame, the publicity department tries to keep all of the newspapers informed. One never knows when tomorrow may bring the announcement of the discovery of some revolution in the field of science, and that discovery taking place in the Notre Dame laboratories.
All this news is in a way to counter the great overflow of sport news which seems to give the rest of the world an impression that football is the only item of interest at Notre Dame. Through this office the non-athletic news is sent to all corners of the United States and helps remove that impression and to inform the public of the work in Catholic education being carried on here.
Next time when, far from the campus, when you see a bit of interesting news with a Notre Dame dateline, think of the little publicity office with the big name. It’ll probably be some of the work of John A. Kiener, director of the General News Publicity department.
The Reverend Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., Ph.D., was the speaker of the evening. His topic was “Animal Parasites of Man and Their Control.” The discourse proved interesting to the members of the Academy.
The next meeting of the Academy will be at 8:00 p. m., Monday, Nov. 2, in Science hall.
Eighteen
The Scholastic
♦ THE WINE
Animalities
THE GIRAFFE
The Giraffe is surely heads and heads
Taller than other quadrupeds
And I am sure that in his necking
His girl friends find there’s nothing lecking I
THE LEOPARD
The Leopard is a dangerous beast—and violent
And if approached, gets very insiolent.-
Often I wonder at him in his attitude so passant, Whether he’d dare attack me, or whether he dassen’t.
THE CUCKOO
A heartless mother is the lady cuckoo
Laying her eggs in someone else’s rendezvous, Yet I wager the cuckoo so indiscreetly overbearing, Never even thinks of going in for profit-sharing!
—ANON.
Birdie Whispers
Sees all, knoios nothing, tells everything
Neil Ebert will be general chairman of the Junior Prom . . . Johnny Mulville will be chairman of the junior pin committee . . . We noticed a couple of the mighty politicos of the junior class riding around in Chicago in a car belonging to a salesman of class pins . . . Don’t get too indebted, fellows: the class-mates ought to have a bit of a square deal anyway . . .
o o o
Andy Barton seems to be a big jewelry salesman now . . . funny part about it is he’s got some worthwhile merchandise . . . Jim Collins expected to be the new chairman of the S. A. C. . . . and he wasn’t even a member of that highly respected organization . . . Did you know Joe Kennedy’s cheer leading last Saturday was inspired . . . there was a gal in the stands . . . but it was good leading . . . ought to get her down here regularly.
o o o
Bernie Heitz caught the first rat in Sorin last week . . . they tell us a couple of professors were sitting on the porch with some guests when the trophy was carried out of the hall . . . Some fellows are just begging for a blow in this column but we know they’d love it so not a word shall they get . . .
o o o
Chauncey Branford is ducking punches this week . . . as a result of not having ducked one last Saturday night . . . we’d call it a bum approach anyway, big fella . . . Tom O’Connor and Spike England seem to have had a charming little time together last Sunday . . . from all ■ reports it started because of a derby belonging to Tom Mahaffey . . . The Scholastic seems to be maintaining a policy of opposition towards corsages this year . . . which is a good idea . . . think of all the better things that fiver would buy . . .
While on the subject of real school spirit we mustn’t forget the noble act of heroism pei*formed by that modest young Frosh Lawyer, Joe Judge. Joe interrupted his week-end at the Northwestern game to catch a 6:30 train Sunday morning to get back on time to open the library. And only three gentlemen used the facilities offered that morning.
o o o
The cheering section was trying to take care of substitutions at the game Saturday ... it was funny, though unjust, when a group yelled “We want—you know who”; from another section came “What do you want him for” . . . the answer was prompt . . . “He makes a good fourth at bridge.”
o o o
From all reports the Scholarship Dance was a financial as well as a social success. The freshmen stood around and furnished applause while the seniors and juniors did the dancing and a sophomore won the box, so everybody was happy. Chris Riley won the box, and just as a coincidence he plays the big drum in the band. That is almost as bad as having Tom Yarr win it.
o o o
Has anybody at all around this school got any money? . . . we’d almost disclose our identity for a buck . . . and why is everyone so sure we’re, a senior ... if the truth were known we have a staff that would' put Scotland Yard to shame ... so it isn’t just one fellow you’re ducking, Cooper ...
o o o
If you were up and around early Sunday morning you’d have noticed one of the Sorin screens laying on the ground about ten feet away from the window ... -if you were walking around behind Sorin ... if you were interested . . . Doc Zilch really goes for his rice, doesn’t he . . . and have you noticed the price of steaks in the caf as compared with last year ... and why don’t they get a couple more telephones over at 3-0684? . . .
—The Stool Pigeon.
October 23, 1931
Nineteen
EDITOR’/ RACE
Student Ticket Distribution
The Scholastic is in receipt of several communications during the past week complaining of the antiquated method of distributing football tickets to the student body.
It seems probable that with all of the booths vacant about the stadium, it might be possible to devise a scheme for handing the ducats to the holders of A. A. books in fairly fast time rather than utilizing only one of the ticket windows. There should be no necessity for a student to wait two hours in line to obtain a ticket to any football game.
This condition was brought to the front the week of the Drake game, when several hundred freshmen were forced to stand before the ticket booth for more than an hour in a driving rain storm before they could receive their tickets.
With two more home games still to be played, it might be possible for the staff in charge of the student ticket distribution to devise some other method of passing out the cardboards, rather than the unpopular, antiquated, and obviously distasteful method now in vogue:
The University Theatre
As an undergraduate activity, the University Theatre has received, or could receive, probably as much applause from outside authorities as the justly famous glee club or the band. Handled capably by Professor Frank Kelly, the Notre Dame players have achieved several remarkable productions, which, unfortunately, have but lived their brief span of two performances in Washington hall, and then been discarded.
Since the organization is representative of Notre Dame, the suggestion that, at the conclusion of a successful production here, the players be sent to Chicago, or even on tour during the Easter vacation, is not out of place.
The idea is not a new one. The Blackfriars of the University of Chicago and any number of other dramatic societies of our modern colleges are in the habit of staging a winter t,our that sweeps the country during the Christmas holiday. Notre Dame players, under the direction of Professor Kelly, should the present suggestion be carried out, would blaze a new page in the University’s cultural achievement.
Minor Sports Program
With this issue the Scholastic opens a gigantic policy of athletic promotional work that is unparalleled in University history. A series of minor sports contests, hitherto not scheduled or incompetently handled by disinterested campus societies, have been arranged in an effort to promote campus interest in these activities.
The most important event that the Scholastic will undertake to handle is the boxing show, which will fill the interval that always exists between the semester examinations in February and the beginning of Lent. The entire proceeds of this affair will be turned over to the Bengal relief fund by arrangement with the Reverend John O’Hara, C.S.C., prefect of religion.
Included in the other sports will be a lake swim in the Spring, a handball tournament, a series of aquatic contests, a soft-ball league, and wrestling matches. Other activities of a similar nature are being planned by the promotional committee, who are preparing to swing into the greatest year in minor sports that the University has ever experienced.
■A handball tourney, the second event on the program, will open within two weeks, following the completion of the Scholastic’s fall tennis tournament. This will be rapidly followed by a succession of sports that will present aparade of activity that will last for the school year.	<>
A Suggestion to the S. A, C.
A new organization seizes the reigns of the S. A. C. New ideas, news systems, and new plans will be opened up within the week. Capable John Kramer succeeds to the presidency, while John Perone, who hitherto has handled the undergraduate pep meetings, is appointed to the leadership of the Blue Circle.
As a suggestion, it might be well for Mr. Kramer to give orders to Mr. Perone to abolish the Vigilance committee from his organization. The strong-arm, lake-throwing tactics of this Blue Circle committee, which has for many years brought the entire Circle into disrespect, is assuredly un-Notre Dame in character.
The new organization could find no better way to open their term of office than by dismissing all records of the so-called Vigilance committee from the books of their society.
Twenty
The Scholastic
COLLEGE 1ALADE
Spring Is Here
Fresh from the Minnesota Daily comes this refreshing bit of news with a Bloomington date line: “It’s a mild autumn in Indiana; cherry trees are in full bloom, a druggist is eating strawberries out of his own garden and Indiana university students are picking violets on the campus.”
Apple Sauce
Morris Harvey college recently held an old-fashioned apple peeling party to dispose of a large quantity of fruit which students are paying for their tuition. This may be a lot of “apple sauce,” but it at least sounds savory.
Lexiconiana
The champion name for a college course, in our estimation, has finally been discovered. The course is offered at Western Reserve University and is a class in Dalcroze Eurthymics. In case you don’t know what that means it is a study of the elements of music through movements. Incidentally no credit is given for the course.
Ah’s
An enterprising reporter for the Columbia Spectator set out to determine the cause for the large number of sleepers in a certain class. It’s no wonder one gets sleepy when the professor utters exactly 267 “er’s” in 40 minutes.
Chesterfield to His Son
With the opening fall social season campus dancers might read and follow the advice of a dancing school which advertised in the Daily Texan; it goes like this:
“Stand erect, lean forward, bending at insteps until heels are free from weight.
“Right shoulders in line with center of chest. (Never stand directly in front of each other.)
. The left arm of lady rests upon the man’s right arm, ladies left hand on (top) of his right shoulder (not on his arm).
“The lady’s right hand is held in the gentleman’s left hand.
“They dance around the room to the left and should never go against the line of direction (opposite direction).
“The man should move with a well (measured) gliding step, and the lady should step full and free from the hip (not merely from the knee).
“The man should step straight toward the lady, lead strong, and execute the following steps to syncopated 2-4 time.”
Now you try it.
Alarm!
The faculty of the University of Rochester recently voted to do away with all 8:00 o’clock classes, having decided that it was better for . students to sleep in their rooms instead of in the classrooms.
All for the students’ benefit, we suppose; these instructors never consider themselves when arranging class hours.
No Pictures
At the University of Washington, in order to get into a football game on a student ticket, each student must pass a handwriting examination. The exam consists simply of signing your name before a posse of special detectives, but woe betide you if the writing does not agree with that on your class book. Needless to say, this system of identification has caused a storm of protest, but officials say that the results obtained justified their procedure.
Miracles
The Hunter Bulletin of Hunter college in New York City presents a handy list of magazines and publishers. Bulletin editors hope that college writers may find list useful, informative, in submitting manuscripts for publication.
Excerpts:
“Clayton Magazines—Wanted romance and action stories of periods between the Middle Ages and the Spanish American war. Heroes should be American or Anglo-Saxon if possible.”
Shade Publishing Co.—Wanted 100 to 1,000 word stories of actual supernatural or physic experience with plot germs....”
October 23, 1931
Twenty-one
SPORTS
Notre Dame Crushes Drake, 63-0
Backs Run Wild for Nine Touchdowns;
Line Holds Bulldog Offense Helpless
Sensational Teamplay Features Scoring Orgy; Koken and Leahy Lead Reserves.
By James S. Kearns
Rolling up the largest score that a Notre Dame team has amassed since the 1926 opener, the Fighting Irish smothered Drake last Saturday in Notre Dame stadium, 63 to 0. It was one of the most savage and completely devastating attacks ever loosed on a modern gridiron.
No team in the world could have halted the march of the blue-clad backs. Even a stream of substitutions from the Notre Dame bench failed to ease the crushing of the scrapping, courageous Bulldogs. Regardless of their personnel the Notre Dame combinations drove with a relentless fury that mounted as the game went on.
A search for individual stars would be fruitless. The line opened holes wide enough for a band maneuver; the backs ran and, with a few exceptions, blocked with faultless precision.
Mike Koken led the scoring attack with three touchdowns and four successful kicks for points. Bernie Leahy entered the game in the second half to amass- a total of 142 yards in ten attempts at the Drake line. The team total of 645 yards from scrimmage exceeded even the mileage of the frolic at Pennsylvania a year ago.
Seven Notre Dame backs completed the scoring where Koken left off.. Melinkovitch went over the Bulldog goal line twice, while Sheeketski, Leahy, LaBorne, and Leonard got one touchdown apiece. Murphy and Jask-wich added three points on place kicks. Somewhere in the fourth quarter melee, the Notre Dame line downed Ross, Drake punter, for a safety.
Although he failed to get into the
scoring column, Marchy Schwartz added more laurels to his collection with some of the finest blocking and ball handling of the game. He ran, too, with all the skill that he ever
Mike Koken
Who scored 22 points.
had, though several bits of inferior blocking slowed him up at times. Vejar and Murphy drove the high-geared Notre Dame juggernaut with sureness and skill that seems to mark the end of the quarterback problem.
The expected effectiveness of Notre Dame plays against Notre Dame never materialized. ’ Captain Yarr, Nordy Hoffman, and Ed Krause piled up the Drake spinners and reverses with seeming ease. The reserves in the line were about as good and Drake (Continued on Page 28)
BADGERS WIN HARRIER
MEET; N. D. SECOND
Kirk Leads Wilson By Inches; King, Howery, In First Six.
By William J. Magarrall
The Wisconsin hill-and-dalers outdistanced the Notre Dame, Illinois, and Northwestern runners in the quadrangular meet last Saturday at Evanston, gaining a total of 26 points, 11 points less than its nearest competitor, Notre Dame. Kirk of Wisconsin led the field in the somewhat slow time of 18:37.7, over a minute slower than Howery of Notre Dame covered the course last year. A stiff wind blowing off Lake Michigan and intermittent, showers were given as causes for the reduced time.
Kirk, the winner, and Wilson of Notre Dame legged it over the three and a half mile route on even terms. Kirk crossed the finish line scarcely a yard ahead of the cantering Canuck. Wright of the Badgers, the favorite to win, was third; King of Notre Dame, fourth; Courtwright of Illinois, fifth, and Howery of Notre Dame, sixth. Team scores were: Wisconsin 26, Notre Dame 37, Illinois 51, and Northwestern, the hosts, 132.
It was the first time in the three-year history of the meet that a Notre Dame man failed to lead the way over the finish line. Alex Wilson won two years ago, while Gene Howery established the course record of 17:12 last year.
Despite the failure to keep intact this succession of victories, Coach Nicholson admitted he was pleased with the great battle waged at the finish between Kirk and Wilson, and the promise shown by the sophomore, Ed King, fourth place winner. Considering the facts that Wisconsin was the heavy favorite to win, the disturbing weather conditions,'and the early stage of the cross-country season, the outcome can hardly be looked upon as discouraging for future successes.
Twenty-tzvo
The Scholastic
FRESHMEN TAKE MOST HONORS IN FALL MEET
NOTRE DAME-DRAKE STATISTICS
RESERVES BEAT N. U.
“B” TEAM 14 TO 6
Yearlings Turn In Promising Showings In Track Events.
The annual fall handicap track meet was held on Cartier field last Tuesday. The purpose of this meet is to determine the prospects for the spring and winter seasons. The runners that have won their monograms and those that have participated in meets before are usually handicapped and the untried and freshman aspirants are conceded an edge.
It looked, however, more like a freshman field day than an authentic handicap meet for the winners were, for the greater part, freshmen. In the 100-yard dash the winner was a freshman, Jassey, who with a 7-yard handicap negotiated the century in 10.1 seconds. The freshmen scored a slam in the pole vault with Edwards winning the event at 10 feet, 6 inches.
Perhaps one of the closest races of the day was the 150-yard low hurdles, with MacBeth, the Canadian star, edging out the fast stepping sophomore DuPuy by a few feet to win in 17.5 seconds. DuPuy came back, however, in the high hurdles to win in the fast time of 11.4 seconds, a good performance considering the time of the year. With a slow track Kelly, a letter man, starting from scratch, won the 220-yard dash in the fast time of 23 seconds. One of the finds of the meet was Bowdren, a freshman, who fought his way to the finish of the 440-yard dash to win in the time of 53.4 seconds.
The meet Tuesday unearthed a wealth of freshman material and this should be of some consolation to Coach Nicholson who will have something to look forward to. Medals were awarded to winners of the first three places in each event.
Summary:
100-YARD DASH—Won by Jassey: Mueller, second; Kelly, third. Time :10.1.
220-YARD DASH—Won by Kelly; Jassey, second; Collins, third. Time :23.
440-YARD DASH—Won by Bowdren ; Rowan, second; Moran, third. Time :53.4.
POLE VAULT—Won by Edwards; Bohr-man, second; Cougan, third. Height, 10 feet, 6 inches.
BROAD JUMP—Won by Conley; Finkel, second; Walsh, third. Distance, 19 feet, 10% inches.
85-YARD HIGH HURDLES—Won by DuPuy ;Fagen, second; Ackerman, third. Time :11.4.
150-YARD LOW HURDLES—Won by Mac-
■ First downs:
N. D. 23; Drake 3.
Yards from scrimmage:
N. D. 645; Drake 62.
Passes attempted:
N. D. 7; Drake 12.
Passes completed:
N. D. 2; Drake 3.
Passes intercepted: N. D. 3; Drake 1.
Yards gained on passes: N. D. 21; Drake 39.
Yards lost on penalties: N. D. 70; Drake 30.
Walsh Meets Off-Campus
The outstanding clash of the current interhall football race is scheduled for Sunday afternoon. Walsh, defending champion, is slated to tackle the high-powered Off-Campus eleven at 2:30 p. m. on Cartier field.
With both teams undefeated in Group II, the battle in the first big drawing card of the final interhall rounds. The winner will be established as the top-heavy favorite to cop the Group II flag.
Walsh opened the year with nearly the entire membership of last year’s championship team in the lineup. They measured Howard 19 to 0 in the opening game and coasted over Carroll 13 to 0 last week.
Off-Campus has played but one game, winning their other on a forfeit. In their single encounter, however, the boys from town showed a lot of potential power to trim Carroll 8 to 0.
Pep Meeting Tonight
A pep meeting, preliminary to the game with Pittsburgh tomorrow, will be held in the gymnasium immediately following supper tonight. John Perone is in charge of the meeting, being assisted by members of the Student Activities Council. Joe Kennedy and Dave Powers will lead the yells.
Beth ; DuPuy, second; Ackerman, third. Time :17.5.
880-YARD RUN—Won by Roberts; Carrigan, second ; Bowers, third. Time 2:05.
SHOT PUT—Won by Finkel; Freshlie. second ; Walsh, third. Distance, 40 feet, 9 inches.
DISCUS THROW—Won by Freshlie; Rava-rino, second; Walsh, third. Distance, 11 feet, 6 inches.
MILE RUN—Won by Van Petten ; Omeara, second; Lee, third. Time 5:11.
Dilling Gets Two Touchdowns To Lead Notre Dame Team.
A squad of Notre Dame reserves defeated the Northwestern “B” team last Saturday at Evanston, 14 to 6. The game was played as a preliminary to the Northwestern varsity-U. C. L. A. game in Dyche stadium.
Taking advantage of the perfect day the “Fighting Irish” reserves seemed bent on showing the world their idea of the real status of Notre Dame and Northwestern football. The game was hard fought throughout and drew a great hand from the large crowd coming for the feature encounter. The Blue and Gold squad was composed for the most part of fourth and fifth team material but played with a flash and zest that could not be denied.
The first Notre Dame touchdown came in the second quarter when Dilling broke loose around end for a long gain and the marker. Later in the game Dilling marked up his second touchdown and completed the Notre Dame scoring for the day when he took a 15-yard pass from Julie Acers on the Northwestern thirty-, yard line and raced the remainder of the way to score.
Northwestern’s “B” aggregation launched several threatening attacks but they all fell short of a score. Four times inside the Notre Dame ten-yard line, the Wildcats reserves failed to score from scrimmage. Their lone tally came on an intercepted pass by Agustan.
Shrenker, Beirne, and Blake were outstanding in the Blue and Gold lineup. The game was played as the first of a two game series.
Lineups:
NOTRE DAME		N. U. “B”
Beirne	L. E.	Wampole
Kennedy	L. T.	Valentine
Shrinker	L. G.	Anderson
Ryan	C.	Lowry
Weidner	R. G.	Freidman
Carmody	R. T.	Siles
Rhors	R.E.	Honik
McCabe	Q. B.	Karabin
Acres	L.H.	Schwol
Dilling	R. H.	Cotter
Blake	F. B.	Riccardi
Scoring touchdowns: Notre Dame, Dilling (2); Northwestern, Agustan. Point after touchdown: Notre Dame, Vettel (2).
October 23, 1931
Tzventy-three
Melinkovich Crashes Line For Touchdown
Sophomore fullback shown scoring second marker of game from 12-yard line.
Koken, Melinkovich, and Akron Attract Notice
By James E. McFeely
This Mr. Melinkovich had no intention of stopping when he hit the Drake line. With the ball resting on the four-yard line, the Utah boy was called on and he responded in bang-up fashion. Neither looking to the left or right as he ploughed his way through, he showed that the obstacle presented by eleven Bulldogs was not one which should make him quaver. Not only will Melinkovich serve as an able line buster this fall, but he will have two or more years of competition after this, his initial year.
Showing a remarkable ability at out - dodging the opposition, Mike Koken again proved that he is to be reckoned with as a dangerous ball carrier. His squirming, twisting attacks on the Bulldogs after the forwards and the other backs had done their work were extremely pleasing to the crowd which, after the first half, settled back to watch the races.
Among the other celebrities seen in the Notre Dame stands was Senator James Watson of Indiana, a staunch Notre Dame backer.
Although many of the fans in the lower stands were unable to witness the spectacle, those on the higher reaches and the scribes in the press box were treated to a glimpse of the giant dirigible, the Akron. With the roar of its powerful motors deafening the watcher, the craft glided majestically eastward, choosing a course that led it far to the north of the campus.
At last it seems like a successor to Carideo was found in the kicking of the points after touchdowns. Murphy and Koken came through in this department with remarkable regularity. Seven out of the nine attempts were successful. And the the “Fighting Irish,” to make up for the loss of those two points, proceeded to score the safety, bringing the score to 63.
THREE REMAIN IN NET TOURNEY; MEYERS WINS FROM DICK KELLY
Progress in the Scholastic tennis tournament w’as considerably delayed during the past week by the inability of some of the contestants to make connections. Officials of the meet had hoped to complete the tourney early in the week, but conflicting class schedules caused a number of postponements.
Carl Meyers defeated Dick Kelly 7-5, 8-6, 5-7, 16-14 in the only match played in the tournament during the past week. The long drawn-out struggle between these two men completed play in the upper bracket, Meyers entering the finals by virtue of his win.
The semi-finals in the lower bracket will bring together Louis Chreis and Lester Stein. Postponement of this match was necessitated this week due to conflicting class schedules. The match is scheduled for this afternoon. The winner today will meet Meyers on Sunday afternoon for the championship.
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING—
NORDY HOFFMAN
WESTERN STATE NORMAL DOWNS RESERVES, 27-6
A fit subject for Horatio Alger’s works, in which the persevering lad makes his way to the top, Francis Nordhoff Hoffman, known to the world at large as just “Nordy,” had never played football before his entrance to Notre Dame. His first appearance in varsity competition was recorded two years ago in the Drake game on Soldier’s field in Chicago.
“Nordy’s” play at the tackle position in that encounter was not so impressive, but he did not despair. Converted from his position at tackle during practice last Spring, the young man in our story, who hails from ‘way out west in Seattle,’ is now busily engaged in his work of filling the shoes left vacant by the graduation of Bert Metzger, All-American “watch charm” luminary on the 1930 national championship team.
After spending his prep school years in St. Martin’s in Seattle, “Nordy” rode eastward to enroll at Notre Dame. Entering his new quarters on the campus and after recovering from the blow dealt every first year man upon viewing Freshman hall for the first time, Hoffman found an understanding heart in the person of his roommate, another Washington boy, Yarr by name. And now the fates—if there be fates— have thrown the two together again in the center of the Notre Dame line, from which section the West Coast lads carry on a bit of line-wrecking with remarkable finesse.
It is not often that the ability of an athlete and that of a musician can be found rolled into one personality. In Mr. Hoffman’s case, however, we find the football player and track man extremely interested in music—music of a lighter vein, if you please (none of this opera stuff goes).
At present “Nordy” is taking piano lessons regularly and practices whenever he can find the time, expressing the hope that some day he may be able to finger the keyboard in a manner as to at least please himself.
But the career of a musician is not for the 204 pound guard. Although he is at present in the College of
Law, he is setting his cap for a coaching job next year.
In addition to his prowess on the gridiron, which he displayed against Northwestern when he blocked Olson’s punt and put the “Fighting Irish” in scoring position, “Nordy” has competed in the weight events as a member of the track for three seasons. At present he is holding the office of president of the Monogram club.
Frank “Nordy” Hoffman Stellar Guard
Playing as a member of the “Irish,” Hoffman—two “f’s” in that name, Mr. Collins — is of German extraction and is the oldest of seven children. During the past summer he held a position to which, it seems, all collegians aspire—that of inspector of roads in the state of Washington. As do other outstanding football players, he blames hard work for his success.
In the first three games of the present season, Notre Dame has made 43 first downs to 8 for her opponents. Statistics also show that the Fighting Irish have gained 1172 yards from scrimmage. Indiana, Drake and Northwestern have compiled a gr^nd total of 184 against the Anderson-trained line.
Teachers Lead At Half, 20-0; N, D. Pass Brings Score.
Western State Teachers’ college conquered a stubborn Notre Dame “B” team at Kalamazoo, Mich., last Saturday by a score of 27-6.
The Kalamazoo Teachers piled up a 20-0 half-time advantage as Coach Mike Gary’s pony backs romped through a. disorganized South Bend team.
The Hilltoppers scored in every period but the third, outgaining the Blue and Gold in first downs, twelve to five. In the first quarter the Teachers started a march down the field that culminated in a touchdown after piling up six successive first downs. In the second quarter Notre Dame’s passes fell into the arms of alert State backfield men and two more touchdowns resulted.
In the second half Notre Dame braced and held Western State on even terms. The third period ended without a score, after the Reserves had threatened the State goal line twice.
In the final quarter Western State again started a march which resulted in a score as Combs, who had been a thorn in the Irish side all afternoon, reversed his field and went 16 yards to a touchdown.
In a desperate attempt to score the “B”‘ squad started to rain passes on the Kalamazoo goal and a 48 yard pass, Dehooge to Levins finally connected to bring the ball to the Brown and Gold one-foot line. Bosko, who replaced Kursiec at fullback, crashed through right guard for the touchdown.
Coombs, shifty halfback, started for Western State, while McKeever and Bosco in the backfield and Flynn and Rascher in the line were the Notre Dame luminaries.
The lineups:		
N. D. “b”		WEST. STATE
Loughery	L.E.	Mackay
Mariani	L. T.	Natulis
Schott	L.G.	■ Pippel
Witucki	C.	Blohm
Gleason	R.G.	Briggs
Flynn	R. T.	Cook
Rascher	R. E.	Tingstad
McCabe	Q. B.	Hudnut
Levins	L.H.	Elenbas
McKeever	R.H.	Wurstur
Kursiec	F. b;	Bilski
i
October 23, 1931	Twenty-five
Interhall Gridiron Race Tightens
*
Field of Unbeaten Hall Elevens Reduced to Four at Half-way Mark
Badin and St, Ed’s Unbeaten In Group I; Walsh and Off-
Campus To Meet Sunday.
By Irving B. Halper
The Interhall races are narrowing their fields. Last Sunday’s games cut the undefeated class down to four teams, two in each league. With the season past the half-way mark, excellent football should be played in the games between the leading squads. Two of them meet this week while the other pair will avoid each other for another round.
St. Edward’s and Badin in Group I and Walsh and Off-Campus in Group II. Those are the teams that will fight it out for the championship of each league. Walsh, champions from last year, is the favorite to repeat, but Off-Campus will fight hard to win their division. These two teams are scheduled to meet next Sunday afternoon at Cartier field No. 1.
St. Edward’s should have things all their own way with Sophomore and Badin draws a bye. In other games in Group I, Lyons plays Dillon, and Morrissey will try to boost their standings against Corby. In Group II, Howard is pitted against Alumni in a Junior class affair, while Brownson meets Carroll for the championship of the Main building. Carroll-Brownson games are something of a classic with a lot of tradition connected with them and this year’s game promises to be one of the best.
Schedule for Sunday, October 25: Group I—Lyons vs. Dillon, Minims field; Morrissey vs. Corby at Cartier field No 1; Sophomore vs. St.
Be a Newspaper Correspondent
Any intelligent person may earn money corresponding for newspapers; all or spare time; experience unnecessary; no canvassing; send for particulars. Hea-cock, 548 Dun Building, Buffalo, N. Y.
Edward’s at Brownson field; Badin bye. (All Group I games are played at 9:00 a. m.
Group II—Howard vs. Alumni at Cartier field No. 2 at 9:00 a. m.; Brownson vs. Carroll at Brownson field at 2:30 p. m.; Off-Campus vs. Walsh at Cartier field No. 1 at 2:30 p. m.; Freshman bye.
Howard 13, Freshman 2
Howard hall, playing its first game of the season Sunday on Cartier field, demonstrated the power of its
CLICQUOT has it!
Sparkling as a sub-deb's eyes on her first house party. Mellow as an old grad's memories. Keen as a Phi Bete. And what a mixer! Drink this fine old ginger ale whenever you are thirsty.
that^EXT/?A\something ..
CLICQUOT CLUB GINGER ALES t&ale Qiy - §olden ~ cSec Qkree favorite flavors on any Campus
aggregation by trouncing Freshman, 13 to 2. Howard possessed a rugged forward wall that formed a solid barrier ahead of Freshman.
The first touchdown was made by
Brantfort, giant Howard fullback, who intercepted a pass and ran 30 yards to cross the goal. Brantfort then kicked the extra point to bring the score up to 7 to 0.
Mahoney, Howard end, blocked a Freshman punt in the third quarter, picked up the ball and scooted over the goal. Brantfort’s attempt for the extra point was blocked.
Freshman scored their, two points when Howard’s safety man was downed on his four-yard line after he fumbled a punt. Brantfort
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
fumbled on the next play and was downed behind the goal line.
Brantfort was the outstanding Howard man and played a stellar game both on the offense and defense. Chadwick and English were the bright spots in the Freshman lineup and led a futile fourth quarter passing attack.
Walsh 13, CarroH'O
With practically the same team that won the championship last year, Walsh won their second straight game in rather easy fashion from Carroll, 13 to 0.
Carroll put up a good fight but could not cope with the hard running attack put up by the seniors. Early in the first quarter Behrman sprinted 75 yards around his own right end behind perfect interference for the first Walsh score.
The outcome of the game from then on was never in doubt. In the last quarter, Walsh again put over a touchdown as the result of a 15-yard run by Murphy who had replaced Miller at fullback. Mc-Car-thy’s kick for the extra point was good and brought the score up to 13 to 0.
■It Begins Where “Old Arizona" Left Off!■
Stirring
adventures
THE CISCO KID
W A R N ER
COLFAX
PUBLIX THEATRE
of SERGT. MICKEY DUNN and his “Pal” THE CISCO KID—one a relentless soldier—the other a stealer of gold and of hearts!
O’HENRY’S ROMANTIC BAD MAN

INTERHALL FOOTBALL
Standings in Group I
Badin		W L T 	3 0 0	PCT. 1.000
St. Edward’s			2 0 0	1.000
Corby 			1 1 0	.500
Lyons 			1 2 0	.333
Morrissey			1 2 0	.333
Sophomore 			1 2 0	.333
Dillon 			0 2 0	.000
Standings	in Group II	
	W L T	PCT.
Walsh 			2 0 0	1.000
Off-Campus 			2 0 0	1.000
Carroll 			1 1 1	.500
Howard			1 2 0	.333
Alumni 			0 0 2	.000
Brownson			0 1 2	.000
Freshman			0 2 1	.000
Results of October 18, 1931:
Group I—Badin 7, Lyons 0; Sophomore 8, Dillon 6; St. Edward’s 13, Morrissey 0; Corby, no game.
Group II—Brownson 7, Alumni 7; Howard 13, Freshman 2; Walsh 13, Carroll 0; Off-Campus, no game.
With
I EDMUND LOWE and Conchita Montenegro
SATURDAY Ends Tues.
Bresson, Meade, Behrman, McCann, and Crawford featured the play for Walsh, while the work of Kristel and Rog was outstanding for Carroll.
St. Edward’s 13, Morrissey 0
St. Edward’s continued their pace that has thus far kept them undefeated, and trimmed Morrissey, 13 to 0 in an interhall game Sunday. Morrissey was outclassed by the bigger and more experienced St. Edward’s team, who is a favorite to play in the final game for the championship.
Maloney annexed the first six points for St. Edward’s when he plunged over the right side of his line after St. Edward’s had marched down the field for some 50 yards. Shinko-witz’ kick for the point after touchdown was low.
In the third quarter, Carpenter, stellar St. Edward’s end, intercepted a pass and ran 60 yards for the second touchdown. Piantnik scored the extra point on a pass from Shinko-witz.
Morrissey had its stars in Kiple and Morrow, but as a whole they were not in a class with St. Edward’s. Moloney, Carpenter, and Crowe starred for the winners.
COMING WEDNESDAY A laugh panic! BUSTER KEATON in Sidewalks of New York
October 23, 1931
Tiventy-seven
Brownson 7, Alumni 7
Last Sunday two scrappy aggregations from Brownson and Alumni halls met in a hard-fought battle. Despite the efforts of both teams, the score stood 7 to 7 when the final whistle blew. This marked the second straight tie for both Brownson and Alumni.
The first score came in the closing moments of the first quarter when Travers, Alumni guard, broke through to block Malloy’s punt. He fell on the ball in the end zone for a touchdown. Cashier dropkicked the extra point.
Brownson scored their first touchdown of the season in the second quarter when Lyons caught a 20-yard pass from O’Brien and scampered over the goal. Mosky hit the line for the extra point and tied the score.
The second half showed that Brownson had the stronger team. Consistent running by Hogen and O’Brien kept the ball deep in Alumni territory. Lyons also had a share in the frosh team’s glory.
Alumni’s offense was very poor and without organization but their defensive ability shone by stopping Brownson’s several threats to score.
Sophomore 8, Dillon 6
Sophomore hall climbed out of last place in Group I Sunday morning by defeating the newly organized Dillon hall eleven, 8 to 6 on Brownson field.
Opening the first quarter with a varied attack, Sophomore marched down the field from their own 35-yard line to the Dillon two-foot stripe from where Dunn took the ball over for the first score of the fray.
Backed up to their goal in the third quarter, Dillon tried to kick out of danger, but on the pass from center the ball sailed over .their end zone. Sullivan, end, pounced on the ball for a safety and two points for Sophomore.
Dillon came to life offensively with but three minutes of play left. Their scoring endeavor ended with Cushing registering six points from the one-yard line.
Gerard Molinari did a man-sized job at guard for the victors, while the play of Sullivan and Baumann was outstanding for the losers.
Badin 7, Lyons 0
Badin eked a 7 to 0 victory out of Lyons on Cartier field Sunday morn
ing. Both teams presented excellent offensive attacks with Lyons having the edge in first downs, five to Badin’s four.
The score was chalked up in the first quarter when Badin, after completing a 35-yard pass, advanced the ball to the 20-yard line. Another aerial attempt was good for 15 yards. After three plunges, the ball crossed the goal in the hands of Conti, Badin quarterback, who had borne the brunt of the attack. Conti received a pass to score the extra point.
In the final period, Lyons was successful with a 15-yard forward pass and a reverse play which placed them on Badin’s eight-yard line. Badin then proceeded to throw them for three consecutive losses. On the fourth down, a pass to Carney, halfback, was completed, but he was brought down just four yards from the goal.
“Spike” Conti was the individual star of the game. His hurling was accurate and ball carrying exceptionally well done. Seidle, Badin halfback, made a considerable number of gains on spinners. Sandera, end, Lucknitz, half, Kelley, center, and Carney headed Lyons’ forces.
A HUNDREDI
Will you ever again witness such Dynamic entertainment so powerful—so intense, so gripping it will raise you to emotional heights, never before experienced!
EDWARD G.
Starts Sunday
NOT IF you LIVE TO BE
LAST TWO DAYS WHBOf-MCNED ROMANCE /
AFFAH
H. B. WARNER—MARIAN MARSH IN
FIVE STAR FINAL
Twenty-eight
The Scholastic
N. D. TRAMPLES DRAKE
(Continued from Page 21) failed to register a first down with their running game.
Stunning as it was, the Drake defeat was not disgraceful to them. They were facing a determined, unstoppable teeam. Bareheaded Johnny Briley and his mates fought to the final gun in an exhibition that was as game as Notre Dame’s was brilliant.
Lineups and summary:
DRAKE		NOTRE DAME
Briley (C)	L.E.	Host
Blanck	L.T.	Culver
Bowers	L.G.	Harriss
Robertson	C.	Gorman
Olson	R.G.	Pierce
Kokjohn	R. T.	Barstow
Cless	R. E.	Mahony
Goodwin	Q. B.	Vejar
Lindstrom	L.H.	Koken
Weiland	R. H.	Cronin
Lansrud	F. B.	Banas
Scoring	touchdowns:	Koken (3),
Melinkovich (2), Sheeketski, Leahy, LaBorne, Leonard. Point after touchdown: Koken (4), Murphy (2), Jask-wich (place kicks). Saftey: Boss. Substitutions: Notre Dame — Kosky, Krause, Greeney, Yarr, Hoffman, Kurth, Devore, Murphy, Schwartz,
KEOGAN DRILLS CAGERS DAILY; WORKS HARD ON FUNDAMENTALS
Twenty-two men, comprising the 1932 varsity basketball squad, are now taking daily workouts under the direction of Coach George Keogan. At present, however, practice consists only in the fundamentals, with pivoting, dribbling, passing and short shots occupying the time of the ’ squad.
Keogan is also stressing free-throw practice. Notre Dame was not any too good in this department of the game last year and several nip
Sheeketski, Melinkovitch, Bice, McNamara, Wunsch, Alexander, Pivar-nik, Leding, Canale, Jaskwich, La-Borne, Brancheau, Leonard, Christman, Milheim, Leahy, Foley, Grunder-man; Drake—Breckler, Webb, Risser, Brewer, P. Goodwin, Faber, Smith, Schneeman, Ross. Referee, Cochrane (Kansas); umpire, Lambert (Ohio State); field judge, Ghee (Dartmouth) ; head linesman, Ray (Illinois).
and tuck battles thus ended in defeat for the Gold and Blue eagers when they might have been converted into victories if a few complimentary shots had been pocketed.
There is plenty of good material available and, from all indications, competition for the first five places will be keen. The fact that only two lettermen from last year’s varsity were lost through graduation helps to brighten prospects for a good year.
Several candidates for varsity honors are coming up from last year’s freshman squad which was the best in several years. Two of these sophomores are Ed Angsten, a fast little forward, and Ed Krause, a center. The latter will not be able to report until the close of the football season.
A large freshman squad turned out for the initial practice last Tuesday, and as soon as they are organized they will begin scrimmaging against the varsity. In these scrimmages Keogan will have an opportunity to see how the new men of the varsity act under fire and he will al-s^ be able to test out different combinations to see how they click together.
120 S. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
NEW STYLE? YES! LOWER PRICES? YES! Step into these extra value KUEHN shoes Today. FEATURE STYLES
Now $6.00 to $8.50	— Others $5.00 to $14.50
The Fastest Way
There is a necessity, at this particular time of year, for considerable hurried travel to and from Chicago. The hourly service of America’s fastest electric railway meets the demands of the busiest student; the appointments and service of its dining car and club car trains answer the needs of the most meticulous.
50UTHNSEHORf
Trains every hour on the hour to downtown Chicago.
October 23, 1931
Twenty-nine
NOTRE DAME FACES PITT
(Continued from Page 5)
at the hands of the Fighting Irish in Pittsburgh last October.
Notre Dame will enter the game a top-heavy favorite on the basis of the devastating offense displayed against Drake last Saturday and the air-tight defense witnessed two weeks ago against Northwestern. After holding Rentner, Olson and Meenan to practically nothing, and keping the Drake Bulldogs outside of their 45-yard line, the Fighting Irish are fairly confident that there will be no shredding of lines going on in the Notre Dame stadium tomorrow while the aforementioned Notre Dame team is on the defense.
Coach Anderson used forty men against Drake and the last team functioned just as smoothly as the first. It is improbable that Pitt can match this reserve strength, but they will be the best situated in this respect of any of Notre Dame’s opponents so far. They also have an all-around blocking team, which will be something new to the Fighting Irish, and will be extremely dangerous if their backs start getting into the clear. But before that happens they will have to get through the
Notre Dame forwards and that has not been done yet this season.
Pittsburgh has a strong passing attack which may be good for substantial gains, since Notre Dame has had little experience in pass defense in their first three games. The Panthers completed four out of twelve tosses that were good for 70 yards against Reserve. Notre Dame has had no opportunity to test their own passing attack, so it is still an unknown quality, but ever since Knute Rockne conceived the idea of the forward pass in 1912 no one has seen a Notre Dame team that couldn’t pass.
The probable lineups:
NOTRE DAME		PITT.
Kosky	L.E.	Hirshberg (C)
Krause	L. T.	Quatse
Greeney	L.G.	Milligan
Yarr (C)	C.	Daugherty
Hoffmann	R. G.	H. Morris
Kurth	R. T.	MacMurdo
Devore	R. E.	Collins
Murphy	Q. B.	Hogan
Schwartz	L.H.	Heller
Sheeketski	R. H.	Beider
Melinkovich	F. B.	Clark
Referee, Halloran; umpire, Knight (Dartmouth); field judge, Daniels
(Loyola); head linesman, Bolster.
Reserves Tie Ypsilanti, 0 to 0
Michigan Normal’s football eleven and a Notre Dame reserve aggregation played a scoreless tie on Alumni field, at Ypsilanti, Mich., last Saturday. Both teams lacked the necessary offensive power to punch over a score. Frequent fumbles by the Normal squad proved disastrous.
Although the Notre Dame reserves never advanced veiy far into Normal territory they made eight first downs to the heavier Michigan team’s four. The Irish broke up every scoring play the Hurons started but lacked the necessary power to sustain a drive. In the last half both teams resorted to passes without success.
In the last few minutes Simmons, Normal fullback, returned a punt 45 yards to the Irish 19 yard line. Here the Notre Dame line braced and three plays gained but six yards. From this point Hawks, Normal half, essayed a place-kick but it fell short. Aside from that threat the Ramblers’ goal was never endangered.
Simmons at fullback was the big gun of the Normal attack while Gildea and Robinson in the line and Connelly in the backfield starred for Notre Dame.'
“All Sizes, All Colors and AD Styles”
High Quality Corduroys $2.85
Field Shoes for ■Cl Cinder Path
Hello Men!
Smith s
Cafeteria
111 E. Jefferson Blvd.
Shetland Bldg.
^he Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
GIL-BRO’S
Formerly U. S. Anny Store 330 South Michigan Street
The place that makes you glad you’re hungry
Thirty
The Scholastic
Splinters From The Press Box
By Edmund L. Moriarty
THANK YOU, MR. SOLEM
“It’s the greatest football combination I’ve ever witnessed in action,” said Ossie Solem, renowned coach of the Drake Bulldogs who were the lambs to the slaughter of last Saturday. These words are only a few extracted from the comment made by Mr. Solem as he and his team were
preparing for the return trip to their own stronghold. He was unstinting in his praise of Notre Dame, and coming from such a man as Solem, we know that it is from the heart.
Certainly this is a glowing tribute when one considers that Solem ranks this year’s eleven above those of the last two years and those made
immortal by Gipp and the “Four Horsemen.” Solem’s tribute was not an alibi. He is too much of a man for that. That is why his words conveyed so much and helped make us certain that we have another great team here this year.
NOW THE PANTHERS
Tomorrow Coach “Doc” Sutherland, of Pittsburgh, will strut eleven of his most ferocious Panthers out on the field in an effort to stem the Notre Dame tide and preserve an untarnished record and goal line that is theirs in their own right. Then after much clawing by Panther talons and gnashing of “Fighting Irish” teeth a dispute will be settled which is bound to result in the complete ruin of the record of one of the contestants.
Pittsburgh is here with a fine team, boasting of overwhelming victories and an uncrossed goal line. Down at Pittsburgh the sages have it that the Panthers have their greatest team in history. It is true they haven’t received an acid test as yet, but that will come tomorrow and will serve in the same capacity for Notre Dame. Ossie Solem says that we have our greatest team in history also. All doubt should be removed after the game tomorrow.
In the game against Drake last Saturday, the attack was exceptionally smooth and the team as a whole functioned perfectly. Drake of course did not have a sensational team on the field, but they were every bit as good as in former years and displayed the same courage and gameness that has always typified the Bulldogs.
BEST WISHES, MR. FEENEY
Word comes to us that Albert J. Feeney, unsung hero of the recent game against Indiana, is recovering from the nose injury that he sustained in that contest. No, Mr. Feeney did not play in that game, but well might have been included in the lineup, so unselfishly did he play his part that went by almost unnoticed. Feeney, a Notre Dame . alumnus and former teammate of Knute Rockne, was a sideline spectator down at Bloomington, and when the occasion arose, he was there to meet it with the fervor of a true Notre Dame man.
Mike Koken broke away for a nice gain but was gradually being forced out of bounds by two potential Hoo-
October 23, 1931
Thirty-one
sier tacklers. There was a chance that he would be thrown on the concrete that bordered the running track and injure himself quite seriously. Feeney, sensing a possible disaster, flung himself in the path of the falling Koken so as to break the latter’s fall. There was a big pile-up. Koken and his aggressors arose uninjured, but the man at the bottom of the pile, Mr. Feeney, was left with a broken nose. Certainly here is a man with the true Notre Dame spirit, and he has our heartiest congratulations and well wishes for a most speedy recovery.
ANOTHER DEPRESSION
This column suffered a depression of its own in the forecast of last Saturday. Upsets featured the play throughout the whole country, but certainly did not feature our predictions. There were fourteen wins, five losses and one tie as a result of our efforts, with every loss constituting a major upset. That brings the total for the year to an even fifty wins, ten losses, and two ties. Incidentally, five predictions have been hit right on the head, while many others lacked a point or so of being exact. Two Pittsburgh games were among these, so we are guessing on our reputation in picking the score of that game tomorrow which is: Notre Dame 27, Pittsburgh 0.
Banas, Barstow Out
The latest casualty reports from Coach Heartley Anderson’s squad reveal the loss of two more men. Steve Banas, second string fullback, ran afoul of the fullback jinx in the Drake game to come up with a broken finger. The injury will keep him out of the Pittsburgh game tomorrow.
Fred Barstow, substitute tackle, un- , derwent an emergency operation for appendicitis at St. Joseph’s hospital Tuesday evening. This will cost Anderson his services for the remainder of the season. Barstow had been playing with the third team at right tackle and saw considerable service in the Drake game a week ago.
The Forecasts
NOTRE DAME 27, PITTSBURGH 0
Northwestern 19, Ohio State 7
Michigan 14, Illinois 6
Minnesota 13, Iowa 0
Fordham 7, Drake 0
Army 20, Yale 7
Georgia 13, Vanderbilt 7
Wisconsin 13, Pennsylvania 0
Purdue 20, Carnegie Tech 0
Southern California 33, California 6
Indiana 14, Chicago 0
Tulane 26, Georgia Tech 0
Tennessee 21, North Carolina 0
Columbia 25, William 0
Michigan State 20, Georgetown 0
Dartmouth 40, Lebanon Valley 0
Nebraska 13, Kansas 0
St. Mary’s 24, Gonzaga 6
Detroit 13, West Virginia 0
The "Home-Interest” in College Life...
is easily maintained by direct Voice-Visits by telephone throughout the school year. Talking to Dad and Mother once a week puts the old "pep” back into study hours . . . and the cost is negligible. Yes, charges may be reversed to the home telephone if you desire!
The Economical Noice of Millions
Do you know that over one hundred golf balls are lost on the Burke course daily?
Do you know that over eight hundred gallons of milk are poured down the throats of students, in both liquid and semi-liquid form.
INDIANA BELL Telephone Company
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
Here’s One Smoke for MEN
IET the little girls toy with their long, slim holders—let them park scented cigarettes with their powder compacts. That’s the time for you to go in for a REAL MAN’S smoke.
And what can that be but a PIPE!
There’s something about a time-proven, companionable pipe that does satisfy a. man’s smoking instincts. You become attached to it—like
She won’t borrow the way it clears your pipe! yOur }ieacj( your imagination, puts a keen edge on your thinking.
And you know the heights of true
smoking satisfaction when you keep
your pipe filled with Edgeworth. It’s
the finest blend hurleys. And its rich aroma have made Edgeworth the favorite among pipe tobaccos in 42 out of 54 leading American colleges and universities.
Edgeworth? You can buy Edgeworth ■wherever good
of choice, selected mellow flavor and
The smoke you can call your own
tobacco is sold. Or, if you wish to try before you buy, send for special free packet. Address Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old barleys, with its natural savor enhanced by Edgeworth’s distinctive
and exclusive eleventh process. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms —Edgeworth ReadyRubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. All sizes, 15^ pocket package to $1.50 pound humidor tin.
On Down the Line
. . . GEORGE DAVIS, who St. Paul recently sold to the Phillies, was so little thought of a few years ago that the club tried to trade him around the A. A. . . . LUM THOMAS, 75, and CECIL GILHAM, six, were the oldest and youngest fox hunters at a recent meet in Missouri . . . CHARLIE HOFF, Norwegian pro, pole vaulted 4.32 meters a few weeks ago . . that height is nearly one-half inch better than the present world’s record . . .
. . . CARL KINNISON, freshman gridder at the University of Idaho, is the last of four brothers to play football at the Vandal institution . . . ALLEN, BANKS, and FRANK preceded him . . . BOB GODWIN, cousin of W. L. (YOUNG) STRIBLING, recently invaded New York in quest of the light heavyweight crown . . . CAPTAIN “KIDD” BREWER, of Duke University, has been captain of nine different teams from grade school days up to now . . .
. . . EARL SMITH, Houston outfielder, has played 21 years of professional baseball and never yet fallen below the .300 mark for a season’s work . . .There are no two-letter men playing on the Illinois football team this fall . . . PETE YANASKUS, captain-elect and the only veteran of two seasons, was declared ineligible . . . Authorities seek a football game between ARMY and NAVY for the World’s Fair- in Chicago in 1933 . . .
. . . P. DELLINGER, a pitcher, recently played a part in every put-out in a seven-inning game . . . struck out 19, threw out another, and beat another to the first base bag . . . Coach E. C. HAYES, of Indiana, is the only new football mentor in the Big Ten this fall . . . “PA” STRIBLING, fight promoter, has established his home and headquarters in Atlanta ... a Massachusetts mayor threatened to abolish the high school football team when protests were received against a proposed Sunday practice session . . .
EXPERT SHOE REBUILDING
and
HAT RENOVATING
CALLED FOR AND DELIVERED
Phone 2-2228
Washington Shoe Repair Co.
116 W. Washington St. South Bend, Ind.
Phone	Xray
Office 2-1067 ■Residence 3-4041
Dr. E. S. Lucas
Dentist 702 J. M. S. Building Opposite Oliver Hotel
SOUTH BEND - INDIANA
KEEP KISSABLE
WITH
OLD GOLDS
To be in good taste, as well as for their good taste, smoke natural-flavored OLD GOLDS. They'll give you a finer smoke, without any unpleasant aftermaths of any kind.
NOT A COUGH IN A CARLOAD
© P. Lorillard Co.,Inc.
The twenty cigarettes in your package of OLD GOLDS reach you in prime condition, as fresh as twenty cherries just picked from the tree. The finest of moisture-proof Cellophane wrapping insures that.
But OLD GOLDS are not merely fresh;
they are refreshingly different. Blended from pure tobacco . . . free of oily, foreign flavorings . . . OLD GOLDS do not taint the breath with lingering odors, and do not discolor the teeth with needless stains.
NO "ARTIFICIAL FLAVORS" TO TAINT THE
BREATH ... OR STAIN THE TEETH

The Dodge Sisters—internationallyfamaus.
Vaudeville Team
vaudeville learn
Chesterfield
BETTER MANUFACTURE, safeguarded throughout by laboratory supervision of every material, every step.
Nobody smokes a better cigarette than Chesterfield. And nobody ever will.
1
Yach brings out the best in the other!
The Dodge Sisters are a perfect team— each brings out the best in the other.
The exclusive Chesterfield Cross-Blend is like that. It does much mote than merely mix together a few tobaccos, as in ordinary blending. It actually unites the best qualities of one type of tobacco with the best qualities of other types.
Each brings out the best in the other— creating extra mildness, natural sweetness, and far better taste.
Chesterfield holds everlastingly to higher Standards—
BETTER TOBACCOS, die mildest and ripest Turkish and Domestic tobaccos that can be bought.
BETTER PAPER, pure, odorless, tasteless—the finest made.
@1951. iKcarraMvaas Tobacco Co.