The Notre Dome
Scholastic
February 7,1958
A new idea in smoking!
alem refreshes your taste
Created by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company


* menthol fresh
Salem brings a wholly new quality to smoking... Springtime-softness in every puff. Salem refreshes your taste the way a Spring morning refreshes you.
★	rich tobacco taste
Smoking was never like this before! You taste that rich tobacco...then, surprise!... there’s an unexpected softness that gives smoking new comfort and ease.
★	modern filter, too
Through Salem’s pure-white, modern filter flows the freshest taste in cigarettes. You smoke refreshed, pack after pack, when you buy Salems by the carton.
We want engineers who like to
We have plenty of it to be done. We have problems to be licked, and questions to be answered.
Want to roll up your sleeves and tackle the fascinating world of petrochemicals? Union Carbide makes almost 500 of them—it’s a world leader.
Want to grab the atom by the tail and put it to useful work? Union Carbide’s been in nuclear energy since the earliest days of the Manhattan Project. It operates three AEC plants plus Oak Ridge National Laboratory, and is building a private nuclear research center near New York.
Want to dig in and really get down to the basics? Union Carbide is as basic as an industry can get. It’s been called “chemist to the chemicals industry and metallurgist to the metals industry.”
Representatives of Divisions of Union Carbide Corporation, listed below, will be interviewing on many campuses. Check your placement director, or write to the Division representative. For general information, write to V. 0. Davis, 30 East 42nd Street, New York 17, New York.
bakelite company Plastics, including polyethylene, epoxy, fluorothene, vinyl, phenolic, and polystyrene. J. C. Older, River Road, Bound Brook, N. J.
silicones DIVISION Silicones for electrical insulation, release agents, water repellents, etc.; silicone rubber. P. I. Emch, 30 East 42nd Street, New York 17. N. Y.
GENERAL OFFICES —NEW YORK
Accounting, Electronic Data Processing, Operations Research, Industrial Engineering, Purchasing E. R.
Brown, 30 East 42nd Street, New York 17, N. Y.
ELECTRO METALLURGICAL COMPANY Over 100 ferro-alloys and alloying metals; titanium, calcium carbide, acetylene. C. R. Keeney, 137— 47th St.. Niagara Falls, N. Y.
HAYNES STELLITE COMPANY Special alloys to resist heat, abrasion, and corrosion; cast and wrought. L E. Denny, 725 South Lindsay Street, Kokomo, Ind.
LINDE COMPANY Industrial gases, metalworking and treating equipment, synthetic gems, molecular sieve adsorbents. P. I. Emch, 30 East 42nd Street, New York 17, N. Y.
national carbon company Industrial carbon and graphite products. Prestone anti-freeze, Eveready flashlights and batteries. S. W. Orne, P. 0. Box 6087, Cleveland, Ohio.
UNION CARBIDE CHEMICALS COMPANY
Synthetic organic chemicals, resins, and fibers from natural gas, petroleum, and coal. W. C. Heidenreich, 30 East 42nd St., New York 17, N. Y.
UNION CARBIDE INTERNATIONAL COM-
PANY Markets Union Carbide products and operates plants overseas. C. C. Scharf, 30 East 42nd Street, New York 17, N. Y.
UNION CARBIDE NUCLEAR COMPANY
Operates Atomic Energy Commission facilities at Oak Ridge, Tenn., and Paducah, Ky. W. V. Hamilton, P. 0. Box “P”, Oak Ridge, Tenn.
VISKING COMPANY A pioneer in packaging —producer of synthetic food casings and polyethylene film. Dr. A. L Strand, 6733 West 65th Street, Chicago, III.
February 7, 1958
3
WHERE YOU BUY IS SOMETIMES AS IMPORTANT AS WHAT YOU BUY...
. . . and we like to feel that the Campus Shop is such a store. Our aim is to have the Campus Shop one of the best university stores in the country. We are goin? toward that goal with the finest selection of nationally famous suits, coats and furnishings obtainable in today’s world markets. We want you to feel that if it comes from the Campus Shop it is right ... in style, in price and in complete satisfaction to YOU.
On the Campus—Notre Dame
The Scholastic
■	-	i
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY...
PAY	PAY	PAY
1	^^B 1	^^^B 1
3	3	3
FEB ^^^B MAR ^^B APR
Get whatever you need in the way of clothing and furnishings—and pay for them the Campus Shop way. Pay one-third in February, one-third in March and the balance in April. Buy whatever you need now and use this convenient charge account, designed for the man who lives on a budget. Naturally, there is no carrying charge at the Campus Shop. Use your charge account tomorrow!
DRESS RIGHT — You can't afford not to!
3
On the campus — Notre Dame
February 7, 1958
On Campos
Mk Shulman
{By the Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys!” and “Barefoot Boy with Cheek”)
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 99 February 7, 1958 No. 12
A SCHOOL AWAY FROM SCHOOL
Disco Quasi Semper Victums Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Students majoring in science, like all ' other American students, have a wild yearning for culture, but, alas, when a student is after a degree in engineering or math or like that, he simply does not have time to take all the liberal arts courses his heart pines for.
And what is being done about this unhappy situation? I’ll tell you what: Enlightened corporations everywhere are setting up on-the-job liberal arts programs for the newly employed science graduate—courses designed to broaden his cultural base—for the enlightened corporation realizes that the truly cultured employee is the truly valuable employee.
Take, for example, Lambswool Sigafoos.
A week after his graduation, Lambswool reported to Mr. Femur, the personnel director of an enlightened corporation engaged in the manufac-facture of cotter pins and wing nuts. “How do you do?” said Lambswool. “I’m Lambswool Sigafoos and I’ve come to work.”
“Sit down,” said Mr. Femur, chuckling kindly. “Have a Marlboro.”
“Thank you,” said Lambswool. “I like Marlboros. I like their filter and their flavor.”
“Me too,” said Mr. Femur, blinking humanely. “And I like their flip-top box. When my flip-top box of Marlboros is empty, I use it to keep fish hooks in.”
“Know what I do when my flip-top box of Marlboros is empty?” asked Lambswool. ,
“What?” said Mr. Femur, sniggering graciously.
“I buy some more Marlboros,” said Lambswool.
“A sound idea,” said Mr. Femur, vibrating fetchingly. “But enough chit-chat. Come along to the campus.”
“Campus?” said Lambswool, puzzled. “But I’ve come to work. Take me to my drawing board.”
Here’s a sentence that’s easy to parse: Subject—you. Verb-get. Object—a lot to like in a Marlboro, whose makers bring you this column throughout the school year.	.
“This is an enlightened corporation,” said Mr. Femur, yodelling viciously. “First you must get your cultural base broadened.” .
Mr. Femur took Lambswool to the training campus, which looked like any other campus. It had i vy-co vered buildings, dormitories, fraternity and sorority houses, a stadium, a deer park, and a moat. Lambswool was given a roommate, a beanie, and copies of the company hymn and rouser, and the enlightened corporation proceeded to fill the gap in his culture.	.
First he was taught to read, then to print capital letters, then capital and small letters. Then there was an attempt to teach him script, but it was ultimately abandoned.
From these fundamentals, Lambswool progressed slowly but steadily through the more complex disciplines. He was diligent, and the corporation was patient, and in the end they were rewarded, for when Lambswool fin
ished, he could play a clavier, compose a triolet, parse a sentence, and identify the birthstone for every month of the year.
His lengthy schooling finally over, Lambswool was assigned to an important executive position where he served with immense distinction ... Not, however, for long, because one . week later he reached retirement age.
Today, still spry, he lives in St. Petersburg, Florida, where he supplements his pension by parsing sentences for tourists.
© 1958, Max Shulman
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, ' Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
JIM STEINTRAGER Editor
- DAVID L. KUBAL Associate Editor
JOHN GLAVIN Associate Editor
GEORGE CLEMENTS __________News Editor HARRY McKEE ______________..._ Copy Editor ‘
BOB EARLY................:. Features Editor
MIKE FITZPATRICK............. Sports Editor BOB WILLIAMS ................ Photography
LORAN SHEFFER____________Business Manager MIKE KURAS_______________Assistant Business
JOE DEZELAN___________ Circulation Manager WALT RUDGE ___________ Assistant	News
RON BLUBAUGH................Assistant	Copy
BILL CONWAY.................Assistant	Copy
TOM EDWARDS .............Assistant Features TOM LAMONT .............. Assistant	Features
BOB SEDLACK ____________ Assistant	Features
ED ROHRBACH _____________ Assistant Sports
TED THOMPSON ____________... Assistant Sports
News Staff: Ken Baumgartner, Alan Bosch, Art Dechene, Luino Dellosso, Bob Maruyama, Gil Pap-rocki, Lyn Relnh, Charles Rieck, Roy Rubeli, Tom , Romans. Milt Streifel, Tom Swanstrom, Dick Zang.
Sports Staff: Bob Briggs. Jim Brogan. Dave Cole, Jack Dolan, John Koch, Bob Miller. Mike Murphy, Tim O’Reilly, Bob Schaefer.
Sports Features: Joe Bride, John McMahon, Greg Rogers. • -
Business Staff: Bernie Dobranski, Pete Hasbrook, Bob Horn, Conrad Suski.
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press.. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, at the University of Notre Dame. Subscription rate, $4.00 a year. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Publication Schedule for the 1957-58 school year. Volume 99: No. 1, Sept. 27; No. 2, Oct. 4; No. 3, Oct. 11;	No.	4,	Oct.	18; No. 5,	Oct.	25;	No. 6, v
Nov. 8;	No.	7,	Nov.	15; No. 8,	Nov.	22;	No. 9,
Dec. 6; No. 10, Dec. 13 (Football Review); No. 11, Jan. 17;	No.	12,	Feb.	7; No. 13,	Feb.	14;	No. 14,
Feb. 21;	No.	15,	Feb.	28; No. 16,	March 7;	No. 17,
March 14; No. 18, March 21; No. 19, March 28; No. 20, April 25; No. 21, May 2; No. 22, May 9; No. 23, May 16; No. 24, May 23.
The Scholastic
books for
by MARTIN T. FRANCIS
broke students
0 Brother Domers, according to the of-• ficial campus financial report, and this author’s unsatisfied appetite for beer and pizza, we are in a period of depression. The supply of “filthy lucre” which the post office gave us for sleep-
*- ing during the Christmas vacation, and that which was fleeced from idealistic relatives or embezzled from parents has . been depleted. We are at a serious crisis.
In a couple of weeks we’ll be satiated , with the pleasures of antagonizing our roommates, cutting out paper dolls, prac-T>ticing yogi positions, and playing poker for match sticks, or toothpicks, as you will. We have no apparent defense against the approaching boredom. The only money we had has been squandered on text books.
Consequently I have thoroughly ex-♦ amined the situation, and have discovered that these same texts contain an unfathomable supply of time killing elements for the impoverished collegian, that is, for the impoverished student who will permit his curiosity to be psychologically badgered, deceived, and aroused by the dust jackets that I and my witch-doctoi- propose these books be supplied f with. (The following suggestions are not a service of your Student Government.)
J The Complete Works of William Shakespeare -
• .	by
«.	William Shakespeare
or. maybe
Christopher Marlowe or maybe even a'	Francis Bacon
I Front cover: A colored photograph of I Alfred E. Neuman. (He is in no way connected with Will, but is presented
I as a service to the readers. It’s suitable | for framing. How else is the cotton J* pickin’ book gonna sell?)
I Printed along the bottom border: By | the author of “Venus and Adonais” and I numerous tantalizing sonnets.
t’’ Back cover: Reviews, for example: “The best of adventure, romance, and intrigue, by a rising young artist.”— Ben Johnson
“Outstanding success . . its insights into the drinking habits of Falstaff
February 7, 1958
“The delicate handling by this author has been a most pleasurable experience.”
—A. Specimen
“Terrific!”—Mark Trail
AND STILL ANOTHER
Principles of Criminal Law = bY	.
The visiting professor for graduate studies, San Quentin.
Front cover: A black and white photograph of Mr. J. Dillenger and escort leaving the theater.	.
Back cover: “The Principles and Loopholes of Criminal Law is my magnum opus. The contents have taken me . twenty years to life, plus countless personal experiences, to compile, and now that it has been published in this handsomely bound edition, suitable for cell' or library, I can only offer my sincerest -thanks to the capturing personalities of Precinct 101 and Judge Schmidt who have given me the time.”—The Author-
AND FINALLY
Thermo Dynamics .
Not to be mistaken for ‘ The Kinsey Report or, Voices of Student Government) .	hy
' Rudolph Valentino
Front cover: A full length picture, in color, of Gina Lollobrigida. (Another hidden persuader.)	.	-
Back cover: “Oh bolder-dash and fiddle-sticks! You won’t enjoy this book no matter how well the cover psychologically sets you up, but read it, you need the credits to graduate.” —The Lousy Author
AS A BONUS
A Farewell to Arms .
by J
Ernie -	.' j .
Front cover: A portrait of William Shakespeare. (We had to get rid of the thing somehow.)	-• v
Back cover: More reviews. . .
“I felt like I lived it.”—Venus de.Mflo ; ■ “A living tale of the fortunes of war, f..? but not all of them.”—Jake Bames. :
. “Drink milk.”—The W.C.T.U. :
should make it required reading for all collegians.”—Joer.	\
“The marriage and death of Romeo and Juliet should be a vivid example for teenagers who are going steady ... a striking tale of juvenile delinquency.”— The Cobras	.
AND ANOTHER
Fenny and Mueller’s
Principles of Accounting, Advanced . or
The Philosophical Theory of Bookkeeping .
Front cover: In modern abstract, or something. It would look like a business statement balancing, the words, “amusement” and “edification” to the double underlined word, “success.” Actually the cover- would be an old work sheet from a bankrupt corporation and would serve to exemplify the, chapter on Expense Elimination or, How to Train your Wife as Secretary.
Back cover	.
“FOR PEOPLE FROM SIX TO SIXTY”
“This entertaining book, so well-written by ourselves, has successfully undertaken the task of lucidly explaining the . intricacies of modem business while offering countless hours of amusement in allowing the reader to participate by putting the numbers in the squares, practicing advanced addition, and drawing the balancing lines.
“Its chapters on ‘Plugging’ and ‘Forced Balances’ should prove a thrilling experience to all cheating collegians.
“No expensive equipment is necessary, only a red and black pencil and a straight edge.”—The Authors
AND ANOTHER
An Introduction to Animal Biology , by
A. Vertebrata
. Front cover: A full colored print of Bambi kissing Thumper. And on the bottom: “By the author of, The Benefits of Being a Vegetarian.”
Back cover: More reviews.
“An intriguing tale crammed with vivid details of spiritual power and beauty.”—Gargantua

WHERE NOTRE DAME SHOPS WITH CONFIDENCE
Fine Quality Diamonds
Nationally Advertised Watches Jewelry and Gift Items
Jewelry and Watch Repairing
126 N. Michigan. Ph. CE 2-1202
That’s why American Express Student Tours are expertly planned to include a full measure of individual leisure— ample free time to discover your Europe—as well as the most comprehensive sight-seeing program available anywhere! Visit England, Scotland, Ireland, Holland, Belgium, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Italy, The Rivieras and France—accompanied by distinguished tour leaders—enjoy superb American Express service throughout.
10 Special Tours ... 48 to 63 days ... via famous ships: United States, Liberte, Nieuw Amsterdam, Atlantic,
Italia, New York. $1,198 up.
Other tours available . . . from 35 days . . . $769 up.
You can always TRAVEL NOW—PAY LATER when you go American Express!
For complete information, see your Campus Representative, local Travel Agent or American Express Travel Service, member: Institute of International Education and Council on Student Travel
.. . or simply mail the handy coupon
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••a*
American Express Travel Service
65 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y. e/o Travel Sales Division
Yes! Please do send me complete information about 1958 Student Tours of Europe!
Name.....................................
Address..................................
City...............Zone.....State........
PROTECT YOUR TRAVEL FUNDS WITH AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVELERS CHEQUES — SPENDABLE EVERYWHERE
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••a
hbicht Bros.
FAMOUS FOR THEIR FOOD-NOW IN CAFETERIA STYLE
1415 LINCOLNWAY WEST
Faculty and Students
Abuses in the practice of missing classes for plant interviews led last fall to the adoption by the University of a policy of refusing a plant interview as valid reason for excusing an absence from class. On reconsideration the University is revising this policy as stated below. Seniors should arrange to take plant interviews during the several vacation periods, or between semesters or at other times when no classes will be missed. In cases where they are unable to arrange with employers for plant interviews without missing classes — and before concluding that such arrangements cannot be made they should check with the Placement Office — the following policy will apply:
REVISED POLICY (applies only to students in their senior year)
1.	Students absent from class for plant interview's, arranged through proper procedures, will be given excused absences—i.e., permission to make up work missed — up to the number of permissible absences in a course.
2.	Students who have taken one or more absences without excuse will not be given excused absences beyond the permissible number of absences in a course.
3.	Students who have taken one or more absences for valid reason will, at the discretion of their dean, be allowed excused absences for plant interview's up to the number of absences permissible in a course.
ON THE COVER: Dick O’Brien captures the mood of the University Theater’s production of “The Importance of Being Earnest.” The Oscar Wilde play which opens Wednesday in Washington Hall is a romantic comedy about several very prissy Englishmen who never seem to know what to do with their time. The theme of the play is represented by the young lady gazing into the mirror while the satchel represents, strangely believe it, Earnest.
minis
UBRARY and BOOK SHOP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
A Non-Profit Organization
8
The Scholastic
^d^uoU
‘throwbacks’
* I
IF one has developed objective attitudes after four years _ of study, he has made a significant achievement. This ,, goal is approached when one learns to constrain the emo' tions so that they do not overrun the intellectual and reason* ing process. It is not a smashing of the emotions, but an educating of them—it is an application of prudence. And as Josef Pieper says in his essay “On the Christian Idea of ‘ , Man”:
It [the doctrine of the priority of prudence} includes, for instance, the educational principle that education and self-education aiming at moral development must be rooted in the virtue prudence, that is to say, the ability to see objectively the realities surrounding our acts, and to make them decide our course of action.
On campus we notice the “realities” of no all night lights, ♦ Dining Hall food, registration systems, and what has arrived in the spotlight as censorship. Of course, this latter is a “reality” that the Scholastic has been aware of for years. Some staffs have fought it, some were passive, and some even tried to look at it objectively. The same applies to important issues on campus—certain staffs gave slanted views, others didn’t care, but, again, others took all points into considera-, tion and made a judgment—they hoped objectively.
However, there is a little organ on campus, that has been getting some publicity, and referred to by all as the Thursday Throwback. This piece of literature puts itself up as a judge upon all events and institutions in the vicinity. However, it isn’t that we disagree with them on all points, in fact « they said many things that definitely needed saying but the editors do fail by stating their points by the use of satire, emotional appeal, and mimicry. Furthermore, they tend to, <• when making a value judgment, view only one side of the problem—that of only some students. They care only about their own welfare, and not that of the community. Let us < ■ say that they were perfectly correct and valid on one point. Nevertheless, through this method they lose a great amount of respect and their effort ends up in a wastebasket marked:
> Crank.
This effort to evaluate these “realities” has possibilities, but nothing will ever be accomplished unless intelligent and •• objective discussion remains the aim of the editors. If we I are to have a campus critical organ, it will have to be edited by students that follow Pieper’s idea. If the Throwback editors continue with their present attitude, they will destroy even the possibility of any progress in this vein.	—D. L. K.
February 7, 1958
the movies
The Saturday movie problem at Washington Hall is with us once more. Once again a number of “Notre Dame boys” have displayed the manners of juvenile delinquents. It has long since ceased to amaze many of us that a group of college “boys” can act in such a thoughtless -and rude manner with such consistency. They have proved themselves time and again.
The offenses of the “boys” are no secret: shoving and pushing to get in and out of Washington Hall; shouting and booing while they are inside. Two weeks ago these displays were supplemented by snowball throwing by those waiting to get into the theater. And during the melee which ensued several persons came close to being seriously injured.
Now it certainly must not be assumed that most of the students act in such a childish manner. The majority of the students appreciate the privilege which the University provides for them each Saturday in the form of free movies. The University does this with the hope of presenting passive recreation for those who cannot afford a date, a downtown movie, or other costly entertainment. In return the University simply asks that the students conduct themselves as normal gentlemen. But a small group of “boys” seem to think that acting like a gentleman consists in shoving, pushing, shouting, and booing.
This is most unfortunate for in abusing the privilege they immediately destroy the enjoyment of the rest of the students. (This is especially true of the “noises” which go on after the movie has started.) They do not act according to any definition of gentlemen ever conceived. They display a fundamental neglect or ignorance of any rules of good -conduct. And despite what they or their friends might think they do not show any signs of intelligence by their actions.
As a result of such recent abuses the University has found it necessary to put out a bulletin concerning attendance at the movies. If you intend to go over to the movies at Washington Hall tomorrow or at any time in the future it is recommended that you read and note well the regulations set down. It is further suggested that you act like a gentleman when you do go and, perhaps, even see that others realize they are disturbing you if they do not act in a gentlemanly fashion. If you do not want to act like a gentleman at Washington Hall or if you do want active recreation it is suggested that you go to the “Rock,” go bowling or skating, go run around the lake or perhaps jump into it. But please do not go to the movies. Some of us go there to see the picture and not to be pushed and shoved and hear the immature babbling of college adolescents.	—J. S.
9
At the Movies
COLFAX
The Seven Hills of Rome: (Feb. 7-14). Features Mario Lanza, Renato Rascel, and an Italian knockout named Marisa Allasio. Lanza plays an American TV singer who is bounced from the air waves for his temperament, travels to the old country, and has a hard time landing a singing job in Rome. Far be it from me to perpetrate a malicious or virulent satire upon a person, in either prose or verse. Nevertheless, let me refer you to Newsweek’s review of this particular movie, which begins thus: “It has been two years since Mario Lanza’s last movie, and it hardly seems long enough.”
GRANADA
Sayonara: (Feb. 7). This heart-warming story of the love of two American soldiers for two Japanese girls has been most attractively mounted, and stars Marlon Brando, Red Buttons, Miko Taka and Ricardo Montalban. There is much of beauty, in setting and in story, and much that is touching and sympathy-inspiring in this picturization of the notable novel of James A. Michener.
PALACE
Rodan, The Flying Monster: (Feb. 7-12). The Palace strikes again.
Co-hit: Hell in Korea. This Anthony Squire production reduces United Nations action in the Korean War of the early 1950’s to episodes inhabited primarily by a small patrol of 16 men, some draftees and others seasoned Regular Army men. And in conclusion I would like to say that I know it won?t make a bit of difference to anyone when it becomes known that this one has AN ALL-MALE CAST. Check?
Fort Dobbs: (Feb. 13). Clint Walker.
Co-hit: Hear Me Good. An outline of the plot doesn’t really do justice to “Hear Me Good.” Roughly, it follows Hal (64 gs) March and his misadventures in trying to fix a beauty contest.
RIVER PARK
Pal Joey: (Feb. 7-8). Headlines Frank Sinatra as this here new guy Joey Evans, night club singer- and m.c., a fast-stepping boy with the gals, any gals, anywhere, and a first class heel in a not-so-bad fashion, Rita Hayworth, ex-hoofer-stripper, an extremely wealthy widow with a palace on Nob Hill, and Kim Novak.
House of Numbers: (Feb. 9-11). Convicts have been breaking out of prison on the screen ever since the movies were young. But there has seldom been a more daring or ingenious escape than that which is depicted in great detail in MGM’s thriller, “House of Numbers.” Jack Palance and a fetching new blonde called Barbara Lang do the honors. Legion of Decency rating: B.
Co-hit: Let's Be Happy. Cinemascope and Technicolor song and dance.
Legend of the Lost: (Feb. 12-15). Three scintillating names, John Wayne, Sophia Loren, and Rossano Brazzi produce a film which is melodrama, with its areas of suspense, excitement and pictorial background effects contributing in significant measure to the whole. Rating: Excellent.
STATE
Untamed Women: (Feb. 7-8).
Co-hit: Passion. Kiddies under 12 are admitted free when accompanied by their parents.
Viking Woman: (Feb. 9-13).
Co-hit: The Astounding She Monster. “Astounding” isn’t the word for this one.
Last Stage Coach West: (Feb. 13-15). Jim Davis-Mary Castle.
Co-Hit: Woman in a Dressing Gown. Yvonne Mitchell, Sylvia Syms and Anthony Quayle portray with skill and convincing clarity the three principals in a domestic triangle. Every inch an A-2.
WASHINGTON HALL
Public Pigeon, No. One: (Feb. 8). Red Skelton-Vivian Blaine. Color.
—Steve Sailer
; CATHOLIC STUDENT ! ~ TOUR OF EUROPE
L.< •<’: Spowwedby .	■	: 4
OUR SUNDAY VISITOR j
... and featuring 59 inspiring days : i :. in England • Belgium • Germany
Switzerland • Austria • Italy • France, H h	•	J
Sailing from Quebec June 30 aboard the S. S. Arosa Sun . . . returning to - i Quebec August 27 aboard the S. S. -'4 t; Arosa Sun.	; j
Vi	•	H
; i	A Spiritual Director will accompany i ■
;	the	group.	i i
H	From $1,146.	M
For complete information,	' >
>' see your Campus Representative, ;M your Travel Agent or	? i
American express
f.:	TRAVEL SERVICE d
4	65 Broadway. New York 6, N. Y. ~
WHifehallj4-2000	:::
• i	•	d
I i For the address of your nearest :4 s < American Express office call H f = Western Union Operator Number 25. ; J i*	•	H
> *	• >
? j	You can always	: $
TRAVEL NOW—PAY LATER when you go American Express!
PROTECT YOUR TRAVEL FUNDS	:: >
->•: ' WITH AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVELERS CHEQUES
—SPENDABLE EVERYWHERE	? |
fe-CX.:--.-...-"- .<	■ . .. :	.;.v ..
WILBUC JUST WOKE UP TO THE FACT THAT HES IN CLASS’
KEEP ALERT FOR A BETTER POINT AVERAGE!
Don’t let that "drowsy feeling” cramp your style in class ... or when you’re "hitting the books”. Take a NoDoz Awakener! In a few minutes, you’ll be your normal best... wide awake ... alert! Youi doctor will tell you—NoDoz Awakeners are safe as coffee. Keep a pack handy!
15 TABLETS, 35c
SUMS j
NOQOZ
AWAKENERS
10
The Scholastic
Ever meet a trusting soul?
“You can’t go wrong looking for a job these days,” he assures you. “Opportunities are great all over. All the good companies have about the same to offer.”
Do they? A lot of not-so-trusting souls think otherwise. They suspect that some companies have much more to offer than others, and they want to find out which those are.
We’ll help. We want to tell you how much the Bell Telephone Companies offer in the way of advancement opportunities, training, pay and benefits, professional associates and working conditions. No matter what your educational background—the arts, the sciences, business or engineering —make a date to talk with a Bell interviewer when he visits your campus. You can also get information about the careers these companies offer by reading the Bell Telephone booklet on file in your Placement Office, or by writing for “Challenge and Opportunity” to:
College Employment Supervisor
American Telephone and Telegraph Company 195 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y.
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
February 7, 1958
11
YOUR INTERESTS, SPECIAL ABILITIES ARE IMPORTANT WHEN DU PONT MAKES YOUR FIRST JOB ASSIGNMENT
I------------------------------------
1	ROOM TO GROW
I	There's plenty of room to grow
at DuPont. One reason is that । the very diversity of our products | and processes requires specialists I in almost every area of science ■ and engineering. Another reason । is that DuPont continues to ex-| pand in many new directions.
« For example, in 1957 sales |	reached $2 billioti. Four new
I	plants were being built. New re-
•	search projects were launched,
।	new products marketed.
J In 1957, too, new technical ,	men joined DuPont in chemical,
।	civil, mechanical, metallurgical,
I	electrical, industrial, petroleum
I____________________________________
DU PONT SUMMER JOB GIVES YOU A CHANCE
TO EARN AND LEARN
Du Pont offers college juniors and qualified sophomores in technical fields the opportunity to earn college expense money this summer while they learn more about die kind of work that will be open to them when diey graduate.
The Company has 75 plants and 98 laboratories located across 26 states —a spread that often gives the student a chance to work in or near his own section of the country. Some of these locations have openings for summer employment in 1958.
12
by
H. J. Hollberg
Du Pont
Representative
and mining engineering: in atomic energy, instrumentation, chemistry, physics, mathematics and many other fields.
All this activity points to as bright a future today as ever before in our long history. There’s a place for the good graduate in this picture. If you would like more specific information on opportunities at Du Pont, we invite you to sign up for a DuPont interview with your placement director.
Students work side by side with practicing engineers and scientists. In this way they gain valuable experience to supplement classroom dieory.
Last year, 407 students from 113 colleges took advantage of this program. Du Pont pays round-trip transportation expenses from home or school to place of employment. Students are not obligated to continue with the Company after graduation.
For complete details on this program. check with your college placement director.
SEND FOR INFORMATION BOOKLET
Booklets on jobs at Du Pont are yours for the asking. Subjects include: mechanical, civil, metallurgical, chemical, electrical, instrumentation and industrial engineers; atomic energy, technical sales, business administration, research and development. Name the subject that interests you in letter to Du Pont, 2494-E Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, Del.
Personalized Training Relates to Policy of Promotion from Within
Where do your interests lie? What courses have you taken? What are your special abilities? DuPont tries to match these factors with available jobs to determine your first job assignment within the Company.
Once the assignment is made, the Company helps you apply your knowledge to a problem right away. You learn by doing—in consultation with your supervisor and others working on various phases of the same project. Your performance on the j ob is evaluated periodically, so you always know where you stand in the eyes of your management.
As you might guess, Du Pont’s personalized training is closely related to its promotion policy. Almost all advancement is made from within the Company, so if your supervision has indicated that you are ready for promotion, and an opening occurs for which your training has prepared you, you are sure to be considered.
Although Du Pont employs about 90,000 people, management authority is decentralized through many departments into small groups—small enough so that the new man’s capabilities can be recognized quickly. This type of organization, plus the Company’s steady growth, produces many opportunities for the new man.
★ ★ ★
Du Pont, over the past 25 years, has spent $1 on research for every $3 on production facilities.
The Scholastic
COMEDY TO OPEN WEDNESDAY ON WASHINGTON HALL STAGE
University to Present 'Importance of Being Earnest’; Ferrone, Cooney Play Leads in Wilde's Production
The University Theater will draw the curtain on its second production of the year, The Importance of Being Earnest, next Wednesday evening. The play will * run until Sunday on the Washington Hall stage.
Tickets will go on sale Monday and the Washington Hall box office will remain open daily thereafter, from 3:30 to 8:30 p.m., until the play closes Sunday. Student tickets will be $1.00 in the orch-f estra and 75 c in the balcony.
Oscar Wilde’s famous comedy is built around a simple pun on the word “earnest.” Two gentlemen are courting the ladies under the assumed name of Earnest and as it turns out, the girls’ interests are a direct result of this assumed , name. On this slender plot line, Wilde has built an elaborate scheme involving mistaken identity, an abandoned infant, and an unbelievable series of coincidences.
REHEARSAL SCENE AT UNIVERSITY THEATRE Dan Ferrone proposes to Meg Nerad
In the cast of the play are some familiar faces as well as a few newcomers. Appearing as John Worthing is Dan Ferrone, remembered for his performances in Time Limit, Death of a Salesman, and other recent shows. As Algernon Moncrieff is Jim Cooney. Jim is also familial- to local theatergoers for his roles in Caine Mutiny and Time Limit.
NEW FACES TOO
Two Saint Mary’s students play the female leads. Georgia Ann Weber and Meg Nerad take the parts of Cecily Cardew and Gwendolyn Fairfax. Both appeared in Time Limit and in Midsummer Night’s Dream at St. Mary’s. Making their first appearance on the Washington Hall stage are Claire Ann Byrne and Pat Ferris. Others in the cast are Jerry Dodge, Rudy Hornish, and Jerry Broderick.
The University Theater had originally
Campus Scene
scheduled George Bernard Shaw’s Pygmalion, but a withdrawal of the amateur rights to the Shaw play forced a change. Although the new play has been in rehearsal since Christmas, it has progressed satisfactorily and the finished production is expected to be a brilliant one.
Fred Syburg of the drama department is the director of the play. The Rev. Arthur S. Harvey, C.S.C., is the performance coach. The technical director and scene designer is Gill Rathbun.
Behind the scenes at Washington Hall is stage manager Felix Isherwood, assisted by Ed Fixari. The light crew is Henry Frawley, Dave McDonald, and Dan O’Neill. Handling the properties are John Toth and Stephen Murray. The stage crew is Lawrence Belle, Al Metzger, Steve Murray, Tommy Scott and Milton Streifel."
ENGLISH HUMOR TOO
Style is the dominating feature of this production as the players move from the realism of Time Limit to the humor of The Importance of Being Earnest. The dialogue and situations are typical of English humor at its finest and the acting promises to match the quality of the play. .
The play was first shown in London at the St. James Theater on Feb. 14, 1895, and since that first performance it has been enjoyed by countless audiences.. Wilde’s play is noted for its unique quality of humor, and could prove a delightful night of entertainment.
—Ron Blubaugh
Fellowship Grants Received By Two Graduate Physicists
The General Tire and Rubber Co., Akron, 0., has made a grant of $8,800 to support two fellowships in the University’s physics department, according to an announcement by Assistant Dean Francis X. Bradley of the Graduate School.
The fellowships, which provide a stipend of $3,400 each have been awarded to Bernard J. Weigman, Baltimore, Md., and Louis G. LaMarca, Schenectady, N. Y. The balance of the grant, Bradley said, is being used to purchase equipment for their research in polymer physics under the supervision of Dr. Robert Anthony.
Notre Dame also recently received a grant of $2,200 renewing the United. States Rubber Foundation Fellowship, Bradley said. The fellowship will be held in the spring and fall semester by Robert H. Becker, Greenville, Pa., a graduate student in chemistry.
February 7, 1958
13
Mardi Gras Raffle Book Sales Top $23,000; Badin Hall Leads Second Collection Totals
Dave McMahon, chairman of the 1958 Mardi Gras, reported that, as of the end of January, a total of $23,223.04 had been collected from the sale of raffle books on the new Cadillac.
It was also announced that Mr. and Mrs. Joseph A. LaFortune of Tulsa, Okla., have expressed a desire to match the $7,000 allocated to the Student Center.
Badin Hall led the totals with 69.1% collected. The last collection date will be Monday, Feb. 10; all books must be in by Feb. 12. Anyone who misses the last collection is asked to bring returns to room 1-B of the Student Center.
The Ford Motor Co. has notified the Mardi Gras Committee that they have decided to delay their unveiling date for the 1958 Thunderbird until midFebruary.
The Committee said that the student prize would be on campus sometime during the week preceding the festival. McMahon expressed regret at the delay.
He maintained, however, that “the choice was of greater benefit to the students” since the ’58 T-Bird” is far superior to the earlier model.” The Bird boasts a 300 horsepower, special V-8 engine along with completely new styling and improved roadmanship. This four-passenger version of the Thunderbird will be the first to be displayed in Indiana.
BALL STARTS WEEK END
The start of Mardi Gras week end is
“Le Bal Mardi Gras” on Friday night, Feb. 14. The opening of the carnival itself is the following evening in the Navy Drill Hall. For two more evenings, Monday and Tuesday, from 7 until 11:30 pan., the Drill Hall will simulate a carnival on the New Orleans river front.
The last night of the carnival will be the time of the grand drawing. The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., will pick the magic number that names the winner of the 1958 Cadillac. The winner of
OFF-CAMPUS COLLECTIONS
Mardi Gras chance books may be turned in by off-campus students any afternoon of the week in room 1-B of the Student Center.
Those students in the residence halls who have missed the collections may also turn in their books at the Center.
The final day that returns may be made is this coming Wednesday.
the student car will be also announced at this time.
Booths will be operated by 25 of the major campus clubs. Dice, card and wheel games of chance will dominate. Campus sharpies are challenged to match their skill against the house in faro, blackjack, roulette and craps.
More intricate games include double roulette, where the winner is decided by the turn of two wheels, and also the Kentucky Club’s horse race.
DOUSE STUDENT LEADERS
The Senate and Blue Circle members will operate a "Duck-the-Clown” game where a well-aimed ball will release a tub of water over a student leader victim. As a take-off on the song,' the Villagers are sponsoring a “Bubble Machine” where colored ping-pong balls will decide the winner.
The Architects’ Club will serve refreshments while the Italian Club will offer pizza pies and sausage sandwiches.
The St. Mary’s show promises to be better than ever. On-board a river boat stage, 16 St. Mary’s girls will present a continuous revue backed up by several jazz bands.
The allocation of the money derived from the Mardi Gras has been tentatively decided. The Student Senate is considering donating $10,000 to the Campus Charity Chest with $4,000 of that money to go to Moreau Seminary.
THE NEW ‘T-BIRD*
Student prize to be awarded at Mardi Gras carnival
Another $7,000 would be for repairs and future improvements of the Student Center.
For big name entertainment and distinguished lecturers, $2,500 has been allocated. About $5,000 would be spent in fixing up the boathouse on St. Joseph’s Lake for special parties and events. As a scholarship to aid top students at Notre Dame, $5,000 has been suggested.
Kai Winding and His Septet will provide the music for “Le Bal” on Friday night.
WINDING’S BACKGROUND
Although a newcomer to Notre Dame, Kai has starred with his trombone at the Newport Jazz Festival and Birdland. He has played on the “Hit Parade,” “Patti Page Show” and was in the orchestra for Pal Joey on Broadway.
Kai was also featured with Stan Kenton in the latter’s “Artistry in Rhythm” record series. The Downbeat and Metronome annual polls show Kai consistently among the top three trombonists from 1947 through the present.
In 1943, Kai teamed up with another trombone great, J. J. Johnson. Within a year, he and Johnson put five LP’s on the stands. The duo was acclaimed by Metronome as the most widely recorded jazz duo in jazz history. The “Trombone Sound,” created by Kai in this group, was so acclaimed that they put out a Columbia LP featuring eight trombones.
The group was disbanded in 1956 and Kai formed the present group which would represent “Trombone Sound” at its peak with four trombones and three rhythm instruments.—Roy Rubeli.
14
The Scholastic
PLANS CHECKED FOR LOURDES CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION
Father Schaerf, Bishop Pursley and Father Carey
University to Celebrate Centennial of Lourdes; . Solemn Mass on Tuesday Opens Ceremonies
Notre Dame will celebrate the 100th ' anniversary of the Virgin Mary’s apparitions at Lourdes and the opening of j v the International Lourdes Centennial Year with a Solemn High Mass and procession in Sacred Heart Church next £ Tuesday at 4:30 p.m.
I Bishop Leo A. Pursley of Fort Wayne r7 will preside and preach at the ceremon-d ies commemorating the 18 appearances JL of Our Lady to St. Bernadette at the a Grotto of Lourdes, France, between Feb. ;	11 and July 16, 1858. A relic of St.
; Bernadette, who was canonized 25 years ! 4 ago, will be carried in procession by ; Bishop Pursley and placed on an altar in । the campus church dedicated to Our ■ . Lady of Lourdes.
The Rev. Bernard I. Mullahy, C.S.C., assistant provincial of the Holy Cross 1 Fathers’ Indiana Province, will be cele-I '< brant of the centennial Mass to be at-ig tended by the students and faculty members as well as priests and religious of jB Holy Cross in residence on the campus ■W and the public. Assisting Father Mul-v lahy at the altar will be The Rev. Philip lE S. Moore, vice president for academic af-W * fairs, deacon, and The Rev. James E. Norton, vice president for student affairs, subdeacon. The Rev. Richard Grimm, and The Rev. Philip Schaerf, I will act as chaplains to Bishop Pursley.
The Moreau Seminary Choir, directed
February 7, 1958
by The Rev. William McAuliffe, will provide the music of the Mass -including several motets honoring the Blessed Virgin. The choir- will lead the congregation in the singing of the traditional Lourdes hymn, “Immaculate Mary,” during the procession.
The first-class relic of St. Bernadette to be placed in the church was recently obtained from Mother General Anne Marie Crebassol of the Sisters of Charity and Christian Instruction at Nevers, France. The body of St. Bernadette, still incorrupt though she died in 1879, lies in state there at the motherhouse of the order which she joined after the Lourdes apparitions.
Founded in 1842 and named, of course, for Our Lady, the University has honored her, particularly under her title, of Our Lady of Lourdes. In 1874, only 16 years after- the Lourdes apparitions, the Confraternity of the Immaculate Conception of Our Lady of Lourdes was established on the campus. The Confraternity campus offices, a center for the distribution of Lourdes water in the United States since the 1860’s, are under the direction of Father Schaerf.
The Lourdes altar in Sacred Heart Church was dedicated by Notre Dame’s founder, The Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C., about 1880. Surmounting the altar is a magnificent painting of Our
Universi+y to Sponsor Conference Feb. 28
The University of Notre Dame’s sixth, annual Union - Management Conference will be held in Washington Hall on Feb. 28, according to a recent announcement by The Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., founder and director of the event.
“Pending Impacts on Collective Bargaining” will be the theme of this year’s sessions which are expected to attract more than 500 industrial relations executives and labor officials. Included on the program will be addresses by representatives of labor, management, and government and two panel discussions.
Ronald W. Haughton, director of the Institute of Industrial Relations at Wayne University, Detroit, will serve as chairman of a morning panel discussion on “Issues with Long Range Consequences.” Among the subjects to be explored by union and management panelists are “Responsibilities in Preparing Workers-for Retirement”; “The General Motors-UAW Umpire System”; and “The Extent of Controls in Impending Federal Legislation for Negotiated Fund Benefits.”
An afternoon panel on “Some Problems Dealing with Income” will be held by Prof. W. Willard Wirtz of the Northwestern University Law School, Chicago. Panelists will discuss “The Impact of New Technology on Job Rating Methods and Skills”; “Who Should Pay for Union Representatives’ Time During Contract and Grievance Discussions?”; and “Do Wage Increases Cause Price Increases?”
Lady appearing to St. Bernadette. The painting is the work of Lugi Gregori who executed the Columbian murals and the inside decoration of the golden dome.
In 1896 the campus. Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes, a replica of the world-famous French shrine, was completed. In the intervening six decades, tens-of-thousands of students, alumni, pilgrims, and visitors have prayed at the candlelit shrine.
Recently, the Vatican’s Tribunal of the Sacred Penitentiary granted a plenary indulgence to members of any group that visits the Notre Dame grotto during the Lourdes centennial year, particularly Feb. 11, the Feast of Our Lady of Lourdes, and other specified dates. Persons who visit the Grotto as individuals will receive a partial indulgence. The special indulgences were granted last fall during Father Schaerf’s visit to Lourdes and Rome. The climax of his Vatican visit was a private audience with Pope Pius XII who blessed the work of the Lourdes Confraternity and commended the Notre Dame family for its uninterrupted devotion to Our Lady.
15
Dr. Schoenherr Resigns Engineering Post;
Dean Receives Appointment to Navy Position
The resignation of Dean Karl Schoenherr of the College of Engineering and his appointment as technical director of the hydromechanics laboratory at the Navy’s David Taylor Model Basin, Card-erock, Md., were announced recently by The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, and the Navy Department.
Doctor Schoenherr, who has headed the engineering school since 1945, will continue to discharge his responsibilities as dean until the end of the current school year.
A noted naval architect as well as an educator, Dean Schoenherr is an international authority on the resistance and propulsion of ships, their steering and tuning, and propeller design. His formula dealing with the frictional resistance of fluids along plane surfaces, published 25-years ago, is still the classic in the field.
In announcing Dean Schoenherr’s resignation, Father Hesburgh paid tribute to the engineering school’s “twelve years of solid achievement under his direction.” During Schoenherr’s tenure Notre Dame’s engineering enrollment “more than doubled,” Father Hesburgh pointed out, and the school’s laboratory equipment was augmented greatly. He cited highlights of Schoenherr’s deanship as the creation of an engineering mechanics department, the introduction of nuclear engineering courses, the extension of graduate work and research to all departments, the establishment of an evening graduate program for engineers employed in local industry, and the launching of a five-year combination liberal arts-engineering program.
Prior to joining the Notre Dame faculty in 1945, Dean Schoenherr conducted hydrodynamic research for the Navy and merchant marine for 23 years, rising to the post of head naval architect at the David Taylor Model Basin. He devel-
California Professor to Give Lectures on 'History of Art'
Professor John Edward Murphy of the California School of Fine Arts will deliver two lectures in the University Art Gallery on Feb. 17 and 18.
Murphy, head of the Art History department of the San Francisco school, will discuss the “History of Art.” The Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, announces that the lectures will be at 8:00 p.m. They are sponsored by the A.B. school.
oped many of the hydrodynamic features of America’s World War II warships and submarines as well as the Navy’s first homing torpedo. He received the Navy’s Distinguished Civilian Award in 1945.
In returning to the Navy facility, Schoenherr will direct a far-reaching program in hydrodynamic research with particular references to high speed submarines, guided missile surface and subsurface craft, underwater acoustic detection and evasion and torpedo design. He will also coordinate a fundamental hydromechanics research program in
DEAN KARL SCHOENHERR
To leave Notre Dame in June
universities and private laboratories throughout the United States.
A native of Karlsruhe, Germany, Dean Schoenherr served 12 years at sea as a young man aboard ships of German, Austrian, Argentine, and American registry. He decided to settle permanently in the United States and became a naturalized citizen in 1921. He was awarded a bachelor’s degree in naval architecture and marine engineering by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He holds a master’s degree from George Washington University and a doctorate from The Johns Hopkins University.
Schoenherr is a member of the American Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers, the American Society for Engineering Education, the Indiana Society of Professional Engineers, and the American Towing Tank Conference. He is a fellow in the American Association for the Advancement of Science and also holds membership in Sigma Xi and Pi Tau Sigma.
Marriage Institute Sales Planned for Wednesday
Tickets for the 1958 Marriage Insti- ‘ tute will be sold next Wednesday in the s Dining Hall and Huddle. Vince Carroll, this year’s chairman, announces that | those eligible for tickets can pick them up at this time or anytime at 433 Walsh, ? 246 Alumni, and 235 Fisher.
The lectures are scheduled for successive Wednesdays at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall, beginning on Feb. 19. The 4 first speaker will be The Rev. Theodore ; M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., whose subject will • be “Selecting the Marriage Partner.”
Following Father Hesburgh will be t Dr. and Mrs. L. J. Maino who will speak on “The Psychology of the Male and • Female in Marriage.” On March 5, the a ? Rev. A. L. Meloche will talk on “The	I
Image of the Trinity in Sanctity, Sanity,	,
and Sex.”
A
Dr. Louis B. Leone is the next scheduled speaker and his subject is “The ‘ Doctor’s Viewpoint.” Following him will i be Mr. and Mrs. Art Schaefer whose < topic will be “Love in Marriage.”
The concluding lecturers will be Mr. and Mrs. Frank O’Dowd who will com-plete the series on March 26 with their lecture on “Success in Marriage.”	,
Chairman Announces | Senior Retreat Plans
I
Bud Ahearn, chairman of the Senior j Retreat Committee, recently announced that arrangements for the Senior Retreat have been completed. The retreat is scheduled for Feb. 20-22.	|
The Retreat-Master will be The Rev. «| Charles Harris, C.S.C., who is well i known as a speaker and spiritual s director. He has been chosen because of his capabilities and because he is a local priest. As such, he is better acquainted with the Notre Dame student and his interests, both current and fu- x ture.
The opening conference will be at 7:30 p.m. on Feb. 20, and the retreat will con- t elude with the 11:30 a.m. conference on that Saturday. Thus there will be no conflict with the Washington Day Exercises scheduled for the evening of the * 22nd.
Since the retreat is being held during the week this year, rather than on a week end, classes will be cancelled Friday, the 21st, for all seniors participating. However, permissions for the use of this Friday to take an extended week » end will not be granted. Since seniors are required to attend the Washington Day Exercises on Saturday evening, anyway, the retreat should not interfere with any week-end plans.
16
The Scholastic
Civil Rights: A Reply
by Joseph O’Meara and Anton-Hermann Chroust
i..	....................................
On January 17, the Scholastic carried an article titled Politics and Morality in Civil Rights, written by The Rev. Stanley Parry, C.S.C., and Gerhart Niemeyer. The following articles, by Anton-Hermann Chroust, ♦ Professor of Law and Editor-in-Chief of the Natural Law Forum, and Dean Joseph O’Meara, Dean of the Notre Dame Law School, are in reply to that work.
In their recent discussion, “Politics and Morality in Civil Rights,” Father Parry and Professor Niemeyer propose nothing less than this: In a civil society under the rule of law the John Does, being in the majority or, at least, in control of the organs of socio-political power, derive great pleasure as well as a profound feeling of tribal superiority from beating up every Saturday night the Richard Roes. Needless to say, the Richard Roes are in the minority or, at least, politically powerless in that they have been excluded arbitrarily by the John Does from effective participation in the machinery of social and political control. Now the law (or “the state”) suddenly steps in and says to the John Does: “You cannot do this any longer. First, your conduct is wrong by any standards (even by moral standards) and, secondly, the Richard Roes have some rights too, which, incidentally, were guaranteed to them by a constitution and have been reaffirmed by the highest court in the land.”
The John Does rally to the defense of their sacred right to beat up the Richard Roes. Ably seconded by two political philosophers, they argue as follows: “You cannot do this to us, for in doing so you are upsetting us and by upsetting us you upset peace and order, especially our particular moral order. We derive, and always have derived, great pleasure from our time-honored practice of beating up the Richard Does: it makes us feel happy and thereby gives us a real purpose in life. The law (or ‘the state’), being an instrument to preserve our customary peace and order which, among other matters, also provides for the regular beating up of the Richard Roes. If the law should tamper with this peace and order, we might even revolt. Hence the law must simply capitulate before us. A civil or legal order, to be acceptable to us, must always be understood in terms of ‘the greatest happiness for the greatest number.’ We, the John Does,
February 7, 1958
are ‘the greatest number’ (and also have the greatest power), and we are utterly and blissfully happy in doing what we have done for so long. Hence the law must keep its hands off, unless it is to defeat its very purpose. The argument that the Richard Roes might also be entitled to some happiness is demonstrably without merit, for they are ‘the few.' The mere fact that they are in the minority as well as weak (a weakness, we are proud to announce, which we have been able to inflict upon them through our particular legal and moral
DEAN O’MEARA
order), also deprives them of any right to be happy. For has not that great Christian philosopher Herbert Spencer pointed out that the weak are by nature the prey of the strong? The Richard Roes may not even ask for protection for- such protection could only be granted at the expense of the John Does, the happy majority of the strong who only wish to be left undisturbed in their lawful and morally irreproachable pursuit of beating up the. Richard Roes every Saturday night. From all this it follows logically that the moral argument is undoubtedly on our side. If, contrary to the advice of our two political philosophers, the law (or ‘the state’) should nevertheless insist on stopping us from beating up the Richard Roes, it would make us, the many, very unhappy, especially those among us who need not be ashamed of their moral standards.
But this, again would never do, for the ethical standards of the law, we have just been informed by oui- two political philosophers, are wholly relative to number. True law and, incidentally, the true state, if they live up to their proper functions, should actually make it clear once and for all that what we are doing, and have been doing, is legally (and morally) sound practice deserving the fullest protection of the legal order and, we hope, the highest praise from all morally minded people.”
—Anton-Hermann Chroust
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. President
Notre Dame, Indiana
Deal* Father Hesburgh:
Some observations- seem to be in order regarding the memorandum submitted to you by Father Parry and Professor Niemeyer on the occasion of your appointment to the Civil Rights Commission, and subsequently published in the January 17 issue of the Scholastic.
I begin with a question. Father Parry and Professor Niemeyer say this at the end of the first paragraph of their memorandum: “. . . one might thus formulate the moral question: Is it right to apply governmental compulsion against one part of the citizenry that believes in practicing discrimination against another part of the citizenry?”
The answer, they insist, is no. Would they feel the same, I wonder, if the discrimination were against Catholics and prevented the free exercise of their religion?
As I read their- memorandum, it proceeds on the following propositions, each of which is either assumed or implied and all of which I reject.
1.	You need pay no attention to the decision of the Supreme Court of the United States in the segregation cases.
2.	Law is a process of conciliation; it is unsound to call upon it to play any role other than that of conciliator.
3.	A courtshould not decide in • a way that is opposed by a majority of the community. The corollary, of course, is that there is no such thing as natural or constitutional rights, the Bill of Rights and the Fourteenth Amendment being at most a counsel of perfection without binding force.
4.	The views of the community which a court must bow to are to be taken on a state-by-state basis. The corollary, of course, is that there is no national union, only an aggregation of states each of which is free to treat a minority in any way the majority thinks fit.
These four propositions, I believe, reflect with substantial accuracy the substance of the memorandum down to its
(Continued on page 32)
17
Engineers’
18
The Scholastic
Three’s a crowd; five’s a party.
Let’s throw snowbails.
Dominick Rip spots a Bad Man (or so).
February 7, 1958
Class Leaders of 1958 ...
Who’s Who
In American Colleges
JERRY M. BRADY—Student
MARTIN J. ALLEN, JR.— Heod Footboll Manager; President, Monogers' Association; Monogram Club
Body President; Student Senate Secretary '56-57; Breen Oratorical Champion '57
JOSEPH T. BUMBLEBURG —Dome Editor - in - Chief; Economics Roundtable; Fisher Hall Council
WILLIAM B. CHESSON — WSND Sports Director; Producer-Director of “On Stage"; Dramatics — Macbeth, Good News, Time Limit
VICK CLESI, Jr.—Blue Circle; Foundation Week Chairman '57; Elections Chairman '57-’58
PAUL B. COFFEY—Debate Team President '56-'57; Doyle Award and Conwell Award for debate; Chairman, N.D. Nat’l Invitational Debate Tourament
MICHAEL J. CROWE — Religious Affairs Commissioner; Charity Chest Commissioner; 3rd Order Prefect '57-'58
JOHN M. DALY — B.A., M.S. (Chern.) Xavier U.; Chern. Dep’t Chairman, Bellarmine Col.; DuPont research chemist
EDWARD N. DENN—Lawyer, Editor-in-chief; Gray's Inn; highest average in class
JOHN W. DEWES —Blue Circle; Leadership Training Committee Chairman; Commerce Senator
JOSEPH D. FERRONE — WSND Production Engineer; YCS Group Leader, 2 years; Blue Circle
THOMAS N. FOGARTY — Y.C.S. President; Joint Engineering Council President; Chairman, ASME
JOHN M. FOLEY — Chairman, Committee of Nat’l Commission, NFCCS; NFCCS National Council, 2 years; Dean's List
WILLIAM B. GRIFFITH — Academic Commissioner; A.B. Advisory	Council;
Varsity Cross	Country
Track Team
x
JOHN C. HIRSCHFELD — Blue Circle Chairman; Debate Team; Chairman, Junior Prom
20
The Scholastic
WALTER W. HUURMAN
— Blue Circle; Head r Basketball Manager; Student Trip Chairman
ELLIS A. JOSEPH — Vice-Pres. Graduate Students’ Assoc.; Blue Circle; Chairman of Integrity Committee
JOHN A. KENNEDY — Science Senator; Chairman, Science Advisory Council; Aesculapians
RICHARD J. KOP1TUK — Drum Major of Marching Band; Varsity, Concert, and Marching Bands; Prom Committees
AUBREY C. LEWIS —
Captain, Track Team;
Varsity Football Team;
Monogram Club
WILLIAM T. LYNCH — Chairman AIEE-IRE; President, Navy Council; ROTC awards (Chicago Tribune el alii)
JOHN F. MARCHAL — President, Student Law Assoc.; Junior Class Representative (SLA); Pres. Academy of Political Science '55
john j. McCarthy — Blue Circle; Varsity Basketball C o - C a p t a i n; Dean’s List
BERNARD L. McGOWEN — Blue Circle; Freshman Orientation Chairman; Mardi Gras Carnival Chairman
DAVID J. McMAHON — General Chairman '58 Mardi Gras; Glee Club Treasurer ’57-’58; A.B, Advisory Council
DONALD P. McNEILL — Senior Class President; Commerce Forum; Student Development Commission
ROBERT H. NORRIS — Chairman, 1957 Engineering Open House; Chairman, Engineers' Ball '57; AIChE
JAMES P. ROGERS — Senate Social Commissioner; Summer Storage Manager; Public Relations Commission
JEROME W. SLATER, JR. — WSND Station Manager; Blue Circle; Chairman, Halloween Ball
JAMES A. STEINTRAGER — Scholastic Editor-in-Chief; NSA Regional Vice-Chairman; Dean’s List
MICHAEL F. KENNEDY (Not Pictured) — University Theater; Juggler Editorial Board; Dean’s List
JUAN N. TORRUELLA — Blue Circle, Secretary-Treasurer; Commander AFROTC; ROTC awards (Chicago Tribune et alii.)
GEORGE VAN KULA, JR. —WSND News Director; Blue Circle; Chairman, Washington Day Exercises
HARRY K. WASOFF — Student Gov’t. Vice-President; Chairman, Hall-Presidents Council; NFCCS National	Con-
vention
GUY E. WE1SMANTEL — Technical Review Editorin-Chief; Blue Circle; Glee Club
February 7, 1958
21
Herman H. Herman
Who’s What...
In Jest
by BOB COLAIZZI and GERRY PASTULA
Through four years of college, there are many men who deserve to be recognized for their many achievements in leadership, scholastic prowess, and activities. Despite threats from the Who’s Who Committee, In Jest decided to run their own poll to honor these deserving individuals. Selections were made by a committee consisting of ourselves, our landlady, and the bartender at Febbo’s.
Felonious T. Beltrapper
As everyone knows, the manager of a large organization such as the campus Book Exchange, must be a level-headed, firm, business man. It was unfortunate that such a man could not be found, so Felonious got the job. Within the short period of only three months, Beltrapper’s leadership managed to put the BX §337,000 in debt, and it had to be sold at public auction. Results of the trial can be obtained by sending a self-addressed envelope to the Warden of the Indiana State Prison.
Claude Cartwheel
Claude, a Sow Breeding Major in the College of Farming, is President of the Young Nature Boys and Field Flowers Club. Hailing from West Tealeaf, Arkansas, he made academic honors by developing a new formula for pig slopping, which included the miracle ingredient, “Leftovers from the stadium after football games.” Claude, who will graduate Magna Cum Influence, plans to enter Grad School to study Advanced Corn Husking.
Melvin Fink
A wretched, miserable, Sadistics Major, Melvin had the job as the Greens-keeper of the Campus Poolroom, and had the distinction of being one of the men that Care refused to feed. At the rally held in his honor, he was carried across the campus in the latest of IvyLeague tar and feathers on a rail.
Grandy Hogg
Grandy, a Sour-Mash Major was President of the Keg and Coil Club
which held their weekly meetings in the organic lab, and high-lighted the social season by sponsoring the Jug Jump, where 150 people either went blind or were permanently paralyzed. He was also President of the National Moonshine Society, and helped in putting this organization at the top of the Revenuer’s Want List.
Carney Frambuster III
Claiming historical Breadline, Conn., as his home, Carney was picked for the Who’s What because he was the only man to ever maintain his position on the upper half of the Dean’s List, while having only a 68% average for seven semesters. Carney never participated in anything, was known by no one, but because of his obscurity, made no enemies.
Frank Frizowitz
“Fearless Fritz,” known by all and loved by none, was one of the outstanding men on the team while still maintaining his solid 33% average in the College of Picnic Planning. Besides all this, he holds the undisputed title as Campus Rotation Pool Champion and deserves to be honored in Who’s What. Besides, he said he’d punch us silly if we didn’t.
Angelo “Greasy Head” Grubsick
A major in Mob Psychology, Angelo attracted the attention of the Who’s What Board when he incited the maids in his hall to riot. Besides being a diligent student, he paid for his own education by converting the path to SMC into a toll road.
Sincere Hemmingwent
Majoring in Telephone Directory Journalism, Sincere had to be included in this honor for his ever-diligent effoi-ts at being the only senior to be expelled during the graduation ceremony. Besides this honor, he labored for the last two years as editor of the school’s “Voice of Freedom,” The Saturday Sweatback.
Herman, a fat, ugly, obnoxious, dirty Cesspool Cleaning major in the College of Sanitation, sparked those around him as Editor of the Wanderinff Philippino, the college’s semi-centennial publication. He is credited with having the lowest IQ in the University, and plans to become a night watchman.
Martin T. Kazool	4
Hailing from East Ivyleague, Nevada, Martin carried the highest average in his major, Trash Hauling. He served « two terms as President of the Spittoon Shiner’s Club, and upon graduation plans to settle on a small island in the Aleutians where he will marry the daughter of an Eskimo sealfat smuggler.
Harmon Q. Lunchbucket	*
Harmon, a Shop Foreman Administration major, successfully started a smallscale union on the campus, complete •with houses in Elkhart given as gifts * and Congressional Investigations. Harmon says that his plans for the future include a try at the top of the T. C. & W. y Assn.
Geoffrey W. Slaughter
A major in Dead Air, “Slaughts” k managed the radio station located on the campus. Its exact whereabouts is uncertain because it must be moved daily to avoid the FCC agents trying to find * the transmitter. Currently, he is finishing his thesis, “Living With the D.T’s and Liking It.”
P. Alfred Swatwiddle, Jr.
A major in Fractional Distillation, Alf received the distinction of being the only student ever to celebrate the completion of exams by tapping a keg in his room, < without being expelled. Before any of you try the same thing, might we say that he had been notified that he had been t, dismissed already for academic reasons. । Better luck in trade school, Alf.	,
Bob Colaizzi	v
Majoring in Finger Dexterity in the school of Crude Arts, Bob had the ability , to do nothing right, and when it was, J to hand it in three weeks late. Bob, a small, insignificant, frustrated playboy	'
nominated himself by signing someone	'I
else’s name to the letter of application. a
Gerry Pastula
This Hot Air major in the College of Commercial Tomfoolery won his place * on the Who’s What poll because of his accuracy in Penny Pitching in the basement of the Bus Shelter. Gerry, an K unshaven budding young failure, was usually found stumbling across the campus mumbling to himself, or straining long cigarette butts out of public receptacles.	,
22
The Scholastic
Your Campus
Charity Chest
Do you realize that each year the Student Body answers appeals for aid from all over the world by donating j nearly $6,000 of funds that you have i * contributed?
1 A number of years ago it was decided by the students of the University to establish a fund to which the many letters asking for help might be directed. The fund was to serve a dual
purpose: First, to help us, as Catholics, fulfill our obligation to perform Corporal Works of Mercy — to persevere in the greatest of all virtues, charity. Secondly, to help us, as Americans, put into practice the idea that the resources of life are a legacy to be invested for the growth and development of all men — and that the institutions of private property and individual ownership are barren unless all men receive their benefits.
Through the Charity Chest your contributions are given maximum effectiveness because the funds are canalized into payments of relatively sizeable proportions, and they are placed only where a real need is demonstrated. We give special considerations to the requests of those who are promulgating the Faith, those who are instructing the ignorant, and those who are nursing the sick; to those servants of the poor and infirm who are themselves in poverty; to those whom other donees have forgotten, or never heard of; and to those who through no fault of their own do not enjoy the abundant gifts that God has chosen to give to us.
For example, the Chest has always felt kindly towards the Damien-Dutton Society, the international organization for the care and cure of those whose infirmity dates back to the time of Christ Himself: the lepers. And your funds have built a chapel in Mammiyoor, India, where the Poor Clares carry on the Franciscan spirit of real charity, dedicating their lives to a work which many of us would never have the courage to do ourselves, but which we supplement in this small way. Likewise, youi- donations have aided in the founding of another college taught by Holy Cross Fathers—Notre Dame College of Dacca, East Pakistan.
This year, your Charity Chest hopes
February 7, 1958
also to promote the future good of the University itself by contributing'to the Moreau Seminary fund, for the men trained here will one day be responsible for the continuation of the work begun by Father Sorin.
—Marvin Kominiarek
Fr. O'Brien Advocates Communion at Weddings
Catholics should be encouraged by their pastors to receive Holy Communion at weddings and funerals, according to the Rev. John A. O’Brien, research professor and author-in-residence at Notre Dame.
Father O’Brien expresses his views in a new pamphlet, “New Eucharistic Fast Helps You to Receive Often,” published here by the Ave Maria Press. The Very Rev. Francis J. Connell, C.SS.R., dean of the School of Sacred Theology at the Catholic University of America, has written the preface to the 32-page booklet which explains in detail the fasting concessions granted by Pope Pius XII last March.
Formerly, Father O’Brien writes, it was customary for only the bridal party to receive Holy Communion since the late hour of many weddings made it difficult to fast. Now, he contends, all the friends of the young couple should approach the communion rail “to show their interest and manifest their friendship at this high moment in the life of the bride and groom.”
The practice of not distributing Holy Communion at funeral Masses should be terminated, Father O’Brien asserts. “At every funeral,” he writes, “there are relatives and friends desolate with grief over the loss of a loved one. What a pity it wall be if they do not make use of the new dispensation both to lessen the burden of their sorrow and to speed the soul of their loved one on its way to heaven.”
In his new pamphlet Father O’Brien outlines the revised Eucharistic fast regulations and answers more than 25 pertinent questions dealing with their practical application.
BOOKS
Not By Bread Alone by Vladimir Du-dintsev (E. P. Dutton & Co., Inc., 1957, $4.95).
This novel by the Ukrainian bom Dudintsev created quite a controversy when it originally appeared in Russia during the summer of last year. Published first in serial form in a magazine and later in book form, Not By Bread Alone is quite critical of certain facets of the Communist system.
The hero of the book is Dmitri Alexeyevich Lopatkin, an inventor, who has originated a much needed pipe-casting machine which theoretically should prove far- better than the existing methods. But Lopatkin’s effoi-ts to get the government to accept his design are thwarted time and again. Members of the bureaucracy, particularly one Leonid Drozdov, turn a deaf ear to his pleas and then use devious methods to keep him from building a model.
Eventually he is sent off to prison for supposedly releasing secrets about his invention. However the Soviet “Supreme Court” reverses the lower tribunal decision due to the efforts of a small group of friends who believe in Lopatkin. In the end his machine is accepted , and the bureaucrats are defeated.
The story is basically that of a young visionary who is accused of being an “individualist” because he fights the selfish decisions of the bureaucracy. As Lopatkin says in condemning them: “They are already looking back, not forward. Their aim is to stay put in their easy chairs and to go on getting richer. But a discoverer of new things is serving the people. *. . . Because he has found a new and shorter way, he rejects the old habitual one.”
But the book must not be taken as a wholesale condemnation of the Communist system. Lopatkin accepts Communism: “But in true Communism, many objects of crazy luxury, born out of the idleness of the rich, will be abolished.”
Running through the book is the stoi-y of Lopatkin’s loves. A serious, moody person and not much of a lover himself, Lopatkin possesses great attraction for several women. In the end he has to choose between Jeanne, the sweetheart of his younger days, and Nadia Drosdov, the wife of his opponent. Lopatkin chooses Nadia who has been one of the forces in his success and who with deep devotion has stood through many trials with him. . Summing Up: Although poorly written in spots and not very profound, the book does give some valuable insights into a part, of the Communist system.
—Jim Steintrager
23
Debaters Take First In Miami Tournament
Notre Dame’s debate team registered another victory in its scorebook as it captured the 15-school oratory tournament held at the University of Miami, Fla., last week.
The negative team of Gerry Goudreau and Jack Martzel, president of the team, was given the nod by judges in the final match against Texas University.
The affirmative team made up of John Whitney and Guy Powers won six matches and lost only one, but missed the chance for the best affirmative team to Texas U., who won all their seven debates. Whitney and Power, both freshmen, outargued experienced debaters
from Florida, Georgia, and Princeton.
Three schools from the East were invited to this southern universities’ debate contest along with Notre Dame. They were Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and Princeton.
This week end, Notre Dame will be again represented in a debate tournament to be held at North western University. Tom Banchoff and Whitney will compose the affirmative team and Power and Martzell will argue for the negative side. Approximately fifty schools in the nation are expected to take part in this annual Owen Coon debate tournament.
Notre Dame will travel South again the following week. They will compete in the Azelia Tournament at Springhill . College at Mobile, Ala.
Leadership Seminar Planned For Sunday in Student Center
The leadership training committee of the Blue Circle, in conjunction with student government, will sponsor a leadership evaluation seminar* this Sunday in the LaFortune Student Center.
John Dewes, chairman of the leadership training committee, will head the discussion group consisting of 60 upperclassmen from St. Mary’s and Notre Dame. The group will discuss the psychological and philosophical problems of leadership both in and out of school.
The seminar is to form the basis for a development program of freshmen and sophomores which will begin Feb. 28 and carry through the week end.
use
to get a better shave!
Quicker . . . closer . . . smoother . . . no matter what machine you use. 1.00 plus tax
PRE-ELECTRIC SHAVE LOTION
PrE-ELECTRIC shave lotion
SHULTON New York • Toronto
AVAILABLE AT THE
Notre Dame Bookstore
ON THE CAMPUS
24
The Scholastic
!)>uik Scute
Air Force Academy at Fieldhouse Saturday; Marquette Here For Return Game Monday
Following their fourth defeat of the season to nationally ranked Bradley, 81-70, the Notre Danie basketball forces whipped Canisius, 71-59, last Tuesday night in the first of three straight home appearances.
Notre Dame will face the Air Force Academy team tomorrow in the Fieldhouse and then will host Marquette here next Monday night. Thursday the Irish move on to Indianapolis to meet Butler.
The Irish, now 13-4 for the season, will be facing the Air Force’s hoopsters for the first time in the history of the two schools. Further it will mark only the second intercollegiate competition of any kind between the two schools. A few weeks ago, Notre Dame’s fencing team beat the Falcons, 15-12.
The Air Force Academy boasts one of the top records among Irish opponents this year. As of January 27, the Falcons had won ten of 13 games and possessed the top mark in the Rocky Mountain region.
Since that time the Falcons have played Creighton and Colorado State College. Going into the first of these two games the Falcons were one victory away from their entire 1956-57 victory output.
Bob Beckel, 6-1 senior from Walla
Walla, Wash., is again leading the Academy in all phases of scoring. Beckel, who last year scored over 500 points for the second straight season and averaged 26.4 points per game, was named to the NCAA District 7 first team. This year, helped by a 33-point splurge against Wyoming on January 25, he has thrown in 276 points in 13 games for an average of 21.2 points per game. He led the team in field goals with 104, free throws with 68 out of 102 attempts, and total points through their first 13 games.
Bob Williams (6-2), and Don Wolf-swinkel (6-1), are both averaging between 13 and 14 points a game for the Academy. Williams has dumped in 177 points and Wolfswinkel 172. Wolfswinkel also leads the team in rebounds with 103, an average of 7.9 a game, and his 16 rebounds against Wyoming constitute an AFA individual game record.
While scoring at a 67.2 point per game clip, the Falcons, previous to the Wyoming game, in which they allowed 73 points, had limited their foes to an average of only 59.7 points per game. This ranked them 16th nationally in team defense.
The Air Force Academy has hit on nearly 41 per cent of its shots from the field and has been sinking 63.5 per cent of its free throws.
Against Marquette, the Irish will be out for revenge as they were against Louisville. Last week the Irish atoned for theii- earlier loss at Louisville. Monday night they’ll be out to avenge their first loss of the year and Marquette’s first win, a 78-64 decision in Milwaukee on December 14.
Marquette will start 6-8 Mike Moran at center. Moran led the Warriors in scoring last yeai- with 470 points in 25 games, an average of 18.8 points per game.
Moran will be flanked by John Glaser (6-5) and Walt Mangham (6-3). Glaser was second in scoring last year with 351 points and was the top rebounder with 256. Mangham, a sophomore jumping sensation, set the national interscholastic high jump record of 6-9% two years ago.
At guard Marquette’s coach, Jack Nagle, will send veteran Jim McCoy and sophomore Ron Dibelius against the Irish. The 6-0 McCoy was third on the team in scoring last season with 341 points. He is one of the top outside shooters on the team. Dibelius is the
IRISH ALERT IN STADIUM ACTION
Devine, Graney, McCarthy and Duffy react
only Wisconsin high school product ever to earn All-State honors four- straight seasons. He was the top scorer on the freshman unit last year.
Bobby Plump, veteran guard, has been leading the Butler Bulldogs all season long. Star forward Ted Guzek broke his leg early in the year but may be available for duty by February 12. Butler stood at 7-7 after 14 games.
Guzek, a 6-4 forward, established a Butler scoring record last year when he bagged 531 points and set a single home game mark with 37 points against Notre Dame. At the start of this season Guzek had 1060 points for three seasons and is shooting for the Butler school mark of 1248.
Plump, hitting on outside jump shots, scored 21 points against the Irish in an 82-63 loss to ND here on January 6. That game was extremely close for the entire first half before the Irish broke the game wide open with a second half scoring flui-ry.
The games between Butler and Notre Dame last year were two of the most thrilling games of the season for both teams. The Bulldogs defeated the Irish here, 86-84, as Guzek tipped in Plump’s last second shot. Guzek had 38 points in that game and Plump had 32. Down at Indianapolis, later in the year, the Irish had to score the last 13 points of the game to come from eight points behind in the final three minutes to nip the Bulldogs, 70-65.
February 7, 1958
25

Irish Grapplers Blank Wayne, U. of Chicago
Notre Dame’s wrestling squad remained undefeated by beating the University of Chicago, 26-0, in Chicago last Saturday. It was the sixth win of the season J for Coach Tom Fallon’s matmen and 5 g their second shutout. The winning total j came on seven decisions and a pin.
| Jerry Sashsei, 123 pounder, won by the only pin of the meet as he took Gene I Wachtel down for the three count at ’	5:59 of their match. In the 130-pound
;	class Buddy Day decisioned Mike Ross!	man of Chicago, 6-3. Jim Rankin Avon
■	his 6th match of the year by decisioning
i	Mike Schliter of the visitors, 5-0, in the
i 137-pound match. Irish captain Bob i Pivonka, 147, beat Pete Swan, 10-4. Bill > Moore of Notre Dame took a close 5-4 !	decision from Joe DeFranco, a 157
•	pounder. In the 167-pound match, Chuck
■ Henzy easily beat Stew Harnish of the ; Maroons, 5-0. Bucky O’Connor of ND, ;	177, beat Barry Brennan, 5-2. In the
' heavyweight match, Irish footballer Bronko Nagurski won his second match, a 9-3 win over Dick Cousins.
Previously, the wrestling team climaxed its home schedule by shutting out Wayne University of Detroit 28-0. The Irish squad pinned two of their opponents and decisioned the remaining six.
Highlights of the meet were the pinning of George Lampros by Jim Rankin in the 137-pound class and Charles Hen-zy’s pinning of Dave Lindgren in the 167-pound class. In other matches Gerry Sachsel decisioned Pete Nicoles in the 123-pound class, Charles Day defeated Al Kovan in the 130-pound match, captain Bob Pivonka outmaneuvered Bill Ladson in the 137-pound class, Bill Moore beat Bill Keller at 157 pounds, Terry Fagan dropped a decision to Bucky O’Connor in the 177-pound class, and Bronko Nagurski outpointed Jim O’Hara in the heavyweight class. In an exhibition match, Wayne Mueller decisioned Notre Dame’s Jim Dixon in the 191-pound class.
“So far, we have had easy competition,” says Coach Fallon, “but our next three meets will be a lot different. We face Western Illinois, Marquette, and Wheaton. All three of these teams beat us last year.”
These three dual meets and two tournaments will round out the season for the wrestlers.
The top area colleges will meet at Wheaton college, Feb. 14-15, for the Wheaton Invitational, one of the biggest meets of the year. Wheaton, host school, always has a powerful squad and this year is no exception.
The top tournament for the Irish is the 41 Tournament at Case Tech in
26
ALL TOGETHER AT THE TAPE
Missouri’s Wiebe nips Foreman in the 60
Irish Take Missouri In First Indoor Meet
Paced by Steve Dornbach, Dale VandenBerg, and Joe Foreman, the Notre Dame indoor track squad got off to a successful start last Saturday afternoon in the Fieldhouse against Missouri. The final score in the dual meet was 59-2/3 to 44-1/3. Dornbach, a junior hurdler, accounted for two firsts, while seniors VandenBerg and Foreman each had a first and second.
Missouri’s Bob Davis copped the pole vault event with a leap of 13 feet, 8 inches. The best the Irish could do here was a tie for third place by Tom Reichert and Jack Cote. Cote, a versatile sen-
Cleveland, March 14-15. This will be an even bigger meet than the Wheaton tournament. Many Big Ten schools will be entered along with the strong small colleges in Illinois, Indiana, Ohio and Michigan.
The results of this meet will go a long way toward deciding the entries from each school in the NCAA Tournament in early April.
Coach Fallon has said that he will base Notre Dame’s entries in the NCAA on the results of these two meets.
This year’s squad has been helped a great deal by the assistance of Captain Michael Fucci, an Army officer stationed here. He advanced to the finals of the (Continued on page 28)
ior, came back to win the broad jump by establishing a new meet record of 23 feet, 6% inches. Don Faley gave the Wilsonmen three points by finishing as ’ runner-up to Cote.
Missouri’s Jim Green captured a first in the high jump with a 6-foot, 1-inch performance. Tom Sanfacon and John Reilly gave the Irish two representatives in a three-way tie for second place. Bob Silver of Missouri also tied for second at six feet. After the competition, Sanfacon cleared the bar at 6 feet, 3 inches 1 in a practice attempt. Footballer- Frank Geremia provided Notre Dame with a first in the shot put with a heave of 50 feet, 7 inches.
In the mile run, Jim Sanders of Missouri covered the distance in 4:18.1 to lead the field. Notre Dame’s Dick DiCamillo finished second. The Irish fared better in the two-mile event as Ed Monnelly and Mike Haverty gave them a strong one-two finish. Monnelly’s time of 9:28.5 set a new meet record. VandenBerg also smashed the former meet record of 1:54.9 in the half-mile race. 4 Andy Crawford and Mike O’Connor chased the slim senior across the tape to give the Irish a clean sweep in this event. VandenBerg finished second to the speedy Foreman in the quarter-mile. 5 Barkley Ewart’s third gave Notre Dame another sweep. Foreman’s time of 50 »■' seconds flat was another new meet rec- ; ord. In the 60-yard dash, Foreman finished second to Missouri’s Henry Wiebe. :
Notre Dame’s Dornbach took in- J (Continued on page 28)	!
The Scholastic	•
TYLER’S PICKS FEBRUARY 7 t Maryland over Virginia Temple over Seton Hall Seattle over Gonzaga < Oregon State over Oregon | Yale over Penn
UCLA over Washington State
*	FEBRUARY 8
Notre Dame over Air Force Acad.
1	Wisconsin over	Minnesota
Dayton over Duquesne "	Kentucky over	Mississippi
Kansas over Nebraska North Carolina over Duke & Purdue over Ohio State
N. Carolina State over S. Carolina Kansas State over Iowa State Louisville over Xavier (O.)
UPSETS OF NIGHT Oklahoma State over Bradley Indiana over Michigan State
FEBRUARY 10
I	Notre Dame over Marquette
| .	Kansas over Colorado
Kentucky over Mississippi State Oklahoma over Nebraska West Virginia over Wm. & Mary St. Louis over Tulsa Indiana over Wisconsin Michigan over Minnesota Ohio State over Northwestern Purdue over Illinois Michigan State over Iowa
FEBRUARY 11
Duke over North Carolina State f North Carolina over Virginia
San Francisco over St. Mary’s (Cal.) Baylor over Texas Tech
> FEBRUARY 12
Notre Dame over Butler g Cincinnati over Bradley Oklahoma State over Oklahoma Temple over LaSalle
TIME OUT
j Bengal Hopefuls Start Working Out This Week
Training begins this week for the Bengal Bouts, which are to be held this year on March 24, 26 and 28. The show, which is for the benefit of the Holy Cross Missions in India and Pak-' istan, will take place, as in previous years, in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse, with eight to ten bouts each night.
There will be nine weight divisions, ranging from 125 lbs. to heavyweight. Anyone who is interested in participating in the fights should go over to the * Fieldhouse and sign up for the eightweek instruction period which begins this week. Everyone is invited to participate, the only requirements being a medical slip from the doctor. No previous experience is necessary.
STILL TOUGH
It has been mentioned in some quarters that Notre Dame’s' rather convincing loss to Bradley last Saturday night points to the fact that the Irish really aren’t too tough this season. Further it has been stated the fine Irish record has been due to a rather easy schedule. We do not believe these thoughts to be true.
Looking back at the Bradley game we must certainly say that it wasn’t our worst game of the season. But it wasn’t our best either. We were beaten on the boards rather consistently and our shooting percentage wasn’t exceptional. Bradley had a fine team and they were in fine form last Saturday. They made few mistakes and capitalized on all of ours. But except for the last six or seven minutes of the first half the game was much closer than the score indicated.
Looking ahead we must admit that things should be pretty tough. The Air Force should be a bit of a breather, but Butler and North Carolina in the same week will be no easy mission. Butler is always tougher at home and the old nemesis Chicago Stadium will be back to haunt us once more. We are due to play a real scorcher though and can only hope that it comes against the Tarheels.
WELCOME BACK
Coach John Jordan and Sports Publicist Charlie Callahan both down with illnesses are now back at their respective posts. The Scholastic staff would like to welcome them back.
MIDSEASON PICKS
The impressive Tylei- has been on a couple of hunting trips the past few weeks and reports that he hasn’t had much luck at all. In fact he claims that on both trips he has been mistaken for a pigeon and has been shot at, once almost shot down. At any rate he says that the big boys have given him several hot tips. The first is that Old Pueblo will win the Kentucky Derby, maybe even the Triple Crown. The West Coast three-year-old hasn’t been beaten in seven starts. Secondly, San Francisco and Kansas State will be two of the four teams in the finals of the NCAA basketball tourney in late March. The Midwestern representative is still uncertain, with Michigan State and Notre Dame given a slight edge.
BENGALS BEGIN
Nappy has announced that the Bengal Bouters have started preparations for their March festival. Promoter Jerry Wells expects to know soon about the celebrity who will be honored at the bouts this year.
While on the Bengals, it might be mentioned that all the proceeds from the bouts go to the Holy Cross Missions in India. So for about a dollar you all can receive three nights of entertainment and donate to something worthwhile as well.
ODDS AND ENDS
My wrestling informant, Manager C. V. Fox, announces that while wrestling is his first and real love, he has a certain warmth in his heart for skiing.
It has been reported in the University of Southern California Daily Trojan that George Dickson, foimer Irish backfield coach, will leave SC.
And finally a plug for a popular senior Eddie Thomas’ new recording, I’m On My Way Home.	—M.F.
February 7, 1958
27
Gymnastic Group to Give Exhibition Here; West German Team at Notre Dame Tuesday
Fourteen gymnastic stars from West Germany, several of them veterans of Olympic competition, will present an exhibition in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse, Tuesday, Feb. 11, at 8 p.m. This group, called the West German Turners’ gymnastic team, is making a two-month tour- of the United States under the auspices of the German-American gymnastic committee with a view toward promoting gymnastics and physical fitness in the American public as a whole. Their appearance on campus is being sponsored by the Physical Education
HELGA STOKEL She Swings
Majors Club of Notre Dame and the campus Gynmastic Club.
Participants in the group represent the best gymnasts, both male and female, in West Germany.
Hady Frenger, a 35 year old teacher, the oldest member of the team, will demonstrate his prize winning exercises on the horizontal, parallel bar and individual conditioning exercises.
Gunter Dyna, 21, the youngest member of the troupe and national junior champion, works on the side horse, perhaps the most difficult apparatus for the average gymnast.
Other male members of the team are Karl Bohnanstengel, who holds the long horse vaulting championship; Heinie Kurrle, whose favorite apparatus are the flying ring and parallel bars; Lothar Lohmann, nationally known for his difficult performance on the horizontal bar, especially his fly away rearways; Herbert Schmidt, who made the Olympic
team in view of his outstanding talent in the decathalon; and Phillip Furst, also a member of the German Olympic team in the decathalon.
In addition to these eight outstanding West German male gymnastic performers, prominent German women athletes will also participate in the exhibition.
Ursula Brian is considered one of the outstanding gymnasts in Europe. In 1954 she was a member of the German Women’s Gym team and represented Germany in the West Championship games in Rome, Italy. She has won many championships since 1954.
Helga Stokel has been a member of the National German Women’s Gym Team for the past four years. In addition to her all around ability in gymnastics, she holds several swimming championships. She has competed in world championship games in Rome and several international meets.
Meinhild Hierling is presently champion of Saarland, a large area of West Germany. She has also shown herself to be a fine athlete in track and field competition.
Marie Luise Krutmeyer recently placed fourth in an international meet in all around gymnastics and won second place in the 1953 German Festival in Hamburg.
Hannelore Rysel has been an outstanding all around gymnast since her childhood. She has won many awards in regional and national meets held in Germany. She is considered the best among the younger gymnasts in all around competition.
LOTHAR LOHMANN Flyaway Rearways
Christa Hacker placed .second in the German National Gym meet in 1957. She has held the regional championship since 1956. Miss Hacker is presently engaged as a physical education teacher on the continent.
Tickets for this exhibition are $1.00 for the general public and 50c for Notre Dame students. Student tickets will be sold this Saturday, Feb. 8, from 3 to 5 p.m. at the Student Center Rathskeller and on Monday, Feb. 10, from 3 to 5 and 7 to 9 p.m. at the Rathskellei* and the bus shelter.
Wrestling
(Continued from page 26)
NCAA meet when he was at Oklahoma A & M, now Oklahoma State University.
Two of the top wrestlers on this year’s squad have been Captain Pivonka and Rankin. Both of these men are unbeaten in six matches and Coach Fallon said that they have definitely been the outstanding men on the squad. Sachsel, O’Connor, and Armstrong are also undefeated.	'
Coach Fallon also pointed out that Nagurski, a heavyweight, has come along well. He has won both of his matches so far and will improve as he gains more experience.
Track
(Continued from page 26)
dividual honors for the meet with two brilliant performances in the hurdles. His time in the highs was :07.6. In the lows, he equalled the Fieldhouse record for five hurdles with a time of :06.9. Don Faley gave the Irish a third place finish in the lows. In the one mile relay, a Missouri foursome ran a fast 3:25.2 time to beat the Irish quartet of Bob Hassenger, Pat Reilly, Tom Keegan, and Frank Hemphill.
Tomorrow, the Irish travel to East Lansing for the Michigan State Relays. The competition will be provided by many Big Ten and Midwestern teams. The Irish will be pressed to maintain their outstanding track record, but they are hopeful of scoring highly against this strong opposition.
A week from tomorrow, the Irish will conclude their brief home indoor schedule with a dual meet against Purdue in the Fieldhouse.
28
The Scholastic
■ i * Harry James and his orchestra will
provide the music for the May 16 Senior Ball, according to a recent announcement by Bob Duffy, chairman of the prom committee.
Duffy also reported that tickets for the formal dance will go on sale ' after Easter vacation.
Capehart, Butler to Lecture At Campus Banquet Feb. 27
Democratic National Committee Chair-
Navy Students Chosen For Cruise on Ranger
Six Notre Dame midshipmen will join a selected group of Navy ROTC students in the summer cruise aboard the brand-new aircraft carrier USS Ranger. The six are David Amidon, Christopher Fagan, Donald Gillies, Thomas Hoberg, Thomas Nolan, and William Whalen.
Carefully selected from the top students in naval science, all six are juniors who are in the NROTC Regular program. As their scheduled summer training aboard a ship, they will board the Ranger with 194 other midshipmen from the numerous NROTC units in universities across the country.
The USS Ranger, equipped with canted decks, is a king-size aircraft carrier of the USS Forrestal class.
Starting at Norfolk, Va., on June 18, the carrier will proceed down toward the South American continent. At Cape Horn, it will round oif toward the Pacific Ocean and sail northward. The twomonth journey around the continent will be highlighted with stops in the Caribbean Sea and at several South American ports along the way.
Their cruise will end on Aug. 16 at Alameda, in San Francisco Bay, Calif.
°RRWTURBOW
\PPTOMETRIST
OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces”
EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5///
Nave a WORLD of FUN!
Trave! with fITA Unbelievable Low Cost
Europt
X- *— $585
Orient
k 332 So. Michigaa Are. INC. Chicago 4, HA 7-2357
Many tauri indud* nlltg* audit
Also low-cost trips to Mexico $149 up. South America $699up, Hawaii Study Tour $498 up and Around the World $1398 up.
Ask Your Travel Agent
43-65 Days
*—$998
man Paul M. Butler and Homer E. Capehart, Republican Senator from
Indiana, will speak Feb. 27 at the
Academy of Political Science banquet.
The club’s social event of the yeai- will be held in the Mahogany Room of the Morris Inn.
The two distinguished speakers will deliver talks on active participation in politics. Following their speeches, there will be a question and answer session. Faculty members are also invited.
Jack Carpenter, president of the Academy, announced that a trip will be made to the Michigan State Capitol at Lansing, on March 5 and 6. Accommodations have been arranged through the Newman Club of Michigan State University.
The trip will include attendance at a session of the Michigan State legislature and a possible interview with Gov. G. Mennen Williams.
MV PI fKFCT CUAVF Pat Flaherty
Ivl I VLUvLwl vIlflwL 1956 Indianapolis Speedway Winner
ADDITION!
The last issue of the SCHOLASTIC reported that John Jackman had replaced John Harrington on the staff of WSND. The story, however, did not mention what position on the staff was involved. With some embarrassment, the SCHOLASTIC belatedly reports that Jackman is the radio station’s new chief engineer.
“My closest shave was at Indianapolis in 1953,” says Pat Flaherty, 1956 Indianapolis winner. “The track temperature that day hit 125° and the exhaust fumes hung right down on the speedway. I was going into the north turn at 130 mph when the fumes got me. I blacked out, hit the outside concrete fence, and skidded along for 120 feet. The car was demolished, my helmet was torn off, my safety belt broke—but I didn’t break a single bone!”
Far YOUR Close Shave—with a razor, not a racing car— try new Colgate Instant Shave. What a way to shave I It’s the quickest, easiest way ever, no matter what razor you use. Smooth, too 1 Shaves your whiskers, saves your skin. A great shave buy for the tough-beard guy!
Colgate Instant Shave
February 7, 1958
MED SCHOOL TEST
Candidates for admission to medical school in the fall of 1959 may take the Medical College Admission Test on Saturday, May 3, 1958, or on Tuesday, Oct. 28, 1958. The Medical Colleges Association recommends that candidates for the fall semester of 1959 take the May test.
Additional information may be obtained at the Office of Guidance and Testing.
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
SUNNY ITALY CAFE A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food
601 NORTH NILES AVENUE
Layden Elected Head Of Alumni Association
Francis L. “Mike” Layden, Evansville, Ind., was elected president of the 27,000 member Notre Dame Alumni Association by the organization’s board of directors meeting on the campus on Jan. 17. He succeeds J. Patrick Canny, Cleveland, O., general attorney foi- the Erie Railroad, who becomes honorary president.
Layden, who is district manager for the Indiana Bell Telephone Co. in Evansville, is a 1936 graduate of Notre Dame’s College of Commerce. A veteran Big Ten football official, he earned a Notre Dame football monogram in 1934-35. He is a brother of Elmer Layden, former Notre Dame coach and one of the famed “Four Horsemen.”
Newly elected vice presidents of the Association include Edmond R. Haggar, president of The Haggar Co., Dallas, Tex.; Eugene M. Kennedy, vice president of the Bank of America, Los Angeles, Calif.; and Oscar J. Dorwin, vice president of The Texas Co., New York City.
James E. Armstrong, South Bend, Ind., who has served as executive secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni Association since 1926, was re-elected to the post.
Diamonds Jewelry Watches J. TRETHEWEY
Tom Maupin TOUR ASSOCIATES
1236 Massachusetts Lawrence / Kansas
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. JALS. Bldg.
MAUPINTOURS/I958
ADVENTURE! EDUCATION!
TRAVEL! SUMMER 1958!
Join a special American-directed, student/teacher tour through the Soviet Union. Choose from six departure dates ... travel to seldom-visited cities such as Kiev of the Ukraine, Stalingrad, Odessa, Yalta, Sochi, Tbilisi of Soviet Georgia, Kharkov . . . enjoy a Volga River or Black Sea cruise ... see Leningrad and Moscow. Visit Warsaw, Prague and the Brussels’ World Fair... plus extensions to the European Capitals.
Inclusive rate from $1369, from Hew York. Reservations limited, apply now for sufficient time to secure Russian visa. Write today for descriptive folder.
See your travel agent or

Prof. Chroust Authors Book About Problems of Socrates
Prof. Anton-Hermann Chroust of the Notre Dame Law School is the author of Socrates, Man and Myth, a new book published recently by the University of Notre Dame Press and Routledge & Kegan Paul, London.
The impact of Socrates and the Socratic problem on western thought “is beyond all comprehension,” Professor Chroust writes, but the man himself has become “a hopelessly elusive if not legendary figure.” The purpose of this new book is, in the author’s words, “to penetrate the veil of Socratic fictions and thus reach the level of factual history— if this is at all possible. For if history or historical research has any meaning whatsoever, it signifies the establishment of facts not myths.”
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1946, Professor Chroust is a specialist in jurisprudence and the history of the classics. He holds doctorates from the universities of Erlangen and Munich in his native Germany and from the Harvard Law School. He is a frequent contributor to learned journals.
MISS MARY LOU LACKE
Queen of the ‘Columbian Valentine’
Knights Plan to Dance ‘ At Annual BallTonight
Notre Dame Knights and tiheir ladies will be stepping out this evening to at- f tend the third annual Knights of Columbus Ball. This year’s event will be held at the K of C Club on Noi-th Michigan street in South Bend from 9 p.m. to 1.
Dance music and the evening’s enter- ’ tainment will be supplied by Gene Ber-toncini and his sextet.
Carrying out a valentine motif featur- * ing elaborate heart decorations, this year’s social has been very aptly entitled the “Columbian Valentine.” It also marks the highlight of the Notre Dame Knights of Columbus social calendar.
I
The fairest of them all for the evening will be Miss Mary Lou Lacke, Columbian Queen. Miss Lacke, a resident of Oak ; Park, Ill., is a student at Rosary College . in River Forest. She will be escorted by : Tom Maloney, dance chairman.	:
I
The Reverend William T. Morrison, C.S.C., Notre Dame K. of C. Chaplain, will crown the queen.
Refreshments will be available for those who desire them and the usual late 2 a.m. and car permissions will also be available for those attending the ball.
Assisting Tom Maloney in laying plans for the dance were: John O’Connor, publicity; Charlie Susano, business : manager; and Carl Edmundson, tickets.
30
The Scholastic
Senate Holds Debate * On Festival Proceeds ; How to divide the proceeds of the Mardi Gras Festival was the central < topic of the Jan. 30 Senate meeting.
The topic had been before the Senate for several weeks. After a period of spirited debate, a tentative compromise ‘ resolution was passed. The Charity Chest and Moreau Seminary Fund will receive $10,000. Seven thousand dollars (h was allocated to the LaFortune Student Center. A combined big name entertain' ment and distinguished speakers fund will be granted $2,500. Seventy-five percent of * the residue will go to a scholarship fund L with a maximum of $5,000, and 25% of the residue and any excess over $5,000 * to a special projects fund.
The Senate resolution concerning the formation of partisan political groups among the student body was rejected by the administration.
Jerry Brady, student body president, in his weekly report, announced that - next year Notre Dame may be selected as one of fifteen “pilot” schools to operate in a special National Students Association program. Under this program each of the fifteen schools will take one phase of the problems of higher education, discuss it, hold workshops on it and 4 make further recommendations. The Senate unanimously approved participation in this plan.
In the meeting of Jan. 15, a finance appropriation was passed giving $1,210 .	to minor sports.	The	Bowling Club refl;	ceived $190, the	Swimming Club	$620,
B	and the Sailing	Club	$400. The	social
B	commission was	told	to contact	Chris
B^ Conner and Kai Winding for a program fl on the evening of March 8. However, B they were unavailable.
B Thirteen Given Commissions ■ As Officers in Army Reserve
B4 The Army ROTC commissioned 13 B University graduates at special cereal monies on Jan. 31, in the Rockne Memorial Lounge.
All 13 were commissioned in the B United States Army Reserve. Colonel B Edwin W. Grenelle, professor of Mili-B *' tary Science and Tactics, rendered the B oath of office and presented commissions B to the group.
■ The Rev. Robert W. Woodward, C.S.C., B director of military affairs, delivered a B short address.
B Those being commissioned were David B* Beatty, Larry Brown, William Burg, B	Donald Calcagnini,	John Chihan,	Jr.,
B James Cullinan, Gaylord Haas, Jr., Pat B	Heffernan, James	Herring,	Menotti
B Lombardi, Jr., Lou Loncaric, Frank B	O’Brien, and Gerald	Wetzel.
B	February 7, 1958
M OT E L
KNICKERBOCKER
JU-2-42OO
3* ST. WEST OF MOAOWAY
1000 room* with radio	$4
and MUZAK from	■
FINE HARRIS HOTELS
*ks!N NEW YORK
45* ST. EAST Ct MOADWAV 400 fin* room* with radio from
mwah CnOOtt
SS Other Harris Hotels
JIT
TIMES SQUARE
TELEVISION AIR-CONDITIONED
CINCINNATI, Afoiropo/e Broadway KomperLana
Executive Office*—	miamI REACH
HOTEI METROPOLE^ Cincinnati, Ohio ALBEET HARRIS.	DETROIT. Fort Woyn HoM
ARTHUR H. HtlEDAtAN, Monagina OfrocUr COLUMBUS, Rwad-UttcoR*
Want to Go Places...
BELL SYSTEM?
Young men, here’s real opportunity. You have these companies to choose from: Indiana Bell, Western Electric, Bell Telephone Laboratories, Long Lines De* partment—A.T.&T. Co., Sandia Corporation and Other Associated Bell Telephone Companies.
Check with your placement officer NOW,
OUR REPRESENTATIVE WILL BE ON THE CAMPUS
FEBRUARY 18 and 19
31
Junior Parents Visit Campus March 14-16
The sixth annual Junior Class Par-ents-Son Week End will be held on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday, March 14, 15, and 16. The week end is sponsored jointly by the University- and members of the Junior Class. The purpose of this event is to acquaint the parents with the various elements which comprise life and education at Notre Dame.
Invitations and information concerning the activities of the week end have ?1-ready been sent to parents of the junioi 2.
On Saturday morning, the parents will have the opportunity of attending classes with their sons. At lunch time the parents will dine with their sons under student conditions. Early Saturday afternoon there will be a reception in each of the colleges enabling the parents to meet the dean and faculty members.
A dinner will be held Saturday evening for the parents and sons. The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, will deliver the main address. A High Mass and Communion Breakfast will close the week end on Sunday morning.
General chairman of the week end is Junior Class President Mark Shields. Other committee members are Rick Grimier, tickets; Terry Lamb, rooms; Jack Beard, publicity; Barrett Gleixner, President’s Dinner; Jack Dolan, luncheon; Bill McNally, science reception; Wayne Faist, commerce reception. The remaining reception chairmen have not yet been appointed.
A class meeting will be held in the Engineering Auditorium on Feb. 18 to make special announcements about the week end and the Junior Prom.
"Make Cyr’s your headquarters for haircuts.”
Call CE 3-0678 for appointment
CYR’S
BARBER SHOP
South Bend’s Leading Barber. Shop
100-102 S. MAIN St. W. E. CYR, Prop.
MORE MANPOWER!
All freshmen and sophomores interested in working on the SCHOLASTIC are invited to attend the next regular news staff meeting which will be held next Wednesday night at 7 p.m. These meetings are held in the SCHOLASTIC office which is located on the second floor of the LaFortune Student Center on the side toward the Architecture Building.
Previous writing experience is not a requirement for work on the SCHOLASTIC, just a desire to work.
Student Relations Seminar To Meet June 28 to Aug. 30
All Notre Dame students are invited to attend the sixth International Student Relations Seminar from June 28 to Aug. 30, 1958 in Cambridge, Mass. The seminar will meet in Cambridge for seven weeks and conclude with attendance at the National Student Congress during the last two weeks of August.
The seminar approaches international student affairs in a number of ways. The current problems and policies of national unions of students in every part of the world form a major portion of the study program. Student exchange, travel and relief are also discussed. Finally, the theory and techniques of international student relations will be applied to programming for American campuses.
All graduate and undergraduate students whose student governments are affiliated with the National Student Association may apply.
The seminar will use Harvard classrooms and the students will stay at either Harvard or Radcliffe. Blanks and further information for those who wish to attend may be obtained at the Student Senate office in the LaFortune Student Center.
JUNIOR PICTURES
Yearbook pictures of the class of 1959 will be taken during February and March. The sitting will be by appointment only.
Dome staff members will be in room 2C of the Student Center from 1 to 5:30 p.m. and from 6:30 to 9 p.m. on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, for the purpose of arranging these appointments. All juniors are asked to register during these hours to assure everyone a place on the schedule.
Civil Rights	J
(Continued from page 17)	|
second-last paragraph. The second-last -paragraph does a partial about-face. It continues to insist that it is unjust for the Federal Government to protect a ' 4 minority within a State from oppression . < by the majority. It concedes, however, . that such “unjust” action by the Fed- • eral Government may nevertheless be permissible, but only if dictated by considerations of overriding advantage.
I’d like the record to show, Father, that the memorandum of Father Parry and Professor Niemeyer is utterly at ? variance with what the Notre Dame Law School stands for.	j
With all the best,
Sincerely,
Joseph O’Meara Dean
Ski Lodge Setting For Winter Carnival
The campus of Saint Mary’s will be ' transformed tomorrow into a ski lodge 1 for the day as the sophomore class spon- * sors “Der Winter Wunderbar.”	; ‘
The guests of the ski lodge will par- » ticipate in ice hockey, snow sculpture I and fort building contests, and skating d on Lake Marion. An old fashioned sleigh drawn by a team of horses will take the couples for a tour of the campus.
For those who would rather stay in-doors there will be fortune telling, cake walks, “in-between," and turtle races. d
A comedy take-off on “Romeo and Juliet” will start off the afternoon’s ac- ?J tivities at 2 p.m. The initial perform-ance will be for sophomores and seniors, ’ . while the freshmen and juniors will see d the show at 3 p. m.	d
At 5:45 p. m. there will be an ice show on the lake. The guest star will be Sheila Murphy, North American speed and fig- Li ure skating champion, from Marquette University. The St. Mary’s girls will also present some dance and precision numbers.
Beginning at 5:30 p.m. dinner will be served in the “Rec" for the sophomores J. j and seniors, the freshmen and juniorsd-will “get their eats” at 6:30 p.m.
After dinner, Pat Donovan, St. Mary’s sophomore class president, will crown yfe the Blessed Mother.
Then at 7:30 p.m. the dance “Skid| Mist” will climax the day’s events."'J Marty Maginn will reign over the ski^ lodge setting as queen of the dance. Sp
Miss Maginn is general chairman of S the carnival, while Marilyn Kramer is in charge of publicity.	J
The Scholastic
32
Campus Basketball r Competition Opens t
Regular season play in the campus intramural basketball leagues got under way last Monday night. This year, there are over 60 teams competing for the campus championship, representing the various geographical organizations and the residence halls on the campus.
The teams are divided into three leagues consisting of two hall leagues which play their games in the Rockne Memorial and one club league whose games are played in the Fieldhouse. The games are played Monday through Friday, both in the afternoon and evening. The afternoon contests get underway at 3:30 while the evening games start at 7:45 on Mondays and Tuesdays ' with- Wednesday, Thursday and Friday games starting at 6:30 p.m. There are three games in the afternoons of every j weekday and three on Monday and Tuesday evenings with five games on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday evenings. The games are played with seven-minute running quarters. No games are played on evenings of varsity home games.
| Each league is broken up into divi-sions. All games prior to last Monday were warm-up games so the respective teams could be evaluated and placed in the proper division. Each team in a division plays the other teams in their ' respective divisions in order to determine the divisional champion. In the
first week of March, the divisional champions of the three leagues will meet in the Fieldhouse to determine the campus champion.
Each hall and campus club was allowed to enter a team in the leagues with the halls entering as many as three or four teams. But a student is only allowed to play for one team and the players for the club quintets must be registered members of those clubs. Any violations result in a forfeit for the first game and a team is dropped from the league upon a second violation. Teams must report for games within five minutes of the designated starting time or the game is forfeited.
Law and Culture
(Continued from page 34)
If the general will of an age is turned to moral evil, an infinity of positive laws is valueless. And such would violate the right of the individual to go to hell in peace, if he so desires. Oveiwhelming coercion is opposed to man’s natural freedom.
What our age needs is not so much Catholic lawyers, but Catholics, and the genuinely religious of whatever’ sect, whose lives have intrinsic value through being in harmony with the natural law. Positive law is not the answer. Its province, contrary to what social contract theorists and puritans think, is not chiefly morality. The return to morality must be effected by religion. The value of the spirit must be reasserted, and human life given back its dignity.
Law, as law (de jure), is not to be
formative of a culture in any authoritarian sense. Such a condition represents a puritan or a tyrannical (or unfortunately, perhaps also an ecclesiastical) state. Positive law, insofar as it deals with morality, must be an expression of the aspirations, ideals, and values of an age. It is a concrete expression of these ideals, and, as such, capable of limiting fairly insignificant deviations. It cannot, however, play the role of God. Positive law is primarily an expression, not a creator, of the culture of an era.
Have you
arranged to see our representative
on
February 13.1958
check ivith your placement office about
the various types of technical graduates
required by the
OLIN MATHIESON CHEMICAL CORP.
We Will falefouieut (fa . . .
Tuesday, February 11, 1958
Engineers: • Electrical • Mechanical • Industrial
= For Positions In
Sales Engineering
Development Engineering
Production Engineering
CUTLER-HAMMER, Inc. Pioneer Electrical Manufacturers MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN
February 7, 1958
33
Hack Paqe
law and culture
by JOHN KEARNS
The position which law occupies in the United States is a prominent one, for the United States has a long and honorable juridical tradition. But the function of law is not that of a formative element in our culture. This does not mean that the form of our civilization is not expressed by law — it most certainly is. The denial to law of a formative function does not carry the implication that the shape of our culture cannot be found there. Instead it strikes at the interpretation of law as a modifying or creating force — law does not press culture through a mold which it determines. One does not cause a significant change in our culture by a new law. It is possible to have recourse to law as an indication of our cultural situation, but we must not go further and view law as determining our culture.
This error seems to have been made by Father Bayne, Dean of the University of Detroit Law School. He stated in a talk on campus that, next to religion, law is the single most important factor in shaping a culture. He also thinks that law is getting out of hand and may exert a detrimental rather than an uplifting force. He calls for proficient Catholic lawyers, having a sound grasp of natural moral law, to bring this trend to a halt. Father Bayne believes that law is an actively formative element of culture and the point where we must concentrate our attack on the contemporary tendency towards a disintegration of traditional morality.
Such a view fundamentally misinterprets the role which law plays in contemporary America. Historically, it may be possible to discover some validity in his view. Our legal tradition has its basic origins in the Roman legal system, and law may have exerted a formative influence in the days of the expanding empire. However, it is not my intention to argue either for or against this interpretation — I am discussing the place of law today.
It is impossible to deny, and such is not my intent, that law is a positive force insofar as it deals with the mechanics of our civilization. Traffic laws, for example, owe their existence to an active positive law. But mechanics are not the chief aspect of consideration when one studies a culture. “Culture,” quoting Karl Jaspers, “is a form of life.” It refers to the meaning which men of a certain era give to their lives, to the
34
values which they struggle to realize. The mechanics are, or should be, rather arbitrary constructs chosen for their usefulness for the fulfillment of culture. The culture itself is the meaningful life that is lived in a given period. The law which has relevance for a culture is natural moral law — we should consider the way in which the values of an age contain this unchanging law. And this is what would be meant by speaking of law as shaping a culture.
Such a view represents a desire for positive law to give expression to natural moral law in order to create a culture whose values are the proper ones. But law cannot do this. Law plays a reflective, not a creative role. It is an expression of the existing culture, not the maker of a new one. We can look in our law for the meaning of our culture (if any such is to be found), but we must not expect law to make our culture. A law which reflects a value of a past age, but which does not reflect a current value is a disregarded one having no formative effect. Such can only keep a person from understanding a culture, by representing what does not exist. Many such laws can be found today, and their lack of effect on our culture illustrates the point being made here.
This brings up the continuity function of law. The law of one era may determine to some extent the culture of the next. It cannot, however, be said to have a great deal of efficacy here, for history refutes this. Nor can law be assigned a primary role in assuring the continuity of tradition when there is continuity, for to maintain this is to forget that two eras are not autonomous entities lacking other contact. And it should be remembered that a transmitting function is not the same as a creative one.
If our law is not a very good expression of the eternal law, we need to recognize that this merely indicates that the values being lived today are pretty cheap ones; but the responsibility for this is not to be laid to our laws. Law has a great deal of importance when seen as an expressive function, for it is quite revealing of our civilization. It is a delusion, however, to see in law more than this.
Positive law is at present attempting in many areas to renounce its role as the enforcer of moral law. This is true
not so much in the domain of social or	>;
societal morality as in the sphere of individual morality. Laws against '■ J murder, for example, are necessary to maintain any kind of stability in a society, and are not likely to be abol- A J ished. However, in the sphere of eugen- j: ’ ics, law is in many places sanctioning^ what moral law forbids, chiefly because _ moral law in this sphere does not seem u-- 1
overly necessary to the maintenance of \ society. But social morality, on the whole, is enforced by positive law, for f without this our civilization would come ; 7 apart at the seams.	. -
Concerning a more or less individual morality, positive law is abdicating its authority. And this indicates the feeling of the population which must obey the laws. This abdication is quite evident :. ^5 where laws concerning marriage are con- i cerned. Matters which seem to have no : £ direct effect on society are felt to be $ outside the area of legal determination. ; t
This view actually represents a fundamental error insofar as it ignores the unity of the human race and man’s nature as a social animal. The error as I see it is not in the abdication by positive law, but in the supposed grounds for this. Each evil done by a single man has a harmful effect on all his brethren. And the immorality of divorce and birth control, and in general immorality con
kt
; KT

cerning sex, can only be from the natural law by man’s nature as a social such evils destroy society
demonstrated appealing to animal. For at its roots.
■J
a
However, positive law is reflecting our culture in quitting the moral field. And to advocate a return to morality through positive law is absurd. To do this would { m be to violate the rights of the individual, and would not even be possible to effect H?
(as prohibition was not). It represents Bl an impracticable puritanism, and is per
haps traceable to a social contract theory of the state.
43^3
True morality is within a person and j-K cannot be foisted upon him from with-Sg out. Certain social sins are obvious, and their punishment necessary to safeguard W society. But laws concerning them doQ| not make the lawbreaker moral, they Oj merely prevent his immorality from having free play. Individual morality cannot be extrinsically enforced. The will to evil is the primary evil, not the ex- Q. ternal manifestation of this will, and fS such will is not subject to positive law, (Continued on page 33)
The Scholastic
For perfect f it... famous ARROW Mitoga® tailoring Exclusive Mitoga® tailoring is made to order for a young man’s “build”. Has plenty of room for action. Yet fits trimly because it tapers to follow your contours from collar to cuff to waist. This Glen is a fine example. At your Arrow retailer’s, $5.00. duett, Peabody Co.} Inc.
ARROW^ first in fashion
DOTTED UNES : ORDINARY SHIRT SOLID UNES : MITOGA SHIRT
See why you and Mitoga® are made for each other
Any style shirt sits perfectly—fits perfectly— when it’s tailored the famous Arrow Mitoga® way. It’s not only tapered to your body lines. It’s tailored for actioni too. See why ... stop by today.
GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS
Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend
You'll be siftin' on top of the world when you change to EM
Light into that W live Modern flavor
E? ■ I T* ET B c
Only L&M gives you this filter fact -the patent number on every pack.
LIGGETT * MYERS TOBACCO CO.
dfouf^^tcf/w/rn p/fd/y tipnrffe
2.80567/
This is it...
Free up! Freshen up your taste! Put yourself behind the pleasure end of an L&M. That’s when you live the most... get the full enjoyment you deserve in your cigarette. L&M gives you the flavor, the good rich taste of the Southland’s finest cigarette tobaccos.
the pleasure end of your L8M...the patented Miracle Tip ... pure white inside, pure white outside... as a filter should be for cleaner, better smoking. .. modem smoking at its best. Your choice . .. smoke L&M’s in BOX or PACK.