. .. ' .. '_., ,}-· --,-: -.: ,-: 
SCHOLASTIC
' ·': . . -•: 
· , Notre Dame . · 

.----........,.d \tor\a1----------~ 
irst, the good news: Notre Dame remains a highly competitive and desir­able place to transfer. This past fall, admissions accepted 264 students from an applicant pool of 678. 


Now, the bad news: Once accepted, transfers pay the price of having to live off-campus, a choice only 17 percent of undergraduates make voluntarily. 
More good news: The average length of time a transfer must wait for on­campus housing is just one semester. 
The bad news: The wait can be much longer as transfers are forced to sign leases which they cannot break (without penalty) when a room on campus finally opens up for them. 
The good news: Only fourteen men are waiting for housing at this time. All fourteen have been contacted by housing at least once. Most are waiting to get out of leases; some have declined on campus offers. 
The bad news: Fifty women remain on the waiting list. · All these women have yet to receive notification of on campus housing. 
· Transfer housing is a problem readily acknowledged by the office of student· residences and students alike. When students apply to transfer to Notre Dame, they know they arc not guaranteed on campus housing. Unfortunately, the experience of living off-campus can be especially frustrating for these students 
· who often have worked extremely hard to be admitted to this school. It is espe­cially difficult to meet people. Off-campus living has its advantages but dorm activities provide the best opportunity to make friends. 
Women transfers have a particularly difficult time because fewer women move between dorms and off-campus, Ironically, many women do not move off­campus for safety concerns, yet this forces more transfer women to remain without housing. Women off-campus without a car are in an especially precarious situation. 
Student government has tried to ease the transition by sponsoring some social gatherings, but more than this is needed. The prospect of living off-campus should not be a daunting experience. If University money was targeted to create more attractive and safe· student housing, more juniors and seniors would move off--benefittin·g themselves and creating more room on campus. 
Making· Notre Dame a better place for transfer students requires that transfer. housing become a higher priority than it now is. When freshmen arrive at Notre Dame, they are giveri a warm welcome, participate in along-planned orientation and are coddled by the Freshman Year of Studies. Transfers may arrive a year or two later, but this is no reason for them to be left out in the cold, literally. 
-SCHOLASTIC 
contents-------------:----, 
Editor-in-Chief  James F. Basile  
General Manager  Maher A. Mouasher  
Design Editor  Peter D. Wowkowych  
Managing Editor  Matthew H. Bradley  

Production Manager Barb Blanchette 
Administration 
Pete Cespedes/ Advertising Mike Hoffman/ Asst. General Mgr. Michael Setzer /Circulation 
Editorial 
John Dettling/Sports Mary Dolan/Departments Mary Hartney/Student Life Ted Kelleher/Nat. Affairs Jennifer Niederst/Art Jean O'Bryan/Notre Dame 
Layout 
Tim Arnold/Nat. Affairs Sue Serrato/Departments Kathleen Lau/Notre Dame Phil Flesch/Sports 
Alfredo Marr /Student Life 
Art 
J ohn~Gib bs/Cartoonist Mark Lechner/Catroonist Margaret Payne/Artist 
Colleen Syron/Artist 

The opinions expressed in SCHOLASTIC are th~se of the authors.and editors of SCHOLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of SCHOLASTIC or the University of Notre. Dame, its administration, faculty, or student body. Editorials, unless other­wise indicated, represent the opinion of the majority of the editorial board. 
SCHOLASTIC is represented for national advertising by CASS student advertisi~g, Inc. Published bi-weekly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods,· SOHO-" LASTIC is printed at The Papers Inc. Milford, IN 46542, The subscription rate is $18. 75 a year· and back issues are available from SCHOLASTIC. Please address ·au manuscripts to SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, IN 465.56. All unsolicited material becomes the property of SCHOLASTIC. Copy­right © 1985 SCHOLASTIC. All rights reserved. None of the contents may be reproduced without permission, 
SCHOLASTIC 

Volume 127, Numb~r 7 
SCHOLASTIC 
February 5, 1986 

-I
FEATURES 

2/Try It You'll Like It 
by Jennifer Romeo 
7 / American Medical Education: Art and Science in Transition 
by John Huebl 

13/0ffshore Medical Schools by John Huebl 
14/Cost Versus Quality 
by Ted Kelleher 
19/Waiting 
by Kris Anders 

i
24/To Catch a Thief 
'
by Chris Richardson 
26/Oh, For Those Glory Days by Joe Malvezzi 
DEPARTMENTS 
i 
6/On Other Campuses by Paul Aiello 
' 
16/Coming Distractions 
Compiled by Karen Dettling 
18/Music 

by Tom Brannigan 
29 /Technology 
by Jean Carey 
30/Final Word 
by W.R. Mack 
32/Cartoons 

by Mark Lechner and John Gibbs 
The ·Scholastic accepts letters from any interested reader. Please address all correspondence to: Letters, ·Scholastic Magazine, 3rd Floor, Lafortune Student 
Center, Notre Dame, IN, 46556. 
Scholastic reserves the right to edit for clarity and space. 
I 

Try It­You'll Like It 
INTERNS GET A TANTALIZING TASTE OF "THE REAL WORLD" 
by Jennifer Romeo 
Susan recently graduated from college ·. with an English degree. She enjoyed writing and assumed that a career working for a city newspaper would be ideal for her, even though she was unsure about exactly what the position entailed. A few months into her job, she was miserable. She found that the newspaper world's strict dead­lines, high pressure, and fast pace were not what she wanted. Could this situation have been avoided? 
Although Susan's is a hypothetical account, this dilemma is common to college graduates. Upon entering the "real world" many find the career they have chosen is not what they expected it to· be. One step towards resolving this problemis an· internship. Notre Dame spon­sors a •number of programs in which a student takes an appren­tice-position in the career in which he is interested. The stu­dent works among and is guided 
2 

by professionals and is able to see what really goes on behind the scenes. In this way, one can make . a better decision about what career path to follow. 
Internships. are beneficial _for other reasons · as well. Workin,g with an establishment· while still in school can mean a job wlth . that same company in the future. Having actual work experience can help the student get the job · he wants because he has worked in a professional atmosphere and has a better understanding of what will be expected of him. 
_ Internships can be divided into 
two· categories: "in-school" and 
summer internships. "In-schoolt, 
programs enable a student to par­
ticipate in a semester-long intern­
ship in addition to taking regular 
courses. Although he is not given 
a salary, he . does receive three 
credits. Summer internships are 
programs in, which a student is 
hired temporarily by a company 
and paid. He performs similar 
duties to those of full-time 
employees while learning about 
the firm and the "tricks of the 
trade." Most students intern·. as 
juniors or seniors. 
"In-school" programs are offered primarily by departments in the College of Arts and Letters. The American Studies major has · internships '.in public relations; 1 publishing, community service, historical research, news, and broadcasting. Most of these internships have an academic prerequisite. American Studies Chairman Donald • P. Costello stated, . "The · intern candidate 
must fill out an application for the 
SCHOLASTIC 

particular internship and then submit it to the department. If the student qualifies, we discuss job possibilities and provide him with a list of suitable places of employ­ment. From this point on, it is up to the student to inake the initial contact with the'· prospective-: 'employer' and set" up . an inter~ : view." 
· Once accepted info a program, the student must allot time in his class schedule to allow from nine to twelve hours a week for the job. In addition to the hours of work, the student is expected to turn in a midterm and final paper describing the duties and results of the internship. Students are graded either "S" (satisfactory) or "U" (unsatisfactory). At the end of the semester, Costello calls the "employer" for an evaluation of the student's performance. 
. This past.semester senior. John 
Hines worked at Notre Dame Magazine. His daily responsibiii­tj~s in this publishing internship iq.9luded cov_ering campus news events, rewriting press releases, and. re·searching facts .... in ni;muscrip_ts. John was expected to contribute articles of his own to· the magazine. "The really nice thing :,)about this internship was _tl?,at I was treated like an equal and given. a lot of freedom and responsibilitiest _he said. Another benefit he· cited was attending the editorial staff meetings which were moved to the afternoons to accommodate him. "I got a feel for the decision-making process 
·~n,q the work that goes into put­ti.~g a magazine together." 
· Learning the system of a par­. ticular agency involves making some mistakes. "One problem that I was. faced with was learning to use a word processor. The first time I tried it I lost all of my material and had to rewrite my whole article! After I mastered it, things went smoothly," recalled John. · 
5 FEBRUARY 1986 
"I was exposed to 'Cor­porate Culture.' I learned how to dress, walk, talk and act like a banker." 
Because of th~ first-hand experience he receives, the stu­dent who has had an internship may be hired over someone who h.as not. Having an internship on one's resume. definitely has its advantages. "Notre Dame Maga­zine has a· very good reputation among publications. People in journalism.· are familiar ·with it, which is a plus when applying for a job at another magazine or in a related field," explained John. 
Besides gaining insight into the workings of a magazine, John's internship experience enabled him to find out where his interests lie and what aspects of writing he enjoys the most. "In the course of writing stories and conducting interviews, I spoke to many of the most interesting peo­ple at Notre Dame. Not neces­sarily your Hesburghs, but others who are real characters and spe­cial contributors to the school and the community." 
As a public relations intern for the Sports Information Depart­ment, senior Greta Roemer saw another side of Notre Dame. "You get a whole different view of what is involved in college sports by helping with the publi­city for the athletic department." In addition to spending many hours at various games, Greta worked on programs, guides, player biographies, season outlooks, statistics, rosters, press releases and summaries. "A lot of· time and commitment is involved in the public relations field. This · 
·internship was a good way to be on the inside, to see what the job entailed and find out if my talents are in this area," she said. "It is a really exciting job in which you are given more responsibility as you go along." 
As in any job, added responsi­bility means challenge. By becom-. ing more involved in the prganiza­tion and accepting more duties, an intern will not only learn more about the occupation, but will also discover his own strengths and weaknesses. Senior Beth Roo­ney, who participated in -a com­munity service internship with the 
· American Red Cross, described her work as being "a little taste of a lot of things" including public relations, marketing, . writing, research and fieldwork~ "As my role increased, I had greater chances to apply myself, test my abilities and realize my potential," she observ~d. Doing a good job at an internship can b_oost the 
3 . 
,.One of my most valu­able experiences in the engineering internship was getting out in the real world." 
intcrn's confidence about the future. "Just getting out into the world and · getting a position, knowing that what I learned is applicable, having . work pub­lished, being able to make impor­tant decisions and gaining the respect of my coworkers have all been really good for my_ self­esteem," said Beth 
Students, however, are not the only ones to gain from the intern­ship · experience. From an "employer's" point of . view, interns can . benefit the company in a number of ways. Melany Brewer, Beth's supervisor at the American Red Cross, recently said, "Beth is a great deal ofhelp. .She brings with her a variety of skills, good writing abilities, new viewpoints and fresh ideas. Her enthusiasm has a great effect, too." She c·ontinued; "Internships, 
· in general, wili always be good learning experiences. As long as the intern wants to contribute and is willing to work hard, the organ­ization can't lose. It can be a posi­tive experience on both sides." 
Besides . American Studies, other departments such as Sociol­ogy.· .and Communications offer in-school internships for credit. The Urban Studies internship for the sociology major requires six hours per week of work with a community agency located in the South Bend area. The Department 
· of Communications . and Theatre sponsors broadcasting internships for work at WNDU and for Chan­. nel 34. The Channel 34 assign­ment involves the actual crewing and producing of a live television show dealing with public affairs. 
Students whose major program of studies docs not include intern­ships, need not feel at a disadvan­tage. Through summer programs, they too can gain working experi­ence in numerous areas of interest. Finding an internship is similar to the process of hunting for a full-time job. With planning, initiative and creativity, the stu­dent should show that what he has to off er and wants to learn is compatible with what the com­pany has and needs. 

The possibilities of summer internships are almost endless, but where should a student look?. The Career and _Placement. Center, located in the basement of the library, is one of the best resources. Career and Placement's Nancy. Graham said, "The center provides information such as company addresses, con­tact names and available posi­tions." The career library contains files, indexes and books which group the programs by occupation and geographic . region. 'In addi­tion, notices of companies looking for interns are posted on the walls and around· campus. Graham goes on to explain that "the center fur­nishes dates, times and applica­
. tions essential for on-cainpus · interviews. Many times, . com­panies coming to recruit seniors will leave several time slots open to interview juniors looking for summer work." Other sources for internship information include alumni clubs, · academic clubs, deans, ....prn(essors, advisors and 
.;-,,-. . 

word-of-mouth. In selecting an ·-internship, a student should take into consideration its struc­ture, location, duration, . and 
SCHOLASTIC 

I 
. I 
4 
· salary as well as his own interest in the field and his ability. "One of the most important things in the application process is to start early," stressed Graham. By October, juniors should have completed their profiles and begun to mail in resumes with cover letters. "We supply packets of samples to help them get started, and we are . more than happy to look over their resumes with them," said Graham. 
After filling out a lengthy application, Se.nior Mike Carroll, an economics major, was selected as an intern to work for Senator Al Simpson of Wyoming, in Wash­ington, DC. According to Mike, ''It was a good way to see the area so I'll know if I want to live there in the future." He added, "For someone serious about working on the Hill, it was a great way to get to know people who hire and to make other contacts." 
' In the case of businesses, hav­ing an internship can be an important way to get "your foot iri the door". Dave Graham,· a scnior;:i who worked last summer with a Management Informations Group Division, sees internships 
·as "a two-pronged pr9cess in which · potential employers are giving you a look at their com­pany while they're getting a look at you without giving you a per­manent position." Overall, Dave was happy with the internship because of the job-related experi­ence it . provide<;i. "Although I don't plan on going into computer programming, I learned a lot about the field by working with experts, observing, and asking questions," he said. 
Mike Milani, a senior account­ing major, interned last summer with the New York Chase Manhattan Bank. Like· Dave, he beriefittcd· from the experience of an internship but does not plan on going into the same type of work after graduation. "The most important aspect of my internship was that I was exposed to 'Cor­porate Culture.' I learned how to dress, walk, talk and act like a banker." In addition, Mike learned how to conduct himself in business situations. "It was like being immersed in an atmosphere that was totally different from school's; There was no such thing as a flexible deadline --work had to be finished when they said it had to be done and it had to be perfect! Getting to work early and staying beyond 5:00 was expected." 
Through their internships stu­dents are given the opportunity to combine and direct their accumu­lated knowledge from classes to a practical goal in the working world. According to Liz Huber, a senior engineering major who interned with IBM, "One of my most valuable experiences in the engineering internship was getting out in the real world. Classes and the problems in the book idealize a lot of things. There is not always a set answer in the real world --not everything works out as planned. Sometimes, you just have to improvise.'' 
As these students prove, internships are a valuable learning·. experience. By· exposing students to a real work. atmosphere, confi­dence and knowledge are gainede 
"There is not always a set answer in the real world --not everything works out ·as planned. Sometimes, you just have to improvise." 


5
5 FEBRUARY 1986 . 



other campuses-----~-, 
. •· . • 
. ;,A­
• .


-~_:S.Jt:/. • • 
... . .·• ...• ·. .. 

• ~~-;JYi:E?r· .t:l . .•
. ' :·. •' .. i. ·. .. -~··•. ·•..
.. . . .-. -~. . . l\.. 
. . . . . . 

, . . ·'. ;. . .., '.. ,·
. 
. . ; 

.,_ .·• . ; . . ~. . 
;.....:, . . ···.•,. ....;· ..
.' . ·. . ... 
.• 
. , . 
. . I I -_' . 
.. ~. 
. . . . . . . 
I I •
. 

,. . • 
. 

' . .............. • '
·: ......:·:
.. • .... ' 
•
·• 
·. 
,. 
• • ..;.•<.~.. .. 
... • 
. ·•·
·•· 
" 
• 
·, 
. 
, 
• 
. , . 
.

. ,·· . . 
.. 
' . 
. SCHOLASTIC 

AMERICAN MEDICAL EDUCATION: art and science 1n transition 
by John Huebl  pace with modern medicine has placed great pressures on both the  Thus, by the time a student begins his first year of medical  
nation's  medical  educators  and  school  he  has  already  demon­ 
society as a whole.  strated his ability to do well in an  
'Medicine is a great career and like most great things it does not come easily.' 1e twentieth century has brought extensive advances in medicine. Many fatal an.d crip­pling diseases have been elim­inated by vaccines; major organs can be replaced by artificial organs or transplants; severed limbs can be surgically recon­ Preparation for a career as a medical doctor begins long before a student enters medical school. Admissions requirements are tough and the student must prove himself during his under­graduate education. For the class entering medical school· in fall of 1984 the average GPA was 3.51, with 42 · percent of the students having achieved a GP A of 3.6 or higher. Such high grades and scientific background are an indi­cation that as a group, these stu­dents are highly motivated indivi­duals who committed themselves to medical careers either before entering or during the first two years of college. The average stu­ -academically competitive environ­ment and to comprehend, assimi­late, and retain scientific knowledge. For years, however, debate has raged about whether this kind of undergraduate preparation is appropriate for either medical school or the actual practice of medicine in the years following post-graduate training. One major concern is that pre-medical students are educated too narrowly -­that their minimal exposure to classes outside the scientific disciplines inhibits development of the interpersonal and analytical skills necessary to be a good physician. In a concen­trated effort to acquire the kind  1:1 I ;)' "'  
nected; and · conception can take place outside the · womb. Such stunning achievements, however  dent accepted to medical school, in addition to having earned high grades and having completed a  of knowledge and academic record which will most likely gain the student admission to medical  :/.. ',  
beneficial for mankind, have .created problems for the medical profession. Modern medicine demands physicians be more technically competent and ethi­ rigorous science curriculum, also scored well on the Medical Col­lege Admission Test (MCAT), a comprehensive exam required by most medical schools which tests  school, the pre-med might deprive himself of the full range of oppor­tunities that an undergraduate education has to offer. In a docu­ment prepared for the Association  :r ,; I I : i ' : i : I  
cally  sophisticated  than  ever  students in four areas: knowledge  of  American  Medical  Colleges  'I  
before.  The  formidable  task  of  of  science·  (biology,  chemistry,  (AAMC), officials of Johns Hop­ 
producing  physicians  with  the  and  physics),  science  problems,  kins Medical School captured the  
outstanding personal and profes­ reading,  and  ·quantitative  skills  way pre-med students have come  
sional qualities necessary to keep  analysis.  to look at college: "For them, col­ 
5 FEBRUARY  1986  7  i.  


lege is not a place to sharpen crit­ical skills, investigate opinions, and experience intellectual stimu­lation and growth. It is a mine field to keep them from achieving their goal of entering medical school." 
The AAMC panel suggests that pre-med students should spend less time on science courses in college, and stresses the impor­tance of a well-rounded education in the liberal arts. "To appreciate the many dimensions of human experience requires informed ·reflection upon the literature, the philosophy, and the arts that are included in the cultural heritage of all people in our society," the panel said. The panel noted that the current· medical admissions process does little to encourage students to risk taking poetry 
8 

rather than biochemistry in col­lege. In fact 90 percent of the stu­dents accepted to . the freshman class of 1984-85 majored in· sci­ence as undergraduates. 
"Last year Johns Hopkins Medical School dropped the MCA T as a requirement for admission, in an effort to stress the importance of a liberal educa­tion in preparation·-for ·medicine. The primary advantage in drop­ping the MCA T as an entrance requirement is that talented stu­dents who have excelled in the .· basic sciences will not feel pres­sured into taking additional sci­ence courses in order to· ensure a high score on a . standardized, scientific test. Medical schools generally require one full year of each of the following: general and · · · organic chemistry, biology, and· 
physics. If a student were to do well in each of these courses, he could then relax and take a variety of non-science courses. Having demonstrated his ability to handle scientific subjects, he would not need to take addi­tional, more specific science courses in order to pick up a few extra points on the MCA T. 
Most students and faculty of both undergraduate colleges and medical schools doubt that the change at Johns Hopkins will bring about any major revisions of admissions requirements in the near future. "Johns Hopkins is one of the most prestigious medi­cal schools in the country,'' com­mented Fr. Robert Austgen, advi­sor to undergraduates in the arts and letters pre-professional pro­gram at Notre Dame. "They are able to fill their slots with the brightest students from the best undergraduate institutions in the country. Everyone knows that a student from Harvard with a strong science background and a 

3.8 GP A will be able to handle the course load in medical school. But what of a student from a lesser institution with a ·3.0 or a 3.1? While the MCA T may not be a perfect predictor of success, it is an objective means of ranking 
stuoems · m terms of acquired knowledge and quantitative skills, and as such is a valuable tool for. medical schools who must try to select the best candidates from a large number. of applicants." 
In addition to the concern about the curriculum of pre-meds, much attention and concern have been addressed to the competi-. tiveness of their undergraduate environment. Pre-ineds are typi­cally stereotyped as students who concentrate exclusively on science courses, · and compete fiercely for top grades, generating suspicion and· animosity among themselves. Despite the popularity of this stereotype, most pre-med students 
SCHOLASTIC 

By the time a student enters med · school, he must already have demonstrated his ability to do well in an academ­
ically ·competitiveenvironment. 

While it is importantthat a physician be sen­sitive .an~ compas­
sionate, 1t 1s even more im_portant that he be informed and com­petent. 
5 FEBRUARY 1986 

.and teachers downplay its vali­dity. Says Fr. Austgen, "Pre­meds, on the whole, enter college knowing exactly what they want to do, and they are committed to· success~ right from the start. Goal-oriented .students like these tend to study hard and strive for the best academic record they· can achieve. Their natural inclination to do their best does not mean that they feel pitted against one another. A highly motivated indi­vidual pursuing a dream usually competes only against himself." 
These sentiments were echoed by a. senior in the science pre-professional program at Notre Dame. "Sure, pre-meds study hard, but so do students in other disciplines who . want to be suc­cessful," he said. "Medicine·· is a great career, and like most great things, it does not come easily. It requires a lot of preparation and hard work. My own experience in pre-med is limited to Notre Dame, where I've found most of the students to be friendly and cooperative. There are many close friendships among pre-meds, and we all want success for the others as well as ourselves." The student did admit that some pre-meds study too . much, but he insisted that the majority of these students do it not from a cutthrnat com­·petitive perspective, but simply because they are perfectionists. "They're the kind who would study hard.in any major," he said. "They want a challenge, they like to push themselves. If they were to take up jogging for fun or exer­cise, they'd soon be training for a marathon." 
Academically, pre-meds are training for what could be con­sidered a schooling marathon: four years of medical school after college, and three to six years of residency after that. Competition for admission to medical school is intense. In 1985, only 48 percent of the 35,994 students who 
9 


applied were accepted to med school. The competitive nature of both pre-med undergraduate training and the medical· school admissions process may have its disadvantages, but it does select a group of students with very strong academic credentials. 
Once a student enters medi­cal school, he is committed to doing little else besides hard work for the next four years of his life. According to Dr. Tom Traeger, director of the IUSB medical pro­gram which holds classes on the Notre Dame campus, the first year is the hardest of all. "The freshman year is especially diffi­cult because of the large volume of material the student is required to learn," he said. "Most fresh­men are relieved when that first year is over." The second year is not necessarily easier academi­cally than the first, but by that time the student is more experi­enced and thus better able to cope with the work. 
The growth and expansion of scientific knowledge and infor­mation in recent years has made it increasingly difficult to teach first and second-year medical students everything they need to know. Medical schools have been criti­cized for over-burdening medical students with an unreasonable amount of factual information to memorize. In the February 1985 Journal of Medical • Education, Brian Awbrey, MD states, "Medi­cal students are deeply concerned about the mastery of an· enormous and expanding amount of scien­tific information, all of which faculties seem to feel ·must be presented in lecture form. This practice has led more than one student, including myself, to the conclusion that they were being lectured to death." 
Educators also express con­
ceni that· the overwhelming 
amount of information a student 
must memorize has reduced medi-
SCHOLASTIC 

cal education to a passive and tedious experience in rote learn­ing. "At present, most medical · students are taught by methods that make them passive recipients of information rather than active participants in their own intellec-. tual growth," according to a AAMC recent report. While the tremendous increase of scientific information is a recent phenomenon, criticism of medical education is nothing new. An AAMC summary of a study in 1932 shows that over fifty years ago, educators were concerned about many of the same issues they still face today. The· study deplored the fact that medical students spent too many hours in lectures where they are subjected 
· to "too many details, often of temporary, miscellaneous, and inconsequential value." 
Despite such criticisms, the simple fact remains that a doctor needs to have a solid grounding in · medical science, and the place to acquire this basic knowledge is medical school. . While it is impor­tant that a physician be sensitive and compassionate, it is even more important that he be informed and competent. Trying to find time to teach all of the factual, i::sanalytical, ethical, and humanitari~n aspects of medicine to students in medical school is extremely difficult. Of the factual information alone, Dr. Traeger says,· "We know that we cannot teach it all, but it's difficult to put a filter on it. In the end, what limits us is time --the faculty has a limited amount of time in which to teach the students, and in' that limited time they try to present what they consider most impor­tant.". 
One second-year medical student · at IUSB claimed that memorizing vast amounts of fac-, tual knowledge is not a pleasant learning experience, but nonethe­
5 FEBRUARY 1986 

less an essential one. "I believe that the closer a person gets to the limit of his knowledge, the more likely he is to make a mistake," he said. The student also offered two suggestions for cutting the time spent in lecture, "First, they should just give you the essential information in an easily memoriz­able form. They should write text­books and outlines which are designed to be memorized, and then simply hand them to you and let you take them home and study them on your own time. This would save the time and tedium of having to sit in lecture and copy all of it down. Second, they should devote teaching time to getting the students involved in labs, research, and clinical appli­cation of the knowledge the stu­dent is acquiring on his own." 
In his article "Medical Edu­cation for the 21st Century", Lloyd H. Smith, Jr., MD, makes a number of pointed observations about the nature of medicine, some of its current problems, and its hopes for the future. Smith dis­tinguishes between medicine as a science and medicine as an art. As a science, "Medicine is applied biology, openly and tri­umphantly. Obviously unin­formed humanism is not medi­cine, in fact, the deepest compas­sion may be t.hat of making the right diagnosis." He goes on to stress however, that factual knowledge is not what ought to be emphasized in medical school, because there are many more facts than a person can ever learn or remember. "Education," he says, "is what you have left when you have forgotten the facts." Dr. Smith views committment to con­tinued self-education as the most important value that must be instilled in medical students today. "We cannot teach medicine 
for the 21st century for the simple reason that most of it does not currently exist," he says. 
Smith's proposals for change in medical education parallel those suggested by Dr. Awbrey. Awbrey writes, "A major concern of mine, a concern that I wish had been much better addressed while I was a student, is that of being prepared to learn throughout my professional life­time." Both Smith and Awbrey propose that medical students be given greater exposure to problem-solving exercises in order to foster analytical skills, imagina­tion, and creativity. They also call for more time in lab and less in lecture halls as well as a greater integration of factuai learning with clinical experience. 
The current medical educa­tion typically includes four years of medical school followed by three to six years of residency. The first two years of medical school are spent mastering basic sciences which are considered essential background for all physi­cians. Clinical experience is minimal in the first two years ( often there is none at all in the first year), but becomes extensive in the third and fourth years, dur­ing which time the student parti­cipates in a series of rotating clerkships in the different special­ties within the medical field. Usually by the beginning of the fourth year, the student will have chosen a specialty which he would like to enter and is begin­ning to apply for residencies within that specialty. 
Whereas medical school provides a would-be doctor· with background information and gen­eral exposure to the · various aspects of clinical medicine, residency is where the medical school graduate acquires the experience and specific knowledge, skills, and expertise that he must have before he can practice on his own. The resident gradually acquires greater and greater responsibility and author­
11 




ity as he moves through the years of training. Most residents view their postgraduate training with mixed feelings. The years are challenging and exciting, but also very tiring and stressful. Experi­ence is gained by doing everything --beginning with the 

. most menial tasks as a first-year resident and progressing toward the responsibilities of an indepen­dent physician; which means attending thousands of operations and diagnoses and missing a lot of sleep. Residents perform the ser­vices of attending physicians, laboratory personnel, messengers, secretaries, orderlies, social work­ers, and LV. nurses. 
Residency, like the rest of medical practice and medical edu­cation, is currently being .,affected by shifts, changes, and crises in a number of areas. Two major fac­tors are affecting residency pro­grams in the U.S. right now. The first is the trend toward increas­ing specialization and subspeciali­zation caused by the tremendous growth of science and technology during the past decade. The second is the financial strain of high medical costs. Dr. Traeger claims that these factors are exert­ing opposing forces · on the residency programs. On the one hand, the trend toward subspe­cialization tends to lengthen residencies because doctors need more time to master all of the spe­cial skills and knowledge of such specific disciplines. One cannot subspecialize until one has spe­cialized, and the years can add up. On the other hand, financial pressures exerted both by hospi­tals and the government work to constrain the length of the residency programs. 
Until now, these opposing forces have kept residencies somewhat stable, · but this could change. Financial problems have become increasingly acute as both 
12 
'Pre-meds, on the whole, enter college knowingexactly what they want to do, and they are com­mitted to success rightfrom the start.' 
governmental and private con­tingencies struggle to keep medi­cal costs under control. The fer­vor in Congress to reduce the federal budget deficit has prompted a close look at the 2 bil­lion dollars spent annually by the federal government in support of residency training programs. While federal and state tax dollars are ncit the only source of sup­port, they supply a large percen­tage of the necessary funds, and if these funds are cut back, the number of available residency slots will decrease. A recent GMENAC report predicted a surplus of 70,000 physicians by 1990. Therefore, many govern­ment and medical officials believe that reducing the number of residencies is a viable way of reducing health costs and expen­ditures. 
This proposed reduction in residencies, however, comes at a time when there is greater com~ petition for these spaces than ever before. Thirty years ago; 7000 inedical school_: graduates· chose 
' '. ' 
from among 11,000 available residency slots. In 1985, 28,500 students vied for I 8,500 positions. Of these students who applied for residencies in 1985, 16,300 were graduates of regular four-year American medical schools. The rest came from a variety of. other backgrounds and institutions including military medical schools, foreign medical schools, and osteopathic schools. 
Once the residency is com­pleted, the official training is over and the doctor· is ready to prac­tice on his own. Doctors who are beginning their careers at this time are entering a medical world in a state of flux. American society is in the process of deter­mining what kind of medical sys­tem will provide the most fair and efficient health care. Experts have adopted a variety of positions about what should be done to promote research, contain costs, and extend service to the poor. Proposals range from asocialized system in which the government controls all, to a system of free enterprise in which competition among doctors is encouraged and for-profit hospitals are allowed to flourish. 
Regardless of what formal 
structures evolve, it is hoped that 
physicians' basic ideals of scholar­
ship, compassion, and dedication 
will never change. David Rogers, 
MD, speaking at a conference at 
Ohio State University College of 
Medicine in March of 1984, 
shared these thoughts, "Over 
time, society tends to reward 
groups that aspire to noble goals 
like improving the human condi­
tion; That is what spawned physi­
cians in the first place. They 
should hang on to that high 
ground." If those involved in the 
American medical education 
remain true to. these ideals, the 
country will produce the kind of 
doctors it needs to nieet the needs 
of modern medicine.• · 
· SCHOLASTIC 



'! 


if: 
' 

i 
I 


Cost 
Versus 


Quality 

THE MEDICAL DILEMMA OF_ THE EIGHTIES 
·, • •/:,:111t:,1/~, ~ ,·,1 

llt-P, .,••,~ ...........c•,,,••'•..,..,.·•, 
1

\I, 1 --6•-.. -.... ~.. ,,•.. ~.• \••·•-• 
••l~'l't, • • • 1••' "••' -••· .,,_.,,•rr,•••·•'>-•••11•­
, .. .I.* 
by Ted.Kellef1er 

While the 1980's has been a pei-iog of relatively low inflation in most sectors of the economy, in the field of health care costs have · skyrocketed. Fifty years ago, medical expenditures accounted for about. 3 percent of total output. and by 1960 that figure had risert to around 6 percent. Today how­ever, health care. expenditjl.res consume. over 11 percent of GNP, making health care· a $450 billion_ 
J .... -:,..,, 
~--~·-.:..~-------__,.---.i 
uToday health care expenditures consume over 11 percent of GNP, makin.g health · a $450 billion . industry _ in 
A . I ,,
mer1ca a one. 

industry in America alone. This means that just_ under $2,000 per person is -being spent yearly on health care in the United States; 
· While these figures are alarm­ing, the causes underlying them are even more distressing, since they point to very unpleasant options for the future. Perhaps the two biggest contributors to spiral­ling costs are health insurance and technology.. 
Earlier in this century, health care faced a crisis of availability --not everyone could get it in the _ 
14 
· SCHOLASTIC 

§ 
quantity .and quality needed.. In the post-World ·War . Two era, however, the f cdcral government committed itself to providing whatever medical treatment was. necessary to whomever· the doc­tors said needed it. .Thus pro':" grams like Medicare and Medi­caid were born. While Congress wrings its hands in fear of the Medicare Trust Fund going broke in the I 990's, the original intent of such programs was inarguably noble. Unfortunately, what these and other third-party payment systems have created is a situation in which doctor and patient decide on a certain course of medical treatment without ever considering the financial conse­quences. 
While no one would argue that economic considerations should take precedence over patient's health, it can be . argued that third-party payment has led to a dramatic increase in the number of medical procedures being per­tormcd. When someone else signs the check · consumers are more willing to undergo, and .doctors more willing to prescribe, pro~ cedures which may not be neces­
sary. 
Tremendous advances :in med­ical tecJmology have helped push · up costs as well. For decades the treatment ·for a bad hip was a walker and severa I sessions of physical therapy; today technol­ogy presents the more attractive (and substantially more expen­sive) • option of an _artificially rebuilt hip. Medical technology. offers consumers exciting new prospects for better care · ranging from artificial body parts and organs to new drugs to new pro-:­cedures such as liver transplants. However, research and develop• ment are not cheap, and this new 
· technology often carries . an immense price tag. Coupled with the "best-:-quality-care;. whatcver­the-cost" attitude fostered by 
5 FEBRUARY 1986 

third-party payment, the explo­sion in technology has led to an explosion in costs. 
:, There arc demographic factors 

·~s well. First of all, there are more of us to care for. Moreover, the general characteristics of the population are changing. The 65­and-up age group is the fastest growing sector of the American population as well as the most expensive age bracket to care for. Health care bills for this group arc· three times those for people under 65 and seven times those people under 19. Ironically, it is the success of modern medicine in extending average life expec­tancy that has contributed to its current crisis. 
Several creative attempts to hold down costs are already in operation. The best known among them is something referred to as an HMO (health --maintenance organization). An HMO is a group practice health plan which . requires a family to pay a flat yearly fee in return for guaranteed comprehensive care. The burden of keeping costs down in such an arrangement is on the physicians themselves. In an HMO, . physicians are payed a flat salary, and are monitored by one another and by administrators for wasteful or unnecessary pro­cedures and practices. HMO's are fairly .successful at cutting some costs. ··. ·By one estimate, if the whole nation used HMO's, hospi­. tat admissions would drop by 11 million per year. HMO's fail to 
· address, however, the critical question of soaring technology costs. 
· Another attempt to hold down costs is the Diagnosis Related Group (DRG) System. In this ~cheme, an insurer will pay hospi­tals·· or physicians for treatment given for any one of a fixed "menu" of some 450 medical problems. Whereas in conven­tional health-care coverage, pay­ment depends on what treatment is given, in the DRG system, it depends on the diagnosis. In effect, the message to the doctor is to cut back on costs, even if quality of service suffers a little. 
It has long been assumed in this country that the rules govern­ing health care are different from those governing corporate Amer­ica. But the advent of "for­profit" health care institutions may soon change this notion. Pro­fit oriented health care facilities are the major new trend in Amer­ican medicine. In the l 970's these institutions grew faster than the computer industry and currently almost 80 percent of all nursing homes are owned by for-profit agencies. While this development creates a clear potential for great increases in efficiency and th us lower costs, there are fears that the profit motive may not lead to better quality health care.. Some are concerned that for-profit health care will produce a situa­tion where medical decisions are being influenced more by the bal­ance books than by the patients' welfare. 
The bottom line in all of this seems to be that Americans will soon have to decide whether to simply accept higher health care 

costs or resolve to settle for a lower standard of quality. It should be noted that increasing costs are not without their bene­fits; America's health care system is the best in the world; In Great Britain, where costs are much lower and health care is rationed, the quality and immediate accessi­bility to service is considerably lower than in the United States. When it comes to health care, Americans will get what they pay · for: an increasingly expensive but · outstanding system, or an afford­able but somewhat inferior sys­tem.• 
15 




I

music-------------, IB0onon0[1® . m. .HmO .0m 


]?§)~jP ]?JIJJ].il1 
by Tom Brannigan 

Something very strange is happening to the American rock 'n roll scene. R.E.M on MTV? The _Replacements on Saturday ­Night Live? Husker Du a deal with Warner Bros.? The children of punk are becoming p'opular and, horror of horrors, making money. Johnny Rotten is wonder­ing why he has been forsaken, and Sid Vicious must be rolling in his grave. 
Certain things were under­stood by the Punks. The first was 
· that large record companies could never be trusted, for hadn't they turned sixties garage bands into fat superstars? The second thing was that in order to be heard by people one had to be on the radio; but to be on the radio meant achieving a generic "hit" sound which compromised the band's integrity. A catch-22 situa­tion h_ad developed in popular music. One had to make money to keep the band going, but the only way to make money was to play the corporate rock game. Hence, a dilemma. So what did those sneaky little punks do? Simple. They signed . with small record companies, packed up their gui­tars and hit the road. 
Post punk was born. The path that these guys had chosen for thcmsc·lvcs was just about the hardest one to take. Being on the road . for a year or . two will discourage even the toughest of 
18 

wills, especially when these bands played to audiences of ten or fif­teen people a night in some s'inall bar in the middle of Nowhere, U.S.A. 
Two years ago, The Replace­ments, a band from Minneapolis, were paid 15 bucks apiece, per show, six nights a week. The group travelled in a small van and relied on the kindness of strangers for · a place to sleep. The bass player, now eighteen, was on the road at the age of twelve. The Village Voice did an article on the band last year and 
. titled it "Life on the Bottom." 
The road was similar for 

·R.£.M., Husker Du, Jason and the Scorchers, X, and The Del Fucgos. All were related in one way or the other to the post punk movement, and all had put in their time for the "tour till you drop" theory. These bands are now on the verge of breaking all the rules that were etched in stone by the original punk bands. The shocker is that this may not be such a bad thing. That is, as long as none pull · the now infamous, "big sell out." 
The most noticeable sign that these bands have changed and matured is .that they have pro­gressed beyond any label such as hardcore, thrash, new wave or any other wave. They are now just plain rock bands who are becoming popular. 

Here comes the tricky part. How does one of these bands become commercially viable and 
R.E.M., Replacements and. Husker Du hit the big-time 
yet maintain its "punk".. integrity. Well, I don't think there is any definite answer to that question, but here is how some of the bands arc trying to walk the. tight rope. 

The Replacements signed with Sire records, a fairly large record company, and ha,,c just recently played onSaturday Night Live. Word has it that they plan to make a concert video, an_d as they said, they named. their new album "Tim" because it, "seemed to fit; and Sire· hated it." · 
Husker Du · signed with Warner Bros., but there is. little doubt that they will keep their distorted, blitzkrieg sound. The Del Fucgos have a video , on MTV, and even made acommcr­citi'i for Miller beer. The band , however, has stayed on the smafl record label, Slash. Jason and the Scorchers signed with the huge record company EMI/Epic, ·· but still play small clubs. Considered to be one of the best performers, they feel that ·smaller · concert places are best to sec a live show. 

R.E.M. has released videos for MTV, played bigger concert halls, and raised ticket prices; but they have remained with their medium sized label, I.R.S., and still to1.1r incessantly. · 
It is too early to see if-any of these groups will be ruined by· their growing commercial successes arid aspirations;· but for now it is fun to hear-and see som·e great American music. • 
n FEBRUA,RY. 1986 



fiction 




a1t 1n 



Katie put the cup of coffee down in the third booth along the windows; Every day at four minutes past three in the after­noon, ·:l. man came in and sat in the booth and had two cups of coffee, three · sugars in each, and read the afternoon paper until the evening cook canie in. Then he left. Katie didn't know his name. She had;started putting the coffee out at three o'clock, so it be would coor enough to drink when he came: in. He always smiled at her. 
5 FEBRUARY 1986 

The restaurant was small; it was really more a . diner. When Katie and Jim, the evening cook, closed up at night, it only took them twenty minutes. Katie wiped down the four tables in the mid­dle of the room, and Jim stacked them against the wall to mop the floor. Then they wiped the counter seats, the two small win­dow •!ables, and the three booths. 
'''.',:··
,,,• 

Jim, the evening cook, wore black boots like the ones soldiers wear with camouflage.· He had a 
by Kris Anders 

big head --literally --and tied a red bandana over it so that his coarse, .black hair stuck out at the back of his neck and curled against his faded t-shirt. Katie had been frightened of him when she started working there three years earlier. To a sixteen year old farm girl, he had looked like the newspaper photos of · a Middle-East terrorist. 
Katie walked back from the third booth and leaned against the crossword puzzle in the morning paper, and she took the pen from her apron pocket and doodled around the clues. She filled in two-across, a four-letter word for bouquet flower, then one, two and five down. One-down was a three letter word, a color. She looked at the door again. She got stuck on six-down, a seven letter word for marriage. When she had filled in the whole corner, the bell over the door jingled and the man came in for his coffee. Katie looked at the clock again; it was ten minutes past. The man saw her glance, and slid into the booth. "Thought I forgot, didn't you?"· he asked softly. He smiled. Katie liked his smile, liked the way one corner of his mouth curled down, but his teeth still managed to show. The man leaned ov'er the table and reached 

counter.  She  looked  up  at  the  
clock.  Someone  had  started  the  
,.f._~·-,~~.,.1~.:trr~:.,.­ 
19  



20 
SCHOLASTIC 

for the coffee cup with long, thin fingers. 
Katie wanted to know his name. He looked like a Jack, she thought, or maybe a Jeff. Somehow, when she poured cof­fee for someone every afternoon day after day, she felt like she knew him. Like Herb, the old man who came in for dinner every. night. She had learned his name the second night she had waited on · his table. Herb was skinny, and he had a bald spot on the back of his head. No one would ever sit at the first little table by the windows for dinner, because everyone knew Herb would sit there. Herb drank decaffeinated coffee with his meal, ·. and had rice pudding for dessert Katie liked knowing what Herb would want for dessert, like knowing that if he ordered-a ham­burger, he would want raw onions on it. 
The . rice pudding was homemade. Every Monday, Gerri, the boss's wife, came in and made two batches with cinnamon and: raisins. Katie di.dn't like Mon­days, because · she had to · help Gerri and still wait on tables. Gerri had been a hairdresser in the days before she and Katie's boss got married. Her hair was a different:, color every three weeks. On that Tuesday in September, she was a redhead. Katie and Jim kept track of her color changes on the funeral home calendar above the deep-freezer, making little marks in red ink. Once Gerri had asked Jim about the little red marks, and Jim had blushed. Katie had never seen a terrorist blush before. 
The man who looked like a Jack or a Jeff cleared his throat, and Katie turned to reach for the 
Somehow, when she poured coffee for some­
one  every  afternoon  day  
after  day,  she  felt  like  
she knew him.  

coffee pot. He pointed at the empty sugar bowl in front of him and smiled, as if he were afraid to break the quiet of mid-afternoon in the diner. Katie leaned below the counter and grabbed a hand­ful of sugar packets, then walked to the booth. She felt awkward, as if her legs weren't attached to the rest of her body. Her feet, in their white nurse's shoes, walked across the linoleum on their own. 
Sunlight fell through the win­

. dow and tumbled from the back of the spoon into a puddle of cof-. fee next to it. Katie poured more coffee, and stuffed sugar packets into the jar. Her short fingers, with their bitten-off nails, shook gently. His hand rested beside the spoon, and Katie looked at his ring finger. Last week, he had not been wearing· a ring. Today, he still wasn't. She was surprised. Katie had just assumed, when he started coming into the place, that he was a married man. Everyone in Katie's farming town was mar­ried by twenty. 
Jack-Jeff smiled at her, and she smiled back, more warmly than before. He murmured a low thanks as Katie turned, and she 
. blushed. She went back to the counter and took the green receipt slips out of ·her pocket. She wrote "B3" at the top, then "cof'' on the fines in the middle. She l0oked at the slip, decided it was messy, and crumpled it in a ball. The second slip was neater, she resolved, so she wrote ".42" at the bottom and circled it. She was careful to write her name in the little space at the top. Maybe he'd call her by her name and she could ask his. 
Katie took the slip over · to Jack-Jeff's booth and set it next to the overturned spoon and six 
21
5 FEBRUARY 1986 

empty sugar packets. He smiled again, and Katie watched for the crooked curl of his mouth, notic­ing his straight and even teeth. Katie remembered her grandma telling her always to look at a man's teeth and ears, because · those were the things you couldn't change, and the man's children would end up with those teeth and ears, especially if they were bad. Katie thought of Jack­Jeff's children; her picture of them had her own straight blond hair and amber eyes. Jack-Jeff slid from the booth and dropped 
two quarters on top of the slip. He turned towards the door, said "Thanks, Katie," almost under his breath, and walked out. The bell above the door jingled, and Katie breathed · deeply and blushed. 
She stood at the end of the counter and watched the sun slide across the receipt on the table. She smiled again. It felt like the silly smile was stuck on her face. 
Jim, the evening cook, came up behind her, and Katie didn't hear him. He put one hand on her waist and pinched her; she turned quickly, startled, and banged her hip on the corner of the cou·nter. "Shit," slipped from her before she could catch it. She knew her irritation made it all the more amusing to Jim. She glared at him. "Think you're cute, huh?" she asked,. and pushed past him to the crossword puzzle still open on the counter. "Hormones," he yelled at her; "Women and their stupid hormones." 
Katie stopped staring at the puzzle and almost smiled. Jim always tried to make her smile'
' 

she didn't appreciate him enough, 
she knew. When Katie had 
finally stopped being afraid of 
Jim her first year at the diner, she had started looking forward to Jim's arrival every afternoon. He could always help her fill in the clues about cars and sports fig­ures, and he'd tell her it was great that she knew so much about books. On busy nights, like Fri­day fish fry, Jim would grab Katie· as she tore through the kitchen and swing her into a dramatic Fred Astaire-Ginger Rogers dip. "Run away wiz me to ze Casbah," he would say, and Katie would giggle. That made Friday nights a lot easier; 
Jim was nice enough, but nothing like the three o'clock cof­fee man, Katie thought. The bell above· the door jingled again; Katie looked up as Herb walked in and headed for his table. She poured his decaf, snatched a place setting and napkin from under the counter, and met him at the table. . "Good afternoon, Honey, and how is the day going today?" he asked, easing into a chair as Katie set down the cof­fee. She smiled at his courtly manners. "I'm doing fine, Herb. What's new with you?" she asked. Katie leaned against the chc.ir opposite Herb, knowing the ques~ tion would be worth ten minutes of answer. Katie let her mind drift . back to the spoon and the ringless hand in the sun, and the man's straight teeth. She heard Herb talking, far away, about his nephew's kids: "Lynn, she's thir­teen now, pretty as a picture. But that boy; he's a real pesterer. His mom don't even like him." Katie made herself listen to Herb, but her mind watched the children with straight blond hair, amber eyes, and beautiful teeth. "I'll bet the girl's going· to be a real cutie, Herb," she said. "And the boy's not a bad kid; he's just feisty, 

LAMP SHADES• LAMP REPAIR• LAMP PARTS GLASS PARTS• LAMPS• LIGHTING FIXTURES 
Village Lamp Shoppe 
NORTH VILLAGE MALL 52577 US 31 NORTH SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 (219) 272-0600 
Custom Lamp Shades 
. SCHOLASTIC
22 

which is better than being a little mama's-boy." She walked back to the counter, her eyes focused far 
away. 
Jim came through the swing­ing brown doors from the kitchen and sat on the stool at the end of the counter. He spun around three times, and pulled the ban­dana from his head. His hair stuck down on the sides of his head in the same shape as the bandana. There were little dents where the knots of the scarf had been. He grinned at Katie. "What's your problem today, any­way? You look like you're eight million miles away." He paused a moment. When Katie said noth­
ing, he began telling her about his 
girlfriend of that week. "Yeah, 
she's pretty hot, all right. A real 
possibility." 
Katie was again only half­listening. The word "possibility" had sent her mind away. There were possibilities, and a lot of them: a house, kids, someone to cook for, to talk to at night. Then she would come to work and complain about diapers and bro­ken washers and dirty floors like the women in her mother's coffee club; but she knew that, under­neath the talk, she would be happy. S.he wouldn't mind the mess. She'•'might even like it. 
Jim stopped talking and looked at Katie. She stared out the front windows, her lips turned up a little at the corners. "Man, Kate," he said," it's a pretty good story. We went to a drive-in. You're not even listening." Herb called to Jim from the window table. "Wake that dreamer up, Jim. I need some more coffee, and I'm· not leaving without my dessert." Jim leaned across the counter and swatted Katie on the arm. He smiled a little, as if it was the least she deserved for not listening. 
Katie shook her shoulders and took the coffee pot to Herb's table. His eyes were warm, and he laid a hand on Katie's wrist. "Honey, what's wrong with you today?" he asked. Katie shook her head wordlessly. Herb simply waited. · Without stopping for breath, Katie told him. She heard it all come tumbling out of her mouth, and she didn't even want to stop it. She told him about the three o'clock man, about his crooked, toothy smile. "And, Herb, he doesn't wear a ring. I really don't think he's married. I know it sounds silly, but we'd have some awfully pretty kids." 
When Katie finally stopped for breath, he asked another question, and Herb's face grew amused when she told him that she didn't know his name. "But he looks like a Jack, or a Jeff, I think," she said. "And he knows my name. He used it this after­noon. I really do know him. He's here everyday." Katie felt like she was defending herself. "He was .here today, and I gave him coffee. He left right before you got here." She leaned over to pour more coffee into Herb's cup. 
"Only person I saw on my way in was that new young guy at the Catholic church just up by the highway. Gives a good sermon. Now go on, tell me who the boy is, Katie. You'll rest easier if you have it all out." Katie didn't say anything. She poured coffee into Herb's cup. Her eyes got cloudy, 

· and she looked out the window, until the coffee overflowed the cup and filled the saucer. Then she took the pot back behind the counter, and walked away. She saw that the sky had clouded over. She walked through the kitchen arid smacked Jim on the backside for no reason at all.• 

ACE IS THE PLACE­WITH THE HELPflR l:fARDWARE MAN. 
• 
GAIIL>t:N SUPPLIES 

• 
HCl!Sf.WARES 

• 
HARDWARE· 

• 
SPORTING GOODS 

• 
PAINTS 

• 
TOOLS 


o PLUMBING & Elf.CTRICAL 
<;IJPPI.IES 


FREE: PARKING 
FRONT & RF.AR 
219 DIJt.lE WAY No.m RO!:,~l,JID 
272-7535 
ARM,EF E&BifrM EM bSi§iiWiBEfWS 
23
5 FEBRUARY 1986 


One friend took to writing his name across the toes of his tennis shoes so he could iden­tify them in a line-up. 


by Chris Richardson 
he title I have written on the front of this particular note­book is "Funny Things That I'm Glad Haven't Happened to Mc." I guess you could call it a crime journal. It is a collection of stories friends have told me over the past semester about themselves and others being . victimized by thieves. 
One friend, after having his house broken into and all his clothes stolen, took to writing his name across the toes of his tennis shoes so he could, "identify them in . a line-up." Another protected his valuable possessions by simply moving all his things into Dillon Hall every time he was going to be away from his house for more than l2 . hours. His roommate thought that was a good idea and was going to leave his stereo in a dorm room over Christmas break but changed his mind because, "If it gets stolen from my house, it's insured. But, if I slip on the side~ walk and smash it, it's gone for­ever." A third group of guys had their house broken into and had expensive guitars stolen. The thieves also took a radio which they had tagged for Goodwill --it didn't work. 
Topping all of these stories is ·. the talc ·of the generous thieves. Aftct/ a· scheduled break, the 
SCHOLASTIC 

residents of this house returned to find that they had been almost entirely relieved of many neces­sary and expensive items: televi­sions, stereos, etc. The thieves, however, left these guys a plate of chocolate fudge cookies and a Hallmark card on the living room table thanking them and wishing them a happy and safe holiday · season. I kid you not. 
Thefts seem to be more com­mon off-campus. In the Northeast neighborhood, up and down Por­tage Road, there are many houses occupied by students. These houses are entered and re-entered every year by thieves and are presumably easy targets for two reasons. First, the turnover for these houses is annual; each year a new group of students occupy the houses. Secondly, in general, . the houses are old and making them secure is next to impossible. Rent is reasonable, but landlords seem unwilling to do much more than paint the exterior every few years. It is not so farfetched to say that there are thieves who return to the same house each year to once again relieve the residents of their valuables. 
In reality thefts of student property Oll campus far outsfrip thefts off--campus. In 1984, Notre Dame Security handled 3775 reported cases of theft on campus. Over half the student body were victims of some sort of crime. These reports range from incidental thefts of cash to very large objects, primarily stereos and televisions. Class rings and watches were prime targets as they could be easily sold at pawn · shops and jewelry stores. · 
Rex J. Rakow, the new director of Notre Dame Security, just took over this past October but he has been with N.D. Secu­
6 FEBRUARY 1986 

rity as assistant and associate 
director for the last . six years. 
When asked whether . he thought 
much of the theft was ·going on 
from the inside:, he said that there 
have been· incidents of maids and 
janitors stealing from student 
rooms. Rakow said · that N.D. 
Security employs two full-time 
investigators to check this sort of 
suspicion out Security will even 
go so far . as to. bait a room to try 
to catch acrook, employee or oth­
erwise. If employees are guilty, 
criminal charges can be brought 
against them. More often, Rakow 
said, the employees are siinply 
dismissed. The property is often . not recovered. 
Continuing the· discussion of these "inside . jobs", .. Rakow pointed out that this year there have been a large number of book bags reported . missing from the dining halls; He attributes this to students · actually stealing from each other --taking the books and selling them: Recently, N.D. Security obtained a search war­rant in order to try and locate missing texts at Pandora's Book Store. They matched over 50 titles reported missing but only ·two books had · names in . them. Only these two were returned. 
N.D. Security began a new awareness program this semester. Posters and bookmarks have been distributed around campus detail­ing preventive measures students . can take. Rakow urges students to use security and get involved. If you see someone suspicious in your dorm, pick up the· phone and let security know about it. They will be more than willing to send ·someone over to check it out. You can stop the thief before he steals. 
And I thought all security did was give me parking tickets.• 

CAMPUS CRIMEWATCH 
Textbooks, papers and backpac.ks 
are just some of the items stolen 
daily on this campus. That hurts! 
You can protect yourself easily by 
following these TIPS. 
1. 
Write your initials and birth date on a certain page in all your books. 

2. 
Don't leave your books unattended in· classrooms or libraries, even for "just five minutes." 

3. 
If you .see or suspect' a crime is being committed, pay attention to the physical features of the person and call Police and Security. 


4, Your stolen books are resold 
immediately. Don't hesitate to call bookstores, police & security. 
If your books are stolen, immediate­ly notify Notre Dame Security', 283-4444; 239-5555 and local book­stores, Recovery of your property may be possible through the attempt­ed resale. of your books. 
If you or people you know have information about those responsible for book thefts, call NOTRE DAME SECURITY 283-4444. 


26 


-Money has yet to be smartly invested ~n -pro­grams that have m~ney making potential · like men's· soccer and ice hockey. 

ND Hockey  seeks-a return  to competitive  stature.  
,~'f-J)i f: :.;;.  l,'°!,, ~,~:;­:: < •,  •  
. '  ~  '  .  



Oh.. ,For Those· Glory Days 
practice instructions with ·his going crazy, for-UCLA will not 
by Joe Malvezzi players for tomorrow's game with be the only number one team to nuinber one UCLA. The Bruins be· beaten. The underdog Irish· have· come into town with an leers have just crushed Michigan eighty-eight game winning streak. Tech 7-1. How sweet it is... · 
The day is Friday. January 18, Shumate. Brokaw. Novak, Dant­
1974. The Notre Dame campus is ley, and Clay are ready. But in 
· crazy with anticipation. Digger the North Dome of the ACC It is now a lonely and cold 
· has just finished the last minute nearly seven thousand people are Saturday in March of 1983. The 
26 
SCHOLASTIC 


1985-86 Irish leers 
Irish hockey team is clad in their home uniforms with a black arm band. The atmosphere is com­pletely diff ercnt than the ambi­ence of hysteria a decade ago. The team is" about to play its last Division I hockey game with a squad of scholarship athletes. The CCHA (Central Collegiate Hockey Association) playoffs are not on the players minds; only the lingering _ realization that, for many, thd.r Division I career will end tonight along with a national powerhouse and a Notre Dame tradition. How sweet it was.... 
It is impossible for any other varsity athlete to experience what has occurred to the seniors play­

-ing hockey for Notre Dame: first 
· Division I scholarship hockey, then club hockey, -and now Divi­sion I Independents with no scho­larships. . More ups and downs than the latest Dow Jones. Dur­ing the 1982-1983 season, the decision was made by administra­tors to decrease the costs of the athletic department. Scholarships 
5 FEBRUARY 1986 

for women were now required, some sports lost money, and the _ cuts had to be made. 
It was clear cut to the top brass: hockey is ripe pickings for the cost cutters. The administra­tion believed that students did not support hockey. Ice hockey is an expensive sport. Suddenly, a 
team which one year earlier had won the Great Lakes Invitational Tournament and had taken Bowl­ing Green to the limit in the CCHA playoffs was now a club team. This drastic move was done to protect the remaining eligibility of those who sought to transfer. ­
Now as a club team, the 1983­1984 season was a bittersweet one for the Irish. Although a runner­up in the Central States Hockey League Tournament and dominat­ing regular season play, the level of competition had sunk to an all time low. Motivation is hard to retain i_n a season such as . this. 

· The uninspiring season as a club sport was something the scholar­ship holdovers actually had endured for their fellow team­mates who decided _to leave the University to play hockey else­where. Certainly, for those who stayed, their scholarships were not taken away, but the promise of fulfilling hockey had been. 
This year's team, like last year's, is playing Division I 
· hockey without scholarships. Without that_ attraction, it is impossible to field a team to com­pete nationally. Wins have come over competitive NAIA and Divi­sion II schools, but defeats are suffered against respectable teams once vulnerable to the Irish attack. The Christmas Break trips the past two years have given the team great experience, -but no wins. 
The team is compiled of a great number of American~ with a few Canadian skaters. Mariy of the team members would not be taking regular shifts for Division I contenders. Holdovers Brent Chapman and Tim Reilly, along with Mike McNeil and Bob The­


Ray Bemiss 
beau, arc players to build a pro­gram around; To win in Division I, however, you must have three first rate lines. 
It has truly been a shame that a major sporting program like hockey had tp experience such a fate as this at Notre Dame. Loy­alty for the team shown through even as its future became obvious. The students rallied to the hockey team's support on national televi­sion during an Irish-UCLA bask~tball game trying to post­pone the inevitable. The team, in an attempt to reduce costs, the went into the Central Collegiate Hockey Association from the Western Collegiate Hockey Asso­ciation. 
It was not the case that the Irish had no great teams or tradi­tion in the seventies. Powerful skaters included Dave Poulin (now captain of the Philadelphia Flyers), ·Don Jackson (dctense­man for · the Stanley Cup cham­pion Edmonton Oilers), Jack Brownshidle (H,artford Whalers), 
28 

Head Coach Lefty Smith 
and Bill N yrop ( defcnseman in the Montreal Canadian dynasty). Other All-Americans included winger Brian Walsh and center Ed Bumbacco. They were exciting years. 
The South Bend Community, if not the Notre Dame student body, is starved for competitive hockey. But in. a perplexing move, amidst all the cost cutting, twelve scholarships for women's volleyball were added at nearly the same time as the hockey cuts. A coach from California was brought to South Bend to run the team. Trips to the West Coast were added to build the program into a national power. The same men citing red ink for the hockey debacle claimed that this women's sport would be a big money­maker. Looking at the general sentiment of sports fans today, this prospect is highly unlikely. 
It is not that women's volley­ball is to blame for the cuts in the hockey progr~m. Scholarships for women's athlcti_~s were long over­due. The point is that the administration has been incon­sistent. Money has yet to be smartly invested in sports that have money making potential like men's soccer and ice hockey. There is no excuse for N otrc Dame not to be a power in these two sports. The administration should have known that, in the last analysis, quality performances for a fair price are what people want. The recent balking at the football ticket prices by alumni for the first time since the early 
l 960's indicates this. 
While we talk of basketball and spring football, a group of student atp.letes practice with the lofty intention of obtaining that big Division I upset at their new com­pedtive level. No glory is involved here, only the love of sport. But, as the years go on, this will hope­fully change. Until then, the Thcbeau's, McNeil's, Mooney's, and Guay's will go on skating for the love ·of the sport and Notre 
Dame, not for the recognition and 
the awards.• 
SCHOLASTIC 

technology-·-------'-­

by Jean Carey 

"We have not yet seen what ·man can make of man." --B.F. Skinner, beharioral psychologist 
We have all heard the expres­sion that DNA is the "blueprint" of life. More accurately, it is a set of instructions·· written in a language of three-letter words, or codons, in a four-letter alphabet. The sequence of these codons on each of the twenty-three chromo­somes can dictate an obvious trait of hair color, or an obscure characteristic such as a food allergy. A simple change in one codon can have no observable effect, or it can result in a debili­tating disease, like sickle cell anemia. An alteration in a few molecules is serious enough to severely limit the lifespan and development of an individual. 
Each p~rson has two copies 
of all the information needed by 
the body. The additions or sub­
tractions to these instructions are 
mistakes which left uncorrected 
arc not usually advantageous. 
The union of egg and sperm, 
which each carry one set of 
instructions, allows for creation of 
new combinations of traits which 
arc favorable to the su1'vival of 
any species. Your future is deter­
mined by which sperm and egg 
unite and whether· or not the 
codon sequence in your DNA is 
grammatically correct. 
Eugenics in its most positive form aims to better the human 
5 FEBRUARY 1986 
stock through selective mating and reproduction in order to pro­duce the most desirable children. The achievement of its goal depends on the ideal functioning of three fundamentals: natural selection, sociological and statisti­cal studies, and the dominance of the genetic make-up over the environment. Theoretically, under these basic premises and conditions, man could weed out all defectives by preventing them from having offspring, while encouraging desirables to mass 'produce children within the con­
fines of marriage. 
By what criteria were the defectives and desirables segre­gated? A social test examined the reputation of the family in the community. The biological test consisted of examining the first two children born for undesirable characteristics on the premise that if there were· genetic defects in the first or second child, the pro­bability that subsequent children would have the same deficiencies would be extremely high. 
The concept of the gene as 
the controller of human destiny fostered new developments in the lab. In 1909 the state of California began to systematically enforce a eugenic sterilization law. During the next thirty years approxi­mately 10,000 "defectives" were sterilized under the recommenda­tion of the Human Betterment Foundation. "Defectives" were · classified as, "people . who arc 
congcnital1y feeble-minded, epileptic, afnicrcd with certain 
types of insanity or subject to 
dangerous emotional instability." 
This is according to Tomorrow's 
Children, an informational book 
put out by the American Eugenics 
Society in 1935. The author: 
Ellsworth Huntington, was 
president of Yale University at 
the time. 
In another example, the 
Human Betterment Foundation 
concluded that married women 
were fifty percent more likely 
than men to be manic depressives 
by the age of twenty-five. Hunt­
ington suggested that new legisla­
tion must respond to this data by 
requiring examination before mar­
riage, preventing young and hasty 
marriages, socially and geographi­
cally segregating the desirables 
from the undesirables and revis­
ing immigration quotas to be con­
fluent with eugenic ideals, among 
other recommendations. 
Scientific advancerhents 
have always been far ahead of 
human ability to use them posi­
tively, as is evidenced by geneti­
.cists' work to systematically 
reduce the mystery of life to ran­
dom movements of electrons. 
neutrons and protons. The only 
defense against repeating the 
disaster of the past is individual' 
awareness of genetic engineering, · amniocentesis and cloning. If we fail in this personal responsibility, Aldous Huxley's Brave New World will have a rich and nutritious diet of public scientific ignorance to feed and grow strong upone · 
29 
final word 


Passing the 
Reins of Power 

to Juniors 
by W.R. Macie 
Seniors are valuable resources at Notre Dame. They know what philosophy classes are worth tak­ing, how best to· deal with the rec­tor or rectress ·of a dorm, and the proper decision to make when faced with the choice of Russian vegetable pie or Hungarian noo­dle bake at the dining hall (The answer to this "dilemma" is a carry-out pizza). Juniors, how­ever, rather than seniors, may be much more suited for success in positions of responsibility on campus.· While many areas could be addressed as .good examples, 
the positions of Resident Assis­tant and student government representative emerge prom­inently in my mind. 
Why is it more difficult for seniors to hold these positions than others? The answers are inherent to senior year. First of all, making plans for a future career is difficult. Fighting the onslaught of applications, job
. -~ 
A NEW SOLUTION 
interviews and resume writing is enough to make . one weary, without having to worry about other duties. 
Secondly, the need for a good social life in the senior year is acute. Seniors know this will be the last year they spend together, and they want to make the best of it. Duties, like the ones RA's and student government officials assume, tend to limit the social calendar. Being an RA myself, in a dorm which requires its RAs to be on duty three times a week, I have felt the frustration of having to work while my friends attend the senior cocktail parties, away football games, and excursions to 
''If  seniors  are  com­ 
pletely  honest  with  
themselves,  they  will  

admit they .are not as committed to anything they . do as they were in their junior year." 
TO SENIOR BURN-OUT 

Chicago. Of c·ourse, ·a · junior would have to give part of his or her social life for a year, but he or she would have the advantage of being able to look forward to an exciting senior year. 
Student government is another area where positions of responsi­bility would be better left to non­seniors. In the second semester of the 1984-85 school ye~r, the 
· student body government decided it wanted to reorganize -itself .. By the end of the school year the reorganization was dropped, and scheduled to begin again this past fall. Unfortunately, the skeleton of a student government left by an unfinished reorganization plan was thought so inefficient and inappropriate by Student Body President Bill Healy and others 
. that they tried · to completely dis­solve the Student Senate. · · 
I have talked to a few student government members in the past year, and I get the impression that reorganization could· have been completed if senior members of the student body g?v~~n~e~t 
SCHOLASTIC
30 



would have pushed for its com­: pletion in the spring of '85. . Instead, . the seniors became · disheartened with the slow pace , of the process and decided they did not want to be bogged down · with details of the reorganization in their last semester at Notre · Dame. The· mess of student ,, government _was bestowed upon 
t.his year's office holders. 
To rectify the problems I have ·mentioned above, I propose ban­. ning seniors from holding student ·and hall government positions, as wcU as hall . staff positions in dorms. Naturally, there will be · people who say this discriminates · against seniors,, and that many can _. handle positions ·of responsibility _· quite effortlessly in: their senior year.· I believe this is much easier ·said than done. Students do not ·realize how tough it can be to ·plan . one's future in the senior , year: Being the over-achievers we 
•~re at Notre Dame, we always think we can handle any difficult ; situation. ··As· the senior. year . progresses, inany of those who , have accepted the mantle of 
responsibility sometimes wish ·they had left their positions for , someone else to tackle. 
, Seniors also have problems · with exercising total commitment · to their responsibilities. If seniors are completely . honest with them­selves, they will admit they are not as committed to anything they 
do, like academics or work in their favorite club, as they were in their junior year. That feeling seems to be part of the senior experience. 
It would be better for all stu­dents, including seniors, if posi-. tions of responsibility were avail­able only to those who had a stake in the immediate future of the university. Unburdened, seniors could go about the never­ending task of applying to gradu­ate schools, lining up jobs, and spending their last remammg months with their fellow class­mates. Meanwhile, industrious juniors, and possibly sophomores, could plan· student life knowing they will see the fruits of their labors the next year. Most impor­tantly, these underclassmen will have the time to commit them­selves to a job well-done which seniors do not have the time or possibly the conviction to accom­plish. Everyone benefits in the end. 
Anyone want a job as an RA?• 
31
6 FEBRUARY 1986 

cartoons 
Mark Lechner Mark Lech· ner 
1 FOUND THIS IN T 
BUSHES 01IE"F llE 

'NE CAN FORGET , I llilNK 
'THE ANci/l.Y A6oUT . ,\ ·'•b".~
/'_,,--,,.,.,._ .--. ' 
,./· . ' . . ' . if• o.~.;,_-;·;;,\<';

"Ti-\ED!t" ()C.TO'PUS ---..___ ,. , ,o':o~o·~,•?~o·;,
., Now. 
~----------1-::~o<o':Jo'f~ . ~;.:: 
· ~02l•J,:rr 
/I •• ,-~~•/.(

tl 
·J".:.:~•-,;, ·:·'.,.~~=-, ' ~ 







