THE NCTEE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
In This Issue:
NEWS
Lunn Lecture—Commerce Forum Dance— Interhall Debate Start Camera Club Forms— "The Week" — "College Parade."
SPORTS
Varsity Meets Carnegie—Fay Wins Tennis Tourney—Reserves Hosts to Purdue—Fall Track Meet—Introducing—Splinters.
October 15, 1937
ARNOLD LUNN "The Truth About Spain"
THE
YALE CAPTAIN
ALL-AMERICAN END
...THE STORY OF A FOOTBALL OPPORTUNIST
%
1936
SMASHIN RACKETS

72 out of 73 racketeers con-victedintwobriefyears .’And, astoundingly enough, by the youngest prosecutor on record—the 32-year-old man who never saw New York until he was twenty-one, and who dared set himself against a billion-dollar New York crime ring. How Thomas E. Dewey nabbed Waxie Gordon, Harlem policy kings, politicians, and racketeers is now revealed. First part this week.
THOMAS E. DEWEY’S OWN STORY by FORREST DAVIS
_  _________Another dramatic William C. White story of Russia and sabotage, God’s Birdie___A forest fire mystery, The Road to Terre Haute by Harold Titus.. .Twelve-year-old Roddy unexpectedly plays Cupid in Price Day’s short story, .22... Another Tish story, Strange Journey, by Mary Roberts Rinehart ... The story of the world’s greatest oil boom, It Was Fun While It Lasted. by Boyce House.. .The final chapters of The 168 Days, intimate notes on the Supreme Court fight, by Joseph Alsop and Turner Catledge.
eadlines screamed his name ... he caught passes out of nowhere... Now he breaks down and admits his high school’s motto was “Don’t throw the ball to Kelley.” How he deliberately set out to catch the public spotlight, what sensational plays he enjoyed most, and how football looks to the man in the huddle, he tells you in the story of his career.
by LARRY KELLEY with George Trevor—this week in
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 191". Authorized June 25, 1918.
Z188
Vol. 71
October 15, 1937
No. 4
SPORTS HOUR STARS STEVE MILLER
GRIM ACCOUNT OF THE "SIEGE OF ALCAZAR” HEARD BY HORROR-SHOCKED AUDIENCE
By F. G. Barreda
Notre Dame’s sports hour tonight at 7:00 will be the first regular program of the radio season. This sports broadcast is to be given by Steve Miller, last year’s star fullback and present assistant freshman coach. Miller will give highlights of the football game just past as well as forecasts for approaching games.
The coming week will also feature two special events programs; the Freshman introductory program, and the broadcast of the Sophomore Cotillion.
The Freshman program, which will be presented Monday evening at 7:45, will introduce to the radio audience several of the unusual freshmen on the campus. Among these are a freshman of Indian descent, two Chinese students recently arrived from the war scenes of their native land, and a student from the Philippines who has studied for the past four years in various countries of Europe.
The broadcast of the Cotillion will go on the airlanes between 10:30 and 11:00 o’clock Friday night, Oct. 22.
Chestertonians Plan
The regular weekly meeting of the Chesterton club will be held on Friday evening, Oct. 15. James Nerney, president, will conduct the meeting.
This year, as in past years, the subject matter of these discussions will be apologetics. The procedure according to Mr. Arnold Lunn, club advisor, will be somewhat varied. One man is to defend some teaching of the Catholic Church while the other members act as hecklers.
This is the method by which speakers are trained for the Catholic Evidence Guild, an organization which does a great deal of apologetical work in England. Mr. Lunn believes this new plan will provide excellent training for the club members, and at the same time will increase interest in the meettings. The speaker this week will be William Mahoney, who will defend the thesis of the Resurrection.
Relating the dramatic epic of “The Siege of the Alcazar,” Arnold Lunn, professor of Apologetics, delivered the second in his series of six lectures
before a large gathering in Washington hall last night. Mr. Lunn presented a vivid story dealing with the famous Spanish garrison in Toledo, and of its
Professor Sessler
Candid camera fiends wanted.
Meet tn Organize New Student Camera Club
•
A student Camera club will be organized at Notre Dame on next Wednesday, Oct. 20, at 7:45 p.m., according to the announcement made this week by Prof. Stanley S. Sessler, head of the department of art, who is sponsoring the project. The organization meetitng will be held in the auditorium of the Engineering building.
All students seriously interested in amateur photography will be welcomed at the meeting. Suggestions will be considered for a club program for the year. Already made, and accepted by the editor of the Scholastic, is the suggestion that the club conduct a picture contest each month on the campus and that “the picture of the month” be used on the front cover of the Scholastic.
stubborn refusal to surrender to the v armies of the Red regime.
The siege of the Alcazar, which . began on July 22, was relieved on Sept. 27 by the armies of General Francisco Franco and his subordinate, Colonel Castajon. Franco’s army travelling from Morocco had to cross the straits of Gibraltar patrolled by the Red Fleet; then engage in major battles as it marched over 20 miles a day to the tawny cliffs that fall from Alcazar to the Tagus.
Seville and Badajoz fell before the assault. Any troops but Spanish would have demanded a rest after 13 hours of subborn street fighting which had been the last phase in the fight for Badijoz, but there was no rest for the men who were to save the Alcazar.	’
Colonel Moscardo in charge of the besieged garrison had 1,028 persons under his command. Of these, 670 were non-combatants, including 100 men too old to serve, 520 women and 50 children. Short rations had made the siege miserable. One horse or mule was killed daily to provide soup for the entire garrison. The daily ration of gritty bread was small; the drinking water was doled out at the rate of a litre a day.
Death was near. Pneumatic drills could be heard during the night that gave evidence of the mines being dug under the garrison. In the morning the fortress would be blown to bits. Major Rojo of the Madrid government came forward with a white flag and offered the evacuation of the women and chldren. There was a unanimous reply from the women of the Alcazar that they would not desert their men.
The next day everything was tense. A terrific explosion shattered the cold silence of the crisp morning air. But the casualties of the garrison were slight. Only- 18 were killed in the fighting that foL lowed, and only two in the actual explosion. •
(Continued on Page 22)
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
TICKETS FOR MINNESOTA TRIP TO BE ISSUED WEDNESDAY. THURSDAY; FINAL PLANS
On next Wednesday and Thursday, Oct. 20, and 21, the tickets for the Minnesota game will be given out from 10 to 12 in the morning and from 3 to 5 in the afternoon at the Athletic Association office. To secure a ticket, $11.90 must be paid, the balance of the total, $16.90, which includes
rail fare and game ticket. Those who do not wish to make the trip will be refunded their original $5 deposit.
The student special is definitely scheduled to leave the St. Mary siding of the New York Central at 10 p.m., Friday, Oct. 29. The St. Paul Hotel in St. Paul will be the official Notre Dame headquarters during the weekend. Immediately upon arrival at St. Paul, the University Band is to be given a bus sight-seeing tour of St. Paul and Minneapolis before going to the stadium. After the game, the band will put on a show in the lobby of the St. Paul Hotel.
The regular student train back to Notre Dame will leave at 11 p.m., Saturday, Oct. 30, but those who have permission to do so may remain in Minneapolis or go where they wish. To be valid on the return trip, student tickets must be used within five days.
The regular student return train will arrive in South Bend at 9:30, Sunday, Oct. 31, and a special low Mass will be celebrated for returning students at 10 o’clock in Sacred Heart Church.
As in the past the student train is to provide diner service. There will also be a limited number of Pullman accommodations.
The New York Central railroad will be taken to Chicago, and from there the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul road will be used. A refund of $1.70 will be made on next Wednesday and Thursday to those who present N.Y.C. passes to Chicago.
French Group Meets
The first meeting of Le Cercle Francais will be held tonight at 7:45 in Badin Hall for purposes of organization. All students enrolled in French courses in the University are invited to attend.
Professor DuBois will speak about his trip to Canada this summer, where he attended the French Congress in Quebec.
The officers of “Le Cercle” for this year are Paul Anderson, of Pittsburgh, Pa., president; Jean LePage, of Southbridge, Mass., vice-president; Leo Facteau, of Plattsburg, N. Y., secretary; and James Murphy, of Tucson, Ariz., treasurer.
Reardon and Delaney
Dole out ducats.
Two Editors Make Trip To Chicago Convention
•
Editors Gene Vaslett and Frank Reppenhagen left Thursday to represent their publications Scholastic and Dome at the Associated Collegiate Press convention in Chicago. Headquarters for the convention, Oct. 14, 15, 16, are at the Medinah Club, from which tours are to be conducted to the leading publication plants throughout Chicago.
The purpose of the A.C.P. convention is to acquaint the various school editors with the best methods of publication and the advantages of school papers. Established forms will be discussed and new systems proposed. Round table discussions will be of prime importance and regular sessions are planned for the editors, the business managers and the contributors of scholastic publications. Each editor will benefit by the experience of others as they examine the difficulties of publication and receive the advice of such literary men as Henry Goddard Leach, editor of Forum Magazine.
The leading social event will consist of a banquet and dance for the convention delegates.
Cleveland Club
President Thomas Mulligan presided over the first meeting of the Cleveland Club, last Wednesday evening. The scheduled freshman representative election was postponed indefinitely.
Mulligan announced that the club would sponsor a pre-Christmas handball tournament. Plans were also made for the annual smoker and communion breakfast.
COTILLION BIDS ON SALE NEXT WEEK
By George Haithcock
Tickets for the Sophomore Cotillion will be sold next week, Oct. 18, 19, and 20, in the lower lobby of the Dining Hall. Tickets will be $3.00.
Football tickets for the Cotilliongoers and their guests must be secured next Wednesday at the athletic ticket office. The student must present his Cotillion ticket and his A.A. book along with the $3.60 which will secure the two tickets. A section on the east side of the stadium will be reserved.
The hours for the dance will be from 9:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m. No cars will be allowed. A portion of the program will be broadcast over radio station WSBT, South Bend, from 11:00 to 11:30 p.m.
The dance will feature the music of Reggie Childs and his NBC orchestra returning from triumphs on the west coast. Childs will bring his band here direct from Memphis, Tennessee, where he is now engaged. Appearing with the orchestra is a trio of feminine singers.
Also appearing on the same program will be Miss Willie Morrie who last year sang on the Lucky Strike and Chevrolet radio programs. She will be the guest of her brother, Mize Morris, at the dance.
Represent at Art Meet
Professors Stanley S. Sessler and Francis Hanley, of the Notre Dame fine arts department, will represent the University at the organization meeting of the Catholic College Art association to be held, Oct. 16 and 17 at St. Mary’s of the Woods College, Terre Haute, Ind.
Representatives of Catholic colleges and universities from all over the United States will be present for this initial gathering of the Catholic artists group.
Delegates attending the conference will display pieces of tlieir own paintings at an informal exhibition for the benefit of the members.
Mr. Sessler will exhibit two paintings: “Arrangement in Blue,” and “The Archer-Hunter,” a self-portrait. Mr. Hanley will also display two paintings: “New England Landscape,” and “The Island.”
October 23, 1897—Pim’s tandem came last week. He thinks he will have more fun now than anybody.
January 14, 1905—The big toboggan slide is proving a big source of great enjoyment to the Minims who never tire of this exhilarating sport.
November 12, 1892—Look out for the great comet hurrying this way. It can be seen from the Niles road on the 27th.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
5
Writer Finds Academy of Science Still Active
By Eddie Huff
I became a “foreign correspondent” this week; a foreign correspondent is something akin to a “war correspondent.”
When a liberal arts student is assigned coverage of the Academy of Science the assignment is tantamount to the position of foreign correspondent with a news syndicate, as your reporter, an A.B. man, discovered this week. Coverage of the Academy necessitates a sojourn to the northernmost extremity of the University’s campus. (It is 968 yards from my room in Morrissey to the Office of the Dean in the new Biology Hall.
O’Donnell Heads Academy
A strategic trip to the Biology Hall after nightfall, wherein I met Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., won me an invitation to the Assembly Room. And for about the first time a Scholastic reporter got firsthand information at a club’s organization meeting.
Father Wenninger- presided while the 35 members (there are 36, but it seems that a football player-science student by the name of Ruetz was absent) elected officers for the year. Dean of the Science school, is ipso facto the Moderator of the Academy; that is provided in the constitution.
The presidency is limited to senior members only, and Hugh O’Donnell waltzed easily into office. D^nny Emmanuel (he is the other student on the football team who is a member of the Academy) very easily coralled the vice-presidency. Tom Hughes won the office of secretary.
Entrance Requirements
The executive committee, the ruling force of the Academy, is to be composed of John Lungren, the Academy’s foremost student; Tom Hickey, another upperclassman; and Robert Ahearn (a sophomore).
“This is the 145th meeting of the Academy of Science, the 11th year of its activity; personality is no qualification for membership; our members must attain a scholastic bulletin, however, of .87,” began Father Wen-ningei- as he acquainted new members with club traditions.
To win the honorary key of the Academy, one must compile an .87 scholastic grade for three consecutive terms, then present a merit paper to the Academy.
To a liberal arts student it looks like the genuine unadulterated essence of a very fine club and a bunch of fun.
INTERHALL DEBATE GETS START AS ALUMNI AND SORIN TANGLE; FITCH IS CHAIRMAN
The first round of the annual interhall debate tournament sponsored by the Wranglers, under the direction of Chairman Frank Fitch, Cherokee, Iowa, will be opened next Tuesday night, Oct. 19, when the affirmative Alumni team, coached by Jim Nerney, will debate against the negative Sorin squad, drilled _________________________________________by Thomas Mulligan.
Debater Frank Fitch “Let’s Argue”
Philosophical Magazine Features Miltner Work
•
How to develop in students a philosophical habit of mind as well as to introduce them to a body of systematized philosophical knowledge is the problem treated by Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, in his article, “Objectives in Teaching Philosophy,” which appears in the October issue of The New Scholasticism.
Father Miltner observes that one of the two fundamental objectives in teaching philosophy is to impart to the student the habit of thinking philosophically. This habit, however, he points out, is a by-product of teaching philosophy and the failure of a student to acquire it cannot be blamed entirely on the teacher of philosophy. Such a virtue of mind, or way of thinking, is the product of a liberal education as a whole, “a fruit toward whose maturing all the studies of the college course contribute their share.”
“Oddly enough.” the author continues, “the successful attainment of the objectives in the teaching of philosophy lies not so much with the actual teacher of philosophy when it is taught, but with the earlier teachers who ‘cultivate a mental habit which, when it comes to maturity, will be the way of philospohy’.”
Father Miltner concludes that given this preparation and help from
(Continued on Page 20)
At the same time Morrissey, under , Charles Osborn, will contend with negative Badin, coached by Charles Brosius.
The first round consists of two debates at 7:45 on the evenings of Oct. 19, 20, and 21. They will be held in the Law building if arrangements can be made.
The question for debate is:
“Resolved: That the National Labor Relations Board should be empowered to enforce arbitration of all industrial disputes.”
A great deal of interest is being shown in the tournament, especially in the freshman - sophomore division. Cavanaugh hall boasted 30 candidates, and Morrissey 19.
The hall teams are made up of three persons, and each person is allowed nine minutes to speak, six minutes for constructive speech, and three for rebuttal. The membership of each team has been chosen, and will be announced next week.
At their meeting last Monday night, the Wranglers decided that one of their number will be picked to judge the debates of the first and second round. In later rounds it is planned to have faculty members as judges. The final run-off between the winners of the junior-senior, and freshman - sophomore divisions will probably be held at St. Mary’s as has'been he custom.
Below is a complete schedule of the first two rounds. Those teams winning one or more debates in the first two rounds are eligible for further competition. A single defeat after the second rounds means eliminiation.
Round One: Freshman-sophomore division.
Aff. Morr. (Osborn vs. Badin (Brosius). Oct. 19; Aff. Cavanaugh (Brame) vs. Lyons (Weaver). Oct. 20; Aff. Zahm (Heywood) vs. Freshman (Morris), Oct. 21.
Junior-senior division.
Aff. Alumni (Nerney) vs. Sarin (Mulligan), Oct. 19; Aff. Howard (Mahoney) vs. Walsh (Bowes), Oct. 20; Aff. Brownson-Carroll (Foley) vs. St. Ed’s. (Topin), Oct. 21.
Round Two: Freshman-Sophomore division.
Aff. Morr. vs. Freshman. Oct. 26; Aff. Cavanaugh vs. Badin. Oct. 27; Aff. Zahm vs. Lyons, Oct. 28.
Junior-Senior division.
Aff. Alumni vs. Walsh. Oct. 26; Aff. Dillon vs. St. Ed’s.. Oct. 27 ; Aff. Brownson-Carroll vs. Sorin. Oct. 28.
The names in parentheses indicate the coach of that team.
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
COMMERCE FORUM PLANS FOOTBALL DANCE TO CLOSE SEASON; SEEK NEW MEMBERS
By Eddie Huff
Charles T. Brosius, president of the Commerce Forum, stated early this week that the victory dance the night of the Southern California game, Nov. 27, will be sponsored by his organization. This marks the first dance ever arranged by the Forum. Members of the board and the club officers met last
night and determined to convene the , organization’s 210 membership every v third week, rather than hold impromptu and irregular meetings as was done last year.
The Commerce Forum is a unique campus club in that it operates as a co-operative type of government. Three members of the junior class and the same number of the senior class comprise the board of directors that decides the club legislation. These laws are then executed by the club officers.
The Forum directors are planning visits to various South Bend industrial plants during the year; Studebaker, Bendix, and Ball Band are particular manufacturing firms expected to demonstrate their respective products to the commerce students. The annual business trip to Chicago’s financial center is another project under the consideration of the board.
Dick Scannell, vice-president; Jack Zerbst, chairman of the board; Phil Maloney, secretary; Dave Meskill, treasurer; and Walter Duncan, executive committeeman; together with President Brosius, form the executive body.
Senior directors are Phil Bayer, Lou Dunn, and Ed Wrape. The junior directors include John Gilmour, Ray Schleck, and Gregory Rice.
Mr. Brosius urges commerce students of any class year, who possess a minimum scholastic average of 82 to enroll with the Forum immediately, rather than delay membership until the second semester, after which time the privileges of new members will be curtailed.
Cracow Club Meets
At the initial meeting of the Cracow club last Tuesday evening, Rev. Stanislaus Lisewski, C.S.C., outlined the purposes of the club to the new members that were present. For the benefit of the freshmen he spoke of the history of the club’s founder, Mr. Charles Phillips, a former Notre Dame professor.
Plans were made for the continuance of the radio programs started last year. Also the traditional feature of presenting out-of-town speakers to the club will be carried out.
Receiving Holy Communion in a body at the opening Mass was the year’s first act of the members.
Bookmen Welcome Two Members at Dinner
•
From a list of eight applicants the Bookmen selected two new members to fill partially the membership of the club. The names of the new members are Francis E. Cunningham and James Gorman, both juniors.
With the announcement of the new members, William Mahoney, chairman of the membership committee, announced that another call for applicants will be issued later in the year.
Last Wednesday, Oct. 13, the club held a social gathering and reception for the new members of the club at the Oliver Hotel in South Bend. Bob Mullen, sophomore, delivered a brief paper on the “Trend of the Modern Novel.” The new participants were instructed as to the procedure of the bi-monthly meetings and given a few hints as to how they should prepare their reports and material for discussions.
In conclusion Prof. T. Bowyer Campbell, moderator of the group, gave a short talk, extending his welcome to the new members and promising them his help in becoming accustomed to their duties as active members.
Scrip Deadline
Charles B. Nelson, editor of Scrip, announced today that the first issue will make its appearance on Nov. 12.
With Oct. 23 set as a deadline for contributions, Nelson urges contributors to hurry their work. The only requirement, said Nelson, is ability. Plans are being made for a new cover. Students are requested to leave their articles at Room 341, in Howard Hall.
K. OF C.'S HEAR TALK BY SUPREME KNIGHT
•
Members of the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus assembled informally last Tuesday evening to hear the Columbus Day radio address of the Hon. Martin H. Carmody, Supreme Knight of the Order. Mr. Carmody spoke on the subject, “Columbus—Winner of the World.”
The next meeting of the campus council will be held in the chambers of the South Bend Council, Tuesday evening, Oct. 19, at 8:00. Following the meeting the gathering will be turned over to Harry B. Kitchin, the state deputy of Indiana. He will conduct the regional meeting for the second and fourth districts. Other state officers assisting Mr. Kitchin will be Gilbert E. Powell, state secretary; Raymond P. Koch, state advocate; and Rev, Wendell P. Corcoran, C.S.C., state chaplain.
A dinner for the state officers, grand knights, and chaplains of the councils will precede the regional meeting.
Watson Publishes Book
A textbook on business mathematics for college students, written by J. Donald Watson, associate professor of finance at the University, has just been published by the Ronald Press Company of New York.
The book concerns business mathematics for students who intend to specialize in business or in the social sciences. It also gives the student a wide background for the subsequent study of accounting, finance, foreign commerce, insurance, investments, and statistics.
Closely correlated with the publication are problem materials and interest and logarithmic tables.
Politics Group Meets
The Academy of Politics, campus society for Politics majors, held its first formal meeting of the year Tuesday. Organization was completed and plans for carrying out various projects of interest to the members were discussed.
Art Mulhern, president, announced that the Academy is now receiving applications for active membership. Such membership is open to students who have Politics as a major subject and who fulfill the requirements of the Academy. Those interested in the organization may learn more of its functions from Mr. Mulhern, 154 Alumni, or from Rev. F. J. Boland, C.S.C;, head of the Department of Politics.
Non-voting membership is open to all who may be interested in the political discussions carried on by the Academy.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
7
MUSIC NOTES
By Paul Locher
The remarkable growth in appreciation of finer music in this country can be traced, I believe, to the efforts of the more popular mediums in modern expression, the radio and the motion picture. It is true the opera and the concert stage have always upheld the classical traditions, but their opportunities for popular appeal have been necessarily limited, and, consequently, their enthusiasts have remained more or less a select group.
The opportunities inherent in the field of radio for bringing music to the general public were quickly recognized, and an effort was made to capitalize on its potentialities. However, the problem has been to assure the sponsors that such programs would have effective appeal. The vital spark for this appeal has come through the medium of the talking picture.
The talking picture has many advantages over radio in encouraging musical appreciation, because the screen gives us a revival of the old relationship of musical artist to his audience, so much to be desired. The average listener on the radio finds it hard to gain that mutual bond because his attention can be so easily diverted into other channels. Naturally, the problem of the motion picture has been to make that relationship as natural and unobtrusive as possible. Early experiments were discouraging, because mechanical crudities made voices and sounds, hollow, and accompaniments were often harshly out of proportion.
John McCormack and Lawrence Tibbett introduced splendid music to the theatre-going public, but their pictures had little popular appeal excepting in proportion to their individual personalities.
In my opinion Miss Grace Moore has the honor of first crystallizing box-office sentiment behind a picture which relied mostly on good music for its success or failure. The success of “One Night of Love” brought a wave of operatic stars to Hollywood, and the producers were spurred to action. Miss Jeannette MacDonald brought the beloved Victor Herbert operettas to the screen, and the success of lighter classics and well-known arias was encouraging.
Producers found the field of symphonic music a fascinating questionmark. Serious drama had appeal, but serious music might be different. Timid preliminary efforts have culminated in the recent picture, “One Hundred Men and a Girl,” in which the great Leopold Stokowski accepted
Shadows From Out the Past Look on and Remember—and Shades Darken Cartier
By William G Fay
Cartier Field was empty save for two men. One was tall and thin; the. other looked familiar, round stomach, flat bald head, and a smile. He turned to the tall man.
“What’s the score, Johnnie?”
“Nothing-nothing at the quarter.”
“They’ll win Johnnie, they’ll win.” He wished that he could be at Cham-
paign. He’d always wanted to beat the Dutchman, but Zupp never wanted to play—except when he’d had Grange.	'
“Any score yet, Johnnie?” They should have scored before this. Where was the blocking? Now if Brill were in there—Marty was a. blocker. And Carideo, and Schwartz.’ Marchie off tackle with Conley to open the hole. Like the Pittsburgh game. . . . Frankie had shifted them to the right, but . Savoldi had gone to the left. “Check, check.” The voice from the stands. “O-O-O-O you Fighting Irish? BOOo.” Then they’d shifted right again. Little Metzger to make the hole. Brill and Savoldi pouring through, and right behind Schwartz, running like a winged eel. Fifty-seven yards. Carideo splitting the posts for the seventh point.
“Any score, Johnnie?”
“No score at the half, Rock.”
Where was the blocking? Where was the fight? The Dutchman would be laughing in the dressing room. “Beat the Irish”—he’d been preaching that all year. But he couldn’t. The Irish would come back the second half. But wouldn’t he like to be on the bench again. With Stuhldre-her to drive the backs. And Sleepy Crowley darting behind Miller. And Steady Elmer to split the line.
the challenge, and assured the acceptability of future presentations.
This new appreciation has served as a boon for radio, and through radio, a boon for music - lovers throughout the land. The popular radio program have eagerly sought and featured the musical talent descending on Hollywood. The general public is to enjoy more and more good music, because they have proved that a demand for such music can be and is practical.
“What’s the score, Johnnie?”
“No score, Rock. But Illinois is driving on our twenty-five.”
They’d never do that to the Mules. Wouldn’t he like to see Zupp’s face if the Mules could go into the game. With Joe Bach to get beneath the play.
“Did they stop them, Johnnie?”
“They stopped them. But there’s only three minutes left to play." .
“Plenty of time, Johnnie. They’ll get the Dutchman yet.” Just a little blocking was all they needed. Just one perfect play. Like Elder in the Army game.
“Are they going, Johnnie?”
“They’re on the forty, and going . strong.”
That was the way to win. A steady drive against the clock. But the time was short—too short to run the ball. If he were in Champaign now and had O’Brien on the bench. O’Brien to make a leaping catch. Johnnie had beat the Army, once.
“How much time Johnnie?”
Two minutes wasn’t very long. But if they remembered Columbus they might come through. Millner and Pilney and Shakespeare. They were best when the going was tough. He’d like to have coached them. Fighffng Irish.
“Fourth and 10, Rock.” One more play.
“Now was the time to run the ball. They’re spread out. Block, block, block. And let McCormick have the ball.
“Did they score Johnnie?”
“Just missed. They pulled McCormick down at midfield.”
That was that, and Zupp had won. Well, the boys had tried, and that was all he ever asked. But beating Zupp was something special, something he’d thought the boys would do.
“Let’s go home, Johnnie.”
There was plenty of time left. They could come back. But right .now Zupp was laughing—a Dutchman laughing at the Irish.
Cartier was empty in the dusk.
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
NEW STUDENTS TELL SINO-JAf* TROUBLES
By Frederick Sisk
Picture yourself hundreds of miles from home attending a foreign university while your home country is engaged in a critical war. There you have in a nutshell the present situation of William and John Soong of China who are attending Notre Dame this year.
When we entered Brownson Hall for an interview with William we found him adjusting a compass to work a problem in one of his engineering courses instead of, as we supposed, worrying about the war* in China.
The two brothers left their home in Tsingtao, China, on August 6th, and arrived in Hongkong six days later to sail for the United States. As William explained, it was not until August 13th that the war began.
The present Chinese-Japanese conflict had its beginning when two Japanese men in a car tried to break into the Honchiao airport in Shanghai, which is one of the secret military bases of China. The Chinese were informed beforehand and were prepared to halt the car. The two men in the car fired on the Chinese stationed at the airport, and before the skirmish had been concluded one Chinese soldier and the two Japanese occupants of the car were killed.
In the next few days Japan’s army and navy were on China soil ready to attempt an invasion of China.
According to William, the Japanese want to stop the war as quickly as possible because their economic resources will begin running low. Because China can outlast Japan, both John and William believe that their country will finally win the war. When asked about how long it would require China to do this, they said it would be an indefinite time, but probably in eighteen months.
With this in mind the Chinese nation believes that under the leadership of Gen. Chiang-kai-Shek, they will be able to drive the Japanese home. In this connection one of the chief resentments of the Chinese is Japan’s holdings in one of the eastern provinces of China—Manchukuo.
Both brothers attended the Kiar-chow-Tsinaw Railway Middle School in China, which corresponds to the American high school. In their opinion there is not a great deal of difference between the Chinese and American schools with regard to the classroom procedures. In China the most popular sports are soccer, basketball, tennis, and baseball. The two brothers learned their English from the Franciscan Sisters.
From the capital of Hoosierdom, Indianapolis, comes the president of the Senior Class, John O’Connor, the fourth of five of his branch of the O’Connors to matriculate at the University.
Was recipient of the Bishop Chartrand Award for scholarship and a National Catholic High School bas-keteer while at Cathedral High. He is following the same trend here, aiming at a magna cum laude in Commerce and Law and a place on Coach Keogan’s quintet.
His winning smile and pleasing personality have made him a favorite on the campus. He still wonders if he was elected because of, or in spite of, the machine behind him.
Prexy O’Connor finds the greatest problem of his administration to be his attempt to resurrect Senior Week.
Spends his summer as desk clerk of a Lake Wawasee Hotel, much to the delight of the fairer ones. He still claims to be footloose and fancy free, however.
Though a debater at heart he usually lends more heat than light to the arguments in which he engages.
Helped Tom Radigan edit the 1937 Dome.
Has spent four years with the some roommate, and still speaks to him.
In reference to that ever important question about “mail from home” William said that the war was not interfering with the regular mail service to and from China. Thirty days are required for a letter to reach Notre Dame from Tsingtao if the
CALENDAR
Friday, October 15
Adoration, Lady Chapel, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.; October devotions and Benediction; Radio program, 7:00 p.m., sports broadcast by Steve Miller; Le Circle Francais, meeting, 7:45, Badin Hall; Chesterton Club meeting, Law building; Scholastic meeting, editorial staff 6:30, general staff 7:00 p.m.
Saturday, October 16
Football game, varsity vs. Carnegie Tech at Pittsburgh; “B” team vs. Purdue, Stadium; Movie, Washington Hall, first show for freshmen only, 6:40, second show 8:20.
Sunday, October 17
Student Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6, 7, 8, 9, a.m.; interhall touchball, Cartier Field, 10:00 a.m.; Meeting St. Vincent de Paul Society, Knight’s of Columbus chambers, Walsh Hall, 11:00 a.m.
Monday, October 18
Adoration, Lady Chapel, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.; October devotions and Benediction; Interhall touchball, Brownson field, 3:30 p.m.; Radio freshmen program 7:00 p.m.; Opening ticket sale Cotillion.
Tuesday, October 19
Adoration, Lady Chapel, Sacred -Heart Church, 7:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., October devotions and Benediction; Meeting, Law club; Knights of Columbus meeting, Walsh Hall; Interhall touchball, Brownson field, 3:30 p.m.; Opening interhall debate season, Law Building, 7:45 p.m.
Wednesday, October 20
Adoration, Lady Chapel, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.; October devotions and Benediction; Meeting, Camera Club, 7:45, Engineering bldg, auditorium; Student trip tickets on sale, Athletic office.
Thursday, October 21
Adoration, Lady Chapel, 7:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.; October devotions and Benediction; Arnold Lunn lecture, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.; Ticket sale, Student trip, Athletic office. Scholastic meeting, editorial staff, 6:30 p.m., general staff, 7:00 p.m.
regular ocean mail service is used, and about ten days by air mail.
In four years John expects to be carrying a diploma from the Commerce school, and William one from the Engineering school to their home across the Pacific.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE WEEK
By Harold A. Williams
WISCONSIN VISITORS TALK TO VINCENTIANS
Faculty
A few days ago two very distinguished European faculty members were downtown window-shopping along the west side of Michigan street. Suddenly they decided to cross Michigan at Jefferson just as traffic on Michigan started to move with the green light. As soon as they left the curb they were brushed by a honking taxi and narrowly missed by a woman driver; half-way across they were almost caught between two street cars. In the middle of Michigan Street they stood—helpless and frightened, clutching each other’s hand. A smiling policeman and a kindly Boy Scout escorted the trembling pair to the sidewalk. The two distinguished faculty members bowed low to their deliverers, made a graceful exit into Kresge’s, and were soon lost in the teeming crowd surrounding the meat counter.
•
The Sweetbriar toughies
A few years ago Bill Shakespeare with a group of football players ventured across the road for a picnic. We forget the details, but we remember distinctly that Bill Shakespeare, who was never injured on the gridiron, was hurt, and several of the other boys shaken-up. We also remember talk on the part of the authorities about prohibiting our boys from playing with the girls because the girls were too rough at such affairs. The girls said they were terribly sorry and promised to go back to their gum-cracking and giggling and have no more picnics. For a few years everything was fine. That is, until a week or so ago. Once again a group of gentlemen was enticed over because of a picnic or a game of Run Sheep Run. What happened on this last escapade is not quite clear. There are many conflicting reports and rumors, each one more fantastic than the other. However everybody seems to agree on these points: One of our boys, clothed in his Sunday best, was dropped in the melancholy St. Joe, and another sent to the University Infirmary for a few days with a bad case of something or other.
The Show is on.
A year or so ago there was Miller Mallet. Mallet wore a red sash and monocle at all formal dances... used snowshoes to and from classes when there was snow on the ground... had a piano in his room... and slept under the bed “because it was much more comfortable.” Then there was Alberts. Alberts was an aesthete, we suppose. Alberts built a fireplace in his room in Sorin, and after there was trouble about that he started to
raise goldfish. At one time he was nursing four or five thousand fish in his room. Following Alberts was Slim. Slim was a gastronomic dilettante. A “Week” a few, years back had this to say about Slim, “He packs in a terrific amount of fodder, and in the dining hall, all neighboring tables contribute enthusiastically to the sum total. And then, three times a day with a sigh and a faint groan, he betakes himself to the waiters’ table to begin anew.” Slim received quite a bit of attention but not half so much as Pete, the Mexican. Pete made a terrible scene in the general offices a few years ago on registration day because he wanted a room right under the Dome and not in Freshman Hall. A few days later he almost caused another riot when he walked into Brownson “Rec,” pulled §8,000 out of his pocket, and asked where he could buy a new Buick. They wouldn’t let him buy a Buick but they would let him buy a monogram blanket. He clipped the monogram off, threw the blanket away, and sewed the monogram on his sweater. Pete was thrown in the lake and later thrown out of school.
What we’re trying to get around to is this: We think we have found a worthy successor to Mallet, Alberts, Slim, and Pete. We don’t know his name, but he lives in Badin and his chief claim to fame is that he earns his spending money by eating live goldfish. He travels from table to table in the dining hall with his act, eating the goldfish for the small sum of fifty cents. Goldfish are his specialty and first love, but he also swallows other things for other prices. It is claimed that he will eat a live mouse for ten dollars. It is rumored that he will even eat some of the dining hall fish. His price for this, however, is fifteen dollars. This boy from Badin has great possibilities. More about him later, and if anybody cares to part with ten dollars please get in touch with us first. . .
Saving three cents.
Personal. To Box 9, St. Mary’s College. — Thanks for the letters. Sorry to disappoint you and the Freshman class but we won’t accept the invitation “to come over Sunday aand see the Freshman class for a real treat.” And, Box 9, you’re wrong when you said that we have never “seen the insides of St. Mary’s.” We have. That’s one of the reasons why we are not accepting the invitation.
Or was it a dare?
P.S. Don’t you girls take spelling over there? It’s “Indiana”; not Indiania.
At their weekly meeting held last Sunday morning in the basement of Walsh Hall, the Notre Dame Conference of the St. Vincent de Paul society were told the history and work of the University of Wisconsin conference of the organization by two of its members, Kenneth Lehman and William Schilling.
Mr. Lehman, president of the Wisconsin group this year, explained that the main function of the St. Vincent de Paul Society there is to give assistance to deserving students. Nine members, representing all the different colleges in the University of Wisconsin, constitute the membership of the society.
Vogel and Beasley Square Accounts.
Mr. Schilling, last year’s president, added to remarks of his colleague, citing cases handled by the society at Wisconsin.
A motion was introduced and approved of by the local society for the purchase of text books for three Catholic children attending school in South Bend.
Following this, an outline was given of the work being done by members of the society at the Y. M. C. A. in South Bend for 30 underprivileged boys. This work consists in swimming and gym classes which are held each Saturday night.
Members who made the year’s first visit to the Healthwin Sanatorium last week reported that the patients welcomed them and seemed happy that the society would continue their weekly visits this year as in the past.
Nelson Vogel, treasurer of the society, announced that the storage accounts for the year had been settled with the two South Bend companies who handled the concession for the society.
February 1, 1919 — The green, white, and orange flag of the Irish Republic was displayed for the first time in Washington Hall during the concert last Saturday and attracted much attention.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SURPRISES PLANNED FOR NAVY BY BAND
Prop. Joe Casasanta
Spectators at the Notre DameNavy football game scheduled for Saturday of next week are going to see something new. It is not known what the innovation will be, but it definitely will not be the 1938 model in gunboat styles.
Once upon a time, the question was: “What formations will the coach reveal this week?”
This question is n o w changed t o read: “What’s Professor Joe Cas-asanta (bandmast-
er) got in his slip horn this week; will he drag ‘That Tagger’ out of the grunt horn?”
The usually effulgent Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta was lower than the stock market of Oct. 24, 1929, when we blew in on him this week. Mr. Casasanta is troubled about his Navy offensive, but look for him to develop enough half-notes and quarter-notes to entertain during the halves.
Joe wrote “Thanks For the Blow,” published at the Drake game, a fortnight ago, in appreciation of the brass and windwood sections of his 100-piece band.
May Talks on Far East
“Manchuria is to the Japanese what the Danube Basin is to the Germans—a line of least resistance,” declared Francis May at the second weekly meeting of the Economics Round Table Forum last Monday night.
In presenting a paper entitled “The Background of the Japanese Situation,” May pointed out that various causes underlie the present aggressive policy of Japan. After drawing an analogy between England’s naval strength in the West, and Japan’s supremacy in the East, the speaker went on to show that Japan is attempting to establish herself firmly and economically on the mainland.
“The geographical position of Japan is responsible for her pursuit of naval supremacy in the Far East. “Her invasion into northern China is the result of her search for the means of bare existence. To explain her move into Manchuria it is necessary to look at the economic circum-’ stances,” the speaker remarked.
“Japan has a population equal to that of Germany, and yet has only three-fourths as much land. In Ger-
(Continued on Page 20)
COLLEGE PARADE
By John A. Callaghan
More Purty Purtry
You can tell a sophomore by his wide and vacant stare;
You can tell a junior by his high and mighty air;
You can tell a senior by his caps and gowns and such;
You can tell a freshman—but you cannot tell him much.
—The Niagara Index.
—o—
Professor de Swing
Swing music has at least invaded the curriculum of an eastern college —New York University. Said university has added to its faculty one Vincent Lopez who call his dance music “sophisticated swing.” Professor Lopez will give a series of lectures on “jammin’ ” starting next month. The Saturday Night Swing Club, via CBS and Paul Douglas, also is going . educational. Besides the usual jamsessions, instrumental artists and vocalists heard now on the show, the club will sponsor lectures by arrangers and well-known classical soloists and conductors.
—o—
Headline
“Anderla Finds Knedlicks and Ob-lozeny Chleibiceks in Czechoslovakia.” —The Ohio State Lantern.
Gesundheit!
Jottings
Way back in 1895, Dorothy Canfield and Willa Cather published jointly a football story in the classbook of the U. of Nebraska. . . The Trojan casts “Gone with the Wind”: Alice Fay as Scarlett and the Ritz Bros, as Rhett. . . College education is like the laundry. You get out of it just what you put into it (sometimes). . . . but you’d never recognize it. . . The Indiana Student defines the football moustache—“eleven on a side, first down and plenty to grow!”. . . . The Walrus in Boston University Neivs lists his favorite frats as Tappa Kegga Beah, Alpha Dollah (the four-bit frat) and Beta Gedda Plumma. . . Prayer from St. Mary’s: “I’m not asking for myself, oh Lord, but please send my mother a son-in-law.”. . . . Stewart Hopkins 28-year old full-time pilot of the Chicago and Southern Airlines, has entered the Tulane College of Engineering as a part-time student in order to “keep out of mischief.”. . . It would take 503 years to complete all the courses now being offered at Yale University. . . A sports announcer’s nightmare — Fordham’s Yudikaitis, Woitkoski, Krywicki and Wojcie-chwicz. . .
REGISTRATION TOTAL FOR YEAR HITS 3.080
Official figures released this week by Mr. Robert B. Riordan, registrar, revealed that the total enrollment for the first semester at the University of Notre Dame this year is 3,080.
Of this figure 3,045 students are from the United States and 35 from foreign countries.
The eight states leading the enrollment for 1937-38, in number of students are as follows:
Registrar Riordan Lets Figures Talk.
Illinois, 470; New York, 464; Indiana, 403; Ohio, 289; Michigan, 230; Pennsylvania, 194; New Jersey, 112; and Wisconsin, 111. Nevada has one representative and Alaska has three.
Eleven foreign countries are represented this year at Notre Dame. Argentina 1; Canada 11; Colombia, South America, 2; Cuba 3; Mexico 1; Panama 1; Philippine Islands 4; Puerto Rico 6; Spain 1; and China 2.
The College of Commerce, establishing a precedent in the University’s history, leads the enrollment of all colleges with a registration of 1073. Arts and Letters follows with 917 students, while the Departments • of Engineering, Science, Physical Education, Law, and the Graduate School add 462, 304, 109, 115, and 100 men respectively.
Separate figures on the Freshmen of 1937-38 show that 302 are registered in the College of Commerce; 277 in Arts and Letters; 174 in Engineering; and 100 in Science.
Non-Catholics constitute 6 per cent of the student body this year.
January 21,1893—Wasn’t “Spikes” oration a forensic gem? His telling the jury to “open the flood-gates of their stupidity” proved a boomerang.
September 25, 1897—Who was the man that carried his friend’s trunk up to the third flat in Sorin Hall, and becoming angry with the friend later, carried it down again?
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
II
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
The Fly in the Ointment
Philosophy: A mother in a letter to her son, “Without the dreams of youth and the experience and stability of age, the world would be a sad place to live in.”
War: A lad called his girl friend, “Hon,” and wondered why she blew up. Probably a German girl.
World War: Corsages are in again. “If they are prohibited at the Cotillion, what about the girls whose dresses require them?”
Trolley Cars: Quoted from the New York World-Telegran, Sept. 20, 1937 ... “a bunch of them (Legionnaires) got mad at the trolley cars and sat down on the rails to keep them from moving through Times Square. More than 30 cars piled up behind the sit-downers and other Legionnaires stripped them of route signs, seats and other movable parts. The police finally got them moving again by assigning two mounted patrolmen to clear a path for each car.” And they fought “to make the world safe for democracy.”
Listening In: St. Mary’s girl . . . “so I told him he’d have to offer me the same kind of life I’ve been accustomed to seeing in the movies.” (not ours, but the point is good)
Worn: A certain Pre-Med: “She’s not good-looking, but what a personality!”
Remember: When a musical program played “Lights Out Sweetheart” for the Rectoi* of Freshman Hall.
Bouquets: Two cast iron flower pots. One for the graphic description of last Saturday’s game by the South Bend announcer. The last for the engineer that eats live goldfish.
Bath: Old Infirmary has a beautiful room. Rather dim but still beautiful. As you squeeze through the door a stairway on the right sags into view. And lo! There’s a bathtub beneath it. White enameled, chipped, boat-shaped. Hot and cold water, too. The stairway? Leads to the attic (boarded up). The tub? Never use it. Have to climb into a tub. Walk into a shower. Oh.
Undercurrent: Agitation for a 150 pound football team. The stadium would do nicely when the Varsity is away. But, where would the equipment come from? 150 pounders are
nice to watch. Fast, shifty, plenty of action. A number of the boys, too light for the Varsity, would support it. Many good players, too.
On Buying An Easy-chair: He led me to the basement of the shop. “Sit in any one of these chairs,” he commanded. I chose one of the frowsier ones that lined the cellar. He sat opposite me, beaming. “From Notre Dame, aren’t you?” I agreed. “The boys all like me up there. Used to live right next door to good old Knute. You do like that chair. Fine quality. After all it’s the springs that count. Mighty nice to have on a cold, winter night. I’m Irish myself. The boss, he’s a Jew. I make my own prices on the chairs. I don’t listen to him. Know how it is with you fellows. You can’t afford to spend all your money on furniture. Try the other one. Like it? The boss says seven-fifty. I’ll let you have it for six.
“Ha keep sayin' ‘McCormick only carried it five times!' ”
The Freshmen Are Studying Tonight
A wailing trumpet blares across the hall;
A dozen swing bands then dispute its swag.
A droning speaker pleads with one and all
To change their course and let him show -the way.
The Freshmen are study'ng tonight.
With -voice redundant with Qi-hidden tears, .4 gurgling crooner coos into the blue, While think the suffering would-be engineers, “Is that all Commerce students have to do!” The Freshmen are studying tonight.
The shower takers boom both lord and long: An opera singer spouts with lusty wheeze.
.4 thousand neic and ancient types of smg Are murdered in a thousand different keys.
The Freshmen are study ng tonig’.t.
When lights go out at ten the work is done. And night flows in on tides of silence deep. And 'til the curtain rises with the sun. These hardy souls are wrapped in peaceful sleep.
The Freshmen have stud'ed tonight.
—F. Poguano.
12
THt NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C_____________Faculty Adviser
EUGENE F. VASLETT........................Editor-in-Chief
LOUIS DA PRA..............................Managing	Editor
Departmental Editors
Harold Williams The Wee^
John Callaghan______________________________College Parade
John F. Clifford________________Splinters from the Press Box
News Staff
Vincent DeCoursey_____________________________News Editor
George Haithcock_____________________Assistant News Editor
Frederick Sisk______________________________Graham	Starr
Robert Sheppard________________________Michael Mongoven
Vernon Sneider______________________________Edward	Huff
Joseph Miller__________________________Thomas Marker
James Dempsey_________________________________John	Kohn
William C. Fay_________________________Fructuoso Barreda
James Hufnagel
Sports Staff
Mark J. Mitcheli____________________________Sports Editor
Frederick Digby----------------------Assistant Sports Editor
Nick Lamberto--------------------------Charles Callahan
Andrew M. Crowe______________________William A. Donnelly
Andrew F. Wilson Robert Voelker
Clarence Sheehan____________________________Ed Brennan
Ari Staff
George Elmore_________________________________Art Editor
Tom Powers________________________________________Ed Cort
Member Catholic School Press Association and Member of Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 237 Walsh Hall. Notre Dame, Indiana.
Vol. 71	October 15, 1937	No. 4
Bridges
OUR Chicago fellow students had reason to rejoice with the home folks on Tuesday, October 5, when the connecting link over the Chicago river at the lakefront was dedicated and opened by President Roosevelt. This latest improvement to their already beautiful park system has the added advantage of bringing the north-siders nearer to Notre Dame by some thirty minutes, or of permitting them to remain that much longer in Chicago.
Bridges in themselves serve a merely utilitarian purpose. However, circumstances may make them beautiful or some incident connected with them invest them with romantic, heroic, or historical significance. In fact there is something of a proverb about burning one’s bridges behind one.
Probably our earliest consciousness of bridges, even before we had seen one, is of a group of children on the sidewalk circling a companion and piping some imminent disaster to London Bridge. At this same bridge Macaulay places an imaginary artist at some distant time to sketch one of its broken arches—a. tribute to the enduring character of the Catholic Church'.
Even from the mists of antiquity bridges loom up. Caesar’s legions sweated to throw one across a turbulent stream. Succeeding generations of students have sweated more in trying to take it apart. Horatius stood alone and defended a strategic bridge. The incident gave elocution masters a poem for their assignments to aspiring orators.
The bridge at Avignon—residence of the exiled popes— became the social and diplomatic centre of the world for a hundred years. It inspired a song which even yet adds to the gaiety of French life.
In the realm of the spectacular, Brooklyn bridge takes precedence. Steve Brodie, after his jump into the East river, rose to fame and fortune of a soil. Longfellow stood on a bridge at midnight, one over the Charles river between Boston and Cambridge, and his reflections mantled it with a mystic romance. In revolutionary days it was from behind a bridge at Concord there came the first spark that was to illumine a free people in a free land. Emerson has passed on to posterity the glow of that moment in his line, ‘Here the embattled farmers stood and fired the shot heard round the world.’
So we come to Chicago again and its bridge. There stood President Roosevelt and delivered the speech that rattled the windows in every chancellery of the world. With its theme, we are not for the moment concerned. Some poet, philosopher, historian may yet give the incident its persevering form. The President moved across the bridge,—the first official transit. Bands blared, sirens wailed, gaily colored balloons rose in the autumn air— and simultaneously from the front pages of the nation’s papers moved the name of Senator-Klansman-Associate Justice Black.
But that is another story.
V
The Universities* Task
UPON entering the offices of one of our major industries, we notice the following conspicuous sign: “Seasoning the spontaneity of youth, and making it responsible for detail, is one of the hard jobs of employers.”
From this we might conclude that the University has another task to perform, both for us and for our future employers. Indeed, the so-called practical education is rapidly falling to the rear; the entrepreneur is finding that there must be something besides factual knowledge in the minds of his employees. That “something” is a philosophical mind.
To put it simply, the philosophical mind is one which is capable of conceiving the whole and the proper valuation of its parts. Thus do we come to “see the other side of things,” to have a settled purpose and quiet determination. Obviously, the need for ordered minds is most apparent in our modern social structure.
So the problem is a current one, and it is ours to solve. Notre Dame cannot do it for us, even though it gives all the aid is possibly can. Her task is to make us see beyond tomorrow’s football game, or next week’s vacation. This does not mean, as it is often thought, the cramping of our future. It is merely to teach us to see things in their proper light. Thus do we gain the wisdom of St. Thomas and really merit the name Notre Dame men.
Before the present becomes the past, we might try to cultivate a better understanding of the general scheme of things. In our classes, at the games, and in our conversations, we can enjoy these rapidly passing years, but at the same time realize the relative values of the experiences about us. Then our data and facts will mean something to us; we will have ordered minds, both for our own satisfaction, and that of our employers.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
In Our Town «
By Louis Da Pra
As a general rule it may be said that there are three classes of people in my home town. First of all there are the industrial capitalists who finance and operate the gigantic steel mills, oil refineries, foundries, cement plants, railway shops, and other small manufacturing concerns. They, however, do not live in our town, but maintain residences in Chicago or in its wealthy suburbs. Secondly, there are the many workmen who toil and labor in these factories. And thirdly, the merchants who live by retailing to workmen the necessities and luxuries of life. For most part the workmen and merchants reside in our town. The general population is of Polish, Slavish, and Swedish extraction. There are many Canadians, some Welsh, and a few English and Scotch. The native-born population is principally hillbilly Tennessee and Kentucky mountain folks and emigrants from the Pennsylvania or Ohio steel region.
All the psychological implications of the town stem from one term— “work.” Work means comfort, security, happiness; no work signifies hardship, panic, unhappiness. If smoke spirals from the stacks, all is well. If not—then the folks streak to the hinterlands whence they came, or else lower their standard of living to their European existence, and begin to keep cows, rabbits, goats, and the like to provide them with the simple means of life. The sign “No Work Today” is the symbol of despair. Their entire conversation is predicated upon work. “How is Inland working? How is Youngtown? How is Empire? Have they laid off many men? Any chance at General American?” This is the stuff of their conversation. That’s all they know. That’s all they need to know. That’s all they care to know. Government legislation means nothing to them usually, but let it touch upon working condition, upon wages, upon hours of work, then heated discussions will arise pro and con.
Their lives depend on work. The happiness of families, the bringing up and education of their children, the acquisition of luxuries all is posited on work and continuation of work. This has made them selfish. This has made them grovel to obtain and hold the esteem of foremen. It may mean an extra day of work. As a rule they don’t like this talk of a thirtyhour week. Sure, it gives you a lot of leisure, but it doesn’t increase the pay check. Sixty cents an hour over
a period of from forty to forty-eight hours a week, brings more into the sock than thirty hours at seventy-five cents an hour. They don’t want leisure. They all have been working ages. Many of them still remember the twelve- and thirteen-hour shifts in steel mills at from forty to fifty cents an hour. To them leisure is just another way of spending money. They are not educated to leisure.
In this circle of viciousness, one finds the merchants caught in a vortex. When there is work, the merchants prosper; when there is no work, bankruptcy procedure is a money-saving coup or else merchants sustain heavy losses. There is little love between merchants and workmen. The workmen believe .that they are being charged too much for necessities. As a result you have the general exodus on Saturday to the large shopping centers. Those unable to get out of town, usually the poorer population, spend more of their little for necessities. Thus there has grown up an antagonism between merchants and workmen.
The town drowses between pay days. Pay day is the big day. For a short period the town brightens up. The next day it is as dull as ever for the money of yesterday has already gone to the butcher, the baker, and to the rest of a motley crew of creditors. Then for two weeks the town sleeps. There is some joy and exuberance on pay day. The stores are packed, the streets are crowded with people, and there is general hilarity in the air. A people have awakened from the task, the somber task, of making a living, and now receive enjoyment from the fruits of their labor. For the most part, we , are simple people. Simple people have simple tastes, simple ambitions, simple joys.
They are firm in their maintenance of old country ways. This is the only bit of gaiety and brightness in their lives outside of the colorful religious ceremonies. The American way of doing things as exemplified in our town does not appeal to them. And it is not their fault. The civic administration does not give them the opportunity of learning more of America and American ways outside of books. It is hard for a foreigner to learn from a book; it is easier to learn from life. And life in our town is not appealing.
There is little ambition in our town. At best it consists of a hoped for promotion from the labor gang to a third helper. It is a matter of cents per hour. The work is monotonous. Romantic in stories, beautiful on the screen, thrilling for a day or so, but monotonous. Then it is a monotonous procession of punching in and punching out. It becomes a matter of counting days on the time' clock, of counting hours. Some of us want to escape from that. That’s why some of us wind up in college. Most of us do not. What is good for father is good for son. For after all, the father was able to bring up his family, why should not the son be able to do so? The factory was good to my father. Why should it not he good to me? That’s the way people think in our town. Perhaps they are right, perhaps they are not. People in our town are easily satisfied with five, six, seven, eight, nine dollars a day. You can live well on that. You can have a car, a house, a radio, and perhaps a refrigerator. That’s all they want. And all you need to do is to punch in and punch out day after day for many years. We really are simple people.
There is little mention of the first class of people here—the industrial capitalist. One sees them only riding down dingy back streets near the mills in immaculate Cadillacs, La Salles, and the like. One is a bit afraid of them. Workmen have always been afraid of them. Sometimes they rise up. They did this summer. But as soon as they felt the pinch on their pocketbooks, the workmen rebelled. So the C.I.O. was forced to give up its fight. A workman will give up at least a week of his pay for promised benefits, but not more than that, if the promised benefits are not forthcoming or appear to be forthcoming. That’s why the C.I.O. failed. Workmen are selfish. They do not look ahead. They can’t afford to.
You can readily see that all the psychological implications of our town stem from work. Without work our town would have no excuse for its existence. All the happiness and sorrow of our town, all its fears and passions, all its hates and loves stem from work. And the cry is: “How are the plants working today?” You answer that question. In it you can trace the heartbeat and pulse of the town.
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
tp ATHLETICS
REVIVED IRISH WILL ATTEMPT A COMEBACK AGAINST CARNEGIE TARTANS TOMORROW
INTERHALLERS BEGIN TOUCH FOOTBALL
By Fred Digby
By Clarence Sheehan
A Carnegie Tech team which, though losing 7-0, outgained the Purdue Boilermakers and which was just barely defeated by N.Y.U. when the latter team scored on a pass with two minutes to play, will be waiting in Pittsburgh tomorrow afternoon for the coming of the Irish. Notre Dame, a question-mark
team after last week’s tie, will be out to gain at least part of its lost pres- ' tige. Tech, on the other hand, will
Coleman Kopczak
“A Football-Playing Family.”
be endeavoring to go the Illini one better.
Before their first game under their new coach, Bill Kern, the Skibos were declared the best drilled and best conditioned squad in many seasons. They were, however, playing under a new system, a modified Warner attack. Consequently, no predictions could be made about the possible success of the Tech team.
After a month and a half of drill-. ing and after using the system twice under fire, the Skibos should be ready to fly. They have always been noted for their defensive play. In the past three years the Irish have always had difficulty with their forward wall. And now Bill Kern 'has pro-
(Continued on Page 21)
DEARTH OF VETERANS FACES DE LANDERO
•
More than one headache seems to be in store for Coach Pedro de Lan-dero as he assembles his material for the 1937 edition of the Varsity Fencing team. Graduation took an unusually heavy toll, and the opening session this week finds only two veterans, Jack Zerbst and Bob Scar-lata, ready to cross steel.
Although the general material appears none too promising, the saber section is strong, with fine chances for development. Sophomores Gavin, Smalley, and O’Brien have had experience in the Illinois Fencers League, and should help to ease the worries of the Irish mentor. Jim Graham, a junior, has had some experience.
The candidate for epee is still an unknown quantity, but it is hoped that Captain Jack Zerbst or Colgan can be whipped into shape to fill this important post. Vic Mercado may come out for foil, together with Pierre de la Vergne and Eugene Kiefer of Snyder, N.Y. Both Pierre and Gene are upperclassmen who have had experience.
Looming in the none too distant future are the ranks of such foes as Chicago University, Northwestern, Cincinnati, the University of St. Louis, and Purdue. Even with such stiff opposition, the squad expects to better last year’s record. Manager Joseph Nigro said that the spirit is better.
At any rate, the men have been issued their equipment and are all set for action. With men like Scarlata, who defeated the Wisconsin individual saber champ last year, and an encouraging group of sophomore foilsmen, Coach de Landero should he able to overcome some of his present pessimism and make a fine showing in competition.
Mr. John A. Scannell, head of the Department of Physical Education, was greatly pleased with the large turnout of touch football enthusiasts last Sunday morning as the current interhall season got under way. Practice games were held in order that the coaches might get a line on their teams.
Mostly every hall was represented by at least two full teams, and as each coach used every man on his roster it is rather difficult to single out the strongest outfits at this time. Brownson and Freshman seemed to be tops in their division, while the Morrissey and Sorin elevens appeared to be favorites in the other loop.
Some difficulty was experienced in the rules interpretation, a condition which will clear itself as play goes on. In order to bettei- acquaint the boys with the rules the Department of Physical Education has posted mimeographed sheets containing the more important ones in each of the residence halls.
The first round was played on Founder’s, Day, and another round will follow Sunday.
The practice rounds of the soccer league were played this week. Cava-
DlKECTOR SCANNELL A New Program.
naugh showed a great deal of strength in downing Morrissey, 2-1, on Freshman field Monday afternoon.
Interhall Touch Football Schedule
Sunday, Oct. 17, 10:00 a.m.— Cartier Field: Freshman vs. Carroll; Cavanaugh vs. Badin; Brownson vs. St. Edward’s; Sorin vs. Alumni. Brownson Field: Walsh vs. Dillon.
Monday, Oct. 18, 3:30 p.m.— Brownson Field: Morrissey vs. Lyons.
Tuesday, Oct. 19, 3:30 p.m.— Brownson Field: Howard vs. Zahm.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
15
"B" SQUAD TO PLAY PURDUE TOMORROW
•
The Notre Dame “B” team will attempt to repeat its victory over the Purdue “B” team when it meets the Boilermaker squad in the Stadium to-morrow afternoon.
Coach Bill Cerney, who admits that he is the only coach in the country who never* sees his team play, expects this game to be tougher than the 13-8 straggle at Lafayette two weeks ago. Purdue, which played rather sluggishly in the first three quarters of that game, showed its real power when it rose from its lethargy to score eight points in the last quarter. It is bringing a re-inforced team here to Notre Dame to-morrow in an attempt to avenge that defeat.
The Irish “B” team, on the other hand, suffered because of its effectiveness: it lost three valuabe backs, Brad Lynn, Sweeney Tuck, and Ben Binkowski, who were sent to the “A” squad because of their excellent play against Purdue.
In all probability the starting lineup in to-morrow’s game will consist entirely of sophomores and juniors. Johnny Kelleher, the sophomore who called the plays against Purdue two weeks ago, will probably repeat at the quarterback post. Three juniors, Johnny McMahon at left half, Paul Morrison at right half, and Jack Green at fullback, will probably be chosen to fill the places left by Tuck, Lynn, and Binkowski.
Joe Nardone and Ed Broscoe, the ends, and Steve Rogenski, the center, are veterans from last year’s “B” team. The other line positions are filled by sophomores with Jim Carr and Ray Fitzgerald as the guards, and Bob Sullivan and Joe O’Neill’s younger brother, Bob, as the tackles.
SPORT SHORT
A new type of football, played by six men, is rapidly gaining popularity in smaller colleges in the midWest. Several colleges in North and South Dakota have formed leagues. The spectators have favorably received the games. .
The new game is modified and faster than eleven-man football. The teams consist of two ends, a center, quarterback, half-back, and full-back. This, and the fact that the man who receives the pass from the center cannot run with the ball but must pass it as soon as he receives it, marks the only radical departure from standard football.
After the required first pass the game reverts back to the standard rules and it becomes a case of every man for himself.
FAY SCORES STRAIGHT SET WIN OVER KILRAIN WINS ANNUAL FALL TENNIS TOURNAMENT
After a three-week’s run, the annual Fall Tennis Tournament ended with Bill Fay, Lyons’ sophomore, as the new University champion. Fay won from Eddie Kilrain, captain of the ’38 tennis team, in straight sets, in the final match play Sunday. The sophomore player stroked his shots well, keeping them low ______________________________________- and deep to Kilrain’s left side. Kilrain used the flat “Western” grip,
SO THEY SAY
Paraphrasing the immortal Thayer, whose last line of “Casey at the Bat” is something akin to a modern gift from literature to posterity, you might write the result of today’s Notre Dame-Illinois game like this.
“There is no joy in Notre Dame; Illinois has tossed them out!”
That is strictly what Illinois did— tossed them out of a chance for the national title by holding Elmer Layden’s young men to a 0-0 tie before 50,000 grid fans.—Wayne K. Otto in the Chicago Herald and Examiner.
Halfback McCormick
Even “Bunny” was stopped.
The fighting lllini did it again. This time it was the vaunted host from Notre Dame which hammered in vain against the defense of an inspired Illinois eleven and after 60 minutes of a gruelling, futile struggle in Memorial Stadium saw its hopes of a victory march to a national championship -broken by a scoreless tie.—Wilfred Smith in the Chicago Tribune.
The “fighting lllini” lived up to the glorious tradition of their name with the gridiron upset of the day by holding the vaunted Notre Dame eleven to a scoreless tie today in the first game between these teams in 39 years.
There was everything of a surprising nature about the outcome of the battle before a crowd of 45,00. On form, the highly rated invaders from South Bend, Ind., were favored to win, and the result was a personal triumph for the 56-year old Robert Zuppke, celebrating his 25th anniver-saary as coach at Illinois.—Charles Dunkley in the Youngstown Vindicator.
which aided his forehand, but made him unable to do more than lift soft returns with his backhand. Fay then came to the net and put the ball away consistently for points. The set scores were 6-2, 6-1, 6-3, Kilrain bunching the points for the six games he won by running around the ball to take it on his forehand, and by cross-courting powerfully when he had the chance.
The tournament followed the seedings exactly. Kilrain, seeded second, defeated Fred Simons, number four, in the semi-finals, while Number One Fay was beating Number Three Whit Gregory. Then the top-seeded man played and defeated the Number Two man for the championship.
Fay lost his only set and played his hardest tennis last Friday against Whit Gregory. Gregory won the first two games of the match. Then Fay, with great steadiness, took 12 out of the next 14, winning the first two sets, 6-3, 6-1. He held a 5-3 lead in the third set, then faltered, as Gregory came along to break service twice and win, 10-8. In the final set, Fay led again 5-1, dropped two in another Gregory rally, but then took set and match, 6-3.
During the summer, Fay, whose home is in Pittsburgh, reached the semi-finals of the Western Pennsylvania Men’s Tourney, held in that city. He defeated the first-seeded Bob Madden, former tennis captain at the University of Pittsburgh, and Middle Atlantic States Collegiate Champion in 1936, 6-3, 6-4, in the quarter-finals. Dr. David O’Loughlin of Pittsburgh, ultimate winner of the tournament, then eliminated the Irish tennist in the next round.
The fighting wearers of the Orange and Blue of Illinois presented a startling gridiron upset here this somber autumn afternoon when the moleskin gladiators of Bob Zuppke, in his 25th year of service at this great institution, held the mighty sons of old Notre Dame to a scoreless tie in a battle which will go down in football history as one of the most bitterly contested struggles ever held in this huge Illinois amphitheater.—W. Blaine Patton, in the Indianapolis Star.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING J. Mitchell
The life story of Joseph Hubert Ruetz—football player, mountain climber, day laborer, and scientist—is as colorful as the rainbow. His hah* is red and his frame is rugged. And he plays left guard on Elmer Layden’s 1937 Fighting Irish. That’s enough and more for any one man. But the multiplicity of aspect which Joe presents to the casual observer can only be appreciated by
looking into some of the details of his almost twenty-one (he’ll not be a “man” till next Thursday) years of existence.
He was born in Racine, Wisconsin, of German - Irish parents. In 1930 the family moved to South Bend, and Joe began his pursuit of a high school education at South Bend Central. He fared very well in athletics there, playing football and putting the shot for the track team. He was All-C i t y and All-State guard in 1932 and 1933. In addition he took third in the shot put at the State Meet and second at the Conference meet in 1933.
Playing with such men as Erwin Wegner
and John Kovatch, now of Northwestern, he opposed his running-mate and “anti-touchdown twin,” Joe Kuharich, then of Riley. He feels that his most satisfactory performance in high school was in a Conference game during which he consistently took out Riley’s All-State end.
During those tender years when Joe was pushing ends and tackles and 12-pound shots around, he had ideas about playing at Notre Dame. One of his most vivid memories of that time has to do with the Pitt game in 1931. In that last decisive victory before the big slump, a young sophomore end named Devore showed some blocking which smacked of the days of Marty Brill. On one punt he took out three men, and Ruetz looked for the day he would be able to do likewise.
On the Enemies' Trail
TO DATE:
CARNEGIE TECH has lost to New York University 18-14, and Purdue 7-0.
NAVY has defeated William and Mary 45-0, The Citadel 32-0, and Virginia 40-13.
MINNESOTA has defeated North Dakota State 69-7, has lost to Nebraska 14-9, and has defeated Indiana 6-0.
PITTSBURGH has defeated Ohio Wesleyan 59-0, West Virginia 20-0, and Duquesne 6-0.
ARMY has defeated Clemson 21-6, and Columbia 21-18.
NORTHWESTERN has defeated Iowa State 33-0, and Michigan 7-0.
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA has defeated College of the Pacific 40-0, has lost to Washington 7-0, and has defeated Ohio State 13-12.
THIS WEEK:
CARNEGIE TECH plays Notre Dame.
NAVY plays Harvard.
MINNESOTA plays Michigan.
PITTSBURGH plays Fordham.
ARMY plays Yale.
NORTHWESTERN plays Purdue.
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA plays Oregon.
Joe was promising when he came to Notre Dame. He was still promising in his second year when the Irish met Ohio State. After* that last half against the Buckeyes Joe didn’t have to promise any more. He had fulfilled all expectations.
Last year Layden was short of quarterbacks. Now Ruetz has a head on him, and he blocks pretty well. Ruetz played quarterback. He never considered that he was an All-American prospect at guard. He played quarterback, though you could see how he itched to mix it up. At times he even backed up the line instead of playing safety man, and those tackles were vicious.
This fall Joe is back at guard, and darned glad of it. He is a Science student with an honor average. He intends to specialize in anthropology, and would like to join a scientific expedition in museum research when he finishes his schooling. Incidentally an expedition would be nothing new to him, for he has spent the better part of two summers trekking across the Great Smoky Mountains and down the Salmon River. Last summer he worked on a construction job in Elkhart, and reported for practice this year in almost perfect condition.
The rest of this vari-colored yarn has yet to be unravelled. It may be very complex, but Joe will make the most of it—he always has.
CAMPUS OPINION
The question was: “Do you think the he-man is disappearing from the campus.” In a trip about the campus, the inquiring reporter of The Scholastic received the following answers :
Robert LeJune, Cavanaugh: “No! Though when they are freshmen, they’re not quite the men their fathers used to be, a few years of college life at Notre Dame tend to make men of them.”
George J. Neumann, Dillon: “We miss the corduroy and sweatshirt outfit, but still believe the he-man exists beneath the fine veneer.”
John Anton, Walsh: “Easy living has ruined many a waistline, but the potential he-man is still there.”
John White, Zahm: “Just because they do not seem as rough as formerly, I don’t think they lack the stuff to stand the test in a pinch.”
Charles Nelson, Howard: “The increase of the literati has not, in my estimation, decreased the ranks of the he-man.”
J. Reynolds, Zahm: “I think the ‘football hero’ he-man is gone. People just got tired of him.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
SKIBO-IRISH HISTORY HAS TRADITION
Frosh Fall Before Varsity Tennis Team, 6-3;
Yearlings Take Two Doubles Matches
1922—Notre	Dame	19;	Carnegie	Tech	0.
1923—Notre	Dame	26;	Carnegie	Tech	0.
1924—Notre	Dame	40 ;	Carnegie	Tech	19.
1925—Notre	Dame	26;	Carnegie	Tech	0.
1926—Notre	Dame	0 ;	Carnegie	Tech	19.
1928—Notre	Dame	7;	Carnegie	Tech	27.
1929—Notre	Dame	7 ;	Carnegie	Tech	0.
1930—Notre	Dame	20;	Carnegie	Tech	6.
1931—Notre	Dame	19;	Carnegie	Tech	0.
1932—Notre	Dame	42;	Carnegie	Tech	0.
1933—Notre	Dame	0 ;	Carnegie	Tech	7.
1934—Notre	Dame	13 ;	Carnegie	Tech	0.
1935—Notre	Dame	14 ;	Carnegie	Tech	3.
1936—Notre	Dame	21;	Carnegie	Tech	7.
. Carnegie Tech versus Notre Dame! For the fifteenth time the sporting public will be given an opportunity to witness a Skibo-Irish clash. Past performance favors the N. D. crew by an eleven to three count.
Though the Irish hold a big lead in the series, many of their victories have been hairline affairs. Always have the Scots furnished stiff opposition. A strong line at Tech is considered a tradition. This year is said to be no exception.
The Carnegie victory in 1926 was one of the biggest upsets in the history of football. Notre Dame was on its way to a national championship. Rockne, instead of going with the team, went up to Chicago to scout the Army-Navy contest. Notre Dame did not win the national championship that year, and Rockne never missed another game—except through sickness. The reason in each instance was because Carnegie Tech won that 1926 ball game 19-0. (Was Rock’s face red!)
Judge Wally Steffen was still coaching at the Pitt institute in 1928, when the Irish were again dropped. This time the score read 27-7. Steffen turned over the mentor job to his pupil and assistant, Howard Harpster along about 1932. In 1933, Harpster and his boys were among the many who triumphed over Notre Dame. A touchdown, plus the point, gave them a 7-0 win. Steffen returned to his Alma Mater last year, but this time the Irish came out on top, 21-7. Steffen died this year, and consequently the Skibos will be out there tomorrow trying to win one for the Judge.
The series started in 1922, with Notre Dame winning 19-0. Each year since, with the exception of 1927, the two teams have tangled. The 1932 game was the only real slaughter. “Hunk” Anderson’s club rolled up 42 points that day and applied a whitewash in return.
Coach Layden has fared rather well against the Scots. He scored a touchdown in both the 1923 and 1924 Tech defeats, and since his return to the campus in the capacity of head coach has yet to experience a Skibo setback. Tomorrow, it is the hope of all that Layden’s Skibo streak will be continued.
In an informal match played Wednesday morning the varsity tennis team defeated an above average freshman team by six matches to three.
Fay defeated Walsh, recent winner of the Freshman tournament, in the number one singles 6-0, 6-4. Walsh’s accurate sliced forehand and tenacity were not sufficient to counteract a weak service and inadequate passing shots as Fay forced the net behind deep drives to the corners and volleyed the ball away for winners.
Hennessey, playing at two for the Freshman, had no answer for Captain Kilrain’s heavily-topped forehand and succumbed at 6-0, 6-1.
The third singles match between Gregory and Heckler, won by Gregory 7-5	7-5, brought forth the best
tennis of the day. Heckler showed himself the most promising of the Freshman with an all-around game which needs only added speed for greater effectiveness.
Gottschalk scored the solitary
SPEARHEAD OF CARNEGIE ATTACK
Halfbabk Jerry Matclan
Worries the Irish.
Freshman point in the singles play by outsteadying Arnold in two 6-3 sets. Arnold failed to take the net position where he could have handled Gottschalk’s looped shots more effectively. Instead he remained on the baseline and was consistently out-steadied in the long exchanges.
Simons and Bowler scored the other two varsity points, Simons raced through Plano at 6-1, 6-0 for an impressive win. Bowler showed great improvement over his spring time form in winning from Alph 6-3, 6-2.
The freshmen showed better in the doubles play where they scored their two remaining points. Walsh and Heckler lobbed well to defeat Kilrain and Gregory 6-0, 6-4. Bowler and Fay flubbed too many volleys and overheads to make headway against the steadier play of Gottschalk and Alph, the freshman pair winning at 6-4, 6-2. Arnold and Simons scored the varsity’s sixth point by winning from Plano and Hennessey 6-2, 6-4.
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
CAGERS REPORT FOR PRACTICE SESSIONS
By John F. Clifford
To-morrow’s Carnegie Tech game recalls one of the greatest achievements of the Four Horsemen as a scoring unit. Benny Friedman, Harry Newman, Dixie Howell and Slingin’ Sammie Baugh all achieved national reknown as great passers, but these exponents of accurate apple-tossing never surpassed ihe record for the most number of completed passes in one game that Rockne’s greatest team set in the 1924 Carnegie Tech game. With every member of the backfield doing the passing and receiving, the Irish completed 7 out of 10 in the first half. Then to make it more convincing, they came back in the second half and dazzled the Skibos with 12 passes—and completed every one! That record of 19 successful heaves out of 22 attempts still stands, Don Hutson and Dixie Howell being the only combination even to approximate it.
V	'
The meagre, enigmatic information gleaned from the air-waves as to just what was going on down there at Champaign last Saturday afternoon, though partially obliterating our hopes for a championship eleven this season, at least re-established our faith in Ted Husing and the Sunday morning sport sheets. But what happened? Maybe it was just a case of the irresistible force meeting an immovable object—and nothing gives. Maybe. . . .
V
This fellow “Bearskin,” the lad -who writes that vitriolic commentary on Notre Dame football every Friday in the South Bend Tribune, has traditionally bee the unofficial critic of Irish teams for many years. No one connected with Notre Dame, it seems, is immune from the charge that he, and only he, is responsible for “Bearskin’s” existence. We personally think that John McAllister has all the makings for journalistic sarcasm, but that’s neither here nor there. What is more important is the fact that “Bearskin,” whoever he is, is slipping. No longer do Ins caustic comments make his victims squirm and boil under the collar as in former years. There was a time when one could discover excellent constructive criticism of individual players, and a public kick in the pants would have more effect in improving the player’s game than all the coaching in private practice. To-day it seems that “Bearskin” is more interested in making his readers chuckle and roar at his every-day panning. It is our opinion that if “Bearskin” would cease giving all his pals at Mike Alby’s Steak House a blow, and concentrate on constructive criticism he would have a more beneficial and salutary effect as a critic.
V
. Set-ups and subsequent set-backs took their toll throughout the country last week, but this column came through “comparatively unscathed.” Emerging with 10 right, 3 wrong, and 2 almost, Steve raised his marks considerably. We name the winners, but we can’t quarter-back for them. F’r instance, Columbia, leading the Army with two minutes to go, calls for a pass on the 20 yard line. You know the answer: Army won. Well, that’s what makes football what it is. There are some heart-breakers here.
Coach George Keogan’s National Championship basketball team turned out full strength Thursday afternoon for their first practice session of the year.
The early start is necessary because the cage team opens its season on Dec. 6, an earlier date than usual. The team also has to be familiarized with the new rules that are in effect, and a new system of plays will have to be drilled into them because of the elimination of the center jump.
A large squad reported, among them the regulars of last year. Captain Ray Meyer, Moir, Nowak, Wuk-ovitz, Jordan, and Sadowski, all of the varsity were out. Earl Brown, first string guard, is with the football team and will not be able to report until the end of the season.
NOTRE DAME 13, CARNEGIE TECH 6
Princeton over Chicago Tulane over Colgate Pitt over Fordham Cornell over Syracuse Holy Cross over Georgia Indiana over Illinois Minnesota over Michigan
Northwestern over Purdue Oregon State over U.C.L.A. Southern Cal over Oregon Navy over Harvard
Washington over Washington State Wisconsin over Iowa
Yale over Army
Basketeer Moir Sharpening up early.
This year’s team is figured to be the greatest that Notre Dame has ever had. No one from the starting lineup was lost by graduation, and the first stringers have had all the possible experience they could get. They have been playing together for three years, as a unit. Two of them, John Moir and Paul Nowak, are AllAmericans, and the other three are considered the be’st in their class. It looks as though Keogan will have little to worry about except the possibility of the usual Christmas vacation slump and injuries.
The sophomores that reported are being looked over critically by Keogan, these early weeks. If possible he hopes to uncover some more boys on the Moir, Nowak, Meyer type. Reports have it the sophomores will give the regulars quite a battle for their berths, last year’s freshman team being the best since the present seniors were freshmen.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19
On The Enemy’s Bench
By Ed Brennan
Notre Dame travels to Pittsburgh tomorrow to meet Carnegie Tech for the fourteenth renewal of their series. Bill Kern, former Pitt assistant who replaced the late Walter B. Steffen last Spring, heads the Scot’s new coaching staff. For the last several years Kern has scouted Notre Dame for Pitt, as a result, the Irish can expect him to place a strong defensive club on the field.
Carnegie was defeated last Saturday mainly because of Purdue’s brother passing act. A toss, Cecil to Cody Isbell put the ball on the Scot’s 16-yard line from which point Brock, Boilermaker right half back carried it over.
Jerry Matelan, Tartan’s chief running threat, broke loose for a substantial gain in the third period and advanced to Purdue’s 24 yard stripe where he stumbled and fell with a clear field ahead.
The Tech-Irish series has been studded with upsets—all three of the Skibo victories being of this variety. In 1926 they beat Notre Dame’s prospective national champions at Pittsburgh, 19 to 0. In 1928 Tech scored the only win a visiting team had ever turned in for 23 years on Cartier field. In 1933 the Scots scored on the third play of the game to win 7 to 0.
Over one half million people have witnessed Notre Dame-Navy games during the past decade.
The series began 10 years ago, and was started simply by a handshake between Knute Rockne and Commander Jonas Ingram, then Director of Athletics at the Naval Academy. No contract was drawn up, not even a scrap of paper the size of a memorandum appeared in the agreement. Navy looks upon the series with Notre Dame as a tribute to Rockne’s friendship and interest in the Academy.
A Notre Dame-Navy game dedicated the Stadium in 1930. This year marks the first return of the Middies since that time. All other games were played in Cleveland or Baltimore.
Navy has an additional triple threat man besides Bill Ingram in the person of Lem Cooke, whose performance thus far has dubbed him Navy’s outstanding back of the year. Against the University of Virginia last Saturday, Cooke scored three touchdowns himself, and passed to left end Fike for another.
Now that ‘King Baseball’ has gone into hibernation for another six months, it would be unfair not to remind you that the New York Yanks played the entire 1937 World ,'Series without making an error.
STUBBORN ILLINOIS DEFENSE HOLDS IRISH TO SCORELESS TIE IN DULL BATTLE
By Nick Lamberto
The Fighting Illini from Illinois surprised the Fighting Irish from Notre Dame by holding them to a scoreless tie last Saturday afternoon in Memorial Stadium at Champaign before 50,000 fans. The green Illinois team made up for what they lacked in experience by showing an aggressive fighting spirit ____________________________. throughout the game.
PRACTICE IN SECRET FOR CARNEGIE
The closed gates of Cartier Field was the only answer Coach Layden would give to inquiries concerning rumored changes on his football team that met such strong resistance at Champaign last Saturday.
Secret practice was the order all week long, and anyone who could get by the narrow gateway to the practice field was a skillful man indeed. Consequently rumors were rife this week as to what was actually taking place beyond the forbidden portals.
Captain Zwers, Len Skoglund, Jack McCarthy, Andy Puplis, and Chuck O’Reilly were all reported to have been sent back to the second and third teams. Sweeney, Brown, Zontini, and Emmett Crowe were likewise reported to have been advanced to starting positions on the varsity to replace the fallen regulars. Whether or not these changes actually took place was known only to the managers .and the players themselves. Tomorrow will reveal all that has been going on in Cartier Field this week.
One thing is certain. The team was intensely drilled in fundamentals. Blocking was so poor at Champaign that the Illinois men often were visibly surprised when they found themselves in the Irish backfield with nobody but the ball carrier coming toward them.
Kicking and pass defense were also emphasized. Layden’s search for a reliable kicker will undoubtedly be unfulfilled this year, and Irish supporters can expect much trouble because of this. Effective kicking at Illinois was another thing the Irish had little to cheer about.
Tuesday and Wednesday freshman teams ran Carnegie Tech plays off while the varsity attempted to polish their defense against these. Offense was taken care of on Monday. Just who will make the trip to Pittsburgh is unknown at this writing. If Layden uncovered anyone from the “B” team he has probably taken him to Carnegie.
Another rumor had it that Bing Binkowski, “B” team fullback, had made the traveling squad and would be used against - Carnegie tomorrow with the second team. . -
Notre Dame’s attack was stopped cold by the charging Illini line. At spasmodic intervals McCormick, Zontini, or McCarthy would reel off a good gain, but a coordinated goalward march was sadly lacking. The only Irish scoring threat came in the second period when they reached the Illini 12-yard line. The threat soon fizled out on three incomplete passes and an unsuccessful reverse.
Right End Sweeney Shoived the Home Folks.
Illinois, on the other hand, had the Notre Dame adherents in a state of grave apprehension on two occasions. In the first period Illinois advanced to Notre Dame’s 14-yard line. The threat ended when Brewer’s attempted place kick was low. Again in the fourth period Brewer attempted a field goal, this time from the 34-yard line, but the kick was short.
Illinois won the toss and elected to kick off. Berner, the Illinois punter, set the Irish back on their heels with his accurate punts. Spurgeon’s returns of Notre Dame, punts also helped to keep the ball deep in the Irish territory. The Irish finally penetrated into Illinois territory in the second quarter. Puplis returned a punt to midfield and the Irish second string went in. In three line plays the ball was advanced to the Illinois 39. A pass to Brown put the ball on the 24. A five-yard penalty and three thrusts by Simonich gave Notre Dame a first down on the Illini 12. Then the Irish launched their unsuccessful aerial attack and lost the ball on downs.
The remainder of the game found the Illini displaying their superior advantage in punting, and the Irish exhibiting some sloppy ball handling. Fumbles at strategic moments took '(Continued-on Page 23)
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Francis May Talk
(Continued from Page 10)_____ many five times more land is tilled than in Japan. It is conceivable that Japan could support herself with food but then only at a very low standard of living. It is only natural that Japan would exploit Manchuria for it possessed many resources which are complementary to the Japanese. The chief importance of Man-
YES. SIR. Thar's COLOR on Them DUNES'
There’s a South Shore Line train ready to whisk you into Duneland’s annual color spree . . . for a picnic, a hike or a weekend. It’s one of the big Fall events, this display in the Dunes, and, via South Shore Line, it’s practically next door. Don’t miss it this Fall.
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
churia is in her food-stuffs, primarily wheat and soy beans.”
“Manchuria has not, however, solved the population problem of Japan,” May continued. “Climatic conditions and the low standard of living of the thirty million Chinese living there discourages settlement by the Japs. Thus Manchuria is merely the answer to Japan’s food situation, leaving her still the problems of a surplus population—increasing at the rate of one million a year— and the acquisition of markets for her industries.”
“It is evident that Manchuria offers little more than temporary relief to Japan,” the speaker concluded. “Eventually Japan must face the problem of either seeking new lands for colonization or restrict population increases by birth control.”
Campus Changes
From Maine to California they come, these visitors from the 48 states of the star spangled banner. Whether football fans, parents, alumni, or pilgrims to the religious shrines, they come by multiple itineraries to the University of Our Lady—Notre Dame>with her golden dome and the sun^clothed cross rising from the rolling plains of Indiana.
From these thousands of annual visitors. flows a. glowing. tribute .of. homage that is Notre Dame’s excus-ively. Rarely is there a visitor that fails to be impressed by the spectacle of the rare natural beauty of the campus.
During the summer the old porter’s lodge that was located adjacent to the statue of Father Sorin in the main quadrangle was removed. Several walks were widened, these being fenced by a series of steel posts embedded in concrete.
Much work was done on the new quadrangle of Zahm, Cavanaugh, and Brownson halls. The statue of St. Edward was removed to its present location between Zahm and Cavanaugh halls. The New Biology Building will next receive the attention of the landscaping foreman, Michael Mosher.
CARBURETOR &XYELW-BOLE KF	^^^New way of burning tobacco
—better, cooler, cleaner. Car-
Fr. Miltner Work
_____(Continued from Page 5)__ the other courses in a liberal arts curriculum, the teacher of philosophy can stress the information content of his courses and still achieve the twofold objective of imparting philosophical knowledge and perfecting students in the habit of philosophizing.
TOBIN says:
T	IRISH MIXTURE
O
B	CORKTOWN
I
||<s COOKIE JAR
are blended to suit the taste of pipe smokers who like quality tobacco. We stand back of this claim.
MclNERNY & COMPANY CIGAR STORE
110 North Main Street
Lunch	Billiards
Specializing in the examination of the eye.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor To
Rogers
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8211
buretor-Action cools smoke. Keeps bottom of bowl absolutely dry. Caked with honey. At dealers* now.
ymun""-
0
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
Varsity Meets Carnegie
(Continued from Page 14)
vided the offensive drive to supplement this defensive strength.
Though graduation losses were slight last year, the returning Tech lettermen have had a very difficult time holding their positions against the sophomore invaders. Merlyn Condit, who, among other things, can run, pass, punt, and place-kick, was a sensation in early practice. He was out for a while with injuries but is definitely in the line-up now at the right half back position. His running mate at left half, Jerry Matelan, is as much of a threat as Condit is in the running department. He made the longest run of the day against Purdue when he raced 41 yards in the third quarter.
In the line the outstanding performers are two veterans, Charles Miskevics and John Kawchak.
And one can’t afford to forget that Coach Bill Kern, formerly an assistant to Jock Sutherland, has been scouting the Irish for Pittsburgh for many years and is supposed to know the Notre Dame system from A to Z.
Fall Handicap Meet
With the running of the Annual Fall Handicap Meet next Friday, Coach John Nicholson will officially close the fall track season. The primary purpose of this meet is to give the new men a chance to demonstrate their ability in competition.
Graduation took its customary toll among the cinder-men, and consequently Nick is faced with the task of rebuilding almost his entire squad. Nevertheless, the mournful mentor dropped his lugubrious mask for the first time in years, and ventured to predict a fairly strong outfit for this season. The nucleus of the new team will include Captain Bill Mahoney in the hurdles, Bill Clifford in the sprints, Greg Rice and Steve Sczu-machowski in the distances, Dan Gibbs in the pole vault, and Bill Fay-monville in the weights. 
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
A complete collection of Stetson Hats in a vast selection of new shapes and shades. Be sure to see them at
Sam’l Spiro & Co.
Patronize SCHOLASTIC advertisers
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
« from
—have
never q«'cl
on crime
Siege of Alcazar
(Continued from Page 3)
Previously Moscardo’s son had been captured by the Beds. They informed the Colonel that his son would be killed if he refused to surrender. The Colonel refused.
On Sept. 27 the garrison was relieved. Food remained only for a few more days. They had five mules and one horse. Moscardo greeted the Colonel who relieved the Alcazar. Moscardo had lost his son but saved his garrison.
He stood stiffly to the salute and said, “No change to report.” No change. The garrison had not changed hands, and the old flag of Christian Spain was still flying over the shattered shell of the Alcazar.
The Alcazar might have fallen but it would have never surrendered, and the captured shell would have remained not as a symbol of a Red triumph but as a symbol of that spirit which was saving Christian Spain.
telephone,^
that police
V making
April 19, 1919 — The Wednesday of next week, April 23rd, is the fortieth anniversary of the great fire of 1879, in which practically all the buildings of the University were destroyed.
tcl^
Ot hara«an' ioWWeh*' morevy . Appier,
teletyP6 nntgrovrth , "roguery m»dc I1&(fTustone away vath- «• make your
help8 w
telephone broader, safer.
Phone 4-3601 Hours 10 to 5
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
ORTHODONTIST
1002 Towei- Building
Dewey School of South Bend Orthodontia 1919 Indiana
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eye and the making of fine glasses.
—♦—
Intelligent service Reliability
34 years’ experience are our endorsements.
Optometrists Est. 1903
314 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
Illinois Gome
(Continued from Page 19) the heart out of the Irish attack but they went down fighting to the end. Once in the fourth quarter Brown almost snared a pass for a touchdown, but the ball trickled from his hands.
The stars for Illinois were Spurgeon, Brewer, Castelo, and Klemp. Spurgeon, the Ulini captain, led his team on both offense and defense. Klemp and Castelo were two smashing, vicious ends and broke up a major portion of Notre Dame plays. Brewer, a sophomore guard, showed the Notre Dame line that All-American rating is not merited by last season's play.
Bunny McCormick was the usual elusive rabbit. He gained nearly 50 yards in five plays. Had he been used more he might have bettered his good average. Chuck Sweeney, playing before a home town delegation, gave a good exhibition of offensive and defensive end play. Pat McCarty backed up the Irish line in superior fashion. The two left halfs, Zon-tini and McCarthy, both gave good accounts of themselves. Both had good gains nullified by penalties.
MAX ADLER
‘ ‘ The Big Store on the Corner ’
Has all the latest Arrowthings in a wide variety of styles and colors.
April 22, 1905—During the past week a team has been regularly engaged in hauling cinders, which are being dumped on the path around St. Joseph’s Lake; and when these are tramped down the walking will be much improved.
February 4, 1905—Jiu jitsu is becoming very popular lately in Sorin Hall. Alley Go On and Harrie Megglue are the chief exponents of this gentle art, and will meet all comers.
Mail your
SCHOLASTIC
Home!
Get
Scholastic
Envelopes
in the
Book Store
Only a penny apiece!
AkkOW
DRESS SHIRTS
with smokers... giving them the kind of a smoke they want...in the way they like it best.
Chesterfields are refreshingly milder—they’ve got a taste that smokers like. Chesterfields are different from all the rest... THEY SATISFY.
Chesterfield
Copyright 1937, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
... tkeyllgive you MORE PLEASURE