I COLLEGE PARADE
JOHN A. LYNCH
MOTHER EARTH CALLS
We would dedicate this bit of plagiarized advice to The Evil Eye Victory Gardeners of Sorin Hall, whose planting
days are just be-
ginning. We won-
JOHN 1YNCH
does give one a
•good earth’." ’	— The
terrific
der if they have ever looked at it this way:
"The most beneficial phase of growing a Victory Garden lies in the contact that one achieves with Mother Earth. It feeling for the
Tailer, New Rochelle
Does it really do all of that to you, girls?
POME
.4 Yankee tank-pilot named Stere.
When struck- by a track while on leave, Said, “Mu girl will he mad, 'Cause the last thing she said
IFu.s, ‘Xow don't wear your heart on uour sleeve.' ’’
The Logolan, Loyola, Los Ang.
CRADLE SNATCHER
Ehner, age 13, was puzzled over the girl problem and discussed it with his pal, Joe.
‘•I’ve walked to school with her three times,’’ he told Joe, "and carried her books. I bought her ice cream sodas twice. Now do you think I ought to kiss her?”
■‘Naw, you don’t need to,” Joe decided after a moment of deep thought. ‘‘You’ve done enough for the girl already.”
—Texas Ranger
WEST COAST PARADE
While the eastern college baseball schedule is barely getting under way, the West Coast competition is at a peak already. And this isn’t all confined to the diamond proper; there’s a little ‘mud slinging’ that goes on behind the bleachers, editorially.
The St. Mary's Collegian, published at St. Mary’s College, Calif., recently in
eluded the following statement in one of its diamond releases.
"Al Stringer, former Gael flash, is batting around .400 for Loyola (Los Angeles). Of course that would rate about .250 in this league.”
PHILOSOPHY MAJOR
Here lies a man who saved his all
For the dags when rain and snow would tall.
He knew no pleasure, shared no game— And died before the blizzard came.
—The Plainsman, Alabama Poly.
JOKE
Magician (sawing woman in half) : •‘Now, ladies and gentlemen, after the young lady is severed, her brains will be given to a medical school and the rest will be thrown to the dogs.”
Voice from the balcony: ‘‘Woof, woof.”
—The Tomahawk, Holy Cross
POME
Gather your kisses while you may, For time brings only sorrow;
The girls who are so free today Are chaperones tomorrow.
—Mis-a-sip, Mississippi
BIG JIM
The Purdue Exponent, has been plugging Notre Dame greats ever since the local track team took over in the Purdue Relays of last week. Among pictures printed of our winning team was one of Jim Delaney, who set a new Relays record for the shot put. Under the picture was the following caption:
“Jim Delaney, Notre Dame star, set a new Fieldhouse record for the shot put— •53 ft., 47s in. Unofficially he heaved 54 feet.”	*
That’s quite a bit for even a shot putter.
FINIS
He: “All right then, let’s get married.”
She: “Okay.”
(A long awkward silence)
She: “Why don’t you say something?”
He: “I’ve said too much already.”
—Rammer Jammer
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Viturus VTre Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1SG7
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103. October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25. 191S.
Daniel Downey, Editor
Ted Weber......................Managing	Editor
Bill Boss................Sports	Editor
Dave Condon......................Campus	Editor
Robert Kopf......................Admin.	Editor
Phil Keen...............Asst. Sports Editor Robert Lonergan.............Promotion Al Schaefer......................Staff Photographer
Rev. C. M. Carey, c.s.c., Faculty Adviser
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advei Using Service. Inc., 420 Madison Avenue. New Y'ork City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published thiity times dining the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor. 313 Solin Hall or 121 Administration Bldg.. Notre Dame. Indiana.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7 :15 p. m.
IN THIS ISSUE
CAMPUS
Victory Gardening Begins ...........  5
“The Spirit of Notre Dame" ___________ 6
War Charities Carnival .... ______ ___ 7
ADMINISTRATION Saidenberg Symphony . .......... 11
Marine, Navy Exams ........ .............12
NAVY PAGE ...... ..............    ....	14
SPORTS
Purdue Relays     -----------------15	:
Baseball Prospects  ........      16	:
Billy Sullivan's Career ... . .......	18	|
FEATURES	|
College Parade      ...........    2	|
The Week __________________________ 4	|.
Man About Campus __________________ 9
Warming The Bench .........     .16
Pressbox Splinters .....    .....17
Music .....................       21	;
Condon-Sations	 ---------------- 22	i
The Ears Have	It______________   23	|

2
t	OUR LADY IN SILHOUETTE — NOW A CASUALTY FOR THE DURATION UNTIL THE LIGHTS GO ON AGAIN!
THE WEEK
JACK WOELFLE
“Liz” Cole—Paola, Kans.: “The Week is an old stinker.” Ah' yes. Brief and to the point. A great kidder.
Pat O’Reilly—Danville, Ill.: “The fellow who writes that column is a little boy having a lot of fun.” Well Pat, we were having fun up till last Sunday.
TOP OF THE WEEK
7% hat.
LA DE DA
We have quite a busy month ahead of us. A band concert April 7; a musical comedy April 12-16; and a carnival April 14-17. Then Easter, and then.... Watching St. Mary’s girls talk with their hands at the “Tailor-Made
JACK WOELFLE Man„ sh()w	a
surprise. Evidently all that waving and wagging is a result of excess hitch-hiking. _One of the regular Oliver Coffee Shoppers thinks the cloak room in said establishment is a stock exchange. You never walk out with the same hat or coat twice. The system down there is similar to the one used in the laundry .... One of the former authors of the “Week,” said that in the library he was able to feel the thought waves bouncing off the walls. Last week a group of Phy-Eds visited the reference room and the thought waves ■were doing a slow ricochet around the corners.
THEY SATISFY
Before we forget, a word should be said about the smokers of the campus. Lately it seems fashionable to sport a cigar, or, if you have a nickle, two cigars. Some of the lads believe in unravelling the stogies before lighting. Others burn cellophane and all. The cigarette smokers are the popular lads though. The only time some of them will ever carry a pack is after they’re in the Army or if the sample man is on the campus. One of the approved ways of handling grubbers is to put a cigarette in an old pack every time you go out and when approached explain that “it’s my last one.” Roll the package up, but don’t throw it way. You can use it again. One thing to remember though. Don’t pull a' Kool from a Camel package. It’s really very- bad taste/ and your -friend might get the idea that you did not want to give him a cigarette.. Another; approved recipe is to carry a special pack, prepared for just such an occasion. . The tips of these cigarettes should be coated generously with itching powder. If your pal complains, become confused and excited, even.apolo-
4	■	• '	'
getic, and tell him that he probably picked out the one that Aunt Minny was holding between her toes the other day. Then explain that Aunt Minny has athlete’s foot. If he turns green, he’s probably Irish.
THREE LITTLE WORDS
The E. R. C.’s have been tense all week, waiting for the big A-12 exam. Most of the members have been busy studying all week, practicing the alphabet and counting to ten. One of the stalwarts asked Father Trahey if he could have a special exam written in braile. The examiner walked into the room, looked over the candidates, and went downtown to cash in his war bonds. One boy was disqualified from the exam for having an advantage over the rest. He had all ten fingers. Anyway, the exam was pronounced a huge success by the students. Said Oswald Abernacker:
“Yeah, it was a breeze. I think I only lost two points for spelling my name wrong.”
FORE!
Last Saturday the golf course was officially opened. There’s a shortage of golf balls this year so the. dining hall , big heartedly contributed 12 dozen specially processed mystery balls for substitutes. They are guaranteed to carry at least 25 yards farther per drive. If what the head chef says is true, every golfer should go around below par this, season. Said the head chef: “You just can’t top our mystery balls.”
You can’t slice them either.
WE THOUGHT SO
In the interests of the press, “The Week” wandered over to old St. Mary’s last Sunday afternoon to find out just what our cheery little neighbors thought of their favorite column. No, we don’t mean Gang Busters. As we approached the stately building we came by a lake,. in which six little students were swimming. (Ed. note: After “The Week” had gone to press, it was learned that the six little students swimming in the lake, . ■were six little ducks. Please excuse the error.) We approached a few of the lassies for brief comments. They follow:
Mary Belle Roane—Beaumont, Texas: “The most wonderful thing I’ve , ever read. That top and bottom were really , high and low.” Then we put the gun down and asked another.
Barbara Keisermann — South Bend, Ind.: “Well, I don’t live here. I commute to St. Mary’s, but I guess The Week is all right, what with the corn rationing and everything.” The N.D. lads commute to St. Mary’s too Barbara.
The rest of the comments threw too many bouquets and we have to be modest. It was with sad heart that we bid adieu to the Rock and those “This Way” signs, the girls had used a week before. Yes sir! For beauty, you can’t beat St. Mary’s Academy. We said Academy.
ONCE A MONTH
You look down on the table near the hall list. A yellow envelope lays there with your name on it. Opening said envelope you discover that the Book of the Month Club is offering you as a dual selection, The Saber Toothed Banana, or, Who Swung on Grandma, and, Snow White And The Seven Beers. You read that these books are available only to members and that as a special added dividend a genuine 24-karat gold gilded grandfather’s edition of Two Weeks Ago At St. Mary’s, or, Standing Room Only is offered. The only thing they don’t enclose in that envelope is a rubber tire and you can get one of those if you pay $32 in advance. The motto of the club is: “Wear ’em, tear ’em and pay for ’em.”
HERE AND THERE
The draft has been so severe in South Bend that the girls are being forced up to the campus. Wonder why most of the gals on the campus wear riding clothes? .... That pump on the golf course is mysterious. One rumor has it that in another month we’ll be getting iced tea direct from China. Another is that the U.S.O. is, building a recreation center for the gophers.	Sight of the week: Mr. Connolly pointing an accusing finger at the head chef1 and crying: “Who killed Cock Robin?”.... The dining hall sent No. 17 coupons into Washington last week with the following note: “Please ' send us 3,000 pounds of frankfurters.” > They got another note back “Let them • eat cake.”. .. . According to the latest! news-reel in Washington Hall, first half seniors will receive their diplomas. ' J * ;	"_...	f
♦	-	j
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK /
6% shoe. .
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing: at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 78
APRIL 2, 1943
No. 8
Sorin Victory Garden Gets Underway as Student Farmers Get Aid of Father Burke
The Sorin hall victory garden, located near the University Biology building on the far northeastern end of the campus, became more of a reality this week as a University plow turned up Hoosier soil to start the first lap of Sorin spring planting movements.
Following the plowing and grading— conducted by the University gardener— members of the Sorin Evil-Eye club, sponsors of the project, commenced work on the laborious task of clearing the plot of stones. Tools were borrowed from the University and the Evil-Eyers, taking several afternoons, raked and re-raked the ground, soliciting the aid of such dignitaries as the prefect of discipline.
To date, arguments have been interchanged as to when the actual planting should take place. All the embryo agrarians have different ideas as to the right time for sowing. It has been argued that some plants cannot be placed until Jack Frost has retired for summer hibernation. This may not be until sometime in early May, if the unreliable Indiana weather man can be believed.
The promotion, which has been joked at by some of the campus, is a serious effort. Members of the Evil-Eye club, who lately have formed an Alumni Hall chapter, have taken considerable time to promote the venture, and convinced University officials that such a plan was logical.
Already tomato and onion plants have been set out in the University hot-house, and will be transplanted as soon as suitable weather presents itself.
I The problem of the garden’s fate after I graduation ceremonies on May 2, rei mained a problem for the Evil-Eye club j until the University assured the organi-\ zation that the plot would be cared for '.until crops were harvested. This came ’after many of the gardeners had expressed concern as to what might happen \o the garden when the Evil-Eyers dePart to hex the Nips and Nazis.' w .	■
i	'
I	.
When the movement gained momentum the Evil-Eyers incorporated the Sorin Hall Victory Garden association, naming Bill Boss, Scholastic sports editor from Franklin, Ohio; Robert Nenno, Buffalo, N. Y.; Art Kartheiser, Chicago; J. C. R. Clark, Hamilton, Ohio; Gus Suehlke, Appleton, Wis.; and John Lynch,. Detroit, Mich., to head association committees. They have promoted public relations, finance, zoning, and labor management. Lynch has the task of caring for farm machinery.
Irrigation of the farm is carried on by the use of a faucet protruding from the foundation of the biology building.
The idea has gained wide publicity lately and a story in the South Bend Tribune said in part, that twice the EvilEye farmers were mistaken for over-zealous WPA workers. In authoritative circles it was believed that this was not quite true, and a Scholastic reporter,
Father Burke and the gentlemen farmers — in fedoras and overcoats
who nightly analyzes the news, interpreted this remark as “slightly prejudiced” because the Tribune story, was ' written by James Cunningham, a prom
inent figure in the Notre Dame student commission, which has been considerably hexed by the Evil-Eye chapter.
To clear up any other mystery concerning the garden, the St. Joseph county draft board reported that none of the farmers- had, as yet, sought deferment on agricultural grounds.
Further plans of the Evil-Eyers call for a small scale victory garden to be planted in front of Sorin hall- This will advertise the main effort, and serve as an. incentive for other halls.
On behalf of the student body the SCHOLASTIC wishes to extend sympathy to the family of Edwin Matthews of Zahm Hall who died late Monday night in St. Joseph Hospital after a short illness. Eddie, whose home was in South Orange, N. J., was a member of the Notre Dame Naval R.O.T.C.
Glee Club Scores Great Success With
the Colorful "Spirit of Notre Dame"
Y. and Sorin Hall, well known on the campus for his unique dramatic ability. His excellent voice and perfect timing insured the success of the choral symphony.
Appearing before one of the largest musical-minded audiences seen this se
mester, the Notre Dame Glee Club, under
the direction of Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the department of music, presented its much-heralded “Spirit of Notre Dame” Wednesday night at 8:15 in Washington Hall.
The concert marked the first appearance of the 50-man group on the campus this semester. In full dress the club made a colorful picture as ten selections and thr ee solos were presented to an enthusiastic audience. On the stage
KAxiEL h. itotke the singers formed a big “V” with a table draped with a mon
ogram blanket for the narrator at the
left.
Appearing as soloist with the club for the first time was tenor Nolan Sheehan, Tulsa, Okla., who teamed with baritone Gene Peciulis, Baltimore, Md., in presenting an outstanding duet, “In Solemne Questora” from the opera “La Forza del Destino” by Verdi. Peciulis also was soloist for two other selections, “Hopeful Serenaders” and “Landsighting.” Tenor Edward Hoban, Chicago, completed the list of singing soloists for the evening with two favorites, “I Heard a Forest Praying” and “Molly Brannigan.”
Bocco Germano, well-known violinist and star of the South Bend Junior Sym
phony Orchestra, increased his excellent reputation with the fascinating “Zigeu-nerweisen.” The most outstanding of the many encores which the audience demanded of him was Schubert’s “Ave Maria.”
“The Spirit of Notre Dame,” the newest feature of the Popular Glee Club, drew a capacity crowd and from the ovation received proved to be better than publicized. A choral symphony, it represented the poetic history of Notre Dame’s 100 years set to music. It was striking in that the use of voice in this form is new and experimental. “The Spirit of Notre Dame” is the Glee Club’s contribution to the centennial celebration, and it, together with the rest of the concert Wednesday night was dedicated to the memory of Knute Rockne on the 12th anniversary of his death.
Director of the Glee Club, Mr. Pedtke, composed and arranged the entire musical background of “The Spirit of Notre Dame,” made up of several original transitions and many selections representative of particular places in Notre Dame’s history.
Composer of the narration was air corps cadet Kelly Cook, Lexington, Ky., who was an Alumni Hall senior until recently called into active service. Kelly distinguished himself at Notre Dame as the editoi' of the 1942 December Dome and consistent contributor to Scrip, the campus literary quarterly. Records of the presentation Wednesday night were sent to Kelly, now stationed in Miami, Fla.
Narrator for this remarkable representation of Notre Dame’s colorful history was David J. Curtin, Rochester, N.
Kelly Cook, writer of "The Spirit of Notre Dame"
Following is the program presented: I
Ave Ilaria...............................  Witt
Divine Praise ....................  Bortniansky
Night March ...........................  Kountz
Landsighting ------------------------     Grieg
Solo by Gene Peciulis, Baritone II
I heard a Forest Praying................ DeRose
Edward Hoban, Tenor
In Solemne Questora ..................... Verdi
From “La Forza del Destino”
Duet: Nolan Sheehan, Tenor, and Gene Peciulis, Baritone
III Loch Lomund ..........................Folk Song
Military March _______________________ Schubert
Hopeful Serenaders .....................  Grieg
The Arena ................... Chesterton-Pedtke
IV Zigeunerweisen ..............-........ Sarasate
Rocco Germano. Violinist
V The Spirit of Notre Dame ...........Cook-Pedtke
Service Songs ...............Arranged by Pedtke
Victory March  Shea
Included in the 50 voices this year are 25 members of last year's Club.
6
Familiar Faces to be Missing When Second War Charities Carnival Starts in Fieldhouse
DAVE CONDON
Sweeping clock hands and calendar pages have washed away one year since the first annual Notre Dame Charities Carnival. Yet it seems like only yesterday that the crowds were milling along the star-spangled midway at that initial affair.
When the estimated crowd of 10,000 gathers at this year’s second annual charity show, there will be not a few who will pause and remember" some of the faces and personalities who made the public laugh and chuckle during the cold three-night stand last year. They will remember faces and personalities of Notre Dame men who will be missing from the scene this year.
Eli Abraham works for the Army now

This April we’ll have four days of fun and light-heartedness, dedicated to the more serious thought of providing something for the war charities. But, there’s going to be a slight tinge of lonesomeness when we start searching through the gang for those familiar faces.
First off, there has been magician Jack Whalen, the master of gab and sleight of hand from Bloomfield, N. J., who last year delighted the crowds with his quick wit and disappearing acts. In his semesters at Notre Dame Jack became a legend with his magic act and entertained every
one from incoming freshman to business clubs in South Bend. Jack Whelan, who lived last year in Howard Hall, was killed in a naval plane crash a couple of months ago.
And remember the inseparable New Yorkers, Boine and Boike, campus big men, who, as one of their last acts before graduation, gave every conceivable aid to the war charities carnival? Popular" Matty Byrne, senior partner in the Walsh hall firm of Boine and Boike, also met his death in a naval plane crash during the Christmas holidays.
Other Notre Dame men will be missing from the scene when the wheels start rolling and the barkers begin lining up the spectators. Remember the gigantic Milt “Moose” Piepul, 1940 fullback who returned to the campus after a season of pro ball? “Moose” kept last year’s carnival visitors in constant chuckles and convulsions as he urged them to part with their finances and try swatting a hammer at three nails. More spectators gathered around to see the likeable Moose than to swat nails.
And back near the basketball court, whipping up hot dogs and hamburgers and slipping out frosty bottles of Royal Crown, were two Cavanaugh hall freshmen, George A. Schwartz, from Lehighton, Pa., and John Lucas, from Wadsworth, Ohio. Lucas left for the army shortly thereafter and Schwartz left school for the armed forces shortly after the summer semester got underway.
Offhand we recall sandy-haired Jim O’Laughlin, who started his senior year as writer of the Scholastic “Week,” and ended up as Max Adler’s super footwear salesman. Jim was there at the Carnival, throwing that Irish smile out under the bright lights of the Fieldhouse. This year, as a United States marine, he’s on the receiving end. And at Carnival time last year, mingling with the crowds and keeping an ear open for his “Splinters” column, O’Laughlin’s roommate, “Scoop” Scanlan, from LaCrosse, Wis., was turning Bengal Bout ideas over in his mind. A carnival sponsor and promoter of the 1941 Bengals, Scoop this year is doing his midway walking in a U. S. army uniform.
This year it won’t seem quite the same not to see the dashing rushing Eli Abraham hastening around to see that everything is in order and that all last minute -details have been completed. As Notre Dame’s super promoter for the past ten years, Eli has become as much of Notre Dame as the golden dome. We knew Eli for the war charities carnival and for the Knights of Columbus and innumerable other bits of University life—the football program, for instance. Eli entered the army the past winter and added another name to the roster of Notre Dame men in service with Uncle Sam.
The Moose won't be hammering this year
Some night at the second war charities carnival we are going to catch ourselves throwing glances through the rushing crowds to see if any of the comely damsels are escorted by Ed Reidy, Lorain, O., and Jim Fayette, Burlington, Vt. But that’s going to be only wishful thinking on the part of ourselves and the gals, because these two super-operators from the class of 1941 will be among those absent from the world’s largest indoor midway. And that means someone else is going to have to look after the most beautiful girls of all, or they too will be missing from the carnival hall. Reidy and Fayette invited “some of the best people.”
We could go on recounting familiar names and personalities, here yesterday —gone today. But Notre Dame will remember them when the second annual carnival gets rolling. We’ll remember them in spirit, and when the proceeds from the four day show have been totaled, every Notre Dame son in the service can be certain that the worthy war charities have received a very concrete remembrance from the campus of the Fighting Irish.
Editors Preparing "Scrip" For April Distribution
Scrip, the University literary quarterly, will begin its 15th year when the present semester issue hits the stands around April 16. Edited by Edward Meagher, from Seattle, Wash., this issue of Scrip will continue the quarterly tradition of “the best in stories, essays, and reviews.”
According to the editors, no change in the format has been planned. The style will be the same as has characterized recent editions of the magazine.
Edward Meagher
Featured in the April issue will be more of the poetry of J. H. Johnston, Norfolk, Va. One of Johnston’s poems will be illustrated by a full page drawing done by the Sherer brothers, Scrip artists and famous architecture students. In addition to the Johnston illustration, the Sherers have done two other full page sketchings for the coming issue.
. Short stories to appear, have been, writ- . ten by past Scrip contributors, including Kelly Cook, Lexington, Ky. editor of the December Dome, who has been inducted into the army air corps; Joe Lanigan, Newton Centre, Mass.; Bill Steele, Wilmette, Ill.; Dave Condon, Las Vegas, New Mexico; Warren Leary, Rice Lake, Wis.; and editor, Ed Meagher.	.
Two sketches done by Roy Grumbine, Cincinnati, Ohio, will also appear. There ■will be essays by Joe Hillebrand, 1941 Dome editor from Toledo, Ohio, and John Gilligan, Cincinnati, Ohio, last year’s . Scrip editor. -	.
Books to be reviewed include the Notre Dame centenary publications, Nova Sco
tia—Land of Co-operatives, by Father Leo R. Ward, C.S.C.; and The Collected Poems of Father Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., edited by Scholastic advisor Rev. C. M. Carey, C.S.C.; William Saroyan’s The Hitman Comedy, and Herbert Agar’s Time for Greatness, will also be reviewed.
Smoker Hears Law Grad Marshall Kizer Speak
The members of the Notre Dame Law Club, in compliance with plans made earlier in the semester, held their second “smoker” of the year Thursday. night, March 25, at the Indiana Club. Relishing memories of the many previous Law Club “smokers” and other social events, a large number of students and professors of the law school attended the “smoker,” which got under way about 8:30.
Thomas Mitchell, Springfield, Mass., the club’s secretary, presided over the meeting in the absence of the vice president, Warren Deahl, senior law student of South Bend. After the reading of the minutes of the last meeting, the treasurer, Hal Hunter of New Madrid, Mo., was called upon to make a report of the club’s financial standing. Plans were then made for the annual Law Club Banquet, but, because of conflicts with other campus events, no definite date was set. It was proposed, however, that it be held early in April. Completing the business portion, the meeting was turned over to Barney Grainey, Helena, Mont., who served as chairman for the entertainment committee.
Grainey presented Dean Clarence Manion, who introduced the principal speaker of the evening, Mr. Marshall Kizer, prominent lawyer of Plymouth, Ind. The policy of the club is to bring back N.D. graduates for speakers, and no exception was made in this case; Mr. Kizer graduated ■with honors from the Notre Dame Law School in 1930. While he attended Notre Dame, Mr. Kizer was very active in ‘both basketball and football, and also excelled scholastically. .
Since he returned to his home town, Plymouth, to practice law, Kizer was able to relate numerous experiences of the small town lawyer. Upon, running - for county prosecutor, he was elected, and, held this position for two terms, from 1936 to 1940. He advised the legal students who intend to practice in small towns to run for public office since it is extremely helpful in obtaining prominence in the locality.	\
Mr. Kizer was accompanied by his senior law partner, Mr. Delph McKesson, former state senator of Indiana. After Kizer had finished his informal talk and had answered the number of questions asked by the students concerning this
phase of the legal profession, Dean Manion called upon Mr. McKesson to say a few words. Besides a few interesting sidelights about his partner’s early experiences in the law business, Mr. McKesson also imparted some very sound advice to the law students who have to leave school for the Army. He strongly advocated returning to school after the war. He emphasized the importance of the formal legal training, since he said that it is in school that the lawyer learns “where to find the law and how to interpret it.” At the conclusion of Mr. McKesson’s talk the meeting wras turned back to the entertainment chairman who proceeded with the serving of refreshments.
—Dick Keoughan
Wranglers Meet Downtown;
Hear John Shannon Talk
Wranglers, campus honorary forensic club, held a banquet last week in the Coral Room of the Hotel LaSalle with John Shannon featured as the speaker of the evening. President Bill Lawless, Buffalo, N. Y., presided at the meeting which was arranged by Joe Rud, senior accounting major from Chicago.
Shannon, a junior hailing from Kenosha, Wis., outlined the problem Christianity faces in the postwar world and listed three forces which have worked against Christianity.
At last night’s meeting in the law’ seminar room, William Talbot, Louisville, Ky. senior, presented his paper on “The Political Structure of the Post - War World.”
Detroit Club Determined To Lead Carnival Sales
Members of the university Detroit club met Monday evening and determined that the Detroit club booth at the Notre Dame War Charities carnival' should again be first in total sales at the carnival. According to the motor city boys, the Detroit organization, which raffled off a limousine at last year’s show, collected more cold cash than any other individual organization. The meeting resolved that the club should make every effort to retain the mythical title.
At a recent meeting the club elected officers for the present semester. Returns of the balloting saw Ed Schmid, Walsh Hall, take the president’s office. Dan Sullivan, of Alumni, wras elected vice-president. Two Cavanaugh haliers, Paul Rooney, and Carl Look, were voted secretary and treasurer, respectively.
Regionalistic Theme to Be Carnival Feature
One of the features being worked out by promoters of the second annual Notre
Dame Knights of Columbus War Chari
ties carnival is a regionalistic method of decorating the various booths t h at freckle the midway.
Since various clubs from all sections of the country will preside at the booths, it has been suggested
that each club decorate its booth in fash
ion typical of their section of the country. Already visions of cowboys from Texas and New Mexico, artists and models from California, The Colorado silver dollar men, southerners, Yankees, barking from the booths, have spread over the
campus.
Carnival plans have been developed along this line, which supposedly will liven up the already highly colorful midway. ,
Chances on the $200 war bond to be raffled off at the carnival went on sale around the campus residence halls last week.
Bookmen Hear Campbell On Far Eastern Writers
A recent meeting of the Bookmen heard T. Bowyer Campbell, club moderator and professor of history, speak of two popular contemporary writers, Pearl S. Buck and Lin Yu Tang, both of whom deal with China and her problems. A Virginian, Pearl Buck has written many popular novels, including Dragon Seed, The Good Earth, and a Collier’s serial, China Goki. Lin Yu Tang is a native Chinese educated in the United States who now lives in New York.
Mr. Campbell discussed the author’s works, their background, and their comparative value as interpreters of Chinese culture, the Chinese people, and the Chinese attitude toward the ., present chaos and the future peace. He pointed out that both personalities are extremely popular in the United States. Both, he said, are of the greatest influence in molding the public mind as to the thoughts and ways of the Chinese. Here Mr. Campbell, himself an authority on the Far East, said that since both writers have not been in the Far East for some time, and because they are mostly educated to American ways, it is dangerous to take the Chinese explicitly as portrayed by Pearl Buck and Lin Yu Tang.
At a previous meeting the club heard President Jim Sullivan present a paper and analysis on the plays of Eugene O’Neil, dealing with the purpose, the effect, and the value of O’Neil’s plays as literature and as portrayals of Americans and American scenes.
Economic Round Table
Hears Two Discussions
Last week, the Economic Round Table held its meeting at the Morningside Hotel. The paper of the evening, “America and the Four Freedoms,” was given by G. V. Funk, who pointed out the connection between the traditional four freedoms we are fighting for and the aims of the peace which is to follow the war.
The previous week, Mr. Shanahan of the department of history spoke to the Round Table on “The Progress of the War” in which he outlined the strategic difficulties the United States has had to face. Mr. Shanahan discussed also the possibilities of an attack upon the continent of Europe before July of this year, but made this possibility contingent upon our first clearing the Germans out' of North Africa before summer sets in. In the informal discussions that followed Mr. Shanahan’s talk, the tendency of the remarks was toward a new balance of power system as the international settlement after the present conflict. To con-elude the discussion, Mr. Shanahan told the Round Table that this view was probably the result of deep pessimism.
Yesterday, six members of the Round Table left for Jacksonville, Ill., to attend' the Carnegie Foundation’s; annual conference on international relations. The topic this year is on the various phases of the peace and post-war world. Those making the trip are Joe Rud, president; J. C. R. Clark, secretary; Robert-Nenno, Al Sommer, C. L. Pickhardt, and G. J. Funk.
U.S.O. Centers Receive "Scholastics” Weekly
Every issue of the Scholastic- sees approximately 1,500 copies sent to USO centers in every state in the union, where it is known Notre Dame men are located. Mailing is in charge of the Notre Dame Student Commission which undertakes this tremendous task every Tuesday afternoon.
Mailing is handled by a special staff whose teamwork makes short work of it. One group inserts four copies in each envelope, the second group places address labels on them, and a final touch
is added by those who place postage on the bundles.
This week questioneers are being mailed to the service centers , to check on addresses, and to get an idea of how much interest is held for the magazine.
Jim Cunningham
The chief live wire among N. D. cheerleaders has a bush-cut and lives in Sorin
. hall among falling plaster and oozing
“MICKEY” FINN
tradition. . . . Francis Joseph “Mickey” Finn .... A huskie, smiling lad who likes to serve Mass.... last summer spent a lot of time in the fight ring of the Big Gym.
“Mickey” jumped from high school to
high school as his family moved frequent
ly during his pre-college days-_______He never caught up with any prep football teams.________________________________But he came to college with the gridiron in mind.... He started out
in engineering.
Engineering and football didn’t mix__ After getting his numerals he dropped them both and became a hard working pre-med.... He now works toward that B.S. degree as a member of V-l.______And hopes to be a deck officer before entering Columbia Medical where he has been preceded by both his father and grandfather.
One day last summer while having a boxing work-out in the Rock, Mick wandered into the light apparatus room and found some of-the boys going through some wild antics_Being an old tumbler from way back Mr. Finn did a few turns and thereby was signed up as a varsity cheer man.
Owner of a student council plaque Mick is a firm believer in students doing for students.... As far as St. Mary’s goes the !2 pictures in his room attest to his interests elsewhere____“They’re all swell kids over there, though,” he states.
Jersey City is the hometown-_________Politically speaking, “I guess it’s going to take my generation to get rid of Mayor Hague,” is his philosophy.___________Fond of sweet records and peanuts, Mick works on a very messy desk but always seems to know where things are.... He’s now half . way through Our Hearts Were Young and Gay. -
Freshman Golf Tourney
Planned for Next Week
Freshmen golfers will get their first taste of competition next week with the opening of an all-frosh medal play tournament.
The qualifying rounds will be played on April 10 and 11, with the finals to be held a week later, April 17 and 18. Time of play is from noon on into the afternoon. Fr. George Holderith, C.S.C., is the executive tournament director and is making every effort to make it a real success.
The first prize is to be a huge, all metal, bronze-based 18 inch trophy, with a gold coated figure head. The second prize is a similar trophy, 12 inches in height. A bronze medal symbolizing the event is the third prize. These awards have been furnished by the RECO Sporting Goods Store of South Bend.
Jack Conway, chairman of the tournament, has a capable staff aiding him and expects an entry list of well over 100. Several promising teemen are ready for the call. Stan Koslowski, Bill Fitzgerald, Jim Clymes, Joe Simonet, and Jack Cauley are a few who are set on getting through the 36 holes “fustest and with the fewest strokes.”
Chase Black to Manage
Carnival Decorations
Decorations for the university war charities carnival, beginning at the N.D. fieldhouse on April 15, will be under the supervision of Rev. John J. Burke, C. S. C., prefect of discipline.
The decorating will be under the direct management of architecture student Chase Black, Battle Creek, Mich., who is responsible for most of the university publicity signs, including the recent Bengal Bouts and Sophomore Cotillion posters.
Black, who will devise a motif touching on a patriotic decoration, will be aided by Harry Yeates, Kankakee, Ill., and his St. Vincent de Paul men.
Frosh to Meet Culver
.The Freshman golf team will play a match with the Culver Military Academy team on April 24 at Notre Dame. Fr. Geo. A. Holderith, C.S.C., has announced that the schedule has been almost completely filled and will be announced in the near future.	<
Students Buy $100 Bonds;
Evil-Eye Club Rides Again
A steam roller publicity campaign to promote the sale of war stamps and bonds on the campus reaped additional fruit this past week when two Alumni hall students each purchased a §100 bond. The students, employed at BallBand, preferred to remain anonymous.
But the Ball-Band wasn’t the only harvest taken in by the campaign headed by co-chairmen Ed Schmid, Detroit, Mich., and Don Davis, Long Beach, Calif. The Sorin hall boys, after long ages of fruitless endeavor on the part of stamp salesmen, had their day at bat.
This week Sorin hall inhabitants purchased stamps to the total of an average of 20 cents per resident. Success for this measure can be laid to the historic Sorin Evil Eye Club, sponsors of Mother Lonergan’s victory garden and innumerable other projects.
The Evil-Eyers, irked because Sorin had been batting in the basement, took sales in their owm hands and one night last week ransacked Tradition hall until every worthy student had purchased at least one stamp. If the Sorinite happened to be out on a midnight, the EvilEyes rammed through the door, searched the room for cash, and left change in war stamps.
And not content with merely selling stamps, the Evil-Eyers announced that the club plans to purchase a §25 bond from the organization’s treasury.
In other halls the venders did not resort to Evil-Eye tactics, but collected very sizeable returns. The room-to-rdom canvass will continue until the final week of school, and the Evil-I members will ride forth each Thursday evening, determined to sell or smash.
Knights of Columbus to
Initiate in Mishawaka
A spring class of Knights of Columbus candidates will receive the first degree Monday evening, April 5, in Mishawaka, when the local council has an exchangesocial meeting with the Mishawaka group. About 25 Notre Dame men will be initiated.	.
Sunday, April 11, the candidates will be initiated to the second and. third degrees in a district meeting in South Bend. Representatives from cities in the. first district will attend and Fred J. Hums, district deputy, from Mishawaka, will be present. The initiation, to be held in the afternoon and evening, will be concluded with a social.	.
History Award
Announcement has been made of the Albert J. Beveridge prize of §200 to be awarded the author of the best monograph in manuscript or in print on American history, including South American history. Award will be made by the American Historical Association at their December, 1943, meeting and entries must be received by the prize committee, 118 Haven Hall, University of Michigan by June 1.	•
Resolutions
A summary of events, talks and resolutions made at the recent National Federation of Catholic College students’ con. gress at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s has been drawn up by the congress committee and will be distributed to the 250 Catholic colleges in the United States through the N. D. student commission.
Digest Published
The eleventh issue of the Chaplain’s Digest is being released for April. Published by the Notre Dame Student Commission and the campus council of the Knights of Columbus, it is now under the new editorship of Rev. Charles Sheedy, C. S. C.
The current issue presents many excerpts from chaplain’s bulletins to service men.
Service Flag Prepared
It is estimated that one per cent of the Notre Dame men now in the armed forces have been killed in service. Thirty-six known dead are now listed on the roster of the University. The Notre Dame student council is preparing a service flag for the campus.
Band to Present First
Concert of Semester
The University Band will present its first concert of the current semester in Washington Hall next Wednesday evening, April 7, at 8:00 p.m.
Band director H. Lee Hope will continue the practice, as in the past, of playing encores of a lighter nature between the heavier numbers. Some of the feature composers will be Bach, Grieg, Dvorak, and Wagner.-
Dartmouth college is opening a separate department of geography, in recognition of the global character of the Avar.
10
¥»E
¥81
Saidenberg Symphony at Washington Hall Monday Night; Virginia Haskins Featured
’	TEX PEQUIGNEY
The Saidenberg String Symphony, an 18-piece orchestra featuring Virginia Haskins, beautiful young soprano, will appear in concert at Washington Hall on Monday evening, April 5.
The Saidenberg players have received the enthusiastic acclaim of critics and public alike in Chicago, and the entire Middle West. The group has been dubbed “the finest little orchestra in the country” —the aim of Daniel Saidenberg and his young musicians since their organization in 1936.
Daniel Saidenberg, bom in Canada of Russian parentage, gave concerts in New York City as a child prodigy of the cello. At 14 he was sent to the Paris Conservatory for three years, and at 17 was the youngest member of Stokowski’s Philadelphia Orchestra. He also played with the Chicago Symphony.
Although only 20 years old, Miss Haskins has sung opera on two continents. In Italy she made her debut as Gilda in “Rigoletto.” Only the brooding war cancelled her contract for leading roles at the famous La Scala Opera in Milan. She first performed in America as Filina in “Mignon,” with the Chicago City Opera Company; her excellent reception won for her a contract and placed her among the outstanding artists of our day. Miss Haskins’ beauty and charm complement the coloratura soprano.
“Program building is a fine art,” says Mr. Saidenberg. “Particularly in the field of little symphony or chamber orchestra concerts there is a wide choice of little
The finest little orchestra in the country appears in Washington Hall Monday

heard or new music to choose from and assemble into a well rounded and musically satisfying program.”
“Music should be played as it is written,” he continues, “for the same number and kind of instruments.” With this in mind the programs of the Saidenberg String Symphony are an artful blend of old and new compositions, the works of Bach and Telemann of the harpsichord era in friendly juxtaposition with the works of the modernists, Roussel and Hindemith.
Saidenberg began his career as a maestro “co-conducting” some of the world’s foremost symphony orchestras— in the home of a Chicago friend with a tremendous record library. He watched himself critically in the mirror, and gained the experience and confidence he wanted. He already knew the possibil-itites of every instrument in the orchestra from first hand experience. Then came guest appearances as conductor with a number of groups.
The rehearsals of the String Symphony are held at the Chicago home of the conductor, where there is a large studio. However, if there does not happen to be practice there, music is still apt to be heard. The Saidenbergs keep open house several nights a week, and the great of the musical world gather there, and relax by informal music among themselves.
One critic has described the orchestra’s music as “not only having the immaculate style to please the few, it has the intensely, vital brilliance to delight the
...................... MM
many.” And of Miss Haskins: “She has a rare composure and great charm of presence; her musicianship was perfection.”
N. D. Man Wins Praise
In Aeronautical Field
Albert F. Zahm, Notre Dame alumnus and former professor at the University is given considerable recognition in a new book, The First Century of Flight in. America, just published by the Princeton
Dr. Albert F. Zahm
University Press. Dr. Zahm now occupies the Guggenheim chair of aeronautics in the Library of Congress.	-
Author Jeremiah Milbank, Jr., traces the history of early flight in America and the first years of the establishment of successful aviation. Dr. Zahm’s experiments with gliders on the campus are mentioned, and much significance is given to the first aeronautics congress in America, held in 1893, through the efforts of Dr. Zahm and Octave Chanute.
Dr. Zahm, brother of the late Rev. John A. Zahm, C.S.C., great Notre Dame scientist and traveler, was awarded the Laetare Medal in 1925. For 50 years he has been recognized as a leading scientist in the field of aeronautics, and from his undergraduate days at Notre Dame he has contributed greatly to the advancements made in America in aviation.
11
Marines, Navy V-l Exams Staled To Be Given Here April 20; V-5 is Opened
JIM DASKALOFF
The written test of the qualifying examination for all men enlisted in Class III (d), U. S. Marine Corps Reserve, who are in their freshman and sophomore college years as of the date on which the test is given, is scheduled for Tuesday, April 20, 1943.
Men who are in their junior or senior years as of the date on which the test is given are not required to take the written test.
The test will he the same as that given to Class V-l men of the U. S. Naval Reserve, except that certain parts of the prescribed test will not be required to be taken by the Marine Reservists. However, any Marine Reservists desiring as a matter of interest to take those parts of the test not required, may do so with the understanding that the scores made on those parts will not be changed against them, but might be of value as the basis for estimate of aptitude for
61st Laetare Medalist to be Named Sunday
The important role played by laymen in religion is annually recognized with the awarding of the Laetare Medal by the University of Notre Dame to the person who has made the most outstanding contribution of the year in accordance with the work of the Catholic Church. The 61st recipient of the medal will be named on April 4, Laetare Sunday, by the University.
The custom of awarding the Golden Rose by the Pope during the past centuries on Laetare Sunday to members of royalty who had served the Church in outstanding fashion, may be said to be the foundation for the Laetare Medal' presentations at Notre Dame. What has’ now become a tradition was first-suggested in 1882 by Professor James Edwards, brilliant lay professor at Notre Dame in the early years of its history. This suggestion was approved and acted upon by Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, C.S.C., then president of the University.
John Gilmary Shea, eminent Catholic historian, was the first to receive the medal in 1883. The long list of medalists since that time has mirrored the Catholic contribution to the life of America. Men and women in diverse fields of endeavor, comprise the list of those honored for the last 60 years. Literature, drama, music, medicine, science, army, navy, journalism, and many other fields have been recognized by this award.
War does not dim the medal’s signifi-
certain courses of study.
The written test of the qualifying examination for all men enlisted in Class V-l (Accredited College Program), U. S. Naval Reserve who will have completed four or more semesters of their college course on July 1, 1943, is to be given on Tuesday, April 20, 1943. All such men must be present for both the morning and the afternoon sessions.
The test supervisor may excuse bona fide pre-medical or pre-dental students from taking the test. However, such students are advised to take the test, in order that they may qualify for other duty, if not selected for medical or dental training.	'
Students may transfer from V-l and V-7 into Class V-5 any time before they receive active duty orders. This means that those who take the qualifying V-l examination and fail this examination - may transfer to V-5 immediately after that examination.
cance. General John Newton, Civil War veteran and engineer; General William Rosecrans, whose sword for the Civil
War is treasured as a souvenir at Notre Dame; Richard C. Kerns and Maurice Francis Egan, diplomats; Admiral William S. Benson, chief of naval operations * in World War I; Edward N. Hurley, head of United States shipping during the same war; and General Hugh A. Drum, present distinguished soldier of World War II, are among those who have been chosen chiefly for their patriotism and devotion to the betterment of their
country.
Women as well as men who have been outstanding in their work have been acknowledged in the presentation of the Laetare Medal. As early as 1885, the third award to be made was conferred upon Eliza Allen Starr, art critic, and in 1942 the presentation was made to Helen Constance White, president of the A.A.U.W., and distinguished professor of literature in the University of Wisconsin. Miss Agnes Repplier, poet, received the Laetare Medal in 1911 and is the oldest living recipient.
The choice of the recipient each year is made by the faculty members of the University of Notre Dame. The award has been made to many who have already been acclaimed publicly for their work, and sometimes have been brought, by the conferring of the medal, from modest and obscure personal circumstances to the attention of the Church and of America.
—Joe R. LoCascio
Prof. Cross Will Begin
Research on Coal Beds
Mr. A. T. Cross, instructor in the department of biology of the University of Notre Dame, has just been informed by the National Research Council, Washington, D.C., of his appointment to a fellowship in geology for the coming year. His project, which will not begin until September, is concerned with “The Value of Plant Microfossils for the Stratigraphic Correlation of Coals, Based on a Study of the Commercial Coals of West Virginia.”
Prof Cross expects to collect samples of coal from various geographic and geologic positions. This material will be chemically macerated to make available plant fossils which are contained in it and are needed for the practical stratigraphic correlation of the coal beds. If correlations based on his collections in West Virginia prove conclusive they can later be applied elsewhere. After the necessary field work Mr. Cross expects to carry out his studies at the' Illinois State Geological Survey at the University, of Illinois, Urbana, Ill.	- ~
Prof. Cross, a native of Ohio, received his undergraduate training at Coe College, Cedar Rapids, la., and his graduate training at the University of Cincinnati, where he will receive his doctor’s degree this June. He is a member of the honorary society of Sigma Xi, the honorary geological fraternity, Sigma Gamma Epsilon, The American Paletontological Society and other state and national scientific /organizations.
Mr. Cross was instructor in the evening college of the University of Cincinnati before joining the faculty of the department of biology at Notre Dame in January of this . year.	.
Notre Dame Marks Death
Anniversary of Rockne
Memorial services for Knute K. Rockne, tragically killed in a plane crash on the Kansas plains 12 years ago, will be held Sunday morning, April 4, by the St. Joseph Valley Notre Dame club.
The club will hold its annual memorial services, with Mass and communion at the St. Olaf altar in Dillon hall, followed by breakfast in the University cafeteria. The St. Olaf altar was built as a memorial to the immortal coach.
Following the communion - breakfast, the memorial program will continue in the lounge of the Rockne memorial on
The nation's one and only Rockne
the west side of the campus. Arrangements are in charge of Dr. Walter Langford, University language instructor- and tennis and fencing coach.
The anniversary of Rockne’s death— March 31, 1931—was marked on the campus by a Mass at the St. Olaf altar, and similarly ni South Bend with a high Mass celebrated at St. Joseph’s church.
Each year, on the death anniversary, members of the Alumni and Monogram clubs journey to Highland cemetery to place a wreath on the famed coach’s grave.
The story of Rockne has been immortalized by the nation’s leading sports writers. Legends of his national championship teams—of the Four Horsemen, of George Gipp, of the day when “Rock” and Gus Dorais led a comparatively unknown Indiana school, to a 35-13 victory over the Army—have been recorded for all time.
His tragic death was an occasion of sorrow for the entire sports world, and outstanding leaders of all natoins and
all walks of life were saddened by his passing. Notre Dame annually remembers “Rock” as a great coach, sportsman, character builder, and as a real Notre Dame man. To the outside world he is the recognized champion of fair play and will long be remembered as a symbol of the famed Fighting Irish of Notre Dame.
President Attends Rites
For Rev. W. A. Scuilen
Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, attended the funeral of Rev. William A. Scuilen, LL.D., ’27, in Cleveland on Monday, March 29.
Father Scuilen, whose memorable commencement address in June, 1927, is still a highlight of Catholic thought, was for many years a close friend of Notre Dame and active in the Notre Dame programs, both on the campus and in Cleveland. He was pastor of Holy Name Church in Cleveland from 1922 until his death.
A brilliant scholar, Dr. Scuilen studied at St. Charles College in Maryland and went to Rome, where he studied in the American College, Propaganda university and Apollonaris university, receiving his Ph.D., S.T.D., and J.C.D. from those institutions. He was ordained in Rome in 1907. From 1909 to 1921 he was'secretary and chancellor of the diocese of Cleveland, and served as administrator of that diocese from February to September of 1921.
During his lifetime, Dr. Scuilen was also active in the civic life of Cleveland, taking part in the Community chest and World Wai- I programs. His ability and personality combined to make his services invaluable to Church and civic functions.
Most Rev. Edward F. Hoban, S.T.D., D.D., celebrated the requiem Mass for Dr. Scuilen, and His Excellency, Archbishop Edward Mooney of Detroit, said the prayers at the grave.
Charles G. Oliveros Wins
Oak Leaf for Air Flight
First Lieutenant Charles G. Oliveros, Jr., ’41, was recently awarded the Oak Leaf cluster for “extraordinary achievement while participating in aerial flight;”
As a co-pilot, Oliveros held his wounded companion off the controls with one . hand while he took the plane for the bombing run and then flew it back to the base when the mission was completed.
This is his second award since he has been serving with the Army Air Corps in North Africa. Previous to this, he was awarded the Air Medal.
Dr. Hernane Tavares
Lectures on Post-War
Latin-America will back the post-war freedom claims of India and China and hopes the United States will support them in this stand, declared Dr. Hernane Tavares, of Brazil, Monday night, in pointing out that South Americans fear the U. S. will drop the good neighbor policy after Germany and Japan are defeated.
“If Latin America can make any contributions to the post-war world,” said the Brazilian professor, “it will be in the form of a.spiritual impetus that will give moral fiber to the economic and political strength of the United States.
“There are in North America today too many people who can tell you how many bales of cotton Argentina imported in 1938, and not enough people who can interpret the Latin American’s views on racial and religious questions.
“The North American has amassed enough facts. He must learn to interpret them before he will really understand Latin-America. The extent of most “understanding” of Latin-America done now by North Americans is a kind of old ladyish thought that all South Americans ‘are really nice people’.”
Dr. Tavares gave examples of Latin Christian spirit in pointing to the complete racial tolerance, lack of divorce laws, and personal ways of doing business in most “south of the border” nations.	,
Forum Hears Richards
The university commerce forum, in a meeting Tuesday evening in the auditorium of the Law building, continued its policy of having outstanding personalities address the club, as members heard Mr. E. E. Richards, assistant to the president of the Studebaker Corporation, outline “Post-War Development Plans.”	■	.
Last week the organization was addressed by a prominent official of an, insurance firm.	:
Prof. Menger Speaks
The Notre Dame Mathematics Club held a meeting last Wednesday, March 24, at 7:45 p.m. in room 104 Science Hall.
Professor Menger, a member of our own faculty, spoke on “The Mathematical5
Concept of Infinity.”	.
All students interested in mathematics were invited to the meeting. The date for . the next Math Club meeting has not been set. .	’	- ' -	,	\	'
' ’ a ,15 '•

VU	.. '.W	”	" ■	—■	■
> x > x <Z4e Nawf, cd Nolte ^bame. ,
VBI ———— . ,. ■ .2=	-	— "■ ■ ■■■'	. sae/
Specialists Graduated
From N. D. Navy School
Two hundred and thirty specialists from the University midshipmen school completed their studies here and were graduated in brief ceremonies at Washington hall on Tuesday morning, March 30. Capt. H. P. Burnett, commanding officer of the Notre Dame school, commissioned them as ensigns.
The graduating group was from the class of almost 1200 that arrived for training two months ago. The remaining candidates, preparing to be deck officers, will be commissioned at the completion of their four-month course.
After the short graduation ceremonies the newly-commissioned ensigns left for active duty.
Replacing the graduates and bringing the midshipmen class up to normal complement, were 235 specialists who arrived the same day as graduation. They will be commissioned in the next class. Specialists, it is understood, receive only two-months training instead of the rigid four-months course given to the deck officer candidates.
Who's Who in the Crew
By P. C. M.
If you are from the Benton Harbor vicinity you surely must have heard, or heard of, the singing waiter who used to give out in one of that city’s well known pubs. He’s in the Navy now and for further details consult your local telephone operator—the one called Ren-barger. What, no street singer?
* * *
(Chicago Tribune Headline) ARSENIC FOUND
QUICK MALARIA
REMEDY IN ARMY
Maybe the Navy isn’t so tough after all.
* * *
The least any gentleman can do is to refrain from openly staring at poor Storekeeper Bob Nau who has just returned from spending two months in the U.S.N. hospital at Great Lakes. Is it his fault that he has dwindled down to a wispy 192 pounds? Of course, that glamorous nurse bringing him half pies and such at midnight didn’t help the cause any.	j
* j *	*	•
When it comes to the number and ease *	j
14	.
of social contacts made in local night spots, pharmacist mate Smith takes all the blue ribbons, and anything else he can take. His hearty, easy laugh, frank “attack,” Texas drawl and conversational ability put the deal over. And, according to Smitty, the femmes contacted thusly are all “solid citizens.”
* * *
When a room full of sailors will patiently dig pieces of a shattered glass container from the cake it enclosed and ravenously eat the cake, they must be hungry. Probably all of ’em were on general mess.
* * *
Lt. (j.g.) Frank Butorac, former chief specialist at this activity has been as-
signed to Ft. Schuyler, N. Y., for a two-months indoctrination course from which he will return to Lawrence, Kans., where he has been since leaving Notre Dame. The irony of it is that there are several officers on duty at Ft. Schuyler who graduated from the last Notre Dame class and consequently were under Frank’s command at that time. Ah I Retribution 1
Editorially Speaking
By Ensign P. T. Sprinz
There is Another Aspect of the Scene—one which involves a relatively long-range policy. If there is sincerity in the assertion that this will be a long war, it is unwise for college students to be required to throw overboard work and effort.to go in the Army when in the near future the nation sadly will need men of special ability and training. Such a course is detrimental and not helpful to the national cause. The best equipment anyone can offer for military service is a college degree or as much training to
wards a degree as can be obtained plus a sound physique. When the government calls one for military service such education and such physical condition are the chief assets which will gain recognition for him and enable him to contribute most directly to the nation’s cause.
Obviously there would be no point in training people for future needs if they would not be needed for the future and would play no part in it. But the clock of the ages does not stop, people continue to pass on and die, young people continue to grow and require development. Growth and social development are basic. The training of the intellect, the training of the mind is no less basic. Such processes are no less necessary in time of war than in time of peace.
Intelligent leadership from an intelligent citizenry is democracy’s absolute requirement in war even more than in peace. A condition of intelligent leadership is breadth of understanding and training. Such endeavor constitutes the purpose and reason for existence of the University in our society. It is and should be an intellectual center. Its purpose must be to teach people to act on the basis of rational considerations. And this function and purpose is as important in war as at any other time. Indeed, the things which will be of greatest value in winning the war are the fundamentals of rational consideration.
Navy Project Approved
Frank Knox, secretary of Navy, approved a $2,760 project for the construction of emplacements and platforms for ordnance equipment at the U. S. naval reserve school on campus last Saturday.
They’re at Loggerheads—A modern term inferring that two arties are really at outs with each other. It derives its meaning from an old shipboard tool used for spreading hot pitch in deck seams. The tool was called a loggerhead and consisted of a long wooden handle secured to a blade something like an adze. Any fight in which these tools were used was a “knock-’em-down, drag-’em-out” affair; hence the deadliness of the suggestion contained in the modern slang term.
Midshipman P. D. Hanlon, of the second battalion, was the guest on Joe Boland’s sports program last Wednesday night. Hanlon was a former track luminary at Dartmouth.
»	>	ndte 3><utte ^omU ,	,	,	, ,
Cinder Men Capture Purdue Relays Title;
Four Mile Relay Team Sets Indoor Record
BILL BROWN
Climaxing a triumphant and ever potent indoor cinder path season, the Notre Dame tracksters annexed another victory to add to their 1943 undefeated string in winning the Purdue Relays indoor meet last Saturday.
The team championship was won for the Irish by the 39% points they amassed. Indiana and Purdue, finished second and third in the team standings. Michigan from whom great things were expected sent only its two mile relay team which won the race and brok^ the American indoor mark that has stood since 1925.
The records established by the Irish were turned in by Jim Delaney and the four mile relay team consisting of Tony Maloney, Bill Leonard, Frank Conforti, aand Ollie Hunter.	•
Delaney had the shot put event very much to himself. He led all the qualifiers for the event with a throw of 50 feet 6% inches. Then in the finals after getting himself properly warmed up he threw the shot the distance of 53 feet 4% inches, breaking the Purdue Fieldhouse record. After the dust had cleared, just for fun, yes, just for fun, he threw it 54 feet.
The four mile relay team had a lot of fun in getting their record too. Only three teams were entered in the event, Notre Dame, Indiana, and Purdue. Maloney put the Irish out in front at the start with Leonard and Conforti adding on their share to the lead. When Hunter took the baton from Conforti the Indiana team was lapped and before Ollie finished his leg of the event the Purdue team had also been lapped. The Irishmen had covered the distance in 17 minutes 31.1 seconds to break the American Indoor record that Michigan established three years ago.
Bill Dillon, the hurdle man, met with difficulties in the high hurdle race, finishing third in a close one that would have called for a camera if men were horses. Dillon came back against the same competition in the low hurdles to edge out Charley Hlad for the first place. Bill in his supreme effort in the low hurdles lost his footing after breaking the tape and took a dive reminiscent of some hometown pugilists.
The distance medley relay team composed of Don Currie, Bob Purcell, Frank Conforti, and Ollie Hunter won their event from nearly the same competition as they met in the four mile relay. The team had an easy time in the race, leading all the way.
Murphy by virtue of a second place finish in the 60 yard dash and Wietoff by tying another high flyer in the pole vault event for third place added on their share to the Irish total.
Jim Deloney — 54 feet for fun
The mile relay team which had a perfect slate before Saturday went down to defeat at the hands of Lady Luck. Austin Jones who has been running a good race all year was the first to feel the wrath of the odds. In his last lap of his leg of the relay he tripped and fell; the rest of the Irishmen were never quite able to overcome this stroke of fate or what have you. That didn’t seem to be enough bad fortune for one race as Miss Luck saw it; in the last leg of the event with Gene Fehlig carrying the baton it happened again but this time at one of those jams on a turn where someone loses out and it was Fehlig’s turn.
The previous night up at Cleveland some of the Irish were to have performed at the Knights of Columbus relays but not much came from this. Ollie Hunter was to have another duel with the mas
ter, Greg Rice, but sat this one out due to illness. As it was, Greg carried on alone and went on to a new world’s record for the two mile event by breaking his own previous mark. Rice finished the course in a blistering 8:51 for his 64th consecutive victory in the two mile event.
Interhall Basketeers
Conclude League Play
Two Cavanaugh squads, Alumni, and ROTC captured the interhall net crowns this past week with brilliant wins over first division opposition.
Two undefeated lightweight quintets, Cavanaugh and Breen-Phillips, provided the season’s top battle. Matching point for point throughout the majority of the game, the Juniors picked up a two point lead in the last second of the first half when they tickled the cords as the gun sounded. Later in the closing.minutes of the tussle, Cavanaugh received a score as a penalty shot by the frosh threatened their one-point lead. Two tense teams watched the ball slowly ring the basket and fall out. Cavanaugh hung on to their slim lead to annex the championship.
Walsh Hall Team Cops Campus Fencing Title
Walsh Hall’s interhall fencing team climbed to the top pole of campus swordsmanship when they dealt Cavanaugh Hall a 7-6 trimming in the finals of the interhall championship, Saturday afternoon.
The Cavanaugh entry carried Fr. Rylan’s boys to the final bout before dropping the match. Elmer Silha, whose varsity record was not blurred in early season matches, did not lose a foil bout throughout the tourney. Roney and Slev-in cramped opponents in every engagement and scored the decisive point in each of their bouts. Frank Miley and Bob Fisher were strong at the finish whipping enough opponents to string the Walshites through.
The outstanding mark of the Interhall Meet was the willingness and cooperation of the contenders. Each man was reliable and appeared for his posted bout. Coach Langford organized the successful affair and officiated. Through his fine efforts Notre Dame is building a rising fencing reputation.
15
ASS
SWA
Warming the Bench
With Bill Boss
— 1  •	——
i
Coach Alvin “Dock” Handy stalked into the Athletic Office one day a few weeks ago pulling a long gold-barked trophy a {behind him. The over-grown award he car-tied was emblematic 'of the victory Notre Dame had hoisted from the track table of honor at the Armour Tech Relays in Chicago. But now, as bill boss 'the weeks glide by, Mr. Handy is trying to find sufficient coverage space for] all subsequent awards.
The late John Nicholson was insistently proud of the group of frosh cinder men he coached ;under the Fieldhouse rafters four years ago. He felt that their combined strength, properly molded, would give Notre i Dame the finest track team in Irish running history. Unfortunately, death eclipsed his dream. But in his stead followed Bill Mahoney, now of the Navy, and the current mentor “Doc” Handy.
The eminent doctor has made Nicholson’s expectations profound realities. He has carefully tempered the remaining members of that original contingent and added a few lower classmen to the ranks. Today he is the valedictorian of the nation’s track coaches for the splendid tutelage he has given the Blue and Gold thin-clads.
Ollie Hunter, the shadow of Greg Rice, was the most promising of the original group in the middle-distance field. Today, Oliver stands on the bank of graduation and marching with him is the finest reputation any two-miler has ever credited at Notre Dame or elsewhere. Recently, Ollie told us of the invaluable aid “Doc” had given him. The flourishing misdemeanors that a man can commit while chopping around the indoor oval are not too evident to the average track fan but the persistent and matchless precocity of the rotund Irish mentor didn’t let these things wither by. Ollie’s aid does not stand alone. The handy-work of Handy has told its story in the newspaper headlines during the past weeks.
Navy Pier didn’t offer durable opposition in the indoor opener, but when Notre Dame dominantly chartered sizeable vic-. tories in following cinder clashes the nation’s track gentry looked toward the Golden Dome. Michigan, superb in every .running department, was cast aside in
the Michigan Relays. The Central Col-legiates and Armour Tech relays added more standard gold to the trophy niches. Indiana was overwhelmed on the home lanes. And so reads the descending 1943 scorecard—victories all.
The individual accomplishments are many fold. Bill Dillon has strapped his legs across the timber of the low and high hurdles in excellent style. Possibly the greatest accomplishment of Willie’s collegiate career reared forth in his final collegiate indoor appearance, last Saturday, when he skipped over the low boards at Lafayette in :07. to outstrip Charles (Whitey) Hlad, former Michigan Normal hurdler and one of the nation’s best. Jim Delaney’s consistent record ‘shot hurtlings, such as the classic heave at the Purdue Relays last week, have made weight points almost a certainty. Jim White and John Yonakor have always added in this department.
The mile relay troupe of Jones, Lund-ergan, Tupta and Fehlig has run rampant in each indoor appearance. This quartet snared permanent possession of the Frank Knox trophy at the Chicago Relays this year by winning the event for the second successive time.
So, we gently bow to the reign of the greatest of all Notre Dame track teams and its incomparable master, “Doc” Handy.
Full Diamond Schedule
Planned by Coach Kline
Dick Grant
The sharp whack of baseballs whipping against bats can be heard around Cartier Field these days as the Klinemen take full advantage of the unusual Indi
An unusual Indiana spring lets the Klinesmen move to Cartier Field
ana spring weather. Approximately 32 members comprise this year’s squad, including 11 pitchers, and six catchers. Battles to secure starting jobs are growing more intense, especially at second base, and the right field berth. At present the first team lines up with: Tom Sheehan behind the bat; John Hickey, first; Ed Ghigliotti and Tom Carlin fighting for the second base slot; Bob Kline, shortstop. and Jim Carlin at third. The outfield is composed of Jim Thomas in left, Angelo Bertelli in center and Dick Kis-gen and Steve Pavella battling for right.
Last week-end Kline supervised two three-hour batting practices, which took place under game conditions. The pitchers were told not to throw the number two pitch and so the hits and runs were numerous for each of the two teams as every player took a toe-hold on the straight offerings of the various hurlers. The outstanding hitters on the squad to date are: Tommy Sheehan, Bertelli, John Creevey, Bob Kline and Jim Carlin. The pitchers that stood out in late week practice sessions, in which control was the prime requisite, were: Manyak, Smullen, Creevey, Thornton, and Trimborn.
The schedule still remains unsanctioned by the faculty board but Coach Kline rests assured that they will give their approval to the eight and possible ten game season that he has submitted. Coach Kline also stated that because of . the three day opening between the end of the semester and the commencement day game that he might be able to secure a couple of games with either Great Lakes, Navy Pier or the Michigan City Prison. The regular season will feature the Irish against Michigan, Michigan State and Western Michigan in home and home games, with Indiana coming here for two tilts.
.. SERVICE NOTES
REAL DEVOTION
That’s what we’d call it in the case of that dynamic boxer, Frank Lombardo. A few days before the Bengals were to be run off Frank was notified that he had about ten days before going into the service, and it looked as if the bouts were going to lose one of its finest showmen and boxers. The bouts meant so much to Frank that he decided to remain
“red” lonergax those three precious days and participate in the fights. We all saw his fine attempt and I know that his sacrifice and performance were appreciated by all of us.... The bouts must have brought back old times to Frank Leahy, who was quite an accomplished amateur in his own day. One of Frank’s most momentous decisions was made when he decided to go to Notre Dame instead of going into the professional ring.
SPEED DEMONS
When Notre Danie’s crack two mile relay team finished third behind Illinois and Michigan at the Chicago Relays our time was still better than the record breaking time set at the Illinois Relays of two weeks before. We should now be able to appreciate the quality of competition at this standout meet.... Captain James Delaney, 205 pound shot putter and senior member of the track squad, has completed his competition in dual meets and can boast a three year undefeated slate. “Big Jim” holds the all time Notre Dame record with a heave of 51 feet 8% inches, this was at the N.C.A.A. meet at Lincoln, Nebr. last - year when he placed third behind Blozis, the Georgetown giant, and Carl Merritt of U.S.C—
ADDED AWARDS
Miniature gold basketballs will be awarded to the monogram members of the 1942-43 Notre Dame basketball team, according to the announcement made by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice president and chairman of the faculty board in control of athletics. The awards were given as this was Coach Keogan’s last team and certainly one of his greatest. Along with the balls given to the monogram winners will be a ball given . to Ed Krause, who succeeded the late
"RED" LONERGAN
Notre Dame mentor, and to Mrs. Ruby Keogan, widow of the coach. — Just about a week ago the basketball team was feted at the home of Mrs. Bonnie Rockne, by Mrs. Keogan. The boys are still talking about it, and wondering why they can’t get the same thing at the caf. .... That’s a long story gentlemen....
ROCK'S ANNIVERSARY
Notre Dame students and alumni throughout the nation observed the 12th anniversary of the death of the late Knute K. Rockne, our beloved coach and athletic director on Wednesday. The observances were in the form of Communion breakfasts held by various alumni groups throughout the nation. As in former years, the Monogram Club held brief services at the grave of the “Great One.” Rockne was one of the most prominent advocates of competitive sports as build-er of finer mental, moral, and spiritual attributes in the boy of today. — Tom Herbert, an applicant for one of the spots on the tennis team established quite a record in high school. While the average tennis player is learning on .which side of the racquet you hit the ball, Tommy was coaching the high school team in his own town of Auburn, N. Y. In his three years of coaching his team never lost a match, which speaks for itself when questioning Tom’s ability to coach.
WELCOME BACK
Yes, that’s what all of us wish, to say to you Hughie on your return to your alma mater. Hugh John Devore came to Notre Dame from Newark, N. J., and from 1931 to ’33. picked up three monograms in football, playing stellar ball at right end throughout his college career. Hugh was considered by many of the players, both on his own squad and on those whom he opposed, as one of the hardest playing men they had ever encountered. His play was symbolic of Notre Dame’s nickname, “the Fighting Irish,” he was in there fighting from the kick-off to the final gun. He was a teammate of the famous “Moose” Krause, who rode to fame with that same line. Frank Leahy has now brought Coach Devore here to see if he can’t imbue our present squad with some of that same fighting spirit that made him one of Notre Dame’s most remembered gridmen.
Andy Chlebeck, one of our finest ball players, was back on campus for a short visit last week. Andy is now an officer in the Marine Corps.... Billy Rich, another of our finer ball players, went to sea last Tuesday as a naval officer. He was stationed at Kings Point, N. Y., where he received his basic training. He also stopped in for a few days to see some of . his classmates.... Via the Sorin porch gossipers we found out that’ Dick Creevy . is now stationed at Quantico, Va., where he is going through the Marine Officers’ Training Course.____His brother, Tom, is now in the Army Air Corps and claims there is nothing like it.______ The Rev. Father Holderith, C.S.C., informs us that his golf team has been rather thoroughly depleted due to the draft and the Army Air Corps which have relieved him of five of his potential stars. He now has as a working nucleus for this year’s team Captain Gene Fehlig and Frank Crowley. However, Fathers Gassensmith, C.S.C., and Brennan, C.S.C. will be glad to assist him if he will only make a few changes in the eligibility rules.
Elimination Tourney
Narrowing New League
An elimination tourney is being staged on the Fieldhouse hardwood to decide the top quintet of the New League. Alert basketball blended with fast breaks and occasional bobbles have marked the term play. Teams were seeded according to percentage standings at the end of the series. As a result, the Red Wings, Zahm Zombies, .Bat Roosters and Hoosier Hot
. Shots drew byes.
In the opening contests, the Back Bay Angels winged over the Cosmos, 21-18. The lead switched hands as often as a dress shirt but the tested eye of Clasby, who goaled nine points for the victors, decided the fray. J. Murray paced the Cosmos nailing ten points to the scoreboard.
The Phantoms barely zoomed, over a reluctant B-19 team, 30-29. Keefer aided the. Phantoms with, a 12 point ration while Cullinan fielded 11 markers for the B-19’s.
The Civil Engineers overruled the Colonels in an easy test, 36-19. MacDonald, netted 11 points for the losers.
The Red Wings topped the Back Bay Angels in their first tussle, 56-23. The Civil Engineers were ousted, 36-15, by the Hoosier Hot Shots. Rapid Robert Livingstone fired 15 points through the net for the Hot Shots.
17
Billy Sullivan, Lone Alumnus in Majors;
Opens 13th Season of Diamond Activity
BILL CAREY
Up at Bear- Mountain, N. Y., this spring, when Leo the Lipper yells ‘Hey Irish’ at his Dodgers, it’s a safe het that one Wiliam Joseph Sullivan, of the Notre Dame Sullivans, will answer. A member in good standing with the Daffyness hoys, Bill has already served his year’s apprenticeship with the men of Rickey.
Sully is at present the ranking graduate of Notre Dame wearing the flannels of a major league baseball club. Eddie Hanyzewski, the South Bend strong boy, ex. ’44, currently the sensation of the French Lick Chapter of the Chicago Cubs, is the only other “Irishman” in the charmed ranks.
Billy Sullivan was born with a Louisville Slugger in his mouth on October 23, 1910, and tethered, on a resin bag. As a youngster, knee high to the dugout steps, he showed himself a “brain,” skipping grades till he was in high school at 12, and college at 16.
At the tender, unshaven age of 12 he struggled into his first tailor-made uniform as a pasture patrolman for the Portland Knights of Columbus. Thence the start of a lengthy baseball career. He prepped at Columbia University High School, and took a year of college A. B. at that institution, before leaving for Notre Dame in 1928. An all round athlete he tripled in brass with basketball and track other major interests. Well built, handsome, intelligent—Sophomore Bill’s winning personality stamped him at once as a campus figure. Early recognition came of his baseball talents, and he continued to play as an enthusiastic interhaller.
Under the late George Keogan, then diamond coach, Sully soon won his spurs as regular first baseman. A flashy fielder and heavy sticker, his fame spread. Swinging the willow from the portside, Bill was forever a thorn in the side of opposing pitchers. His collegiate slugging average was sky-high in the three hundreds. College Humor, selected an All Star nine to play in Cuba and Panama one Christmas vacation. Sitting pretty on the initial sack was N. D.’s Sullivan.
Activities other than baseball, however, claimed much of Bill’s time at N. D., since his coming out of the West. For three years he was private secretary to Father John Cavanaugh, C. S. C., ex-President of the University who wrote a biography of Knute Rockne.
Sull also was Chairman of the 1930 edition of the ‘greatest’ Junior Prom. As a finishing touch, the Arts and Letters College annually dealt out to Sullivan a set of marks hovering about 90.
Dodger Billy Sullivan
On graduation day, in June 1931, Billy stepped off the platform into the welcoming arms of a throng of anxious ivory hunters. A marked man, every club, including the Rupert Rifles, offered a fat contract. Sentimental reasons and Poppa’s influence won him for the White Sox, his dad’s old team. Before entering organized baseball, he had spent five summers playing first base for the Salem (Ore.) Senators in the Willamette Valley League, a very fast semi-pro loop that sent up Larry French. The Bigbee brothers, Carson and Lyle, exPirates were at Salem with young Sullivan.
Bill took the long stride from Cartier Field to Comiskey Park with ease. Lew Fonesca, Chicago manager, needed a steady man for the hot corner. Freshman Bill Sullivan, an outfielder in high school, a first baseman in college, plugged the slot. Sully found little difficulty in solving the slants of the ‘big time Charlies,’ and rapped out a neat
.275, the first year’s outing. The summer of ’32 saw Bill shuttling back and forth across the sod, from first to third. In 93 games the Notre Damer clouted the apple for a very respectable .316. The fall rolled around and Bill came back to the school of Our Lady and more studies. He switched his classes from under the Dome to the Law Building, and was graduated a barrister in 1933. Successfully hurdling the Illinois Bar Exam, Bill can boast a far more extensive background than most other clubhouse lawyers in operation.
Baseball’s dread malady of Sopho-moritis caught- Billy a year late. In his Junior year in the circuit an all round slump infected the popular* Irishman. The doctor prescribed a campaign in the minors, (his only one) and the patient responded with an explosive show of talent. Wearing the spangles of * the Milwaukee Brewers in the American Association, Sullivan connected for 222 hits, 17 home runs, 93 R.B.I., 124 runs scored, 30 two baggers, 11 triples and a .343 batting average in 157 games. Milwaukee fans groaned when they sold their favorite down the Lake to Cincinnati. This started Billy off on merry travels that made him the favorite of the railroad companies and the scourge of the program printers.. In the short span of eight years, the monogram of five different clubs was sprawled across the broad Sullivan shirt front.
After one summer in the lowlands of Ohio, the Redlegs sold him out of the loop to the Indians. Here at Cleveland, under the eyes of genial Steve O’Neill, the new Detroit pilot, the telling change in the life of Sullivan was made. Billy the veteran infielder, the tried and true outfielder, became a catcher—and with sensational results. A .351 belting mark (his best), and the birth of a receiver that exhibited the same characteristics as his famous dad, highlighted the ’36 season. A big trade in the "winter of 1938 found Catcher’ Billy, Pitcher Ed Cole, and infielder Roy Hughes sent down the river to St. Louis in exchange for rollicking Hemsley. After two good years with the Brownies, Sully was kicked upstairs to a threatening first division club, Detroit, in barter for hurl-er George Coffman. The motor City fans took an immediate fancy to the personable young Irishman, who rode the horsehide at a .309 clip.
This same campaign he realized the ambition of every ballplayer—he was an important cog on a pennant "winning machine. In the big series with Cincinnati, Bill caught five games—bad Buck Newsome included. 1941 was spent with the Tigers and then—then William Joseph Sullivan, of the Notre Dame Sul
18
livans, became a Brooklyn Dodger. ‘Red’ McPhail liked the fire of the lad, and needed a steady utility backstop. Oddly enough in the Spring of ’42, Billy returned as a major leaguer, to the scene of his collegiate All Star jaunt, Cuba, during pre-season training (ante helium) . Last year Sul was Leo Durocher’s top flight ‘handy-andy.’ He is the capable relief for Mickey Owen, and is just the lad when a left handed socker is needed in a pinch. So, just to bring the tale up to date, today Bill is working out with Lippy and his ‘boys’, at Bear Mountain and the West Point Cage.
The lone Notre Dame graduate in the majors, Billy Sullivan is certainly doing the old school up ‘mighty proud.’ He is one of the rarities of Doubleday’s Folly—he doesn’t drink or smoke or swear. By nature a traveller, he may yet set a record for performing with the greatest number of major league clubs —total to date, six. Sully has thrown his glove down on every spot in the field, in his long and successful career. Umpires have called balls and strikes over the Sullivan shoulder in two World’s Series. Odder still, he has donned the pads for the pennant winner of both loops, Detroit and Brooklyn. Bill can boast a creditable .289 as his lifetime major batting average.
INTRODUCING
BILL WADDINGTON
William Shaefer Dillon. . . . comes from one of Los Angeles’ subs, Harbor City.. . . should live in sub-Sorin to make it complete and unique but resides in
William S. Dillon
room 255 of aforementioned hall, with gold-fish killer, Frank Conforti. . . . No good came on Dec. 7, ’41, but this bundle of joy tries to recompense us with the thought that he came into. being Dec. 7, 1919.... 5ft 10% in., and 160 pounds of tough, tan, tenuous, tissue are markings of the framew’ork today. . . .
At Narbonne h.s.,part of the L. A. system, ventured into the track game doing the low and high hurdles, sprints, and the vault. . . . got the captaincy in senior year plus a quartet of monograms . . . got three more in basketball. . . . City record in the high’s and low’s—14:7 in the 120 topplers. . . 19:7 in the 180 lows. . . . also has a vaulting mark of lift. 6 in.......That city title in the high’s was a big moment . . . first photo finish he ever encountered. . . .
Had a newspaper friend who was a pal of Nicholson.... later he met “Nick” himself, along with Rice, Leonis, and Faymonville ... all N.D. cinder path greats . . . that was enough to con-
PARKER-WINTERROWD
115% N. MAIN ST. — UPSTAIRS — NORTH OF OLIVER HOTEL
REPRESENTING M. BORN & COMPANY — CHICAGO
ALL GARMENTS MEASURED AND FITTED IN OUR OWN FITTING ROOM...
ENSIGN SUITS
SERGE. 16 OZ. .	.	.	38.00
ELASTIQUE, 16 OZ.	.	47.00
WHIPCORD. 16 OZ.	.	47.00
WIDE WALE SERGE,	16	OZ.	47.00
WHITE TWILLS AND
KHAKI GABARDINES
WHITES, TWO FOR 25.00
KHAKI .	.	.	17.00
CUSTOM TAILORED
RAINCOATS
SERGE .	.	42.00
ELASTIQUE	42.00
WHIPCORD	42.00
ALL ACCESSORIES AT REASONABLE PRICES
SEE OUR CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVES — BOB DAVIES — REGGIE FLYNN
19
vince him . . . thus, -Souths Bend bound.
Freshman competition was limited to an A. A. U. meet . . . grabbed second in the high obstacles . . . first year almost marked the beginning of the so-called “clique”. . . composed of Hunter, Maloney, Delaney, Conforti, Tupta . . . in all there were 11 of them within Brownson’s proud portals . . . says the spirit was generated there and has always kept the gang together. . .
In his first outdoor hurdle effort, he fell heavily and carries a palm of cinders
. for a. .reminder . . . came back with Indiana state title as a soph in the high’s with 14.6. . . a new N. D. record. . . broke the oldest one on the books, the other one having had a 21 year stand. . . . always wanted to beat Bill Nicholson, his present colleague. ... As a junior, won a dual meet at Missouri and tied the N. D. indoor mark with 7:5 in the highs . . . also netted himself the low record with seven flat, present N. D. statistic... copped three state titles at Purdue in ’42 . . . the century, lows, and highs. . . . Finally . . . after sheer
desperation . . . won a Central Collegiate title . . . got that this season in the lows, no. two man in the big ones. . . . Has tried to break 7 flat in the lows . . . world’s record is 6:9 . . . altogether has made the trip five times in the repeated figure of 7 . . . and I don’t mean minutes . . . could write a history book on himself this season . . . high’s and low’s in Indiana dual. . . . Michigan Relays, first in highs, second in lows ... at Illinois Tech meet got second in the bigger of the hoisted wood____last Saturday’s engagement at Purdue indoor finale brought home a first in the little babies, and second in the more stilted obstructions.
OH BOY. AMERICAN CIGARETTES.
"AND COCA-COLA IN
"LOOR FELLOWS, SAME RIND OF BOTTLE WE USED TO GET BACR HOME.
BOTT1ED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-CO1A COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND

' "THINR OF IT. FINDING A CANT HERE”^
That s what a soldier wrote home about
Ask the man in the ranks how Coca-Cola
rates with him. Ask the man behind the
PX counter. They II both tell you,—when
it comes to refreshment, nothing takes the
place of ice-cold Coca-Cola. Energy-giv
ing refreshment. . . quality you can count
on . . . distinctive, delicious taste,—all
combine to prove a point that needs no
proving: The only thing like Coca-Cola is
Coca-Cola, itself.
Climaxed a college career last weekend . . . finally beat Whitey Hlad after three years of anxious waiting . . . the guy holds six world’s records . . . can you blame him? ... it was Bill’s final chance to try, at that . . . now we can say . . . and did! . . . Also winning the meet for Doc Handy and having the team go undefeated was the biggest inner’ thrill he’s had since coming to the Golden Dome campus. . . .
Is a claimant to that great nationalistic enterprising organization . . . The E.R.C. . . . he’s color blind too . . . nicknamed “Pop” cause he’s the oldest fellow on the track team . . . Ha Ha. ... what are we laughing at? . . . the nickname???. . . couldst be! . . . phy ed major who hopes to teach same in Los Angeles after Uncle Sam removes priorities on him . . . graduates in May and will leave the job of watching the Monogram Club’s minimum funds to some other worthy individual. . . .
Says it’s a split-up between James and Goodman where music is concerned. . . . has a good receptacle for delicious steak . . . his stomach . . . Wants to run that 6:9 low and get to compete in the Drake Relays this month . . . Follows all sports . . . best story is about him--self . . . knocked down eight out of ten hurdles in the Penn Relays and still managed to struggle across the tape to third . . . got his picture in the newsreel . . . once in a lifetime . . . quietly the lights are dimmed, the volume on the radio ignited, and once again he slowly sleeks to bed, lower bunk, where I found him when this thing started. . . .
Spring Practice
Spring practice brought out a diminished group of 65 grid stalwarts last Monday in their report to Cartier Field. Hugh Devore, former Notre Dame end, class of ’34, was on hand to report aSj coach for the endmen, replacing Wayne' Millner.	1
MUSIC
J. C. R.
Sunday night word came during a news broadcast that Sergei Rachmaninoff had died at his home in Beverly Hills.
He had been not only ■ one of the world’s great composers but also one of the best and most popular con-■■ cert and recital pianists. Although he ■ had appeared by himself many times, he j. c. r. clark performed with prominent symphony orchestras playing his own compositions, most popular of which have been his “Second Piano Concerto in C-Minor” and his “Prelude in ‘C’ Sharp Minor.” He had before his death written in almost every form of symphonic music and a large number of etudes and preludes for the piano. So another of the world’s great men has gone.
The Saidenberg String Symphony which will be here Monday should prove one of the finest pieces of musical entertainment the school has seen in a longtime. Though the group of some 18 pieces is composed of young musicians, they are experienced and masterful performers. The program that has been announced for the concert is a brilliant one and contains compositions that every one knows, music that cannot but satisfy the most particular. More familiar are such pieces as Rimsky-Korsakoff’s “Flight of the Bumble Bee,” Strauss’ “Pizzicato Polka” and Tschaikowsky’s “String Serenade.” The waltz movement from this
last was recorded by Freddy Martin last year in the splurge of popular bands arranging and playing classical music. The most delightful selection from the whole program is perhaps Mozart’s “Eine Kleine Nchtmusik,” or “Serenade in ‘G’ Major,” as it is sometimes called. This is a typical Mozart composition—brilliant, delightful, beautiful, and still simple and fresh. Miss Virginia Haskins,' a coloratura soprano who will sing with the orchestra is not familiar to us but we saw her picture and imagine that she will do well!
Our appreciation for what is worthwhile prompts us to give “Forty-Four for Foster” a “blow,” as the saying goes. His daily programs have been very good, and have included every thing from Symphonies and operas, through Gilbert and Sullivan, Gershwin and Berlin to the latest popular music. But all too prominent on his programs is Andre Kostelanetz and his “Silver Strings” which begins to tire one a bit. What a relief was the annihilation of Penelope and Pedro!
For years telephone cables have been spliced in a very satisfactory wav. But the solder joint contained 40 per cent war-vital tin.
So Bell System men devised a new type of joint which saves up to 80 per cent of the solder. A "Victory Joint” they called it.
The new technique has been adopted throughout the System with the result that 600,000 pounds of tin and an even greater amount of lead can be saved in a normal year’s construction.
This is another example of the nation-wide cooperation of Bell System people in fulfilling their ideal—service to the nation in peace or war.	•
Condon-Sa+ions
Dave Condon.
Logical???
Personally, when columning, we’d like to do something humorous a la Woelfle’s Week, or Frank King’s condensation of Downbeat. But sometimes a student magazine has to depart from the style of Woelfle’s sidesplitters and from the silly symphonies of Old King Corn. So we’ll try to dedicate ourselves to nothing more than a little opinionating on campus life, leaving the gags to the Wolf and let Frank King’s picture and his lines keep reminding us of an advertisement for mineral oil. Personally, Frank, you’d have more readers if you’d send that picture back to the department of justice or else caption it “if only I’d known about .Mother Nature’s Own Spring Remedy thirty years ago.”
Apologies!!!
After reading the above paragraph and realizing that the newspaperman who coined the term “deadline” must have been a King Fan, we wish to apologize to French horn Frankie and
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE
' at
South Bend's Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mig. Opticians
228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
say his Scholastic columns have made wonderful reading. They’ll be even better should Scholastic decide to run the English translation.
Once In A Million Department—
Father Hope’s 480 pages of Notre Dame’s first hundred years give brief mention to the April day in 1879 when Notre Dame went to blazes for the first time. In speaking of the $200,000 fire, Father Hope says: “At St. Mary’s the first reaction of the girls was to promise all their pocket money for the rebuilding of Notre Dame.” The happy little loan sharks were trying to draw interest even -then.	.
Page the Senator	'
With all due respect to Mr. Connolly, who was really swell about donating the sportsmanship trophy for the Bengals, we can’t quite agree with his recent statement that “things will get worse before they get better.” And speaking of the dining hall, we just answered our one and only fan letter—and denied the rumor that the last lap of the Kentucky derby would wind up in the Notre Dame meat refrigerator.
Suggestion!!
This will probably be the first time someone beat Red Lonergan to the punch since we raced for our first taste of -that high octane windshield wash they serve at Sweetbriar, but we believe one super-promotion scheme has been overlooked. With all the ideas around here getting more plugs than Super-Suds, it looks like someone might think of a
SIX CONVENIENT CHICAGO STATIONS
The South Shore takes you direct to downtown Chicago. Six convenient stations — Kensington, 63rd St., 53rd St., Roosevelt Road, Van Buren St., and Randolph St. For . travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
possible way to increase the Notre Dame endowment.
More About That Small Endowment
. Certainly with the centennial year drawing to a close the students of the 100th year would like to be remembered by something other than the charred remains of Walgreens. With many campus residents purchasing war stamps each week, it shouldn’t be hard to collect a sufficient number of stamps and wampum to purchase a sizeable amount of bonds. Such a fund could be used as a firm foundation for a Centennial scholarship. And after the war, how about continuing that Knights of Columbus carnival for student aid. The fact stands that the university has one of the smallest endowments among the country’s higher institutions of learning. And if the collected amount were put in war bonds, to be held until maturity, it would
. be increased by one-third. It’s just a little food for thought.
Library Asks Book Return
The university library, after a checkup of the files, has asked that the following books be returned immediately:
Philosophy of Thomas Aquinas, Gibson; Psychology of Character, Allers; Mediaeval England, Barnard; Social Life in Britain, Coulton; English Democratic Ideas of the Seventeenth Century; Gooch; Philosophy of Education, Shields; Fables of Aesop, Aesopus; College Days, Leacock; Life on the Mississippi, Twain; and Albert Einstein, ■ Maker of Universes.
no-wii main MOTH IEHI, IHRIAMA
Bruggner's in the J. M. S. Building have a fine line of Tobaccos, Cigarettes, Pipes — Novelties — Fountain Service — Billiards.
FFlai/n GAid
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
Bruggner's News Corner for magazines, books, maps, and greeting cards.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Bldg.	South Bend. Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building
Phone 3-2574
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws X-Rays and Consultation
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bldg., South Bend, Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS 503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254
South Bend, Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building
L. E. Fisher, M.D.	M. J. Thornton, M.D.
THE EARS HAVE IT
Vail W. Pischke
Democracy edged its way into ND’s campus radio studio when try-outs were held for the announcer’s spot on the Soph
Cotillion (Gracie Barrie) broadcast not long ago. Mr. Cecil Birder, head of the Speech department, spent a full hour and a half trying to choose one man for the job. He finally eliminated down to four men, pondered over the problem laboriously, and said, “You couldn’t
use four good announcers on that show could you?” When requested to pick only one, he finally resolved it to be Jim Kress, the twirler from St. Ed’s. During the entire process all try-outers were known by assigned numbers only, while Mr. Birder was “blacked out” in the en- . gineer’s booth. But the “top-it-all-off” after’ having worked hours on the show came the night of the show.____Kress, with Bob Martina and George Charters, were abruptly shoved aside by The Gal of the band, who then ad libbed the intros herself—including one juicy plug for the Blackhawk! P.S. Mr. Birder wonders if it’s all worth it!
Guest Gag Bag: Groucho Marx: “I’ll never forget the time I played in an Army camp. The soldiers just kept whistling and cheering.‘It’s wonderful the way they appreciate me’,” I said to Betty Grable who also happened to be on the stage.”
More Stuff ’n sech : Jack Benny plans to come back on the air this Sunday, April 4.__Dinah Shore at a recent ship launching ruined a new. dress after hurling the traditional bottle — Dinah should explain that the ship went to sea, but the champagne remained on Shore (Ouch!).... the weirdest fan request Harry James has had in more than 300,000 pleas for. autographed photos was the one from a Mid-West listener who carefully gave the measurements of his room and asked for enough photos to cover the walls and ceiling. — Ralph Edwards’ “Truth or Consequences” sold $504,000 in bonds at its first stop and expects to reach the 20 million mark on tour.... Bette Davis tops the . list of Screen Guild Players guest stars with six appearances.... Kay Kyser has asked more than 13,000 questions on popular music in the past five years.... That $342,750 that Bill Stem got. for .war..
bonds is an all-time record for a single 15-minute broadcast. . . . Tyipcal Ban-some Sherman humor: “Darling, each minute away from you seems like a day* each day away from you seems like a year.... Egad, I’m getting old fast!”
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP_TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS SI.OO.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN’S SHOP
Notre Dame HUDDLE
GYM SHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. “T” SHIRTS GYM PANTS SUPPORTERS
SOFT DRINKS CIGARETTES a CANDY
TOBACCO PIPES
U.S. BONDS
Copyright 1943, luccsrr S. Myers Tobacco Co.
MAKING HOME PORT
The men of the American Merchant
i TRY CHESTERFIELDS TODAY - YOU CAN’T BUY A BETTER CIGARETTE
Marine are doing the greatest ocean
transport job in history
where a cigarette counts most.
g /r!sC%£STE#F/£LD
\	• • • a,,d Chesterfields count plenty these days . . . they
\ give pleasure where other pleasures can’t be had.
7 When your hours are long and you’re working hard you’ll like Chesterfields . . . they’re Milder, Cooler and have the Better Taste that only the ri "hl combination of the world’s • *-best cigarette tobaccos can give you.