1962 Rambler Claaiic "400" Sedan
Live a lot...spend cl little
You, in a smart and sparkling Rambler, find life a lot brighter, happier and fuller. (Try it and see!)
For this trim beauty, you pay surprisingly little.
You can take it for official fact that Rambler’s famed low prices are even lower this year, starting with America’s lowest.
Also official: you get a host of new betterments in Rambler that make your motoring life brighter, zestier and more trouble-free.
Rich new fabrics and fittings, for one thing. Airliner Reclining
Bucket Seats, together with an exclusive Lounge-Tilt Seat that adjusts almost every-which-way for superb comfort (options).
On the mechanical side, you have a lot of other good things going for you.
Double-Safety Brake System (priceless protection, and no extra cost), brakes are self-adjusting, too. Classic and Ambassador models have 33,000-mile chassis lubrication, with Road Command Suspension that makes riding, handling and cornering a lot
sweeter, surer, truer. 4,000-mile oil change for all models. New and higher road clearance. Rustproofing well beyond any other car. Extra sizzle in the high-performance Ambassador V-8 with 250-HP (or 270-HP, optional).
If you want to live a lot—and spend just a little cash doing it— go visit your Rambler dealer and give a new Rambler a whirl.
Compact Car Excellence
Which diamond is a girl’s best friend?
Every girl knows “a rose is a rose is a rose.” But is a diamond a diamond a diamond?
The smart girl who cares (about beauty and value) knows there’s more to a diamond than meets her eye. Even under magnification, a diamond reveals its inner secrets only to the eye of a trained expert. That’s why America’s College Queens have chosen their “best friends” from among the award-winning designs of the world-famous Artcarved selection.
Every Artcarved diamond gives you more than the beauty which meets your eye. The quality and value of its inner beauty is also certified by a written guarantee that is recognized and respected by leading jewelers everywhere.
If you want to be sure of the inner beauty and value of your diamond, see your Artcarved jeweler. Ask him to show you the styles chosen by America’s College Queens.
DIAMOND AND WEDDING RINGS
Two of the lovely designs chosen by America's College Queens.
From $100.
Get your National College Queen Contest entry for yourself or your candidate at:
JACOBS JEWELERS I2I W. Washington St. South Bend
J EWE EER S
your HEADQUARTERS IN SOUTH BEND FOR
Top
Evening Star Engagement Ring $225.00
Bride’s Circlet.................... $	60.00
Bottom
Emerald Cut Engagement Ring $425.00
Bride’s Circlet..............   $	30.00
Wonderful selection of Artcarved Diamond Rings from $50. All fully guaranteed for diamond quality and Permanent Value.
★
CREDIT (with no interest) AND LAY-A-WAY AVAILABLE
TO
NOTRE DAME MEN
*
121 W. WASHINGTON
CE 4-1311 s
Artcarved mi.
March 23, 1962
3
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY
NO CARRYING CHARGE
Get all of your clothing needs at the Campus Shop where you can charge it the Campus Shop way. Pay one-third in June . . . one-third in July ... one-third in August... and of course, there is never an extra charge for this convenience. Come in soon and get what you need for now ... for vacation ... for next summer.
ONE OF AMERICA'S FINEST UNIVERSITY SHOPS...
On the Campus—Notre Dame
4
The Scholastic
THE CAMPUS SHOP
IS READY WITH
SOUTHERN WEAR
VACATION CLOTHES . . .
If you’re planning a southern spring vacation . . . make it a carefree one by starting with the right clothes. You’ll find plenty of smartly styled . . . practical wash ’n wear fashions at the Campus Shop now ... so come in soon and look ’em over. Be ready for vacation time . . . and summer.
Lightweight wash ’n wear Sport Coats, from..!6.95
Wash Slacks............................... 5.95
Catalina Swim Trunks, from................ 3.95
Handsome Walking Shorts, from............. 4.95
Cool Short-sleeve Sport Shirts, from...... 4.50
Dacron and Wool Tropical-weight Suits.....49.95
Wash ’n wear Tropical-weight suits, from....39.95
March 23, 1962
5
THE NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE’S
SUGGESTED READING LIST
• No. 5
Each week in this space, the Notre Dame Bookstore will present a list of books which have been recommended by the various department heads and their staffs as among the most profitable and worthwhile in their field. The purpose of this is threefold: First, to provide the student with a guide for his outside - reading; second, to provide a medium for the departments in furnishing this guide; and third, to provide a guide for the Bookstore in its stocking of better books.
THIS WEEK’S FIELD IS
THE AMERICAN NOVEL
John Steinbeck, The Grapes of Wrath, Compass, $1.95. A story of the movement of the uprooted “Okies” told through the Journey to the West of one of these families, the Joads, the novel moves beyond one family or group to the problems of all man, in the face of a great trouble.
J. D. Salinger, The Catcher in the Rye, Signet, $.50. Holden Caufield set out from Pency Prep on a quest in search of innocence. He fails in his quest, but makes a discovery in the process which marks his arrival at the beginning of maturity.
Oliver La Farge, Laughing Boy. Pocket Library, $.35. The Pulitzer prize winning story of a Navajo Love.
James T. Farrell, Studs Lonigan. Signet, $.75. A trilogy tracing the life of a city tough, Studs, from Adolescence to Judgement Day, as he searches for some set of values he can believe and take root in.
Babbitt, by Sinclair Lewis, Signet, $.75. George F. Babbitt is one of the ugliest, but most convincing figures in American fiction. The great social climber, the total conformist, he becomes not only funny, but at the same time a little terrifying.
All the King’s Men, by Robert Penn Warren, Bantam, $.60. This is the story of Willie Stark, a backwoods politician who rose to governor, the story of corruption of power, the story of a man of great faults but greater nobility.
All these books are available at Notre Dame Bookstore
GLANCES
How will the new library be run? J. J. Pottmyer has, through means of his own, secured a copy of a topsecret “Memo” that holds some of the answers . . . page 9.
“News and Notes,” this week’s campus happenings ... page 11.
Hats are in the ring, election fever comes with spring; read about major changes in the election procedures this year . . . page 12.
A special feature on social life at ND; Social Commissioner GregWeis-mantel discusses problems and solutions . . . page 13.
For those of you who are seeking new thrills, check John McGuire’s column for what’s “In Town and Around” . . . page 15.
And Wally the bridge kibitzer returns to Kibitzer’s Komer . . . page 15.
Plans are now being made for the “hippest bash of them all,” the Collegiate Jazz Festival; read what it’s all about . . . page 16.
The Art Gallery’s Lenten exhibit, the Clowes Collection, has drawn raves from all quarters for the past two weeks . . . page 18.
Final rounds of the Bengal Bouts are the top sports attraction of the week . . . page 21.
Comments and sports miscellany in “As We See It” . . . page 22.
A “progress report” on spring training by Joe Kuharich . .. page 22.
Frank Budka, sophomore back, is profiled . . . page 23.
And a “Voice in the Crowd” . . • page 23.
William Smith offers a rebuttal to Bob Cihak’s comments on the university and the city, published two weeks ago, in “Forum," page 26.
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC.!* printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscrip' tion rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185,. Notr* Dame, Indiana. AH unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
6
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Founded 1867
editor-in-chief
THOMAS WEISS
associate editor
MICHAEL ZWETTLER
news editor
JOHN McCABE,
Ken Arnold, Joe Caspar, Pete Clark, Jim Wyrsch.
newi staff—John Buckley, Vince De Coursey, Dick Maher, Ted Pinto, Steve Stopp, Steve Stuecheli, Don Whorton.
features editor
TOM HOOBLER
leofurei staff—Carl Wiedemann, R. E.' Mc-
Gowan, Brian Barnes, Tom Cullen, John j Festa, Matt Cosgrove.
sports editor
JOHN BECHTOLD Bob Chiappinelli, Terry Wolkerstorfer.
jporfs staff—J.C. Higgins, Frank Hinchey, wove Fuyi, Bob Scheffing, Tom KiUner, Joe Ryan.
copy editor
PHILIP LARRABEE
art editor
THOMAS HANSEN,
Patrick Saxe, Robert Sajnovsky.
photography—Brian Beck, Wes Clark.
layout editor
STEVE PODLAS
business manager
JAY WARD,
Art Berry, Bob Buckley,
Tom Datum.	'
ad salesmen—George McGuire, Rich Rogge-veen, Phil Tomber.
circulation manager
JAMES CREAGAN
faculty advisors
DONALD COSTELLO
JOSEPH HOFFMAN, C.S.C.
QUAINT AND CURIOUS. Since the University is currently taking rather stringent measures to prevent petty theft in the bookstore, perhaps now xye-can reasonably hope for an improvement in the books’tdre’s policies toward the University. During recent years there have been many complaints and! suggestions from both faculty and students concerning this matter. A professor ordering books for a class can never be sure if his order will be submitted', in time to be filled before the semester opens. Or if the order is filled, the’ books often are not shelved for days after the class begins. Also, the bookstore appears to have a morbid fear of overordering, for the number ’of texts a professor orders is often decreased without his knowledge or approval, causing many students to be without books for a class.	■	•
In the area of non-required texts —- books which should be available at any major university — the bookstore is painfully‘deficient. The works., of important figures in every discipline are present most often 'only in abridged form or in incomplete selections, or, sometimes, not at all. With few exceptions, foreign language texts are limited entirely to classroom requirements.'^ Hardback books, in general, are conspicuous by their scarcity. Faculty members and responsible students often make recommendations of desirable books — recommendations which are usually filed away or ignored. It is unfortunate that students and professors must obtain from bookstores in town works that people in town should have to seek here.
The situation is no less pitiful downstairs. From an examination of the selection of religious art objects, missals, and greeting cards, ope would never realize — at this great Catholic University — that a vast movement toward change in Church art and liturgy is well under way.
Finally, though we do not really object to the exploitation of the tourist trade (i.e., the pennant, mug, and ash tray crowd), we believe it should stop there. It seems that a provision could conceivably be made for student discounts of some kind. Other universities — among them Princeton, Georgetown, Stanford and St. Louis — offer a student co-operative plan providing a 10% discount to all students as a matter of course, with an additional 10% discount to those who join the co-op itself by paying a five-dollar membership fee (refundable when one chooses to give up membership). The selection of books offered in these places is so wide that enough consumer interest is elicited to make the venture more than profitable.
This is only one possible suggestion, which may or may not be feasible at Notre Dame. It is apparent, however, that something should be done to remedy the present situation. In the past, the bookstore may have been adequate to serve its patrons. But the expansion of the University, both physically and intellectually, demands some revision — perhaps on a large scale — of the policies now in effect. Although the new library promises to provide far greater resources than it does currently, both students and faculty wish the opportunity to buy books of interest in and out of the classroom and to buy them when they want them.
SPRING PRUNING. With the approach of the spring elections, now is the appropriate time for any revisions of the organizational apparatus of Student Government. If no further revisions are planned for this year, we can suggest one that is at least worthy of consideration: abolish the offices of the College Senators.
The purpose of a senator is, or should be, to provide representation for the views and interests of his constituents, to be the means through which his constituents can make their influence felt in Student Government policy. Since each hall senator has a relatively small constituency compared to the size of the colleges, it makes very little sense to maintain this superstructure of four extra senators, each with a theoretical “constituency" much larger than that of any hall, and each member of which is part of a hall constituency anyhow. And if interest in Student Government at the hall level is mild and sporadic, at the college level it is simply nonexistent.
Thus it is that the AB senator, as far as can be determined, has very little function at all, while the science and engineering senators can find no other reason for being than some type of connection with their colleges’ respective “Open House” exhibitions. Such special programs may well be, and largely are, in fact, handled by selected committees like any other annual event. The one significant argument for retaining these offices is that they provide a pool from which qualified candidates are drawn for more responsible positions. While this argument has some force, it is difficult to see why such able candidates should not spend their talents in offices which have at least some significance of their own.	,
— W. £ Z.
7
COVER — Today’s cover reminds us of the upcoming final rounds of the 1962 Bengal Bouts, tonight in the fieldhouse.
— Rich Juckniess
Here’s deodorant protection
YOU CAN TRUST
Old Spice Stick Deodorant...fastest, neatest way to allday, every day protection! It’s the active deodorant for active men... absolutely dependable. Glides on smoothly, speedily...dries in record time. Old Spice Stick Deodorant —most convenient, most economical deodorant money can buy. 1.00 plus tax.
STICK DEODORANT
SHU L-TO M
REPERCUSSIONS
GRATIAS
Editor:
The members of the 1962 Mardi Gras committee extend their sincerest thanks to the student body for their support and participation in making this year’s festivities the most successful ever.
It is our earnest hope that with each coming year Mardi Gras will continue to grow: in allocating even more money to charity; and in presenting for the students a truly enjoyable week end.
As a collegiate event, Notre Dame’s Mardi Gras is established among the < top three in the nation. We trust that in the near future it will be far and away the Number One.
Thank you.
Sincerely,
Roger E. Kelling James G. Smith L. Anderson Burd Robert F. Krause Paul R. Butrus Michael Sanderson
CHRISTIAN SOCIALISTS
"Society is greater than a collection of individuals. Government is an articulation of society, not a contract.
"By Christian Socialism we mean direction toward the Common Good, more than an aggregate of individual goods, which is informed by love, the basis of the Christian Ethic.
"It is clear that the prominent political parties in the United States, both of which are represented on this campus, ignore in practice the ideal of the Common Good by overemphasizing the individual material goals of man. Surely a feasible expression of the ideals of Christian Socialism can be formulated in the practical realm, and such a formulation should offer a solution to many contemporary problems."
If you are interested in the Christian Socialistic premises, and would consider forming an organization in which these will be discussed, please write:
William J. Irwin 435 Walsh Hall Notre Dame, Ind.
8
The Scholastic
MEMO
by J. J. POTTMYER
From: V. A. Shaver, Concealer of Books
To: Library Staff
Sub]: Program for the new Notre Dame Library, equipment, furniture, and suggested operating procedures
I.	INTRODUCTION. In planning to move into the new Library, we should all remember a few general considerations governing the operation of our library system. It is the aim of the library system to retain in the building as many books as possible. Excessive removal of books from the library by students might reveal the embarrassing shortage of books in the library. All possible methods should be used to prevent the use of the library facilities by students.
The library should appear imposing, its institutional aspects emphasized. The library building under construction admirably carries out this philosophy. However, a great deal can be done by the staff to foster this atmosphere. Because of the open stacks in the new library, though, a number of special measures must be taken to effectively curtail student use of the facilities.
II.	CATALOGUING. The best single way to establish barriers between the students and the books is the proper cataloguing of the books in the general card file. All staff members are reminded that one or less subject cards are to be made on each book catalogued.. Ingenuity must also be used in making up this card. One particularly glaring error was made recently whereby a biography of Edmund Campion was catalogued as "Campion, Edmund.” Fortunately this error was discovered, and the book is now properly catalogued as “Roman Catholic Church, Saints of, Loyola, Ignatius, Jesus, Society of, martyrs.”
III.	ARRANGEMENT OF AREAS. Unfortunately, if a student can find a single book on his subject in the card catalogue, he may very well stumble across several others on the same topic shelved near the book he has found. Through proper physical arrangement of the stacks, this danger can be minimized. It will probably be necessary to avoid long stretches of stacks in the same direction. Although inexperienced users of the present library have been observed to circumnavigate both the Social
March 23, 1962
Studies and Humanities reading rooms in search of a book, little trouble is encountered by juniors and seniors.
Stacks can be arranged perpendicular to each other to form a maze. Groups and subgroups of books can be separated in this manner. Seating areas can be placed in the middle of the stacks. Although this arrangement will not provide as much visual distraction to the student as a large reading room, it should provide much more auditory distraction since small groups of students will be encouraged to talk a great deal more than they would in a large room.
It is too early, at present, to accurately predict traffic patterns through the library. The general layout should suggest certain traffic patterns so that a large number of students will have to walk through reading areas in getting to and from their working areas.
Dictionaries and standard reference works should never be located in reading areas. A special Reference Room on the ninth floor is being planned. The smoking room will also be located on this floor. Too much comfortable furniture is not desired. Straight back wooden chairs without arm rests are preferred. The absence of stuffed chairs can be justified by the hazards involved in smoking.
IV.	RESERVE BOOKS. Afi reserve books are to have their covers coated with a special transparent lacquer containing barium. X-ray machines located at all exits will be used to inspect all students leaving the library. A special system of trap doors and pneumatic tubes is being constructed to deliver the student involved directly to the Defect of Discipline whenever the X-ray sensing device is actuated. The X-ray system may also have a long-range benefit of eliminating pressure by the contributing alumni to have their sons admitted to the University.
V.	GRILL. Unfortunately, at the present time physical limitations prevent placing as many books in the Grill as we (or the Bookstore) would prefer. The provisions of Canon 1399, however, are sufficiently broad that fully a third of our books can be placed on limited circulation. In the new library, every service center will be equipped with book cases with opaque glass doors and locks in which
will be shelved all objectionable books. This dispersion of forbidden books should prevent anyone from getting too incensed at the magnitude of the proposed censorship. However, in censoring books the present policy relating to works on Jansenism and by Jansenists will remain in effect, and these works will not be grilled. After all, how is the Grill itself justified unless man be depraved in nature?
VI.	GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS.
COLLECTION ROOM: The Collection Room is to house the various special collections owned by the library. In view of the importance of the books housed here, wooden bookcases are preferred to metal cases. Oversize shelves will have to be provided for the late, nineteenth century diocesan newspapers and the copies of National Hibernian (1890-5). In view of the value of some of the collections (the collection of Scholastics and Religious Bulletins is second only to that of the Harvard Library), a guard should always be present in this room. A special workroom should be provided for Brother Methodius adjoining the collection room. It is hoped that Brother Methodius can be persuaded to leave his basement workroom in the present library where he has been compiling scrapbooks of newspaper clippings concerning Notre Dame. Over the past ninety-six years he has pasted up 1006 volumes —1003 volumes on sports, one new volume of letters from the president to Ann Landers, and two volumes on other subjects.
VH. MAJOR GROUP: THEOLOGY BL-BX
a)	Book capacity: 5000 volumes.
b)	Seating: 60
c)	Subdivisions:
1)	Sacred Scriptures, BS 1 1957 to BS 2970J55
One (1) Consultation Desk, mahogany
One (1) Chair, swivel type, adjustable, fabric and color to clash with decor of room One (1) additional straight back wooden chair, without arm rests to seat student when consulting with librarian
One (1) coatrack of small capacity to be located inconveniently. . . .
9

Our future is in the hands of men not yet hired
At Western Electric we play a vital role in helping meet the complex needs ot America’s vast communications networks. And a career at Western Electric, the manufacturing arm of the nation-wide Bell Telephone System, offers young men the exciting opportunity to help us meet these important needs.
Today, Western Electric equipment reduces thousands of miles to fractions of seconds. Even so, we know that our present communications systems will be inadequate tomorrow; and we are seeking ways to keep up with—and anticipate—the future. For instance, right now Western Electric engineers are working on various phases of solar cell manufacture, miniaturization, data transmission, futuristic telephones, electronic central offices, and computer-controlled production lines—to name just a few.
To perfect the work now in progress and launch many new communications products, projects, procedures, and processes not yet in the mind of man —we need quality-minded
engineers. If you feel that you can meet our standards, consider the opportunities offered by working with our company. In a few short years, you will be Western Electric.
. Challenging opportunities exist now at Western Electric for electrical, mechanical, industrial, and chemical engineers, as well as physical science, liberal arts, and business majors. All qualified applicants will receive careful consideration for employment without regard to race, creed, color or national origin. For more information about Western Electric, write College Relations, Western Electric Company, Room 6206, 222 Broadway, New York 38, New York. And be sure to arrange for a Western Electric interview when our college representatives visit your campus.

mo sumv
UNIT or IHt BILL SVlttM
Principal manufacturing locations at Chicago, III.; Kearny, N. J.; Baltimore, Md.; Indianapolis, Ind.; Allentown and Laureldale, Pa.;
Winston-Salem, N. C.; Buffalo, N. Y.; North Andover, Mass.; Omaha, Neb.; Kansas City, Mo.; Columbus, Ohio; Oklahoma City, Okla. Engineering Research Center, Princeton, N. J. Teletype Corporation, Skokie, III, and Little Rock, Ark. Also Western Electric distribution centers In 33 cities and Installation headquarters In 16 cities. General headquarters: 19S Broadway, New York 7, N. Y.
The Scholastic
10
PARENTS SEE CAMPUS LIFE
“Son, would you step out into the corridor for a minute? I want to turn around." “Hmm, is your room always in this condition?” These and many other comments will possibly be made this week end as parents of juniors visit the campus during Junior Parent-Son Week end.
Parents will have a chance to meet the deans and faculties of the respective colleges from 1:30 to 3:30 p.m. Saturday. The AB reception will be held in the O’Shaughnessy lobby and art gallery, the Business Administration gathering in the Rathskeller of the LaFortune Student Center, Engineering in the lobby of the Engineering Building and Science in the Science library. ROTC receptions will be held in the Military Science Building.
Juniors can show off their living conditions at the hall receptions from 2:30 to 4:30. The most shown and least seen movie on campus will be presented from 3:00 to 5:00 in Room IC of the Student Center when that film classic “The Notre Dame Story” is shown continuously.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, will be the main speaker at the President’s Dinner in the South Dining Hall tomorrow night. The Notre Dame Glee Club will entertain at the function which runs from 6:45 to 8 p.m.
Following the dinner, Father Hesburgh and other University officials will meet and chat with parents and sons at the President’s Reception in the Student Center from 9 to 10:30 p.m.
Special sections for the juniors and their parents will be reserved at the 8 and 9 a.m. Masses in Sacred Heart Church Sunday morning. There will be no Communion Breakfast.
The finals of the Bengal Bouts tonight and the Four Lads concert in the Stepan Student Activities Building tomorrow afternoon from 3:30 to 5:30 will provide the diversion for the visiting parents and their sons. Price for the Four Lads’ concert is $2.
Registration is from 5 to 8 this evening and from 8 to 11 tomorrow morning for the week end.
N.D. LOSES 2-1 DECISION
Last Saturday, Chris Lane, and Jim Murray of the Notre Dame Debate Team journeyed to Rockefeller
Center in New York to take part in NBC’s nation-wide College Debate Program. Debating against Southwest Missouri State College, a small school with an excellent debating reputation, our debaters came out on the short end of a 2-1 decision.
A number of factors were responsible for Notre Dame’s loss in this contest. The main cause was not a lack of skill either in speaking or in debating, but the time allotment Notre Dame was given. Speaking for the aflimative on the topic “Should farm price supports be drastically reduced,” a difficult position to begin with, Lane and Murray were faced with the impossible task of refuting eight minutes of attack with only 3y2
BILL SPARKS, FRANK DICELLO, KEVIN HART, AND DAVE KENNEDY
minutes of rebuttal. This was the situation because Notre Dame was required to speak first, and being thus forced to devote their first 4% minutes to a general discussion of the topic.
The condensation of the program into half an hour, far shorter than a normal debate, presented another problem in that there was little time to analyze the debate and judge it as it was progressing.
In spite of these shortcomings, NBC and the American Student Foundation, which is sponsoring the debates, are very happy with the results of their most recent enterprise. Judging from the ratings, their attempts to sell debate to the public
and to bring debate back to its former standing in college life are meeting with some success. There is high hope that they will continue these shows.
Chris Lane, chairman of the Debate Team, said upon his return, “Naturally, I’m very disappointed that we didn’t win. Placed in the academic spotlight as we were, a victory on our part would have looked good for the University and added a little something to the name Notre Dame. Nonetheless, it was a very interesting and educational experience, and I only hope that we can return again someday.”
SEEING AFRICA IN SOUTH BEND
Tomorrow Notre Dame’s International Commission and Operation Crossroads Africa, a private corporation aimed at both studying the problems of Africa and informing the public of their nature, will present
“Seeing Africa As It Is Today." The program will last all day and persons expert in African affairs will be present. •
Included in the list of panelists are John Akar, head of broadcasting in Sierra Leone; Dr. John Marcum, head of the African Studies program at Lincoln University; and Harris Wofford, special assistant to President Kennedy. (Wofford is the former Notre Dame law professor who is expert in the field of civil rights.)
Various topics will be discussed, including “The Role of Women in Africa,” “The Implications of PanAfricanism,” and “Apartheid in South Africa.” Students are welcome to
(Continued on page 24)
March 23, 1962
11
/fat Q'laluun
BACK TO THE 3.0
Monday night the Debate narrowly upheld the constitutional requirement of a 3.00 average for all senators. A routine amendment was made in the Charity Chest policy and some important campus changes were predicted in the reports.
Chris Buckley, SBP, reported that
two Senate members would be sitting in on Governor Welch’s Child Welfare Committee next fall. Buckley also told the senators that his brother Frank Buckley had just been elected Student Body President at Holy Cross.
Tom Schlereth reported on his continued progress in maintaining clubs and balances on Senate finances. All campus club accounts will be checked out and the salaries of personnel in student government will be reval-uated.
Mike Connor, chairman of the Student Welfare Committee gave a long report. By Sept., 1963, both St. Mary’s and Notre Dame should have private phones. Meals in the dining halls will be improved. Plans are being made for the establishment of a student parking lot, probably to the west of the Stadium. Connor exhorted the senators to exhort their constituency to take some responsibility for the preservation of grass on campus. The Freshman Quad has become something of a bog and an attempt will be made to reseed it.
A few weeks ago the Senate amended the by-laws of the Constitution so that the required average of a hall senator would be 2.5. This ruling could not go into effect until the Constitution itself was changed. Monday an attempted amendment to the Constitution failed. To change the Constitution a two thirds vote of the entire Senate is necessary, 23 votes out of 34. There were only 27 members present so five dissenters would have been enough to maintain the 3.0 average. There were eight ayes, ■ 17 nays, and 2 abstentions. Schlereth, -Clark, Castaldi, Walker, Gearen, (O’Hare, Eck, and Bishop voted nay. (Colleton and Hart abstained.
Schlereth explained that the senators, particularly the officers, represent the University wherever they go and for this reason ought to have a high average. Hart said he ab-
Two Major Changes In Election Rules
Election Co-chairman Tom Eiff has announced that elections will be held on Apr. 12. Nominations open on next Friday for the following positions: student body president, college senator, and class officers (president, vice-president, secretary, treasurer). Recently passed bylaws of the Student Senate have changed several requirements. Candidates are advised to pay particular attention to these differences because they may affect their eligibility.
The candidates for student body president, college senator, and class president are required to have a 3.0 accumulative average. The minimum average for the other three class offices has been lowered to a 2.5 cumulative. Changes have also been made in regard to the maximum campaign expenditure allowed each candidate or group of candidates. The amount for student body president has been raised to $75. The nominees for the other offices may spend $45. A party of two is restricted to $80 and a party of three to $115. Any material donated to a candidate or party must be counted as an actual expense at its regular value.
Nomination forms may be picked up in the Student Government office any time after 8 a.m. on next Friday. They can be turned in from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Friday and any day thereafter from 4 to 6 p.m. The deadline is Apr. 6 at 6 p.m. All nominations must be returned io the Student Government offices and only at the specified times. Each candidate must turn in, before Apr. 9, a sample of all campaign material he has used or intends to use, its cost, and the establishment with which he did the business.
A preferential ballot will be used, and a simple majority shall determine the winner of a single election. A fee of 25c will be assessed each candidate who submits a nomination form. Off-campus students will vote in the basement of the Student Center. On-campus residents, who live in a hall other than one assigned to their class, will cast their ballot in the lobby of the South Dining Hall. All other students will be able to vote at the usual polling place in their hall.
— By Ed Malloy stained because the matter was not “black and white.” He suggested that it would be better to eliminate the minimum average entirely than to lower it.
NEWS BRIEFS
The University is $750,000 closer to the goal of $18,000,000 in its current development program. Frank M. Freimann, president of the Magnavox Company, gave Notre Dame $500,000, which qualifies the University for another $250,000 from the Ford Foun- ■ dation. The Foundation awards one dollar for every two dollars Notre Dame receives from its alumni, friends, corporations, and foundations up to June 30, 1963. Freimann is a member of the University’s Advisory Council for Science and Engineering.
An East-West student tour including travel through the Soviet Union, Poland, Czechoslovakia, Finland, Sweden, Denmark, Germany, and Hol- z land, is being planned for this summer. Students interested should • write the U. S. National Student Association, Educational Travel, Inc., Dept. R-l, 20 West 38th Street, New York 19, New York.
Sophomore comprehensives for AB students, abandoned last year, are being restored this year in a wholly different form. Each AB sophomore will submit an autobiography and a critical analysis of a book he has read to a board of three faculty members. These writings will form a base for a half-hour interview by the board next May. The board will then submit an evaluation profile to both the student and the dean.
President John F. Kennedy, “a man among men,” and Elizabeth Taylor, “the most beautiful woman in the world,” were named the world’s most attractive personalities by collegians	in	a	nation-wide poll	conducted	by	Campus Illustrated.	Of
the top ten men and top ten women named,	it	is	significant that	only
three,	Gina	Lollobrigida, Sophia
Loren, and Brigitte Bardot, were not Americans.
The Department of Philosophy is sponsoring competition for the Dock-weiler Medal again this year. The award is given to the AB senior who submits the best essay on a philosophical subject. Students desiring more information should contact the Philosophy office.
The 8:30 p.m. South Shore out of the Randolph Street Station in Chicago last Sunday night was stopped and evacuated while an hour-long search for a reported bomb was conducted. No bomb was found and the “Toonerville Trolley” pulled into South Bend an hour and forty minutes late.
. The Scholastic
Social Life atN.D.: Commissioner s Solution
What do you think are some of the main faults of our social life on campus?
The first fault, I think, is the timing and organization of events. We’ve had a lot of trouble in the past and right about now, too, because several events are scheduled at conflicting times. The second fault is the apathy on the part of the leaders on the campus. The first problem could be alleviated by having the social commissioner of the school responsible for setting up the entire social calendar instead of having everyone go to the Vice-President for Student Affairs to do it. This year for instance, the Bengal Bouts were scheduled for Mar. 23, and we had a $2300 contract with the Four Lads for that date too. Luckily, we were able to move the Four Lads to Saturday afternoon, but this could have been quite a problem.
What do you think can be done for our social life under existing conditions?
Under existing conditions you can’t actually do much. This year Student Government is revamping all kinds of policy, but we don’t have a Social Commission policy. I’m working on one of those right now, but, as far as that goes, the senators actually don’t want to give any more power to the Social Commission than it already has.
What do you think would be the ideal social situation?
Without any restriction, the best possible social setup on this campus could be a major function periodically with minor parties, dances, etc., in between.
Could you indicate in what ways you are hampered, for example by the SMC students, the Administration, etc.?
First of all, as far as we’re concerned, we’re hampered mainly by the lack of facilities. We’re not exactly sure that it’s going to be a good idea to hold our dances at the new Stepan Activities Building after all. It's fine for Victory Dances because they are always jammed, but it’s too big for smaller dances. We have the Student Center for small events and the Activities Building for large ones, but nothing in between.
As for St. Mary’s, the hours of the SMC girls is one of our major con-
cems. Most of the fellows have to be in at 12:30, but the girls have to be in at 11:30. If we could get some kind of extension on the SMC curfew many of our problems would be solved. The Limeliters, for instance, were actually insulted when some of the SMC girls got up right in the middle of the performance to beat the clocks back to Holy Cross Hall.
At Notre Dame, the one thing that hurts us with the students is bad publicity, publicity which gives them the idea we’re trying to take them for their money. Most of our events are budgeted to break even or make little money. We’re not here to make a lot of money off the
students. It’s because we don’t want to work in the red that we budget to try to make a small profit. There are lots of things the administration can do, but I will say that it has been more cooperative this year than in any of the past four years.
What is the bad publicity you referred to which creates antipathy among the students?
Most of the publicity I was talking about was of the student - to - student, word of mouth kind which gives the impression we’re trying to make a lot of money. But recently, a letter of criticism was printed in the Scholastic. If the letter had been printed in November when it was written and sent in,
instead of coming at a time when almost all the campus organizations were having some kind of internal difficulties, it would have caused my Commission, for one, a lot less trouble. I think a little prudence could have been used there.
You mentioned that N.D. students seem to have a grudge against your Commission for making money. Wliat happened to the money you made the first semester?
All the money goes into the Student Government fund. No one uses this money in conjunction with the
Commission.
What has been the basis of your program this year?
When I was given the job last year I approached Chris Buckley and told him I wanted to bring in a lot of big name entertainment, because I think the guys want to see this more than
anything else. I’d like to see some more big name entertainment come
in for a spring dance, but with Easter at such a bad position in the calendar, it’s just impossible. Small parties, which I think are a big help in making a success of the year, are not intended for the guy who never has a date. They’re for the guys who go out almost every week. I find many guys, especially freshmen and sophomores, want to have these parties even more than they want to have big name events, since they are inexpensive.
That, then, is what I’ve built the whole social calendar on this year — the big name entertainment and the smaller parties.
What events haven’t you been able
GREG WEISMANTEL "I love that ECHO YELL!"
to carry out?
There were some smaller things but the main thing was a Spring Open House. We wanted it to last three days: Friday night, big name entertainment; a gamefest all day Saturday; Saturday night, a big mixer; and closing with a Communion breakfast on Sunday. It had been planned for the second week in April, but Holy Week is close and the Collegiate Jazz Festival is the first week end in April.
(Continued on page 24)
March 23, 1962
13
How would you forecast your next few years P
Today, the young man planning his life realizes as never before that in today’s world his own future is tied inevitably to America’s future. How can he serve both?
Many college graduates, both men and women, are finding a rewarding answer on the Aerospace Team — as officers in the U.S. Air Force. Here is a career that is compelling in its challenge and opportunity. And it is a way of life
that holds the unsurpassed satisfactions that come with service to country.
As a college student, how can you become an Air Force Officer?
If you have not completed Air Force ROTC, Officer Training School provides an opportunity to qualify for a variety of vitally needed jobs in the Aerospace Age. A graduate of this threemonth course earns a commission as a second lieutenant. Also open to college men is the Navigator Training program.
For full information — including the chance to obtain graduate degrees at Air Force expense — see the Air Force Selection Team when it visits your college. Or write: Officer Career Information, Dept.SC23, Box 805, New York 1. N. Y. U.S. Air Force
FOR AMERICA’S FUTURE AND YOUR OWN... JOIN THE AEROSPACE TEAM.
14
The Scholastic

Of Special Interest. An SMC super-special . . . sponsored by the South Bend Civic Music Association: American Ballet Theater. It will occur on the evening of Sunday, March 25 at 8:15 p.m. at O’Laughlin auditorium. The only hitch is that tickets will be sold only through SMC girls: i.e., the Notre Dame public isn’t invited — this is restricted to membership. If you want to go you’d better make a friend across the Dixie in a hurry.
The South Bend Art Association will show the last in its film classics series. And, perhaps this last show will be the best: Shakespeare’s Henry V.... Today . at the Schuyler Colfax Auditorium of the South Bend Public Library. This Academy Award winner is in color and stars Lawrence Olivier and Robert ' Newton. The lights dim at 8 p.m.
The Fine Arts Quartet returns to campus for another demonstration in the Art Gallery (4:30 p.m.), and a concert in Washington Hall (8:30 p.m.) on Monday. The former is gratis — the latter will cost you a buck.
Newsflash of the week: J. Bay Jacobs (fondly known as Doc J.) will come out with his first issue of a science fiction journal called Enigma which, I am told, he has permission to peddle on campus. I haven’t seen a pre-issue and cannot, therefore, comment. . . . But you can bet that I’ll be the first on my block to get down to the newsstand!
The Avon Art. A double feature this week — and the added attraction is more attractive than the main show — in my opinion. The principal is a British flick called The Loss of Innocence starring Kenneth More, Daniel Darrieux and Suzanna York. It is an “in color” version of Rummen Godden’s novel The Greengage Summer and concerns a jewel thief and a French hotel proprietress. A likely British twist. . . . The second feature is a South Bend rerun of Bonjour Tristesse which is a rewrite of the controversial novel by Francoise Sagan. David Niven and Deborah Kerr star — a notable cast.
(Week: Loss 6:15, 9:25; Bonjour 7:55 — Sun. Loss 6:05, 9:15; Bonjour 4:30, 7:40)
Colfax. King of Kings has departed and has left in its stead, of all things, its sequel: Ben Hur. That is, for the uninitiated, the “Story of the Christ.” This is its third South Bend showing — by popular demand . . . and it will play but a single week. Charlton Heston plays the lead in this multiOscar winner that was made famous by its galley slaves, leper colonies, and chariot racing.
(Ben: 1:00 - 4:20 - 7:40)
The Granada. Satan Never Sleeps is a richly humorous, if overly sentimental, story about a Catholic mission in Communist China. William Holden and Clifton Webb man the religious oasis against the likes of Communist Weaver Lee. Shelter is given to the young cook, France Nuyen, whose attachment to Father O’Banion adds the coy, Oriental touch. The mood is reminiscent of Leo McCarey’s other “priest” production: Going My Way. The novel was originally by Pearl Buck — the screen play is adequately handled by Claude Binyon. Delightful entertainment.
(.Satan Never Sleeps: 1:30 - 4 - 6:30 - 9)
River Park. Flower Drum Song, the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical, with Nancy Kwan, will play in Mishawaka this week. Chop Suey in San Francisco. The week following you'll have a chance to see La Dolce Vita if
(Continued on page 19)
March 23, 1962
I have received comments from people about the mistakes in previous attempts at bridge humor. Basically, they break down to three: the column was edited and certain paragraphs omitted. (Nothing obscene, you understand. I know I’m not working for Playboy.) A king was put in declarer’s hand at the 3NT contract by mistake. And the column got printed. Seriously, I have heard enough to repeat the experience some other time.
Today’s column will be rather brief and concern itself with a review of the better known defensive signals. To learn more about them, I suggest a good book on the play of the hand and defense by Reese, Coffin, Louis Watson, or Goren perhaps.
Antique as whist is the high-low signal given in a suit to show a doubleton holding. At a suit contract, it often indicates an ability to ruff the third round or else simply to give partner a count on that particular suit. This signal is often used at notrump, where partner, holding the outstanding honor in some suit, can tell, by your high-low or failure to high-low, how many rounds that he must hold up to cut off communications between the opposition’s hands. It may sometimes be imperative for partner to hold up an exact number of rounds to prevent declarer from stealing an extra trick and making his contract. A high-low could also simply call for a continuation of that suit.
The trump echo is a specialized form of the high-low, and it is meant to show a holding of three or more trumps and a desire for a ruff. Partner then will not fear losing a trick in the suit you wish to ruff because he knows you are void by your signal and you have a trump left to ruff it.
Finally, the high-low is used in a conventional way when you are leading a suit that partner bid. It is customary to high-low with two and lead low with three or more; though some high-low when they do not have
(Continued on page 19)
15
The
JAZZ
In an attempt to educate those members of the student body who do not “dig" jazz, or modern jazz, the committee sponsoring the Collegiate Jazz Festival 1962 has prepared replies to questions most often asked by those unacquainted with the subtleties of jazz.
IS JAZZ AN ART? Though there are many definitions of jazz, all begin by saying: Jazz is an art And the artistic essence is in the doing! Barry Ulanov, author of The Handbook of Jazz and The History of Jazz, says that what these jazzmen do as artists is “like painters and poets, they are of all faiths, their doctrines are many; but they are united in one conviction, that they have found a creative form for themselves, for their time, for their place . . . (and) at its best what it communicates cannot be communicated in any other way.”
WHEN AND WHERE DID JAZZ ORIGINATE? According to Marshall Stearns, Executive Director of the Institute of Jazz Studies, and author of The Story of Jazz, jazz is a 330-year-old synthesis of mixing European and African music traditions into the United States. Or, more spe
16
cifically, Rex Harris, British jazz authority who wrote the book Jazz, says that over 300 years ago West African music was for “songs and dances.” “This is the key to its Afro-American descendant, jazz. The song and dance were inseparable, and it is in this way African melody filtered through the early work songs via the blues, and by an instrumental synthesis with the human voice . . . molded one facet of the classic jazz of New Orleans. African rhythm, quiescent to a large degree during the comparative musical void of American slavery, molded another.”
WHAT IS THE PLACE OF JAZZ IN TODAY’S WORLD? Andre Ho-dier, French author of the classic Jazz Evolution and Essence says, “Jazz is a reflection of a civilization in motion rather than of a static world; that because this is true, it is governed by an evolutionary dialectic; and that finally the jazzman like any creature worthy of the name, is physically and intellectually bound by the uncompromising salutary law of effort.”
WHAT ARE THE ELEMENTS OF JAZZ? Jazz has a distinct rhythm.
And as jazz evolved the rhythms become more complicated. Most importantly, as Leonard Feather stresses in The Encyclopedia of Jazz to distinguish jazz from other music, “Jazz is improvised.” This creative variation on a theme is jazz. A swinging beat forces a soloist’s creativity onward. And as the song goes “It don’t mean a thing if it ain’t got that swing.”
CAN YOU DEFINE THE ESSENCE OF JAZZ TODAY? Again, Hodier explains from his book, “Jazz consists essentially of an inseparable but extremely variable mixture of relaxation and tension — that is, of swing and the hot manner of playing. Defined in this way, jazz has an incredibly rich past, considering the briefness of its history. It has involved the most varied forms of expression — vocal and instrumental, monodic and polyphonic, individual and collective, improvised and worked out After remaining a music of common people for a long time, some of Ellington’s work put it in the ranks of highbrow music; Armstrong gave it mystical overtones, and Miles Davis added to it a chamber music character that it lacked before. It has something to offer to every mood and can
The Scholastic
be sometimes light, sometimes serious.”
HOW DO YOU CRITICIZE JAZZ? Humphrey Lyttleton in a book called Just Jazz 3, wrote in 1959: “It would be absurd to set King Oliver’s famous Dippermouth Blues choruses against something by Miles Davis and judge them by melodic standards alone. Somebody once described a good critic as ‘one who can find it in himself to judge fairly a work with which he is temperamentally out of sympathy!’ It would take a musician of superhuman understanding and mental elasticity to do this. So it is apparent the demands on a jazz critic are severe. [Today] ... the critic’s musical knowledge must be sufficient for him to take in and discuss technical innovations. At the same time he must retain a lively emotional response to a musician of a more primitive and technically simple nature. Above all he must have a strong sense of the period so that he does not fall headlong into the pitfail of judging the output of one generation by the standards and ideals of another. —”
WHAT ARE THE BLUES? To E. Simms Campbell in the book Jazzmen (Edited by Ramsey and Smith) the blues are “filled with the deepest emotions of a race. They are songs of sorrow charged with satire, with that potent quality of ironic verse clothed in the raiment of the buffoon. They were more than releases, or temporary releases from servitude. The blues were the gateway to freedom for all American Negroes. In song, the Negro expressed his true feelings, his hopes, and aspirations, ideals, and illiterate though many of them were, there was always a spiritual and ennobling quality to all of the music.” In Just Jazz 3, Ernest Borneman says: “A folk form that does not alter is doomed to die. And the blues is not merely a form of folk song — it is a phrasing and can thus be applied to any kind of song. It is not just one of the countless song forms from which jazz draws its thematic material: it is the nucleus of jazz itself.”
IS JAZZ A ONE-RACE MUSIC? American Negro and American White have proclaimed it the music of the American. Leonard Feather has said in his Book of Jazz: “The Negro percentage among great jazz soloists, singers, and arrangers at present probably accounts for 40 to 60% of the total. Most of the great innovators of jazz history have been Negroes; a few were white—Beiderbecke, Goodman, March 23, 1962
Tristano. Purely by chance, the great clarinetists and guitarists (Barney Kessel, Charlie Christian) at least of the past 15 years have been white, while a majority of the trumpeters (Miles Davis and “Satchmo”) have been Negro, and the saxophonists (Gerry Mulligan and Paul Desmonds, John Coltrane and Cannonball Adderly) and trombonists (J.J. Johnson) are more or less equally divided. John Lewis (The Modern Jazz Quartet) typifies the newer, more scholarly approach, tends to have absorbed so many influences from European music that to classify them racially would be so absurdly impractical.”
WHAT IS A JAZZMAN? From Ho-dier’s book Evolution and Essence: “A jazzman . . . has to make an effort to produce his music, and before making this creative effort he first must make the effort necessary to master his instrument. The jazz musician passionately wants to express himself. His style is not worked out, like the European composer’s, in solitary meditation. It is bom as a result of actual experience, individual or collective, but may be brushed up at leisure. It is easy to imagine someone like (Erroll) Garner working at home to perfect not particular phrases themselves, but a type of phrase that he will use in his improvisations, just as a tennis player works out special strokes in preparation for coming matches. As music evolves, jazz requires and demonstrates the musician’s concern about being free in
relation to the art of his predecessors.”
WHAT IS SCHOOL JAZZ? According to the man-from-behind-the-school-jazz-scene, Charles Suber, in his report in Down Beat’s 1961 annual, it encompasses “more than 5000 schools in America with jazz and dance bands.” This movement in high school is led by the “Swingin’ Padre” Father Wiskirchen, C.S.C., and his Notre Dame High School Band, Niles, Ill. Quoting Suber: “A growing number of colleges and universities are now offering courses in jazz. North Texas State continues its 15 year old program under the current direction of Leon Breeden; Michigan State University has such a program under Dr. Eugene Hall’s direction; Indiana University’s jazz program is directed by Edwin Baker.” Jazz is also studied at West Texas State, and Rochester School of Music in New York, and many schools in California. Suber concludes: “Meantime, Boston’s Berk-lee School of Music continues as the best all-jazz music school in America and therefore in the world; it attracts students from countless countries. It has been an important force in school jazz."
JAZZ IN 1984? In Leonard Feather’s Book of Jazz, he states that the future of jazz rests with the younger generation, an implication of the significance of collegiate jazz. “Jazz today is a young man’s art and a young, (Continued on page 19)
17
LENTEN
EXHIBIT
The current exhibition at the University Art Gallery is one especially fitted to the season of Lent. It is a collection of Old Masters — most with religious themes — donated by the Clowes Fund, and will be shown until Apr. 8. The Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., head of the Notre Dame Art Department, comments on the exhibition: “Never before has the Art Gallery housed so many classic masterpieces of Western painting. The contemplation of such beauty enhancing our walls renders one both breathless and speechless. All of us at the University are deeply grateful to the members of the Clowes Fund of Indianapolis for this opportunity to display so many treasures from their collection.”
El Greco, HEAD OF CHRIST
Austrian School, PASSION OF OUR LORD
18
The Scholastic
kibitzer (Continued from page 15) three to an honor, it has been the author’s experience that the consistent leading low from three brings the better results. The top of nothing lead or leading high from an honorless holding of three card in an unbid suit falls in the same category; partner either goes to unnecessary lengths to give you a phantom ruff or misreads the distribution of the whole hand.
Another rare convention at notrump is the lead of the ace, requiring partner to drop the highest card he holds in that suit. This should be done with a suit which is solid except for the lack of a minor honor like a queen or jack.
In modem times, there has arisen a movement to lead the ace from AKx(x..) instead of the king. This is primarily a protection against the Bath Coup:
DUMMY 452 PARTNER	YOU
KQ109	743
DECLARER
AJ8
Whether playing in no-trump or a suit contract, the lead by partner of the king of a suit denies possession of the ace. If partner leads the king in the example above, declarer will probably duck, hoping that he leads back the suit and gives him a trick that he does not deserve. This play, when executed successfully, is called a Bath Coup; and playing the convention above, you can foil declarer by playing low in the first lead. This play will expressly deny either the ace or the jack, and partner will wait until you can lead the suit through declarer. A high signal will correspondingly indicate one of the two.
In a few weeks, the Notre Dame Duplicate Bridge Club is sponsoring an Open Pair Campus Championship Tournament, on March 18 and 25. Winners of first and second places will receive individual trophies, and their names will be inscribed on the Gerity Trophy, named after the man whose generosity set up a fund for duplicate bridge. Entrance fee will be one dollar, and in addition to the trophy, the winners will receive two master points.
Well, time to get back to the bridge table. My partner and I have a couple of fish on the hook and writing this column has been costing me money. We leave you with an important piece of advice: never lead away from a void; it’s frowned on in better bridge circles.
—Wally
March 23, 1962
'Jazz'
(Continued from page 17) immature art in itself. Though some of the major creative figures are men of middle age, they are exceptions; the main force of new ideation will always rest with musicians young in mind and body. One can only speculate whether the jazz of today will have shown greater durability and will render itself susceptible to subjective enjoyment a generation hence.”
WHAT IS THE BOLE OF THE JAZZ LOVER? In the Jan. 18, 1962, issue of Down Beat, Don DeMichael answered this question in his editorial column: “The main thing a fan can
'In Town'
(Continued from page 15) you haven’t had that opportunity already.
(Flower Drum Song: 6:45 and 9:05)
The State. Walk on the Wild Side goes into its second and final week. From the fight of the black cat in the beginning — to the she-cat: Jane Fonda, in the middle — to the cat at the end — this is a remarkable picture. It handles well a controversial subject and its frank presentation makes the best of an average story. Characterization is its forte: Laurence Harvey — the spirit of good, a wild Texas “bumpkin” whose natural philosophy overcomes the big town evil not after sustaining great losses; Capucine — a poetess and sculptress turned prostitute because of frustrated love; Jane Fonda — the personification of a cat: orphaned and looking for a good time in an effort to be a woman; Barbara Stanwyck — the madame of the Doll House, corrupter of Capucine, and her Lesbian lover.
It is a well-directed and well-presented thought provoker which is well worth seeing.
(Walk: 1:15 - 3:15 - 5:15 - 7:15 -9:15)
On the Campus. At Washington Hall tomorrow: Raisin In the Sun — a picture about the race issue — starring Sidney Portier: at 2:15, 6:15, 8:40. Lyons Hall will show North by Northwest — the Alfred Hitchcock thriller — on Saturday at 3 and 7. The Last Train from Gun Hill will be shown in the Engineering Auditorium on Sunday. That’s all the clubs that reported.
John McGuire
do, obviously, is spend money. Financial support includes record purchases, but of more immediate effect is attending jazz performances whether on a concert stage, festival, or in a night club. And this immediate support need not be reserved for the well-known jazzmen only; there are hundreds of local groups throughout the country that deserve and need all the support local fans can give them.
“Besides money in the pocket, the presence of an audience does much to raise the morale of the jazzman, which can lead to an inspired performance. Both musicians and fans can come out ahead. Also, it may sound corny, (but after listening to a jazzman’s performance) its effects on the powers-that-be can be astonishing. Write letters.”
Are you in the know about jazz? Do you have the jazz feeling? Do you think jazz? Today scattered densely throughout the U.S., and its college campuses, including Notre Dame, jazz activities to some remain the only distinct art indicative of American cultural achievements. Do you want to know and hear more of the college jazz artists? If so, soon you will have that chance by becoming “members” of the jazz activity.
— Compiled by Dave Paliganoff
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist
•
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
NICOLA'S
Cracker Crust Pizza
CE 4-6688
Free Delivery to Circle and WNDU Parking lot from 5:00 P.M. on the hour.
•
Restaurant in back at 607 No. Michigan
19

“Some Sundays you wish you had stayed in bed..."
Alex Webster, N.Y. Giants
f 4 You've got to expect punishment out there. Some days it's worse than others. You get it from all sides. When you're hit, you know it—especially in the face. I learned a long time ago not to trust anything but a remington. Those roller combs suit me fine. Give me the closest shave I ever got without ruffling the bruises J)
The closer you try to shave, the more irritated you're likely to get Only Remington*—because of its adjustable roller combs— allows you to shave closer more comfortably, more safely. Try it REMINGTON SELF-POWERED LEKTRONICShaverwith exclusive rollercombs.Shaveswithoutacord. Freesyou from sinks,outlets, bathroom tie-ups. Powerful sealed-in cells recharge on shaver's own charging stand for shave after shave without a cord. Also: Remington Roll-A-Matic* plug-in model with roller combs. Both are now being featured at your college or university store.
• tM2 BY SetRRY HANO CCRPOflATlOB
20
The Scholastic
TEN BENGAL CHAMPS CROWNED TONIGHT
by TERRY WOLKERSTORFER
Ten champions will be crowned tonight as the 1962 Bengal Bouts draw to a close. Honorary referee for the championship card, scheduled for 8:00 p.m. in the Fieldhouse, will be ABC-TV boxing commentator Don Dunphy.
Squaring off in the evening’s first fight will be 126-pounders Bill Sanneman and Bill Friedheim. Sanneman, an off-campus junior from North, Adams, Mass., won an easy decision over John Gagnon to advance to the finals; Friedheim had a tougher time, eking out a split decision over freshman Ray Siegfried in what was perhaps Wednesday’s best match.
At 140 pounds, Texas City, Texas sophomore Sam Van Ness meets Bill Sullivan of Chicago. Van Ness, from Howard, won a bye to the finals after winning his quarterfinal fight by a first-round TKO over Douglas Hsu; Sullivan, from Cavanaugh, beat senior Bill Goodwine and veteran junior Brian Richardson en route to his bout with Van Ness.
Two juniors — Jack O’Donnell of Dillon and Pat Williams of Badin — collide in the third bout, for the 147-pound title. O’Donnell, of Millersville, Pa., advanced to the semifinals on a bye, then TKOed Pat Shelley at 1:15 of the first round; Williams, from Springfield, S.C., won two decisions.
156-pound freshman Ted Valenti, who switched from boxer to charger - Wednesday night in winning his second decision, will face .Frank Callahan, Rumson, N.J., senior tonight Valenti, from Troy, N.Y., lives in Farley; Callahan is off-campus.
Two-time champion and last year's “Most Outstanding Boxer,” Tim Reardon, will fight Oak Park, Hl., sophomore Mike McGrath for the Middleweight crown. Reardon, Pangbom junior from San Francisco, hammered out a workman-like unanimous decision over gutty but outclassed junior John Hildebrand Wednesday, and can remain undefeated in Bengals competition if he beats McGrath tonight. Pat Hughes, who lost to McGrath, and Hildebrand will meet for the Junior Middleweight title; Hughes is an Alumni senior from Tulsa, Okla.; Hildebrand is from Dillon and Birmingham, Mich.
At 167 pounds, sophomore halfback Bill Mundee of Morrissey and Chicago takes on freshman Jerry Houlihan, from Keenan and Cortland, N.Y. Both have won two decisions.
178-pounder Dan Manion, a South Bend sophomore who upset two-time champ Jim Gmelin Wednesday night, is matched with veteran senior Bob Biolchini, of Alumni and Detroit.
Juniors Rich DeRosa and Greg
Wood meet for the Junior Heavyweight title in the semi-windup, and in the last, much awaited, much talked about fight of 1962, John Slaf-kosky and Bob Cappadona clash for heavyweight honors. Both are grid-ders: Cappadona, a Farley Hall freshman from Watertown, Mass., scales a modest 212; Slafkosky, a junior from Bethlehem, Pa., is a solid 253. This fight should be a fitting climax to the 31st Bengal Bouts: it won’t go three rounds.
Tonight's Card
126 pounds
Bill Sanneman, Floral Park, N.Y. vs.
Bill Friedheim, Chicago, III.
140 pounds
Sam Van Ness, Texas City, Texas vs.
Bill Sullivan, Oak Park, III.
147 pounds
Jack O'Donnell, Millersville, Pa. vs.
Pat Williams, Springfield, S.C.
156 pounds
Frank Callahan, Rumson, N.J. vs.
Ted Valenti, Troy, N.Y.
Junior Middleweight Pat Hughes, Tulsa, Okla, vs.
John Hildebrand, Birmingham, Mich. Middleweight
Mike McGrath, Oak Park, III. vs.
Tim Reardon, San Francisco, Calif.
167 pounds
Jerry Houlihan, Cortland, N.Y. vs.
Bill Mundee, Chicago, III.
178 pounds
Dan Manion, South Bend, Ind. vs.
Bob Biolchini, Detroit, Mich.
Junior Heavyweight
Greg Wood, San Francisco, Calif, vs.
Dick DeRosa, Tujunga, Calif. Heavyweight John Slafkosky, Bethlehem, Pa. vs.
Bob Cappadona, Watertown, Mass.
March 23, 1962
21
Ora AS WE / v See IT
by BOB CHIAPPINELLI
Terry Dischinger of Purdue, Chet Walker of Bradley, Cotton Nash of Kentucky, Jimmy Rayl of Indiana and Dave DeBusschere of Detroit comprise Notre Dame’s 1961-1962 all-opponent team. Kentucky was a unanimous choice as the top team faced by the Irish hoop squad.
* * *
The coming of spring training brings to mind the proposal about interleague play. Certainly, the American League, where (with all due apologies to any staff members whose fathers happen to be American League managers) nine teams serve merely as sparring partners for those wretched Yankees, could stand the added dash of color provided by such competition. I personally am a Red Sox fan and know that I would enjoy seeing the Sox losing to the National League teams as well as to the American League riffraff.
* * *
Any bets against another Ohio State-Cincinnati final in the NCAA? To steal a baseball phrase, “Beat ’em Buc(k)s.”
* * *
Maybe the Hoosiers have got something with their basketball hysteria after all. Rarely do you see any team shoot at a .539 percentage as champion Evansville Bosse did last Saturday or display the composure and coolness under fire that both Bosse and runnerup East Chicago showed.
* * *
Varsity football practice is just beginning, but already there is talk of the annual Old-Timers game. The old boys have got quite a nucleus walking around campus right now with the likes of Nick Buoniconti, Angie Dabiero, Bob Bill, Clay Schultz and Joe Carollo, all headed for the pro ranks next year. Tack on other regulars such as Gene Viola, Norb Roy, George Sefcik and possibly the injured ends, Les Traver and John Powers, plus the usual complement of yesteryear’s stars and you have a team more than capable of atoning for last year’s slaughter. If the varsity can take this group it might be set to do a little atoning itself.
* * *
Still in the line of Old-Timers games, the soccer club plans to inaugurate one of its own during the halftime of the April football clash.
22
WALT OSGOOD
Baseball
“It’s back to Kline’s winning ways,” says optimistic Head Coach Jake Kline, as the N.D. baseball team, now in the midst of spring practice, prepares for the 1962 season’s opener on Apr. 10 against Purdue.
Although hit by some key graduation losses, the N.D. team has a fine core of returning monogram winners to build around. The pitching duties will be shared by three lettermen, juniors Phil Donnelly, Mickey Walker, and Russ Rustik. Seniors Mike Boehm, Jim Fitzpatrick, and Paul Petitclair and promising sophs Dick Orsagh and Al Cooper are also slated to see possible mound action. On the receiving end of the N.D. battery are catchers Walt Osgood, Fred Nemic, Augie Sisco, and John Dansereau.
Dave Hanson in left field and Bill Brutvan in center give the N.D. team two needed long-ball hitters. The vacant right field position will be up for grabs with Gerry Gray, John Counsell, Pat O’Malley, Jack Nolan, and Gene O’Sullivan fighting for a berth on the starting nine.
The N.D. infield, hurt by the loss of its fine shortstop Jack Gentempo and first baseman O’Leary, might be a little weak, but Ed Naspinski (lb), George Sefcik (2b), Rich Gonski (ss) and Jim Woolwine (3b) look as if they can give the N.D. team a sound defensive infield and also add a punch to the attack. John Matthews, Dick Wolfe, Dick Panther, and Ty Demetrio, add substantial depth to the infield for '62.
PROGRESS REPORT:
‘We’ll
Be
Ready’
by JOE KUHARICH as told to
JOHN BECHTOLD
Even though inclement weather has forced postponement of spring drills for about a week, we are confident the team will be ready for the Old-Timer’s game on April 14.
Once training begins, we expect to pretty much follow a weekly schedule throughout the 20 days. Mondays will be devoted to fundamental drills; contact scrimmages will be stressed during the middle of the week; and Fridays will be used to polish offensive and defensive patterns for the big scrimmages we intend to hold on Saturday afternoons.
Jim Snowden and Jim Kelly will be the only boys unable to participate in contact drills. Both had knee operations over the winter and, therefore, we feel it is best if they just work this spring on noncontact drills.
Paul Costa suffered a strained leg muscle in the Bengal Bouts but is expected to be recovered for spring practice. Some coaches are against their players participating in other sports, but I feel that the Bengals or any other competitive sport is helpful in that it improves footwork and makes the boys more agile.
We don’t plan any radical changes in either our offense or defense, but we will add some new wrinkles to our basic patterns. Our basic offensive formation will continue to be the tight-T with an end split and a flanking back. We may run some new plays from formations that we haven’t used often in the past. However, our main concern is to see that the newer boys become acquainted with our basic formations.
Freshman Coaches Hugh Devore and John Murphy tell us this year’s crop is a representative group. We are hopeful that out of this group we . will find some who can fit in and help the over-all picture.
We hope that we can make enough progress in our daily drills and line scrimmages so that our over-all progress by Old-Timers game will be sufficient to put on a really good performance.
The Scholastic
MAKE OR BREAK:
Frank Budka
One of Coach Joe Kuharich’s major
problems during spring practice will be the continuing search for a “number one” quarterback, and the most likely solution to the problem is Frank Charles Budka.
Budka, from Pompano Beach, Fla., where he lettered in football, basketball, and track, was All Conference, All-State, and All-Southern as a quarterback. In Pompano Beach, Budka is nearly an idol: over 1500 of his home-town fans signed a telegram sent to him before the Oklahoma game last season.
And he has not done badly at Notre Dame. Budka played little until the Pittsburgh game last season when he hit five of nine passes for 133 yards and one touchdown; his performance gained him second place in the Associated Press Back of the Week poll. Said Norb Roy: “Budka did a helluva good job for us.”
Budka’s greatest hour, though, came against Syracuse. He passed 41 yards to Angelo Dabiero for the first Notre Dame touchdown, 25 yards to Les Traver for the second, and almost singlehandedly moved the Irish into field goal position in the closing seconds of the game.
Statistically, his record was not spectacular: he attempted 95 passes and completed 40 for 636 yards, three touchdowns, and a .421 completion average; but he had 14 aerials intercepted.
Hopefully, he will profit considerably from a season’s experience, for this is the make or break season for Frank Budka.
—Terry Wolkerstorfer
In the off season . . .
Voice in the Crowd
The finals of the 1962 Bengal Bouts are tonight. The following letter was received by Tom Miller, Promoter of the Bouts, and is one answer to the critics of boxing who feel the sport has no place at Notre Dame.	—John Bechtold
Dear Thomas:
Being the father of five children — on a teacher’s salary — doesn’t leave me much cash for donations regardless of how worthy the cause. Please accept this two-dollar contribution and realize I wish it were much more. I’ll try to be more generous with the following words of encouragement for the Bengal Bouts.
I’m not sure what kind of a job the missionaries are doing in India (whether they are making, or have made, much of a dent upon the Hindu and Buddhist cultures), but I have known missionaries, and I am sure they deserve whatever help is given them. I wish them the best in all their efforts.
Concerning boxing I would like to make a few comments, as I have had the opportunity of boxing before, during, and after my Notre Dame days, and also have spent the last twelve years as a physical education teacher.
There has been quite a bit of talk lately about physical fitness. Boxing not only encourages physical fitness, it demands it! It develops speed, strength and endurance to an extent few other sports approach, but more important — it is a contact sport in its purest form.
There will always be those who sidestep contact sports. These are the people who would have us all become basketball bouncers. Those who condemn contact sports are the people we can count on to cringe during stress and to avoid any test of nerve. (This sort of conformity to nonviolence is liable to evolve our youth into so much mediocre applesauce!) Often those who throw mud pies at boxing have had little or no experience in boxing and are really not qualified to judge its shortcomings. To a well-conditioned boy who enjoys boxing, it is a thrilling experience to face an opponent and through this healthy means of physical expression a great deal of satisfaction and confidence can be gained. Boxing requires emotional control to a degree unmatched by any other sport.
We in America need to develop the finest qualities in our men. If we remove all the contact sports because of danger and discomfort, then we may as well surrender to the first totalitarian government that threatens us.
Boxing is a test and so is life. Danger is present in both. How do we stand up in life’s contest? Do we face our problems squarely and conquer them or do we sidestep them by refusing to engage? Boys learn about life through boxing.
With boxing as with every other sport, it all depends on “who’s running the show.”
Did America prohibit baseball because of the Black Sox? Have horses stopped racing because of crooked jockeys or trainers? Have we given up basketball because of “point shavers”? Why then should pro-boxing’s evils affect college boxing? Notre Dame provides an entirely different atmosphere and these bouts are well run.
There are none of the sordid characters at Notre Dame that are hanging around some professional boxing circles, or some race tracks, or some night clubs, etc., etc.
Many college lads who have never had the experience of “putting on the gloves” (due to poor physical education programs or sheltered boyhoods) are given the opportunity of a rewarding experience.
Boxing needs no excuse (like the Bengal Missions) to exist at Notre Dame. There is a good enough reason for boxing — because boxing spells out physical fitness, self-sacrifice, determination and courage.
We can help our youth and boxing by continuing to present wellrun boxing by continuing to present well-run boxing shows.
Very Truly Yours,
Charles F. Waters
March 23, 1962
23
Social Commissioner
(Continued from page 13)
Assuming that conditions, such as rules, etc., will not change, in light of your experience, what do you recommend as a basis for a program next year.
When we get our Social Commission policy set up, we’re going to try to make the social commissioner the person responsible for the scheduling of events.
STAY WITH A N.D. MAN BLUE & GOLD MOTEL
1 BLOCK NORTH OF TOLL ROAD EXIT ON U.S. 31
•
Reservations: CE 4-0136
•
CHUCK SWEENEY, N.D. ’38 LOUIS ANDERSON, N.D. ’38
NABICHT CAFETERIA
★
1415 Lincolnway West AAA Approved Cafeteria ★ free parking
DR R.W TURBOW
\OPTOMETRIST
EYEGLASSES REPAIRED
CONTACT LENSES INQUIRIES INVITED
EYE EXAMINATION
OLIVER HOTEL
207 W. Washington — Phone CE 4-5777
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM SATURDAY, MARCH 31 AT 8:30 P.M
ERROLL GARNER
FAMOUS JAZZ PIANIST
With Bass & Percussion Accompaniment TICKETS: S3.5O. $3.00, $2.00. $1.50 ON SALE: Morris Civic Auditorium, Office Engineers CAMPUS SALES: 304 Dillon
MAIL ORDERS: Box 2117, South Bend, Indiana
Definitely I would recommend the Open House again. One thing I’d like to see is the commissioner bringing in some big name entertainment during orientation week. Another thing which was done in the past but which we didn’t have time for was something like having an outdoor barbecue in Cartier Field.
How do you account for such a large loss of money in the very successful Fall Open House?
Actually, we didn’t know what to expect. It’s the first thing that’s ever been attempted on that line. Knowing how to run them now, I think it’s possible to at least break even on them.
How do you think St. Mary’s could help the social situation?
SMC girls could help by cooperating more. When we have a mixer or something, we can’t even expect them to come over any more. The SMC social commission wants to cooperate but doesn’t have the organization for anything big.
What do you think about the proposal to mix the cheering sections at football games?
I don’t want to say anything for or against it really, but I’m not actually for it. I don’t like to say it’s a bad idea just because I don’t like it. Take a sampling from the student body and then decide. In my opinion, it’ll take away part of our spirit. With stay hall residence splitting the classes, I think it’s more important than ever that we sit with our own class. I’m strongly in favor of keeping us all together with the girls on their side. I love that Echo Yell!!
Financially, is your Commission currently in the black or red, and what are the prospects for the end of the year?
It is now in the black because of a $200 profit on the Winter Open House. We have since rebudgeted it to make a net $50 profit. Some of this extra profit will be returned to the students by giving them a break on some of the later events.
FINE ARTS QUARTET RETURNS
The second concert by the Fine Arts Quartet will be given at 8:30 p.m. in Washington Hall Monday night. Admission is $1. There will also be a free demonstration in the O’Shaughnessy Art Gallery at 4:30 p.m. Monday. Monday night's program will feature works by Haydn, Vaughan Williams, and Beethoven.
News and Notes
(Continued from page 11) attend the day-long sessions, which will be held in the Engineering Auditorium.
FIRST SEMESTER REPORT
Averages and medians for the first semester have been announced by Leo M. Corbaci, Assistant to the Vice President for Academic Affairs.
The University average was 3.05, slightly higher than last June’s 3.03.
The following figures are medians of each college subdivided by classes:
	frosh	soph.	junior	senior
AB	3.00	2.93	3.04	3.12
BA	2.33	2.64	2.74	2.77
Eg	2.77	2.79	2.64	2.96
Sc	2.73	3.05	3.16	3.63
It	should be	noted	that the	above
figures are not averages, but medians.
College averages for the first semester are as follows:
AB	BA	Eg.	Sc.
3.20	2.85	2.90	3.21
The following are the averages for each class:
frosh	soph,	junior	senior
2.77	2.93	3.10	3.32
Corbaci also announced that, contrary to previous information contained in The Scholastic, all eight semesters would be included in the grade average of graduating seniors.
FOUR FOR TEN?
The LaFortune Student Center will be the forensic battleground next week end when some 40 colleges and universities participate in Notre Dame’s tenth annual National Invitational Debate Tournament.
The debates, on the topic, “Resolved: That labor organizations should be placed under the jurisdiction of the antitrust laws,” will take place next Thursday, Friday, and Saturday.
Northwestern won the Notre Dame tournament last year, and Kentucky won it the year before. Notre Dame has won three times and would like to run their record to four for ten. General chairman for the tournament is Ray Kelly.
24
The Scholastic
MOTOR COMPANY The American Road, Dearborn, Michigan
PRODUCTS FOR THE AMERICAN ROAD >THE FARM • INDUSTRY* AND THE AGE OF SPACE
The reason: to find the shape of the future—future cars, that is. By creating man-made monsoons in laboratory wind tunnels, Ford Motor Company scientists and engineers are able to test the effects of aerodynamic design on the fuel economy, passing ability and stability of passenger cars.
They use %-scale model cars and blow gales past them up to 267 mph —to simulate 100-mph car speeds. In addition to analyzing shapes with an eye to reducing air drag, our scientists and engineers are studying means of improving vehicle control through proper aerodynamic design.
Experimental projects like this are helping pave the way for major advances in tomorrow's cars . . . advances which could bring even better fuel economy, better performance with less engine effort and safer driving at higher cruising speeds. This is just one more example of how Ford is gaining leadership through scientific research and engineering.
March 23, 1962
25
FORUM
REALITY AND ACADEMIA
I WONDER whether a person without Mr. Robert Cihak’s wild erudition might be allowed a few comments on the subject to which he has addressed himself. I for one do not see so distinct a separation between the university and the city, between speculation and action. It is quite clear that every student is a philosopher, but it is not so easy to know where one draws the distinction between the student as a philosopher, and then as a resident of the “city.” The resident of the city is not solely concerned with the implementation of practical matters as his title would have him. He must not only at one time have been a student philosopher but even as a citizen he must continue his role of philosopher, although on a not-so-overt level. Our concern, however, is more with the student.
The idea of an isolated island of scholarship is an extremely intriguing one. Its very nature will perhaps throw some light on the difficulty at hand. I do not have to say that it is obvious that the brain cannot be separated from the body, to travel off by itself to the timeless plains of the world of the spirit. The ideal is something which by its nature is impossible for us ordinary mortals to reach. But still we must make the attempt to reach it. We are, all the more unfortunately, tied down by the body, which serves us as a constant reminder of our limitations. We are forced by our spirits to try to reach the ideal, but we are constantly faced with a real world to remind us of the impossibility of its attainment. This is not to say that it is not a good thing for the student to set himself apart from the world for a time, in order to enable himself to think objectively about it and about himself. But it is to say that at the university there is no reminder that the search for the ideal is not solely pre-eminent in the real order of things. The idea of a university as an enclave of tortured scholars in an agonized search for their souls and their meaning is not so all-encompassingly good as its modem proponents would make it
26
Further, it should not be forgotten that the political order and its maintenance are not just concepts the application of which enables man to live more comfortably. The political order is not merely one of convenience. The attempt to implement the comfortable life is good, but this is not the sole end of the city. The most important idea is that the maintenance of a sensible political order is the only tangible means we have by which to provide ourselves with the leisure needed for active philosophic thought. The relationship of politics with philosophy and the pursuit of philosophical ends is not an easy one to define but this does not mean that the relationship does not exist, nor that the relationship is an unimportant one. If you cannot eat and live relatively well there is no time for thought. But this is obvious. A close look at the history of any nation will reveal the inseparable bonds between “economic politics” and the very existence itself of religion and philosophy. A given political order will either lend itself or not to higher thoughts and the political order cannot be changed without changing its relationship to philosophy.
To apply these generalities to the practical: The isolation of the youth in the university from practical reality, coupled with his natural impetuosity and idealism, will not allow him to discover the relationship between the ideal and the “real” until his term of formal education is over. The only things with which he will be at all acquainted will be the approach to the ideal, and man’s spiritual necessity of making the approach and of finding the ideal. When he is through with college, then, he is faced with two alternatives, either completely to re-educate himself to this relationship or to ignore it and enter into a world of half-dreams, half-reality which can only lead to disillusionment, perhaps to despair. It is unfortunate that the latter is the easier to do and also that the majority of our leading scholars today fall into this category. The former of the two
by WILLIAM SMITH
is exceedingly harder to do, requiring heroic courage. This sort of selfeducation can be infinitely more meaningful but at the same time it can be infinitely more painful. Against these two very difficult alternatives I would propose that a student learn reality while he searches for the ideal and that this interplay of his roles as student and citizen is the correct one: this as opposed to the more artificial separation propounded by Mr. Cihak.
The student, then, will be intensely interested in the “outside world,” especially in the political aspects of it, primarily because the political aspects of life are those most closely related to the philosophical. At first he will try to mold the real world to the ideal by which he is trying to learn to govern himself. Then will come a difficult awakening to the fact that there are many in the world who can’t afford to regulate themselves by ideals, and who will oppose diametrically — and with much greater power than the student could hope to muster — any attempts of his at influencing the existing order. But he will have his university into which he can temporarily retreat when in doubt. And there he will rethink his ideas concerning the practical and the ideal. He will not lose his ideals as is so often currently the case. He will, instead, see his ideals in their proper perspective, learn to utilize them, learn how to guide himself by them in a cruel world, and still learn to temper them with reality. True, this is a difficult thing to ask of a young person, that is, to ask him to see that his ideals are not always practical and ask him at the same time to search out the ideal. But I feel that this is the most efficient way of beginning to learn. There is no real • separation between the student and the citizen. It is true that at different times the emphasis on either one or the other is different. But to attempt to separate the student from reality just at the time when he can least painlessly learn it is totally unrealistic.
The Scholastic

THE SOCK THAT STAYS UP AS LATE AS YOU DO
ADLER introduces the good-tempered cotton sock. Nothing ever gets it down. With stripes at the top and reinforced with nylon, it's a white sock that sticks to you the way your little brother used to. Pictured, the Alpine with the new Shape-Up leg. $1.00.	theadler company,Cincinnatiu.ohu
ADLER'S good-tempered Alpine available at
FINE STORES EVERYWHERE