
ba
Disee quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVII. ' NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 12, 1884.	No. 18.
• Italy.
filicaja’s famous sonnet.
{Translated for the '■'■Scholastic'" by Marion Muir.)
O Italy, O Italy, when thou
Became possessed of beauty’s fatal dower, Infinite evils over thee had power And graved immortal woes upon thy brow! Why wert thou fair, or failed of strength to cow The dark desires that sought thy virgin bower? Where was the soul that did not bid them cower And leave thy sons a prouder memory now?
Then had we never known the Gauls that poured By Alpine passes and the banks of Po.
Thine own white arm had waved indeed the sword, Had sent the arrow bounding from the bow. Not as the minion of a stranger lord Where, win or lose, thy past is bondage low.
Notes on. the Hebrew Language and Literature.
BY A. M. KIRSCH.
IV.
Hebrew Grammar.
Before entering upon the discussion of Hebrew Grammar, it may not be out of place to give a short list of the most celebrated Hebrew grammarians. After the work of the Masoreths had been finished, during the tenth century after Christ, the most important step towards the systematic study of Hebrew was the formation of a Grammar of the language.
The first author of a Hebrew Grammar was Rabbi lehuda Chajjug, about the year 1040, followed, a century later, by Abraham ben Esra, or Aben Esra, who died 1167. These two Jewish writers were succeeded by the distinguished Rabbi David Kimchi, who died at Narbonne, in France, in the year 1240. His most celebrated work is the “Liber Perfectionist which contains both a- Grammar and lexicon. This book became the standard for many years with both Jews and those Christians who undertook the study of Hebrew. It was about this time also that the Roman Pontiffs decreed that Hebrew, Chaldean and Arabian should be publicly taught in all the universities.
। In 1503, ConradusPellicanus edited his “Modus I Lecrendi etIntelligendiHcbrcea. In the following 10-0	o
year John Reuchlin, a very learned Hebrew scholar, produced hisRttdimenia LinguaHebraica, which was also both a Grammar and a Lexicon. During ____________________________	o the same time we find also Elias Levita, and the Buxtoif family, of Bale, in Switzerland, justly celebrated for their efforts to develop the Hebrew language. Since that time the Hebrew has held the most prominent place among all the Semitic languages, especially through the works and labors of A. Schultens, who died 1750: N. W. Schroder, 1742, and I. Jahn, 1821.
In 1751, Gregory Sharpe, LL. D., published in London a very curious and learned treatise called “Two Dissertations,” to which is added a Hebrew Grammar and Lexicon without points.
The principal writers on Hebrew Grammar in this century are, undoubtedly, William Geseniusand Henry Ewal; but both of these have been excelled by Justus Olshausen in his “ LcJirbuch der He-braischen Sfrache^ 1861. This book is an historical, critical and comparative exposition of the Hebrew language.
Arnold and Gustave Bickell have, more or less, imitated Olshausen; and to them we owe, above all, the first insight into Hebrew poetry, as I shall have an opportunity to show when treating of Hebrew poetry in one of my subsequent papers.
The Grammar I have used, and which is highly recommended by my Professor, Mgr. Lamy, of Louvain, is that of Dr. C. H. Vosen, revised and enlarged by Dr. F. Kaulen, Professor at the University of Bonn. I do not know of any Grammar more complete, and yet so elementary as that of Vosen; it is all that could be desired as a manual for beginners. It is published by Herder, of St. Louis, in Latin and German. The Grammar of J. B. Glaire, published in French, is also complete and clear, and especially adapted for beginners. The most complete Grammar for English-speaking people is certainly" the translation of Gesenius’s Hebrew Grammar. For Lexicons I can recommend, especially- to English scholars, the translation of Gesenius’s Lexicon, and a very neat little Lexicon published at London, by Samuel Baxter & Sons.
I come now to speak of Hebrew Grammar in particular, and before passing on to its principal parts I may be permitted to state the well-known fact that Hebrew is read and written from ■
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
right to left. This is the case with all the Semitic languages, except the Syriac,—which is written downwards, that is, towards the writer.
The Hebrew alphabet has twenty-two or twenty-three letters, as the letters sin and schin are by some grammarians considered the same letter. The names of the letters are: aleph, belli, glmel, daleth, he, vav, sajin, chcth, teth,yod, caph, lamed, • mem, nun, samech, "‘ajin, phe, zadc, koph, resell, sin, schin, tavi The five letters caph, mem, nun, phe, and zade, have two forms: one the ordinary, and one called final, because used at the end of words.
Here I might add some curious observations concerning the origin of the Hebrew characters, but I • will only give a few so as not to weary the reader. Moreover, as I have already remarked, my object is not so much to instruct as to interest; and if my feeble arguments* can awaken in my readers a slight interest for the old and venerable language of the words of revelation, I shall be well satisfied.
History and Paleography teach us that the primitive characters of language were rude draughts of the objects they represented; such, for example, as are the hieroglyphics of the Egyptians and the letters of the Chinese. These characters would in time be contracted, and rendered more expeditious for common use, as the rise of arts and the increase of commerce made writing a necessity.
From characters for objects the inventors would proceed to assign marks for sounds, and by degrees adapt those marks and characters to the parts of sound as they are formed by the organs of speech.
Gesenius regards the Hebrew letters as of Phoenician origin, and according to him the first letter aleph means, in Hebrew, ox or bullock. s< The name,” he says, “ is derived from the form of this letter in the most ancient alphabet, representing the rude outline of a bullock’s head, still found in the remains of the Phoenician dialect.” Baxtci* calls it, therefore, litera taurina. JPeth has the outline of a house, which is also the meaning of its name. Gimel, the third letter, has a hump on its back, and also means a camel; and the sound is probably taken from the cry of that animal when heavily burdened. The fourth letter, daleth, has the form and name of a door, especially of a tent; and in old manuscripts this is more apparent from its mode of writing with the point upwards. Tod signifies a hand; and its figure in the Phoenician and Samaritan alphabets, and on Maccabean coins, still presents a rude image of the hand. Caph signifies the hollow of the hand, or palm, to which the figure of this letter bears a resemblance. Mem signifies water, and the antique forms have a certain resemblance to waves. Shin signifies a tooth, m allusion to its figure. Tav signifies a mark, sign, or cross, whence the name of the letter: in the Phoenician alphabet it has the form of a cross, something Itke the t of the Latins. I have seen in some manuscripts, shown by my Professor of Hebrew, the ancient form of the cross signs.
In Hebrew there are, properly speaking, no vowels, as only consonants are written; but it is now
generally believed, and justly too, that at least three letters were used as vowels, i. e., aleph, wav, tun&yod; and they were called by the old grammarians mat res lectionis, or the motheis, or guides for reading. However, as I stated before, the Academia of Tiberias invented signs to mark the vowels between the consonants by writing these signs under the consonants. They generally go by the name of vowel points, and these are divided into long and short vowel points. The long are called kamez, for the vowel a; zere, for long e; chirek gadol, for long i; cliolem for long 6: and shurek, for long and the short are, for the respective vowels: phatach, segol, chirek quaton, kamez-chatuf, and kibbuz.
Besides these points there are others to assist us in the reading of Hebrew: they arc the schevas, simple and compound, or quiescent. These are placed under consonants that have no vowel point, and they are pronounced like e in let. Next come the diacritical points which serve to change or modify the sound of a letter. They are the daggesch, the mappig, and the raphe. Other signs used are the accents, of which there arc 32 kinds, divided, generally, into imperatores, reges, duces, and comitcs; however, they are of less irm portance, and must be almost entirely neglected by the beginner in the study of Hebrew.
The article in Hebrew is employed like the in English, without denoting either gender, case or number; and its form is hal; I is assimilated to the following letter, which is doubled by a daggesch, and thus we get, for example, hammelech instead of halmelech, meaning the king. In Hebrew there are four kinds of pronouns: personal, demonstrative, relative and interrogative. Personal pronouns have two forms: one for the pronoun when used alone, and another when used with verbs, nouns, or particles; thus, for example, ani means I, atah thou, etc. When used with a noun it is simply i added to the noun, as, for example, ab means father; abi means father of me; in Greek, The demonstrative pronouns are three for the three genders and one for the plural, Asher is the single and common form for the relative pronoun. Mi and mah are the two forms for the interrogative pronoun; mi for persons and mah for things.
Space does not permit me to finish the subject of Grammar in this article, and therefore in my next paper I will speak of the most difficult part of Hebrew Grammar,, namely, the verb and the declension of nouns, adding what jemains to be said of the adjectives, numerals, prepositions, conjunctions, and interjections; after that, I will speak of Hebrew Syntax. And thus the reader will be prepared to understand the writings of the Hebrew language, and the poetry, which will be the subject of a subsequent paper.
(to be continued.)

It is the part of the true philosopher to enjoy the prospect, of good to come rather than to grumble over pain that is past.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
275
The French Revolution.
T. E. STEELE, ’84.
IL ’
The States-General.
And now from Paris throughout all the land flitted the glad tidings, prescient of a golden age. After two centuries of absolutism the rights of man were recognized. After two centuries of government bv blind-man’s buff. that of right reason was to succeed! After centuries of suffering and degradation the great cure-all was to be found! No more oppression; no more injustice; no more hypocrisy; no more forgetfulness of common nature; no more serfdom; no more starvation! Rcdcunt Saturn ia Retyna ! The creator and healer was at hand, the long-prayed-for was here at last— the wonderful, omnipotent States-General.
But how were they to be elected ? how to be organized? how to vote?—all questions instinct with a world’s interest. We will summon the Notables, advises Necker, to gain their opinion; in the mean time if any man, the world over, has any thought worth the hearing, let him speak. So all the philosophers fall to work talking and writing; among others, Abbe Seiyes, the constitution-maker of the Revolution, exclaims: “ What is the tiers-etat (the popular branch)? Nothing; what should it be? Everything.”
In the Notables, as in France at large, there were two sides. The one favored having the States-General as merely one chamber, with the third estate in the maj'ority; the other favored the plan of three distinct chambers—like the Senate and House, for example—where the numerical maj’ority of the popular representatives would avail them nothing.*
After some delay, the Government dodged the real issue bv saving nothing as to the manner of voting, but decreeing that the membership of the States-General should be a thousand strong; and the numerical strength of the third estate should equal that of the privileged orders—nobility and clergy—combined.
But while all this was slowly accomplishing, hunger and want still ruled the land. Hope was indeed a great promoter of life, but even the hope of a golden age to dawn in a few months to come, will avail a man nothing unless he has bread. Unfortunately for kingship in France, the winter of 1788-9 was ,one of the most terrible in French history. On the 13th day of the preceding July a terrible hail-storm had destroyed the harvests throughout the country, and the provisioning of Paris for the ensuing winter became almost impossible. Famishing from hunger, and perishing from cold, great multitudes of half-clothed,
* We hope that we have not obscured the very clear point at issue. To illustrate by our own National Congress: there are at Washington some 350 Congressmen and only 70 Senators. Now, if a bill passed the House unanimously, some 40 Senators could forever prevent its final passage by rejecting it in the Senate; but once combine the Senate and House as one body, and this’bill would become a law by a vote of 350 to 40.
half-starved people filled the streets of Paris'and Versailles. Let not the student of history forget this terrible winter in searching for the causes of the French Revolution. The mobs who were forced for months to depend on j'oining in any passing tumult for their daily bread were soon to become the dreaded “bandits”—prescient of the titanic wickedness of ’93.
Meanwhile, the tedious elections, the first for a hundred and sixty years, were in progress. Calmly, earnestly the people made their choice; and many a great and good man, full of ambition for himself, full of generous love for France, went from the many provinces to Paris. Foremost among them, Mirabeau, the wonderful orator, who of all men alone had power, ^Eolus-like, to chain the winds of Revolution. Bailly, the great astronomer, as fearless as he was learned—destined in a few years to perish on the guillotine. Robespierre,' the advocate from Arras, soon called the “ Incorruptible ”—destined to grasp for a moment the storm of Revolution, and in his cruelty to send it forth, with redoubled fury, broadcast over the land; in turn, himself to be caught up by the tern pest and hurled unto death. And so in time these six hundred came to regenerate France—regenera-tion being too sadly needed. From the court they found little real encouragement. Louis, well-intentioned enough, was sadly wanting in any firmness or political wisdom. Fie hoped, in a general way, that the different parties, in the States-General would neutralize each other; that the old order might continue, but, at the same time, the condition of the people, in some mysterious way or other, be ameliorated. As for the queen and court, outwardly gracious to all, they were laughing at -the rusticity of the various deputies, and sincerely hoping for their failure as national legislators.
Again, the serious disturbances among the people embittered all parties against each other. It happened that a certain paper manufacturer, Revillon, who employed some three hundred men, having come to the remarkably sage conclusion that a journeyman could live handsomely on fifteen cents a day, determined to reduce the pay of his employees one half. The populace, ignorant of how to “strike,” threatened to burn down his house; and though once dispersed, on the 27th of April, 1789, the threat was terribly carried out. Whether through imbecility or state-craft, the authorities (though fully forewarned) made no interference until the mob were in possession of the house; when they attacked them with the greatest cruelty, slaughtering several hundred. Crimination and recrimination, -from party to party, followed. Whether the people were prompted to the outrage, or whether the delay in attacking the mob was intentional, who can say? From this time, however, we see and hear much of “ brigands ”—“ with sallow faces, lank hair (the true enthusiast’s complexion), with sooty rags, and also with large clubs which they smite angrily upon the pave- -ment.”* “Were they,” asked the Parisians in
* Carlyle.
I
276	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
1789, as we are asking now, “ were they really people hungering for bread and driven to desperation by life-accumulated wrongs, or only paid hireling’s of the court, or the Duke of Orleans?” At any rate, they brought odium on the popular party, who accused them of sheer venality. They also brought discredit on the court, representing the bitter destitution of the people; so the court, in turn, claimed they were hired by revolutionists. Who knows? It is a world-old trick of politicians to find extraordinary causes for matter-of-course events, and, perhaps, when all is said it will be found that the “ brigands ” were spurred on mainly by empty stomachs and the bitter memory of unspeakable wrongs.
And now, May 17S9, States-General are actually to organize! On Sunday the 4th, the Court and deputies (and all Paris with them) are to attend High Mass at Notre Dame. The historian lingers lovingly on this happy day—mocked so quickly by the darkness of the future following after. A Sunday morning, bright with the promise of returning spring: throughout the city, pervading every heart, joy for the present, and hope—yea, living faith—in the happiness of the days to come. The old order, conceived in savagery and all perverted in the bringing forth of time, was soon to yield, and be succeeded by a newer, better state of things; by an order with foundations broad and deep .in then oblest impulses of the human soul. And all this to be accomplished in a few days to come, by some twelve hundred men soon to go in procession to Notre Dame.
Accordingly, the streets were gay with life and color. From St. Louis to Notre Dame every window was alive with men and women, respectfully silent, yet beaming with joy. The streets were hung with tapestry; soldiers marching here and there with flashing arms and glittering uniforms; while stationed at proper distances bands of music filled the air with melody. * At the church itself, the utmost enthusiasm prevailed; and the tiers-etat, in their plain, black suits, neither purpled nor befeath-ered, were deafened by vivats that even the sanctity of the place could not restrain. Wonderful • day! wonderful people! That night all bickerings were forgotten, and all Paris rejoiced in a common triumph and a common hope.
Triumph and hope! What meaningless words for unfortunate mortals! Will man be ever deaf to the sad voices of the past—stopping ever at the mountain’s base to look below, and thinking that the sun-lit heights above are but a step beyond?
On the following day, States-General was formally opened—the opening distinguished by one act of no small significance. When the king had concluded his opening harangue, he replaced his hat upon his head; at the same time, as was customary, the noblesse also covered, when, to the surprise, —not to say consternation—of all spectators, the third estate also resumed their- hats.* Aside from
* It is, perhaps, unnecessary to insist upon the significance of this proceeding. Individually, the members of the tiers-etat would not have dared.to cover themselves; they were acting as Representatives of the People, and as such recognizing no superiority in clergy and noblesse. .
this, the day passed quietly enough. The next day separate chambers were assigned to the three orders; and the work of verification, or the examination of credentials, was expected to begin. This at once precipitated the contest between the three orders: the tiers-etat insisting on a verification in common, the noblesse and clergy insisting on it being separate. It was the old question raised years before, as to whether there should be three chambers or one; whether the popular representatives should be omnipotent or powerless. Luckily for the Commons, the chamber assigned to them was the room used at the opening of the session, when the three estates united met the king. They therefore remained entirely inactive, claiming they could do nothing.until they were joined by the clergy and noblesse. For weary weeks dragged the slow contest on. Conferences, addresses, childish tricks, were all in vain—the tiers-etat had come to stay. In a few weeks they had defied the court, had been joined by many of the clergy, and (through the solicitation of the king) by many of the nobility. Deterred from entering their proper meeting-place, they had resorted to tennis-courts and churches; assuming the title of National Assembly, they arrogated to themselves absolute power, even denying a veto to the king; and (forgetting that their actual power and influence rested mainly on the favor of the Parisian mob) began, through weary days, with talk interminable, the making of a constitution for distracted France.
(to be continued.)
-Mother.
Who has not some time or other, while wandering through a little.country graveyard, whose bentover wooden monuments, entwined with leaves and with flowers, seem timidly to mourn their underground charges, lingered at one of these, remote from all the rest, which bore the simple inscription—Mother!
It is a simple word, indeed, but what a sadness, unconsciously grows on one while viewing it here! What a world of by-gone recollections spring up and carry one, as if by magic, to the bedside of a dying mother! Around her is gathered the family. On her knees, with outstretched hands, is a daughter with tear-stained cheek and flushed face, murmuring in despairing accents! “Mother! oh Mother! do not die! ” Such are the thoughts that crowd the mind of the loiterer at.this tomb. And the word ^mother—the tenderest of ;,all words—is still more tender when linked with the thought of death.
It was surelj’ not an unppetical soul that first was inspired to place such an expressive epitaph over the tomb of her whose- love in this life was all in all! It shows that he had a feeling which could not be counterfeited in mere words, and thus in his .simplicity, he gave the. master’s stroke. The . very slab seems ina peculiarly melancholy
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
277
manner to retain this sacred name which it has received ; and the vine itself seems lovingly to encircle it and its leaves like so many ringers pointing at the name. The grave is poetical; those flowers poetical; the ground is poetical; and the one who stands but for a moment, a mere looker on, becomes poetical. There is no grave in that graveyard which attracts the passer-by and gives his thoughts a reflective turn more than this one. It has in it more power for working a reformation in man than all the sermons and logical reasons in this world.	.
No matter how tastefully decorated another • grave might be, or fancifully inscribed, no more attention is paid it than if it were a cenotaph, except, perhaps, that which idle curiosity demands. All other tombs seem stiff and common-place and do not appeal to our heart, unless we might chance to have known the occupants.
There is a something in our nature which is always ready to represent our own mother as the ideal of all that is kind, true, loving and good. Even the word is one of the many words which may be taken to to illustrate the genius of the English language. Its meaning, one of deep love, is expressed admirably in the yearning, plaintive sound required for its utterance. Man was made to love; and love he will, though the object of his affections be good or bad. God has implanted in the heart of everyone a particular and all-absorbing love for his mother. .The reason, perhaps, is that He wishes to give us an idea of the love we should feel for our Creator. There is no man, however hardened in crime, though his hands be stained with the blood of thousands and his heart filled with hatred for the whole world, ,who has not a soft spot kept tenderly for mother. And he knows when she is dead he has lost his first and last and only true friend. The following lines from one of the coldest of our Ameiican poets express very aptly and beautifully the influence of a mother, showing that even her memorv often restrains a wayward child from vice:
“ My mother’s voice! how often creep Its accents o’er my lonely hours, Like healing sent on wings of sleep, . Or dew to th’ unconscious flowers I *
I can forget her melting prayer When leaping pulses madly fly, But in-the still; unbroken air
-	’ Her gentle tones come stealing by:
. Arid years, and sin, and manhood flee,
• And leave me at my mother’s knee.’,
Let one go alone on a bright, moonlight night, when’all nature seems wierd, to the grave which bears that loving name; let him sit down on the grassy mound and repeat to-! himself those dines with thought, and he will experience some of the grandest feelings of which the soul is capable.
John A. McIntyre, ’84.
That you may be beloved, be amiable.—Ovid.
Good breeding shows itself most, where to an ordinary eye it appears the least.—Addison.
Art, Music, and Literature.
—The Museum of the Louvre has been enriched by another department of oriental antiquities, comprising sculptures from Chaldea, Assyria, Phenicia, Judea and Cyprus.	’
—A genuine Rembrandt has arrived in Paris, and is pronounced to be superior to the one in the . Louvre, valued at 500,000 francs. It was sent to M. Leon Chotteau by M. Henri Olivier of Bordeaux.
—For the first time since the. invention of printing, a German book has reached ^ts one thousandth edition, each of them numbering three thousand copies, thus making in all three million copies. It is a primer by Haester, published by G. D. Baedeker of Essen, which first appeared in 1853 and reached its one hundredth edition in 1863. '
—M. Eugene Albert, of Brussels, has invented, and Mr. Arthur Chappell will shortly introduce into England, a new clarionet, called “ The Indestructible,” not without reason; for, instead of wood, the tube is made of metal—silver, German silver, or brass drawn on a polished steel mandrel—covered with vulcanite, which is little affected by changes of temperature, and is said to be capable of standing one hundred and seventv degrees of heat without injury to the instrument. •
—Herr Emil Vogel, of Dresden, favorably-known in the musico-literary- world by his excellent transcriptions of Palestrina’s Masses, has received from the Prussian Minister of Instruction the Golden State Stipend of one thousand thalers, founded bv King Frederick William IV. He will repair to Rome for the purpose of studying the precious literary treasures that lie hidden in the Vatican, and which thus far no expert eyes have seen, to examine which a special permission has been granted him at the request of the Prussian Government.	■
—The library of Harvard College contains the first two drafts of Longfellow’s “ Excelsior. ” __	o	■ The first is written on the back of a note addressed to Longfellow by Charles Sumner, and is endorsed “Sept. 28,1841,3:30 o’clock, morning. Now in bed.” The second shows variations and erasures. For instance, the line “A youth who bore ’mid snow and ice ” was written four times before decided upon: “ A youth who bore in snow and ice, ” “ A youth who bore a pearl of price,” and “ A youth who bore above all price.” The inception of the line “A tear stood in his bright, blue eye ” was, “ A tear stood in his pale blue eye. ”
—A. monument of great interest and importance for Slavonic philology has just been published by the Russian Academy of Sciences. The work is the Glagolitic Codex of the Four Gospels, discovered in 1844 by the late M. Grigorievich, at the Monastery of Mount Athos. It is now printed for the first time in its entirety from a-transcript made -in Cyrillic characters.- The undertaking is due to the pains of Professor Yagic, at whose instance special types were procured by the academy press
278	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
from Vienna. The value of the work is increased by photographs of the original and dissertations upon its palajographical and grammatical peculiarities.
—We learn from Rome that the precious treasures of the Vatican Archives have been entrusted to the care of the Rev. Father Luigi Tosti, O. S. B., Abbot of Monte Cassino, as Vice-Archivist; and the Rev. Father Denifle, of the Order of St. Dominic, as Sub-Archivist. In view of the Holy Father’s recent letter on historical studies, the significance of these appointments will be at once recognized. Father Tosti is a profound scholar, several of whose works, including the “ History of Boniface VIII,” and “ The Council of Constance,” have attained European celebrity. As a proof of the high esteem in which he is held among: all sections of his countrymen, it will’be remembered that when the impious Italian Government resolved upon the suppression of the Religious Orders, an exception was made in favor of the monastery of Monte Cassino, of which he is Abbot. . Father Denifle, who is a native of Austria, is also an erudite scholar, and is principally known for his proficiency in the study of historic lore.
Books and Periodicals.
Students’ Songs. Comprising the Newest and Most Popular College Songs. Compiled and Edited bv 'William H. Hills, Cambridge, Mass. Moses King, Publisher: Harvard Square. Price, 50 cents.
This is a collection of songs, manv of which will be found to impart interest and entertainment o college exhibitions.
Ames’ Compendium of Practical -and Ornamental Penmanship. Giving more than 20 Entire Alphabets, with Numerous Designs and Engrossed Resolutions, Testimonials, Certificates, Title-Pages, Monograms, ‘Miscellaneous Designs, etc. For the use of Penmen and Artists. Daniel T. Ames, Author and Publisher: 205 Broadway, New York.
The above work is a large folio volume of some seventy pages; and besides the valuable contents indicated by its title-page, there is a certain portion given to instructive and practical writing, which enhance its value. That portion of the work devoted to practical writing embodies the observation and experience of over twenty-five years as a teacher of writing, in public and private schools; while that portion devoted to artistic penmanship represents, besides standard and ornate alphabets, largely such designs as have been executed during many years of labor and practice in the line of an Artist Penman in New York, and, therefore, represents the various kinds of work likely to be sought from the pen artist, as well as the engraver and general draughtsman. Price of work by mail, $5.00.	-	* '
My Lady at Last. By Margaret T. Taunton.
Arid Other Stories. Vatican Library Series. New York: Hickey & Co., 11 Barclay St. 1883. Price, 25* cents.	;
We have here about twelve well-chosen stories of various length published under one cover, form
ing 128 octavo pages of reading matter, all for the small sum of twenty-five cents! The first of these stories is an interesting sketch from real life of the celebrated painter Quentin Matsys, the “ Blacksmith of Antwerp”; then there is “ Our Lady’s Child,” by the author of “ Tales from the Diary of a Sister of Mercy ”; “ George Morley ”; “ After Sorrow, Joy by H. Whittaker; and the longest of the collection, from which the book takes its title, with about half a dozen others. Too much praise cannot be given Hickey & Co., the publishers of the Vatican Library Series of cheap books, for thus bringing within reach of the poorest and humblest Catholic family some of the gems of Catholic literature. Besides the hundreds of books already issued in cheap form—dollar and dollar-and-a-half books for fifteen, twenty-five and fifty cents each—we understand a new book in the same cheap form will hereafter be issued every two weeks. We advise all our readers to send for a catalogue of the Vatican Library Series.
Scientific Notes.
—Experts in chemistry have estimated that the cost of London’s winter smoke and fog is $25,000,000 annually; that is to say, constituents of coal to this value escape unconsumed, and assist in forming the sooty vapor.
—A French law makes revaccination incumbent upon every student received into the lyceums and colleges. Since the experiment was made at the Lycee Louis le-Grand, not a single case of variola or varioloid has appeared.
—Dr. Ladell has discovered that prussic acid is an antidote to poisoning with strychnine. Medical men will be cautious in using it, however, as the prussic acid, to be of any use, must be given in doses which would be fatal under anv other circumstances.	.
—In the first stages of the manufacture of wood pulp for paper, poplar was regarded as pre-eminently adapted for the purpose, and for a considerable time it was thought that only that wood, basswood, and a few other kinds could be ground into a suitable pulp. Now, however, machines are made which turn out pulp with equal facility from all kinds of wood. The longest fibre is made from willow, basswood and poplar ranking next, respectively. Cedar, fir, and hemlock are said to work about alike; maple has a fibre shorter than that of either , spruce or pine, and is quite hard to grind; birch is very .hard, and grinds quite short. Poplar and buckeye pulps remain white for a considerable time, other woods changing color; birch becomes pink, maple turns purple, and bass wood takes on a reddish hue. ■
—Prof. Dana, in speaking of the Book of Genesis and Geology, said the earth had been gradu- ’ ally made, and in all the different periods of the world’s growth there has.been a gradual progress in the forms of ;life. In the Archaean^age there
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
was probably no life; this was followed by an age [ in which there were the lowest forms of it, as i sponges and worms. Then came in regular order 1 fishes, reptiles, small quadrupeds, birds, large quad- ; rupeds, and, last of all, man. As to these facts i there are no geological doubts. When the Fiat went forth the result was not immediately accomplished. The days were longer than twenty-four hours. The periods of the earth’s rotation had not then been discovered. There^are two great periods, the inorganic and the organic, the account of each of which is begun with the creation of light. Science shows that light is molecular motion, and if this molecular energy ever began it was then. The first creation was the universe, the next the separating of the different parts of the system. * Then the land rose above the water, and on it a | primitive vegetation grew, which received its light i from the earth’s aurora. Then comes the second, • the organic era—the creation of the sun, moon, | and stars was simply breaking away the clouds | which encircled the earth. In the inorganic era I the principle of life in the lowest kind of plants | was begun; and in the organic era this life gradu- I ally advances till man is created. The account of i 'Genesis and Geology accord in a wonderful way. i Moses probably did not fullv understand what he ’ wrote, and we cannot but believe that he must ! have been inspired when he wrote that which the ; greatest advance in science has but just enabled man to understand.
College Gossip.
—Boston College has a well-drilled and uniformed military company.—Boston College Stylus.
—Mt. St. Mary’s Seminary of the West, near Cincinnati, is to be reopened at an early date.— Catholic Columbian.
—Albert E. Kent, of San Francisco, has added $25,000 to his gift of $50,000 for a Chemical Laboratory at Yale College.	.
—The Faculty of the University of Pennsylvania have decided that anyone cutting a chair or bench will be compelled to pay for it.
' —Hon. Alden Speare has given to Boston University $40,000 to endow a chair of liberal arts, in memory of his daughter.
—A very pleasant musical and literary treat was given Christmas week to the patrons of St. Joseph’s College, Cincinnati, by the pupils of that institution.
—Brother Adventer, for over twenty-five years connected with Manhattan College, N. Y., died suddenly Christmas morning. Requiescat in jjacel
—The Springfield Republican, commenting , upon the Amherst Student, says: “Of all newspaper cranks the college-boy article is the most grotesque and amusing.”
—Father Rubi, of Niagara University, has given the Juniors a valuable gold watch and a handsome purse to enable them to secure necessary articles for their play-rooms.—Niagara Index.
—President Potter, of Union College, offers three prizes, of $20, $30, and $50, to be known
as the Potter Decennial Prizes, to be-awarded for the best essays on a given subject by the law students.	'
—The University of California doesn’t seem to be a happy and cheerful place. The office of one of the college papers, The Occident, was recently broken into by a gang of college ruffians, the forms pied, and the furniture smashed or carried off.	’
—Prof. Hayes during Christmas week presented at the Jesuit College, N. Y., a complete series of views from the Holy Land. The plan was that of a Christmas journey from New York to Bethlehem, via Queenstown, Alexandria, the Red Sea, Palestine, Sinai, over the Jordan to Jerusalem and the places made sacred by our Lord’s Life and Passion.—The Xavier.
—Prof. Fisher, of Yale College says: “The deliverance of bur colleges from the pranks which formerly broke the slumbers of tutors and proctors must be ascribed in part to the indirect influence of the new athletic sports. They afford a vent to the surplus energy of youth, which formerly expended itself in muscular undertakings of a more destructive nature. There is, also, probably far less lounging in rooms during leisure hours than prevailed before the indoor gvmnasties and the exciting field sports came into fashion. The effect on the health of the students, it cannot be doubted, has been extremely beneficial. Games in the open air, which call for the utmost vigilance, self-possession, promptness and pluck in those who take part in them, are not without an effect on character. They are a mental and moral discipline of no slight value. That a considerable portion of the leisure time of students is most profitably passed in athletic exercises, such as rowing, ball-playing, and gymnastics, exercises which promote digestion and sound sleep, tend to dissipate distempered fancies and stimulate manly energy, may be safely admitted.”
—Anandibai Joshee, a Hindoo woman of the highest Brahminical caste, is a student in the Woo	*
man’s Medical College of Pennsylvania. The mark indicative of her rank in life is on her forehead. She is said to be the first Brahmin woman who ever left India. One of the principal articles in the Brahminical faith strictly enjoins that no Brahmin shall cross the ocean. In order to keep her caste while here she must live by' herself, prepare her own. food, wear the native costume, and rigidly observe certain religious rites. If she is faithful in these things, when she returns to. India there will be a meeting of the principal Brahmins, who will hear her confessions, and then absolve her from her transgressions. She is highly educated, and a remarkable linguist, speaking seven languages fluently, among them Sanskrit. She was asked if she had any difficulty in acquiring English. “Oh, no,” she replied, “it was very easy-after Sanskrit. My husband taught me. I studied English five years with him, but I did not speak it at all until I went on board ship.” . She speaks so well that it is difficult to believe this, and she writes better than she speaks.—N. E Sun.
2So	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, January 12, 1884.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Seventeenth vear of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate lor the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE HOTPE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day. as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it: and, above all,	"
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Si.jO per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
■	Notre Dame, Indiana.
Our Staff.
T. Ewing Steele, ’84. Jno. A. McIntyre, ’84. James A. Solon, ’84.
C. F. Porter, ’85.
W. H. Bailey, ’84. Elmer A. Otis,’84. C. A. Tinley, ’84.
—The fire-fiend has lately been working havoc and destruction among the colleges and other edu cational institutions. Only a month ago the news was spread that the Southern State Normal at Carbondale, Pa., was burnt to the ground—causing a loss of $225,000; now comes intelligence of the frightful catastrophe at Belleville, Ill.,—the total destruction by fire of the Academy of the Immaculate Conception, with a loss of twenty-seven lives. The fire was noticed about 11*4 p. m., when all in the Academy were asleep. It started in the basement, from the furnace, and when discovered the floor above was all ablaze. Volumes of smoke rapidly poured through ..the stairways, corridors and halls of the building, and by the time the inmates were thoroughly aroused all the avenues of escape were filled with the blinding smoke. Besides the Sisters there were sixty pupils in the convent, most of whom were saved. Notwithstanding t-he panic, the Sisters worked heroically to extinguish the flames, but their efforts proved unavailing, and many of them, among whom was the Sister Superior, perished in the burning building. On account of the intense cold the work of the firemen was greatly retarded; they had no ladders—strange to say!—and could therefore give no help to those imprisoned by the fire in the upper part of the building. Neither were there any
fire escapes from the building itself, noi, it appears, any special means of meeting such a contingency as was then presented. It was sad, sad! And how many hotels, educational institutions, and other thronged buildings to-dav are in a similar condition —or, rather, how few are prepared to avoid a similar catastrophe! It is surely time that those who are spared should learn from the experience of others.
The great fire that demolished the University buildings here in 1879 was surely a blessing in disguise, coming as it did in'the day-time, and without the loss of a single life or a personal injury. It taught the authorities a lesson they seem to have profited by, both in the construction of the present buildings and the ample preparations for a similar contingency—which may Heaven avert! The rotunda, the broad corridors and stairways in every direction, the stairways leading from dormitory to dormitory, the immense pumping apparatus, the numerous fire-plugs, the three large tanks in the upper part of the building, with water-pipes, hose, etc., at short intervals on every floor—and, not least important, the comparatively low buildings, show that the dearly-bought lesson was laid to heart.
Should a fire again break out at Notre Dame, we do not see how it could gain any headway; but even granting that it destroyed every building on the grounds, it seems absolutely impossible that it could be attended with the loss of a single life.
—As a fitting finale to the holiday season, select members from the Euglossian and Orpheonic Associations gave an entertainment in Washington Hall, last Wednesday evening. It was a t{ home affair,” and consequently no invitations were sent out, and no programmes printed. • However, a good-sized and appreciative audience was not wanting, as all the students were present; and, despite the cold state of the hall, enjoyed the treat afforded them. Considering the little time that had been given to its preparation, it might very well be called an Impromptu exhibition; and this made it all the more creditable to those who took part, as everything proceeded smoothly and perfectly.
The College Band “ opened the ball ” with a stirring march which was well played, though that unique but sometimes indispensable instrument, the bass-drum, was not always “on time.” Master G. Schaefer then sang a pleasing song, after which Mr. J. A. McIntyre, of the Class of ’84, in a graceful address presented the “ Compliments of the-Season.”- Master T. Cleary’s fine voice then resounded through the hall in a beautiful song which was well received. Recitations were given by Messrs. Kleiber, Monschein and Otis, in the order named. Of these, Mr. Otis’ selection—“ Old Ironsides”—was specially well delivered. A quartette, “My Native Land,”by Messrs. Ramsay, F oote, Gallagher, and Guthrie followed, and was received with applause. Other recitations were given by Messrs. Warner, Saviers, and Devereux. Messrs. Dexter and Wile-appeared in humorous personations and
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
281
did very creditably, though the concludingsentence of the latter’s “lecture” should have been omitted. Songs were sung by Messrs. Ramsay arid Devereux, and a pleasing flute solo executed by Master A. Adler.	'
The roaring farce of “Box and Cox” was then presented, the characters being taken as follows: Box—a printer.....................William Ramsay
Cox—a hatter............................E. A. Otis
Bouncer (Keeper of a Boarding House).W. H. Bailey
The farce is well known, and needs no description. However often produced, it always meets with favor when well played, as it was on Wednesday night. It gives occasion for many local “ hits” which, when taken advantage of, adds greatly to the interest and pleasure of the entertainment. Messrs. Ramsay and Otis were, we might say, perfect in the rendition of their respective parts. Both are at ease on the stage and portray their characters with all the naturalness desirable. They elicited the- laughter of the whole audience during the entire play. Mr. Bailey, as “ Bouncer,” was inimitable in his “ make-up,” and personified well the quiet and accommodating house-keeper who has an eve to business. But he spoke too low to be understood, and this marred the excellence of the rendition.
On the whole, the entertainment reflected great credit upon all who took part, especially on the worthy director, Prof. Lyons.
Exchanges.
—The literary contributions to The Students' Offering—published by the students of the State Normal School, Cedar Falls, Iowa—are solid but readable. The brief sketch of “Fielding” is so good as to make, one wish for more matter of the same kind and in the same style. “ F. E. B.,” a sprightly and sensible writer, gives “the fashionable girls” a curtain lecture. F. E. B. is probably a girl herself, and knows how it is and what to say, and she undoubtedly possesses the faculty of saying it well.
—It was with a feeling of pleasure we glanced over the handsome pages of the Christmas number of The Hamilton College Monthly. A Christmas number in truth it is, in matter and-in appearance. A handsomely engraved Christmas cover to begin with; inside, large new type, and engravings suitable to the occasion, with a merry Christmas ring through the articles that does one good. Really, the Hamilton girls have honored the grand old Festival in a manner peculiarly handsome and well worthy of imitation. We wish them, one and all, many a happy return of the grand old Feast of Christmas.
—The editors of The Xavier—an ably conducted and neatly-printed paper published, monthly by the students of St. Francis Xavier’s College, New York—have shown much enterprise in the publication of a Christmas Supplement of eight pagesi The Supplement contains no advertise
ments: it is filled with original matter of a high order, prose and veise, reflecting credit upon the writers. The regular monthly issue of The Xavier contains sixteen pages, fourteen of which are filled with reading-matter. The poetry, especially, would do credit to older writers. It shows true genius and excellent training. Taken as a whole, The Xavier is one of the ablest college papers that we receive, and they come to us from all directions.
—After running through “Conversation a Lost-Art” in the Miscellany's “ De Temp.” we come to the wail in the Editors’ department for a little rest on Sunday. It seems that instrumental music in general—the piano, “ the guitar, the banjo' and the plaintive jewsharp”—we could hardly have imagined they played the jewsharp at Vassar— have been, very judiciously, “ made dumb on Sunday,” but “the human voice, which manifests the soul of man; the music of the human foot, which likewise manifests the presence of the sole of man,—these are not quiet,” says the editor. The Miscellany is doing a good work in trying to save soles on Sunday, but we fear its efforts will not be appreciated as they deserve. Nevertheless the wail is not a finical one, and will no doubt be heeded.
—The article entitled “ Originality,” in the current issue of the St. ViatcnTs College Journal, compresses into very brief space a mass of interesting facts in the history of literature and science. The article is evidently the result of much reading and painstaking care. We had heard that Bunyan in his “Pilgrim’s Progress” plagiarized Don John Palafox’s “Christmas Nights Entertainments,” and that Milton’s “Paradise Lost,”—far superior to what is said to be exclusively his own work, “ Paradise Regained ”—was freely plagiarized from an Italian or Spanish author whose name we have forgotten; but we were not aware that Swift was such a “ notorious poacher ” as it is here asserted he was. or that the voyages to Brobdingnag and Laputa were Cyreno Bergerac’s and not his own.. The St. ViateuPs article is well worth preserving.	-
—The Harvard Lampoon sends forth a wail for reform of the hotel bill of fare, which, as at present managed, it characterizes as a great evil, a verv great evil,—therefore the wail for reform, •/O'	’
which it says may be termed “the very prince of wails.’.’ The Lampoon is right; the bill of fare is a great evil, and ought to be reformed. It affects the stomachs of 50,000,000 of voters—counting on the female franchise, which ought to be and will be; and as the chief constituents of a modem American voter are his pocket and his stomach, the “ bar’l ” and the bill of fare should both be brought under wholesome regulations. The evils of the tariff and the civil service are nothing in comparison with those of’the bill of fare, the “ devilish intricacy” of whose plot is a wholesale disorganizer. This is the question for the American people, and for Political Economists especially.
—The American Shorthand Writer, of Boston,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
is now entirely devoted to the interests of professional stenographers and advanced students of the art. The lessons for learners have been discontinued for some time—literally crowded out. Eminently practical, without a vestige of narrowminded partisanship, the American Shorthand Writer has grown rapidly in favor with writers of all the leading systems and labors faithfully for the general good. Always open for discussion, there is no partiality- Able writers of all schools contribute to its pages the fruit of their experience, and anything that is new and worthy of note is recorded. The American S.-I~I. Writer" can afford to be impartial; its editor writes the best system extant, Isaac Pitman’s, and can safely trust to the survival of the fittest. The price of subscription is only $i a year. Address Rowell & Hickcox, Boston, Mass.
—On resuming our pen after the holidays we found The Oscotian, from St. Mary’s College, Oscott—“with the editors’ compliments,” for which we return thanks—The Stonyhurst Magazine, from Stonyhurst College, Lancashire, and Frondes Silvula, from the Salford Catholic Grammar School—England—upon our table. The Oscotian is now a portly magazine of 372 pages—no advertisements—which speaks as well for the industry of the students of time-honored Oscott as does the character of the articles for their literary training, scholarship, and judgment. There are sketches, poetry, local history, novelettes, and a local chronicle—everything necessary to a first-class college magazine. The “ Debate for Six Speakers—Which was the Greater Hero, Alexander the Great or Tom Thumb?”—carried out in colloquial dramatic style by six students of Oscott—fairly bristles with bon mots. The Stonyhurst Magazine is also solidly built, gotten up in excellent style; there is no poetry in this number, but there are copious illustrations. The magazine chronicles a recent visit of the British Association
• to Stonyhurst. Frondes S Uvula: possesses a high literary tone, but for a grammar-school magazine the matter is rather heavy. Our transatlantic friends are always welcome.
•/
—Rouge ct Noir, from Trinity College, Toronto, has been with us for some weeks, but the holidays and a press of other matter prevented an earlier notice. Rouge et Noir seems to have been an old-time favorite with Scholastic editors, and from the issue before us we are' inclined to.judge it favorably. We have been specially impressed with the style and thought of an article “ On Conduct and Manners.” Commenting upon the saying of William of Wykeham, “Planners make the man,” the writer says: “Taken in the outward and superficial sense of the words, the motto.does notexpress the truth. Taken in the deeper and more inward sense, it is exactly true. A man’s actions do make him what he is, and they, do shoiv what he is. Habit, spirit, tone, tendency, are all produced by series.of acts. We do not, of course, ignore native .tendencies, the original constitution .with which every human being starts in
life. But this again becomes consolidated, so to speak, by acts, so that nature becomes moulded ; into habit-and character.” The following, which we clip from its answer to a contemporary on the question of compulsory state aid to Universities, will excite combative feelings in many, but it rests upon a solid principle:
“ We hold that the highest University idea cannot be realized while Christian literature, Christian thought, Christian history are excluded from the University cur- j riculum. To all fair arguments against this position we are willing and glad to listen, but to decline the aigument by the short and easy method of stamping the position as sectarianism is too obvious a confession of weakness. Call you this sectarian ? Why, it would remain absolutely the same and unchanged if every sect in Christendom were reabsorbed into a new organic unity to-morrow. Sectarian it may be, upon the hictts a non lucendo principle, because the existence of sects and divisions hinders its ’ most complete realization, but on no other. Our cotemporary endeavors, in vain, to draw the red herring of sectarianism across a trail the real direction of which is becoming daily more and more clear to the people of this province, to whatever church body they belong. Let our cotemporary address itself to the task’ which the representative of University College cannot evade; the task of proving that in a Christian community the highest idea of a University can be realized when the name of Christian philosophy, the dictates of Christian ethics, the revelation of Christian faith, nay, the life and teaching of the Lord Himself, are ignominiously excluded from the circle of the sciences which it is the function of a University to teach and to extend.”
Personal.
1-
—George Gross, of ’75, is a prominent lawyer in Reading, Pa.
—A. M. Martineau (Com’l), of ’74, is City Clerk of Oconto, Wis.
—C. and H. Delaney, ’83, do a successful banking business at Marshall, Ill.	■
—Sydney Ashton (Com’l), of ’69, is chief of a mercantile agency in Leavenworth, Kansas.
—E. W. Grout (Com’l), of ’81, holds a paying position in a large furnishing store at Denver, Col.
—G. Castanedo (Com’l),’83, is Corresponding Clerk of a large Commission House in New Orleans.
—Rt. Rev. Bishop Flash, of La Crosse, who was a student here in ’52, is passing the winter in Rome.
—Francis Obert (Com’l), of ’74, is in partner- • ship with his father in the boiler-works of Reading, Pa.	'
—-Rev. J. A. Zahm, of Notre Dame, Ind., is in the city for a few days en route to the City of I Mexico. '. During his tour he will collect material for his history of this Republic, which he is writing. ’ — Chihuahua Neivs, Dec. 30.
i—W. A. H. Connor (Com’l), ’82, and Miss Jennie A. Torrey were married .at Kalamazoo, Mich., on Monday, the 7th inst. We extend our congratulations to the happy couple and our best j wishes for a long life of unalloyed happiness. ’	]
• —Juan C. Armijo, Jr. ( Prep.), of ’82, writes us . j from St. Louis, renewing his. subscription to the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Scholastic, and says he does not want to miss a single number of the paper. Thanks, Juan, the Scholastic will be mailed regularly. All your friends are glad,, to hear you are doing well.
—A friend sends us the sad news that Paul E. Corcoran, an old student of Notre Dame, died at his home in Kansas City, Mo., on the 27th ult. Our correspondent says:
“ At the time of his death, and for some years previous, he was successfully engaged in the drug business in this city. He resigned himself to death, and composed himself in death, as though he were quietly and peacefully going to sleep. He died in the full faith of the Catholic Church. May his sleep be sweet and peaceful, and may the best of whatever is beyond the grave be his 1 ”
—Rev. P. Johannes, C. S. C., ’75, is the popular and zealous pastor of St. Mary’s Church, South Bend, Ind. Through his efforts a new church for his congregation was erected, and solemnly opened upon Christmas Dav. The following item, clipped from the South Bend papers, bear further testimony to his energetic administration:
*‘Two large bells, one weighing 1,000 pounds and the other 500 pounds, have been ordered for the new church of the St. Marv’s Catholic congregation on Tavlor street.
“ Father Johannes, pastor of the German Catholic church, has started a parish school in a large rpom built for that purpose in the rear of the church building on south Taylor stieet. He already has a large number of pupils.’’
Local Items.
—Bring the fellow to me!
.—Where arc our sleigh-riding parties?
—Grand musical entertainment this evening.
—The examinations will begin on the 25th inst.
—Nearly all the students have now returned.
—The Juniors have many good skaters this year.
—He “ took the cake,” but it was a mighty hard one.
—Eighty-three Juniors arrived on Monday and Tuesday.	.
—Ice, in large quantities, is being taken from the lakes. •	.
—Last Saturday the thermometer stood at 250 below zero.
—“ Yes, I received a ‘ Malediction ’ for a New Year’s gift.”	.
—The Kansas City students were “snowed up ” on the road. -
—The editor’s treat was not appreciated by M. on last Thursday.	.
—Double-windows* have been put up on the front of the College. .	'
—All is not pure havana that is enclosed in tin foil, is the sentiment of M.
—Our friend John is preparing a lecture on “ What I know about snow-drifts.”
—The weather though cold is very healthy, and the Infirmary is comparatively-deserted. .
. —The Prefects return thanks to C. Porter, C. Zeigler and A. Schillo, for favors received.
. O'	*	■	,	-
—The notices of some of our friends in the Inter Ocean have attracted much attention. .
—E. Gerlach, F. Hagenbarth and J. Halligan, were the chief servers during the holidays.
—Our friend John says that college poets are at a discount. Cause—change of the moon.
—The organist says that his assistant was . frozen last Sunday; hence the silence of the organ.
—Are we going to compete for the grand gold 00	r	00
medal for essay-writing? It is time to think of it.
—The ice-boat has not as yet appeared on the lakes, but a horse and cutter were seen thereon last Wednesday.
—The telegraphy class numbers about 25 members. Many of them are becoming expert lightning slingers.
—We are informed that the Thpspians will mount the boards with “ Macbeth.” on Washing-• ' © ton’s Birthday.
—“Which depot goes to Niles?” “Neither, Professor, they both stay here allthe time.” Professor collapses.	.
—The press speaks in flattering terms of Prof. Lyons’ Scholastic Annual. Every student should procure a copy.
—Wanted.—A Book of Etiquette for one of the Royal line of Cork. An unknown person desires to present it to him.	.
—A fine specimen of coral marble has been added to the Museum. It is the generous gift of Mr. Henry Fitzgerald. -
—Exclusive of the vocal classes, which are largely attended, there are 90 pupils in the Music Department of the University.
—The pantomime, “ Black and White,” will be given next Saturday. Lovers of “ fun ” should not miss the chance to see it. .
—Masters Willie McPhee and Johnnie Reid, of the Minim Department, had a pleasant afternoon, last Sunday, with one of the Professors.
—Everyone able to furnish us with “ Personals ” is requested to send them in. After the holidays, there ought surely to be a large number.
—Turkeys failed to make connection for the Epiphany. However, we learn from good authority that they will positively be on deck to-morrow.
—We regret to say that the genial Prefect of the Minims, Bro. Francis Regis,. still continues unwell. We hope ere long to see him around once more.'	. -
—A student who arrived from Kansas says it was so cold that passengers were obliged to leave their berths on the sleeper and go to the car with reclining chairs.
—Bro. Albert’s artistic taste is making the Juniors’ study-hall, “a thing of beauty.” The pictures, flowers, etc., with which the room is adorned are well worth seeing.
—The Classes of Linear and Mechanical drawing are increasing rapidly under the direction of
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Bro. Anselm. The new drawing desks for this •important department will soon be ready-for use.
—Our friend John says he knows of one who can, from his own experience, testify to the truth of the statement by old settlers that “ last Saturday was the coldest day known around here since the memorable January i st of’64.”
—A large part of the lower lake was cleared of snow on last Thursday, and the boys were not slow to take advantage of the fine skating thus afforded. Thev are very thankful to Rev. President Walsh and Bro. Simon for this treat.
—The members of a certain table in the Junior refectory have been rejoicing in having a D. D. as a waiter; but the glory was exploded last Wednesday, when a person asked the waiter what his name was, and he answered “ Dennis Dougan.” :
—The Thespians have made up their minds that the exhibition on the 2?d will be something fine. They intend to surpass the record of last year—when G. Edmund, C. Tinley, and the lamented W. Cleary, were the stars. They will have much to do, hut they say they can do it.
—One would imagine that the cyclops are at work in the steam-pipes these days, judging from the noise the steam makes in one of the distributing pipes. It is all right in the day-time, but when the hammering commences about eleven o’clock at night, it is not pleasant to listen to the “Anvil Chorus.”
—At the 12th regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association the debaters were Masters Rebori, Amoretti, Devereux, Otis, Nester, J. McGrath, Brown, Grunsfeld, Weston, and Prindiville. F. Garrity delivered a declamation, and L. Scherrer and C. Spencer read original compositions.
—The Law Class this year, is doing excellent work under Prof. Hoyne, and the Moot Courts held during the past session do credit to both teacher and pupils. Much tact and talent have been shown by students in the manner of conducting the trials which have been, without exception, of a character highly complimentary to those taking part.
—A valuable collection of agates from Orange Free States, South Africa, has been presented to the Museum, by Rev. Father Hurth, President of St. Joseph’s College, Cincinnati. The specimens are small in size, but some of them are real gems and are certainly of great scientific value. Father Hurth has the thanks of the curators, of the Cabinet of Mineralogy.	'
—Professor Lyons’ Scholastic Annual is even better printed and more careful in every detail than it was last year. It contains, besides the scrupulously prepared tables, nearly thirty articles, interesting and bright. Among them is a translation of Father Rouquette’s poem, “ To Ireland.” Professor Lyons sends out an exceedingly neat volume.. —N. T. Freeman?s Journal.
—We are indebted to Prof. Lyons, of Notre Dame, Ind., for a cdpy of his Scholastic Annual,
for 1884. With this, the excellent little publication makes its ninth appearance. We are glad to know that there is a greativ-increased demand for it, year by year. It is full of useful information and - pleasant miscellany. Every one ought to have the Scholastic Annual, were it only for the amusing “ Astrological Predictions,” with which it opens.—Boston Pilot.
— We really believe that our weather-prophet, alarmed at the cold weather which universally prevailed contrary to all his predictions, has called the college authorities to his aid and induced them to put up double ivindotvs on the college. The windows are .up and the weather has changed. Our w.-p. must be in extremis when he has to resort to such means in order to obtain a mere partial verification of his prophecies. However, we are. thankful for the double windows all the same.
—The organization of the Temperance Society for ’84 took place on last Thursday evening. The following officers were elected: Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director; Prof.-J. A. Lyons, President; J. Solon, 1st Vice-President; M. Dolan, 2d Vice-President; T. McKinnery, Recording Secretary; W. H. McCarthy, Corresponding Secretary; and Joseph Farrell, Treasurer. On next Wednesday evening a grand reunion will be held in the Seniors’ reading-rooms. Addresses will be delivered by Rev. President Walsh, Messrs. Solon, McKinnery, and Ramsay.
—Our assistant weather-prophet says that when predicting a mild winter, some time ago, he did not calculate on- the influence of the comet which is now to be seen in our Northwestern sky. The polar wane also had something to help its blizzard-ness in the present position of the planet mars, as one of its moons can be seen dancing around that planet once in the twenty-four hours. Vennor in his Almanac for 1884 says of the first five days of January, ending last Saturday: “ New Years mild; no snow; dust or mud in many sections—waters quite open—generally open weather in the United States.”
—Holiday Musical Soiree, bjr the Orpheonic Association, Saturday, January 12, 1884:
part 1.
Overture........................N. D. U. Orchestra
“ Gloria in Excelsis Deo! ”—Christmas Hymn.Minims “ A Boy’s Best Friend is His Mother ”—Song, y. P. Kelly Frank Garrity.
Recitation............................C.	A. Tinley
“ My Heart’s O’er the Deep Blue Sea!”—Song, E. Christie Geo. Schaefer.
“All’s Well that Ends Well!”—Aria  ....Ciro Pinsuti
T. Cleary. Oration....................................J. Solon
Musings'—Narrative Ballad   ..........A. J. Goodrich
Joseph Courtney, J. Kelly, J- Uranga, Jos. Garrity, E. Schmauss, F. Marcotte.
“ I’ll Take You Home Again, Kathleen!”— Song and Chorus....................T.	P. WestendorJ
.	W. Ramsay.
“The Bend of the River”—Tenor Solo.... J. Blumenthal Henry Foote.
Recitation...............................D. Saviers
“ Lardy dah! The City Toff”—Musical Personation, Vincent Davies..........R. Devereux, and W. Ramsay “My Native Land! ”—Trio..................Franz Abt H. Foote, W: Ramsay, F. W. Gallagher, H. Paschel, J. Guthrie, Prof. Devoto. .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	285
PART II.
“Z.« Pluie des Perles!'"—Piano...........G. Schaefer
Essay—“Law”..............................J. Farrell
“ The Wanderers ”—Song...................Franz Abt
Jos. Courtney.
“ Why are Roses Red? ”—Grand Aria.... Claude Melnotte W. P. Devine. .
Recitation...............................0. Spencer
“The Power of Love”—Barcarole............“Satanella”
R. Devereux.
“ Der Wanderer ”—Alto Solo...............Fr. Schubert
G. Schaefer.
'■'•Una Voce Poco Fa ! "—Grand Aria........Rossini
T. J. Cleary.
Personation..............................D. Taylor
“ Ave Maria ! ”—Solo and Trio............Franz Abt
J. Courtney, J. Garrity, F. Marcotte, R. Devereux, J.
Chaves, G- Schaefer, T. Cleary, J. Kelly.
“ Conquer or Die! ”—Song.................G. Foster
J. Guthrie.
Morning Song—Chorus......................Franz Abt
H. Foote, F. Kaufman, J. Guthrie, W. Ramsay, F. Gallagher, G. O’Kane, H. Paschel, C. Porter, Prof. Devoto.
“Moses in Egypt”—Solo and Chorus.

—By request, we publish the following corrected programme of the Twenty-Sixth Annual Christmas Exercises of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Society, complimentary to Rev. President Walsh, Monday, December, 17, 1883:
Grand St. Cecilia March..............N. D. U. C. B.
Song and Chorus—“Moses’ Prayer in Egypt,”....F. W.
Guthrie, A. Coll, Geo. Schaefer, and Orpheonics.
Address, Senior Department.........T. Ewing Steele
Address, St. Cecilia Society.........J.	H. Fendrich
Overture—"LaFiancce de Marbre" .........Orchestra
Prologue.............................Geo. Schaefer
PART 11.
“ THE MALEDICTION,”
(^4 Drama in Three Acts^ Translated from the French and Arranged for the Occasion.}
Dramatis Persona:
Don Vasco De Gomez (A Spanish Nobleman) F. Dexter Don Alonzo (Son of Don Vasco)............H.	Foote
Don Lopez (Confident of Alonzo) Tarik (Lieutenant to the Caliph). Pedro (A Peasant)............ Pedrillo (Son of Pedro)...... Fabricio (Son of Pedro)...... Ibrahim (A Rich Mahometan).... Juanino (Slave of Ibrahim)... Mendoza (A Spanish Officer).. Marietta J Basilio
Sancho k
Virginio Leandro
.. F. Hagenbarth __J. McDonnell ... W. P. Mahon ... D. G. Taylor ....W. J. Schott __W.Mugg . .J. H. Fendrich __G. Schaefer
[J. Courtney | E. Wife J. Devine T. Cassily
W. Mulkern
Spanish Officers,
Abdallah (A Mohametan Officer) Jirmibeehlick (A Turkish Slave)..
Melggi ) Tchad	(
Abdul ) Gensaro ] Virgilio J Madrido ) Don Colombo "] Don Stacio ( DonPhilippo ( Don Tomazo J Tabriz Kelat Frebizonde , Don Miguel
J. Monschein .... C. Stubbs
J. Smith E. Gerlach C. Holbrook )R. Devereux F. Grothaus
C. Muhler f	W. Henrv
J	A. Miller
|	J. Houck
f G. Costigan
J. Reynolds T. Hagerty F. Halligan
J. Garrity
Turkish Officers,
Peasants, '
Spanish Attendants,
Turkish Soldiers,
TABLEAU.
Epilogue
D. G. Taylor
Closing Remarks.....................................
Music..................................N. D. U. C. B.
Note.—In the Second Act, Alonzo bears the'name of Almanza, and in the Third that of Ferdinando. In the Second Act, Lopez bears the name of Soliman. After Act First, music by the Orchestra; after Act Second music by the N. D. U. C. B. Master Geo. Schaefer sang during the Play. A. A. Browne acted as Prompter.
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Anchondo, Ancheta, Aguilera, Baca, Burns, Buchanan, Becerra, Bailey, Browne, Croxton, W. Cavanaugh, Jos. Cusack, Jno. Cusack, Conway, Dunn, De Groot, De Wolf, Donohue, Dolan, A. Dennis, Ewing, Feltz, Fogarty, T. Fenlon, E. Fenlon, Gonser, Goulding, Howard, Kimmel, Kolars, Kleiber, McGinn, McErlaine, Mahon, Mc-Kinnery, Marquez, Mittendorf. McIntyre, J. McNamara, G. O’Brien, O'Connell, Ott, O’Kane, O’Dea, O’Rourke, Otis, FI. Paschel, C. Paschel, Pour, Quinlan, Rudge. Ryan, Rogers. Reach, Steis, Slattery, Steele, Solon, G. Smith, Tinley, Teasdale. F. Uranga, J. Uranga, Warren, McLaughlin.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Akins, Adler, Anchondo, Arkins, Armijo, Baur, Barclay, Courtney, Curtis, Coleman, Caveroc, Clarke, Costigan, Devereux, Dorenberg, C. Dennis, Finckh, Fitzgerald, Fehr, Fierro, Garrity, Gerlach, Grothaus, Grunsfeld, Hagenbarth, E. J. Howard, Hilliard, Houlihan, Halligan, Houck, Holman, P. Johnson, King, G. Lewis, R. Lewis, Loescher, Lake, Mulkern, Monschein, A. Miller, Mason, Moye, McCabe, S. O’Brien. Plischke, C. Porter, E. Porter, Pohl, Regan, Reynolds, Rhodus, Ryan, Ruppe, Stubbs, Schaefer, Saunders, Terrazas, Tarrant, Tewksberry,Uranga. Wright, Major.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Amoretti, J. Addington, H. Addington, Ackerman, Bunker, Butterfield, Brown, Benner, Bailey, E. Costigan, Cummings, Comings, Cole, Crotty, Curtis, Crawford, F. Coad, M. Coad, Dirksmeyer, W. Devine, Dungan, Devereux, Ewing, Ernest, Fitzgerald, Fulwiler, Garrity, Grunsfeld, Henry, Johns, J. Kelly, E. Kelly, La Tourette, Landenwich, Lowenstein, Lewis, B. Lindsey, C. Lindsey, Loya, W. McGuire, F. McGuire, McGill, .Murphy, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, Morgan, McPhee, McVeigh, Morrison, F. Mullen, A. Mullen, Moye, Meehan; Manzanares, Nathan, Noonan, Nusbaum, Otis. O'Connor, M. O’Kane, B. O’Kane, Paden,'R. Papin, V. Papin, D. Prindiville, W. Prindiville, Quill, Quinlin, Rebori. Studebaker, Stange, Salaman, Schmitz, Sokup, L. Scherrer. C. Scherrer, E. Scherrer, Steele, Spencer, Smith, Thomas, C. Tomlinson, W. Tomlinson, Uranga, Welch, West, Weston, Wright, L. Young, C. Young, Cartier, Krause, Boose. Adams, B. Inderrieden, C. Inderrieden. Grimes.
A Correction.
Editor Scholastic:
There was an item in your last issue calculated to mislead many of your readers. The most diligent inquirer would seek in vain at Notre Dame for “ St. Joseph’s Normal School for the training of teachers.” The writer had in his mind St. Joseph’s Novitiate.
This institution, situated at Notre Dame, and the only' Novitiate of the Congregation of the Holy' Cross in the United States, forms young men primarily for Va&religious state. The mental training which they’ receive as Priests and Brothers is to enable them, as missionaries or Professors in colleges and schools, to better attain the end of the .re-’ ligious life.	;
286
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Saint JFlary's Acabemy.
Oue Mile West of Notre. Dame University.
—The “ Roll of Honor” and “ Class Honors” will appear in our next report.
—The regular classes were resumed on Thursday, and although but few of the pupils have returned, on account of the intense cold weather, the order of the year is observed as usual.
—The pupils who remained during’ the holidays had a pleasant ride to Niles, on Tuesday, and enjoyed it very much. They were just in time to escape the extreme cold which Wednesday inaugurated.
—The monthly Adoration of the .Blessed Sacrament took place on Epiphany, an appropriate day for the descendants of the Gentiles, as we are to offer homages to the King of kings as He hides Himself in the humble elements, and invites our love from His golden throne in the ostensorium.
—The Librarian acknowledges the gift of two rare volumes, “The Uncivilized Races of Men in All Countries of the World,” by Dr. J. G. Wood, presented by Justice Scully, of Chicago; also, for the Museum, old Roman coin and paper currency, Indian curiosities, and. a tooth and the claws of a
1	j
Bengal tiger, from the same generous donor.
—On Monday, the Children of Mary received the “ Blessed Bread ” brought as a gift appropriate to the Epiphany by the never-failing kindness of Father L’Etourneau. To give the correct idea of the custom commemorated, we will quote from St. Mary’s Scholastic report of Jan. 17, 1S80: “ Bread is the symbol of union. In Catholic neighborhoods, on Epiphany, the custom of blessing bread—in which a ring is often deposited—is to commemorate the circle of divine charity, made complete on that day by the vocation of the Gentiles. In the adoration of the three Kings, and in the acceptance by the Divine Babe of Bethlehem of their gifts of gold, frankinscence and myrrh, the Gentile race were united with the people of God.” The prayer used in the blessing of the bread is: “ O Lord, vouchsafe to bless this bread, and grant that all who partake of it may enjoy health of- body and mind. Amen.”
—A graduate of ’65 writes to one of her teachers on New Year’s Day, at the close of a most affectionate letter: “Dear St. Mary’s! How my heart goes back to nineteen years ago to-night, when I knelt in Loreto Chapel and said the beads! How little we realize the wealth of graces we maystore up for our days of trial in the world! Tell your pupils, dear----, for me that every Mass at which they assist, and every rosary which they offer at St. Mary’s, will strengthen them against temptation in after-years. O, how thankful I am how for those years of peace I enjoyed with the Sisters of, Holy Cross! Each face comes before my mind. I forget their names, but that matters not.’ If I live another year, I hope to go back and
receive a duplicate of my medal, made dear to me by passing through the hands of dear Father General.” Such letters breathe the spirit of true gratitude, and draw blessings upon the writer.
—In presence of the dreadful calamity which has befallen the Convent of the Immaculate Conception, at Belleville, Ill., our hearts go out in sympathy to the Sisters and the afflicted families, . and in prayer to God for the innocent victims. At the same time the lesson is again taught the dircc-ors of institutions of taking every precaution against fire. Here at St. Mary’s—we state it for the satisfaction of our patrons—owing to the construction of the buildings and arrangement of the rooms, there is no danger to its inmates; and, at the same time, every other precaution is taken against the ravages of the destructive clement. St. Mary’s is heated by steam. The steam-house, containing 3 engines and boilers, is some distance from the main building, which is amply provided against disasters from fire. On each floor is a four-inch pipe, with hose connected with the tank in the attic. A number 5 duplex Blake fire pump is connected with the boilers, while four large hydrants are near the house outside.
Domestic Economy.
Home is the pole star of every true life. Trust, consolation, guidance, sympathy are found in hearts at home:	•
“ O ask not a home in the mansions of pride, Where marble shines out in its pillars and walls; Though the roof be of gold, it is brilliantly cold, Joy may not be found in its torch-lighted halls. But seek for a bosom all honest and true, Where love once awakened can ne’er depart, Find a soul you may trust, as the kind and the just, And be sure there’s no home like a home in the heart. Then the frowns of misfortune may shadow your lot, And the cheek-searing tear-drop of sorrow may start,
■ But a star, never dim, sheds a halo for him Who can turn for repose to a home in the heart.”
In the beautiful language of Eliza Cook we find the mystery which renders home so dear. In the true home, affection is never denied, therefore, “ Be it ever so humble, there’s no place like home.”
. But as the most perfect watch will at times become clogged, and need repairs; as the fairest lawn must be subject to the skill of the mowing machine, and.as the grape-vine,.however delicious the fruit, must be trimmed and tended, so home joys must be maintained with scrupulous care, and whatever can render this spot more pleasant and attractive, or can improve or ennoble the members of the home-circle is worthy of study and commendation.
• Domestic economy ranks under this head. - Scientific schools are provided for the youthful “ Lords of Creation,” where agricultural chemistry is taught them, as well as everything that-pertains to the art of land culture, that they may: know
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
287
how to conduct a farm wisely, then why should j not young ladies be taught domestic economy? j	It is true, to a certain extent, that the arts of do-
<	mestic life, especially those having reference to the
common routine, are easily performed by nearly every person. As some writer has amusingly ex. pressed it, “ Even a gentleman, quite unversed in J	the mysteries of domestic details, finds, if need be,
j	that he can cook a mutton-chop, or boil a potato,
or, more marvellous still, that he can even manage to sew on a button, whereupon he immediately thinks the whole range of domestic economy comprehends arts and duties equally simple and easy; but the truth is, he has gained as perfect a comprehension of this subject as the old lady did of farming when she grew a potato in the candle-box and called it agriculture.”
Domestic science is not a half-day study, an “ art taught in twelve lessons;” but it demands consideration, thorough training, and no little enthusiasm on the part of the learner. And why not? In this more important interests are involved than in anv other human science. Good food imparts the conditions of good health. On the other hand, badly-prepared dishes bring on disorders of every description. Where is the brain that can do first. class duty when a vapid, half-cooked meal, eaten, perhaps, in too much haste, has set it in antagonism with everything? “ A sound mind in a sound J o
body ” is a priceless treasure; but a well-ordered | table, by providing for the last-named, has no little j to do in maintaining the healthful balance of the first-named.
n	To acknowledge the extent to which the intel-
lectual operations and the temper are affected by the diet may not be so very flattering to human nature; but the fact remains unchanged, and no wise applicant for a favor will forget to make his ■	■ request when the dispenser is in “ an after-dinner
mood.”
Undoubtedly, we are so constituted that physical health is promoted by paying a strict attention to the selection of our food, to the regularity of our meals, and to temperance in eating and drinking; also to the purity of the air in our apartments, and the steady and normal temperature of the same. The true domestic economist takes all these points into careful consideration. She delights in the really fine-art of preparing healthful food, and giv-*,	ing a cheerful aspect to every room in the house.
<	She may be the “angel unawares,” but she is
I surely a blessing to all who are dependent upon I her precious ministrations.
I	Dependence on what may seem insignificant
% things, though humiliating to the thoughtless and I superficial, proves-the benificent agency of her who J who wields the rolling-pin and biscuit-cutter successfully, and she who skilfully manages these has laid the first corner-stone of a peaceful, happy home.
,	As time progresses, complicated mechanical con-
4 trivances multiply, for the charge of which women . are mainly responsible; and these numerous mod‘;	ern conveniences demand scientific and intelligent
'1	supervision; impossible to one untrained in this de-
partment of domestic duties.
The properties of air, heat and light, are expatiated upon in the text books of Natural Philosophy, but their application in housekeeping is never mentioned. Our Chemistries give us much important information respecting the combination of elements, etc., but are deficient in information respecting the combination and properties of food; while in books of Phvsiology we find but meagre allusion to its effects.
During an academic course, a young lady cannot be expected to learn -and understand everything relating to the sphere of domestic duties; but there are some general principles which should be acquired as the necessaiy and only safe foundation of the merely ornamental accomplishments. These principles assist in the establishment of happy homes, and happy- homes are the invulnerable fortresses of a happy country.
Truly it is worth a life of care and labor to create these homes, the ennobling influence of which will survive “while life and thought and being lasts, C7	.07
or immortality endures!”—homes of which we may say:
“ A charm from the skies seems to hallow us there, Which, seek through the world, is not met with elsewhere.”
B. J.
St. Mary’s Academy,’ Salt Lake.
Front 'Fite Salt Fake Times.
In 1S75, two Sisters of the Holy Cross, from St. Mary’s, Notre Dame, Ind., came to Salt Lake for the purpose of establishing a day' and boarding school for young ladies. The flattering promises then made to them, if they open a first-class school, have in the past eight years of its existence been verified, while the Sisters have been faithful to their pledge of sending none but first-class teachers. . The object of. the promoters of St. Mary’s Academy' was to found an institution where the youth of Salt Lake could receive a thorough English education and good moral training, and to afford parents living at a distance from a good school a good, safe home and school combined. This two-fold end has been most successfully attained.	.
At present the institution is in a most flourishing condition. For the last term over a hundred boarders were enrolled on its books, with many' more applications for the ensuing year. Parents can acquire all desired information regarding terms by- writing to St. Mary’s Academy, Salt Lake City. .
A moral poetess had begun a poem in uncom-piomising blank verse on the degeneracy of man: “God mdde man in His own image; but he—” and here she was compelled to leave it. A degenerate one came in, and took the. liberty, of helping her forward a little:
“ Would probably have remained so:-butshe—”
—London Society.
288
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, IND.
The University affords every facility for acquiring a thorough knowledge of CLASSICS,	LAW,
MATHEMATICS,	MEDICINE,
SCIENCE,	MUSIC.
To such as wish to devote themselves to Commercial pursuits, Notre Dame gives a more thorough business training than can be obtained in any purely Commercial College.
THE COMMERCIAL COURSE
has always received the most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commercial Faculty oi the Institution." In all the courses the best systems of teaching are adopted and the best authors for each branch selected.
New Students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalogues, giving full particulars, will be sent free on application to the President.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. r. E. WAIiSH, C. S. C.,
Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
L S. & 1. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. iS, 1SS3, trains will leave South Bend, as follows:
GOING EAST:
2.04 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.22 a.m.; Cleveland, 1.57 p.m.; Buffalo, 7.36 p.m.
10.54 a.m., Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.07 p.m.; Cleveland, 9.44 p.m.; Buffalo, 3.31 a.m.
S41 p.m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.17 a.m.;. Cleveland, 6.37 a.m.; Buffalo, 12.46 p.m.
11.53 p.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.12 p.m.; Cleveland, 9.42 p.m.; Buffalo, 3.31 a.m.
5.54 p.m., Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, 10.00 p.m.; Cleveland, 1.07 a.m.; Buffalo, 6.41 a.m.
GOING WEST:
2.04a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.56 a.m.. Chicago, 5.41 a.m.
4.28 a.m., Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.22 a.m. Chicago, 7.51 a.m.
7.11 a.m, Limited Express. Arrives at Laporte, 7.52 a.m. Chicago, io.ii a.m.
1.02 p.m., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.02 p.m.; Chesterton, 2.47 p.m.; Chicago, 4.31 p.m.
4.07 p.m., Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte.
4.54 p.m.; Chicago, 7.31 p.m.
F. C. RAFF; Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l. Ticket Agt.. Cleveland.
A. G. AMSDEN, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
W. P JOHNSON, Gen’l Pass- Agent, Chicago.
P. P. "WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup., Cleveland.
JOHN "NEWELL. Gen’l M’ger, Cleveland.
BUCKENDORF,
FLORIST.
RARE and BEDDING PLANTS
AL IVANS ON HAND.
ALSO,
CUT FLOWERS, DESIGNING, and DECORATING.
GREENHOUSE, 217 JEFFERSON ST.,
SOUTH BEND, IND.
PATENTS
MUNN & CO., of the Scientific American, continue to act as Solicitors for Patents, Cavetits, Trade Marks. Copyrights, for the United States, Canada. England, France, Germany, etc. Hand Book about Patents sent free. Tint ty-s>'’-on years’experience.
P.itentsobtainod through MUNN & CO. arenoticed in the SctEXTl itc A m t:niCA x. t he largest, best, and most v.r’ely circulated scientific paper. ?3.20a year. Weekly. Splendid engravings and interesting information. Specimen copy of the Scientific A titer, ierin sent, free. A ddress MUNN & CO.. SCIENTIFIC A.UER1C N G.aoe. 2 LBroadwav, New York.