Vol. XIX.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 9, 1886.
No. 17.
Dirge for the Old Year.
Thy days are sped at last, And mingled with the past
Beyond recall;
Ah! many a joy shall sink With thee beyond the brink Of Time’s gray wall!
Have we not ever found
Of some bright hope the.bound An old year’s close?
When did the stranger time, Rung in with braggart chime, Bring joys like those
Were ours in days gone by, When the glad pulse beat high, And life was new?
Who will restore that beam,— The sunrise of life’s dream,— Young year, will you ?
Away! I know thee not,
Gay fool! Thou bring’st no lot Like that of yore;
’ For all thy festive train Thou’lt forge upon life’s chain One sad link more.
Thy carols are the knell
Of youth’s fast fading spell;
Thy merry scene
Is harbinger of grief,—
A crown of cypress leaf Thy garland green.
Thou wast my comrade true, Old year, as moments grew To day and night;
My watch and ward, until
Thy last sad moon did fill Her globe with light.
Amid the storm and strife
Thou ledst my bark of life From, shore to shore.
Ah! sunk in endless sleep, *
My pilot o’er the deep
Thou’lt be no more!
Go, revel, heartless crowd, .	'
While winter spreads his shroud!
Ay! laugh and sing .
—Though scarce his breath be sped—
“ Hurrah! The king is dead; '
Long live the king”!
Make merry! Never I
Will raise the craven cry
Above his bier;
But o’er his corse, bowed down,
I’ll gem his fallen crown
With many a tear.
R. H.
Cardinal Ximenea.
This distinguished prelate and statesman /was born in the year 1436, at Torrelaguna, a small town in the province of Toledo, in Spain. To the name Gonzales, which he received in baptism—but which he changed to Francis on becoming a religious,— was added the surname Cisneros—the name of the town in which the family lived. His mother, Marina de la Torre, of noble ancestry, married Al-phonsus Ximenes, who held an inferior office in the Department of Revenue.
The parents of young Ximenes destined him for the priesthood, and sent him, at an early age, to begin his studies at Alcala. From here he went to Salamanca, where he devoted himself to civil and canon law, philosophy and theology.
At the age of 23 we find him a consistorial advocate in the ecclesiastical courts at Rome, and was just beginning to distinguish himself, when he was called home by the death of his father. To assist, his family, he asked of .the Pope, and obtained letters expectativce, by which he would be entitled to the first vacant ecclesiastical benefice in the diocese of Toledo. Unfortunately, the first which became vacant had already been promised by the Bishop to another priest. Xim-
266	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
a
enes insisted on his right with firmness, but the Bishop as firmly persisted in fulfilling his promise. The Bishop resolved to look upon Ximenes’ firmness as obstinacy or contumacy, and accordingly ordered him into retirement. Several years were passed in this retreat. During his sojourn here, he was told one day by a fellow-priest that he should yet be.Bishop of the diocese. Ximenes, good-humoredly, replied .that present circumstances did not point to so favorable a result.
A lapse of six years found the subject of our .article as obstinate as ever, but had somewhat shaken the Bishop’s firmness; for he allowed Ximenes to again appear in public, and even take possession of the contested vacancy. Men, though, who injure others, and do them justice only by force, seldom afterwards treat them leniently. Ximenes exchanged his benefice for the first chaplaincy of Seguenza. Cardinal de Mendoza, Bishop of Se-guenza and Archbishop of Seville, soon discovered the extraordinary talents of his new subject, and made him Vicar-General. The prophecy of his future greatness seemed in a fair way to be fulfilled, when, to the astonishment of his friends, he resigned all his benefices and retired to a convent of the Franciscans. Here his piety and wisdom attracted to his confessional some of the most illustrious personages of the kingdom. Ximenes’ humility took the alarm, and he asked to be removed to a little convent some leagues from Toledo. Here he built himself a little cabin and gave himself up to prayer and study. In after-years, when invested with the purple, and wielding almost regal authority, he looked back with a longing sigh to the days passed in his little hut. His talents, as well as the rules of his Order, soon drew him from his retirement.
The General Chapter of his Order now elected him Provincial of the city of New Castile, and shortly afterward the Archbishop of Toledo died. Toledo was the most important see in the kingdom. Ite revenues were immense, its vassals, cities and strongholds numerous. The Archbishop of Toledo was second in power only to his sovereign.
Isabella, to whom had been reserved the right of nominating ecclesiastical dignitaries, consulted Ximenes upon the choice of a successor to Men-doza-—the late Archbishop. Ximenes proposed the nephew of the Archbishop of Seville, but the queen preferred Oropesa, formerly a member of the royal council, but now in voluntary retirement. Ximenes acquiesced, and messengers were sent to Rome to have the nomination sanctioned. The queen, however, secretly ordered her ambassador at Rome to make no mention of Oropesa, but to solicit the' bulls for Ximenes. When they had come, “ See,” said she to, him; one day, “what these letters apostolic from His Holiness contain.” He received the package respectfully, but when he had read the address—“ To our venerable brother Francis Ximenes, of Cisneros, Archbishop-elect of Toledo” —-he became pale, and, hastily returning the document, said: “ Your'Majesty, it is not for me.” He forgot all ceremony in his perturbation and, rushing from the royal presence, left the palace, telling his
secretary Ruyz that the sooner they were off, the better. Two lords of the court were sent after him; but he was out from the city and ten miles beyond when overtaken and brought back. In vain, however, did the queen urge him to accept the position; he yielded only to a direct command from the Holy See, and was ‘ consecrated Oct.'n, H95-	",	.	.	. / . .
The Cardinal was now in his:59th year. Hitherto his life had been one of labor, poverty, and austerity. Circumstances now required him to change at least its poverty, but the only circumstance that effected this was a letter from the Pope, ordering him to adapt himself to his new dignity. He obeyed. His palace was an emporium of art and gilded upholstery; his tables were served with the most costly viands; but the Cardinal himself, amid all this luxury, lived like Francis’ the poor Franciscan.
He resumed his former works of reformation and charity. Religious abuses were things of the past; hospitals, monasteries, churches sprang up everywhere under his fostering care. He was a man of indefatigable zeal—the man that Spain needed in those days.
Ferdinand and Isabella had conquered Granada, but not Islamism, which it was necessary to overcome before the sovereigns could hope to enjoy any security. Ximenes was chosen for the work; he induced the saintly Talavera, Archbishop of Granada, to aid him. They , went among the people, high and low, catechizing, instructing, exhorting. Talavera, referring all the success to his companion, said: “Ferdinand and Isabella conquered the bodies of all in Granada, but Ximenes conquered their souls.” On one occasion he baptized 4000 Moors, the majority of whom were priests and doctors.
Granada ceased to be a Moorish city.. But, unfortunately, Ximenes’ success led him into an imprudence. He thought he might now substitute his will for persuasion, and he issued a general order commanding all the Moors to change their religion. The result, was that many who had changed, apostatized, joined their unconverted kinsmen, revolted,, and had to be suppressed by force of arms—or, rather, by the appearance of an armed force; for, with the exception of an officer of justice who was killed by a stone thrown by one of the rebels, no lives were lost. When peace had been restored, the Cardinal set out for Seville, where Ferdinand and Isabella then held their court. This was about, the year 1500. Gomez, one of the Cardinal’s biographers, tells, us that Ximenes, in this interview with his sovereigns, proposed sending another band of missionaries to America. The proposal was accepted by their majesties, and Ximenes himself charged with its execution. He confided the work to F. Ruyz, and two other members of his Order, all of whom he knew’ to be men of ability and devotedness. Ruyz, however, was so affected by the climate that he was obliged to return, after a stay of some months.
He reported several abuses in.the New World, which the Cardinal immediately caused to be re
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	zb.
formed. All abuses, at home and abroad, the primate regarded as the result of ignorance. He accordingly put forth his best efforts in the cause of education. He was heartily seconded by the queen. The art of printing, discovered in 1440, had not yet been introduced into Spain. Aided by the queen’s liberality, Ximenes not only founded printing establishments and supported them, but also spent large sums in purchasing the most valuable manuscripts to be found in Europe. The generous patronage of the queen attracted to her court men of science from all parts of the continent. The nobles of the kingdom, ladies and gentlemen, who heretofore had despised learning, now rivalled one another in its acquisition, and even did not disdain the professor’s chair. The University of Salamanca numbered six thousand students. Academies sprang up in every province. Some were endowed by laics, others by clerical dignitaries.
Ximenes had his own, and people called it the eighth wonder of the world. Alcala de Henares was unsurpassed for beauty of locality and salubrity of climate. There the primate laid the corner-stone of his new university, in the year 1500. The main building was called St. Ildephonsus, and around it stood six others of smaller dimensions. The Cardinal was seen here, there, and everywhere, with rule in hand taking measurements, and giving orders.
All was finished, and the university opened Oct. 18,1508. There were forty-two professors: six of theology; six in canon law; four in medicine; one in anatomy; one in surgery; eight in philosophy; one in moral philosophy; one in mathematics; four in Hebrew and Greek; four in rhetoric, and six in grammar. Students came from all quarters. They were soon numbered by thousands.
Fame spoke so highly of the new university that the king resolved to visit it. Some writers state the .visit was made in 1514, while others say it was in 1515. The rector received the king with great pomp. .The courtiers took umbrage at the presence of some beadles, with their fasces, saying royalty.alone was entitled to such marks of distinction. Ferdinand quieted them, saying: “This is the kingdom of science; here the learned are kings.” Some years afterwards,—Ximenes was dead,—Francis I, of France, also honored the institute with a visit. He paid a high tribute to the memory of the deceased prelate by remarking to the grandees, grouped around:. “ Ximenes, alone, has accomplished here what only the united efforts of many kings have effected at Paris.”
The primate’s chief aim in founding the university was the advancement of religion and sacred literature. His observation showed him that the faith was much stronger in the illiterate mass than in the majority of the learned few. This anomaly he justly attributed to a defect in the system of education. The beauties of the pagan classics were captivating. Sublimity of language gave plausibility, to sentiments that conflicted with dogmas of Christianity. Even in the most famous schools but little was done to counteract this evil. Ximenes resolved to devote his best efforts to the task. At great labor and expense he published a
polyglot bible—the first ever published. In this appeared the original text,-with various translations by the most eminent scholars of the day. Fifteen years and $125,000 .were consumed in -finishing the work. It was given to the world in 1517* appearance rather confused Luther, who just then was loud in his denunciation of the Catholic Church for not being more deeply interested in biblical learning, for altering the texts and hiding their true meaning from the people by ref using to give them a translation.
Although his literary labors demanded much time and attention, Ximenes had also to act a very important part in state affairs. He occupied the most prominent position among the counsellors of Isabella. She, after raising her kingdom to a power of the first rank, died, on the 26th of Nov., 1504, leaving her. daughter Joanna and Philip, Archduke of Austria—to whom Joanna had been married,—as heirs to the throne, with Ferdinand as regent. Philip felt ill at ease among the Spanish *. grandees, sighed continually for his Netherlands, ' and finally set out for them, leaving in despondency his consort, who cared all the world for him, but about whom he cared very little. During his absence she did nothing but sigh for his return. .
Ferdinand, as a skilful diplomatist, was pleasing to the Castillians, but his nationality as an-Aragonese made him distasteful. The two provinces were rivals, and civil war loomed up in the distance. Ximenes determined to avert it at all hazards, and preserve the unity of Spain. He sided with Ferdinand against the nobles, whose divisions among themselves, he foresaw, would soon result in anarchy. He gave the reins of government into the hands of Ferdinand until Philip and Joanna should be capable of governing for themselves. The two princes now became jealous of each other: Philip was solicited to return and reside in Spain. He yielded with reluctance, and on his arrival was proclaimed King by the primate. His presence, however, did not produce the desired effects. Ferdinand withdrew to Naples. The condition of affairs became more serious. An outbreak seemed inevitable, when it was announced that Philip was dead. The event led to new dif- ■ Acuities, or rather gave the old a new direction. The queen, never of a vigorous mind, was now completely unnerved. The nobles could agree in nothing. Some were in favor of making Ferdinand regent, others were against it. The most powerful state in the world stood on the brink of dissolution, when Ximenes came to the rescue. His was a delicate position, though; if he showed a leaning towards Ferdinand, one party would accuse him of treason; and if he spoke against him, he would incur the enmity of the other. He adopted a middle course, and proposed that they should choose from among themselves, men to undertake the government of affairs. The proposal was accepted, and of the chosen he himself was chief—in which position he soon induced the -nobility to accept Ferdinand as regent. To this,, manoeuvre, Charles, then only seven years of- age, owed his title afterwards of Charles V.	■	.
26§
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Ferdinand did not return to Castile till quiet was perfectly restored. During his absence he had procured the Cardinal’s hat for the great primate. With the hat came also the additional dignity of Grand Inquisitor, which then ranked as the highest office in the state.	. '
The tribunal of the Inquisition—to which the Albigensian heresy had given rise about the end of the 12th century, but which had long fallen into desuetude,—was re-established. Its Constitution and rules were published only in 1484, by Cardinal Torquemada, in conjunction with the King of Spain. It was composed of a supreme head, who was either an Archbishop or a Bishop, and eight ecclesiastical counsellors. These had no power to condemn anyone to death, and no warrant for an execution has ever been found with a priest’s signature affixed. The duty of the tribunal consisted only in determining upon the clearest evidence whether the individual arraigned before it was guilty, or not, of charges which the civil law had made capital. If the accused was found guilty, sentence was passed accordingly, and the culprit handed over to the state authorities who dealt with him as they thought fit. The Inquisition was established in different countries of Europe. Its chief object was to suppress innovations in the established religion of the realm. When Ximenes was appointed its General, Spain—the established religion of which was Catholicity—was overrun and greatly disturbed by hordes of Moors, Jews, heretics, and apostates. In his treatment of these we read that Ximenes was sometimes severe, but never unjust or cruel.	’
To the office of Inquisitor General belonged, not only the duty of defending the Faith at home, but also of spreading it abroad. The standard of the Cross, which the genius of Cyprian and Augustine had formerly planted in Africa, had been uprooted. Ximenes determined to replant it. By force, it had been displaced, by the same means it was lawful to replace it. So economically had the prelate lived for years that people said he .was avaricious. The fruit of his economy he now spent in levying troops and preparing a fleet. He gave charge of the expedition to Pedro Navarro, a general of some skill, and much esteemed by the king. Ximenes himself possessed military abilities of the first. order, and he determined to accompany the troops.
After many trials and vexations, he collected an army of 10,000 foot and 4000 horse, with a fleet of ten armed vessels and twenty-four transports. He set sail on the 16th of May, 1509, and landed on the coast of Africa on Ascension Day of the same year. Next day he resolved to carry the city of Oran by assault, and he addressed the troops in language that excited their patriotism to its highest. He saw at once the day was won, and withdrew, leaving Navarro to begin and direct the attack; The prelate, however, had scarcely entered his oratory, when Navarro appeared before him to advise a postponement of the battle, saying that the day was advanced and the troops fatigued after the voyage. Ximenes reflected a moment, then said: “ Navarro, in this engagement, Christ, the Son of the Most High,
and the impostor Mahommed are about to contend. To defer the battle would, I consider, not only be injurious and dangerous, but also sinful; therefore, be not fearful, but lead your men on to battle; for I am confident that this day you will gain a glorious victory over the enemy.” Navarro hastily returned to the camp and gave the signal for battle. The soldiers,raising the cry of « St. James!” rushed onward, carrying all before them till they came to the very walls of the city. Sousa, the captain of the Cardinal’s Guard, was the first to mount the fortifications, and, having planted his master’s banner on the highest tower, cried out with a loud voice: “ St. James and Ximenes!” The city, 8000 prisoners, and 500,000 gold ducats fell into the hands of the invaders. The Cardinal soon after returned to Spain, carrying with him many Arabian manuscripts with which to enrich his university.
Ferdinand had not the magnanimity of his illustrious consort, Isabella. He had suffered Columbus to die in poverty, and, through jealousy, wished now to dispense with the services of Ximenes. But he was forced by circumstances to retain the prelate; his state would have fallen asunder without him. Unlike the Cardinal, Ferdinand aimed rather at the aggrandizement of his own family than at the prosperity of Spain in general. He married the niece of Louis XII of France, hoping thereby to have a son to whom he could leave the two kingdoms. His hopes were not realized, and he was obliged to yield the .succession to his grandson Charles, the legitimate heir. Charles had been educated at the Flemish court, and imbued with much prejudice against the Spaniards. Ferdinand, on his death-bed, saw that disintegration of the states would quickly follow his demise, unless he placed the reins of government in vigorous hands until the young prince became of age. Calumny and jealousy had estranged Ximenes from him, but the prelate was the only one equal to the emergency. In his will he accordingly appointed him regent. Charles, on hearing of the choice, expressed great satisfaction, saying it was the best work the deceased king had ever done; that now justice, peace and security were assured to the states.
The Cardinal transferred the seat of government to Madrid. From this point he could more easily watch over the surrounding districts. Some of the nobles, taking advantage of what they styled “ the monk’s incapacity to rule,” began to collect troops with the purpose of plundering one another, and satisfying old grudges. The regent quelled ■them in every instance by promptly confronting them with troops.
Charles, though his mother was alive, was ambitious of the title of king, and requested the regent to obtain it for him from the council. Some of the members refused their consent. The Cardinal, stretching forth his hand, imposed silence. Then, with a firm voice, he exclaimed: “Your suffrages are not necessary in this matter. The opinion of subjects is not binding on their prince. -I asked your advice only in order to give you an opportunity of winning the favor of your sovereign. You. have shown yourselves unworthy of
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
269
the offer. To-day Charles' shall be proclaimed-king in Madrid, and orders given to have all the other cities follow its example.”
Charles was accordingly proclaimed king, and in all public documents his name appeared after the queen’s. Shortly afterwards, it was announced to the regent that the nobles were preparing to revolt. “To revolt,” said the Cardinal, “requires means: these have only words.”
His only reliance now was on the people. The army, for the most part, consisted but of vagrants without honor or virtue. Ximenes represented to the people the necessity of a reorganization and offered them such inducements to enlist that in a few weeks 30,000 of them were at his command. At the same time he gave a new impetus to maritime affairs. The navy was increased, and the Mediterranean freed from pirates. Medina del Campo, Alcala and Malaga, the three strongholds of Castile, were provisioned and strengthened against foes, foreign or domestic.	’
Las Casas came from America to plead the cause of oppressed natives. The Cardinal received him cordially, listened to him attentively, and selected a band of missionaries from among the Jeromites, whom he sent abroad with instruction to examine carefully into the state of affairs, to redress all wrongs, and to preach the Faith. Unprincipled adventurers had brought odium on the , . name of Spain in America. He would gladly have called the authors to account, but he was now eighty years old, and harrassed at home by those. whose duty it was to aid him.
At Ghent the young prince was surrounded by a set of intriguing flatterers, inimical to the regent, who, they said, was too powerful, and needed to be checked. They proposed that a colleague be appointed to share his authority. Charles feebly yielded to the advice, and named his preceptor, Adrian of Utrecht—afterwards Pope Adrian VI— to fill the position. His authority was considered too great still, and this time an old favorite of Philip the Fair was sent to share it. The regent received them ■ both with due honors, but declined their services in, transacting business of state.
The prince’s protracted stay in the Netherlands, was beginning to cause much dissatisfaction in Spain. The Cardinal could give the grandees no valid excuse for their sovereign’s absence, and had. often urged him to return and take possession of his kingdoms. By the advice of Maximillian, emperor; of Austria, Charles was finally induced to set out for -Madrid. He was accompanied by a crowd of courtiers bent on the disgrace of the regent. They used every effort to prevent a meeting between the king and Ximenes, and counselled the former to proceed * first to Navarre and there receive the homage of his subjects before coming to Castile. With some difficulty, the Cardinal persuaded him from adopting this course, telling him of the susceptible nature of. the Castillians. They then advised him to assemble the Cortes at Valladolid. Ximenes warned him against it, but his warning was unheeded, and Charles had good reason to regret it afterwards.
Ferdinand, the king’s brother, was disposed to .
be troublesome. He was displeased with the part assigned him during the regency, and many disaffected nobles were leagued in his interest. With prophetic foresight, Ximenes advised the king to cede Austria and his other hereditary provinces to Ferdinand and send him to the emperor Maximillian in Germany. It was by following'this advice that Charles was afterwards enabled to suppress the revolt of the states, and save Spain.
The ungrateful king poorly requited the services of his regent. Ximenes, now broken down in health, had proceeded to Valladolid, were the Cortes had orders to assemble. The fatigue of the journey brought on an illness that confined him to his bed. His enemies took advantage of it, and the king, yielding to their importunities, wrote to the Cardinal, relieving him of his burdensome duties. In the mean time, Ximenes caused himself to be removed to Roa, whither the letter was forwarded. He felt his death approaching, and prepared for it by the. reception of the Sacraments. His agony was the less agonizing for having never known of Charles’ ingratitude; for when the letter came, he was unconscious, and his great heart was spared the pang which such a missive could not but inflict. Consciousness returned before death sealed his eyes, and he calmly expired, on the 8th of Nov., while uttering the words In te, Doming speravi! He was buried in the college of San Ildefonso.
■ In appearance he was tall and thin, his face long, -his nose aquiline, his nostrils wide, his forehead high and wrinkled, his eyes of middle size, deep set and piercing, his eye teeth rather prominent, his lips somewhat thick, but well formed, his voice firm and agreeable. With his death died also the passions of his enemies, and all Spain mourned the loss of a great and virtuous man.	R.
\From '■'■The Ave Maria.”]
Calendars: Eras: Cycles.
The Julian Calendar.—This calendar is so called because it was established by Julius Caesar, with the advice of the mathematician Sosigenes, in the year 46 before Christ. The length of the year, which up to that time had not been fixed among the Romans, was made to be 365 days, 6 hours, as among the Egyptians, Chaldeans, etc. These six hours amounted to one day in four years, and this complementary day was inserted between ■ the 24th and the 25th day of February; the sixth before the calends of March was, therefore, doubled by this intercalary day, and it was called bis sextus (double six), whence the year to which it was added was called bissextile.
The Gregorian Calendar.—In the Julian Calendar six hours are given to each year, whereas the solar year consists of 365 days, 5 hours, 48 minutes, 47’8 seconds. This excess of 11 minutes, 12-2 seconds in the year 1582 had made a difference of ten days between the solar and the civil year. Pope Gregory XIII, therefore, by the advice of the astronomer Lilio, cut off ten days from - the year 1582, and decided that in future three of the
270
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
years divisible by 100, which according to the Julian Calendar ought to be bissextile, should be common, and that it was only in the fourth that the intercalary day should be added. This reform was gradually adopted by Catholic countries, whereas all Protestants did not accept it till the iSth century, and the Russians have but just admitted it. The difference between the Gregorian Calendar and the Iulian (in use till lately amongst the Russians) is thirteen days.
The Olympiads.—An Olympiad was the space of four years elapsing between the celebration of the Olympic games; in a century there are, therefore, twenty-five Olympiads. The first Olympiad began in the year 776 before Christ, in which year the Olympiads were established. In this method of counting time two numbers are used—one in Roman characters to indicate the Olympiad, the other in Arabic figures to indicate the year of the Olympiad. 1885 would, therefore, be thus expressed, DCLXVI, 1; namely, the first year of 666th Olympiad.
The Era of Na bona ss ar.—The Era of Na-bonassar, established by Ptolemy in the year of Our Lord 25, begins on February 26 of the year 747 B. C. Its astronomical element being the Egyptian year of 365 days, it fell behind the Julian year one day in every four years.
The Hegira.—The era of the Mussulmans dates from July 16, A. D. 622, on which day Mahomet was obliged to fly from Mecca and take refuge in Yatreb. To change a date from the Mahometan style of reckoning to the Christian, we must add 622 to the Mussulman year, and subtract nearly two .years for each century. Hegira is an Arabian word, meaning flight.
The Christian Era.—The Christian Era dates from the Birth of Christ. According to the Benedictines, this great event took place in the year of the world 4963; according to Usher and the common chronology, in the year 4004.
The Jewish Era.—The Jews, who date from the creation of the world, place this event in the year 3761 before Christ. Their era is regulated by the cycle of nineteen years, composed of twelve ordinary lunar years, and seven embolismical or intercalary years, which, being longer than the former, cause the positions of the sun and moon to agree at the end of about nineteen years.
Golden Number.—This number is used in ecclesiastical reckoning, to show the year of the lunar cycle. This cycle is a revolution of nineteen years, at the end of which it was supposed that the new and full moons had returned to the same day and hour. The first lunar cycle dates one year before the Christian era. To find the golden number for any given year, divide the year by 19; the remainder, plus 1, is the golden number.
The Epact.—This number indicates how many days must be added to the lunar year to make it equal -to the solar year; the difference between these two years being about eleven days, the epact increases each year till it goes beyond twenty-nine. When this figure has been reached, a new lunar month is supposed to be intercalated.
. The Solar Cycle.—This is a period of twentyeight years, at the end. of which, in the Julian Calendar, the days of the week are on the same days of the year as in the previous cycle, and the Sundays have the same Dominical Letter. A revolution of seven years would suffice to bring about this result if all the years had the same number of days; but, as every fourth year is bissextile, the period must consist of seven times four, or 28 years. The Solar Cycle is also called the Cycle of the Dominical Letters. Chronologists date this cycle from nine years before our era. To calculate to which cycle any year.belongs, add 9 to the year, and divide the sum by 28. The quotient is the cycle, and the remainder indicates the' year. Thus, 1886 is the 19th year of the 67th cycle.
Roman Indiction.—The Roman Indiction is a period of fifteen years established by Constantine, after his victory over Maxentius at the Pons Milvius, A. D. 313. Amongst old ecclesiastical authors this period was used to mark dates, and it is yet preserved in Papal Bulls. The word indiction means edict, and this period was so called because the Emperor by an edict fixed upon it for the assessment of taxes. The year 1886 is, therefore, the 14th year of the 104th Indiction.	‘
Dominical Letter.—In ecclesiastical computation each day of the week is marked by one of the seven first letters of the alphabet, the first day of the year being always marked by the letter a. - Whichever of the seven letters falls on Sunday is called the Dominical Letter of that year. It changes every year, and in bissextile years there are 'two Dominical Letters. When the year is bissextile the month of February has 29 days, and the Feast of St. Mathias is changed from the 24th to the 25th; the letter of the 24th is still kept for the 25th, and the Dominical Letter is changed for that which preceded it. If, for instance, the Dominical Letter at the begining of the year was L as in 1884, it becomes e for the rest of the year from February 25.	•
Julian Period.—This is a cycle of 7,980 years, during which the numbers for the three cycles— lunar, solar, and indiction—cannot be the same for any two years. Julius Caesar Scaliger introduced it in the 16th century, and from him it has its name of Julian. It is simply the product of 28 by 19 by 15=7980, which Scaliger intended to be used as a universal chronological measure. On the year i of our era, it was 10 of the solar cycle, 2 of the lunar cycle, 4 of the indiction; that year, therefore, corresponds to the year 4714 of the Julian Period; this number 4714 being the only one comprised in the number 7980 which, divided successively by 28, 19, and 15, gives for remainders 10,2,4. Since the year 1 corresponds to the year 4714, the year o corresponds to 4713. Hence to'change one of our years to the Julian Period we add or subtract 4713, according as the date is before or after our era. Thus, 1886 plus 4713=8699. '	'
If youth be spent in idleness, manhood is likely to be contemptible and old age miserable. •
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Art, Music and Literature.
Die Glocken von Shandon.
—The new American Opera Company, under the direction of Theodore Thomas, has opened the season with great eclat in New York. -
—In the second part of Dr. Murray’s great English dictionary there are 9,135 words. The work will embrace twenty-six parts, on the calculation that there are about 240,000 words in-the language.
—Dr. Daniel G. Brinton, of Philadelphia, has been announced as laureate of the Societe Ameri-caine de France for 1885, and has been awarded the medal of the society for his works on the aboriginal languages and mythology of America.
—His Holiness the Pope, who is an expert Latin versifier, has just presented Prince Bismarck with an elegantly bound copy of his latest volume of poems, “Novissima Leonis XIII, Pont. Max. Car-mina.” Long before his elevation to the Chair of Peter, Cardinal Pecci was well known as one of the best classical scholars in Italy, and his poems are said to show such a mastery of Latin.that quite modern turns of thought have obtained a classical tinge.—Home Journal.
—Mr. Matthew Arnold made a mistake in giving London as the authority for pronunciation. There are many words pronounced differently by different people in London. The House of Commons has been always recognized and accepted as authority, though not infallible, and most of its leadings men were educated at Oxford, where Walker is regarded as the best authority for pronunciation. But even in the House of Commons there have been differences of pronunciation among the leading men. Both Lord John Russell and O’Connell always pronounced “ either ” “ ither,” and “obliged” “ obleeged.”—.Sun.
© . ©
—Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes, asked by The Journalist to “ contribute something ” to its Christmas number,'wrote the following:
Dear Friends:
You call on your victim for “ things he has plenty of— Those copies of verses, no doubt, at least twenty of;
His desk is crammed full, for he always keeps writing ’em And reading to friends as his way of delighting ’em! ”— I tell you this writing of verses means business— It makes the brain whirl in a vortex of dizziness;
You think they are scrawled in the languor of laziness— I tell you they ’re squeezed by a spasm of craziness, A fit half as bad as the staggering vertigoes
That seize a poor fellow, and down in the dirt he goes!
—Berlin has been doing honor to Rubinstein in a romantic fashion. On the eve of his departure for Vienna a banquet was given in the Kaiserhof. Nearly all the notabilities of Berlin were present. An invisible orchestra played the march from «F era mors,” after which an address in Russian was presented to the composer by a lady dressed in Russian costume. A charming surprise was reserved for the close of the entertainment when Rubinstein’s pianoforte suite, “Le Bal Costumd” (a collection of characteristic dances of different countries and epochs), was played with an ingenious accompaniment of tableaux vivants, which produced a splendid effect.	-
The Bells of Shandon	- .
That sound so grand on	'
The pleasant waters	.
Of the river. Lee.
The following excellent rendition in German of Father Prout’s famous “Bells of Shandon3’ recently appeared in the Herold des Glaubens of St. Louis. The translation well preserves the musical flow and rhythm of the original:
Mit tiefer Freude Erfiillt noch heute .	Der Schall der Glocken
Von Shandon mich, Auf deren Klange Und siiszen Sange In friih’ster Kindheit	-
Schon lauschte icK.
Wohin ich eile, In welchem Theile Der Welt ich weile, Vergesse nie	,
Ich das Frohlocken	'
Der Shandon Glocken	-
Am griinen Strande
Des Flusses Lee! -
Ich horte schallen Der Glocken Hallen Von Kathedralen
In manchem Land. ’ Manch’ eh’rne Zunge
Erklang im Schwunge,	•
Doch kein Gelaute,	■
Wie dies ich fand.
Mit tiefem Sehnen Laucht’ ich den schdnen Melod’schen Tonen .	Voll Harmonie,—
O, welch’ Frohlocken Der Shandon Glocken Am griinen Strande Des Flusses Lee!
Ich lauscht’ dem vollen
Und tiefem Grollen,	-
Das oft erschollen	"
Vom Vatican.
Ich lauscht’ den siiszen Und holden Griiszen Der beiden Riesen
Von Notre Dame.
Noch font’s heriiber ‘	.
Von Sein’ und Tiber, • Doch lausch’ ich lieber
Der Harmonie	’
Und dem Frohlocken Der Shandon Glocken Am griinen Strande
Des Flusses Lee!
Mit Donnertonen	.
Hort ich es drohnen
Von Moskau’s Thiirmen Wohl friih und spat, Auch sah ich knieen Zu Sankt Sophien Den Derwisch, mahnend Zum Gebet. ' '
O, Keinem neide Ich seine Freude, So mich nur weide .	.Die Harmonie
Und das Frohlocken Der Shandon Glocken .	Am griinen Strande
Des Flusses Lee!
272	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
wrewe sewotm
Notre Dame, January 9, 1886.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Nineteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their general good conduct. -
Students should take it; parents should take it; and. above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.50 fer Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
'	'	Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editor of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
—Of all class work, perhaps none is more important, or productive of more lasting benefit than “ reviews.” By them many principles that were but partially understood are made clear and indelibly impressed upon the mind. There is .no one but will be surprised to find, upon review, how much there is that has escaped his memory after a first study of a subject. .
—The opening of College after the holidays has been marked by the accession of a number of new arrivals in each of the three departments, and by a general manifestation of renewed energy and devotedness on the part of the students. It is gratifying to note this, as it indicates the most encouraging prospects for the coming year, and gives the assurance of a happy and successful completion of a scholastic year so well and auspiciously inaugurated.
—The Scientific Association of the University will be reorganized early next week. Its members will continue, as their predecessors of past years, to contribute to the pages of the Scholastic essays on timely questions of Modern. Science. A new departure—or rather the perfection of a column already existing in our paper—will be made at an
early date in the establishment of a “ Scientific Department ” in the Scholastic. The talent existing among the scientific students will not fail to make this department one of general interest and utility.
—The publication, a few weeks ago, of a series of-resolutions adopted by the Class of ’8o on the death of one of its members, is a reminder of the fact that this Class was the first in the history of the College to form itself into an organization during College days and continue the same even after entering upon the busy scenes of life. The action of the Class of ’So in forming such ah union is worthy of imitation. Those who have passed a number of years together as students, associated in the trials and triumphs of the study-room, the classroom, the debating hall and the campus, naturally are drawn towards each other by close ties of friendship, and may well desire that this union be perpetuated in after-life. And such meetings and correspondence as will accompany their union, in the years following their departure from the college walls, cannot fail to be a source of pleasure and joy amid the cares of life, and prove of benefit to all the members. We commend the matter to the attention of the. Class of ’86.
—We are pleased to announce that the authorities have completed arrangements for introducing the Edison incandescent light into all the college buildings. In addition to the dynamo now in use, a much larger one.has been ordered, and will be put in position’.in a few days. Mr. Wilson, the skilful electrician of-the Edison Co., is now engaged in “ wiring” the buildings, which will include the Main Building, Science Hall, the Academy of Music, and St. Edward’s Hall. During the past few months about one hundred and fifty lights have been in use; but on the installation of the new plant, the number will be increased to upwards of five hundred. The electric light will supersede gas entirely in all the parlors, study-halls, class and lecture-rooms, as well as in the private rooms of professors^ and students. We are sure that all will be pleased with the change, as, from the experience we - have already had with the Edison light, there seems to be no doubt left in the minds of any one as to the superiority of the incandescent electric, light over gas.. It is in every way a cleaner, brighter and steadier illuminant than anything we have yet seen; and, by reason of its brightness and absolute steadiness, it is as easy on the eyes as sunlight itself.
The motor used for operating the dynamos is a large, high-speed, low-pressure, Armington & Sims engine. This, together with the dynamos, resistance coils, and various meters, is to be placed in a building erected for the purpose, and which, owing to the recently-increased, demand for space, is now being enlarged. When completed, the electric light station will, we doubt not, be one. of the most interesting'of the many interesting places about the University. ;	..
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
273
The Edison Eight.
The Edison incandescent electric light system,— including dynamo, lamps, conductors, meters, regulators, and other appurtenances which go to make up the only system of incandescent lighting which has passed the stage of experiment, and which has a universally recognized commercial value,—is a remarkable instance of what energy, persistency and genius can accomplish in the face of apparently insurmountable obstacles, and when the thing attempted is regarded, by those bestfcapable of judging, as impracticable, if not absurd.
When, a few years ago, Mr. Edison announced his intention of producing a light, substantially the same as that which he has since so ably perfected, and which has made him famous—although he was that before—the world over, he was laughed at by the most eminent scientists of America and Europe, and told that he was attempting what, in the very nature of things, was simply impossible. Electricians, in their wisdom, asserted that he was working contrary to all the known laws of electricity and magnetism. Mathematicians came forward with long and complicated formulas to prove that what he projected implied a nullification of all the well-established conclusions regarding the correlation and-conservation of the various physical forces. The laws of Ohm were discussed in all their bearings ; the in vestigations of Ampere, Faraday, Arago, Joule, Thompson, Maxwell, Kirchoff, and other eminent physicists, were appealed to as proof positive of the futility of Mr. Edison’s efforts. Then,. too, he was told of the signal factures of Starr, King, Kosloff, Lodygreine, and others, who,.years before, had gone over the same ground he was exploiting, and had given up in despair what he now confidently promised to bring to a successful issue.
We have before us the challenge of a prominent electrical inventor and writer, in as late as ’79 and ’80. He offer-; Mr. Edison $100.00 if he can do either of the following things: maintain a vacuum in his lamps; run his lamp three hours; prove that his dynamo electric machine develops even forty-five per cent, of the..foot pounds applied to it; show that with his lamp he can obtain two lights of ten .candle-power each per horse power.	:
But the “Wizard of Menlo Park,”, heeded not the arguments of electrical engineers, or the challenges of would-be inventors. He drew the sword of experiment that he knew how to handle so well, and, like Alexander of.pld, he loosened the Gordian knot in a way that was least anticipated.
With a new form of Sprengel mercurial pump, he succeeded in-getting a vacuum, until then unknown, and which for his . purposes was almost perfect. Instead of three hours, he runs his lamps, on an average, six hundred hours; and many of them last three and four times that long. In placeof forty-five, his dynamos develop ninety per cent, of the foot pounds applied to them. And, lastly, instead of getting two lamps of ten candle-power each, he gives eight lamps of sixteen candle-power each per horse power.	..............
Edison’s victory was complete. It was the old story repeated—of genius versus difficulty and the pretended wisdom of doctors in science. Edison’s triumph was that of Watt, Stephenson, Fulton, Morse, and others, scarcely less illustrious. It was a victory that has not only conferred an incalculable benefit on humanity, but one that teaches an important lesson to those who presume to know everything regarding the secrets of Nature, and who are ever ready to rise up and proclaim what can and what cannot be done; what is and what is not true; what we must believe, and what we must not believe—and all on their simple magister dixit.
An Interesting- Paper.
We have lately come across a fly-sheet—entitled “ University of Notre Dame du Lac, 1850. SouthBend, Ind.” (South Bend then required a hyphen to write its component parts)-—whose four pages are replete with interest. The first, or title-page, as bearing the imprint of “S. Colfax, Printer,”—a gentleman who little thought at that time that he would ever be Vice-President of these United States; the second and third .as affording an in? sight, not only into the practical work done in the University at that early dayj but. also into the social state of the country at large, as shown by .the allusions in the third-, paragraph. Notre Dame was then fighting a harder battle against prejudice and calumny than she has had to fight since; and she herself has contributed much towards the removal of the unreasoning aversion entertained towards Catholics in those times. The fourth page is sufficient to contain the nucleus of bur present voluminous catalogue, being a list of teachers and students for the year 1850. Of the teachers, our venerated Founder alone survives, as far as we are informed. Prof. Dussaulx remained at Notre Dame for many years, and Prof. Girac still longer—indeed, his mortal part remains here yet, having been laid in Cedar Grove Cemetery during the Christmas holidays of 1871. His life was devoted to the aft and science of music. In his time we had not found out that it was wrong to sing agreeable tunes in church, and the Masses he composed will -long be remembered with delight by those that sang them, as well as by those who listened. The Brothers whose names follow have resigned those names to successors, and gone to their reward.
In the list of students, limited though the number is to fifty-six, many familiar names occur— names of the old pioneer families of this region— Coquillard, Bertrand, Piquette, Byerley, L’Etour-neau, Bracken, Good, Cottrell, Campau, Wolke, Wetzler, Drapier and Jennings. Observe that “ la ” means Indiana, not Iowa—a State then not even dreamed of. Others are names historic in our annals—Neal H. Gillespie, many years acting President of the University.during the several absences of Very Rev. E. Sorin; Thos.L. Vagnier, Prof, of Chemistry and Physics for many years also. At that date he must have been a Minim.
274
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Observe the unnamed thirteen theological students mentioned at the foot of the list. Unlucky number thirteen! they didn’t all “stick,” One at least among them is now hopelessly secularized. Old students will be surprised not to find Bro. Benoit’s name mentioned, he having been generally regarded as one of the antiquities of Notre Dame; but Vixere fortes ante Agamenmona. That Eye —spell it with a capital E, Mr. Printer, nothing less would do it justice—that Eye, with its unquestioned power of looking “through that dex” had not as yet stricken terror into the denizens of the Senior study-room. Without further preface, we' present the “ relic of ould dacency ” to our readers:
“UNIVERSITY.
“Notre Dame Du Lac University,
‘	“January i, 1850.
“ We deem it a gratification to the friends of the Institution and to the public at large, to publish yearly the names of its professors and students, with a few introductory remarks on its actual state, its chief characteristics and true principles.	.	.
“ The University has gradually perfected its various departments, and, having surmounted the many obstacles which unavoidably attend the beginning of similar institutions, it is confidently hoped that it will extend the sphere of its usefulness to the satisfaction of its early patrons.
“ Having no evil design, we never sought to conceal our mode of action. To Catholics we always said, and we now repeat, that a thoroughly religious education, which they must naturally expect, shall be imparted to their children; the possibility of negligence in this respect cannot even be thought of by a serious mind. To those who do not belong to the Catholic Faith, we promised not to interfere with their religious tenets, merely requiring them to assist at the religious exercises with decorum; and now, after an experience of six years, we fearlessly, appeal to the many honorable non-Catholic young gentlemen who have left our ranks for a contradiction of the false rumors which have been or may be hereafter circulated about the Institution. The reciprocal regard and affection which they have acquired for the members of the Institution during their residence in it, ought to dispel the fanciful dangers of ignorance and prejudice.
“ Ill-disposed and indolent students may dislike that strict discipline which regulates every minute of the day that watchfulness of prefects and professors which prevents them from losing their time in idle conversations or dangerous parties, and the reprimand or punishment which follows a breach of duty; but to the well-disposed young men, these means are so many incentives to virtue and a diligent performance of the laborious tasks, which enable him to do justice to his parents and to himself, and he finds his exertions fully compensated by the cheering anticipation, of being soon proficient in all those branches which fit a man for a brilliant career in society.
“ Students find in their collegiate life here, not only powerful means of emulation, but pure and heartfelt enjoyments, which will hereafter fill their minds with the most agreeable recollections and their hearts with the sweetest emotions. Among these we will mention the weekly notes of the professors, the monthly examinations-and exhibitions, at which medals, ribands and honorable mentions are given to every one according to - his merit. These exhibitions take place on the first Tuesday of the month, at 4 o’clock p. m., and the public are invited for the months of November, January, March and May. The names of those who have deserved the approbation of all the Faculty are proclaimed, and they remain exposed in the hall during the following month. The names of those who have deserved the disapprobation of all their. professors are also proclaimed and inscribed on the list of. shame. On the Wednesday which follows, the exhibition, the students whose conduct has been blameless during the previous month are allowed to visit , their parents or friends, if so desired by the latter. Another source of emulation and
enjoyment is offered to many of the students who belong to the Philharmonic and the Debating Society, each of which has its officers selected among the pupils. These societies enliven our public festivities, by appropriate addresses and musical performances. The members-then appear with their flags and decorations. These two societies celebrate every year their own festivals. Skating in winter, swimming in summer, and the equestrian and gymnastic exercises are, for all the students, cheering and healthy exercises. But still greater delights are reserved for the better portion of our pupils—for those who love their studies. Their progress in Natural Science is facilitated by an apparatus, a museum, and Mr. T. Cawin’s collection of 4000 plants, and their efforts are rewarded by the semiannual reports of the professors to their parents, and a solemn distribution of premiums and diplomas for degrees. This distribution, which always begins on the third of July, at half-past 1 p. m., has become a day of lively interest for the whole vicinity. It also gives our young students an excellent opportunity of bringing themselves into public esteem and consideration.
“After these few. observations, every one will perceive that nothing has been spared, to create emulation and to unite all possible enjoyments with the regularity of discipline. Professors consider it a part of their duty to contribute to the happiness as well as to the advancement of their pupils.
“We give below the names of the members of the Faculty, and those of the students actually following the various courses of the University.
“FACULTY.
Rev. E. SORIN, President, Professor of Moral and Religious Instruction.
Rev.WM. MASTERSON. Professor of Latin and English. Mr. E. DUSSAULX, Professor of Music, Penmanship and Drawing.	’
Mr. M. GIRAC, Professor of Latin, Greek, French and Music. .
Mr. F. X. BYERLEY, Professor of Mathematics and English. ‘
Bro. GATI AN, Professor of Book-Keeping and Arithmetic. Bro. THOMAS, Professor of Arithmetic, and the Preparatory Course of English.
Bros. VICTOR and ANSELM, Prefects of Discipline.
“ STUDENTS.
“John Riley, Bertrand, Mich.; George Fox, Niles, Mich.; Francis Donaghoe, South Bend, la.; Richard Allen, Terre Haute, la.; Wm. Kenney, Chicago, Ill.; Patrick Daly, Niles Mich.; Francis Woodworth, South Bend, la.; John Carle, Michael Judge, Madison, la.; Tho’s Slavin, Niles, Mich.; . Tho’s Vagnier, St. Joseph Co., la.; Jas. Baurgelt, South Bend, la.; Joseph Labadie, South Bend, la.; John Piquette, Detroit, Mich.; Francis Bracken,‘Niles Mich.; Jas. Amalaw, Detroit, Mich.; John Wood worth, South Bend, la.; John Mulqueen, Bertrand, Mich.; Edward Byerley, South Bend, la.; Timothy L’Etourneau, Detroit, Mich ; John Bracken, Niles, Mich.; Wm. J. Fenton, Bertrand Mich.; Jno. Kough, Niles, Mich.; Samuel Good, South Bend, la.; Theodore Coquillard, South Bend, la.; Jonathan Cottrell, South Bend, la.; Chas. Nichols, Union Mills, la.; Jno. Campau, Detroit, Mich.; Chas. Williams, Norris Bertrand, South Bend, la.; Henry Myers, St. Joseph Co., la.; Jeremiah Fenessy, St. Joseph Co., la.; John Mitchell, Kendallville, la.; Chas. G. Mitchell, Kendallville, la.; Francis Wolke, Fort Wayne, la.; Frederick Wolke, Fort Wayne, la.; Calvin Anderson, Fort Wayne, la.; John Winter, Boston, Mass.; Geo. Reed, Huntington, la.; Neal H. Gillespie, Lancaster, O-; Samuel. Wetzler, Lancaster, O.; Jas. Ave-line, Peru, la.; Peter Waller, Lake Co., la.*; Patrick Glennen, Rochester, N. Y.; John Fitzpatrick, Goshen, la.; Richard Ferris, Mishawaka,.la.; John Lafontine, Huntington, la.; John Scheffer, Lake Co., la.; Thomas Fal-lahey, Chicago, Ill.; John Doyle. Monroe, Mich.; Patrick Falls, South . Bend, la.; Michael Falls, South Bend, la.; •Chas. Drapier, South Bend, la.; Wm. Drapier, South Bend, la.; Boardman Jennings, St Joseph Co., la.; P. Mulqueen, Bertrand, Mich.	.
“N. B.—There are also thirteen.Students in Theology, not included in the above list.; '	■
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	275
“ The scholastic year is divided into two sessions: the first commencing on the first Friday of September, and the second on the first of February— Terms, $45 for each.
“ E. SORIN, President.”
Books and. Periodicals.
—A truly artistic and elegant work in chromolithography and the letter press is the Columbia Bicycle Calendar for 1886, just issued by the Pope Manufacturing Company, of Boston. Each day of the year appears upon a separate slip, with a quotation pertaining to cycling from leading publications and prominent personage’s. The notable cycling events are given, and concise opinions of the highest medical authorities; words from practical wheelmen, including clergymen and other professional gentlemen; the rights of cyclers upon the roads; general wheeling statistics; the benefits of tricycling for ladies; extracts from cycling poems; and much other interesting information. In fact, it is, in miniature, a virtual encyclopaedia upon this universally utilized “steed of steel.” The calendar proper is mounted upon a back of. heavy board, upon which is exquisitely executed in water-color effect by G. H. Buck, of New York, a charming combination of cycling scenes. As a work of convenient art, it is worthy of a place in office or library.
—The American Agriculturist for January announces that it enters upon the new 'year under unusually auspicious circumstances. The old editorial force, who have been connected with that periodical for periods, running up to a quarter of a century, has received further accessions in Dr. F. M. Hexamer, so long the editor of the American Garden, and Mr. Chester P. Dewey, a writer of national reputation, and Mr. Seth Green, the noted Fish Culturist. The illustrations, of which there are a very large number,. represent noted horses, cattle, pigs, cows, new fruits, new potatoes, designs for new buildings, farm conveniences household conveniences, fruits, flowers, etc., etc. The full-page engravings present two beautiful and appropriate winter scenes, executed in such a manner as to greatly please the eye. There are nearly one hundred original different articles on the “ Milk Supply of Cities,” “ Polled Cattle,” “ Infectious Diseases on the Farm,” “ Landscape Planting for Winter effect,” “ Wheat Experiments,” “ The Best Lightning Rods,” “ Clydesdales Horses,” “ Work for the Winter Months^” “A New Quince,” “ Cattle Stanchions,” “ The Loss of our Game,” etc., etc. Price, $1.50 a year; single numbers, 15 cents. Address, American Agriculturist, Broadway, New York.	,
—Conspicuous among the varied features of the January Century are the short stories. “Trouble on Lost Mountain,” by Joel Chandler Harris (Uncle Remus), is even more powerful than his longer character novelette, “At Teague Poteet’s,” the scene of both being laid among the moonshiners of northern Georgia. Lost Mountain is a neighbor of the Kenesaw mountain of Sherman’s
Atlanta campaign; and that its people are curiously individual, with a bent for humor and dramatic action, is most artistically revealed by Mr. Harris, and. also by Mr. Kemble, who supplies the character sketches. In the other short 'story of the number, “The Cloverfield’s Carriage,” by Frank R. Stockton, the humorous motive is the desire of a negro coachman who had left his former owners, in order to make his freedom appear a reality, to recover his former'dignity as a trusted servant of the family. A portrait of Verdi, the composer, is the frontispiece, which is accompanied by an entertaining anecdotal paper by Frederick A. Schwab. It includes a picture of the composer’s birthplace, and a fac-simile of two pages of the score of “ Il Trovatore.” A subject of scientific interest, treated in a thoroughly popular style, is the paper’ on “ Feathered Forms of Other Days,” by Dr. R. W. Shufeldt, U. S. A. Among the illustrations are a remarkable engraving of the fossil remains of a feathered reptile, or reptile-like bird with teeth, and several restorations of extinct forms from drawings by Dr. Shufeldt. In his concluding paper on “ The Lesson of Greek Art,” Dr. Charles Waldstein— the voung American who is Lecturer on Greek Archaeology at the English University of Cambridge—treats of the education of the American artist, and advocates general literary and scientific culture, as well as technical art study. - And in an article on “A French Painter .and his Pupils” a glimpse is given of the company of American and foreign artists who receive instruction from Carolus Duran, the master’s ideas of art, as imparted in studio talks, being the larger part of the article. A full-page engraving from the portrait by Duran, of a young American Girl, accompanies this article. “A Broad View of Art” is the subject of the leading editorial in “ Topics of the Time.”- In the War Series we have General John Pope’s pungent and personal description of “The Second Battle of Bull Run,” which .in its fighting, its depressing results, and its controversies was one of the most remarkable events of the war. Few of the war articles have been so fully illustrated with map and pictures; and the “Recollections of a Private,” describing “Two Days of the Second Battle of Bull Run,” is replete with incident and attractively illustrated.
Local Items.	.
—Back again! o	_
—Now for the Ex’s.
—Glad to see you back.
—The holidays are past.
—Friday was “ rec ” day this week.
—Studies were resumed last Monday.
—The season for hard work is at hand.
—One pair of side-burns has come to grief. ..
—The Scholastic Annual is going off like hot cakes.
—The 6th inst. was characterized by slight whirlwinds.	.
. i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
—Many new arrivals have been registered since the holidays.
—The lakes were free of ice during the fore part of the week.
—The weather prophets are beginning to be themselves again.
—It is rumored that the Thespians will produce “Macbeth” on the 22d.
—The Law Class was never so numerous nor in such a flourishing condition as at present.
—We are told that the Junior dining-room claims the honor of entertaining the Flower of the Facuity.
—Everybody looks happy and invigorated after the holidays. No doubt, all enjoyed a pleasant time.
—The Law Class has resumed the subject of real estate, dealing especially with incorporeal hereditaments.
—The eastern addition to the steam house has been enlarged for the reception of the new large Edison dynamo.
—The person who took the “Following of Christ ” from the Senior refectory is requested to return the same.
—Prof. Stace is instructing his class in the mysteries of gunnery. No one knows what safety is whilst the Professor is around.
—You should not fail to hear “ Dan’s ” new story, entitled “The Leader of the Gang; or, The Man with the Florid Complexion.”
—The Laila Rookk made her first trip of the year across the lake on Monday last; the crew reported the lake as being nearly free from ice.
—There was some talk, a few days ago, of havT ing a boat-race before the end of the week, but the change in the weather led to a change of subject.
—The cold weather of the last two days has put the “ball up.” The ice on the lakes is now “perfectly splendid,” and the boys are not slow to profit thereby. •
—The boys returning after the vacation should have lots of items for our “ Personal ” columns— interesting news about old students, etc. We would be pleased to hear from them..
—There was no Faculty meeting last Tuesday, though the acting President and the genial, but efficient, Secretary were on hand. It has been postponed until next Wednesday.
—Rev. President Walsh, writing from Jacksonville, Florida, speaks in glowing terms of the climate and scenery of the flowery State. He will return to Notre Dame early next week.
—There is absolutely no truth in the rumor that Mr. H-------lost all his personal property in a fire at Michigan City; his corduroys are still intact and promise to do-service for many years to come.
—Mr. J. Wilson, the agent of the Edison Incandescent Light Co., is busily engaged in superintending the work of extending the incandescent light in the dining-halls, class-rooms and. private rooms.
—Science Hall has received an outfit-of new furniture. The seats are similar in style to those which have been made to order for the College buildings, and have given such satisfaction during 0*0	o
the past few years.
—But three weeks of the present session remain; for students who intend topass good examinations, no time remains for idling. All should endeavor to end the session as well, if not better, than it was begun.
—The genial qualities of Rev. Father Zahm, who has been filling, to the satisfaction of all, the arduous office of President during the temporary absence of Rev. Father Walsh, have made him immensely popular with the boys.
—Two beautiful statuettes of Our Lord and the Blessed Virgin, skilfully carved in wood, may be seen in the President’s room.. They are the work of a young’ artist from Germany, a nephew of Mr. J. Wile, of Laporte, and reveal an unusual degree of ’artistic talent, o
—The students' of St. Edward’s Hall are representatives, not only from the most distant parts of the States—from New York, Denver, Galveston and Helena, from Mexico and Canada,—but even from classic France. On January 4, Master Adolph Fontanel, ai bright, promising young Prince, who had just arrived from Lyons, France, became a student of the Minim department. An elder brother accompanied him, who entered the Juniors.
—The second regular meeting of the Hoynes’ Light Guards was held Jan. 7. The committee, consisting of Messrs. F. Combe, Cusack and Car-tier, submitted a Constitution and By-Laws which were read- and adopted. The Chair appointed a committee, consisting of F. Combe, Cusack, De Haven, Jess, and O’Donnell, to draft resolutions of condolence and sympathy with Sergeant Goodfellow, whose father diecf Dec. 29. Messrs. Moody, Griffith, and Morrison were admitted as members.
—An bld friend of the Scholastic wrote recently on the receipt of the Scholastic Annual:
“ I turned first of all to see what the “ Astrologer ” promised us for the coming year; and was concerned to find that the oracle lacked inspiration. But his “ Farewell ” almost consoled me for the loss of prognostications. It was so excellent in matter and style, that I- was tempted to say of him as Malcolm of Condor:
‘ Nothing in his life Became him like the leaving-it.’”
It is hinted that the reason of the silence of the Astrologer is’the unfavorable outlook for the present administration. But that is a Republican idea.
—Wednesday last the opinion of the Appellate Court of Illinois was pronounced in the case of Caton vs. Bloom, and the judgment for $4,000 rendered in favor of Bloom in the Superior Court last May was affirmed. This was a very warmly contested case, and Bloom’s victory is not the less gratifying because the appellant, John Dean Caton, was formerly one of the judges of the Supreme Court of Illinois. Prof. William Hoynes and Gen. John Gibbons, of Chicago, were Bloom’s attorneys in the .case.	.	: J : . ..
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
*71
—Readers of the Scholastic Annual,—a popular year-book, compiled and published by Prof. J. A. Lyons, of the University of Notre Dame,—will miss the astrological predictions, which were such a pleasing feature of former issues. However, the present one has much else to attract and hold attention. The poetry is of a high order of merit. “ Roderigo ” is one of the best stories we have ever seen in a publication of this kind. “ University Life,” “Floral Odors,” and “The Philosophy of Strikes ” also are articles of unusual merit and interest. Besides its forty pages of reading matter, the Scholastic Annual contains the calendars, rates of postage, and other information usually found in almanacs.—Ave Maria. .
—Last Wednesday, the Festival of the Epiphany—the “Christmas Day of the Gentiles”—was celebrated with great solemnity at Notre Dame. Very Rev. Father General Sorin was the celebrant of the Solemn High Mass at ten o’clock, at which Rev. J. M. Toohey preached the sermon. The singing of the Very Rev. celebrant was so surpassingly beautiful that it inspired feelings of reverence. It was, as some one remarked, as clear and full as it could have- been forty-three years ago, when he celebrated the Feast of the Epiphany in the log chapel. What depths of gratitude and joy must fill his heart when that first feast in the log chapel, with a congregation consisting of six Brothers and some Indians, is compared with the magnificence that surrounded him last Wednesday in the beautiful Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart. The venerated Founder has seen wonderful transformations in his forty-seven years at Notre Dame; and if his powerful voice may.be taken as .an index of his health and strength, there is a score of years before him that will be witness of no less marvellous changes in the future. That it may be so is the heartfelt wish of his many warm friends.
—Among the visitors during the past two weeks? ending Jan. 7, ’86, were: Mrs. M.A. Stace, Marshall, Mich.; Mrs. Smart, Midville, Ga.; Henry Monsch, Louisville, Ky.; Mrs. W. Sweet, Denver, Col.; J. L. Cummings, Col. Thomas H. Keefe, Jas. Mc-Cauly, James Howe, John Doyle, John Carroll, G. J. Sutton, Mrs. J. E. Sullivan, Mable Sullivan, Arthur Sullivan, MamieKeoho, Latta Keoho, Mr. and Mrs. John Philbin, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Gal-larnon, Mr. and Mrs. F. P. Buck, O. M. Sullivan, Mr. and Mrs. W. C. Hoag, J. P. Clark, Mrs. N. B. Hubbard, and Miss Kennedy, Chicago, Ill.; John H. Kemper, Buffalo, N. Y.; .W. H. Welch, Des Moines, Iowa; George E. Clark, Walla Walla; J. S. Hughes, Richmond, Ind.; Frank P. Morrison, Jackson, Mich.; R. H. Rudd, Owensborough, Ky.; Miss K. de Rutte, Monroe, Mich.: Mrs. John Riordan, Muskegon, Mich.; Wm. J. Bara-nett, of ’63, St. Louis, Mo.; H. E; Peck, Denver, Col.; Miss Cora Adams, J. Arnold, Charles G. Adams, Columbus, Ohio; Mr. and Mrs. Francis Thayn, Boston, Mass.; H. B. Cleveland, Philadelphia, Pa.; Mrs. J. C. Sidrick, La Grange, Ind.; John Murphy and two daughters, Woodstock, Ill.; Mr. and Mrs. L. T. Mulligan, Longmont, Col.; Mr. and Mrs. J. E. Mulligan, Leadville, Col.
Obituary.
We deeply sympathize with Mr. Brent Goodfellow, of the Senior department, in the sad affliction which has lately befallen him in the death of his respected father, Colonel Henry Goodfellow, at Kansas City, Mo., on the 29th ult. The Kansas City Times says of the deceased:
“ This sad event has cast a deep gloom over the entire garrison. He was well liked by all who had the pleasure of his acquaintance. Courteous, kind and generous toward all, of whatever rank or station, were his characteristics. In him were combined all the qualifications of a gentleman. He leaves a wife and four children, who have the deepest sympathy of all.”
One of H Domenichino’s Paintings.*
To the Excellent Painter, Signor Luigi Gregori.
I have always loved to observe certain customs of our good old. people, and I cling with special affection to those that spring from the heart. Now, that I am on the decline of life, it seems to me an almost indispensable necessity-to follow these customs, and therefore I desire to give you a proof of the affection that I bear you,—prizing highly your noble qualities of soul,—and of the esteem in which I hold the productions of your skilful brush. Therefore I trust that it will not dis- . please you if I address you this letter on the subject of painting, which, if it have no merit in regard to the style of composition, will be, I think, of some interest because it brings to notice a beautiful work of a distinguished fellow-countryman, worthy of a better fortune than was his during life, and who was victim of the jealousy of rivals— as is too often the case in regard to many men of real genius, whose productions are not appreciated by the world, and who are admired only after their death.	.
I lately visited the principal cities' of Tuscany, for the purpose of refreshing my memory in regard to many objects that I had seen before, in which that region, abounds more than most parts of Italy, and which are of interest to the history of art in our country. Desiring, also, to take notes on the paintings of the XlVth and XVth centuries for . a publication,—which I wished to make in reply to certain vague charges .of foreign writers, who accused studious Italians acquainted with art of being neglectful,—I should lay myself open to the charge of a serious omission if I did not come to the capital of the world, this centre of the fine arts, and if I did not diligently examine the many paintings
* This letter, addressed to Professor Gregori, of the Uni- . versify, is translated from L'Album of Rome, of May 7,1859. Apart from the entertaining description of a remarkable painting, the letter will have a particular interest to all friends of the distinguished artist, Signor Gregori, as an evidence of the high esteem in which he was held in the world of Art nearly thirty years ago. The writer, Gaetano Giordano, was himself celebrated as a litterateur, and held the responsible, position of Inspector of the Pinacoteca of Bologna.
THE, NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of the masters referred to which are collected here, especially in one of the most beautiful halls of the Vatican Library, and in the hall of the Campana Museu r.* And whilst submitting to you this my intention as a testimony of my gratitude to one who made my first steps in learning easy for me, I should partly fail in my duty to you if I did not mention this indebtedness. Therefore I beg you to accept this letter as a testimony of gratitude for all that I owe you. I wish to describe now, as briefly as possible, a very precious painting of the Bolognese Domenichino, which was supposed to have been carried away and thus lost to Italy,—as happens so often now-a-days by forced sales, the value of the productions of art being lowered amongst Italians, to the great injury and disgrace of our fair land, wherein in former times, which made less boast of progress in civilization, these works were held in honor as really precious, and were the means of drawing foreigners to us and keeping them amongst us for a long time. But it would be vain to dwell upon this consideration now, when material interests are valued far above the productions of our truly admirable national geniuses.
The picture of which I wish to give you an idea,— although it be only by sketching the outline of its composition,—belonged at one time to the famous Francesco Albani, who placed it in a chapel which he had at his villa situated on a smiling hill beside the little river Reno. The work represented the penitent of Magdalo carried to heaven by angels, painted by Domenichino, and presented by him, it is believed, to his friend Albani. I need hardly say that as long as he lived it was highly prized by him; but will only add that, as we.learn from native writers, the picture, up to the end of the last century, was preserved there and guarded with jealous care. Through the vicissitudes of fortune, the place became the property of the Pepoli, then of the Capraras, patricians and magistrates of Bologna, and, finally, the villa, with other rural possessions, was sold, and the painting was lost sight of; hence it was generally believed that it had been taken from Italy, and I, also, led by the common opinion, made mention of this loss to art in a note for the new edition of Mal vasia’s Felsina Pittrice. Not long since, however, I learned that it had been found, restored by Professor Giuseppe Guiz-zardi, and sold.to Francesco Diana di Cento—a rich gentleman, the same who,, having purchased the palace of the Counts Chiarelli adorned with youthful productions of Guercino which threatened to fall from the walls, to preserve them ordered them to be removed by that excellent Giovanni Rizzoli di Pieve and transferred to canvas, as they are yet preserved, according to the relation in the Album di Roma, XIX year, p. 354, in an article illustrative of Doctor Gaetano Atti, of the eleventh century.
I very readily assumed the charge of making known the picture, which was recognized as orig
♦ The Campana Museum was purchased by Napoleon III for $900,000, and transferred to the Louvre, where it still bears the same name. The paintings, were collected by Professor Gregori for Count Campana.
inal,and praised by living academic professors, with a documentary certificate of Professor Masini, Secretary of the Pontifical Academy of Fine Arts in Bologna, to which the names,not unknown to you, of Alberi, Angiolini, Barbieri, Baruzzi, Guizzardi, Marchi, Muzzi, and Spagnoli are subscribed. All of whom agreed that there was no doubt as. to the genuineness of the picture, so many and so convincing are its characteristic and distinguishing features. Being confirmed in their opinion by historical documents, they declared that the name of Domenichino was enough to proclaim the excellence of the' work. The new owner had another unequivocal assurance from another painter—Il Cavaliere Rasori,—who, in writing, declared that no artist acquainted with the school of Bologna, unless he had a purpose to subserve, could see in the painting of which we treat, both in the simplicity and beauty of the composition and in the form and execution of the design, any other than the hand of Domenico Zampieri. To add still greater weight to the judgments already pronounced, it pleased the director of the R. Accade-mia Atestina delle belle arti, Professor Malatesta, to send Signor Diana an official document from Modena in which he states that he had had the opportunity of enjoying a near view of that, most charming St. Mary Magdalene, and there could, be no doubt that the picture was truly one of,the best of Domenichino’s, as is shown by the original and new composition, whose expression is such as none but Domenichino could give. The resemblance of the children, the manner of coloring and giving form to the folds,— as, likewise, certain touches revealing an art peculiarly his,—all show, beyond question,that this is an original; for which reason, simply to give testimony to the truth, he issued the certificate with the seal of the Academy of which he is the worthy director. To add more on the merits of the painting, after what is said in the letter of the professors mentioned above, would be in me presumption and a censurable superfluity; therefore I will only say that the painting is on canvas, six Roman palms and two inches high, and four palms two inches wide, well preserved, and, in my opinion, executed when II Domenichino painted that other beautiful picture of Diana Hunting, which I have admired over and over again in the days of my visit to Rome, as one of the most beautiful ornaments of the Borghese Gallery; or when, in a similar style, he painted St. Cecilia in glory in the chapel of S. Luigi de’Francesi.
If next autumn you return to your native place, bringing any paintings to our Fine Arts’ Exposition,—like the much-praised Cleopatra which you brought last year, and which was eagerly purchased by one of your fellow-citizens,—I myself will take.you to Cento to the Signor Diana, where you can admire the picture whose sketch I have made, and the outlines of which ! give here. Thus I will give you a new token of that esteem and. friendship with which I sign myself once more
Your most devoted friend,
Gaetano Giordano.
Rome, May 2, 1859.
the Notre name scholastic.

Saint JFlary's Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—Miss Chaves received a beautiful diamond ring- from her Mother as a Christmas gift.
—On New Year’s morning, the address, usually delivered just after breakfast, was, on account of the temporary absence of the Prefect of Studies, placed in her apartment. It was beautifully copied in the Gothic hand by Miss Lizzie Walsh.
-	—Mrs. Phillips, of Midville, Ga.; Mrs. M. A.
Stace, Miss Anne Stace, Marshall, Mich.; Miss Fannie Gregori, Mrs. V. S. Williams, and Mrs. Atkinson were welcome guests at the numerous impromptu entertainments of the holidays.
—The use of the Technicon has been inaugurated in the music classes, and its advantage in strengthening the muscles so as to impart perfection to the touch, is clearly apparent: however, prudence is absolutely necessary, or harm, and not good, will result.
—The Prefect of Discipline is the grateful recipient of a basket of rich flowers—roses, carnations, passion-flowers, sweet elysium and smilax—from Mrs. Otero. The fragrant gift is placed at the foot of the Crib, for the intention of the venerable Founder of St. Mary’s.
—Mr. J. L. Cummings, of Chicago, has added to his gift of rare coins, mentioned last week,— and, by mistake, credited to another,—some equally notable specimens. Will the generous donor accept grateful acknowledgment from the Prefect of Studies for both installments?
—The following-named young ladies deserve to be mentioned for their obliging readiness to apply the arts of domestic economy in keeping the recreation halls in order during the Christmas season: the Misses A. Heckard, B. Heckard, G. Wolvin, B. Morrison, E. North, L. Blaine, A. Henry, M. Lyons, E. Walsh, L. Meehan, N. Meehan, E. Allnoch, P. Ewing, M. Allweine, N. Kearns, M. McNamara, M.-«Chaves, and B. Haines.
—“ The Mistletoe hung in the Convent hall, The Holly branch shone on the Chapel wall.”
This slightly parodied couplet holds good of St. Mary’s for the Christmas season, thanks to the thoughtful kindness of Mr. J. L. Cummings, of Chicago. The mysterious flowers, which came just in time for the Solemn High Mass of Christmas, proved to be from Mr. Gallagher, of Chicago, to whom thanks are respectfully tendered.
—In the procession of the festal year, after the Circumcision comes the Epiphany, with its vision of the long looked-for “Messiah’s Star”; the eastern monarchs—men of wisdom as well as of power —hastening to lay down their offerings at the feet of the Infant Redeemer, of whose “ kingdom there shall be no end.” Wednesday commemorated the event, and, as descendants of the Gentiles, Epiphany is justly called our special Christmas feast.
—The pupils are arriving from their holiday.
visit and are happy to return to the important work of the year. -The examination for the close of the first scholastic session will be the point towards which all eyes will now be turned. With refreshed spirits and renewed ardor they will now address themselves to the momentous duty before them. Promotions, prizes, and success depend in a great measure on the careful examination to take place in the present month.
—The decoration" of one of the addresses for the New Year, was an exquisite painting on parchment from Overbeck’s “Annunciation”; the kneeling figure of the Blessed Virgin, who, in the words of George H. Miles,	•
“ Gave to heaven a Queen, to man a God, To God a Mother.”	.
It is not a matter of surprise that ideal representations of her beauty, formed in the minds of the greatest artists the vyorld has ever produced, have proved their master-pieces.
—Time, during the holidays, has flown so lightly that to the inmates .of St. Mary’s it has been scarcely perceptible. After the morning classes, and the hours usually devoted to letter writing, the pupils have been left free to follow their “ own sweet wills,” culminating, now in a “ taffy pull,” transforming the usually unadorned space of the cement walk in the rear of the reading-room, on Wednesday evening, for example, into a very picturesque, if not enchanting, scene; anon there was to be found a group of elocutionary artists and musicians, entertaining visitors in the parlor. There was the finishing of delicate and rare work; and the forwarding of mysterious frames from the ornamental needle work room, and from St. Luke’s Studio; there was the daily reception of boxes and baskets redolent of tropical perfumes, and holiday generosity; there were also letters and packets overflowing with holiday cheer. Startling surprises here, requited expectations there; in short, good nevvs and good vvishes from old friends and fresh acquaintances; while all things were bright and fair, and the wished-for happy season was everywhere realized.
— Among the works of art received as Christmas gifts at St. Mary’s are several well-presented photographs. A few are from the old masters, and several from the new. Yet, but two are veritable Nativities,—Murillo’s and Correggio’s,— the others are Madonnas: Raphael’s “San Sisto,” his“ Madonna and sleeping Child ;” Fra Angelico’s “ Angels of Christmas Night;” Carlo Dolci’sbeautiful “ Madonna and Child; ’’ these, with Bouguer-eau’s group of the Divine Child in His Mother’s arms caressing St. John -the Baptist, arid his sleeping Madonna and Child with the angels, with some less Christian pictures, are very bright straws from the Manger of Bethlehem; though all, but the two first named, and Fra Angelico’s, are no more appropriate to Christmas than to any other season of the year. We find two, at least, of the pictures above named presented in Harper's Monthly for December, in the excellent paper “ The Nativity in Art,” and though some of the criticisms of the various
2So	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
pictures mentioned,—however kindly meant,—are themselves open to criticism, the tone of the entire article is so reverent and just that it well repays a second perusal. In Correggio’s Nativity, if those who have, with the eye of faith as well as with the eye of the artist, studied the original at Dresden, are not mistaken, devotion and not ■poetry are expressed; and devotion of the “right kind,” too. To poetry, “ the movement may be overstrained, it may lack repose and delicacy of rhythm”—not so to devotion. Mr. Van Dyke in his remarks does not agree with Kugler, who notes the very traits and gives exactly a contrary result. Kugler says: “But instead of form, another element of beauty predominates in Correggio—that of chiaroscuro, that peculiar play of light and shade which spreads such a harmonious repose over his works. His command over this element is founded on that delicacy of perception, that quickness of feeling, •which is alive to every lighter play of form, and is thus enabled to reproduce it in exquisite modelling. Correggio knew how to anatomize light and shade in endless gradation; to give the greatest brilliancy without dazzling, the deepest shade without offending the eye by dull blackness. The relation of colors is observed with the same masterly skill, so that each appears in itself subdued, yet powerful in relation to.others.” Mr. Van Dyke declares the picture to lack repose. In our humble judgment, there is the tranquillity of joy ineffable which caused the wings of angels to vibrate as, speeding over the earth, they sang the glad tidings— “ Peace on earth to men of good TvillP No wonder the poor shepherds were overpowered by the marvellous lisfht. Kugler describes “La Notte” very simply as follows: '
“ It is celebrated for the striking effect of light and shade, which, in accordance with the old legend, proceeds. from the new-born Babe; the radiant Infant and the Mother who holds Him are lost in the splendor which has guided the distant shepherds. A maiden on one side, and a beautiful youth on the other, who serve as a contrast to an old shepherd, receive the full light which seems to dazzle their eyes; while angels hovering above appear in a softened radiance. A little further back St. Joseph.is employed with the beast of burden, and in the background are more shepherds with their flocks. Morning breaks in the horizon: an etherial light flows through the whole picture, and leaves only.so much of the outline and substance of the form apparent as is necessary to enable the eye to distinguish the objects.”
The last clause is more clearly explained in the beautiful words of the writer.in Harper's Monthly :
“ The glory that streams from the Infant is a white radiance, manifestly of Heaven'; and away behind the hills the dawning of the earth light looks cold and gray.”
, If Correggio’s, great picture, is a high treasure in the Dresden Gallery, and “the most popular of all the pictures of the Nativity,” let us not find a “ false note.” till we are able to introduce a more perfect harmony. ,
- -—Very Rev. Father. General paid his customary visit to the. Academy on-New Year’s Day, at three o’clock p. m. The pupils and visitors were assembled in the study-hall to welcome him, and, as soon as; he was seated, the Misses. Wolvin, Walsh, and Fuller,advanced,--the last-named young lady read
ing, in a clear voice, and with appropriate and impressive expression,the following congratulations:
The Old Year, robed in loveliness, has gone, And, in his golden wake, the fairest light Of time and vast eternity now lies
• More pure than the clear radiance sunset throws Far up the western sky at day’s decline.
’Tis the celestial beams of Christmas tide, .
And in their mellowed light—while echoes play
' From angel voices of the blissful night That gave the Saviour of Mankind to earth,— The New Year comes advancing with light step And glowing face, to meet the happy orb Redeemed, because the Word has been made Flesh, And dwells on earth.
O, happy New Year’s Day!
Our Very Rev. Father, ’tis delight To gather in a calm retreat like this, And feel it is no mockery here to hail The opening year, as heralding fresh joy, New happiness to every loving heart.
A happy New Year, and as glad returns!
Our Lady of Good Counsel, to thy charge . Receive the opening year. For love of thee We gather in felicitations on the day
That closes—sweetly closes—on the past, . And swings the burnished gates of future joy
Wide open to our vision.
Mother fair,
With thy pure eyes that cannot look on sin, For Father General’s sake, who loves thee well, Make us all worthy thy maternal smile;
Then shall we bring joy to his priestly heart. Our Lady of Good Counsel, Mother blest, Give him a happy New Year! every hope Be realized that, honoring thy pure name, His heart hath cherished! Give him even more Than fervor’s self could ask. Forward each plan His heart devout conceives for spread of Faith; Bring many souls to drink of Truth’s pure fount, Here, in the home his enterprise hath reared
■ To honor thy sweet name, thy heavenly grace; Then shall the smiling New YeaT happy prove.
Dear Father General, this is the warm grayer We lay at Blessed Mary's sacred feet, While, o’er and .o’er, we wish you from our hearts A Happy New Year! Many Bright Returns!
Very Rev. Father General graciously received the good wishes- of the youthful participants in the New Year pleasures, and briefly alluded to the past, when the present flourishing St. Mary’s was still in Bertrand, Mich. He mentioned an article published by the late Mr. Colfax, extolling the. prosperity of the institution in those olden times. From Ber- . trand St. Mary’s was transplanted to its present position, under the protecting shadow of the great University of Notre Dame, of which Father Sorin was then the President. The graceful manner of the young ladies who presented the address was the subject of remark on the part of the lady visitors.	’