AMERICA’S Sn&MaAt CIGARETTE
Tune in on Ted Fio-Rito’s sensational Hollywood Orchestra every Wednesday night—Columbia Chain
THE SCHOLASTIC is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1865
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3,1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
James S. Kearns....................Editor-in-Chief
Mitchell C. Tackley.................Managing	Editor
Associate Editors	News Staff
JOHN D. PORTERFIELD________________EDWARD J. O'BRIEN
RICHARD B. TOBIN JOHN E. CONLEY
EDWARD F. MANSFIELD............-...MICHAEL F. WIEDL
Departmental Editors
THOMAS J. STRITCH_________________________The Week
JAMES T. FITZPATRICK.___________________College Parade
RICHARD P. PREZEBEL.______________________Staff Artist
Business Management
JOHN F. STOECKLEY..................Graduate	Manager
................................News	Editors
----------------------ROBERT F. ERVIN ----------------------JOHN W. WALKER ----------------------;._.LOUIS R HRUBY
THOMAS G. PROCTOR) JOSEPH A. BUCCI j ROY O. SCHOLZ______ WILLIAM A. KENNEDY GEORGE P. LEYES.___ FRANK KELLY
Sports Staff
JOHN D. CARBINE.____________>	„
EDWARD J. VAN HUISSELING____ j---------Sj>orts EdltOTS
NICHOLAS J. CONNOR-------------HOWARD T. WALDRON
CYRIL F. STROKER
Volume LXVII
March 9, 1934
No. 18
FROM UNDER A BUSHEL
Within the past few weeks three outstanding- campus organizations scored major successes in their respective fields. It is only justice that a deal of praise be meted out to these groups, in appreciation for the time and effort they have expended, and in recognition of the triumphs they have achieved.
Last weekend at Iowa City, Iowa, the University debating squad tied for first place in a tournament that brought them into competition with eight outstanding college forensic squads. Such a measure of success was not unpredicted, for the debaters this year have consistently given excellent account of themselves in competition. They defeated the Kent College of Law team in a debate decided by a large radio audience. They defeated the highly reputed New York University squad. They scored victories in a majority of their decision debates, and were always comparatively strong in their non-decision arguments.
Debating at Notre Dame was once on a higher plane than has been its lot for the past few years. But if the success that was achieved this year, and the increased field of competition that was developed during the past months are to be taken as criteria of future developments, debating at Notre Dame is on its way back to its deserved place of importance.
Tomorrow afternoon at the Central Intercollegiate Conference track meet, the concert band will close its winter season. The band has played at all but one or two home basketball games this year and has never failed to win applause that was practically unanimous. The organization, director and members, has given an unprecedented amount of time and energy to practice and to appearances. It is improbable that any other year since the group was founded saw so much hard work put in by the musicians. That they maintained at all times their popularity with their audiences was only deserved reward for their efforts.
Within the past month, another in a series of recognitions has come to the Notre Dame Juggler. In a judging that considered every recognized college comic pub
M ar ch 9, 19 3 i
lication in the country, the Stanford Chapparal ranked the Juggler in third position in its list of leading comics. The Notre Dame magazine's success, like that of the debating team and the band, is the direct consequence of consistent and intelligent hard work. The editorial board has been wise in the direction given the Juggler, and the staff has been deft in its execution.
Sometimes it seems that all too little acclaim is given to such extra-curricular activities as these. Surely it is time that they are permitted to come’out from under the bushel that campus indifference has put upon them.
C. I. C. VISITORS
For the eighth time in as many years a number of college track squads have gathered at Notre Dame this weekend to compete in the annual Central Intercollegiate Conference indoor track meet. A word of welcome to these visiting athletes cannot be amiss.
The C. I. C. track carnivals have grown into a fine tradition. Competition is always keen; the spirit is always friendly; and conduct is always sportsmanlike. Notre Dame is glad to have visitors who are consistently of this type, and is anxious to have them know that they are welcome.
ENTERTAINMENT BARGAIN
In this issue of The Scholastic is the announcement of the ticket price for the Bengal Boxing Show which will be presented by this publication on March 23. The price is twenty-five cents: less than the price of one movie, if carfare be counted; not quite so much as the price of two milk-shakes; exactly the equal of five cokes in the cafeteria. The ticket sale will open in the several campus halls next Friday evening. We are sure that hundreds will want to attend the bouts; we ask now, only that they think of the ticket in advance, that individual deflation may not keep them away. Five cokes— for twenty-four rounds of boxing, and for Bengal.
One
THE WEEK
By Thomas J. Stritch
Lenten Musing
It would be interesting to get some statistics on Lenten resolutions kept and broken. For our part, we are in entire agreement with the majority of the priests on the campus who hold that to do something positive is the best form of penance. Attendance at Mass and Holy Communion both go up, but it is hard to tell how many go right through without missing once. We asked the cafeteria people about tobacco sales, and they said that for the first week their receipts go down considerably, but after that they gradually come back to normal.
Perhaps, after all, Father Miltner, who is giving the best series of Lenten sermons we have heard since we came, is right in saying that the best and hardest penance is “to do one’s duty.”
I
I
I
Sharpshooters
This week we marked by a visit to the rifle range, which is, by your leave, none other than the boat house at the east end of St. Joseph’s Lake. The riflemen, of whom there are many, have transformed the south side of the old building from a mouldy skunk-haven into a regulation 50-foot range on which they fire .22 longs with ease and abandon on Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday afternoons.
The range itself is rather prosaic, as ranges must be, but the rifle club could give several campus organizations lessons in efficiency. Organized last year by astute Gunner John McGrath it now boasts an active roster . of forty members, a rifle team of ability affiliated with the National Rifle Association, an indoor range, and guns and ammunition which are the common property of the club.
Last year’s club was waddling with infancy, but at that the team shot several matches and finished fifteenth in an entry list of several hundred at the grand Indiana shoot at Culver. This year they have ex-Captain Riordan and ex-Captain Bott from among the faculty in the club as president and vice-president, and a rifle team which has already won matches. The University turned over to them, on promise of good conduct, some 40,-000 rounds of ammunition, relict of student corps days, which they had been trying for years to get rid of; and the boat-house, unusued for long
Two
save as oar-repository. Progress from this boost on was natural.
Afternoons on the range are models of good conduct. There have never been any accidents, and little wild shooting, the gunner told us. One day there came in a man who shattered the light with his first shot, and bounced the next one off the side wall, but he was summarily stopped and has not returned.
The deus ex machina of the club is organist McGrath, its secretarytreasurer. He arranges things. On a campus reeking with officers in the Reserve Officers Corps, Gunner ranks all with his colonelcy in the Missouri National Guard, bestowed upon him very sensibly at an age when he could enjoy it: 6. Sacred to him are his forty guns which he has collected from all over, and his machine-gun, which, mounted on a tripod in Dillon Hall two years ago, was an object of general interest. It is now at home.
Sic Transit
Fame in one’s own backyard goes unnoticed. Imagine our surprise when we picked up the Greensboro (North Carolina) Daily Record, and saw our snow plough pictured on a “News Pictures from All Over” page. Seated on his plough, in his little green caboose was Peter Piowatritz, the snow plougher. In the background was Alumni Hall and in the foreground, snow. Mr. Piowatritz, said the cut-lines, ploughs away the snow from Notre Dame’s walks and drives.
And to think we had never heard of Mr. Piowatritz.
Upset
We knew that air of peace in Lyons Hall would bring forth fruit sooner or later. Usually the wildest of Halls, Lyons-by-the-Lake has been comparatively sedate this year; and look at its probation record. Just look at it. For the first time since the mind of man runneth not to the contrary Lyons is not leading the probation list! And letting a bunch of freshmen from Carroll put it over on them: pretty scurvy, Lyons, pretty scurvy.
Of course we can be fairly snooty about the whole business. Did you notice where Sorin was on the list? Corby made a gallant effort, but when we set our minds to a thing there’s just no use trying.
Russ Leonard Named Senior Ball Chairman
Russell J. Leonard, of Lowell, Mass., senior in the College of Commerce, was appointed general chairman of the 1934 Senior Ball this week by James V. Moscow, president
Chairman Russ Leonard
Busy selecting orchestra.
of the Senior Class. The ball will be held on the evening of May 11.
According to custom, the Ball proper will be followed by a tea dance to be held Saturday afternoon. The locale of the ball and tea dance has not been determined at this early date.
Current among the senior class members was the opinion that this year’s Ball should be held at a later date, preferably during the last week of May. President Moscow and Chairman Leonard have given this matter considerable thought and after deliberation decided that May 11 was the most suitable date, and stated that a majority of seniors corroborated the decision.
The price for the tickets for the Ball and tea dance has not been set as yet. Chairman Leonard is making arrangements for a suitable orchestra for the affair and the price of the tickets will be decided upon after final plans have been made.
The list of chairmen and committeemen as well as an announcement of the places of the Ball and tea dance, the selection of an orchestra, and the total price of the dances, will be published soon in The Scholastic.
O’Rourke Writes For March Issue of Religious Magazine
Included in the March issue of The Sentinel of the Blessed Sacrament, is an article by Michael O’Rourke, entitled “The Real Game at Notre Dame.” Employing the annual Student Religious Survey as his reference, Mr. O’Rourke endeavors to show the close alliance that frequent Communion has with football.
The questionnaire for this year’s Student Religious Survey will be distributed shortly. The annual Alumni Religious Survey has been placed in the hands of the printers and will be available some time next week.
The Scholastic
Calendar
Eighth Annual C.I.C. Indoor Track Meet Opens In N. D. Gym Tonight
Friday, March 9
Track, C. I. C. meet preliminaries, Notre Dame gym, 7:00 p.m.; Symphony orchestra practice, 7:00 p.m., Washington Hall; Scholastic staff meetings, Ave Maria Building, 6:30 and 7:00 p.m.
Saturday, March 10
Track, C. I. C. meet finals, Notre Dame gym, 11:45 a.m.; Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Marquette at Milwaukee, 8:00 p.m.; Movie, “Bureau of Missing Persons” with Pat O’Brien, Washington Hall, 6:45 and 8:45 p.m.
Sunday, March 11
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m.; Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, for upperclassmen, 7:00 p.m., for freshmen and students in Lyons and St. Ed’s, 7:30 p.m.; Interhall basketball, gymnasium 1:15 and 3:15 p.m.
Monday, March 12
Debate, Notre Dame negative vs. Dayton University, Engineering auditorium, 8:00 p.m.; Interhall Track Meet, gym, 8:00 p.m.; Meetings: A. I. E. E., 8:00 p.m., Engineering Building; Patricians, 4:30 p.m., Law building.
Tuesday, March 13
Rifle meet, Notre Dame vs. Buchanan Rifle club, Buchanan, Michigan, 8:00 p.m.; Debate, Notre Dame negative vs. Michigan State, East Lansing, 8:00 p.m.; Wranglers meeting, 6:30 p. m., Law Building; Economics Seminar, 6:30 p.m., Law Building; Symphony orchestra practice, 7:00 p.m.; St. Vincent De Paul society, 6:45 p.m., Walsh Hall basement.
Wednesday, March H
Lenten Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 7:00 p.m., for upperclassmen, 7:45 p.m., for freshmen and students in Lyons and St. Ed’s; Educational Seminar, Law Building, 6:30 p.m.
Thursday, March 15
International Relations club meeting, library, 6:30 p.m.
Marquette Loses Roark For C.I.C. Meet Here Tomorrow
Marquette’s track team suffered the loss of one of its outstandingmen last Saturday when Carroll Roark, veteran pole vaulter, broke his ankle. The accident occurred when Roark was trying to break a tie for first place with his mate, Alex Le Grand. Roark tied for second in the C. I. C. meet last year.
March 9, 1 9 3 i
Marquette---
Because only twenty students have purchased tickets for the unofficial student trip to Marquette tomorrow, the S. A. C. has made plans to abandon the trip, announced George Shields, president, today.
Unless enough students to fill one bus decide to go before tomorrow morning, Shields will refund the money to the twenty who have already purchased their tickets.
Band Concludes Successful Season of Indoor Concerts
The University Concert Band, under the direction of Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, concluded its popular program of winter concerts in the gymnasium last Saturday evening, March 3, when it provided the music at the last of the home basketball games, with Ohio State.
Because of its great popularity with the student body and basketball fans, the band, sacrificing time and effort, has played more this year than in any other yeai- in the history of the University.
They played, for the first time, at 12 of the fourteen home games of the season. In previous years, they have played at only two or three games a season. The success and appreciation of the local musical organization is evinced by the fact that the presence of the band at all home basketball games in the future is assured.
The band was ably assisted during the year by John Ryan and George Menard, Glee Club soloists. These men were a feature of Professor Casasanta’s musical program and were well received.
CONTENTS
News Boxers Train ................. 13
Boxing Show.................... 5
Cage Finals ................   11
C. I. C. Meet ................. 3
Engineers' Ball ............... 7
Frosh Elections ............... 5
Linnets Show .................. 4
Managers Named ............... 11
Senior Ball ................... 2
University Theatre............. 8
Features “College Parade”.............. 10
“Introducing” ...............  14
“Man About” ................... 8
“Splinters” .................. 15
“The Week” .................... 2
14 SCHOOLS COMPETE
Preliminaries in all events except the two mile run, pole vault, and shot put will be held tonight at 7:00. Polevaulting will begin at 11:45 tomorrow morning with the parade starting at 1:45 and the remaining events at 2:00. There will be no admission charge at the preliminaries. Saturday afternoon students presenting A. A. books will be admitted for 25 cents.
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
Track interest will reach a new high here this evening and tomorrow
Captain Joe Young He leads the Irish.
afternoon in the eighth annual running of the Central Intercollegiate Conference track and field meet. Michigan Normal, the team that knocked the Irish off the top rung of the conference ladder last year, finds its position anything but secure.
The field of fourteen teams is so evenly matched that three are given more than an outside chance to topple the Ypsilanti crew from its top berth.
Michigan State, Marquette, and Notre Dame appear to be the squads that Normal must beat. Just where the local spikesters 'rill finish depends largely upon how many second, third, and fourth places they can capture.	‘
Vince Murphy is the only Irish trackster who seriously threatens to win his event and he many find that impossible if the injured knee becomes too bothersome. The Notre Dame relay concoction, which im-
(Continued on Page 11)
Thr e e
Linnets Plan New Campus Music
Revue For April 26,27, And 29
STUDENT TALENT WANTED
By Mitchell C. Tackley
With the coming of Spring, the Notre Dame Linnets, desirous of expressing themselves, are planning another light music revue of campus talent. The songbirds held an open
Rev. Charles McAllister, C.S.C.
Leads the songbirds.
meeting yesterday afternoon to formulate plans for the second show of the year. About fifty students reported at the meeting.
The Reverend Charles McAllister, C.S.C., director of the Linnet organization, announces that the production will be staged in Washington Hall on three nights, April 26, 27, and 29. The program will be made up of numbers ranging from song interpretations to short dramatic sketches.
The recent purchase of a complete system of lighting effects by the Linnets will enable the group to present an array of unusual numbers. The Washington Hall stage now has equipment comparable to any large musical comedy playhouse.
The Linnet Glee Club, under the direction of Joseph Casasanta, will in all probability appear in the show with a repertoire of new numbers. The Collegians likewise will be an important part of the new revue.
Father McAllister has issued a call to all students interested in any phase of the venture. Technicians, stage hands, musicians, electricians, as well as all types of actors/ performers, and comedians will be needed. Any interested student ■who
No Smoking ---
Ray Waters, A.B. senior, was quietly enjoying an after-class smoke the other day in the corridor of the first floor of the Commerce Building. The door to his immediate right swung open and Dean James McCarthy stepped out.
“How about a light, buddy?” the dean asked Waters. Ray extended his lighted cigarette to Mr. McCarthy. The dean puffed twice, turned to Waters with, “Put that cigarette out, fellow. Smoking isn’t allowed in this building.”
Dean McCarthy swung back into the room.
McAloon Makes Report To St. Vincent De Pawl Group
The St. Vincent de Paul Society met Tuesday evening at 6:45 in the basement of Walsh Hall for their weekly discussion.
Reverend John Kelly, C.S.C., opened the meeting with the prescribed prayer of the society. Mr. Frank Grehan, president; and Mr. Arthur Gregory, secretary, presided.
Vincent McAloon reported on the cases he attended during the past week; and also volunteered to take some of the members of the society with him in his automobile as Reverend George O’Connor, C.S.C., will be busy with pressing cases.
George Belting announced that Reverend James Fogarty, C.S.C., professor of Economics, would speak to the social workers next meeting, Tuesday night.
The chair made the suggestion that the organization would aid Reverend Charles McAllister as much as possible in putting on his next minstrels. The society is indebted to the director of the coming show for the proceeds of his last efforts, a large part of which he turned over to them.
wishes to participate in the show is requested to report to him as soon as possible.	’
The Linnets haven’t as yet selected a title for their show. Suggestions will be welcomed. “Le Printemps,” “If We Were King,” “What’s the Dope?” and “The Third Strike” have been suggested. None of them, however have been found satisfactory. Further details of the extravaganza will be announced in next week’s issue of The Scholastic.
Herman Green, sophomore, was named business manager of the show by Father McAllister at yesterday’s meeting of the Linnets.
Conspectus For A.B.
Majors: Journalism
By Prof. John M. Cooney, Ph.D.
Journalism may be called a practical study. Cultural values it does not lack, as may be realized by a moment’s reflection, but it bears the unmistakable stamp of the practical, in that the student must learn to do and not merely to know. He, therefore, practices interviewing; finding, evaluating and writing news. He learns to recognize, appraise and write human-interest and, for' special articles, material whose interest may be of another nature. He practices copy-reading, proof-reading, headline writing and make-up. He is sobered by the influence and the responsibilities of editorial writing as he develops the qualifications and masters the technique necessary for success in it. He ponders over the ethics of his profession and studies the laws with which his profession brings him in contact; and he learns the latest approved method of business management, upon which depends the life and the influence of his publication. In doing these things, he fits himself for a job in which, from the start, he can make a modest living, and later—if he will—can grow to some stature and exert unusual influence for good.
Skill in journalism is a practical thing for an educated man. It is the spear-head on the true and tough shaft of education in Arts and Letters. With this education, he goes on the field strong; with skill in journalism added, he is armed.
It has been thoroughly said that all college men should know how to appraise, understand and make use of the press. Of the higher types of student, at least, this is true; for how better than through the press shall our best trained minds become vocal?
What type of men should enter journalism? Men who like to write? A leaning toward writing is an encouraging sign. But in a broad sense, journalism calls for good men, good, as Cicero used the term when he declared that no one could be a good orator except a good man. The modern journalist has largely replaced the ancient orator. Especially, the aspirant’s mind should be alert and responsive and of broad vision; and his heart should be in the right place,—always for the genuine welfare and happiness of the people. Highly self-interested men are not the best candidates for journalism.
Sidney Lanier said of the mockingbird :
“Whate’er birds did or dreamed, this bird could say;” and later in the sonnet he called the songstei* a “trim
(Continued on Page 6)
Four
The Scholastic
James Bacon Elected Freshman President
Boxing Show March 23rd To Be Third Sponsored By “Scholastic”
James Richard Bacon, a student in the College of Arts and Letters, was elected president of the Freshman class, Friday, March 2, in one of the most spirited elections in recent years. By virtue of this office, President Bacon automatically becomes a member of the Student Activities Council and will represent his class at the meetings of that organization. Bacon is a native of Lock Haven, Pa., and a resident of Dillon Hall.
The other successful candidates for office were: Vice-president, Donald Gerard Hanning, of the College of Commerce, a resident of Freshman Hall from Watertown, Conn; Secretary, John W. Gallivan, of the College of Arts and Letters, a resident of Dillon Hall from Salt Lake City, Utah; Treasurer, Joseph Thomas Dorgan, of the College of Commerce, a resident of Freshman Hall from Chicago, Ill.
At the primary, Tuesday, Feb. 27, the first year men nominated two candidates for each of the class offices. The opposing ticket consisted of Richard Meier, Leo Cormier, John Manning, and Daniel Sullivan.
The S. A. C. supervised both the primaries and the elections. In announcing the results, President George Shields revealed that the voting had been very close. A good turnout resulted in approximately three hundred and fifty ballots being cast.
“Dome” Snapshot Contest To
Terminate On March 15
The Dome Snapshot Contest ends March 15. The snapshot editor calls the attention of all students to this and reminds those who have not yet turned in snapshots that ther is still time to do so. The number of entries each student can make is unlimited. Prize winners will be announced immediately after the Easter holidays.
Entries for the contest may be left at the Publications Office, second floor of the Main Building, at 156 Alumni, or at 220 Morrissey.
New History Course
A new course open to advanced students in History and graduate students has been added to the College of Arts and Letters. The course, “Catholic Point of View in American History,” is conducted by Father McAvoy, and is an attempt to use the seminar method in the classroom.
The idea of the course is to discuss informally problems dealing with some phase of American History. The problem to be discussed for March 12 is “The Catholic Church and Slavery.”
French Movie---
Under the auspices of Le Cercle Francais, the musical “Le Million,” was presented to medium capacity house in Washington Hall last Monday evening. This foreign language
Prof. Earl F. Langwell Tells story.
film was well received by the audience which, from the outbursts of laughter during the picture, seemed to find no difficulty in understanding the plot.
Professor Earl F. Langwell in behalf of the French Club welcomed all visitors and gave a brief resume of the action. A missing lottery ticket serves as the basis for this tale which pokes fun at some of America’s most “sacred institutions.” The scene in which the tossing of a coat from crook to crook was turned into a football game, in which gangsters were satirized; and that in which Grand Opera was burlesqued, met with the particular approval of the audience.
By the use of a sub-plot in which two Englishmen told what was happening, the action was clarified for those who were unable to understand the French language.
Cracow Club
A meeting of the Cracow Club was held Monday evening, March 5, in the Law Building.
A committee was appointed by President Korzeneski to call on members of the club to secure their complete cooperation in making a success of the forthcoming annual banquet.
A paper on Polish Divorces was read and discussed. The discussion was informal and open to all members present.
ADMISSION WILL BE 25c
A story on the training activities of the boxers entered in the Bengal Boxing Shoiv will be found on page 13.
When the cream of Notre Dame’s boxing talent squares off in the gym two weeks from this evening to battle for the Bengal Boxing Show championships, the third milestone will be reached in a project that was launched by The Scholastic in the winter of 1931-32.
Tickets for this third annual fistic progjram will go on sale next Friday, March 16th. There will be but one admission price, twenty-five cents, to students and outsiders. No seats will be reserved, but ample accommodations will be provided by the erection of bleachers on both sides of the basketball court.
The first Bengal Show under the sponsorship of The Scholastic was staged before more than 2,000 fans on February 12, 1932. The intramural tourney that had been held annually up to that year had failed in 1931/and The Scholastic took ovei-the project in order to save intramural boxing from oblivion.
The method of financing the show that was adopted in 1932 has been maintained since then. An admission price of twenty-five cents to students was established with the first show. Expenses incurred in the promotion, including prizes, equipment, and the erection of bleachers, are paid from the gross gate receipts, and the net profit is turned over to the Prefect of Religion to be added to the Bengal Mission Fund.
This year’s tourney, under the direction of Howard Waldron, 1932 light-heavyweight champion, and a member of the sports and staff of The Scholastic, promises to surpass both preceding tournaments in the quality of boxing presented. Several champions of last year will be defending their titles, and members of the group of boxers who fought recently in the Chicago Golden Gloves tournament have entered the ranks of competitors.
Patricians Hear Gorman
The Patricians at their meeting in the Law Building Monday afternoon, March 5, at 4:30, were given a description of “Today’s Rome” by Vincent Gorman. Gorman described Rome as it appears today under Mussolini’s dictatorship. He pointed out the places of interest and mentioned the historic value of each.
March 9, 1934
Five
Father Carroll Pays Tribute to Fr. Hudson
The Reverend Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., writing in America for March 3, has added an excellent character sketch of the Reverend Daniel E. Hudson, C.S.C., to the long list of articles concerning the late Ave Maria editor which have appeared in print since his death on January 12.
Father Carroll’s opening paragraph contains a summary of Father- Hudson’s outstanding characteristics, the summary in turn seiwing as a brief outline of the article.
He writes:
“I do not pretend to have known Father Hudson intimately; not in the sense of entering into his councils, going away from a chat in his room with all his mind. He rarely gave all his full mind to anybody. I remember him-acting out Iris life in a fourfold drama. And his character presentation seems different in each, yet with the same detached, shrinking essence permeating them all. He was an ascetic without harshness of hardness; a hermit who knew the movements of the world through the looking glass of newspaper and magazine; an editor whose blue-covered magazine held the culture, tone, sweetness of his mind; a spare, white-headed, scantily bearded man of reticent approach, with a sense of humor that rippled and was never loud.”
“Fourfold Drama”
After a brief, pointed development of the first two parts of the “fourfold drama” of Father Hudson’s life, Fathei- Carroll goes on to a more lengthy consideration of the last two: Father Hudson the editor, and Father Hudson the man.
“When distinguished people came to the University,” Father Carroll writes in part regarding Father Hudson the editor, “it was the invariable custom to take them to see the editor of the Ave Maria. And without exception, the most permanent memory they took away was of a diminutive priest whose speech was low and penetrating.
After mentioning the editor’s custom of answering all letters in his own hand, and his thoughtful diplomacy in refusing unsatisfactory manuscripts, Father Carroll turned to a consideration of Father Hudson’s humanness. His long friendship with the late Col. William Hoynes, his reaction to the coming of the radio, his favorite papers and his retiring life on the campus were told of in an absorbing manner. Several amusing anecdotes supplemented the discussion.
Father Carroll’s last paragraph (Continued on Page 8)
Hemming and Kenny Read Papers at Science Academy
John A. Hemming and William J. Kenny, were the speakers at the regular meeting of the Notre Dame Academy of Science held Monday evening in Science Hall.
Hemming’s paper entitled “X-Rays in Medicine” traced the historical development of the x-ray and indicated the position of importance which this device occupies in modern medicine and research.
Beginning with the preliminary work of Abbe Nollet as early as the eighteenth century, the speaker traced the development of the x-ray to the investigations of Geissler, Sir William Crookes, Hertz, Lenarad, and other notables in this field up to William Conrad Roentgen.
Kenny Speaks On Opium
Roentgen was perhaps the first to recognize the x-rays as such and to bring the research of the earlier investigators into practical application. The incorporation into medicine and some of the various uses to which the x-ray is put in diagnostic practice were also presented.
“Opium” was the topic of Kenny’s talk, a discourse on the history, properties, and therapeutic uses of the drug and its derivatives. Although opium was known as early as the time of the Suemrians, it was not until the early part of the nineteenth century that the improtant active constituent morphine, was extracted.
Other important alkaloids derived from opium, namely narcotine, codeine, narceine, thebaine and papaverin were discovered at about the same time.
The widespread knowledge of the properties of opium is easily seen in the fact that it was unquestionably the chief therapeutic agent for more than 2,000 years.
Kenny also discussed the use of opium and its derivatives by addicts to the opium eating habit, as well as the laws governing the pharmacist in the sale of such drugs.
Permit From Father Dolan Necessary For Air Flights
Considerable interest in aviation has been manifested at Notre Dame during the past week following the announcement of Max Conrad’s aviation service on the campus. Before any flights can be made by a student, however, it is necessary that the individual student’s parents or guardian write direct to the Rev. Patrick H. Dolan, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline, a letter of permission, authorizing the student to take to the air.
Journalism School Adds Four Courses
According to an announcement recently released from the office of Professor John Cooney, Ph.D., head of the Department of Journalism, it was stated that four new courses would be added to the curriculum in his department in September, 1934.
The first, entitled “An Introduction to Journalism,” is designed to acquaint the student with methods and styles in the presentation of various types of news, and with the conditions and processes of publishing. It will be a required subject for sophomores in the department of journalism, and open to juniors and seniors in the other departments of the College of Arts and Letters.
Sports Writing To Be Offered
The second, “Essentials in Advertising,” will outline the principles of effective practise in advertising, the study of articles, elements of makeup and the psychology of appeal. While in the past many students have followed courses in general advertising, it is felt that modern conditions justify the organization of a course specially designed for the journalism student.
Next, “Sports Writing,” an increasingly popular and important field of journalistic endeavor, will be offered to all upperclassmen majoring in journalism, and to a limited number of other specially qualified applicants.
The fourth course, “The Community Newspaper,” will be based on the problems and opportunities met with on country and suburban newspapers,—the best training ground f or those who have decided to make journalism their life work.
Professor Cooney also announces that a new full time instructor will be added to the journalism faculty.
CONSPECTUS
(Continued from Page 4)
Shakespeare.” Likewise, a journalist should be a Shakespeare in interpreting his people, in being their tribune and seer. To do this, the journalist must love and understand humanity, and through mute type speak out more effectively than any. . He then has the art prescribed by Doctor Blair: he has something to say and can say it.
Four additional courses will be offered next year: An Introduction to Journalism, required for students majoring in Journalism; Essentials in Advertising, Sports Writing, and the Community Newspaper (small town), the latter three being elective. Two courses are offered in the summer session.
S i x
The Sc h elastic
Engineers Formal To Be Held On April 13
Slide-rules and figures will be forgotten when the Notre Dame Engineers hold their annual formal Friday evening, April 13, in South Bend’s Palais Royale. General Chair-
Frank Shapiro Engineer’s Chairman
man Frank Shapiro announced this week that the ticket price will be $2.00 a couple instead of $1.75 as previously made known.
The dance is open to all members of the Engineer’s Club. Each member will be permitted to invite two guests. Chairman Shapiro has not selected an orchestra as yet, but he expects to do so in the near future.
The committees and their chairmen have been named as follows: Tickets: A. J. Hiegel, chairman; C. J. Pickard, N. H. Lafferty; Publicity: H. T. Schaffer, chairman, M. E. Saleh, and A. C. Barlow; Arrangements: E. W. Hallauer, chairman, C. A. deLandero, A. L. Vitter; Music: J. Quinn, chairman, N. F. Toussaint, E. W. Ken-fake; Patrons: G. King, chairman, R. W. Hughes, and I. F. S.chwien; Reception: N. J. Schenkel, chairman, T. V. Hines, and R. E. Barry; Programs: P. J. Martersteck, and R. F. Wiele, chairmen; J. C. Caresio, and J. F. McKenna; Decorations: E. J. Fitzmaurice, chairman, J. F. Reveille, and E. L. Creel.
The Reverend Thomas Steiner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Engineering, and John F. Cushing, C.E., ’06, have been chosen as honarary patrons. Other patrons will be the members of the Engineering faculty.
Weinstein Presents Paper On Life and Works of Freud
The psychology of Freud was the topic of a paper read by Benjamin Weinstein, graduate student at the seminar in the Philosophy of Education, Wednesday evening. Reverend W. Francis Cunningham, C.S.C., presided at the seminar.
Weinstein gave a brief account of Freud’s life and a resume of the work accomplished in his school of psychology. Freud is living today at the age of 77, he said.
Next week’s meeting will feature a guest speaker. Michael Lahey, graduate student, will conduct the seminar.
March 9, 1 9 3 4
News of the Week
By George Leyes
After Dillinger’s latest escapade in escaping justice, too much criticism cannot be placed on our lax administration of the law. Whether the escape was the result of negligence or not, a system which permits political appointees who are inadequate and untrained in the method of coping wtih professional criminals is socially unsound. Nothing, however, can be accomplished until the public attitude toward criminals of Dillinger’s type is revolutionized. Then, perhaps, if pictures must be taken for the newspaper, the prosecutor will not have to be photographed shaking hands or throwing his arms around the killer.
City slums appear to be getting concessions at last, •with the government allocating 100 million dollars for low cost housing operations. To the charge of too much paternalism one can point to the examples of what foreign countries are finding it •wise to do. England, for instance, who in the fifteen years after the war provided over one million low priced homes for returned soldiers, with government aid. England is now working on a program of slum clearance which calls for the demolition of 210,000 homes and for the building of 250,000 new dwellings. In Holland over one-seventh of the population has been rehoused with government aid, which would seem to indicate that our government’s expenditure, even •with the additional money to be lent to private companies, is by no means too extravagant.
With over one-sixth of the population living on the government the ad-” ministration is trying to find employment for these men by shortening hours of labor, increasing wages, and rebuilding our foreign commerce on a limited scale. It is claimed by Secretary Wallace that if we continued on our system of narrow nationalism, 600,000 of fertile farm acres would have to be taken out of production. The government may find it difficult to play the role of salesman for agriculture and industry and still please everyone. If reciprocal trade agreements are made, it will be too bad for the members of Congress who have to tell their constituents that a factory had to be closed because some foreign country could produce the article at a lower price. Higher costs of production through increased, wages and lower tariffs do not seem to agree.
Girls’ ‘Juggler’ Out Early Next Week
By John E. Conley
The girl’s issue of the Juggler, containing the contributions of some 50 young ladies throughout the land, will appear on the campus early next week. This occasion presents an excellent opportunity for the strong sex to learn the opposing side’s views.
The coveted gold Juggler keys are awarded to Miss Bee Cannon of St. Mary’s, Notre Dame, for her excellent art work, and to Miss Glad Rocheleau, St. Mary’s of the Woods, for her outstanding literary work. Miss Cannon drew the cover which smacks of that ultra foreign touch and is one of the best jackets to enclose the magazine for some time.
Substituting for the conductor of the column “Astray in the Loop” is an anonymous young junior at Rosary College, thus deriving the information first hand, which is also the case in regard to “Caf Smoke,” converted to “Cat Smoke” for the moment, equally well done by a neighbor from Sweet-briar.
N. D. Men Reviewed
Of special interest to some should be the open letters from Trinity, New Rochelle, St. Mary’s- of- the -Woods, and Sweetbriar, unloading various opinions about Notre Dame men. This applies especially to those who are well acquainted in the aforementioned parts. One of the finest contributions in the way of art work was done by Mary Jeanne Smith, aged 15, of Indianapolis.
Here the staff members had to step in and supplement the work of the girls, because the issue, although bright in spots, shows just about how the feminine intellect works. The staff artists took over the art work with Prezebel and Melchione doing the more illustrious feminine types.
Among those who contributed . abundantly to the number are the following: Glad Rocheleau, Ruth Flynn, and Loretta Whitehead of St. Mary’s of-the—Woods; Bee Cannon of St. Mary’s of Notre Dame; Marge Joyce of Georgian Court; Kay Haverkamp of New Rochelle; Gina Betsy Hazen of Smith; and Gina O’Brien, editor of the Bend.
Last but not least, it might be mentioned that the Juggler placed third in a national contest for college comic magazines recently conducted by the Stanford Chapparral. The ten outstanding magazines listed by the judges were selected on the basis of drawings submitted to a special issue of their publications, and on general excellence maintained throughout the year. According to the results, the Penn Punch Bowl placed first with the Michigan Gargoyle taking second.
Seven
Pharmacists Losing Rank Says Speaker
“The drug store of tomorrow will not compound drugs at all. It will lose its professional standing and be content to dispense sandwiches, cosmetics, and bathing suits.”
This was the prediction of Oscar M. Russell, of Elkhart, secretary of the Indiana state board of pharmacists, who told a joint meeting of the South Bend and Notre Dame Pharmacy Clubs, Feb. 15, that the apothecary shop is being reborn.
“Professional pharmactists will open their own shops,” he said. “There will be two stores; one a drug store, where commercial business will be transacted; the other a pharmacy.”
Prof. Baldinger Presides
The two clubs met for dinner in the lay faculty dining hall and later adjourned to Chemistry Hall where the session was held. Professor Lawrence Baldinger, head of the Pharmacy Department, presided as chairman. William J. Kenny, senior in Pharmacy, addressed the club and its guests on the subject, “Electrometric Titrations.” He also demonstrated this process. “The History, Preparation, and Uses of the Barbiturates” was the title of a paper given by Robert Ervin, sophomore in Pharmacy.
Reverend Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Science, welcomed the visitors to the University. Other speakers included Professor Henry Froning, head of the Chemistry Department, E. A. Ridgely of Gary, representing the executive committee of the Indiana Pharmaceutical Association, and F. W. Meisner of LaPorte, also a member of the same committee.
FR. CARROLL WRITES (Continued from Page 6)
must be quoted in its entirety to see its simple, straightforward presentation:
“Father Hudson illustrates living in life, and yet not of life. He might have been a Trappist, yet even then he would want to see the world passing by. Not all the world, but that part of it he liked. And that part was the best part. He lived serenely, yet eagerly within his chosen aloofness. He had all the sweeter things of sanctity with very few of those uglier foreign substances that adhere to sanctity sometimes. Those who are external will say he did not live. He did live within a small physical world of his own making; but in a large world of ideas and ideals where his mind ranged within a wide compass.”
X? 'about the camPys
Ffrench with two f’s. This takes care of Johnnie’s race and clan. Thick black, curly hair marks him as the best looking boy in Walsh Hall. He lives on the third and first ’ floors. Room number 302 and the telephone booth.
Since September Johnnie has been known as the lone wolf. He blew off his pal of four years — Al “Politician” Smith — and
now paddles a solitaire canoe. Locally his interests are concentrated on Fran. He belongs to the league across the lake also, in fact a staunch supporter.
Being a campus smoothie, Johnnie, craftily managed by Smith, held an office in his freshman year and became president of the sophomore class. He was King of the cotillion that year, still talked about among the seniors. Another great feather in John’s cap is the fact that he once coached an interhall championship team.
Johnnie is one of those boys who has homework in the gym. He is looking forward to the profession of coaching, preferably in a girl’s school, it is rumored. Shadow boxing, chinning the bar, and the art of showertaking are among his numerous accomplishments.
His friends describe him as a cozy individual. The type who likes to sit in front of an open fireplace with a pipe in his mouth and a good book in his lap. His dual personality accounts for that weekend in Indianapolis two years ago with Fletcher.
Two years under the rectorship of Father Heiser has kept John well in hand. His name appears on the night list at regular intervals. Weekends in Chicago. . . . likes good shows. . . . wears tailored clothes. . . still raves about that Indiana game weekend. . . kind of hard to satisfy in several matters. . . Yes sir, our John Ffrench (with two f’s) is really a cozy little boy.
An autographed series of R. H. L. Linebooks have disappeared. If offered for sale, or if whereabouts of same are known, report facts to the PUBLICATIONS OFFICE, Main Building. Intrinsic value regarded highly. Confidence assured.
Students Wanted For Theatre Production
All departments of the Production staff of the next University Theatre presentation, “Gold in the Hills,” are open for student work. The cast of the melodrama has not been completed as yet. Tryouts, under the direction of Director Frank Kelly, have been in progress all this week.
Frank McGahren has been appointed master of robes, Joe Alton will have charge of the stage, and Mitchell Tackley, make-up. Assistants will be needed in all of the three departments. A call is also made for an electrician to head the electrical staff. Dan Youngerman will act as prompter and script man.
“Turn To The Right” In June
Professor Kelly wishes to announce that the three act comedy, “Turn to the Right,” originally intended for the Spring presentation, will be given in June as the Commencement play. The change in plans came about, Mr. Kelly stated, by request of the University Council. This gesture was made so that “Gold in the Hills” could be given as a benefit show for the South Bend Junior Chamber of Commerce.
Work on “Turn to the Right” will begin under the direction of Professor Albert Doyle in a few weeks. The Department is attempting to employ as many students as possible in both productions.
Dr. Hogstad Will Address Pharmacy Club Tuesday
The Pharmacy Club will hold a special meeting next Tuesday afternoon at 4:15 in the Chemistry Building. The Club is to be addressed by Dr. Anton Hogstad, Jr., special assistant to the- president of Merck and Co. “The Changing Order of American Pharmacy” is the title of the talk, and it will deal with both the present and future status of this profession.
Winner Of Lowe Prize
Dr. Hogstad’s official capacity with Merck’s is as personal contact Tfela-tions man in the fields of pharmacy and medicine. He graduated in 1914 from the Philadelphia College of Pharmacy and Science where he was awarded the C. B. Lowe Materia Medica Prize for the highest mark in that subject. Since then, he has served on the faculties of South Dakota College and the St. Louis College of Pharmacy. Dr. Hogstad has also been Pharmacognosist to the Missouri Botanical Gardens.
Besides speaking to the local Pharmacy Club, Dr. Hogstad will address the South Bend Pharmacy Club during his visit here.
Eight
The Scholastic
Prof. O’Grady Talks At Engineer’s Meet
At the last meeting of the Notre Dame Branch of Electrical Engineers, which was held in the Engineering Building, on Monday night, March 5, Professor Daniel C. O’Grady of the Department of Philosophy delivered
Prof. Daniel C. O’Grady “We know differently. . .
a lecture entitled “The New Physics and- Philosophy,” a talk which combined the fields of science and philosophy.
Dr. O’Grady opened his lecture with a brief discussion of the outstanding points of the new physics as compared with the old, mentioning the change from atoms to electrons as the ultimate units of matter and the change from the corpuscular’ theory of light to the wave theory. Then, taking up the theories of relativity and of evolution, he remarked that some modern scientists and philosophers have been led to believe that there are no standards, no absolute bases, and everything is subjective, subject to constant change. In contradiction of this, the speaker explained that the Scholastic philosophy has standards of value, which are unchanging and stable. Things which were wrong a hundred years ago are wrong today and will be wrong a hundred years hence.
Dr. O’Grady then discussed the status of the electron among scientists and philosophers today. “The old idea of the atom,” said the speaker, “was something the scientist could cany around in his pocket and roll on the table like dice. We, of course, know differently now, but some scientists who have delved veiy deeply into the study of matter, using mathematics as their tool, have said that the deeper they penetrate into matter the more unreal it becomes.
In conclusion, Dr. O’Grady pointed out the differences between the Kant school and the Neo-Scholastic group in as far as reason and experience are concerned.
Voice of the Campus
“ALL THAT GLITTERS. .
The Editor of The Scholastic
Dear Sir:
So they have picked “Gold In The Hills” out of the camphor and proceeded to dust it off, much to the disgust of those who saw it presented some two years ago. One would be led to believe that the influence of Mae West’s mauve and sentimental decade is being felt in circles other than women’s gowns.
Apparently those who determine what shall be presented by our Players’ Club have committed the unpardonable producers’ error of mistaking laughter arising from derision for the manifestation of an appreciative audience for a most noble theme artfully presented.
Are they ever going to give the players a vehicle worthy of their ability, or do they aim to remain consistent and give Walter O’Keefe’s “Man On The Flying Trapeze” in June?
D. K. M.
Dear Editor Kearns:
It’s refreshing to learn that the good old University Theatre is coming through again. We saw their last performance of “Taming of the Shrew” and we thought it was much better than the “Taming of the Shrew” they gave last year—or was it two years ago? Almost every student who saw this last production of “Taming of the Shrew” liked it better than the last “Taming of the Shrew”—we mean the one they gave two years ago. Of course there may have been a few cynical professors who liked the 1910 Philopatrian presentation of the “Taming of the Shrew” much better. But perhaps they haven’t the jolly enthusiasm for “Taming of the Shrew” that we younger lads have.
So we imagine too, that some of the old “Gold in the Hills” goers will be a little bitter about the coming show. But such people have to be tolerated. We’ll admit that we didn’t see “Gold in the Hills” in the 1915 revival in Buffalo. Nor did we see the “Gold in the Hills” revival in Hoboken when it was nurtured by Christopher Morley. The night we went they were showing “The Black Crook.” But we did see the last “Gold in the Hills” production in Washington Hall and if you think all of us boys didn’t enjoy making laughable remarks you’re crazy. We could see right off that Jack Dalton wasn’t supposed to be taken seriously.
Anyway, we certainly are glad that the South Bend Junior Chamber of Commerce liked it too. We don’t know about the South Bend Junior Chamber of Commerce, but we rather
N.D. Ties For First
At Debate Tourney
By Thomas Proctor
Three wins out of four debates and a tie for* first place in the entire round of contests is the welcome news brought from the west this week by Coach W. J. Coyne, whose varsity debaters competed in the annual Delta Sigma Rho tournament held in Iowa City. Coyne and four men, William Kirby, Hugh Fitzgerald, John Locher, and John O’Connor left for Iowa Thursday, March 1st, debated on Friday and Saturday against strong schools, and returned Sunday, successful.
Nine schools, including Notre Dame, were entered in this tourney sponsored by the national debating fraternity previously mentioned. Iowa University, ■with whom the local speakers tied for first place, Texas University, Iowa State, Iowa State Teachers, Wyoming, Colorado, Denver University, and South Dakota, made up this group.
Affirmative Lose One
Kirby and Fitzgerald, arguing the affirmative side of the question, “Resolved: that the powers of the President should be substantially increased as a settled policy,” won a decision over Colorado, but lost the decision in the Wyoming contest. Locher and O’Connor, on the negative side of the same question won from Texas University and from Iowa State Teachers, the latter debate being of the cross-examination type. All decisions were sealed and the final results were announced at the close of the tourney.
Coach Coyne wishes to express public appreciation of the treatment afforded his men during their stay in Iowa.
Three more debates are scheduled for next week. On Monday, March 12 th, the University of Day ton affirmative comes here to meet the Notre Dame negative on the Presidential powers question. On Tuesday the local negative journeys to East Lansing for the first of two decision debates with Michigan State College. John Locher and John O’Connor will probably represent Notre Dame in both these contests. On Friday, March 16th, Hugh Fitzgerald and Joseph Becek are to argue against the negative pair from Michigan State. Both home debates will probably be held in the Engineering Building Auditorium.
think that this year’s “Gold in the Hills” will be better than the last “Gold in the Hills”—we mean the “Gold in the Hills” they gave two years ago. See you in the first row.
—J. D.
March 9, 19 3 4
Nine
Trip To Washington Arranged For $33.50
Thirty-three dollars and fifty cents is the all inclusive price set for the annual Washington Trip of the Politics classes of the University, according to Paul Bartholomew, instructor in the Politics Department. This trip, as announced a few weeks ago, covers the four day period from April 7 to April 11, and is open to all students who are taking or have taken first year politics.
Mass In Harrisburg
Though the tour itinerary is not yet complete arrangements have been made for a Sunday morning stopover in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania for Communion in St. Francis Church and Mass in the Cathedral. While in Washington members of the party will be lodged at the Arlington Hotel. An added feature this year is the dance to be given in the hotel Monday night with guests from Trinity College in the capital city.
Students who intend to make this trip, which has proved so successful in the past, should save their cuts and should communicate at once with Mr. Bartholomew in Room 109 Science at 3:05 p.m. on Monday, Wednesday, or Friday.
Hruby Addresses Wranglers On The Recovery Program
The question whether government aid to business recovery has been a help oi* a hindrance was discussed by Louis H. Hruby, Commerce Junior, at the weekly meeting of the Wranglers last Tuesday night at 6:30 in the Law Building. The speaker presented arguments mainly in support of the unfavorableness of government aid.
Defining the popular concept of recovery as a tendency to increase prices leather than to decrease costs, Hruby described the N.R.A. as “a reform, not a recovery measure.” “The government,” he added, “has endeavored to maintain a price level rather than a cost level.” It was further shown that C.W.A. funds are being used for the benefit of consumers’ goods whereas it would be to the best advantage of business were they employed to suport the durable goods in industry since these industries are at the bottom of the business scale.
“An increase in prices does not necessarily mean an indication of business rise or prosperity,” concluded the speaker, “it may be but a temporary fluctuation.” Following his address the customary discussion of the question was held by the members present.
College Parade
By James T. Fitzpatrick
Both YALE and HARVARD universities now are operating new residential plans for their undergraduates. At HARVARD the units of the plan are called “houses” while at YALE they are termed “colleges,” but at both institutions the purpose of the plan is to promote closer contacts among the students themselves and between the students and faculty. Another expected benefit of the new housing systems is aid in securing employment after graduation.
The officials of both schools point out that “the depression cloud” has had one silver lining in “the recapture of old academic values.” During the days of prosperity a few years ago jobs were chasing the students around the campuses of Eastern universities. The greater part of these jobs was in the commercial world. The result, according to Albert Beecher Crawford, director of personnel study at YALE, was, “What the individual really wanted to do—what he might make of himself by creative effort along the lines of his greatest usefulness—was lost sight of in the process of filling pre-conceived positions. Individual initiative in respect to the choice of a careeer became dulled.”
The housing plans are expected to alter this situation by encouraging closer contact with faculty members who will help the student with “occupational orientation and guidance.” Already there has been a marked loss of interest among students of YALE and HARVARD in the conventional business career. Students are attracted to exploring the possibilities of other interesting and worthwhile careers.—The Indiana Daily Student.
A master’s thesis based upon a survey of extra-curricular costs of a college education at MARQUETTE UNIVERSITY reveals that the average student spends two cents a wreek on books and five cents on movies. The medical student has the highest weekly expenditure of §22.25 while the journalist has the least. (N.S.P. A.)	.
From the OKLAHOMA DAILY we read that a public speaking instructor flunked a student with the cryptic remark, “So you won’t talk, eh?” (N.S. P.A.)
The football team of ST. LAWRENCE UNIVERSITY, Canton, N. Y., actually lives, eats, and sleeps football. The squad lives in the same dorm, and every night at ten o’clock the coach rings a bell, meaning that it is time to run signals in the dorm hall. (N.S.P.A.)
Corporation Control Is Seminar Subject
. The control of the modern corporation was contrasted with that in the early American corporation by Richard G. Cahill, Commerce senior, at a meeting of the Economics Seminar last Tuesday night in the Law Building.
The speaker traced the development of the single form of control— that of ownership, up to the five principal modern forms of control: Management Control, Control Through Legal Devices, Minority Control, Majority Ownership, and Full Ownership. It was shown that well over 75% both in the number of corporations and in the amount of wealth controlled, was found beneath the first three forms of control.
“About the latter part of the ninetenth century,” said Cahill, “there arose a new concept of ownership because of the growing tendency toward separation of ownership from control in large corporations.” He then indicated that this change in control from the hands of the owner was predicted by the economist Veb-lin in 1905 and by Ripley in 1926, but neither predictions were noticed until the present economic depression.
Following the reading of the paper, a discussion was held by the various members present. The meeting was then adjourned by president Frank L. Linton.
S.A.C. Swim Meet Will Be
Held In South Bend Nat.
The annual student swimming meet will be held within the next two weeks; George Shields, President of the S. A. C., gave forth this information this week.
The Marquette student trip has retarded the plans. As soon after the Marquette game as possible, however, work will be started by those appointed by the S. A. C.
The South Bend natatorium will again be the scene of this yearly aquatic meet. The arrangement of the events will take the same form as in past years. A more detailed outline concerning the meet will appear in an early issue.
In the meantime those students who desire to participate would avail themselves of a splendid opportunity if they attended the diving and swimming classes being conducted by Father Sigmar and Ed Butler.
TYPEWRITER BARGAIN!
Late model Corona Portable, in perfect condition, Pica type, complete with carrying case. Sacrifice price—$20. On display at Publications Office, 232 Main Building. (P. A. Hndon)
Ten
The Scholastic
ATHLETICS
George Demetrio Is ’34 Football Manager
By Michael F. Wiedl
Athletic Director Elmer F. Layden named seven junior members of the managers organization to the senior athletic managerships for 1934-35 at the annual managers’ banquet held last evening in the Faculty Dining-Hall.
George T. Demetrio, of New - Haven, Conn., a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, was named to the position of senior football manager. He succeeds Clyde A. Lewis at that position. In addition to his football duties, Demetrio will be, ex-officio, head of the managers organization.
William R. Oakes, of Chicago, and Thomas W. Thompson, of Detroit, were named associate managers of football. Both are juniors in the A.B. school. Oakes succeeds Edward Mulvihill as manager of equipment. Thompson takes over Edward Fisher’s duties as manager of Stadium personnel.
Keating Manages Track
Philip H. Kirley, a junior in the College of Commerce from Kewanee, 111., will manage the basketball team next season. He succeeds Charles Quinn.
Raymond B. Keating, Platteville, Wis., also a junior in the College of Commerce, will manage the track team of ’34-’35, succeeding John Hanley, present track manager.
The baseball team of 1935 will be managed by Carl W. Weber, junior in the College of Commerce, and a resident of Aurora, Ill. Robert Kelley is manager of this year’s baseball squad.
Thomas Jerome Walsh, of New York City, junior- in the College of Arts and Letters, was named to the managership of minor sports. Walsh’s duties will include varsity tennis, golf, and cross-country activities. He succeeds Fred R. Sullivan in the position.
The Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., chairman of the Faculty Board of Athletic Control, confirmed the' appointments and addressed the managers in the name of the University. The several varsity coaches were also present at the banquet, and praised the managers group for its efficiency during the past year.
Irish Close Season Over Weekend With Hilltoppers And Gophers
Coaches —
Clarence “Jake” Kline, instructor in the School of Engineering, was appointed to succeed George Keogan as varsity baseball coach last week. Elmer F. Layden, director of athletics, named Kline as the new mentor after Keogan, who held the position since 1924, asked to be relieved of his duties as coach of the Irish nine.
Kline was a member of the Notre Dame baseball team during the seasons of 1915,1916, and 1917; captaining the squad in his final year. While on the varsity Jake played third base and hit well over the magic .300 mark for three years.
For the past two seasons he has been a member of the staff of freshman football coaches. He was recently named head freshman grid coach for next fall.
Another recent change effected in the athletic department at Notre Dame was the signing of Donald “Chet” Grant as backfield coach for 1934. Grant appeared as quarterback on the Notre Dame elevens of 1916, 1920 and 1921. Chet, a brilliant student of the game, has not been directly connected with football since -he left Notre Dame. He has, however, been a close observer and lately a commentator in the capacity of Sports Editor of the South Bend News-Times.
With the exception of two years, since 1922 Grant has been occupied in advertising, publicity, and newspaper work. He coached all sports and taught in a St. Paul high school during these off years and was publicity director for the Chicago Shamrocks hockey team until that sextet’s franchise was purchased by Detroit.
Miller, Waterson, DeBeck Winners in Pool Tourney
William E. Miller easily defeated John Busichio to win the pool tournament held in Brownson recreation room last week. In the three-rail competition, Waterson triumphed ovei' Jaynes. DeBeck defeated Coleman to win the straight rail billiards title.
MARQUETTE IS FIRST
By John D. Carbine
Notre Dame’s basketball team will conclude its 1933-34 schedule over this weekend. The Keoganites meet Marquette at Milwaukee tomorrow night and play Minnesota at Minneapolis Monday night.
Should the Irish win both of these games, they will wind up their season with a record of 22 -wins in 24 scheduled games, victories over 17 teams against defeat by only one, and decisions over six Big Ten schools including a 39-28 rout of Purdue, the Conference champions.
The game with Marquette tomorrow night promises to be a thriller. When the Irish were at the peak of their game last January they barely eked out a 30-28 victory over the Hilltoppers to form the 21st linK in their victory string. It took a basket by Joe Voegele in the last seconds of play to win the game for the Irish after Marquette had tied the score at 28 all with but a minute of play remaining.
Capacity Crowd
Some discount Marquette’s chances against the Keoganites. They say that the strain of keeping their winning streak intact threw the Keoganites off form in the first game, and now that the strain has been removed, Notre Dame will have little trouble in defeating the Hilltoppers. This theory is supported by the fact that Michigan State forced the Irish to go three overtime periods to annex their 20th straight victory but fell easy prey to the Irish after the victory string had been broken.
To accommodate the sell out crowd of 6,500, the Marquette authorities have transferred the game to the Milwaukee Auditorium. Only four teams, Notre Dame, Wisconsin, Creighton and Western State Teachers, have defeated the Hilltoppers this season.
On Monday night the Irish eagers meet the University of Minnesota at Minneapolis. The Keoganites have a 43 to 34 victory over the Gophers to their credit and it is difficult to see how Coach McMillen’s men can prevent the Keoganites from winning the (Continued on Patre 15)
March 9, 1 9 3 i
Eleven
I
Nickmen Capture Nine Firsts To Smother Ohio State Tracksters
JOE YOUNG WINS MILE
Notre Dame showed itself as a strong contender for honors in this year’s C. I. C. meet by swamping Ohio State 71-33 last Saturday on the local track. The Irish won nine of the twelve events to capture their second dual meet of the indoor season.
The dimunitive George Meagher broke his own Notre Dame and gymnasium records with a leap of 23 feet, five and o n e - h al f inches. Meagher also won the low hurdle race to become the leading scorer of the afternoon. Jim Fagan, in his first appearance of the year, pressed him for high scoring honors with a close first in the high hurdles and a second in the lows.
Roberts Wins 880
The Buckeyes were able to garner but three firsts. George Neal easily won the shot put with a toss of 47 feet, three-fourths inches. Stapf and Arnold accounted for the other Buckeye victories in the 60 and 440 yard dashes, respectively.
Clyde Roberts ran the best indoor race of his career to defeat Smith of Ohio State and Jim Shields in the fast time of 1:58.5.
In the most exciting race of the afternoon, Joe Young uncorked a terrific burst of speed on the final lap to nose out Moore of the Buckeyes in the last five yards in the mile.
Leo McFarlane, undefeated this year in three starts, won as he pleased in the two mile event. Duke outlasted Huffman to win second place for the Irish.
The Notre Dame mile relay team of Rubly, McGrath, Bowdren, and Bernard missed a new gymnasium record by two-tenths of a second in winning by two feet in 3:24.8.
The summary:
POLE VAULT—Won by Howard (ND) : Edwards (ND), second; Sites and Stultz (OS) tied for third. Height, 12 feet, 6 inches.
SHOT PUT—Won by Neal (OS) ; Elser (ND), second; Schwartz (OS), third. Distance, 47 feet, % inches.
60 YARD DASH—Won by Stapf (OS) ; Frawley (ND), second; Madison (OS), third. Time, :06.4.
ONE MILE RUN—Won by Young (ND) ; Moore (OS), second; Renda (OS), third.
60 YARD HIGH HURDLES—Won by Fagan (ND) ; Gook (OS), second; Link (ND), third. Time, :07.9.
440 YARD DASH—Won by Arnold (OS) ; Bernard (ND), second; Bloor (OS), third. Time, :51.2.
HIGH JUMP—Won by Murphy (ND) ; Williamson (ND), second; Boucher (OS), (Continued on Page 15)
History---
Turning back the clock of time on the past Central Intercollegiate Conference meets, statistics and records show that the first meet was held in the Notre Dame gymnasium on March 19, 1927. The meet was open to all schools in the Middle West with the the exception of the Big Ten schools. Eleven colleges sent entrants to the first meet. To date there have been seven C.I.C. meets and of these seven, Notre Dame has emerged victorious in six of them. Last year Coach Nicholson’s proteges placed fifth.
In 1927, the year the C.I.C. was formed, Notre Dame won first honors by scoring 42% points. They were followed by Michigan State with 26% points, and Marquette with 20% points.
In the following year, 1928, Notre Dame again won first honors; this time with 271-3 points. Michigan State was again in the second place with 221-3 points and Marquette trailed State with 19 1-3 points. This year five schools sent teams to the meet. The first event of the day was the 60 yard dash, and in this race Jack Elder of Notre Dame, tied Loren Murchinson’s world mark of :06.2.
The year 1929 saw Notre Dame again leading with 44% points, Michigan State was again second with 33 points and Ohio Wesleyan was third with 13 points. Ten schools entered the C.I.C. this year. March 9, 1929 was a big day in the life of Jack Elder for he equalled the world’s record in the 60 yard dash for the 15th time of his college career, when he ran to the record time of :06.2 in the trial heats and again in the finals.
For the fourth straight year Notre Dame carried off the prize honors of the day. This year, 1930, the won with a score of 38% points, Marquette was next with 16% and Drake was third with 14 2-3 points. In the middle of the afternoon Bailie of Notre Dame set a new record in the 65 yard low hurdles when he ran the distance in :07.2. Incidentally his mark still stands.
The next year although the field was close Notre Dame again emerged the victor with 26.7 points, Michigan Normal was second with 22 3-5 points, and Marquette was third with 14 3-5 points. There were eleven teams entered in this 1932 meet. On that afternoon five records were established that stand today. Two of them were
(Continued on Page 15)
Irish Beat Buckeyes, 33-21 In Home Final
Ed Krause, Joe Voegele, and Leo Crowe brought a fitting climax to their home court careers last Saturday night when they scored 28 out of 33 points to lead the Irish basketeers to a 33 to 21 victory over Ohio State. The Buckeye guards attempted to stop the Irish attack by bottling up Krause at the pivot position, but succeeded only in fouling themselves out of the game while Krause scored 10 points.
The scoring started with a free throw by Krause, followed by one by Voegele. Baskets by Crowe and Jordan added to the Notre Dame score. Krause and Voegele found the hoop to run up the Irish lead. Ohio started a scoring drive in the last part of the first half when a free throw by Busick and baskets by Wilson and Conrad brought the Buckeyes within striking distance of the Irish.
Irish Outclass Opponents
In the first half the ball was in Notre Dame’s possession the greater part of the time. The Irish defense clicked smoothly breaking up many plays by the interception of passes and not allowing the visitors to get in under the basket. Ohio State’s attack was hampered by the inability of the Scarlet and Gray forwards to handle the ball.
The second period saw more action on the part of the Buckeyes. Going on a scoring spree they netted themselves ten points and drew up to within two points of the Irish. Voegele with three baskets in less than as many minutes shot the Keoganites far into the lead again. The Irish defense tightened up after that and the Buckeyes were able to score but one more basket.
The summary:
Notre Dame (33)	FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
Jordan f 			... 1	1	3	1	3
Voegele f 		... 4	4	4	4	12
Krause c (C) 		o .... o	4	6	3	10
Ireland g 		... 0	0	0	0	0
Crowe g 		... 3	0	0	1	6
Ford f 		... 0	0	0	0	0
O’Kane f 		... 1	0	0	0	2
Peters c 				... 0	0	1	1	0
Newbold g 		... 0	0	1	0	0
Allen g		... 0	0	0	0	0
	—	—	—	—	—
Totals 		...12	9	15	10	n
Ohio State (21)	FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
Colburn f 			... 0	0	0	1	0
Wilson f 		... 3	1	2	1	7
Conrad c 			0	0	' 3	6
Beitner g 		... 0	1	2	3	1
Rosequist g 		... 0	0	2	.4	0
Whitlinger f 		... 1	0	1	1	2
Fisher g 		... 1	0	0	0	2
Busick g 		... 0	2	3	1	2
Taybourne g 			... 0	1	0	0	1
	—	—	—	—	—
Totals 		... 8	5	10	14	21
Umpire: Kearns-,	DePaul;		Referee: Lane.		
Cincinnati.
Twelve
The Scholastic
St. Ed’s, Off-Campus Lead Interhall Race
Still boasting unblemished records after last Sunday’s games, St. Edward’s and Off-Campus virtually clinched their respective league championships and the right to meet one another in the inter-group title game in two weeks. Lyons and Brownson are both dark horses'that have mathematical chances to upset these probable winners, but the averages point to the present leaders coming out on top.
While Lyons was idle in Group I of the lightweight division, both St. Edward’s and Badin won victories that have caused a three way tie for the lead. In Group II of the lightweights, Carroll defeated their next closest rival, Howard, to remain in undisputed possession of first place.
In the first division of the heavyweight group, St. Edward’s eked out a thrilling 17-16 win over the frosh from Dillon. Lagging 8-4 at the halftime, the St. Edward’s team rallied behind the sensational play of DeGarmo and Matt Themes to overcome the frosh lead. These two players scored nine points between them in the comeback but Hollenback, a Dillonite, was the high scorer of the game.
Howard Beats Carroll
Play in Group II was featured by . Howard’s 28-27 victory over Carroll. Both teams displayed a powerful offense, something unusual in interhall basketball, but neither had much regard for defensive play. Arnheiter, who made five field goals, and Freeman of Howard, more than matched the sharpshooting of Al Costello and Frank Jehle, of Carroll.
Off-Campus continued to prove its class by inflicting a 34-16 beating on Alumni. Fred Weidner and Artie Mueller showed how roommates click together even on the basketball court, by scoring sixteen points between them. They have borne the brunt of the Off-Campus attack so far and hope to continue against Carroll on Sunday, with the help of Watterson who scored four field goals. 13. Off-Campus may win the heavyweight division but their lightweights were just another team to Alumni and the Gold Coast boys swept through to a 30-20 victory. The senior mites from Walsh couldn’t cope with the speed of the frosh from Freshman Hall and went down under a crushing 32-16 defeat.
The schedule for the games to be played on Sunday, March 11, is as follows:
Group II: 8:30—Alumni vs. Freshman; 9:30—Walsh vs. Brownson; 10:30—Carroll vs. Off-Campus.
Group I: 1:30—Corby vs. Dillon; 2:30—Lyons vs. Sorin; 3:30—Badin vs. St. Edward’s.
March 9, 19 34
Large Group Of Fighters Train For Bengal Tourney on March 23
MAX MAREK WILL FIGHT
Official announcement was made this week by the faculty boards in control of athletics at both New York University and Notre Dame to the effect that the rumored game between these two basketball teams will not be played.
Both boards disproved the plan of the game because the teams have gone through long and trying schedules.
Earlier plans for a game between the Irish and City College of New York were dropped when the eastern school refused to meet Notre Dame. Its reason was the same as that forwarded by the state school, namely, that meeting the Keoganites would prolong its season too much and might prove too great a strain on the athletes.
INTERHALL STANDINGS				
Hear y w	e i g	h t s		
Group I.	w	L	T	Pct.
St. Edward’s 		.. 4	0	0	1.000
Lyons 			.. 3	1	0	.750
Badin 			1	0	.750
Morrissey 		.. 3	2	0	.600
	.. 1		0	.250
Sorin 		.. 1		0	.250
Corby 	-		.. 0	4	0	.000
Group II	W	L	T	Pct.
Off-Campus 		.. 4	0	0	1.000
Brownson 		.. 3	1	0	.750
Walsh 	-		.. 2	2	0	.500
Carroll 	—	2	3	0	.400
Freshman 	-		... 1	3	0	.250
Alumni 	—	... 1	3	0	.250
Howard 	-		... 1	3	0	.250
L i r h t w	e i g	h t s		
Group I.	w	L	T	Pct.
Lyons 		... 3	1	0	.750
St. Edward’s 			1	0	.750
Badin 		... 3	1	0	.750
Corby 		2	2	0	.500
Sorin 		2	3	0	.400
Dillon 		... 1	3	0	.250
Morris-sey 		... 1	4	0	.200
Group II	w	L	T	Pct.
Carroll 			0	0	1.000
Howard 		... 4	1	0	.800
Off-Campus 		2	2	0	.500
Alumni 		2	2	0	.500
Freshman 	—	... 2	2	0	.500
Walsh 		... 0	4	0	.000
Brownson 		... 0	4	0	.000
K. C. Officers To Meet
Grand Knight Lawrence Sexton of the Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus, announces that there will be an officers meeting tonight in the council rooms at 6:30.
The Lecturer, Frank McGahren, received a letter this week from Mr. Layden, who expresses his regrets but who will be unable to speak before the council Monday night, as he is going to Minnesota with the basketball team.
By Howard T. Waldron
With its ranks increased by student boxers who participateu in the recent Golden Glove meet, the small army of prospective candidates for the Bengal Boxing tourney to be conducted by The Scholastic, on Friday, March 23, has reached the second milestone in the preparatory training. For two long weeks these men have been whipping themselves into first class condition that the bouts might be hard-fought and interesting.
If a sport fan had journeyed to the boxing room during the past few weeks, he would have seen men engaged in various exercises. Some would have been effortlessly skipping . rope, others would have been tuning up their timing and boxing eyes in sparring bouts, while still others would have been engaged in body exercises hardening themselves for the thumps that must come before one of the coveted boxing titles and sweaters can be won.
Keen Competition Seen
The outstanding boxer who will appear on this tentative program of eight bouts is Max Marek, of Chicago. Marek, who is battling tonight for the heavyweight championship of the Golden Glove meet, was the international light heavyweight champion last year, the National A.A.U., champ and twice winner of Catholic Youth Organization titles.
Other prominent boxers include Anthony (Bud) Marcy, 1931 C. Y. O. featherweight titleholder, Hal Gooden, former featherweight champion of Oklahoma, Bart McKernan, campus middleweight king, Frank Schiavone, runnerup to McKernan last year, and a number of lads who have engaged in Golden Glove competition. Besides these men, there are several so-called dark horses who may give these more prominent fighters an upset and emerge themselves with a title. Many students who have never fought before are showing up surprisingly well and everything points to a keen and hard fought competition.
All candidates must undergo a physical examination before they can enter the competition officially. Dr. Powers, University physician, will examine all those who are entering between 4 and 4:15 o’clock in the infirmary. All examinations must take place before next Tuesday afternoon or the candidates will have to make his own arrangements for getting a doctor’s sanction.
Thirteen
3 Schools Threaten Mich. Normal’s Title
(Continued from Page 3)
proves with age, may trot home first if it can outrun the great quartets of Michigan Normal, Western State, and Michigan State.
The schools entered include: Hillsdale, Pittsburgh U., Davidson (No. Carolina), Butler, Armour Tech. Loyola of Chicago, City College of Detroit, Detroit University, Kalamazoo, Western State Teachers, Michigan Normal, Michigan State, Marquette, and Notre Dame.
Six of the ten champions crowned last year will be on hand to defend their titles. Only one of these, Ralph Metcalfe, is a record holder. Other returning champions include Lowry of Mich. Nor., Mullins of Western State, Murphy of Notre Dame, Zepp of Mich. Nor., and Sears of Butler. Seventeen other athletes who scored in last year’s carnival will compete.
With four clubs so evenly matched, every point will be of paramount importance. None of the 1933 point winners in the hurdles are back this year so places in these open events might be the deciding factor in crowning the team champion. Notre Dame’s hurdling prospects are none too bright in the absence of Mike Layden. Earlier in the week Coach Nicholson said Layden would probably not compete. Hurdlers from the three other leading schools are of unknown quality.
Roberts Should Score
The one and two mile events will provide plenty of class. The longer field, which will draw such stars as Sears, Ottey of Michigan State, Bill Zepp, Leo McFarlane, Bill Geissman of Marquette, and Wagonhauser of Pittsburgh, should be the best two mile race of the year. Zepp, defending champion at this distance, doesn’t appear strong enough to outjog Sears and Ottey, the outstanding distance men in collegiate ranks.
Hurd of Michigan State, Zepp, O’Neil of Marquette, and Young are the class in the eight lap race. Sears, who is capable of 4:14.5, is the odds-on favorite to cop.
Ray Sears, winner of the half mile jaunt in 1933, will probably pass this event in favor of the longer distances, in which he has turned in the remarkable time of 9:26.8 and the quoted mile clocking. Despite the absence of the Butler flash, the 880 field presents a formidable quartet of runners in Pongrace of Michigan State, Kellar of Pitt, Roberts of Notre Dame, and Sodeman of Armour Tech. The Spartan is picked to win, but Roberts will trouble him if he repeats his performance of last Saturday when he was clocked in 1:58.5.
Marquette’s big event will be the (Continued on Page 16)
Fourteen
Introducing...
By John D. Carbine
Clyde Roberts, one of the Irish scoring threats in the C. I. C. meet tomorrow, came to Notre Dame with no track experience. He is one of those Irish trackmen who has been developed solely by Coach Nicholson.
Clyde Roberts He broke a leg.
Roberts came to Notre Dame in 1930 and decided to report for freshman track as a high jumper. It soon became painfully apparent that Clyde would never be a great jumper. He could easily clear the bar at five feet, six inches, but his most persistent and earnest efforts would not carry him a bit higher.
Ran Six Miles In One Day
When the interhall track meet rolled around, Roberts deserted the sawdust pit and turned to the track. He swept to victory in the 100, 220, and 880 and scored a third place in the high jump to become high scorer of the meet with 16 points. Nick urged him to forget about jumping and to concentrate on running the 440 and 880.
In 1931 Clyde reported for fall track and, after he had won the 880 in the fall handicap, he went out for cross country to develop his stamina. .Roberts ran six miles the first day out and was unable to walk for six days. That was plenty of cross country for one year.
During the indoor season Roberts won the half mile event in the Butler and Pittsburgh meets and along with Joe Young, Alex Wilson, and Eddie King, was a member of the sensational relay team which broke the Drake Relays record in the two mile relay race in the fast time of 7:48. This was the fastest collegiate two mile of the season. Roberts also ran the mile and placed in several meets.
In the fall of 1932, Roberts again
Purdue Defeats Irish Fencing Team, 62-51
The Notre Dame fencing team travelled to Lafayette March 3 to lose a closely contested bout to the Purdue fencers. In spite of the superiority of the Purdue team the Irish displayed outstanding ability in winning six of the 11 games. Purdue, led by Captain MacQueen, scored 62 points while Notre Dame followed with 51, most of which were won by foil men.
Kehoe and deLandero were high scorers for the local team but Ryan and May, usually consistent winners, failed to take a single game. The match, refereed by Capt. R. Finney, is the fourth in a series of defeats for the Irish. However, the team has hopes of evening the score in coming bouts. To-night they will givb an exhibition bout at the Studebaker Athletic Club.
The summary of the bout with Purdue:
Notre Dame Foils Sabres Duel, swds Total
Won ________ 6	12	6
Lost ....... 6	3	2	11
reported for cross country. This time he stayed out until he broke his leg. In a meet with the Michigan State harriers, Roberts was running close behind Tom Ottey, Spartan star, who was leading the field. As Roberts reached the field adjacent to St. Mary’s campus, he attempted to hurdle a small brook. When he landed on the other side the tape which had been supporting his injured leg broke and as Clyde puts it, “so did the leg.”
Instead of quitting Roberts stayed in the race and with a tenacious courage he managed to finish in 11th place. At the end of the race he dropped helpless to the ground. When he was walking around again it was on crutches.
Robert’s broken leg mended quickly and he had a successful indoor season last year. Clyde nosed out Pongrace, one of the Midwest’s outstanding half milers, to win the 880 in the Michigan State meet. He scored in both the indoor and outdoor C. I. C. meets by finishing fourth in the indoor half mile arid third in the outdoor 880. Robert’s best time of the year was 1:55 in the outdoor C. I. C. meet.
Clyde reported for cross country again this fall. He suffered a slight injury to his leg during the first few weeks of the season. Rather than risk a more serious injury, he quit cross country to work himself into shape for the indoor season.
Judging from his work in the season’s first three meets, Roberts should have the best season of his career. He won the half mile in the Ohio State meet last week with his best indoor time of 1:58.5. Clyde finished second in the Marquette and Illinois meets.
The Scholastic
i
I
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
SUPPORT
We didn’t think it could happen around here, hut the informed observers tell us that there are some individuals on the campus who are not only willing but anxious to play handball even during the course of a varsity track meet.
Support for Notre Dame varsities by the student body has always been something that people took for granted. If students are reaching the stage where they choose to play handball in preference to walking a few yards away from the courts and moving up into the stands to encourage the Irish track team in the generous manner the team deserves, conditions are rapidly changing here.
No Notre Dame squad is more worthy of unanimous support than is the track team, for no squad works harder or more faithfully. To do that is impossible.
In the same vein is the following letter, received by this department during the past week. It needs no comment, other than the obvious one that we are in complete agreement wtih the writer, and the assurance to our readers, that the C. I. C. meet this weekend will be marked by even more excellently detailed arrangements. The letter:
“Dear Sir:
“It has been the privilege of the writer to officiate at Track Meets at Notre Dame for a great many years and I want to say a word in compl-ment to the efforts of Coach Nicholson to popularize this sport at Notre Dame.
“At the meet last Saturday with Ohio State I am sure that the student body as well as visitors enjoyed the meet much more than formerly because of the showmanship and methods used to ‘run-off’ the meet. The information given by Coach Nicholson was interesting as well as informative, the presentation of the contestants, the removal of the officials from the field, the loud speaker system of announcing and the general handling of the affair was excellent.
“This sport deserves a better attendance on the part of the student body and townspeople and when it becomes known that these affairs are being conducted along the lines that I have indicated I am sure that greater attendance will result.
“Coach Nicholson is to be congratulated upon the fine showing that has been made so far this yeai’ by his track and field athletes. . .
(Signed) Carl L. Hibberd.”
BASKETBALL (Continued from Paste 11)
last game on their schedule.
Minnesota, with a conference record of five victories and seven defeats wound up in seventh place of the Big Ten basketball race.
Coach McMillen of Minnesota has two of the leading scorers of the Big Ten in Norman, his center, and Roscoe, a forward. Norman won sixth place in the Conference individual scoring race with 101 points. Roscoe, the Gopher’s star forward, is a decidedly unorthodox player. He has developed a one handed shot, made with his right hand, which is unusually accurate and practically impossible to stop. In the first Minne-sota-Notre Dame game, Roscoe gathered 16 points with seven field goals and two free throws. He finished among the leading 20 scorers in the Big Ten with 68 points to his credit.
Roscoe’s running mate at the forward posts is George Baker. Baker scored six points against the Irish and has accounted for 36 points in seven Big Ten games. The Gopher guards are Farrell and Svendsen who were totally unable to do anything to stop Krause in the game here when Moose set a new Notre Dame individual scoring record with 22 points.
HISTORY (Continued from Page 12)
made by Alex Wilson of Notre Dame. His first mark was in the 440 yard dash when he ran in the record breaking time of :49.3, and his other mark was in the half mile. In this event he raced over the course in one minute 57 seconds. In the two mile run Pil-brow of Grinnell tied Chamberlain’s mark. In the high jump, Bert Nelson of Butler and Schroeder of Pittsburgh, Kansas, set a new mark of six feet 4% inches.
Last year, although rather disastrous for Notre Dame, proved to be one of the most interesting of all of the meets. The day’s competition was won by Michigan Normal with 31 % points, Michigan State was second with 281-3 and Marquette was third with 14 points. Eleven teams entered the meet. A year ago four marks were set, and one of them is likely to stand for some time. That one was set by Ralph Metcalfe, Marquette’s dusky sprint champ. He set a new world record for the 60 yard dash by running in :06.1. Another mark was established by Swartz of Western State Teachers in the mile as he ran in four min. 21 2-5 seconds. Dues, the husky negro from Detroit City College, set a new mark in the shot put when he heaved the shot 48 feet 7% inches. The last mark of the day was hung up by the Marquette 880 yard relay team in 1:27.4.
OHIO MEET (Continued from Page 12)
third. Height, 5 feet, 10 inches.
TWO MILE RUN—Won by McFarlane (ND) ; Duke (ND), second; Huffman (OS), third. Time. 9:47.5.
880 YARD RUN—Won by Roberts (ND) ; Smith (OS), second; Shields (ND), third. Time, 1:58.5.
BROAD JUMP—Won by Meagher (ND) : Conley (ND), second: Peterson (OS), third. Distance, 23 feet, 5% inches (new Notre Dame and gymnasium record).
ONE MILE RELAY—Won by Notre Dame (Rubly, McGrath. Bowdren, Bernard). Time. 3:24.8.
New-Ultra Sanitary Orasan Tooth Brush
In special celluloid bristle container
39c fl 75c
Orasan is the only tooth brush on the market today with an inlaid colored handle! Other features include: 1. finest bristles obtainable ... 2. transparent back ... 3. sanitary bristle protector. Fully Guaranteed.
Pullman Type
Hair Brush
Open back hair brush—easy to clean. Firmly set unbleached bristles. An exceptional value ___________79c
Walgreen DRUG STORE 208 N. MICHIGAN ST. L. Newman, Mgr.
March 9, 1931,.
Fifteen
On Down The Line
By Nick Connor
While GLENN CUNNINGHAM and BILL BONTHRON were thrilling 17,000 at Madison Square Garden a few days ago, JOIE RAY, once the greatest of American milers, was doggedly rollerskating in the Marathon at Dreamland park in Newark. . . . JIM BROWNING, heavyweight wrestler, who claims the world’s championship, has announced that he will build a $25,000 community hall as a gift to VERONA, where he developed his muscles by tossing barrels on his father’s farm. . . . Besides holding the world’s indoor record for the POLE VAULT at 14 feet 4 inches, KEITH BROWN of Yale, also holds the all-time Yale high jump record at 6 feet 6 and Vs inches. . . . LANNY ROSS, the radio lad with the Pepsodent smile, in 1927 won the U. S. Championship for the 300 YARD DASH at Madison Square Garden. He was running for YALE at the time.
HAGAN ANDERSON, N. Y. U. guard, is working his way through school by teaching at the COLUMBIA GRAMMAR School. . . . Incidentally, JAKE CANN’S undefeated five never have practiced together. There have never been more than four regulars at a Violet practice, because of the conflict of classes. . . . There is a possibility that CHARLEY HORNBOSTLE and JOE FOLLOWS will both enter the mile run in the K. of C. games on ST. PATRICK’S day. . . . PETE JABLONOWSKI, well known to Yankee fans, will never again appear on baseball scoreboards. Pete has changed his cognomen to JACK APPLETON and
A Better Position
You Can Get It
Hundreds of teachers, students and college graduates will earn two hundred dollars or more this summer. SO CAN YOU. Hundreds of others will secure a better position and a larger salary for next year. YOU CAN BE ONE OF THEM. Complete information and helpful suggestions will be mailed on receipt of a three cent stamp. Good positions are available now in every state. They will soon be filled.
,	(Teachers address Dept. T. All others Dept. S.)
CONTINENTAL TEACHERS AGENCY, Inc.
1850 Downing St.	Denver, Colo.
Covers the ENTIRE United States
School Officials! You may wire us your vacancies at our expense, if speed is urgent. You will receive complete, free confidential reports by air mail within 36 hours.
will operate under that title with the BALTIMORE ORIOLES this summer. ... It is estimated that in forty days of racing, 600 THOROUGHBREDS will consume about 90,000 gallons of oats and 300 tons of hay.
PRIMO CARNERA is of the firm opinion that if the American woman wishes to have a good time she should go to night clubs instead of the fight arenas. For in his recent Florida fight the points were much in favor of the SIGNOR up to the fifth round. It was in this round that he pum-meled LOUGHRAN all over the ring, as he was about to land one of GIANT MITTS on the American’s chin, a young lady sitting at the ringside let out an all-time all-American SHRIEK. The female squeal so upset THE MAN MOUNTAIN that he was not his usual self for the next two or three rounds . . . Gorgeous GEORGES CARPENTIER tells friends that JACK DEMPSEY could have knocked him out in one round at Boyle’s Thirty Acres. But the Manassa Mauler held off to give TEX RICKARD’S great crowd a show . . . EDWARD LEWIS, the old BOSTON BRAVES hurler, now is the president of the University of NEW HAMPSHIRE . . . JIM JEFFRIES took off more weight to fight than any other man. When he fought JACK JOHNSON he shaved NINETY POUNDS off of his figure 1U
Here is one for the books. GUS SUNDSTROM of the N. Y. A. C. can dive under water with the lighted end of a cigar in his mouth and come up smoking. He has been doing this stunt for over 20 years. . . . The U. of OREGON coeds are trying to identify the male football Cinderella who made a futile attempt to crash
the strictly feminine “Co«	~s”
and lost a massive No. 12 clipper, as he dashed across the campus. . . . Did you know that BILL TILDEN was unable to win a place on the varsity tennis team while a student at the U. OF PENNSYLVANIA? He was 26 years old before he won national prominence in that sport. . . . The first playing manager to lead a baseball team to a major league pennant was A. G. SPALDING. He performed this feat with the WHITE SOX in 1876. . . . Two holes in one in a single round of golf is the claim to golfing fame of VIC BLACK, Livermore, Calif., cattleman, who sank his tee shot on the 149-yard fourth hole and repeated on the 17th before several witnesses. . . . MIKE MIKULAK, star U of - Oregon fullback who recently turned pro, has added basketball refereeing to his list of athletic activities.
C, I. C. MEET
(Continued from Page 14)
60 yard dash. Ralph Metcalfe is naturally favored to lead the pack across the finish line while his team- -mate, Paul Phillips, and Schatte of Normal, and Colleti of Loyola should place. The field in the dashes is such that the dusky flier will probably not be pushed to a record equaling performance.
The field events will prove interesting as well as vital, with two records endangered. Ray Lowry, who tied for first last year, is the outstanding vaulter in the crowd. His recent accomplishment of 13 feet, eight inches, stands out as a threat to the present mark.
Vince Murphy, who missed a meet record by % inch last year, will face practically the same field tomorrow. The present champ will find Glickert of Normal, Cosgrove of Butler, and Mallard of Western State on hand to push him to what may be a new high in that department.
Davidson College of North Carolina will send one man, Cochrane, here to compete. He is the Southeastern shot put champion. Davis of Hillsdale, Trost of Marquette, and Finkel are previous point winners who will see action Saturday. Elser may ring into the scoring column for the Irish.
The mile relay record of 3:25.5 is doomed if past performances are regarded. The Irish quartet has been clocked at 3:24.8 and Normal has passed the baton at a 3:25.4 clip this year. Michigan State, the defending event champion, and Western State also have speedy relay teams and should help to push the ultimate winner to the limit.
Points will be scored on the basis of five for first, three for second, two for third, and one for fourth.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
Italian Grand Opera “I Pagliacci” Staged
Resume of "I Pagliacci” (pronounced Pahl-yat-ehee) Italian grand opera in two acts composed by Ruggiero Leoncavallo, first produced ‘ in 1892 in Milan.
The opera opens with a musical prologue during which Tonio puts his head through the curtains and asks “May I?” Stepping before the footlights and bowing, he continues, explaining the opera roughly and stating that it is a real story. Finished, he cries for the curtain and its rises on—
Act 1—The scene is a little Italian village on the Feast of the Assumption, and a group of natives are seen welcoming “The Pagliacci” (the players). On behalf of his performers, Canio thanks the villagers for their kind reception and invites them to return for the evening performance. As he concludes his address, Tonio, a misshapen clown, assists Nedda, Ca-nio’s wife, from the cart in which she traveled. Naturally jealous and aroused by the laughter of the crowd, Canio boxes the fellow’s ears. When one of the men suggests a drink and Canio calls to Tonio to join them, the latter declines because he has considerable work to finish. A villager jestingly hints that Tonio remains behind to make love to Nedda and Canio tells ■ what he would do to the man who would dare steal the affections of his wife. At this point, a troupe of bagpipe players pass and the villagers leave the scene in couples to the tune of the famous “Chorus of the Bells.” Nedda, alone, muses at length on Canio’s jealousy, when Tonio, reappears and violently protests his love for her. She beats him off with a whip and he swears vengeance. As the clown leaves, Silvio, a villager and her lover approaches and, declaring his love, urges her to run away with him. After some hesitation, she agrees to leave that night. They are interrupted by Canio, and Silvio vaults a nearby wall and escapes without Canio having seen his face. Tonio appears and laughs gleefully, for it was he who advised the jealous actor of his wife’s infidelity. Pursuit having been fruitless, Canio returns
WAKE UP that hibernating appetite!
TERED of winter and hot, heavy foods? Keep pace with spring! Try Kellogg’s Corn Flakes for breakfast tomorrow. Crisp, light, delicious. Just the thing to bring a winter-weary appetite out of its den. One taste and you’ll be “hungry as a bear.”
Kellogg’s Corn Flakes make a grand “nightcap” too. Enjoy them after an evening of entertainment, or a heavy siege with the books. Kellogg’s are so easy to digest, they encourage quiet, restful sleep.
Always oven-fresh in the red-and-green package. Made by Kellogg in Battle Creek.
The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include Kellogg’s All-Bran, PEP, Rice Krispies, and Kellogg’s WHOLE WHEAT Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee—real coffee— 97% caffeine free.
FOR CRISPNESS
Seventeen
THE JOY OE
GOOD TASTE
NO 1 the bottom leaven—they’re inferior in quality—coarse and always sandy\
The Cream of the Crop "The mildest, smoothest tobacco"
NOT the top leaves—they’re under’ developed—they are harshl
Aiueriemi Tobacco Company

Copyright, 1934. The
From the Diamond Horse-Shoe of the
Metropolitan Opera House
Saturday at 1	J‘. AL, Eastern Standard Time, over
Red and Blue Networks of NBC, LUCKY STRIKE
will broadcast the Metropolitan Opel a Company of ,
New York in the complete and "Salome.”
Operas, "Pamiaeei
Always the Finest Tobacco
And good taste is one great pleasure
you-find in every Lucky Strike, for
only the finest Turkish and Domestic
tobaccos are used in Lucky Strike... and
and only the Center Leaves
only the center leaves. They are the
mildest leaves, the most tender. Every
Lucky Strike is fully packed . .
always so round, so firm—no loose ends.
★
There’s more
to STYLE
THAN SNAPPING
THE BRIM
and demands the name of her lover. He is restrained from stabbing her by Peppe. Since it is almost time for the performance, the players go about the work of preparation leaving Canio alone to sing a heart-rending melody in which he tells himself he must go on with the show and make his patrons laugh even though his own heart is breaking.
Act 2—It is the hour of the performance and Tonio is beating the drum to summon the villagers. Silvio also arrives and takes a seat among the spectators. The curtain is drawn
showing Nedda in the costume of Columbine. She waits nervously for someone although, as she explains to the audience, her husband will not return till late. She is startled by the sound of a guitar and the voice of Harlequin (Peppe) is heard serenading her but before Harlequin can enter Taddeo (Tonio) arrives carrying a basket. He immediately begins to make love to Columbine and has his buffoonery cut short by Harlequin who leads him from the room by the ear as the spectators howl in amusement.
"WHEN A FELLER NEEDS A FRIEND”
STETSON shows you in The LAKEHVRST
If you want the final word in snap-brim smartness, try on a Stetson “Lakehurst.” Rakish style built-in. The brim curls slightly at the back. And on the sides it narrows just enough to give that alert, clean-cut look that college men demand. In all the new spring shades. Now being shown, with other Stetson styles of the season, at your favorite men’s shop.
Stetsons for spring are priced at $6 (unlined), $6.50, *8, $10 and upward. Also the Stetson Mity-Lite, new extremely light-weight MA “crusher,” at $5. MKMIUT John B. Stetson Company
AT THE BETTER
STORES
A SIZE AND SHAPE
FOR EVERY HEAD
KEPT factory fresh
CELLOPHANE
O P. Lorillard Co., loc.
When a collapsible collar makes you look pretty silly... forget it, son, with a pipeful of BRIGGS. This tranquil tobacco brings peace after panic. Long seasoned in wood, its rare, spicy tobaccos are tempered to mildness. There’s not a bite in a barrelful of BRIGG S... the blend a feller needs.
Twenty
The Scholastic
Offioa Phon* 3-2674	Corrective
Krntdence Phone 4-6364 Shoes
DR. O. J. GRUNDY Registered Podiatrist Foot Ailments
4S2-S4 Associates Bide. South Bend, Ind.
Established 30 Years lemontrees li
OPTOMETRISTS 222South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
•
Patients all over the world.
Now If Your Eyes
Require Glasses
they will be properly prescribed, correct in styling to be inconspicuous — yet enriching your personal appearance. Always painstaking craftsmanship — regardless of the amount you prefer to expend, and unvarying quality of materials so you may find Better Vision with Greater Comfort.
•	REASONABLE
•	DEPENDABLE
•	PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
What do College Leaders have in (Common?
AN OUTSTANDING characteristic of the men who lead in the classroom, on the campus, and in the social life of school is their vitality. They have the abundant energy that comes with good health.
Your health and wTell*being can be slowed down by common constipation. Yet this prevalent ailment can be corrected usually by eating a delicious cereal.
Two tablespoonfuls daily of Kellogg’s ALLBRAN will help promote regular habits. ALL-BRAN furnishes “bulk,” vitamin B and
iron. In the red-and-green package. Made by
Kellogg in Battle Creek.
The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the dining-rooms of American co'leges, eating-clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include Kellogg’s Corn Flakes, PEP, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles, and Kellogg’s WHOLE WHEAT Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee — real coffee — 97% caffeine free.
Keep on the sunny side of life
MR. PAUL BYRNE,
LIBRARY, NOTRE DAME, IND
ot
outers

can say Chesterfields are “not like others
© 1934, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
NO two people in the world look alike ... act alike. And it's the same with cigarettes... no two brands are alike.
Not only are the tobaccos different, but the way the tobaccos are handled is different.
No two manufacturers use the samekinds of tobaccos, or blend them or cross-blend them or weld them together in the same manner.
We do everything that science knows and that money can buy to make CHESTERFIELD as good a cigarette as can be made. They are
Q "not like others.”
cstcrlicld
the cigarette that’s MILDER • the cigarette that TASTES better