THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY -LEMMONIE: LIBRARY-NOTRE LAME, LOCAL
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
PEP ■HOMS . wuT
YOU’LL agree that Pep Bran Flake* are better the very first time you try them.
Order them at your campus cafeteria or at the fraternity restaurant These better bran flakes bring you die nourishment of wheat Just enough bran to make them mildly laxative.
And how crisp they are! Eat them with milk and cream. A perfect food any time. You’ll agree at the first taste these bran flakes made by Kellogg of Battle Creek are better.
The most popular cereal* served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include ALL-BRAN, Pep Bran Flakes, Rice Krispies, Krumbles, Com Flakes and Kellogg’s Shredded Whole Wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee —the coffee that
9^9^
PEP BRAN FLAKES
PEP
BRAN FUKES "Mum,, .wheat

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
353
THE
UNIVERSITY
LAUNDRY
Back of Main Building
Launderers to the Particular Student
PAY CASH or
HAVE IT CHARGED
. . . and here are just the skates to wear .... The perfect fit and correct balance make skating a pleasure. You’ll be proud of these fine tubular skates attached to shoes. Sizes for everyone, for every kind of skating.
to your account.
Socks Mended
Buttons Sewed On
Manufactured by
For sale by Leading Sporting Goods, Hardware and Department Stores
Sell Christinas Cards
Here is your chance to earn bis money in spare time. No experience necessary selling newest thing in personalized Christmas cards. Available for the first time. Assortment of 20 different designed cards, all steel die engraved with choice of greeting and name plateless engraved to match. Box of 20 cards retails for $2.25, of which 75c is yours. Easy to sell from our beautiful selling display furnished free. Wrtie today
PERSONAL STATIONERY CORP. OF NEW YORK
Dept. C21
503 Fifth Avenue. New York City
V	--
You can purchase the SCHOLASTIC at the Cafeteria
9
354
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Cagey Comment
A BASKET BALL COLUMN BY A WRITER WHO KNOWS HIS STUFF.
Read It Every Day in
THE NEWS-TIMES
Bring Your Christmas
List to Joan Navarre
She will be Glad to help you Shop I She knows just the Thing that will Please Mother or Sister and, as for the Girl Friend, she’s a perfect Mind-reader! Bring your List to Wyman’s and ask Any Salesperson to direct you to Joan Navarre. You’ll enjoy Shopping with Her. She will shop for You, too. Write or phone 3-5101.
WYMAN’S
HELLO MEN!
Smith’s Cafeteria
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The Home of Quality
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
THE SOUTH BEND CLEARINGHOUSE BANKS
Citizens National Bank
INVITES THE ACCOUNTS OF NOTRE DAME MEN
----o----
Jefferson near Michigan
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
355
... — —
g	^5
1872 Notre Dome Scholastic . 1928
hiYce-Quasi-^emper-VicturuyVivc- Quasi-Craj- Morfturuj
JOHN V. HINKEL, ’29....Editor-in-chief
HARLEY L. McDEVITT, '29. .Business Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
DAVID W. SAXON, ’29.........Managing Editor
JAMES M, RAGEN, JR., ’29..Ass’t Mang. Editor MURRAY HICKEY LEY, ’30........Literary Editor HARRY A. SYLVESTER, JR., ’30.. Sports Editor
JOHN BERGAN, '31................News	Editor
VINCENT MCINTIRE, ’30............The	Week
BERNARD A. WALSH, ’29.. The College Parade JAMES J. WALSH, *30.......Music and Drama THOMAS A. CANNON, ’31.....Club	Editor
JOHN H. ZUBER, ’31... .Interhall Sports Editor
MURRAY YOUNG, '29
BASIL RAUCH, ’29
BAYARD KURTH, ’30
GILBERT PRENDERGAST, '30
WILLIAM H. MORAN, ’30
J. ARCHER HURLEY, ’30
NEWS STAFF
ROBERT C. BALFE, ’31 CLEMENT K. COLE, ’31 EMIL TELFEL, '31 JAMES J. KEARNEY, ’31 JOHN KIENER, ’32
PAUL HALLINAN. ’32 JAMES COLLINS. ’32 MYRON E. CRAWFORD. ’32 GERALD DUFFY. ’32 EUGENE DUFFY. ’32 ROBERT J. FISCHER
BUSINESS STAFF
FREDERICK N. DAVIS, ’30.. Local Adv. Mgr.
JAMES L. RIZER, '30 ...Foreign Adv. Mgr.
HARRINGTON J. NOON, ’29.. Local Cir. Mgr.
CHESTER M. ASHMAN, ’30... Foreign Cir. Mgr.
JAMES H. RORKE, 31
FREDERICK J. BAUER, ’32
ANDREW McGUAN, ’32
EUGENE J. CARLIN, ’29 FRANK J. CONBOY, ’32 GEORGE J. SMITH, ’32
JOHN BLANDA, ’31
JOHN LITCHER, ’32 WALTER E. TERRY, ’32
VOL. LVII
DECEMBER 7, 1928
NO. 12
TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Week_____________________________T. Vincent McIntire_________,___356
Next Week’s Events.—_________________________________________________357
Music and Drama........................James J. Walsh----------------358
The Campus Clubs..............—........Thomas A. Cannon--------------364
The College Parade___________________Bernard J. Walsh________________365
The Editor’s Page----------------------------------------------------366
The Wink ____________________________________________________________367
Omaha Freddie (short story)............Robert E. Duffy----------------368
Girls (essay) ______________________  John	Nanovic--------------------373
Andante (poem) _______________.______Philip De Roulet----------------374
Trojans Too Strong for Irish......^.Carroll O’Meara-------------------375
Splinters From the Press Box---------H. A. S. Jr---------------------380
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC. Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
The Advertisers in Noire Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of All Notre Dame Men .
.	_____________________________, J
igtei	------ ------------------------------ 'ia@S
356
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Station WBBM of the Windy City is to be mentioned for its gusty announcer. Those unfortunates who were inveigled by the comfort and security of their rooms to listen in on the telegraphic report of the game as it was broadcast by that virtuoso of announcers had only one consolation—he informed us that his chair was as comfortable as a picket fence. Would that it had been an iron-spiked fence and he were impaled thereon as a hein-ious instance of the fate befalling all undeserving announcers. Between football reminiscences, an argument of great duration on the correct pronunciation of “penalized,” little asides for the enlightenment of the lady listeners, who undoubtedly knew more about football than he did, and an egregrious inability to pronounce any name of more than two syllables—between all this, and it’s enough, we did learn of a line defense that repelled a victorious enemy through four downs that started on our one yard line. Another proof that Notre Dame can be defeated but never beaten.
About the most important event of the week was the John Philip Sousa concert sponsored by the K. of C. in the gymnasium Tuesday. A hundred-piece band with the masterful direction of the greatest of all band leaders is sure to delight even the most exacting person. The attendance was a tribute to Lieut. Commander Sousa, and the Knights of Columbus deserve much praise for their untiring efforts in making the concert at the gym a possibility. The Victory March and Hike Song, played especially for the student body, received thunderous applause that must have repaid the leader many times for his trouble.
The next great event took place last night in the form of a football banquet. The sole purpose was to tell the people present how good our football team was. ^^Not satisfied merely in stating that well known fact, the committee chose to have well known coaches,
sports writers, and famous men repeat the statement. The banquet was a huge success and believe it or not, but Jimmy Walker acted, looked and talked like a real alumnus. Looked, because all Notre Dame alumni make good a few years after college and can wear spats; acted, because all loyal alumni are so used to brilliant social affairs as to be perfectly at home on such occasions as last night; and talked, because for some unknown reason all men who graduate from Notre Dame find speech the easiest thing in the world. Four years of intensive training in Notre Dame “bull” sessions does that to any man. Father Cavanaugh served admirably as toastmaster and performed his duties with laudable ease. The speakers were at their best'and the number of hearty laughs attested to the fact that Rodkne, Warren Brown and others had not lost their sense of humor.
Speculation was rife on the campus for a while after the floodlights had been attached to the halls. It was interesting to hear some of the opinions concerning this improvement. Some regarded the new additions with very hostile eyes, and excused their attitude with the alibi that it would probably keep them awake at night with the glare. Understanding hearts, however, are more inclined to believe that it will, save them from many a nocturnal swim when rain turns the campus into a lake. Others have suspiciously regarded the lights as an active step towards the prevention of “skiving,” whatever that is. At least the lights will save us many a shoeshine.
Well, all the delinquents came back before Monday with outrageous stories of Thanksgiving dinners that are too pitiful to relate. I will say, though, that they must have suffered terribly during their enforced stay at home. We have one consolation, however. We too can suffer the same in a few more weeks. Only two hundred and eighty-eight more hours.	—T.V.M.
e-
t

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	357
*	♦* *•*	*♦* &	♦♦♦	«J» **•	*J» % •J* *J»
*	NEXT WEEK’S EVENTS ♦
•	J» %	»J» »J« *}» {* *J» «J«	»J» $ »J» ♦}► »** »*» »J» «£•
FRIDAY—Scholastic business staff meeting, 6:30 p. m.; editorial staff, 7:00 p. m., Publications room, Main building.—Movies, Washington hall, 6:30-8:30.—Meeting of Akron club, Badin “Rec.” room, 7:30 p. m.
SATURDAY—Feast of Immaculate Conception, Masses, Sacred Heart church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and High Mass, 9:00 a. m.—No classes.—Football, interhall championship, Lyons vs. Howard, Cartier field, 2 p. m.—Movies, Harold Lloyd in “Speedy,” Washington hall, 6:30-8:30 p. m.
SUNDAY—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 a. m.—Wranglers’ meeting, Public Speaking room, Walsh hall, 10:00 a. m.— Connecticut Valley club meeting, Badin “Rec.” room, 10:00 a. m.
MONDAY—Basketball, Armour Tech vs. Notre Dame, University gymnasium, 8:00 p. m.—Meeting of Notre Dame branch of A. I. E. E., Badin “Rec.” room, 8:00 p. m.—Breen medal orations, Washington hall, 4:00 p. m.
TUESDAY—Lecture, McCready Huston, University Library, 8:00 p. m.—Detroit club meeting, Badin “Rec.” room, 7:30 p. m.—Spanish club meeting, Hoynes hall, 7:30 p. m.—Breen medal orations, Washington hall, 4:00 p. m..
WEDNESDAY — Le Circle Francais meeting, Hoynes hall, 7:30 p. m.—Indianapolis club meeting, Badin “Rec.” room, 7:00 p. m.
THURSDAY—Interhall debate, Hoynes hall, 6:30-8:00 p. m.—Meeting of Kentucky club, Badin “Rec.” room, 7:30 p. m.—Meeting of Wisconsin club, Badin “Rec.” room, 8:00 p. m.—Movies, “Just Married,” Washington hall, 6:30 and 8:30 p. m.
FRIDAY—Scholastic business staff meeting, 6:30 p. m.; editorial staff, 7:00 p. m., Publications room, Main building.—Chicago club meeting, Lay Faculty Dining room, 8:00 p. m.
SATURDAY—Basketball, Albion College vs. Notre Dame, University gymnasium, 8:C0 p. m.
CLUB PRESIDENTS ATTENTION
It is imperative that all campus club presidents get in touch with Clarence Donovan, Walsh hall, in order to expedite the forwarding of mail which comes to the S. A. C., addressed to the various campus clubs. This matter should be given immediate attention.
GILBERT McCLURG GIVES LECTURE IN WASHINGTON HALL
A stirring lecture, “Pike’s Peak,” illustrated with motion pictures and stereoptican views, was presented by Gilbert McClurg, well known lecturer and writer, in Washington Hall last Friday evening. Mr. McClurg’s poetic expressions and humorous fancy kept his audience closely interested in a subject intensely practical as well.
The lecture was fine—historically, descriptively and pictorially. With his camera, the audience hunted the Rocky Mountain grizzly, cast for speckled trout in rushing currents, danced with Pueblo Indians, scaled the lofty heights by airplane, descended a thousand feet underground into glistening caves, motored over rock-highways above the clouds, and witnessed the crimson and gold sunrise from the summit of Pike’s Peak.
Mr. McClurg is a recognized authority on Colorado history. He is perfectly at ease on the platform and gave a vivid picture of • Colorado’s pre-Columbian Cliff Dwellers, the coming of the Spaniards and pioneers, prospectors, hunters and empire builders—the crystallization of a commonwealth’s history and economic development, which it is doubtful if the ordinary tourist otherwise could master in months of study and travel. A startling and beautiful, as well as intensely realistic portrayal, explained and couched in perfect English.
UNIVERSITY CALENDAR ON SALE
The Notre Dame calendar for 1929 was placed on sale in the various halls on the campus this week and it is expected that the students will place their orders soon. The calendar this year is distinctly new in form and embraces several new ideas.
The cover is of a dark blue, with border, title and seal of the University in gold. Each page has an illustration of some hall or scene on the campus done in rotogravure. The calendar, which sells for a dollar and a half, will make a very appropriate Christmas gift for those back home. Representatives will canvass the halls next week.
358	THE NOTRE DAME
❖	MUSIC AND DRAMA *
*	♦*	«£♦	& ♦♦♦	♦♦• «{♦ ♦♦♦	♦£♦	♦J*
There is nothing extraordinary or unusual about the average band concert. The concert presented in the Notre Dame gymnasium on last Tuesday evening, December 4, however, was not average. It was, on the contrary, an event, and such an event as occurs but seldom in the musical circles of this vicinity. This phenomenon can be explained by the fact that the artists who appeared were none other than Lieut.-Commander John Philip Sousa and his band.
For over fifty years the name of Sousa has been a symnonym for excellence where-ever band music is discussed. Both as composer and as conductor, he has gained a warm spot in the heart of the American public for his stirring march compositions, and his brilliance in directing his own organization. This year Sousa and his band are on their golden jubilee tour, their' popularity undimmed by thirty-five previous journeys.
The concert on Tuesday night was notable for its discriminating choice of selections, its many encores, and the general beauty and power of its presentation. “The March King” chose among other numbers his own suite, “Tales of a Traveler,” and Strauss’ magnificent symphonic poem, “Death and Transfiguration.” In both of these numbers the band gave evidence of precise and delicate tonal shading, and a remarkable strength and resonance. Several soprano solos by Miss Marjorie Moody were well received, as were also the cornet offerings of Mr. William Tong, both of whom were assisting artists on the program. Perhaps the most enthusiastically welcomed of all the regular selections were the xylophone numbers of Mr. Howard Goul-den. This artist demonstrated a technique and color that is seldom found in solo work of this type. With an instrument that hitherto has been considered ill-adapted to the demands of the concert stage, he fairly astounded the audience by the sheer beauty of his playing.
Among the numerous encores which Sousa was kind enough to add to the program were
SCHOLASTIC
the three well known Notre Dame songs, “The Victory March,” “The Hike Song,” and “On Down the Line.” The band left nothing to be desired in the interpretation of these campus favorites, and, owing to the size of the organization, it gave them a deep, full volume that was especially pleasing.
—J.J.W.
BREEN MEDAL CONTESTANTS ASKED TO HAND IN NAMES
The Reverend William Malony, C.S.C., chairman of the committee on scholarships and prizes, has requested that all who desire to enter the Breen medal contest notify Mr. Frank Kelly or Mr. William Coyne, of the speech department, at once.
The contest, open to all undergraduates, will be held on Monday and Tuesday, December 10 and 11. The winner will represent s the University in the Indiana State Oratorical contest, to be held February 22, 1929, and will receive the medal awarded annually by the Honorable William Patrick Breen, of the class of ’77.
The only requirements are that the speeches be original and about ten minutes in length.
LAW COLLEGE NOTES
The Law club will hold a smoker in the Faculty Dining room on Friday, December 7. The Honorable Edward J. Dempsey of Wis- ' consin will be the principal speaker.
* * * .
Freshmen of the College of Law have organized “Eleven” clubs, the purpose of	.
whom is to train the first year law students	\
in the art of expression and for practice in impromptu discussion.
The Freshman’ class is subdivided into . groups of eleven, each group meeting weekly	।
with one member of the group presiding.	j
Each member is required to give an im- < promptu talk of five minutes on a subject given Out to him at the meeting. Twice a semester a convention of these clubs is held for parliamentary drill and lectures on parliamentary law.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
359
PROFESSOR KERVICK ELECTED TO AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTURE
Professor Francis W. Kervick, of the Ach-itectural department of the University, was elected last week to membership in the Amer-
PROF. FRANCIS W. KERVICK
ican Institute of Architecture, division of Indiana. The institute is national in scope and to be a member of it is a distinguishing mark for any architect.
After receiving his degree of Bachelor of Science in Architecture from the University, of Pennsylvania in 1909, Professor Kervick came directly to Notre Dame and has been here ever since, with the exception of a year spent in advanced study in Paris in 1911.
RELEASE UNIVERSITY ORCHESTRA RECORDINGS IN JANUARY
There will be a national release of the “Hike Song” and “Down the Line” in dance tempo on Columbia records about January 10. These are the two selections that were recorded for the Columbia Recording Company early last week in Chicago by the University Orchestra under the direction of Professor Joseph Casasanta. While in the “Windy City” the members of the orchestra were entertained by the Columbia Company at a performance of the celebrated musical comedy^
success, “Good News” at the Selwyn theater.
The personnel of the Columbia recording orchestra included:
SAXAPHONES — Bernard Lenoue, Spokane, Wash.; George Pope, Bunkie, La.; John Folks, Paterson, N. J.
TRUMPETS—Carlton Sullivan, Auburn, N. Y.;
Edmund Leamond, South Orange, N. J.
TROMBONE—William Stewart, Cortland, N. Y.
VIOLIN—Walter Phillip, Philadelphia, Pa.
BASS—Lester Wisda, Jackson, Mich.
BANJO—Edward Donovan, Springfield, Mass.
DRUMS—Patrick McLaughlin, Quincy, Ill.
DIRECTOR—Joseph J. Casasanta.
BROWNSON AND CARROLL DEBATERS TIE
Brownson and Carroll halls met Monday evening, December 3, in two debates, each hall emerging the winner in one. Brownson’s negative team defeated Carroll’s affirmative on the proposition: “Resolved, that the direct primary as a means of selecting state and national officials should be abolished.” Carroll’s negative team also defeated Brownson’s affirmative on the same question.
The debate was originally scheduled for Thursday, November 29, but was postponed until Monday on account of Thanksgiving.
Brownson’s winning negative team was composed of Francis Marley, Richard Esca-dier and James O’Shaughnessy. The members of Carroll’s winning team were Edward O’Malley, Raymond Fox and Charles Hanna.
Carroll’s affirmative team was composed of William Tierney, Frank O’Malley and Larry Broestl; Leo Clark and Frank Miller represented Brownson hall.
TRAUGHBER HEADS LAWYERS’
SPRING FORMAL COMMITTEE
Gerald Roach, president of the Law club, has announced that Thomas Traughber has been appointed general chairman of the club’s spring dance. Plans for the dance, which will be one of the outstanding social events of the spring season, have been started. The committees in charge, together with further plans will be announced in next Peek’s Scholastic.
360
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
X
FATHER HUDSON’S LIFE DEPICTED IN “EXTENSION MAGAZINE” BY PROFESSOR PHILLIPS
The life story of a man from his early boyhood days to today when he is a venerable person nearing the eighties, such is the por-
portrayal of the Reverend Daniel E. Hudson, C.S. C., editor of the Ave Maria, depicted by Professor Charles Phillips, professor of English at the University in an article, “An Editor de ' Luxe,” which appeared in the November issue of the Extension
PROF. CHARLES Phillips Magazine.
Mr. Phillips graphically tells of the early struggles with a Catholic mother and a Methodist father over religion. Father Hudson came of New England stock, sound Methodist people, but early showed a dislike for that religion and intimated as much that he had decided to become a Catholic priest. In Father Hudson’s own words, he “abjured Methodism when four years of age.”
Fifty-eight years ago, as Providence would have it, Father Hudson was prompted to stop off at Notre Dame, a bit curious at the time of the Congregation of Holy Cross, of whom he had heard a very little. But here he found his true home and it is here, in humble seclusion that he has performed such a great work. As Mr. Phillips so truly says, “To this day, when advancing years might seem to excuse him, he remains the rigidly selfdisciplined religious, a shining example to all around him, faithful to every detail, of his spiritual exercises, never relaxing and never allowing himself the least excuse. And it is this carefully systematized life of the religious, no doubt, that has so remarkably reserved his powers, that, nearing eighty, he still works from morning to night, editing The Ave Maria, and carrying on his vast
literary and missionary correspondence.”
The things Father Hudson has achieved as an editor are difficult to compute. No single man of our time has so put the stamp of his personality on Catholic journalism and Catholic literature as he has. So far as the religious aspect is concerned, it may be simply stated that he has preserved, enlarged, and developed as no other single man has, the cult of purity in letters, based on devotion to the purest of Christian ideals, the Blessed Virgin. , As for the literary value of his work, he has for more than half a century kept before thousands upon thousands of readers the ideal of perfect English.
“But he has been more than the editor, who merely publishes the journal and is । done,” Mr. Phillips continues. “Many of the best volumes of the best Catholic writers of the time have been revised by him; the silent debt that novelists, critics, essayists and poets, owe to his keen discernment, to the careful service of his fine-cut polishing pen is 2 incalculable.”
Professor Phillips’ article is interesting and refreshing throughout. Told in simple, straightforward English, its chief charm lies in the brilliant style, for which Professor Phillips is famous.	i
NOTRE DAME GRAD ACCOMPANIES HOOVER ON TRIP
John G. Mott, a graduate of Notre Dame, , is a member of the party that is accompanying President-elect Herbert Hoover on his trip to South America Mr. Mott has been a practicing attorney in Los Angeles, where he has made his home, since 1897. He was a law partner of Curtis D. Wilbur, Sec- J retary of the Navy, when the latter was practicing in that city.
A thorough understanding of the South American viewpoint has been an important factor in the selection of Mott to accompany the Hoover party south. He speaks the Span- ’ ish language fluently and his position at present, according to the Los Angeles Tinies, is that of an interpreter of the “friendly purposes of the Hoover mission to the South American people in their own idiom.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
361
JUGGLER” HONORED BY COLLEGE COMICS ASSOCIATION
Admiral Craven, commandant of the station. Rear Admiral Craven extended the invitation
The Juggler of Notre Dame was elected vice-president of the Mid-west Comics Asso
ciation at the association’s annual convention held last Friday and Saturday at the Uni-
JOSEPH P. McNAMARA, Editor, The Juggler.
versify of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minn.
Joseph P. McNamara, editor of the Juggler, was the Notre Dame representative at the convention, and together with Charles S. Gass, business manager, shares the honor given the Juggler. The frontispiece of Coach Rockne and Captain Miller in the Football number
was especially praised by the members of the association.
Ski-U-Mah, official comic publication of the University of Minnesota, was elected president of the association for the coming year. The Iowa Frivol was elected secretary-treasurer, it being customary to elect the publications who are entertaining the convention and who will entertain it the following year, to these respective offices.
The biggest accomplishment of the meeting was the decision to break relations between the colleges of the association and College Humor. At the expiration of the contracts now held with these schools, College Humor will no longer be allowed to reprint jokes from the publications.
In addition to the honor accorded the Juggler, Mr. McNamara was called upon on three occasions to speak over radio station WSTP, operated by the National Battery Company, in the St. Paul Hotel, St. Paul, Minn.
FATHER O’DONNELL TO SPEAK AT GREAT LAKES NAVAL STATION
The Reverend Charles L.--O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, is to speak on “Responsibility” at the Great Lakes Naval Training Station, Great Lakes, Ill., next Sunday, December 9, at the invitation of Rear
to Father O’Donnell on the occasion of the Navy game in Chicago, October 12.
VILLAGERS TO HOLD CHRISTMAS FORMAL DECEMBER 28
The Villagers club will hold their annual Christmas Formal on Friday evening, December 28, in the Palais Royale ballroom, South Bend, from nine to one. The dance this year is expected to surpass all other dances held by the club in the last four years. Villagers alumni and their friends will gather in a reunion, as this dance will be one of the foremost held in South Bend during the holiday season.
All Notre Dame men not going home for the holidays and remaining in South Bend are cordially invited to attend the dance. Tickets will sell for two dollars and may be procured from any member of the ticket committee, or from Norman Hartzer, general chairman. The committees are:
TICKETS—William Konop, chairman; Robert Holmes, Lucas Brandon, Tim Benitz, John Sherman, George Eichler, Ed. Smith, George Kropf and Howard Webster.
ART POSTERS—C. B. Compton, chairman; LeRoy Granger, Arthur Knoblock, Irvin Finch, Forrest West, Joseph Galobowski, Louis J. Marger, Everett Jewell, Dick Zimmerly and Joseph Lauber.
RECEPTION—Louis Chapeleau, chairman; Kenneth Konop, William J. Bergan, Edward Everett, and Ray Hertel.
ADVERTISING—Thomas Brandon, chairman; Chester Francowiak, Rolland Poulin, Frank Goetz, Forrest Hazen, Edward Riley, Harold Jennings, Max Pascoff, Thomas O’Niel and Arthur Denby.
PUBLICITY—John Bergan and Jay Walz.
“SANTA MARIA” OUT NEXT WEEK
A sixty-four page issue of the Santa Maria, official publication of the Notre Dame Knights of Columbus, Number 1477, will be presented to the student body next week by the editor, William Craig. The magazine this year is not a strictly council paper, but its scope is of interest to the entire student body. A subscription campaign will be carried on among the students of the University in the near future.
362	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
*	CLUB NEWS	*
♦♦♦ & •♦*	*♦*	**♦ ❖	<£♦ ♦*♦ ♦*♦ & ♦*♦	<J* •$*
PITTSBURGH CLUB
Plans for the Christmas dance were discussed at a meeting of the Pittsburgh club held recently. Phil Walsh, chairman of the music committee, announced that he had signed Dewey Bergman and his Webster hall orchestra to play for the dance. Since this is one of the most popular bands in Pittsburgh the music is bound to please. Tom Murphy and his committee. have secured a very novel favor which will also help to make the dance the best of the holiday season in the smoky city. It will be held at the Pittsburgh Field club again this year and the date is New Year’s Day. An important meeting of the club will be held this evening and the final plans will be outlined to the club members by General Chairman Jim Dodson.
THE VILLAGERS CLUB
The regular monthly meeting of the Villagers club was held Monday evening, December 3, in the Knights of Columbus home, South Bend. Francis Jones, club prexy, conducted the meeting and introduced the speakers for the evening, J. S. McCowan, principal of the South Bend High School, and Paul Butler, ’26, former president of the Villagers club.
Mr. McCowan in his speech pointed out the advantages of a college education and urged all present to take advantage of their opportunities in college and to apply them in after-life. Mr. Butler stressed the importance of club unity and the benefits to be derived from a club if all of the members show an active interest in club affairs.
A short business session was held following the talks in which plans were discussed for the club’s formal dance, which will be given on the evening of December 28 in South Bend.
PRESS CLUB
Mr. Gerald Cosgrove, editorial writer of the South Bend Tribune, at the regular meeting of the Press club Tuesday, December 4, gave the members an insight into the trend of the modern editorial and the qualities which make for success in this field. Harry Olbrecht introduced Mr. Cosgrove. The Press Club is composed of Juniors and Seniors in the School of Journalism of the University.
THE JOHNSTOWN CLUB
Plans for the Christmas formal to be held by the Johnstown club in the Sunnehanna County Club in Johnstown, Pa., Thursday night, December 27, are practically completed according to Eugene Raymond, dance chairman. Music for the occasion ■will be supplied by “Whitey” Kauffman and his Victor recording orchestra. Unique and distinctive favors
have been ordered. Invitations and programs have also been selected.	•
The coming dance is the first formal to fie presented by the Johnstown club, and all of the club members are co-operating heartily with President Schettig and Chairman Raymond to insure its sue-cess.
CHARACTERIZATION STRESSED BY
HUSTON IN WEEKLY LECTURE
The importance of a complete understanding' of the scenes and the characters which are used in the novel was stressed by McCready Huston in his fourth weekly lecture to the student writers of the University in the Library, Monday evening. To present a vivid picture or a good portrayal of a character, the author must first have in his own mind exactly the impression which he desires to convey to his readers, Mr. Huston said. Frequently writers re-write the opening paragraphs of their work many times to secure the wording which will best interpret the idea.
A good beginning is more essential than a good ending, declared Mr. Huston, because the reader must be attracted immediately and must understand the type of character which the author is presenting. In this respect, the names which are chosen for the leading persons in the novel must be selected carefully. Names from the draft lists of the war and from the columns of country correspondence in newspapers are most often used by Mr. Huston.
The assertion that only stories by “famous names” are acceptable to publishers was denied by the lecturer. New writers are constantly being added to the lists of authors to take the place of those who have died or those whose prominence has waned. The young writer should make a small beginning, seeking publication in the magazines of a light nature, and in this way receive recognition from a literary standpoint. '
The lecture next week will be held on Tuesday night as usual, instead of Monday, which was necessitated this week by Sousa’s conceit on Tuesday.
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
363
FRESHMEN ELECT CLASS OFFICERS; DAILEY, OF BROWNSON, PRESIDENT
Paul Daily of Brownson hall, a student in the College of Science at the University, was elected president of the Freshman class at an election held in the Gym last Tuesday. Dailey is from Burlington, Iowa.
A Carroll man, Philip Conboy, of Auburn, New York, was chosen vice-president. Con-boy is also enrolled in the College of Science.
John F. Connolly, also of Carroll hall, was elected secretary of the class. Connolly hails from Toledo, Ohio, and is an Arts and Letters student.
Frank P. Connors, of Ilion, N. Y., of the College of Arts and Letters, and a resident of Brownson hall, was selected as treasurer.
The candidates from Howard and Freshman were Gene Williams, Robert O’Connell,. John McGrath, and George Cullinan. These men lost out in the final balloting to the students previously named.
The election was conducted by the Student Activities Council of the University and was one of the most orderly affairs of its kind ever held at Notre Dame.
E. H. SOTHERN PRESENTS SHAKESPEREAN'RECITAL
Mr. E. H. Sothem, noted Shakesperean actor, presented a dramatic recital and lecture last Wednesday evening in the gymnasium before an audience of about 2,000 people, including faculty members, students and friends of the University. Excerpts from two of the best known Shakesperean plays, the murder scene of “Macbeth,” and the trial scene of “The Merchant- of Venice” were given by Mr. Sothem and created much enthusiasm and appreciation among the audience.
A brief discussion of each play was given, which greatly enhanced the charm of the program. After the recital, Mr. Sothem gave a short review of the early history of American actors. He stated that some of them played as many as six hundred different parts in a lifetime and that he has portrayed no less than sixty different parts himself during his career.
MURRAY HICKEY LEY APPOINTED LITERARY EDITOR OF “SCHOLASTIC”
The Scholastic announces the appointment of Murray Hickey Ley, of Davenport, Iowa, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, Scribbler and prominent campus writer, to succeed John De Roulet as literary editor. Mr. De Roulet resigned his position because of pressing duties which demanded his full attention.
Two other appointments to the staff are Basil G. Rauch, of Dubuque, Iowa, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters,' and J. Archer Hurley, of Friendship, N. Y., a junior in the same college. Mr. Rauch has been assigned to the literary department and Mr. Hurley has been named for the news staff.
NOTRE DAME MEN INVITED TO INDIANAPOLIS CLUB XMAS DANCE
John 0. Harrington, chairman of the ticket committee for the Christmas dinner dance, Dec. 27 in the Severin Hotel Roof Garden, Indianapolis, has extended a cordial invitation to all Notre Dame men who are remaining on the campus to attend the dance as guests of the Indianapolis club, sponsors of the function. Students residing in the vicinity of Indianapolis and South Bend are also invited.
If present plans may be taken as a criterion the dance this year will be the greatest affair in the history of the club. Charles Davis, a Notre Dame alumnus, and his famous orchestra will play the program of dances from ten until two. Those men wishing to attend will get in touch with Mr. Harrington in Corby hall.
OFF-CAMPUS SMOKER WEDNESDAY NIGHT
Final plans have been made for the Off-Campus smoker which is to be held on Wednesday evening in the gymnasium of the Knights of Columbus home, South Bend. Tickets were placed on sale last week and at present a large attendance is indicated. The committee in charge, headed by Art Goulet, have arranged an excellent program consisting of speeches, orchestral and instrumental numbers.
364
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE CAMPUS CLUBS
- - - By Thomas A. Cannon
5252S252SES252S252525252525Ba52525252525E5E5a525E5£
METROPOLITAN CLUB
A meeting of the various committee chairmen in charge of the Christmas dance to be held at the Biltmore Hotel on December 28 was held in the room of Warren C. Fogel, general chairman, last Monday evening. Numerous details in connection with arrangements were discussed and President Edward Walsh emphasized the importance of obtaining patrons to insure the success of the dance and urged that club members secure the co-operation of their parents and friends in this regard as soon as possible. A Notre Dame blanket is offered as an added incentive to the student securing the greatest number of patrons. Mayor James Walker of New York is to be the guest of honor at the dance. Bids may be procured from Edward Walsh, 356 Sorin, and Warren Fogel, Lyons.
MISSOURI CLUB
The Missouri club held a very successful meeting Friday night, November 30, when final plans for its Holiday Dance were discussed. The dance committee reported most favorably. The dance will be held in the Tower Room of the Congress Hotel in St. Louis, Wednesday night, January 2. Everything points to a successful and enjoyable affair.
Arrangements have been made for a Missouri Club banquet, which will take place Monday, December 10, at 7:00 p. m. in the Morningside Apartments. Prominent campus speakers and Jess Wood’s Serenaders will feature the occasion.
CONNECTICUT VALLEY CLUB
The Fall Smoker of the Connecticut Valley Club will be held Monday evening, December 10, in the Lay Faculty Dining hall. Tim J. Toomey is chairman of the committee on arrangements for the affair. Tickets may be secured from members of the club.
A. I. E. E.
The Notre Dame branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers met Monday evening, November 26. The principal speaker of the evening was Dean K. B. Smith of the Mining Engineering School, who covered the range of the activities that an electrical engineer may encounter underground. His story of the “mine mule” was enjoyed by the audience. Mr. Kingseed of the Senior Class spoke on “Range Sounding,” a paper was presented by Mr. Brieger on the “Life of Ampere,” and an illustrative talk was given by Mr. Luedtke of the Junior class on the “Principles of the Vitaphone and the Movietone.” The by-laws, as drawn up by a committee composed of Messrs. Milliff, Kingseed, Greer, Weigard, and Eichenlaub, were adopted by a majority vote. There were forty-five members present.
EAST PENN CLUB
Approximately fifty members attended the East Penn Club Smoker held in the Faculty Dining hall Tuesday evening, November 27. President Joseph Manning acted as chairman during the evening. He introduced Reverend John Devers, C.S.C., who gave a short and entertaining talk. Reverend Patrick Haggerty, C.S.C., honorary president of the club, also said a few words to the members concerning the coming Christmas dance. At the conclusion of the speeches and entertainment a short business meeting was held.
The general chairman of the Christmas dance announced that arrangements for the dance, which is to be held in the Hotel Sterling in Wilkes-Barre on Thursday night, December 27, were progressing very successfully and he urged the members to continue their fine spirit of co-operation.
AKRON CLUB
A meeting of the Akron club was held Tuesday evening, November 27, in the Badin Hall “Rec” room, at which time arrangements for the annual Christmas dance were discussed. Claude H. Horning, general chairman of the dance, gave a short talk concerning the progress of affairs and called on the committee chairmen to inform the members of their work.
Programs under the direction of Thomas Clark have been carefully selected and are now in the hands of the Elliott Printing Co. Arrangements for music, under the direction of Ivan Wolf, have been completed, and Bert Stock and his orchestra are signed for the engagement. Final plans for decorating the hall have been announced by Joe Kraker and his co-workers.' Joe Woznaik, chairman of the reception committee, also gave plans for receiving the guests. A final meeting before vacation is to be held Tuesday, December 18, at 7:30 p. m. in Badin “Rec.” room.
/ DETROIT CLUB
The Detroit club held a short informal meeting in Badin Hall “Rec ” room Tuesday evening, December 4. President Jack Stackpoole, who presided at the meeting, announced that the Christmas Formal would be held Wednesday night, January 2, at Allen’s Inn. Ed Nebel, chairman of the music committee, announced that Jean Goldkette’s band has been chosen to furnish the music for 'the dance. James Carrol, general chairman of the dance, gave a talk in which he stressed the importance of every member co-operating with the committees if the dance is to be successful. The chairmen of the various committees also gave brief talks.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
365
^sasEsasasasasasaspsasKasasasasasasesasasasasa S THE COLLEGE PARADE
By Bernard A. Walsh |
!EESE5E5E5E5252SE5ESESESESESESE52SE52SESES2SS
From The Stanford Daily:
“A detail of a hundred soldiers patrolled the fences and gates surrounding the stadium during the California-Washington game.”
The more prosaic Eastern custom of relieving the losing school of its goal posts has evidently gone out of favor out there where the sun sets and the orange blossoms bloom.
❖ * ❖
Much excitement in the twin cities, according to The Minnesota Daily:
“Saturday was a big day for the engineering students. The largest class scrap in the history of the event called forth the freshman and sophomore students, and following the tilt, more than 1,000 engineers overran the Gayety theatre. Traditional engineer’s confetti was thrown, and bouquets were presented for the best acts.”
And an enjoyable time was had by all.
* * *
“Co-eds at the University of Denver are facing the future with gloomy aspect following the announcement of the organization of a Woman Haters’ Club this week. Julius Sterling, ring leader of the organization, has stated that members will be distinguished by a red button to ward off the undesired sex.”
Tough luck, girlies.
❖ ❖
Headline in The University Daily Kansan:
“Wren to Broadcast University Program This Week for KFKU.”
Quite an improvement, but we will really sit up and take notice when nightingales start broadcasting.
■ * * *
Anent the subject of freshman caps, from the Ignatian News of St. Ignatius College:
“The Brown University Cammarian Club, an undergraduate organization, has abolished the custom of having the freshmen wear white-buttoned brown caps because an investigation showed that an over-zealous merchant was bootlegging the caps to a number
of newsboys and high school students. The St. Ignatius sophomore class made sure no one would attempt to bootleg the frosh cap they selected, by selecting cne they would have to pay the average high school student to wear.
* * *
A sensational-minded editor of The University of Louisville News gathered the following news item from Oregon University:
“During the past seven years, two hundred and eight thousand flap-jacks is the record of the University of Oregon’s “Flap-Jack Queen.” Piled in one stack the flap-jacks would be nine times as high as the Woolworth Building. Mrs. Patton, the queen, states that eight thousand pounds of flour and milk have not made any of the boys sick yet.”
The Southern California Daily Trojan quotes Dr. Klause Mehnert, Ph.D. from the University of Berlin, who is at present studying at the University of California, as follows :
“Your country seems prosperous, and the new students always seem to have plenty of money to treat the ladies to beer ... or is it called ‘soda water?’
“In Germany a woman would not even think of allowing a man to pay for her re- . freshments . . . Yes! there are advantages in attending college in Germany.”
American women please notice.
From the student paper of the University of North Dakota:
“An ‘all-conference dancing contest’ will be given by the 21 University football .players and their partners Nov. 24. Gold footballs will be a feature of the ‘hop.’, and three judges will pick the University’s gridiron champion of the dance floor. Two boxes of candy will be awarded to the winning team.”
Right this way, gentlemen! Be a football star at North Dakota and win a box of candy.
366
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
== THE EDITOR’S PAGE =-------------;
NOTRE DAME’S “MOST DISASTROUS” FOOTBALL SEASON SINCE 1905
When the umpire’s gun sounded last Saturday afternoon while fast-lengthening shadows were sweeping over a vast assemblage of people grouped in the immense Los Angeles Coliseum, it brought to an end, according to won and lost percentages, the most disastrous gridiron campaign experienced by Notre Dame since 1905. In addition, it terminated a season which, judging from the same basis, was by far the most victory-barren season of any during Rockne’s decade of football dictatorship at Notre Dame. We say “judging from won and lost percentages,” because considered from other criterions it was not a most disastrous season. In fact, it was a season in which true Notre Dame partisans will take pride when all. elements which enter into the showing of Coach Rockne’s 1928 eleven are properly appreciated and evaluated.
First of all, it should be realized that there is infinitely more to a football game than merely winning. It is only natural, of course, for the supporters of a particular team to desire to see it win. But providing each player has given his best, there is not one whit of disgrace or dishonor in losing to a better team. Football players are not super-beings impervious to error or defeat. They are human beings like the rest of us, and so are subjected to human imperfections and failings.
During the past decade Notre Dame has built up a gridiron reputation second to no other college or university in the country. Yearly she has produced teams which have met the very best of collegiate competition, north and south, east and west. Her head coach, Knute K. Rockne, is nationally acknowledged to be without peer among grid mentors. Her style of play, originated by Coach Rockne, is perhaps the best known and
most nationally used of any of the modern styles of play. And she has sent more of her . sons into the coaching profession than any other institution.
Yet, because Coach Rockne’s men this fall dropped four out of nine contests, a fickle * sports public terms the season “the most disastrous since 1905.” It fails to take into consideration the fact that nine men out of the 1927 first-string eleven received their sheepskins last June; or that the overwhelming majority of the players who performed this fall had had very little if any varsity experience before; or that the team played through a schedule second to no other card in the country for the number of strong and representative elevens it contained; or that , the four teams which defeated Notre Dame —Wisconsin, Georgia Tech, Carnegie Tech, and Southern California, were each the most outstanding and the most powerful combinations in their particular sections, and between them lost but two games the entire season; r or that injuries robbed the team of several of its most dependable performers when they were the most needed. They also apparently forget that Notre Dame scored one of the most brilliant triumphs of the year when it defeated a previously-unbeaten Army eleven, < and secured other notable victories over the Navy, Penn State, Drake, and Loyola of New Orleans.
Notre Dame has no alibis to offer for this so-called “most disastrous season since 1905.” Nor should she. The players who wore her ‘ colors this fall gave everything they had in courage, stamina, and tenacity in every second of every game. They fought just as hard, and even harder, than any Notre Dame team of past years. And by so doing they more than upheld the glorious football tradi- ’ tion which is one of Notre Dame’s most precious heritages. Realizing these things Notre Dame is proud of her 1928 team, proud because it never stopped trying. —J.v.H.
3
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	367

THE INQUIRING REPORTER
Question asked: What do ya say?
Place asked: The pathway between Badin and Walsh Halls.
Time asked: Three minutes to ten.
273 answers: What do ya say?
117 answers: Howaya?
97 answers: Hello.
13 answers: It looks like rain.
6 answers: Good morning (Profs.).
2 answers: Huh?
1 answer:
—THE CURIOUS ONE.
❖
MY TREASURES
These are my treasures, dear,
These are my rays of cheer, Each in its own.
All have their bitter pill,
Their message, good or ill, That I must own.
Oh, how I love them all,
Read them and' fondly call
Vainly to you.
Far from my hands you are,
Even your heart is far From me too.
Long did I zvish for it,
Many an hour did I sit, Dreaming of you;
Dreaming of words you said, And how you tossed your head The zvay you do.
Dreams—that is all they zvere;
Dreams that will nevez- come true Because of you.
—WAZMUS.
* * *
SONG OF A PSUEDO BLIND MAN ON A STREET CORNER IN A SMALL MID-WESTERN CITY
I laughed at the toivn today . . . The people zvere so dull, There zvas zio human szzark In anzj passing face.
I sneered at the toivn . . .
It zvas not fit to have existence.
I chuckled to myself . . .
Then I sazv you
And thanked God that
I am not really blind.
—THE PSEUDO BLIND MAN.
THE HOLD-UP MAN
Being inspired jointly by a recent actual encounter with an armed bandit and a recent encounter with a mid-Victorian poet.
Hello, Hold-up Man,
Dispenser of choice thrills.
Glad to see you here in jail.
Not a soul to go your bail?
Well, you bought; now pay your bills, Hold-up Man.
Listen, Hold-up Man,
Locked up there behind those bars;
Do you know what you have done, With your violence and your gain? You have given me a poem,
Hold-up Man!
Get set, Hold-up Man!
You’re going to hear me read.
Tzvice you stuck me up, and zvorse, Hit me! Now revenge, in verse! Ha! All the punishment you’ll zieed. Hold-up Man.
(Reading)
“Outragez- of Society!
Gruesome as a stagnant morgue; as
The Macabre, and choked agonies of Hell—
Your punishment!
Black as the heart of dissolute Nero On the crest, and sinful-.
O Viper, poisoning lives of peaceful znen, Dark deeds destroy youz- life, Azid living still, you suffez- . . What’s zvrong, Hold-up Man?
You’re gasping so foz- breath!
What? You sazj you’ve got enough-
Take tzvezity years before such stuff?
A poet? You! And starved to death?
Officer, free that Hold-up Mazi!
—J.W.G.
“No, Rudolph, I cannot go to the show with you.” He felt dumb, stricken. Why was it that he could always get along with a girl so well up to a certain point and then she would suddenly decide to have no more to do with him? Of course she did not tell him, but we will tell you, it was simply because he had never rated The Wink, and what was worse, he had never even sent in a contribution to
—THE ERRING KNIGHT.
FREDDIE was a member of the “gang” that collects around Merriman’s drugstore, in Joliet, on summer evenings, and discusses the principle topics of the day —usually girls, and then later drifts away to its varied places of amusement.
Freddie was what is known, in the terminology of the gang, as a “Hot-shot.” He loved to tell of the wild parties he took part in, of this or that date he had had, of his arrival home in the early hours of the mornings, and how he ran the folks at home who dared remonstrate with him in regard to his so-called good times.
Now Freddie was a good boy, but was, in a sense, spoiled. He was the only child in the family, and his wealthy father and mother had made the mistake of granting his every whim or fancy when he was a youngster, and were now beginning to realize the effect. Freddie had everything his heart desired— plenty of clothes, spending money, a good home,—everything. “All he needed,” his father often said, “was a little intelligence.”
One particular May evening a light rain was falling, and the air could best be described as “sticky.” Indeed it was no night to be standing around on a street corner, but nevertheless eight or ten of the fellows were there, talking and laughing, and “swapping” lies, when Fred came walking along with a nonchalant air—at least he was in the act of lighting a cigarette, and directly across the street a billboard screamed the advice: BE NONCHALANT—LIGHT A MURAD.
However, peaceful as Freddie may have seemed, his mind was troubled about a certin incident that had taken place earlier in the evening when his father had denied him the use of the family automobile for the following night.
“Of all nights,” groaned Fred to his companions, “he had to pick tomorrow, and I have a date.”
“Walk, or better still, call off the date,” advised Bob Kinney, who liked Fred, but had no sympathy for him, knowing it was a rarity indeed when Fred was disappointed in anything except love.
“Go to hell,” was the polite return answer, which brought a laugh from the listeners. “If I don’t get that car somthing’ll happen.”
“My, my, is the little boy going to do something desperate?” asked Tom Walsh, another member of the gang. “Remember the Fifth Commandment, Freddie.”
“It’s all right for you guys to stand around and make wise cracks, but my Lord it’s a crime when a fellow’s eighteen years old and is treated like a darn baby. It’s not because they’re afraid I’ll wreck the car, ’cause I’ve always had it, but the old man has got a silly idea that I’m running around too much lately. Well, it ain’t going to do him any good, for if I don’t get the car and keep the date, I’ll leave home.”
“Aw, quit griping, will you? There’d be two things stopping you from leaving home. In the first place you haven’t nerve enough, and in the second place you haven’t brains enough to get any place if you did leave.”
“No? Well wait and see.”
With this, remark Freddie flipped the cigarette butt into the street, watched it land on the street-car rail and be crushed a moment later by a passing car. At this he turned and entered the drug store, muttering his opinions about the world in general, and a few people in particular.
In a lovely house on the “nicest” side of town, Mr. and Mrs. Hanfelt, Fred’s parents, had just finished their coffee, and were walk
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
369
ing into the living room, discussing their son.
“I really felt sorry for Fred when he left tonight, for he was so. disappointed,” Mrs. Hanfelt was saying.
“I know, I felt sorry for him myself, in a way, but he has been going out nearly every night in the past month or so, and arriving home when he pleased, and I want it stopped —it will be for his own good. I don’t mind his going out once or twice a week as the other boys do, but if he continues his present habit he will regret it in later years, and I shall feel responsible for it.”
“I believe you are right, Arthur,” his wife replied, “but will Freddie see it that way? He is so self-willed, and resents any advice or correction, or any father and son talk.”
“Yes, I know that he thinks I’m old fashioned ,and don’t understand or share his feelings in regard to pleasure and so on, but I’ll have a talk with him when he comes in tonight, if it is not too late.”
This seemed to close the conversation, for Mrs. Hanfelt crossed the room and sat down in a large comfortable chair, thinking of past arguments between Fred and his father, and wondering if the prospective one would result in the same manner. “Still,” she mused, thoughtfully, “I never saw Arthur so determined as he was tonight. Anyway, the outcome will be interesting.”
In the meantime Fred had decided that the whole world was wrong and he was right, and with the purpose of thinking the matter over, he left the drug store and began to walk, heedless of the rain, his mind intent upon a plan to run away if his father did not relent and allow him to use the car. His thoughts wandered to the future when he could be his own “boss.” It could come none too soon to suit him, he decided. It was with a start of surprise, therefore, that twenty minutes later he found himself approaching his home, toward which he had been unconsciously walking.
He stopped as if to turn back, but then swung around, saying, “I might as well be here as any place—its a hell of a night anyway.”
He walked up the long drive, hesitated a moment on the steps, as if yet undecided,
looked out at the forbidding night, and entering the house, slammed the door, his customary method of announcing his arrival; but tonight it served a twofold purpose. It let the folks know that he was home, and as he had slammed it harder than usual, it might also let them know that he was still angry about his father’s denial. He took off his yellow slicker, tossing it in the general direction of a chair, where it fell, the water from it dripping onto the highly polished floor.
“Is that you, Fred?” his mother called, looking sharply at her husband, who pretended to have fainted because Fred had arrived home so early.
“Yeh,” was the disrespectful answer, as Fred came to the doorway of the drawing room. “There wasn’t anything else to do, so I came home early.”
“That’s the trouble with you,” his father replied. “If there was anything else to do, you never would be in. Sit down, I want to talk to you.”
“Gosh I” thought Fred, “the war’s on again. Oh well, we may as well settle it now.”
“Do you realize,” his father continued, “that the evenings you spend at home with us are few and far between? Now Fred, I’ll leave it up to you. Aren’t you going out too much lately? I want to see you have a good time and enjoy yourself, but this has to stop. None of the other boys go out to dances, or parties, or shows, almost nightly as you do.”
“But, dad—”
“Just a moment and you can talk the rest of the night as far as I’m concerned, but it won’t change my plan any in regard to you. I’ve never before denied you the use of the car, but I’ve got to draw the line sometime, and it might just as well be now. In the future you cannot go out on school nights at all, unless to a school dance or a private dance. The rest of the nights I want you home. You have been assuming a bored attitude at home lately, too. In fact you acted the perfect fool last evening when guests were here—acting as if you were all that is to be desired in an eighteen year old boy, when the opposite is more nearly true. Now let me see you take this advice in the right manner, Fred, and
370	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
you will never regret it. Have you anything to say?”
“No sir,” snapped Fred, rising, his face white with anger, his narrow lips compressed, his entire soul revolting against this oppression, his mind blurred to everything but the impulse to run; to be free; to shake loose the shackles that confined and held him. His eyes blinded with fury, he stumbled from the room.
His mother rose as if to follow and console him, but quietly sat down again in her chair. The ensuing silence was broken only by the rustling of the newspaper Mr. Hanfelt was reading, and the soft incessant murmur of the rain.
Fred had gone upstairs to his room, and disrobing had flung himself on the bed, crying with anger. “Why that means all my good times are gone, it means—oh hell! It means I’m through with everything. Well, I’ll show ’em—” he talked on and on, his plans for running away outlining themselves more clearly as the minutes passed.
“I’ll go to Tulsa,” he decided, “and live with uncle. At least he will allow me to do what I want.” Fred was thinking of the times in the past when this wealthy uncle had visited at the Hanfelt home, and had, before leaving, always given him a considerable amount of “pocket change” as he had called it. “I’ll go in the morning and leave a note to mother saying where I’ve gone.”
The next thing Freddie remembered was his mother awakening him in the morning.
“Fred, Fred,” she called softly from the bottom of the stairway. “It’s seven-thirty, and I thought you might have some home work to do before time for school.”
“All right, mother,” was sleepy reply, and then Fred suddenly sat up in bed as last night’s distasteful events came back to him with a rush. “School!” he sputtered, and then laughed ironically. “So they think their darling son is going to keep right on as if nothing had happened! Well, they’ll get a grand surprise tonight when Freddie isn’t here for his first “stay-at-home-night.”
He dressed leisurely, gazing out at the front lawn flooded with sunlight, and at the few automobiles passing at that hour.
“Well, its a decent day, anyway,” he admitted, and went down to breakfast.
Mrs. Hanfelt looked up as Fred entered the dining room, and noticed his puzzled face as he saw his father was not there.
“Dad left early this morning,” she said, “and he left you some money under your plate.”
Fred raised the plate, smiled, and pocketed the crisp five dollar bill that he found. “Well,” he thought, “the total assets are now eight dollars—could be worse.” .
His mother never told him that it was she who had placed the money there in order to appease him, in some measure, for the strict rules he had to follow in the future; perhaps her heart would not have been so light had she known that Fred intended using the money to get as far as possible from home.
Fred ate in silence, glancing at his mother now and then, and wondering how she and his father would feel when they found his note. “They’ll find cut I’m not a baby anyway,” he concluded, and rising, went to his room, where he scribbled this note: “Dear Mother:
“Mom, I’m sick of being treated like a child. I know its not your fault, but Dad won’t let me have any fun, so I’m going to Omaha, to uncle Fred’s. Tell Dad that I’m sure he won’t be bothered by anyone asking him for the car, and his guests will not be insulted.”	’
He was still trying to think of some more sarcasm he could write when his mother called him to hurry as it was getting late, so he merely signed the note and placed it in a conspicuous place on his dresser. He then put on his hat and coat, and looking in his pocket to make sure he had the eight dollars, he ran downstairs, kissed his mother, and left “for school.”
As he neared the drug store he saw Bob Kinney a block or so ahead of him on the way to school, and he whistled to him to wait; and a few moments later fell into step beside him.
“We’ve got to snap into it if we want to get to school sometime this morning,” Bod said.
“School hell! I’m leaving for Omaha this morning.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
371
“Omaha ! My gosh, please don’t make me laugh so early in the morning.”
“No kiddin’, Bob, I mean it. Dad and I had another argument last night after I went home, so I’m checking out. I’ll teach them a few things and I’ll have a good time in the bargain, so everything’ll be o. k.”
“Listen, chump, don’t get silly. How’re you going to get to Omaha?”
“Bum my way. Its only seven hundred miles, and I can make it in three days, easily.”
Bob became serious. “Well, Fred, its your own canoe, and you’re paddling, but I’d advise you not to go. What in the world will your mother and father say when they find you’ve gone? Your dad will raise particular hell, won’t he?”
“What do I care?” ■ Fred’s voice became bitter. “1’1 show them that I’m not going to sit home every night of the week while everybody else is out having a good time.”
“Listen, Fred, you know you’ve gone out as much or more than any of us, and just because your dad gets a funny streak once in a while is no reason for your running away. Huh! Just because he said you can’t use the car one night!”
“Well, there’s no use arguing one way or the other, because I’m going—why I’ve already left them a note at home telling them that I’ve gone.”
“Do they know where?”
“Sure, I put that in too.”
They neared the school building, and stopped a moment on the corner, still talking in low voices.
“Well Fred, if you’re all set on going, I’ll say ‘good-bye’ now.”
“So long, Bob, I’ll see you some day when I come back, if I do.” They shook hands and parted.
“Huh!” Bob said again as he entered the school, and went straight to a telephone booth. “He’ll be back sooner than he thinks.”
“Mr. Hanfelt?” he asked a few minutes later, as his call was completed, “this is Bob Kinney. I was talking to Fred a few minutes ago, and he’s running away to Omaha. He left a note at home, but I thought it possible
that you wouldn’t see it until tonight, so I thought I’d call you.”
“Are you sure about this, Bob?”
“Yes sir.”
“Did he say why he was going?”
“Yes sir. I—I—I’d rather not say why, though, sir.”
“All right—listen Bob, don’t say anything about this to anyone, youu you? We’ll try tao teach him a lesson, if it’s at all possible.”
“I won’t say a thing, sir.”
Mr. Hanfelt wasn’t quite sure how he was going to teach Fred a “lesson,” but he sat down in his huge leather chair, and began to think. “I could call the police and have them stop him easily enough, or I could go after him myself, but by gosh! I won’t do either. I’ll let the kid go, and make a wager with anyone that he comes back of his own accord within a week.”
He reached for the phone and called his wife, explaining the whole matter to her, and finally gaining her consent to his plan. He then called the superintendent of the high school and explained that Fred was very sick and would not be at school for a few days. He laughed as he hung up the receiver, for he had very nearly said “home-sickness.”
“I suppose,” he continued to himself, “that Fred thinks his absence from the town will at least command a headline in the paper, and will be the chief topic of conversation among all the prominent people, but wait until he experiences a few hard knocks and returns to find he hasn’t been missed in the least—I imagine he’ll be changed somewhat.”
Mr. Hanfelt, after these few humorous remarks, tried to attend to his usual duties, but found it practically impossible, for try as he would to forget Fred for the time being, disconcerting thoughts insisted upon his attention. “I wonder where the little brat is, anyway,” he thought. “I suppose he’s well on his way by now.” With this last remark he laughed, not because he felt like doing so, but because it seemed only proper if the whole situation was intended, by him, to result humorously.
He might have laughed louder and longer if he could have seen Fred at that moment,
372
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
sitting on a curb-stone at the city limit, futilely hailing passing motorists for rides. He would rise as a car came speeding along, and hail the driver, only to drop dejectedly back as the car would flash by.
It was nearly an hour and a half later that Fred “hooked” his first ride, one in an old fashioned Ford touring car, that looked like an accident going some place to happen. This ride took him as far as Plainfield, a small town nine miles from Joliet. Here Fred thanked the driver, and also thanked God under his breath, for getting him out of the car alive.
‘It awful hot,” Fred thought, as he entered an ice cream store and deposited twenty-five cents on the cool marble counter in exchange for a “banana-split.” Having eaten this, he remained seated, smoking, and watching the cars move along the quiet little street. Plainfield boasted of only twelve hundred inhabitants, and the peacefulness of the scene before him made him feel lazy, and less inclined to “hit the road” than he was three hours ago.
He finally arose, however, and leaving the store began walking toward the strip of highway leading from the town. As he neared Electric Park, on the edge of Plainfield, an automobile swung into the curb near him, and stopped.
As Fred approached, the driver of the car looked around and said: “Hello Fred, what in the dickens are you doing in this neck of the woods? Aren’t you going to school today?”
“Hello Mac,” was Fred’s reply, as he recognized the lad to be Ray McFadden, a school-mate who lived in Plainfield. “Naw, I’m bumming my way to Omaha.”
“Omaha! How come?”
Fred entered the car, glad of an opportunity to sit down again, and told him the complete story.
“And why aren’t you in school?”
“Oh, mother was sick,” Mac replied, and I stayed home with her this morning, but I’m driving in for my afternoon classes.”
The two chums talked for quite a while, but at length parted, one toward school, and the other “toward Omaha.”
“I suppose he and Bob will tell everyone
in school,” thought Fred, as he continued walking. “Well, it’ll give ’em something to talk about.” He was not quite right in his latest surmisings, for Mac happened to tell Bob Kinney that he had seen Fred in Plainfield, and Bob immediately made him promise to keep it a secret, and he later phoned Mr. Hanfelt of Fred’s being seen.
“So he got that far, did he?” laughed the father as he heard this.
“Yes sir, and Mac said that if he continued strolling along the way he was, he’d never get much farther. He looked as if he was sick of it already.”
Truer words were never spoken, for Fred certainly was sick of it. He hadn’t walked two blocks after leaving Mac before he again sat down, this time on a park bench. It was terribly sultry, and he opened his shirt at the neck, scowling at the highway flooded in sunlight, which seemed particularly uninviting to him.
“I guess I was crazy, trying this fool stunt,” he muttered, “and I’d turn around and go back if it wasn’t for the laugh I’d get from the gang.” He thought of the various nicknames and sarcastic remarkss he would receive from the fellows, due to< his “trip.” His mind was torn between the two courses of action he could pursue. But at last he jumped up from the bench, saying, “Oh hell! What do I care what they say. I’ve made a chump of myself, and I’ll admit it. I’ll go back and explain the whole works to dad.”
Fred knew this would be a tremendous penance to himself, due to his stubbornness and pride, but three hours later found him in Joliet, on his way to his father’s office.
“Is dad busy?” he asked the office girl, for even he was not permitted to intrude upon his father when he was “in conference.”
“Your son is here to see you,” said the girl, as she stepped into the richly furnished office.
“My son!” he gasped. “All right, tell him to come in—no, wait a minute; tell him—oh, tell him I’ll see him.
Mr. Hanfelt was just lighting a cigarette as Fred entered, and it gave him an opportunity to study his face, which to his intense satisfaction, registered shame and sorrow.
“Hello, Fred, how was school today?”

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
373
“Fred’s head drooped as he replied, “I— I didn’t go to school today, dad.”
“You what-------!”
“I didn’t go to school today,” he stammered again, and then perching on top of his father’s desk, he poured forth the whole story, not daring to look up.
It was well that he did not, for his father was having a hard time repressing a smile, but the moment Fred finished, his face became stern, and he thundered, “You step from the room a moment, young man, until I decide your case!”
As soon as the door closed, Mr. Hanfelt phoned his wife.
“-----, yes, he just came down to the office
and confessed everything, but I think it best if you pretend you do not know he had gone.”
Mrs. Hanfelt, the strain and worries of the
past few hours wiped away by this news, again agreed to her husband’s plan, and hastening upstairs, replaced Fred’s note in its original position on his dresser.
By this time Mr. Hanfelt had recalled Fred, and was giving him a serious talk on his duties of a son to his parents.
“Think of mother—how she would feel if she had known of this,” he concluded. “Now let this be a lesson to you Fred.” .
“Yes sir,” said Fred, his false pride completely broken, his will submittant, but most glorious of all, his cares gone.
There was an awkward silence for a moment, but Fred broke it, saying, “Well, I guess I’ll be going home---.”	.
“All right, Fred,” his father replied, and then—“Ah------, you may use the car tonight
if you wish.”
Girls
John Nanovic
COLLEGE football, Al Smith, the League of Nations, Babe Ruth, Mexico and South Bend have all at times been subjected to severe criticism, but none of these has been criticised so much, or perhaps so at variance, as the modern girl. She has been blamed for the crime wave, for the defeat of the Democratic party, for the failure of prohibition, for the evils of divorce, for bad movies, and for the traffic problem.
The modern girl is called the “flapper.” She smokes cigarettes, she attends dances, and she goes on automobile rides, unchaperoned. She drinks sometimes, and stays out till after midnight. She wears her dresses above her knees and down below her neck, and she uses powder, rouge, and lipstick whenever she feels the need and wherever she may be. She is independent, and therefore she must decide questions without the help of olden counsel.
She spends most of her time planning how to have a good time, and she finds it necessary to have her boy friends well indexed so that she may call for the right one at the
right time. She has a technique, and her reputation among her sisters rests upon her ability to handle the boys according to her schedule. .
Kipling at one time characterized the tribe as “a rag, a bone, a hank of hair.” Modern fads in dresses have shortened the rag; bobbed styles have cut the hair; and the latest dieting craze has made the “bone” more prominent—both in the body and the head. The modern girl has changed from the “wholesome, home-loving girl” of our mothers’ time to the snappy, peppy, high-stepping girl of today. She has trained her foot to step on the gas, not to rock the cradle. Her eye is set for the red and green of the traffic light, not for the eye of the needle. Her ear is attuned to the honk of the horn instead of the cry of the child. She mixes cocktails instead of kneading bread. She rakes in the poker chips instead of scrubbing the floor. She plays the “sax” instead of the organ. She rolls her stockings, or doesn’t wear any at all. She dyes her hair, paints her eyebrows and pulls her lashes. She does anything she
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
374
wants to do, and explains after she has done it, or laughs it off. She even votes—but she can’t laugh that off.
The modern girl’s greatest fear is that she may do something as it was done before, or wear something that is not new. She will not go out before nine o’clock, because to do so would seem old-fashioned. For the same reason she cannot come in before two. It is too old-fashioned and unhealthful to wear a corset; so she becomes slim by using reducing
medicines that act quickly. She spoons as her old mother did, but she calls it petting instead. She aims her life straight for the rocks, but when she nears them, she swerves, recovers, and goes ahead safely.
Thus, despite all her attempted waywardness, despite all her bravado, she “turns chicken,” as her own language has it, when the final test for good or evil comes, and proves herself in the end just a girl—a girl as good as her mother was.

W*91'

. Andante
A lover’s serenade, a singing bird,
The nocturne of the wind among the trees, The shepherd’s pipe, the melody that’s heard In laughing brooks and ever-surging seas, An infant’s cry, a mother’s bitter tear,
The joy of love, the awful dirge of hate, Are all life’s music to the patient ear
Of Himivho listens—points the way to fate.
So life rolls on its mighty symphony
Till mountains, tired of echoing, stand mute, Till trees and waves have lost their melody,
And hushed forever is the shepherd’s lute. When all this music, all this song, is done, Then life is ended—immortality begun.
—Philip deRoulet.
■rm iB>»j
aaBMo&e
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
TROJAN ROOTERS AND BAND HONOR IRISH DURING HALF
Notre Dame and the Fightin’ Irish, sorely crushed on the gridiron by the Thundering Herd of Southern California, were paid tribute by U. S. C.’s 3,000 rooters in the most colorful and spectacular bleacher stunts that the West has ever seen. The Trojans took advantage of their annual Homecoming game to stage before 80,000 spectators the greatest between-halves circus that this section, inventor of the idea, has ever witnessed.
As the players left the field at half-time, two sections of the regular Trojan band of 125 pieces entered the Coliseum playing their famous War Song. They were dressed in their Alma Mater’s colors—red and gold—• and were led by a youngster seven years old. They maneuvered for a few minutes then halted while two more sections of the band, dressed in Gaelic costumes of white and green, marched onto the turf playing “When Irish Eyes Are Smiling.” They, too, maneuvered and then formed a huge “ND” and saluted the Notre Dame side of the stadium. The four sections combined and formed the word “Trojan” spelled in letters fifty feet tall and stretching for the entire length of the field. They then fired guns and released balloons of the rivals’ two colors.
While the band was marching and playing, the U. S. C. rooting section performed what are known here as “card stunts.” The 3,000 rooters held variously colored cards—a foot square—and patterned designs which appeared like painted signs from across the field.
They started their performance with a spelling of “Notre Dame.” Other stunts came in the following order:
“We greet you”—white letters on a red backfield.
A Trojan knight 75 feet tall shaking hands with an Irishman of equal height.
A giant shamrock bordered with white on •a red backfield.
A knight armed with a spear and mounted on a horse appeared on one side and, in jerks, galloped across the rooting section.
The section then formed “Farewell to”— and followed with the names “Jesse,” “Don,”
377
“Lloyd,” “Lowry,” “Charley,” “Hilton”-and “Hersh,” the nick-names of their captain and other players, who were ending their football careers.	•
The entertainment ended with the bands at attention playing the “Hike Song” before the. Notre Dame section.
—CARROLL O’MEARA.
INTERHALL TEAMS WIN TWO AND DROP FIVE GAMES ON TURKEY
DAY INVASIONS
Climaxing the most successful interhall season in years seven representative teams from the two divisions treked out to various points in Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois for the annual Thanksgiving Day contests. While fate did not smile on the invaders in the matter of victories, Lyons and Sophomore alone winning, the total absence of a hospital list after the frays proves that all the luck was not bestowed on the outsiders. Fine treatments of the squads, clean playing, and excellent officiating were extremely evident everywhere. A short resume of the games follows :	'
FOSTORIA, 6; FRESHMAN, 0
Wilting under the battering of a team that outweighed them ten pounds to the man Freshman went down into defeat, but only after such a gallant stand that the loss was robbed of its sting. Weakening early in the fourth quarter after fighting the Fostorians to a standstill, the squad from the Pasteboard Palace was unable to stop the last Fostorian drive and Crashaw hit the center of the line for two yards and a touchdown just before the end of the final period.
SOPHOMORE, 20; NORWALK REDS, 0
Bewildering their hosts with the variety and deception of their attack the two-year-olds passed and plunged their way to victory before a crowd of 5,000 persons. Scoring early in the opening quarter and again in the third and fourth respectively the Maroons won by even a more decisive margin than the score indicates.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
378
LYONS, 7 J FORT WAYNE, 0
Proving their superiority in every department of play the Lyonites downed the St. Joseph’s aggregation very handily and deserved to win by a much greater score than 7-0. Playing heads-up football every minute, the Vikings scored their lone tally in the opening minutes of the second half and then outguessed and outplayed their opponents to preserve their lead to the end.
KENDALLVILLE, 6; CORBY, 0
The best efforts of the Corby eleven, who five times were within their opponents’ ten yard line, proving unavailing, the Kendallville squad took a break, in the shape of a fumble, and converted it into victory. Scoring only seven first downs to the twenty-two of the He-Men the triumph was neither deserved nor expected, but Gardenier’s 65-yard dash to the Corby ten yard line after scooping up a fumble changed the complexion of matters. Even then it seemed that they were to be denied even as Corby had been, but a pass on last down netted them eighteen yards and the lone score of the battle.	•
LAPORTE, 13; MORRISSEY, 6
The ill luck that has pursued the Scholars all year is still with them if we are to judge on the basis of the last defeat. Going into the final quarter with a comfortable lead the Gold Coasters were uncomfoi’tably jolted out of their serenity by two passes—each of which netted the semi-pros a much needed touchdown. Scoring their first six points of the year and repeatedly turning back the onslaughts of their hosts it seemed as if the Scholars, at last, would turn in a victory, but the aerial maneuvers upset their best plans.
RIVER FOREST, 36; HOWARD, 6 ♦
The Dodgers displayed their wares for the benefit of some 4,000 spectators and the bewilderment of the yearlings when they plunged, passed, and ran the ball through, over, and around Howard to administer the worst trouncing of the day. A big, fast, and aggressive team, the Dodgers romped over Howard so easily that the game ceased to be such and took on the aspect of a track meet.
ELWOOD, 19; BRONSON, 14
A loose and thrill-packed contest that the Tigers won by the scantest margin was the fare offered the wet and shivering fans of Elwood. After a free scoring first half both teams settled down for the third quarter— the Tigers to protect their six point lead and the Arabs to knot the count. The Arabs did even better than they had expected, for they not only tied the score but went into the lead at 14-13 when the extra point was awarded them for offside play. Their joy was short lived though, for a concentrated drive at the opening of the final period netted the Elwood squad another touchdown and victory.
—J. H. ZUBER.
TRACK SEASON PROGRESSING
During the past week, a squad of determined athletes have been going through, strenuous work-outs in the course of their pre-season training, which will continue until the Christmas vacation. Jogging, calisthenics, wind-sprints, and form-development constitute the orders of the day. Gradually other and harder exercises will be added until the men reach that stage of physical development wherein they will be capable of enduring any punishment.
The menu which will be served Coach Nicholson’s men this winter is the most difficult which has ever confronted a Notre Dame track team. In the opening attraction, Northwestern will be met at Evanston on January 19. Last year, it will be remembered, Northwestern achieved a scant one-point victor yover the Irish, and the Purple • athletes are out to repeat that feat again this season. However, the Wildcats will be without the services of their great individual star, “Tiny” Lewis, who won last year’s meet almost single-handed.
The outstanding meet at home will be with Illinois, the date for this encounter having been tentatively set for February 16. The Illini and the Irish have,been rivals on the track for a great many years, and although the former have generally had the upper hand, the meets between these two have al
c
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	379
ways been hard-fought and replete with thrills. Wisconsin and Michigan State, both dangerous opponents, will also face the Irish on the indooi’ track this winter.
Captain Jack Elder, the versatile sprinter, has returned from California, but has not taken active part in the track practices as yet; however, Boagni, Trandall, Hardaker, Nichols and several others have been getting in shape for the sixty-yard dash. Quigley, Kelly, Reidy, Stephan, and Abbott are the veterans in the middle distance events. Dan Welchons and Konop are preparing to gather honors in the high jump, while Rigney and McDonald are the most likely looking prospects for the broad jump. Savoldi, Herwit, Culver, Mortenson, and Hoffman are being groomed to fill the sadly depleted ranks of weight throwers. Among the outstanding distance men we find the Brown brothers, Vaichulis, Morgan, Brennan, Schlickert, Quigley, and Biggins. Conlin, O’Brien, Reiman, and Acers are expected to fill the shoes of Griffin, last year’s captain, and Stace, in the hurdles. Sylvester, Ladner, Dayton, and McConville are prominent candidates for the half-mile event.	—J.G.P.
ARMOUR TECH INAUGURATES IRISH CAGE SCHEDULE NEXT MONDAY
With the football season at an end, the Irish court performers will occupy the spotlight. The basketball season will be officially opened on Monday, December 10, when Armour Tech of Chicago will be met. With a veteran squad back in uniform and a wealth of new material to work on, Coach Keogan should have no worries about the 1928 season.
Although Keogan has made no official announcement, the following lineup will probably start against the Tech basketeers in the opening game: Captain Crowe and Captain Jachym, forwards; Bob Vogelwelde, center; Donovan and Ed. Smith, guards. This combination has been working together regularly in practice and show a smoothness and dash that bodes no good for the visitors. Veterans of last season who will also probably get into the game are John McCarthy and Bob New
bold, forwards; Colrick, center; and Jim Bray, guard. Tim Moynihan, who showed up very well at guard during the latter part of last season, suffered a broken arm in the football game with Southern California last Saturday and is lost to the squad for the greater part of the season.
A glance at the schedule that Keogan has drawn up for his charges will prove that it is one of the hardest in years. Twenty games will be played, the opposition being furnished by crack teams from every section of the country. The new opponents on the Irish slate are Albion College, University of Kentucky, Kansas, Detroit, and Indiana. The schedule:
Dec.-10—Armour Tech at Notre Dame.
Dec. 15—Albion College at Notre Dame.
Dec. 18—Northwestern University at Notre Dame.
Dec. 21—University of Indiana at Notre Dame.
Dec. 28—University of Kansas at Convention Hall, Kansas City, Mo.
Dec. 29—University of Kansas at Convention Hall, Kansas City, Mo.
Jan. 5—University of Detroit at Notre Dame.
Jan. 9—Wabash College at Crawfordsville.
Jan. 12—University of Kentucky at Notre Dame.
Jan. 19—University of Pennsylvania at Philadelphia.
Jan. 23—Michigan State College at Notre Dame.
Jan. 26—Northwestern University at Evanston.
Feb. 2—Wabash College at Notre Dame.
Feb. 5 — Marquette University at Milwaukee.
Feb. 9—University of Pittsburgh at Notre Dame.
Feb. 15—Butler University at Indianapolis.
Feb. 22—Michigan State College at East Lansing.
Feb. 23—University of Detroit at Detroit.
March 2—Marquette University at Notre Dame.
March 8—Butler University at Notre Dame.	—E-T-
380
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
♦Ji ♦*♦ •*<	♦£» •*<	♦*♦ {♦ ♦*♦ <J»	♦*♦ ♦£♦ ♦*♦ ♦*♦ £♦ #J» ♦*♦ ♦*♦ ♦*♦
❖ SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX ❖ {♦ <£♦ «£♦ ^1 ♦Ji >J»	>J» «£♦ £♦	£♦ <J» ♦£♦ ♦*♦ <£♦ «£♦
Well—the song is ended, but the melody of this season is going to linger for a long, long time.
3:	3: 3c
Army finally cracked. Not many teams can play a schedule as tough as the Pointers’ and come through unscathed. It was a toss-up between their schedule and Notre Dame’s as to which was the toughest. One thing we do know, that no one played a tougher one. When a team comes through that kind of a schedule and wins all its games, it can well be called great. The Four Horsemen and Seven Mules was the last team of that kind.
* * *
Southern California had a better team than Notre Dame last Saturday. This was no game lost on breaks as was the Wisconsin game. ' The Trojans outplayed Notre Dame in every way. They did everything but outfight the Irish. No team has ever done this, no team ever will.
Chevigny died to the athletic world as he had lived, brilliantly, courageously; trying when he didn’t have a chance; fighting the good fight. His last gift to his Alma Mater was symbolic of the man.
Detroit, Boston College and Villanova are undefeated, but we can think of at least six teams who have been defeated once or more, and yet have a better claim to the w. k. mythical national championship.
❖ #
Basketball starts Tuesday and it looks as though the Keoganites are going to clean up more thoroughly even than is their custom.
❖ * ❖
If Bill Brown develops a kick this year there are going to be very few milers taking the erudite elder member of the Brown family.
The Trojans had a real pass defense this year; in the past that had been their one
glaring weakness. Incidentally this fellow McCaslin is just a fair pass receiver. •
There is a freshman at Notre Dame who is a pretty fair runner. He stepped a half mile a month or so ago in 1:55 1-5, which would have won a couple of the smaller meets last year, if we are not mistaken.
* * $
There can be no doubt in the mind of even the most rabid Eastern or Middle-western fan that the best football teams are from the Pacific Coast this year, with very few exceptions.
It is years since Notre Dame won a track meet from Illinois. There have been many upsets this year, however, and one wonders if this will be the year when the Illini will bow to the Irish on the cinder path.
I believe it was “Chesty Joie” Ray of Olympic fame, who, when asked by a sweet young thing if it were true that one had to be slightly crazy to be a track man, gave the classic reply, “No lady, but it helps a lot.”
Talking about competition, Jack Lavelle threw the javelin 189 feet at the N. C. A. A. meet last spring, the farthest he had ever thrown it, and got seventh. They say there were a couple of javelin throwers at the meet.
Among other things, the Southern California game marked the first time “Big Tim” Moynihan ever left a game because of an injury.	.
ij:
The cheer leader from the Southern Branch of the University of California led the Notre Dame rooters in their cheering and singing.
The ovation given Notre Dame’s stand on the one yard line was equalled only by that given the victors after the game, h.a.s. JR.
•	/ ! t.	. •
.	; -
L/ t 1 '
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC >
381
Such popularity must be deserved!”
Down deep in ibe Kongo the native sons believe that anybody who has an explorer for dinner will absorb all the brains, courage and other success-assuring virtues of the unfortunate victim.
We wish we could say the same of Chesterfields —that all their popularity is conferred upon whosoever smokes them. Frankly, however, this is not invariably true. Several Chesterfield
smokers have recently been discovered who are not ambassadors, steel kings, or even bank presidents.
But—since Chesterfields are so satisfying,mild and different—we’ll all of us continue to enjoy them for these sound smoke-virtues alone.
Popularity? Six million smokers are enjoying ’em today. Such popularity must be deserved. Make it six million and one?
LU ESTERFI ELD
MILD enough for anybody . . and yet. = THEY SATISFY
LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.
382
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTERHALL FOOTBALL CLOSES TOMORROW; BASKET BALL TO START SOON
The ever increasing scope of interhall athletics is widening faster than ever if we are to judge from the plans released from the office of the Interhall Athletic Director for the coming year. This current year, which has been so successful and so far superior to past seasons, in view of the increased number of men participating, the greater efficiency with which the contests were handled, the more numerous trips; in fact, from every point of view, will attain new heights under the proposed program.
Climaxing the reign of King Football will be the two important games tomorrow. Howard meets Lyons on Cartier field at 2 p. m. for the interhall championship, while the Maroon horde from Sophomore journeys to Toledo, where it will engage Central Catholic High. Central, city champion of Toledo, and one of the strongest teams in Ohio, has been defeated but once in the past three years, and the contest will draw a record crowd. The entire proceeds of the game, arranged through the courtesy of Mr. “Dolly” Gray and Mr. George Covert, Jr., two prominent alumni, and the Toledo club of the University, will be converted into a scholarship fund to send Toledo boys to Notre Dame.
Basketball, soon to take the sceptre from football, will reign over more subjects than ever before. As in past years each hall will have two teams, a light and a heavy squad, but in addition, each of the four freshman halls will have two 135-pound-limit squads, making a total of thirty-six teams that will play in the interhall circuit.
Besides these activities the winter months will see All-University wrestling and boxing champions chosen through elimination bouts, and dual meets in both track and swimming between the various halls. Each of these activities yields points towards the Monogram club’s loving cup, which will be awarded at the end of the year to the hall which has proven its superiority in every branch of sports, so competition will be unusually keen.
Home of Paramount Pictures
SATURDAY—TUESDAY
See and Hear
CAUGHT
IN THE
FOG
A Warner Bros.
TALKING
Picture with
MAY McAVOY and
CONRAD NAGEL
Unique in setting, story and surprises! A genuine talking fun-thriller.
—Also—
ALBERT SPALDING
American Pianist
WARING’S PENNSYLVANIANS
BROWN & WHITAKER
“ “A Laugh or Two”
WEDNESDAY—FRIDAY
Powerful elemental emotions asserting themselves with simplicity are the key-note of this remarkable photoplay which has never had an adverse criticism.
FOX MOVIETONE PRESENTATION "SUNRISE” with
Janet Gaynor and Geo. O’Brien —Also—
MRS. AL JOLSON (Formerly Ruby Keeler) On the Same Program AL JOLSON
—J.H.Z.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
383
EXCELLENT WORKMANSHIP
—RELIABLE.
JIMMIE’S SHOE REPAIR SHOP Under New Management -----------o--
ON THE CAMPUS
Back of Rockefeller Hall. -	---o-
ALL WORK GUARANTEED. ------------0-
24 Hour Service	Modern
james McAllister,
Proprietor
■ „T" —	~ ~	--------------
GILBRO’S Formerly Army Store 330 S. Michigan St.
Offer
Nationally Advertised Merchandise at Cut Prices
Towers Slickers............$5.45
Sheepskin Undercoats ......$6,45
Novelty Corduroy Pants.....$2.95
Army Field Shoes...........$3.45
GMNAIH MFwhess rarsnmsrsMiNS / W
SUN., MON., TUES.
RICHARD ARLEN and
NANCY CARROLL in
“MANHATTAN COCKTAIL”
Brimful of scintillating scenes and vivacious personalities of our youngsters of the stage.	.
---0---
WED., THURS., FRL, SAT.
CHARLES(BUDDY)ROGERS with
MARY BRIAN in
“VARSITY”
Four years at Princeton with
“Buddy.” Live with him. Work	•
with him. Immerse yourself with him in the glories and beauties of life at Princeton.
PALACE
Starting Sunday
The Hoofer, the Feeder, the Trouper, the Vamp—They’re All Here in
“SHOW FOLKS”
with Lina Basquette And Five Acts of Keith-Albee-Orpheum Vaudeville
Coming Thursday
The Famous Stage and Screen Star
MR. KENNETH HARLAN
(in person)
In a Comedy Sketch by Aaron Hoffman
“THE HONEYMOON”
And Four Other Acts
PHOTOPLAY
“SAL of SINGAPORE’
With Phyllis Haver
fter the ball is
overs
Preserve the few remaining hours for sleep by eating easily digestible food. Collegians the country over are confining their after-the-dance suppers to
Shredded Whea
WITH WHOLE MILK OR CREAM
Intelligence Test
Instructor—"Life Insurance ? ”
The Class (as one man, 'without hesitation)-^ "John Hancock”
Instructor (teaming with jay)— "Class dismissed. Your I. Q. is 130.”
or Boston. Massmhusktts
1929
What Will It Mean For You?
If going into business, will it mean the beginning of a long apprenticeship period—the trial and error method—which possibly may never lead to success?
Or will it mean a year spent in preparation for business—followed by a steady rise to leadership?
If you desire the latter, Babson Institute can serve you—and serve you well.
Train for Leadership
To meet the demand for special training for men looking forward to successful business careers and executive leadership is the purpose of Babson Institute. Here you would be taught the fundamental laws of business and shown how to apply them effectively to actual business life.
Send for Booklet!
Every college man who is ambitious to succeed in business should read our booklet. “Training for Business Leadership”. It explains in detail the subjects studied, the unique features of our work and how leadership is achieved. Take this home and discuss it with your parents during the Holidays.
Mail this Coupon Now!
BABSON Institute
B301 Wellesley Av., Babson Park, Mass. Send me, without obligation “Training for Business Leadership” and Complete particulars about Babson Institute.
Name
College
Address
Dorit Experiment • ufith your Appearance
AT THE BEST MEN’S SHOP
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
London Man Gives Cool Tip Smokers Here
London, England 30th December, 1927
Lanis & Bro. Co.,
Richmond, Va.,
U.S.A.
Gentlemen:
As my Christmas present I purchased for myself a pound of your tobacco (Edgeworth) in lb. flat tins. This morning on the tram I met a man with whom I am only slightly acquainted, and filling my pipe produced your tin, at which he exclaimed: “ I am not a pipe smoker, but occasionally I have a try in that direction and I consider that the tobacco in your hand is the finest made.”	■
I am in entire agreement with his statement.
Yours faithfully,
J. J. Mason
Edgeworth
Extra High Grade .
Smoking Tobacco
OFFICE 2-1067 RESIDENCE 3-4041
Dr. Edgar S. Lucas
DENTISTRY
701-702 J. M. S. BUILDING SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
BV SPECIAL APPOINTMENT ~ OCR STORE IS THE J @hurterj^ousej 0/South Bend
The character of the suite and : overcoats tailored by Charter House will earn your most sincere liking. =
MAX ADLER CO.
South Bend, Indiana
When making purchases, remember that our advertisers deserve your patronage.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Oh, Man!
By BRIGGS
C P. Lanital Co.. Eat. 17M
not a cough in a carload