—A-tdcd
Enjoy your spring vacation more with the right, comfortable, carefree
clothes. You’ll find the Campus Shop is ready . . . come in
soon.
.Washable Cotton Cord Slacks ...................
LaCoste Alligator Knit Sport Shirts ............
Walking Shorts, from ...........................
Catalina Swim Wear, from ....................... Short Sleeve Sport Shirts, from ................ Carefree Wash and Wear Lightweight Suits, from Lightweight Sport Coats, from ..................
GILBERTS
5.95
8.50
4.95
3.95
4.50
39.95
16.95
CHARGE IT THE
CAMPUS
SHOP WAY
IN JULY
IN AUG
IN JUNE
No Carrying Charge
Whatever you need in the way of clothing . . . from vacation clothes to a comfortable tropical-weight tuxedo for your coming formal occasions . . . you can get it now .. . or whenever you need it and charge it the Campus Shop way. Pay one-third in June . . . one-third in July . . . one-third in August. No interest or carrying charges, of course.
ONE OF AMERICA'S FINEST UNIVERSITY STORES
GILBERT'S
3
CRAM COURSE NO. 2: BIOLOGY
The grisly shadow of final exams looms over us, so today in this column instead of merry quips and homely saws, you will find hard facts—quick cram courses to help you through the ordeal ahead.
Last week I gave you a rapid survey of Modern European History. Now let us Turn to Biology.
Biology is divided into several phyla. ■ or classes. First is the protozoa, or onecelled animal. All life stems from the onecelled animal. Over a space of millions of years, life slowly evolved until today we have animals with as many as 12 cells. Some larger mammals claim they have 14 or 16 cells, but you know how larger mammals lie.
The second class of animals is the periphera—a shadowy category that borders often on the vegetable. Take, for example, the sponge. The sponge is definitely an animal. The washcloth, on the other hand, is definitely not.
Next we come to the arthropoda, or insects. Most people, of course, find insects fairly repulsive—and yet, if one will but look, there is exquisite beauty in the insect world. Who does not remember the lovely insect poems of William Cullen Sigafoos—such enchanting lyrics as Tumbling Along with the Tumbling Tumblebug, Fly Gently, Sweet Aphid. and Gnats My Mother Taught Me. Mr. Sigafoos has been inactive since the invention of DDT.
Our next category is the mollusca— lobsters, shrimp, and the like. Lobsters are generally found under rocky projections on the ocean bottom. Shrimp are generally found in a circle around a small bowl containing cocktail sauce. Marlboro Cigarettes are generally found at any tobacco counter or vending machine.
What have Marlboro Cigarettes got to do with biology? Well, actually, not very much. It must be remembered, however, that the makers of Marlboro pay me for writing this column, and they are inclined to get surly if I fail to mention their product.
Mind you, I enjoy singing the praises of Marlboro—and so will you once you try that flavorful tobacco, that fine filter which lets the flavor come though undiminished. It is a great pleasure to smoke Marlboros and a great pleasure to write about them, but sometimes, I must confess, I find it a bit difficult to work the
The makers of Marlboro, upright vertebrates all, remind you that their fine cigarettes are available in pack or box wherever cigarettes are sold in any of the 50 states.
commercial into the column. Some years ago, for example, I did a piece about Alexander the Great, and, believe you me, it took a heap of stretching to drop in a plug for Marlboro. The way I finally managed it was to have Alexander go to the Oracle at Delphi and say. ’‘Oracle. I have conquered the world and tasted all its pleasures, but somehow I am not content. I know that somewhere there must bea joy I have not yet experienced.” To which the Oracle replied, ‘‘Yes, Alexander. there is such a joy, but. alas, the time is not yet. I refer to Marlboro Cigarettes which will not be invented for another 2500 years.” Whereupon Alexander fell into a sulk from which he never recovered . Well sir, there is no question I soM a lot of cigarettes with this ingenious commercial, but the gang down at the American Academy of Arts and Letters gave me a mighty good razzing, you
may be sure.
But I digress. Back to biology, and the most advanced phylum of all—the chordata, or vertebrates. There are two kinds of vertebrates—those whose backbones run horizontally and those whose backbones run vertically. Generally, there is no great difficulty in distinguishing the two varieties. A fish, for instance, has a horizontal backbone, and a man has a vertical backbone. Occasionally, however, you run into a problem—like a fish who swims upright and a man who spends most of his time in the sack. How, in such a case, do you tell one from another? Science struggled with this .. sticky question for centuries, but finally Sigafoos of M.I.T. came up with a brilliantly simple answer. Offer the creature a Marlboro. If it is a fish, it will refuse. If it is Homo sapiens, it will accept. In fact, the more sapient, the quicker the acceptance.	© iwsa Mb1 suuim*.
GLANCES
The fading old romance and the bloom of a new one claim the attention cf J. J. Pottmyer and his article called “A Tale of Passion” . . . page 7.
Top story in “News and Notes” is the awarding of the University’s Laetare Medal to Dr. Francis Braceland . . . page 9.
Cover story of the week, the Collegiate Jazz Festival, opening tonight . . . page 10.
Catholic action in Peru, all about the CILA project in that country this coming summer . . . page 11.
You may have noticed the whimsical renovations of the Nieuwland ■ Science Hall faculty register; see . . . page 12.
Read about parliamentary doings in Art Graham’s column . . . page 13.
And a week after their invitational tournament, the Debate Team undertakes a defense . . . page 14.
Bridge and other entertainment; covered by Kibitzer’s Korner and “In Town and Around” . . . page 17.
Commentary and criticism on the poetry appearing in the winter Juggler, by Carl Wiedemann . . • page 18.
That favorite of seasons stirred the artistic muse in John O’Hala, who presents a photo essay on the subject . . . pages 20-21.
Here’s a tale with a message; it’s “When Youth Runs on the Wild Side”; an allegory for our time . . • page 22.
Mike Lind, varsity back, looks ahead to the Old-Timers game as well as to next season . . . page 27.
Joe Kuharich discusses his lineup for the game . . . page 28.
Have a look at the ’62 Fighting Irish at spring practice; stirring action . . . pages 28-29.
And Irish halfback Chuck O’Hara is profiled on . . . page 30.
In spring sports, the ND baseball-ers meet Purdue’s nine . . . page 31-
A description by Tom Fallon of Ed Rutkowski’s trial-by-fire in NCAA Wrestling . . . page 32.
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a pottage rate authorized June 23, 191®’ J| magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegial6 Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by PoD Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Fuolished weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC. >• printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscrip’ tion rate is $5.00 a year. Please address ail manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185,. Note* Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material be comes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
' Founded 1867
editor-in-chief
THOMAS WEISS
associate editor	'
MICHAEL ZWETTLER
news editor
JOHN McCABE,
Ken Arnold, Joe Caspar, Pete Clark, Jim Wyrsch.
newi staff—John Buckley, Vince De Coursey, Dick Maher, Ted Pinto, Steve Stapp, Steve Stuecheli, Don Whorton.
features editor
TOM HOOBLER
features staff—Carl Wiedemann, R. E." McGowan, Brion Barnes, Tom Cvllen, John Pesta, Matt Cosgrove.
sports editor
JOHN BECHTOLD
Bob Chiappinelli, Terry Wolkerstorfer.
sports staff—J.C. Higgins, Frank Hinchey, Dave Fuys, Bob Scheffing, Tom Kistner, Joo Ryan.
copy editor
PHILIP LARRABEE
art editor
THOMAS HANSEN, Patrick Saxe, Robert Sajnovsky. photography—Brian Beck, Wes Clark.
layout editor
STEVE PODLAS
business manager
JAY WARD,
Art Berry, Bob Buckley, Tom Dalum.
ad salesmen—George McGuire, Rich Rogge-veen, Phil Tomber.
circulation manager
JAMES CREAGAN
faculty advisors
DONALD COSTELLO
JOSEPH HOFFMAN, C.S.C.
GRADUATE SCHOOL WITHOUT FEAR. By now, many seniors have been admitted to graduate schools throughout the nation. But many, too, have been left weeping and gnashing. Out of this situation one fact has become painfully apparent to students and faculty alike: graduating seniors lack adequate answers to the questions, whether, where, and how to undertake post-graduate work.
The question of whether to go on for an advanced degree is one that faces any responsible student today. The advantages of the degree (and the further education) and the disadvantages of the length of time necessary to obtain it vary widely with the field; and a student should be fully conscious of the potentialities of his major and of openings provided by such further study. In Arts and Letters, especially, where the course of study is not directed toward a particular profession, it is unfortunate that many students recognize only two alternatives — teaching or law. A liberal education should, and does, offer a far wider range of opportunities, any of which may be enhanced by the judicious choice of a post-graduate program. The University and the various departments, it seems, by means of some type of advisory system, could help a student to inform himself on this matter.
If he decides to go on for an advanced degree, the student has hundreds of graduate schools from which to choose. And it is self-evident that not all of them will provide the course of study he needs. Here, again, the information available, as a matter of course, to the University concerning the programs offered by other institutions and to departments concerning the strengths and weakness of particular areas of specialization, would, if provided to the student, make his choice much easier. In most cases, it is not simply a matter of applying to a prominent university and hoping to be admitted; for programs equally good (and often better) are to be found many times in places a student would not know of, though his department would.
And, as usual, the major question is generally a financial one: how will a graduate student pay for his education? Unfortunately, too much emphasis is placed on the national prestige fellowships, and not enough on the many quite substantial fellowships and assistantships available at individual universities. Such university awards are often unused due to a lack of qualified applicants, and often these awards do not require astronomical averages. Though they may not carry the same public renown for the University, they do, nevertheless, provide quite well for the individual student. Notifications of these awards, too, are received in the departmental offices, but usually end up hidden away on some already crowded bulletin board.
All this is not to say, by any means, that the University and departments are doing nothing to aid their students. But the less-than-superior students (at least, so far as averages indicate) also merit attention. Many who are quite able to undertake graduate work and to win a university award lose out entirely because they apply to the wrong graduate schools or for the wrong grants.
The situation is not impossible to rectify. Our English department, for example, having recognized the problem, is planning to provide general information about graduate study to English majors during their junior year on a personal or group basis. Students who are unsure about working for an advanced degree will be encouraged at least to apply, so as to avoid the drawback of a decision made too late. An English major will be able to find out exactly where the best programs in his special interest (if he has one) are offered, as well as what financial aid is available. In their junior and early senior years, students will learn of the entire process of application and admission to graduate school.
This approach to the problem, while designed for the English department particularly, indicates that something can be done.
— W. & Z.
REPERCUSSIONS
ATTENTION!!
Special Sale
ON
RECORD PLAYERS
AND
RECORDS
APRIL 7-17
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
MEDIC!
Editor:
Last fall I was injured while playing in a night interhall football game. The injury was serious enough to require eight stitches at St. Joseph’s Hospital. But I wish to register a vehement complaint against the Student Infirmary. There was no doctor ever there that night, only a nurse who was of very little help. She advised me to catch a cab down to St. Joseph’s Hospital. Luckily a priest, who had been visiting the patients, volunteered to drive me down to the hospital.
When a university of our size and prestige is unable to maintain even one resident doctor, it makes me wonder what our tuition is going towards. What happens when something more serious than my injury occurs? Are we going to wait until such an occasion arises before we take some measure of action?
Frank Bujan 309 Howard
(Editor’s Note: The following is a statement of the Administration regarding its policy in this matter.
The Student Infirmary is not a hospital nor do die University facilities permit the kind of health service available at universities that conduct medical schools. A resident physician, who would live on campus and not just visit regularly, is beyond what the University feels it can reasonably offer. For despite the fact that the sum total of student fees amount to about 70% ... a variable percentage ... of budgeted University expenses, the infirmary still offers bed, meals, and qualified nursing service throughout the day and night without special charge. Visits to the physician during his campus hours are likewise without extra charge. At all other times the student is in the same position as he would be at home if he had to see a doctor in his office or at a hospital.)
ONE MORE FOR THE FILE Editor:
We believe that a significant contribution to the general intellectual advance of the University of Notre Dame can be made by the undergraduate body. However, we feel that at this time a large portion of undergraduate intellectual “excitement” is never given the opportunity for complete expression, examination, and evaluation. In many respects the “thinking” undergraduate is hobbled. Whatever he may offer as cogent and original does not often get beyond the confines of his room if it does not fall explicitly within the dimensions of the present, well-defined campus media. With no stimulation and no encouragement, those who are most capable and very sensitive tend to become inverted and disillusioned. They become content not to comment on what they
may deem to be the stagnancy of the status quo, or what another may deem to be its poignancy, or, if they comment at all, it is with the persecuted voice of cynicism. We propose to establish a journal, the scope of which will be outlined below in relation to what media already exist and what, we feel, ought to exist.
It may be submitted that the University has already three existing organs which are excellent for the airing and consequent discussion of any pertinent thought. After careful consideration of these publications, the Juggler, the Scholastic, and the Technical Review, after discussing the matter with their editors and advisors, it seems that regardless of their scope, there is a large gap to be filled.
There exists on the undergraduate level at Notre Dame no organ, no scholarly journal, intended for the publication of undergraduate contributions to the development of major areas of thought, regardless of facet, regardless of realm. Such a scholarly journal would encompass, for example, papers in political science, in history, in theology, in philosophy, in fine arts, in business administration, in engineering, in science. If the author has a significant comment to make in any field of knowledge, in its relation to the universal spectrum of knowledge, which is our goal at Notre Dame — then this author will be given the opportunity to be heard, to be read, to be circulated.
This is our proposal. This journal would be departmentalized with regard to its editorial board so that all may have an understanding opportunity to be heard.
Thomas Kapacinskas 306 Badin Lawrence McGinniss John Paul Ahern 281 Dillon
ATTENTION FINAL JUNIOR PROM TICKET SALES
For those who were not able purchase their tickets for "Une Nuit a Paris" at the first ticket sales, there will be a special sale next Wednesday and Thursday nights, April 11th and 12th. The sale will take place in the Junior Halls between 6-10 p.m. The members of the Prom Committee will visit the rooms. This will definitely be you1" last chance to attend the Class of '63’s Junior Prom.
The Scholastic
A Tale of Passion
by J. J. POTTMYER
On APRIL 6, 67 A.F., Jeanie wrote me a Dear John letter. After appropriate weeping and gnashing of teeth, I remembered that I would have to return my bid to the Senior Ball. Being unable to determine the proper course of action from the two-day-old collection of flyers and mimeographed publicity in my wastebasket, I was forced to hunt out Greg Weisguy, Social Commissioner and Assistant to the Dean of Machines. Doing this is not so easy since the Social Commissioner is perpetually hurrying about campus.
“Mr. Weisguy,” I said, “my name is Pottmyer 800946 J. My girl just sent me a Dear John letter. How can I return my bid to the Senior Ball?”
“I’m afraid that would be quite impossible. As you know, the purpose of the social commission is to provide major functions periodically interspersed with minor parties, dances, etc. Since we budget for no profit for ourselves and must budget a large profit for the Student Government General Fund, timing and organization of events are critical. Our social calendar is arranged at the beginning of the year by computer control to eliminate conflicts. It is absolutely impossible to make any changes once you have sent in your IBM cards. Can you imagine what would happen to the system if we had to get back your Dance Bid card, your Communion Breakfast card, your car permission card, your late permission card, just to name a few?”
“But I just haven’t anyone to take,” I said.
“Well, don’t worry about that. With our special lottery system, we can select a blind date for you.”
“I’m not spending 600 rubles just
for a date with a girl I’ve never seen."
Greg explained to me that I would be able to meet this girl informally. Policy is not so strict for the various minor parties, dances, etc., run by the Commission. All I would have to do would be to submit five lottery cards and stand in line for six hours to be assured a ticket to at least one of these events.
“But what if she’s a St. Mary’s girl?” I asked. .
“What do you expect on such brief notice? Besides, conditions were much worse in your father’s day. Then St. Mary’s girls had to be in by 10:30. However, twenty years ago, Notre Dame and St. Mary’s were both on Central Standard Time. It wasn’t until 1965 that the boundary line between time zones was moved over to the Dixie Highway. Now when St. Mary’s girls have to be in by 10:30, it’s 11:30 Notre Dame time; and you do have to be in by midnight.
“I can understand your troubles, but we’re mainly hampered by lack of facilities. We had hoped to add much more flexibility to our social calendar when the engineers finally worked out all the bugs in the 1107 peripheral equipment. However, law suits have been preventing our use of the machine since that time. When this is straightened out, everyone can go to the Dean of Machines to arrange all his activities."
Reluctantly, I took electrographic pencil in hand and began filling out forms stating my preferences for the blind date which the machines would select for me. I then took these forms to the processing center where I waited in line for two hours. (After three students were injured in a milling line in 1970, the University
had banned lines entirely and resorted to a lottery system for all activities. However, it was observed that without this important contact sport, the student became listless, quicktempered, and flabby from lack of exercise. By this time there were too many vested interests in the lottery system for it to be abandoned; so it was decided that all students must wait in line to turn in their IBM cards for the lottery, the amount of time to be determined by the importance of the event.)
Two days later I received a flimsy notice in my mailbox informing me that I had been awarded a ticket to the April 13th Defeat Dance (formerly known as Victory Dances and held only in the fall, these dances were extended to the celebration of all sports three years ago). My date was to be Miss 962374B.
I met 962374B at St. Mary’s at 7:30.
“Hello, my name is 800946. The Dean of Machines has arranged a date for us."
962374B introduced herself, making certain I knew her father was rather wealthy.
“I think 962374B is a beautiful number,” I said as we walked back to the N.D. campus.
“Oh, don’t be so formal. You can call me 374.”
“Thank you, just call me 946.”
Well, things went well. On the way back from the dance, I carved in a tree trunk 800946 loves 962374B. I took her to the'Ball, and two weeks later we registered with the Dean of Machines for the June-wedding-in-Log-Chapel lottery.
April 6, 1962
7
oooooo oooO

In days of yore, men feared not only their mortal enemies, but the elements too. It was the medieval armorer's task to protect his chief against foemen, but weather-protection was a more difficult matter. Thus many a knight was spent in rusty armor.
Engineers and scientists at Ford Motor Company, engaged in both pure and applied research, are coping even today with the problem of body protection (car bodies, that is). Through greater understanding of the chemistry of surfaces, they have developed new paint primers and undercoatings, new rustproofing methods, and special sealers that guard entire car bodies against nature’s corrosive forces—all of which add armor-like protection to Ford-built cars.
From other scientific inquiries will undoubtedly come new materials with protective properties vastly superior to those of today. This is another example of Ford's leadership through scientific research and engineering.
MOTOR COMPANY The American Road, Dearborn. Michigan
PRODUCTS FOR THE AMERICAN ROAD • THE FARM ' INDUSTRY » AND THE AGE OF SPACE
8
The Scholastic
LAETARE MEDAL AWARDED
Psychiatrist in chief at the Institute for Living, Hartford, Conn., and outstanding Catholic layman, Dr. Francis J. Braceland has been announced the recipient of the Laetare Medal for 1962. In announcing the award to the Yale University professor, Reverend Theodore M. Hesburgh stated that Dr. Braceland “throughout his professional life has exemplified the competence of modern medical science and a compassion born of his ancient Christian faith. In these times of prolonged anxieties and tensions, he symbolizes the concern of psychiatry and the Church for those who are troubled in mind and spirit.” Dr. Braceland becomes the first psychiatrist and the eighth physician to receive Notre Dame’s highest honor.
DR. FRANCIS J. BRACELAND
The Laetare Medal, the reality of an idea of Prof. James Edwards, has been awarded annually since 1883. In that time 64 men and sixteen women, Catholic leaders from all walks of life, from soldiers to scientists, artists to industrialists, and statesmen to educators have received the medal. Among them have been such diverse personalities as Civil War general William Rosecrans; philosopher-author Henry F. Brownson; educator and assistant to the Notre Dame President George N. Shuster; and the 1961 recipient, President John Kennedy.
The medal is awarded to outstanding American Catholic laymen by a special committee headed by the Uni
versity’s president. The committee’s selection is announced on Laetare Sunday with the actual presentation arranged for a time and place convenient to the recipient. The presentation date this year has not been announced.
Since becoming a certified psychiatrist in 1938, the 61-year-old Braceland has taught at the University of Pennsylvania, Women’s Medical College of Philadelphia, the University of Minnesota Graduate School, and the Loyola University School of Medicine, where he served as dean. A past president of the American Psychiatric Association, Dr. Braceland has been consulting psychiatrist at the Mayo Clinic, an author in his field, and president of the American Board of Neurology and Psychiatry (the certifying agency for psychiatrists). A onetime assistant to the surgeon general of the Navy, Dr. Braceland served in World War H and was made a rear admiral in the U.S. Navy Medical Corps (Reserve) in 1958.
HAZO IS HERE
This evening at 7:30 Samuel Hazo, a graduate of Notre Dame, will read his poetry in the Science Lecture Hall at St. Mary's.
Mr. Hazo has given frequent lectures and poetry readings. In 1960 he appeared on the program of the annual symposium of the Renascence Society and has lectured at the Convention of the National Council of Teachers of English. He has also given poetry readings to colleges and universities throughout the country.
He has made two series of programs for the National Association of Educational Broadcasters entitled “Poets at Midcentury.” He has published numerous articles on the teaching of English at the collegiate level as well as articles of literary criticism, literary theory, and poetics.
His poems have appeared in Atlantic Monthly, Commonweal, and the University of Kansas City Review. Discovery and Other Poems is his first book and was well received by reviewers.
Professor John Logan has said that, “Hazo is a good practical craftsman and able to make poetry out of situations that would volatilize in the hands of a lesser artist.”
Three characteristics mark Mr.
Hazo’s poetry — strength, astringen-cy, and discipline. He finds his subject matter in the seas, the countryside, and modern warfare. Through all this, Hazo is an unpretentious poet writing unpretentious poetry. He dramatizes courage and compassion until the reader is shaken by both. In a lyrical and lucid style he refracts God’s mercy and love upon tragic elemental figures in grim battles with life, sin, disgrace, and pain.
KEEGAN WITH THE PEACE CORPS
Dr. Frank L. Keegan, assistant dean of the College of Arts and Sciences, has recently joined the staff of the Peace Corps. Since the first of March, Dr. Keegan has been a part-time consultant in the training division of the Peace Corps, and this summer he will take a temporary position with the central office in Washington.
Dr. Keegan’s duties, which will terminate with the opening of school in the fall, entail co-ordinating the physical facilities and staff of seven Washington, D. C., universities who are participating in the Peace Corps program. Four to six hundred volunteers will be trained at these universities in a variety of programs, including study of languages, of the culture and economy of countries where the volunteers will be sent, and of American government.
Dr. Keegan told a Scholastic reporter he was very impressed with the drive, accomplishment, and vitality of the newly formed governmental agency. Noting that the great need of the Peace Corps was teachers and agricultural experts, Keegan said: “There is a possibility that in the future Americans will form the backbone of many African school systems and agricultural service agencies." Dr. Keegan also expressed his wish that qualified Notre Dame students would look into the Peace Corps program and the opportunities it affords. Interested students should contact Jim Wyrsch, 367 Dillon Hall, for further information.
DEAN MEETS WITH PP’S
Dr. Lawrence H. Baldinger, associate dean of the College of Science and head of the Department of Preprofessional Studies, will meet with all preprofessional students who plan to apply to medical or dental schools for the fall, 1963, term. The meeting will take place next Friday evening at 7:30 in 127 NSH.
Dr. Baldinger, who also serves as the preprofessional student advisor at Notre Dame, will outline the proper procedure for making application to
9
April 6, 1962
the professional schools. He will also discuss the Medical College Admission Test to be administered here later in the year.
Only those students who plan to enter a professional school in September, 1963, should attend this meeting.
NORTHWESTERN TAKES TOURNEY
Northwestern University won the Tenth Annual Notre Dame Invitational Debate Tournament for the second year in a row by defeating West Point in the final round last Saturday.
Notre Dame’s team, headed by Chris Lane and Maurice O’Sullivan, missed qualifying for the quarterfinals by three points. Butler College finished third, followed by George Washington which grabbed fourth place by an upset over high-ranked Ohio State.
Northwestern’s Lee Huebner took first place in the individual speaker awards, while Dale Williams from Ohio State finished second. Notre Dame’s next tournament will be late in April at Xavier in Cincinnati.
NEWS BRIEFS
The eighth National Conference of Law Reviews, with the Notre Dame Law School and the editors of the Notre Dame Lawyer as hosts, is being held on-campus today and tomorrow. Speakers for the conference include Burke Marshall, the assistant attorney general in charge of the Civil Rights Division, U.S. Department of Justice; Philip W. Tone, a Chicago attorney; and Virgil W. Peterson, director of the Chicago Crime Commission. The conference will deal largely with the editorial and business problems involved in publishing a collegiate law review.
------o------
Notre Dame art students took a first prize and an honorable mention in recent competition at the first annual Indiana Collegiate Art Salon at Indiana University last week. Gerard “Tony” Bill, an AB senior, was awarded first prize of $50 in the oil painting category for his “Square Motion,” and Brother Joseph Tobin, C.S.C., an AB junior, received honorable mention for his “5:10 Mixer.”
------o------
Edward Fischer, associate professor of communication arts at Notre Dame, has been appointed a juror for the American Film Festival in New York City Apr. 25-28. He is the author of The Screen Arts, a book of standards for motion picture criticism. He also writes a weekly column of film and television criticism for the Ave Maria.
CJF: Tops in Collegiate Jazz
“Make it a CJF Weekend.” Under this theme the University of Notre Dame is presenting its Fourth Annual Jazz Festival today and tomorrow. A total of 22 groups will perform at the festival. Performances for the 12 combos, 11 big bands, and the jazz vocal group, the Indigos, will begin this afternoon, continue tonight, and conclude Saturday afternoon. On Saturday night, the finalists will perform, with the winners receiving their awards.
Selection of the 22 college groups to participate in the Festival were based on taped performances sent to the Festival from schools all over the U.S. Schools represented will include
THE MICHIGAN STATE JAZZ BAND Cool cats here for two-day bash.
such well-known schools as Northwestern University and Michigan State and such less known colleges as Franklin and Marshall, and Henderson State Teachers College of Arkansas. Also present will be the University of Notre Dame Quintet, and North Texas State University Lab Band, last year’s winner both in the jazz combo and the big band class.
The groups will be judged by Henry Mancini, of “Moon River” fame; Quincy Jones, arranger for Mercury Records; Charles Suber, president of the American Music Foundation; Don DeMichael, editor of Downbeat magazine; and Robert Share, administrator of the Berklee School of Music. These men will distribute awards to
the finest jazz group, best big band, and best combo, as well as to the outstanding individual performers.
The collegiate jazz group selected as the over-all winner of the competition will receive a giant loving cup which will serve as a travelling trophy for the winning school each year. Winners will receive scholarships to the Berklee School of Music, and to the Stan Kenton Clinics of the National Stage Band Camp.
The best jazz combo selected by the judges will have a week engagement at the Jazz Gallery in New York. Tentatively it is being planned for the. finest jazz group winner to participate in the International Jazz Festival in
Washington, D.C., later this spring-
The Festival Committee has made plans to speed up the performances and thus make them more enjoyable for the spectators. A red warning light will be placed in a spot conspicuous to the performers. Three minutes before the performances — each to run 20 minutes — are to end, the light will flash, warning the per' formers and cutting short unnecessarily long exhibitions.
Several inducements have been planned to increase attendance at the Festival. Saturday night a $130 Web-cor Stereo Record Player will be awarded as door prize, as well as tickets to the Freshman Formal and Junior Prom.
10
The Scholastic
The Council for the International Lay Apostolate, an organization unique to the Notre Dame campus, will undertake a major program this summer as it sends twenty N.D. students into the lay apostolate field in Latin America. CILA, working under the official sponsorship of the University, has made arrangements for an eight-man team in Peru and a six- and a seven-man team in Mexico. Departure time for the Mexican groups will be early June, with the Peruvian contingent set to leave June 17. All three teams anticipate a midAugust return to the States.
The Peruvian project, first of the three to be conceived, will concern work in Ciudad de Dios, an impoverished village of 10,000 outside the city of Lima. In requesting aid, the Catholic pastor there wrote: “The fact is that we need help and need it urgently.” In answer to his plea, the Peru-bound Notre Darners will assist in the contruction and repair of lowcost housing in the area.
In addition to its physical labor, the Peru group will provide somewhat of a cultural exchange and anticipates meetings and discussions with Peruvians of all walks of life. Toward this end, the Opus Dei House (see Religious Bulletin, Mar. 21 and last week’s Scholastic) in Lima, an affiliate of the University of Lima, has invited the students to participate in a series of conferences between local laymen and students of the University. CILA representatives view this as a significant exchange of views since the Lima school produces many Peruvian leaders. Upon arrival in Peru, the N.D. group will be briefed by the Peruvian-American Cultural Institute, the cultural attache of the U.S. embassy, and the secretary to the papal nuncio.	,
The Rev. Laurence Murphy, a Maryknoll faculty member, will accompany the Peru group as moderator. Father Murphy has been instrumental in launching the project and made the initial contacts with the Yale Catholics Abroad, a branch of the Yale University Newman Club. Through this organization and through foreign students at Notre Dame, the South American contacts were made.
One of the Mexican teams will travel to Aguascalientes, a city 350 miles north of Mexico City. These six will aid in the construction of a diocesan hospital and will form part of the staff of a vocational training school for young Mexicans. In Tacam-baro, 250 miles west of Mexico City in the mountains of Michoacan State, the seven members of the second
CILA SUMMER PROJECT
team will work in the construction and repair of low-cost housing to replace the shacks presently in use. At both sites the students will work closely with the Mexicans. As yet moderators have not been assigned to the particular groups. Both groups in Mexico will found organizations there to work with CILA planning projects for future summers, to expand the program.
Students for both the Peruvian and the Mexican teams were chosen through interviews by a board headed by CILA moderators. Among the qualities sought were motivation, and group compatibility, as well as other “intangibles” found only through interviews. At present Dr. Fredrick Pike of the History Department and
CILA readies Latin American task force. Clergy, students head south for vacation.
Dr. William D’Antonio of the Sociology Department are preparing both groups with briefing sessions on Peruvian and Mexican history and culture. Those unfamiliar with Spanish are receiving practical instruction in the language.
The groups do not expect to make “any profound contribution to the physical development . . . but rather to establish person-to-person relation
ships in depth.” They hope “to help lead Catholic college youth of our country to an awareness of the global nature of their faith.” After their return from ten weeks in the villages, the individual members will speak to many groups on campus and elsewhere in an attempt to create an awareness and responsibility among the American laity for the lay apostolate.
A current fund-raising campaign is attempting to raise the necessary $5000 to finance the groups’ trip. The Mexican team will drive and the Peru group will fly. The money raised will go toward transportation and upkeep, and none of it will be available for individuals’ “expense” money. Individuals must provide for their own । personal expenses and in addition the Peru group must pay its own transportation to Miami, the central takeoff point. CILA is still making solicitations to supplement other sources. Several residence halls on campus have been most generous to date. If sufficient funds are not raised the groups may find it necessary to cut short their stays.
Peru-bound are juniors Bill Moran, Barry Baldwin, Tom Jolie, Tom Schlereth, Phil Fedewa, Brian Boulac,
Tom Bishop, and sophomore Pat Deluhery. The group working in Aguascalientes will be composed of juniors Rich Giloth, Jack Hildebrand, Tom Kapacinskas, John McGroarty, Jack Mattox, Tom O’Dea and Ed Malloy. Heading for Tacambaro are seniors Ed Butler, and Paul O’Bryan, juniors Jim Bachmann, Kelly Kammerer, John Kostishack and Al Kililea and sophomore Bill MacDonald.
April 6, 1962
11
The Notre Dame Bookstore's
SUGGESTED READING LIST No. 7
• THIS WEEK’S FIELD IS HISTORY
A Short History of Russia, by R. D. Charques, Everyman $1.25. “Essential reading for anyone trying to fathom Soviet Russia.” — Edward Crankshaw.
Medieval Cities, by Henri Pirenne, Anchor $.95. A study of the revival of urban life after the centuries of the Dark Ages, and the rebirth of civilization which accompanied that revival.
Great Issues in American History, edited by Richard Hofsladter $1.45 (2 yols.). Documentary selections ranging the major political controversies in American History, with general introduction and headnotes for each selection.
The American Presidency, by Clinton Rossiter, Mentor $.50. This fascinating book traces the development of Presidency from the time of Washington through current times.
Lectures on Modern History, by Lord Acton, Meridian $1.45. One of the most imaginative and controversial of modern historians traces here the history of European thought and politics from the end of Middle Ages through the American Revolution.
The Waning of the Middle Ages, by J. Huizinga, Anchor $.95. A brilliant portrait of the forms of life, thought and art in France at the Dawn of the Renaissance.
The Making of Europe, by Christopher Dawson, Meridian $1.35. For Dawson the Dark Ages was the Age of the Formation of Modern Europe, when its four basic elements, Greek Culture, Roman Organization, Christian Religion, and Barbarian Vitality came together.
All these books are available at NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
FACULTY PURGE REVEALED
Apparently the faculty has recently undergone sweeping revision. At least that is what the Bulletin Board in Nieuwland Science Hall on Monday led us to believe. These are some of the changes reported:
COLLEGE OF SEANCE
F.D.R. III ...............Dean
L. H. Dingbat.........Late Dean
FIZZLES ...........ARITHMETIC
R Avogadro............R Bowtie
Room 6.02 x 1023.........1 Robot
I Grahamcracker ...P A Jama Rev H. J. Bugbear..D R Jeckle D W Junkyard ......Bing Crosbein
Michaelangelo .......P	Nast Cof
D Moron .................R Rotter
A E Newman ........R Tajma Hall
BASKET WEAVING........SHAM ENG G F Daddyo ...........J Rancher
Rev Save Us ..........J Car Er
E L Elelel ...........Aga Kahn
W H Samhill...........E Wonthelm
Gaby Hayes
A Onion .............ASTROLOGY
R Magoo............Rev	Jos Schlitz
P McSewer.............F B Strohs
R Pilljar ............H Heineken
STAY WITH A N.D. MAN
BLUE & GOLD MOTEL
1 BLOCK NORTH OF TOLL ROAD EXIT ON U.S. 31
•
Reservations: CE 4-0136
•
CHUCK SWEENEY, N.D. ’38
LOUIS ANDERSON, N.D. ’38
NICOLA'S
Cracker Crust Pizza
CE 4-6688
Free Delivery to Circle and WNDU Parking lot from 5.-00 P.M. on the hour.
Restaurant in back at 607 No. Michigan
GLEE CLUB CONCERT
The Notre Dame Glee Club will present its annual Spring Concert on Monday at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. Admission will be free.
The Glee Club, under the direction of Prof. Daniel H. Pedtke, will sing the new program prepared for their ; Easter tour. The club has added many new numbers, among them a medley of tunes from hit shows cur- t rently on Broadway. Also featured ! will be “Duo Seraphim,” a composition by the Rev. Carl Hager, C.S.C., I head of the Notre Dame Music De- ! partment.	|
Next on the agenda for the club . is the Easter tour which this year will be to the South. They will ap- ■ pear in Fort Lauderdale and Vero Beach, Fla.; Jackson, Miss.; Cumberland, Md.; Washington, D.C.; and Wilmington, Del. In Washington, they will present a combined concert with Trinity College.
The Glee Club is making plans to attend the Seattle World’s Fair this summer, giving a number of other concerts on the way.
Earlier in the year performances were given at the University of Illinois in connection with that University’s “Dad’s Day,” an event similar to Notre Dame’s Junior-Parent Week End. During the Thanksgiving vacation, the Glee Club was busy in the New York and New Jersey areas, singing for Notre Dame alumni clubs. This semester the Club has made appearances in St. Louis with Maryville College and in Cleveland with Ursuline College.
NEW MEMBERS WANTED
The Commerce Forum is now accepting applications for membership from all freshmen, sophomores, and juniors in the College of Business Administration.
The forum provides discussion of questions which range through the btisiness spectrum. Other activities include banquets and a field trip to some business center.
As is usual, the membership will be limited to 30. All applications should be submitted to the Admissions Committee in 210 Sorin. Included should be a statement revealing reasons for wanting to be admitted, academic average, and a list of college and high school activities participated in. Deadline for the receipt of applications is next Friday-
Please submit all manuscripts for the spring issue of the JUGGLER before Easter vacation. Address manuscripts to Editor of the JUGGLER, Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Scholastic
12
Ant Qnakam.
Some kind of a record was established at Monday’s meeting. The Senate debated a single motion for three hours and for the first time that anyone can remem-ber the Senate chamber was graced with members of the fairer sex. The motion concerned our membership in the NSA (National
Student Organization) and the young women were NSA representatives from St. Mary’s College.
President John F. Kennedy has said, “The National Student Association has splendidly articulated our national ideals and reflected the vigor of our college and university young people. The NSA has behind it years of useful activity and experience.”
The NSA is influential, it is considered to reflect the opinion of the American college student to a degree, and in foreign countries it is the accepted representative of American students. There was no doubt that we should stay in NSA. We have a duty to exert our influence on it. The question Monday night was a matter of practical politics. Should we give our delegation to the summer Congress the power to withdraw from NSA?
Some said this would give us bargaining power. NSA doesn’t want to lose members. If we threaten to withdraw other schools would take note and might make concessions to keep us in.
Kevin Hart was against it. “This will identify Notre Dame with the conservative schools.” Hart said it Would cramp our power and influence. The conservatives “are in the minority, shunned and laughed at.”
Joe Simoni said he thought the Senate had an exaggerated idea of Notre Dame’s influence and that we would get nowhere with a negative approach. He referred to two of Notre Dame’s former Student Body Presidents, “Mr. Shaul and Mr. Keegan are my idea of leaders because they see the need for working within the organization.”
After five attempted amendments and 180 minutes of debate Kevin Hart realizing the need for compromise, proposed a motion giving the delegation the power to withdraw, but only under certain circumstances determined by the Senate previous to each summer Congress. The motion was passed unanimously and the Senate adjourned.
An integral part of Art Graham’s article of last week was omitted. Because the issue raised in Graham’s column raised some important questions, the Scholastic decided to reprint the accidental deletion:
Meece, Forrest, and Simoni have done good, responsible work in their respective commissions this year. Last week end the social commissioner overstepped his bounds. Tickets to the Four Lads Concert were sold at reduced rates to members of Sorin Hall. There was no mention of this at Monday night’s [March 25] meeting.
The fact of the matter is that the social commissioner is able to do whatever he pleases with little or no censure from the Senate. If a commissioner will not take the responsibility of representing the students fairly, the Senate itself must assume the responsibility.
Win your letters in style!
Sharpen up in a cool HIS
SPORT COAT
This featherweight sport jacket gives you lotsofauthority, makes you feel like big. And plenty cool 'cause it's light as a leaf on your shoulders. In washable Du Pont Dacron°polyester blends; also Batiks, Chambrays, Checks, Plaids, Cords, etc. Get yours at stores that know the score... $16.95 to $35.
Photographers for the 1963 DOME are now being selected. Applicants should contact Dave Larsen in 18 Lyons before Apr. 13.
The deadline for Father Hes-burgh’s private library contest is May 4. Entries should be submitted to 356 O'Shaughnessy. The contest is open to all students and first prize is $100.
his
AVAILABLE
AT
GOLDBERG’S
MEN'S STORE
324 S. MAIN ELKHART, IND.
Bm't ««vy H*H...	tHem
•DUPONT TRADE MARK

April 6, 1962
13
SPOILS OF WAR
West Point debaters capture consolation trophy
Chances are, you know that Greyhound fares are less than any other form of public transportation. What you probably don’t realize is how much less. For a pleasant surprise, check the money-saving Greyhound fares below. You’ll see at a glance why it always pays to insist on exclusive Greyhound Scenicruiser Service?..and leave the driving to us!
No other form of public transportation has fares so low. For example:
CHICAGO
One way 9 3.10; Round trip $ 5.60 CLEVELAND
One way $ 8.70; Round trip $15.70 TOLEDO
One way $ 5.25; Round trip $ 9.45 NEW YORK
One way $24.55; Round trip $44.20
PHILADELPHIA
One way $22.60; Round trip $40.70
BOSTON
One way $29.10; Round trip $52.40 PITTSBURGH
One way $13.15; Round trip $23.70 HARRISBURG
One way $19.70; Round trip $35.50 SCRANTON
One way $20.30; Round trip $36.55
All subject to 10% Tax
210 W. MONROE — AT 7-6541
BAGGAGE! You can take more with you on a Greyhound. If you prefer, send laundry or extra baggage on ahead by Greyhound Package Express. It's there in hours...and costs vou less
DEBATE: PAST AND PRESENT AT N.D.
Thirty week ends a year, the Debate Council sends men to represent the academic side of Notre Dame life to colleges and universities around the country. In the course of their travels, these "academic ambassadors” face the best schools in the nation; and through the years, they have maintained one of the finest reputations in the nation, in intercollegiate debate.
Intercollegiate debating began at the University in 1899, when a team met Butler University in Indianapolis. Notre Dame won this match, and went on to win 19 of 20 debates in the next 13 years. This record was ■ rather formidable, considering the small Midwestern school facing such nationally regarded schools as Ohio State and Georgetown, which has the oldest debating group in the* country.
During these early years, debate was on an entirely different level from that which it occupies today. The major activity at Notre Dame was centered on interhall competition, with the best of these teams choosen to compete in intercollegiate meets. The style of debate was different, too. Only two schools would be involved, with three men representing each school. Modern activity sees as many as 60 or 70 schools competing in a single tournament. Between 1900 and 1912, Notre Dame competed in only 20 debates; last year alone, the debate council participated in that many tournaments, in addition to exhibition work.
It was with the end of World War II that Notre Dame began to extend its forensic program to the position if has today. Prof. Leonard F. Sommer, who has directed the team since 1945, began a tremendous expansion of debate activity. The success of this program is attested to by close to 100 trophies in the trophy case in the debate room of the Student Center.
With the present-day concentration on tournament action, many critic8 of debate feel that the activity has ceased to try to provide interesting programs for the public. At Notre Dame, while the council attends s01?., 20 tournaments per year, there is st a very active exhibition progra carried on. Every year, there is ® series of debates against the Unive sity of Pittsburgh before high schoo in the Pittsburgh area. Wayne Sta University also sponsors an exhibit!0 tournament which Notre Dame ® tends each year, where the debate go before business and school group
(Continued to page 36)
The Scholar
14
■
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS ONLY!
CERTIFICATES
BOX
GENERAL ELECTRIC Clock-Radio Sleep-snooze alarm, muted slumber switch
RCA-VICTOR Portable Stereo Phonograph... 4 speeds.' three speakers.
- CAMPUS CLUBS! ORGANIZATIONS! INDIVIDUALS! i
FABULOUS PRIZES!
SAVE VICEROY PACKS
son PACK OR HIPOPEN
Priza
7th
Priza
EMPTY PACK CONTEST NOW!
ENTER THE BIG
8th
3rd
PRIZE
2nd
prize
GET COMPLETE RULES AND TURN IN EMPTY PACKS TO
TURN IN EMPTY PACKS
MAY 12th — Between 8 and 5 Entries accepted this date only
RCA-VICTOR i Console Stereo PRH*" \ Phonograph...
4 speeds, 4 speakers, AM-FM tuner.


LinU/ TH WIN save empty Viceroy Packs 11U II IU III ll... you may win one of these exciting prizes for yourself or your club. The group or individual collecting the most packs wins the first prize. 2nd prize goes to the second largest number of packs collected . . . and so on. Eight exciting prizes ... all to be awarded on this college campus! Plan to enter . . . plan to win. Start saving Viceroy packs today! Ask your friends to help you!
HUDDLE
m’ENTOM 2
YES. we know that our stereos aren't in the Huddle any more! NO, we don't know where they are! BUT we do know that two more just like them will be given away as planned in May.
April 6, 1962
15
ENJOY GAMES LIKE 3-D TIC-TAC-TOE?
Then you’d like computer programming, the new career that makes full use of your logical talents. If you have a keen analytical and logical mind—and want to use it fully after college—then computer programming at IBM may be just the career you've always looked forward to.
A computer programmer examines a business, industrial, or scientific problem and translates it into a special mathematical-logical language for the computer. Working at amazing speeds, the computer can produce answers in minutes, even seconds. Some of these answers might actually take days to produce by other methods.
The problems are interesting and varied. IBM programmers have used computers to predict hurricanes, tell days ahead where satellites will be in space, locate the best factory sites for businessmen, and aid highway engineers in laying out roads.
You naturally have | a better chance to grow with a growth company. |
No previous knowledge of computers is necessary; an intensive training course will equip you for your work. But you should have an analytical and logical turn of mind, and at least two years of college mathematics.
In computer programming you will find that the salaries are excellent, and that the future can be virtually as unlimited as the future of the computer itself. There are ample opportunities for continued education.
The IBM representative will interview on your campus. He will be glad to give you details about this fascinating new profession. Your placement office will make an appointment. All qualified applicants will be considered for employment without regard to race, creed, color or national origin. Or you may write, outlining briefly your background, to: Manager of Technical Recruitment, IBM Corp., Dept. 902,590 Madison Avenue, New York 22, N. Y.

4o^ner
Well, (hie!) back after a brief absence. I wanted to make the deadline last time, but I had such a terrific ha . . . eh, flu case that I just couldn’t make it. I just didn’t want to disappoint all my fans (a last-chance old maid in Oshkosh, a non-conformist in Greenwich Village — he wears Brooks Bros, suits and shaves — and a little boy in Edith, Ga.). But that’s how the hangover hangs.
Enough of strained humor until next week. Probably half the people reading this tripe will fold up this magazine until next week. Who cares if it is read; it’s written, isn’t it?
This week's column will concern itself with a rather recent development in bidding called the Roth-Stone Double. I hope that after this exposition, all concerned will see its superiority and perhaps begin to use it and see for themselves. So with no further ado about nothing, we plunge into the column.
Haven’t you opened the bidding sometime in your career and had someone overcall and his bid passed back to you and you have a holding in his suit that would make a brave man quail? You have an insoluble problem: If you double, you can’t make it stick (it’s for takeout, and what you must do in most cases is either pass or make a bid designed to push him up another level of bidding.) The latter is a dangerous course because too often you run into a similar bad split in your own suit. Or have you had your partner open the bidding and an opponent overcall, holding some incredible length in overcaller’s suit and no outside values? Though an immediate double seems proper, we must remember a principle of bridge which I call the penalty double rule or the Principle of Transportation: To wit, don’t double ’em where they’re at if you can’t double ’em where they’re goin’ to. You have terrific defensive values in a contract in overcaller’s suit, but what if his partner runs to another suit or no-trump? Then partner will (Continued on page 24)
April 6, 1962
Academy Awards. It’s that time of year again. The motion picture industry throws a gala party to recognize the best of the talent of the year 1961. This year they needn’t have bothered — the caliber of the nominees leaves much to be desired. I feel that on an “all-time” scale they would rank very low. Besides quality there is a lack of quantity this year: West Side Story, The Hustler, and Judgment at Nuremberg are omnipresent. Nevertheless, our own Patriot of the Year, Bob Hope, will M.C. the spectacular which can be viewed via TV, the competing industry, on Monday night — ABC. In the meantime, my choices are as follows:
Best Picture: West Side Story.
Best Actor: Paul Newman (The Hustler)
Best Actress: Sophia Loren (Two Women)
Supporting Actor: Jackie Gleason (The Hustler)
Supporting Actress: Fay Bainter (The Children’s Hour)
Worst Movie of the Year: Second Time Around
Of Special Interest: On Saturday, Eleanor Steber, a tremendous soprano, will perform at 8:30 p.m. on the stage of the Morris Civic Auditorium. She is described as a “ . . . dazzling artist and true prima donna.”
Tonight, the Lions Club Travelogue Film Series will present its last filmed junket: Israel, the Rebirth of a Nation, at 8 p.m. in O’Laughlin Auditorium.
The Notre Dame Glee Club will sing in concert at 8 p.m. on Monday. The admission is free; the place: Washington Hall. This is the program before the Easter trip and if it is anywhere as good as the concert sung last week end it is by all means worth attending.
The Student Faculty Film Society will present a special: The Seventh Seal by Ingmar Bergman ... on April 8. That activity will be co-sponsored with the Junior Class.
The great Polish film, The Knights of the Teutonic Order, is coming to the State Theater, after winning acclaim in Europe and the United States. This three-hour drama, based on actual events of 550 years ago, is an accurate screen presentation of a novel by Henryk Sienkiewicz, who also wrote Quo Vadis? The film’s great climax comes in the 30-minute battle scene on a scale never before attempted. The State will show the film next Wednesday and Thursday.
The Avon. Rocco and His Brothers is a motion picture designed for women. It is the story of a “courageous,” if protective, mother who moves her helpless brood of five grown sons to the big city of Milan where they caper in metropolitan mire and muck. Vincenzo wants to marry and leave the nest, Simone falls into physical love with Nadia — a prostitute, Rocco falls into platonic love with the same girl, Ciro doesn’t like anything, and Luca, who is the youngest, plays cards all day in the gutter. But how are you going to keep them down on the farm after they’ve seen the Appian Way? So, Rocco prizefights for a living and the web of city living ends all in the most grievous tragedy — so that Luca is retrieved from his gutter and sent back to the country before he catches wise to the big city ways. An Italian melodrama. Alain Delon, Renato Salvatore, Annie Giradot and Katina Paxinou star.
Colfax. Pinocchio goes into a second week. Obviously a big hit with kids of all ages, the little wooden head with his lie-detector nose will bring more coins into the Disney coffers this release. It isn’t as bad as all of that — though a little more sentimental than Road Runner cartoons. Don’t you remember when you ate up Uncle Scrooge comic books and Disneyland? If you still do,
(Continued on page 23)
17
CRITIQUE
JUGGLER POEMS
by CARL WIEDEMANN
18
The Scholastic
Writers of prose fiction and of poetry have long maintained that it is their prerogative to communicate not the known but only the knowable, and no one will deny them this privilege and calling. But a stipulation can and should be made it seems. Before a writer or poet sets out to approach the unknown but knowable in an obscure or unintelligible manner he should determine whether what he has to say is of any importance or significance. The current coterie of writers contributing to, or monopolizing, the Juggler seems to be producing abstruse literature about nothing important or involving concepts they are unable to handle.
There are three traditional causes of obscurity in literature and the Juggler contributors make good use of all three — obscurity of personal symbolism, which is utterly impossible to crack, obscurity of extensive references to symbols derived from private reading, and obscurity from overam-bitious compression. In addition to these devices for rendering a work unassailable, the Juggler regulars employ impossibly disarranged and convoluted syntax and grammar, which eliminates any possibility of literal meaning and makes any attempt to find the symbolic or extraliteral meaning pure guesswork.
There are many advantages for the author in turning out inscrutable epigrams. He is preserved from “the indignity of being understood.” No one can criticize what the author has done because no one aside from a few of his intimates can apprehend the object of literary efforts or what he is saying about it. No one really understands what he is talking about, least of all most probably the author himself. No one in the Juggler has yet presumed to publish a key to his writings, but it would seem to be in the offing.
Another advantage of unclarity is that anyone who dares to criticize the work or to say that it is not intelligible can be told that he simply doesn’t understand it, or has not made
proper efforts at understanding it. The reader is supposed to be at fault for his failure to comprehend.
The great disadvantage in practiced opaqueness is that no reader wants to labor at solving poetic anagrams by an unrecognized and uncelebrated author. We are, it might be argued, willing to go through the mental and linguistic gymnastics often required to understand e.e. cummings, T. S. Eliot, or Dylan Thomas. But we have the reassurance that beneath an enigmatic and refractory exterior, or often because of it, there will be something of value. With the Juggler writers we have no such guarantee and only the faintest hope that there will be something we wish to hear or have beneath or beyond the murk. Writers who are very much amateurs and very obscure will be most often unread and, except in the case of the Juggler, unpublished. They will find few admirers or listeners for their insular verse.
The situation on the Juggler is very nearly an analogue to what was until recently the situation in English letters. Poets were writing about poetry for other poets instead of about reality for people. Since poets were disdainful of talking to people, people understandably turned their back on the poets. Students at Notre Dame have turned their backs on the Juggler clique because its members wish to talk in print only to themselves, and they will probably continue to avert their interest until the clique decides to follow the trend in poetry and resume conversation with the rest of humanity. There exists also the prevalent practice of embracing a favorite author and seeing the world not as it is but in that author’s terms which is easy to do but which produces stupefaction of whatever “creative vision” the tyro-author may possess.
It is difficult to believe that the Juggler represents the quintessence of student writing at Notre Dame. If it does, the situation may be hopeless. It seems more likely that the Juggler represents a conspiracy in restraint of creativity. It also seems that the selfperpetuating oligarchy of the Juggler both brings about this stricture and inhibits the work of its actually talented members because of false conceptions about and false standards of good writing. Good poetry, it appears,
is close to mystical experience with strong overtones of quasi-religion. It is hard to see how writers can reach out for cosmic meaning when they don’t seem to be able to grasp and express the world about them. In the poems which are understandable, such basics as control of language and appropriate imagery are lacking. Striving to charge a poem with eternal verities in esoteric language before one can give truly artistic expression to a merely significant thought, idea, or experience in understandable language that will fascinate the mind, ear, and emotions—this is the same as trying to write blank verse before one can create rhyme or rhythm, trying to paint in expressionist style before one can draw a figure, trying to run before one can walk. By the standard terms for poetic discussion the results may be poems because of the mere format, but they are not poetry, nor are their authors poets.
The most provoking aspect of the situation with the Juggler is the pretentious attitude taken by editors and contributors. A college literary magazine should help its contributors determine whether or not they are creators, and few people are. The individuals holding sway on the Juggler are definitely not creators, a fact which is fairly obvious to everyone not associated with the Juggler. They are not creators, nor can they hope to be until they rectify their ideas of what is art. They have tried, probably very hard, to create, and they have failed and should give way to others who wish to try. In their pretentiousness they assume that they have proven themselves creative artists — which they are not — and continue to publish on this false premise. For the most part they are muddled thinkers producing muddled art. The Juggler writers do not necessarily need the ax, only Occam’s Razor.
The stories in the Juggler are only adequate college fiction; the essays are usually exercises in semantic aberration, playing with words, or worse, playing with ideas that are too large; the poems are generally insufferable — incoherent, stultified, stuffy, and dim.
If the winter issue is poor, will the spring be far behind? If it is, the editors of the Juggler should consider partial refunds on subscriptions, for the subscribers are being defrauded, paying for the best campus literature and getting far less. Otherwise disgruntled readers may respond to Michael Murray’s plea —
“ . . . Quickly,
Before the slaughter, Kill us!”
19
April 6, 1962
by JOHN O'HALA
When Youth Runs On The Wild Side
by DICK GIBBS and BRIAN BARNES
Now is the time of year when many high school seniors are trying to decide where they should go to college. This is the season when we may hear the following monologue. This should help many to understand the parents’ position in facing the “Notre Dame question.”
“Hey, Mom, can I go to Notre Dame? They don’t allow you to have cars there and it’s about 1500 miles away, so you go into the club car on the train and really get plotzed for the whole trip. When we get there, Mom, it’s going to be great. You know what our motto for Notre Dame is, Mom? It’s ‘Rum, Romanism, and Rebellion!’ Isn’t that great? We’ll get to go to those great Notre Dame mixers with the beautiful girls from St Mary’s. Gee, Mom, I can hardly wait. The way you pick up a girl is, you wait until you see some decent looking ones, and then you run up to them and yell, ‘Hey, there’s going to be a big party next Saturday afternoon,’ and then you give them the room number. Then the girls come around, see, Mom?
“After you’ve been at good old N.D. for a few weeks, you begin to enjoy the wonderful night life in South Bend. The bars really don’t care if you’re twenty-one or not, and besides you can always find a senior who will sell you his ID or a Fine Arts man to touch up your own for only a dime. That’s pretty cheap, don’t you think, Mom? You also can have parties right in your own hall. Sometimes the rector comes around and tells you to knock it off, but you just take him and throw him in the shower. I guess that would show him, wouldn’t it, Mom? You do a lot of walking around down there, too. You
know, like you want to boast about how your hall has more booze in it than any place else. Then when the other guys come in at 12, you all sit around and listen to what they say they did on the top floor of the Student Center. Everybody wants to tell a bigger story than the next kid, so you keep walking and looking for guys and talking it up.
“You can’t stomach much of the food, but it’s all right because you drink a lot. Hey, Mom, can I go?”
Parents may not know many of the facts sketched above; but they must have some idea that thousands of immature young people, gathering for a brief time in a town far from home, are hardly likely to spend those hours plaiting daisy chains or reading the improving poems of Alfred Lord Tennyson to each other. So the question that reverberates through scores of college towns, and is echoed in a hundred police stations, is this: Why do the parents let their youngsters go? Are they naive, or don’t they care, or has there been a breakdown of discipline in the home, or what, if anything, is at the bottom of it?
Scholastic researchers have been asking this simple question: “Why do parents let their youngsters go to this place?” It was quickly discovered that you don’t really get answers. You get pious excuses. On the other hand, you would hear from a student: “My
At this Easter season — as in all seasons — not all old people are discriminating in their choice of reading matter. Millions of them are devouring the commercialized sensationalism of tabloid newspapers, hyper-sexed slicks for middleaged men, and — women’s magazines. Constant critics of youth use such “reporting” for say-any-thing criticisms that often end in the vulgarity and viciousness of “foul” and slanted attacks on youth — a phenomenon of our times.
folks are filthy rich and don’t really give a damn where I go.” “Our parents let us do things we sometimes don’t really want to do,” said one student. “My girl friend went to St. Mary’s. She was a very staid person, but was recently seen twisting wildly in the Rathskeller, and another time she was campused for taking a shower without a bathing suit.”
“My father wanted me to go to Harvard, but I acted indignant, and then he looked at me sort of funny and said, ‘That does it; you go to Notre Dame.’ ”
Many students feel that a number of youngsters who don’t really want to go are subjected to unbearable pressures. “If y°u object, you are considered unCatholic or something,” one said. Thus at bingo parties and bake sales the taunt of “Heretic!” is heard and forces some youngsters into an anti-intellectual conformity.
Obviously, there has been a breakdown of discipline in °ur time. This year the students have electricity at night! The Administration is living in agonized fear, under the totally false idea, that to discipline a child will mess him up psychologically and turn him into a typical indoctrinated, unquestioning Catholic or at least a tensed-up neurotic.
22
The Scholastic
'In Town'
(Continued from page 17) that Pinocchio is for you. (Pinocchio: 1:25, 3:25, 5:25, 7:25, 9:25)
Granada. The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse has had such a variety of criticism — from excellent to very poor — that I am anxious to see it and judge it for myself. It is a remake of the 1920, Rudolph Valentino version — only it is brought somewhat up to date in that it concerns itself with the Second, rather than the First, World War. Vincent Ibanez wrote the original book, John Gay wrote the adaptation. Glenn Ford and Ingrid Thulmin have a wrong-type relationship which goes to split Ford’s big Argentinian family. Lee J. Cobb is the patriarch and appears but briefly. Yvette Mimieux plays Ford’s sister who involves herself with the French Resistance. It is, altogether, a remarkable picture about Paris during
the war and even if Ibanez would never recognize it — I’m interested in seeing it
(Horsemen: 1, 3:20, 6:40, 9)
River Park. Eve Wants to Sleep will be the feature at the Mishawaka playhouse on evenings from Wednesday to Friday and including a matinee during the week. . . .
The State. Two Academy Award Nominees: Fanny and Splendor in the Grass. Both have been in South Bend before but have been returned to celebrate the great awards mentioned above. The first, Fanny, is a very romantic and sentimental tale about a girl in love, naturally, on the sunny southern coast of France, naturally. It isn’t the musical version, but it is a very warm and entertaining show nevertheless. The other show, Splendor in the Grass has been reviewed in this column before: it is a rather callous presentation of a very pathetic family situation — suicides, illicit
love, that sort of thing — which is presented as if every family has a skeleton in its closet . . . and leaves you with the taste that you are unusual if you are normal. The acting is well done, however, and that is why it is being nominated for an award. A terrific double bill and worth every cent. ...
(Features: 1-5-9)
On Campus. Again no word as to the Washington Hall feature ... it will be publicized on the bulletin boards, however. Nor are there any campus clubs reporting.
by John McGuire
THE MEANING OF MARRIAGE
“The Meaning of Marriage" will be the subject of a lecture by Dietrich von Hildebrand, an internationally known philosopher, in the Engineering Auditorium this afternoon at 4:15. The lecture is being sponsored by the Academic Commission.
LABOR-MANAGEMENT CLUB
The Labor-Management Club of Notre Dame was the recipient of the 1961 “Outstanding Club Award” in the College of Business Administration. This award is presented annually by the Commerce Activities Council, in conjunction with a faculty board of judges, to one of the five clubs that function within the College. The clubs are judged in light of how well they carry through their individual educational, social, and service goals.
Labor-Management President, Louis Andrew from Fond du Lac, Wise., feels that his club has a very good chance of repeating as this year’s outstanding club in the Business Admin-lstration School. A good deal of support was given to Andrew by the club’s new moderator, Dr. Salvatore . Bella, a well-respected labor specialist in both the business and AB colleges. Dr. Bella took over the *n°derator position from Dr. Richard Lyon who recently returned to private law practice in Chicago. Andrew ^as also very ably assisted by his fellow officers in making this academic year a very successful and beneficial year for the Labor-Management Club. This year’s other officers were: vice-president, Joe
April 6, 1962
Baroody from Alexandria, Va.; treasurer, Dave Thomas from Evanston, Hl.; and the secretary and representative to the Commerce Activities Council, Cliff Angers from Detroit, Mich.
Andrew feels that three things seem to stand out in the club’s list of activities for this past year. They are a successful membership drive, an agenda of expert labor-management speakers and guests, and an extremely worthwhile field trip.
Last year’s club was composed of nearly all seniors; but under the direction of Membership Chairman Cliff Angers, the club put into effect a highly successful membership drive. Over fifty upperclassmen joined the club during its first meeting in October. This turnout exceeded all past membership marks for the club. A great majority of this year’s members are sophomores and juniors, providing a strong nucleus for a successful club in the future.
In the list of speakers for the year were such labor relations experts as C. M. MacMillan, vice-president of industrial relations for Studebaker; Robert F. Fisher, director of labor relations for the Schlitz Brewing Co. and top management representative
for all brewers during industry-wide bargaining; and Chester Ralston of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, who was quite instrumental in the recent Studebaker and Oliver Corporation settlements.
President Andrew teamed up with Field Trip Chairman Larry Morgan from Oak Park, Mich., to make this year’s major field trip to New York City one of the finest ih the club’s history. A great deal of insight into the real problems of labor-management relations was afforded the club members as they visited and held open discussions with key personnel at I. B. M., General Electric, the International Ladies Garment Workers’ Union, and the 6000 employee New York Times.
Still on tap for the remainder of the semester are the election of new officers on Tuesday, April 10, a banquet in May, and the final meeting for this year on May 16, featuring Mr. John Thomas, the Director of Industrial Relations for the United Biscuit Co.
President Lou Andrew feels that his club will be in strong contention for this year’s Best Club Award when it is presented by the Commerce Activities Council on the night of May 3.
23
DRkW TURBOW
\OPTOMETRIST
EYEGLASSES REPAIRED
CONTACT LENSES
INQUIRIES INVITED
EYE EXAMINATION
OLTVEH HOTEL 207 W. Washington—Phone CE 4-5777
You Always Get a Square Deal at Breen's
•	WATCHES	• DIAMONDS
•	RADIOS	• SHAVERS
Expert Watch Repairing ★
SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO N.D. STUDENTS BREEN’S Jeweler
325 S. Michigan St. Phone AT 7-363Q
'kibitzer'
(Continued from page 17) assume, and rightly, that you have a certain amount of defensive value outside and will double any subsequent contract if holding justifies it, and since you often have no fit with partner, you watch them make overtricks in a doubled contract or go down for a few at your own. As in the first instance, you must pass and hope for the best.
Besides these examples, there are a
number of hands in which you hold about eight points, no length in partner’s suit or that of overcaller’s, but your suits are not sufficient strength or length for you to take any action over the overcall. With such a weak hand and no support for partner, you probably will not be heard because the overcaller is likely to be supported and partner is unlikely to go on his own hook with you keeping quiet. There is something to be said for a bid that would allow you to describe your hand and permit your side to
arrive a contract which neither of you separately would suspect.
These are three instances in which the old-fashioned penalty double just fails. To remedy this, Alvin Roth and Tobias Stone made a careful scrutiny of the problem and arrived with a solution which bears their name, the Roth-Stone double; Stone and Roth, as you recall from a previous issue, are the pair who invented the unusual no-trump overcall. Simply put, it is the reverse of the ordinary double: An immediate double is for take-out
and a pass is for penalty. When partner opens a suit and there is an intervening overcall, a double promises a rather weak hand, good support for the outside suits, and possibly mild support (a doubleton or so) for • opener’s suit. Over an ordinary 1-over-1 or 2-over-l overcall (1H - IS or 1H - 2C) doubler should have 7-10 points, 4-card support in the unbid suits and possibly mild support in partner’s suit. Over a jump overcall (1H-3D), the requirements go up to ten or so points and a defensive trick.
SIC FLICS
KING
IGAI^ETTES
“He has your ears, Bernie.”





21 GREAT TOBACCOS MAKE 20 WONDERFUL SMOKES!
AGED MILD, BLENDED MILD - NOT FILTERED MILD-THEY SATISFY
The Scholastic
24
A pass of an overcall asks, then, one and only one thing of partner: If an old-fashioned penalty double were made, would partner with his holding have stood for the double? If he wouldn’t have, he simply passes or bids a suit; a double indicates that he can stand the double if partner so desires ; in other words, partner doubles for you.
If we think a minute, this bid solves all of the previous problems. We can show partner our approximate strength and describe our distribution with one stroke when we double, partner can leave the double stick if his own holding warrants it (the first example), or we can double for penalty with nothing but trump with a great deal more safety by making a Roth-Stone penalty pass. This bid pays extra dividends for people who psyche frequently; partner can double for penalty without committing himself before your bid is validated as real or psyche. The strong hand never reveals itself in a psyche, often causing the opposition to misplay the contract.
I hope all of this has been clear; if it has not, I would appreciate criticism in the form of letters or personal comment, because I consider this an important bid.
—Wally
Driving to
Fort Lauderdale
this Spring?
you up to $30.00
(more than enough to cover gas and tolls)
All you have to do is tow back an empty U-Haul trailer. For information call 972-6017 when you get to Fort Lauderdale.
A Range of Issues of
THE REVIEW OF POLITICS
and a Select List of Books of Enduring Merit
AT PRICES SO LOW WE DARE NOT LIST THEM HERE
April 11-12	10:00-12:00
1:00- 4:00
THE REVIEW OF POLITICS
Farley Hall Basement
April 6, 1962
25
Live it up with __	.
a Lively One Ffom rom i
«4u
^KJCM
New Fairlane 500 Sports Coupe Here’s a hint of sprint, and morel
PRODUCTS OF
Check out those new bucket seats; the smart console in between; the washable, color-keyed vinyl upholstery. Up front, you can have a scorching new power-plant—the Challenger 260 V-8. All systems are GO in the Lively Ones from Ford. See them at your Ford Dealer's, the liveliest place in townl


vtasa&ssSsii
New Galaxie 500/XL Fun it up in an XL hardtop, or sun it up in the convertible. Both are brand new—and feature soft bucket seats with Thunderbird-type console in between. Storm out with up to 405 Thunderbird V-8 horses, reined by a quick, all-business 4-speed stick shift. When studies stop—GOI
O,.uu^m
*VJ ,i **•$
»,j»uw(u




New Falcon Sports Futura Talk about having a fast balll This compact crowd-pleaser scores with bucket seats up front... a snappy console ... wall-to-wall carpets . . . quicksilver maneuverability ... prodigious economy and a Thunderbird-type roof (vinyl-covered if desired). Isn't there a Falcon Sports Futura in your future?

MOTOR COMPANY
The Scholastic
26
“Less Material, More Spirit” by MIKE LIND
as told to BOB CHIAPPINELLI
I’m looking forward to a good year next year, one in which we at least better this season’s record.
Our big problem seems to be depth, especially in the line. The first string line of Goberville and Simon at end, Burke and Humenik at tackle, Bitsko and Lehmann at guard and Hoerster at center has looked real good so far in practice. I think Hoerster has really come along for us.
This top line can be as good offensively as last year’s line, which, in my opinion, was the finest line in the nation. It’s a question whether they can be as strong defensively as the men they are replacing, but there’s a great spirit of togetherness in this group and this could carry them through.
After this first string you run into a lot of inexperience, and this is where the depth problem comes up. There isn’t necessarily a great dropoff in ability in the second string, just a lack of the real game experience which is so important.
The Old-Timers Game should put some real game pressure on these inexperienced men and on the freshmen. So far the freshmen have been separated from the rest of the varsity but there seem to be several of them who can help us.
The backfield isn't as set as the line has been, and naming a first string would be tough right now. Tom
MacDonald has looked real good at one halfback but he probably will be pressed by a freshman, Ron Bliey. On the other side Paul Costa and Denny Phillips have been alternating. Another freshman, Don Hogan from Chicago, and Lionel Rodgers have looked good as halfbacks this spring.
Joe Maxwell, a fullback who was hurt last year, has been doing real well in drills lately. At quarterback, Daryle Lamonica has the edge. He is much more confident now, and I think his passing has improved 100-fold. He has been hitting his receivers more consistently, and even the way in which he. is putting the ball out there for them has improved.
I don’t anticipate any great increase in the number of passes thrown next year. All we need is a little more consistency in the ones we do throw. When we did have a consistent passing attack, such as in the Purdue game, we won the ball game. It should be the same next year because we have a good consistent ground attack and only need a little passing help to win.
Our pass defense, which fell apart in the last two games, should be better. We have a good setup with two basic types, the man-to-man and the zone, which are used by almost all the colleges. We also have good personnel back there, boys who have worked together before and are familiar with the setup. Because things
went so bad in the last few games, we will concentrate more on the pass defense and it should be strong next year.
I’m looking forward to the Old-Timers Game. The graduating seniors really want to beat us. The past few years have been frustrating to all of us and the seniors were really frustrated by this past season. Every one of them thought that we had the material to go all the way to a 10-0 season.
They would like to go out with a bit of glory, and a win in the Old-Timers game would give it to them. Most of the seniors have been working out for the past week or so, and with Johnny Lattner, Tom Carey, Ralph Gugliemi, George Haffner and Mo Pottios supposedly coming back, this team will have as good material as any team we will meet next season.
A win in this game would be a fine boost for the varsity. You have to start building confidence and a winning spirit somewhere and I know that the confidence gained from a win in this game would carry over into next season’s schedule.
As far as beating any one team next year, I personally would like to beat Michigan State and Iowa. Our team has a job to do next season. We know that we don’t have as much material as the 1961 team but we do have great spirit.
Last year everyone knew what he could do but everyone did his job individually. There was no real spirit of togetherness, like Navy, for instance, had. Next year’s team is going to have that spirit.
I think that we have enough talent to come up with two real good teams plus a few other players who can fill in at some of the positions on the first two teams. This should be enough to give us a good year and to start us back to a point where Notre Dame is consistently in the nation’s top 20.
27
April 6, 1962
Progress Report:
THE LINEUP
by JOE KUHARICH as told to TERRY WOLKERSTORFER
With the Old-Timers Game only a week away, we feel that we’ve accomplished nearly all we had planned at this stage of spring practice.
During this “tempering” phase of spring drills, the stress has been almost entirely on the fundamentals of offense and defense — blocking and tackling. The drills have been designed not only to teach these fundamentals, but to let the coaches evaluate the ability of each player in these basic areas of the game, and his progress.
Among our veterans, several have shown definite progress, including Ed Hoerster, Tom Goberville, Dennis Murphy, Jack Simon, and Clay Stephens. And at tackles, where we have little experience, Dave Humenik, Ed Burke, Jack Cullen, and Marty Olosky have become much shrewder.
At left end, Jack Simon is our number one man, followed by Clay Stephens; Brian Boulac was definitely third until he was hurt and we filled in with Steve Kolski. Across the line at right end, the top three spots are filled by Tom Goberville, Dennis Murphy, and Jim Sherlock, in that order. Jim Kelly, of course, is being withheld from contact.
At left tackle we’re going with Dave Humenik, Jack Cullen, and George Bednar; at right tackle it looks like Ed Burke, Marty Olosky, and Nick Etten.
We’ll have Mickey Bitsko at left guard and Bob Lehmann on the right. Behind Bitsko will be Wayne Allen and Greg Wood; behind Lehmann, Mike DiCarlo and Scotty Vomero.
Ed Hoerster will hold down the center spot, backed up by Bill Burns and John Slafkosky.
The quarterback situation is still very fluid, with Daryle Lamonica, Frank Budka, Bill Pfeiffer, and Norb Rascher pretty much alternating.
At left halfback, Tommy MacDonald is on top, followed by Chuck O’Hara and Ed Rutkowski. At the righthalf spot we have Paul Costa and Denny Phillips. Frank Minik was also in the running until he was hurt, and since his injury we’ve filled the gap with ex-quarterback Wayne Zda-nowicz and Lionel Rodgers.
With Bill Ahern hurt, we have Mike Lind, Gerry Gray, and Scotty Maxwell at fullback.
There’s still competition for jobs, and I think six or seven freshmen may break into the three-deep lineup.
28
The Scholastic
April 6, 1962
29
Track
Notre Dame’s undefeated shuttle-hurdle relay team, one of the top quartets in the country, will be the sole representative of the Irish track team in the Texas Relays at Austin today and tomorrow.
The Irish foursome has won in the Michigan State Relays and the Western Michigan Relays, by identical :29.8 times and with identical personnel — Ed Kelly, Pete Whitehouse, Jerry O’Connor, and John Mulrooney. In the outdoor relay, each man runs 120 yards of the 480-yard distance, arid must dear ten hurdles. The shuttle hurdlers will make their final group appearance at the Drake Relays.
Economics Major with Fine Arts Styling
RUGBY
Notre Dame’s newest athletic team, the 15-man rugby squad, travels to St;* Louis this week end for a match with the top ranked unit in the country.— the St. Louis Bombers. The Bombers, composed of most of the best players in the Midwest, have not been scored upon this season. St. Louis University hosts Notre Dame’s second team in the other game.
This past week end the Irish finished a respectable third against seasoned opposition in the Virginia Commonwealth Tournament. The Irish lost a heartbreaker to Yale, one of the top units in the East, in the opener, and then tied seasoned Virginia.
PROFILE:
chuck o’hara
With the graduation to the Old-Timers’ ranks of starting halfbacks ! Angelo Dabiero and George Sefcik, Irish fans can anticipate a tough ! scramble for the top halfback posi- i tions. Among the top contenders is j Charles Robert O’Hara, who has been i a squad member for two years, but j has not yet won a monogram. Why? ( Not from lack of ability, but from I injuries.
O’Hara is a talented 6-1, 190-pound ■ 1 junior who has showed flashes of j brilliance when not injured. The best ' example was his 47-yard scamper ‘ over right tackle for the winning touchdown in the Notre Dame-Pittsburgh game last fall.
A Ridley Park, Pa., resident, O’Hara played his high school football at St. James high near Philadelphia, where he earned six letters in football, basketball, and track; he ’ was All-Catholic in football, and was also a championship hurdler.
This spring Chuck has been fighting for the starting left half spot with speedy Tommy MacDonald and veteran sometime-quarterback, sometime-halfback, Ed Rutkowski. Although O’Hara was first team early in the practice period, he was sidelined by a minor injury before last Saturday’s scrimmage, and MacDonald ran wild, scoring four touchdowns. So once again Chuck O’Hara faces an uphill fight for a starting berth, and will definitely have to break his injury jinx if his bid is to be successful. If he makes it, watch for offensive fireworks.
—Bob Scheffing
This one goes to the head of the class—with the lowest wagon price in the U. S., the highest honors for top gas mileage, and the longest years of high resale value among all compacts. That’s the Rambler American Deluxe 2-Door Wagon for you. And when you consider its clean, crisp styling that lives so smartly with the years (we don’t make drastic changes merely for the sake of change), you really have a good and handy thing going for you. Try it on all counts— at your Rambler dealer’s.
RAMBLER
American Motors Means More for Americans
30
The Scholastic
BASEBALL
Coach Jake Kline and the Irish nine open their 21-game schedule Tuesday with an encounter against the Boilermakers of Purdue at Lafayette.
Cold weather has hampered spring practice severely. Since no pitchers are expected to be ready to go a full game by opening day, a rotational system will be used whereby each pitcher will hurl three or four innings at a stretch.
Purdue will meet the Irish on the heels of a southern trip during spring vacation which will give the Boilermakers the edge, at least in experience. Because of the poor spring training conditions, Coach Kline has yet to decide his Tuesday lineup but probable starters are:
First base — Rich Rusteck or Ed Naspinski.
Second base—George Sefcik.
Shortstop—Rich Gonski.
Third base—Jim Woolwine or John Matthews.
Left field—Dave Hanson.
Center field—Bill Brutvan.
Right field—Jim Stouffer or John Counsell.
Catcher—Walt Osgood.
Pitcher —Mickey Walker or Paul Petitclair.	.
After the Purdue game, the Irish return home to face Indiana on the 13th and 13th, then embark on a Midwest Easter vacation tour. A rewarding ’62 season, which pits Notre Dame against such teams as Western Michigan, Michigan, Ohio State, and Ohio University, depends, as Coach Kline put it, “on the shape of our pitchers and “a lot of hard work."
Tennis
In the first match of the 1962 season, Notre Dame’s tennis team will host Bradley University at one p.m. tomorrow. ■
Coach Tom Fallon, in his sixth year with the tennis team, summed up this season’s prospects like this: “It will be more or less a guessing year.”
The first six for the Braves match should be seniors Maury DeWald from Fort Wayne, Ind., and Jim Whelan of Ridgewood, N.J.; juniors Joe Brown of Seattle and Jim Bemis of Omaha; and sophomores Skip Davidson of New York City and Bob Fitzgerald of Winnetka, Hl.
Like the golf team, the tennis team will face one of the toughest schedules in recent years. During May, Notre Dame will play 12 teams in 19 days, including Michigan State, Ohio State, Marquette, Purdue, Northwestern, and Iowa.	.
Soccer
Notre Dame’s soccer team, headed by new captain Bob Dubois, is now conducting spring practice in preparation for next fall’s ambitious eight-game schedule.
At present, plans call for three spring exhibitions. The South Bend Hungarians will provide the opposition in one game while Washington University, possessor of an 11-1-1 record last fall, will furnish the opposition in a charity game in Sikeston, Mo., on May 6. The Irish will be up for this match since Washington drubbed them in a game played early last season.
...plus excellent summertime earning opportunities for NOTRE DAME MEN
Here is a threefold opportunity to make this summer vacation the most profitable and valuable you have ever spent:
1.	Qualify for the $1,000 Electrolux Regional Scholarship Award, offered by the Electrolux Corporation to help you meet tuition expenses during the coming academic year.
2.	Many men are earning up to $200 a week and more duringthesummermonths. This same opportunity is available to you.
3.	Gain valuable sales and business experience in one of America's most successful sales organizations. This experience will be of value to you throughout your lifetime.
For full information on the Scholarship Award and to apply for your summertime earning opportunity, phone or write to: Mr. J. A. Rubino, Regional Sales Manager, Dept. 17, Electrolux Corporation, 819 Busse Highway, Park Ridge, III.—or consult the Yellow Pages of your telephone directory for the nearest Electrolux Branch office.
(The Regional Scholarship Award is available only to college students employed in the Electrolux Midwestern Region.)
The final skirmish is scheduled to take place at the halftime of the annual Old-Timers football game. The squad, now numbering a healthy 40 members, will probably be divided for the 15-minute battle.
Prospects for next year are extremely good, with nine of the top eleven returning. Only Captain Joe Echelle and Charlie Wong will be departing in June.
Interest in the sport is apparently growing, as evidenced by the large number of candidates, especially freshmen, and it is hoped that the sport will gain full varsity status within the next few years, under new coach Ralph Torella.
April 6, 1962
31
NABICHT CAFETERIA
★ 1415 Lincolnway West AAA Approved Cafeteria ★
FREE PARKING
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist •
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES HUED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
LET VITALIS® KEEP YOUR HAIR NEAT ALL DAY WITHOUT GREASE! /
Keep the oil in the can. In your hair, use Vitalis with V-7®, the h -y * greaseless grooming discovery. Fights embarrassing dandruff, prevents dryness—keeps your hair neat all day without grease. V 1 ■
Available at
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
7
Golf
Another spring sport makes its debut this Saturday when the golf team takes on Western Michigan’s Broncos in a 36-hole match. Starting time for the annual match, which the Irish walked away with last year, is 8:30 a.m.
Leading the Burke Course boys in their 25 match schedule is senior captain Tom Grace, two-time monogram winner from Lathrup, Mich. Backing him up and probable starters tomorrow are Bill Busemeyer, Bob Ferrel, Pete Bisconti, Al Highducheck, and Skip Vaughan. Busemeyer and Highducheck are seniors, Vaughan a soph and the other two juniors.
The Rev. Clarence Durbin, C.S.C., in his first year as golf coach, will employ nine men tomorrow in hope of starting this season off well, as Father Holderith did in the past. Father Durbin is no stranger to winning golf as his record of 146 wins, 30 losses and three ties at Portland University attest.
WRESTLING
by TOM FALLON
Notre Dame Wrestling Coach
Two tactical mistakes in the Big League of College Wrestling short circuited popular Ed Rutkowski’s hopes for a crack at the NCAA 191-pound crown last week at Stillwater, Okla.
Ed was neither outfought nor outclassed in his first appearance in an NCAA championship tournament.
Rutkowski drew stocky Matt Sanzone, New England heavyweight champion from Springfield College, as his first opponent.
This one was a typically cautious heavyweight match with both men ■ respecting each other’s strength so that no takedowns were scored and the round ended 0 to 0.
Rutkowski won the toss and elected the top position at the start of the second round. After a few seconds under control, the sturdy Sanzone managed to sit out and Ed made his first mistake. Instead of letting his man escape for one point, Rutkowski tried to hold on and was reversed for two points. Ed escaped immediately to make the score two to one with about two minutes left in the second round.
Once on his feet, Ed started after the important 2-point takedown and therein made his second and most costly mistake.
In an attempt to apply a cradle hold from a standing position, Rut- _ kowski made himself vulnerable to the shorter Sanzone who grabbed his opponent around the legs and drove into him for the important takedown and a minute of riding time before Rutkowski was able to escape for his second point.
Trailing five to two at the start of round three, the Irish grappler lost no time in escaping and started in pursuit of the equalizing two-point takedown. The New England strong boy employed evasive tactics and managed to stay away from the frustrated Rutkowski as time ran out with the score remaining at five to three.
When Sanzone failed to reach the finals of his bracket, Rutkowski’s chances of winning a possible third or fourth place via the consolation round disappeared.
The single bright spot was that Rutkowski is only a junior and will get another chance next year. The people who know the great competitive spirit of the Irish footballer know that Eddie will be a man with a purpose next year.
The Scholastic
32
FENCING
Notre Dame’s fencing team finished in a five-team tie for twelfth place in the 1962 NCAA Fencing Tournament last week end at Ohio State. The U.S. Naval Academy edged defending champion NYU for first place; Columbia of New York was third in a field of 36 teams.
Notre Dame's three representatives finished respectably. In the foil,
Mike Bishko finished 15th; in the epee, co-captain Dan Kenny finished 10th; and in the sabre, co-captain Tom Shipp wound up 13th. Kenney lost 12 of 14 matches by 5-4 scores.
Though the Irish finished in a tie for twelfth (they finished 13th last year), they will have seven returning monogram winners, and Coach Mike DiCicco is already looking forward to next season.
GOLF SPECIAL
5 IRONS - 2 WOODS $32.95
★
RECO SPORTING GOODS 113 N. Main St.
Next to Oliver Hotel
Two approaches to the “man’s deodorant” problem
If a man doesn't mind shaving under his arms, he will probably find a woman's roll-on satisfactory. Most men, however, find it simplerand surer to use Mennen Spray Deodorant. Mennen Spray was made to get through to the skin, where perspiration starts. And made to work all day. More men use Mennen Spray than any other deodorant. How about you? 640 and $1.00 plus tax
Available at
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
April 6, 1962	33
THE INS AND OUTS OF COLLECTING SWEATERS (OR)
WHY SWEATERS THAT ARE VERY IN ARE VERY “ORLON7 acrylic fiber
VERY IN VERY OUT
--------10^--------
washing your sweaters in the nearest washing machine (you can, if
they’re “Orlon”* or “Orlon Sayelle”**)
digging deep into fun funds for seasonal— and emergency-sweater s cleaning.
saving on cleaning bills with great sweaters of “Orlon” and “Orlon Sayelle”. They come clean—but quickly —in the wash.

all-season sweaters— freed from rituals of mothballing and summer storage.
sending your sweaters home to Mother for fussy hand washing or whatever.
mishaps with moths and sweaters that hibernate in a box.

bulky, good-looking knits that warm with-
out weight—wash without worry.
burdensome sweaters —too heavy in overheated classrooms, too dependent on demanding care.

classics pure and simple—plus newfangled knits that know how to keep their shape with no assist from you.
the old saggy-baggys like Daddy used to wear—and Mommy has to fuss over!
the newsy textures and tweedy tones of “Orlon” acrylic, “Orlon Sayelle” bi-component acrylic.
---------------------
.	almost anything else,
:	almost anything else!
,	(So start collecting
'	sweaters of “Orlon”
.	and “Orlon Sayelle”
right now!)
---------------------
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER UVING.. .THROUGH CHEMISTRY
*"Orlon" is Du Pont's registered trademark for its acrylic fiber.
•♦"Odon Sayelle" is Du Pont's registered trademark for its bi component acrylic fiber.
A DEFENSE OF
THE STATUS QUO
Is there a need for college senators?
This is a question which has been raised often this year. However, it only scratches the surface of a deeper problem — the existence of the college councils themselves. If they cannot be justified, then their representatives,	i
the college senators, become entirely	j
useless. To answer this problem we ’ must investigate both the structure z j and purpose of these groups.	!
The Joint Engineering Council is j an organization which, in general, j typifies the councils. The Science Col- ■ lege has the Science Advisory Council;	j
Business, the Activities Council; and | Liberal Arts, the Advisory Board. j Each of these groups is responsible ; for the organization and promotion j of student activities which are directly related to a student’s field of study.
‘ The Joint Engineering Council is composed of two members from each “major” club (e.g., engineering sci- < ence, mechanical), the engineering senator, the Open House chairman, t Technical Review representatives, and honor society representatives. The “major” club representatives are the club president and another member selected by the group.
In the Engineering College (the other colleges have similar arrangements) activities are divided among committees such as the Open House, programs (lectures, displays, etc.), athletics, and awards. Each of these committees handles its own work with the Joint Engineering Council serving as a coordinating body, much in the same capacity as the Student Senate.
In theory this is an excellent arrangement; however, in practice it is sometimes unsuccessful. Often a club elects its representative merely be- j cause it has two seats to fill. Reports	j
are not made to the club members,	j
and the representative feels no oblige" !, tion to take an active interest in council proceedings. Of course this is not true in all cases.
A few highly motivated members can make any organization successful and college councils are no exception. But some changes appear necessary. Plans such as the combining of the college councils under a coordinating board, and election of representatives from the college as a whole rather than from “Major” clubs have been proposed. In the future these ideas
The Scholastic
34
may prove a help in increasing interest and participation within the councils.
The stated purpose of the Joint Engineering Council is: (1) To promote cooperation and coordination among the student engineering organizations in the College. (2) To arrange and promote such activities for the common benefit of all engineering students that are beyond the scope of the individual organizations.
The position of the college senator varies among the college organizations. In Science he is chairman of the advisory board while in Liberal Arts, Business, and Engineering he serves only as a member of the council. In the latter two, however, he may be elected an officer, in which case he would serve in a double capacity.
Student Government structure is set up with the Senate as ultimate authority. To function properly it must have a direct connection with all of its sub-groups. Without this link, coordination between the various organizations would be impossible. The only contact the Senate has with the college groups is provided by the college senator. Usually he is the only member of the council connected with other phases of Student Government.
His experience and diversified interests also make the college senator a valuable asset to the college board. Often the other members of the boards are elected in their senior year and, although interested in doing a good job, don’t quite know where to start. A little information provided by the college senator can often remedy this situation.
There is also definite need for separate college representation. In addition to such routine things as presenting the fall and spring budget, the senator serves as a safeguard for the interests of his college. He is also watchful for items of particular interest to members of his college. This year the proposed trips to engineering companies sponsored by the South Bend Public Relations Committee and the motion to lower the necessary average for holding a Senate office, among others, were of special importance to engineers.
Thus, the position of the college senator is a definite asset and it appears so in proportion to the effectiveness of the council which he represents. As they stand now, the college councils are useful organizations; with some revisions they would be able to attain real prominence in student life.
— by Tim Haidinger
April 6, 1962
* SS» SB 888 88»	S8& SH BW .
§	I
J	It’s your	f
s	g
I	tapered shape	g
!	and your	|
I	hopsacking look	l
।	that get me...	|
I	I
....
IS
BMf MM 88B BStt MB Safi
I
। Mother always
B	told me to
g	look for the blue label*
’	W
I if
«$» m MM MM WS 8888	AM CS&
Nobody's really suggesting romance will be yours if you wear U.S. Keds.But it is true that Keds are the best-fitting, the most comfortable, good-looking and long-wearing fabric casuals you can buy. Because Keds are made with costlier fabrics. With an exclusive shockproofed arch cushion and cushioned innersole. In short, with all those “extras" that make them your best buy in the long run. Head for your nearest Keds dealer. Get that Keds look, that Keds fit...GET THAT GREAT KEDS FEELING!
'Both U.S. Keds and the blue label are registered trademarks of
United States Rubber
Rockefeller Center, New York 20, New York
35
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
CONTACT LENSES Inquirix Invited
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
305 S. Michigan AT 7-5477
MAKIELSKI ART SHOP -	SINCE 1911
PICTURE FRAMING •
ART SUPPLIES
COMPLETE SELECTION OF ART SUPPLIES FOR THE ARCHITECTURAL AND FINE ART STUDENTS
•
117 NORTH MAIN ST.
South Bend, Indiana CEntral 3-2409
N.D. Debate
(Continued from page 14) in and around Detroit and are judged by them. On campus every week over WSND, the Debate Council presents Controversy, a program on which faculty members and other distinguished guests discuss topics of campus and nation-wide interest.
Tournaments, however, still provide the bulk of the program for the year. With experience gained the hard way at the first couple of tournaments, the team has come on rather strongly, to win first place at the New York University Hall of Fame Tournament, and also take three second-place trophies, and several individual speaker awards, at various tournaments. Most recently, over Mardi Gras, two men took second place at the Tulane University tournament in New Orleans. All that remains of the debate season is a trip to the Marx-Xavier tournament in Cincinnati and a possible attendance at the Tau Kappa
Alpha National Tournament.
With all this activity, the debater appears to be at a severe disadvantage in his college studies, and many question whether this is justified in terms of what the student gains from his debate experience. Investigation shows that rarely is there anyone on the debate team with an average under four. But further, regardless of the average attained, the debater learns to analyze quickly and thoroughly, and he learns to express the results j of that analysis clearly, concisely, and I forcefully.
Debate is by nature a co-curricular activity — it complements rather than hinders the academic progress and de- ' velopment of the individual. Whether J he is in the library doing research, or travelling to a tournament, or debating before an audience of several thousand people, the debater is always j learning. He is using his mind, ex- । panding his mind, and stimulating his i mind, in a way which very few j courses can do.	;
Cool, clean Old Spice After Shave Lotion always gets you off to a fast, smooth start. Feels just as good between shaves as it does after shaving. Rates A-OK with dates. 1.25 and 2.00 plus tax.
s m u> u t o txi
AFTER SHAVE LOTION
36
The Scholastic

3*

-i*
ADVISOR I
panel [
Which diamond is a girl's best friend?
Every girl knows “a rose is a rose is a rose.” But is a dia- ■ mond a diamond a diamond?
The smart girl who cares (about beauty and value) knows there’s more to a diamond than meets her eye. Even under magnification, a diamond reveals its inner secrets only to the eye of a trained expert. That’s why America’s College Queens have chosen their “best friends” from among the award-winning designs of the world-famous Artcarved selection.
Every Artcarved diamond gives you more than the beauty which meets your eye. The quality and value of its inner beauty is also certified by a written guarantee that is recognized and respected by leading jewelers everywhere.
If you want to be sure of the inner beauty and value of your diamond, see your Artcarved jeweler. Ask him to show you the styles chosen by America’s College Queens.
DIAMOND AND WEDDING RINGS
Two of the lovely designs chosen by America’s College Queens. From $100.
.-%Goa^
MU Get your National College Queen Contest entry for yourself or your candidate at:
JACOBS JEWELERS I2I W. Washington St. South Bend
April 6, 1962
your HEADQUARTERS IN SOUTH BEND FOR
Top
Evening Star Engagement Ring $225.00
Bride’s Circlet............... $	60.00
Bottom
Emerald Cut Engagement Ring $425.00
Bride’s Circlet............... $	30.00
Wonderful selection of Artcarved Diamond Rings from $50. All fully guaranteed for diamond quality and Permanent Value.
★
CREDIT (with no interest) AND LAY-A-WAY AVAILABLE TO NOTRE DAME MEN
121 W. WASHINGTON CE 4-1311 s^^wt»d ^\rtcarved
The Press of Olft Your University
has come out with a
PAPERBACK SERIES!
Titles chosen especially for you:
NOTRE DAME—Reminiscences of an Era.........$1.95 Richard Sullivan
THE LIMITS AND DIVISIONS OF EUROPEAN HISTORY........................$1-95
Oscar Halecki
CHURCH AND STATE....................Vol.	I $2.25
Don Luigi Sturzo	Vol. Il $2.25
SALVATION OF NATIONS............-..........$1-75
Jean Danielou
NEWMAN AND GLADSTONE: The Vatican Decrees.....................$1.95
Introduction by Alvan S. Ryan
TOWARDS A BETTER UNDERSTANDING OF
HISTORY ................................$1.95
Bernard Norling
POWER AND DEMOCRACY IN AMERICA.............$1.95
William V. D'Antonio and Howard J. Ehrlich, eds.
THE LEGENDS OF THE SAINTS..................$1.95
Hippolyte Delehaye, SJ.
THE CHURCH AND THE LIBERAL SOCIETY.........$1.95
Emmett J. Hughes
CHAUCER CRITICISM: The Canterbury Tales....$1.45
Richard J. Schoeck and Jerome Taylor
CHAUCER CRITICISM: Troilus and Criseyde and the Minor Poems.....................$1.95
Richard J. Schoeck and Jerome Taylor, eds.
For your own interest and development, take notice of these HARDBOUND titles:			
SOVIET POLICY TOWARD INTERNATIONAL CONTROL OF ATOMIC ENERGY	 Joseph L. Nogee	$	6.50	
SPENSER’S ‘SHEPHEARDES CALENDER’: A Study in Elizabethan Allegory	 Paul E. McLane	.$	5.00	
CHILDREN AND OLDER STRANGERS	 Ernest Sandeen	-$	2.95	
VALUES IN AMERICA	 Donald N. Barrett, ed. AMERICAN DIPLOMACY IN A NEW ERA	 Stephen D. Kertesz, ed.	.$ 4.50 .$10.00		) J • •
NOTRE DAME’S JOHN ZAHM	 Ralph E. Weber	•$	5.00	
THE MIDWEST: MYTH OR REALITY	 Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., ed.	-$	3.50	
RELIGION AS AN OCCUPATION: A Study in the Sociology of Professions	 Joseph H. Fichtev, S.J.	-$	6.50	
DIPLOMACY IN A CHANGING WORLD	 Stephen D. Kertesz and M. A. Fitzsimons, eds.	.$	7.50	
ROMAN CATHOLICISM AND THE AMERICAN WAY OF LIFE	 Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., ed.		4.50	
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PRESS
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
The Scholastic
: Check your opinions against L‘M's Campus Opinion Poll -19
O What will the cold war turn into?
□ an even colder war
□ a hot war
□ an industrial
and trade contest
@ Do a coed's chances of getting the right man diminish after college?
© With a friend's pack of cigarettes on the table, would you...
□ take one?
□ pull out one of your own?
□ Yes □ No
Get lots more from l!M

L&M gives you MORE BODY in the blend, MORE FLAVOR in the smoke, MORE TASTE through the filter. Its the rich-flavor leaf that does it!
HERE’S HOW MEN AND WOMEN AT 56 COLLEGES VOTED.
%ZS""%8G..umo jnoX	_
%£V""%?t7. ^puaijj	v
%9G""%?g.........oh	_
......$OA
%ZV"%8V.. 1S9}UO3
%LZ""%LZ....
%1€""%GZ”“ JBM Japioo
N3W0M N3W
L&M’s the filter cigarette for people who really like to smoke.
RANCH MANAGER. Peter Mead, general manager of a three-ranch spread in the heart of Wyoming’s Grand Teton Mountains, winters one of America's largest herds of spirited horses. When it comes to smoking, his cigarette is Camel. Pete says that for real satisfaction all the way, "Camels just can’t be beat,


<»►'«
