



CHARLIE IN CHARGE Christopher Meskill 
Scholastic takes a look at Notre Dame's new head football coach ahd his road to Notre Dame Stadium. 
IRISH IN THE NFL Christopher Meskill 
Our sports editor considers current NFL standouts who once donned the gold and blue. 
THE GREAT GUGLIELMINO Emily Paladino 
The new center will provide Irish varsity athletes ,vith some of the best facilities in the NCAA. 

ANNUAL FOOTBALL REVIEW 
Game reviews, season statistics and the all-opponent team for Notre Dame football's 2004 campaign. 

MAKING THE GRADE Mike Borgia 
Notre Dame aims to recruit players who can succeed academically and 
to provide them with the resources to do so. 

OBSCURITYTO CELEBRITY David Poell 
Matt Shelton emerged as one ofNotre Dame's most dangerous receivers this season. 
From the Editor • • • . . . . . 2 QandA ............ 8 Letter to the Editor . . . . . . 3 Scholastic Reviews . . . . . . .12 Listening In. . . . . . . . • . . 4 Meskillaneous . . . . . . . . 40 The Scholastic Interview ... 48 
JANUARY 2005 FOOTBALLREVIEW 

A Tradition Continues 
Scholastic is proud to continue the tradition ofpublishing our annual Football Review. In many ways, the 2004 season was controversial. From the disappointing 6-6 record to blow-outlosses and the firing ofHead Coach Tyrone Willingham, Irish fans followed the team through a tumultuous turn of events. 
Some students, alumni and commentators condemned Willingham's dismissal, saying that the termination ofWillingham's contract before he had completed five years at the university, as previous coaches have done, ruined Notre Dame's reputation as an institution of integrity. The Rev. Edward "Monk" Malloy, C.S.C., the outgoing university president, publicly said he was "embarrassed" at the decision. Others agreed with incoming university president, the Rev.John Jenkins, C.S.C., when he said, in a statement to the Faculty Board on Athletics, "Although the program was strong in terms ofits integrity and graduation rate, our success on the football field has not been up to our expectations." Jenkins also said that Willingham never was assured of a five-year coaching term and that the contract detailed the consequences if either party pulled out before the contract expired. 
But rather than focusing on the coaching controversy of the past season, we decided to look toward the future. Scholastic's Sports Editor Christopher Meskill 
look for 
ISSUE 9 outlines new Head Coach Charlie Weis' path to Notre Dame on Page 6, along 
on 
,vith profiles ofhis staff beginning on Page 40. News Editor Emily Paladino visits 
FEB 03 
the Guglielmino Family Athletics Center, a $21.25 million investment that will benefit both current and future Notre Dame student-athletes, starting on Page 
10. Finally, Editor in Chief Mike Borgia examines the challenge of balancing football success with high academic standards for the university's student-athletes beginning on Page 42. 
We hope that you will join us in welcoming Coach Weis and his family to the Notre Dame community as we strive for excellence in all endeavors at our university. 


Our Apologies 

In the Dec. 2, 2004, issue ofScholastic, a humor column by Mike Healy, entitled "My Enemy List: Things and people I hate," contained the following line: "Asian People -Just Kidding!" Since the publication ofthis issue, the executive staff of Scholastic has received numerous complaints via e-mail, as well as handwritten letters expressing the offensive implications of the aforementioned statement. While we understand that the writer intended the comment only to be humor­ous, we would like to offer our sincerest apologies to those readers who were offended and found the comment to be in poor taste. We regret the publication of the statement, which was a mistake resulting from a breakdown in our edit­ing process. We are confident that the comment would have been removed had it received the proper consideration we strive to apply to our entire magazine. We as editors in chief take full responsibility for the error. Please see the letter from Shan-Jan Sarah Liu, president ofthe Asian-American Association at Notre 
Dame, on the following page. a .t),, 11 

. u1111i ,uJj1nf:u!"J 
Annie Robinson Editor in Chief 
2 FOOTBALLREVIEW 

MJ A -1}_ 
rI'li,f..v or 
Mike Borgia Editor in Chief 
Vol.146,No.8 • JAN 2005 
SCHOLaSTIC 
Editors In Chief 
Mike Borgia Annie Robinson 
Managing Editor Jennifer Osterhage 
Executive Editor 
Meghan Gowan 
Executive Design Editor 
Nick Abrams 
General Manager 
Christopher Kelly 
News 
Emily Paladino, editor 
Alisa Finelli, assistant Anna O'Connor, assistant 
Campus Life Lauren Wilcox, editor Katie Solan, assistant 
Sports 
Christopher Meskill, editor 
Entertainment 
Nick Kolman-Mandie, editor 
Beth Murphy, assistant 
Departments 
Mike Healy, editor 
Erik Powers, assistant 
Design Nell Ryan, assistant David Redenbaugh, assistant 
Tekla Sauter Amy Meyers Jana Stewart 
Illustration Christine Graham 
Photography 
Phil Hall, editor 
Brenna Mannion, assistant 
Copy 
Mo Ertel, chief 
Jennifer Wadkins, assistant 
Dana Ergas 
Katie Galeone Doug Sch!arman 
Distribution 
Bryan Lowery 
Advisor Robert Franken '69 

COVER DESIGN 
NICK ABRAMS 
COVER PHOTOGRAPY 
PHIL HALL BRENNA MANNION p.15 
Disce Quasi Semper Vict1mtS Vive Quasi Cras MorittmtS 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed 
at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN 46556.The entire contents of 
Scholastic Magazine is copyright 2004 University of Notre Dame. All 
rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be reproduced In any manner without written consent of the publisher. Longest production ever. Scholastic Magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material.All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic Magazine, LaFortune 
Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556.To be published in the 
next issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. Weis' wild stable of studly stallions.All letters must include the writer's name, address and phone number.All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain Instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. Requests for corrections made more than 21 days after publication cannot be 
guaranteed.The subscription rate is $35 per year.Available back 
Issues are $2.50 per COPYi please specify volume and number, or date. Copies of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy.Advertising rates available on request.The opinions expressed In Scholastic Magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the -~tudent body. 
JANUARY 2005 


To the Editorial Board of Scholastic magazine: 
After reading Mike Healy's article in the latest issue of Scholastic, titled "My Enemy List: Things and People I Hate," I was shocked to find out that I was one of many things or people that Mike Healy hates. While this article appeared in a humor column and was intended to be a "joke," it only showed that Healy hadJailed to take into account the long history of discrimination against Asians and Asian-Americans. The comment "I hate Asians" was arbitrary and was not provided with any explanation. I, as an Asian, do not find it humorous. Instead, this seemingly harmless comment feeds into Asian-Americans' insidious past and hurts those who are still facing discrimination and coping with inequality today. 
Forty years after the Civil Rights Movement and two decades after Vincent Chin's death, Asians and Asian-Americans are still struggling to be seen and heard in a nation that has extensively oppressed a certain group ofpeople simply based on the color of their skin. While Healy was trying to show his wry sense of humor, why did Healy not say he hates "blacks"? Is it because he truly hates Asians more than he does blacks, or is it because he knows he cannot escape from "black power"? Many people still view race issues largely in terms ofblack and white; therefore, it is acceptable to make ethnic jokes about Asians because "racism does not apply to them." However, people should have already learned lessons from the blood and sweat that minority heroes shed to fight for equality. Whether it was Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. -who took on the more serene approach -or Malcolm X -whose action was more radical and militant -their struggles to attain equality wit­nessed the difficulty of achieving justice. After all these years of battling, one small joke can easily ruin all the efforts that these figures in history-as well as everyday heroes like the minority students at the University ofNotre Dame -have made. 
When Asians are being "hated" in Healy's article, it is no longer just a race issue. It is an issue that concerns all minority students -stu­dents who have a different skin color, religion, sexual orientation or economic background. Humorous comments about minority students who constantly endure bigotry are inappropriate and should be paid special attention. I urge that a more serious and respectful approach be taken when it comes to making jokes; not only does it hurt minority students' feelings, but it also hurts their endeavor to build a world without prejudice and discrimination. 
I appreciate Scholastic's apology, which is significant to the Asian community at Notre Dame. Nevertheless, injustice does not end as we speak. It is the Asian-American Association's mission, as a representative of the voices unheard, to cultivate Asian awareness on campus. I hope that Notre Dame students will learn from the history of discrimination and strive not only to embrace but also to celebrate various ethnic cultures as a true Notre Dame family. 
In Solidarity, 
Shan-Jan Sarah Liu ('06) 
President, Asian-American Association 



Judgment Calls 
Opinions and observations 
IGLOOS ON CAMPUS 
It's pretty sweet that students have built the snow structures on North and South Quads, but we're not sure if we like the idea of living in a place where you can chill in igloos. 

CHARLIEWEIS 
Our new football coach is headed for the Super Bowl. 

SNOWED-IN CARS 
Shoveling snow is bad enough, but digging through four feet of the icy, white stuffafter the plow goes by is just too much. 

SPONGE BOB ACCUSED OF PROMOTING HOMOSEXUALITY 
Who are these people? Where did they come from? And why is this a top news story? 
R.I.P. BOAT CLUB Whilewe'II miss $1 pitchers, it'll be nice to go to a bar with indoor plumbing. 






LISTENIN 
"I'm going to Facebook my future husband:' -Female student in SDH 
Student: "In exit polls during the election, people said their top two concerns were terrorism and gay marriage:' 
Professor: "Yeah, especially gay terrorists getting married." 

"I'll be pulling for Notre Dame. I took one look at Brady and ... I mean come on:• · 
-Female hotel concierge in Phoenix before the bowl game 

"Flush twice. It's a long way to North Dining Hall:' -Etched into a men's restroom stall in O'Shaughnessy 


"It's a fancy wine and cheese party, so I'm bringing Mad Dog and Kraft Singles:• 
-Male student in SDH 

"Whoever gets this wild heart is going to have to deal with the fact that Iget really gassy once in a while:' 
-Female student 
4 FOOTBALLREVIEW 
JANUARY 2005 


·;:·01p S 
. -· ­
Moments of the 2004 Football Season 
·s. ..
Finding a worthy replacement · • for Willingham. 
4 Freedom to throw · 
· · • marshmallows at the last home · game with-out fear of usher .retribution. 
·3 The Band spelling out bathroom · · • graffh:i (867-5309) on the field. 
.. Sophomore defensive back2•Tom Zbiko:'s.ki stripping the· · • ball from M1ch1gan State's Jason •• Teague and running 75 yards for · .. • a touchdown. 
•·I· .Rushing the field after the .· 
• Michigan victory . 
FOOTBALLREVIEW 5 



Textbo~k Frenzy 
How far will students go to find cheap textbooks? 

ALISAFINELLI 
Buying books from China may not seem like the most convenient alter­native to the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, but for senior Alfredo Arvide, the savings are worth the inconvenience. Arvide always has opted to save money by buying used books online rather than paying higher prices at the bookstore. Recently, he has been able to save even more by purchasing "international edi­tions" from countries such as China, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Pakistan. International editions of textbooks are printed in English and have the same content as copies available in the United States but are sold at lower prices in other countries. While they cannot be found in the U.S., they can be ordered online from such Web sites as www.campusbooks.com, where individuals from both inside and outside the U.S. list used books they are willing to sell at a discounted price. Arvide says some ofhis international editions have covers printed in another language, but none have differed in content from edi­tions sold in the U.S. The main inconvenience ofpurchasing international editions online is a lengthy shipping time.. Because the books must go through customs before entering the country, long waits should be· expected, warns Arvide. He says_ he once waited -~~-~-•··~;:;,,,, 
a month fora 
; ,,,,,._ :iu~l"ll 

option. Books shipped from within the country may take only five to 14 days ac­cording to online services like Half.com and Amazon.com. Some Web sites list multiple sellers for one textbook, as well as the city from which the book will be shipped. This way; the buyer can choose the seller located nearest to the shipping address to reduce the shipping time. How­ever, before placing the order, students should make sure the used textbooks are the editions needed for their classes, not earlier, outdated versions. 
Notre Dame students can avoid ship­ping costs altogether by buying and sell­ing used textbooks on www.NDbay.com. NDbay, created in December of 2003 by current Notre Dame seniors Chris Kelly (Scholastic's· general manager) and Aaron Wenger, is an online bulletin board for students to buy and sell used textbooks. The site is open only to Notre Dame students, who can register online for free membership by providing their mailing and e-mail addresses. When a student buys a book listed on NDbay, the site notifies the seller, who then arranges to meet the buyer in person to make the actual trans­action. As a result, the buyer can receive his or her book without the added wait or cost of shipping. Sellers benefit as well. They can charge more than the amount the bookstore will pay to "buy back" the 
textbook to arrive from China. He recommends ordering text­
books well before classes begin. 
For students who are un­willing to plan in advance, buying, used textbooks on­line is still an 

textbook, while still offering a low price to the buyer. 
While the online textbook market ap­pears to be growing, the bookstore still may be one ofthe most convenient options for Notre Dame students. Students either 
· can pick their books off the shelves at the . bookstore, or they can order them through www.efollett.com. Students then can pickup the books that already have been collected for them at the bookstore. 
The bookstore m;nagement did not respond to Scholastic's requests for com­ment. . 
As the old adage goes, "The two toughest jobs in the country are president ofthe United States and 
head football coach at the University of Notre Dame, and not necessarily in that order." Former Head Coach Tyrone Will­ingham learned it, Florida's Urban Meyer was unwilling to test it, and Notre Dame Athletic Director Kevin White might disagree with it. However, following Willingham's firing on Nov. 30, 2004, White once again was searching for a man willing to accept the scrutiny of the Notre Dame alumni, students and fans, as well as the abuse of an already restless media. On Dec. 12, 2004, White found his man in New England Patriots' Of­fensive Coordinator Charlie Weis. 


While Weis was notWhite's first choice, he seems to fit the univer~ity. Before coaching his first game in hlue and gold, Weis already hassomething in · common with Irish lege'nds Knute Rockne and Frank Leahy'-a Notre Dame diploma. Yet, his Class of 1978 ring is not the only finger accessory that 
· · justifies Weis' hiring, ?S he has three Su­per Bowl rings high,Iighting his 26-year coaching..career. · · 
Weis, however, did not begin his ca­reer as an offensive genius, Admittedly a mediocre athlete growing up, Weis still. felt a connection with sports. So after 
-··graduating from Notre Dame, Weis de­cided to try his hand at coaching. Weis started as an assistant coach ·at Boonton High School in New Jersey before leav~ ing to assist at nearby Morr}stown High School after only one year. "~ereI was, this know-it-all 22-year-old kid with all of the answers," Weis said. "I had all the answers; I knew it all. I was one of thpse guys who could watch the game and tell you all of the dumb things those coaches. were doing. I was humbled working with· [Morristown Head Coach]ohn Cherone] because I learned how little football I re­ally knew at that time." 

After six yeai;s of coaching high schdCll earned them a playoff b~rth. The Giants 
football; Weis was recruited to coach at, buckled down when th~ postseason ar­
the University(qfSou,th Carolina under·· ,,rived, steamrolling theiLwayto a Super 
Head Coach Joe Morr;ison, where Weis . 'Bowl title. t 
said he "was humbled all over again." 'After the 1990 season, the Giants !WhHe\\;Iiihthe.Gairiecocks, Weis worked. underwenl::a head_ co-achiiig change, as \with the defensive backs, linebackers and Parcells was force.cl to retire from his '. the defensive ends. Weis also studied at position due to health problems. The .!., Lt!i~J.Jniversity of,$oµth Carolina's gradu-head-coaching change meant change for ate school whil~ on ~taff, earning).1is Weis as well, who now fo{ind ~imselfon 
mast~r's degreein edu~ationin 1981. \, the other side"of the ball as t1i;e running 
FqJlowing th~ completion of his; de::\ backs coach. Ho,rever, Weisw~shumbled 
greerfrom Soutl1 CaroVna, Weis dec,ided \for a third time/as his first se~son as an 
to Idkve. the. Ga'mecocks and. return to 'offensive coach resulted in an 8-8 record. 
high' school foo~ball ls the head c6ach F6nowing a lacklustei,-1992 seison, Weis 
at Franklin Township High Schodl in left'·the Giants orgahizatior{. for their­
Ne\¼Jersey. However,i,Weis would only north'ern rival, the New,England Patri­
., •·, ' . ,;; I:, /\_ ~ 


have~ one year of head~coaching experi-ots, wher,e Parcells had resli!,lleg his career 
ence\before rec~iving\a very influeptial after a th'ree-year hiatus. '\ j! · 
,pho.rie call. L ..,,.•.: L,.,..... ,.-..,.Teaming~back up with Pari:ells, Weis 
continued his coaching education with the Patriots, serving in a number of positions during his four-year stint. Weis coached the tights ends during his 
z, •",'Bfsttwo·seasons-;··one of which included 
::z: 1 -,-) '~ 
~: ··--/ a respectable run in '1J94 that resulted If ,, >· ) in a loss ~n the AFC wil?,-card ~ame. In .~ ' .: 1995, Weis returned to h1s-runmng backs 
f. :role, but he enjoyed limite.dcsuccess and 
is 
~.. .. soon changed to wide receit~rscoach. ~ .. ,,. Following the 1995 season, Weis'found •C ~ · himself in another familiar position, as 0:: the Patriots worked their way to an 11-5 
·· ·'~ record and a playoff berth. Despite a very t;' 1 ~ . impressive playoff run, the Patriots lost 
· · a.

· in the Super Bowl to Brett Favre and the "I got a phone call one day in January Green Bay Packers. 
and my secretary says, 'Hey, there is a 
After the Super Bowl loss, Weis fol-guy by the riame of Bill Parcells on the lowed Parcells to the New YorkJets. Al­phonet'~Weissaid. "I said, 'Coach, if you're ·tdlling me I have any opportunity though he only spent three seasons with 
, the Jets before returning to New England, 
to com~ work for the Giants, just tell me Weis gained a lot from his time in Newwhere and when you want me there. I'll 
be there."' York, as he acquired his first experience 
as an offensive coordinator. The Jets did 

Weis accepted Parcells' offer to serve . as_the defensive assistant and assistant not have any losing seasons with Weis 
calling the plays, even though they only special-teams coach for the Giants. In had accrued acombined four wins in the his first professional season, Weis helped 
two seasons preceding Weis' arrival. Thethe Giants climb to a 13-3 record, which 



6 FOOTBALLREVIEW 
JANUARY 2005 
Weis-era Jets finished the 1998 season at 12-4, with their last loss coming in the AFC title game. In 2000, Weis decided to leave the familiar coaching patterns of Parcells, and he returned to the Patriots 
·,.. under Bill Belichick, the Patriots' new · head coach. "Qnder Belichick, Weis developed his infamous offensive scheme. Since 2000, Belichick has brought the Patriots to un­precedented heights, and Weis has turned quarterback Tom Brady into a franchise MVP. Following an 11-5 season in 2001, the Patriots fought their way through the playoffs to Belichick's first Super Bowl title. Their next Super Bowl win would com~ only two seasons later in 2003, and 
Iris Outlaw -director of Multicultural Student Programs and Services -describes the termination of former Head Coach Tyrone Willingham as personally hurtful, a sentiment she believes many members of the African­American community at Notre Dame share. 
"Tywas the most visible African-American on campus," she says. "His sudden dismissal was the straw that broke the camel's back. It rang true to the community of things students were feeling in the classroom and residence halls for a long time." Many student-athletes viewed Ty as a father figure. "He was willing to walk among students and was interested in finding out what motivated them to be sue-· cessful . , . sort oflike a parent . , . he was a role model of humility," Outlaw says. 
Students organized a protest the evening Willingham's dismissal was announced. The following week, a high-ranking member of the administration distributed 1,500 shirts with the statement "It's bigger than football. It's about losing IntegriTY" to students and members of the community. Chandra John­son, assistapt to the president, shaved her head Weis was awarded his third championship ring. The Patriots' playoff streak is still going, as New England has advanced to the Super Bowl yet again. 

Despite the media's reaction to the Willingham firing, many prominent fig­ures in football have given Weis a vote of confidence. 
"He's been a teacher and coach ofhigh school kids, and he's got so much experi­ence coaching NFL players like myself," Patriots wide receiver David Givens (ND '02) said. "There's no doubt in mymind he would be an outstanding recruiter because he relates so well to young people." 
Weis' resume must have impressed Notre Dame. Weis has specialized in all 
in protest of the decision. She declined to com­ment, saying that she needed time to reflect before expressing her opinions to the media. 
In addition, students have organized a group called Be About Change to address the perceived racial inequalities within the Notre Dame community. According to junior co­founder Marques Bolden, the group's goal is not to bring Willingham back. "It is to bring awareness to the issue' of the 'identity crisis' the university is presently enduring," he says. "Ifwe claim to be a university of integrity and Catholic morals, then issues like tl1e firing of Coach Ty, the lack of concern for diversity, and the seemingly overbearing focus on football aspects of football, has big game experi­ence, and has molded one ofthe best quar­terbacks to play the game. Meanwhile, Weis already has brought in a star-stud­ded coaching staff to assist him. 
Weis has dedicated himself to Notre Dame. "This is an end-all for our fam­ily," he said. "We come to Notre Dame; it's with the intent ofretiring here. That's why we're coming here. We don't come here to bounce somewhere else. If that's what I was going to be doing, I would not be taking this job, and I would be waiting till the season ended in the NFL and try to get one ofthose jobs. I'm here because I want to be here. I'm proud to be here. I'm thankful to be here." D 
prestige over academic excellence should not be occurring." Sophomore cocoordinator Frank Duerson agrees. "As a committee, we feel that there have been far too many injustices that have gone ignored at Notre Dame. Tyrone Willingham's firing acted as a mere catalyst to establish the fact that there are wrongs that need to be changed at tl1is campus." 
Outlaw also believes that equality issues at the university can improve. "Coach has moved on," she says. "Our reaction can serve another purpose: Itcan encourage Notre Dame to open its arms and truly embrace diversity through­out the institution." . 

JANUARY 2005 FOOTBALLREVIEW 7 

Domelights 
COMPILED BY MIKE HEALY 
One Last Look Back ... 
Source: ND Football Archives 
Well, it's official: The Ty Willingham era is over in South Bend. Coach Willingham presided over a very volatile three years of football here at Notre Dame. Just for a little bit of perspective, we here at Scholastic would like to point out that when Mr. Willingham took over our Fightin' Irish, teen music was all the rage, George W Bush was president, and the students currently comprising Notre Dame's junior class were still teenagers. That being said, here is a quick look back at the ups and downs ofWillingham's time as head coach: 
Q&A 
· otball Senior 
1-·" ·c.: ·.• ,.~--. •.·• 

!. Carlyle Holiday 
Carlyle Holiday 
recently has finished 
a five-year career 
with the Irish that, 
although rocky at 
times, also was re-
Over the 
course ofthe past five years, Holiday has played quarterback, receiver and -most recently -punt returne1: While currently training in New Jersey for the NFL draft, Holiday took time to answersome questions for Scholastic. 
What position did you most enjoy play­
ing, and why? 
Definitely quarterback. I loved having the ball in my hand and beinginvolved in every play. It's the position that everyone wants to be as a kid. It was just amazing to me. 
What would be your advice to an incom­ing freshman football player? 
Try to put school first; it'll be good for you in the long run. A lot of timesyou only focus on doing well in football, but you have to do well in school first [before you can play]. Just study hard. 

.583 Coach Willingham's career-winning percentage at Notre Dame (21-15 over three years) 
I0th Where that winning percentage ranks among Notre Dame's 14 head coaches since 1918; he is tied with Bob Davie 
7 Wins over ranked opponents for the 
Irish under Willingham 

8 Losses by 21 points or greater suffered by the Irish under Willingham 
8 Players sent to the NFL during the Willingham era 
What was your best moment at Notre Dame? 
Well, there are two. One: graduating. The other is scoring my first touchdown. It was my freshman year, and I had a 63-yard touch­down run. It was one of the best feelings I've ever had. 
What is your favorite spot on campus? 
When I lived in Carroll Hall, there's a bas­ketball court that I would go play on when I got bored -right by the lake. Either that, or the library. (Laughs.) Just joking. 
What was the toughest situation you faced as a player, and how did you handle it? 
After the Michigan State game in 2003, Iknew it was the last time I would play as quarterback. ThatMonday, lots ofthings were said about it in The Observer, and lots of my friends called me, upset and crying. I honestly didn't leave my room for two days, butthen I just realized that things like this happen. 
How did you deal with all the scrutiny that you· received as -a: -football player over the years? 
Well, it's not for everybody. I realized that it would happen, and I tried to learn from it. By dealing with it in a positive way, I got more respect from the media. I was able to turn it all into a positive situation. 

-Do you have a favorite movie? 
I have three -"Gladiator," "Braveheart," and 
"The Big Lebowski." "The Big Lebowski" is 
hilarious. The idea of being a sloth -"the 
dude" -is wonderful. 
Do you have a nickname on the field? 
C-lyle. Mostly because the guys just can't pronounce my name. 
What, in your opinion, is the best video ·game? 
"Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas." It's the greatest game ever. 
.How much time a day do you average playing PS2? 
Sometimes six hours. I'm not gonna lie; when "GTA: San Andreas" first came out, I spent · about 10 hours playing. 
What was your most embarrassing col­legiate·moment? 
It was the game against Washington State, two years ago. I don't know what happened, but I started to daydream during the middle ofthe play. The whole stadium was yelling at me. I think I may have been knocked out or something. Ten seconds ran off the clock; everyone was prettymad. 
What are your plans for next year? 
I want to continue playing football some­where, somehow. Football right now is the main goal. I guess I'll get a job if I have to. (Laughs.) 
-Katie Solan 


8 F0OTBALLREVIEW 
JANUARY 2005 



Irish in the NFL 
Scholastic highlights a few Notre Dame stars who 
have continued to shine in the NFL 
CHRISTOPHERMESKILL 


David Givens (1998-2001), WR New England Patriots 

Despite a lackluster career at Notre Dame, wide receiver David Givens has turned into a star in the pros. Drafted in the seventh round in 2002,. Givens quickly became a major impact-player. He played in 13 games in 2003 and helped the Patriots win Super Bowl 
XXXVIII. This year, Givens has served as once-rival quarterback Tom Brady's (Michigan '99) favorite receiver, leading the team with 847 yards on the season. Givens arid the Patriots advanced to the Super Bowl again this season with a win over the Pittsburgh Steelers and will be seeking their third championship in four years. 

(1984-1987), WR Tampa Bay Buccaneers • 

Tim Brown, Notre Dame's 1987 Reisman Trophy winner, is considered one ofthe best wide receivers ever to play football. The eight-time NFL Pro-Bowler has the second most receiving yards (14,734) in history and also is second in seasons with at least 1,000 yards (9). Brown, currently in his first season with the Buccaneers, played the other 17 years of his career with the Oakland Raiders. 

(1999-2001, 2003), RB Dallas Cowboys 

Running backJuliusJones, the Irish's most recent NFL standout, earned the starting running back position for the Dallas Cowboys in his rookie season, outplaying previous Reisman-winner Eddie George. After Jones' heroics for Notre Dame last year, the Cowboys drafted him in the second round. Dallas Head Coach Bill Parcells picked Jones to be the cornerstone ofa new generation ofCowboys, and so far he has looked like a genius for the move. Jones has seven touchdowns in seven starts, including 819 rushing yards on 197 at­tempts, as well as another 107 yards on 17 receptions.
l''r-'~: .F :;,~d.:;,.'.:i:•\,;;-;~:I 

Jerome Bettis ( 1990-1992), R.B Pittsburgh Steelers 

Drafted into the NFL in 1993, Bettis has played for the Los An­geles Rams and is now the starting running back for the Pittsburgh Steelers, a position he has held for most of his career. At 5 feet 11 inches and 255 pounds, the "Bus" has become the prototype for a power tailback and has pushed his way to eight 1,000-plus-yard sea­sons in his 12-year career. Despite splitting time this season, Bettis has scored a career-high 13 touchdowns and heiped the Steelers to a 16-2 record and an AFC Championship appearance. In addition to his contributions on the field, Bettis has dedicated himself to char­ity work. Since its inception in 1996, Bettis' The Bus Stops Here Foundation has been raising money to help improve the quality of life for underprivileged children in America's inner cities. 
JANUARY 2005 


The new"Gug'' offers · 

the same space," he says. These improve­

Ne>tre>Darne athletes the . 

ments mean that players no longer will 

:best of the best 

need to visit several buildings to meet their athletic needs. For instance, football play­ers currently train at Loftus, have team;t·;st fall, the university proved it was meetings in the Notre Dame Stadium . serious about the performing arts locker room, and meet with coaches at ;{;:,:·.. .. by opening the Marie P. DeBartolo the Joyce Center. With the completion (\ff/C~~ter fo.r, tlie Performing Arts. This of the Gug, all of these resources will be 





llf~!T:f~~;1:: :::~~;~~;~:;;;,;m;;;;;; 
... 't'. R>nJ?,qnT:a11.dFlora Qyglielmino.fam-student-athletes, and in particular on 
fi;\iifl~.h-~.f_;fr_:_il1i[f~31f6i;Jg~g:
. . . . .·· •.. ·· '.. ·/~'I'he consolidation offacilities wiUmake 
i~fltfJil~J:s;t;:;;;~::;~o~!~=:.~r:~d~
. 'J,!g99'g~;fill'~;apj9itjs't}l:~~e~t •.•.• theillwithabetterchance to realize their 
university is pleased with how well the 
completed project will compare to the 
facilities at other schools. "It will be as 
state-of-the-art as you can get in terms 
of facilities," he says. 
Two things, however, that many other 
schools include in their athletic centers 
notably will be omitted from the Gug. 
According to Vice President for Business 
Operations Jim Lyphout, the university's 
new facility will not include a dining hall 
or an academic center. The reason for 
this, Heisler says, is that there are already 
campus facilities to serve student-athletes 
in both of these areas. The Coleman­
Morse Center houses academic services 
for athletes, and -in keeping with the 
university's philosophy that student­
athletes should have the same residential 
experience as other Notre Dame students 
-the university believes it is important . for athletes to eat in the same dining halls as the general Notre Dame student population. 
Coaches will begin moving into the · Gug this summer, although athletes al­ready have been able to take advantage of ·. the new weight room, which opened in November. All of the building's resources . will be available to student-athletes begin­
ning in August 2005. 
· .The Guglidmino family, long-time 
· friends of the university, donated the 
· money for the building with the express 
request that it be used as an athletic cen­
ter. 
Although the Jate Doil Guglielmina 
attended the university for only one year, 
JANUARY 2005 


he had a great love for Notre Dame and its athletic programs. He left the univer­sity in 1940 after the death of his father and continued his collegiate education at Stanford. Guglielmina later served in the army during World War II. After the war, Guglielmina became a success­ful businessman. He donated money to the Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles scholarship fund and the Institute for Church Life and was awarded an honor­ary degree from the university in 1996. After his death in 2001, his wife Flora and their three children made the decision to contribute money for an athletic facility in his name. 

The Gug is not the last improvement the athletic department has planned. Ma­jorrenovations to the J.A.C.C. are already in the works, although administrators are stillin the early planning stages for those improvements. "We have basic concepts, but no blueprints, no plans and no fund­raising for the Joyce Center renovations," Lyphout says. 
Heisler says that the most extensive changes to 
THE FINISHED PRODUCT The 95,840-square-foot Gug will double the space the university currently devotes to athletics. 
IRISH 
FANATICS 
(BELOW) 
Students cheer the 
men's basketball team to victory against St. John's on Jan. 15.TheJ.A.C.C. 
may undergo 
renovations with the student section wrapping around the perimeter of 
the court. 
the J.A.C.C. will be changes to the seat­ing and may include taking out the bleach­ers. The J.A.C.C. renovations, however, must fall into place in accordance with the university's overall facilities plans, and the timetable will ultimately depend on the university's long-term growth plans, as well as funding. At this point, it is too soon to tell when such improvements could be completed, but Heisler expects that the J.A.C.C. renovations will be the next big thing on the athletic department's to-do list. "It's going to be the next top priority," he says. . 


The Music Aquatic 
***·*~tr

"The Life Aquatic" soundtrack is an ecclectic success -CDREVIEW 


DANMcSWAIN 
As is commonly conjectured, it may be best for listeners looking to familiarize themselves with 
the catalog of David Bowie that they avoid listening to the work of Bowie alone. Instead, they should listen to the plethora ofmusicians he has influenced; his vision, if not his sense of style or song structure, appears in the music of artists from many genres. Stylization remains Bowie's forte, and -with this in mind -Wes Anderson picks Bowie's works as the foundation ofthe soundtrack to his film, "The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou." Anderson enlists Seu Jorge, an actor and Bossa Nova musician, to rework Bowie's songs into Portuguese. The reworked songs effec­tively present Bowie's original music in a nuanced fashion, which introduces the final product in a way that allows the audience to understand the uniqueness ofbothJorge and Bowie. 

Anderson's soundtrack for "The Life Aquatic" also incorporates artists that largely have been overlooked. Mark Mothers­baugh -cofounder of the American new-wave band Deva -contributes score compilations, as well .-.•· .. co'-" as his band's song "Gut 
!'\~1-0~-Feeling," to the soundtrack. 
" Additions from Scott Walker and The Zombies serve as the musical accom­paniment to Anderson's film's scenes of alienation. Anderson's score includes the work of Sven Libaek, the originator of 



Bookmakers: 

Bad for Burgers, Better for Beer 

JESSICAWHITE 
With the closure of the stu­dent-favorite Boat Club, students have been forced to break out oftheir comfort zone ofsticky dance floors and well-worn "Flip Cup" tables and venture into new bar scenes. Though Boat may be irreplaceable for many, one previously overlooked bar and grill in South Bend -Bookmak­ers -could soon become a new favorite watering hole for many Notre Dame students. Besides, what could be better than $1 burgers, $1 fries and $1 drafts on a Sunday afternoon? · Although the nocturnal atmosphere of Bookmakers is perfect for any sports fan, its strategically-placed televisions that constantly play highlights from ESPN and its daily specials cannot conceal some of the sub-par aspects of Bookmakers. 

On a typical Friday evening, a group of Darners decided to see ifBookmakers' cuisine is as good as it has been rumored to be. The group entered a large, wood­paneled room: to the right is a small side bar and stage area; in the middle is the main bar area; and to the left are various levels of tables and chairs. Though the back of the menu boasts an extensive the Australian Nature Film Score and an oceanographer \Yith nearly 800 ac­colades and merit badges to his credit. This is a testament to Anderson's talent for creating a framework of stylization for his film and soundtrack. 
In a dastardly move, Anderson deleted the song "Staraflur" by Iceland's Sigur Ros from the CD of the soundtrack -an omission which will be noticed by those who have seen the movie. How­ever, while the song fits the scene ofthe film during which it is heard, it does not fit the theme of the soundtrack. 
''Adjectives now, for the future!" airs Tztesdaysfronz 8 p.m. -10p.m. with d!one., kim-jong-illmatic and DJ 4tran. 

collection of sports memorabilia for sale, only a few framed photos line the upper walls of the dining area. 
The server was compet_ent, yet un­enthusiastic. The nachos ordered as an appetizer were far from spectacular consisting oflukewarm cheese, ground beef and bland, salsa-covered, stale tor­tilla chips. We also sampled the chicken wing and "bitty burger" appetizer plat­ter. The wings were covered in a sweet and tangy barbeque sauce, and the burgers contained both chicken strips and beef. Overall, however, the plate was received poorly. 
12 FOOTBALLREVIEW 
JANUARY 2005
\ 

------------------------JHlialC!•~I•!iii~~!lf4l!l!!!!!lrU REYIEWJ---------------------------, 

Discover the next John Mayer 
See Matt Wertz's live concert at Legends on Jan. 29. This 26-year-old singer-songwriter from Kansas City, Mo., has been compared to artists like John Mayer, Gavin DeGraw and Jack Johnson. Listeners love Wertz for his breathyvocals and roman­tic lyrics. Admission is free, and the show starts at 10 p.m. 
Explore your cultural side by attending the French play, "Les Fourberies de Scapin" 
This hilarious Moliere play, directed by Professor Paul McDowell, will be performed in French by Francophiles from around campus. The play will be held at the Regis Philbin Studio Theatre beginning Jan. 27. Tickets are available at the PAC box office. Student tickets are $5 ($7 for ND faculty and $8 for the general public). 
Build-a-Bear for your Valentine this year 
Ifyou're wondering how to make someone's Valentine's Day a special one, search no further than Build-a-Bear. Build-a-Bear allows you to create and personalize your own teddy bear or stuffed animal to give to a loved one. The best part: the special 
"Valentine Bear" is only $14, and the other stuffed animals range from $10 to $25. The closest Build-a-Bear store is in Merriville, Ind. (about an hour away), or you can go online to www.buildabear.com to create and ship your bear in time for Valentine's Day. 

Groove to the sounds of The Beatles 
Do you sing along to such Beatles hits as "Hey Jude" and "All You Need is Love"? Ifyou do, perhaps you should attend "Beatlemania Revisited," a concert that will be put on by the 
Mahoney Brothers at the Morris Performing Arts Center on Jan. 29. The Mahoney Brothers also have been on Broadway in "Beatlemania." For more information and ticket prices, go to www.morriscente1:org. 
Get your ski on 
The only available ski slope south of northern Michigan is about 45 minutes north of South Bend. Swiss Valley Ski Area is really more of a basin than a mountain, but it does offer the opportunity for downhill skiing, especially for beginners and intermediates. More advanced skiers will find the slopes lacking in vertical height and difficulty, but the area does offer a small terrain park for stunts. Lift rates range from $20 to $28 daily; ski rentals also are available for $15 to $18. College students receive discounts every weekday evening from 6 p.m. -10 p.m. and all day Friday. See www.skiswissvalley.com for directions and more details. 
Downhill notyour thing? You can rent cross-country skis and boots at the back of the Rock and ski on the Notre Dame Golf Course. Rentals are available only on Fridays from 2 p.m. -5 p.m., and on Saturdays and Sundays from 1 p.m. -4 p.m. It is $5 per day or $10 for two days -and you can take the skis home overnight. The pro shop is open only when adequate snowfall is on the ground. For more information call (574) 631-6809. 
-Compiled by the Entertainment staff 

For the main course, the members of our group selected chicken fingers, the half-pound Angus burger and the basil chicken wrap. The first two entrees were served with fries and were average in both quality and taste. The basil chicken wrap was dry, and the mayo-based sauce was not pleasant. Still, the group left satisfy­ingly stuffed for a paltry price. 

Certainly, a redeeming quality of Bookmakers would have to be its spacious interior, which is able to accommodate large crowds on game days and weekend nights. Its daily food and drink specials include the aforementioned Sunday deal, 49-cent wings and 69-cent mini burgers on Wednesday nights and a $10 cover on Thursday nights for penny pitchers of beer. There is also a live DJ every Thurs­day, Friday and Saturday night. 
Overall, ifpalette trumps price in your book, this may not be your cup oftea. But ifgood deals and round-the-clock sports areyour type ofscene, then Bookmakers is the place to be. D 


JANUARY 2005 FOOTBALLREVIEW 13 

• 
News Editor and Assistant 


• 
Campus Life Editor and Assistant 

• 
Sports Editor and Assistant 

• 
Entertainment Editor and Assistant 

• 
Humor Editor and Assistant 

• 
Design Assistant 

• 
Photo Assistant 


• 
General Manager (Ad Sales and Marketing) 

• 
Copy Assistant 



E-mail Scholastic for an application at scholast@nd.edu 






FOOD COURT 




1st 2nd 3rd lath Jinal · Oi . . . 3 7 7.: -17 .
~ 
10 3 z o· 20 
1stQuarter .. · .. ..· .... ·. . . . BYU · Tahi 5run (Payne kick). 9:47; Z-0 BYU 
·.?;Zndt!~;rLG-~a.yttt·.J?~:J~~0 8rn-·.··...·· . . 
-~ ...··•· BYU J'G'Payne53, 1:34; 1t:o BYU .. • ~~ '. HD : JG'Fit:ipatridi 21, li:00; IB BYU 
•.• 3rdQuarter\o•cC\C .,~: . . ...... __ ... ···•.· . 
BYU Collie42 pass fro.iii Berry (Payne kick),7:47; 20-3 BYU . : .. · · .. ND • MtKnight54 passfrom Quinn (Fiizpatrick kick); 4:24; zo~JO.BYU .· ··. 
4th Quarter -· · · · · · ···ND·.· ·J_ackson}~ interc~ption return (fitzpatrick kick), 8:)_9; 20-llBYU ·•··.
0 




Humble BeCJinninCJS 
A
by ChristopherMeskill 
n ominous gray sky hung over Provo, Utah on Sept. 4, 
as announcers articulated gloomy forecasts for both the 
Irish and the weather. Notre Dame managed to resched­
ule the originally late-season game against the Cougars 
to give the Irish a chance to prepare for the following weekend's Michigan game. However, the Irish failed to get · past the Cougars' defense, and BYU managed to sneak out a 20-17 victory. 
The Cougar defense stifled the Irish running game, holding them to only 11 rushing yards on 21 carries. BYU established its dominance against the run in the first quarter, causing the Irish to abandon the rushing game. In a post-game press con­ference, BYU Head Coach Gary Crowton said, "Defensively we were tough, against the run especially. That's what their goal has been, and we knew that going in." 
The Irish defense also left itself open to a few big BYU offensive plays. BYU quarterbackJohn Beck completed a 50­yard pass to wide receiver Todd Watkins in the Cougars' first drive, setting up a short tguchdown run for tailback Naufahu Tahi that gave the Cougars a 7-0 lead. During the third quar­ter, BYU quarterback Matt Berry-who replaced John Beck -connected with wide receiver Austin Collie for a 42-yard touchdown pass, putting the Cougars up, 20-3. 
Notre Dame made a valiant effort to climb back late in the game. With four minutes remaining in the third quarter, soph­omore quarterback Brady Quinn completed a 54-yard touch­down pass to junior wide receiver Rhema McKnight to pull within 10 points of the Cougars. Then, midway through the fourth quarter, senior cornerback Preston Jackson intercepted a pass from Berry and returned it 3 8 yards for another touch­down. With less than two minutes remaining in the game, the Irish had pinned the Cougars down at their own 25-yard line. However, Berry threw a 37-yard pass to Watkins on third and eight, allowing BYU to run out the clock. 
The key to BYU's victory might have been its kicker, Matt Payne. Payne punted the ball an average of 46.8 yards and put the Irish inside the 20-yard line six times. "Our kicking game did such a good job ofpinning them back, in the second quar­ter and late in the game especially," Crowton said. "[Payne] really gave us a chance to win." 
Notre Dame's loss brought BYU to within one win of Notre Dame in the all-time standings of this collegiate foot­ball rivalry. Unfortunately for Notre Dame, even though the gloomy sky cleared up, the Irish and their fans would have to rely on the next game to brighten their spirits. D 
(#.; Play By Numbers· IRISH •=C•Lh::iARS 
22 263 13 2:85 1 


-EXCUSE ME, OUTTA MY WAY Irish freshmanrunning back Darius Walker0) stiff arms aMichigan defender as he cruises to abig gain. Walker had over 100 yards in his first game in gold and blue. 

Day of Redemption
I
by Mikelselin 
n an effort to provide the Irish with a "warm up" game, the Irish scheduled Brigham Young so that they could be fully prepared 
to take on Michigan. Unfortunately for Notre Dame, that 
"warm up" game turned into the team's first loss ofthe season, 
with the Wolverines gunning for the Irish with fangs bared. 
However, the BYU game issued the Irish a wake-up call. One week after suffering the terrible loss in Provo the Irish came home and gave Notre Dame fans across the country a sense of regained faith in the blue and gold as they defeated the No. 7 Michigan Wolverines, 28-20. 
The Irish team that stepped onto the field the day of the Michigan game was different from that ofthe BYU game in Provo. Notre Dame only was able to muster 11 yards on the ground against the Cougars over the course ofa 60-minute game. Against the Wolverines a young, new star came out of Head Coach Ty­rone Willingham's backfield. True freshman running back Darius Walker came through for the Irish. With senior running back Ryan Grant limited by injury, Willingham entrusted the ball to Walker. Stunning the Wolverines and fans across the country, Walker took advantage ofhis opportunity, turning it into 115 yards. 
Willingham was impressed byWalker's play, saying, "We want­ed to gethim in in the first quarter, but didn't know how many car­

ries he would get. He gave us a spark. The right person at the right 
time can give you that spark that everyone feeds offof." 
Willingham was not alone in his approbation ofWalker. Michi­
gan Head Coach Lloyd Carr agreed thatWalker was a key compo­. nent ofNotre Dame's victory: "He played outstanding today for a freshman. He is a slippery guy that our defense struggled to stop. I am sure the Irish will be impressed with what they get out ofhim 
the rest ofthe season." 
After a mediocre and uneventful first half, the Irish found 
themselves down 9-0, but the fourth quarter offered fans an entire 
game's worth of excitement. On a Michigan fourth down Notre 
Dame senior tight end Jerome Collins and red shirt freshman 
wide receiver Chase Anastasio combined to block Michigan kicker 
Adam Finley's punt. Notre Dame senior linebacker Corey Mays 
recovered the ball at the Michigan 5-yard line, and on the next 
play, Walker took a hand-off from sophomore quarterback Brady 
Quinn and ran five yards for his second touchdown ofthe day, put­
ting Notre Dame up 21-9with 11:23 leftin the game. 
The blocked punt was a huge turning point in the game; it 
gave the Irish a lead that would require Michigan to score on two 
separate possessions to win, and it provided the Irish with enough 
momentum to see the win out. The student section was brimming ~ 
with hope, as the sea ofgreen was starting to believe that the third~ 
straight defeat of the Michigan Wolverines at Notre Dame Sta­
dium loomed ahead, and the students backed the Irish 100 percent. 
As the clock ticked down to 0:00, around 8,000 students leapt over the wall _onto the field to celebrate with their team. For the· second time in three years, the Irish had !mocked off the Wolverines athome. . 
,.'#J Play By Numbers IRISH WOLVERINES 
~ r~" -~-----------~~·--·---­RUSH I N•::i YARDS PASS I NG YARC•S FIRST DOWNS 13 15 TOTAL OFFENSE 313 296­TURNOVERS 4 
3 
TIME OF_ POSSESSION 27: 22 , 32: 38 
_-. -· .. · 
Znd 3rd 4th final 
NotreDame· · 0 7 21 -., 28 Michigan , .--3 3 8 zo 1st Quarter UM rGRivas38, 8:29;3"0 MICII UM fG Rivas 33, 0:11; 6-0 MICII . 2nd Quarter _._ UM FG Rivas ZZ, 0:00; 9-0 MICII _·]rdQuarter.: -; ..;·, :-:· -:--· : : -, c., .. --,-_ ND Shelton 46 pass from Quinn (Fitzgerald kick), 11:0Z; 9-7 MIOI --. -UM , -FG Rivas 47, 5:57; IH MICII ­_ 4th Quarter · --ND -_ _.Walker 6run (Fitzgerald kick), IHB; 14-IZ ND ND Walkers run (Fitzgerald kick), 11:23; 21-12 ND ·__ ND Poivers~Neal 8pass from Quinn (fitzgerald kick), 5:49; 28-12 ND UM Breaston 25 from "enile (Breaston from "enne), 2:27; 28~20 ND 
BOMBS AWAY Senior wide receiver Matt Shelton brings down a46-yard touchdown pass from sophomore quarterback Brady Quinn despite Wolverine coverage. 

Spartans Snapped 
m. 
-----------------------------------------------------------------·· 
. . 2nd 3rd ~th. Final Notre Dame r 1 3 31 Michigan State -0 7 10 Zt.. 
' 
· ·1st Quarter MSU Scott dblocked-punt return (Rayner kick), 12:18; 7-0 MSU HD _Quinn Irun (ritzpatrick kick), t..:t..Z; 7-7 HD Zbikowski 75 fumble return (ritzpatrick kick), 0:07; lt..-7 ND. 
· 2nd Quarter · · ··· ·· · _ ·ND Shelton35pass fromQuinn (ritzpatrick kick), 8:52;2l-7 ND.
3rd Quarter ·· · ··· ·· · · · ··· ·· 
•.. _ND ·.. Grnnt 6rnn (ritzpatrick kick), 5:39; ZB-1 ND ·· MSU Cobb 89 kickoff return,(Rayner kick) 5:28; 28-lt.. ND 4th Quarter · 
·MSU IG Rayner 46, l~:55;28-17 ND• ND ·rG HtzpatrickZ3, 0:57; 31-17 ND MSU ·Stanton t..rnn (Rayner kick), 0:09;31-24 ND 
by Mikelselin ' 

oming off of an emotional win over the No. 7 Michigan 
Wolverines, Notre Dame had a chance the following 
week to upset another Michigan rival: the Michigan State 
Spartans. 

Both Notre Dame and Michigan State needed a win in this game; a win would validate the Irish's victory over Michi­gan, proving it was not a fluke, while the Spartans needed to build momentum before their first Big Ten conference game. Traditionally, the Spartans have proven to be tough competi­tion for the Irish. And despite a mediocre Spartan record of 1-1 and a recent loss to Rutgers, Michigan State would give the Irish all they could handle. 
Michigan State came out strong, forcing the Irish deep into their own territory in the first quarter. Unfortunately for the Irish, Michigan State's linebacker Marshall Campbell was able to get a hand on Notre Dame senior kicker D.J. Fitzpatrick's punt, and Spartan wide receiver Jerammy Scott recovered it in the end zone for a touchdown. 
However, Notre Dame responded quickly with sophomore defensive back Tom Zbikowski's interception ofSpartan quar­terback Stephen Reaves' pass, which brought the Irish to the Spartan 13-yard line. Senior running back Ryan Grant pow­ered the ball forward the majority of those 13 yards, before sophomore quarterback Brady Quinn carried it in for a touch­down. Zbikowski added even more to Irish momentum, as he forced a fumble on an option play and returned the ball 7 5 yards to give Notre Dame a 7-point lead. Zbikowski's efforts were commendable, and following the game he was named the National Defensive Player of the Week. 
In the second and third quarters, the Irish built on their lead, with touchdowns from Grant and senior wide receiver Matt Shelton putting Notre Dame 21 points ahead of the Spartans. But the. momentum transferred to the Spartans late in the third quarter when Michigan State's running back DeAndra Cobb r!=turned a kickoff 89 yards for a touchdown. From there, Michigan State managed to shut down the Irish offense and hit a 46-yard field goal early in the fourth quarter. However, Fitzpatrick closed the door in the fourth quarter by tacking on a field goal for the Irish. With nine seconds re­maining, Spartan halfback Drew Stanton scored a touchdown, but it was too late; the Irish went on to win, 31-24. 
The Irish victory gave Notre Dame fans hope; Notre Dame had conquered the state of Michigan, despite losing to both programs the year before. ·· · . 
00 Play By Numbers IRISH SPARTANS 
----~-,----------­

RUSH I t·l(:i YARDS PASSI N(:i YAFms FIi=;:ST DOD.INS 
., 

TOTAL.OFFENSE 
--~-==.:==s ___ 341__-·j 

TURNC•VERS 3 6­TIME OFF"OSSESSION 
1st Znd 3rd ~th final Washington 0 3 0 0 3 Notre Dame 7 10 7 14 38 
1st Quarter 
HD Shelton 24 pass from Quinn (ritzpatrick kick), 8:59; H ND · HD Shelton 27 pass from Quinn ffitzpatrkk kick), 0:20; 14~0 ND ND Fasano 18 pass from Quinn (Fitzpatrick kick), 0:00; 21-0 ND 
2nd Quarter · 
· UW FG Braunstein 26, 11:53; 21-3 ND HD Fasano 15 pass from Quinn (Fitzpatrick kick)i9:14; 28-3 ND HD FG Fitzpatrick 45, 0:34; 31-3 ND 
3rd Quarter -Hone ­4th Quarter ND Walker!7 run (Fitzpatrick kick), 12:19; 38-3 ND 


Huskies' Doq Day 
T
by Mike(oyne 
he Irish turned in their most dominating performance 
of the season when the Washington Huskies came to 
Notre Dame Stadium on Sept. 25. The Irish came in with a great deal of confidence 
following wins over Michigan and Michigan State, and they were able to maintain momentum by systematically dismantling the Washington secondary. Sophomore quar­terback Brady Quinn tied the school record for touchdown passes in a game with four in the first half. 
Quinn connected with senior wide receiver Matt Shelton in the end zone twice and junior tight end Anthony Fa­sano once in the first quarter. In the second quarter, Quinn found Fasano again for another touchdown. The last player to throw four touchdown passes in a game was senior quar­terback-turned-receiver Carlyle Holiday against Rutgers in 2002. 
Quinn's success in the first half can be credited in part to his offensive line. "Since last year Brady has improved drastically," Notre Dam~ junior offensive guard Bob Mor­ton said. "As an offensive line we've tried to give him some more time to showcase his talent, and he's taken advantage of his opportunities." 
The Irish mounted a 31-3 lead the first half, and. then cruised through the second half for the victory. The Irish scored a season-high 38 points in the game, a point total they reached again in the loss to Pittsburgh. Freshman running back Darius Walker started the game for the first time in his Notre Dame career and significantly added to the Irish offense. He carried the ball 2 3 times for 81 yards, and his play was punctuated by an electrifying 1 7­yard touchdown run in the fourth quarter. 
nee The Irish defense complemented its offensive perfor­mance. Senior cornerback Dwight Ellick intercepted a pass, and the Irish defense combined to recover four Husky fumbles. Washington's second-quarter field goal was the only score the defense allowed, the fewest points allowed all season. The Huskies, who finished the season at 1-10 -the worst record in school history -had a diffi­cult time answering the Irish on either side of the ball. Next year's game at Washington is circled already on the national college football calendar. The Irish, under the direction of new Head Coach Charlie Weis, will take on their former coach Tyrone Willingham and his vVashington Huskies on Sept. 24 in Seattle. . 
~ij;~ Play By Numbers  IRISH  HUSl<IES  
RUSH I N(:i  YARl::iS  146  112  
PASS I t·H:i  YARDS  266  
FIRST  001.•JNS  22  20  
TOTAL  OFFEt~SE  412  335  
TURNOVERS  1  5  
TIME  OF  POSSESSION  31: 57  2s:03  





Train Wreck 
by MikeUealy , e Purdue Boilermakers walked into Notre Dame Stadium 
on Oct. 2 and did something they hadn't done in 30 years -leftSouth Bend with a victory. For their 41-16 triumph, the Boilermakers had a trio to thank: senior quarterback 
Kyle Orton (21 of 31, 385 yards, 4 TDs), all-time Big Ten leading wide receiver Taylor Stubblefield (7 catches for 181 yards), and a disproportionate amount ofsloppy play on the part ofthe Irish, including a missed field goal and a crucial goal-line fumble by freshman running back Darius Walker. 
Notre Dame's miscues were a godsend for the Boilermakers, as Notre Dame actually managed to outgain Purdue offensively by a margin of 536 yards to 512, a fact much belied by the 25­point difference in the contest's final ·score. 
Scoring started early in the first quarter when, on the game's initial drive, Orton directed Purdue on a 10 play, 63-yard drive that culminated in a 31-yard field goal by Ben Jones, giving the Boilermakers a 3-0 lead. But Notre Dame answered right back with a scoring effort oftheir own on a 69-yard march that ended when Irish senior kicker DJ. Fitzpatrick booted a 26-yard field goal through the uprights to tie things up at 3-3 with 6:30 re­maining in the first quarter. 
Unfortunately for Notre Dame, that was the closest the game would be all afternoon. Following the Fitzpatrick field goal, Purdue's kicker Jerome Brooks took the ensuing kickoff 100 yards for a Purdue touchdown, putting the Boilermakers in the lead by a score of 10-3. Following the special teams break­down, Brady Quinn drove the Irish to the Purdue 27-yard line, where Fitzpatrick missed a field goal. The ball was turned over to Orton and the Purdue offense, who wasted little time in put­ting three more points on the board to give Purdue a 13-3 lead midway through the second quarter. It seemed as if the Irish would answer with a score oftheir own until freshman phenom Walker coughed up the ball at the Purdue 1-yard line. The Boilermakers recovered the fumble, ending the Notre Dame scoring threat. Taldng over at his own 3, Orton then led Purdue on a 97-yard march to take a 20-3 halftime lead. _ The teams exchanged scores to open the second half, the 
most notable among them being a 97-yard touchdown pass 
from Orton to Stubblefield, the longest pass ever by an oppo­
nent in Notre Dame history. Purdue dominated the Irish the re­
mainder of the game and emerged with a 41-16 victory, pitting 
them as a dark horse contender for the national championship. 
Despite the outcome of the game,· Quinn posted a career day, 
going 26 of46 for 432 yards and one touchdown. The 432 yards 
passing by Quinn are the second highest in Notre Dame history, 
topped only by legendary former quarterbackJoe Theismann's 
576 against USC in 1970.  .  
# Play By Numbers  . ' IRISH".  :··soILER.MAl:'(ERS  
RUSHING YARDS  76  
PASSING YARDS  · 4€-0  413  
FIRST DOWNS  28  22  
,:o_TAL OFFENSE  536  
TURN01-.!ERS  1  
TIME .OF POSSESSiot:l  

1st Znd 3rd-· ftth Final 
10 10 ·.. 21 0 . 4L-· 
3 0.. 13 0 16 1st Quarter·.··. 
PUR FGJones31, I0:49;3-0 PUR . -. ND __;F~ Otzpailick Z6, 6:30; H ...·•-·· .. .. : PUR Brooks JOO KOR, 6:16; 10-lPUR : 

. ZndQuarter. • ·:... '.i 
PUR FGJones39, 11:24; 13-3 PUR . ... . . . . ·PUR .. NirikovichZ pass from Orton (Jones kick), l:03;20-3 PUR ·. 3rd Quarter 
··· ··· PUR. · Smbblelield 97 pass from Orton Uones kick), 11:51; Z,-3 PUR . 
. ND McKnight4ll pass from Quinn (Fitzpatrick kick}, 8:54; Z7d0 PUR PUR Ingraham 9pass from Orton (Jories kick}, 6:40; 34-IO PUR ND ;, Powers-Neal Irun (Quirin pass failed), 4:17; 34-16 PUR '• · 
· PUR. ·Stubblefield 12 pass from Orton (Jones kick), 0:45; 41-16 PUR 4thQuarter.:Noite-. ~. · · · 


late Arrival 
3rd .
1st 2nd 4th final 
Stanford 6 0 9 0 15 
.Notre Dame 0 3 7 13 23 
· 1st Quarter 
STAN rG Sgroi 27,9:L.5; 3-0 STAN 
STAN rG Sgroi 20, 5:22; 6-0 STAN 
. Znd Quarter · · · · · · · · HD [G ritzpatrick 38, 12:IL.; 6,.3 STAN 3rd Quarter · STAN rG Sgroi 38, 12:23; 9-3 STAN .. HD·· Grant Irun (ritzpatrick kick), 5:56; l0-9 ND STAN Lemon Irun ([dwards pass interceptedf,3:28; 15~!0 STAN· 4th Quarter · ·· HD Grnnt3run(Quinn pass foiled),H:59; 16~15 ND · HD Quinn 2run (ritzpatrick kick), 4:10; 23-15 ND 

by BryanLowery n a Saturday afternoon in early October, the Notre Dame football team found itself on guard as the unfamiliar yet im­minent possibility oflosing to Stanford hung in the balance. A field-goal frenzy in South Bend left Notre Dame trail­ing Stanford in the third quarter by the largest margin against this team since Tyrone Willingham became the head coach of the Irish. The Irish previously had silenced Stanford with 24 and 50 point victories in 2002 and 2003. Great defensive efforts forced Stanford to kick field goals inside the Notre Dame 10-yard line in the first half. Meanwhile, Notre Dame was kept out of the red zone consistently by the Cardinal defense. Early in the third quarter, another Stanford field goal put Stanford in the lead 9-3 and hushed Notre Dame Stadium as Willingham's undefeated record against his former team was in jeopardy. That all changed when a muffed punt set up senior running back Ryan Grant for the go-ahead touchdown. Stanford's punter Jay Ottovegio dropped the ball, and although his own teammate recovered it, the Irish took over on downs. Notre Dame then as­sembled a touchdown drive. topped with a Grant 2-yard run into the end zone, making the score 16-15 in favor ofthe Irish. ''Yes, it was a bambumer," Willingham said. ''We weren't try­ing to bum down the barn. It was hard for me because I didn't thinkwe were playing the way I know we can." The combination of Grant and freshman running back Darius Walker proved to be the deciding factor of the game because the pair controlled the time ofpossession. The Irish had the ball more than twice as long as the Cardinal in the fourth quarter, giving Stanford very little time to recover on the scoreboard. Grant, who sat out the previous two games due to a hamstring injury, was back in full effect, rushing for two touchdowns and 67 yards. Walker also added a fine performance, rushing 20 times for 82 yards. "The running game is critical to our success," Willingham said. "Having a run game allows us to be a better football team, and that is the bottom line." The second-half offense also featured sophomore quarterback Brady Quinn completing 60 percent of his passes for 114 yards and no interceptions. Quinn set up two touchdowns with passes of43 yards to junior wide receiver Maurice Stovall and 34 yards to junior wide receiver Rhema McKnight. Quinn himself scored on a 2-yard quarterback sneak touchdown. Despite Notre Dame's second-half success, the fact that there were only seconds left on the clock and an eight-point deficit in the score, Stanford still had slight hope for a victory. That hope was dashed when Cardinal quarterback Trent Edwards' pass was knocked down in the end zone, and Notre Dame beat Stanford, 23-15. Willingham remained unbeaten by his former team and the Irish improved to 4-2 on the season. D 
TOTAL OFFENSE TURNC•VERS TIME OF POSSESSION 
ANole in the Sail 
1st 2nd -3rd ~th -Final HotreDame .14 3 7 3 · 27 _Navy O O 3 6 . 9 1stQuarter _HD Wilson 33 run (fitzpatrick kick), 12:54; 7-0 ND HD Grant lrun (fitzpatrick kick), 6:48; 14-0 ND Znd Quarter HD --fG ritzpatrick 47, 0:53; 17-0 ND 
3rd Quarter HAVYfG Blumenfeld 29, 7:52; 17-3 ND HD Grant lrun, 1:16; 24-3 ND 
4th Quarter HD rG ntzpatrick 20, 12:55; 27-3 ND HAVYDivis 5rnn (Polanco pass failed), 4:19; 27-9 ND 
by ChristopherMeskill 

strong 27-9 win at Giants Stadium on Oct. 16 helped 
Notre Dame extend its winning streak against Navy 
to 41 games, an NCAA record for consecutive victo­
ries over the same team. The Irish spread their of­
fense out on the ground and through the air, played steady defense, and capitalized on their opportunities. Senior running back Ryan Grant rushed for 114 yards and two touchdowns, and sophomore quarterback Brady Quinn passed for 13 0 yards with no interceptions. 
The Irish left little doubt early in the game, taking a 14-0 lead after the first quarter. On the first drive of the game, Quinn and Grant combined to drive down the field before senior running back Marcus Wilson ran 3 3 yards for a touchdown. 
Navy failed to convert on fourth down on the next drive, and the Irish regained possession of the ball on their own 32-yard line. Once again, Quinn and Grant set the pace for the offense, earning short yardage for first downs. At midfield, Quinn completed a 30-yard pass to senior wide receiver Matt Shelton, and Grant rushed for 19 yards to the Navy 1-yard line, where Grant punched it in for seven more points. Notre Dame's defense held strong through the first half, keeping the Mid-shipmen scoreless. 
This explosive offense was the strategy for Notre Dame Head Coach Tyrone Willingham heading into the game. "It's critically important when you play a team as skilled as they are to limit their options and to try and get ahead of them," Willingham said in a post-game press conference. 
The Irish had the game well in hand at the beginning of the third quarter. Although Navy opened the second half with a seven-minute drive with five first downs, it only re­sulted in a field goal. The Irish responded with a 73-yard drive on the ground, sparked by Wilson and Grant. Grant capped the drive with his second 1-yard touchdown run of the game to put the Irish up, 24-3. Notre Dame tacked on a field goal in the fourth quarter before the Midshipmen scored a touchdown with two minutes remaining. However, Navy quarterback Aaron Polanco failed to connect on the two-point conversion, resulting in a final score of 27-9. 
To beat Navy in the previous two years, the Irish have had to recover from early Navy leads, but this year, the Irish led the Midshipmen the whole game. This victory over Navy marked one of the last predictable games of the season. D 

RUSH I t-li'.:i YARC•S 204 2H:, PASSI t·16 YAFWS 130 44 FIRST DOl!Jt•t,:, 20 17 TOTAL OFFENSE
•••-h'----

0 1 TIME OF POSSESSION 


Boston Common 
1st Final Boston College 7 24 Notre Dame 7 23 
1st Quarter 
BC. Whitworth 2run (0hliger kick), 7:54; 7-0 BC 
ND. -Shelton 33 passfrom Quinn (Fitzpatrick kick}, 2:54; 7-7 
2nd Quarter · . . . .·. ·. . . · . · ND Quinn 1run (Fitzpatrick kick), 11:09; 14-7 ND . . . ND ·. Walk~r 9run (titzpatrick kick foiled), 3:56; 20~7 ND 
3rd Quarter . ·. · · .·. .·... . · . . · . .. .·· .. . 
. BC ·· Uazard 21 pass from Peterson (0hliger kick), 3:53; 20-14 ND 
4th Quarter · · · · · · 
BC tG 0hliger 21, 12:14; 20-17 ND 
ND tG Fitzpatrick 43, 2:51; 23-17 ND 
BC Gonzalez 30 pass from Peterson (0hliger kick), 0:54; 24-23 BC 
byJimRyan 

oston College has a habit of snapping Notre Dame win­
ning streaks. In 1993, Boston College stunned a No. 1 
Notre Dame team coming off the heels of a momentous 
victory over Florida State. In 2002, the Eagles lrnocked 
off another undefeated Irish squad that had just beaten 
the Seminoles. 

In 2004, the stakes weren't as high, as Notre Dame was only 
5-2. But the Irish did have a two-game winning streak, and they 
had entered the top 2 5 for the first time all season. 
The result was still the same. 
It was Boston College's fourth straight win against Notre 
Dame. 

The game was a tale of two halves for the Irish, who domi­
nated the first 30 minutes of the game. The Irish entered half­
time with a 20-7 lead, thanks to rushing touchdowns from fresh­
man running back Darius Walker and sophomore quarterback 
Brady Quinn, as well as a 33-yard touchdown pass from Quinn 
to senior wide receiver Matt Shelton. Quinn finished the game 
20-23 with 231 yards and two interceptions. · But it was Boston College's quarterback Paul Peterson who 
stole the show in the second half by leading a resurgence of the 
Eagle offense. Peterson finished the game 27-41 with 383 yards 
and 2 interceptions. Two hundred ninety-seven of his yards 
came in the second half. 
Peterson started the scoring in the third quarter by connect­
ing with wide receiver Joel Hazard on a 21-yard touchdown 
pass. But after each team hit a field goal, the Eagles were still 
down six with 2 :51 remaining in the fourth. 
Then Peterson took over on Boston College's final drive, 
which started at their own 22-yard line. After advancing to their 
own 45-yard line, the Eagles faced a fourth and 13. Peterson 
rolled right and found wide receiver Larry Lester near the side­
line for a 17-yard completion and a first down. 
Two plays later, Peterson threw a 30-yard pass that hit tight 
end Tony Gonzalez in the end zone for the game-winning 
touchdown with 54 seconds left in the game. The Irish tried to 
mount a comeback drive, but senior kicker DJ. Fitzpatrick's 5 5­
yard attempt fluttered short and right as time expired. 
Fallowing the game, Notre Dame Head Coach Tyrone Will­
ingham, whose team fell to 0-3 against Boston College, said the 
loss hurt "We let it slip out ofour hands. This was an important 
game for the season, for the program," he said. D 
IRISH  EA•'.:iLES  
RUSHING  YARDS  104  
PASSIHG  YARDS  -::,..=-,.-~=.:>  
FIRST  o,:,1.1JNS  17  22  
TOTAL·---­ OFFENSE------------· ----~·­ ---~-----·-..;_-,________.  445 __,___.___._~_  

TURN01.JERS 2 
2 'TIME i:•F POSSESSION 31:12 2s:4s 
SMASHING Senior defensive end Justin Tuck (44} set Notre Dame's all-time career sack record at 23.5 with this hit on Tennessee quarterback Erik Ainge (IO}. Ainge's season was ended soon after with anotlfef sack by senior linebacker Brandon Uoyte,-arid the Irish upseta top-IO temn for the second time this season. 
Rocky Topped 
by Mikelselin 
0n Nov. 6, Notre Dame travelled to Neyland Stadium with the hopes of toppling the No. 9 Tennessee Vol­unteers. Notre Dame was heavily outmatched by the Volunteers, who were favorites to win the Southeast­ern Conference East Division. Little did the Irish !mow that on that late-fall day, they would upset a top-10 team for the second time this season. The first half of the game was close, but the Volunteers managed to maintain a slight lead_ Notre Dame and Tennes­see traded first-half touchdowns, while Tennessee kicker James Wilhoit tacked on a 30-yard field goal to give his Volunteers a three-point lead. The tide of the game turned, however, on the last play of the first half. Instead of letting the clock run out, Tennessee Head Coach Philip Fulmer decided to attempt one last play, with quarterback Erik Ainge dropping back to pass for the end zone_ Unfortunately for the Volunteers, Notre Dame senior linebacker Brandon Hoyte sacked Ainge in a play that resulted in a fumble and a separated right shoulder for the true fresh­man quarterback. That injury would sideline Ainge for the remainder of the game. 

Fulmer addr~ssed his team's play-calling after the game, saying, "We ran the draw on the first play. We had to be safe and get it out _of our end zone a little. Ordinarily, we'd run it ' again. We decided to take a shot at it. It went through me, and I thought we could get the match-up we wanted. I take the ac­countability." 
Tennessee's defense attempted to make up for the loss of Ainge in the third quarter by coming out strong, and they successfully stopped Notre Dame's first offensive drive of the second half. However,-later in the third quarter, Notre Dame senior linebacker Mike Goolsby intercepted a pass from Ten­nessee's backup quarterback, Rick Clausen, and returned it for a touchdown. This score gave the Irish a 14-10 lead going into the fourth quarter. 
The action in the fourth quarter was minimal with the only scoring coming from field goals posted by each team. The Irish ended victorious with a final score of 17-13. This win gave Notre Dame its second victory over a top-10 team in what had been a very unpredictable season. 
"Every wit). against a top team is big," Notre Dame Head Coach Tyrone Willingham said. "I wouldn't !mow where to rank this one, but it's right there with Michigan and Florida State." . 
(_ #·:J Play By Numbers 
RUSHING YARDS PASSING YARDS FIRST DOWNS

----· 
TOT,AL OFFENSE TURNOVERS TIME OFf>OSSESSION 
IRISH  1-.-'0LUNTEERS  
98 . .­118_ 1:::  ~  17  
216  :SE:7  

0 1 27:28. 
1st· --2nd 3rd ~th Final --NoireD~e 7 0 _7 3 17 
.· ... 3:· .. 7 _. 3 . o· 13

~-·Tennessee
. -.-.--..... -.. :;. . 
,_-_. ls1Quart_er : '· UT FGWilhoit30,'8:57;3-0TENN __ _ __ . .,_ i,ND . Fasano 8pass from Quinn (Fitzpatrick kick),5:16; 7-3 ND _Jnd Quarter _ _ --__ · _-· _ ·_ 
:UT~·-·· Houston 56 pass fro.iii Ainge (Wilhoit kick); Z:39; 10-7 TENN • 
-3rd Quarter --------_ -•· ---_ -·: ----ND Goolsby interceptio·n return 26 (Fitzpatrick kick), 6:46; 14.::10 ND­-UT . FG Wilhoit 33, 1:28; 14-13 TENN 4th Quartet ·_ · . _ _ _ •~-;',~D ;: F~_Fitzpatrick39; 3JO; 17-llN~---,-_ 

IN THE HUDDLE (Above) Sophomore quarterback Brady Quinn (10) leads the offense in front ofl07, 266 fans at Tennessee's Neyland Stadium. CHAIN REACTION (Right) Senior linebacker Derek Curry celebrates the Irish victory with the chain the defense used throughout the season as asymbol of unity. HEAD TO HEAD (Below) The Irish defensive lines up against Tennessee. The defense limited 
_.the VolunteerHo 58 rushing yards and recorded five sacks. 

WllAT PRESSURE? Pittsburgh quarterback Tyler Palko escapes pressure and aims downfield. Palko passed for five touchdowns to lift the Panthers over Notre Dame. 
---------------------------------------------------------------------·-·····--··--··-·---------------------------------------------------· 





SlippinCJ Away 
S
by ChristopherMeskill ix seconds on the clock in the fourth quarter; Pittsburgh and Notre Dame are tied at 3 8 points a piece. The Panthers have the ball on the Irish 14-yard line. · 
Pittsburgh kicker Josh Cummings sets up for the game­
winning field goal, and Notre Dame tries to break his concentration by calling timeouts just before his first two at-. tempts. But the third ti.me, with Notte Dame out of timeouts, the Irish can only watch as a close game and their top 25 ranking slip away. This ti.me Cummings splits the uprights for a 41-38 Pittsburgh victory. 
The game was a high-powered offensive battle, with both Notre Dame and Pittsburgh proving themselves capable of get­ting it done on the ground and in the air. The Irish managed to rack up 179 rushing yards on the combined effort of freshman running back Darius Walker -who scored two of the Irish touchdowns -and senior running back Ryan Grant, as well as 259 yards in the air earned by sophomore quarterback Brady Quinn. Quinn found senior wide receiver Matt Shelton three ti.mes in the game for 128 yards and a touchdown. Pittsburgh squeezed out 98 yards on the ground, but quarterback Tyler Palko stole the show, passing for 3 34 yards and five touchdowns -the most ever thrown against Notre Dame. 

Head Coach Tyrone Willingham attributed Pittsburgh's suc­cess to Palko's game. "We didn't contain him, and when we had opportunities to get him -to his credit -there were ti.mes where we had-him in our grasp and he got out." 
With the game tied at 28, the Panthers began the fourth quar­ter with the ball on Notre Dame's 42-yard line. The Panthers managed to move into the red zone, but the Irish held them to a field goal. 
After Notre Dame and Pittsburgh exchanged failed drives, Quinn completed a 36-yard pass to Shelton to take a four-point lead. Pittsburgh responded with a five-minute drive that featured a pair ofcontroversial pass-interference calls against the Irish. In the end, Palko racked up his fifth touchdown ofthe game with a short pass to tight end Erik Gill. Quinn and Grant fought back by moving the ball back down the field to the Pittsburgh 27. Un­
.fortunately, the drive stalled and the Irish were forced to settle for a field goal to tie the game at 38. 
Palko then methodically led the Panthers back down field with a number of short passes. Gill turned one of these short passes into a 36-yard gain, putting the Panthers in field goal range. Running back Marcus Furman ran 13 yards to put Pittsburgh on the Irish 14-yard line. Cummings then nailed the 32-yard field goal attempt, and the game ended with Pittsburgh taking its first win from Notre Dame Stadium since 1986. . 
vi;,!> Play By Numliers IRI~H ~ANTHERS 
RUSHING  YARDS  17'9  98  
PASSING YARDS FIRST DOl•JNS  25'9 .. 18 - 
-TOTAL  OFFENSE  
+uRNOVERS TIME OF POSSESSION  2 2e.:10  1 33_:50  

1st Znd __ 3rd _ . 4th _f_inal. . Pittsb~r,h 7_·.· -•-21 0 --13 41-.: •. Hotre Dame _· 7 14 7 .10 38. .·-]stQuart,( 
•• ND : Walkerlrun (fitzpatrickkick), 7:21; 7-OPITT /_\-PITT ·Kfoderlpass from Palkii (Cummingskkk), Z:23; 7~7 >Znd Quar:ter __ ·• ·__ _ · _· ._: _ _ _ _ 
:_: -Pill Buch~ Ipass fyo·m Palko-(Cum~ings kick).IZ:34;J4:J PIT[_ _>. HD•-~-Walker 5rnn_(fitzpatrick kick), 9:35; 14:"lb •. ____ .: -"-___ · PITT lee 3pass from Palko (Cuiiuilings kick), 5:39;ZH4 PITT _. -··... . HD Stovall llpass from Quiim (fitzpatrick kick), 4:28; Zl-ZI · 
.: : -_ PITT Buches 20 ·pass from Palko (Cummings kick), 2:55; 28-21 PITT ·.: 3rdQuaiter -_ -__ _ -_-_--­:~ -HD ;-!}11we~.,Neal 19-pa~s from Quirin (fitzpatriclckickf13:Z3;28-28_ -:: -• 
jthQuartgr __ .: ....... .,:.•_"---______ -_..: • · ---· --­;:_ PITTJG Cummings 27, 12:41; 31:-28.PITT -. :-.: ... _ · ·.: "D Shelton36fro_m Quinn (fitzpatrick kick);}:ZI; 31-35 ND 
:-< ··_PITT _Gill 9pass frolif Palko (Cummings kick), Z:24;38~35 PITT -~; HD· .. JGfitzpatrick451:11;38~38: :·_ :.:~ 'PITT fG Clin\inings 32, 0:0I;'4l-38 PITT --: __. 
FULL EXTENSION Junior wide receiver Maurice Stovall (21) reaches over Pitt cornerback Darrelle Revis for asecond quarter touchdown. WUAT ARUSU! The leprechaun, junior Eddie Lerum, celebrates as the Irish take the lead. The momentum in the game shifted on almost every drive. 

SLIP, SLIDING AWAY freshman running back Darius Walker (3) runs on the damp USC turf and breaks away from the Trojan secondary, as junior wide receiver Rhema McKnight (S) looks on. 
___________________________________________________________________________., _________________________________________________,, 
31 is the U9liest Number 
I 
by (hristopherKelly 
tshould have been college football at its finest, with two leg­
endary programs squaring off ina historic stadium with USC's 
star quarterback Matt Leinart trying to secure his place as the 
next gridiron legend. The general consensus was that a Tro­
jan win in a nationally-televised game, combined with a few touchdown passes by Leinart, would all but hand the Reisman trophy to the red-shirt junior from Santa Ana, Calif_ Leinart be­came the second USC quarterback in two years to make his case for the Reisman trophy with a 31-point victory over the Irish. On a rainy Los Angeles night, Leinart burned Notre.Dame for 400 yards and five touchdowns. before picking up the hardware :from the Downtown Athletic Club two weeks later_ His prede­cessor Carson Palmer threw for 425 yards and four touchdowns against the Irish in 2002 before winning the Reisman. 
. The ball game started quite well for the Irish. Despite being pinned inside their ·own 10 to start their first drive, Notre Dame used a balanced attack of seven passes and six runs to push the Trojans down their home tur£ The drive culminated in a 1-yard touchdown pass from sophomore quarterback Brady Quinn to senior tight end Billy Palmer, his first career touchdown. After holding the Trojans to a field goal with some surprisingly strong play from the Irish secondary, Notre Dame had a chance to pull to a double-digit lead, but failed to convert third and four from the Trojan 11-yard line. Senior kicker D .J. Fitzpatrick's field goal that occurred on the next play would be the last points the Irish put up for the rest of the night, and the USC onslaught began. 

Despite nearly being intercepted on a few occasions early in the game, Leinar.t went on a roll in the last three quarters, ren­dering the shaky Irish defensive backfield helpless as the Trojans notched 38 unanswered points. A good chunk ofLeinart's yards short passes used to burn Irish defenders on long running gains. For example; the·creditfor the third quarter 69-yard touchdown pass should go to the legs of Trojan tailback Reggie Bush, or perhaps, to the Irish defense that put a linebacker on the speedy sophorn,ore star. "I heard 49 [Irish senior linebacker Derek Cur­ry] say, 'I got 5 [Bush], I got 5,"'Leinart said. "It was like taking candy from a baby." . 
Despite playing a clean game, the_ Irish all but collapsed on the field after the first quarter. The Trojans almost seemed de­termined to beat the Irish by exactly 31 points for the third year in a row, running a fake punt play in the fourth_ quarter despite being up by 24. 
"[The.Trojans] are number one for a reason," Notre Dame Head Coach Tyrone Willingham said in his post-game press conference. "They made the big plays tonight. To me, that was the difference." . 
IFUSH TRO,_IANS 
195 
PASSING YARDS :105 405 FIRST DO~JNS 16 23 
. ··-~---· .. ····----···-··· ·•-·-. 
·TOTAL C•FFE~lSE :::00 4=::s 
TURNO'-.!ERS 0 0 
TIME OF POSSESSION 31: 30 

"We did not find a way to make big plays and they did. It was our inability in all areas to make big plays and sustain drives." 

-TYRONE WILLINGHAM 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 


GRIPPED TO AVOID THE STRIP Senior running back Ryan Grant (4) tightens his grip on the football as USC comerbacks descend upon him to attempt astrip. 
1st  2nd  3rd  
7  .•. 3·•  0  
·..  3  . 14  10  
1stQuarter··  

ND . Palmed pass from Quinn (ritzpatrick kick), 6:Z4;·7-0 ND 
USC rG Killeen 39, 1:26; 7-3 ND 
2nd Quarter · · · 
ND -.. rG ritzpatrick 28, 11:51; 10-3 ND 
USC Jarrett IZ pass from Leinart (Killeen kick), 5:53; 10-10 
USC Jarren57 pass from leinart (Killeen kick),Z:06; 17'-IOUSC 3rd Quarter• 
USC fG Killeen 4Z, 9:16; zo:.IQ USC 
USC Bush 69 pass rromleinart (Killfen kick),3:06; Z7"10 USC
4th Quarter . . . . . .. . . . .. . . ... 
USC Smith 35 pass from Leinart (Killeen kick), lZ:Z7; 34-lO USC ·· USC Mitchell Z3 pass from Leinart (Killeen kick), 6:57; 41-lO USC 
DAMMED rreshman running back Darius Walker (3) struggled to find rushing room all day against the Beavers. 

····································································································································---------------------­


Haunt!~-~t~istory 
Painful reminders of a past Fiesta Bowl surfaced in the minds of 
many Irish fans as theywatched Notre Dame once again fall to Or­
egon State in a bowl game. It hasn't been easy for the Irishto win a 
bowl game in the past decade; their last bowl victory came against 
Texas A&M in the 1994 Cotton Bowl. Yet again, Notre Dame's 
bowl opponent struck in the :firsthalfand never looked back. 
However, less than a month before the bowl game, the Notre 
Dame football team was bombarded with a media frenzy when for­
mer Head Coach Tyrone Willingham was fired. A number of the 
players met with the remaining coaching staff to discuss whether 
or not they would attend the Insight Bowl in Phoenix, Ariz. After a 
few days, the Irish decided theywould playin the bowl game under 
the guidance ofKent Baer, Irish defensive coordinator and interim 
head coach. 
· The Irish looked confused and under-prepared when they 
arrived at Bank One Ballpark on Dec. 28. Irish fans were disap­
pointed with the offensive play-calling; the secondary had trouble 
reading the receivers' routes; and the Irish appeared physically and 
emotionally drained.­
Oregon State quarterback Derek Anderson took advantage of 
Notre Dame's apparently befuddled secondary, finding no dif­. ficulty in hitting his teammates with plenty of touchdown passes. Anderson connected with wide receiver George Gillett and tight ends Joe Newton and Dan Haines for touchdowns in the first 

half. These 21 unanswered points gave the Beavers a comfort­able lead. However, the Irish managed to score before halftime, as sophomore quarterback: Brady Quinnhit junior tight end Anthony Fasano for a 13-yard touchdown reception. 
The offense s~emed better prepared when they took the field in the second half. Notre Dame senior tight end Jerome Collins blocked a pun_!: to give the Irish the ball in Oregon State terri­tory, and Quinn opened the offensive drive with a 29-yard pass to sophomore wiqe receiver Jeff Samardzija. Quinn continued to complete his next two pass attempts to put the Irish on the 5-yard line, where freshman running back Darius Walker drove into the end zone to pull within 10. 
The Irish pinn:ed the Beavers at their own 10-yard line near the end of the third quarter. Nonetheless, Anderson completed six passes on the drive, including another touchdown pass to Newton. After failed drives for both teams, Quinn went on a hot streak, hitting Samardzija and junior wide receiver Rhema McKnight to move the ball to the Beavers' 18-yard line. From there, Quinn completed one more pass to McKnight for a touchdown that pulled the Irish within 10 points of the Beavers once again. The Irish attempted an onside kick, but Oregon State recovered it on Notre Dame's 28-yard line, then quickly distanced_themselves with another touchdown. 
Notre Dame finished the 2004-2005 season with a 6-6 record and without a bowl trophy. The Irish vowed to win one for their former coach Tyrone Willingham, but ~ey suffered from many of the same problems that plagued the team under his coaching. . 
lt#,J Play By Numbers. IRISH BEAVERS 
RUSHING YARDS 20 PASSING YARDS 217 358,. FIRST DOl.•JNS 
i!'>Dil"RL •O.F1FiElt.lS.E_____ 
TIJRt·l01.JERS 
TIME OF POSSESSION 

-...... 1st Znd 
·Hnire~ -,_, ·o·. ··7 __ Oregon State 14 . 7 · lstQtiarte( · . : OSU .Gill_eu 12 passfrom Anderson {Serna kick), 9:24; 7-0 OSU ·. -· •OSU -• Newton 11 pass from Anderson {Serna kick); 5:4(Jl,a;Q OSU •-. · · Z_nd Quarter . . . . . . . , .. .:osu .Haines 11 pass from Anderson (Serna kick), 7:49;Zl:-0 OSU · ..__ ·. HD tasano 13 pass from Quinn (fitzpatrick kick), 0:56; ZH OSU
3rd Quaitef .. . . . .. . . . . . . OSU tG Sernii38.-9:16; 24.:7 OSU .. ND Walker 5run (fitzpatrick kick), 2:40; 24~140SU · ~\h Q~arter. .. · __ _ , : _ .. . . .. . _. . . .... 
.:: 

--0 0SU Newton lpass from And_erson {Serna Kick)i12:l7; W-14 OSU .:: . HD McKnight 18 pass from Quinn {fitzpatrick kick), 4:52; 31-21 OSU OSU Wright 2run (Senia kick), 3:19; 38'.:2I OSU. 


PASSI HG Effie Att (mp Int Pct Yds TD Lng 
Quinn, Brady 125.87 353 191 10 Dillinglfain,-Pat-·· 110.07 6 4 Wilson, Marcus O 1 0 , Hoskins,Ju-s-tin____O_ ·--1 ----0 ---­
Holiday, Carlyle O ~---0--0 Total 124.57 362 195 10 53.9 2617 17 54 Opponents 138.36 426 248 9 58.2 3375 23 97
HOTREDAME OPPONENTS 
289 289

SCORING RECEIVING Ho Yds Avg TD Long 
Points Per Game 24.1 24./ McKnight, Rh__e_m_a___=42_ 610 14.5 3 54 flRSTDOWNS 217 225 4 ··,fi 
Rushing 87 66 ~;1;;fi'.:r.~r:: ~~ --~~~----·----}H--·-···--i---·49 
Passing 116 139 ;Shelton, Matt-_,_-,.----2~0~ ----515 ·• .. __ 25.8 · ·~--. 53; Penalty 14 20 Samardzija,Jeff 17 274 16."i __ ,.______ 0 · . · 41 
RUSHING YARDAG£ 1529 1058 Walker; Dari~ 10 --. --·--·-74 7:4 ____ ,_____ _ 0 · _-· 22] Yards Gained Rushing 1794 1425 Powcrs-NeaJ, Rashon 10 72 7.2 2 2 Yards Lost Rushing 265 367 Coillns,Jer-om-·e----~6---·61 · ·• 11.1 o ---·-·211 
·-------·-----··-·-•---•·--'--~~--··--·-·~....... -·____ ...•., ... __.____,,---'----~
Rushing Attempts 460 399 Grant, Ryan 6 51 8.5 0 16 Average Per Rush 3.3 2.7 c:1r1son,)ohn ,______________6_~ "' ---Ji ·-·· _5_.!________ o ---121 Average Per Game 127.4 88.2 Freeman, Marcus 5 50 10 0 16 TDsRushing 17 6 ~arcus· __ _ ____ 5 _ ·· 38-·_ . _7_;_6._ ___ _ __9__ 18: 
PASSING YARDAGt 2617 3375 Palmer, Billy 4 34 8.5 1 14 Att-Comp-Int 362-195-10 426-248-9 
:schmidt,Josh -----------~---------31 ----___!~~--_ _o .· rn Average Per Pass 7.2 7.9 
Thomas, Travis 30 10 0 15 Average Per Catch 13.4 13.6 [-Ioliday, Carlyle _. •..·. ·_· J 25 _8·L... --_ 0 . . . 14 Average Per Game 218.1 281.2 
Jenkins,Jeff____ 2 10 5 0 7 TDs Passing 17 Quinn, Brady ______:_J -. · · O : ·. • ____9__________ O .. · . 01
23 

TOTALOmNSt 4146 4433 Anastasio, Chase 15 15 0 15 Total Plays 822 825 Vaughn; Chris-·1 · ------7··-· 7 · o · . · 7] Average Per Play 5 5.4 
Harris, Ryan 1 3 0 Average Per Game 345.5 369.4 
Total 195 2617 13.4 17 54 KICK RETURNS-YARDS 41-766 47-936 Opponents 248 33.75 13.6 23 97 PUNT RETURNS-YARDS 33-358 29-239 
HELD GOALS l=GM l=GA Pct Lg Blk
INTRITURNS-YARDS 9-201 10-105 

Witzpatrick,D.J. 11 ,15 73.3 47 0 !
18.7 19.9 ---.....,.______________.__~---. --~.......:~----'-' PUNT RETURN AVtRAGt 10.8 8.2 
KICK RITURN AVtRAGt 

SCOREBYQRS 1st Znd 3rd ftth Total 
INT RETURN AVtRAGt 22.3 10.5 \Notre Dame 80 63 69 77 ~::, 289, 
---------------------'~.......C"---~~~. ~-·-··' _..,,,_,.,.--·-· 
rnMBLtS-LOST 15-6 27-12 Opponents 73 68 73 75 289 PtNALTl£S-YARDS 67-548 62-495 Average Per Game 45.7 41.2 INTERCEPTIONS Ho. Yds Avg TD Long 19.5 0
PUNTS-YARDS 81-3285 63-2951 Curry, Derek·-----=2-3_~9-~~-,,,-----~-;.-.,....... 35 
Average Per Punt 40.6 41.1 Elllck;Dwlght · 2 : .·' .· 20. ·· 10 0, .--·--:--rn Net Punt Average 37.6 35.4 Goolsby, iVlike 2 50 25 26 
30:50:00 29:10:00

TIM£ Of POSStSSION/GAMt ;:;t::,s;:~::e. -!~·-~---!-!--~--~~-·-_-~F > :_:-'-·0_1~'-----'----~_,~!
3RD-DOWN CONVtRSIONS 68/183 67/181 3rd-Down Pct 37% 37% 

•Zbikowski;Tom; J . 22 22 . 0 · .· .. · 22j Total 9 201 22.3 2 38
l,Tll-DOWN CONVtRSIONS 8/15 6/15 4th-Down Pct 53% 40% Opponents 10 105 10.5 0 37 
SACKS BY-YARDS 30-197 25-147 

PUNTING Ho. Yds Avg Long
MISC YARDS 79 0 

Fitzpatrick, D.J. 76 3175 41.8 67 29 1 
TOUCllDOWNS SCORtD 37 32 
z-c----­

,_T'--E_AM_;·~·...-•:...:•_._·_••-·.._.--=_-=_-=_:-_-:_:==3=====--'--~---;:._-;~-~2-1-·7 --~9 ·-•. ·. ~•. -·_-2]
flHD GOALS-ATTtMPTS 11-15 22-27 

Price, Geoffrey 2 89 44.5 51 2 0 
PAT-ATTtMPTS 34-35 29-29 

Total 81 3285 40.6ATTtNDANCt 484,770 340,090 
Opponents 63 2591 41.1
Games/Avg Per Game 6/80,795 4/85,022 

PUNT RETURNS Ho. Yds Avg TD Long 
Holiday, Carlyle 29 314 10.8 0 68 )McKnight, Rherria ._ . 3.·-----"--...,,..~--Tr· · · 0 • 8
· 16:

"'c_._o--:'Ili~n"°'s,'-Je_._r_om_e_---'~.................1__~-.'c ._.__.__--"'~28__.._..;__:....:..~0~-'--"-~~ 0
28
RUSUIHG Att Net Avg TD Long Avg/G 

Total 33 358 10.8 O 68Walker, Darius 185 786 4.2 7 40 71.5 
Opponents 29 239 8.2 52
:Graiit,""R·-ya-n~~-~-127"---:-'~51'~71. :-,7•~-32-·•~57:~ wHson,"M~rcus 35 138 3.9 33 11.5 

KICK RETURNS Ho. Yds Avg TD Long
Jenkins;Jeff·=.·--~---9.....-c-:-:·:·:-43~f8 -.·. -· o-~·,.,..---::-~H----;-:-·ro:~ Anastasio, Chase 19 353 18.6 0 40 Powers-NeaCRashon 13 28 2.2 1 7 2.3 
_•H_o~ski....·ns.._.·.:,:•J~u--:-san.._·.,..-~--'--'-'-"'---'-9--'-'---""---1-7:...4_:_c.......;...;...-''l_9-_.3~'.-.....--...-._.....-c-...-_-o_::'""•·..:.._._...·...c...· ~-~~ Tliiimas; Travis z5;7:,:-:--~25 ·· ._· c7•-•70-;:--77~1r--·•·--z:5 
Campbell, Carlos 8 173 21.6 0 41 Ho;!iliii;Justin 4 16 4 0 6 2.7 ~tovall, Maurice "C'.•-.. -.·•· 2 ,29· . ).4.5:. .<·:-----.0-,->-.---·-1-6: Holiaay, Carlyle; -.·· ·: 27 ; : , 3~r:5 ·-.·· · ·. ••.0~ >,.. 3:'""_c";---:;;---0:2 Shel~~n, Matt 1 11 '--'-...:.:.-ll...;;..:.:..;...:..;.........:0-"----'-='-'~1..c.11 S~lron,-M~tt . . 1 0 0 
0 0 0 Ho~iyl~ ,t<, · • 16 · 7'!6·-._---.. -0.--/--,--._-,c....-1-.~ piJiiiii;;B'-ra~a-y,.-.~.~~.,--,.~-~-·-··:S.'f::::-"?T·7,---"I-\. '.'< 001--.,-.,.,.,.._~} . · .·· .222-:-:--•:o:3, 
Borseti, Nick 1 10 10 0 10 Total 460 1529 3.3 17 40 127.4 Total 41 766 18.7 0 41 Opponents 399 1058 2.7 6 25 88.2 Opponents 47 936 19.9 2 100 
DEFEHSIVE Tackles Sacks Pass Defense fumbles 
LEADERS GP Solo IAst Total I TH/Yds Ho-Yds llnt-Yds PBUI IRcv-Yds nl Saf 
goolsbfLMike --· _1_2_. 43 __ 54 _97 __ 75-23 _,).0-15 2-50 3 1-0 _0_~, 
Hoyte, Brandon 12 39 . 35 74 8,0-46 3.0-18 0-() · 1 ·· 0-0 3 0 
liurrell, Quentin . 12 .42 30 72 . 0.5-41 0-0 ___o~o.. ____1 ___~ 1-0 _ 0 · ·o; 
Zbikowski, Tom 12 37 33 70 2.5-5 0-0 1-22 1 1-75 2 0 
9irrr;p:erec·····12··42·· z3·· 65 __ 8.o-41 4.5-35 2-39 ·· T. 2-4 o o 
Tuck,Justin 11 27 20 47 14.0-57 6.0-38 ~ 0-0. O . o:o· O .. 0 
~fin:;;~~~. -:; ---;; ·:·;-·-n -~6 -~:~ ~:i~ ~ .~:~ ~ ~ 
l,andri,Derek 12 . [9-· 2f ·-~7}J:22 o:s-i 0-0 4 1-0 C.::] P.1uly, Greg 12 18 19 37 · 5.5-14 1.0-7 · O~O 0-0 0 oruchiirason, Mike 12 25 , 8 33 o~o· -·-·o=o----y.:rr-· 3 . 0-0 3 O c;;mpbell,Carlos 12 19 6 25 i.5-4 0-0· -0-0·--o 0-0......o-··o' /3."~]~ack, Kyle ,, 12 _ ,IL _8 _ 25~36 ·5_(5:33 0'0 3 1-0 O Parish IV, Freddie 12 10 8 18 , 0-0 0-0 O-o·· o 0-0. o o r.ws;Trevor 12 8 9 17 2.0-11 ,,., 1.0-8 0-0 '""2·· 1-0 .. ,, l_'"'o M~ys,Corey 11 6 9 15 2.0-7 2.0-7 0-0 0 0-0 0 0 [hl:lmit{Victor 12 9--...6 ... --u--6.0-2z' 2.0-14 0-0 .. 0. . ~:0 ·-·•0 ,---~ 'f;~;;;~, Chris ·-· · 7 -4 3 'i .. · -.-o o-o · o~o 1 0-0 o o ff.iiil'-'C,cliincdiiin 9 4 ·3··· 7 o.o.. o~o_____ o-o._ 1 ··· 1-~1 -,· o: Bofs"'ti, Nick-···--.. 9••.. 2 . ··s" . 7 0-0 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 . O ..0 
Leitko Travis 11 2 . 3 . .. 5 ...... 0-0 0-0 . __ 0-0 y ___ 1-0 _ . _0 ·o; 
c;;rlso~,John ... 12 . 4 1 . 5 0-0 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 0 0 
~:;;~~~:~~= ,.. ii' .. ~ . , ,~ .., . !-.. ··~:~ , ~:~-.t~ ., ~ ~ ~} {7 
f_a~g,!m, CJ0~. ,'!__ T 1 . 4 (i-0 •·. . 0-0 .. __0:0 o 0-0 ____0 ___Qj Fitzpatrick, D.J. 12 2 2 4 0-0 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 0 0
=~~~;~;:·"lF""-~ ··: -i --·--~~~---:·-~I·---~--.. ~:~ -~ ·· --:W 
BeidaiscJi;Brfon _8 .. . 2 . 3 . o,o . 0-0-.-<-o:O:---"Fe---· 0-0 ..· o .. o'. 
Camey,Jake 5 1 __3______ ii:0_---0::0 __ ·o:. ·---o-··-o:o.......0,_0 
g,,anias,Triivi,-·7cr----2 1· a:o ···-o:o _ .... o-o o ···· o,o__ ....!.:=] 
Samardzija,Jeff ...,z-· 2 3 0-0 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 0 0 
Stovall, Maurice . 9 3 o 3 o.o o-o ----0:,0 . o o-o_ .J!7~ 
Woods, Rob .";' 2 1 3 .. 0-0 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 0 0 

ff'EA\1· .-•. 6 3 · o .3 ...0 1.d-1 1.d-f____,0:Q. ·o . !!:_Q ____c.:::,:g . Thomas, Mitchell 11 2 0 2 1.0-4 1.0-4 0-0 0 0-0 0 0 GRANTING YARDS Ryan Grant (4) gained the team's second-highest average rushing yards. 
Dunn, Casey ·· .. · 12 . 0 2 2 .·· 0-0 .· 0-0 0-0 O · 1-0 ·o-~-6' 
Quinn, Brady 12 2 0 2 · 0-0 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 0 0 

TOTAL OFFENSE G Plays Rush Pass Total Avg/G
ilolen;LToneJ 3 1 c:--r·~:-o:cr-o-o. . o-o o . · o-o ·Jd 

Quinn, Brady 12 407 -4 2586 2582 215.2 
Freeman, Marcus 8, , 1 o . 1 d,d 0-0 . . 0-0 , 0 , "jj'.'o ..o...~ ~l~e5.J:)_arirui'" 11 185 786. 0 786"'' • 71_:,3 Fasano, Anthony ...11 1 0 . f"",. 0-0 O-o··--....-·o-_-o· . 0 0-0 0 0 
Shelton, Matt 12 0 I 0-0 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 0 0 

Grant, Ryan 9 127 515 0 515 57.2 
McKnighi;Rliema 12 1----o o~o--:----o~o-.-.,. ~---·o-,. o-o ·. o "()'. 

[Wilson, Marcus · 12 36 133"''" 0 13'/V. H.5/
Total 12 476 347 823 74-297 30-197 9-201 39 12-79 15 o 
Opponents 12 505 330 835 63-239 25-147 10-105 33 6-0 10 0 

J enk:ins, Jeff 4 9 43 0 43 10.8 
6

ALLPURPOSE G Rush Rec PR KOR IR Tot Avg/G ~~~g_!iam; Pat 5 . , 0 31 ~----~T ·.· ··..·6.2\ 
[Y'alker, Darius,_,, ___.,~_11 786____ 74 . · ~~. 0 ~ ~860_ . 78.2j Powers-Neal, Rashon 12 13 28 0 28 2.3 
• 
»•••,-,-·-10--·-----·..
McKnight, Rhema 12 0 610 16 0 0 626 52.2 i'thoiiias;"Trav,s·· 25 25 0 25·~· 2.~
~---~~ ____ .,.~­F,Ryan . 9 . 515 51, ---.-, 0 ·-·-o·· 566"'--'~ Hoskins,Justin 6 5 16 0 16 2.7 f!:§§ay, Carlyle ·• , 12 .,· ., .y·--"CT'C"'·,.·,0.2: 
,,~-'--·· 
Shelton, Matt 12· 0 515 0 11 0 526 43.8 3 0 !Fasalio;Aritliony 1c· 0 "~-~? "o·-=? ~~-o·· ~3:4; 
TEAM 6 ·4 -8 () -8 -1.3 
~-:-c~--,-, 

'Holid~y, Carlyle· 12 3 25 314 16 0 358 29.8 !Anastasio, Chase 12 1 ',~13 0 ··::u~-cLII ~astaslo,CJ1ase_>. ii'" ~B___ ,,_1,5··, 0 -353-·---·o--· 3-~~~---~~ Total 12 822 1529 2617 4146 345.5 Stovall, Maurice 9 0 313 0 29 0 342 38 Opponents 12 825 1058 3375 4433 369.4 ~~1:1~rd~ja,Jeff -~:~.12 :o.,,.H~>,·.. 0 0 0·2~ 
ZOO4 Schedule and Results
Hoskins,Justin 6 16 0 0 174 0 190 31.7 iWilsoiiiMarcus ·. · rr·----ff[-.. -...-.•18..., ... "o: .,_ · o -·--.o·-·--176 .14:7; "campbell, Carlos 12 ti' 0 O 173 O 173 .... ~14.4 rowers=Nea1;·Rash0n-,-u-···--•2.8 72 '0 ·,' 0 -.. o'-·-100 8 31 
Collins,Jerome· 12 o···-67~-0 0 95·-·•·7} [fhomas,Travi~ lo :z:s-30..... ·o o ·O ... 55 7Jl Je-;;ia;;rerr-·· ··· 4 43 10 o o o 53 13.2 ~!1,by, Mike . ' · 12 o . (i. ·: o . o <.sos: .50 ...• A.2] Freeman, Marcus 8 0 50 0 0 0 . 50 6:2 ~1)_',__~~ek > 12 · _a--:-:---~---·.o:-·--·•--o·•· 39 39 ~-~---3.2j Jackson, Preston 12 · 0 0 0 0 . ·33 38 3.2 

~lii1~[~i}!C , 12 ,.... p.. · 34 o · o o 34 2.si Richardson, Mike 12 0 0 0 0 32 ·32 · · 2.7• ZOO5 Schedule :carlson,Johri--·12 ..... 0-.. ·31 0 -(j" --0 31 2.g September 3 at Pittsburgh ____ ~dt,Josh ~ 10 · · 0 · 31 0 0 0 31 3.1 ~~,:ember!0 · . ~' .. .:\_i'1ic!,igan September 17 MICHIGAN STATE 
~~owski, Tom ___E:.:.. 0 0 0 0 . 22 2~· _1.~ 

•September 2{ . . . . at Washington
Ellick, Dwight 12 0 0 ii 0 20 20 1.7 

October 1 .. at Purdue ·· ··· ·· · · ·. · f=Borsetl;N",ic...·k,. ·y-·-o ,,.,,. 0 7r:··10 ·..· 0 . . . f1 
Vaughn~hris 4 O 7 "o O . · ·o· • . · , P ~:~ ,!)ttober 15 USC . >.,.. ~>_-...-...~:::;-:~_-_--__..-;...-_-_-,.,,;---~-·~ ==i 
October 22 ____BYU [Harris, Ryan 12. 0 3 0 --· 0 ... 0 ·... 0"1] 

!November 5 ·· TENNESSEE ~-Brady fa -4 0 ,. , 0 -0 0 -4 -0.3 ~ovw{berli ·· ·Nt,VY . . .... ~ ­
/TEAM------~-· Total  . . 6 12.  cs 1529  . > o 2617  o 358  ·-·,i­766  ·.. o 201  .. -8 5471  ... -1.3] 455.9  '.November 19 . · •·· · . November26  .·  SYRACUSE ·•·· < at Stanford --~--­ .  · ·..· .  '--.  
Opponents  12  1058  3375  239  936  936  5713  476.1  

Head Ciiach . . ..· . .. . . ' Jo11 TilledPUR}' ._ . . .·. . .·· . . . . .· . . . .. ._.· . .· . . . . . ._ . 
hi his eight seasons as Purdue's· head coach~ filler was always iriciipable ofwinriing a big game on the r.oad. Under Tiller, the Boilermakers. have lost six .· straight atOhioState; three_ at E>enn St~te and _have never beaten Michigan-in the Big House; Nso, Purdue had not won atNcitre Dame in overJOyears, . i.iicludingthree losses under Tiller. However, Tiller finally got his offense and defense to click at Notre Dame Stadium. Quarterback Kyle Orton went 
·., /~_l·:}l_for 3,sryirr<Is :ind4:~ouchdo~;:and i:he];>urdiie de~se l.iniiied_ the hislito only)6 points, li1 the end,Tiller had coached his team to a 4-0 start, . ,'witli a4f-l~v.icyory to·~apPurdue's}o.sing streak._·.. · . . . ·. . . . . . . 
. . . :D"'nsiveCoordinator :: ··\ BroncoMendenhall(BYU) ·.. >.: ·_ .. :: ·_ · · \ · _.·· . . -i. _· .. · . , . . ·• __ <· • 
· ,: Despit!! beµigtheheavy ~clerdog; Mendenhall taught his team how to shutdownNtitre Dame's runi.J.ing ~e.Within the.first 10 min~tes ofplay;-. 
• \,BYU had rendered _the Irish rushing attack ineffective, forcin a one-di .. . ional offensive performance from the Irish. BYU emerge .. torious and, 
.. ,. :-.. ' ·.··· -· . .· ., ... 


Lifetime service opportunities with multinational organization for graduating seniors. 
•







www. cation 

ANSWER~, 
THE CALL•'<!;;,J· 


success to Notre Dame
·Bynow, the campus is familiar with the 
name Charlie Weis. It has appeared 
in the media, and I've heard rumors that alumni even are erecting a monument dedicated to him on top of DeBartolo. But now you're probably hearing such names as Michael Haywood, Rick Minter, David Cutcliffe and John Latina tossed around. If you're wondering who these guys are, your favorite sports writer is here to answer your questions. 
In case any or all of these names are for­eign to you, they all belong to coaches on what analysts are calling Notre Dame's new star-studded staff. Weis' sole head-coaching experience has been at the high-school level, but he has assembled an extremely skilled staff to assist him, most of whom have been head coaches at some point in their careers. So let's shine some light on these intercol­legiate men of mystery. 
Michael Haywood (ND '86) 
Offensive Coordinator and R1mning Backs Coach 
As a running backs coach and recruiting specialist at the University of Texas for the past two years, Haywood brought in and conditioned a number of terrific athletes. Haywood's most notable apprentice is Ce­dric Benson, the winner of the 2004 Doak Walker Award -given to the nation's best collegiate running back during the season. Prior to working at Texas, Haywood was the 


II Ii' 
The Men Behind the Man 
Weis' assistants bring experience, 


CHRISTOPHERMESKILL 
running backs coach at LSU for eight years, during which time the Tigers travelled to six bowl games. In addition to his coaching prowess, Haywood is familiar with Notre Dame's traditions because he played for the Irish during the Faust era. 
Rick Minter 

Defensive Coordinator and Linebackers Coach 
One of the more experienced coaches on Weis' staff, Minter has been both a defensive coordinator and a head coach during his col­lege football coaching career. Minter spent 10 years as the head coach at the University of Cincinnati as the winningest coach in uni­versity history, and his 1997 Bearcats were the first Cincinnati team to appear in a bowl game since 1951. In addition, Minter was the defensive coordinator for Head Coach Lou Holtz at both Notre Dame and the University ofSouth Carolina. Weis was able to convince Minter to return to Notre Dame after Holtz retired in November rather than stay at South Carolina and work under Steve Spurier, the Gamecocks' new head coach. 
David Cutcliffe 

Assistant Offensive Head Coach and Quarterbacks Coach 
Cutcliffe is one ofthe best offensive minds in college footbalLHe has spent the last six seasons as the head coach of the University ofMississippi, leading the Rebels to a 44-2 9 record. In his first five seasons with Ole Miss, Cutcliffe brought the Rebels to four bowl 
games, attained a No. 13 ranking, and even 
won the Southeastern Conference Coach of 
the Year award. Prior to coaching Ole Miss, 
Cutcliffe spent 17 years as the offensive 
coordinator at the University of Tennessee. 
Cutcliffe molded both Eli (Ole Miss '04) and 
Peyton Manning (University of Tennessee 
'98) into offensive juggernaughts and was an 
obvious choi_ce for quarterbacks coach. 


Bill Lewis 
Assistant Defensive Head Coach and Defensive 
Backs Coach 
Possibly the most experienced coach on 
Weis' staff, Lewis has been coaching, for over 40 years. He has worked at both the collegiate and professional levels and also has experience as a head coach. Lewis has spent the last nine years working as a defensive backs coach for the Miami Dolphins. Prior to working in the NFL, Lewis was head coach for Wyoming, ·· East Carolina and Georgia Tech. However, Lewis is returning to the coaching position where his career began, as he was a defen­sive backs coach at Pittsburgh, Wake Forest, 
Georgia Tech and Arkansas. 

Roblanello 
Receivers Coach and Recruiting Coordinator 
Ianello is returning to a familiar coach­ing position with his role as receivers coach and recruiting coordinator on Weis' staff. Although he coached tight ends at the Uni­versity of Wisconsin for the past two years, Ianello has spent most ofhis coaching career 



STATZONE 
· Bryan Lowery brings you 

No. 10/11 Women's Basketball (16-3): 
The Irish defeated the No. 6 Scarlet Knights ofRutgers (13-4) Sun,Jan. 23, in the Joyce Center. Notre Dame turned around a 13-point Rutgers lead at the half with a 23-0 scoring run. Senior forward Jacqueline Batteast could not be stopped in the second half, scoring 18 ofher 27 points in the third and fourth quarters. The Irish led from then on to finish with a 63-47 victory.Junior guard Megan Duffy added to the win with a career-high 11 assists. The victory was Notre Dame's third triumph over a top-10 opponent this season (they also have defeated then No. 6 Duke and then No. 10/9 Ohio State) and was the 21st top-10 win in school history. Sunday's win was the 400th for Irish Head Coach Muffet McGraw during her time at Notre Dame. McGraw is now 400-152 at Notre Dame (488­193 overall). 
40 FOOTBALLREVIEW JANUARY 2005 
Michael Haywood (ND 
'86) 
Offensive Coordinator, Running Backs 
Bill Lewis 
Asst, Defensive Head Coach, Defensive Backs 
, ·Jerome "Jappy" Oliver 
Defensive Line 
as the receivers coach and recruiting coordi­nator at the University of Arizona. 
John Latina 
Offensive Line Coach 
Weis found an offensive line coach who knows his stuff in Latina, who has spent 22 ·of his total 26 years of coaching as the offensive line coach at a plethora of univer­sities. Latina will be teaming up again with Cutcliffe, after serving six years as his offen­sive coordinator and offensive line coach at Mississippi. Prior to Ole Miss, Latina was the offensive line coach at Clemson, Kansas State and Temple. 
Jerome "Jappy" Oliver 
Defensive Line Coach 
Oliver is well-suited for his position as Weis' defensive line coach, as he can draw on his experience as defensive line coach under Minter at the University of South Carolina. Oliver's defense was rated in the top 20 in the NCAA last year, and he also has held the position ofdefensive line coach at Air Force, Vanderbilt and Navy. 
Bernie Parmalee 
Tights Ends and Special Teams Coach 
Parmalee is one of the least experienced coaches on Weis' staff. However, Parmalee has spent a great deal ofhis life in the football world, including nine years playing in the 
Rick Minter David Defensive Cutcliffe Coordinator, Asst. Offensive Linebackers Head Coach, 
Quarterbacks 
Roblanello John Latina 
Receivers, Offensive Line Recruiting Coordinator 
·Bernie Brian Polian Parmalee Assistant De­Special Teams, fensive Backs, Tight Ends Special Teams 
NFL. For seven of those seasons Parmalee was with the Miami Dolphins, and the other two seasons he spent with the New YorkJ ets under Head Coach Bill Parcells and, inter­estingly, offensive coordinator Charlie Weis. After retiring as an NFL player, Parmalee was a special teams and tight ends coach for the Miami Dolphins. 
Brian Polian 
Assistant Defensive Backs and Special Teams Coach 
Despite what his position implies, Polian's in­volvement in Weis' new staff will be primarily for recruiting. Polian was the recruiting coor­dinator at the University of Central Florida last year. Aside from this experience, Polian has served as the running backs coach at the State University ofNew York at Buffalo. 
On a final note, I hope that you have enjoyed this year's edition of the Scholastic 
"FootballReview." This issue would not have come to fruition without the tireless efforts of a number of editors, writers and staff mem­bers. But from all of us at Scholastic, it has been a pleasure to bring you this issue, and we are looking forward to next year's football season. D 


Our Calls 
Men's Basketball 
OPPONENT: CONNECTICUT WHERE:JOYCE CENTER WHEN: SUN, JAN. 30, 3:45 P.M. EST 
Notre Dame will have one of its toughest games of the season this Sunday against Connecticut. The last time that the Huskies came to the J.A.C.C., they were ranked No. 5 in the country, but they fell to the Irish, 80­
74. Senior point guard Chris Thomas led that game with a career-high 31 points. Despite their recent losses, the Irish will come out strong and will hold on behind the three-point shooting of junior guard Chris Quinn and sophomore guard Colin Falls.Watch as the Irish upset Connecticut, 75-71. 
CHRISTOPHERMESKILL 
SPOITTS EDITOR 
Notre Dame's excellent three-point shooting will keep the game close through halftime, but trouble passing and scoring in the paint will prove detrimental for the Irish against a good 
Husky squad. Connecticut takes this one in the second half, 76-68. BRYANLOWERY 
ASSISTANT SPOITTS EDITOR 
KEYTOTHE GAME: 
Paint Presence 
In order for the Irish to beat Connecticut, junior forward Torin Francis and senior forward Dennis Latimore need to work the inside game. While Francis and Latimore -6 feet 11 inches and 6 feet 9 inches, respectively -had difficulty establishing themselves in the paint against Georgetown, they must use their size to pull down rebounds and get second­shot opportunities to give the Irish a chance in this one. 
Ice Hockey (5-16-5): Notre Dame will try to snap a six-game losing streak Friday Gan. 28)when they travel to Ohio to face the Falcons ofBowling Green (11-17-9). The Irish fell to the No. 5 Wisconsin Badgers last Sat, Jan. 22, at the Allstate Arena in Rosemont, IB.. The Irish were out-shot 36-14 by the Badgers, who scored two earlygoals. Senior goaltender Morgan Cey then made 27 consecutive saves to hold the Badgers to their two goals. The Irish were able to kill all 13 Wisconsin power­plays, giving Notre Dame the second best power-play defense in the nation. Despite their efforts, the Irish were unable to mount an effective offense, allowing Wisconsin to win 2-0. 

Men's Basketball (12-4): 
The Irish fell to the Hoyas of Georgetown (12-5) last.Sun, Jan. 23, at the MCI Center in Washington, D:C. The Hoyas led for almost the entire second half until sophomore guard Colin Falls hit a three-pointer with five seconds left to give the Irish a 54-53 advantage. However, Georgetown's Roy Hibbert then found his way inside the key to dunk the ball as time ran out to give the Hoyas the ,vin, 55-54. Falls and junior guard Chris Quinn still averaged 50 percent three-point shooting for the Irish in the losing effort. The Irish return to the J.A.C.C. this Sun, Jan. 30, to face their Big East rival, Connecticut. D 

JANUARY 2005 
FOOTBALLREVIEW 41 



101·:, /,\\1 ~, •, 1, I'•' l,'1'1::, 
'.. student.:athlete·..·.·· ...· ·.. ·.· ...···· ..··.. ····•··•····· . •·N~treD~me;:however, believes its t6 ensu~e that.•its;football•.playe;s .meet .··. •· ··. . It is a terni often said with asneer ·. academic standards exist well abbve the . the same. basic academic requirements as ·.\ : . . . inthe world_ of college foo_tball:'fhe general fraycif the colldge fobtballw6rld. ·the gei'.ierarstudent body and leave with. 
, .nbtiori of.players receiving gracle boosts, Although this belief has been s~rutinized. a degree. ,. . . . 
. snubbingth.eifsclioohvoz:k, studying du~ •bymanywithin and outsidethe µniversity . ..· . . ,· ·· ·.. . . biou~ majors.or. dropping Clllt altogether, i~ ::-par~ially:as a reaction t(? th.e recent fir-: G~ttini ~n . ·. .· . ..' . . .. .·. ·... ·•iis old as the gar:n.e off'oOtbalI:itself. '.Rec~ri~ .dng offormer Head C6ach.Tyron~•Will.; , ·pan Saracino, assistant prov.ost of 
.•· . a1\~gations ag-ll.i_nit football po:w.~rfanises . inghiun. -'--impressive graduation ra!es ·. admissions, readily wilLadmfr that. tl:ie . ·•tSUand <Qhip Stai:e.ofp!iycer gi;:adei:nflf• ..·and• feiatively rigoroull. a~111lssiori stan~ . university does riot:exp~dmost fo~tball' tion0nlyhavestrerigthenedtlio~¢perce::p-:. ·. ~ardsfor i~ players c~trei,ltly.place ·th~'. .• plll.yers fo,·co.mpete fo(admi~siori with,•­:tiorjs'i Many fans.and a.iiily~ts_:fo11d~r'#•· scho6I's football ptograrn·a.ni9ngthemost ·. the lilajo#ty of Notre Dame applicants.. . . . ·. the first halfof the title. "sfudent~athlete" · . acad~rilically de~irtdi#g)ri;!he 9~untty, .However, recruhs musf demo~sfrate .. 
'.·,'_·._:-·.··.ll.se.. ·.·gsoe·.·_.m··.•£··o·.·eot.•thbin.i:.g.I·. polfa:'.ayme·.·.r·.. 1s's ....,·.·.-.. o.·· ..··.·r·,···..• ..·. · -. ..·.i-.···.•.·. :gnofat th~ fop. F'rofu.the recroi#11g:pro.~ •.... ~_: ..·.··.m.·_•.·.·.·.e.· .... ·_:·£.·.·-.P_..•.·.r···.•·~•···.·a.'..Hx_:.c,..:,o_•.:••· ah ·a.bHity to Cbmplete. ~ticce~sfoliy the . a1 .-cess .~o: ~!a4,11liti6:~i .~?t!e !{ame 5,tri~es ·. ~<;>llrs.ewpr~ e;pected .of~n::N"pt~e D~me : 
.J~NUA~Y foos. : . -l 
·:•.·;' 



1







l ;;!~~=i~!f:i[££lr;.r iE::~~:,~!:1:;~;1
·!'i•;·•.:·,·l·•,•_:.:,\::!,:.:·,·:':.·..••.:·:.·.:.•.··••.· 
1
• Saracino says. "What would be the sense can't find 20 great players who 
.,~.·-'..',·:••·· in recruiting a player who can't make it 
..•.··;.;;i.-.·.••·•:.·,'.;_.,...··•·. l'; : . .here? There's no place to hide stude'nts 
, here. We don't have majors where that 
1it: ,; ca;::;;:~:sure that a player can handle a typical course load, the university re­quires players to complete the same mini­mumhigh school curriculum required of . every student considered for admission to 'Notre Dame (see "ND vs. NCAA," this page). Although simply meeting the~e minimum. requirements does not guar-;­· antee that a player will be admitted, Sara­:·iir\.•· cincisayshigh'schoolstudentswhodonot ·.· complete the required curriculum most l}Xi likely would not be prepared for courses ;)_; , , at the university. "Qur requirements aren't ::~%~(({':design.e~ tC>.keep,student~athle~es out, but . . 



li~;.:~~111~1:;z::: l·=!!i$!t1: 
,Wt<:'. curriculum sta.ndard is. stricter than .the•ll!;l{iJ/.t:1:~:.~~:;;~,f!::~r~o~~~!;·.·. •·~::~~:1ot;::a~:~iu~:~,~;:;.•· . 
}}}\/:,:?ther. .Division f.A.f6otball programs. {(l,;f(, Saracino says that tlle majority ofDivisionl{J'i/ I-A programs will admit aplayer simply)£ 
{fdL</he clears .the NCAA ~tandatds. ,.. ·. ... : ·. ·.· . . are attracted to the degree. and ,;f;:t(: Notre Dame also considers grade-point th.e educati.on they can get here. l~i} ·: ;·,average, standardized test SCC>r~s and other. , Their parents are.happy to talk .to 
'kW:.".' <,factors when deciding ifa player should lle ' :f:\; ,:,: ,· admitted. In addition, the university aims :f:f::\/to recruit several players each year who :tJ'1,;: :,;Jikelywould be.admittedfrorn the gener~I :fo'?i /applicant ppol, and it is usriallysuccessful 

...·:.: a.dvisors frqni · their intended colleges to ·_ : : disc11ss their academic aspirations. "Our 'a,c:lvisors aren'tdoinganyrecruitingwork, ·.:· __ they're just asking about the players' aca­\, < : demic interests,". Saracino says. "We want ·•i:o: treat the young men as students· ... we 
/i. :' /,\Vant players .vv~qate serious ab~utgoing ·, i:he coachh1g Stllff :work ,well ::to"'., ' , . . :t9 class, ,who warit .te> g~t an, educa.don." · gether to find .recruits who aptly . · :{(: 'J'Al91ough Sai:11cincl says there are ca~es . :fifiritO Notre Dame's ac~demic' ,'.·(:. : whe11.theadinissions departineritinforms> ind social. Hfe. ''Not everyone is' <:·, ·, :·· ithe football coaches that it'Will riot ad7 •goin.g to wan,tto ·go: to aschoC>I • :Y :: irnfr a desifed re•c:ru,it, he d,isagr~es ,:with',, \\Tith ~ough. academic standar,ds.' )/>\:<:claim:s that Notre Dame's ·admission. -~ot everyone is goihgto_wantto ·•
' ' ' 
: your degteejµst like every student ,· .. there. Thatis important, because · t.wori'tbe able to. play football . forever!''_· ...· .,·.•....··. ·...· .· .. 
•·.· JJlti.rp,ately,. Saracino .:says that · . :the admissions. departnlent and 

*Under NCAA requirements, foreign language is not required but may count toward academic elec­tives. 
**One year must be satisfied by a course in English, mathematics or natural/physical science. 
{ \· ·...
i::•, :.. 

n
;: :, '·!
t ~: .! 
~ 
$ ;;'., 

1::.. 

:1 
14 


.··.:;:, W~li of Fam~Plaqu~sC>h the w'ali of theOffice.ofAcademicServices for StudentAthletes honorthe ~tatj~mic achi~ve1T1eritsof~tudent-athletes.· 
••··c:6rii~to S~utriJ3erid 6r1itend ad1ih6lic. .and P~terI)il6~~6,····aliothelatadeIUic.. . t1eshlll;Il·. play~r·•;irr~q11iieci.:tb)tiencl' 
·. sch()ol{iithet,")hf says.••••.,,WeJook.for•. · counse.lor~ith the .11niversity'sOffice.of ,:· stu'dy. halfJor 9~...·mlnqtes·····eflCp' :·S,1inday<····•··• 
•SOlliE!one who "7arits'tobeat.:a great,insd~ • Acadililic•Servkes forStudent Athletes,·. •· thrnughThursday.evening m:Pe13artolo ..·.·.· ...·.•.•. ·, 
.• tution-witha great tradition:·There's .no ·.. ·'\Vorfspec:ificallywithfootbaUplayersa11d •, ·H~lLThere, the.playe.rs:o/orko~e~Oll7C>I1e.·.•. •.··.•.• ..·.· : ;• tens10n betweenatlrnissiof~.and foptbaH .· come ta kilo"' them. and their acadellliC .•with student mentors who •. have 'taken·•···.·. ·; 
..•.•.a.a.·.cn .. '.r..1:·.. •1·.v .. ryl·.·.·.n·• ...•.'e..•.··.nw· •.· e.:gillo·.··.•.·eow

··.•.•.·.·.·.·•.·.•..'.·.·.·.·:c·.:.o· .• h·.dews·•.·..·.e.·.w·... 1·e .•.·.·•.·•.e.f· ..•··..dc..•.o.····.·m11fie...•nd ..·.•·..th··.to,h.}·•·a·.t..•r.t.·e·.h..•. ..•.d..·.'· ·ped~rmaric;es fir~t--ha11d through a·.t}ior,,. .• sitllilaicoursis.Th.~se 20io25frutof~ are> .•
; . . . ·. . . ·...·.. ough _sy§te111 ofadvising and tutoring.. selecte.dfro,mapoolofapproxiIUatelf200 i: 
.. : · .watclies/' ·.· . ·• . Thi~ systefu ainis to ens11re. that playirs .·. ··students -who serve ·as tutors to ·athletes. ·. >•.·.· ·.. ··•··....... < ·.. ·. ·.·.· . ··•. iµeettheh· courseforkj,-equirementsand ... This ultirn!ltely' m.ians th~ playe.rs work < .· ~ta~g-lti s; ·. •·.·.. ·,·..·.·· .,·. ·..•..·· ..·.·.. ·...·.... .·............. •. ·. :ultiinati;ly graduat~ with a: degree; ?<<'-withs,cime 6£the best st~dents dp ca111.pµs, :,.• 
. Acadelllic .. succ~ssdn higli~choql doef· ,:·•·· ':I)e qan~itt§ti from high. schooli~~yel ·.·• D.'i.\lonzp saysi"l\fotr~Dam:~·studentsi;e-. no(a!~ays eqp~i:e·t(?: suc~ess :i.fc:ollegf ·• coursework and college-level work is not : ally;tre qufbes~fe~our,cei~·helpi11.g these "Sometimes players. can have trouble · always easy, and the university recognizes. players," he adds. After each session the 
· adjusting to coUege lifeor might gefdis'-.,this. In a.n effort, to ease .each play:r's ·: mentorsMTrite,reports about what eacl1 : 
"c,;ill{i~lf~,~i!!!~{t~~?fjJ1~!!;d~}~:it~i!l~!\1t{{frif!!~jli!tl~~it
· C:Sericic0S0for Studeh •· thletfa.•Yarnell·.· · <le,:niC, 0lljri,~ffieµt; ,.,..,h:fi~t,seme,<mr : :Of sa,a;.,. 4dvis0ri,>. ;\i'i~l 
~=•"·­
i )ct . In.a.ddition to mentor reports; Yarnell·•·.· the transition. fron1highschoolto · ' · · requests that the players' professors sub~ college successfuUy and then wean , r-,:.•-­! ; .. { :. mit -i'.eek:ly ·progress. reports. Ifa pi ayer ··• them off," .Yarnell says. . . . .·• • is struggling in a. specific course, his · To be eligible to play football 
<<:.· m.entor.is informed a:11.d.told ..to w()rkon. atNotre.Damf!,.the._players must > · >that course during the evening tutoiing . ineet the inin1mum grade-point : sessions.D'Alonzo then·meetswith the average requirement applicable . ,i toach1ng staff eachweek to discuss the to aU students for academic good . ' players' academic performancewhileYar-: stahdi11.g: Pu.ring fre.shm~n year, 
·..·. •. ndldistributes the reports to each player's· a student must obtain a 1:70 for· . 
<corresponding position-coach .. , . : thefirsisetnesterand aL85 for the . During t:he interview with.Scholastic;• .second. Studentsmusfobtain a 2.00 . D'Alonzo received .a call from. Head for aU subsequent semesters ... Coach Chadie Weis in New Englancl. • . •· A unique a.spectofNotreDame's •• to'discU:ss. oile•player's aca,demicdif-·>academkservicesforfootbaffplay-,·· 

.· fic:ukies. "ThereJiterally are .no cracks ers is that the counselors in the · tb fau.·•throµgh,'' D'Alonzo says; "We•.. O'ific~ of'Acacle111ic· Services for• ., havea united frontbetweenu~/[the,two BtudentAthlet:es do·not help the 
·• < counselors], the mentors/the Pl'ofessors, • ...·· players. choose their wurses. This > Firs(Year ofStudies and the. c?aches.'' duty isJefr to the acadf;mic advi-­
• ·. Thf! COllllSelors also keep copii:is ofeach.. 5cors·fromthe players' colleges arid. ,player's. course syllabi. a.nd dµe dates for. .maj9.rs. thesa111.e advisors that as-: major assignments, "Sometime{ lfef!la.. sisttlte generalstudentpopulation littlebitlike a mother," y~rn,f!lts'ays, : .;; ' in selecting its courses. ''At. most . 


. The,.colinsel6rs, how~vei; do not want.'..·· schools, athletic advisors ·put the ~e play~i:stb become depe11dentori t~f!ir/ players i~aU thf! eas.iest con.rs.es," ....·.•·•··••·..•·•··.: .services. Ifa player achieves a gradif pdint .. Saracino says;. ''But her(! \Ve .ex~ .·· •·· .· ... . the. ;thletei ~ho\vefeenrollecl betvv~~n ·.•. 
•av~rageof2;701:03AO?heisreqcii;c:dtqfog·..• · pectthemto pursue the •SaITie acadeiJJ}c·. ·· 1994and·.1997,NotteDamegraduated8?·.? eight.hoursofstudy per weekat the Offi,ce . : prograI?s· is .the rest ofthe.stude.nts.'.~ .percent~thin sixyears, ranking Notre . of Acaden1icServicesJor Stude11t.Athletes .• ))'Alonzo agrees: "In most places, coµn-· .· Dame,second nationally behindDuke and ••·.·.. 
.• but doesnot•. have to .. attend the:nightly .. selorslike usworkforthe coach,''hesays, tying the•. university:with Northwestern··· • me11toring sess1qns. Jhe reqriired•eigliti. :"We wprkfor.t~e. provost,. so we're not • and Stanford. _.Additionally, 99 percent ·••··• ·.·•. hours must be, divided among a ITiinitnum •··••·· ~nder.the, pressme .ofathletics:' D'Aloµz6 • ·· ofaH student-athletf!S who used all. four : 

•· of twodays/fhose'players ;who eani bdow .• , says thatNotreDariie's academic ser'7ices years ofeHgibilit:y graduated fro111 Notte ·. a2.70 must:.condnue·the nighdy):Utorinf .· for footballplayers are perhips the most Dame; compared to an NCAA averagf! of ses~io~s.'.E>layers >fho earn a cumulatiye•...· rigorOu.~irithe.~ountry, 'I'he servicedor. ·.•.• 84 perce11t. •··/ .••... •. ·.··•··· ..•. •. •· ... ·. . . ii. .·.·· ..·•. ··•··•· .· ...··. •.· 
grade.-poiiit. average above 3.40 have no ·.. stliden.t-athletes at Penn Btate and Stan:-.> .''Notre I)allle does a great job ofkeep-..·....: <study requirements butmay use any sup-..... ford. are. the only c0mparable J>rograms ing student-athletes here,,,P'Alonzo says> 
·· pori:services av.ailable tost11dent-athlete~:·.. •.•·•··D'Alonzo JJ.as .encountered.. >·.·.··.. ··•· i ••·• < . ''Here,you getagreatd.egre.e an.d.acha11ce After two SeITiesters; pJayers IIlllSt earn a.•··•··· ......... The succ~ss ofthe Office. ofAcademic . .· to play in the. NF'Lit's probably the l>est. . mmiinun1c.umulative gi-ade~poi11tayeiage Services for Student Athletes is manifest . combination ofboth/' . . · .. D of2;~,o.·toavoid atteh.ding.the study-halL· in Notre Dam.e's graduati.on'rat:es .. (see progra11t ''We. wa11t: to help them n:1ake ·. "Earping a. Degree,'' Pa~es 44c:45): Of 


illillilli"illlifliflli 
I2. ·Notre Dame 87%1!· 


WELCOMETOTHE SPOTLIGHT Senior wide receiver Matt Shelton faces the media after a 31-24 victory over Michigan State. 
----•---·~----~~---·-· -----•------· ·--------------------·· ~-----•----.. ~ ---~---------·. -------------------------·----------·-.. ------------·-----~-----------· ---~--·-____, _______ --•-•.--------. ----------··-········•~.-· 
Matt Shelton: Obscurity to Celebrity 
DAVEPOELL 
These days senior wide receiver Matt Shelton walks with a limp. Despite its relatively benign nature, Knott residents initially are taken aback at the sight of one ofNotre Dame's finest wide receivers treading gingerly through Knott Hall. Shelton wants to make sure he disguises the injury to the best of his abilities and will ask if it is noticeable. (It barely is.) On this typical South Bend afternoon in January-where the snow piles high, reinforcing the harsh reality of a bitter winter-itis difficult to imagine number 82 running an intricately designed route on the green grasses ofNotre Dame Sta­dium. It is even more difficult to imagine the now-injured Shelton demonstrating the agility to leap over a stretched-out cornerback, bringing down one ofsopho~ more quarterback Brady Quinn's spiraled bombs in the end zone. But there are eight months left before the Irish opener; doi:i't think that Shelton won't be ready to play in 2005. Being injured is a condition Shel-. ton knows plenty.-and perhaps a little too much-about. 

The path that Shelton took from the realm of obscurity to becoming a major · threat downfield is one rooted in reha­bilitation, obstacles and patient, steady athletic development. Shelton was not always the standout he is today. In fact, he was never a primary receiver in high school. Instead, this recruit from Collier­ville High School in Collierville, Tenn., played almost every position on the field. As a result, because Notre Dame recruited him to play as a wide receiver, Shelton was forced to learn the technical aspects of a position with which he was only generally familiar. To make matters worse, Shelton had even less time to get the specifics of wide receiver down before arriving in South Bend when he suffered an ACL tear during his senior year ofhigh school. This major setback did not get Shelton down; in fact, it got him on track -literally. To stay fit during his first year in college while redshirted, Shelton competed for the.Notre Dame track and field team during the indoor season. 
During his sophomore and junior seasons, Shelton saw limited action and played primarily on special teams and as a reserve wide receiver. As a kick returner in 2003 -his junior season -Shelton returned 11 kicks for a total ofl74 yards. His first touchdown reception came that same season against Stanford, when Quinn connected with him on a 65-yard play. Shelton came away from the 2003 season with high hopes for the upcoming year, both for himself and for the Irish 

46 FOOTBALLREVIEW JANUARY 2005 
L---------------------71)1JiitC!0 :t!Xe~ji]jj:~t+~M!I!ffl REVIEW_,,-------------------------, 
football team. While Shelton saw his fortunes rise in the 2004 season -his senior year -the Irish football team was not as lucky. 
The Irish had a roller-coaster year and were unable to con­
. vince the nation that they were worthy ofbeing recognized as a top team. Despite defeating the Michigan Wolverines and the Tennessee Volunteers -both of which were top-25 teams -Notre Dame lost to teams they were expected to defeat handily. Add this mediocrity on the field to the national fiasco of firing and hiring coaches, and you have a team searching desperately for answers. 
While Notre Dame had difficulty finding any answers whatsoever, for Shelton the an­swer seemed clear as daylight. Afrer he learned that his ACL tear from high school would not hinder his performance, he finally was able to apply the skills he had learned while at Notre Dame and transformed himself into a big-time wide receiver. His 515 receiving yards during the 2004 season were the second-most receiving yards recorded -second only to junior wide receiver Rhema McKnight -and also made Shelton fourth-best for all­purpose yards on the season. He led all receivers with six touchdown receptions and an average of25.8 yards per recep­tion. And none of this was lost on Quinn. "He's got a great knack for getting open, and his speed helps him with that. At the same time, he's a smart player, and he definitely sees where there's open space and gets to it," Quinn remarked. 
The recent success enjoyed by Shelton comes as a welcome achievement for a player who speaks of his alma mater with such great pride and reverence. Shelton's love of Notre Dame dates back to his youth, as he grew up following the trends ofNotre Dame football. How­ever, it was not until his senior year ofhigh school that he dis­covered Notre Dame's location to be in the tundra-esque span of South Bend, Ind. Luckily for Shelton -and the football squad -Notre Dame's loca­tion "in the North" was only a minor flaw. Shelton still has no reservations about choosing Notre Dame over a more tem­perate school from his native South. "This was the place for me; I had that feeling from the get-go. About halfway through my senior season I knew this was where I wanted to go," he affectionately recalls. 
Since his arrival, Shelton has remained committed whole­heartedly to Notre Dame, and he even embraces the constant surveillance of the national sports media. He takes great pride in attending a school whose students are expected to be the best in many capaci­ties. During his senior year of high school, Shelton came to terms with the fact that play­ing for Notre Dame puts Irish players on a pedestal above all other competitors. "My parents and the recruiters told me that if you get caught doing some­thing you shouldn't be doing at a school, you'll get in trouble. But if you do that same thing at Notre Dame, the whole na­tion is going to know about it. They love you, they hate you, and that's just the way it's going to be," he says. In one masterful euphemism, Shelton captures the essence of playing under the watchful eye ofTouchdown 
Jesus: "At Notre Dame, you're 
going to be noticed a little bit 
more." 
This past December, the verity ofthis statement became very clear. With Willingham's firing occurring during the third year ofhis contract, Irish players were forced to cope with the full-fledged media on­slaught. Rather than dwelling on the trauma oflosing a coach, Shelton and his fellow players tried to identify the tragic flaw of their 2004 season. Shelton has one word to describe the Irish's problem: consistency. Howev­er, Shelton remains steadfast in his belief that incom­ing Head Coach Charlie Weis will remedy the prob­lem. "Coach Weis seems like a top­

1 
notch guy. He knows what  A,l!f'.-'­ 
he has to do, and he knows  I/ ,­1  
how  to  do  
it," Shelton  
says.  
With  
a  fifth  
year  

ahead of him, an explosive mixture of anxiety and an­ticipation can be sensed simmering within Shelton. Perhaps this stems from his regret at being unable to burst into the spotlight earlier. "I personally felt / that before last year I 1. could have helped the team out more than I did. I just never got the opportunity. But I finally did, and I took advan­tage of it," he says. His fellow teammates echo Shelton's sentiments. As a big brother to Shel­ton during his freshman year, fifth-year senior linebacker Mike Goolsby knows of Shelton's gradual ascent, and he couldn't be happier about Shelton's suc­cess. Commenting the week before the Washington game this year, Goolsby said: "You have to love a kid like Shelton, just catching deep balls like that, going up and making that catch against Michigan. He deserves it." D 
JANUARY 2005 FOOTBALLREVIEW 47 
' 
with Kevin White 

The Scholastic Interview 


Kevin White is the director of athletics at Notre Dame. Before coming to Notre Dame in 2000, he was the athletic directorat Arizona State University, Titlane University, the Universit;y ofMaine and Lo­ras College in Dubuque, Iowa. He was also the first Notre Dame athletic director to report directly to the universit;y president; previous athletic directors reported to. the executiv~ vice president ofthe uni­versity, but this practice was halted after numerous NCAA rules violations were uncovered. 
Whom do you admire most? What is your favorite Notre Oam.e Father Ted Hesburgh, John F. Kennedy, Martin · memory? Luther King, Jr. The Sept. 11, 2001, memorial Mass on South Quad. 
I strive to be ••• How would someone else describe you? 
Empathetic and lessjudg;mental. Direct but ad4ptive. 
What work of art has influenced your What or who is the greatest love of your outlook on life most profoundly? life? 
A portrait ofone ofmy family's Irish homesteads (in -My spouse andfamily. Dungloe, Donegal). 
What do you like most about working in I would like Notre Dame to be more ... athletics? 
Diversified. Two things: being part ofthe aspirations ofstudent­athletes; and the ''game-day" experience. 
What has been your favorite place to live? Granger, Ind. If you could.be anywhere right now, where 
would you be? Ofwhat contribution to the Notre Dame Notre Dame. community are you most proud? The commitment to service via our student-athletes. If you could· have any other job, what would 
itbe? What would make your job easier? I prefer my current one, but I also love teaching Deregulation by way ofthe NCAA. (perhaps, member ofthe faculty). 
What is your greatest regret? What would you like your legacy to be? 
Not spending more time with my family during the A person ofintegrity. formative years. 
48 FOOTBALLREVIEW JANUARY 2005 


·Acousti(df; • 
·· ···. JhursqaY;i/'t~/} janu~ry7.'7th
·. ·lbpni it' . 
.. in laForturfo 








