-A Kr^xxxxx'^r /xxx> ^^^^^lxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx	■ «wx\ws*'www*\\x*'**wwv\v

ojM
miu/ (Usk'SI *»%
Copr. 1953 by The Parker Pen Company
Parker "51” $12.50 and up • Parker ”21” $5.00 to $10.00 |
you never believed possible is xy g xxxxxxxxvxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxvxxxxxxxxxxxxx^^^^^^xxvxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx' jjb noiy offered in^these NEW PARKER "51" and "21" Pens. Ready now
at your pen dealer's in time for fall ... for all those who
are tired of! pens that^^scrat balk or rough upy/Try these
new Electro-Polished Pens at the fi rst ^possibleAmoment.
ixxxxxxxxwxxxxxvxx'yt
MARKETING STUDENTS!
If you ore interested in using The Parker Pen Company as a case history for a term paper on advertising or marketing, we will cooperate to the best of our ability. Just send your request with detailed questions to George Eddy, Advertising Manager, The' Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wis.


Will your pen write with—"""-b out any pressure at all? These new Parkers willI ----They’ve been finished to an •— incredible degree of smoothness by b an exclusive new pen point process b — "Electro-Polishing.” It employs”^ a special solution charged with electricity which dissolves even b the microscopic roughness that might linger on the nibs. Result: b absolute smoothness. You glide_______„.b across paper. See these new Parker b "51" and "21" Pens now at your dealer's. The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wisconsin, U.S.A.;
Toronto, Canada.	b
Better Schools build o stronger America!
September 25, 1953
CAMPUS INFORMATION

HALL PHONE NUMBERS
SERVING 2 GENERATIONS OF NOTRE DAME MEN
Jackets-in-one!
McGREGOR'S TRI-THREAT
1.	Wear the nylon reinforced gabardine color shell alone
2.	Zip in the wool coat-sweater for cold weather
3.	Wear the 100% wool coat sweater alone
ALUMNI 				1st	floor 2nd floor 3rd floor	500 501 502
BADIN 							1st	floor	370
	3rd floor	371
BREEN-PHILLIPS 			1st	floor	695
	2nd floor	696
	3rd floor	697
	4th floor	698
CAVANAUGH 			1st	floor	571
	2nd floor	572
	3rd floor	573
	4th floor	574
DILLON 			1st	floor	630
	2nd floor	631
	3rd floor	632
FARLEY 					1st	floor	448
	2nd floor	449
	3rd floor	450
	4th floor	451
FISHER 						1st	floor	431
	2nd floor	432
	3rd floor	433
	4th floor	434
HOWARD 			2nd	floor	601
	3rd floor	602
	4th floor	603
LYONS 						1st	floor	455
	2nd floor	456
	3rd floor	457
	4th floor	458
MORRISSEY 			1st	floor	441
	2nd floor	442
	3rd floor	443
	4th floor	444
SORIN 					1st	floor	284
	2nd floor	285
ST. EDWARD S 					1st	floor	280
	2nd floor	281
WALSH 					1st	floor	373
	2nd floor	374
ZAHM 			1st	floor	580
	2nd floor	581
	3rd floor	582
	4th floor	583 '
LE MANS 			3-0567	
	3-0841	
	3-0684	
HOLY CROSS 			2nd floor 3-0697	
	3rd floor 3-0819	
	4th floor 3-0797	


B
a fa
Two garments ... a waterproof nylon reinforced gabardine jacket and a 100% wool coat-sweater that zip together to make a third. . . . The most practical and rugged coat you ever owned. Ask for Tri-Threat, by McGregor, at Adler’s tomorrow!

MICHIGAN AT WASHINGTON
NEW YORK CENTRAL R.R	 GRAND TRUNK WESTERN R.R	 SOUTH SHORE STATION 	 UNION BUS TERMINAL 			6-5534 	6-6211 	3-3111 	7-6541
FACILITIES’ HOURS	
BARBER SHOP 		-...Weekdays	7:30- 5:00
Saturday	7:30-Noon
BOOKSTORE 	-	  Weekdays	8:30- 4:30
Saturday	9:00- 2:00
BOOKSTORE ANNEX 	Weekdays	9:00-11:30 12:30- 4:30
CAFETERIA —	-...Weekdays	7:30- 9::30
Saturday	8:00- 7:00
Sunday	8:00- 7:00
HUDDLE 		 .Weekdays	8:00- 4:30 6:30- 9:30
Saturday	8:00-Noon
INFIRMARY 	  .Weekdays	9:15-11:30 6:30- 9:30
Saturday	9:15-11:30
Sunday	10:30-11:30
LAUNDRY (BADIN) 	—Weekdays	7:30- 5:00
LIBRARY :	 —Weekdays	8:00- 6:00 7:30- 9:30
Saturday	8:00- 5:00
Sunday	10:00-Noon
POST OFFICE 		 Weekdays	7:00- 5:00
Saturday	7:00- 1:00
SHOE REPAIR 		.Weekdays	8:00- 6:00
Saturday	8:00-Noon
RECREATION HALL 	 Weekdays	9:00- 6:00 7:15- 9:00
Saturday	9:00- 6:00
Sunday	Noon- 5:00 7:15- 9:00
ROCKNE MEMORIAL 	Weekdays	7:30- 8:30
Saturday	7:30- 5:00
Sunday	9:00- 5:00
GOLF COURSE 		Weekdays	7:15-Dark
Saturday	7:00-Datk
Sunday	6:00-Dark
TREASURER’S OFFICE 	Weekdays	9:00-Noon 1:30- 3:30
WESTERN UNION 	.Weekdays	8:30-Noon 1:00- 5:00
The Scholastic
by Ken Murphy
Top of the Week
“Back Home Again . . .
■
Should Auld Acquaintance Be Forgot
By this time most of the new arrivals on campus have become well acquainted with everything except the purpose of this column. Well, for the benefit of those who won’t have already guessed it by the time they reach the end of this thing, the grim truth is that there really isn’t any objective behind it. That is, not unless it be to keep one more Journalism major out of Joer’s at least one night a week.
■
Sidewalks of Nieuwland
As most of you who aren’t eating, sleeping and living in the Rock have probably noticed by now, we are blessed with a beautiful new piece of architecture . called the O’Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts. Right next door to it is the recently completed Nieuwland Science Hall. Now, a nice new landscaping job has been completed in the vicinity of these two structures, nice new blacktop and concrete sidewalks have 1)6611 laid all over the place, and everything looks just fine and dandy—except for one thing.
The troops are evidently oblivious to the nice new shiny sidewalks and the nice new landscaping job is beginning to look like a 'replica of Grumman’s Chinese Theater with all the footprints on it. Now, it’s just plain old-fashioned common sense that sidewalks are made to walk on and grass is grown for KEEP OFF THE GRASS signs, isn’t it? -------
Of course, the students aren’t entirely to blame. There are also a few tire tracks mixed in here and there with the footprints. Evidently a few members of the maintenance crew have been cut-
I made it down there once, through sheer luck and no skill on my part, but have been trying to find my way back down for over a WEEK now with little success. (You’ll notice we use capitals whenever we mention the sacred word). For the benefit of those who do manage to make it as far as the basement, the new emporium is right around the corner from Father Lauck’s sculptor room, where the shrunken heads of all ex-Notre Dame football opponents are stored.
Once you get there, you will find that the new lounge is equipped with all sorts of fancy things, such as modern chairs for the patrons to take a load off while sipping their- brew. But ... it doesn’t have a juke box like the Huddle has, and it’s a safe bet that this new upstart will never replace the good old Huddle with its nostalgic, ivy-clad atmosphere . . . and juke box.
Incidentally, did you happen to notice the new paint job in the Huddle? I guess they decided while they were fixing everything else around here that the least they could do for “old faithful” was to repaint it. But it looks pretty good, and should hold the place together for a couple more semesters anyhow.
■
I’ll Take You Home Again Kathleen
I imagine most of the new troops are still in a state of bewilderment as to what the scoop is on St. Mary’s. (There, I said .it and I’m glad. That should be good for a few nasty letters from the gals and maybe even a threat or two on my life). To get back to the subject, don’t feel too bad fellows—most of the seniors don’t even know what the scoop is.
But, I’ll try to give you some dope and maybe a pointer- or two:
(1)	What is St. Mary’s you say? St. Mary’s is a college for women—500 women to be exact. There are 5,000 of us. Nooo . . . now that you mention it, the odds aren’t exactly favorable.
(2)	What are St. Mary’s girls like, you say? Why, they’re made of sugar and spice and everything nice, naturally.
(3)	What’s the best way to get a date over there, you say? Well, you might try calling up and telling them you’re on the football team.
(4)	What’s the best way to get over there after- you have procured yourself a date, you say? Helicopter, pal, helicopter. You’ll never make it across the Dixie any other way.
■
Bottom of the Week
... In Indiana.”
Beginner’s Specialist Now at Arthur Murray’s
“Even if you never danced before, you can now go dancing after one lesson,” says Ann Ross. Try a lesson at Arthur Murray’s today and surprise your friends I
ARTHUR MURRAY’S
120 E. Wayne	2-3339
ting corners with their assorted collection of souped up tractors, bulldozers, and wheel barrows.
■
40 Cups of Coffee
One of the innovations in the new Liberal Arts Building is the coffee shop which.has been constructed in the basement. This move was evidently made to take some of the strain off the Huddle, but since the place is harder to find than the proverbial needle in the haystack, I seriously doubt if it will do much good.
NEED A CHEST, BOOKCASE, OR RECORD CABINET?
BUY IT UNPAINTED —SAVE MORE THAN HALF This is all assembled, smoothly sanded, and beautifully grained furniture
WILLIAMS PAINT COMPANY
Phone 6-7346	755 S. Michigan	FREE Delivery
One Block North of Gilbert’s
September 25, 1953
6
SEPTEMBER 25
PALACE (through Oct. 1)—Red Skelton’s back at his old theme of nostalgia and humor .in Half A Hero (Legion of Decency rating A-l). This time the redhead plays a struggling writer confronted with the problems of living in these United States. Jean Hagen plays his wife. A thing called Safari Drums (A-l) completes the bill.
COLFAX (through Sept. 30)—An intriguing and at times hilarious tale of a German prison camp, Stalag 17 (A-2) is guaranteed to provide you with an entertaining evening. Don Taylor and William Holden are the big names, but the lesser lights, especially Bob Strauss as “Animal,” steal the show.
AVON (through Sept. 30)—Jean Simmons plays the stage-struck girl and Spencer Tracy, the stubborn father in an alternately happy and dramatic story called The Actress. Worth the price of admission.
GRANADA (through Oct. 1)—From past audience experience with 3D, we tend to doubt the cinema experts’ high praise of Howard Hughes’ Second Chance (A-2). Tough boys, Bob Mitchum and Jack Palance slug it out all the way through while Linda Darnell provides nice scenery. Those kiddies interested in geography, might get a kick out of Below the Sahara, a travelogue documentary.
SEPTEMBER 26
CAMPUS ROOMS (2 p.m., CST)—The troops sit uneasily on the edge of their chairs as Joe Boland gives out with the play-by-play of the Irish-Sooner clash over WSBT.
POTOWOTAMI PARK (1-5 p.m.)—The young’uns get together with their contemporaries from SMC for the annual freshman picnic. Chances ■ are there’ll be a few portables around so tabs can be kept on that sporting event out in Oklahoma.
WASHINGTON HALL (6:30 and 8:35)—Montgomery Clift and Anne Baxter play the leads in I Confess (A-2), an exceedingly well-done story of a priest who becomes involved in a murder rap.
SEPTEMBER 27
INDIANA CLUB (8:30-11:30)—A buck, your ID, and a date let you into the first Student Senate dance. Don Gels and his band do the honors.
WASHINGTON HALL (2 p.m.)—I Confess back again for those who had business elsewhere Saturday night.
SEPTEMBER 30
AVON (through Oct. 6)—If you fans didn’t have your fill of baseball from the World Series opener, and you feel in the mood for fantasy, you might drop down and see The Kid From Left Field (A-l). Dan Dailey has the lead.
OCTOBER 1
COLFAX (through Oct. 6)—Hardly a woman in it, but Island, in the Sky should still be worth a night away from the books. John Wayne is the star, and he has a top-notch supporting cast.
tylcwnitUfO‘
Frankie Lane made the Song- fa-
mous but GOOD famous for our
FOOD made us Italian dishes.

SPAGHETTI
CHICKEN
RAVIOLI
STEAKS
3
The new tradition
at Notre Dame
is...
Flamingo Restaurant
610 NORTH MICHIGAN
3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
Welcome Back
TO
NOTRE DAME
SEE US FOR
CLOCKS
WATCHES
SMALL RADIOS DIAMONDS
Guaranteed Watch Repairing
126 NO.MICHIGAN SJ,.
Mierotomic fht drawing pencil that holds up under pressure Mierotomic—the finest example of research in drawing pencils. Designed to stand the most rigid drafting room comparisons. Test them today I
Only Mierotomic offers you—
HI-DENSITY LEADS lines ere absolutely opaque to actinic rays.
ABSOLUTELY UNIFORM Every Mierotomic of the same degree marking is identical.
NEW DUSK GRAY
Professional men acclaim it the best color for a drawing pencil.
BULL'S EYE DEGREE MARKING Easier to read — easier to find —■ positive identification.
ALSO Choice of holders and Mierotomic leads in all degrees.
EBERHARD
FABER ”""2"
TRADE MARKS RE6- U.S. PAT.OFF.
The
^3



Scholastic
8
5
THE NOTRE DAME
SMastic
r
Vol. 95 Sept. 25, 1953 No. 1
A Welcome For the Frosh
| J	Disco Quasi Semper Victurus
l	Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1 867
S	Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame.
1	Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of
5 postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized i"' June 23, 1918.
Editor PATRICK C. CARRICO
Managing Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate Editor WILLIAM F. NOONAN
A hearty welcome for the Class of ’57!
In keeping with custom of past Scholastic editors, we’ll beg license to dispense with a few helpful hints on how to get along in the Notre. Dame Family.
First and foremost, you have the best possible religious facilities at your disposal. Here’s your chance to get things squared off—a natural prerequisite for a rich, enjoyable life at Notre Dame. You’ll find Mass and Communion daily in your hall chapel. And if you want to talk to a priest, all you have to do is walk down the hall to your floor prefect. That’s what he’s there for. Or, if you prefer, you can see one of the four class chaplains who’re ready to talk to you at all times.	-
PAUL FULLMER .......................News
FRED C. ECKART .....................Copy
JOHN A. ADAMS ........Assistant Copy PAUL J. LaFRENIERE....Assistant Copy JOHN E. SLAVICK .............Features ROBERT B. FROLICHER .........Sports JERRY D. BAIER .......Advertising B. JERRY CAMPBELL .......Circulation
Secondlv. remember that the friends vou’re making these few weeks will be your best. So treat them that way. Try to be considerate in every thing you do. When you live in a hall with two or three hundred other fellows, it takes everybody’s cooperation to keep harmony. Nothing can take the place of friends —and you’ll find they’re one of the major assets of college life.
Thirdly, learn to budget your time efficiently. You’ll find your time is pretty -well cramped. Set aside a particular time for each of your daily routine tasks.
Once, again—Glad to have vou. Frosh. Best of Luck!
JOHN P. DEFANT....Faculty Moderator
Positive Steps in Election Reform
>lember of Catholic School Press Association.. Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 183, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: Captain Don Penza and Clash-more Mike III get together on CartierField before the Irish Gridders open their 65th season at Norman, Okla., against Oklahoma tomorrow afternoon. Notwithstanding the two-way rule, many of the sports scribes of the nation have picked the Leahy-men for top honors in the pre-season selections—tomorrow’s results will go a long way towards proving the predictions. Captain Don will need more than Clashmore to vanquish the Sooners, who will be looking for a decisive victory after last year’s defeat at the hands of the local squad. Nine more top teams will be laying, for the Irish no matter what the outcome tomorrow, especially if the hoped-for Irish victory results. (For details of the game, see page 25.)
—Photo by ND Athletic Publicity
September 25, 1953
Hall council elections begin next Tuesday: and with them comes a new setup in election engineering—the preferential ballot.
PRESIDENTIAL BALLOT
2 I Arthur, Jim .
6 ! Clay, Mike
4 j Donald, Joe
1 | Fisher, Jack
3 | Stephens, Greg
5 I Vogel, Harry
SAMPLE BALLOT
This single, transferable system of majority voting ensures the election of the majority candidate, regardless of the number of nominees. The voter indicates his choices in order of preference by writing “1” before the first choice, “2” before the second, etc. If no candidate has a majority of first place votes, the candidate with the lowest total is dropped and his ballots are then transferred to those candidates who are marked as second choice thereon. The process is repeated until one candidate receives a majority vote. A sample ballot appears on this page to clarify the procedure.
The new setup was inaugurated aftei- last year’s hall elections proved
unsatisfactory. Due to a mixup in organizational plans between the Student Senate and the Blue Circle’s election committee, the distribution of ballots was handled rather badly. As a result, there was no earnest campaigning, there were no formal nominations, and most of the candidates were elected by extremely' small pluralities . . . some, in fact, by a margin of a dozen or more votes.
We think the new system will not only clean up the mess of sloppy* election techniques, but it will also provide much better senatorial material.
10 Hours for $15.00
HURRY!
HURRY!
at Arthur Murray’s CALL 2-3339
To enter YOUR NAME for
DANCE LESSONS
ATTENTION: Notre Dome Men — At Your Request
Gentlemen:
In the past four years, since the ARTHUR MURRAY School of Dancing opened in South Bend, we have had numerous telephone calls, and many personal suggestions from many of you regarding special classes and special rates for Students! Mr. Murray has given me permission to arrange the classes below at reduced rates this year. Women Instructors are already reserved.
Best Wishes for Your Dancing Future,
Leila Gray

Pay as little as $1.50 a week. Free Dances every week! Also Special Parties
SATURDAY September 26 Enroll—1-9 p. rn.
WEDNESDAY—September 30 Enroll—1-5 p. m.
MONDAY—September 28, Enroll—1-5 p. m.
THURSDAY—October 1 Enroll—1-5 p. m.
SATURDAY October 3 Enroll—1-9 p. m.
TUESDAY—September 29
Enroll—1-5 p. m.
FRIDAY—October 2
Enroll—1-5 p. m.
Think of it. . . for as little as $1.50 a week you can learn all the latest dances at the famous Arthur Murray Studios. Be sure to ask about the special pay-as-you-go plan when you come in to arrange for your dancing lessons.
We Teach All the Dances — You May Have Your Choice of:
• FOX TROT
• JITTERBUG • WESTERN SWING • SAMBA	• RHUMBA
• WALTZ	• POLKA	• CHARLESTON • TANGO	• MAMBO
P.S. If any six or more students want a class at a different hour or on a different day—our women instructors will be glad to arrange a special one to suit each group, on the day of your choice.
Call 2-3339 NOW
OPEN
10 a. m.— 10:30 p. m.
Arthur Murray
120 East Wayne Street
(Above Copp Music Center)
Call 2-3339 NOW
OPEN
10 a. m. — 10:30 p. m.
The Scholastic
The Scholastic
Volume 95, Number 1	Notre Dame, Indiana	Sept. 25, 1953
President's Mass Opens Academic Year;
Freshmen Overflow Halls, Student Infirmary
Exhorting the gathered Faculty members and students of the University to regard themselves “as actors rather than mere players in the history of Notre Dame which is still being written,” Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president, solemnly opened the school’s 112th academic year with Mass and sermon last Sunday in Sacred Heart Church.
Addressing the 1300 member congregation which .included more than 500 faculty members who filed into the Church in a colorful academic proces- . sion, Father Hesburgh declared, “We can be proud of past glories, but we cannot rest in them.”
Continuing, the president warned, “The worst attitude would be to assume that this is just another hour, ushering in just another year in a history already one hundred and eleven years old at Notre Dame.”
Frosh Top Old Mark at 1600
“As this new page is unfolded,” Father Hesburgh concluded, “let each of us consciously reach for it and think what we shall write upon the page this year. I only ask that whatever you write be written in the spii-it of faith and hope and charity which never fails.”
Again a record freshman class was admitted to the swelling student body. Over 1600 freshmen and new students passed through the registration process for the first time. By last Friday a total of 5365 students had registered and several hundred student envelopes remained to be claimed.
The freshman class has overflowed Farley, Zahm, Cavanaugh, and Breen-Phillips Halls and many have been temporarily housed in the Infirmary and in University approved accommodations in South Bend.
Approximately 100 faculty members and clerical personnel were engaged in the various stages of the registration routine. During the three-day period students received a total of some 30,000 class assignments. A photograph of each student was taken for an identifi
cation card which serves as admission to lectures, concerts and athletic events during the schoolyear.
Personal Interviews Offered
All freshmen were required to take a battery of tests administered by the University’s Testing and Guidance office. The tests are designed to gauge the student’s scholastic aptitudes, interests and achievements. Later in the
semester, each student will be given the results of the tests during a personal interview with an experienced counselor.
About 300 students, most of them Korean veterans, are enrolled at Notre Dame under the GI Bill of Rights.
REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH
“We Cannot Rest in Past Glories”
Nearly 2,000 students are members of the Army, Air Force, Navy and Marine Corps ROTC units on campus.
All buildings recently completed on campus will be in full operation providing extra classrooms and facilities especially for Aris and Letters students. The Nieuwland Science Hall, housing the University’s departments of chemistry, physics and mathematics, will be formally dedicated in October.
Senate Makes Circle New Executive Arm
At last Monday’s initial Student Senate meeting, twelve amendments were proposed and adopted by the members. The Blue Circle, in the past an advisory pari of the organization, was incorporated as an integral branch of the’ executive department of the Senate.
Gene Howley, Blue Circle chairman, will work in close conjunction with Student Senate President Jim Richards in planning and organizing student activities during the year.
Richards has released official figures on the Senate fee collected from undergraduates during the registration. Period collection totaled $4,533, with 98% of the students contributing.	’
Student Center Open Soon
Those who paid the fee may take advantage of the lower of two prices which are slated to accompany all activities either sponsored or underwritten by the Senate this year. This will be approximately a one to two dollars saving on each activity.
With an extremely heavy schedule, Richards has slated many changes. Probably the most anticipated event on tap is the opening of the Student Center. The sophomores are scheduled to have that privilege with this year’s Cotillion being held there on Oct. 23, followed the next day by the Georgia Tech game.
Also on the dance calendar is the AB Ball for the Pitt game weekend on Oct. 17. Commerce men will get into the act with their Ball, on the Iowa game weekend, Nov. 20.
The Senate has decided to move its traditional Saturday night dances to the new Student Center. Until the opening of the Center they will be held in either the Indiana Club or the Drill Hall.
The weekend of October 3 has been designated by the Senate for the official senior trip. The fourth year men will travel to Lafayette to view the Purdue game.
Also included on the Senate docket are more jazz concerts. The success of last year’s concert has prompted the Senate to schedule additional concerts (Continued on page 32)
September 25, 1953
1953 SOPHOMORE COTILLION COMMITTEE
Plans “Fashioned in Fantasy’’
Georgia Tech, Buddy Morrow, and Cotillion Packaged in Gala Sophomore Weekend
The Georgia Tech weekend will be the setting for the 1953 version of the Sophomore Cotillion and the grand opening of the new .Student Center. Traditionally the most colorful weekend of the year, the three days surrounding the Georgia Tech Homecoming Game will provide a background of fanciful hall decorations and high-running spirit for the second-year man’s “big fling.”
Succeeding Jimmy “Dancing Shoes” Palmer on the bandstand for the 1953 Cotillion, will be Buddy Morrow, his trombone, and orchestra. In addition to the original rendition of the “Big Beat,” Morrow will entertain the dance goers with songs from his vivacious young singer, Jean Terry, and the musical comedian, Frankie Lester.
Morrow and company will take up residence on the second floor of the Center from which his music will be piped downstairs to the main lounge and refreshment stands. The stand from which the “authentic Night Train” ■will emanate will be an imaginative creation by decorations chairman, Bob Bund-schuh, and will be the focal point of the Cotillion’s Fashioned in Fantasy theme.
Because of the intrinsic beauty of the new Student Center, the decorations com
10
mittee will concentrate on a few impressive displays rather than the usual “cover-all” decorations. The use of ultraviolet light will be employed extensively for a novel effect, especially on the water fountain which will be erected at the door.
Saturday’s big attraction will, of course, be the game between Notre Dame and Georgia Tech. Clem O’Neil, who is in charge of football tickets for the game, has secured 500 ducats, one being sold to each soph buying a bid.
Dave Granger and the ticket committee began selling tickets during the evening meal last night and will continue until Monday night. Sophs buying tickets are able to get much-coveted lodgings in the South Bend hotels and private homes through the foresight of hotel chairman, Erwin Al-fonsus. Reservations for the traditional Communion Breakfast went very quickly in last night’s first rush. Bob Car-rane, in charge of entertainment, will see to it that the couples are entertained during the early morning feast at the Morris Inn.
Overseeing the whole affair is Elrie Chrite, general chairman, who hails from the Windy City, Chicago. Assist
ing him as business manager is Dan Quigley, while Frank McCarthy and John Adams are handling the refreshments and publicity, respectively. The four class officers, Tom McNeill, pres., Dan Devine, vice-pres., Dick Lewis, sec., and Tom Caplet, treas., have aided the dance committee in planning and executing the Cotillion plans.
“If this isn’t the greatest Cotillion ever, we won’t know the reason why,” says Chairman Chrite.
Benefit Show Opens Warblers' 38th Year
At the request of Coach Frank Leah}' the University Glee Club will open its 38th season of song next Wednesday night at the Irish mentor’s home parish. Michigan City. All profits from the performance will be turned over to the parish benefit fund.
For Director Daniel H. Pedtke it will be the 14th opening night as conductordirector of the Club. Because of the relatively few graduations in all but one voice group, Mr. Pedtke expects that this season will be equally or more successful than last year when upwards of 135,000 people paid to see the Club perform.
Following the Michigan City concert the songsters will prepare for the annual Fall campus concert which will be staged this year in collaboration with the Festival of the Arts at the end of October. Also on the docket for the end of October is a concert at Chicago’s Rosary College on the 28th. Proceeds from this performance will be used by the Notre Dame Club of Chicago to supplement its scholarship fund.
An innovation for the club this year will be its appearance on film singing the Victory March before the showings of the Notre Dame football films on a nation-wide television each Sunday evening of the season. During the halftime they will entertain the viewers with selections from their repertoire filmed in Philadelphia last summer.
The club will be heard again later in the evening should the game run short of its allotted time. Included under the same arrangements are films of the Glee Club to be shown to the closed-circuit theatre audiences of “live” football games.
Taking the helm as president of the club this year will be senior Tom Short. Under him will be Joseph A. (Buzz) Helfrich, vice-president; Tom May, secretary; and Webb Arceneaux, treasurer. The Club’s business and publicity will be handled by Tony Trigiani and Walt Schneider, respectively.
The Scholastic
Former Hitler Youth Member, Companion Presently Enrolled at Holy Cross Seminary
Two German youths, one who is a former member of Hitler’s Youth Corps, are among 45 new seminarians of college age studying for the priesthood here at the University.
Hans Rulke, who was subjected to four-and-a-half years of Nazi philosophy and military discipline, has commenced nine years of study and prayer which will lead to his ordination as a priest of the Congregation of Holy Cross.
The 21-year-old native of Witten-Ruhr in west Germany was accompanied to this country by another German youth, Hubert Schwan, whose father was a Russian prisoner in Siberia for three years. The two young men decided to pursue their religious
HOLY CROSS CANDIDATES
View Father Badin’s Grave
vocations at Notre Dame after meeting several Holy Cross priests in Rome. They are living on the campus at the Old College.
Rulke worked during the past two years in a coal mine in the Ruhr. Schwan, whose home is at Potsdam in the Russian zone of Germany, had been working as a farmer. Both have been impressed by America since theii- recent arrival in New York. They are particularly fascinated by the great number of automobiles and take a ride every chance they get.
Rulke was required to enter the Hitler Youth Corps when he was ten years old. Members of the Youth Corps met Jn uniform two afternoons each week and “had to have a very good reason / for being absent,” he recalls. Eventual
ly, Rulke became a squad leader. Toward the end of the war, when American forces were pressing into Germany, many Youth Corps members were transferred into the Army, but Rulke was just 14 and one-half years old and considered too young.
Schwan says that the Russian regime in east Germany differs little from Nazi rule. Priests may celebrate Mass, but they cannot speak out against Communism, even from the pulpit, without risking arrest. “The meeting of Catholic groups is officially banned,” Schwan says, “but they often assemble in secret anyway.”
Schwan recalls several curious incidents which took place when the Russians first occupied east Germany. “The Russians,” he says, “were intrigued by wrist watches, many never having seen them before. He saw several Russian soldiers who had rows of wrist watches sewn on the inside of their jackets.
“One Russian soldier,” Schwan said, “went into a German home and was amazed to see a faucet and how it worked. He pulled the faucet out of the wall and took it to his own quarters where he simply pounded the broken end of the pipe into the wall and turned on the faucet, expecting water to flow from it.”
Since their arrival in the United States, both Rulke and Schwan have made rapid progress in learning the English language. Among recent additions to their vocabulary are “touchdown” and “tackle”. Come October 17th, the two Germans will be cheering the “Fighting Irish” at their first American football game.
Senior Trip to Purdue Planned for Band of 115
Lafayette and Purdue University will be the target of 115 seniors next Saturday afternoon as the select group follow the “Fighting Irish” on the annual senior football trip.
Busses will leave the Circle at 9:30 a.m. on Saturday morning. Departure time at Lafayette will be approximately one hour after the game.
A box lunch will be distributed en route by the committee. There are only accommodations for the 115 and a price of S8.25 will cover bus, ticket, and lunch. The game tickets will also be distributed on the bus.
No cancelled or excused cuts will be granted to those taking the trip.
Ten Priests Ordained In June 10 Ceremony
Ten young men were ordained as priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross on June 10 in Sacred Heart Church by Most Rev. John F. Noll, Archbishop-Bishop of Fort Wayne, Ind. An eleventh seminarian was ordained to serve in his native Archdiocese of Dacca, Bengal, East Pakistan.
Those ordained include: Rev. Thomas W. Zimmerman, C.S.C., Crestline, Ohio; Rev. James L. Shilts, C.S.C., and Rev. Ronald A. Zell, C.S.C., South Bend, Ind.; Rev. Joseph P. Voelker, C.S.C., Indianapolis, Ind.; Rev. George G. Kahle, Ottawa, Ohio; Rev. Eugene A. Burke, C.S.C., Pacific Junction, Iowa; Rev. T. Daniel Kennerk, C.S.C., Fort Wayne, Ind.; Rev. Charles F. Weiher, C.S.C., Wapakoneta, Ohio; Rev. Edward A. Buenger, C.S.C., River Forest, Ill.; Rev.
DOME PICTURES
Beginning next Monday, Sept. 28, and continuing until Oct. 16, pictures of seniors for this year’s Dome will be taken in the basement of Walsh Hall from 9 until 12 and from 1:30 until 6 o’clock Monday through Friday.
Appointments may be made in advance any time at the above place and hours. Everyone must have an appointment before his picture will be taken. The price for each picture will be one dollar, and coats and ties must be worn.
R. Francis Theriault, C.S.C., Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario; and Rev. Michael A. D’Rozario, Hashnabad, Dacca, Bengal.
Other members of this year’s ordination class were Rev. John J. Doherty, C.S.C., Portland, Oregon, ordained in Portland on May 30 and Rev. Thomas I. Baker, C.S.C., Detroit, Mich., who was ordained on February 7.
Five of the new Holy Cross priests are veterans of World War II. Father Buenger was an infantry captain whose outfit took part in the “Battle of the Bulge.” Father Kennerk was an infantryman in France and Germany following the Normandy invasion. Father Doherty was a Marine pilot in several Pacific campaigns against the Japanese. Fathers Weiher and Burke served in the Army and Navy respectively.
Fathers Zimmerman, Burke, Kennerk, and D’Rozai-io have volunteered for service in the Holy Cross missions in East Pakistan. The other priests are assigned at Notre Dame or other institutions and parishes operated by the Holy Cross Fathers.
11
September 25, 1953
Gurian Returns After Summer in Europe; Comments on Adenauer German Youth Policy
By THOMAS QUINN
Dr. Waldemar Gurian, professor of Political Science has returned to the University after a summer in Europe. Dr. Gurian traveled throughout Germany, Austria, and Switzerland. As Visiting Expert of American Affairs, he had unlimited opportunities to note life on the continent.
While in Germany, Dr. Gurian observed the German elections. The outcome was very pleasing to him and many other Americans. “The strong youth vote for Konrad Adenauer was surprising,” Dr. Gurian said. He attributed much of Adenauer’s overwhelming majority of votes to the German youth. Dr. Gurian added, “Much of the success of Adenauer was due to his strong personality.”
Adenauer Vote Over-Whelming
“The vote for Adenauer was overwhelming in all parts of Germany,” he continued. “Even in the sections where Adenauer was thought to be lacking in prestige there was a surprising majority of votes for the veteran politician. The expected prejudice against the Catholic Adenauer did not manifest itself in any part of Germany.”
Adenauer is sure to be chancellor for the next four years. He has a majority of more than two-thirds of the seats in the new parliament. “With this majority Adenauer will be able to make constitutional changes,” Dr. Gurian noted.
Dr. Gurian noted that the “high age of Adenauer is definitely a factor against him.” Other than that he felt the chancellor’s superiority in years gives him an added advantage in experience and in making the proper choice for the German people.
“Prior to the election,” Dr. Gurian said, “people feared socialist experiments, or planned economy or any cessation of the present prosperity.”
Dr. Gurian seemed glad to say that “the groups for Hitler—the Neo-Nazis —were completely defeated.” Both the Neo-Nazis and the communist party failed to gain a seat in the German parliament.
The Chancellor’s policies were briefly outlined by Dr. Gurian as the integration of Germany; close co-operation with the United States; and an understanding with the French, by creating a united Europe.
Of the recent uprising in Eastern Berlin Dr. Gurian stated: “The East Communist regime was saved from complete collapse only by the Soviet tanks. The East Germans are handicapped by the lack of weapons. They cannot ex
pect to fight tanks with sticks and stones.”
In regard to Adenauer’s hopes for a unification of Germany, Dr. Gurian said: “It is difficult to say if German hopes for a peaceful union will be fulfilled because the attitude of Russia is very stiff.”
Dr. Gurian at present is hospitalized with thrombosis in the left leg. Dr. Gurian said jokingly, “In Europe they find nothing wrong with me, but when I come back to America, they tell me I have to stay in bed.” The doctors have confined Dr. Gurian to bed for the next two weeks. Then he hopes to be back at his work on campus.
TOM MOORE
Foremost in Plans—AB Ball
'Third Herd' Signed For ABs' First Ball
Woody Herman and his “Third Herd” will provide the music for the first annual Arts and Letters Ball on Oct. 16, according to Tom Moore, ball chairman.
Herman, nationally known bandleader, will be accompanied by a female vocalist and his entire 14-piece ensemble. He has just finished a summer engagement in New York.
The Aris and Letters Ball will be the first social event of the fall season. It will also fall on the weekend of the first home game against the traditional rival, Pitt.
The bids for the dance, a semi-formal
affair, are priced at §3.75. It will last from 9 to 1 and campus students will receive 2 o’clock permissions. The usual car permissions have been granted.
Bids will go on sale in the Dining Hall next Thursday. Also on sale with the bids will be 300 football tickets for the game in a special reserved section for dance-goers.
Box Lunch Saturday
A box lunch will be served Saturday in the newly furnished student lounge in the Liberal Arts Building, according to Moore. This is being done to acquaint the ball-goers with the pride of the College of Arts and Letters and also to avoid the long lines at the campus dining facilities.
A Communion breakfast after the 9 o’clock Mass will complete the weekend. Ninety tickets for this affair in the Morris Inn will go on sale along with the dance bids.
Anyone interested in a blind date for this weekend should contact Bob Swanson in 311 Walsh Hall. Swanson is making arrangements for blind dates with St. Mary’s girls and St. Joseph’s nurses.
John Keenan is taking charge of hotel room arrangements. He will be in the Dining Hall during ticket sales. Those desiring rooms for their dates can contact him there.
Marines Dedicate Battalion Honoring Notre Dame Grad
The 1st Marine Division in Korea has dedicated a battalion camp to 2nd Lieutenant Wallace Stafford Butler, Jr., Grand Forks, N. D., a heroic platoon leader and Notre Dame graduate, who was killed in action on April 19.
Butler, a graduate from the College of Commerce in June, 1952, prepared for his career in combat as a member of the NROTC unit on campus. A delayed dispatch from Korea described the simple dedication ceremony conducted on June 29 by Major-General Randolph McPate, conmmander of the 1st Marine Division.
“Lieutenant Butler proved beyond doubt that his generation still contains that hard core of high courage upon which the United States is founded,” General McPate declared. “And he proved himself a good Marine.”
Butler died in combat in a fire fight in front of Outpost Hedy. He had led his men against an entrenched enemy and accomplished his mission. He was mortally wounded as he attempted to disengage his patrol.
Eleven days earlier Butler’s heroism during a rescue mission earned a recommendation for the Navy Cross, second highest honor his country could bestow.

12
The Scholastic ।
Catholic Laity, Religious Convene on Campus During Annual Academic Summer Session
By MIKE WARD
Throughout the summer months, Notre Dame was kept busy, not only by summer school, but also conventions, spiritual institutes, and other meetings.
On June 19, representatives of Newman Clubs at 60 mid-west colleges and universities met on campus for the second annual Newman School of Catholic Thought. In order to further the Catholic Apostolate on the seculai- college campus the students and their chaplains attended a week-long series of lectures, seminars, and workshops.
Father Beichner Opens Summer School
A Solemn High (Mass in Sacred Heart Church on Sunday, June 21, marked the formal opening of the University’s summer session. Rev. Paul E. Beichner, C.S.C., dean of Notre Dame’s Graduate School, warned the gathered summer students — including 690 nuns — that teachers in the Catholic school system, “cannot permit themselves or their schools ever to become mediocre.” Father Beichner pointed out in his talk that just as the private school system is under attack by many sources, there are many who have risen to defend it.
More than 200 married couples attended the fifth convention of the Christian Family Movement from June 26 to 28. The organization is made up of husbands and wives who meet in small neighborhood groups to discuss and act upon spiritual, economic and social problems facing families today.
A highlight of the meeting was the presentation and discussion of the organization’s 1953-54 program which emphasizes social responsibility and education.
In addressing Notre Dame’s fifth annual Writer’s Conference, Rev. Harold C. Gardiner, S.J., literary editor of America stated: “that pious intentions and expressions are no substitute for technical competence in the Catholic writer.” After emphasizing that the first job of a Catholic writer is to be a good one, the Jesuit editor cited a pastoral letter of the late Emmanuel Cardinal Suhard of Paris .in which the prelate told French intellectuals that “your integrity must only be equalled by your open-mindedness.”
Two hundred leaders of the Young . Christian Workers, an organization made up of young men and women in 19 states for the purpose of serving, educating, and representing working youth, convened on campus June 28 for a Study Week.
The delegates were welcomed by George D. Sullivan, Chicago, general president of the Y.C.W., who stated that, “Our aim is to bring Christ into our homes, our neighborhoods, our recrea-(Continued on page 21)
Former Marine Hero Joins ND Art Staff
A former fighting Marine whose fire-group led the patrol that planted the American flag atop Mount Suribachi on Iwo Jima has joined the faculty of
ROBERT A. LEADER Iwo Jima to Art Department Post
Notre Dame’s art department. Robert A. Leader, who witnessed the memorable World War II event, but who does not appear in the historic photo, will lecture on the history of art, and teach drawing and painting at the University.
Leader was just beneath the summit sealing off caves where Japanese snipers were entrenched when Associated Press cameraman Joe Rosenthal took perhaps the most dramatic photograph of the war. Leader recalls that the “flag pole” was a piece of zinc pipe which the Japanese had used to catch rain water on the arid island. “The flag,” he said, “was sent up from an LST on the nearby beach.”
“Within a few minutes after the summit was secured,” Leader relates, “a Father Suva, a Marine chaplain, celebrated Mass and distributed Holy Communion to Marines knee-deep in rubble.
Very few people realize,” he continued, “that the Blessed Sacrament rested atop Mount Suribachi almost simultaneously with the American flag.”
Five days after the historic flag-raising Leader was wounded in another engagement on the island. After a period of hospitalization in the United States he returned to his hometown to study at the Boston Museum of Fine Arts. He was graduated from the Yale School of Fine Arts in 1950 and received a master’s degree in painting at the University of Illinois where he also taught in the College of Fine and Applied Arts. Leader joined the Notre Dame faculty after teaching for two years at Clarke College, Dubuque, Iowa.
Liturgical design is Leader’s specialty and his work appears in several churches and chapels throughout the country. He recently designed a set of contemporary stained-glass windows for St. Joseph’s Church in Dubuque. At the present time he is redecorating St. Dominic’s Church in Northfield, Minn. He is also designing a silver chalice for an Air Force chaplain in the Canal Zone. The chalice will be executed by a silversmith in Peru.
Leader’s Stations of the Cross, now hung in the chapel of 'St. Francis Xavier High School, St. Louis, Mo.r have attracted considerable attention. The square stations, all painted in egg tempera, treat Christ’s journey as an epic.
Red Cross T.B. Team Here October 5 to Begin X-Rays
The annual visit of the Red Cross Chest x-ray machine to the campus will commence on Monday, Oct. 5 and continue through Oct. 9. "The Engineering lobby will be the site of this year’s examinations.
Registration and appointment cards will be handled through the office of the Vice-President in Charge of Student Affairs. Monday’s appointment period will extend from 3 to 4:30 p. m.
From Tuesday through Thursday,, x-rays will be taken between 9 and 11:30 aan. and in the afternoon from 12:30 to 5 p.m. The drive will close on Friday after a 9 to 12 noon session.
“The Inside Story,” an informative movie on the story of tuberculosis, will be shown with the weekly movie at Washington Hall on Oct. 3. The movie will also be presented to the physical education majors at their usual class times today and tomorrow.
Graduate students, Vetville residents, University employees, lay faculty man-bers and their families, and members of the religious communities will re- " ceive appointment cards during the coming week.
A5
September 25, 1953
Door of Badin Emporium 'Eye of the Needle' For 5500 Milling Students in Search of Texts
By PAUL LA FRENIERE
‘‘Man, just lookit that line!’’
During the first week or so of every semester this familiar cry gives vent to the fact that Brother Conan’s exclusive emporium is ND’s busiest place.
Although Badinites would have it so, it isn’t the glamour of their dorm which attracts such large numbers to that vicinity, but rather this small-scale version of Macy’s which occupies about half of Badin’s first floor.
To everybody, from the greenhorn freshman who wants to impress his girl with some engraved college stationery, to the sophisticated senior, looking for a beer mug, the campus bookstore is indispensable.
Even textbooks are in wide demand these days. The Bookstore Annex takes care of this matter. But, rain or shine, there’s still that endless line. In due time, you’ll get inside. Then, it’s merely a matter of pushing and elbowing your way to the counter, where you’ll receive quick service by tapping for a clerk with a ten-dollar bill. However, be careful that you don’t put your change into the pocket of the fellow standing next to you.
Fumbling through your wallet for some identification needed to cash checks is also a ticklish affair, especially when you’re trying to balance umpteen 500-page texts in the other arm.
It’s a mite discouraging, too, to say
the least, when you spend no little time inching yourself toward that door only to have Brother Conan tell you that there’s a full house, as the guy ahead goes through the entrance. That’s probably the last straw, if you’ve got a class in 15 minutes.
A Practice to be Discouraged
Some of the more daring lads have the gall to sneak up to the counter during rush hours and hiss to the clerk, “one nickel eraser, please—blue.” This practice is not encouraged.
At times there are other minor difficulties, like reaching the counter after a two-hour struggle only to discover that your book list is still in that pair of trousers you wore yesterday.
But whenever that standing in line gets too tedious just shift to the other foot and chalk it off as another one of those necessary back-to-school headaches which plague every collegian.
Developmental Reading Program Begun Here
A Developmental Reading Program has been established here, according to a Sept. 14 announcement by Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of academic affairs. Richard D. Willemin, formerly associated with the
University’s Testing and Guidance office, will head the new program, Father Moore said.
Approximately 200 students will be enrolled in the program which is designed to improve their reading and study techniques. They will attend a three-hour per week laboratory course using a number of devices calculated to improve their comprehension, expand their vocabulary and accelerate their reading rate.
“We have found that many students have difficulty in studying for classes because of poor reading and study techniques,” Mr. Willemin said. “In many instances, their poor reading habits can be traced to lack of encouragement and supervision by their former teachers and parents,” he asserted.
The Developmental Reading Program has been operated on a relatively small scale within the Department of Testing and Guidance during the past two years. The interest of students and faculty members and the encouraging- results obtained prompted the University to expand the program’s facilities and elevate it to independent status.
“The average person reads at about the rate of 200 words per minute,” Mr. Willemin explained. “With instruction and diligent practice in the use of the accelerator, tachistoscope, and comprehension and speed tests, the readingrate can be doubled in a semester’s time. Faster reading- inevitably brings better comprehension. More efficient readingpermits more study and time for recreation, definitely leads to better grades, and pays dividends in business life later on,” Mr. Willemin said.
SIGNS OF THE ANNUAL RETURN (L) Another long, long line; (R) Inside—Confusion
14
The Scholastic
Government and Corporations Renew Grants For Graduate Research in ND's Laboratories

Governmental and corporate confidence in the University of Notre Dame’s Graduate School—in the form of grants and fellowships—was gratefully accepted during the summer by Rev. Paul E. Beichner, C.S.C., dean of the Graduate School.
Included in the confidence was a $165,880 contract from the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission; two grants from the U. S. Public Health Service to support cancer research on campus; three industrial fellowship grants to graduate scientists; two renewals of graduate research fellowships by nationally prominent industrial concerns; and a single post-doctoral research fellowship in Notre Dame’s chemistry department.
The renewed government AEC contract for S165,880 is in support of the University’s radiation project for this school year. In charge of this non-secret research project, established in 1947, is Dr. Milton Burton.
“Now,” said Burton, “the emphasis is on the beneficial application of radioactivity and of high-energy radiation.” He also disclosed that a new source to house radioactive cobalt is now undei* construction on campus. Encouraging results obtained in the radiation chemistry of mixtures may prove important in industrial fields, the doctor indicated.
Through the National Advisory Cancer Council of the National Institutes of Health, the Public Health Service has established a new research project in the University’s department of biology and renewed for the seventh year its sponsorship of cancer-related research in the department of chemistry.
The cancer research grant will be under the direction of Dr. Kenneth N. Campbell, professor of chemistry, for the seventh straight year.
In a renewal of its support of a research program the Sinclair Refining Co. gave a fellowship to Henry L. Weis-becker, Pittsburgh, Pa., who will study the reaction of hydrocarbon molecules.
Receiver of the Monsanto Chemical Company’s fellowship is James Sturn, New* Ulm, Minn., who will carry on research in radiation chemistry and electrical discharge reaction of ethane.
Olin Industries has made a fellowship available to M. P. Reddy, whose home is in India, for research in radiation chemistry and electrical discharge reactions of ethylene.
Two renewals of fellowships came from the United States Rubber Co., and E. I. Du Pont de Nemours and Co. The former fellowship is in its second consecutive year on campus while the Du
September 25, 1953
Pont award is in its seventh year.
Leon St. Pierre of Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, is the recipient of a $2,100 stipend for this year. St. Pierre, who is in his final year of pre-doctrinal study, will conduct research in organic chemistry.
Carrying on research in polymer physics which is concerned with rubber and other elastic materials is Emil M. Banas. Banas, a pre-doctoral student in physics from Whiting, Ind., received the U. S. Rubber fellowship which provides for a stipend of $1,800.
Under the direction of Dr. Charles C. Price of Notre Dame’s chemistry department, T. L. V. Ulbricht of Bristol, England is carrying on research in “New Approaches to the Synthesis of Folic Acid.” Providing funds for this experimentation is Eli Lilly and Co., an Indianapolis pharmaceutical house. The Ulbricht fellowship is for post-doctoral research for one year-. Ulbricht, who is a native of Germany, recently received his Ph.D. in organic chemistry at the University of Bristol. He came to Notre Dame under the auspices of the University’s Exchange-Visitor- Program and the U. S. Information and Educational Exchange Act of 1948.
Irish Work Crew's Projects Give Campus Fall ’New Look'
Painting and remodeling were featured in the summer activities of the Maintenance Department, as the campus work crew completed an unusually heavy schedule.
Extensive work was done in the Main Building, as the offices of the Placement, Testing and Guidance, and Development and reading departments were moved into renovated offices on the first floor. This included the addition and replacement of much electrical wiring and equipment.
New paint will greet the freshmen in Cavanaugh, Zahm, Breen-Phillips, and Farley. The walls are colored in pastel • tints considered “conducive to study.”
The largest single job of the Department, was the reconversion of classrooms and labs in the Old Chemistry building to drawing rooms and offices for the use of the Department of Architecture.
In addition to the general upkeep of the campus, the land in front of the O’Shaughnessy and Nieuwland buildings has been graded and seeded, and the last signs of labor are being cleared away.
CLARENCE E. MANION
“Roads, School Lunches and Taxation”
Past ND Law Head Gets Federal Post
President Eisenhower has appointed Clarence E. Manion, former dean of the Notre Dame law school, as chairman of the Commission on Inter-governmental Relations. The appointment was announced in August from the summer White House on Lowry Air Force Base in Denver.
The commission will study the overlapping field of federal-state relations. Dean Manion believes that substantial savings can be made where state and federal functions overlap, such as in “roads, school lunches, and taxation.”
Manion said Congress feels the purpose of the commission is to determine if there can be a “more efficient” distribution of powers between the state and federal governments.
Dean Manion is an authority on international law. Recently he has been speaking throughout the country in support of the proposed Brickei- amendment to the Constitution, which is intended to prevent foreign intervention in American domestic policies.
Winner of the 1950 Freedom award, Dean Manion is also the author of “The Key to Peace,” in which he pleaded foi-the sanctity of the individual and the limitation of government. '
Following the recent death of Chief Justice Fred Vinson of the United States Supreme Court, many political observers believe the President may again call on Notre Dame’s former law dean for this important and honored position.
Nun, First Girl Grad Study Here in Summer; East and West Cultures Merge on Campus
Two talented women with a single goal and varied, but eventful, background, attended the summer session here during the past months.
Sister Clara, a Japanese nun who survived the atomic bomb blast at Nagasaki, and Miss Catherine Feeley, a graduate student in mathematics, studied here for two months.
Sister Clara, one of 690 sisters attending the sessions, was just one mile from “ground zero” when the A-bomb exploded, leveling large sections of the city and killing thousands of inhabitants. The petite nun was trapped for two hours in a demolished convent. Just a few feet away, 210 of her students and friends perished in a school building.
“I was able to work my rosary free,” Sister Clara recalls, “and for two hours I prayed for deliverance and for the safety of the other Sisters and students.” She used parts of her religious habit to bandage wounds caused by flying glass and steel. .
One of the Sisters’ first projects was
WNDU Schedule
WEEKDAYS—
11:50 Sign On
11:52 U.P. Almanac According to the Record
12:00 News by Air
12:15 Luncheon with Lopez
12:30 12:30 Club
1:00 World Reporter
1:05 12:30 Club (continued)
1:30 Music Preferred
pt. 1—The Spotlight and the Bandstand 2:00 Music Preferred
pt. 2—The Billboard Report
2:30 Music Preferred pt. 3—Showtime
3:25 World Reporter
3:30 Afternoon Concert
4:30 Daily Express
5:00 Five Star Final
5:15 Old Curiosity Shop _
6:00 RCA Victor’s Invitation to Music
7:00 Luckv Strike News
7:15	' *
7:30 Tom Cassidv’s Penthouse Pops
8:30	*
9:00 Requestfully Yours
9:55 World Reporter
10:00	*	.
10:15 Lucky Strike Sports Final
10:30 Music in the Night
11:00 Sign Off
SATURDAY—
10:50 Sign On
10:52 U.P. Almanac
According to the Record
11:00 Orchestras of the World
12:00 News by Air
12:15 March Time
12:30 12:30 Club
1:00 World Reporter
1:05 12:30 Club (continued)
1:30 Football Scoreboard
3:25 World Reporter
* THESE PROGRAMS ARE HEARD ONCE A WEEK, AND MORE OFTEN ON THE FOLLOWING SCHEDULE:
Monday
7:15 Your Navy Show 8:30 White Plume
10:00 Date in Hollywood
Tuesday
Here’s to Vets Music Hall Varieties John Houck
Wednesday
Let’s' Get Going White Plume Date in Hollywood
Thursday
Let’s Go to Town Music by Roth John Houck
* Programs subject to change without notice.
to construct a temporary shelter which was used as a hospital and a convent for the nuns who were to rebuild the school. It was largely through this crude shelter, which the Sisters built with their own hands, that Sister- Clara and Sister Agatha, her traveling companion, came to the United States.
During 1946, the Most Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., then Bishop of Buffalo and now Archbishop of Philadelphia, visited Nagasaki while on a Vatican mission in the Far East. The Archbishop offered to sponsor the two nuns while they studied for advanced degrees in the United States. Sister Clara took several courses in Church liturgy while Sister Agatha studied painting and sculpture.
Miss Feeley became the first woman to receive a master’s degree in mathematics from Notre Dame. A daughter of a Chicago policewoman, she was the only girl in the class of 178.
She graduated in 1947 from Visitation High School in Chicago where she was president of both the junior and senior
3:30 Football Scoreboard
5:00 Five Star Final
5:15 Here’s to Vets
5:30 A Dixieland Concert
6:00 Piano Moods
6:30 On the Town
7:00 Lucky Strike News
7:15 Saturdav Night Record Party 9:00 661 Club	.
9:55 World Reporter	-
10:00 Music of Manhattan
10:15 Lucky Strike Sports Final 10:30 Music Till Midnight 11:00 News Highlights 11:01 Music Till Midnight 12:00 Sign Off
SUNDAY—
6:50 Sign On
6:52 U.P. Almanac
7:00 Obnoxious
8:00 Sunday Morning Around the World 8:15 Obnoxious
9:00 Dreambuster
11:00 Sizing Up Sports 11:15 Serenade in Blue 11:30 Masterworks from France 12:00 World Reporter 12:05 Music by Castle
1:00 News Highlights 1:02 Music by Castle 1:30 The Pennsylvanians 2:00 Sunday Showcase 3:00 World Reporter 3:05 Grand Opera 6:00 BBC Presents 7:30 Paris Star Time 8:00 Battle of the Century 8:30 A Letter From Home 9:00 The Nightwatch 9:55 World Reporter
10:00 Music of Manhattan
10:15 Sports Final
10:30 Lights Out
11:00 Sign Off
Friday
Forward March White Plume Date in Hollywood
classes and was selected as the school’s most outstanding senior. She received her bachelor of arts in mathematics from St. Xavier College.
Sister Clara and Miss Feeley symbolize in a way the divergent cultures of the West and the Far East that daily meet at Notre Dame to span the gap between the peoples.
Six Faculty Members Publish New Works
While summer meant pre-occupation for most Notre Dame students, it meant long hours of organizing copy for four Notre Dame professors whose books were recently published.
Foremost is the latest work of Dr. Waldemar Gurian entitled, Soviet Imperialism: Its Origins and Tactics. A noted authority on Soviet Russia, Dr. Gurian believes the book will help Americans “to understand the complexities of the many national elements in the population of the Soviet Union.” The book evolved from a symposium entitled, “Who Is the Enemy—Russian Imperialism or Soviet Communism?” which was held last year.
Rev. John A. O’Brien completed a book dealing with the problems of mixed marriages. Father O’Brien warns young people “who wish to achieve a lasting happiness” to avoid the “headaches, heartaches and disillusionment” of mixed marriages. Although some mixed marriages prove successful, he does not consider them ideal. The book lists seven measures to lessen mixed marriages and lead them to conversion.
311 Congress Court is the title of Richard Sullivan’s latest novel, a story of a family forced to vacate the family homestead. Author Sullivan first attracted much attention when he delighted readers by his popular Notre Dame.
Prof. Robert A. Caponigri of the Department of Philosophy has published a book concerning the theory of history as taught by Giambattista Vico, eighteenth century Italian philosopher. Time and Idea evaluates Vico’s theory of history as applied to human culture, law, poetry, science and philosophy.
The biography of a pioneer in the American Catholic Social movement was the subject of Mary Harrita Fox’s book, Peter E. Deitz, Labor Priest. Author Fox currently teaching at Mundelein College in Chicago, believes Father Dietz “found the blueprint for the solution of the social problem in the United States.”
Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., of the Department of Fine Arts, exhibited two sculptures in the 39th annual summer colony exhibition of the Provincetown Art Association on Cape Cod.
16
The Scholastic
The O'Shaughnessy Building Tower, with its silver clock, makes a new landmark for the student on his way to class.
The Arts and the Student
Photos by BOB HUDDLESTON
Tudor-Gothic is quite a common form of architecture for any college building. And when it was found out that the Administration planned a Liberal and Fine Arts building to be built in this style, nobody cared much. All the poor AB wanted was a building of his own,
September 25, 1953
instead of having philosophy in the Commerce Building and Latin in the Engineering Building.
He got it.
After walking out of the building on the first day of class, a wise fool from the sophomore ranks was heard to re
mark, “They thought of a lot when they built this.” And indeed they did^-Des? pite the architecture, the building;;is strictly modern inside, and some , of the best features of the building didn’t come : to light on the first day of class. ■ It’s -going to take a semester or two, oreven ,
17
For the ceramists, a new kiln.
For pictures, air-conditioning.
For old frames, a reworking.
a year or two before the uniqueness of the building makes itself felt on campus.
Along with the idea of the “great” books as teachers which has gained so much weight in the academic world, there has also come about a revival of teaching classes in small groups, and this, in turn has led to the strengthening of student-teacher relationships.
That’s the general idea behind the Liberal Arts building. Get the student together with professor and let them bat a problem around, and the student might not be the only one to come out of the discussion with just a little better idea of what they were talking about.
The most obvious incentive to just such discussion is the lounge in the basement. The only one of its kind on campus, it isn’t just for cigarettes and cotfee between classes. Until now, if anybody was confused after class, he and his professor would have to stand out in the hall, creating a bottleneck for guys hurrying to their next class. Now it’s just a short trip down to the lounge to sit in one of the molded plastic chairs and chew over a problem.
For more formal conferences there are special rooms on the second and third floors for just such purposes. The offices of each professor are all located on the third floor, and they are especially convenient for the AB because the walls facing on the corridor are made of glass. No professor can hide from angry students now. He’s in clear view all the time.
By the time this is read, the classrooms will be old stuff to most of us. But there are a few features that might be of interest. Of course the most obvious is the new desks. Anybody who has suffered through Western Civilization in the Social Science building while splinters crept through his pants, knows what is meant. Nobody has to squint to see his paper for the lighting is excellent. And if it gets too hot, there isn’t any trouble trying to get the windows open.
The Professor’s Socks
Even the professor’s desk in the class room carries on this idea of bringing the student on an equal plane to his instructor. 'There is no front to the desk, and when a professor’s mismatched socks or unpolished shoes are plainly in evidence, the chances are that you’ll not exalt him too highly.
The building is, of course, a tremendous incentive for the music and art majors. Washington Hall was at best a drafty barn for anybody practicing the piano, and when the concentrating student had to contend with somebody else’s melodies coming through the wall, prac
tice became more of a bore than it usually is.
But now, everyone has his own private piano room which is completely soundproof. And there are new pianos, too.
If you come across a piece of music cited as an example in your music text book, there are now record rooms where you can-play the records in privacy until someone kicks you out.
Artist and Audience
And the Glee Club now has its own room where it doesn’t have to contend with the band nor with any activity going on in Washington Hall. And probably the most helpful of all, the members don’t have to crane their heads around posts holding up the ceiling to get a clear view of their director, Dr. Pedtke.
For the art students, there is a new craft shop with modern equipment, and a ceramics room with a brand-new kiln. For their special equipment, a special book store in the basement serves all their needs. And of course the painting and sculpture rooms have been so designed to let in the proverbial north light.
An artist desires an audience, and in the new building the art major has just that. Few people ever got up to the fourth floor of the Main Building, but now it’s just a matter of turning the corner on the first floor to come upon the student exhibits.
The building was so designed to bring the students closer to culture in the process of being made. Now, he has only to walk to the front of the building, turn to his left and come upon a striking display of his cultural heritage —the Wightman galleries.
The Galleries Kitchen
And you don’t have to rush through the galleries either, for comfoi’table chairs and lounges have been placed there for your leisure.
In the basement are special air-conditioned vaults in which to keep pictures not on view, and right off the galleries themselves is a kitchen to provide tea for special shows. There’s also a piano in the galleries for small conceits especially programmed for the student.
The Liberal Arts Festival shortly coming up, will open up other features of the O’Shaughnessy Hall. There will be special lectures, concerts, and exhibits aimed at the student. Some of them will be big and some will be small, but regardless of their size, that’s what the building is for—to make.culture an integral part of the student’s life.
18
The Scholastic

The informality of the Liberal and
The lounge provides a place for
Fine Arts Building affords many opportunities for leisure, but here, a student takes advantage of one not planned for.
informal discussions.
The Wightman Art Galleries contain centuries-old paintings by such masters as Murillo and George Romney.
Basement art store provides students with everything from pencils to palettes
September 25, 1953
Notre Dame Men Traverse the Hemisphere In the ROTC Summer Camp Program
As ROTC students fulfilling their summer camp obligations, Notre Dame men were not only spread throughout the country, but also throughout the hemisphere.
The NROTC unit sent men on three cruises, an Aviation-Amphibious operation, and to Marine camp.
The 30 ships in cruise Able, which departed from Norfolk, Va., on June 8, carried 23 seniors and 29 sophomores from Notre Dame among the 3,232 midshipmen. The battleships Missouri and Wisconsin, the heavy crusiers Macon and Albany, and the aircraft carrier Saipan were among the ships participating in the cruise.
One of the outstanding features of this cruise was the crossing-of-the-line ceremonies in which the polywogs, who have never been across the equator, are made old shellbacks.
Ports-of-call included Rio de Janeiro and Santos, Brazil; Colon, Panama; Naval Station, Trinidad; and Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, where gunnery exercises were conducted. The cruise docked at Norfolk on Aug. 5.
Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice president in charge of academic affairs was a guest on cruise Able.
The Navy’s summer training program is designed to give its officer candidates the opportunity to “learn by doing” and to receive first-hand knowledge in many phases of naval operations. This training supplements classroom studies in engineering, gunnery, navigation, communications and tactics.
Eight juniors, seeking Marine Corps commissions, were sent for special training to Quantico, Va., from June 22 to Aug. 1.
The Aviation-Amphibious training was for Junior regulars. The training began with three weeks at the Naval Amphibious Base, Little Creek, Va. At the termination of this program, the students were flown by air-lift to Corpus Christi, Texas for three weeks of aviation training.
The men of the Army also had their share of summer camp.
Thirteen Irishmen received training in the Corps of Engineers at Camp Carson, Colo., whereas 12 joined the infantry for the summer months at Fort Benning, Ga.
In addition to these large delegations, Notre Dame representatives were sent for training in an. armour division at Fort Knox, Ky; to Camp Gordon, Ga., for Signal Corps instruction; to the Quartermaster Corps at Fort Lee, Va.; to thfe Aberdeen Proving Grounds, Md., for work in the Ofdnance Corps; to Fort
Sam Houston, Texas and the Medical Service Corps; to Fort Bliss, Texas for orientation in the antiaircraft artillery; and to Fort Sill, Okla., for the field artillery.	_ _
Korean Veterans Aid Campus ROTC Units
Minor administrative changes in the Army and Navy ROTC units on campus have been announced for the coming year. Most of the substitutions involved the teaching staffs.
Maj. Hilton R. Tichenor, returning from a tour of duty in Korea, will act as assistant to Capt. William W. Bohn.
Maj. Koy M. Bass, Jr., who is also returning from Korea, will serve as instructor.
M/Sgt. Clyton l. Dennis, a bronze star winner, will be the Sergeant Major of the detachment while the fourth new man, Sgt. Arthur W. Sturdevant of Carson, Colo., will act as assistant to the S-3 section.
M/Sgt. Homer L. Clendenen was transferred to Camp Carson, Colo.; and Sergeant 1st Class John J. Moran, the Sergeant Major, was transferred to Fort Riley, Kans. Sergeant 1st Class James Mattingly, supply sergeant, was moved to Fort Leonard Wood, Mo.
“Some guy took a book out all week.”
During the summer, Captain Bohn received a certificate of achievement from the 5th Army Headquarters, and Capt. Richard W. Ellison received a letter of appreciation from Fort Benning for his help at summer camp.
In addition, the Army has taken over the second floor of the Social Science Building, and has moved to rooms 232 and 236.
The NROTC lists five changes in personnel: Comdr. J. A. Masterson will serve as the new executive officer; Lt. Jg. R .L. Kenning, will be an instructor in naval weapons; GM1 J. W. Cor-nele, Jr., will teach gunnery; SKI T. D. Dolly will be in supply, and ETS R. E. Harrold will be an instructor in electronics.
Lt. Comdr. R. A. Cantwell, Jr., was sent to general line school at Monterey, Calif. Comdr. R. Payne is now serving aboard the USS Catamount in the Pacific Fleet, and Lt. T. R. Fitzgerald has been assigned to duty aboard the USS Purvis in the Atlantic Fleet.
Both of the enlisted men who have been transferred are now serving in the Atlantic Fleet: E. G. Zimmerman aboard the USS Avlt, and A. C. Hansen aboard the USS Shadwell.
The Navy is now using Room 104 of the O’Shaughnessy Building to teach naval history.
Major Zimmer of the Marine Corps has announced the organization of a drill team which will perform at the Navy game on Oct. 31.
20
The Scholastic
Placement Policies Add Extra Benefits
Employment registration for all students, both graduate and undergraduate, who expect to finish their work at the Unversity in 1954, is now going on in the Placement Bureau in the Main Building, according to William R. Dooley, placement director. Registration forms are to be picked up in the Bureau and when filled out are to be returned there.
The Placement Bureau provides varied help for the student who is seeking post-graduation employment and at the same time offers employers from all over the country a single, centralized point of employment contact with Notre Dame.
This year every student who registers with the Placement Bureau will have the benefit of at least one individual, personal interview with a member of the Placement Bureau staff, and additional such interviews will be arranged as needed, Mr. Dooley said. In these interviews the student will have the opportunity to explain his own employment problems and to find out how the Placement Bureau can help him individually.
To assist in this interviewing work, Robert D. LeMense, a Notre Dame graduate in the class of 1943 and a former editor-in-chief of the Scholastic, has been added to the Bureau’s staff on a part-time basis.
Tumpane Sets Monday For Theater Tryouts
Prof. John Tumpane has announced that tryouts for the first University Theatre production will be held this Monday at 4 and 7:30 p. m. in Washington Hall.
The judging committee for the student musical competition has also been selected from the faculty and student body. Dec. 1 is the deadline for student manuscripts for the annual spring extravaganza.
The title of the first play, which will be presented from Oct. 22-25, will be announced at the Monday tryouts.
This year, as in the past, three major productions will be presented during the terms along with the student musical.
“The promotion of one act plays to supplement our regular shows is one of our primary aims this year,” Professor Tumpane said. “We are also interested in presenting an experimental show in the Fine Arts Gallery of the new O’Shaughnessy Building. It would give us an opportunity to acquaint both actors and audience with the novel theatre in the round.”
Although Dec. 1 is the deadline for the
“Every student scheduled to finish his work at Notre Dame in 1954, regardless of his status in regard to the Armed Forces, should register with the Placement Bureau,” Mr. Dooley urged. “Employers generally are interested in talking about jobs with all students. The fact that a student may be ‘draft bait’ or may be a member of an ROTC is accepted by employers as a normal condition these days.”
“I’ve got him at 1:30. What’s he like?”
musical scripts, all authors are urged to present their work to the committee as early as possible to facilitate the reading, judging, and criticizing.
If no student work is judged capable of living up to previous musical productions, an established musical comedy will be presented by the student body.
Anyone interested in further details on either of these projects is urged to contact Professor Tumpane in Room 309 of the Liberal Arts Building.
Reyniers Lectures Abroad; Outlines LOBUND Research
Prof. James A. Reyniers, director and founder of Notre Dame’s world-famed LOBUND Institute, is now in Europe reporting to scientists in ten countries on germ-free research underway at Notre Dame.
The United States delegate to the Sixth International Congress for Microbiology at Rome, Reynier’s addressed the Congress, Sept. 6-12, on the subject of “Germ-Free Animals as a tool in Biological and Medical Research.”
In the succeeding three weeks Reyniers will continue lecturing at universi- • ties and will appear before learned groups in Italy, - Spain, France, Germany, Belgium, Holland, Denmark, Sweden, Finland and England. During his stay in western Germany Reyniers will be the guest of High Commissioner James B. Conant, noted chemist and former president of Harvard University.
Laity, Religious Convene
(Continued from page 13)
tion, and our working life. No longer,” he continued, “can we stand by as disinterested spectators and watch the world go by. A deep conviction has sprung up in us that drives us to come to grips with all the problems of life.”
Nearly 1,800 men from 22 states attended the 31st Annual Laymen’s Retreat on the campus from Aug. 13-16.
Rev. Michael Foran, C.S.C., director of the retreat, summed up its purpose when he said: “These will be days of prayer and recollection, for 365 days each year a man has to busy himself with making a living, raising and educating a family. He needs to withdraw from these endeavors occasionally to give fuller thought to life’s deepest ’ matters.” •
Institute Addressed by Cushing
From July 23 to 26 more than 200 priests, Brothers and Sisters representing 30 dioceses and 70 religious communities, and several hundred religious who were enrolled in the University’s summer school attended the 7th Animat Convocation of the Vocation Institute.
The Most Rev. Richard J. Cushing, Archbishop of Boston, delivered the opening address, while the closing address was given by the Most Rev. William T. Mulloy, Bishop of Covington, Kentucky.	-
At the Convocation, Archbishop Cushing, stated: “The old idea ■ of a call from God, a vocation in this spiritual, profound, and holy sense, has been lost in the shuffle of our materialistic, competitive civilization.” The Archbishop went on to say, “We must not suppose that we have a monopoly on this problem and are the only ones suffering from shortages.” He concluded by saying, “In an age of Socialism, the emphasis is on the impersonal, the collective, the blindly operating forces of social history. In an age of regimentation it is very difficult to talk about individual responsibility and the significance of one, single, personal life.”
On Aug. 4, the 108th Annual Commencement took place with Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, conferring graduate and undergraduate degrees on 178 students, including 42 nuns.
September 25, 1953
21
University Announces New Rector Posts;
Student Chaplains, Faculty Members Added
MW Mike Chatter
Faces of freshmen weren’t the only addition to the University this semester. Six new hall rectors, two new student chaplains, and 48 new faculty members for the 1953-54 school year have been announced by the University.
Newly appointed hall rectors this year are Rev. Henry Bolger, C.S.C., Alumni; Rev. Robert Pelton, C.S.C., Badin; Rev. George Bernard, C.S.C., Breen-Phillips; Rev. James Moran, C.S.C., Cavanaugh; Rev. Glenn Boarman, C.S.C., Fisher; and Rev. John Reedy, C.S.C., St. Edward’s.
Rev. Lawrence Broestl, C.S.C., has been transferred from Breen-Phillips to Dillon and the Rev. Thomas Cady, C.S.C., has been transferred to Sorin. Father Cady was formerly rector of Cavanaugh.
Rev. Victor Dean, C.S.C., will serve as sophomore class chaplain. Rev. Thomas Baker, C.S.C., replaces Rev. Joseph Barry, C.S.C., this year’s junior class chaplain, as chaplain of the freshmen class. Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C., will continue in the capacities of Prefect of religion and senior class chaplain.
Heading a list of distinguished new faculty members is the Hon. Roger Kiley, judge of the Appellate Court of Hlinois and a former Natre Dame AllAmerican. Judge Kiley will serve as a lecturer in the College of Law and, with the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., will conduct the Natural Law Seminar, a required subject in the new law school curriculum.
John T. Croteau, who has directed the undergraduate program in economics at the Catholic University of America, Washington D. C., has been named associate professor of economics at Notre Dame.
Returning to Notre Dame as a visiting professor of political science and history during the first semester will be Jean B. Duroselle of Versailles, France. Mr. Duroselle, regarded as one of the outstanding political scientists and historians of western Europe, is dean of .the arts and letters faculty of the University of Saarbuck.
Joining the mathematics department as assistant professors are R. J. de Vogelaere, a specialist in the theory of non-linear equations, and Don J. Lewis, formerly in residence at the Institute of Advanced Study, Princeton, N. J.
' Rev. Michael Mathis, C.S.C., director of Notre Dame’s graduate liturgy program during the recent summer session, has been named professor of religion, and Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C., holder of a Ph.D. degree from Yale has been
added to the education department.
Other priests on the faculty and the departments in which they will teach include Rev. William Morrison, C.S.C., Rev. Leonard Collins, C.S.C., Rev. Chas. Schleck, C.S.C., Rev. Thomas Baker, C.S.C., Rev. Joseph Papin, and Rev. John W. Cibor, religion; Rev. Thomas McDonagh, economics; Rev. Thomas Engleton, C.S.C., history; Rev. Arthur Harvey, C.S.C., speech; and the Rev. Michael Murphy, C.S.C., geology.
LaRaza Club Reelects Adelo; Plans Holiday Banquet
“El Club de la Raza,” the Hispan-american club of the University commenced activities for the 1953-54 school year with an election meeting on the first Sunday of the semester.
More than half of the sixty active members of La Raza were present at the meeting in Room 1 of the Law Building for the election. They also reviewed the club’s activities of the past summer, planned some new projects for this fall, and-welcomed a group of first semester freshmen from Latin America.
Sam Adelo, a graduate student from New Mexico in the College of Law, was re-elected unanimously to the club’s presidency. Last year’s treasurer, Julia Villareal of Mexico, was voted in as La Raza’s vice-president, while last year’s secretary, Demetrio Saer of Columbia, was chosen to succeed himself without a dissenting vote. The only new name among the club’s four top officers was that of the treasurer, Panama’s Federico Humbert.
During the past summer session La -Raza was one of the few, if not the only, campus club operating. Among the social functions it sponsored for its twenty-five members who remained on campus were two picnics and a dance. One of the top fall activities for the club will occur on October 11th when it will hold its annual banquet in commemoration of La Raza Day.
ATTENTION OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS
Facilities for Mass, Confession, and Communion are available in Dillon, Howard, Sorin, and Cavanaugh chapels.
Copies of the Religious Bulletin are available in the Dillon Hall chapel. ;
The big thing around WNDU now is, of course, moving into our new studios in O'Shaughnessy Hall. The studios themselves are physically complete and a beautiful job was done on them. From the floor to the ceiling they are a nice sight to see and they certainly will be a fine place in which to work. The job of moving everything into our new spacious quarters has not been, and will not be, easy.
Tech Department in New Home
The technical department is now operating from the new building and they have quite a task to perform. Their major tasks are wiring the new building and installing new equipment. All the new equipment is to be the best possible and it is due to arrive shortly. The operation of the new studios will be on the standard AM type.
Two other departments that are also now in the new studios are Business and Sales. John Kelsch and Dick Beeman, the department heads, are performing their full duties from WNDU’s tower offices. The Programming Department is still in the old building and it will have to remain there until the actual broadcasting site has been changed. New Studio Broadcasts in February
Broadcasts from the new studios will begin in February. By that time the moving process will be completed and all the new equipment will have been installed. We feel sure that with our move to the new building our broadcasting will improve because of our new equipment, our much improved location, and the renewed efforts of our staff.
WNDU wants you to come up and visit its new studios so that you can see for yourself just what it is that we are so proud of. We will announce in this column within a few weeks just when the tours will start.
Bigger and Better Things
We are looking forward to bigger and better things at WNDU this year. We made tremendous strides last year and we hope we can only do as well this year.
For- my own part I hope that I can do as well as my predecessor, Bryan Coughlin. He always did a fine job and his shoes will not be easy to fill.
—Joe Casurella
22
The Scholastic
'Irish Will Take the National Championship,' Say Amateur Forecasters in 'Scholastic' Poll
While sports scribes throughout the country overwhelmingly pick Notre Dame as the number one football team in the country, the Scholastic has conducted a student poll on campus to determine what the Notre Dame man thinks of his football team.
This year’s schedule boasts most of the top teams in the nation. For this reason, many student prognosticators have forewarned of the Oklahoma, Pittsburgh, Georgia Tech., and Southern Cal juggernauts.
Of the 50-odd students polled, 43 predict a clean sweep for the Irish this year, including a National Championship. The remaining pessimists see a possible defeat in their crystal balls: namely, three students fear a Sooner victory while three give the nod to Georgia Tech, and one lone prophet sees 'a win for the Panthers who defeated rhe Irish by a narrow margin last year.
Various opinions were expressed by all students about the difficult road to a possible National Championship; however, the freshmen seemed the most enthusiastic. As Mike Glynn of Breen-Phillips put it, “With one sure AllAmerican in Lattner and the support we’ll give them, they should be able to beat any team.”
The sophomores, wise in their ways after one season, were also optimistic by predicting that Leahy’s lads would again return to the heights once reached by the post-war teams of Lu jack, Hart, & Co. Milt McAngus of Morrissey Hall had this to say, “Because very few were lost through graduation and considering the material coming up, the team should be at its best this year.”
The upperclassmen followed suit, although some deviated from the path by picking a few upsets. Bob McGrath of Badin Hall sees a real challenge in Oklahoma because, “They’ve been laying for us ever since last year’s upset.”
Still another junior, Brian Gaffney of Dillon Hall, fears the recurrence of
TEACHERS WANTED
Members of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine who have completed their freshman year ■ are needed to teach religion to students of high school age in South Bend parishes. Anyone interested should contact either Ned Griffin in 336 Alumni or Ray Rosedale, 259 Alumni.
unforseen injuries which might disable the team drastically: “What with Paul Reynolds out of action and Lattner’s injured shoulder, we’ve lost our best two-way backs. Any furthei* injuries might seriously hurt the team which cannot operate on half a backfield.”
Although some students feel a little pessimistic, the majority seem to think this year’s team will go a long way toward the coveted goal of National Champs.
However, there is one aspect of this year’s season which all students heartily applaud — five of the ten games are played here at Notre Dame.
Give Dean McCarthy Senate Advisory Post
Dean James E. McCarthy of the College of Commerce has been appointed an advisor to the Senate Committee on Banking and Currency by Senator Homer Capehart of Indiana, committee chairman.
The Notre Dame educator will be a member of an advisory group which will assist the Senate committee in a recently authorized study of the operations of the Export-Import Bank and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The Committee, with a view to future legislation, will consider these institutions in their relationship to the expansion of international trade.
“Our study,” Senator Capehart declared, “will try to bring to the American people and the Congress all the essential facts upon which we can erect an effective structure of international trade in the light of today’s and tomorrow’s conditions.”
In notifying Dean McCarthy of his appointment, Senator Capehart paid tribute to his “broad experience which will provide a contribution of inestimable value to the study of this problem which is so vital to our national security and stability.”
Dean McCarthy is recognized as one of the nation’s top experts in the field of international trade. He founded Notre Dame’s annual World Trade Conference. He is a director of the First Bank and Trust Company and the Associates Investment Company of South Bend; the Advertising Council, New York City; and the Gerity-Michigan Corporation, Adrian, Mich.
Capsule Corner
ND Law Association Officers
Clarence J. Donovan, Bedford, Ind., attorney, has been installed as president of the Notre Dame Law Association for 1953-54. He succeeds Joseph F. Deeb, Grand Rapids, Mich., who will serve as honorary president during the coming years.
Other new officers of the association include: Donald M. Hamilton, Columbus, Ohio, vice-president and Hugh E. .Wall, Jr., Dayton, Ohio, secretary-treasurer. Robert E. Sullivan, a member of the Notre Dame law faculty, will continue to serve as executive secretary. :
‘Catholic Boy’ Wins Award
The Catholic Boy, published by the Holy Cross Fathers at Notre Dame, has received the Catholic Press Association’s award for the best articles and stories in the juvenile field for the sec-’ ond consecutive year.
Rev. Frank Gartland, C.S.C., is editor of The Catholic Boy, and Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C., is associate editor in charge of advertising and promotional activities.
Joins International Academy	!
Rev. A. L. Gabriel, director of the Mediaeval Institute here, has been elect- ; ed to membership in the International Free Academy of Science and Letters.
The Academy is made up of more than 150 scholars who have been exiled from their native countries in Central and Eastern Europe. In 1947, Father Gabriel left his native Hungary where he had served as Director of the French College and professor at the University of Budapest. He joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1948 and recently became an I American citizen.	।
Fischer Attends Confab	j
Prof. Edward Fisher of the Department of journalism attended the 7th annual University Film Producers Association conference at the University of Southern California during the summer.
More than 100 representatives of colleges and universities throughout the nation where educational and documen- ’ tary motion pictures are produced attended the confab.	’
“Educational Television and the University Film Producer” was the theme of the week-long conference, held at SC’s Department of Cinema, the World’s oldest and largest university film department.	’
'September 25, 1953
£ut your head in the middle of a scrimmage line and you’ll know why football players wear helmets. They’ve got rules, of course, which say you wear helmets whether you want to or not, but there was probably never such an unnecessary rule in the world. Your head is something you want to protect, rules or no rules.
And a scrimmage line isn’t the only place where your head can get into trouble. A good stiff autumn wind can lay you out as effectively
—if not as quickly—as a left tackle’s knee on the back of your head. Jump out of a hot shower into the cold fall air and your head is wide open to serious trouble.
A hat is good looking. It makes you look carefully dressed. It improves your appearance. But more than that, a hat protects your head. That’s what it’s for.
"Wear a Hat—Iti as Healthy as Its HandsomeI"
Divisions of Hal Corporation of America—Maters of Fine Hats for Men and Women
24
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
Irish Face Sooners in *53 Lid-Lifter
Wilkinson's Squad Seeks Revenge Before Capacity Crowd as ND Opens 65th Season
By ERWIN ALFONSUS
Tomorrow afternoon the 65th edition of the Notre Dame Fighting Irish invades Owen Field in Norman, Oklahoma, to tangle with Bud Wilkinson’s Oklahoma Sooners before an expected capacity crowd of 55,000. It will mark the second meeting between these two foes, Notre Dame having won the 1952 classic, in an upset, 27-21.
Both teams ranked near the top in the final national standings last season, and both will be out to gain additional prestige this fall. The real test will be the effect that the elimination of two-platoon football will have on each team.
Though Oklahoma lost the Heisman Memorial Trophy winner, Billy Vessels, four All-Americans, six All-Big Seven Conference all stars, and a total of 18 lettermen from a team which led the nation with a 40.7 scoring average, the Sooners will be tough. Coach Bud Wilkinson is forging a brand new backfield, new tackles, new ends, and a new center for his No. 1 striking unit from a var-
ROGER NELSON
Co-captain doubtful starter
LARRY GRIGG
Will he remember Shannon?
sity squad that is almost half sophomores.
Buddy Leake, an offensive halfback on last year’s squad, will be called upon to handle the quarterback chores for the Sooners. In early season drills the 180 lb. junior looked impressive as the split T signal caller. Though Buddy has never put together a full season .in any one year, he led the nation last year- in percentage of extra points kicked, booting 32 out of 33 attempts, and scoring 13 touchdowns for 78 points in the last seven games of his freshman season.
Max Boydston, fastest man on the squad, has been switched from his offensive end slot to fullback. He led Oklahoma last year in pass-catching with 13 grabs for 334 yards and four touchdowns.
Jack Ging, a 157 lb. stringbean, used principally on defense last fall, and Larry Grigg, a ’52 safety specialist, are slated for duty at the halfback posi
tions. Both are seniors, and Grigg is co-captain of the Sooner squad. Ging led his mates in punt runbacks in 1952 with 176 yards in 12 carries and also in pass interceptions with 4 for 55 yards. And in the 1953 Alumni game Grigg was Oklahoma’s top rusher.
Sophomores Bob Benson and Bob Burris, along with senior Merill Green, should see considerable action in a back-field averaging 176 lbs.
Oklahoma’s 193 lb. line will find the 1952 defensive unit seeing most of the action with seven men back from last year’s defensive eleven. Kay Keller, a 179 lb. senior, has been switched from defensive left end to full-time duty at right end, and 184 lb. Carl Allison has been inserted at left end after playing at offensive halfback last year. Keller was the only sophomore to make the starting team on Oklahoma’s national champs, and Allison was a member of ND’s all-opponent team at defensive halfback last. year. Calvin Woodsworth is a sophomore possibility at right end.
Dick Bowman, a 207 lb. offensive guard in ’52, has been switched to left tackle to team with senior Doc Hearon, 197 lb. right tackle. Co-Captain Roger Nelson should see a lot of action at a
MAX BOYDSTON Speedster replaces McPhail
September 25, 1953
25
tackle spot as soon as he recovers from a bone spur operation.
Sophomore Virgilee (Bo) Bolinger 202 lbs. rates the nod over Don Brown of last year’s defensive unit at the left guard slot, and J. D. Roberts is Wilkinson’s right guard selection, along with Emery Link, a promising soph lineman. Roberts .is noted for his bulldozing defensive play, particularly his straightahead power from the middle guard position and his fast adjustment to opposition plays. He is used to playing both ways and has already been mentioned on several pre-season All-American teams.
Bobby Darnell, a sophomore, and .Gene Mears, a senior, have been waging quite a battle for the center post, but Mears seems to hav£ won out.
As far as Frank Leahy’s Irish squad is concerned, the backfield is intact from last fall’s offensive crew, but T quarterbacks Guglielmi and Carey, halfback Joe Heap, and fullback Neil Worden must gain more experience on defensive assignments. Sophomores Don Schaefer, Dick Fitzgerald, John Gaffney, Dick Washington, Dick Keller, and Dick Hendricks are all promising backfield candidates, along with senior Tom Me Hugh. All-American Johnny Lattner can go both ways and should carry a good share of the burden for the Irish. However, because of a heel injury, which is not expected to be fully healed for the opener, Lattner might only see limited action. Schaefer has been switched from quarterback to a left halfback post, where he ranks No. 2 behind Heap. Gaffney will share the punting duties with Lattner. Either Carey
JOHN LATTNER
Everyone’s All-American
or Guglielmi will hold the ball on conversions.
Several major changes are evident in the Irish forward wall. Dan Shannon, whose jarring tackle of safety man Larry Grigg in the ’52 Sooner-Irish clash was the defensive gem of that afternoon, has been shifted from a defensive linebacker post to left end. Shannon, whose running ability has been hampered by a leg injury, has done well enough to edge out junior Paul Matz and sophomore Wayne Edmonds. Burly Art Hunter, a center in the Irish line in 1951 and an offensive right end last fall, has made the third change of his collegiate career as he moves to a right tackle spot. Dick Szymanski, last season’s center;" made the switch from that post to the left guard position, but in a recent scrimmage Dick was back at center again.
Captain Don Penza has been changed (Continued on page 28)
PROBABLE STARTING LINE-UP
OKLAHOMA	NOTRE DAME
Carl Allison ....LE_____Dan Shannon
Dick Bowman _____LT.....Sam Palumbo
Bo Bolinger  LG r....Ray Lemek Gene Mears ______C_____Jim Schrader
J. D. Roberts RG...Menil Mavraides Doc Hearon   RT........Art Hunter Kay Keller ............—RE..Don Penza (c)
Buddy Leake .....QB....Ralph Guglielmi
Jack Gin.g ......LH........Joe Heap
Larry Grigg  RH........John Lattner
Max Boydston ....FB....Neil Worden
Kickoff time: 2:00 p.m. CST.
Southern Cal, Tech Trounce Opponents in Grid Openers
Only two of Notre Dame’s future foes saw action last Saturday, but both showed plenty of power in scoring easy victories over opening game rivals.
Down in Atlanta, Georgia Tech’s mighty Engineers bolted to three first period touchdowns and went on to smother little Davidson, 53-0. The win extended Tech’s undefeated string to 27 games. Coach Bobby Dodd of Tech used 52 players in an attempt to hold down the score.
The Engineers tallied 23 points in the first period, 21 in the second, none in the third and nine in the fourth. Leon Hardeman, stumpy All-American halfback, scored two touchdowns in the ten minutes he saw action.
Paced by Aramis Dandoy, Southern California ripped Washington State, 29-13 at Pullman, Washington. Dandoy,
JIM SCHRADER
Middle man in Irish line
a junior halfback, zipped 91 yards for one score and was the key man in two other paydirt drives.
The Trojans started fast, rolling to two quick scores, Linden Crow going 68 yards for one of them. After that it was a pretty even game with USC scoring a touchdown in each of the two middle periods and adding a safety in the fourth. Washington State, led by their ace passer and quarterback, Bob Burkhart, tallied once in the first period and again in the last.
Tomorrow, all but one of ND’s future opponents will see action. SMU, the lone inactive foe, will wait until next week to open its season, when they play Georgia Tech at Atlanta.
Notre Dame’s foe of Oct. 3, Purdue, will travel to Columbia, Missouri tomorrow to play Missouri. The Tigers were defeated last week by Maryland, 20-6. Pitt, Oct. 17, foe of the Irish, meanwhile will be seeking revenge for last year’s upset at the hands of West Virginia -when they meet the Mountaineers at Pittsburgh.
Georgia Tech seeks to increase its win skein against tough Florida at Florida. The Gaters gave potent Rice a stiff fight last Saturday before succumbing, 20-16. In other games, involving Irish opponents, Navy will be favored over William and Mary; Penn should rule the choice over Vanderbilt; North Carolina battles its traditional rival, North Carolina State; Iowa has a real job on its hands as it clashes with Michigan State, and Southern Cal. plays host to its first 1953 intersectional rival when it tangles with Minnesota.
26
The Scholastic
Regulars Whip Subs In Stadium Rehearsal
Beset by injuries and still trying to get accustomed to one-platoon football, Notre Dame’s varsity went through a full length scrimmage at the stadium last Saturday with the Blues topping the Greens, 25-7.
In the first two quarters, the varsity, wearing blue jerseys, scored two touchdowns, a field goal and a safety against a stubborn freshman team. The Irish were something less than impressive offensively, finding the going slow against the comparatively light frosh.
In the second half, Coach Leahy split his varsity into two teams, the Blues composed mostly of probable starters, the Greens of first line reserves.
Defenses Sparkle in Close Fracas
As might be expected the brand of play picked up considerably. Both defenses sparkled, each permitting one touchdown with the Greens adding the extra point for a 7-6 edge.
The Blue team lined up this way: Captain Don Penza and Dan Shannon at the ends; Frank Varrichione and Art Hunter at the tackles; Ray Lemek and Minnie Mavraides at the guards; Jim Schrader at center. The backfield was rather a make-shift crew due to the absence of the injury-ridden halfbacks, John Lattner and Joe Heap. These two were kept out of last Saturday’s skirmish mainly for safety’s sake. Both are expected to start and see full-time action against the Sooners. Taking their places Saturday were Dick Washington and Dick Fitzgerald. The veteran Neil Worden, was at his old fullback post with Ralph Guglielmi at quarterback.
The Green team had an effective combination of veterans and newcomers. Paul Matz and Walt Cabral manned the ends; Sam Palumbo and George Nicula, the tackles; Jack Lee and Pat Bisceglia, the guards and Dick Syzmanski, center. Matz, Palumbo, Lee and Syzmanski, were all stalwarts of last year’s crack defensive unit.
“Bull” First to Hit Pay Dirt
Worden scored the first varsity TD against the frosh on an 18 yard play, grabbing a pass from soph halfback Dick Washington. Washington tallied the next six-pointer himself, on a 27 yard end run. Sandwiched in between the touchdowns was a safety, coming about when the ball squirted through the hands of a freshman signal-caller and rolled over the end zone. Cabral ended the scoring against the frosh with an 18 yard field goal.
Penalties helped both teams to score touchdowns through the rugged defenses
in the second half. The Greens tallied first when senior halfback Bob Rigali made a spectacular fourth down catch of a Carey pass with the ball on the one yard line. John Gaffney converted. Rigali also contributed the best run of the day, a 56 yarder that almost had him free for a score.
The Blue tally came shortly after the Green’s six-pointer. After two line smashes failed, Guglielmi faked a handoff nicely, kept the ball and scampered off tackle in to the end zone unmolested.
JACK ALEXANDER
Leads Cross Country Team
Harriers Face Tough Slate; Meet Wheaton in Debut
The Notre Dame Cross Country squad will open its season against W'heaton at Notre Dame on Oct. 3 and face one of the roughest schedules possible. However, Alex Wilson seems fairly optimistic concerning possibilities for this year’s squad.
Although Wilson’s eleven man squad has only one cross country letterman, Capt. Jack Alexander, and two monogram winners from the track team, Al Schoenig and Dick O’Keefe, he expects a fair season. “We have a new team, but it has great potentialities”, Wilson stated.
The track mentor was, however, quick to point out that the Irish meet both Michigan State, last year’s National champions, and runner-up Indiana. He also said that although this is Michigan’s. first year in cross country competition they should be great.
Besides Alexander, Schoenig, and O’Keefe, Wilson expects some fine running from sophomore Jim ‘Spike’ Daly. Dick DeSchiver, Bill Richardson, Jim
(Continued on page 28)
Name Samson Coach;
Tourney in Progress
Athletic Director Edward Krause announced yesterday that Charles H. Samson, a professor- in the College of Engineering, has been appointed coach of the varsity tennis squad. Samson will succeed Mr. Walter Langford, who submitted his resignation to the Athletic Board this fall. However, Mr. Langford is being retained in his previous capacity as fencing coach.
Coach Samson hails from Portsmouth, Ohio, and graduated from Notre Dame in 1947. While at Notre Dame, he starred on the tennis team in ’44, ’45 and ’47.
This fall’s annual campus tennis tournament, which got underway last Sunday was the first project on the agenda for the new mentor.
Since last fall’s event, defending Champion Wally Clarke has joined the varsity ranks and has left, the field wide-open. Clarke holds the distinction of being the only one in Irish history to win two successive titles in the fall classic. He copped the title in 1951 and successfully defended his crown last year.
Top-seeded Harry Pagel of Breen-Phillips, last year’s runner-up John Stuhldreher, son of Harry Stuhldreher, one of the Four Horsemen, and Dean Richards, son of Vincent Richards, one of America’s greatest professional tennis players, led a field of 75 entries into Sunday’s opening matches.
Of the initial contestants, 32 players including the aforementioned, remain in the tourney which is expected to be completed this weekend.
From the outcome of the tourney, Samson is expected to get a glimpse of the possibility of future varsity stars. The freshmen again showed they are to be reckoned with, this time in top-seeded Harry Pagel. They are also displaying their* prowess in pushing the champion all the way.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 1953 SCHEDULE
Sept. 26—Oklahoma at Norman
Oct. 3—Purdue at Lafayette
Oct. 10—Open
Oct. 17—Pittsburgh at ND
Oct. 24—Georgia Tech at ND
Oct. 31—Navy at ND
Nov. 7—Pennsylvania at Philadelphia
Nov. 14—N. Carolina at Chapel Hill
Nov. 21—Iowa at ND
Nov. 28—S. Cal at Los Angeles
Dec. 5—So. Methodist at ND
September 25, 1953
27
by Bob Frolicher
COACH LEAHY Tears or TD’s
.in over 33 years with
Leahy Worries, Team Frets, But Watch Out Sooners!
As usual, pessimism reigned over Cartier field as the Irish moved into their final week of preparation for their opener with the Sooners tomorrow. Coach Leahy’s crying towel and comment: “That we would be lucky if we even made a first down” seemed like old stuff to ND’s followers, and most of the sports-writers turned around and picked the Irish as future National Champions.
At the end of last season this seemed like a good bet. The Leahymen finished with a 7-2-1 record and was the only team in the country to dump both Oklahoma and Southern California. Besides this, Notre Dame dropped Texas, the Southwestern champs, tied Penn, Ivy League titleholders, and defeated Purdue, cochampions of the Big Ten.
However, from the first day of fall practice, the woes of the coaching staff were just beginning. Fran Paterra, a senior and double-duty man at halfback along with Gene Carrabine, a junior with two year’s experience at safety, were lost to the Irish for the entire season. An additional blow was dealt to Notre Dame’s hopes when a recurrent knee injury, forced Paul Reynolds out for the campaign. More than the usual share of injuries seemed to plague the Irish from the start with three of the starting backfield sidelined. Johnny Lattner missed contact work for over ten days, but he is expected to be in shape for the Sooners.
Equal in experience, Notre Dame will hold the edge in the weight department. Oklahoma’s starting team is the lightest turned out from Norman the exception of the war years. The Sooner line
averages only 193 pounds and the backfield 176 while the Notre Dame stalwarts up front tip the scales with an average of 215. Art Hunter, Irish right tackle, will be the largest player on the field weighing in at 235.
Records on Stumbling Block
When Notre Dame enters Owen Field tomorrow there will be three good reasons why the Irish would like to end up with victory No. 1 under their belts. First of all Notre Dame has not lost an opening game since 1934 and has only suffered two opening setbacks since 1896.
There is nothing the Irish would like better than to break the Sooners undefeated string of 25 consecutive home victories. Their last defeat was a 20-7 upset by Texas Christian in 1947, Wilkinson’s first season. Perhaps the record nearest to hanging on edge is that the Sooners have never been blanked in their last 74 games throughout Wilkinson’s six seasons at the helm.
Prognosticator Turns Pro
After a successful year as sports head of Scholastic, Jack Sand, now an assistant in the Sports Publicity Department, has decided to turn his attention to the predicting field. Sand, as most of you will remember, picked the ’52 Oklahoma upset on the nose, while coming close .in quite a few other games. His picks for this week appear on page 28.
Prediction of the Week
Tomorrow will mark the second time these two teams have met, Notre Dame shattering Oklahoma’s chance for National Champions in a 27-21 upset last year. The Sooners will be gunning for the Irish, but Leahy’s forces will finish on top, 20-17.
Harriers Face Tough Slate
(Continued from page 27)
Copeland, and Steve Maroney, another sophomore, comprise the remnant of this year’s team.
Last year the Irish distance runners failed to win a meet in a schedule similar to the one this season.
This year’s schedule:
Oct. 3 Wheaton at Notre Dame
Oct. 10 Michigan State at East Lansing
Oct. 16 Michigan at Ann Arbor
Oct. 23 Marquette at Milwaukee
Oct. 31 Indiana at Notre Dame
Nov. 6 State Meet at Indianapolis
Nov. 13 Central Collegiate Conference at Chicago
Nov. 23 National Collegiate at Michigan State
Irish Face Sooners
(Continued from page 26)
in his end post from the left to right side, while Sam Palumbo, a defensive tackle in ’52, will team with Hunter at the other tackle post. Frank Varri-chione and Joe Bush are other possibli-ties at the tackles. Minnie IMavraides rates the nod over Jack Lee at right guard and will do most of the kickoffs and conversions, while sophomore Ray Lemek will start at left guard. Center Jim Schrader, one of the Irish’s heaviest linemen, completes the No. 1 unit.
PROGNOSTICATOR PREDICTS
L.S.U., 26; Alabama, 20.
Dartmouth, 20; Holy Cross, 14.
Georgia Tech, 35; Florida, 13
Georgia, 21; Tulane, 12.
Illinois, 20; Nebraska, 6.
Ohio State, 34; Indiana, 7.
Northwestern, 20; Iowa State, 0.
Michigan State, 21; Iowa, 14.
U.C.L.A., 28; Kansas, 13.
Michigan, 14; Washington, 7.
So. California, 21; Minnesota, 20.
Mississippi Southern, 26; Parris Is. 6.
Navy, 21; William & Mary, 0.
N. Carolina, 32; N. Carolina State, 13
Wisconsin, 7; Penn State, 6.
Penn, 20; Vanderbilt, 14.
Pittsburgh, 33; West Virginia, 19.
Purdue, 14; Missouri, 13.
Texas, 27; Villanova, 20.
Houston, 19; Texas A & M, 12.
28
The Scholastic
Zke Koster
of the 1953 Fighting Irish
	NO.	NAME	POS.	AGE	HT.	WT.	HOMETOWN	CLASS
	2 **Carey, Thomas F			 QB	20	5-10	175	Chicago, Ill.			Jr.
	3 **Guglielmi, Ralph V				 OB	19	6-0	180		Jr.
	4 Bucci, Donald 				 QB	20	6-0	180	Youngstown, Ohio			Jr.
	6 Martin, Robert L. 			 QB	21	6-2	185	Davenport, la.			Sr.
	8 Bigelow, James 			 QB	19	5-11	170	Glenshaw, Pa.			Jr.
	..9 Schaefer, Donald T. 			 QB	19	5-11	185	Pittsburgh, Pa.			So.
	14 “Lattner, John J. 			 HB	20	6-1	190	Chicago, 111.			Sr.
	15 Callaghan, Leo 			 HB	20	6-1	185	Passaic, N. J.		J	Jr.
	16 Morrissey, Rockne J	—		 HB	20	5-9	165	Cincinnati, Ohio			Sr.
	29 Galardo, Armando 			 HB	21	5-10	170	Watertown, N. Y.			Sr.
	30 *McHugh, Thomas F			 FB	20	6-1	195	Toledo, Ohio —			Sr.
	32 Fitzgerald, Richard 			 HB	20	5-11	190	Chicago, 111.			So.
	-	33 “Shannon, Daniel J			 E	19	6-0	190	Chicago, Ill.			Jr.
	34 Gaffney, John J. 				 FB	19	6-1	190	Chicago, III.			So.
	37 Raich, Nicholas S. 			 FB	19	5-10	185	Milwaukee, Wis. 			So.
	38 Wilson, George A				 hb	19	5-11	185	Polo Ill.		So.
	40 Keller, Richard W. 					 hb	18	6-0	175			So.
		-	-	HB	18	6-1	195		
	42 **Heap, Joseph L.. 	 							 HB	21	5-11	180	Ahifn Springs, 1^3,	•		Jr.
	43 Markowski, Joseph 			 FB		6-0	185	Hamilton, Ontario 			So.
	45 Rigali, Robert J. 			 HB	21	5-8	172	Oak Park, Ill.			Sr.
	48 “Worden, Neil J. 			 FB	21	5-11	185	Milwaukee, Wis.			Sr.
	49 Hendricks, Richard J. 			 HB	19	6-1	180	Danville, Ill.			So.
	51 Mense, James J					 C	18	5-11	205	Hamilton, Ohio			So.
	52 “Szymanski, Richard 			 G-C	20	6-2	212	Toledo, Ohio			Jr.
	53 **Schrader, James L. 				i	 ...	c	20	6-2	210	Carnegie, Pa.	.		Sr.
	54 Nowach, Arthur C. 			 c	20	6-2	208	Rochester, N. Y.			Sr.
	56 Cook, Edward 					 G	20	6-1	210	Philadelphia, Pa.			Jr.
	59 Regan, Michael J. 			 E	18	6-2	202	Buffalo, N. Y. 			: So.
	60 **Varrichione, Frank 			 T	21	6-0	205	Natick, Mass.			Jr.
	61 McMullan, John G. 			 G	19	5-10	203	Hoboken, N. J.			So.
	62 Bisceglia, Patrick G			 G	22	5-10	190	Worcester, Mass. 			So.
	'	63 Frasor, Richard 					 G-C	20	5-11	190	Blue Island, Ill.			Jr.
	65 “Lee, Jack 			 G	21	5-11	190	Medford, Mass.			Jr.
	66 Robst, Paul K. 	 „			  G	20	5-11	195	r^himgn, 111.	■— 			Jr.
	67 “Palumbo, Samuel 			 G-T	20	6-0	203	Cleveland, Ohio			Jr.
	68 Nakfoor, Patrick R. 			 T	19	6-4	200	Lansing, Mich.			So.
	69 Trozzo, William F. —			 T	19	6-2	208	Rillton, Pa.		
	70 Martell, Eugene J. 			-	T	19	6-3	211	Midland, Pa.			So.
	71 Taylor, Robert H. 			 T-G	21	6-2	206	Pekin, Ill.			Jr.
	72 Lemek, Raymond E. 			 T	18	6-1	207	Sioux City, la. 			So.
	73 “Bush, Joseph R. 			 T	20	6-3	208	Oak Park, III. 			Sr.
	74 “Ready, Robert 			 T	20	6-3	212	Lowell, Mass.			Jr.
	75 Pasquesi, Anthony L				 T	19	6-4	212	Chicago, Ill.			Jr.
	77 Nicula, George D. 			 T	19	6-2	204	Warren, Ohio 			So.
	78 Kegaly, John A					  .	..	T	19	6-3	207	Chicago, Ill.		So.
	79 Lasch, Robert W. 			 T	18	6-3	212	Clairton, Pa. 			So.
	80 “Hunter, Arthur 			 T	20	6-3	226	Akron, Ohio 			Sr.
	81 George, Donald H. 			 E	19	6-4	205	Dunbar, Pa. 			So.
	82 Edmonds, Wayne 			 E-T	19	6-0	195	Canonsburg, Pa-			So.
	83 “Pqnza, Donald (Capt.) 			 E	21	6-1	200	Kenosha, Wis. 			 Sr.
	84 Zajeski, Benedict J				 E	19	6-3	204	Chicago, HL			So.
	85 “Mavraides, Menil 			 G	20	6-1	205	Lowell, Mass.			Sr.
	86 “Mangialardi, Fred 			 E-G	20	6-1	195	Chicago, Ill.			Sr.
	87 Dumas, Jack 					 E	18	6-3	190	Grand Rapids, Mich. 			So.
	88 *Cabral, Walter K. 			 E	20	6-3	205	Honolulu, Hawaii			Jr.
	89 Kapish, Eugene A. 			 E	18	6-1	193	Barberton, Ohio 			So.
	90 *Matz, Paul A			 E	19	6-1	191	Chicago, HL 			Jr.
denotes monogram winners.
September 25, 1953
29
ND Chemistry Profs Figure in 124th Meet
Seven chemistry professors here presented scientific papers at the 124th national meeting of The American Chemical Society, Sept. 7 in Chicago. Ten graduate students in Notre Dame's chemistry department joined the faculty members in reporting on recent research conducted at the University.
Three of the seven papers dealt with the “pressed plate technique” of identifying chemical compounds which was developed recently by Sister Miriam Michael, O.P., professor of chemistry at Siena Heights College, Adrian, Mich. Sister Miriam’s discussion of this new process at a Notre Dame lecture series earlier this year stimulated much research here.
One paper dealing with the possibilities of this method of chemical analysis was read by Rev. Thomas J. Lane, C.S.C. Prof. J. V. Quagliano, and Mr. J. Philip Faust presented another paper on the same process. Still other aspects of the process were considered in papers by Prof. San-Ichiro Mizushima, Brother Columba Curran, C.S.C., and Mr. D. N.. Sen, all of Notre Danie’s chemistry department.
Prof. Ernest L. Eliel, Dr. Donald E.
DR R W TURBOW
\ OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
CONTACT LENSES Phone 4-5777
207 W. Washington-Oliver Hotel o
CAMERAS
FOUNTAIN PENS
MITIIS
SC-OT PHOTO SHO?
128 W. Washington
Rivard and Mr. Kenneth W. Nelson presented a paper in the Organic Chemistry Division of the meeting. In the Division of Physical and Inorganic Chemistry other papers were given by Prof. W. H. Hamill and Dr. C. E. McCauley; Prof. Milton Burton and Dr. W. N. Patrick; Dr. B. C. Haidar and Prof. Hamill, Edward Cochran and Russell R. Williams.
Kane Receives Grant To Further Studies
Dr. John J. Kane, recently appointed head of the Department of Sociology at the University, has received a grant from the National Conference of Christians and Jews to further his studies on interreligious tensions in the field of education.
The project, which will be carried on with the assistance of Notre Dame graduate students under Dr. Kane’s direction, will be financed through the conference’s Commission on Educational Organizations under the chairmanship of J. Martin Klotsche, president of Wisconsin State College.
Dr. Harold C. Hunt, general superintendent of schools in Chicago, and Dr. Joseph B. Gittler, head of the Department of Economics and Sociology at Iowa College, will collaborate with Dr. Kane as members of the Commission.
Includes Literary Analysis
Preliminary research will include an analysis of current literature on interreligious tensions in schools and will be followed by a questionnaire study conducted among superintendents of education, diocesan directors of education, school principals, teachers and community leaders. Such an examination it is believed will reveal the major sources of current tensions in the field as well as the kinds of activity that have lessened them.
The findings of Dr. Kane and his associates will be used by the National Conference of Christians and Jews as supplementary material with which to evaluate the situation objectively and to act appropriately in furthering understanding among the groups concerned.
An associate professor of sociology, Dr. Kane is a specialist on interreligious tensions and formerly served as executive director of the South Bend-Mishawaka Roundtable of the National Conference of Christians and Jews.
Taking his undergraduate work at St. Joseph’s College, he received his master’s degree at Temple University in 1946 and was awarded his doctorate by the University of Pennsylvania in 1950. Dr, Kane is the author of Marriage and the Family: A Catholic Approach.
"The House of Jazz"
FOR RECORDS TRY
^ssOHCORDBAR
Complete Line Of
JAZZ ■ DIXIELAND ■ POPULAR
CLASSICAL ■ BLUES
On All Three Speeds
Mall anj where In the Country
Cree Catalogs
412 So. Mich. South Bend Ind.
University Mourns Summer Deaths of 3
Three members of the Notre Dame family met their deaths during the past summer. Joseph J. Conwell, Jr., of Greensburg, Pa. and James R. Morath of Herkimer, N. Y., both June graduates and Junior John J. Yankiss of Parkersburg, W. Va., were claimed.
Conwell, one of the leading graduates in his class, died of heat prostration following a strenuous five mile run with other marine recruits at Quantico, Va.
Besides being a soloist in the Glee Club, Conwell was also a gifted orator. He was instrumental in organizing the Speaker’s Bureau and engagements for its members.
Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice president in charge of Student Affairs, officially represented the University at the Conwell funeral.
On August 3, Yankiss was drowned while swimming near his home in Parkersburg, W. Va. He was a liberal arts major. .
A graduate of the Department of Journalism, Morath met his death near Ilion, N. Y. in an automobile accident on August 15.
Masses were celebrated on campus for the repose of the soul of each during the Summer.

Burns Memorial Scholarship Awarded to Ten Freshmen
Ten young men who entered the University in September were awarded $50 scholarships for the 1953-54 school year, according to Rev. Alfred F. Mendez, C.S.C., chairman of the University’s Committee on Scholarships and Prizes.
The Rev. James A. Burns Memorial Scholarships are awarded on a competitive basis each year to incoming freshmen, Father Mendez said. ’
Recipients for the coming yeai- include Jefferson Davis Diggs, III, Columbus, Ohio; Bernard M. Dunne, Burlington, Iowa; James Patrick Irving, North
30
The Scholastic
I
Arlington, N. J.; Francis Gerard Lun-den, Bellmore, N. Y.; and Frank V. Manning, Oklahoma City, Okla.
James F. Morris, Jeffersonville, Ind.; Richard J. Novak, Johnstown, Penn.; Thomas J. Nowak, Chicago, Ill.; George H. Rotterman, Dayton, Ohio; and Paul J. Schierl, Menasha, Wis. also received scholarships for the coming year.
Duo Wins Annual Moot Court Laurels
Joseph T. Helling of Pennsylvania and Carl F. Eiberger, Jr. of Colorado ' were winners in the finals of the fourth annual Notre Dame Moot Court competition this summer. Second place in the eight-month-long contest was awarded to John I. Bradshaw of Indiana and Wilber L. Pollard of Missouri. The finalists were selected from a field of 32, who began the eliminations in October, 1952.
The' case was based on an imaginary | appellate record prepared by Professor Edward F. Barrett of the Notre Dame
। Law School. An attorney at law of the i imaginary state of Hoynes was dis-.
barred from the practice' of law because i he had been convicted of the crime of contempt of Congress and had served a term in prison for this offense.
The winners, Helling and Eiberger, । pleaded the case for the appellant, the disbarred attorney, with Bradshaw and Pollard opposing them.
The judges for the “Supreme Court of Hoynes” were the Honorable Walter C. Lindley, Judge of the United States ' Court of Appeals, the Honorable Charles | Fahy, Judge of the United States Court i- of appeals, and the Honorable Thomas P. Thornton, Judge of the United States District Court.
The winners received the Manion • Award, which was established in June, 1950, by former Law Dean Clarence E. Manion, $100 in cash, and •will represent the College of Law in the National Moot court competition next fall.
Despite the short existence of the Notre Dame Moot court, the winners already have an enviable record in na-’’ tional competition. The 1951 winners were runners-up in the Seventh Federal Circuit competition and appeared in the National Finals in New York City. The 1951 winners won the Champix ionship of the Seventh Circuit com-|	petition and again appeared in the
i	National finals.
, The Notre Dame Moot Court was established in February, 1950 and was designed to give law students practical experience under court conditions. Participation is open to all law students on a voluntary basis.
Start this semester right . . .
Improve Your DANCING
the GEORGE DAVIS way!
Want to have a good time at school this year? Then ask the many N. D. men who have already become good dancers the GEORGE DAVIS Way. They’ll all tell you . . . it’s easy... it’s fun . . . anyone can learn. Yes, you can start dancing after the very first lesson. Start the semester right . . . enroll at the GEORGE -DAVIS STUDIOS today!
0^
* You are cordially invited to visit South Bend’s largest Dance Studio . . . today!
CORNER MICHIGAN AND MONROE
Extra-curricular
So you want to earn a “Kqppa" iey?
Okay, but don’t be dowdy;
Wear City Clubs, and in good taste You’ll pass "summa cum laude”!
City Club Shoes won’t help you in "math,” but the smart, distinctive styling, perfect comfort, and built-in value will add to your self-esteem. You’ll congratulate yourself on the price, too.
$8951. ♦IS95
City Club
I True • Esquire Argosy • Sport American Legion
September 25, 1953
31
20% Discount
For Notre Dame Men
SAVE on Cleaning and Pressing
RUBIN CLEANERS
217 E. Jefferson	1st Corner Across the River
---On the Bus Line-
so joih MI ARTRHR MURRAY
CLUB DANCE CLASS
Now you can get ballroom experience and confidence your very first lesson. Join an Arthur Murray Club Dance Class. You’ll love the gay informality of these classes and be amazed how quickly you learn all the latest steps. But you must act now before all the classes are full.
1.50 aweekf
Think of it...for as little as 1-5C > a week you can learn all the latest dances at the famous Arthur Murray Studios. Be sure to ask about this special pay-as-you-go plan when you come in to arrange about your dancing class lessons.
ARTHUR MURRAY School of Dancing
120 East Wayne St.
2-3339
Opportunity to Study Abroad
Rev. Paul E. Beichner, C.S.C., dean of the Graduate School, has announced that all seniors and graduate students who are interested in competing for graduate fellowships aboard may secure application blanks at his office on the first floor of the Main Building.
Closing date of competition for these scholarships for the academic year beginning March 1, 1954, is Oct. 15.
Several government grants, including the Fulbright Program, will again be available, with Europe, Asia, and Africa participating. The Buenos Aires convention program with 16 Latin American countries taking part is also open.
The Mexican Government scholarship program is offering eleven graduate scholarships in addition to six undergraduate scholarships.
England is offering Rhodes Scholarships to Oxford University. Married students are ineligible for these grants which will run for two, and possibly three, years.
The Marshall Scholarships, which are two-year appointments, with a possible third year, are also available. These • are open to married students.
Senate News
(Continued from page 9) under the Concert and Lecture Series.
Something new which is tentatively planned by the Senate is the formation of a Senate discount service. Under this plan local merchants would submit bids to the Senate offering discounts to students. The merchant offering the highest rate of discount would be listed on a card that each student would receive.
The Senate loan fund, which was established last year is slated to continue this year. Through the fund a student may borrow a maximum of §30 for one month. The service is interest-free.
As to the question of hall elections, the Senate has decided that all balloting shall be done by classes on successive days. Elections in senior halls will take place on Tuesday, Sept. 29. The juniors will vote on Wednesday the 30th and the sophomores on Thursday, Oct. 1. This year the freshman hall elections will be held at the same time as class elections in November.
An innovation this year will be the preferential ballot system. Under this system each student will vote for every candidate for a particular office in order of preference. A majority vote will then be necessary to elect a candidate even though second or third choices must be counted in that majority. The idea of the system is to eliminate the election candidates who do not have a majority vote and also those who have a plurality of only two or three.
32
The Scholastic

Try a 7-Up “Float”! Two scoops of ice cream (or sherbet) in a glass —tilt—and pour in chilled 7-Up. Enjoy 7-Up often. So pure, so good, so wholesome for everyone. Get a family supply of 24 bottles.
COPYRIGHT 1953 BY THE SEVEN-UP COMPANY
THE ALL-FAMILY DHIMK!
A SEVEN4JPFLOAT ™
TOM JOYCE CO.
INDIANA
September 25, 1953
33
by Gordon Bergquist
I once knew a fellow who had an open mind—fact is, his mind was so open that he decided to go to college.
The folks in the little town down along the Missouri River .in the Tall Corn State were pretty proud of the young fellow. Seems as though he was only the second fellow in ten years to go off to college from this little town. The townsfolk were so impressed with the whole affair that they gave a big going-away banquet for the young fellow and the mayor even got up and made a real long, fine-sounding speech about how the young fellow was a credit to the community and when he finished his education how he was going to come back and be a big help to the mayor, and the doctor and the police department and everybody in the whole town. There were just a few at the banquet who were wondering what kind of an education the young fellow was going to get but they didn’t say much. After all, they hadn’t gone to college themselves.
Mark of an “Educated Man”
Like I said before, this fellow had an awful open mind. He’d heard somewhere that the mark of an educated man was to appreciate the worthwhile things that had been done and said in the history of the world and to do a few worthwhile tilings himself. Few folks around said he got it out of a book; but most just blamed it on some high-school professor he’d had. Trouble with this young fellow was that he appreciated everything that had been done or said in the history of the world.
It all started on the train ride up to the college. He was put in a seat with some nice old lady who just had to find out all about the poor fellow. When she found out where he was going, why, she told him all about what she knew about colleges and places like that. Seems she had had a nephew who went to one once and he was a real doctor now and was curing people right and left. The young fellow sorta smiled sideways and said he didn’t think that he would be a doctor; he just hadn’t decided what field he was going into yet. But the old lady she just kept smiling and told him that everybody who went off to college had a mission and she just wanted to know what his was.
Well, the fellow thought and thought for a few minutes and then he had to admit that he didn’t rightly know, but if the lady would give him her name and address he- would be glad to tell her after he found out. Like I say, he had a pretty open mind.
He worried about this all the way up to the college after the old lady had left. He tried thinking of different missions but he couldn’t think of anything that he wanted to do. The whole thing only got worse when he started going to classes. Some of the professors would devote the first couple of classes to pretty general things such as how to read a book properly. The young fellow got in a big stew right off the bat ’cause some of the professors wanted a book read one way and others wanted it read another way. After the first few days, the fellow was so mixed up that he had to look in his notebook every time he wanted to read a particular book to see how he was supposed to read it.
The Civil War Question
It got even worse when classes really got going. One professor was bound and determined that the South had started the civil war. This sounded pretty good to the young fellow but the very next day some professor mentioned in class that of course it was the North that had started the civil war. The fellow started to say something but he decided he better keep quiet since the professor was supposed to know all about the subject anyway.
Now since this fellow had such an open mind, he didn’t know what to think and he just worried about it for days. He’d even gone over to the library and read a few books on the subject but some of them said one thing and some the other. He was pretty well mixed up when one fellow said in a bull session that it was really the British who had started the whole thing. He never has decided yet who it was that, really started it.
The pool- fellow went along this way for a couple of months. Some professors would say one thing and the books would say another. It got so that he could prove and disprove both sides of almost any question or argument. Now this made him a pretty handy fellow to
have on debating teams but it gave him headaches something awful when he tried to sleep at night. It was just that he couldn’t make up his mind what he wanted to believe and then when he did make up his mind, he couldn’t—for the life of himself figure out why.
Fertilizer Raises Stink
It all came to a head one day when the professor in one of his science classes said that the best farm fertilizer was a mixture of Vitamin “A” and Vitamin “D” in a base of salt. At this the young fellow jumped up and began to argue with the professor. He maintained that the best fertilizer was just plain old manure and his father thought the same thing and so forth and so on. The professor- just waited ’till he kind of cooled down and then asked him in a sneaky-like voice, how did he know. The poor fellow just sort of shrunk up and slunk out of the room. He headed straight for the farm without even starting to pack up.
The last time I saw him, he was down in the feed store trying to tell old Bill Peterson that the best fertilizer was a mixture of Vitamin “A” and Vitamin “D” in a base of salt.
Italian Home Cooking
Five Minutes from the Campus
Pizza Spaghetti Ravioli	Chicken
Chops Steaks
CLOSED SUNDAYS
You're always welcome at . . .
ROCCO’S
537 N. St. Louis, on the Bus Line
HANS RINTZSCH offers Notre Dame Men
•	16in. All Leather Brief Bag 9.95 plus tax
•	16in. 3-Side Zipper Case with handles 9.95 plus tax
•	Student Desk Lamp 3.95
HANS RINTZSCH Mich, at Colfax 138 N. Mich.
34
The Scholastic
EDUCATORS ALL OVER AMERICA APPROVE
Paper-Mate pens
EVANGELINE FAHY
Principal Lawson School Chicago, Illinois
WALTER COOPER Principal
Wichita East High School
Wichita, Kansas
lena McCullough Principal Weldele School Terre Haute. Indiana
ROSS LARSEN Principal Austin Junior High School
Amarillo, Texas
FATHER C. J. STALLWORTH Principal Jesuit High School
New Orleans, Louisiana’
B. M. DINSMORE
Superintendent of Schools
Wichita Falls, Texas
VIRGIL BIBLE Principal Brainerd Junior High School Chattanooga, Tennessee,
RICHARD WATTS Principal Baldwin Junior High School Montgomery, Alabama
LEWIS BLODGETT Supervising Principal Levittown, New York
FATHER PAUL KELLY Principal Riordan High School
San Francisco, California
JOSEPH MAHAN, JR. Instructor University of Georgia Columbus, Georgia
Here's Why
IS
BROTHER DOMINIE LUKE President St. John’s College Washington, D. C.
am
$]69
S)
P E


SAYS
LOUIS LESLIE
TYPMG SBffUFIED
American Book Company
taw K*	mnita k ■»
»rtw» w •	Kim K
Mo other m M5
THE
PEN CAN'T LEAK
THE INK CAN'T TRANSFER
BANKER APPROVED
Available in 5 Colors
UNCONDITIONALLY GUARANTEED FOR 20 YEARS
at trays a dean point
YEARS AHEAD OF THEM ALL