Vol. XX.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER n, 1886.	No. 15.
Sarah Jane’s View of Him.
Air : Pat Molloy.
1.
He seemed a harmless sort of man, But yet his talk was queer; .
I thought him rude, though he was called A “ civil ” Engineer.	'
I Ie came "from distant parts, they said, Our river’s course to stop,
And in his conversation such
. Remarks as these would drop: Chorus :	,
“ There’s the Poiree dam and the Chanoine dam, And the dam of Desfontaines,
And the Boule dam, and the bear-trap dam ”— It sounded so profane.
11.
One evening, having ascertained He had, as yet, no wife,
I led the conversation to
The theme of married life;
I hinted some one might accept If some one should propose, But all the horrid wretch could say -Was—what do you suppose?— '
Chorus:
’Twas “the Poiree dam, and the Chanoine dam, And the dam of Desfontaines,
t And the Boule dam, and the bear-trap dam ”—
I thought it so profane.
in.
At last, as by the river’s brink He stood to boss the men, He tumbled in, was washed away, And never seen again;
And if my Sunday-school book’s true,— As ’tis, I do engage,—
He’s gone to a place where water’s sca’ce And dams are all the rage.
Chorus:
With his Poiree dam and his Chanoine dam, And his dam of Desfontaines,
And his Boule dam, and his bear-trap dam,— He certainly was profane.
•	Bovle Dowell.
The Hawaiian Islands.*
The Hawaiian Islands—Hawaii-nei is their official designation—have been, and are still, more written about than any other islands, or group of islands, of the great Polynesian Archipelago. Besides Cook and Vancouver, the explorers, Kotzebue, Byron, Freycinet and Wilkes have tarried here, and have given us in their reports the results of their observations regarding the islands and their inhabitants. Numerous scientific expeditions have called here at various times in years gone by, and have published accounts, of greater or less length, of their visit. Lieutenant Wilkes, of the United States exploring expedition, after having done valuable work in the South Pacific, visited these islands in 1840. Among other things, he made several interesting experiments and observations on the summit of Mauna Loa, and in -and about the crater of Kilauea. He was, indeed, the first one to make anything like an accurate examination of these wonderful volcanoes. Her Majesty’s ship, the Challenger^ called here in 1875. Among the names I noticed as registered in the “ visitors’ book ” at the Volcano house, on Kilauea, were those of the officers and civilian staff of this now celebrated vessel. The name of Prof. “ Wyville Thompson, F. R. S., Director of the Civilian Scientific Staff,” heads the list. The names of some of the. party of English scientists who came here in 1874 to observe the transit of Venus are inscribed in the same book. Besides these names there are those of many others well known in the world of science and letters.	.
SOURCES OF INFORMATION.
One of the most interesting and exhaustive works on volcanoes ever written is Captain Dutton’s report on the volcanoes of the Hawaiian Islands,
* This article is taken from the conclusion of a series o£ -interesting letters written to the Rocky Mountain News by Rev. J. A. Zahm, C.S. C., Vice-President of the University and Director of the Scientific Department, on the occasion of his visit to these islands last summer. The letters were written from Honolulu, the capital of the Hawaiian Kingdom.
234	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
published only a few years since. He throws a flood of light on this interesting subject, and has done much to extend our knowledge regarding the nature and modes of action of volcanoes in general. Coan and Brigham have also written interesting accounts of the volcanoes of these isl-© • • •
ands, but for thoroughness and scientific treatment of the subject they cannot be compared with the masterly work of Captain Dutton.
As to histories and works describing the islands - and their inhabitants,- they are quite numerous. . Among histories, those of Dibble and Jarves are the best, that of the latter being the most popular. By far the most interesting and complete work, however,is that of Mr. Abraham Fornander, whom I have had the pleasure of meeting here. The work is in three large Svo volumes, and is entitled: “An Account of the Polynesian Race: Its Origin and Migrations, and the Ancient History of the Hawaiian People to the Times of Kamehameha I.” It is in every way a remarkable work, and a most valuable contribution to the historv and ethnography of Polynesia. In treating of the traditions and genealogies of the Hawaiians, the learned author shows conclusive!}' that we can trace back, and with certainty, the history of the race for nearly a- thousand years. He tells us of an interesting series of movements that took place in the Islands of Polynesia, about eight or nine hundred years ago, and of numbers of remarkable voyages that were made from one part to the other of the great Archipelago. For two or three hundred years there was a regular and constant communication ' between the more important groups of islands, showing that navigation was more advanced then among the natives than at any subsequent period. Voyages, made to points distant 2,000 miles or . more, were of frequent occurrence, and weresowell directed, that they were comparatively free from danger.
THE POLYNESIANS.
May we not find in these voyages of the old Polynesian navigators a solution to the long vexed question of the peopling of America ?. Who knows ? There is no doubt about the unity of origin of the Polynesian race, as their languages or dialects abundantly testify. Even to-day a Hawaiian and a New Zealander can. readily. understand each other, although their respective countries are separated by a distance of upwards of five thousand miles. <	.......	.
Mr. Fornander’s.discovery about.the migrations made centuries ago, from island to island, explains this similarity of language. But if voyages could have been made from one. group of islands to an. other,'although far distant from each other, and Mr; Fornander proves' that they-were of frequent occurrence, the Polynesian seamen of the . early period of which I am speaking could safely - steer their ,barks, as they did, from .the Friendly and Samoan to the Sdciety and Marquesas Islands, and from fall these; to the. Hawaiian group, there . is 'no, reason for, supposing 'that: they?did not - also : , voyage still farther ■ East,-arid reach the shores of
• America." The voy age. from Hawaii to the con- ■
tinent of America would not be as long as many of their inter-island trips, and notably some of their voyages from islands in the far West to those in the far East. In the light of Mr. Fornander’s investigations, the discovery and settlement of America, at least the Southwestern portion of it, by Polynesians, who came by way of the Hawaiian ■ Islands, is not only possible, but highly probable.
What I wished to say in beginning my letter was that, notwithstanding all that has been written about them by explorers, travellers and others, the Hawaiian Islands are comparatively unknown. This may be owing, in a measure, to the character of the works published, many of them being of a kind which would not interest the general reader, and to the fact that many of the books written, although good enough in their way, are either difficult to obtain or are out of print. It is only since the date of the reciprocity treaty with the United States, in 1876, since when quite an extensive trade has sprung up between these islands and the Pacific coast, that our people have begun to take any special interest in this little kingdom of the Pacific. An occasional newspaper' article, or, perchance, a contribution, to some of the magazines, contains about all the information that has reached the great mass of the reading public. .
LOCATION OE THE ISLANDS.
The Hawaiian Islands are about midway between Mexico and China, and Mauna Loa is almost in the same latitude as the great Mexican volcano, Popocatapetl. The islands are on the path of the steamers that sail between the United States and Australia, and all vessels carrying passengers between these two countries call at Honolulu. From San Francisco to Honolulu the distance is in the neighborhood of 2,100 miles, and the voyage is usually made in about seven days, sometimes more and sometimes less. A line of magnificent iron steamers, controlled by Claus Spreckles & Sons, ply between San Francisco and Honolulu, and between San Francisco and Auckland and Sidney, via Honolulu. When once in Honolulu, one can visit the various islands of the group in inter-island steamers, which sail every week, and sometimes oftener, and call at the different parts of the kingdom.	.
The formation of;the Hawaiian Islands, as of many other islands of the Pacific Ocean, is volcanic. Here, however, the igneous forces have acted on'a much grander scale than in other parts of Oceanica. The upheavals were much greater, and the outpourings of lava much more extensive. In no other part of the world will one find such lofty massive domes of lava as are. to be seen in Mauna Loa, Mauna Kea, and Haleakala. -	i
. One can easily trace, the progress of volcanic j action from Niibau and Kauai in the Northwest to j Hawaii in the Southeast. In all the islands northwest of Hawaii one will find the vestiges of extinct craters.' But as.one goes north the cones and era- 'i ters are more worn and less perfect. Their sizes : have been so'diminished by erosion and denudation, ; and:thein forms so changed in some.instances, that .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
there remains only a mere outline of what was once a grand and active volcano. In Oahu and in Kauai forests and dense vegetation almost completely conceal all traces of the many craters that in ages gone by vomited forth such quantities Of lava as to build up from sea bottom the islands named.
THE WORK OF COUNTLESS AGES.
’ But although one can readily see that the Northwestern islands are the oldest, and observe the gradual progress of volcanic action toward the Southeast, one can form no estimate, even geologically, of the countless ages that must have elapsed since the opening of the first fiery vent that gave rise to the formation of Kauai. Reasoning from analogy, and judging from what we now see going on in the remaining active volcanoes, Mauna Loa and Kilauea, the time required must have been long indeed.
Taking into consideration the fact of the gradual movement of the seat of volcanic fires from one extremity of the group to the other, and bearing in mind the further important fact, that of the many scores, probably many hundreds of volcanoes that have contributed to make up the Hawaiian Islands, only two active ones now remain, it would seem that volcanic action in this part of the world will soon be a thing of the past. It is possible that new vents may be formed under the sea to the South or Southeast of Hawaii, and eventually give rise to another island; but the indications point rather to the gradual extinction of those mighty Plutonic forces that in this portion of the Pacific have so long been dominant.
Coral formations obtain here to a certain extent, but the largest reefs are found in the neighborhood of the more northerly islands—an additional proof, as every zoologist knows, of the greater antiquity of these islands. Off the coast of Oahu, near Honolulu, there is quite an extensive barrier reef and a portion of it acts as a natural breakwater for the harbor of Honolulu, which stands in high repute among seamen for its size and safety.
There are twelve islands in the Hawaiian group, but.only seven of them are inhabited. The remaining five are, more properly speaking, only rocky prominences,’ or barren islets. The total area of the islands is inconsiderable, and even disappointing when one thinks of it in connection with the high-sounding name of Kingdom which is given to this group.
EXTENT OF THE KINGDOM.
' But the kingdom, for such it is, is much greater in extent than many other governments that claim independence. Even the smallest inhabited island of the group, Kahoolawe, is greater in extent than the principalities of Monaco, or Leichtenstein, or the Republic of San Marino. Lanai, the third smallest island, counts : more square miles than the Republic of Andorra, and Hawaii has more territory than Holland proper, or the: Grand Duchy of Luxemburg. Butthis is not’saying much. The fact remains that the kingdom is of very limited area; The.whole of it could be swallowed by some •
of your Colorado counties, and there would still be enough land for several big cattle ranches' left?	.
Even your Arapahoe county, which is small in ; condpariso'n with some of its companidns, would . easily cover the whole of Hawaii^ the largest of the group,- and several of the srrialler islands with itj and if the county were larger by a half it would • more than cover every rood in the kingdom. ;In a -word, the total area of the Hawaiian Islands is only < a little over.six thousand and five hundred square miles.
But although the actual amount of land is sd -limited in area5 its distribution in the ocean.makes? . ? the distances from island to island and from one?-, extreme of the kingdom to the other quite consid- y ? erable. Thus, from the northwest point of Kauai/ s to the southeast point ob Hawaii, the'distance/is ; not far from four hundred miles. One. of your ? . counties, as stated, would embrace as much terri- . tory as all the islands combined; but, scattered as -	/
they are, they could scarcely find room, occupying -	?
their present relative positions within the confines . 'of the great Centennial State. If the islands were a to be lifted up from their ocean bed and transferred y .//< to Colorado and placed in the same relative’po- . . ‘ sitions, in latitude and longitude they now have, the .	.
principal islands, Hawaii, Maui, Molokai,’ Oahu? -./ and Kauai, would cover, in the order named, the? ?j sites now occupied by El Moro, Pueblo, Salida, ? Leadville and Glenwood Springs. The smaller islands would find place to the south and west of >	.
the points designated.
AMBITIOUS SCHEMES.	?
•There has of late been considerable talk among a few Utopians here about annexing to the Hawaiian kingdom some of the other island groups7 in s. the West and South Pacific, with a view of forming	.
a grand Polynesian monarchy. Those who favor the idea maintain that the inhabitants of:the Marquesas, Society, Friendly, Samoan, and neighboring islands, are so closely united by ties’ of .race, . language, customs and traditions that they; should all be under the same.ruler. There is more or less of truth in this view, but then the: islands -arejso -far separated from each-.other that it would be; / practically impossible for such a small kingdom, with the limited revenue that it would7 have,’ to \ carry on the affairs of the Government, even if the y unification spoken of were to be effected. For. thisy and other reasons, therefore, “United Polynesia” . .. .will probably never be anything more than a.day	‘
dream—a fancy fostered by only-the few. ? . ‘ \	-
• The history of the islands reads like a romance? '- .5? Indeed, no. country is richer In materials for ro- •’// mance and /poetry than Hawaii-nei. There; are traditions, and legends, and songs without number,^// that would afford an unlimited choice of subjects -Xd to the poet or novelist. There, still live-in 'the y minds and affections of the raceyheroes and demi- H; / gods around; whom are gathered memories of deeds - /..' of valor, and feats of adventure ‘.thatare not.:un-f like those; that characterize the heroic ages? of b
- Greece and'Rome, d ' y: '	“. ’b?.
Chief among these heroes is- Kamehameha. I, ;
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
2 76
w
the connecting link between the historic and traditionary period in Hawaiian annals. A high chief, or alii, a mere stripling at the time of Cook’s visit, the friend of Vancouver; there were united in him all the physical strength, and all the daring and nobility of character with which we are wont to endow the ideal savage chieftain.
FOUNDER OF A DYNASTY.
Before his time the various islands, and even different sections of the larger islands, were under the rule and constituted the personal property of so many independent chiefs or aliis. His is the glory of uniting them all under one rule, and of founding a dynasty—that of the Kamehamehas—which continued in power until 1872, when, in the death of Lemalilo, the line of Kamehameha became extinct.
Kamehameha I has often been called “The Napoleon of the Pacific.” In many respects the epithet is an appropriate one. He was a born commander, and had in him all the elements of a great statesman. He was a wonderful judge of character, and, like the great Corsican, knew perfectly how to select the men that would best serve his purposes. He brought order out of chaos, and laid the foundations of a government that would have done credit to the ruler of a civilization far more advanced. Had he had the advantages of education and association, and had he been placed in a different field in which his wonderful genius for commanding and governing could have had full play, he would have achieved for himself a name and a fame that would have ranked him with the great sovereigns and the great warriors of the world’s o	o
history.
THE NATION’S HERO.
One of the “lions” of the capital is a statue of heroic size, erected to the memory of the Conqueror. Spear in hand, and decked with his famous mamo, or war-cloak, he stands the personification of power and courage, and is a fit type of an ideal hero of the Homeric age. It is scarcely a century since he matured his plans of conquest. In a few shortyears he successfully brought about the federation of the score or more barbaric tribes that held possession of the islands. To-day his monument fittingly guards the approaches to the legislative halls of the nation—a nation which, thanks to Kamehameha more than anyone else, is now recognized among- the independent governments of the earth, and which, for this reason, is a grander monument, to his greatness and sagacity than any figure graven in marble or cast in bronze.
Until 1840, all power was centered in the king, and he ruled as an autocrat. In 1840, however, a constitution, restricting the powers of the crown, was promulgated by Kamehameha III. This was superseded by the constitution of 1852, which, in 1864, during the reign of Kamehameha' V, gave place to the one which is now in force.
The form of government that at present exists in the islands is a constitutional and hereditary monarchy. It is governed by the three estates of king, nobles and representatives chosen by the people. The constitution, is largely modelled after
that of the United States, and the proceedings in the courts of justice and in the halls of legislation are but slightly different from those which obtain in our own country. This follows naturally from the fact that those who were chiefly instrumental in framing the laws and in drawing up the constitution, were, either Americans or of American descent.
THE PRESENT RULER.
The present king, Kalakaua, descended from a high chief, or alii, is a man of parts, and of no mean administrative ability. If he were always surrounded with faithful and disinterested advisers, and men who would zealousty work with him for the advancement of the nation’s weal, he would, no doubt, distinguish himself as a ruler.
He has visited the United States three different times, and has travelled extensively in other lands. In 1876 he went to Washington to secure the passage of the reciprocity treaty, and in this he was successful, to the great advantage of the commerce of the kingdom. Later on he made a tour of the world, and everywhere he was received with honor and treated with distinguished consideration. He speaks English fluently, and in his own language he is regarded as quite an orator. He is a man of commanding presence, and when younger—he is now 50—he must have been quite handsome.
He is fond of amusement, and, like most of his countrymen, he is disposed to take life easy. Like the Prince of Wales, he is the patron of boating, yachting, jockey clubs, and agricultural societies, of many of which he is either the honorary or acting president. His chief advisers are foreigners, most of whom are Americans. Indeed, most of the more prominent officials of the kingdom, whether of the legislature or judiciary, are Americans, native-born or by descent. No one, however, can hold office under the government without becoming a naturalized citizen, and many foreigners have accordingly taken out their papers, and enjoy all the rights and privileges of Hawaiian citizenship.
Queen Kapiolani is spoken of by all as a lady of great amiability, and one who, in a quiet way, takes a marked interest in everything that concerns the welfare of her people. Her devotion to her afflicted subjects at Kakaato and Kalawao is well known, and she never wearies in encouraging and assisting the Sisters and others who have these unfortunates in charge.
. THE ROYAL RESIDENCE.
Their majesties live in a large and handsome structure in the heart of the capital, known as lolani palace. The building is in striking contrast with the grass hut occupied by their great predecessor, the Conqueror. No less striking is the present appearance of the miniature royal army, neatly uniformed and drawn up before the palace, as compared with Kamehameha’s warrior bands, whose only covering was a simple malo.
The independence of the nation was recognized by Great Britain and France in 1843, and in the following year by the United States. Since then
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
237
it has occupied an acknowledged position among the sovereign states of the world. It has diplomatic and consular representatives in the chief countries of the Old and New Worlds, and various foreign powers are represented here by their reg-ularlv accredited asrcnts.
There are here, as in most countries, two political parties. They are known as the “Missionary Party” and the Anti-Missionary Party.” The former is composed, in a great measure, of the descendants, and friends, and sympathizers of the early missionaries, and are supposed to be the party of reform and governmental righteousness. The latter is presumed by the former to hold principles that are radically wrong; and we have here, consequently, the same fault-finding, and the same acrimonious criticism of the policy of the party in power that seems to serve politicians as a pastime the world over.
Nominally, there are two parties. To an outsider, however, as a disinterested spectator, there appears to be no further raison d'etre for their existence than that proclaimed by the ingenious Texas politician, namely, “ the spoils.” There is no great issue at stake, and no special difference of policy. The political parties here remind me much of those of Mexico, where for years past there has been no more real issue in the administration of government affairs than in Hawaii. “Ins” and “ Outs ” would be the proper names of the political parties in both countries.
Like other countries of the world, the Hawaiian Kingdom rejoices in the luxury of a national debt — a debt which, the “ Outs ” insist, should be diminished, but which, when they become “ Ins,” they always manage to increase. The bonded debt now is something over a million of dollars, and negotiations are pending for the loan of another million or two. Considering the limited revenue of the government, and the diminutive size of the king-O'	o
dom,one can readily see that the debt already contracted has assumed very shapely proportions.
THE CHIEF INDUSTRIES
of the islands are the cultivation of sugar-cane and rice, and the manufacture of unrefined sugar. The refining is done in San Francisco. The soil of the disintegrated lava seems to be especially adapted for the raising of cane, and the yield per acre is sometimes almost incredible. Two or three tons of sugar per acre is the result of a fair crop; but cases are cited in which the yield has run up as high as nine tons per acre.
The larger number and the more valuable sugar plantations are owned and controlled by foreigners, most of whom are Americans. The sugar king of the islands, as is well known, is Claus Sprcck-les, of San Francisco-. But although his usual place of residence is in San Francisco, where he has one of the largest sugar refineries in the world, he has a magnificent mansion in Honolulu, where he spends at least a few months of the year while looking after his great interests here in plantations, steam-ships, banks, etc. The amount of sugar he made this last season on his own plantations footed
up the high figure of 14,000 tons. The total amount produced in the islands this year will probably amount to six or seven times the amount indicated by this figure.	’
The reciprocity treaty, which permits the importation of sugar into the United States free of duty, has tended materially to develop the sugar interests of the islands. Now, however, that the. term of the treaty has expired and the matter stands in abeyance, the sugar industry is not as brisk as it might be if there wereany certainty as to the renewal of the treaty on the same basis as existed heretofore. For the sake of assisting this struggling little kingdom, one could wish to see its chief industry fostered and encouraged, and every one, I think, who fully understands the situation, will join in the hope that Congress will appreciate the advisability of continuing free trade with the Hawaiian Islands, in regard to the staple products of the kingdom; for on a renewal of the reciprocity treaty the future commercial success of the kingdom will, in a great measure, depend. .
Next to sugar, the greatest portion of which is exported to the United States and Australia, rice is the most important commodity of the islands. Molasses, coffee, hides, sheep, goat and calf skins, fungus, pulu, bananas, paddy, betel leaves, wool and tallow are likewise exported in considerable quantities. The average annual value of the goods exported during the past five years has been about $8,000,000, as against $2,000,000 in 1876,. when the reciprocity treaty went into operation.
TRADE OF THE ISLANDS.
Most of the goods imported into the islands come from the United States—the greater portion from the Pacific coast. Just now San Francisco is headquarters for supplies for the kingdom, and it would be a serious loss to this enterprising metropolis if any mole-eyed policy on the part of our legislators should allow the rapidly-increasing trade with the Hawaiian Islands to be deflected to any other mart.
The number of acres in the group is something over four millions. 'About one-twentieth of this amount is arable, and the acreage specially adapted for the cultivation of sugar-cane is still less, and yet the greater portion of this land still remains untilled. But should the trade with the Pacific coast continue to increase, as it has since the inauguration of the reciprocity treaty, there is no reason why the Hawaiian Islands should not afford a fine opening for those who wish to cultivate the rich acres that now lie unproductive.
In passing through the Koea district, the home of the pineapple, it occurred to me that, with proper management, the canning of pineapples could here be made a very lucrative branch of industry. The fruit grows everywhere, and in such abundance, and is so delicious, surpassing in lusciousness any other pineapples I have ever tasted, that I think a fortune is awaiting the one who knows how to avail himself of the treasures that’ a bounteous nature offers here in such profusion. At present the principal trade in fruits is limited to bananas, cocoanuts and tamarinds; but there is
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
no reason in the world why the industry should not be greatly increased and extended to the numerous other tropical and sub-tropical fruits that grow here in such exuberance, o
A HEALTH RESORT.
For the tourist and the invalid I know of no place that offers such a grateful change and such new and varied attractions as the Hawaiian Islands. They have been called, and truly, “ The Paradise of the Pacific.” Nowhere else can one find a greater wealth, or a more gorgeous display of tropical verdure, than are to be witnessed in the shady groves and in the charming valleys of Kauai, the “ Garden Island” of the group. Nowhere will one find a grander or a more imposing exhibition of the stupendous forces of nature than in the world-renowned volcanoes of Mauna Loa, Kilauea, and Haleakala. Everywhere one finds something to excite his interest and admiration. The “ Barking Sands of Waimea”; the vale of lao—the Yosemite of the Sandwich Islands; the woods of Puna —the home of the cocoa palm; the Pali of Nuuauu, the scene of Kamehameha’s crowning victory, that gave him the acknowledged sovereigntv of the islands, are objects and scenes that, for interest, beauty and magnificence stand unrivalled. Even here in the immediate vicinity of Honolulu, and in the city itself, one will find attractions enough to repay all the discomforts of a long voyage. Among these are Waikiki, the fashionable watering place of the islands; Nuuauu valley, with its delightful drive; Kapiolani park; the avenue of date palms, as also that of royal palms, which, with their perennial display of luxuriant foliage and richer bloom, surpass by far the treasured exotics of the most famed conservatories of the world.
A DOOMED PEOPLE.	'
I have said the Hawaiian Islands have been called u The Paradise of the Pacific.” For climate and natural attractions they are all of this; but there is one melancholy fact, which regards the natives, that casts a gloom over what would otherwise be a veritable Garden of Eden.- This is the rapid extinction of. the native population—an extinction that commenced with the advent of the European. At the time of Captain Cook’s visit, the native race was roughly numbered at 400,000. This was probably an exaggeration. In 1823 the estimated population, including natives and foreigners, was 142,050. The returns, according to the first census taken in 1832, placed the number, natives and foreigners included, at 130,313. Since then there has been a continued and frightfully rapid decrease until the present time. The last census, in 1884, gave, as the entire population only 80,578 souls. Of these, including half-castes, only 44,232,: were native Hawaiians. A large.prdportion of the population is made, up of Chinese, who now count about 20,000, and Portuguese, who number nearly 10,000. The remaining portion of the inhabitants —rabout 10,000 all told—is very cosmopolitan in character. It embraces Americans, Germans, Norwegians, ;South Sea Islanders, and representatives of France, Great Britain and Japan, .	-	.
For the native population the above figures show an appalling decrease, and one which, if it continues, will soon terminate in the total extinction of the Hawaiian race. Leprosy and a number of other ravaging diseases that have been introduced by the whites, have decimated the number of the natives; but besides disease, other causes, equally, if not more fatal, have been in action and have continued to hasten the work of death and universal extermination.
.	DISEASE AND DEATH.
It is the old story over—the weaker before the stronger; the native making way for the stranger. The well-wishers for this little kingdom have all along hoped that the Hawaiians would prove an exception to this rule: that their strong vitality would eventually reassert itself and stay the melancholy decimation that, continued as it has been for nearly a century, has reduced their number to • but a small fraction of what it once was. Everywhere throughout the kingdom one finds ruins of homes forsaken and of villages abandoned, and sees fertile districts deserted, because of the sad havoc made by disease and death—the inevitable consequences the world over, where a savage or a semi-civilized people comes in contact with the white race.	. *
If the rulers of this nation were to have wise and honest counsellors, which they have not always had; if their hands were supported by those who should be their aids, but who in reality have been their destroyers; if they were to receive from the white man the example and the encouragement in righteousness that should be given them, the Hawaiian Islands to-day would present, socially and economically, quite a different aspect. Where, however, flattery is substituted for advice, and the wineglass is proffered in lieu of sage counsel, and this to the inexperienced ruler of an infant nation, and to one, it may be, who is naturally more prone to intemperance and other evil habits than his older and stronger brother, we are prepared for the worst, and are only surprised in the present instance that the deluge has not come sooner.
Already, in view of the proximate dying out of the race,.the question is being agitated as to what power will, in such an event, come into the posses- ; sion of the islands. For nearly a century past sev- ; eral of the nations of Europe have had covetous eyes fixed on the group, and have been only waiting for a pretext, or an opportunity, to seize the prize. France, Germany, and Great Britain, especially, have long desired to make these islands their own. In 1843, Lord George Paulet, an English naval commander, actually forced the then : reigning sovereign, Kamchameha HI, to cede him ‘ the kingdom, of which he took possession in the 1 ' name of the queen of Great Britain. Afew months j subsequently, however, the islands were restored j -to.their rightful ruler. .	.	-	|
WHO SHALL SUCCEED?	1
. To any power, that should wish to control the North Pacific, the possession of the Sandwich Isl- <
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ands would be all-important, if not a necessity. In view of the fact, however, that it has been Americans more than any other people, who have made the islands what they are; that it is to American capital and American enterprise that the present prosperous condition and the commercial standing of the nation is mainly due; that Americans still continue to have the greatest interests vested here," practically controlling, if not actually owning the kingdom, it is but reasonable to suppose that the United States will, when the time comes, put in her claim for the ownership of the islands, and that “Uncle Sam” will be able to convince all competitors that such claim is the only legitimate one, and the only one that can have a hearing; and in view of my faith in “Uncle Sam’s” ability to enforce his rights if called upon to do so, I think I can safely venture the prediction that the Hawaiian Islands are destined at no distant day to become the prized tropical gardens of the western portion of our great and growing Commonwealth.
Art, Music and. Literature.
—The first series of Leo XIH’s poems have been translated in German verse by the Bavarian poet Behringer.'
—The Holy Father, having allowed Gounod to dedicate to him his oratorio, Mors et Vita, the great composer is going to Rome to direct its execution in the Sistine Chapel for the pleasure of His Holiness.
—Brother Azarias, President of Rock Hill College in Maryland, has been hard at work for two months in the libraries of Europe, and especially in that of the Vatican, collecting material for a book on Catholic education for an international series.
—The Rev. S. H. Fellows, of Norwich, has a genuine old pitch-pipe, used too years ago in New England choirs and singing schools. It is a rectangular box, made of mahogany, inches long, inches wide, and i % inch thick. At one end is a little mouthpiece, and at the opposite end a slide, the size of the interior of the box, which regulates the pitch. Upon the edge of the slide are the letters of the scale, and by pulling it out to the desired 'letter and blowing on the mouthpiece, a mellow, flute-like note is produced. It has a range of over an octave.
—John Gilmary Shea is at present engaged in writing the History of the Catholic Church in America, to appear in five large volumes. . The first volume will be out in a few weeks. Pressure from high sources was brought to bear on Mr. Shea, to induce him to write the History of the Church in America; for, if he neglected to do it, much knowledge would have died with him. Mr. Shea’s history will contain much matter never before published. He is a member of the Historical Society of Madrid, Spain, and he has been favored by the secretaries of that society with certain historical information, copied from its archives, for the . forthcoming History of the Church in the
United States. Shea’s History will be one of the -greatest of modern historical works.—Catholic Lews.
—-Glad He Lost His Bet.—Meyerbeer’s opera, “The Crusaders,” was about to be introduced . to the public for the first time in 1825, and the composer was. very anxious about the result. Rossini attended the last rehearsal, and congratulated the young maestro in anticipation. “ I fear, I fear . . said Meyerbeer. “ Oh 1 you should not give way to fear, car a mia; I bet you the Crusaders will take.” “How much? The piece is sure to be a failure.” ■ “ I’ll stake 100 louis d^or that your opera will be an immense success.” On the evening of the first performance, Rossini, who was known to everybody, occupied a front seat in the stalls, and applauded vigorously at the close of each passage. What could the audience do, but follow so good, so excellent an example? The house rang with loud applause and cheers, and the success of the piece was secured. Next morning Rossini received a cheque for the amount of the wager, and a letter of warm thanks from the fortunate loser	Cornik der Leit. ~	-	-_-
—Professor Grisar, who fills the chair of history in the University of Innsbruck, has come to Rome, by command of His Holiness, to consult the Vati- . can archives, the erudite Professor having been charged by the Pope to write a confutation of the History of the City of Rome from the Fifth to the Sixteenth Century, wherein the author, Gregorb-vius, sets forth groundless accusations against the Popes. Professor Grisar is well known in the world of letters, his works upon Galileo and the . Reformers having procured him the reputation of an impartial critic and a conscientious and learned . historian. Another important work lately pub-’fished is that on. the Egyptian and feyoish laws, by Professor Victor Tedeschi, which is a comparative essay on the ancient Egyptian judicial laws compared with those of the Hebrews, translated from very ancient oriental codices. The volume was a commission from a foreign savant.. The Copernican Museum of Rome is about to purchase from a foreign bibliomaniac a manuscript of the celebrated astronomer of Thorn, entitled Regula Cancellariee a Nicolao Copernico Conscripta, dum Bononice Jus Canonicum Studebat. The, manuscripts of Copernicus are most rare, and possessed only by few academies and scientific institutions. Six letters of his are preserved in the Museum of .. Prince Czaztorigski, at Cracow; one is the prop-erfy of the Imperial Library of Berlin; two are possessed by the Cathedral Chapter of Wafmia or Ermeland; and the manuscript of a scientific treatise is among the treasures of the State Archives of Konigsberg. The manuscript in question was, , until the middle of the eighteenth century, carefully, preserved in the Library of the CathedraLof War- . mia, whence it was thus borne off as a trophy by Charles Gustavus, of Luedia; it was, later, sold to a Polish Canon, and finally found its way to Rome \ to enrich that Italy where Copernicus studied with so precious a cimellum.—Roman Cor, '■’•London ‘ ; Tablet? ’
240
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
MfDMSeH0W£
Notre Dame, December 11, 1886.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Twentieth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends who have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day;
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame;
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students;
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Si.50 fer Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
Our Staff.
B. T. Becker, ’86, D. A. Latshaw, ’87, P. VD. Brownson, ’88.
—The Christmas vacation begins Wednesday, December 22, and closes on Monday, January 3. The authorities expect that the students going home will return promptly for the opening of classes.
—The annual retreat for the students was begun on Sunday evening and closed on Wednesday morning. The sermons were preached by Very Rev. Provincial Corby, and were, listened to with an attention that gave evidence of the deep impression-which the eloquent exposition of the great truths of religion produced in the minds and hearts of all. In connection with the exercises of the retreat, the prescribed visits and devotions of the Jubilee were made with an edifying spirit of recollection and piety. [11 general, it may be said that the earnestness with which all entered in the exercises of these three days cannot but bear good and lasting fruit, and secure a happv and successful year to the students of ’86-’87.
—The Elgin (Hl.) daily papers of the 2d inst., contain an account of a “Reunion of the first stu
dents of the Elgin Academy, on the 30th anniversary of its opening—Dec. 1, 1856.” Among the names of these “first students ” we find two who afterwards entered Notre Dame University and won honors and degrees in their Alma Mater. Wm. F. Lynch was here at the breaking out of the war, and had command of the “Notre Dame Continentals.” He was one of the first “to go at his country’s call,” and that his comrades shared his enthusiastic patriotism we have only to be told that this little company furnished to the Federal Army two Brigadiers—General Wm. ,F. Lynch, of Elgin, and General R. W. Healy, ’61, of Chicago—besides other officers and privates, many of whom, “bravely fighting, fell” in defence of the Union.
The Rev. D. J. Spillard, ’64,’ Rector of St. Aloysius’ Seminary at Notre Dame, was pleasantlv mentioned among the “ bright boys” of that class, as “Young Dan Spillard, who took Holy Orders, and is now, I suppose, teaching the ways of peace.” Father Spillard was as young then as the youngest seminarian now under his enlightened and paternal guidance. Had illness not prevented, he would have been at this happy reunion, and, without doubt, passed a delightful evening with the “old boys and girls of ’56.”
—If a young man at college really and truly loves study, nothing save sickness will restrain him from being a student in the true sense of the word, and from making good use of the means at his command for studying. The fact is, when we hear people complain of want of time for studying we discover that they are in reality attached to some other-pursuit which prevents them from devoting to study the time proper to it, or that they are not possessed of the energy and the spirit which should animate the true student. They hear a companion praised, and will join in praising him, because of the great amount of information he has acquired, and they will wonder in what manner it was that he managed to gain it: but when they themselves are urged to emulate him in his course, they give the pitiable excuse that they have not the time. They say that they would dearly love to be distinguished among their companions— will say to themselves that they are ambitious of storing their minds with useful information,—but, then, they have not the time. They have time for play, and for everything else which serves to amuse them, but they have not the time to study; they have time to spend in reading some frivolous or worthless novel, but they have no time for solid reading. They have time to waste in making things look tasty in their desks, but they have no time to spend in adorning their, minds with the knowledge which comes through hard study. How foolish! They have no time? They have the time, if they will but use it. In most cases they fail in their studies because they fritter away time, because they give themselves up to their own ease, or to genuine idleness.
With people of this turn of mind, the worst of
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
all is the almost utter impossibility of convincing them that hard work on their part is what is required. They attribute the success of their companions to the brightness of their intellect, giving them no credit for the long hours they have spent in toil and labor. Some, no doubt, are naturally bright and apt at learning, but there are many young men who are not so, and yet who attain a high position in spite of all difficulties, and succeed, too, simply by their energy and application. On the other hand, we have seen many a young man, whose mind was well calculated to receive information, pass through college without much success, because of his fatal habit of preferring his own ease and comfort to the labor of study.
The Sense of Duty.
The able and well-written article on “ The Foundation of the Moral Law ” which recently appeared in the Scholastic has suggested a thought, the expression of which, we presume to think, may not prove unacceptable to our readers.
If it be true, as no doubt it is, that there is in all men an innate sense of a distinction between right and wrong, does it not, at first sight, become passing strange how few there are—even among those in whom that natural feeling has been educated or developed—who are able to pass through the fulfilment of life’s duties without infringing upon what nature, reason, and instruction tell them the moral law requires of them? A sense of duty exists in all; but even amongst the best of us, are there not times when that sense fails to exercise its influence? We know and feel what is right; but through circumstances, it is said, we are rendered incapable of acting according to our convictions.
It can hardly be deemed necessary to remark that we are not now about to attempt any theological disquisition upon principles which should direct one’s conscience in practical life. Our purpose is served, in the present paper, by referring to that sense common to all men, which we have termed a sense of duty, but which might also be called a sense of manliness, uprightness, fairness, et al. We think, however,’the name we have given covers all that the sense implies, namely, a feeling that we live here upon earth, as social beings, with our correlative duties and obligations towards each other, and duties towards a Supreme Being from whom we are, and upon whom we depend for all that we have.
Now, when we come to consider the practical application of that sense of which we speak, how strikingly is the pet principle of the evolutionist brought home to us, of the “ survival of the fittest,” that life always presents the phenomena of the weaker giving way to the stronger—a principle held to be true in the physical order, meeting with a most striking confirmation in the moral order! In other words, it is hitman res'pect that plays a great part in the determination of all our actions. We oftentimes allow ourselves to be overcome by
the glamor, the high-sounding words and phrases with which our neighbor clothes what he judges to be right, and, especially, if we are weak in will and infirm of purpose, we give up our own convictions to follow those of a stronger mind, ft may be, too, that weakness may not be altogether the .reason of a “ change of views.” There may be some “ ulterior purpose,” “some axe to grind”; but'in any case, the fact remains that the sense of duty is lost sight of, and is followed by either cowardly' yielding, or unmanlv surrender of the noblest powers of the human soul.
How few there are who, after an experience, be it ever so brief, in life’s warfare, have not met with the sharp words, the bitter, biting speech of one of their fellows, whereby they have been brought to a stop, and even, perhaps, made to swerve from the course upon which they had determined, and which plainly led them to the right! Who is it that cannot recall instances of the man with a quiet, easy-going disposition, unwilling to cause trouble to his neighbor, being imposed upon byr those with whom his avocation must necessarily bring him in contact, while another, engaged in the same business and dealing with the same individends, but possessed of what we might call a more aggressive disposition, meets with a far different and more acceptable treatment? _ Perhaps we would not be very much astray, and at the same time express our ideas more tersely, in saying that . the evolutionistic “survival of the fittest,” finds its correlative expression in “It is cheek that will carry you through,” which seems to be the principle which actuates the man of the day, so much so that apparently it is his all-determining motive of action, both in his dealings with others and in regulating his own course of conduct.	’
Now, we ask, is this a rational, or a Christian principle? Certainly' not. We, of course, make all due allowances for such deceptions on the part of the intelligence as we are liable to, owing to our condition as finite, fallen creatures; but, reasoning from the principle that a man in the full possession of reason, conversant with all the circumstances of an act which he is about to perform, realizing its nature and its relation to morality, we say, that if, notwithstanding all this, he weakly acts contrary to what his >ense of duty dictates, that he is no Christian, he is no man I When one enters upon a vocation or business in life, he is supposed to make himself acquainted with all the . duties and obligations which he thereby assumes^ whether it be in the direction of others placed under him, or in dealings with equals, or in relations to superiors—and therefore he must recognize from the start the path wherein his line of duty lies, and realize that his proper conduct consists in following it unswervingly. He will then do his work faith-. • fully and well ; and, while preserving his own selfrespect and the respect due to others, he will not ‘ permit himself to be led by a servile fear of those with whom he has to deal. In a word, let the sense > ; of duty actuate our course in life; let it be the motive of all our acts, and we shall have no cause for. regret,	S.
242
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
A Catholic Newspaper.
The Catholics in the United States arc by no means few in number. They arc honest, sober, industrious and intelligent. They not onlj7 pay taxes to support the State or public schools, but, in addition to this, they support schools of their own, where the attendance is large, and the progress made by the pupils is satisfactory. They are as well educated as any citizens in the land, and support monthly periodicals which in point of literary ability will compare favorably with non-Catholic magazines, if they do not surpass them.
But it is a remarkable fact that although the Catholics are numerous, although they are educated, although they are great readers, there is not—unless we except the notable and praiseworthy example presented by our German fellow-citizens and co-religionists—a single daily paper to represent their opinion. Certainly the views of the members of a Church which is spread everywhere throughout the world are entitled tosomeattention, and should demanditthroughthecolumns of adaily, and not depend upon having Catholic opinion restrained to the columns of the weekly newspapers.
The Catholics of the United States, then, should have a daily paper which shall judge of affairs from a Catholic standpoint. We do not say that they should demand, or should have, a religious daily paper, for we are afraid that such would, to a certain extent, defeat the object for which it would be started; and, besides, it is notorious that religious dailies have never been successful. What should ' be started in New York is a newspaper which shall faithfully represent Catholic opinion by treating of all questions into which religion or morals enter, from a Catholic point of view.
There is scarce!}7 a daily paper published in the United States, let it endeavor to be as fair as it will, which can treat of matters with which the Church becomes mixed up as they should be treated. The religion of the managers will, imperceptibly to them, bias their minds; besides, their whole education and habit of thought prevent their seeing things in the right light. The Catholic Church and everything connected with the Church are enigmas to them. They cannot understand them. They7 fall into errors that the smallest boy in a catechism class could correct; and yet, imagining that they have a full knowledge of the faith of Catholics and the teachings of their Church, they treat all questions in their editorials. .Catholics sometimes smile at the errors committed by the editors, sometimes are indignant, and sometimes pass them over with the remark that he is a good fellow, who tries to be fair; and as his errors are seen by Catholics; no great harm is done.
But it is not right that this state of things should last any longer. Catholics should have a daily paper in which they will be able to read all the news of the day, and not be insulted by the editorial comments thereon. We trust that it will not be long before what we have urged will be done, pnd if the Catholic Unions throughout the coun
try would interest themselves in the matter, we believe that before anothei winter shall have passed, a paper, not a religious one, but one representing Catholic opinion, will be published in New York. Therefore it is that we commend most earnestly the move recently inaugurated by the Editor of the Catholic Review, of New York, in the establishment of the semi-weekly— The American Catholic—and we hope that the work will receive all possible encouragement, so as to lead to the attainment of the end proposed—the publishing of a Catholic daily newspaper.
v	B.
A New Book.*
The appearance in book form of “ Midshipman Bob ”—a delightful story for boys—reminds us that we are already indebted to Prof. Lyons for two very attractive books from the same source—The A-ve Maria,—which will linger long among the pleasant reminiscences of their readers. We refer to the “ Life of Haydn,” and Christian Reid’s story of “ A Child of Mary ”—the latter a Teal gem of the storyteller’s and book-maker’s art, which, we are glad to learn, has already obtained a wide circulation.
“ Midshipman Bob ”—a story dedicated “ to boys in general, but particularly those who are pluckily fighting their way against the world, the flesh, and the devil, towards a manhood worthy of their faith, then' country, and themselves,”—is just the kind of book to put into the hands of boys to do them good and to interest them at the same time. Seastories are always popular with boys, and “ Midshipman Bob ” will not prove an exception. Of this we are confident. The late civil war—one of the greatest and bloodiest wars in the records of history, and which is just now furnishing material of unflagging interest for our historians and magazine writers—has been availed of, and many incidents familial- to the older readers of the daily papers are here elaborated in vivid detail by one who has evidently possessed exceptional advantages for gaining information from those who took partin them. The reader is made an eye-witness to the terrible naval battles in Hampton Roads which revolutionized the methods of modern naval warfare,—to the sinking of the grand old wooden frigate, the Cumberland, 'the firing and explosion of the Congress, and the running ashore of the Minnesota by the iron-clad Merrimac, which in turn had to succumb to Ericsson’s Monitor, under the command of Lieutenant Worden. All this, and a great deal more, with feats of personal heroism that would take any boy’s heart by storm, no matter how cold it be, and stir it to high and noble purposes, is found in the pages of “ Midshipman Bob.”
We are given in Bob’s peculiar style an excellent description of the quaint old town of Annapolis, the Naval Academy, its rules and studies, with striking incidents of some of the many naval relics enshrined there from time to time since the
* Midshipman Bob. By E. L. Dorsey. Reprinted from The Ave Maria. Joseph A. Lyons, Publisher: Notre Dame, Ind. 1887. 265 pages 121110. Price, $1.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Revolutionary War. Congress formerly assembled at Annapolis, and the Old State House is still to be seen in which Washington resigned his sword and the post of Commander-in-chief, and delivered his farewell address.
The author is evidently eu rapport with his subject, and thinks the Navy a good place to bring out the manly traits in a boy’s character. No doubt it is; but we wish some of the more serious objections to it did not.exist. A boy-hero, a “ powdermonkey,” or something of that sort, subsequently Admiral Gorringe of Obelisk fame, is brought to our intimate acquaintance; Admirals Sands and Smith, and other Catholic naval celebrities—“ officers and gentlemen ” in the full sense of the word— who were as lamps to the feet of those around them, are cited as instances, but we cannot forget that Farragut and many others succumbed to the influences by which they were surrounded, and lost their faith in consequence of them. We hope the day will come, and is not far distant, when Catholics shall have less objection to sending their sons to the Navy, when Catholic seamen and officers outside the Academy will have the advantage of religious instruction and the ministration of clergymen of their own faith in sickness and at the hour of death, instead of being forced to attend a service that possesses neither soul nor life for them, or become the butt of persecution, as has often been the case. In this respect, the advice given Bob against the merchant service will, in some measure, apply also to the Navy: “My lad, never go into the merchant service . . . The owners let the captains do pretty much as they please, so long as they fetch and carry the cargoes all right; and a bad captain or mate can make a ship unbearable, for he is absolute master for the time being of his men’s bodies—I had almost said souls.”
All in all, the story of “ Midshipman Bob ” is the best of its kind we have seen for many a day, and must become popular. It is, moreover, an excellent specimen of the printei’s and binder’s art, and well suited for a holiday present.
Obituary.
- Bro. Jerome (known in the world as John D. Kelly), who had been for some time engaged in The Ave Maria office, passed peacefully from earth, after a lingering illness, on the yth inst. May he rest in peace!
Local Items.
—Retreat.
—Fine skating.
— Tempus fug it!
—Room 60 has a cat!
—Ah ! Les vacanccs de Noel!
— Grand musical soiree next Wednesday.
—The “open winter” man is beginning to look up again. _______
—The St. Cecilians.have begun preparations for . their dramatic entertainment.	.
—A colossal effort of poetic inspiration is in process of erection. Look out for it! ,
—Found—A pair of mittens. The owner can have them on application to Bro. Alexander. '
—The next number of the Scholastic, the last until after the holidays, will be issued on Monday, . ' Dec. 20.
—The St. Cecilians will give their annual winter entertainment on the evening of Saturday next, the iSth inst.
—“ Our-Freddie” nearly lost one of his optics last week, while “ Oscie ” covered himself with momentary glory.
—Dreams of mistletoe and holly, and of Christmas trees and Christmas pie, are beginning to haunt ye slumbers of ye students.
—Persons in this vicinity who are not satisfied with what appears in the Scholastic should write something better. We’ll print it.
—Among the improvements soon to be introduced we would suggest that an improvement in the choir should be first on the list.
—The skating season opened in good time this ’ year, and the students first cut their names uppn the ice on the Feast of the Immaculate.Conception.	’
—Bro. Augustus, the active and energetic Director of the Tailoring establishment has received a fresh supply of winter goods. Give him a call.
—Signor Gregori, Director of the Art Department, and Prof. Edwards left for Philadelphia last Saturday evening on the invitation of Most Rev. Archbishop Ryan.	-
—A:—“ Sav, it’s now over three months since
I lent you that quarter. When are you going to pay me?” B:—“What are you asking me for?	.
I ain’t no prophet.”	.
—There are a number of very unseemly holes shot in the atmosphere about six miles north from here. We are informed that our nimrods have been gunning around there.	.
—On sounding skates he slides and glides, On slipp’ry ice he slips and trips, And with a frantic gesture hides
Two consequential gaping rips. .	'
—All literary contributions for the Christmas . number of the Scholastic should be handed in before next Tuesday evening. “Personal” or “Local” items may be given in any time during the week.	•	' '	. .
—Take the advice of some who’ve “ been there,” ~	.
and don’t try to get home before the time fixed by . the Rev. President. It would be a waste of good.
raw material to fritter away in the attemptany zeal' '..
or eloquence.	.
—The skating on Wednesday and Thursday was excellent, and, needless to say, it was greatly . enjoyed. A thaw, threatening a general break-up, , -set in yesterday (Friday), and for the present “the, \ . \ ball is down.”	... : -
—The Curator of the Museum is indebted to'
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Mr. Patrick O’Donnell for a fine specimen of an old continental Bank note of the year 17755 also for a Lieutenant’s commission signed by the Duke of Wellington.
—T. Goebel and L. P. Chute among the Juniors; P. E. Burke, C. P. Neill, and G. Myers among the Seniors, received perfect bulletins for the month of November.
—The bulletins for the month of November were very good. It is hoped that the bulletins for December will be even better; as, in all probability, many of the recipients will be at home when these reports are sent.
—Taking a calm and unbiased view of the matter, it seems only fair that there should be no clos-ing-of-navigation banquet till the lake thaws up. A banquet and Christmas within a month would be crowding things too badly.
—Mrs. H. J. Huiskamp, of Fort Madison, Iowa, has the thanks of the Minims for her beautiful present to their reading-room. The prized donation is a painting in oil executed by herself, which reveals the touches of an artist of no ordinary ability.
—The members of the Lecture Bureau of the Class of ’87 have already begun active work and secured several distinguished lecturers to address the students after the holidays. The names and subjects of the speakers will be announced in due time.
—Solemn High Mass was celebrated on Wednesday, the Feast of the Immaculate Conception, by Rev. President Walsh, assisted by Rev. Fathers Zahm and Morrissey as deacon and subdeacon. The sermon was preached by Very Rev. Father Corby.
—Owing to the annual spiritual retreat, no competitions were held during the week, and conse-•quently no “ Class Honors ” or “ List of Excellence” appear in this number. Next week the ■competition will be held in the classes of the Commercial Course.
—Amusements, many and varied, will be provided for those who remain at college during the holidays. The skating promises to be unusually excellent; but, besides, there will be, among other things, a musical recital, a dramatic entertainment, several sociables, etc., etc.
—Rev. President Walsh’s words, at the opening of his telling speech at the close of the entertainment on the 30th ult.—“ The Sorins have indeed covered themselves with glory”—were, we have been assured, but the echo of every voice in the Hall that evening. Vivent les Sorins I	.
—“Time rolls on.his ceaseless course!” there, remains but one more unbroken week. Let the lovers of Horace and Homer, and those deeply mersed in Alchemy and Philosophy, pull them’ selves well together for the home stretch, and remember that “all’s well that ends well.”
—Darkness, almost reigned supreme for awhile last Thursday night, owing to an accident to the electric :light plant.. Prof. O’Dea’s skilful labors
succeeded in locating the cause of the trouble—the looseness of a screw in the dynamo—and soon placed everything in good working order.
—Look out for the entertainment of the St. Cecilians next Saturday evening. The young gentlemen taking part in it would not be true Cecilians if they gave anything mediocre; and this time, spurred on by the noble example recently set them, they are determined to “beat the record.” Success to them!	■
—The dress parade of Company “A” of the. Hoynes’ Light Guards, on the afternoon of the 5th inst., was a fair exhibition. However, it was very evident that the standard of perfection has not yet-been attained, especially by this year’s recruits. A parade worth viewing, however, will probably be given before the holidays.
—Among the visitors during the week were: Rev. J. Dempsey, Rector of St. Ann’s Church, Lafayette, Ind.; Rev. Hermann Gesenhuer, Hillsboro, Ill.; J. C. Dugan, Mr. and Mrs. Cook, and Miss Irene Cook, Chicago, Ill.; J. A. McKlueen, M. D., Charlton, Iowa; Mr. and Mrs. Huiskamp, Fort Madison, Iowa.	.
—Prof. Lyons informs us that the Scholastic Annual will be ready some time during the coming week. We hope that every one will buy a copy for himself, and one or two to present to his friends. The -Annual for ’87 will contain some interesting features that will make it an improvement on the issues of former years.
—On Wednesday evening, Rev. President Walsh entered the Seniors’ study-hall and congratulated the students upon their deportment during the retreat, and the sincerity and earnestness which they evinced. He hoped that the good dispositions which now actuated all, would long continue to hold before every student the true mirror of manhood and ideal of life, and that the resolutions which they had formed would be durable, and not pass away with the enthusiasm of the moment.
—What might be called an interesting phenomenon occurred in connection with the freezing of St. Joseph’s Lake on the 3d inst. The lake froze between the hours of 11 a. m., and 2 p. m., at a time when a general thaw was going on all around. During the early morning the atmosphere was very cold, but a high wind prevailed, and it is supposed that the commotion in the waters prevented any congelation, until such a time as the wind subsided, when the cold, with which the waves had become permeated/1 got in its work,” and ice was formed.
—The:case tried during, the last session of the University Moot-court was that of Mrs. Elizabeth Martin ■ax. J. B. Oliver. A jury impanelled, consisting of Messrs. Bolton, Jewett, Bowles, Voorhees, Baca, T. T. O’Regan. The counsel for the plaintiff were M. White and T. Griffin; for the defendant, A, P. Gibbs and B.= McAlister. The case was well and pretty .fully argued, though it was evident; in the direct and cross examinations, that the young gentlemen were not in the legal
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
harness very long. Mr. Gibb’s address told best. The jury returned a verdict of “ not guilty.”
—The members of the Sorin Association had themselves photographed on Wednesday last, in the tableau representing St. Edward Abolishing the Danegelt. As stated in the report of the Sorin entertainment last week, the tableau produced a most pleasing effect, by reason of the rich and varied costumes, the splendid posing of the numerous characters, and the proper disposition of light and shade. We are certain, therefore, that the photograph will make a most artistic picture. In order to do justice to .all, we take occasion to state ' that the names of B. Triplett and G. Franche were omitted last week from the list of boys who took part in the tableau.
—We learn from the announcement recently made by the Rev. Editor of the Ave Maria, that many new attractions will characterize that estimable periodical during the coming year. ' Among other features, the next volume will contain a new story by that best of modern novelists, Christian Reid; a series of admirable papers entitled “ A Short Cut to the True Church,” by the well-known poet and prose-writer, Father Edmund, C. P.; a charming sketch of « The Blind Apostle ” (Mgr. de Sbgur) by Kathleen O’Meara; brief biographies of Contemporary Catholic Celebrities, including authors, artists, scientists, orators, poets, musicians, etc., etc.,- by Mr. T. F. Galwey; while many other writers will continue their interesting contributions.
—A Winter’s Tale.—A few days ago, just before the late thaw set in, two little boys went with sleds to enjoy themselves on a fine “ coasting slide” on the hill between the church and the Farm House. One was a good little boy, and had his own nice brand-new sled, the other was a bad little boy, with a great big, ugly sled that he had taken from near the kitchen when nobody was looking. The b. 1. b. gloated in triumph over the g. 1. b., because of the tremendous excess of fun he was going to have and lost no time in proceeding to demonstrate the same. Fie got his big sled in position for a splendid ride down the hill; a start was made, and soon rider and steed were descending at great speed, while the g. 1. b. looked on expectantly, if not admiringly. Half way down the hill something happened: the rapidly revolving spectacle was presented of a boy flying through the air, next buried under a big sled, then emerg-ing from a mass of snow through which he had apparently been endeavoring to crawl. The g. 1. b. on the summit of the hill did wickedly laugh; while the b. I. b. muttered something like, “It’s astonishing!” and said he would see him later— or words to that effect—and expressed the opinion that he had fun enough for one day. Moral: —Be virtuous, and you will be happy.
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Archambeault, M. Akin, Ashton, Aubrey, Becerra, Bingham, Burke, C. Bowles, Baca, Barnes, Benner, Bolton, Bush, Barrett, Craig,’ W. Cartier, Coady, Craft,
Cassidy, S. Dorsey, Deary, Dillon, Dreever, Dwyer, Dier-dorir, Eyanson, Eisenhauer, Ensor, Finckh, Ford, Fry, L. Grever, Gallardo, Gieseler, Gibbs, Grffin, Houck, Hiner, Hummer, Hagerty, Hull, Howard, Judie, Kleiber, Kendall, Kreutzer, Kelly, Ley, J. Langan, Lyons, H. Langan, Lais, Leonard, Luhn, Latshaw, H. Long, T. McDermott, G. Morrison, McErlain, MpAlister, J. McDermott, McKlveen, Murphy, Mallay, McFarland, V. Morrison, J. Meagher, Myers, Noonan, Newell, Neill, Nelson, D. O’Connor, O’Rourke, O’Regan, O’Connell, O’Kane, L. O’Malley, Padilla, P. Prudhomme, J. Prudhomme, E. Prudhomme, P. Paschel, Prichard, Pender, Rothert, Rodriguez, Regan, W. Rochford, Ruger, Stattmann, Suing, O. Sullivan, G. Sullivan, Stubbs, Strasser, Triplett, Taylor, Valasco, White, Weber, A. Williams, Wagoner, W.Williams, Zeitler, Crilly, Newton.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adelsperger, Austin, Anderson, R. Bronson, H. -Bronson, Blessington, Badger, Bunker, Bell, Bull, Bra-brook, W. Boland, Baca, H. Boland, Bums. Bacigalupo, Black, Berry, J. Clarke, B. Clarke, Cleveland, Carney, C-Cavanagh, Clifford, Cobbs, Casey, S. Campbell, Coad, L. Chute, F. Chute, Curtis, G- Cooke. Devine, Draper, Dempsey, Darragh, Dunford, Ewing, Fitzharris, Falter, J. Flynn, Flood, Fisher, F. Flynn, Galarneau. Goebel, Glenn, Hous-tan, Hoffman, W. Henry, J. Henry, Houlihan, Hart, Hurd, T. Hake, A. Hake, Hannin, Hayes, Hampton, Hustis, Inks, Jewett, Joyce, Jacobs, Julian, Kerlin, F. Konzen, W. Kon-zen, Katz, Kern, Kahn, Kutsche, Keating, Lane, Lesh, Landenwich, Luther, Long, Monarch, Mitchell, McKen-zie, McCart, Mathewson, McMahon, W. McCormick, J. McCormick, McGurk, Mallay, Macatee, McPhee, Moncada, Morrison, Meehan, McIntosh, Nations, Noud, Nussbaum, Oxnard, Ormond, O’Brien, O’Connor, M. O’Kane, O’Shea, Pfau, C. Paquette, L. Paquette, Preston, Power, Quealy, Roper, Ramsey, Rudd, Reynolds, Sweet, J. Ste- ” phens, B. Stephens, F. Smith, M. Smith, Spencer, Steele, Senn, Taliaferro, Tarrant, Tionen, Vhay, Warner, Wilbanks, C. West, Wagoner, Walker, Walsh, Weldon;
MINIM DEPARTMENT. .
Masters Ackerman, Boyd, Bloomhuff, Blumenthal, Boettcher, Black, A. Backrack, H. Backrack, S. Backrack, Clendenin, Cohn, Crotty, W. Connor, C. Connor, Cooke J. Conners, E. Conners, Doss, J. Dungan, Jas. Dungan, L. Dempsey, J. Dempsey, Dahler, Foote, T. Falvey, E. Falvey,. G. Franche, C. Franche, Gale, Grant, Garber, Griffin, Gra-. ham H. Huiskamp, J. Huiskamp, Hillas, Jewett, Koester, Keefe, Kain, Klaner, Kerwin, Kraber, Lowenstein, Lane, Lewin, McIntosh, McDonnell, Martin. C. Mooney, H. Mooney, Munro, A. Mayer, G. Mayer, McPhee, Mahon, A. Mason, A. Morgenweck, A. Morgenweck, O’Mara, O’Neill, Prior, Paul, Priestly, Quill, Riordan, Rou'Sey, Rogers, Sav-’ age, Sweet, Smith, Stone, Steele, Sullivan, F Toolen, F. Toolen, Tompkins, Tillenburg, Triplett, Taft, A. Williamson, W. Williamson, Weckler.
“ PETROLEUM; ITS SOURCE AND PRODUCTION.”
This title indicates to some extent the character and scope of the new Holiday Annual for 1887, by “A Man,” which is now in press and will be ready on or about the 20th inst., for delivery by the Chicago, Rock Island Pacific Railway. It is to all intents and purposes a gift to the friends and patrons of that road. The subject is ably • handled, and discussed in a clear, colloquial vein that will captivate adults and.youth alike,although especially “dedicated to the Boys and Girls of America.” It embodies a vast amount of scientific and practical information, is profusely illustrated with diagrams, sketches and full-page engravings from original drawings true to fact and nature— with beautiful and striking design on outside cover, printed in colors. It is a book that will challenge wide attention and comment—something choice, elegant and valuable, ' that will pay to read, study, discuss and preserve—and the' Company have spared no expense to produce it in first-class style. Enclose 10cents in postage stamps and address
, E. A. Holbrook, , Gen. Ticket & Pass. Agt. C. R- L & P. Ry.
- Chicago, Ill.
I
THE HOTitE DAME SCHOLASTIC	-
Saint JFlary's Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—By mistake, the names of the Misses Clen-denen and Trask were omitted in the report of the Latin Class last week. Both are mentioned in the ist Class.
—Monsignor Straniero, writing from Paris, Nov. 25, refers with pleasure to his late visit to St. Mary’s, and sends cordial greetings to the pupils, and best wishes for a successful scholastic year.
—The annual retreat opened on Saturday evening and closed on Wednesday morning, the Feast of the Immaculate Conception. The sermons were preached by Rev. Father Spillard, C. S. C.
—In a late letter from Miss Martha Munger, Class ’86, she writes:
“Time passes, but leaves in its flight many changes; but to me there will always remain indelibly stamped upon my memory the recollections of my happy school-davs at St Mary’s.”	-	- .	-
—The Roman mosaic cross was drawn by Edith Heyman. The other contestants were the Misses Beaubien, Blaine, Boyer, Bragdon, Bruus, Crane, Coll, Dempsey, L. Griffith, Garrity, Hake, Hunt-ting, Kennedy, Knauer, Leonard, Lindsey, Mason, McDonnell, Morse, Prudhomme, Rogers, Steele and Stapleton.	■
—Several excellent pieces have been painted in St. Luke’s Studio: two large landscapes in oil— “ Autumn Woods by Twilight ”; “ Autumn Woods by Moonlight”; and by the pupils—a portrait in crayon, and a landscape in water colors by Miss Ewing; three landscapes in water colors by Miss English; a portrait in crayon by Miss Foin; flowers in oil by Miss Larkin.
—Amongf the visitors during the week were: Rev. John R. Dinnen, Crawfordsville, Ind.; Rev. Michael Sheehan, Dubuque, Iowa; Rev. H. Gesen-huer, Hillsboro; Ill.; Mr. D. G. Hull, Omaha, Neb.; Mr. W. E. Smith and Mr. Spart; Columbus, Ohio; Mrs. David Thornton, Mr. and Mrs. Cooke and daughter, Mrs. G. Koester, Masters George and Charles Koester, and Mr. S. F. Drake, Chicago; Mr. W. N. Clore, Mrs. C. L. Nosworthy, Miss M. Clore, Henderson, Ky.; Mrs. U. H. Coover, Goshen, Ind.; Mr. G. A. Blakeslee, Galien, Mich.; Miss S. Pierce, Waukegan, 111.-
—Among the valuable standard works recently added to the Library were the following: United Netherlands, 4 vols.; Italian Art; Pompeii and Pompeiians; The Moon; The Heavens; The Sun; Meteors; Summer in Norway; Sublime in Nature; Intelligence of Animals; Schlieman’s Ilibs; Schlieman’s Troja; Nooks and Corners of the N. Er Coast; Perkin’s Italian Sculpture; Home Without Hands ; Stormouth’s English-Dictionary; Athenian Empire; Fall of the Stuarts; Greeks and Persians; Outbreak of the Rebellion; Color Studies; Dawn of History; What does History Teach?. Comparative Literature; Glimpses Three Coats; John of Barnaveldt, 2 vols.; Readings of
English History; Dutch Republic, 3 vols.; Half a Century; Princes, Authors and Statesmen; En-cheridion of Criticism; Wonders of European Art; Century of Dishonor; Upland and Meadow; Louis Agassiz; England as Seen by a Banker; Dinner Year Book; Egypt to Japan; Lakes of Killarney; Round the World; Indian History; Humor in Animals; Climate and Cosmology; Age of Antonines; Early Plantagenets; History of Christian Art, 2 vols.; India Revisited; Plato’s best Thoughts; Theory of Fine Arts; Norway; Coming Struggle with India; Fowler’s Oil-Painting; Putnam’s Art Hand Books; English School of Painting; Dutch School of Painting; Education o 3	o 3
of an Artist; Chaldea; Lorenz Alma Tadema; Outlines of Universal History.
—The forty-fourth anniversary of Very Rev. Father General’s first Mass at Notre Dame was duly commemorated at St. Mary’s, on the 30th ult. The beautiful poetic address, read by Miss Donnelly, appeared last week. The following was read by Miss Dillon:
Very Rev. and dear Father:
As you came to America, forty-four years ago, to spend your life in working for the salvation of souls, so in ages past, from the same sunny land of France that gave you birth, went out another young zealous missionary, St. Patrick, to labor for the salvation of souls in Erin’s Green Isle. How well his teachings were received, what fruit they bore, even in his life-time, may be seen in the wondrous ruins of the bright days long passed away. Recollections of some of these we beg you kindly accept from us this evening in scenic views, poetry and song. And may, after years, coming generations revere your name and recognize your works in Americans our generation praises the name and recognizes the works of your confrirey who made Ireland in all that is good and great what she wTas in the past and what she is in the present.
After this, the following excellent programme, embracing stereopticon views, by Rev. Father Zahm, of the University, and music, instrumental and vocal, by the young ladies of the Academy, was carried out:

PROGRAMME:
Scene.—Celtic Cross. Recitation—“ Celtic Cross”.................McGee
.	Miss Dillon.
Scene.—Dublin Bay and Battle of Clontarf.
Song—“ Let Erin Remember ”.................Moore
Misses Gavan, Guise, English, Moran.
Scene.—Holy Wells of Ireland.
Recitation—“ Holy Wells of Ireland ”.......Fraser
Miss Snowhook.	■
Scene.—Rock of Cashel.
Recitation—“ Rock of Cashel ”...........  Murray
Miss Horn. . Scene.—Meeting of the Waters.
Quartette—“ Sweet Vale of Avoca”...........Moore
Scene.—Treaty Stone of Limerick.
Recitation—“ Treaty Stone of Limerick ”—{Anonymous)
Miss Wolvin.
Scene.—Pillar Towers of Ireland.
Recitation—“ Pillar Towers of Ireland ”.McCarthy
- Miss Clendenen.
Scene.—Holy Cross Abbey. ‘ Recitation—“ Holy Cross Abbey ”..........Simmons
Miss G. Regan.
Vocal Quartette—“The Harp that once Through ’ Tara’s Halls ”.............;.....:.......... Moore
Misses Gavan, Guise, English, Moran. The exercises closed - with most entertaining and instructive remarks" by Rev. Father Shortis.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC^	447,.
Industry, the Guardian of Innocence.
The normal state of the human mind is one of activity. This activity must be employed in a useful manner, or mischief will be the result. Mental sluggishness is but another name for partial or total imbecility; but great as is the misfortune of obtuseness, it is not to be compared with the odium attached to misapplied activity of mind.
St. Louis, King of France, said of Frederick II, his unworthy contemporary, that “ he had made war on God with the superior powers which God Himself had bestowed;” and in this remark we see the evil of misapplying our abilities. It is a virtual robbery of our Divine Benefactor; for God gave us our powers that we might use them : and though He also imparted the liberty so badly employed by Frederick II, the unhappy Emperor of Germany, yet He has revealed to us His will respecting the way in which we should employ this crowning prize of all Elis holy gifts.
The most careless observer can see that even superior mental powers, if not exercised in a proper direction, lose their real worth; the character is debased, and the conscience becomes seared, or blunted. The very activity which is diverted aggravates the evil, and free scope is given to the eted brings in the end nothing but weariness and disgust.
In punishment of the sins of our first parents the obligation to labor has been made a divine decree. Who would have the hardihood to knowingly resist such an obligation? They who boast their independence of the necessity to labor publish their own ignorance, their own disgrace. They claim an exemption to which the greatest monarch that ever lived could show no just title. Exercise is a law of growth; therefore, the idle are deprived of the perfect development of their faculties. Stultified by inaction, their moral being becomes like stagnant waters. Their influence is ‘like the poisonous atmosphere surrounding a lifeless pool. Listless, indifferent and selfish, in them the beautiful virtues exist no more: they live useless lives, and go down
“ To the vile dust from whence they sprung, Unwept, unhonored and unsung.”
To be innocent is to be happy: for, Blessed are thepure in heart. Pride is incompatible with this innocence; and industry is the strongest fortress against pride. Constantly does it bring to mind the knowledge of our fallen state; of our duty to comfort and assist others as far as lies in our power: reminding us, without ceasing, of the equality of all who have been created to the image and likeness of God and redeemed by His Incarnation and Death on the Cross. Industry excludes all vain self-satisfaction, and causes us to look tenderly upon the poof and oppressed, the helpless and the sorrowful. The warm heart and the ready hand are never wanting to the industrious.
Each and every one of us has been entrusted with some service to our neighbor which, if faithfully
many sins that naturally follow, in' the wake of :	;
idleness.	....	''
The dangers of physical and intellectual culture. . at the expense of the education of the heart, are. .	" ,
here implied. There is nothing at the present time. . that so justly alarms society. In leaving God out . of the curriculum of study at school, the pretended - ,	.
educator has given to his system the death blow..	:
No wise parent or guardian will trust his sacred . charge to those who despise the doctrine of a future. " life, with its claims upon the present; with its	.
promised rewards and its threatened punishments;
with its commandments and restrictions. . One who .	.
believes in living for no higher object than to.	•
gratify his senses is a dangerous.teacher. How '	.
different the sphere of social unselfishness which Christianity opens! We do not live for our own satisfaction, or for a life to end when the pulsa-.
tions of the heart shall cease, but rather to do God’s will by fitting ourselves for an existence of. far more importance than our poor physical life. .	.
The soul — and, as an integral part of it, the ..	. .
intellect—has been given to man to elevate him above the lower orders of creation. God has made him after His ozvn image and likeness^ and, for the,	.
express purpose of their being improved, He has . also imparted those sublime gifts, the three .powers .	.
of the soul, Memory, Will and Understanding: If, we bury or abuse our talents, we are not worthy :	.
of the reward which He has promised.to the faith- / . ful.	.	.	.
How grand, in this light, appears the advantage. '. of a fully-employed existence! What a happiness . .. we discover in the occupation of our scholastic ? career! How secure is the being from the infat- . nations, the errors, the follies which ensnare the . steps of the idler! Every hour, every moment is . . appropriated to some important duty, and the ap- . < . . proach of dangerous allurements is forestalled. The tempter comes, but finds no room for entrance. A solid lesson; absorbing study;.a useful recapit- ■ ulation, close, careful practice of music, art, or . other accomplishment, a delightful and well-earned V respite from toil, these make /up the sum of the '	.
day, and at night the good angel bends oyer a , \ . healthful, happy heart, pillowed in the innocence :	.
of conscious duty done. The ardent, loving prayer has opened the pearl white gates of tranquil repose, . .. and God smiles on the slumbers of His obedient,'. ,? . devoted child.	•	’ . .	,
Would that this were the picture of every’ youth- f. ; ful soul the wide world over! How. the record of- .	; -
sin and misery would be abridged! how many. anxious hearts would be alleviated! how near like	’
Paradise regained would earth become!. Asin the; . ;	,
close ’ application at school, so in the. industry'of - L home, happiness is secured. Where sloth has found . ,	\ > a j
a passage to the hearth-stone, affection and all her ■' beautiful companions seem driven away. This is why wealth is so frequently a curse, father than a blessing. So weak is human nature that, as a rule, .	; -
where necessity does not require' labor, idlenesses?-a ? instinctively embraced, and this, as a right; untiU: v time becomes a burden. Ennui- is the.Just .and natural retribution. The affluence so.eagerly.Lcov^. V. ^
24S	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
attended to, will not only secure to us the gratitude of others, but the love of God—the greatest treasure that man can possess. Unfortunately, however, many are remiss in these services, valuing their non-performance lightly. Ah! could^they, like St. Teresa, he afforded a vision of the retribution accorded to vanity and waste of time, they would shudder at the punishment the}7 are calling down upon themselves. It was the same saint, if we remember rightly, who, after her death, revealed to some holy person that, great as is the joy of heaven, she would forego that happiness for the time could she be permitted to come back to earth and secure the merit that might be gained during the recital of a single “ Hail Mary.”
Novel-reading is certainly among the most dangerous agents of the spirit of idleness. Industry has no greater foe in society, particularly among young ladies. It injures the mental faculties, lures the hands from useful labor, and leads the heart from God and heaven. It has been the destroyer of many a bright mind; it has marred the fidelity of many a loving heart; and, alas! has tarnished the innocence of many a pure soul. An unformed mind, addicted to trifling literature, is paving the road of intellectual culture with many a “tangled thorn and thistle.” Happy are they who from childhood have been taught to shun novel-reading, and who have conscientiously heeded the lesson !	'
“Life is short, and time is fleeting,” and the summit of knowledge cannot be reached by a single effort. Slowly, cautiously, industriously, must we mount the ladder of improvement, until we gain the highest round, or until we stand far up among the* best.
x Mary Cressy Fuller ( Class ’£/).
Roll of Honor.
FOR. POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND EXACT OBSERVANCE OF ACADEMIC RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	'
Par Excellence—Misses Allnoch, Brady, Blaine, Blair, . Bates. Brophy, Burke, Blacklock, Beschameng, Blakeslee, Clendenen, Curtis, E. Coll, Coglin, Dillon, Donnelly, H. Dempsey, C. Dempsey, Dart, Dezenberg, E. Dunkin, M. Duffield, M. Dunkin, Egan, English,.Fuller, Foin, Flannery, Griffith, Guise, Gordon, Gavan, Griffin, B. Garrity, Horn, Hummer, Heckard, Hertzbg, Harlem, Henke, L. Hutchinson, M. Hutchinson, Kearney, Kearns, Kennedy, Larkin, Lingle, McHale, L. Meehan, N. Meehan, M. McNamara, Morse, C. McNamara, McCormick, Marsh, Moore, McCarthy,' Moran, Negley, Pierson, Proby, Riedinger, Rend, E. Regan, Scully, St. Clair, Shephard, Snowhook, Stadtler, Shields, Sterns, M. Smith, Sherman, Swegman, Stafford,’. Steele, Stocksdale, Trask, Triplett, Thompson, Van Horn, .Williams, Wolvin, G. Wynn, F. Wynn, Zahm.
.	JUNIOR , DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence— Misses Boyer, Bragdon, Bruus, Campeau, Campbell, Crane, Coll, Dempsey, Fritz, Griffith, Garrity, Hake, Heyman, Huntting, Kennedy, Kendall;,Knauer, Koester, Leonard, Mason, McDonnell, McEwen, Morse, Prudhomme, Rogers, Stapleton.
. MINIM .^DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses M. Becker, I. Becker, Caddagan, McCormic, A. Dinnin, O’Mara, Qualey. 2d Tablet—Misset Pugsley, Wallace.
SCHOOL OF DESIGN.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
DRAWING FROM THE CAST
ist Class, Advanced Course—Miss Ewing.
2D Class, Working in Crayon—Misses Brophy, Foin, Fuller.
. ELEMENTARY PERSPECTIVE.
3d Class—Misses Zahm, McCormick, Barry. painting in water-colors.
Misses Ewing, English, Egan, Duffield, Mason, Wehr, Kennedy, Triplett, Pierson, Hanke, Schmauss, Steele, B. Garrity.
PAINTING ON CHINA.
Miss Williams.
OIL-PAINTING.	.
Misses Kingsbury, Rose, Gordon, Scully, Kearney, McHale, Coll, N. Meehan, Stadtler, Stafford, Larkin, Bragdon, Koester, Hull, Beaubien.
GENERAL DRAWING.
SENIOR department. -
Misses Egan, Smith, Proby. Burke, Gavan, Moran, M. Dunkin, N. Dunkin, Lingle, L. Meehan, Moore, McCormic, Miner, Sherman, Curtis, Marsh, Thompson, Wimer, Coglin, Johnson, Negley, Barry.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Beaubien, Bruus, I. Becker, M. Becker, A. Crane, M. Coll, L. Caddagan, C. Cook, M. Campbell, S. Dempsey, G. Garrity, M. Huntting, M. Hull, H. Hake, T. Hinz, E. Knauer, M. Kennedy, L. Leonard, M. Lindsey, B. McCormic, A. McDonnell, N. Morse, M. Paul, E. Qualey, H. Rhodes, D. Rodgers, I. Stapleton, A. Schmauss, J. Wallace, W. Quill, L. Fritz.
ALLITERATION.
[The following curious bit of versification was regarded, half a century ago, as the only perfect and the most ingenious specimen of alliteration then extant. It is comparatively unknown nowadays «
An Austrian army, awfully arrayed, Boldly by battery besieged Belgrade. Cossack commanders cannonading come, Dealing destruction’s devastating doom. Every endeavor engineers essay For fame, for fortune, fighting furious fray, Generals ’gainst generals grapple—gracious God! How honors heaven heroic hardihood!
Infuriate, indiscriminate in ill, ■
Kindred kill kinsmen, kinsmen kindred kill Labor low levels longest, loftiest lines, Men march ’mid mounds, ’mid moans ’mid murderous - mines. , .
Now noisy, noxious numbers notice naught Of outward obstacles opposing ought Poor patriots, partly purchased, partly pressed, Quite quaking quickly quarter, quarter quest. Reason returns, religion’s right redounds, . Suwarow stops such sanguinary sounds. -	, -
Truce to thee, Turkey triumph to thy train. Unwise, unjust, unmerciful Ukraine.	-
Why wish we warfare? ' Wherefore welcome were Xerxes, Ximenes,.Xanthus,Xavier?
Yield! yield, ye-youth, ye yeomen, yield jour yell.
Zerra’s Zopater’s Zoroaster’s zeal	-
Attracting all, aft against arnis appeal.
’ ~	‘ —Galignani's Paris Messenger.