
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
35
The Notre Dame Scholastic
E
i
A LITERARY—NEWS WEEKLY PUBLISHED AT THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
E E i
ILLUSTRATED
Disce (Qua^i temper Pitturud :	(Quasi (Eras JHoriturus
I
E
Vol. LVIII.
No. 2.
INDEX
§ i
I
nrrrnirnnnnnnmnTOimnjnDmmniJirDDiirnnimiiDDDiniinuninuinjTWiTriwiaiiiinimjnTiminuumjnnjnniimunijniniiin
The Week ___________________________ Campus Comment______________________ Musical and Theatrical Notes _______ Campus Opinion______________________ The Safety Valve ___________________ Editorial __________________________ The Avenue Of Dreams _______________ What’s a Cloud (A Poem) ____________ Book Leaves_________________________ The Black Beetle—Part II. __________ An Offering For the Mission (A Poem).. On Canoeing_________________________ The Surgeon ________________________ The Jury’s System___________________ Sport News _________________________
J. A. Withey
—A. L. Meyers
.Vincent Bartholomew, ’26
Joseph P. McNamara, ’28
___Bert V. Dunne, ’26 ___Victor Lemmer, ’26 .Roman Feldpausch, ’26 ___J. A. Breig, ’28 ___J. P. McNamara;^
—J. P. McNamara, ’28
Advertisers in Notre Dame publications deserve the patronage of Notre Dame men.
PAGE
36
37
44
45
46
49
50
52
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. A cceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1108, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
i
a
s a
a a
1 a I
1 a
3

36	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
LEMONNIER LIBRARY
o
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

Fragmentary—that’s the word. It sounds rather imposing, which is too bad,, but in all other respects than mere sound it expresses perfectly the character of campus activities during the last week. A piece here, a bit there,—scores of little things fitted together make the whole. In the rush to organize and be off, chaotic confusion is an annual result: time may be expected to produce its usual soothing effect, and the feverish activity of these early days to subside gently and unmistakably into the more natural condition of semi-sleep. Sad but true, ye organizers: so make the most of the enthusiasm while it bubbles.
Fragments are interesting, though, so long as we have nothing better. Saturday’s game, for instance. Ninety per cent of the spectators came to Cartier Field simply to see for themselves how inferior this year’s team could be: ten per cent came with blind hope and small expectations. And a round, full hundred per cent went away singing the praises of Rockne as loudly as they were ever sung during the championship season of ’24.
The afternoon was an interesting display of secrecy, as embodied in the newly established Publicity Department, where an eagle-eyed director ruthlessly deletes any indications of encouragement which his problematical optimism might allow to creep in, and hands out the depressing result as food for the dailies of the land. It is a good policy: one expects nothing, and everything he does manage to get is just that much more sweet to him. Why hasn’t someone thought of a Publicity Department before? The season will be twice as interesting be-couse of its existence.
Another fragment which bulked large in many lives was the opening of St. Mary’s
College. During the latter half of the week, numerous “last flings” were in evidence in all the amusement places of South Bend, with Notre Dame students furnishing the masculine touch. And on Sunday the parlors of the School Across the Way were thronged with brothers, cousins, and twigs of more alien family trees. The long-threatened New Building is a delight for the most fastidious, be he male or female.
Speedy retribution fell on worldly weekenders with the commencement of the Mission for Upperclassmen on Sunday night. The church has been crowded every night and, strangely enough, every morning too. Father French early displayed his earnestness of purpose in a dramatic sermon concerning sin and kindred subjects. That Monday, night sermon is still being talked about among its supposedly immovable hearers. When the time of housecleaning (New England) is over, results will be easier to gauge.
Meantime, clubs go on meeting and making plans for the year. We have never seen the bulletin boards graced with so many decorative posters as now adorn their weather-beaten bosoms—posters ranging all the way from the mildly sensational “Watch this Column” of the Dome to the placid announcement of the price of dinner tickets to the first meeting of the Mishawaka Club. There is a prodigious expenditure of show-card colors with some genuinely attractive results. Readers of the hard-hitting Religious Bulletin are tempted to distraction by the subtle flattery of Clothes for the College Man advertisements. Something must be done to separate the frivolous from the informative: the jumble of both, spread over every building and tree within walking distance of a bulletin board, is disconcerting to the simple student mind. Here is somebody’s chance for a crusade. —J- A. w.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
38
NEW SEMINARS ARE ANNOUNCED
Rev. Leigh Hubbell, C. S. C., Director of Studies, announces the opening of a series of seminars in a number of subjects of special interest at the present time. These seminars are simply advanced classes in their particular field for the benefit of students who wish to go further than the regular class work in the subject and for those who cannot take the regular classes. It is also announced by the Director’s office that these seminars, which will be held in the evening, will be open to residents of South Bend.
The seminars will meet one evening each week and two credit hours each semester will be given for those who are regularly enrolled and who take an active part in the work. Seminars, as planned at the present time, •will be held in Education, Philosophy, Dante, Spanish and French.
Rev. William Cunningham, C. S. C., director of the School of Education, will conduct the seminars in Education which will be held Monday evenings at 7:30 in the Library. The general subject of the series of meetings will be “Present Day Problems in Education.” The phases of the work that will be more specifically discussed are vocational education and the junior college movement, both questions of foremost importance and interest in educational circles at present.
Philosophical seminars will be held Wednesday evenings at 7:30 in room 305 Science Hall, the regular seminar room, under the direction of Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C. S. C. The work of this series will be to study the trend of modern philosophical thought in the latest books and periodicals, make specially assigned research and report the various findings for class discussion. Father Miltner’s seminars will treat of the very interesting and pertinent topics of the relation of science and religion and the philosophical bearing of the theory of evolution, from the standpoint of contemporary thought. The classes promise to be well filled.
Seminars in the study of the life and work of Dante will be conducted by Professor Charles Phillips, M. A., of the Department
of English. The first meeting of the year was held Monday, Sept. 28, at 7 o’clock. This course will be particularly interesting because Professor Phillips will have at his disposal the priceless collection of Dantiana owned by the University and said to be the third largest collection of the works of the great Italian. It will also be of exceptional interest because Professor Phillips has traveled extensvely in Italy and has made a special study of the scenes of Dante’s life.
Advanced study of the modern languages will be conducted along the lines of the Spanish and French clubs which have been in existence at the University for some time. The work this year, however, will be more regular and on the basis similar to the seminars. The Spanish Club will probably be divided into two groups by Father Frederick McKeon, C. S. C., director. The advanced group will be students who have completed two or more years of Spanish, and the second group will consist of those who are taking only the first or second year.
Father McKeon’s plans are not yet definite but it is expected that the evenings set aside for the Spanish seminars will be Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays. The work promises to be of unusual interest. There will be conversational Spanish, memory work, and music and conversation from phonograph records. One of the most interesting experiments planned is to have students make dictaphone records of their own Spanish and learn from these records their mistakes.	’
Le Cercle Francais, which held several public meetings of a very enjoyable and educational nature last year, under the direction of Professor Antonio J. Provost, is again organizing. This year the meetings will be regular and will follow the credit system of the other seminars. The Professor is assisted in the work of organizing the Cercle and arranging the program by Fathers Cunningham and Maher and Prof. Charles Mercier.
The few programs that the Cercle conducted last year attracted a number of persons interested in French from outside the University. Prof. Provost announces that the plans for this year are not yet defi-

J
0
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
39
nite but that in view of the interest shown last year and the regular schedule of the meetings this year, he and his associates are planning to expand the activities of the club in both interest and accomplishment. The work of the French Cercle consists of lectures, memory passages, reading and music, all in the French tongue, and all activities that tend to promote an understanding and appreciation of the French.
KEYSTONE CLUB MEETS
The Pennsylvania Club held its first meeting of the year at a dinner in the Robertson Tea Room recently. There was a large attendance, representative of all sections of the state.
A general “get acquainted” session was in order, and plans for the coming scholastic year were outlined. An interesting talk by Father Mooney, Director of Off-Campus Students, was much enjoyed. He stressed the benefits of close relations gained in such a club, and encouraged its continuance. After his talk Father Mooney was elected Honorary President of the Keystone club.
Monthly dinner meetings are to be held in the future.
Officers for the coming year are: President, George Schill; Vice-President, Lawrence Stadler; Secretary, Thomas Conroy; Treasurer, Edward Abel.
MAKE IMPROVEMENTS ON HEATING SYSTEM
Extensive improvements are being made on the heating system of the University. In the boiler room, where automatic stokers now feed the huge furnaces, automatic ash removers are being installed. The ashes will be removed by suction. In cold weather over a carload of coal a day is consumed in the boiler room here.
Francis Pendergast, A. B., ’27, has recently been appointed advertising manager of the K. of C. News. This is a new publi-• -cation recently started by the South Bend Council of Knights of Columbus.
DRILL WELL TO INSURE WATER SUPPLY
Because of the long drought this summer and the constant demand for water for use around the University, the two lakes on the campus have reached a very low level.
A pump draws water from St. Joseph’s Lake at the rate of 450 gallons a minute throughout the day. This withdrawal would soon cause an appreciable loss in the level of water. Many of the springs feeding the lakes have been exhausted and water has been taken out faster than it could be replenished.
Well drillers are now at work drilling a well about a half miles north of the lakes along the Eddy Street Road. A pumphouse will be erected housing pumps capable of pumping 450 gallons a minute. These pumps will run day and night, and will assist in supplying the University with water.
NEW JERSEY CLUB TO DINE AND DANCE
The New Jersey Club became formally active in campus affairs by holding its first meeting last week. The numerous new members were made acquainted with their fellow-statesmen. Plans for a banquet to be held at Thanksgiving were considered with unusual interest.
The officers for the ensuing year:
President, Edward Duggan.
Vice-President, Harold Robertson.
Secretary, Jerry Froehlich
Treasurer, William Carter.
William Carter was elected chairman of the dance and banquet committee. Plans for a banquet at Thanksgiving and a dance at Christmas were considered.
Word has been received at the University, to the effect that Mr. and Mrs. John W. Ryan, of Chicago, have announced the engagement of their daughter Hazel Marie to Louis Albert de Smet of the class of 1922. Congratulations and best wishes from Notre Dame. The marriage will take place on October 20.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
40
S. A. C. HAS A BUSY MEETING
The Student Activities Council met in the Library Tuesday night, September 22, at 7:30, to consider several matters of importance.
The first business taken up was that of the Concessions Committee. President Dan Brady had Chairman Edward O’Neill read the various requests, and then called for a vote on them. Those concessions favorably passed upon, were: That of James Silver, Roger Nolan, and Bernard Coughlin to sell refreshments at all athletic contests and Gridgraph showings; that of the Senior Class to sell pillow tops; that of Ray Dah-man, Ray Marelli, and Herbert Jones to sell Coach Rockne’s two new books, “The Four Winners” and “Coaching;” that of Russell Voyer to sell Corona typewriters; that of Bart McHugh to sell Football Souvenir Postcards. Renewal of concession privilege was given to A. C. Hohmann to sell Remington typewriters. The position of Bulletin Poster was given to Victor Theissen.
Railroad rates, submitted by the New York Central, for student trips to both Lincoln and Minneapolis were read by President Brady; the former would cost $23.00 round trip, and the latter $17.75 round trip, if minimum of 200 persons were secured. It should be clearly understood, however, that the trip has in no way been definitely decided upon. The S. A. C. is at present considering methods of placing the question before the student body at large, in order to discover the majority opinion.
Several names were submitted for the position of third member of the Faculty Advisory Committee of which the VicePresident of the University and Prefect of Discipline are ex-officio members, but none was agreed upon.
President Brady appointed Paul Fleming to take charge of the applications of the campus clubs, whose constitutions must be sanctioned by the S. A. C. before the clubs have any official character on the campus. "The appointment of members of the Blue Circle, a subsidiary organization of the S. A. C., completed the meeting. The person
nel of the Blue Circle for this year is: John Tuohy, chairman; Lester Lovier, James Ronan, Arthur Bidwell, Joseph Shea, Gerald McGinley, Edward Duggan, Charles Mar-guet, Bernard Coughlin, Gil Schaefer, John Gallagher, Thomas Farrell, Clem Crowe, James Silver, John Purcell, Jack Spillane, Michael Murray, Thomas Leahy, Oswald Geniesse, Paul Miller, Thomas Burke, Jack Adams, Jack Riordan, Rex O’Malley, Edward Fallon, John Ryan, Mahsiel Haggerty, Paul Benante, Coyne Hatten, Joseph Benda, Edward Broderick, John Cullinan, Mervyn Aggeler, Junior Gary, Edward Burke, James Coleman, Hugh McCaffery, James Mahoney, Henry McNabb, Jack Burns, George Meade, Chester Rice, Lester Grady, Thomas Nash, Charles McDermott, Henry Hudson, George Buechner, Don W. Ryan, G. Lyman Dum, James Jones, Ted Griffin, George Dupon, Karl Johnson, William Corbett, George Stadel, John Hannon, Maurice Conley, Hogan Morrissey, Albert Anton.
For the benefit of the new .men, a word might not be amiss as to the nature, organization and work of the S. A. C. The Student Activities Council is composed of nineteen members, duly elected by their respective classes and colleges. The members already in office elect their own president, secretary and treasurer; the four classes of the university each elect a member for one or two year terms; and each college of the university elects a representative. The Council acts as the intermediary body between Faculty and the Students. It meets regularly and considers all questions pertaining to the activity of the student-body. The depth and scope of its work is not widely realized, nor is it of a nature that can be so realized. One fact, however, is apparent, and that is that the S. A. C. is working always for the best interest of the student-body. It is only fair, then, to demand a reciprocity of interest. Suggestions may be made freely to the Council; that is part of its business. Anyone having suggestions to make, should communicate them to his S. A. C. representative, and they will be taken care of properly.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
BOTH MISSIONS ATTRACT MANY
The annual mission for Freshmen, conducted this year by the Rev. James French, C. S. C., began with sermon and Benediction Sunday night, September 20, at 7:30, in the Sacred Heart Church, and was concluded Saturday morning, September 26, with Mass and a renewal of baptismal vows.
Father French is new to the majority of Notre Dame students, but his ability as a missionary is unquestioned. His sermons are of a type altogether different from those of Father Donahue, probably the best known of Notre Dame orators, but are no less impressive and forceful. His appeal is primarily to the intellect, and is further strengthened by support from his wide knowledge of life and human nature.
The Freshman mission consisted of a series of evening sermons, followed by benediction, and daily Mass with practical instruction. The subjects of the sermons were: Sunday night, “Salvation;” Monday, “Sin;” Tuesday, “Confession;” Wednesday, “Death;” Thursday, “Passion;” Friday, “Holy Hour.” The instructions were clearcut definitions of the fundamentals of the Church, such as: prayer vocations and particular sins.
The attendance packed the capacity of the church. Fully 80 per cent of the off-campus Freshmen were present, this figure being verified by cards handed in at the door of the church. The number of Communions averaged over 150 per day more than last year’s mission for the new men.
A mission for upperclassmen, also conducted by Father French, began Sunday night, September 27, and will be continued, in the same manner as the Freshman mission, until to-morrow morning, October 3. In the opening sermon Father French spoke of the purpose for which men come to college, namely, character-building, and how they defeat this very purpose if they let their opportunities slip while in school, thus nullifying the sacrifices of their parents, to give them the advantages they enjoy. He appealed to his auditors to prove their manhood by being men, that is, by avoiding the things easy to do, such as indulging in dis
41
sipation, squandering time, and by accomplishing the things difficult of attainment, such as vanquishment of self, suppression of passions, and avoidance of the causes of sin. He illustrated his discussion by many apt stories drawn from the fund of his own experience.
The church was filled to overflowing the opening night and each succeeding night.
MANY BROTHERS ARE TRANSFERRED
A new superior has been appointed for Dujarie Institute in the person of Brother Bernard, who has replaced Brother Isidore, former superior. Brother Isidore is now teaching at Columbia University, Portland, Oregon. The new assistant superior of Dujarie is Brother Nicholas, who replaces Brother Agatho, now a teacher at Holy Cross College, New Orleans. Brothers Adrian, Constantine, and Thaddeus have also been added to the faculty of Holy Cross College.
Brothers Maurice, Justin and Pius are now teaching at Cathedral High School, Indianapolis. Brother Lambert has been assigned the post of assistant superior at Sacred Heart College, Watertown, Wisconsin, succeeding Brother Bede, who is now assistant at the Novitiate.
Brother Julian, who has been replaced as prefect in Brownson Hall by Brother Sebastian, is now sacristan of Sacred Heart Church. The former sacristan, Brother Leander, is now stationed in Cleveland in the interest of the Ave Maria. Brother Boniface has been appointed guest master at the University, replacing Brother Albeus, who is at Deming, New Mexico. Brother Eugene has been assigned to the electrical department. Brother Linus has been transferred from Indianapolis to St. Edward’s Hall as prefect and teacher of music.
Ray Cunningham, ’25, stopped at Notre Dame last week enroute to Toledo from Chicago, where he is employed by the Russell Studios. He had recently recovered from a nervous breakdown.
42
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ADMINISTRATION NOTES
That all students should be familiar with the Undergraduate Manual, is the declaration which has come from office of the Department of Student Welfare. Pleaded ignorance to any or all divisions of the manual will show that the student has neglected a duty which the University bids him fulfill, namely, to be thoroughly familiar with the accepted rules and traditions of Notre Dame.
That section of the manual which treats of the student ownership of automobiles has been amended this year to the extent that no person who is a student at the University may “own or operate” a motor vehicle while he is in regular attendance at the University. Students who reside permanently in South Bend, however, may own and operate an automobile at the approval of the Director of Off-Campus Students.
“Failure to observe this rule shall result in dismissal from the University.”
sjc ijc
Students who up to this time have not taken their physical examinations are reminded of the fact that it is essential that they do so or else suffer reprehension.
It is for the good of the student body in general, and the student himself that the physical examination sponsored by the University should be undergone.
Smoking on the quadrangle is forbidden according to tradition. An appeal to preserve this tradition is made by Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C. S. C. “The sacredness and antiquity of this venerable custom set it upon a mythical pedestal” he says, “and men of Notre Dame ought to bear it reverent and pious demeanor.”
:■: $ $ $ $
As a sequel to the announcements of the various campus organizations of the commencement of their activities, comes the statement from, the Department of Student Welfare, the essence of which is that the authorities of the University desire to negotiate closer co-operation between the faculty and the student body, especially the more active campus organizations.
It is the wish of the authorities to acquaint the students with their sentiments relative to these organizations, and to make the students feel that the faculty is interested heartily in anything that the students undertake.
With this end in view several sponsors have been appointed. Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C. S. C., Director of the Department of Student Welfare, will assist the Glee Club. The Rev. George Finnegan, C. S. C., Vice-President of the University, will be affiliated with the Band. The University Orchestra will be benefited through the guidance of the Rev. William Moloney, C. S. C., while the Rev. E. V. Mooney, successor to the Rev. George L. Holderith as the Off-Campus Director, will serve in the capacity of patron of the Players Club.
4:
A calendar of student and foreign events upon the campus for the first quarter of the scholastic year is at present being composed and printed for the student body.
In detail, the calendar will enumerate the important events which will take place during the months that are bound within the first quarter of the scholastic year.
Led by the dates of the football games, the calendar of events will portray active Notre Dame at a glance. The necessity for such a category of events is apparent.
* $ $ $ $
The directory of students for the scholastic year 1925-26 will be released from the press of the University within the next few weeks. As against last year when the directory was issued late in the year, the authorities believe that it will be advantageous from many standpoints to have the directory published at the beginning of this year.
The directory will embrace: the officers of the University, a detailed list of the faculty, an inventory of the students registered at the University together with their present addresses and their class rating, and a complete list of students at St. Edward’s Hall.
Upon its release the directory will be placed on sale, and will be obtainable from certain members of the S. A. C., and
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
43
the Blue Circle. The Rev. Patrick McBride, Registrar of the University, is supervising the printing of the directory.
$
Endeavoring for some time to arrive at a conclusion as to the type of awards that will be made to the victorious team of the inter-hall league in each sport, final decision has revealed the fact that the trophy which the winning team will receive will be in the form of a huge banner.
As an incentive to the individual players, single tokens will be distributed. The banner itself will be gilded to signify the championship won, while the nature of the individual awards will be announced at a later time.
FIRST PEP MEETING IS BIG SUCCESS
“For years and years the student body has assembled in September for the big ‘pep’ meeting. Led by the band, a parade from Hall to Hall swells the cheering ranks till Washington Hall is reached and the meeting is on. The cheerleader is chairman. Coaches, captains, and athletes are introduced to the men, varsity songs are sung, and varsity cheers are given.”—(Undergraduate Manual for 1925.)
This tradition was carried out to the letter, last Thursday evening, except for one detail. The meeting was held in front of the Main building instead of Washington hall as the Undergraduate Manual called for. At six-thirty the Band led the students from Brownson, Carroll, Sophomore and Freshman halls in their annual pilgrimage around the campus. The group swelled as the procession passed each of the west campus halls, and when the band finally reached the Main building approximately two thousand of the student body had fallen in behind.
Cheerleader Bernie Abrott led the cheering, and the “Hike Song” was sung before the speaking program opened. Head Coach Rockne was the first speaker on the program. “Rock” can be pessimistic and if anyone in the assembled group had been under the impression that Notre Dame had an easy schedule and would win another
championship with ease, the speaker’s words gave them an excellent chance to shake off the idea. Rockne predicted defeats, but urged the student body to stand by the team win or lose.
Rev. Matthew Walsh, C. S. C., President of the University, also urged the student body to back up the team. The “goal post” story was told; illustrating that even a goal post can not stop a Notre Dame man when a touchdown is needed. Of course the details were just a bit different this year.
Rev. George Finnegan, recently elected Vice-President of Notre Dame, gave a highly inspirational talk. Capt. Clem Crowe acted as spokesman for the team. He promised that the team would fight every foot of the way and asked the student body to do their share in the cheering section.
President Dan Brady of the S. A. C. brought up the subject of the student trip this year. Many favored the trip to Lincoln, although the Minnesota game seemed more logical, because of proximity of Minneapolis as compared to Lincoln. Nothing definitely was decided at the meeting, as action of the administration is necessary before either trip can be sanctioned.
The “Victory March” was sung and the first pep meeting of the year was over. The result of the meeting became evident at the game Saturday, when the organized cheering aided materially in the victory over Baylor.
The following newspapers have been subscribed for by the library and are procurable in the North Room: The South Bend NewsTimes, South Bend Tribune, Boston Transcript, Springfield Republican, New York Times, New York American, Baltimore Sun, Louisville Courrier-Journal, Chicago Tribune and Chicago Herald-Examiner.
A law course under Dean Konop has been arranged for journalists. It is a semester course, and is given Mondays at 12:30 p. m.
John Noppenberger, ’25, is putting his Rockne training to good use according to recent word from Cincinnati. He is assistant to Coach Meyer at St. Xavier’s there, and has charge of the line candidates.
44
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ampus Comment
The Scholastic invites communications for this department. It will not be responsible for any views contained in these communications, however, nor will it consider for publication any letter not signed, in evidence of good faith, with the writer’s name and address. Anonymity in print will be preserved if the writer desires.
To the Editor of the Scholastic :
I wonder how many of the students at Notre Dame have ever given any thought to having Governor “Al” Smith of New York visit the University.
In years past it has been the custom to include in the lecture program men who are the recognized leaders in the various walks -of life. In “Al” Smith we have a man who is to-day the outstanding figure in the national Democratic party. While it may be going rather far to say that New York’s present governor wall be the next president, it seems certain that he ■will be the candidate of the Democratic party in the nation-•al election of 1928.
Governor Smith’s ability as an orator is well known. He is the type of speaker to which Notre Dame men would be glad to listen.
Notre Dame should be proud to welcome Governor Smith as a visitor. Notre Dame is America’s outstanding Catholic college. ■“Al” Smith is America’s only Catholic gov-®rnor. Why shouldn’t each become better acquainted with the other?
Let us all get behind a movement to bring Governor Smith to Notre Dame. Why not have him here for Homecoming if he could find time to visit us then? He would probably be here the night before to address the student body. We can show him how “Side-Walks of New York” should be sung, and send him back to Capitol hill with a corner of his heart reserved for Notre Dame.
—NEMO.
The Wightman Memorial Art Gallery in the Library is being redecorated. Until this work is completed, the Gallery will be ■closed to visitors.
LIBRARY NOTES
Mr. Paul R. Byrne, formerly Reference Librarian and for part of last year acting Librarian, was elected Librarian during the past summer.
Miss Anna A. Kosek, former head cataloguer at the Library, has resigned her position and is now resting at her home at Racine, Wisconsin. Miss Kosek was connected with the Library for the last three years.
“Mary Received the Body of Jesus” is the title of a painting purchased by the University at Montreal. This is the work of Joseph Aubert and formerly hung in the Church of the Gesu at Montreal. The picture is to be placed in the Reference Room.
“Mid-Winter” is the title of a new addition to the Art Gallery. It was done by Professor Ernest Thorne Thompson, Head of the Notre Dame School of Fine Arts. The picture represents “a typical Indiana farm scene.”
“A Catalogue of the Wightman Memorial Art Gallery in the Library of the University of Notre Dame,” is the title of an interesting volume issued by Rev. Gregory Ger-rer, 0. S. B., LL. D. Father Gregory is known to the entire country as an artist and connoisseur and this pamphlet shows much work and a great knowledge. It can be purchased at the Circulation Desk.
The following books, which are now in the stacks for circulation, should be of especial interest to all students:
The White Monkey.________John Galsworthy Coaching (2 copies) _____Knute Rockne The Four Winners (2 copies) Knute Rockne Age of Innocence_________Edith Wharton
ROCKNE’S BOOKS WELL LIKED
Coach Rockne’s two books, “Coaching” and “The Four Winners”, appearing on the campus simultaneously, have commanded a big sale according to the reports of Herb Jones, Ray Dahman and Ray Marelli, the distribution agents. Two copies of each book have been placed in the stacks in the Library.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
45
MUSICAL AND THEATRICAL NOTES
The entertainment season in Washington Hall is now well under way; the production of “Introduce Me” with Douglas MacLean as its star may be said to have opened the year’s program successfully. This was a clever picture, acted cleverly and convincing if not plausible. If the Saturday night movies are well up to the standard of Mr. MacLean’s show, the campus will have no cause to complain as to the quality of the cinema fare given it.
A great difficulty has to be met with in .arranging for the showing of pictures in Washington Hall, for no big picture can be secured for Notre Dame until it has played in South Bend. Furthermore, most of the big pictures cannot be obtained for campus viewing within thirty days of the South Bend showings.
However, in making up the movie program for this Fall, tentative contracts have been made for the showing on the campus of Harold Lloyd in “The Freshman”; “Douglas Fairbanks in “Don Q”, Charlie Chaplin in “The Gold Rush,” D. W. Griffith’s “Sally of the Sawdust,” and “Shore Leave” with Richard Barthelmess.
The movies are shown on Saturday nights at eight o’clock and the program consists of a Pathe News reel, a two reel comedy, the feature picture and a cartoon fable.
As to the concert programs to be given in Washington Hall, the only one definitely announced is that of the Ernest Gamble Company, which will appear early in November. Other musical programs will be announced later.
Dr. Walsh, who has appeared at Notre Dame many times, will again give one of his popular lectures this fall. In addition there will be other interesting lectures.
An effort is being made by the Entertainment Committee to secure for appearance in Washington Hall, Paul Whiteman and his Concert Orchestra, who will appear at the Blackstone in a few weeks. Attempts are being made to bring Mrs. Fiske and her company in “The Rivals” to the campus.
The Entertainment Committee wishes to announce that expressions of opinion or sug
gestions which may help to improve the concert and entertainment programs during the year will be welcomed. These may be mailed to the Chairman of the Concert and Entertainment Committee, Rev. W. A. Carey, C. S. C.	.
COMING ATTRACTIONS
October 3—Picture_____Washington Hall.
October 20—Paul Whiteman and Orchestra in concert___________Blackstone Theatre
November 2—Amelita Galli-Curci in concert _________________________Palais Royale
November 20__John McCormack in concert _____________Notre Dame Gymnasium —A. L. M.
ENGINEERS PLAN ANOTHER EVENTFUL YEAR
Members of the Engineers’ Club uncapped the activities of the year on Wednesday evening when the first meeting was called to order by Paul Harrington, who will serve as president this year. The session was convened for the transaction of routine business.
Plans for the reception of -Freshmen who aspire to membership were considered, and it is probable that members of the class of ’29 who seek admission to the club will be permitted to attend the second meeting on next Wednesday evening.
Several suggestions were received from members as to effective decoration for the Engineers’ building which will be trimmed in the usual ultra-attractive style at Homecoming. It is expected that the President will name a decoration committee at the next meeting to conclude final arrangements. Other matters of club interest were discussed and acted upon.
Miss Catherine Jehn, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Joseph O. Jehn of Indianapolis, was united in marriage with George G. Ward, ’25, at St. Joan of Arc Church, Indianapolis, Tuesday morning, Sept. 24. The ceremony was performed by Bishop Chartrand of Indianapolis. Present at the ceremony were Arthur Haley, best man, Victor Lemmer, usher, and Alfred Myers, vocalist.
46
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Campus Opinion
Question: What are your impressions of the Baylor game?
Where asked: In all the Freshman halls.
When asked: After the game.
Sam George:— (Brownson)
The game showed the strength of our team. We have all kinds of possibilities. We are going to have a successful season and are not going to be licked. Did you see how Dahman handles that ball? I know this doesn’t make me an Elk but I am proud to say he comes from my home town.
J. M. Falasz:—(Freshman)
Notre Dame looked good to me despite all the contrary criticism we have been receiving. Backed by a little more pep from all the boys we are going to have a team that ranks with the best. Baylor’s pluck and courage when man after man was carried off the field deserves our admiration. Baylor fought hard but, believe me, we have a team.
Norman Hartzel:—(Day)
Great. It seems that Notre Dame has eleven horsemen this year to replace the four of last. They ought to change “Four Horsemen” coats to “Cavalry” bearskins.
Otis Winchester:—(Howard)
Rock’s men kept their eyes on the ball and used their heads. “The Fighting Irish” is certainly no misnomer. Hugh Fullerton had better review the football outlook again.
J. W. Reily:—(Carroll)
They told me Notre Dame was not going to look good. They don’t need to look good if they will only keep acting the way they did to-day.
John Waters, Sophomore in the School of Journalism last year, visited here last week. He was arranging for the transfer of his credit to Harvard where he is now registered as a student.
LAW SCHOOL NOTES
According to a custom established so far back “that the memory of man runneth not to the contrary” (to quote Mr. Blackstone himself) the Senior Lawyers attended the Baylor game in a body magnificently swinging their new Senior canes. Dean Konop was noticed with his cane presented to him by the Senior Class. The embryo barristers were a dazzling group.
The Law Club promises a big year under the leadership of Dave Stanton,President. A meeting called for September 25 was postponed because of the absence of the Junior Lawyers. There are rumors of a “Legal Hop” though nothing has been definitely decided yet.
The Law Faculty is consistently raising the standards of the Law School. At a meeting held June 25, the requirements for the degreo ef Bachelor of Laws (LL.B) were stated to be: Three years of residence, the completion of at least 74 semester hours in law including all required courses, and a minimum average grade of 77%.
The scholarship requirements are as follows :
1.	Any student who fails or is conditioned in one-third of the law hours for which he stands registered shall be DISQUALIFIED and shall not be permitted to reregister for two succeeding semesters.
2.	Any student who fails or is conditioned in one-fourth of the law hours for which he stands registered shall be placed on PROBATION. (As a result of the application of this rule sixteen men have been placed on probation.)
3.	Any student who does not maintain an average of 77% in his law subjects shall be regarded as DELINQUENT. If a student is delinquent for two succeeding semesters he shall be placed on probation. (As a result of the application of this rule eight men have been classified as delinquent.)
At present there are 191 men enrolled in the Law School in spite of the raising of entrance requirements from one to- two
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
years pre-law. There are fifty in the first years law class.

Three - Notre Danie graduates of 1925 took and passed the Illinois bar examination recently. They are: Charles Sollo, Moline, William Bossingham, Joliet, and Edward O’Toole, Dixon.
Peter John Monaghan of Topeka, Kansas, passed the Missouri bar examination.
Mark Nolan, ’24, was admitted to the Minnesota bar and is practicing near Gilbert, his home.
Francis E. Steele, ’25, of Akron, has been admitted to the Ohio bar.
Joseph A. Hogan, ’25, is practicing law in South Bend. His office is in the Associates Building.
Claude Carson, ’26, is now a member of the firm of Arnold, Carson, and Judy, of South Bend. Their office is in the Sherwin Building. Mr. Judy is a Notre Dame graduate of the class of ’24.
Robert Gordon, ’25, is practicing law in the firm of F. M. Hogan, of Fort Wayne.
Edward J. Lennon, ’23, student football manager in his senior year, is serving as Deputy Attorney-General for the state of Indiana and has offices at Fort Wayne and Indianapolis.
Harold Moylan, ’25, is practicing law in Fort Wayne. He intends soon to be a member of the new firm of Lennon, Stewart, and Moylan.
Herman Centlivre, ’25, captain of the Tennis team in ’23 and former president of the Fort Wayne Club, is now attending the Harvard Law school.
The October number of The Law Student contains the announcement that E. R. O’Toole, A. H. Wolski, and A. R. Travis of the class of ’25 won a set of Corpus Juris-Cyclopedia in the Legal Research Contest. The American Law Book Company assigns a set to every Law School as a prize for this course. The set is valued at $375.00. These three men tied for first place but solved the problem by purchasing a set apiece and dividing the cost of the other two.
47
FORT WAYNE CLUB BEGINS ACTIVE YEAR
The Fort Wayne Club has started the year with the determination to become the most active organization on the campus. At its first meeting- Wednesday the following officers were elected to lead the Club to this objective:
President, Gerald Morshes; Vice-President Donald McDonald; Secretary, George Gordon ; Treasurer, Patrick Donahue.
It has been definitely decided that a Fort Wayne Club smoker will be held every month at the University, that a banquet will be given at the Hotel Keenan in Fort Wayne during, the Christmas holidays, and that there will be a formal dance given at the Fort Wayne Country Club on Easter-Monday, in honor of the Alumni. The dance Committee is; composed of Arthur Miller, Chairman; Louis Niezer, Ross Pettit, Michael Hogan.
The committee that will direct the banquet and monthly smokers, is as follows: Aurilius Fink, Edmund Bresnahan, Robert Eggeman.
The Activities Committee is composed of the Chairman of the other committees.
AKRON CLUB ELECTS OFFICERS
The Akron Club of Notre Dame, formerly under the guidance of Bernard Ley, President, and Francis Steele, Vice-President, both graduated last year, is now under the leadership of Forest Swartz, President, Theodore Ley, Vice-President, Glenn Smith, Secretary, and Charles McGuckin, Treasurer.
The Akron Club was active through the summer and it is now anticipating a formal dance at Christmas at the Portage Country Club.
The old members of the Akron Club are Forest Swartz, Theodore Ley, Glenn Smith. Chailes McGuchin, Richard Brady, Alfred Jenny, Joseph Rebel, Joseph Lochlin, Joseph Wozniak, and Stephan Wozniak. The new members are: Carl Snure, Virgil - Kline, Harold Bair, Claude Horning, Ted Witz, Joseph Kraper, and Paul Bertsch.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
48
STUDENT TRIP TO MINNEAPOLIS
The student football trip will be to the Minnesota game at Minneapolis this year according to the announcement made Wednesday by Dan J. Brady, President of the S. A. C. The S. A. C. had previously recommended the Minnesota trip but its recommendation was not acted upon by the administration until early this week.
The Minnesota game is on October 24. Specific details as to the cost of the trip, the time of leaving and returning, the hearing of Mass enroute from Minneapolis Sunday morning, will be announced later. The rules which have goverened students trips in previous years will prevail again. The Band will go if enough money is secured by popular subscription on the campus.
To prevent any misunderstanding regarding the trip, one fact should be noted especially: There is no absolute obligation on the part of anyone to go to Minneapolis. The S. A. C. realizes that the cost, though it has not been definitely determined, will be rather high. If, because of the expense, any student feels that he ought to remain at home, no reflection will be cast upon his loyalty to Notre Dame. A student trip to one outside football game is a traditional practice here. In most of the former years however, the city visited was closer to home.
SCRIBBLERS HAVE SECOND MEETING
The Scribblers held their second meeting of the year in the Library Monday night after the mission services. In the absence of President Lester Grady, James A. Withey, Secretary-Treasurer, presided.
Because of the shortage of time, it was decided to defer the reading of assigned papers until the next meeting. Election of new members was also deferred until next Monday. A discussion of the recently adopted Scribblers constitution, occupied most of the time of the meeting.
At their first meeting of the year, the Scribblers elected to honorary membership in their organization, Charles Phillips of the Department of English. Professor Phillips
has taken a deep interest in the Ssribblers since he came to Notre Dame and has aided them in many ways.
DOME STAFF IS ORGANIZED
The Dome staff of ’26 held the first important meeting of the scholastic year last week in the Dome building, rear of Corby Hall.
Walter W. Smith, editor-in-chief, made the principal address when he spoke to approximately fifty prospective candidates that had turned out for the editorial, business and art departments. The editor-in-chief told of the work in store for the men and discussed cei'tain definite plans that had been laid.
Mark E. Nevils, business manager of the book, spoke to the members present chiefly about the advertising prospect for the future and made an urgent request that the men work hard throughout the season.
The work on the Dome has been progressing at a rapid rate, and the scenic section, one of the features of the publication, has been finished and is at the engravers' in Chicago.
LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI CLUB MEETS
The Louisiana-Mississippi Club held its first meeting of the year last week in the basement of Walsh Hall. The purpose of the meeting was to call the natives of the sister states together and get them acquainted with each other.
The meeting opened with a general introduction of the new men. Last year’s Vice-President, Lawrence Hennessey, then presented the new officers, elected at the last meeting of the club in June. The officers for the year are as follows: C. A. Sporl, Jr., President; R. A. Wentworth, Vice-President; E. B. Burke, Secretary; Mat Melsheimer, Treasurer.
Plans were made for the activities to be carried on by the club during the coming year. The constitution was read for the benefit of the new members.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	49
THE SAFETY VALVE
We are bringing the valve back to this seat of learning, if our far-west contemporary doesn’t object—or if it does. Res clamat—or is it clamabit?—domino.
“What shall we do with the great influx of students?” queries a theme-producing sophomore. We shall feed them on Notre Dame buns, you grave man.
In these days of football uncertainties, might one say Mr. Rockne is doing the kick-off act and any one of 300 prospectives is receiving?
A freshman complained bitterly on the second day of registration that no ND receiving station would accept his 200 dollars tuition money. He is in the hospital at present under observation.
The Rhapsodic Mr. Wittich
“Dixie! What a beautiful word! What fascinating dreams are weaved among those five letters! What old-fashioned romances are seen, what enchanting melodies are heard in that one magic word... Dixie.”
And to our judgment those kids wrestling on the football field between halves are no addition to the setting. They are out of key, so to say. But perhaps these activities belong in the curiculum (curiculi) of Boy Guidance, and so we stand subject to correction.
“Let us have short snappy songs to cheer us when we get back to out halls evenings,” suggested a thoughtful on-the-campus student at a pep meeting the other day. But, on hte other hand, we may have cheer enough, and more, with victrolas and radios.
Come to earth, Mr. Flyer, come to earth during football games.
“Give me,” to quote Prof. Bennemeyer, “one earnest searcher and I will give him the true key to the Hall of Fame.” And give us, Herr Professor, one serviceable pass key and we will give you, in round numbers, 2,500.
There was rhythm, attack, resonance, regularity, cohesion, coordination, melody, vigor, contiguity, distribution in the ensemble on the East stands last Saturday. The entire Student-Body shows it has the follow-the-leader spirit in a constructive sense.
Street car fares have gone up two cents. Let us not kick. Let us be just and say there’s a two-cent improvement in the service.
And speaking of street cars, have you noticed the young man who, following the mode, allows his stockings to spill all over his ankles?
* * * * *
Correct This Sentence.
Baylor University, Waco, Texas, Champion of the South-West, has not lost a single game in three years.—News Item.
A	A
Blow, Bloiv, Blow .
“Every fellow,” writes a penetrating freshman, “should hold on with their team till the last whistle blows.”
Terence Donohue was awarded the Juggler's prize of five dollars for the best written work submitted and Richard Zimmerly received the same amount for the best art work submitted for the first number of the Funny Fellow. The same prizes will be awarded next month.
The first cut in the candidates for the Glee Club resulted in 111 men being retained for further tryouts. This number will be gradually lessened until about 60 remain for the regular rehearsals throughout the year.
50
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
sint ©nasi ®ras JWttntunK
THE STAFF
L R. Dooley, Diebold, Ji:.
Ed'.tor-in-Chief
- Business Mgr.
w.
F.
A.
H.
Breig
O'Toole, Ass’t
Meirs Editor Literary Editor Literary Editor
J. J. A.
P. McNamara - Sports Editor A. Withey -	- ‘-The Week"
L. Meyers - Music and Dramatics
Klein -O’Donnell
Coyne -
NEWS
E.
F.
R. L. Novak J. T. Cullinan - C, J. Cash
BUSINESS
E. F. Cunningham, Jk J, A. Withey - - . J. P. Hilcli: - -	,
D. F. Meixert - -
s. - Local Adv. - - Foreign Adv. Foreign Circulation
Local Circulation
Mgr.
Myr. Mgr. Mgr.
Slaven ----- J. F, Harrigan-
Schroeder - - - . R. T. Strickel G. J. Smith

THE CURTAIN RAISER
Notre Dame has beaten Baylor. The curtains were pulled back last Saturday afternoon on Cartier Field and Rockne’s proteges demonstrated the gentle art of football to the invaders from Texas. We were well pleased—proud of our team in their first effort of the season. Those who have watched the progress of the recruits this fall realize what time and patience it has taken to build this team up; and we hasten to congratulate “Rock” and his men.
Baylor proved to be a worthy opponent. They exhibited a spirit that will long be remembered by the spectators at this game; This spirit came to a climax when Sisco, the Bear’s left tackle, mustered his last strength in an effort to clasp his hands in response to the tribute paid him by the stands as he was carried off the field.
After the game of last Saturday, we can look into the future with confidence; for as long as we have the calibre of men who comprise the present squad out for practice and Rockne as their leader Notre Dame will have winning teams.	—W. H. L.
A PRESSING NEED
One of the most pressing needs at Notre Dame is a second-hand book store. The es
tablishment of such a store would be an innovation hailed with delight by the student body in general.
Among the sources of waste in the University is the destruction or virtual destruction of books which have been used during one or at most two semesters. Textbooks lose all value for some after the class in which they are used is discontinued, and the logical thing thereafter seems to be pass them on to an incoming student at a reduced price.
At the present time there is a sort of second-hand book store on the campus. But this is too indefinite and inefficient, doing business as it does in the rooms and desks of all upper clessmen. What the second-hand book selling business needs is centralization. A well-equipped store which buys and sells books with a reasonable amount of profit is a pressing need.
A second-hand book store would accomplish a great good by stopping book profiteering. At the present time some upper classmen misrepresent the value of books to Freshmen, and thereby obtain an exhorbitant price for them. They probably feel that this is their right, because they paid profiteers’ prices when they were Freshmen. There is no such right. A secondhand book store is needed.	—J. A. B.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
51
THE SIDELIGHTS LAST SATURDAY
If cheering supplies the backbone of a team, Notre Dame will have a spine like iron this year, for the puffing “locomotives”, hissing “skyrockets”, and growling “R-R-R-Rockne’s” at the game last Saturday were the best that have been heard on Cartier field in a longer time than one cares to remember. Bernie Abrott, the new cheerleader, supplied the fuse which exploded the giant powder, and the noise was heard all over the field. Short, snappy yells, long-swelling ones, and vocal attempts of every variety in between, were handled by Bernie in a masterful manner, producing a chorus which must have struck terror to the heart of Baylor, judging by the score, and which surely heartened our own players to supreme efforts. It was an excellent start toward giving Notre Dame real, concentrated cheering of a kind that will leave no one in doubt as to where the sympathies of the crowd lie. Bernie and his two capable assistants deserve to be complimented enthusiastically on their endeavors of last Saturday. Knowing what to expect, we shall continue to look for cheering of a species truly Notre Dame in all future athletic events, or anywhere, in fact, that it is needed to show the stand of the student body.
The Band also deserves credit. For an organization with little practice, it showed a fire and spirit that, under the capable leadership of Mr. Casasanta, will cause it to play an important part in all student activities. When uniformed and after a bit of drill, it will present a much finer appearance.
The crowd at last Saturday’s game was phenomenal for an opening contest. Despite this fact, however, the people were handled in a skilful manner by those in charge, thus allowing everyone to retain his good temper. Of the game itself, little need be repeated here. The colorful throng, the shrilling trumpets of the Boy Scouts, the excellent music of our own Band, the inspiring cheers, the swift flight of ball and man down the field, the heavy thud of colliding bodies, all combined to make of it, in many respects,
one of the most dramatic first-games ever played at Notre Dame.	—f. a. k.
THE MISSIONS
The attendance and fine spirit at the student missions in the last two weeks have indeed been gratifying. They show, in a sense that the Notre Dame student realizes the part religion plays in his education. They show that the student body recognizes that the spiritual activities are an integral portion of the life at Notre Dame. It has always been the object of the University to build character as well as to improve the intellect, and so the fall retreats for Freshmen and Upperclassmen have found a place in the traditions of the old school.
The word “retreat” to some signifies the giving away before a superior army. But we must not lose sight of the fact that the word also denotes retirement into a quiet place, usually with the idea of refreshing-one’s self. There is no place more admirably suited for thinking things over, deciding future policies and looking into the invisible than a quiet spot. In a manner then, we may come to look upon these student retreats as the quiet spots in the year’s turmoil ; a period of time that can be spent in introspection and in deciding what shall be the program for the future. And so it is that these chances to look into the spiritual compass and to trim our sails accordingly should come at the star tof the new scholastic year. It is a time when we can begin anew and begin by asking the blessings of the Almighty, that He may aid us.
The “spirit” of Notre Dame has room only for those who realize that this institution is in no way merely a stopping-off place where knowledge is disseminated.
—J. P. M.
“Tag the Band to Minneapolis I” will be the ciy raging around the campus within the next few days. And with reason I Judging the Band by its performance at the game last Saturday, it will fully justify such a trip, by showing the Gophei' rooters that Notre Dame can play something besides football.
52
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Avenue Of Dreams
VINCENT BARTHOLOMEW, ’26
I HAVE often thought of literature as an avenue of dreams. With the great masters as guides, I have wandered through strange lands, passionate sunsets, vivid scenes and at the end of each square in this marvellous avenue, I have paused to rest awhile and absorb the nutriment which each volume gives me. Often when the lights are low and the clouds are sauntering through the heavens like careless vagrants, I too, saunter out into the realm of make-believe and dream with the dreamers.
The wierd mysteries of the night lend to a book charm unsurpassed. Lightning, thunder, beating rain, all cut through the veneer of realism and strike at the sympathetic cords of the heart. Casting the veil from the face of the character is the favorite diversion of mine. You, yourself, when reading some interesting book, have paused for awhile to wonder: “Is the character real? Does he typify life?”
A famous slogan hangs in the office of the San Francisco Examiner. It reads: “To appreciate beauty, one must have a sense of values in regard to beauty.” So, if we are to appreciate literature, we must have the “literary touch!” This “touch” is the tugfelt within when we read something- which creeps beneath the polish and petty chicanery of our nature and beckons us to the land of Utopia. The other evening I was reading Edna Ferber’s, “The Gay Old Dog,” and Miss Ferber, with her usual staccato style, was drawing a description from the
well of her repertoire. She was explaining the standing of Mr. Nicholas Overton and this is what she wrote....
“She was one of the guests at a theatre party given by Nicky Overton II. You know.... the North Shore Overtons.... Lake Forest.”
Then, again, after being hypnotized, while reading Joseph Conrad’s “Lord Jim” and entranced in the spell of beauty as Conrad wove a masterful picture of a storm on the Indian ocean, the sun making gallant attempts to break through the sullen barrier of clouds, Mrs. Conrad completes the description with this line.... “And the night descended upon us like a benediction. ...” The “bits” I have quoted are the heart-beats of literature. They stir the blood. Such choice morsels of literature would make a living entity of an Egyptian mummy.
Some night, when the elements are fierce without, and the hall is rocking, take a good book from your shelf and journey to the Avenue of Dreams. You will find the experience so exciting and the guides so interesting that loneliness will creep out of your life with the stealthy shamble of a man escaping the law. Should you find the first square of the avenue drab, try another and before you have walked far, you will have found a gold mine secreted in the pages. Unearth the treasure; carry it to your storeroom of knowledge and present tidings of joy to the God of Literature—the Great Master.
WHAT’S A CLOUD?
Laughter of the cherubim
Dropped from heav’n, where has been
Pity for us mortals poor,—
That’s a cloud;—and nothing more.
—JOSEPH P. M’NAMARA,’28.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	53
Progressive Ignorance: A Little Book of Familiar Essays by Charles C. Miltner, C. S. C., Ph. D. B. Herder Book Co., 17 South Broadway, St. Louis, Mo. $.90.
This is a neat book, tastefully bound, well printed on good paper. And Father Miltner, professor of philosophy here, has grouped together a collection of briefer essays that well deserve this delicate setting.
“Progressive Ignorance” is not a book of paradoxes as the title might suggest. We note an intermingling of epigram, antithesis and compressed reasoning in well ordered succession; lightness and brightness without literary brevity; ease and well-bred familiarity that never descend to banality. Makers of paradoxes become so attached to the play of colors they over emphasize partial truth. They spend themselves on mere prettiness, on phrasel sword-play to the detriment of what Matthew Arnold calls “high seriousness.” Following the method of Mecaulay, when facts do not equalize in balances and contrasts, they make them equalize. Father Miltner turns a paradox, flashes an epigram; but one cannot say his book is paradoxical or a rapid fire of epigrams. There is leisured and ordered thought, and a philosophical emphasis on the more serious aspects of life.
The book is suggestive rather than exhaustive. It fits moods, it stimulates; and sentences taken from almost any chapter will serve the purpose of a text for a more ambitious preachment. “Jazz has neither beginning nor end” is a happy hit. Only one hopes jazz is not eternal. Verse Libre— poetry in bob and knickers—is brought on and told to behave: “We want poets to be free. We don’t want them to be freebooters.” How Miss Amy Lowell would resent such lecturing!
“Homes and Houses” is quotable in every paragraph. “Wreck a house and you destroy a building. It can be replaced. Wreck a home and you destroy a family, ruin happiness, blast hopes, snuff out opportunities, wound a nation in a vital spot.” In “Play and Work” one notes this doctrine of cheer: “Work becomes play when it becomes a joy, and it becomes a joy when we learn to love it.” There is no harshness or coldness .or severity in Father Miltner’s philosophy. It is joyous and tolerant. It stimulates and braces—a tonic for the melancholic.
Our beloved freshman should procure and read this book. It will enlarge the horizon of home-town seeing. It will teach the sophomore, whose literary foliage is said to be luxuriant, the compression that comes from concentration. It should help to mature the sometimes unripe thought of the junior and correct, if need be, the traditional self-sufficiency of the uppermost classman.
—p. J. c.
Local Problems and Agencies : By Henry S. Spalding, S. J. Published by Benziger Brothers; Price net $2.50.
“Social Problems and Agencies” is an up-to-date account of outstanding current social problems and of various organizations now engaged in social works. The book is the work not of a single writer., but of many writers. It is an abridged yet comprehensive statement of present day social problems and agencies as told by experts or as gleaned from official publications.
The book in many places is decidedly Catholic in tone since it is edited by Father Henry S. Spalding, S. J. For this reason it should appeal especially to Catholic students. At the end of each chapter are references and topics for discussion. —J. T. G.
<9
54
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Black Beetle
BERT V. DUNNE, ’26
(Continued From Last Week)
At three the next afternoon Billings slunk cautiously along Grant Avenue. A ragged coat clung to his stooped shoulders; trousers, of a bygone period, fell unelegantly from his hips. His face was the color of coffee-dregs; his mouth was drawn to one side and tobacco-stained; eyebrows shaggy; a battered fedora drawn over his left eye disclosed hair of an iron-grey, culminating in a sort of queue at the nape of his neck. In the minds of the passerbys he was docketed as a wharf-rat or a petty thief. From his pocket, the only one that was not sewed, the reporter drew some shoe-laces; from the same pocket came two pencils—an ill-looking smile flitted across his face, passed on, then returned. The ogre was complete.
The card had designated Suey Wong’s teashop as the vantage point. All the long afternoon the reporter crouched in front of the shop. His pitiful wail for alms disturbed the afternoon’s stillness; periodically a pedestrian would throw a coin into the battered fedora and pass on. Billings’ uncouth appearance; his evil eye, mocking and cynical, made the passers-by turn away, frowning. The five o’clock whistle blew. A ponderous, highly colored woman, with lips as red as a California bar maid’s in the days of gold, emerged from a jewelry house. She came surging down Grant avenue; the beggar’s moan stopped her. Her companion, a mannish-appearing woman, with a wealth of sables on her back, urged her to hurry.
“Don”t mind those tramps, dear,” said the sabled one.
"I’m so hungry ma’am,” moaned the beggar.
The ponderous creature drew a dime from her purse and threw it at the beggar. Her companion remonstrated with her for such generosity. “Just an alms, dear,” charitably mumbled the ponderous one. '
A Chinaman, hugging the darkness of a
doorway, Suey Wong’s alley entrance,, smiled blandly. Through half-closed eyes he watched Billings; the police were becoming clever in their clumsy Occidental fashion. Billings, grimming pathetically, sensed the fact that he was being watched. An immediate acquittal was necessary.
A pompous gentleman, shrouded in huge ulster, was coming up the avenue. Suddenly he stopped to see a tattered, torn figure writhing at his feet. Presently a few spectators gathered. A newsboy broke through them.
“Get away youse guys,” he said with true gamin fervor, “can’t youse see de guy’s havin a fit!” The gamin knelt and rubbed the beggar’s feverish brow. The pseudopanderer smiled his thanks. “Food— foo—oo—d!” The last spoken word was like the drawn-out screech of a locomotive.
A woman, large and blonde, shivered inter-mitently. “My Gawd—Starving men at home and we sendin’ supplies to those Rooshians—”
She tossed half a dollar at the beggar. It clinked merrily on the side-walk; Billings followed it closely; other coins followed and rolled about the side-walk. The Chinaman in the doorway pursed his lips. “White people—Fools Y’
It was getting colder. The beggar blew upon his numbed hands and beat them against his sides. A biting hunger was picking at him; he must eat something. A Chinese chop-house was a short distance up the street; the beggar shambled to it.
Shortly after Billings took his night stand the Oriental section began to seethe with life. A group of tourists passed. The guide stopped. In a voice, sacerdotal in tone, he called the tourists’ attention to the beggar.
“Before you is one of the few remaining street beggars,” he said gravely, “half Chinese—half American. Notice his opium stained face—his coarse features and animal position. He represents a race of street
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
beggars who have plied their trade for centuries.”
The beggar grinned, revealing broken, blackened teeth. His hand fell across his mouth. In a moment he squirmed on the pavement; he kicked spasmodically; foam trickled from his mouth; the tourists showered him with coins. Then, they hurried on. The beggar straightened up, drew a piece of soap from his mouth and placed it in his coat pocket. He had been “chucking a dummy:” a feigned fit. The Chink in the corner actually laughed out loud.
Shortly after seven o’clock Billings became impatient. His eyes roved up and down the avenue. Perhaps this was but a false lead. The bland Oriental, as before, was still slouching in the doorway, hands in his commodious sleeves; eyes closed; manner, dignified. A gas jet had been turned on; it spat spasmodically beneath its glass cover and threw a yellowish color about the Chink’s head.
Excited babble mounted in the air; the Chimes of St. Mary’s Church pealed melodiously, calling the city-wide congregation to the night services. Presently a street peddler stood in front of the beggar. A tray hung from his shoulders. Curious articles peeped from beneath the cover. The peddler winked at the Chink in the corner of the doorway; the Oriental slipped into the darkness; the peddler continued down Grant
5-5
avenue towards California street.
Billings arose and followed him. At the corner of California and Grant the packman turned. The reporter beckoned to a police officer. At Kearney and California the suspect stopped. A figure, as if vomited out of the darkness, confronted him. The one from the darkness reached into the covered tray; he left a bill upon it. He smuggled something closely to his breast and broke into a dog-trot up Kearney to the Tenderloin district. The reporter was now upon the beggar. He made a flying leap and tackled him savagely about the knees. The peddler fell to the street, cursing as he fell.
The officer came running and snapped a pair of cuffs on the hawker. Billings tore at the peddler’s head, then stepped back, holding a wig in his hand. The reporter dropped to one knee and picked one of the curios from the side-walk. He fingered it carefully; suddenly it snapped open.
A white tube lay within it. Removing the cork Billings smelled it carefully. “Dope, eh!”
The reporter came close to his captive. “Take a good look at me! Do I look like someone you might know?”
The peddler covered his face with his hands. His eyes were open. The reporter smiled. “A regular Jeckyll and Hyde case, eh! An interne by night—a dope peddler by day—what kind of an actor am I, Doc ?”
AN OFFERING FOR THE MISSION
To-day I turn my thoughts to You,
0 Jesus Friend of mine,
I bend my knee and You adore 0 Saviour God Divine.
I’m thankful for Your gifts to me, Your blessings from above, And in my simple contrite way
I offer You my love.
I promise that each day I’ll pray To You with all my heart.
I’ll try 0 Jesus Friend of mine, To do my humble part.
—VICTOR LEMMER, ’26
56
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
On Canoeing
ROMAN FELDPAUSCH, ’26
CANOEING is the best way to get back to nature and romance. I like very much in the late part of some spring or summer afternoon, to take my canoe and start paddling down some stream. I need only to go a little distance until I am out of the smoke and clamor of the city and can breathe clean, perfumed air and experience the feeling of romance.
While drifting, I dream of the wild Indians and of the daring Missionaries, who once paddled the same river that I am floating. Suddenly I am awakened by a sound similar to that of a whirlwind, but learn that it is only a flock of wild geese frightened by the canoe as it approaches their hiding place. Coming to my senses, I find myself in a world of perfect harmony: the dancing ripples on the water, the singing of the birds, the croaking of the frogs, the splashes made by the fish jumping out of the water, the odors of the flowers and the sweet smell of the clover next to the field where the cattle are peacefully grazing.
After paddling for an hour or two, I am able to see the sun sinking beyond the western hills, making a picture that can be painted only by the hand of God. Within the frame of this living picture can be read the words,"Time to make camp.” It is at this hour that I like to take the canoe on shore and start building the campfire. After the fire is built and I hear the crackling of the frying bacon, and smell the juicy steak and fresh coffee, which are cooking over the hot coals, my appetite is sharpened to a keen edge. After the meal I enjoy watching the coal burn, for this little fire seems to fill me with spiritual inspirations. As the last blaze dies away I look above, at the darkened sky, dotted with sparkling stars and shining moon, to which a dreamy canoer is sending his hopes.
I think a pleasant, yet exciting day, can be spent if one takes a canoe and starts paddling towards the mouth of a stream. I love to pass through the narrow parts of
the brook, where the branches of the trees, on both sides come together, for it gives the feeling of exploring some dark cavern or underground river. It may be difficult paddling, but if one meets with a little resistance, it adds to the satisfaction felt when the destiny is reached. On one such adventure, as I have just described, I passed through hidden parts of nature which many people do not know exist. The banks were cut in by the continual on-rush of the water, forming coves which reminded me of the homes of the cave-dwellers. I found trees, shrubbery and flowers, of every species. Of course, one cannot fully appreciate the beauty of these things unless he finds them, as I did, in the dense woods, with the winding stream as the only path. Above and all around me there was a large variety of birds flitting from branch to branch, constantly singing some soft, sweet song.
While one is canoeing a river, he must always be on the watch; a sharp twig or stone sticking out of the stream, a sunken log that lies just under the surface of the water, these must be dodged for they will puncture the canvas. There is also a danger in attempting to shoot the larger rapids. If this is tried, one will be very liable to scratch the sides of the canoe besides taking the chance of being capsized.
Canoeing is my favorite sport and pastime. I take a canoe with me when I fish, or hunt ducks. I can hoist a sail on the canoe and ride the tossing waves across any of the smaller inland lakes. I can drift at night and study the moon and stars. I can peacefully float on some shining lake and dream that I am living again the days of the Mohawks and the Missionaries. I can follow the winding streams and visualize beauty that artists are not able to reproduce. No wonder that I love my canoe and think it the best of pals, when I want to get out in the open and back to nature where it is still untainted by the smoke of progress.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
57
The Surgeon
J. A. BREIG,’28
DOCTOR CREELE was the last out of the operating room. It had been a long day for the young surgeon, just out of his internment. All day he had administered ether, sterilized gleaming instruments, ligated severed arteries. He was dead tired. But it was all necessary—necessary that he aid the experienced surgeons and watch and learn, until the time came when he could perform difficult operations himself.
Doctor Creele undressed and fell into bed. In a moment he was asleep. A moment more—or so it seemed to the tired man— and the emergency bell in his room jangled imperatively.
The young surgeon leaped from his bed, and jerked the receiver from its hook. “For God’s sake Creele, hurry!” The voice was supplicating. “There’s a woman in the emergency ward bleeding to death!”
Doctor Creele, as he dressed swiftly, was berating his luck. Hadn’t he done enough as it was? Why couldn’t the ligations be made by someone on duty? And any ass of an interne could sterilize instruments! But —it was his duty! Duty! What was duty when a man was dog-tired!
He arrived at the emergency ward on the run. An interne met him at the door. “A •serious case, Doctor,” he related concisely. “A woman fell from the steps of her back porch into a garden greenhouse, and her jugular vein is severed. She was given first aid by a local doctor, and has been brought forty miles in an ambulance. I’m afraid there’s not much chance.”
Doctor Creele pushed past the interne impatiently, paying scant attention to his remarks. Why was the fool telling him about the case? It was none of his business if the case was hopeless. He had no concern for the nature of the injury. His duty was to follow orders.
Inside the room, he glanced once at the still form on the table, the head and neck swathed in fold after fold of gauze, red with
the pecular redness of arterial blood. Then he began to arrange the necessary instruments.
Obviously a hopeless case. Scarcely worth pulling a man out of bed on a forlorn chance —but there was his professional honor.— When his preparations were complete, he looked up to announce the fact to the operating surgeon. There was no one in the room but internes.
Doctor Creele looked again at the still form. None of his business—probably the surgeon was coming—but he couldn’t stand there and watch a human life ebbing away. He snapped at the internes.
“Where is the surgeon? This woman is bleeding to death. Hurry, you fools! Don’t stand there gaping! Find the surgeon.”
One of the internes turned and spoke sharply to the other. “Didn’t you tell him ?” he snapped. Then he whirled and spoke to Doctor Creele. “You are the surgeon, Doctor,” he said swiftly. “Every surgeon in the place is occupied. A blast in a steel mill—You must tend this case!”
The young doctor was alive at once. Here was a big chance—the chance he had been hoping and praying for! A hopeless—an impossible chance—but a chance!
He gave orders swiftly, incisively. While he donned mask and white coat, and sterilized his hands, the internes removed the bloody bandages from the patient’s head, and replaced them with a loose hood, leaving the terribly gashed throat uncovered. Then Dr. Creele commenced the fight for life.
Swiftly, with all the sureness of long study and natural aptitude, the surgeon’s hands worked. But as they moved, Death’s bony fingers moved also. And Death had the start. Death had jumped the gun, but in the race of life there is no referee to disqualify one who jumps the gun. .
Frantically Doctor Creele worked, but just ahead—always just ahead Death worked also. And so, when another surgeon, a grizzled veteran of a thousand battles with
MM
58
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
the grim reaper, at last arrived, he first examined the wound, and then threw his arm pityingly across the young surgeon’s tired shoulders.
“A good fight, lad,” he said, “A good fight. But it is too late. She is dying.” He reached down and drew the covering from the
woman’s face. “At least,” he added, “She-shall not die in the dark.”	,
Doctor Creele glanced tiredly at the	4
woman for whom he had fought and lost.
It was his mother.
(Author’s note: This story is based upon an
actual happening.)
The Jury's System
J. P. M’NAMARA, ’28
Down wha’ the darkies croon Their simple haunting rune By the light of the somber moon it happened! This isn’t my story. Lawsy me no! Mars told it fust,—but dere, he’s gone the way Revival folks say. Y’ see Mars Tom was a lawyeh; an a powerful fine lawyeh he was.—’Bout d’ best eveh in this heah Toosculucey county. Could he talk? Wha’ man, he could cause sech vibrations wid his mauf that ud wreck de Brook-lin bridge; and elequent? He could untie a Herod’s heart-string!
Wal, ’bout d’ time of this story, Mars Tom hed his fust real big case. Now d’ evidence, mind yuh, was all against the prisoner; un Mars Tom, he was the prosecutin’ atturney. Wal after both lawyehs got the worst men they knew of on the jury th’ trial started. Finally the evidence was all presented. Tom he used a half hour denouncin the accused. Then ’bout two o’clock the jury filed out. Everyone said, seein’ as how the evidence stood against the accused, and seeing Mars Tom’s ability, thet
the jury wouldn’t be out over ten minutes, —fifteen at the most.... But time straggled by and hours chased one another into eter-ity,—un’ still that jury was silent! Everyone begun to wonder what was happenin’ an’ figured things might not turn out as well far the prosecutah afer all. Round about ten o’clock the judge left the bench; the folks generally left for hum; the sheriff, the two atoneys and sum reporters paced up an’ down the frunt corridor smoking	7
nickel cigars.
The case was sure goin’ to the defendant! Midnight came and went. Segar stubbs were two inches deep over the floor when the janitor beckoned Mars Tom to follow him. So they climbed up oveh this here jury chamber and looked down through a hole in the ceilin’. Everything was peaceful. Jest den de forhman yanked out his watch and sed: “I guess we’re safe to go in now. It shu was tough t’ keep th’ prosecutah waitin’, but business is business and.	□
we hed to get another day’s pay ’fore sending ’at niggah up.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
59

SPORT NEWS
|3
£
Eg
A Chip Off the Old Rock!
That’s the best way we can describe them. The ghosts of teams that have since marched on, seemed to rise on Cartier field .Saturday as Notre Dame slid off tackle, cut round end, and trickled back through center to a 41 to 0 victory over Baylor, with the characteristic running attack that has made the Fighting Irish famous. Especially notable in the inaugural fray was the play of the forward wall and indications point to the fact that this year’s squad -will be one of the best defensively that the .school has seen in years.
Any pretentious aspirations that Baylor may have harbored were laid away in lavender and old lace early in the first quarter, and the avalanche that swept down to crush, crash and smother the Texan express got under way when “Red” Hearden
CAPTAIN CLEM CROWE
scampered across after a sprint around left end. O’Boyle added the extra point. Rockne now sent in his second contingent to ■cavort. Flannigan and Prelli lost no time in getting under way. With these two skirting the ends and Hanousek punching the line for substantial gains the team marched down the field for a touchdown, Flannigan carrying the pigskin over. A little later Prelli broke loose and scored around left end. At the start of the second half Rockne returned his starting crew to the fray. This time Hearden and O’Boyle
carried off the honors and scored brilliant work. The scoring was finished when Dahman streaked across for a lone marker in the final frame.
The outstanding feature of the game was the revelation of the fact that this year Rockne will have two full teams of almost equal strength in the field, and a sufficient reserve force to make things mighty interesting. Either of the backfields can display enough speed, drive and power to satisfy even rhe most critical. The line appears to be better than Notre Dame has had for quite a time and it had little trouble in opening huge gaps in the heavier Baylor forward wall. In this division the stellar performance of McMan-mon at tackle, and John Smith, at guard, stood out as especially noteworthy. Boeringer ' at
center pulled through in a sensational manner and with Maxwell running true to form, the pivot position will not worry the team much in the future. Captain Clem Crowe, Wallace and Benda showed up well on the wing positions throughout the game. Another new face in the lineup whose work caused a great deal of comment in the stands was that of Polisky at tackle.
A word or two about the quarters would not be amiss. Edwards, Scharer and Riley showed good generalship while directing the destinies of the team. Hanousek and En
60
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
right at full turned in a nice day’s work.
For the visitors, Sisco, at tackle, was the individual star. Strickland, half back, was the moving spirit of the offense and got off some nice punts. Coates at full also showed up well.
To-morrow Lombard will invade Cartier Field to take up the quarrel with Notre Dame.
Line-up and summary:
Notre Dame, (41) Crowe (c) ...._L.	E.
Boland _______L.	T.
Marelli ______L.	G.
Maxwell _________C.
Mayer ________R.	G.
McManmon______R.	T.
Wallace ______R.	E.
Edwards-------Q.	B.
Hearden ______L.	H.
O’Boyle_______R.	H.
Enright ______F.	B.
FLANNIGAN
Baylor, (0) Taylor _________L. E. Sisco___________L.	T.
Riley (c) ______L. G. Walker (c) _____C. Hartzog_________R. G.
Porter _________R.	T.
Jones_______________R.	E.
Fall ___________Q.	B.
Strickland _____L. H. Kelly __________R.	H.
HEARDEN
Coates _________F. B.
Score by periods:
Notre Dame_____________7 14 14 6—41
Baylor _________________0	0	0 0— 0
Summary: Notre Dame—Scoring touchdowns: Hearden 2; Flannigan (for O’Boyle) ; Prelli (for Hearden) ; O’Boyle, and Dahman (for Hearden).
Points after touchdowns—O’Boyle 3; Scharer (for Edwards); Roach (for O’Boyle) .
Referee—Burch, Earlham. Umpire — Griffin, Beloit.
AS THE SCRIBES SEE IT
“Oh wad some power the giftie gie us To see oursel’s as others see us!”
With due apologies to Robert Burns and Company, that’s just what the Scholastic-strove to do when it interviewed the more prominent of the sports scribes who assembled to see the inaugural game. Here’s the way the Fighting Irish look to them :
Said Jinx Tucker, Sports Editor of the Waco Neivs-Tribune: “The thing I noticed most was the fine treatment accorded us. It is true that you had us outclassed in every department of play. You see, Baylor is an offensive team, and well, they never got the ball. Then I believe Notre Dame has a better defensive team than it has had in a long while. Rockne realized Baylor’s weakness lay in a poor forward pass defense and cashed in on that. I didn’t see Notre Dame last year, but I did see them in ’23 and I think this squad is just as good as that one was. At times it appeared as though the Notre Dame team was a little over anxious. We have no alibis. It was a good game throughout.”
Next came Corchran, the snappy sports editor of the Chicago American. Just one sentence, but it’s full of power: “Rockne has a team that -will be equal to that of last season.”
And maybe you remember the fellow who made such a good speech in the gym last year. Well if you should remember, here’s what Warren Brown, Sports Editor of the Chicago Herald-Examiner and one of Notre Dame’s best friends has to say: “Notre Dame’s line is better than that of last year. The team as a whole showed up wonderfully. But so far there is no Layden. I liked the way the team was coached and the intelligence displayed. They’re smart. For example, when there were twelve Baylor players on the field, the people up here with a birds-eye view of the whole works should have seen it but didn’t; however, someone on the Notre Dame team—I don’t remember who—did. That’s smartness. The kicking seems to be the only weak spot, but it is rather early in the season to criti-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

61
cise that. I was well pleased with Prelli. Notre Dame has a good season ahead. Nebraska?—We can tell more about that after the Army game.”
If you’ve heard of “he-men,” you’ve heard of this fellow James Crusinberry. Well he’s ■with the Chicago Tribune and he rates them in this language: “I think the squad is good. It was a great deal better than I expected. In fact, I was surprised to-day. Of course it’s too early in the season to say just what it can or cannot do, but there is lots of speed and fine material. The outlook is good for Notre Dame this year, I believe.”
A few years ago a fellow named Braden drop-kicked fifty-one yards for Yale against Harvard. Braden, now Sports Editor of the Chicago Daily Nezus was in the press box Saturday and his impressions follow: “I saw the Nebraska, Northwestern and Carnegie Tech games last year and I believe this team has more power, as good a passing attack and as much confidence as that of last year. The interference was highly developed. The showing of the line against a heavier line shows that weight is not going to worry them. The passing is as good as last year, but the kicking remains a weakness. For instance, I believe the end play as good as that of last season.—No, I don’t think you’ll be defeated this year.”
* * * *
Then from the Southland we interviewed Marion Barron of Waco whose advance story appeared in last week’s Scholastic. Introducing Mr. Barron: “Rockne sure has a wealth of material and by mid-season will have a great team. It was rather hard on both teams to play at such an early date but I have no doubt that you would outclass us at a later date. The sportsmanship shown at Notre Dame was the outstanding feature of my trip. And say, we would like to have you play down in Texas some of these days.”
SPRINGER STARTS SCRAPPERS
Real honest to goodness work was the program for the fistic aspirants under Charles Springer’s direction this week. About one hundred and twenty-five have been enrolled in the various boxing classes and actual laboratory work was started Monday. The team will inaugurate the season with an intensive fundamental drill that should last for a few weeks. Coach Springer, emphasizing the optimistic outlook for the team, says that some very likely freshman material has been uncovered within the last few days. In other words, just watch his Battling Irish this season.
DIAMOND DYNASTY CONTINUES
Battling with a vengence, Notre Dame’s diamond pastimers have been giving the horsehide a good pounding these days in an effort to get in as many good licks as possible before the weather clamps down on the activities ’of the rubber dusters. Captain Jim Silver says that workouts will continue right up until the moment when old Jack Frost takes over the weather helm. The battling of the squad has undergone a marked improvement during the past week and the batsmen are lifting them to the far stations with a regularity that will strike a scare into the hearts of the moundsmen opposing them next spring.
Meanwhile the battle for positions wages with intensity. Murray’s shoes seem destined to be filled by either Happer or Kelly. The former’s stellar work especially has been the talk of side-liners throughout the week. Among the other candidates the standings are about the same, with a notable improvement in every division.
Frank Reese, one of last year’s monogram men, has taken up the job of training the backfield combinations of Wabash college. According to The Bachelor, Wabash biweekly, Frank is cutting quite a figure at the Indiana school. Friends at Notre Dame will be glad to hear that his team got under way Saturday by trouncing Hanover 20 to 0.
62
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
According to some, the rubber pants exhibited by Baylor were the slickest things on the field.
Maybe so, but personally we cannot forget a S char er and an Edwards or so.
Who said Red Mayer didn’t get down to work early in the game? The nose guard came flying out after the second play.
We are told, that a. brace of co-eds corning in shortly after the game got under way were surprised to note that no one had scored any home runs.
We’re glad the Niles airway commission happened along to let people see that famous N. D. aerial attack.
The hick-off from the sidelines was a garish innovation that took most persons’ eyes. The Bears expected Rock to cash in on the “Joke of the Rule Book.”-—But Rockne never does the expected.
Lemons come from California, but no one handed N. D. one when they sent Prelli up here. The fellow at the next stall explains it by saying that peaches also hail from the Golden Coast. '
One of the real features of the game was the fine line play of the Fighting Irish against a heavier team. As Warren Broivn says, it was intellectual football.
Elmer Wynne tried to introduce a new style in headgears. But if turning them under in back accounts for his showing we suggest that everyone try it.
We liked Sisco’s playing; but better than that, we liked his sportsmanship.
We noticed that one of the advertisers in the program boasts that “the charge of the four horsemen is a good comparison to the service that our company can give you.” Now what do you think they mean ’ .
After Baylor had tried one of their passes around, the fifty yard line one of the
felloivs behind us sent this biilletin: Strickland aims pass at goal posts but misses.
The consensus of opinion in the Press Coop was that Notre Dame will be one of the strong contenders for National Honors again this season. Most of the writers were surprised at the showing made by Rockne’s pupils but they weren’t slow in admitting that it is a great team.
INTER-HALL FOOTBALL
If we would but listen to the song of James Crusinberry, we would be led to believe that each and every student of the old school is a pigskin wrestler. Well, we wouldn’t be far from right. Here in the land of football, where men are either linemen or backs, approximately three hundred huskies are swinging around end and through center in preparation for the interhall tilts that are to decide the wearer of the football laureate head gear for the season of *25.
Badin
Coaches Father Boland and “Pat” Cohen of Badin claim to have the material to build the best eleven synchronal cylinders that the campus has thus far uncovered. Several experienced men are endeavoring to secure berths on the team, the most prominent of whom are Andrews, Lloyd, Parker, Cantwell, Kirwin, Nash, Della Maria, McGuire, Massman, Roberto, Martin, Bombach, McFarlane, Butler and Daly.
Off-Campus
Then, we have among us the Day Dogs, a team reputed to possess the fleetness of the gray-hound combined with the durability of the bull dog. According to Coach Father Mooney, their entire program is veiled in clouds of secrecy. He contends, however, that like many such formations, the clouds have silver linings, and that the men about town will show some real stuif this fall. The Day Students that are showing best in the preliminaries are Doyle and McGee at center, Harvey, O’Toole, and Hayden at the ends and Roux, Eachus and Denchfield in the backfield.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
63
Brownson
In its initial bout, Brownson Hall will go into action against its old foe, Carroll. Both of the teams from the white tent region have substantial material. According to the latest dope, there will be a good pull on both sides of the rope. From the reviewing stand the outstanding players of the east lobby of the Main Building are Mooney, Krieg, McElroy, Lane, Grogan, Leach, Sheehan, O’Keiffe, Weppner, Williams, Datton and Coughlin. Edmund Bresnahan will pilot the Brownsonites for the coming season and Ed. Crowe will teach them the fine points of the game.
Sophomore
On the east side of the campus, we find the dens of the Freshman and Sophomore aggregations. The Sophs, under the able direction of Joe Boland and Vincent McNally, remain confident of adding another link to their chain of victories and contend that they will annex the scalps of all opponents with ease. A formidable line-up has not been arranged so far but according to Father Albertson, Riley, Purcell, McCarthy, Brown, Crowley, Tobin, Howard and Hogan, will form the nucleus of one of the strongest teams that Sophomore hall has ever had.
Freshman
Several fleet backs with a quartet of heavy men are expected to perform for Freshman Hall. The searchlight points vividly to Clements, Molmery, Besten, Hugger, Farrell, Hogan, Bair, Taylor, Lyden, and Leonelie as Coach Lyons’ best bets.
Corby, Sorin, Walsh
Corby, Sorin and Walsh halls are working hard for theii- respective battles. They all claim to have the beef to withstand hard attacks and the speed to crush their opponents’ defense.
Thus, with the sound of the shrill blast of the starting whistle, next Sunday will find eight teams of pigskin wrestlers on the gridiron and some of the most fierce melees in the history of football will be on. Pick your team.
ROCKNE
AND THE TEAM
IN
ROTOGRAVURE
Will appear on page one of the picture section Sun- • day, October 4. A splendid souvenir to send home
ORDER YOUR COPY
NOW
AT THE NEWS-STAND
NEWS-TIMES
V -	-	-	-- - -	- -	■■ -	<
f	-. _	. .	_	■ -
EVERYTHING NEW AND UP-TO-DATE OUR SERVICE IS BEST IN CITY
ONE MINUTE LUNCH
WAFFLE AND TOASTED SANDWICH SHOP
TAe Best Sandwiches in Town
107 W. LASALLE AVE.	SOUTH BLND. IND.
Office. Main 0689	Residence {	9^53
DR. EDGAR S. LUCAS DENTISTRY
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS Extracting and Surgery of the Mouth and Jaws
612 J. M. S. BUILDING
< ■ - — - ■ -
Patronize Only The
Scholastic Advertisers
--.....- — — - -
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
64
ON THE ENEMY’S TRAIL
Lombard lifted the lid for her pigskin season last Saturday by auspiciously trampling Mount Morris into a muddy field by a 32 to 0 tally. Coulter, full back, playing his first game for Lombard was the oustanding star, ringing up two touchdowns after forty yard runs in each case. Due to the condition of the field Lombard’s heavier team had a distinct advantage, and no open tactics could be resorted to. Mount Morris made but two first downs.
NOTRE DAME HASN’T A CHANCE
Hugh Fullerton, noted sport writer for the “world’s greatest newspaper,” predicts Notre Dame’s downfall in the coming season. His selections for the leading teams of the country are California, Pittsburgh, Illinois, West Virginia, Nebraska, Wisconsin, Yale, Stanford and Dartmouth. “Notre Dame,” he says, “will have but a fair team.” The graduation of Notre Dame’s first three teams is given as a reason for
his prediction. Mr. Fullerton also states that Notre Dame has picked an easier schedule than in previous years.
RESERVES TRAMPLE EAST CHICAGO
The future horsemen of Notre Dame sojourned to to East Chicago last Sunday and there battered out an 18 to 0 victory over the local team. The scoring was inaugurated when Voedisch snagged a pass over the goal line at the start of the second quarter. In the third period Parisien wove through the entire opposition and galloped sixty yards for a touchdown in returning a punt. The last quarter saw Trombley cut loose and score after a fifty yard run. No points after touchdown were scored. The game was rather listless throughout with the Reserves holding the advantage at all times. In the line John Fredricks and John Hogan performed best. Jim Quinn at full-back turned in a stellar game. His punts were very good and he backed up the line in a proficient manner.
UNIVERSITY MEN’S
TWO-PANTS SUITS
Fellows—we can show you the largest assortments of 2-Pants Suits in Northern Indiana.
WE THRIVE BY COMPARISON
$25 - $30 - $35
=0 WALDMAN CLOTHES —
CIGAR	2	— JEFFER
TRADE UPSTAIRS AND SAVE TEN DOLLARS s N “ bJUKt	NORTHWEST CORNER MICHIGAN & JEFFERSON
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
65

The University Style of Our Clothes is Right—Wear Them and
You Are Right
Here they are with the new wide shoulders, snug hips, easy trousers—you’ll like them. Hart Schaffner & Marx stylish
Suits and Overcoats—
$35 to $75
Sam’l Spiro & Co.
HART SCHAFFNER & MARX STYLISH CLOTHES
66
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
uu-ije
MOST MEN WILL TELL YOU—MAX ADLER’S FOR GOOD CLOTHES
the greatest story	j
in. tlxis week's	j
SATURDAY EVENING POST	I
Royal	Derby Suits, - - -	-	$50 j
The	approved style for Men—offered in an amazingly large	|
. assortment of substantial fabrics. Priced to warrant un-	j
usual value through the co-operation of our tailors at	f
Fashion Park.	|
’ I
Royal Derby Double Breasteds - $55 |
Reflecting the most	modern style thoughts of the Fashion	I
Park designing rooms. Tailored in exceptionally attractive	|
woolens from fine quality mills.	I
Par-Kerry Topcoats, - - - - $50 j
In this assortment you’ll find it easy to select the coat you	|
need. Autumn shades in both single and double breasted	*
Par-Kerry models.	|
£
Campus Store Open from 9:00 A. M. Until Noon	j
MAX ADLER	I
COMPANY	|
ON THE CORNER	MICHIGAN AND WASHINGTON j