SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
Entertainment reviews and previews, Out of Bounds and a Coming Distractions pull-out calendar of events. In-depth news and sports coverage.
Read one for the Gipper! Campus Watch plus Week in Distortion and On Other Campuses.
Campus Life stories to keep you informed of what's happening on campus.
Remember: If you see news happening... you're probably reading Scholastic!
If you don't have time to write home every week, let us do it for you: Give your parents a subscription!
Please send years of Scholastic to:
Name:_________________________________________________________________________________
Address:______________________________________________________________________________
City: State: Zip Code:
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $25.00 x years — $
Please send form with payment to: Business Manager
Scholastic Magazine
303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, In 46556
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
5	On the Air
6	A Year in Review
7	Notre Dame’s Other Magazine
9 Attitude Adjustment
14 A New Tradition
2	Editor’s Notes
3	Editorial
4	Campus Watch
22	On Other Campuses
23	Week in Distortion
24	Final Word
18	Out of Bounds
19	The Rave Craze
20	Nice Guys Finish Last
Cover photo by Brent Tadsen

fawOR'S-hfoTES
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME’S STUDEW
Vol.134, No.21 /April 15, 1993/
Discti Quasi SemperVicturus Vive (tiasi Cras Mo

EDITOR IN CHIEF
Margaret S. Kenny / :
MANAGING EDITOR
Kenneth AOsgoc^.
Kate Wiltrout // / :K./"
news-
Editor: Mark Mitchell IV
CAMPUSLIFE —LL? Editor: Mch'eH Crouch
SPORTS /L^G<S/L:
Editor: Amanda Clinton
ENTERTAINMENT; :/ Editor: Tony Leonardo
On the Cover
This week we feature women in sports at Notre Dame. Often forgotten, but talented nonetheless, the women athletes on our campus have made considerable in-roads in the last twenty years. Amanda Clinton, sports editor, writes about the new tradition of women’s sports. Kate Wiltrout, executive editor, examines the gender equity among Notre Dame’s sports programs and comes up with some surprising conclusions. Lastly, co-captain of the basketball team Kara Leary adds a personal view of what it’s like to be a female athlete at Notre Dame.
Also In This Issue
Our Campus Life section features two Notre Dame Magazines this week —■ the television show produced by students, and the magazine published for alumni. In addition, there’s a look at Pangbom Hall a year after its conversion to a women's dormitory.
Entertainment features an interview with the up and coming band, Velocity Girl, as well as an article on a new dance music craze, techno-music. Don’t forget our weekly departments: On Other Campuses, Week in Distortion and Campus Watch.
Accolades
At the Indiana Collegiate Press Association conference held at Notre Dame two weeks ago, Scholastic won twelve awards. The magazine placed second for overall best magazine, while winning first places in the best news story, column, review, feature story and house ad categories. Although we’re proud of the accomplishment, our staff can’t take all the credit because the awards were for die 1991 year.
Saying Goodbye
This is our last issue of the school year. Although, we will be out of sight for a while, our new staff will still be working on ideas and improvements for next year. We are always in search of talented writers, so if you are interested in joining our staff, stop by 303 LaFortune and let us know.
Kate Wiltrout
Executive Editor
DEPARTMENTS// Editor: Jenny Tate
PHOTOGRAPHY^ Editor: Brent Tadsen
Editor: Heidi; LauraToboni
GRAPHIC ARTS
Manager: Charl ieKranz
;MknagerSchris;S
ADVERTiSiNG^^-^/S;/ /Managers:/Patrick Gibbons L : L/Sean Mulvey■/
BUSINESS
MandgeryEileemS^
:DISTRIBUTIQN/;:;!;;;gi; Manner
Scholasticwillbepublishing
•riextye^
blW^or; organization would
ers'-Pafe
Sean Mulvey-at 631-7^69
Scholastic is published weekly throughout the schoolyear except during examination and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printed at The Papers, Inc* Milford, IN46542. The subscription rate is $25.00/year and back issues are available at $125/copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicitied materials become the property of Scholastic.
Copyright 1993 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written perm ission is prohibited.	*
Letters to Scholastic must be typed and include the writer's name, address and phone number. University students should include ■ their year in school and college. Faculty members should include their department. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances.
Scholastic reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or obscene by the laws of the UnitedStates. Scholastic also will edit for copyfitting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space, Scholastic cannotprintall letters received.
Address all correspondence to ;
-	The Editor
Scholastic
LaFortune Center
Notre Dame, IN46556



/ <eCHOLAjig
E—mial
Women on campus not involved or in terested in sports may wonder why the fuss about women athletes and not women in general? True, women’s sports are only a small part of the bigger picture of equality. But sports are a big part of American life, and female athletes at Notre Dame deserve the same amount of recogition and respect as the male athletes receive. No more, no less.
To be fair, Notre Dame’s athletic department must be congratulated its their work in raising the stature of women’s sports. However, the administration and the athletic department must address the needs of the athletes, those who bring reputation and awards to the school. The athletes are the ones on the front lines of competition. They deserve top coaching, good facilities and, most importantly, the chance to win.
Two years ago, the top women’s basketball recruit in the nation, Michelle Marciniak, committed to Notre Dame. She set records here in the one season she played before transferring to the University of Tennessee, a program she felt was more established. A year later, Marciniak remarked, “I’m thrilled about transferring. I have no regrets about leaving and no hard feelings towards ND.”
Another top basketball play er, sophomore Audrey Gomez, recently made the decision to leave Notre Dame, simply saying, “I don’t think ND is the place for me. I’m unhappy here.” With two of the top players gone in two successive seasons, Notre Dame’s ability to recruit other top women basketball players is severly damaged. High school athletes courted by the school, as well as Notre Dame students on the whole, will have
to wonder what made these two girls so unhappy that they left
Both athletes remarked that they were misled in coming to Notre Dame. Said Marciniak, “I found out I didn’t know as much about the program as I thought I did.” Gomez noted, “Female athletes have to look closely at what they’re going to get into. After college, there is nothing. I don’t think I looked close enough [at Notre Dame].”
Recruiters must be careful at how far they go to woo athletes here. It is one thing to get athletes here, but the ability to keep them here is even more important
— Scholastic
Fresh Baked Bagels
-Classic Cafe and Deli
-10 bagel varieties with weekly special flavors
-Lunch menu includes sandwiches made with bagels
-Buy bagels individually or by the dozen
-Large orders need three days advance notice
-Located at: the Campus Shoppes
1801 South Bend Ave. (219)277-4440
Mon-Fri. 6:30-6:30
Sat. 6:30-5:00
.	Sun. 7:00-2:00	Proprietors: Bill Mountford. MBA '91	I
Missy Conboy'82
.	Consulting Manager: Tom Hudak ‘88
l■Mmg^£ol^ENTAR¥
Cam pus Wa tch
WIPE OUT!!!
The Gipp was pleased to notice his last column infused dedicated readers with the spirit of research. The question: How much toilet paper is on one of those industrial spare-tire sized roll? (Recently installed in specially-marked dormitories.) A few Zahm residents took the time to find out. Starting from the front door of Zahm hall, these budding scientists unrolled TP all the way to Gate 15 of the stadium, back to Zahm, and half-way back to the stadium again. Quite obviously, there is too much length and not enough thickness on these rolls.
Double up, boys!
DON'T DROP YOUR DRAWERS
The Gipp spotted a generously sized eighteen-wheeler parked behind Nieuwland science hall. Normally this would not spark his “Gippy-sense,” except for the lines of freshmen and sophomore students carrying their lab drawers into the truck. The Gipp watched with horror as a brown-haired freshman girl dropped her drawer, spilling all its contents down the Nieuwland steps. Who would permit such a disaster? The person who cancelled the lab sections a month early.
BREAKFAST OF CHAMPIONS
The Gipp had the fortuitous opportunity to witness first hand the Notre Dame football players at their training table. The Gipp had always supposed our football heroes eat filet mignon steaks and caviar. This is not true. The Gipp witnessed several prominent football players eating potatoes neptune. Yes— you heard right, the Fighting Irish eat mystery potatoes too; rubber tires injected with salt water, synthetic cheese and all. The Gipp wonders if this is the Irish’s secret to success.
Imagine:
Lou: Men, we’re eating potatoes neptune. Raghib: I’m moving to Toronto.
This Week: The Truth
WANTED: REASONABLE CHANCE OF SUCCESS
Since the Gipp is setting the record straight about the football players’ eating habits, he might as well clear away any myths surrounding the admissions process. According to the most recent issue of the Notre Dame Report, “Admission decisions on student-athletes are made in the same way they are for most other students.... For football and men’s basketball, the standard is an analysis of whether or not the applicant has a reasonable chance to succeed in academic work.” ’Nuff said.
MUY CHEAPO
The Gipp frowns on the department of Romance Languages and Literatures for charging professors to xerox materials— who, of course, pass this expense on to their impoverished students. The Gipp had to cough up six cents for a copy of a story, which he couldn’t read anyway because someone wrote the whole thing in Spanish. If they expect the Gipp to pay for his unidad examen, then they have another thing coming. Tres Chintzy.


“73,



if' ..............
* Why does the Gipp always write about himself in third person?
CAVANAUGH'S RECTRESS ?
With the loss of Cavanaugh rector Father Andre Leveille to Notre Dame High School in Illinois, Student Affairs is in the market for a new rector. Or are they? One possible candidate for rector commented, “Who says Cavanaugh’s next rector is going to be a man?”
OH JOY. OH RAPTURE.
The Gipper is pleased to announce the arrival of the all new and improved Code of Academic Honor. After months of procrastination and bickering, the committee passed yet another final form of the revised final form of the honor code. However, the College of Science made it clear that it would not abide by such a code unless there was a mandatory reporting clause, which there isn’t. The College of Engineering declared rather firm opposition to provisions removing professors from their classrooms during tests. This seems fishy to the Gipp. Does this mean that somebody doesn’t trust us — at Notre Dame???
&
I WANT MY MTV . .
Calculating. TP length is not the ; only thing Zahm residents are doing. A tip from Cavanaugh reported illegal cable TV rather obviously being piped into the quad side of Zahm hall. This ' cable is coming and going from every window, hanging low so ' any random chump with a knife ,; ; and’some pliers can score him-, self some free CNN. The Gipp . . thinks his Zahm buddies could use a lesson in subtlety.
4
ON THE
Notre Dame Magazine, a student-produced television show, makes its debut on TCI
by Christopher Rains
A Imost every Notre Dame fan knows XA-that as a result of the university’s contract with NBC, all of Notre Dame’s home football games are broadcast nationwide. Not many students, however, are aware that Notre Dame also has its own television show devoted exclusively to portraying life on Notre Dame’s campus.
This one-hour, twice-a-month cable show is entititled Notre Dame Magazine. Produced entirely by Notre Dame students, it broadcasts news, sports and many other aspects of Notre Dame, according to Notre Dame student Chris Schultz, the executive producer and host of the show.
Notre Dame Magazine made its debut in the Fall of 1992. “I was working at TCI Cable Michiana, doing sports for a publicaccess show,” recalled Schultz. “I wanted to do a show to focus on Notre Dame sports, so I proposed the idea to production coordinator Gary Stephenson. He liked the idea, and the first show aired in October.”
Although sports issues have a definite role in almost every broadcast, in reality, Notre Dame Magazine does not focus solely on athletics. The hour-long show incorporates interviews with on-location or on-campus footage, and the reports generally address a variety of issues which affect Notre Dame.
Schultz said the show tends to focus on undergraduate aspects of the university, since the entire production crew is made up
of undergraduate students. The crew members write their own scripts, edit their own footage and do their own production work.
In addition, “the administration has nothing to do with the show,” noted team member Noah Cooper.
Notre Dame Magazine has become a medium through which alumni, faculty and students can learn about life on the university's campus, said Schultz. Major features have included an informative report on the Notre Dame Encounter Program, interviews with prominent students and student-athletes and coverage of the filming of Rudy.
Cooper said one of his favorite assignments —a story on campus areas not open to the public — included an opportunity to explore these areas. For his assignment, Cooper gotpermission to visit the fifth floor of the administration building and the series of “catacombs,” or tunnels, that crisscross beneath certain areas of the campus.
Catherine McGinley re-emphasized Cooper’s point. “Through the show, I have been able to learn more about Notre Dame than I thought possible. I have been introduced to aspects of the university that not everyone knows about.”
In general, however, the main body of material on the show consists of interviews with Notre Dame students. Yet the show will notneccessarily retain this style. Notre Dame Magazine has the potential for a flexible future, said Schultz.
According to Schultz, production of the show is relatively cost-free and simple. All the editing and filming takes place in a studio at TCI Cable. Marty Heirty, a TCI employee, directs the in-studio production. On production days, which usually occur about every other week, the student participants meetatTCI to film interviews,edit on-location footage, and put the pieces of the “puzzle” together.
The show imposes no cost to the university or the students, who use their own equipment when outside the studio, Schultz said. TCI provides the rest.
The core group of students who produce Notre Dame Magazine work voluntarily. Currently, this team consists of the following students: Chris Schultz, Christy Faustmann, Catherine McGinley, Angee Kerrigan, Megan Thomas, Noah Cooper and Shelly Gepsert. Each participates in the various aspects of production, whether it be reporting on the many community service projects on campus, interviewing a basketball player or sequencing video imagery.
“This has been a great opportunity for me to explore a possible career option,” said McGinley. "I have always been interested in tele-communications, and I wanted to see the practical side of the business.”
As for the future of Notre Dame Magazine, “We’ll be continuing it, even through the summer,” said Schultz. For now, Notre Dame Magazine airs the first and third Tuesdays of every month (rebroadcast), at 9 p.m. on cable channel 3.	□

\ CaMPUsLife ■■	,2.Li
PANG BORN:
A Year in Review
Pangborn makes a great start in its first year as a women's dorm.
by Eileen Sirmans
r ■ ’’he Dorm of the Year for 1993 is full of JL phoxy women, but this was not the case last year.
Pangborn Hall was named “Dorm of the Year” by the Hall Presidents’ Council in its
first year as a women’s dorm, with 102 fresh
man, 40 transfer students and 40 on-campus
transfers as residents.
“This was just the icing on the cake. A final acknowledgment of how people are happy and positive about our dorm,” said Pangborn rector Cathie Lohmuller.	.
The women of Pangborn have been working on making a name for themselves since the onset of the year. “There were 182newpeoplehere. Everyone was excited and happy to be here, settling in and making a name for our dorm,” said Lohmuller.
Pangborn organized an
interhall football team early in In one of Pangborn's first all-campus events, “The Price is Right,” wehadtomove. Iwasactually
the Fall season, choosing their mascot through a dorm vote.
The result was Pangborn Phox football, from which the inhabitants derived their nickname, “phoxy” women. .
“Our record was nothing to brag about, but the spirit and support was electric,” said juniors Kate Bambrick and Anne La Fleur, copresidents of Pangborn.
Enthusiasm and spirit have been evident in mostofPangbom Hall’s efforts this past year. The Fall SYR was heard about all over campus. This was “an event that truly reflected the rambunctious spirit of the residents,” said Bambrick and La Fleur.
The residents’ enthusiasm was evident in holiday decoration as well. During
Christmastime, many residents pitched in to decorate the dorm. For example, they put up a Star of David outside of the dorm.
In the dorm’s short existence, the residents have already created traditions they hope will last for years to come. Pangbom’s “Snap-A-Scam” had much of the campus chuckling
during Valentine’s Day. “Snap-A-Scam” was
a fundraiser in which Pangborn residents de-
contestants celebrate their victory.
livered an autographed polaroid of any on-campus resident to anyone who was willing to pay $2 for it.
“Considering people didn’t exactly know what ‘Snap-A-Scam’ was and the problems we had with organization, it went okay,” said freshman Julie Wallman, the project’s commissioner. “But it will have greater success next year because people will remember it and know what to expect”
Another tradition began with “The Price is Right.” For this fundraiser, each section in the, dorm was required to build a showcase. Then ' tryouts were held for Bob Barker, Rod Roddy and Barker’s Beauties. Pangborn solicited
over $1,000 in prizes for. the show. They donated the proceeds of this event to the La Casa Community Center.
La Casa has been an ongoing community service project for the new residents of Pangborn. One of their efforts included inviting a group of La Casa children to visit the
dorm. All of the residents had the opportunity
to spend time with the children. “The kids
coming to visit was just wonderful. Students took the children out on tours of the campus, ate lunch with them and showed them a great time,” said Lohmuller.
Former residents of Pangborn are now beginning to recognize the new identity of their former home. “When I first meet someone from Pangborn, I’ll joke around about them stealing the dorm fora minute, butl don’tmakea big deal about it,” said sophomore Michael Sofield. “It isn’t their fault they live there and
looking forward to new roommates and a new situation this year.”
Senior Joe Laur agreed, “I can see how it would be really hard having to be in a dorm its first year. Even though I’m still thoroughly bitter, I think they’ve donea good job with the whole situation.”
“Women’s dorms on campus tend to have a problem with achieving and maintaining an identity,” said Laura Schnorenberg, 1994 Pangborn co-president. “Pangborn has come a long way already in establishing and promoting its identity. We possess a strong sense of community and we want to continue to grow in the upcoming year.”	□
SCHOLASTIC
. Campus Life
Notre Dame’s OTHER Magazine
Notre Dame Magazine keeps alumni and Notre Dame fans well-informed
by Chris Lenko
A\n Thursday nights the atmosphere in the dining halls is a little more subdued than usual as students scarf down unidentifiable food-like substances and thumb through the pages of Scholastic magazine. Students often do not have the time to read national newspapers or catch the news, and campus publications, therefore, play a major role in educating and informing students of international concerns as well as campus activities and events.
However, many dedicated Notre Dame alumni continue to remain interested in their
alma mater after graduation. They long for the “good old days” when they could spend an hour a week digesting dinner and the contents of a campus publication to learn of campus news, entertainment, sports, gossip and upcoming events.
In 1971, Notre Dame Magazine was created to address this alumni interest in university life and, further, to keep them informed of campus issues and concerns. Twenty-two years later, the magazine’s
mission is still “the continued education of Notre Dame alumni,” according to Editor-in-Chief Walton Collins. The magazine, which reaches over 120,000 readers worldwide, has been recognized as the nation’s best Catholic magazine by the Catholic Press Association.
In addition, it repeatedly appears on the Council for Advancement and Support of Education’s list of top twenty university magazines.
The publication’s popularity with critics and readers alike is not difficult to understand; each colorful and glossy issue is filled with timely and interesting articles, eyecatching graphics, alumni profiles and alumni news.
Ana Villamil, deputy director of the Space
Processing Division of NASA headquarters and a graduate of the class of 1982, said she likes the diversity of topics addressed in each issue and the striking photographs the magazine uses. “The campus scenes bring back a lot of old memories and remind me of how beautiful the campus is as well as how much things have changed since I was a student,” she explained.
Walton Collins and his staff of editors, all dedicated Notre Dame alumni, are “committed to keeping parents, alumni and friends of the university informed of campus concerns, helping members of each graduating class remain a part of the Notre Dame community”
Notre Dame Magazine is sent to all
alumni free of charge. Villamil believes that this shows “that their interests are not financial but lie in reaching out and drawing in all members of the Notre Dame community.” Yet each reader is invited to make a $15 contribution to the voluntary subscription fund. The money, Collins said, is used to cover production expenses and to guarantee that the magazine will remain in publication. The majority of the magazine’s readership is comprised of alumni, and Collins
j||RIL>M993
7
tries to keep their interests in mind when deciding on the types of articles each issue will feature. According to Collins, the magazine contains articles which are “consistent with the values upheld by the university,” but he emphasized that the magazine does not act as an apologist for the university’s positions.
While stories tend to be conservative and examine issues such as university teaching or the search for spirituality, Notre Dame Magazine does not shy away from controversial issues, Collins said. An article written by university chaplain Robert F. Griffin that appeared in the magazine’s Winter 1992-93 edition is one recent piece which generated a great deal of reader response. Griffin’s feature, entitled “Stop the Fighting,” appealed to members of both pro-life and pro-choice groups to reach a consensus and work to establish a society where children are not feared but protected.
Several readers, mostly pro-life advocates, opposed Griffin’s position, but the
staff oiNotre Dame Magazine defended the article which, it claimed, intelligently explores both sides of the abortion debate: “Although the editors realized passions ran high on this issue, we felt that Father Griffin’s article was fair and pastoral,” Collins explained.
While the magazine has evolved over the years, Collins believes that it remains true to its original purpose, exploring the issues that affect all people interested in life at Notre Dame. Readers often write in to offer their suggestions for story ideas, he said, pointing out that their interests and concerns actually are not much different than those of Notre Dame students. In addition to feature stories, each issue has a section covering Notre Dame news, as well as an alumni section and a perspectives section, containing personal essays written by alumni.
Recent issues have featured articles oh science and technology, social service, world events, prominent faculty members, and the unique Notre Dame phenomena of
football weekends. The latter article, written by Chicago Tribune columnist Eric Zorn, covered the football season opener against Michigan State from the perspective of students, grads, “subway alumni” and general fans. The article traced the weekend's activities from a number of vantage points, including the rituals of the Quarterback Football luncheon, dorm parties, pep rallies, bookstore lines and tailgating.
While the days of eating unidentifiable food-like substances are a thing of the past for most graduates, Notre Dame Magazine enables members of the extended Notre Dame family to keep in touch with the community and to explore the issues and concerns which affect them.	□
CLASSIC;
SUBWAY Has A Sandwich For ANY Size Appetite!!!
.SUBWAY*
• SR 23 At Ironwood
• US 31N (By North Village Mall)
.	■	 SCHOLASTIC

Under federal law, increased opportunities in sports for women sometimes hurt men
by Kate Wiltrout
/"'t ender equity is the politically correct vJTterm for it Others call it equality or women’s rights. Whatever name it goes by, the issue of women in college athletics is becoming more and more important. This issue is especially relevant at Notre Dame, a university traditionally known for both its high percentage of male enrollment and its football team.
Gender equity is not just a passing fad. It is the law. Title IX of the 1972 Educational Amendments prohibits schools—both public and private—from discriminating on the basis of sex in any educational program or activity. Five universities are presently in court on cases related to gender equity in sports, reported the February issue of the Chronicle of Higher Education. The decisions on these cases will clarify the implications of the legislation.
Changes are being made at Notre Dame. This past October, Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal appointed a six person, in-house committee to undertake a gender equity study to see if Notre Dame is in compliance with Title IX. Associate Athletic Director Missy Conboy noted, “We want to have the study there, to be able to come out with a very clean slate,” in case Notre Dame is accused of a Title IX violation.
Schools can be in compliance with Title IX in three ways, according to Conboy. A school can show that the men’s and women’s athletic programs are completely equal. Another option is for a school to prove that it has a history of continually increasing opportunities for women ath
letes. Or schools may show that they have adequately accommodated all the athletic interests of women on campus.
Conboy feels that Notre Dame has shown a history of increasing opportunities for women. She also hopes to cover the third option by providing all the sports in which women on campus are interested.
Only recently have women’s sports at Notre Dame reached anything resembling equality. For a long time women’s sports were basically “an afterthought,” said head track coach JoePiane. Five women’s varsity sports have been added in the last five years, bringing the total number to 11, compared to
Wemfcmb
p ® Associat e?
13 varsity men’s teams. Women’s soccer, softball and golf began in 1988, while indoor and outdoor track got their start in 1991. In that same time period, women’s scholarships increased over 100 percent In the 1992-93 academic year, women athletes received 67 athletic scholarships, 32percentof all awarded, according to athletic department statistics.
Because of the increasing enrollment of
women, Conboy noted, Notre Dame must continually increase women’s scholarships if it is serious about gender equity. Next year, women will receive an additional three scholarships while men will lose three and a half.
Tihe reactions of female athletes are encouraging. Kala Boulware, a member of the three-year old track team, said that sometimes tension exists between the men and the women because “the guys [on the track team] will get a better trip. A lot of times we are bitter about it, but it could be due to the fact that our program is new.”
Boulware did say, however, that gender is not an issue in the upper level support that athletes receive in general. “In things like academic services and health services for athletes, it really doesn’t matter if you’re a girl or a guy,” she said.
Andrea Alexander, a junior member of the women’s basketball team, said “I think it’s pretty fair. Our school gets more than other schools we play. We don’t get as much as the men do, but we get enough. That would be expected, because they are bringing money in.” Teammate Kara Leary agreed. “Our funding is pretty good,” she said. “We fly almost everywhere, have good uniforms and practice gear.”
Head women’s soccer coach Chris Petrucelli stated, “There’s no doubt about it Our situation is better than 99 percent of the schools around the country. Our budget numbers, compared with the men’s, are very, very similar.”
Notre Dame is also making strides in hiring women coaches. Three head coaches

of the 24 varsity sports are women—Muffet McGraw of the basketball team, Liz Miller of the softball team, and Debbie Brown of
the volleyball team. Conboy said that getting women coaches is a concern of the athletic department. “We make a very concerted effort to interview the top male and female candidates,” said Conboy, “but we feel we have to get the best possible coach, regardless of gender.”
Coach McGraw said she has no complaints about her treatment as a head coach or the team’s travel arrangements, uniforms and use of facilities.
The biggest difference between the women’s and the men’s basketball programs, in McGraw’s opinion, is the crowd at the games. She described how disheartening it can be for her team to go to a men’s basketball game and see a crowd of 5,000 peopleand then go to their own gameand see 800 spectators. “The girls will stand there after the game and personally thank people
for coming,” she said. An attitude change will “get the ball rolling,” according to McGraw. By increasing the attendance at
women’s games, basketball would get more prime time television coverage, which, she said, would bring even more spectators to the games. Once more people become inter
ested in women’s athletics, attitudes will change. “Getting crowds,” said McGraw, “will be more important than things that can
come from the inside.”
Conboy said “We re working to bring
fans into the stands. We’re making some
major changes, such as night women’s
games, getting conces- p . . -p
Gender equity is also a	ySllWcitSlSife
game of numbers. For
Title IX purposes, r	IS
schools used to be able to compare men’s and	-J: :
women’ssportsprograms after excluding football, L-:.; the largest team with the [Pp-most scholarships. Foot-ball also has no direct fe-male equivalent. i
In 1988, however, the i '.-i decision on the Grove

City court case changed the way schools interpreted Title IX by forcing colleges to reinclude football in their Title IX statistics.
Having to count football in scholarship totals suddenly meant that men were receiving far more scholarships than women. The direct result of the new legislation is that
other men’s sports must compensate for football’s excesses. Notre Dame’s football team was awarded 92 scholarships in 1992 — 45 percent of all the scholarships given out.
As it now stands, once football is subtracted, twelve varsity men’s sports receive 53 scholarships. Eleven varsity women’s programs receive 67 scholarships. In the Olympic sports, women are actually receiving more scholarships than men. The women’s tennis team awards eight scholarships while the men get only four and a half. Female swimmers get eight, males get less than one. On the fencing team, women hold two of the three scholarships that are given out, athletic department statistics showed. Next year, because the women are slated to receive an additional three scholarships while the men are going to lose three and a half, the problem will be exacerbated even more.
The elimination of the wrestling program last year was a result of Notre Dame’s attempt to equalize sports opportunities. Conboy admitted that the abolition of the wrestling team was “directly related to” gender equity and the Title IX requirements.
The official reason given for the decision was the need to “reallocate resources.” She
confirmed that the resources will be reallo
cated towards women’s sports.
Because
they did not want to polarize the campus or start a backlash against women’s sports, Conboy said, they did not directly come out and say it.
Pat Cady, a junior on the men’s swim team, is frustrated that sports like men’s swimming get very few scholarships in order to compensate for the high number the football
team receives. If football is eliminated from the gender equity equation, he said, “You’ll raise the athleticism all across the board.
Women deserve their scholarships, but so do die men.”
Assistant swimming coach Randy Julian sees the football question in gender equity as
■’ ■.	;	■ ■	'	'■ SCHOLASTIC

Participants
393
167

# of sports
13
11

^ibfscWffl §n^'nus^^
the number one issue in college athletics today. As a coach, he has seen Notre Dame lose some very outstanding male swimmers because “we can’t provide the dollar amount to bring them here.”
Rosenthal acknowledges that some sports, like swimming and tennis, are disproportionately favored toward the women, but points out thatsports like women’s track and softball are unequal with their male counterparts.
Rosenthal said, “I don’t believe that there’s a prominent feeling of reverse discrimination among male athletes, at least in the larger view, although at any given moment, someone can feel they’re not getting a fair shake.” Cady simply questioned, “What makes a sport better than another sport?”
If Notre Dame does nothing and simply abides by Title IX, it is in essence, reverse discriminating. If it makes men equal in sports like swimming and tennis, while keeping women sports the way they are, the university is breaking the law. There are no easy answers.
Conboy addressed concerns about the way football dominates the athletic scene at Notre Dame by saying, “You’ve got to remember, football is paying the bills.” She pointed out that athletics at Notre Dame are not subsidized by the general fund of the university. “The first time we operate in the red and start to drain university funds, then something will have to change,” she said.
Julian is optimistic because the athletic department is looking at the problem sincerely. “There will be a positive solution,” he said, although it may take as many as five years. “The athletic director and the school have gone to great lengths to improve the situation. Notre Dame is a real model of trying to do what is right.”
All in all, the responses of those involved with women’s athletics at Notre Dame are positive. The women themselves, whether coaches, athletes or administrators, acknowledge that although things are not perfect at Notre Dame, there are no glaring errors that need to be addressed. Policies have changed, and attitudes are being adjusted. In the words of Notre Dame softball coach Liz Miller, “Change takes time, and change is not always easy.”
Conboy, who is on a Colloquy 2000 subcommitte, noted that other committee members seemed so impressed with gender equity in sports at Notre Dame that the athletic policies should be extended to the whole university. However, before Notre Dame attempts to do that it must deal with some of the inequalities that exist in men’s sports. Gender equity is not just about women. □
by Kara Leary
The stage is set The place — the NCAA championship game. The score is tied and time is running out. The ball is shot, the crowd cheers loudly, the players stand motionless as the ball rolls around the rim and the buzzer sounds. The ball rolls around and around the rim and the buzzer gets louder and louder and louder until you roll over and shut the alarm off. It is time to go to 6:00 a.m. preseason workout—the first steps to winning that championship game that you have dream about every nighL
This anecdote not only depicts the dreams of many college basketball players aspiring to shoot the winning basket in the NCAA championship game, but it also depicts the hard work necessary to reach this ultimate game. Many young male athletes share in this championship dream as do many female athletes, including the members of the Notre Dame women’s basketball team.
Getting up in the fall at 6:00 a.m. for hourlong workouts, performing weight lifting workouts at7:00 a.m., and playing in pick-up basketball games in the afternoon at theRock is our part of our preparation for our championship goal. Practicing for three hours a day, six days a week prepares us for the rigors of our season and for the chance to play in the Final Four. We work as hard as any other athletic team in the country.
But being on a women’s team does not carry the same reputatuion as being on a men’s team. Our games are not usually nationally televised, nor are our games usually sold out, nor are our budgets as big as men’s basketball. We work as hard and as long as any men’s team, we travel as much as any men’s team, we follow the same NCAA rules as the men’s team, and most importantly, we dream the same championship dreams.
Kara Leary is co-captain of the women's basketball team.
■APRIL 15,1993 ••
Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call 239-7569.
Thursday 15
Recital: Baritone Sanford Sylvan and pianist David Breitman, 8:00 p.m., Snite. Lecture: "Democracy and Development in South America: 1946-1980," Adam Przeworski, 4:15 p.m., Hesburgh Center Auditorium.
Lacrosse: Notre Dame vs. Air Force, Moose Krause Field, 3:00 p.m.
Movie: "Juice," 8:00 & 10:30 pjn., Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Play: "A Streetcar Named Desire," Farley Hall Players, LaFortune Ballroom, 7:00 p.m...................
Friday 16
Men's Golf: Firestone Invitational
Softball: Notre Dame vs. LaSalle, Jake Klein Field, 3:30 p.m.
Lecture: "Earthquake Damage and Reconstruction: Case Study from Armenia," Mishac Yegian, Northeastern University, 131 DeBartolo, 4:30 p.m.
Film: "Bram Stoker's Dracula," 7:00 &
9:45 p.m., Snite, $2.	.
Movie: "Of Mice and Men," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Play: "A Streetcar Named Desire," Farley Hall Players, LaFortune Ballroom, 7:30 p.m.
Saturday 17 !
Lacrosse: Notre Dame vs. Ohio	(
Weslyan, Moose Krause Field, 1:00 p.m. ] Fischer Hall Regatta: Indoor picnic	1
with desserts outside, Saint Mary's Lake, j 11:00 a.m.	1
Saint Ed's Charity Carnival: Saint	]
Mary's Lake. Men's Golf: Firestone Invitational Readings: "Spring and Rebirth, Youth and Beauty," Snite, 10:30 a.m. Track: Notre Dame men and women vs. Ball State, Cartier Field, 1:00 p.m.
Film: "Bram Stoker's Dracula," 7:00 &
9:45 p.m., Snite, $2.	1
Movie: "Of Mice and Men," 8:00 & J 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Play: "A Streetcar Named Desire," Farley Hall Players, LaFortune Ballroom, 7:30 p.m.
631-7361
■y 'i \\ '\<'r

7:
LaFortuneInformationDesk:	Sophomoreaass:631-5225
JuiuorClass:631 -5

%
Weekend Wheels Schedule:

Bo
Su
Bu
AH
Touch Four
Dial 239-2500, then press: x 6050 for news headlines x 6052 for world news x 6121 for top pop albums x 6571 for prime time TV । x 6129 for video releases
x 1031 for local weather
x 6736 for national weather
x 6123 for movie reviews
x 9595 party line
x 6238 for TV sports events
x 6230 for national sports report
x 6263 for college basketball
Sunday
18
Concert: Christine Rutledge and Darlene Catello, viola and harpsichord, Suite, 2:00 p.m.
Wen's Golf: Firestone Invitational Softball: Notre Dame vs. Butler, Jake Klein Field, 1:00 p.m.
tin Tostal
Tuesday 20
Film: "Final Analysis," 7:00 p.m., Snite, $2.
Film: "My Beautiful Laundrette," 9:30 p.m., Snite, $2.
An Tostal
TOUCH
FOUR
Monday
19
Wednesday 21
Performance: "Julius Caesar", Washington Hall, 8:10 p.m.
An Tostal
trt Show: Opening of Annual Student Show, Suite.
tn Tostal
?ilm: "Roger and Me," 7:00 pjn., Snite, >2.
?llm: "Privilege," 9:00 p.m., Snite, $2.
tn Tostal:

aKIohfl;
lall Tourney ;
eo Game Challenge
mpus Bands
okstore B-Ball ;
an Spikefest T
tefiday: ■
Mating Contest

Gorch Games Room Ballroom: Fieldhouse Mall Stepan, Bookstore JACC, Stepan
Library Green
ionSez
uisdaji: ngeeRun
Stepan Field
Fieldhouse Mall
6:30 p.m.
12:00-7:00 p.m 4:00-9:00 p.m.
Varies ./■
Varies :
3:00 p.m
3:30 p.m
12:00^5:00 p.m
za Eating Contest iiusiax: lesTraveler J;';:
Uday: ’
Star Game
Knights of Columbus
Stepan Center
Step^nCpurts
4:00 p.m
8:00 p.m
3:00p.m

alBHlWisg
pSSSWiSSiO

tWoiM^W^-ifiema.
^Sports
A New Tradition
For the past 20 years, women’s sports at Notre Dame have been making history
by Amanda Clinton
Welcome to the 1972-73 school year, the first year females were admitted to Notre Dame. There were no organized interhall, club or varsity teams for women. Asfor physical education class, women were not even expected to compete with men.
“The classes as they stand now are co-ed, started that way primarily because there were not enough girls to have their own classes. But as they soon found out, ‘everything that we offered for the men, the women could do,’” wrote Scholastic sportswriter Eileen O’Grady in 1975.
File photo
The Irish women's basketball team enjoyed its first year of varsity status during the 1977-78-season.
Now, twenty years later, women are an integral part of athletic life at Notre Dame. They can be seen just about anywhere on campus. They might be spotted on one of the Stepan courts warming up for Bookstore Basketball. Or maybe they could be found playing interhall soccer. They might be seen throwing a ball during varsity softball practice. They could be any female Notre Dame student. Yet the road to female integration in all aspects of sporting life at Notre Dame was not easy.
In the fall of 1972,325 women arrived on campus. At the time there were no organized athletic activities for women. But, according to Notre Dame Sports Information director John Heisler, the university was open to implementing opportunities for women to compete in sports.
“The office is prepared to do all it can to arrange athletic events for the girls. Thus the girls are encouraged to make their desires for various athletic programs known,” said interhall girls supervisor Betsy Bernard, to the Scholastic in 1975.
While it took four years before the first female team was elevated to varsity status, participation in club sports as well as interhall competition was almost instantaneous. Within the first year of co-education, female dorms had already begun to play interhall flag football, according to Scholastic.
“The wonderful thing here is the possibility of sports, with interhall and all the facilities. That is more important than the varsity programs,” Executive Vice President Emeritus Fr. Edmund Joyce stated recently.
Scholastic reported that by 1981, female interhall competition featured women’s football, women’s tennis, mixed doubles tennis, women’s soccer, women’s six mile run and co-rec softball teams.
Women also began to contribute to club sports that are co-ed like crew, sailing and
skiing.
Despite the willingness on the part of Notre Dame to adjust to admitting women, there was criticism as to how the situation of integrating women in athletics was handled.
“There is enough interest to start swimming, fencing and tennis right now, but not if they have to compete with their male counterparts,” wrote Scholastic sportswriter Leo Mulcahey in 1972. “The present policy of the athletic department is to sit and wait. Wait and see how many girls go out for the men’s teams, then just wait to see how many quit on their own; then, if any girls are actually competitive, the coaches and the
i didn ? tjjinow ■ w
athletic department will see what to do.”
It may have appeared unfair at the time to have a policy of waiting to see what the women were interested in before beginning an athletic program. However, according to Heisler, the athletic department simply could not implement a club team or a varsity program in a certain sport when it did not know the interests of the women.
Heisler explained that while some may have been critical about the process women’s teams had to go through in order to become varsity, men’s teams had to go
schooim!
through the same process. First, a group of students interested in a sport had to organize a club team. Then, after showing a high level
gslJfrorti Digger
of interest and success, the club could write a letter of request to the athletic department asking to be a varsity sport.
“Teams had to make an appeal. The athletes had to make a case themselves when they believed they had the interest, the number of competitors and the track record of success,” said Heisler.
Despite the fact that almost immediately after women arrived atNotre Dame intramural competition and club teams were formed, the first female varsity team was not established until four years after women were first admitted. Ironically, that program no longer exists.
In 1976, a varsity women’s field hockey team began. However, the program was discontinued in 1988 because the athletic department said that there were few field hockey programs in the Midwest region. Mainly based in the East, the athletic department felt that the program would not grow because of its regional basis.
“There wasn't a great amount of interest. It had a difficult time growing,” explained Heisler.
In 1977, three more varsity sports were implemented: basketball, fencing and tennis. Two years later, in 1979, the volleyball team rose from club status to a varsity sport. The first women’s varsity swimming team was established in 1982. In 1986,awomen’s varsity cross country team was formed.
Three more varsity sports were added in 1988: golf, soccer and softball. And it was not until 1991 that women’s track became a varsity sport
Since it took several years before varsity teams were established, there were a few instances where women were allowed to compete with the varsity men’s team. When the men’s swimming team went to meets before there was a women’s varsity swimming team, females were allowed to compete at the meets against the opposing women’s squad. In 1977, Betsy Shadley, a Notre Dame diver, earned a monogram on the team.
A similar situation was true with track. According to Heisler, women could compete on the varsity level at meets with men even though there was not an official female varsity track program at Notre Dame.
“Some women were permitted to compete before there was a full-fledged varsity team,” Heisler commented.
Many credit Notre Dame’s commitment t o implementing female sports programs to Fr. Joyce.
“Fr. Joyce called me into his office soon
Fil© photo
Field hockey, the first Notre Dame female varsity sport, started in 1976, but was discontinued In 1988.
after women were admitted to Notre Dame. He said that since I was working with women in fencing in the physical education IIOOOiHsllll
KWmsBke&Hei
classes that he wanted to know if I could start a fencing team,” explained fencing head coach Mike DeCicco. “I asked how soon and he said, ‘You’ll start next month.’ That was in August and we started in September. He is so committed to integrating women in athletics.”
Not only was Notre Dame influenced by the leadership of Fr. Joyce to implement female varsity athletics, but the athletic department was also under pressure from a federal rights statute called Title IX.
According to Jerry Greer, the author of “ND and Title IX,” this statute, enacted in 1972, prohibits discrimination based on sex in programs receiving federal financial assistance. This meant that universities across the nation had to begin allocating money to athletic programs in proportion to the numbers of male and female participants. The same treatment, meaning benefits and opportunities, had to beequal regardless of sex. And the interests of women as far as opportunities of participation and level of competition, had to be accommodated equally to men. Since Title IX took effect in 1972, the same year that women were first admitted to Notre Dame, the university did not have to immediately comply with the statute becuase of the small numbers of female students.
Greer explained that, in 1980, Notre Dame began instituting measures financially to comply with Title IX. The women’s
basketball team received the first twelve scholarships. The next year the women’s tennis and volleyball programs each received two scholarships. In 1983, the volleyball team gained four more scholarships and fencing received two. And this year, the eleven women’s varsity teams received 67 scholarships.
When women received monogram status —a varsity letter—for the first time, Notre Dame struggled with how to recognize them.
“There were some inconveniences in the beginning but the women were so excited to qualify for monogramming. The university didn’t know what to do when women monogrammed,” remarked DeCicco. “Men got jackets. Why not the women too?”
Whether a woman should receive a letter jacket after monogramming was not the only inconvience that the women experienced.
“We were fencing for a number of years before there was a locker room or showers,” DeCicco said. “I stole some lockers from Digger [Phelps] and all the women changed in the room that is now my office.”
Despite the short time female varsity athletics have been in existence at Notre Dame, the women here continue to make history.
According to The Dome, the first woman to earn four monograms was Maggie Lally. She was a member of the basketball team from 1977-1981. Jeanine Blatt and Betsy Shadley, both members of the tennis team, were the first female Notre Dame AllAmericans in 1979 and 1980. Molly Sullivan, a fencer, was the first and only four time Notre Dame female All-American in 1985,1986,1987 and 1988.
Despite the fact that there are already eleven female varsity sports today, the athletic department is still open to elevating more female sports from club status to a varsity sport and expanding already existing programs.
“We are continually looking at programs that have futures,” remarked Heisler. “Maybe women's lacrosse will be huge five years from now.”
“Right now we are in the process of doubling the women’s fencing team,” stated
DeCicco. “The NCAA decided that there needs to be more equity. And now there will be with epee competition.”
Last fall, the women’s soccer team, after just five seasons, finished the year as one of the top twenty teams in the nation. Senior swimmer Tanya Williams recently finished her impressive career here as one of the best female swimmers in Notre Dame history. This year, freshman track runner, Erica Peterson began leaving her mark on Irish record books with her speed in the sprints and hurdles.	'
Welcome to the 2012-13 school year at Notre Dame. It has been 40 years since women were admitted to the university. Just twenty years ago there were only eleven female varsity sports and the oldest of the programs was fifteen years old. Notre Dame was known for its football team. Today, the university is recognized not only for the football program but also for producing a dozen female national championship teams.	‘	□
Take a break from the dining' halls! . . Vou deseroe .	. '.
Every ; Friday
12:00-2:00 pm
Subs Burgers fizza. ■
Rlumni-Senior Club is open euery Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday night from 9:00 pm until 2:00 am
I.D. Required
^Paridid
"The Italian Ristorante"
Parisi's would like to extend congratulations to all those graduates, family, alumni, faculty, students, friends, and administrators who helped make graduation possible.
We invite all of you to come and celebrate here at Parisi's, with the area's best Italian cuisine.
'Italian Dining with an Irish View7
1412 South Bend Ave	232-4244
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
Chris Michalak: Michalak, a senior from Joliet, IL, set a school record with his performance in baseball. A pitcher for the Irish, Michalak has the most wins in a career with 28. He reached this number after Notre Dame trounced LaSalle on April 10 in a 20-0 victory. Michalak also leads the Irish as the appearance leader with 80.
Holyn Lord: Lord, a freshman from Carmel, IN, won her eighteenth consecutive singles match last Saturaday for the Notre Dame tennis team. She led the Irish to a 6-2 win against Wake Forest. With an overall record of 23-5, Lord has not lost a match since January 30. The Irish are now ranked number 21 in the nation.
by Tony Leonardo
This is the last publication of this fine weekly for the 1992-93 school year. I’m sure all of you will miss these rollicking “Out of Bounds” columns, the informative “Top Ten” lists and gut-busting quizzes. Fear not, however, all this and more will be back next year. The one major change will be short, informative blurbs on 6-8 new bands instead of long detailed articles on 23 bands. I’m also planning to pack in five movie reviews each week, in-depth and up-to-date news on celebrities and bonus coupons for free CDs at local record stores. With all these sure-to-please additions, how can one not pick up multiple copies of Scholastic and ship em’ home to the parents? Good luck job hunting, and I'll catch you next year.
1.	Sharon Stone
2.	Ronald Reagan
3.	Vince the Crash Test Dummy
4.	Millie the ex-White House dog
5.	David Koresh
6.	Johnny Carson
7.	Michael Jackson
8.	Roseanne Arnold
9.	Bo Jackson
10.	Wally Cleaver
Euphemism of the Year
In therecentissueofDzri magazine (“Fuel for Young Men”), a supplement to Sassy, I spotted a familar name from the days of explorational adolescence. Traci Lords, teenage pom queen of the 80’s, is writing a “Dear Abbey” column entitled “Dear Girl.” In an attempt to document the infamous Ms. Lords, Dirt writes, “Starting her career after dropping out of high school with a greasy manager in a string of acting-optional films with really bad soundtracks, Traci has since moved on to bigger and better things.” Bigger and better things, eh? Maybe Long Dong Silver ... and I personally like the soundtracks.
Another MediaCrossing Celebrity
In an issue of Tiger Beat magazine, (we at Scholastic really know our teen news), it was advertised on the back cover that Joey Lawrence, star of NBC’s Blossom, has followed in the footsteps of stars such as Eddie Murphy, Vanessa Williams, and ex-Knight Rider David Hasselhoff... He has released a self-titled album! Sample lyrics: “I’ll take you up so high/You’ll start forgettin’ you were ever down/Kisses will dry your eyes/ This is the way to turn the world around.”
Match These Celebrities With the Correct Description.
a.	Beaver
b.	No Brains
c.	Astrology Guru
d.	Knows Artificial Body Parts
e.	Weirdo	*
f.	Messiah to Repressed Women
g.	Messiah to AU Women
h.	Slobbering, Self-Indulgent Bitch i.Slobbering, Self-Indulgent, Tasteless Dog j. Famous Blonde
£no£3A3M. 'asp Suiqjauios upjunj]	jaw woj v'QIPWS L	f’I
Five stars. Buy it. Now.
Rudy, Rudy, Where Art Thou, Rudy?
The world premiere of Rudy will be held here in South Bend at the Morris Civic Auditorium on August 20. The film will appear in theatres in early September. Apparently, it's been getting good previews from test audiences. Eighty-five percent marked the film down as either good or excellent on scorecards...
Dead Set
The eternal Grateful Dead will be making the rounds this summer for the 27th year. If you are in the midwest or east, check them
out Here is the tour list: June 5,6 at Giant’s Stadium; 8,9 at The Palace of Auburn Hills; 11 at Buckeye Lake in Columbus; 13 at Rich Stadium in Buffalo; 15,16 at Freedom Hall in Louisville; 18,19 at Soldier Field; 21,22, 23 at Deer Creek in Indianapolis and 25,26 atRFK in Washington, D.C.
Notre Dame Theatre
The Farley Hall Players will be putting on “A Steetcar Named Desire” at 7:30 on Thursday and Friday and 7:00 on Saturday at Theodore's in LaFortune. Tickets are $4. The COTH department will be producing Shakespeare's Julius Caesar next week. Director class finals are going to be on the 26, 27and28ofAprilat the Lab Theatre.
Up & Coming
The St. Ed's Charity Carnival and Fisher Regatta will be held this Sunday on Holy Cross Hill and in
the lake by the hill. In the Movie theatre, The Sandlot, Jack the Bear and Huck Finn have all recently appeared. New in record stores this week and next are Perry Farrell's new band, Porno for Pyros, the Kinks, Midnight Oil, Aerosmith, Primus, Bob Geldof, Hypnolovewhee, Posies, My Bloody Valentine and Jimi Hendrix. Cracker will be at the China Club in Chicago on Sat. April 24. John Scofield will be at the China Club on May 8. Alice Donut and Vanilla Trainwreck will be at the Metro on April 23, the next day features the Judybats. On April 29, also at the Metro, Catherine Wheel will be performing.
©
18
... SCHOLASTIC
Entertaint
Techno, the wave of the future?
by Tony Leonardo
It’s hard to define “alternative” these days.
It seems as if all of the music once considered “alternative” has become mainstream, popular and overplayed, ironically the three things that “alternative” bands were against. The scene, however, refuses to die, and the void left by “grunge” bands and other groups who have gone mainstream must be filled with something. Enter the rave and programmed music. Interdependent from the start and unlike “alternative,” techno — or house music— has become increasingly known as the happeing subculture, and the rave has become its symbol.
The roots of raves and techno come directly from club scenes in need of louder and faster music. One can actually extend techno’s roots to the disco songs of the 70’s and British dance-pop of the 80’s. The club scenes of New York, Detroit and other metropolitan areas started in on music that had many computerized riffs, thumping bass lines and sampled vocal tracks.
Rap culture started to splinter into distinct groups also — rap and hip-hop — with different areas in between. The hip-hop scene and club scene eventually emerged as one, escalated by movies such as House Party and Paris is Burning.
Madonna’s hit song “Vogue” brought techno music to the mainstream and officially started off the rave craze. Also around this time a familar hallucinogen of the 60's regained its popularity. This resurgence and the increasing desire for a more intense time helped to create raves. Reminiscent of 70’s disco parties in terms of its scope and driving ideal (take some sort of mind-altering substance and dance, dance, dance!), raves have become kids’ escape into the bizarre world of 90’s subculture.
What are raves? Raves are dance parties, first and foremost. The parameters of the parties are what distinguish raves. They are generally held in a large warehouse outside of a large city. The location of the party is spread through word of mouth or notice in a alternative publication. At the party, “smart” drinks are served as opposed to alcohol, thus avoiding liquor licensing.
A current rave flyer
Smart drinks are liquefied vitamins and amino acids that increasebrain activity and enhanceperception. The “new” drugs making the rounds atraves are LSD and MDMA, commonly known as Ecstasy. These drugs create mind-altering experiences and feelings that allow the intensity of the music to be fully felt. Ecstasy is a drug designed to be sensual, making the person feel every sensation as stimulating. Both drugs also last a long time, allowing the raver to stay up all night. Although drugs are a part of some raves, they are neither necessary nor promoted at other raves.
Techno music is the main component of rave and club scenes. Raves would not exist without the incessant technoise emitted at high decibel levels. Techno music generally begins with a particular bpm (beats per minute) pattern of programmed rhythms. Vocal tracks, usually sampled, are then added in to the music in between breaks of the rhythm or over the existing patterns. For example, the group Eon opens the song “Spice” with, “He who controls the spice, controls the universe” from the movieDane.
The true essence of techno music, however, is the deep bass sounds that rattle your bones and coarse through your body. When played sufficiently loud, the music begins to be felt as well as heard. The rhythms are maintained in order to insure a danceable continuity. Contrary to most beliefs about techno music, there are variations among different techno groups as well as within the music itself. There is a definite reliance on repetition, but almost always with some sort of different variation to it: emphasizing different strains, adding in new sounds, or changing the beat structure temporarily. I would contend that the music mutates (a 90’s word for a 90’s scene.)
Raves and techno clubs, especially in New York City and Los Angeles, are definitely the top of the line in terms of dancing. Techno music has extended the range of dancing, making it more exhilirating and sensual, unifying in terms of the sheer number of fellow dancers (raves can have upward of 5,000 people) yet solitary in the unique pleasure each person gets from the music. Some people may not like techno music, citing its unoriginality and loudness as faults. Indeed techno music can getrepeti-tive and overbearing, but only if one is notin the right mood. Techno is music designed to get you moving, a Vivarin kick without the caffeine. Try it out, you may like it. □
Nice Guys Finish First
Velocity Girl's live show and new album, Copacetic, are sure to please
by Dave Holsinger
/'A nee I made it to the site of my interview with Velocity Girl, I had to laugh.
Crowds of high school kids in “Lollapalooza” patented haircuts were standing out in the freezing cold trying to get scalped tickets for the Belly show later that night. And here I was, sitting in a nice warm bar right next door to Chicago’s Cabaret Metro, talking with the opening band.
When Velocity Girl first walked in, I would have taken them for justanother setof concert-goers if I hadn’t noticed drummer Jim Spellman’s “Belly — All Areas” pass clipped to his shirt. I introduced myself to the band, identifiyied myself as a Notre Dame student, and Jim replied, “Yeah, my mom always wanted me to go to Notre Dame.” The rest of the band introduced themselves before I had a chance to ask, and before long, one of them was getting me a chair.
Now wait a minute. I’m the one that was supposed to be kissing up. They got me a chair? These guys were just... well, they’re just too nice for a band in their position. Sub Pop’s next “big thing” could very well be the friendliest bunch of musicians I’veever met.
Velocity Girl is a five-piece outfit from suburban Washington, D.C., whose formation, as described by primary songwriter, guitarist/bassist and founding member Archie Moore, proceeded in “sort of a linear progression. As we learned how to play a little more, we started adding people to the band who were about our level of proficiency and finally ended up with all five of us. Basically, as soon as Brian joined, that’s when we started getting the most attention, because I think that was when the line-up was full and right And I guess that’s when
we started sounding like we wanted to sound.”
Having reached that point, they proceeded to release a number of popular singles, including “My Forgotten Favorite,” on label the Slumberland. That particular single created quite a stir among college radio types, as well as among the more economically-oriented of labels. VG finally settled on Sub Pop, which released a 4-song CD5 and a new 7-inch single, “Crazy Town” and “Creepy,” and two weeks ago released its first full-length album, Copacetic.
Although VG’s sound is a far cry from the one that made Sub Pop and Seattle famous, the group find nothing strange about its new label. Brian Nelson, guitarist, commented, “I think it was never weird, nothing was ever weird about it except for maybe the initial
Velocity Girl recently released its first full-length album, Copacetic, which moves away from the band's previous reputation with a non-linear sound.
From left: Jim Spellman, Brian Nelson, Archie Moore, Sarah Shannon, Kelly Riles
approach by Sub Pop, because of their history, but any hesitation or anything we might have had has completely evaporated because they’re an excellent label, it’s really interested in more bands like us.”
Those who had heard VG’s past singles likely found themselves more than a little confused by Copacetic's more non-linear, heavier sound. The band has deliberately moved away from the poppy, hummable tunes that brought it to “buzz” status in the record industry. Comparisons to gloomy and mesmerizing shoegazerbands and other British guitar bands like My Bloody Valentine had begun to trouble the band. Archie explained, “We don’t know what our shoes look like.” They wanted to break out of the category into which they had begun to fall against their will.
Indeed, Velocity Girl really has little in common with prototypical shoegazer bands like Lush. Apart from soprano female vocals and a somewhat nerdy look, the band shares little with these bands. But just tell that to the masses. Several past articles in magazines Sassy and Select have done little to distance them from the comparisons to British bands.
Hence the need for Copacetic to make the break with the past complete. Brian explained, “We tried to make it a lot more raw and less produced, as a part of the distancing from the whole shoegazing stuff where it’s like mega-digital production. I mean, we wanted it to sound a lot more raw and more like the live set.” -
This isn’t to say that producer Bob Weston (ex-Volcano Suns) didn’t use some interesting studio techniques to help create Copacetic's massive guitar sounds. Some tracks used a rather primitive means of creating a “phasing” effect on the guitars. Archie said, “We had two mics, one in the amp and then one on our hat so that we could move around and it would be constantly going in and out of phase with the other mic.”
Brian continued, “Unfortunately in the full mix it’s kind of hard to hear the effect, but when you hear just that track it sounds really good.”
Weston was a big part of Copacetic’s sound, according to Brian and Archie. The idea to have him produce the album grew out of friendship with the band as well as past experience.
“We asked him to record our first single for Sub Pop, ‘Crazy Town,”’ Archie said, “and we really liked the way that went, so we invited him to do the album, also because he has very different ideas about how to record bands than a lot of producers. And a different style — he was really into the idea of making it sound very live, which is exactly what we wanted to do.”
A look at the live show will convince most people that this was the best way to put a Velocity Girl album together. Singer Sarah Shannon bounces and flails, and bassist/ ■ guitarist Kelly Riles looks like a demonically-possessed pogo stick. Their sonic presence is much more impressive on stage
than on a recording. VG’s musical intentions become much more obvious and much more sincere in the organic setting of a live show.
The only irony seems to be that Velocity Girl is relying on older material to make itself more accessible to Belly’s (or other) concert-goers. Their45-minute setfeatured much of the already released works. Although one can’t complain about getting to hear. “Favorite” and others like “Why Should I Be Nice to You?” live, it seemed that they were almost contradicting themselves by drawing so heavily from their previous work. In fact, of the songs from Copacetic, they chose primarily the more straightforward tunes like “Audrey’s Eyes,” avoiding the more angular compositions.
The band’s musicianship is commendable though. Ofall the female vocalists who have visited the CabaretMetro this year, Shannon is probably the most musical of them all. Her clear voice manages to stay afloat in the band’s wash of noise, and her melodic phrasing is justas good, if notbetter, in a live situation. Belly’s Tanya Donnelly was givena tough acttofollow: Shannon doesn’t rely on tricks or screeching to get her melodies across.
As the band’s front person, Shannon plays
WVFITopTen 1. Velocity Girl — Copacetic 2. Superchunk— On the Mouth 3. Frank Black — Frank Black 4. Treepeople — Just		
m w —	-	:—i—:——	:——		fS Tru-
XL IX. IX. UI y rami —-		■,W * -L OU- 2	4
H our		Diner
7") 6.		Mr. T
Bxperi-	v-f4AMoth:Maaibre\’.M^	e n c e
— More rpast{7")	6;iieri^kra^-Are%^	Than 7
Babe the	b ;7.«Depeche Mode-SongspfFattharvJOevotion	Blue
Ox ■■ —‘	■ ■* o < iXyTHXiK? Black	(BOX)
3	.		
Swirlies		'	
Blonder '	. : - '	. 7 • : \ \ \	; ../ /
Tongue Audio Baton 9. Mighty Mighty Bosstones — Ska-Core The Devil& More 10. Butthole Surfers — IndpepedentWorm Saloon compiled by Joe Cannon	;	■.
her role as neutrally as possible. Velocity Girl is probably tired of being lumped in with other “girl bands,” especially due to its name. (I can justhear some record company exec telling Shannon, “Ah, you must be the Velocity Girl.") But the band is 80 percent male, and does its best to keep itself away from the “Riot Girl” scene which has taken hold in its hometown. Dressed in a frumpy outfit, Shannon did little to make herself sex symbol or Riot Girl, but rather kept herself comfortably within the band’s overall presence. These guys (and girl) are happy, and (I hate to say it) nice people, far too nice to have a big personality dominating their live show.
Velocity Girl will be on the road for some time now. As Brian and Archie explained, they’ve quit their day jobs to make die band a full-time occupation, but only “because no day job would allow us to take off as much time as we have to,” Archie said.
“We’re paying our dues,” he continued, laughing.
These are dues that are sure to pay off. Now that Velocity Girl has finally established their sound, they have only to establish their sales before they can rest comfortably. And that seems like a goal that’s getting closer all the time.	□
Ezzzzgzzz^zz^i|i&|i^^
News of the Bizarre from the
Nation‘s Universities
Injured Mascot Sues State
A University of Maryland student has just recently received word that he is entitled to worker’s compensation for an injury sustained while on the job. According to The Chronicle of Higher Education, ScottRudolph, mascot for the university, sued the state of Maryland for benefits after being injured while performing his duties as mascot. Rudolph, dressed in his terrapin costume, was pushed during a football game by the University of Virginia mascot and broke his wing, I mean arm, in three places. Rudolph obviously wants his money very badly. What would it take to admit in a courtroom that, yes, you did indeed dress up as a bird and were subsequently pummelled by a mountaineer?
College Course Examines Pornography
The Miami Hurricane reports that the University of California -Santa Barbara now offers a course entitled “Special Topics in Film Genre: Pornographic Film." The course will cover “straight, gay, lesbian, feminist and even amateur pornography" dating from the late 1800’s to the present day. Material presented will include two of Madonna* s videos, “Erotica** and “Justify My Love.** The course is predicated on the belief that pornography does indeed qualify as a film genre. “Pornography is a very highly charged (film) genre that
has political and social weight to it,“ said Edward Branigan, chair of the Film Studies Department at UCSB. Regardless of whether or notpomography qualifies as a film genre, doh‘t look for any similar courses in this year's Dartbook.
A Lesson in Recruiting
The University of Kansas Jayhawks do not have a reputation for being a perennial football powerhouse, so their success this year came as a surprise to many. A surprise that can apparently be easily explained. The Daily Kansan reported that whenever a potential football recruit comes to visit the university he is assigned a member of the Crimson Crew, a campus escort service, as a companion for the day. The Crimson crew escort is asked to show the recruit “a student’s perspective” of the university. Interestingly, this perspective comes from an attractive member of the opposite sex. The Crimson Crew hostess is asked to write to the recruit before he visits, show him around campus, eat lunch with him, and escort him to the weekend football game. The Crimson Crew manual states to its members that “what you do with your own time is your business” and encourages the hostesses to “try to get in his (the recruit’s) comfort zone—let him tell you things he isn’t telling the recruiter’s or other hostesses from other schools.”
R.D. Helt, head of the football recruiting program, stresses that this is not “a dating service” and insists that the service is open to both males and females. Yet the only two males in last year’s group did not escort the recruits; they served as runners and messengers. Two years ago, a postcard with a picture of only the female members of the Crimson Crew was sent to football recruits. The card encouraged the recruits to come to the university for “the beautiful scenery.” Yeah, right. The University of Kansas is not the only university toboastsuchaprogram. The University of Oklahoma has its Crimson and Cream and Western Carolina University has its Catamount Kittens. I guess if a program can boast of eight National Championships, there is no need for such a service. The program speaks for itself.
Edited by Jenny Tate


Sit On It
by Joseph Laur
T Just Want To Sit Down. JL This is my philosophy in life. I sit, therefore I am. It’s the credo I live by everyday. I think about sitting down all of the time. When I sleep, I dream about sitting down. When I’m walking, I think about sitting down. When I’m sitting down, I think about sitting down. Even when I’m in the shower, I can’t help but think about sitting down (... well, sometimes at least).
Why my fascination with sitting down? It’s simple: Sitting down is extremely easy, and the best things in life are enjoyed the most while sitting down. Take for instance, television, God’s gift to mankind. To me, there is nothing better on a Sunday afternoon in the fall than plunking yourself down on a couch for six hours and watching football (unless the Bears are on, in which case I study). In the spring, there is nothing better than watching nine hours of NCAA basketball on a Saturday afternoon, even if I have to suffer through listening to Digger Phelps for two of those hours.
Then there is the best day of the entire year, January 1. This past January 1, I watched bowl games continuously from noon to midnight, and then watched three more hours of television before bed. For you English majors, that’s 15 hours of nonstop TV, a feat I am looking forward to matching or even surpassing next January 1. Almost as impressive as the 15 hours I spent on the couch on January 1, is that I probably only spent five minutes of the day on my feet, which is approximately one minute per three waking hours. And most of this five minutes was spent walking to or from the refrigerator or the bathroom, which leads to my next two points.
Next to TV, eating has to be the most enjoyable activity I partake in while sitting down. I cannot imagine enjoying my favorite meal of bacon, pizza, chicken patties,
French fries, potato chips, pretzels, choco-. late cake, chocolate chip cookies, chocolate cupcakes, Little Debbie Swiss Cake Rolls, Spam, a bucket of lard, Cookie Crisp and a diet cola (I don’t need the extra calories) as much standing upas I do sitting down. I just don’t think that it’s humanly or physically possible to enjoy such a wondrous meal if you’re standing up, and wasting such a perfect meal is nothing short of a travesty (one side note from past experience, fellas: Never ever cook bacon while you’re nude, because splattering grease really, really stings).
Besides watching TV and eating, there is one other activity I truly enjoy sitting down for, and it’s the end result of eating. God created it, and Al Bundy perfected it. Of course I’m talking about going to the bathroom. Unlike most men, I dislike urinals because they require me to stand up and the large target thoroughly insults my aim. In addition, urinals are not practical in every situation, unless you are extremely creative or just plain sick. Instead of urinals, I highly prefer the luxury and comfort of a good old-fashioned toilet, because this gives me the opportunity to enjoy such a beautiful and joyous activity while sitting down.
One other reason sitting down is so enjoyable is that as long as you are sitting down, nothing really bad can happen to you, and any minor problems that do arise can be easily corrected. For example, if you’re watching TV, the absolute worst thing that can happen is if the batteries in the remote control go dead. However, there is an easy solution to this seemingly difficultproblem: buy batteries in bulk. Buy a dozen, buy a gross, buy a vowel, buy a ton. Just make sure to purchase enough batteries to last several years, and always make sure to keep your supply right next to where you normally sit, so you don’t need to get up when you need them.
In regard to going to the bathroom, the worst thing that can happen to anyone is running out of toilet paper. This is why I
always bring a newspaper along with me when I go. Not only do I get to learn as I go, but the newspaper also provides me with a sense of security that makes my experience that much more enjoyable.
Watching TV, eating and going to the bathroom (which I often refer to as “The Triad”) are just three of the numerous activities I enjoy most while sitting down. However, this is a short article, not adiscourse, so I will spare you other tedious activities that aren’t quite as important as “The Triad.” Before I finish, though, I find it necessary to refute the well-accepted belief that sleeping is better than sitting down. I strongly disagree with this ill-conceived theory, because the best part of sleeping.is dreaming, and I have found that my best dreams always involve either sitting down or being the only male on an island full of leggy supermodels (but that’s another article in itself). For example, early this semester I dreamt that Elle MacPherson, Kathy Ireland, Cindy Crawford and Angela Lansbury each baked me chocolate chip cookies, then mud-wrestled for the right to sit next to me during the Super Bowl. This might sound like every man’s perfect dream, but let me assure you that it wasn’t. Without blatantly giving the ending away, all I will say is that for the first time in my life, one of my dreams became reality. Unfortunately, though, when this dream came true, I did not have the remote control, so I had to miss an hour of the Super Bowl to watch Murder She Wrote. Oh well, at least I was sitting down.	□
Joseph Laur is a senior majoring in accounting and relaxation. Joe strongly believes that the world would be a better place if everyone ate at least two strips of bacon per day, and if everyone accepted Ms. Lansburyfor who she is, not just the character she plays. By the way, Joseph wasn't wearing any pants when he wrote this article. Have a nice day.


■
Final Word
Migrating South:
Spring Break in Immokalee, FL
Many students pack up and head south for a little rest and relaxation during Spring Break}— an escape from reality. For a small group
of us, Florida provided not an escape from reality but
Alan Villaion,
Matt Bower and Michele Borbe are volunteers for the
Center of Social
Concerns.
an escape to reality. The wild and rambunctious party life of Daytona Beach was not our destination. Rather, the quiet tomato fields of Immokalee awaited.
In the course of one week we learned much about the social forces that contribute to migrant work patterns and injustices. One of the more interesting moments came when we met with Mark Finnegan, a lawyer who once appeared on 60 Minutes for his work with migrant workers. He revealed how little say the migrant worker has in the labor force because American laws do not allow them to unionize, facilitating their exploitation. Mexicans, Haitians, Guatemalans, Puerto Ricans and other groups compete amongst themselves~to*for work in the fields and migrant workers are not guaranteed an hourly minimum wage. Rather, farm owners often offer wages per bucket picked.
In Immokalee, the average migrant worker makes 60 cents for each bucket of tomatoes picked. The problem with this wage system is that so many workers are willing to work at any price that owners have the freedom to determine prioces as they see fit. Workers do harsh work for a below-average standard of living.
Why do migrant workers allow themselves to be exploited? Many migrant workers are foreigners, impoverished to the point that they will do anything to survive. We quickly realized that migrant workers come to this country for many of the same reasons as our ancestors did two hundred years ago. They are looking to make something of themselves in this land of opportunity. For many, this dream is swept away. Many came here to have a chance in life rather than quietly fade away as a nobody.
When we embarked on our journey to Immokalee, we knew that we couldn’t “change the world” for the
migrants, yet we had no idea how much their world
would change ours. While reading about the poor opened our eyes to the reality of poverty, directly interacting with them opened our minds. Before dur trip we understood poverty only in statistical terms. We knew a migrant worker’s life expectancy is only 49 years and his income is about $3000 a year.
This trip gave us achance to experience the richness of their companionship and become totally immersed in the migrant workers’ culture. We worked in the fields with them, lived in their homes and played with their children. By the end of the trip we did not see them as “the poor” but as our friends.
Immokalee is statistically one of the poorest towns in the United States but its sense of community is one of the richest. Although the residents of Immokalee are materially poor, they have an enviable spiritual richness about them. We were astounded by their faith in God, especially considering all the strife they have been through. The residents were grateful for their few possessions. Witnessing the trip inspired us, and infused us with a greater appreciation of our own situation.
We didn’t feel that we were sacrificing our break time by participating in a service project. As Jimbo, a homeless man who found his way into our hearts, so simply stated, “Material things tend to interfere with our love for one another.” All of us felt that we had the time of our lives because we actually learned the importance of how to live. We received more from these people than we could ever give them.
The struggle we now face is to maintain these values. Some of us feared coming back to school because we could get caught up in the routine of work again and forget who we are. It is easy to lose oneself in schoolwork and lose sight of the more important lessons learned in Immokalee.	□
SCHOLASTIC