

September 20, 1974 
•
tVolUnteer erv1ces 
j __ 

...... ,,,._ 
J-'. 

I 
,I
i 
,I 
J 



-You'll· never know howmuchgood you can do 
until you do it. ... · ·. . ·. .. " · 
You can help people.· 

In fact, there's a crying need for you. Your talents_. Your.training. Your·. concerns. They make you valuable to 

. your business. They can make you · priceless to your community._·· ·_ We can put you intouchwith local organizations hard at work doing 
: things you'd be proud to be part of. Join one. Or, if you seethe need, start a new one. 
-If you can spare even a few hours ­a week, call the Voluntary Action · Center-in your town. Or write: 


· "Volunteer,''-Washington, D.C. 20013. ·:· -__ It'U·do you goodto·see how . -much good yot1 tan do.-_ (I . --_ .· ..· . ·. ·.. ··. · · · ·· ...· Volunteer. 
APublicServiceof . . The National _Cen_ ter for Voluntary Action. -­
,..\.~ Ths Newspaper & LOUlC The Advertising Counci 
i i 
I
·-l 



Art Director ~ 
Bill Weyland . 
Production Manager 
John Phelan~'. 


Managing Editor. 
Sally Stanton · 
News Editor 

Jane· .Thornton ·Arts Editor Katy Sullivan 

Sports Editor 

· Bill Delaney 
Assistant Art Director 
Thomas Waldoch 


Business Manager 
Sarah Bartz,en 

Advertising Manager 
D. C. Nokes 


Circulation Manager 

Paul DeBacco · Staff · . · c Mike Karels, Steve Slater, Jean deSmet, Dave Beno, Peter Fitzgerald, Ron Rundstedt, Karen Higgins, Tara Carey, Mark Lupino, John· Kenward, Mark Ondash, Dave Dreyer, Connal . McGee, Don · Pausback, Laureen ·Goers, John· Harding; Mike West, Mike Sarahan, Mark Hopkins, Larry Stanton, Regina Fink, John Whalen, Mary Digan, Tom Birsic, Eileen O'Grady, Jim Wiehl, Michael Casey, Sue Rohn, Jack Pizzolato, Bill Gonzenbach, Bill Brink, Frank Coughlin,. Neil Gillispie, Leo J. Mulcahey, Don Reimer, 
Deborah Delorenzo, L. Burns, Kathy McElroy. Art & Photography. 
Mike Madden, Ed Brower, Ted Kerin, Bill Foglia, Joe Kuspin, Tcim Burke, Tim 
The opinions expressed in the SCHOLASTIC are those of the authors and editors of the SCHOLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or the student body •. 
Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10017. Published fortnightly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods; the SCHOLASTIC 
:js printed at Ave Maria Press, .Notre Dame, Ind. 46556, The subscription rnte is $5.00 a year and back numbers are available from the SCHOLASTIC. Please address· all manu­scripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.. 
copyright© 1974 Scholastic/ all rights reserved / none of the · contents may be re­produced without permis~ion · 



Seholastie 
Volume 116, No. 2 September 20, 1974 Notre Dame, Indiana 
HEADLINER 6 Volunteer Services -A review of the service organiza.,. tions operating around Notre Dame. 
FEATURES 
4 Faculty Art Show -A pictorial essay of the artistic endeavors of the ND faculty. 
24 Freshman Colloquium -•·•Becoming a Christian if you already are one," a unique approach to education. 
26 Senior Trip -Plans and expectations for a holiday in • Southern California. · 
. . 
28 Concerts -A preview of the upcoming series presented . by Notre Dame Music Department. 
30 Cinema '75 -Changing the direction of the student run film series. 
32· Arthur Pears -A look at.• the man behind the Notre Dame Security. 
· 35 Astrid Hotvedt -.-Notre Dame athletics goes coeduca­tional with its first female P.E. instructor. 
35 · The Phantom -. Anonymous letters sent t(! the football team: 
36 Atlanta -The South was more than just a place to play football for those at the Georgia Tech gam·e. 
REGULARS 
25 Record Review. 
27. Week in Distortion. 
30 -Coming Distractions.· 
33 People at ND. 
34 Irish Sport Shorts. 

38 The Last Word. 
lllustr.itions: Cover and photos on 4, ·5, 6, 11, 12,.13, 15, 16, 23, 24, 26, 32, 35 by Ed Browner / Graphic on 7 and photo on 38 by Bill Weyland / Graphics on 8 and 35 by Mike Madden /'Painting cin 8 by Ann Bates / Photos on 18, 20, 21 by Leo J. Mulcahey / Photos on 27 courtesy of N.D. Music Department /. 
Photos on 34, 36, 37 by Chris Smith. 

THE SCHOLASTIC 
I ­
,e 

Faculty Art Shovv 
I 


The, Telling of Tal~nt 
At first, it's .perh~ps a'glance and 
then it becomes· : a.n eternity. One 
may see colors:o~ may just· imagine 
them.. There. is _suffering, __ there is 
humor, even . some . mediocrity .. B,ut 
none of ,fr exists' without a •signifi~­
carice, without a nieariing, without a .. 
worthy . message; .There is' surely _ 
talent;. therefore,. as __ the fourth Fae.:: 
ulty Art Exhibit is.dispiayed in the . 
Art Gallery. of ·o'Shaughries~y Hall.. 
It includes the works· of fourteen 
artists, all Art Depa~trrient faculty 
memb~rs.. : _ . _ _ . ... . ____ _ 
CertainlY oiie cannot help but be 
eritertairi.ed, if not mc>ved, bythe ex­
hibit.• Starting with a double ceram­
ic . corilposition by Don . Kremer, or : . 

perhaps ·Robert Leader's ·colorful frio • of bizarre. figure _paintings,. 'there' is .. moved thr~ughout the room a ·sense of.experience from the ...remotely . , __ ._ . : .. . absfract. ··to .. ,t11:e .. ou:tl~ndtshlY,'. ab-. _. : ,, ··_ •. :}/,-:\~\){,] \~ \fl._;:: 
stract. One may feel puzzlement; .. ,.>,•.· · •; ·__ , :,,,;:, · 
from familiri'.r: recognizailce o{ thes~-: . . . ,;,,~ '· :::,rt;:-tl,!t­
eiltities as they ~ay be trea'ted with ;.. ~ .•.-,.:,/ --~ .. ;; ./;;\ 
such respe_ct_._·_ A.'rid,' too__·_,. the-re is_' t-_he ,: :'. ·"·~··:•~..'( '(0)(1 ··..: 
E;Xamination of the b_asic reality of . ' · / ... --_-/:} tJ, ~t "4 
things, .. from ,the . traditional . por-L ' '' .~~ 
traits •ofDennis' Dauer· and.Douglas'.. .,.,./,A_~:,~,. 
Kinsey, w_hicli,dom.·m_emor·a.te a' fig-._-_·}.·· --;,r./1··-~t.,~
ur~'s: int~insic_._value!; t~ Sue· Me~d's ·. :, : ?'!i-~.... ~-­
brick an_d strmg sculptures, which '>If\::. ' 
illuminate the stark reality 'of 'tex-I 
ture'. Surely one realizes, from open~ 

ing the mind to statements such as • 
these, that. all the :works_ .fre' ~on-: ~ 
ce_rned with bringing 'out ideas ·and ' 

concepts: that are, at least; very real " .:· . and, . a.Cm6st,' powerfully_ 'cosrriic.' ::~j,:·,;t-;· 
"These worlds exist 'more so than· :C ,. )'; :, --~· 
the obvious one," shout '.the artists/ t;:/ ~:.~:· l 
"andwe\::elehrateit!"•'·'': ,•;:·-,_. . : ,:_o 
The show,' then; is. rioF~iily' ii di~~ f,,\___ ·~_;: 
play of high sensitivfty bu(a realis'~ t ,,_,
• • ' ; , .• • . i I · ;·~ • ·. ~:,
tic approach to education as we feel, 

L/,:_·.· 
see, and experience that exhibit, and the world, around us. · · ....:.nave Dreyer . r: . 
m~mr:~~~'\')''"'"'-...·....----.. 
The Gift of Self 


Behold, I do riot give lectures or a little charity, · 
When I give, I give myself. 

-Walt Whitman 
"Song of Myself" 
It was nearly a century ago ·that Whitman wrote these words in "~ong o{ Myself," yet they contain a helpful guide for man in today's lost and troubled world'. 
Man has but to open his eyes to see that he ·is living in a cruel and lonely world -men, hungry and without purpose, roam the sidewalks of cities in search of free meals -old people, beaten ,by life, sit alone in rooming houses aching to talk with someone -re­tarded and .crippled children are left. alone to fill the beds of hospitals and orphanages -they are every­where; people, lost and lonely, in need of other people. 
Though man hears the cries of the loneiy, he so often fails to give them what they need; he fails to give himself.' Instead he gives ,that which is not a part of the self, that which is ·nofa part of the heart.. He gives his material goods, the extrinsic baubles which he feels will replace the self -the beggar. clangs. his tin cup, so he drops in a dime -the Goodwill calls, so.he gives away. a few old pants and a broken radio -the or­phanage has a ·fund drive, so · he inails in .. a tax­deductible check -'-: thejr. are all helpful and needed gifts, yet none of them demand the gift of ''myself." 
The world, is: full of needs that demand the self, one's personality a.nd time.· There are needs that can­not be aided by "lectures and a little. charity";. only the gift of myself will suffice ... Arid .the needs are not.· so distant as the streets of India or the small towns of Biafra. They are 'imt even as far as the ghettos of New York or the slums ofChicago·..There are people, lost and alone, in the. South Bend. community.. There are retarded children. who need to learn such simple tasks as tying their ·shoes:· There . are parentless . kids in search of a guiding. hand. -There are alcoholics in need of help. There are the aged·: in '·need of friendship. · They are . everywhere, people .who need other people. 
. In recent years .the students of· Notre Dame and St. Mary's have been, .aware of the needs of the peo­.ple in the community.·. Hundreds of_ students are in­volved 'in volunteer programs that ··demand· more· ihaii "lectures or a little charity/' they are involved in pro~ grams that demand the gift ofthemselves. • .. · 
This issue of Scholastic· is an effort . to explain the purposes, goals and needs of the volunteer organiza­tions on campus: To gain" a full understanding of the volunt~er program··itis.helpft.ilto first explore the uni­
fying force of the programs, the Office of Volunteer Services. 
The Office of Volunteer Services was developed three years ago by Father Donald 0 McNeill, a doctor of Pastoral Theology and an advocate of community service work who felt that there was a need for the coordination of all the volunteer activities-on campus. The first year Father David Schlaver was director of the office, and Castle Lawson, a graduate student, held the position the second· year. Father Tom Stella of the Campus Ministry is the newly appoiqted director. 
Stella, assistant rector of Dillon, defined his posi­tion as the "coordinator for all divisions of volunteer . services." The director said that. he works with each 
· group individually through_ co°:ferenc_es with the organ'­. ization leaders. Stella added that in the future he hoped to develop a wor~shop for the leaders of the organizations in order to promote communication and 
ideas. •· ­Fr. Stella, who has his master's degrees in Theology and Education, has other plans for·the office of Volun­.teer Services. . · First, he wants. to develop·'an. in-service training 
1

program for new voiunteer wo:r:~ers. "It will help the volunteer· learn his job and it will help satisfy the· .· needs of the job and the goals of the volunteer work­·ers," said Stella. · ·. · · 
Secondly, the direct'or wants to get faculty and their spouses and graduate students involved in volun~ teer programs. "There is so inuch wasted talent in the Notre Dame community that could be used to better the South Bend community," declared Stella.. "We need to get everyoneinvolved." -. . 
Thirdly, Stella hopes to create . a Volunteer Ser-. vices Council, which would b~·composed of'eight people from various walks of campus life; such as administra­tion, faculty and their spouses, graduate students, and undergraduate students. who would meet bimonthly and act as a coordinator.and idea center for the volun­teer programs. ."" -. 
.. Finally, Stella plans, to deveiop ayearlong ~olunteer program. "The students' would take off a year from Notre Dame and do· volunteer work in America or~­foreign country," said th~ director. "The .program would be similar to the Peace Corps or Vista," he' a.dded. . 
.The need for _volunteer. \\Tork is apparent in .the South Bend communiti and hundreds· of Notre, Dame~ 
_St. Mary's students. have given. themselves to those needs -they do_ not giv~ lectures .or a Httle .charity; when they give, they give themselv:es.. . : . ... 
~Bill Gonzenbach . 
. THE SCHOLASTIC 
·e· _. _.____
1g_ 

Brothers

I I 
· ''These boys' :·only ·guilt 1s that they have been' deprived of' a basic childhood right-=-the right · to· a father's 'love,•· understanding .. and 
example." _.; ' .,:·' .. -, These words/spoken· by Ernest 'K. Coulter iri 1904/ initiated an activity -that has grown info an international youth organization, Big Brothers of America. ·For:,; seventy years-the purpose and principles of this 'organ­ization have endured; the necessity has-certainly increased.· · · · Since its: formation in 1904, Big Brothers has adherec:F to: one' basic purpose: to· promote the develop~ ment·of friendship '.off a, orie-to-orie basis. This concept 'of a personal and sensitive•relationship, · one man to one boy, one· woman to one girl has : become the • organization's unique feature. Today the big broth-; er-little brother -relationship is pro:: vided: with the aid :ofsocial :work professionals, whose main concern is the development of the little broth~ ers personality and character.·· ­Big _Brothers/Big Sisters of St. Joseph County· is. a> relatively riew chapter to this ::organization.' ; Big Brothers was founded in St. Joseph County in 1969 through the efforts of James-E. Daschbach, professor in Notre_ Dame's. College of Engineer..: ing, and several· Notre Dame stu­dents. Last year, again through Pro­fessor Daschbach's. efforts, the 1:it. Joseph County chapter of Big Broth­ers of America merged with the Big Sisters organization; Today . there are three'hundred boys arid girls'in St. J o·seph County · benefiting from the combined program. Steve Kern 
,. 
SEPTEMBER 20, 1974 ­


~:~•.:edpa;;;:~~:ion°~~:;, ~~,;,~ l ~':!~: . 
program, working in cooperation ·· When was the last time you talked with South Bend's Director of Big to your grandmother,: or anybody's Brothers/Big Sisters, John Sherbun... grandmother? . Several Notre Dame 
It takes someone special to be a students are involved in visiting the big brother or sister: a person will-eiderly at the Carlyle Nursing Home ing to offer his time and talent for nearly every week. . .. volunteer work. The commitment Two psychology professors, John entails several responsibilities. Each Santos and Peter Naus, initiated the brother tries to meet afleast once program in 1971 through.the cooper. a week with his little brother. What ation of Damaris-Smith, .the former they do or where they' go· is_ up· to activities chairman _of Carlyle. In thein. A brother employ_s ._ his own 1972,. Fr. Don McNeil( C.S.C., began funds _for the benefit of his little atheology class interested in visit­brotlier;· spending an average of one ing the elderly: A group.from Grace hundred dollars per year. And being Hall, headed by Steve Boy and Drew a big brother is not just a one-Black:, organized a hall project of semester activity: when applying, visiting the aged-_in 1973. · · ·· the student is asked to commit him-The idea involves _-·a . one-to~one self for at least one and a half years relationship_ in ·which the _student is to a little brother. expected to ·grow in knowledge 'and 
But then. it also takes someone unde~standing of the elderly. . .. ' . special to be ~ little brother or sis-Fr. McNeill outlined the purpose ter: such a child has lost, or been . and accomplishments of the visits. separated frol]l the father or moth-Having students visit' the elderly er. For· both boy and girl ·the ·ab-··· '.'makes them ·face the question of sence ofa parent means the absence ._:_de~th and loneliness," stated Mc­of iove, ' understandirig, care and Neill. There is the impression of a guidance.. These voids are what Big . lack of reward and a sense of one's Brothers/Big Sisters help to fill. Jim own aging involved, however; there Lewis ('75, Norristown,-Pa.) has ___ is a satisfaction in making the aged been a big brother to Kenny Griffin -• feel wanted_ and coming to know for two years. According to Jim, a one's self better. Students are main­pretty solidfriendship develops: ly interested in_ conv:ersation, but 
"I don't try to preach to Kenny, there. is a need for helping' with to teil him what is right or wrong. bo_wiing, · card.:.playirig, _and .other Sometimes, though, he will wantto games. know about my experiences when· I ·Some of the people from Carlyle was a kid, and what I used fo do in participated in a· Christmas party those situations."_, . _held in Grace last year; hosted by 
Perhaps Jim best explains the_ Grace, SMC, ar,id Breen-Phillips stu­rec.ompense a big _broth-er or sister .dents/ receive~: . The elderly do not.see many, peo­
"I · guess Kenny showed me an-ple,:-so there is. a great need_ for other·. side of life; Here at school i visitors. Students' in. Fr.' McNeill's can worry about books and the reg-; class visited two people each;week, ular activities, but they are kind of .. which· involved -2½ hours of 'time. small problems" in comparis·on to Often tfre students helped to open. those he faces every day.,. 
. . . ' _:_Jim Wiehl 


the. people up. Sometimes they were asked to leave: . ·•' . . :... .·: Fr.'McNeill hopes that people will get involved in this -program and niake. visits once every two weeks for an. hour.: Besides Carlyle, South Bend also _has .other riursing homes, such 'as' Cardinal, which.is· the big~ ges( and Dor-A-Lin·, · which houses elderly cif 90-100 years old~ .• Of her relationship with an 84­year~old. man, one of McNeill's stu~ dents ;named Arin · wrote, "There is much :licispitality in the relationship; 
-.-, .. 

and we are, still growing ... I'm bes coming more grateful for the possi­bilities of loving him." · · . · · 
McNeill's dream isto get a few halis invoived and develop a rela­tionship with the nursing homes: ·•. 
' . . . ~Don Pausback 

CAUSE

I I 
Ask Stephanie . ' Russell . about ;working with-the elderly, and she'll probably_ tell you that not every.one is.cut out for it; '.'It's an unglamorous job, . and. sometimes .a. very depress~ ing one. A de~anding task that re­quires · the individual involved , to make a deep emotional ·commitment. Most people just aren't· ready\for that; We're looking for . the. dedi~ . cated. few who are,'' _ 
.The ''we" that Stephanie refers to is, CAUSE, . a . volun~eer service organi~tion that :.she heads up 
··along with fellow Notre, Dame stu~ dents _Jim Hoolihan and Ginna Smith. CAUSE is a;handy abbrevia­tion for Cooperative Activities Unit­ing Students and the Elderly. Essen~ tially it's a group of about· 40 con­cerned Notre Dame· and St. Mary's stude11ts wh9 _are reaching out to the aged, or-to what one new mem-.. 
. ber ·aptly phrased;:· '.'the ,·forgo_tten race,11 and :are offering them a. wide variety ;of health,· :recreational, and educational._ services. , : · .Father,Thorilas A.Stella, .Director of Volunteer: Ser:vices •;for. Notre Dame,' ca_lls CAUSE. an-.«umbrella organization;''.,. !'They oversee and coordinate an campus programs for the aged." .At the very least,: this yo.ung organization's list :,of -pro­grams and services is quite impres­sive. CAUSEvisits ·elderly patients confined to ·nursing :homes -and hos­pital _b_eds iri the South-_Bend area. Many pf-th~se people would other­wise. live : out their _lives . in ·total seclusion, without either family. or .fr!e11ds. '. ,"I:· have;• a ''.great-grand-'· mother 'in a nursing ,home,11-says new _CAUSE member Betsy Blciechl. 
. .-.. ,. . -· :.·~, ..:.
. . .. 
·;··THE· SCHOLASTIC. 

"We visit he~ often, but I see other 
people in that home who have no 
one. I joined CAUSE to help ease 
some of their loneliness." Another 
member, Gary Low, remarked, "I've 
seen how happy it makes my grand­
parents when I sit down with them 
and really listen to what they have 
to say." 
--Members will see only• one or two 

individuals at a time and will try to 
establish i friendship; "That won't 
be v·ery hard' to do," ·says Russell; 
"These people are searching for 

someone and will soon be looking 
forward to that student's visit each 
week." Students will also be seeing 
elderly priests and nuns on both the 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's campus­

es, and CAUSE is now arranging vis~ 
its to the · aged in private homes 
through cooperation with• a federal 

agency in ·south Bend called ·Neigh­
borhood Help. _ 
Other projects heading the list in-· 
elude: Harvest House, an · old nurs­
ing home which is presently being 
renovated and converted into an 

adult · community; Real Services, a 
program 'struggling to provide the 
elderly with entertainment, recrea­
tional facilities, a free· meal plan, 
and other organized group activities; 
arid the Forever Learning Institute, 
an edu·catfonal center where senior 
citizens ·may take · courses _and re­
ceive college credit: -. 
Joe Hooligan sees CAUSE as a 

"low key" organization. "We're a very informal, ·loose, but :close-knit group; ' Close in the sense that we bring our 'members together, -have th.em interact', •discuss and share their· experiences, and just' let out their feelings. ·1 believe we can learn ~orriething from the elderly, acquire . undifrstariding; CAUSE' offers .its members 'something as· well: as·. the 
~g~d.';. .. . 
: ; . , ., 

r. 

SEPTEMBER 20/-1974 

CAUSE is not yet a year old, and this may account, in part, for the scarce support it has received. Only 15 new members have joined the 
group this year and they desper­
ately need more: 
Stephanie Russell thinks another reason for the low rate of· member­ship may be due to the fact that CAUSE has a difficult time in get-' ting studerits interested in its wqrk. "It's hard to be enthusiastic about dying people." 
"Students niay be discouraged after a while," says Father Stella; "and they may feel that Hie work they're· doing isn't really important. We must look at the overall picture to see CAUSE's impact on the South Bend community. You won't realize you're doing much until you see yourself in perspective, as part of the greater whole.'' · 
"Also," · added · Russell, ·· "many people are interested in volunteer work but don't· know where to: go or whom· to contact. 
A lot of us first came in contact with · community services • through Father . Donald McNeill's theology course. Anyway, · I've found it's. never too late to sign up." 
If anyone is interested in joining CAUSE, they can do so by calling Stephanie Russell at 203-1016. 
..-There is a vital need for CAUSE. As one student sees it, "It must be lonely just sitting around. waiting 
to die.'' ... -Jack Pizzola to 
,' •·· 
I 


-CILA 
._________________. · CILA, the Council for the Inter~ · national Lay Apostolate, is· a unique service organization at Notre Dame. It differs significantly from other campus service groups in that its ~embers are not attracted to the organization by the -opportunity to perform a specific service. Rather, CILA members share a basic con­cern about ·the way other people, especially those living in· other cul­tures, live their lives. CILA also attempts to be a Christian commu­nity -· a -group of people who through prayer ' and mutual sup­port try to come to grips with their experiences; and ·share them with others. Perhaps CILA • can ·best be viewed, according•to Summer ·Proj­ect Director Mike Smith, "as a,com­munity of people pulled together both by a common concern and by different approache!>_ .' to this '.con~ ·cern:11 ·,. •·· • CILA believes service to others ;,is an essential• element in its -activity, . and has organized a wide range of projects;-both in South Bend and. throughout: the Americas: The sum­mer projects are-perhaps· the most well known. Students spend approx.;. imately eight weeks in an ·under­privileged -area, -working and talking with .the people who -live-there. · This summer in Panama, for ex.;. ample, CILAites · Judy Daher, · Pat· Dillon,. Kathy Osberger, and·• Kate Zwicker • engaged . in a number of activities in the ; community of ·San Miguelito; They assisted --some lay­!llen and women in teaching religion in ·area grade schools; were partici­pant-observers in a Cursilloi a week-. end retreat,organized by priests and laymen to allow area residents to · discuss their faith arid make it a real force in their life. Kate and Pat swam with a. paralyzed man, Sefer­. ino, and drove him to a therapist. 
•They tried to ensure that his treat­ment would not be -discontinued after they left. Pat renovated a chapel also. They also worked with the people in social action projects which the Panamanians considered important. Kathy Osberger reflects on her summer experiences: "What we did was be with th.e Panamani: ans, listen . to them, .and learn from them. Their Church experience was quite advanced. compared 'to many in the States. We were there to find out what they have. accomplished, not to. bring our technological ac­complishments to them..We tried to relate to people from a different culture on a human level." 
Although CILA is. best known for its summer projects, community service plays an integral role in its activities. This year, .CILA endeav­ors include working with the elder­ly and the Mexi~an-American com­munity in South Bend. Some type of interaction.with foreign students on campus is also planned. 
Yet, service is only a part of CILA's raison d'etre. Members be­lieve that education, the sharing of their experiences with others, is cen­tral to their responsibility as Chris­tians. Oftentimes, however, just try­ing to make·sense of an experience · so .vastly different from any other can be, at least, a major frustra­tion. Osberger explains, "Right now the challenge is not to translate that experience into our own terms, but to sift through what occurred there, and bring that .back to the CILA community, the Notre Dame com~ munity, and the dorm." 
It is at such trying times that the CILA community seems so neces­sary. It allows one to think aloud with others who share the same concerns and ask the same ques­tions. It encourages one to express his feelings and perhaps strengthen a commitment to goals which mighi have been lost if not in some way supported. 

CILA's Chairperson Mary, Beck­man emphasizes the spiritual foun­dations of the organization. "CILA pursues questions of faith, attempt­ing to see how prayer and Christian community can stimulate the work we are trying to do. This summer, for example, I worked with a group of committed Christians in New Orleans. Prayer and support of one another were important . to them. They worked with such energy and enthusiasm. I wonder, can it make a difference for us?" . 
Thus, CILA tries to deal with the concepts of service and education not strictly on· the:, humanitarian level, but as a significant manifesta­tion of one's Christian responsibili­ity.; CILA members question .not only their. relations with other peo­ple, but, through celebration of the liturgy and serious• conversation, question what it means to be a Christian. 
CILA is a unique group indeed. 
-Mike Pollard 



Circle· K · 

The Circle K-with a name that seems more µtting for a cattle ranch and a history. at Notre Dame of barely six months-may be, for both upperclassmen and freshmen,. one of the least familiar. organizations on the campus. The coming year, .how­ever, will see that situation .altered with a rapidity and force comparable to that which commonly accom­panies changes in the . prevailing weather conditions of South Bend. The . fledgling group, which has al­ready participated in a. bike~asthon, a paint and cleanup project at Camp Ray bird, a . cleanup .· of the Jake areas,. and . a newspaper sale, plaqs not only. to repeat several of thes.e activities but to expand their. pro~ gram to include work with inmates of the. state prison, the aged, ,the mentally retarded, :· and the , Big Brother organization. In ,Octo~er, the .. Notre Dame chapter will ,host the Circle K's district fali issues con­ference on the campus'from October 4 to 6. The wide range . of ·these services, along with a membership that is' open to all students,' shouid successfully launch the -..Circle, K's first complete schoo·l year· ·as a com­prehensive. social. service . organiza­
tion. · · · 
. . . . 

While a newcomer to this campus, the group, as a local.chapter of the Circle K International, may claim a history.that dates back to the. mid~ 1930's. At that · time, the Kiwanis International, a service organization comprised of businessmen, estab­lished the Circle K International to provide college students with an· op-. portunity for service. Although the. two groups cooperate with orie an~ other on certain projects and. even share an administrative office in Chi­cago, Tom Schnellenberger, presi­dent of the Notre Dame Circle K, stresses that it is not "a farm club for the Kiwanis" and emphasized 
.THE SCHOLASTIC 


;·. , 
that. the two are separate and. dis~ tinct groups. As the world's largest student volunteer group, with chap­ters on more than 600 campuses, the Circle·K certainly has earned enough distinction in its own right.' Th_e structure. that. governs this .enter­priseis o~ganized at 4 levels: inter­national, national, distri_ct (the state of Indiana· is a single district), and local. Yearly conventions at both the national and districUevels elect offi­

. cers and discuss future . projects. Each district. also convenes . 4 times a year at an "issues conference"; it is the Indiana ,district's conference that will meet here from October 4-6. The major business will be con­ducted on Saturday the 5th, with an open board meeting in the. morning, an issues conference in ·the after­noon, a.nd an excursion to the Paw­pa,w County Wine Festival in Michi­gan planned_ for the evening: 
The organization .of the Notre Dame.chapter· became offidal at the group's _charter banquet held on May 4, 1974. The presentation of the charter from the Circle K Interna­tional was accompanied by the in~ stallation · of· four student officers. Currently, the office of President is held by Tom Schnellenberger; that of Vice-President, by Kevin Ford, with Ann Gardner as Treasurer and Jackie Simmons as Secretary. In addition, two members of the South Bend Kiwanis serve as advisors, and the post of faculty sponsor is held by Father Claude Pomerleau, the as­sistant rector of·. Grace Hall. Al~ though these 7 positions constitute a governing . board, Tom Schnellen­berger acknowledges. that, decisions concerning the choice of projects have been reached, in. the past, by the consent of_ the whole , group, which meets biweekly for _about :an hour._Last year's group consisted of approximately 20 members; this year's first meeting drew 56 stu­dents. The only stipulation on .proj­ects to be considered by the mem­bers is that it be of a group nature, involving from 10 to 20 people. This year's plans include assistance in signing up students to give campus tours, hosting the Pur·due chapter of the Circle .K for the Notre Dame-Purdue football game, and a possible joint project, or "interclub," with the Purdue group. 

Like its projects, the Circle K's financial arrangements are still in the formative stage. The financing of projects, payment of a district fee of $2.00 per member (paid through group funds, not by individual mem~ bers), and a yearly fee of $100.00 to the International organization ·. to maintain the charter are· the prin-· cipl_e expenditures facing the local chapter. The_ current. treasury· con­sists solely of a gift donated by the Purdue .chapter at the Notre. Dame charter banquet. The group may re­ceive funds from .the student govern­ment budget; they also hope to ob~ tain a hot. dog stand at a home game.. The Kiwanis of South .Bend have, aided the Circle K in:meeting its expenses several times in the past. They contributed the payment of $50.00 for the_ original charter, paid the expenses for 2•members to attend. a district meeting, and fl­
· nan_ced Secretary Jackie Sim_mons attendance of an International con­ference held in Los· Angeles from August 16 to 18. 
Circle K extends a welcome to newcomers arid their ideas. "We are open to suggestions as far as proj­ects and we are very flexible in that area," claims president Tom Schnell~ enberger. The Notre Dame chapter of ·circle K International, new en~ugh _ to explore new directions ·and old 
_enough to benefit from the backing of an experienc.ed international orga­nization, provides an.:excellent ave­nue for student service to the com­munity. 
-Mary Digan 



Community 

·services 
Established as. a link between 
volunteer community services and 
Notre Dame students, the Commu­
nity Service Directors have just be­
gun their second year. ·: 
Since numerous and diversified 
community services were and still 
are available to Notre Dame stu­
dents, estabHshing . a network to 
communicate the existence and needs 
of these volunteer services to the 
residence halls was · deemed needed. 
Thus a Director of Community Ser­
vices was established in each hall. 
'Community Services Directors co­
ordinate requests for student volun­
teer help which the campus receives 
from already existing groups, short­
term . projects and newly· organized 
agencies. . Each director promotes 
within his respective hall awarehess 
of-'-the-need:for student participation 
in community services. 
Most requests for student help 
come 0 across the desk of Volunteer 
Services Director, Father-Tom Stella, 
C.S.C." One of the groups at his dis­
posal is the Commuriity Service Dia 
rectors.· Stella works mainly with 
the leadership"of student volunteer ·service!-· in :coordinating volunteer services; . 
Ageneral rule is that any organi­
zation established and represented at 
Activities Night, such as Logan Cen­
ter or' Neighborhood Tutoring; will 
not have to rely upon· the Directors 
for "warm·_ bodies." -An exception 
would: be· a cause as the Red Cross 
Blood Drive which eiriploys ·the Di­
rectors to .get information -in to. the 
halls and participants out. _ 

0There isn't a lofof overlapping," explains ' Stella as to the see_ming . duplication and intermingling of 
-.-·-.. ,.. :,...
• , l 
. . 
duties of the Directors and Stella's Meeting every other week, the office. "This office (Volunteer Ser-Directors also attend council m·eet­-vices) acts as a Clearinghouse." ings of their respective halls. "The . Brother. Joseph -McTaggart, ad-_Directors · support one ·another by visor for the Directors, sees this exchanging .creative methods ·that agency as unique in that "we're flex-· were successful in their halls," main­
ible--we can change with the needs tained McTaggart. 
of the'"community." . Also three Directors will act as 
McTaggart feels that the outside clearing age~ts for the remaii-iing of 
community has the right to ask the organization and will ·hear· re­
Notre Daine for'volunteer services . quests ·for help from agencies or in­
and that the Directors''function is to dividuals before they are presented 
cultivate in the· hall_:__the primary . to the Directors' meetings. · 
living structure at Notre Dame and This·year the Community Service 
thus· the' largest part of this Chris-Directors will hopefully° include . a 
tian community_:_a concern for the representative from each of'thefive 
needs of others. ' . St: Macy's College hallsso that the 
"As organizationsapproach us we two _schools can coordinate and co~ 
want to do·.our best to . see their . operate together' in ·volunteer ser­
needs· fulfilled.:.:_short . of being an_ . vices.· 
employment agency," explained Mc-In• addition ·to ·encouraging stu­
Taggart as to how the Directors see dents to participate in already exist­
theinselves; .He continues, ·"One of ing volunteer agencies; the Directors 
the primary · functions of the Com-also initiate services on their own: 
munity Service Directors is to en.: It is hopeful this year that each hall 
courage people in' the halls to par-will ''adopt''. an agency· needing vol~ 
ticipate .in these volunteer activi~ unteer help: McTaggart fs anticipat~ 
ties." ing ·that this agency adoption will 
draw· .the student into the South 
Bend community and "deliver_ him 
from the obsession of internal p~_ob­
_lems~a.lcohol and_ parietals." · 
. THE . SCHOLASTIC 
I 

Sorin resident assistant ; Mike Davis acts as '"spokesman" for the Directors. Also active in leadership of the Community Service'Directors is Steve Goett, director from Grace Halli ''Steve represe~ts 'the 'kind of dedication needed for the. job and· Grace represents a: .hall . 'keenly aware of the issues ··of volunteer service," applauded McTaggart. 
. Community Service. Director· from Holy Cross is Steve Cahir; Chris Conley is direc'tor from Cavanaugh'. Bill Chidichimo represents· Stanford; Breen-Phillips· has· :named . Melanie Connell as dire'ctor. St. Ed's director is Tom Day; Ed Fritzer serves How~ ard. Jim Kelleher' is from. Fisher; and Don Longano is director at 
Flanner. · · · ·· Directors at Keenan are Larry Lammers and Bill Shanabruch; Jack Hanzel ··is presently . representing Zahm Hall. Pat• Sheehan is· director at· Walsh; Pangborn is' served by Mike Srriith. Director from Morris­sey is Jerry Richardson; Judy Tern~ merman · is from Badin and Rich Sonoski serves Dillori · as· director.' · Mike bavis and Steve·Goett .are directors at Sorin and Grace, respec­tively: Those halls riot mentioned have not yet appointed directors; 
In final reference to the Directors, McTaggart expressed, "I. see· my function as one of helping this con­
cept to •·get off the ground .· and operating smoothly, at which· time I will operate in an advisory function and student leadership' will· assume its own direction. 'With the fine group of people we have now, I see· this happening quite soon;.rve been encouraged arid impressed with the quality arid interest of ·.the• Direc­tors." . · 
·. -Regina Fink 

SEPTEMBER 20, 1974 

Da.y Care 

"Women should go back to school or hold careers if they Hke_ and not feel guilty about leaving their. chil­dren," says Pat Garreffa, director of Happy Day-:--a day~care' center . for the . children of Notre Danie/ Saint Mary's students, faculty, and administration. . . . . . ' 
Happy Diy is a nofrauthoritarian school. The ·center tries to foster independe~ce by giving children' a choice in deciding what they'd like to do. Along with fos.tering · inde­peridence, they want each child to develop . emotionally, . mentally, and physically. The ·children feel secure in this 'environment and .very few cry. Mrs. Garreffa feels group moth­ering is important to . create security.. . . 
The children . come in their own door each morning. Having their own _door gives . them a sense. of timing and . responsibility. · From there they have free play. Free play 'includes housekeeping, where both girls and boys participate ~ this helps break stereotypes, in fact, the best i~oner is a boy! A sand table, building blocks, and. manipu­lative games help develop motor skills. In the art room children are free to finger~paint color, and paste. There are no set goals and no fi-us~ trations. In addition, ther~•s a car'.: penter's bench: with_ real equipment. Besides giving the children a sense of reality, it . teaches· them to re­spect the to~ls. Other_ activities dur.: ing free play .are _costumes, to let imaginations .run wild, and music, where memories are ' trained in finger and word games.. 

After free play the children con­gregate in the center's library for storytelling: 
Lunch is a favorite part of the day. It is served family style with large serving bowls 'in the middle of the table. The lunches are nour­ishing, ·usually consisting of hot soup, vegetables, and fruits. · 
After lunch the children play out~ doors for half an hour. The outdoor toys are designed to enhance co­ordination. Children also go for walks to collect "treasures." 
Nap time lasts for two hours. The children have their own blankets and pillows and a special place ·to keep them. They are awakened with gentle music for an afternoon snack of milk and cookies. 
The center is divided into two groups. Fifteen children in the 3­year-old group attend for half a day. Fifteen children in the · 4-year-old group attend for a full day. The center is opened three days a week for eight hours. The fee is $25.00 a week, including lunch. Because en­rollment is limited there's a waiting list of 30 families. 
• In having a day~care center Saint Mary's is unique to other campuses. Student volunteers from the psy­chology and education departments can earn credits and learning expe­rience by helping· the teachers. The full-time faculty of the -center are people well trained in their fields, and most have graduate degrees. However, the important thing is, they love children. 
-Connal McGee 

Share 

Various problems· and ideas com­prise the world in which we live. Many students are on their own for the first time upon entering college. With no mom or .dad to turn to for help, many students are· mixed up. Or they may just miss having a con­cerned person with whom to talk about life in general. The Saint Mary's-Notre Dame community has initiated a program for the purpose of 'combatting these worries. 
Share was established in March of 1974 for that purpose. Recogniz­ing the· need ·for ·such a program, three Saint Mary's College students founded Share with a twofold pur-' pose. A listening center and an out­reach seminar program are the two distinct facets. 
According to co-chairmen Gail Pocus and Kathy Nolan, the purpose of Share is mainly to listen and to help the student arrive at some con­clusion. 
"Hopefully, many students will do some growing through Share;'' Gail commented. Adding that many dif~ ferent ideas are in a student's head, she stressed that the service exists to help one sort out his· ideas and make sense of them. 
The listening center is· for. stu~ 

·dents who want to discuss their problems or want to 'talk about just anything. "Listeners," who have gc>ne through extensive training, are there just to listen and to suggest alternative courses of · action, . if wanted. All information is kept Jn strict confidence. Those who .don't wish to talk face to face may use the hot line and call 4311. The center is located in room 15 in the base­ment of Holy Cross Hall at Saint Mary's College. It is open Monday through Thursday from 8 :00 to 
12 :00 a.m. and on Friday and Satur­day from. 8:00 to 2:00 p.m. Notre Dame men as well as Saint Mary's girls are encouraged to take advan­tage of this service. . . · . If a student with a problem has made a decision that the listener feels is hot agood one, the listener will not force his opinion ·on_the student. Together,.they will explore the pers~n•s true feelings about the decision, the alternatives he might take, and the consequences of his decision. ··The·. most important idea here is the "why":._w}j,y did the stu­dent come to that decision and is it really the best one for him? After carefully considering the pros and cons of the deciiiion,_ the listener then hopes . ~hat the. caller will re­evaluate his own decision. . 
-'-Listeners must. care for people, know when to speak and when not tci speak. 'They must work in the office· for two hours each week and serve ..on .. a planning committee'. Learners must also. undergo extena sive traini_ng. , Anyotje interested in_ helping with any aspect of th_e Share · program may get additional infor­mation by calling 4311, 4711, .or 4560. -. . 
A research libra_ry with materials on current.~ problems and topics such as . drugs,. relationships, etc., is 
.also being .established. Outreach is the . second facet of 
. the Share· program. Instituted just 'this year, Outreach plans to present seminars on whatever interests :the students; Tentative seminars are scheduled on career planning, study­ing, leisure time, interpersonal rela­tionships, .with ,the· "we" aspect em­phasized,; rather than the "I'' or "you" aspect, and human sexuality.­Suggestions for seminars are. wel­corned and may be relayed. to. the Share office. The seminars · will be 
· presented about once a month.· Gail 
•THE SCHOLASTIC 
.. 
I 

emphasized that it is up to the stu­dents to decide whether or not they want such a program and this deci­sion is measured by their response. 
· According to Gail, the most com­mon type of problem presented last year.was having fo do with relation­ships. She expects it will be much the same this year, but stresses that Share is there for anything a stu­dent may want to discuss. 
"To make people more aware of themselves as human beings is the ultimate goal of Share," Gan em­phasized;, "W~, hope _to accomplish this. through-',listening and Out­reach.'.'... --. · 
. She feels that Share is unique. be­cause it was founded and is operated entirely by students.. 
"I feel that the program _will be a greater success than ever this year because more •people. are aware of the service due to more and better publicity," she added. 
;__Sue Rohn 

Logan .Center 
I 

Logan Center for the retardedwas, founded six years ago by a group of. parents from the South Bend area­as an alternative to institutionaliza-. tion for their retarded :children. With the help· of local and federal , funding, a recreation. center and school were · built at 1235 North Eddy Street,· a short walk from the· Notre Dame campus. 
Since the• beginning·of the· Logan program, students from Notre Dame_ and Saint Mary's have been involved . there in. volunteer work, and now;: organized as the Notre Dame-Saint. Mary's Council for the Retarded, are an integral part of the Logan Center program. This volunteer service, un­der the direction of student orga­nizers Kevin Connolly . and Dave• Wallace, is funded by the University and run entirely by-students. 
. The oldest and largest volunteer program at Logan Center is Satur--. day Recreation, held every Saturday morning. Participating in this pro­gram are children from Logan 

SEPTEMBER 20, ~974 ; School and Corvilla Home, and pa­tients of all ages from the Northern Indiana State Hospital and Develop­mental Disabilities. Center and sev-· eral other hospitals in the area. The recreation program consists of an · arts and crafts period, a swimming session, a. gym session, and group singing. In· each ·of· these programs,: volunteers work with clients on a onesto-one basis. In the arts and crafts period, volunteers assist their · clients in constructing simple proj­ects, giving them training in co­operation 'and coordination skills. During the swimming session, each child is helped at his particular level in learning water skills, from learn­ing riot to fear the water to actually. swimming. Here, individual super­vision is a necessity, to assure the safety ·of the clients. In the gym program, the clients are encouraged· and assisted in whatever physical exercise they are capable of-from simply walking· or running to play­ing catch or basketball. Working on the trampoline is the ·most popular· gym activity. The aim of the gym program is to increase physical co­

-ordination while giving' the children an·· outlet for their' energy ··and a chance to learn to play :together; Saturday recreation ends with a rousing group-singing· session, with · a group of ·volunteers playing gui­tars and nearly ·everyone joining in. The Logan . program.· has grown­greatly since its inception, and an:· increase in the number of volunteers has made possible a series of weekly 
15 


programs in both the recreation center and in Logan School itself.· Logan School serves I11ainly younger children ·in. the :~everely and pro-, foundiy. retarded · groups. Many of these children also have physical handicaps. Rich Geschke, a Notre. Dame graduate .and a, teache~ at Logan SchooUor the past two years, explained that their goals are mainly to teach "'self-help and socialization . skills, such as .toilet training, eating, dressing, and language and speech skills. There is also some basic aca~ 
.. •· 
demic training, for those . children who are capab!e, .in recognition of colors, shapes, and basic numbers.'~ 

Volunteers in Logan School serve . . .as.• classroom. ·assistants, working .. 
·~·~.•--:-~/:wh_e~ .. pOss{bie· with iridividua1·. ·chil-: 
··).·:.:::-:: ~ dren. Mr. G~sch~e.a1id fellow. teacher 
.-:_;;{.:.::::iviichaei Snyde~ both emphasized·the ....importance of . volunteers in behav­ioral management in the classroom. . Mr. Snyder. explained, "Individual-. ized activity makes v,oluitt.eers abso­lutely necessary-some. patients. r.e-. quire . two volunteers. Very little• meaningful work gets done without 
them.''. : · ·· · · · · · · 
._Other. programs, during the week include· a table skills .session,· where: volunt~ers .help. the children to... fe~d 






:=:::~~v::~~~: t:wf:t;}:t~r~:~~.;·:
gr~ms. Logan. Ce.~t.er. also opera_tes a, 
sheltered . workshop, Logari . Indus-.. 
tries·, ~l_le~e older client~ are given·; the chance to .work at simpie assem~ bly .line . jobs.'. Rich Geschke, com:-. 

·;:•.. 
16 

menting on the significance of the 
Logan program, stated that institu-: 
tionalization too often becomes a • 
"social death" for the retarded per­
son. In a home or hospital, the child 
learns patterns of "institutional be~ 
havior," which· help him to function · 
in the· limited world. of ·the · institu­
tion,· but not to function normally iri 
society. Both in Logan School, where·· 
the children live at home with their· 
fa·milies, and in the recreation pro-· 
gram, one ·of the most ·important 
goals is to provide a broader social ­
environment for the children,· to 
bring them into contact with people· 
outside of the institutional, setting, 
to "allow their humanness to be de­
veloped in whatever ways possible." 
A secondary. goal of the program is 
to educate the public, to "show the 
community · that the retarded are 
people, that they can learn and func­
tion in society." 
· Mr. Geschke echoed· the thoughts· 
of many volunteers as he described 
the experience· of working with the 
retarded: "You come in thinking it's 
going to·. be a one~sided thing where · 
·. , .• 
. ~:;~,;,-,:;... rr.·/ .4":;';. 
p;,-,,· ··" 
.+3./:;f/; 
. t~'·.• ..'.··..••.~,.:•.·•:~:.·_.·.·.:•:.•.•\\
..:~.•.'.·_··.:•.·:: •..• __
[ ..
1 

~.'. ::.o":'.i,/.. 

[r:S:?\ 
k&</":z:· ..t:"'.,,;:.,,,,,,. ·------·-·••<­

you are going to help the kids, but it becomes a ·mutual sharing; a mu-' tual growth.... It's brought me· a' lot closer to myself. The kids really get down to basics-they blow all · the· facades away." 
. The members of the Notre Dame-­Saint Mary's Council for the Re­tarded list as the last of their goals, "most importantly.:.....:...to learn from · the retarded person." Perhaps there· is something •here to learn for all or 
. :• .. 
-John Whalen 
::'-:.~:'i~ ~­


~:;~1~~~~~~~' 
' THE SCHOLASTIC : 
/ 

Manasa-: I 

·' Imagine -if: your"'eritire lfre. was Hke your firsFday of school. Recall that. panicky :feeling; that" sensa."tiori of total alorieness, which you:·\vere bombarded with on that day. Multi­ply that feeling a thousand times and picture yourselfl1s a'square peg in an' ete:rnitY·'of cylindrical holes. Now imagine i:liat every day' of your existence was like the first day your mother , was: 'late picking 'you itp from school. ·Remeinb'er that'utterly abandoned f~eling: yc:iu experiericed and envision -yourself' forever out in the cold, banging on a door; a' ~oor which . is. never 'answered. . Irriag.ine the frustration you'' feel when' you find thafno one c~re's> For a person suffering from' a· mental -illness,. th~ world is a lot like; this. . He' is ari outsider,. looking '.'in'.• He· is; in ;the eyes· of most, a·burden;. an unw~nted problem.' He is al~rie. · . '·: _, ' Manasa: 1provides companionship and practical 'help for these' lonely and frustrated people. Manasa/ its n·ame'coming from theSanskrit word for•:mi11d,' is astudent'chapter' o( the Me~fal Health-· Association of·Saint Joseph Coihity.'.:ffis a' loosely bound organization;-~·consis-ting of volun­teers who· participate 'iri the various ongoing' programs which 'M~riasa is 
involved :in. :, ·:--·' 1• ·' 
. , The larges(anci' longe'st r'i.inning of 

these· programs· is located near 'the 
Notre Dame campus at the Northern 
Indiana Children's Hospital/'·· The hospital. is· ari• inpatienf facility':for 
retarded' childr'en; Manas'a • ..shide'rtt volunteers •~ork \vith'thest'chilcire'n 
about-'foi:ir hoursia! week::•· The' vol~ 
uhteeridake<a ·p~ycihology coUr~e ·at 
•the hospital 'in'' conjunction ·'with · thei~: :volunteer1 'work'·•. this~ enables 
. . • • I : •·, i,~ . : ,..· . ' , , . ·• •, ··. , ~ , . . ..• ·. , . , .. ·... 

them to be ohnore assistance to the children.' , They . also; r'eceiye; 1i~iver­sity credi't:for 'this course> ,:, : · :-: · 
SF.ii>TEMBER 2ofci974 ­
The patients in the hospital are. Manasa president Dick Williams 
separated· into different programs . hopes that the State of Indiana ·wili' 
according to their individual needs. · take note ·of the progress made ·at 
These needs vary greatly. The the · Northern Indiana Children's' more ·severely retarded children re-·_ Hospital arid that they wiH increase quire training in such essential skills .. the budge.ts of similar.·facilities so as eating and walking. On the other·. that progra.ms such as -the one which, hand, are the children who areleast , Manasa: is involved in will be able disturbed, they basically need social -· . to survive arid expa~d. Last year the contact so that they can eventually State of Indiana cut the hospital's re:enter society. There are many budget: children whose forms of retardation' · A__ sec·ond project. Manasa .is in­fall betweeri these two extremes and volved in. is the Half-way House: who :require specialized help. The purpose of the house is to re-' 
. The services which volunteers may introduce emotionally restored for-'. provide ·for the children ,-differ as mer mental patients into the com-. much· as -the children's individual niuriity""where hopefully· they will problems. Generally; however, hos-adjusLto :life' outside of a mental pita! student volunteers can help hospital.: : ,+ with feeding, behavior modification, · Presently' nine men, whose ages physical therapy, and various activi-range from 20 to 54, are participat~ ties. These activities' include trips ing in this program. They live with made to various· sporting events to two graduate sociology students in a foster friendships· between · student house ori'South Michigan Street: The volunteers and children' who have men are encouraged to find jobs, and reached the point 'that they are generally to engage in social con~ about ready to re~enter the outside tacr with other -·people. _· Manasa world. These friendships often :give ·volunteers come·to the hou'se to visit , the patient the extra boost he needs the men about once a week. Parties 
to outgrow the hospital sc>' that he and dances are also held frequently 
can become a '·member of -society to encourage interpersonal-contact 
once again; between the men ot: the:·Half0 way 
Besides helping the ·children on a House'and those· in the outside'com­
one~to-one basis, Manasa '·voluriteers munity. -·· ~ ·.­
have worked . to make the ' atrrios-Eventually . the . men themselves 
phere in the hospital less clinical and must decideif 'they ,vish to remain 
more conducive, to· social · interaction in society or ifthey desire: to' return 
between the children a.rid the volun-to the safety of the mental ;hospitaL 
teers. They ·have adde'd rugs, paint, This-'.decision:prc:icess·, usually takes 
chairs,: and ·•playroom furniture. to from -six 'to riine mo~ths.'. Thus· far 
many rooms with the·reslilfthat the the ·results· have· beeri quite· 'encour~ 
hospital is more· of ·a· horrielfke::'en~ aging/since most~'of the nieri" lia,ie 
vironment'now. The volunteers and·. elected to:remairi in society;"<'' . ' 
hospital staff have been greatly re~ . : · A'. third ·activity in which M0ariasa: 
warded by the children's positive re-participates is·called the ','Hot Line/' 
actions to these changes. . This is a 24-hour telephone: line -run 
by the City 'of· South' Ben·d. 'It 'pro­
vides ',a couns~lii:t"g service for'thbse 
who need. someone·-to1 talk''to.' Ap~ 
proximately 34 people ·man 1the tele~' 
phone, liries,.'aC the' present time; 
about 13 of these are Notre Dame 
students. 
17 · 
; 
/ 

I· 
l 18 

I-lot Line_ 
To becomeamelllber of the "Hot Line" program, the prospective volunteer must first be interviewed. The ·interviewing• is. done. by Joanne Hill, the group's .founder, who is a South Bend resident: If the interview is satisfactory. the. person then. must participate in a. seven-week training program in crisis. psychology. When the prospective;j'Hot Line'.' member has completed this program and has listened in on several calls to famil­iarize hims.elf. . with the procedure, the• volu~teer liste11er is· prepared to answer actual calls. . · · 
. The. ''HotLine";·voiunteer's prin­cipal job is to be a listener. .He or she quic~y learns llow to recognize a.caller's emotional state. The listen­e~ ~ombinestthis knowledge.with the caller's. stat~men(of his problem and then. tries.to, provide moral support or a specific type of aid to the.caller. The. volunteer can also put the caller in .,toucll, with medical, psychiatric, or 'legal. counsel: :according. to., the caller's needs if a request\.is· made ·for_ such counsel.. Local psychiatrists frequently , review records of the 
calls on the "Hot Line." . 
, : To insure that the'.'Hot Li~e" runs 
smoothly., and safely, listeners are 
governed by several rulesw,hic;h they 
·~ust. adhere . to or risk expulsion from the program. The calls are kept absolutely confidential. A volunteer is not allowed to meet a caller face to face .. This rule exists for several reasons. , One is to discourage calls from men who might want to use the "Hot Line" to get dates with female volunteers. The other reason is that a.listener can never telLhow serious the. m~ntal condition of the caller is. . , A fourth program. that Manasa is involved in is the Logansport toy distribution project. In this program the patients .at the Logansport State Hospital choose toys which they give to their relatives .. This. program al­lows the children at the hospital to experie_nce the satisfaction and joy that giving brings each Christmas. 

For a person suffering· from a mental illness, the world is a cold, distant. place. As. a _Manasa volun­teer you can bring joy and warmth to a lonely person's heart. For those persons._ intrigued · by . this exciting opportunity to give service to their fellow man, . Dick Williams, Evelyn Mungovan, or Clint Gibler would en­joy answering .any questions you might have regarding Manasa. 
-,-Mike West: 


Non-Violence 

· The Program in Non-Violence is acting against the old cliche "talk is cheap." . The program, under ai­rector Professor Basil O'Leary; is expanding out of the classroom and offering students. a chance to. fight the institutie>nal violence present all around them. In the past the Non­Violence Program has :offered , aca­de~ic courses and.seminars in non­violence usually,: .cross-listed with other departments. . This year, in addition to aca.1emics, four com­munity :service, projects providi11·g hclp to .'the residents .of South. Bend 
ai,:e being added. . . . . . . . 
A. probation sponsor. program is being. established in ,conjunction with the· St. Joseph. · County .. Probation Department.. Students· in the pro­gram wili'each be· assigned a proba­tioner who·m they ·.are to counsel regularly. and submit a monthly re­port on to a . Judge. A; ones'month training course. will...be . required of each of th_e, par~icipc1nts' ill the pro­gram. ..·. 
An ,encounter group -~ade up of students and chronic. shoplifters ._ is also being formed. . The. ten weekly meetings of the group will be aimed at raising the awareness of the shop­lifters and: hopefully. forcing ... them to -consider .their actions more se­riouslyin the future. Both these pro­
. grams are attempts by students ·to reduce the distance between the law­breaker and the· society he hopes to 
re-enter.. . .. . iAnother· project working within the local judicial structure is aimed at the discriminatory. bail system which keeps harmless persons, .too poor to make bail, in the dangerous St. Jos·eph County-Jail.· Last year a Johns. Hopkins University student, .after,·_ being arrei;ted .·for• hitchhiking ·. and failing to post bail, .was mur­dered during his"~overnight, stay in 
• 1 THE SCHOLASTIC . 
I 

the jail. -To avoid a; recurrence of this sort ·of ·tragedy the. Non-Vio­lence Program, working with the South Bend Junior League, plans to first survey the bail system, finding otit wlio .fail~·to make bail, for what they are'arrested and how long they are held. After this survey there is hope that a bail· officer program can be established-under which the vol~ 
' ' ' .

unteer intervie\\;s the newly arrested individual, verifying references, and then makes· arecommendation to the judge reg'.-irding whether the . pris­oner should be released on his own recognizance or' what ' level bail should be set at:. Lavv students will probably play a large ·part in the administration of th_is program. . . Of help ·to a' much more 'general segment, of the population is th~ 'ad~ vocacy' ~ program being. planned. There' are "eighty agencies' in South Bend with the expressed purpos_e of helping people. But · because of the size and the number of these agen­cies they oftentimes do: more _harm' than good: The ptirpose·of the ad0 vocacy ·_ program then . is to help people take advantage of the services already' available. This can be ·ac~ complished by getting people to .the proper ·agency, probably even pro­viding rides, and seeing that their request 'is. properly processed· aricf followed 'through. All the :abcive· services :are still at the organiza~ tional level : and people are still needed ;to w~rk cin them. One need not be· in. any· ·of the ·Non-Violence courses, ~ but only contact Prof. O'Leary or Tim ~cully in 338 O'Shag~ 
• ,~ J-' 
_..,-..• ' 

A Conference · on International Peace is being planned .for the . middle. of the semes_ter. It will con­sist of. lectures and . discussions on the· practical means cif ·achieving world peace. The participants will include faculty from Kent State, Loyola, tr,e peace colleges in Indi­ana, Goshen, Manchester,_ and Earl-ham as well as members of our own faculty and people from South Bend. The-Conference is. in answer to the. program directors' . desire to keep the campus and local coinmunity aware of and concerned with world problems. 
With the same purpose in mind. 
si~ faculty panels will be presented on such varied SU_bJ"ects as _the world' food problem, pacifism, and prison reform. There· is also a desire ori Professor·. O'Leary's part' to. involve' the program in combatting institu~ 
tional' violence within the university, specifically campus discipline. 
Professor O'Leary sees a need for the program to reach out to: the' people of .the community through' services and events like the.se;rather than fo hope that they are' reach'ed 

Knights of 

Columbus 

. . . 
•·· -· Hidden quietiy, buteasily found, ~ onetime pcist : office on. the · south_ . qmid ·is the headquarters for the , University of_ Notre Dame's oldest_ student organization,'the:Knights of 
. Columbus.. Chartered · in 1910 as Council No: 1477, the K oi C at Notre Dame is more than the.organ-­ization of which o~e 'would expect the dusty and pretentious presenta­tion of a ritualized, attesting, fra­ternal society of Catholic men and women. At Notre Dame, the K of C is a viability; in 1972 it. was voted the No .. L College' Council in the u" ·t d st''t'·es'. ' '. ' ' 
me a .. , . . 
Within tlie walls of this onetime 
letter depository <'originally' located 
i~ w~ish, the new headquarters was 
opened in 1969, largely ciue to the 
financial c.on t r i b .u ii o n of Eli 
Shakeen,:·a :pere'nnial member);_are 
rooms for study and-various recrea­
tional facilities (i.e., color.television; 
Ping-Pong, .p~ol)' all open to the ex"'. 
elusive use of. members and their 
guests. Off-campus , members have 
through other organs. The Program .. kitchen facilities available_ fo them, 
in Non~Violence is · therefcire no loµger just an ·academic department with an abstract subject to·consider,' but it is an active force of peace moving outside the· walls of the classroom and into the city and in-. stitutions where violence reigris. 
:c_Larry Stanton where they can prepare meals dur­ing the day~ ,For those members possessing the proper identification, drinks are. available at 25. cents a 

beer or45 cents' for a mixed drink; duri~g away footbaU games, a keg accompanies the. smoker.... Council meetings, held. every other/Tuesday at · 10 p.m., are. open only, to mem­bers.A member who attains the sta-· tion of Grand.Knight (there are 11 officers altogether) receives. a ifre­time_membership. . . . ... 
There are about 12oo' active, dues­paying. ($9.00 every ~ix· .mo{iths) members, :Which includes' about 1,000_:alumni and 200. students; 74 

new onek . have; beer{ recru'ited. this· year, and that is expected to' ~each' about 100. An active member ~f the . Notre Dame' Council ·does riot' have to pay dues io·ii'°K of Cin his home~: town; while retaining membership' here, he has·open .to him the tise ·of these other councils. Funds,' the ·in~'. forest of which isCpaid to· tiie Uni-• versity~ ,' are 'channeled. :into. 'civi_l' service/ : charitable . organizations 
. (such· as Corvilla; a·· locah::omrriuni1 ty ·service. tor' area retar<iees ·and· their families)'; the 1\iarch:of Dimes, and '· most recently, ari 'organized· effort.·towards the· abortion issue·;' collected' funds' are' also·'used' for' mairiteriarice and:the' rehtal of films.· Money -obtained f~orii ;-films ·is· used ior;·an anriuaf Corvilla ·, Christmas' party,: an.cl· also'·ari. annual' spring/· fall~ picnic. arid ·steak• dirmer. · ':. 
.. This·secret'organization (a mem­ber is sworn to. secrecy af the ex~ pense of his armor)· also has' definec:t'. definite .go~ls· arid: principlis for''it-' · self! Aside'from its eiemeiif'ofuiiity
. . ' ,... .(, ,....,..... ,,. ....... 
and campus representation;' a K ·of C piiblicatioh outlines'-ihe goals 'as --direcfed:'towards --~•thecfoi-fuatfon 'of' riiorif effecti~e : . Cathblfo . laymen/" and,· 'as· orie ;member said?''lt'scim2 portant to me to help others, to get to know and commUJ:iicate with peo­
•pie ,and their concerns." 
But.what can the nonmember-de­termine of· Council No. 1477? He can see a fraternal society of stu­




,. r 

back ~onipletely .fr~~ ' the:. fed~rai 
budget .. in other words, .their ·entire dent~ w~o are_·,~~nc~~ed -~Ith' their . means·. of. support :was , elimi~ated duties as·. Catholic men and. women, and they :did not discover_ it untir men· and. women· ~who ·wish to per~. . they returned to. campus ..~o. being· sonify in' some definite mann~r whai facecfwith a· life or death' tiltiinatum is to them the ·sometimes..ali. too and no time. to·.spa:re,i they decided­abst~ct 'goal of._th~,c~ntempo~ary tc:> puli' together and· fight ,for·· t4eir Catholic:· the goal of .realizing in program.arid the'hundreds of people what' ways everyomt is . a pa~t and, involved ·~uhit.;_: ' .· .:;' .. : .. : concern. of everyone'. else, and so ·a. Neighborhood Study Help began 
. d,e~er~inc1~t i~ J~ch·: other:s. direc~, at Notre . Dame in .1963 and has gained : ni~c~-:~,~~couragem~~j . from 
t1on_.·,·:·. . . . '· :.·· .·-... 
A person. at . Notre I>ame who the Administration and Father Hes-feels that possibly he is riot ·involved burgh . (he. even: mentioned .:the pro-, enough . .through ·.his ·:cir~ her hall ca-~ grain on:an appearance on ·Johnny 
. mimiderie ·w01.i1d'··possibiy do well <;arso_h's .: T~ight~Show), 'ar{d .has to.see if a~ outlet such as the K of-become: :by··: fa~_-_.. the_ University's Cis,in some way' an aspect, oLhis ·1ai-gestyolunteer .organizationi Hav~' 
,concern;,and,.partic~iarly 'if he or. ing_gx:o~)~st .year.to"i¥ $'o~th she is interested in apostgraduation Ber1d public and. pa_rochi,al ~cho~ls,. continuance.~~ ageneral colleague:, the,·program: matches some 500. or ship, the K' of..C.should by.all means more _slower ·:1earneii, froril · grades .be considered: The possibility lies,• of 3-6.. on , a orie~fo~orie . relatior'iihip: course; as in aii things, that this ·with:a·Not're Danie.tutor. Transpor.:.' . structure of a sodality is not · so . tition · to. and .fro~ the., different~· ..,-·· i1 .important as the . goals expressed' sciiools -.for.. the ' tutors : is. provided ' as genuine. concern and involvement 'free -twice 'a we~k-·for. 'ilie se~sions. ', ! in the needs.and concerns of others; However, being faced lwfth· no he or she· could do as well to work . means of supportNSH began to:in­around in an individual way-which. vestigate the·causes of their·plight is what Notre Dame is all about and· save theit children from beirig ' anyway. · neglected·. Briefly~ the program· was •· 
· _:_Mark Thomas Hopkins funded by1 the South Bend School·~. "Corporation un.der Title ·1 ·of ,,'the 1968 Education AcCUnder Titl(I, · 


the average income of the families at .a. particular school has to fall under a federal standard. for pover­ty ,in order •to be .funded for the program. ·NSH involved 11 schools jn,these conditions and had also de­veloped tutoring centers at three additional schools with other mis­ceUaneous funds. This year, the fed­eral government cut, back its· Title I programs by . 15% and Notre Dame's ~NSH-was. left with .. no money from.the South Bend author~ ities. "They: didn't want to get rid of us; they,:just didn't have the money," saicLTom Wild, one of the NSH main coordinators in reference to the decision. _So with nothing: to lose, the four program coordinators, 
D. C;•.·Nokes, Eileen:,Flanagan, Dan Novak; .and Tom, along with . their 14 center. captains,: began a strug­gle.. to ·win · their program. back­and . by now, ·it seems as if they have won it. Expressing stoic ·deter­mination not ,to fold, they convinced Notre Dame's ·Student Activities to fund-them for.almost half-ofwhat the government had. With. this boost,-they .organized a. raffle that will be beginning soon, with a .color T.V,, compliments [?f a sympathetic South Bend:, businessman, and a 
k t 1 1 t 

• J dd. fi::,eth:~:c:r: ~:r::;:;e:,s~o:, ;; 





fIEbti~tir~~~:§1~i ~1!l1B~~r~ I~,.
was asbrilliant display of a group N:2; ·,., •"' , ·t, t 1.--.;: C:'·
••,,,t:
£:sir::~~1~;:~i¼E:~! H~}::·:::cJ fI~f It£!;~i:r~~1:~~Iif;E:~ JI_,_~_,_· .
1_·._~_.·.,·:-•-t.1_-_-~__._!_::;·,_:_:.•_· ..-_~_--_·...· ·... , 
the beginning. We .all knew that:a , : .. lot;of fantastic pei:>ple are_ connected . r . (I' . . . t · 
wUh the. program and tllat if we 

ll1 .), 
let it die, we'd be letting them down, 
as well as the kids. We_.just knew 
that nobody wanted us to die. We've 
got five, or six _hundred-students in 
our program _and if that many peo­
ple are concerned, .then it says a lot 
for the program." 
Obviously nobody wants NSH to 

stop operation and Tom reports that 
presently .they are planning to oper­
ate again at 14 centers .or possibly 
one or two less. They _began their 
familiar annual recruiting drive out­
side the dining halls. last week ,and 
everything is going on.as planned. 
Besides. the economic problems, Tom says that they also would like to tend .towards an afternoon in­stead of a night . program. !'Five years ago, almost all ;the centers were night programs but now people justdon't feel secure sending their kids out at night in these neighbor-, hoods," he. said. Regardless of the varying· situations from school to school, the . program has achieved measurable success according to re­
ri' ~;~t;{~;?!m?~:nr; f.R ~ 
, 7f:::~r~~"':'""··'<·~,~.~..-~"·'-!,-l\t Ii !.r,_.,.-.. t~ 
i;• ~J£:f!,:J:t~:::·l~ f1 Lt i' 
source persons and principals at. each school. ."And the.· thing about tutoring," says Tom; "is that it's not ·only two hours a week' working with a slower. kid. In the kinds of homes these kids come from, you always find yourself easily becoming 
a .counselor and a real friend: ·As well as helping people, you're also helping· yourself.. Our primary. goal is educational but the education is complementary to both tutor and child." Tom also feels that tutoring expands awareness of a real problem to students at Notre ·Dame who "have never seen a ghetto," and it shows the South Bend community that Notre Dame ·really. cares;. es­pecially after fighting back this year. . .Tom concluded that· ."We can't' .say . enough about· Student Activities. They saw us · with our backs against the wall and just came in and helped us · out." · So Neighborhood Study Help is.,con~ tinuing to do a much-needed job, having fought and app.arently. won a battle with economic hardship, to serve the people of South Bend and show that they do really care. -· 
-Dave Dreyer,:, 


are planning a comprehensive study



lnPIRG 

of all toys . sold in ·South Bend to see if they match federal standards. InPIRG is the Indiana Public 2) Availability of Advertised ·Interest Research Group. It was be-Specials-Commonly called bait-and. gun at Notre Dame .last· year and switch advertising, it occurs much funded this fall by a negative check-too 'often in the business community. 
· off system, whereby, if a student did 3) Directory of Doctors-This not want. to contribute to InPIRG, project was done successfully' over he checked the box on the registra-the· summer in the area · around tion card and returned it and was Bloomington and is also on the not charged. ·It will not be known agenda of possible projects • for until September 15 precisely how Notre Dame InPIRG. ·· much money will be collected, but it InPIRG is also:ctirrently thinking was estimated that about 75% of about forming a liquor lobby in col­the students contributed. laboration with the InPIRGs .· at 
'. The purpos·e of InPIRG as stated other · schools. This ·. potentially 
. in their constitution is to "initiate strong union could· bring _'pressure and carry out research into areas of to bear on the state officials:· public interest, to collect, evaluate, Notre Dame is not the ·only In­disseminate, .· and communicate re-PIRG in existence. At present there sults of such research, ..." · are ·InPIRGs at Indiana University 
. This will be the first full year for and Earlham College. The main of­InPIRG at Notre Dame, yet they_ flee has recently. been moved to a· already have some 37 handbooks larger· building in Indianapolis: In and reports on file-in their offices on this office areHterally thousands of the second floor of LaFortune; Some reports and handbooks on research. examples of these are: Each school need only request for 
1) Bookstore Survey -This is help on a particular problem and · done annually by Indiana Univer-they receive it from the ma_in office. sity InPIRG.. They compare the There are other InPIRGs in the prices in the IU bookstore with those making. At Purdue; which is. not a of local bookstores. This is viewed hotbed of, student activism, the stu­as a possible second-semester proj-dent newspaper has been comment­ect at Notre Dame. ing. on how well InPIRG is doing 
2) Housing Handbook....:.:.-'niis was everywhere else and even their pres­also done at 'Bloomington and was ident has had some favorable words very well. received. It could be . of · about it, so the future for an In­vital importance here at· .Notre · PIRG at Purdue looks bright: · Dame with the increased movement Ball State is o.n the list of possi­off campus. bilities for an InPIRG. It was voted 
3) Prescription Drug a~d Grocery down lasfyear, but they have asked Prices Survey.:___This was done last for InPIRG speakers to come again year and was greeted happily by •. this year, so<they are giving it an-comparison shoppers all over South · other try. · . · Bend. InPIRG plans a new revised ·Even I.U.S.B. seems a viable can­edition this year. . . · · didate for an InPIRG. With a major-
InPIRG is not just for the Notre · ity of its .students drawn from the · Dame students, howeve;. , Actually ( South Bend community, it would most of the InPIRG projects are seem.logical that it would be work­community-oriented. InPIRG is pro-ing to better its own community. posing projects this year on such The idea ·of the Public Interest 
. topics as: · · · Resea;ch ·Group (PIRG) was first. 
1) Toy Safety-Late this fall they · expounded by Ralph Nader in his 
book, Action for a Change. In .the 

· book Nader explains his theories for social· change. ' He· sees PIRG ·?S a way to wake up the lethargic stu­dents of the 1970's. He sees it.as a way to get students involved. Pres­ently there are· PIRGs · in Minne­sota, Oregon, Iridiana, and the. origi­nal PIRG started. in the District of Columbia by Nader. -· Why would you want to join Iri0 PIRG? The official newspaper, In-. PIRG . Action, explains what one can learn through InPIRG. Working 'at-InPIRG can· provide . you ·with a completely unique· ex~ perience. In the past InPIRG has battled Indiana Bell, the Public Service Commission of Indiana; and the banks. Students working for InPIRG in those confronta­tions gained an education that re­mains unmatched by any college · curriculum. The tools of, citizenship are not necessarily found; in high school civics books· or in college political science classes, but rather in a day-to-day; on-the0job commit~ ment . to being· ac ''citizen." .. This ' requires .taking an active interest in the social and political envi­ronment· Those who are genuinely con­cerned and want to do something constructive should take ; a l~ok at InPIRG. Involvement with In~ PIRQ-can . provide studEmts .and · citizens with the mechanism for fulfilling' social' commitments. By .working with InPIRG a student ' ' can · actively pursue his/her· dedi­. cation to 'social betterment: ·After seeing the corruption in·the . Nixon · Administration·. we should . want to do something about our government. Especially -· here .at Notre · Dame;] we become too wrapped up in. football . and' pari­etals and forget there. are people suffering · outside our own ivory tower. InPIRG gives us· a chance· to ·show we care. -Michael Casey 
THE SCHOLASTIC 





Christian Colloquium 

"Becoming a Christian if you Christian if you already are· one"; opportunity to listen· and question already are one" is the theme of a September 18, Father McNeill and some outstanding theologians. Fi­new pilot theology course open to Father Pomerleau speak on coinmu-nally, this course will demonstrate to. all Notre Dame and St. Mary's nity service; October 2, Sister Malits the freshmen that the study of theol­freshmen. This one-credit· course, turns the students'. attention to ' ogy can be fun. also referred to as the Theology and prayer and the inner life of a Chris-Why .do some freshmen decide to Life Colloquium, is sponsored by the tian, and finally; October 16, Fath.er -give up their Wednesday nights to ND Department of Theology and the Dunne focuses on. the relation of -take this course, and what do they SMC Department of · Religious ·faith and reason. . ; · . . .· . hope· to gain from this course? In . Studies in conjunction with Grace The Theology Department and the the words of Warren Cinnick, one of and Farley Halls. For 8 weeks this Department of Religious Studies' the freshmen taking this course, "I semester 100 students -will:•attend reasoning behind the offering of this want to meet other people and see weekly sessions featuring guest radical approach to the. teaching of how they .think about theological speakers _and_ discussion groups; theology.• is.· manifold. _First, they · topics." According to Father Mc-
The scope of this course is for ·· want to give an introductory theol-· Nally, Grace Hall rector, this course each student to conduct a self-evalu-ogy course to those freshmen with : gives the student the chance to ex­ation of the relevance to him ofthe little or no:.theological ·experiences plore himself. Isn't this what the Catholic Church with all ' its' doc-. or courses ,in. high school. Secondly, college experience is all about? trines.and rituals. Now that the . the course \\'ill give freshmen the . -Jim Gajewski freshman · is ·away from home and all the_··. pressures associated .with. home, he can seek to establish his . own religious beliefs and priorities.. This course will not serve as. a guid­ing tool; but. rather it will serve as a knife to cut ·open all the theologi-. · cal concepts for analysis, ·. · 
The classes will • be administered · as follows: One week, .the classes meet in Grace ·Hall's ·"Pit". for .a .. lecture by a guest speaker. In the next week's · session. · the classes break up :into _·. disc~ssion . groups to rap about ·•the previous ·week's lec­turer and . o·ther relevant. topics of interest to :the st~dents; The grade is either pass or·fail.. . • .. ·.·_. ..· 
The guest speakers ariq .· t11~ir topics for lecture are: September 4, Father · Sheedy . gives· -an introduc­tory talk on the theme0 becoming a 
·THE SCHOLASTIC 
------~--------­

r' •'"' "'',--~.--,.-....__........~.,. -.~---...-.-,--•~----•--,,.,. . . }
.Y,~,-­

('RECORD REVIEWS·.-;-.:, _:· :.. , --. ··_--.-_--· ;·>: -,.· . j
t•~• ~ --::r ~..... ,_,..,.• •~..-'°'«-"'~-----;,.."' -•,..-•-,..,~ .....,,._..,,_ ,,........,,.._,, •_:,-,• •.,.,s__ s:7'•~-... •• • ~• _• ~-,~,:• -, .: :••, .. :•... -·-'• •-•• ~ ~ • ~--...:::::-~:-~,•• • _• ,••_: ,,: •,•· .::-'i:-~ •.... ~-; ,._,._,.. •~_,.,]
•n,_•••· :~ • 
Life has riot been easy for Neil 

Young lately. For over a year his 
lot had been nothing more than a 
lengthening list of failures: his 
movie, "Journey Through·the Past" 
failed to secure a distribution con­
tract; .his 65-city. tour with Stray 
Gators was hit by criticism (the 
shows: rarely played much over an 
ho~r); the ~.lbum that·came out of 
that tour .was· panned; the 1973 
CSNY album atteinpf"Human.High­
w~y" fell:-apart; to recoup: he did 
an album "Tonight's . the Night" 
which•·he .discarded (yes,'. the whole 
album); add.'· to 'that the ~dverse 
critical reaction that accompanies -most people's ··ascendency into "Su~ perstardom~• and you wonder why he. just didn't.·call ··the new• album "'r.11~:;sook~of _Job'_•''as seen by Neil 
Young. --, 
Obviously the current CSNY tour 

lias never heiped to restore Young to 
his -former stature and _while .his 
new' iiin.iin •uon.the Beach" is not 
stroilg enough to widen his appeal,' 
it ckrtai~iy _will restore :~onfidence 
amo_ng many.old fans.' ' .. . .. . 
.''Walk On," a tasty.country.rocker, 

sta:rts it off 'well, followed by "See 
the Sky' About to_ Run" which 'con­
tains··an·elemerit of childlike wonder 
which' has . rarely surfaced in 
Young's work: sirice' Buffalo Spring­
field. "Revolution Blues" reminds 
one-of the Crazy Horse period with 
its .anger transmitted through .the 
able guitars of· Young and.:David 
Crosby. We". get more of Young's 
countrified '"Wasteland" imagery in 
''For. the Turnstiles.'-' . . 
The next , two songs "Vampire 

Blues" and '.'On. the: Beach". point ,. : sons. "Don't Think'~Twice;~ is: done up the. ·weaker characteristics of' too fast iike a song from ai{Elvis_ Young's -new '"laid--back" approach.. •Presley . rock-'n'~roll ·medley.· "Just'. Here•. the application of. that style.. Like a Woman" done 'at the Bangla:." leaves· the. songs without ariythirig. • desh .concert almost as. self-parody to sustain' them. . .. ' . .is done here ·with too much self­
. "Motion Pictures''. is a warm trib-sat_isfaction.:·Arid "It Ain't Me/Babe"­ut~:to.his actress·wife, Caxrie· Snod-has a ·beat that could be likened to grass; ,;Ambulance". Blues".·. is the. a polka,:-: , . '._­alb1:1m's strongest moment' with a·· Tile Band 'gives::a wo;kinanlike 
-· ...··. . 

'_) .. 
. SEPTEMBER 20,'_1974 
-··_· 
beautiful intertwining melody and traditional strong Young word im­agery. 
Those searching for the Young of the Crazy Horse era will be dis­appointed here, for now Young seems a firm disciple of the "laid back.". Still here he has come up with a tuneful, if not dynamic, al~ bum reflecting his ·unique musical personality. . . -. . . 
Bob Dylan·continues to be a tr'e-: niendous· influence on: rock music long after much . of' his creative power has · desiccated.· Many stars (CSNY, Harrison)' going ·,nit ontlie road now credit their return to the concert circuit, in part, to the sue~ cess _<>f the Dylan tour. _ -. _ 
For Dylan the comeback·tour was the crowiting moment of· a "great career. Trying to capture on record the. power and emotions swept 'along in those he did with The· Band is a difficult task only. partially accoin­plished on the two~album set "Be­fore the Flood_;, Songs· included. a~e mostly from Dylan's early'years and none from "Planet Waves/' (Just:a!>_ welt The best_ song :on "Waves," ''Forever Young'; had lyrics· that sounded like , Jonathan Livingston: Seagull genie berserk~).. . . _ 
. The good moments here are pow­erful indeed. "Rainy Day Woman" and "Most Likely You'll Go Your Way" show Dylan at his rock-and­roll best. "It's Alright,, Ma" done acoustically by Dylan at a_.furious pace is my favorite selection on the album, the one that best captures the presence Dylan can exert;· . · . Other songs faHfor ·various rea­
performance of seven·· of their best 
songs although they have done bet­
ter. Their backing for Dylan is 
excellent. · 
The fourth side works best with 

Dylan and The Band in fine form, building from "All Along the Watch­. tower" and "Highway 61" to an emotional _version of 'ii.,ilce a Roll­ing Stone.'' When; in th~ finai chorus, Dylan, shouts out,'. ."How does . it' feel?'' the crowd·roars bac~. ''.Great.'' It probably· did. . 
. In· arecent article; I speculated 
on the possibility that the recent 
CSNY reunion ··was .· motivated by 
the financiai rew~r~: "So Far," a 
just released ,repackaging of old 
CSNY,'. work, dre; ,not necessarily 
prove me ·right, · b'!lt • it would. seem 
to heighten my suspicions.' ...• 
·-· Obviously released to· take advan­
tage of. tou~: publicity, ;iSo Far". is 
not labeied agreatest~hits-coliection 
in its title._(That would be too com~ 
mercial.) U is a neat trick, however, 
to come· up' with_ s·omething. "resem-. 
bling'' . . a_ greatest:-hits collection· 
when you consider these people did 
only. two. ·albums .of original. work 
toge~er:·Of course, CSNY has the 
talent to do just that. , -. 
, Wh_at I don't understand is why: 
more of this talent wasn't used. In­
cluded here are such songs as "Help-_ 
lessly, . Hoping,'' ."Find :· the Cost 
of Freedom " and "Ohio " all fine 
.·. '· . -.-: , --' 

songs. _But . songs . missing include 
"Carry . On," .. "Marakesh Express," 
'.'Long._ Time_ Gone". an~ "49 Bye 
Byes" _which motivates. you to ask 
that eternal one-word question. The 
albu~,·pf _course, .is , alrea_dy a big 
success. , . , . , : •· 
. : MY: advice would be to buy ''Cros­
by,, Stiµ~_,and ·Nas}:1'~-.and seeJf you 
don~t. go on and. get,_'.'Deja ;Vu." "So 
Fa!"" . belongs; .on -. people's coffee 
tables next, to their copy., of '.'Fin~e­
' ur k " '..-· 

gans nae..•,_. :· ...,·_ ... ·. ·, : . :~ohri Zygmunt . · 



·California Odys.sey 
What better way, after three and almost a· half years at du Lac, to celebrate class camaraderie than by flying to .that aggrandized city .of Los Angeles, California, and spending not only five nights, but six, possibly sunny, but most ._ certainly warmer days there? Five nights and six'days of being jusf'rninutes from the Pa­cific Ocean, minutes from two eigh­teen-hole golf courses, minutes from 

, . a classical confrontation between two· collegiate pmverhouses, minutes from the original Disneyland, only minutes from the eternally popular Sunset Boulevard, and miles and miles away from the encroaching winter grays ot'South Bend, Indiana. What ·this traditional hiatus is commonly referred' to as is .the Senior Trip. This year, however, it is shaping up into a studen_t migration. Pla_ns have . been formalized by the Senior Class officers and the Office of Student Activities, and its direc­tor,·Fr. Dave Schlaver, C.S.C., to ac­commodate five to six hundred eager students, most of whom· are seniors, out west to witness the November 30 clash· between the Trojans of Southern Cal arid Notre Dame's fin~ est. . . . Three planes .. have already been chartered ·IJy the class officers, but they also are presently at work try­ing to get approval for the charter­ing of a fourth one. Notably, at this same 'time·last year, the then senior class officers weren't even sure they were ·going to fill-one 707, let alone three of them. Also at this time a year ago,: only fifty multiple-man­suites.had been reserved for the con­test between Notre Dame and the University of Miami. This year, the entire top three floors of the Inter­national Hotel in Marina del Rey, California, have been set aside for those students who will spend their 
26 
Thanksgiving vacation out there.. 
Once they arrive in California, one hundred and thirty rental cars will be made available to the students for their own personal use. The gas wiU be.the only extra expense, other than their meals, that is, not covered by the. prepaid total cover charge of $230. This, however, will not neces-. sarily be a very steep extra expense, since each automobile will have four or more passengers helping pay for the energy. Plus, fifteen to twenty buses have been chartered to trans­port' the students to and from air­ports, thus eliminating any of that worry and expense... 
All in all,the total cost of this monstrous' project is, at the. time being, $120,000, but this figure could and probably will rise 'to approxi~ mately $160,000 if the aforemen­tioned fourth piane is approved. Some people, who have been _critical · of the whole idea, ~re saying that is too much money to be spending on 

the last and maybe .the best game of the 1974 regular season'. But others feel there is more to. it than just that. Certainly, this senior . mecca will p'rovide those going an excellent ·game to be present at, and assuredly a football experience that should last them till. they meet in gallant. re­union. Nevertheless, to shatter a few myths', the footbaU game is not the .only reason for the scheduling of a ·seriior··trip, or at least it's not for ' the four class officers who have· co­ordinated most of the whole opera­
tion. . . . . . . . 
Since' they \\;ere. elected .~o their 
respective class officer positions, 
Greg Ericksen, Joe '· Henderiong, 
Chris Fenn; and Bob. Spann _have 
beeri. continuously reassuring .that 
the graduating class of 1975 will . 
have the bes.t Senior Trip that's· pos­
sibly available.· A step in that right 
direction . came· a little_ more than 
four months ago when, at the end of 
the spring" semester la'st year, the 

.. [?_: · ; '•~• Q.~~~1,:".11 :::il7ilJ• :•••.:~c~~~J-~. :, .. ~ \ . 
:··-,·,, 

-;;•'.lf~~1:\~!~..f'-~r?!·tr2f~ ~~~~1,,1 
· l • _; __"i. !!f4 )•l :.-;j·;•//f 
' ~i.,_·-_4_A--~-'---'--_·:1_1_,.i-· ­
~lJf·\ I_· l 
9s•-:-_ 1•·
;. .· if 
,! ' --· '.,. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

newly elected officers distributed a survey that· sampled the wishes of the theri junior class, concerning the whereabouts of_ the destination de­sired for -the' following year;s trip. An overwhelming response indicated, that for• those polled, Los Angeles, Califomia, was w_here they·wanted to go. Like a · reflex muscle, Greg and the rest .·went into motion. With each . officer tackling _ a different phase of their pla.n, the four com­munally devised the most desirable senior excursion ever offered. . 
Their intent was twofold. The first goal the)_' had in mind was, as previously indicated, to make as economically feasible the traveling to, and witnessing of, this year's most exciting away game. They have easily accomplished this. You can't even fly out to southern California round trip for $230, let alone spend five nights and six days there, but that's where the second goal comes . in. 
The second objective of the four officers was, if you'll excuse a little poetics, to germinate a -seed, .to im­plant a unity, a memory, to nurture a self-pollinating dome tradition. I think Greg Ericksen-aptly put it when he said, "There's a need for it! It's a chance ;for seniors to get to­gether, one time;away from the Uni-: versity . ·.. it's something to remem­ber their .friends by, and ·the school by, other than Nickie's, or Corby's. It's an opportunity to take real ad­vantage oCcollege living. :There're not going to be too many other times 
·seniors are going·to be able to travel as carefree or as cheaply. There's a 
need for it!" . 
Perhaps, as· seniors walk the Pa­
cific beaches, or play a few rounds of November golf,· or romp childlike through Disneyland, or experience the bizarre life-styles of Sunset Boulevard, and even when they watch their last regular season Irish football game as students, they will feel the beginnings of that emotional scar on their brains. A scar carved out by the experiences, the people, and the times spent at Notre Dame: ' Perhaps being over two thousand miles 'away from this.place, with the people you've met' here, is what it's 
all about. 
· ~Bill Smith 


Never let it b_e said that our pur­pose in this column is purely to amuse. Gratuitous didacticisin is also one of our objectives. There­fore, in our continued.efforts to keep the student informed, we present "IJ:TTLE KNOWN. FACTS ABOUT NOTRE -DAME.".· 
Did you know that..... . -Provost James T. Burtchaell has taken Dale Carnegie's "How To Win Friends.· and· Influence People"? 
· The Observer is• thinking of be-. coming a newspaper? ' -• Our·diriing hall poo-bah Edmund Price once ·operated ' a ptomaine kitchen iri Klamath Falls, Oregon? 
_· 'I'he ,Gipper was the victim of a social: disease, ·and that his ghost haunts Washington Hall? . Nine< ouCof 10 freshmen think that Ara Parseghian is acook at the Huddle? 
. William Butler Yeats was denied tenure by-the ND English Dept.? · ·ND is hoping for. an invitation to play· in the Cereaf Bowf at Battle Creek? · : -ND won atitle a.t the turn of the century. ,after having won in .. the Toilet BO\vl at ·Flushing? 
·. parby~O'Gill ghosf•writes all ·of 
SEPTEMBER 20, 1974 
Father Griffin's material? 
The third floor. of the Me~orial Library is· the . Mast~rs. and, John­son's campus clinic on sexual atti­
tudes and mores? .. .. · -· 
. According to the ·university, -if you are not_ a member of. a down­trodden ethnic' minority,' you are considered _to ~e an, "oth~r_Amer~: ican"? -. ~*;: 
The camp4s blood ~ive is a money-making__ s~eme, invented_ by, the Hammes -Book Store?-_..<::·,· -.:­
:You can tell y~ur pare11ts in good conscience that you spent the entir_e night in.th~ ,"Library''?_,_;, . 
_ Father BurtchaeU-often. gets into some "sticky" situations, buMhat he is "glued" to his responsibility to the students? 
. St. Mary's. has done away with 
(the title) "Dean_ of Students" and 
replaced it with "High Priestess"? 
·• The "Sex and Marriage',' course 
taught at ND is currently-under in­
vestigation by: the Office of Student, 
"Affairs'.'? ­
The Dining Hall-is.helping to ease 

the energy. crisis -by . sending all ·of 
its grease and oil to the ,Mideast? · 
Seniors who apply to law schools 

do so to 4.3 law institutions? (Did you care; anyway?) · ,, . 
,A committee of: freshman judges 
has -chosen : ·this yeai_;s·_''best" and 
"worst;' of _the , Class of.-_ ~78, using 
the new pictorial directory as guide?. 
-To g1:~.ori crtmpus with a car you 
must pose as an aduU? _, -. • : 
. Meal ticket numbers are checked 
in. order_ to.-catcli .iliose. trying to 
get through the line twice? Would 
you believe, they_ havei:i~t, caught one 
yet?--__ · _ ­
, Some of the . cafeteria help are 
rumored to have been waitresses at 
the: Last. Supper? ­
Classes on .the 4th floor of the 

Administration Bldg.. account for 
the attrition rate in the student body · each·year? . : ..­
.Most;-c: freshmen think "off-shore 
drilling'! is so!llething ·the Marines 
do?,· 
Most· ND jocks, are light. eaters? As .soon as it gets light, they start . eating?. ·. ,, 
•Practically everything· at ND is designed specifically:.-,with · the in-· convenience of the student in mind? 
~ohn M. Murphy 

lJpCbn1inQ 

concerts
. ~ :~ -. . .. . .:·: -. ..· . . : . ; . . .'. 
Free time is . a precious , and rare commodity µere, as at most univer"'. sities. :When. it·does come,, it brings 

-with it echoes .of well-meant-injunc­
•. · ~ions, each. telling us· the most relax­ing, broadening, or aesthetic activity: in which to spend these seldom avail­able moments. 1'"'or those who occa­sionally or habitually choose to par­ticipate in a musical experience, the Notre Dame Music Department has prepared a 1974-75 Concert Series impressive in both ·its ·range· and quality. 
"Variety" is the word most stressed by Professor William Cerny, Chair­man of the department, when he dis­cusses this year's series. Professional and student, faculty·: member and guest artist are presented in· forms· extending ·from tlie· in.dividual per-. former to__ quartets, chamber'groups, choral ensembles, ; choruses, orches­tras: and' even hands. To insure such' diversity in ·creating .the series/Fa­ther Patrick Maloney, ;Associate Pro~ fessor of Music> has tapped:the talent of the'· Notre Dame' cominuriity asweiras that of touring professionals~ Each performing·campus group, such as the Glee Club, Orchestra . and Chorus' will be·: presented on! the program· at least•orice/while mariy of the faculty members 'will give either solo recitals ·or'.join with guest art­ists and 'groups. One ·such''blend ·of­resident.and visiting· talent-will take place on Wednesday, October 23/'as Professor· Cerriy,-pianist/joins,with the Chicago Symphony String Qi.iar:· tet, who will be making their· sixth · appearance at Notre Dame: 
·The -variety ·achieved by :Father Maloney in his selection of the: pro-• gram does not stop at the .perform­

will soprano Anne Perillo, on .Friday, October 4; ''The Chicago Strings," as well as. oth,er outstanding members of the Chicago· Symphony Orchestra appearing, here· will no. doubt. bring with them· an approach to their art as distinct as that of Carlos Sanchez, classical ·, and., flamenco guitarist, who will play-second semester;· Fi­nally, other art forms will be brought into the series as Y. ·G. Srimati lectures on Indiari:painting and exhibits her original w~tercolors · in conjunction with her concert of instrumental and . vocal music of India on Wednesday, October 9. The musician also becomes master of the dance during the spring semester when Frances Brugger begins a'.con­cert by _performing. on. _the. harpsi-• chord with her husband,· Ken Brug­ger,'·imd· ends ii: dancing to his ac­
· companimerit. -, Because the series is sponsored', by the Office· :of; Student Affairs, ·the · Music Department . has. not ·. been . forced .fo _book .. only .. those artists· whose well-known repertoire· ~ould assure ticket sales, . but not neces: sarily an·'innovative, unique experi--­ence for artist arid aui:lierice: Through the'financial support ·of Student·Af~ . fairs; Father Maloney has been able to' give' ifrtists the ;freedom to try 'I out unusual, -less· familiar :material: This is one'of the reasons'that hun-­dreds ·of performers·: request fo ap'.' pear at Notre· Dame eac~ year, and_· is· simultaneously. an ·explanation for the·· often brilliant'· musical·' experi­ences which first take place here. ­Again;:if. you clioose:to attend any segment of this year's concert series, you stand an excellent chance of dis­covering not only that 0people down . 
ers' diverse numbers and professions;: -·the hall from you are making-valu;. however,. but'. extends. into the very· able contributions.;to -the orchestra. 
mu~ical:mediums explored. The.Boys Town-Choir, performing on Wedries­day, September 25, will represenf·a very different use of the voice than 

or chorus; but also that you; as audi­· ence; ·cariishare in their cre~tive.~­perienc~: · ·. -:-Laureen Goers . 
UNIVF1RSITY OF NOTRE DAl\lE SPRING SE.l\lESTER 1975 
l\lUSIC DEPART.IUENT CONCERT SERIES Jan. 15 Wed. Dennis Bamber, Saxophone(All performances begin at 8:15). William Cerny, ·Piano 
(Library Auditorium)FALL SEl\lESTER 1974 
I 

22 Wed. Carlos _Sanchez, Classical and .Sept. 11 Wed. Gerald Goodman, Troubadour and Flamenco Guitart 
Harpist* (Library Auditorium)

(Library' Audiforium)· 29 Wed. Sue Henderson S~id, Organist .~
18 Wed. · Ellen and Kenneth Landis, Organists (Sacred Heart Church)
(Sacred Heart Church) Feb: 12 Wed. Time Out for-Woodwinds.Only
.. 25 Wed. Boys Town Choir Tony Spano, CoordinatorMsgr. Schmitt, Conductor (Library Auditorium)

(w_ashington Hall) 

Oct. 4 · Fri. <Anne Perillo, Sopran6 19 Wed. Ken and Frances Brugger: Leo l\lichuda, Violin Harpsichord and Dance ,_ :: :.· (Library Auditorium) · 
~ . . 26 . Wed. Edward Druzinski,.Harp 9 Wed. Y. G. Srimati, Music of India* Katherine Glaser, Piano* (Library· Auditorium) Virtuoso artists from the Chicago
. . . . . 

. . Symphony Orchestra ­23 Wed. . Chicago Symphony String Quartet* ._(_Library Auditorium), . , .: 
. William Cerny, Piano ... -· ::/\(Library Auditorium) · · 
Mar. 5 Wed. IndianapolisSymphonyBrassQuintett
-. . . 

Sue Henderson Seid, Organist ..' Nov. 6 Wed. Louis Sudl~r, Barito~~ . Their fifth concert a.1:Notre_Dame 
·..a .Patrick l\laloney, Tenor (Sacred Heart Church) ·

' Operatic Diiets, Arias, Songs . .(Library Auditorium) . 
10 Mon, • Chicago Stringst, . -'' 11· :,,Mon: · Notre Dame'Glee Club Members of the Chicago Symphony David Isele, Conductor··· ·Orchestra with · (Washington Hall) David Basch, Horn ;,--,_,-_.•,. Patrick l\laloney, Tenor _17 . Sun. ·._Notre D~mt! ,Or~hestra 
(Washington Hall)
Ralph Lane, Conductor (Washington Hall) · · 12 Wed. South Bend Chamber l\lusic (Library Auditorium)
· -20 'Wed> An Evening of·Poulenc -·Applied Music Faculty'' 
19 Wed.. N~tre Dame Glee Club 
. . ­
.William. Cerny, Coordinator .David Isele, Conductor ·-(Library Auditoriuin) · · · (\Vashington Hall) -. . 
24 Sun. University Chorus 

Apr. 2 Wed. l\Iarcel Bardon, French Ceilist :. 
j ,,,--.,: .., . ,Wa~ter Ginter,,Conductor 
William Cerny, Piano
(Sacred Heart Church) 

(Library Auditorium) Dec. 4 . Wed. l\larjorie l\ladey, Soprano . . ; ' i .. ·_,. • -> ' -Miiton Hallinan~ Pianist . -4 ::: Fri.-'Notre-Danie Concert Band ·<'" -Piano and·SongLiterature of Chopin Robert O'Brien, Conductor' · and Liszt -· -(ACC) _(Library_ Au~itorium) 
9 Wed. Andrea Swem, Piano 
· 8 ·sun. · Notre Dame Choral Ensembles An All-Ravel Program David Isele, Conductor (Library Auditorium) . Music for Advent and Christmas 
23 Wed. Notre Dame University Chorus4:00 and 8:15 P.M. 
, Walter. Ginter, Conductor(Sacred Heart Church) (Washington Hall) 
These performances by faculty and organizations of the 
30 Wed..·Chamber Tribute to Ravel Notre Dame Music Department and by -outstanding 
: William Cerny.and•Applied Music guest artists are sponsored by the.Office of Student Af~ 
· Facultyfairs and the Department of Music. Occasional changes . 
(Library Auditorium) may be necessary. For information call 283-6211. 
,May 4 Sun. Notre Dame Orchestra ;;$1.00 admission at the door Ralph Lane, Conductor t$2.00 admission at the door (Washington Hall) 



lUUSIC 
Sept. 28-Sha .Na ~a,· ACC, 8 :30 pm. Tickets. $3.00, $4.50, $5.50. 
Sept. 30 & Oct. 1-,-Elvis Presley, ACC, .8:30 pm. Sold out. 
!:I. 
I Oct. 4-Anne Perillo, soprano, Library Auditorium and 

Lounge, 8:15 pm. 

SPORTS Sept. 21-Notre Dame· vs.· Northw~stern at Eviinston. 
Sept. 28.:_Purdue at ~ot:re Dame: Sold out. 
Oct. 6-World Hockey Association: Chicago Cougars vs. Q.uebec Nordiques, A<:C, 7:~0 pm:· ..: . 
r ,; • • 


CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION 
Sept. 24-26-IBM Seminar... 

Oct. 4-Conference on American Catholicism. 
ART 
. Notre Dame Art Gallery , " · · 

Through Sept. 29-Pre-Columbian Art from the per­manent collection,· Gallery 4. : 
. :. On permanent view-Masterpieces from the Permanent ··•collection, Gallery L The Art Gallery wili ·feature its finest works in this ·gallery, adding ·a new work each week, in an effort to bring greater exposure to the per­manent collection. · 

St. l\lary's 

Through Sept. 29-Tom Scarff, _l"{eon and_ Drawings, Moreau Gallery, 12-5, Tues.-Sun. , .: 
Through Sept. 29-Photographs by Faye Serio, Photo Gallery, 12-9 every day. : · ·: 
Oct. 1-28-Eugene Atget: ·.Paris:'Photographs (1900­1925). Traveling exhibition· from the International Mu­seum of Photography at 'George Eastman -House, ·. Rochester, Ne\\,: York; Main Moreau Gallery, 12-5, Tues.­
Sun. . . . . . 
Oct. i-2~Conflguratlon~ of Fo~·;, New dra~iiigs by Sister Cecilia..Arin Kelly; Hammes Gallery, 12-9 every ·day.· . 
30 

. Oct. 1-28-Paintings by Harriet Rex-Smith, 12-9 every day, Little Theater Gallery. 
Oct. 1-28-Watercolors 0 by· Gertrude Harbar,t, Photo Gallery, 12-9 every day! 

FILlUS 

Sept. 21-CILA presents "Day.of the Jackal," Engi­. neering Auditorium. Time to be announced. 
Sept. 22-26~Alfred Hit.chcock Film Festival 22nd-The 39 Steps~ ­23rd:__Spellboun·d 24th-Foreign Correspondent 

25th-:--Shadow of a: Doubt. 
26th-Dial. M for Murder Presented by Cultural •Arts Commission, 8 & 10 pm., Engineering Auditorium,. $1.00. 
Sept. 27-28-Klute,-Engineering Auditorium, presented by the Law Schooi. Ti~e.to be announced. . 
. Sept. 29-Walking·Tall, Engineering Auditorium. Time to be announced. (Social Services) 

Sept; 30-Oct. 3-Black and Chicano Studies Film Festi­
val, Engineering Auditorium, 7 & 9 ·pm; Presented by the History Dept. · 
Oct. 4-Bullitt, Engineering Auditorium; presented by the Swim Team. Time-to ·be announced. . 
l\lORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUI\I (232-6954) . Sept. 24-Live television. coverage, Ali-Foreman fight. 
( -.. ,,·--. -· ~ ·~ ~ -. -:-.. ; 
Oct. !-Leonard Skinner·andHydra;•in concert. 
' ' . 

OTHER DIVERSIONS · · · Sept. 26-LectUJ.:e: Dr... Marshall.• Dennis-;'Opportuni~ ties. in Mortgage Banking," Library Auditorium· arid Lounge, 6 :30 pm. 
Sept. 27-N.D. La~ Ass'ociation Meeting, Law Buiiding, 
9:00 am. 
' ', 

Oct. 1-Ladies of Notre Dame Meeting, Library Audi­torium and Lounge, noori.' . · 
Oct. 4, 5-"Look Homeward, Angel,'; ND/SMC. The­ater Production. by Ketti Frings, O'Laughlin Auditor-.. _ . ium, SMC,-8 :15 p.m. Lecture series: ,"The Reinterpreta­tion of American Catholic History," CCE. · -John A. Harding ·. ·. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

Multilevel Entertainment: Cinema 
I 
'75 

When Tom McGinty and Bill Wylie met last spring to formulate their approach in securing films for the Cultural Arts Commission-spon­sored Cinema '75, the result was a noticeable change.in philosophy from that of Cinema '.74. · · 
McGinty and Wylie feel that last year's festival presented little for the student to relate to. Because the em­phasis was placed on technically skilled dir~ctors, the majority of films lay in the realm of art as ad­vanced theory 'and. technique; this year, however, the focus will be on presenting the best in both .acting and. direcUng/ as exemplified in a wide variety of. film types: Mystery, comedy, music and drama will be represented in conjunction with the new philosophy of the series: films can and, should be appreciated on multiplelevels-as entertainment, as an art form, and as givers of insight into· different cultures and human conditions/ . -c: · 
To facilitate the fulfillment of this philosophy, McGinty arid Wylie have organized the series around four major themes: contemporary . films, American film directors (such as Orson Welles, Fred Zinneman, How­ard Hawkes), foreign film directors (Federico. Fellini, Ingmar Bargman, Roman Polanski), and a special se­ries examining in detail one particu­lar film type. . . . 
In deciding to show such recently released movies as The Sting, Ameri­can.Graffiti, and The Way ·we Were, Wylie stated that they tried "to es­tablish a. mood for the series in the hopes that people attending these contemporary .films would· become more inclined to come· and. see the less well-known films that still re­tain a.· quality . of. . excellence." In­cluded among these early, influential films are Knife in the Water, Roman • Polanski's first feature-length pro­duction; On the Waterfront, one of the first films shot under the re­organization of United Artists which gave birth to greater director free­dom; and The Last Laugh, filmed during Germany's "Golden Age" of silent movies and emphasizing the moving camera. 
In the two special festivals within this year's series, visual adaptations of such literary works as Evelyn Waugh's The Loved One and Edward O'Connor's The Last Hurrali will be explored along with five films by Al­fred.· Hitchcock. In· selecting the Hitchcock productions to show in this first-semester special festival, McGinty and Wylie focused on those films produced in the late 1930's and early 1940's. Considered by · most critics as .. the renaissance of Hitch­cock's career, it was this period that saw his• experimentation with tech­nique and his influence on interna­tional• cinema. 
The already · impressive list of films 'was recently augmented when Professor Paul · Rathburn of the English• Department approached the Cultural Arts Commission with a re­quest to take over the funding of the Shakespeare Film FestivaL Thanks to the CAC, the studerit body will have the opportunity to view four or five Shakespearian adaptations for the · admission price of a· quarter each.. 
Patron cards for the first-semester series have already sold out, fore­shadowing McGinty and Wylie's suc­cess ·in ·their selections. For those who wish to · discover more about the co-directors'· tastes, while.broad~ ening · their own, admission ·to .the films (all of which will be shown in . the Engineering Auditorium) will be $1.00 throughout the series. 
-Laureen Goers . • 
CINEMA '75 

FALL SEMESTER Sept. 22-26 Alfred Hitchcock Film Festival: 
Sept. 22 The 39 Steps Sept. 23 Spellbound Sept. 24 Foreign Correspondent Sept. 25· Shadow of a Doubt .sept. 26 Dial M for Murder Oct. 10-11 Siddhartha Oct. 11 Hamlet Oct. 15-16 Shoottl:ie Piano.Player Oct. 22-23 8½ Nov. 5-6 On the Waterfront Nov. 14-15 A Man for All Seasons Nov. 19-20 Knife in the Water Dec.. 2 Macbeth Dec. 5-6 ·The Way We Were Dec. 10-11 ··The. Producers 
SPRING SEMESTER (Tentative list) Jan. 28-29 ·The Seventh Seal Feb. 4-5 American Graffiti Feb. 13-14 Summer Wishes, 
Winter Dreams 

Feb. 23-27 Literary· Adaptations Festival: 
Feb. 23 The Heart Is a Lonely 
·Hunter Feb, 24 To Have and Have Not Feb. 25 The Last Hurrah Feb. 26 The Loved One Feb. 27 Between Time and 
Timbuktu Mar. 13-14 The Sting Mar. 18-19 The Last Laugh Apr. 8-9 It Happened One Night Apr. 22-2p. Rashoman 
r ·-·-•··•·----.,.. .... ~ · -.·. ·....... •. ·"<·_-. ··-·--,: ---"·l
lP_eople Behind . N.D j
.> 

t-,.__....,,,;_·.·.;:.;:... .•.:~ -'~----~·' •·.,,./,.,.;, ' •••.;"'...,.."·' -,_., -.. -,~ ____.;,.~----------~ .:.,;,._-<.·---->-<.~•'<.,-~,; 
Arthur Pears: The Man· Behind the Baclg~ 

It is a difficult task to get behind the character ·of. the chief security officer of the University simply b_e­cause so . much of him is right up front~his personality,his ambitions, his concerns. The man is what meets the eye. But he is also performing an important ro_le.in the University (although a-much more limited one than is generally realized); _and this fact can and must be brought to light not only to see but to knowMr. Pears.. 
. Pears is nothingif not a law en­forcement officer_., \Vhen asked_ for biographical highlights, he related the following as if reading from a police record: 
-Started with the Universit; pe­cember 1, 1965. 
-Served·30 years with the Niles police force, culminating in his appointment and service as Chief of Police. 
-Served in World War II with a 
military: intelligence division,. -Returned and graduated from ···the. -.FBI -.National Academy, 
1949.. 

-Taught police·science courses at Michigan· State and numerous other police schools. 
-Was Past President of both the Michigan Association: of Chiefs of· Police and the . Michigan Chapter .of the FBI :National Academy. 
-Married, has a home in Niles, . two daughters, both married. 
Clearly, this is a record of accom­plishment in a career which could have been · ended with satisfaction as Chief of Police. But in 1965 he was approached by the Dean ofStu-other campus figures,' a greater in­dents and was asked to take over terest in the ."morality, issues" was as the Head of the Security Office. anticipated. . However, Pears finds At that time the "Office" consisted the functions of,the Secu_rity. Office of two.· men-one daytime security most closely related to .those of. the guard and .a night employee to an-municipal police department with swer the phone. · ,-·~which he had so much: experience. 
..The. challenge,· then, was to build a group which. could_ credibly be called a security. force. · He took a ragtag unit (which was reportedly wearing cast-off band uniforms at the time) and gradually introduced such "innovations" as motorized patrol and radio communication for the purpose of_ a more thorough campus-wide protection. 

·Upon. his acceptance of the secu-· rity position, Pears was -faced with a· problem which he still considers to be the major concern for the Office.: In his first years, the restric­tions on student use of cars were eventually lifted .. for all but the freshman.class, resultingin a great­ly' expanded presence of cars on campus. This raised· the questions oLparking and possible vandalism, and it ;forced·. the. Security. Office to devote its attention to these areas. 
That the parking situation is still high-priority with Pears was demon­strated by his repeated· references to the subjectin discussing the chal0 lenges and· rewards of his job. The construction :and supervision of the parking lots were high on his list of the positive accomplishments of the Office, as was the recognition of the improvements which have come about in this area, one of his biggest rewards. ' 
The importance of parking to the . man was striking, for in the light of students' associations of Pears with 
He found the two similar in.that-the 
primary goal of each is ."to protect 

and prevent vandalism and crime _ 
to the property of, the people they 
serve." 
In the .performance :of this duty, 
the security officers-Pears · fore­
most-have come. in for . criticism. 
With or without justification,·-con­
troversy has arisen in recent: years 
over the role ofthe Security Office in certain actions involving parietal . violations ·and the use of 'alcohol; And in the cases ·of vandalism and theft; criticism of the inefficiency of the security force· has again• been 
·heard. 
While Pears readily acknowledges 
the cdticism, he says: · 
· l'When you've· been• in the police 

business for 37 years, your.skin' gets· 
tough to criticism; • If people knew · the.full facts they might be able to understand the direction in which the Security Office. -has, decided to 
move· or<take-action."­
But.,Arthur Pears" might just as 
well be· subsUtuted ·>tor:' "Security 
Office" in the quotation, for Pears is 
a man who·operates in a self-defined 
role in the University. The Security 
Office, a~ his ~creation, reflects his 

philosophy and moves at his direc-· 
tion. Its strengths are his-as· are 
its limitations. 
-Mike Sarahan . 
'l'HE SCHOLASTIC 


J 


. . John Eidt found out the hard way. fourth-floor R.A., Barb Budde. Ba~b;. ,·A further testimonial' to .the all­that nothing can dampen a Notre, a native of Detroit; Michigan, de~ :•arotind-,usefulness and strength, of Dame football victory better. than cided .to forego a five-dollar7an-hour_ Elmer's· Glue· was given recently on spending the night in the clutches of factory.job in. order that -~he might the' third · floor of · Dillon: The Saint Mary's security. John's ordeal spend 11 weeks working as a volim-_: door· to the room of Rev: James T. started . when he .and :his . buddies .teer at a New Orleans social service' . Burtchaell, C.S.C., was . sealed shut from 240 Howard decided to cap off ·center known •as T.H.E.! ' _Center.' with glue.by some ingenious prank­last week's Irish victory by heading. · .There .she worked as a. school-.ster, trapping· Fr. BtirtchaeH 'in his over to .Saint Mary's for a. good-, teacher with a class of twenty-four · room'. The provost was. forced to natured .panty raid. Once over at . underprivileged sixth-graders who summon· the aid of a' football player SMC John was -boosted to,the roof attended classes four mornings a from down the hall,··who had to of Regina and dropped himself down week. -In addition, she · organized • break the door in. • · · · · inside the courtyard. He then gained recreational activities such as weekly access_• into .the, building and . pro-. swimming outings, art and drama ceeded. to .search out a door. Before workshops as well as other special he locate~.one, however, he was dis-activities.. Working as a volunteer covered. and set upon by a host of is not a financially profitable way to angry. females shouting for , help. spend the summer, but for Barb the · Minutes later. John .and an injured value of a positive experience made, · friend, Rich McAfee, found them-the summer ·a most' rewarding one. selves handcuffed-and led around by club-wielding security_ guards.. The One of the new faces this year at pair were detained for.,over an hour · .Breen-Phillips Hall _belongs to re-before being fined a five-dollar park-cently. appointed rectress l\ls. Jean ing violation and released. What Thomas. Jean is no stranger to .the made, the ill-fated: nighLeven more . · .Notre Dame community, "-:having unbearable was· the fact.that John worked as ·a counselor at St. Mary's returned -empty~handed. _'.'They ., for the•past two years while com­locked , me -up-_ before · I. could • get. · pleting her master's degree in coun_. . started,'\ he explained; seling : psychology here at •Notre 
· Dame. Her hopes for the upcoming · -When-the .. topic of conversation year are that :she can get to know swings around to su.mmer jobs there each of the .girls in the ,hall and alwayi; seems to be one· or: two who help. to establish a real community:, have spent their tim~. a·, little dif­spirit. ferently. One such pe~son is Farley's .-Tom Birsic -: 
r·---·••c-·-: ·---···-:-•~-...& ··---~~.~ ··-~ -~ •• • ---· --. > ... -•->•
.. . • • •• , -•.. ••. ­
LIRISH,:,:SROR-TS_:,:SHORTS
! ·.• · . --·. · .... · ••<;•;:~. <<·" ...._-·-------·· Y<Dc::Vs< · ...... . ... • •... :..c.~==c.,.;;;..._s..;.•.•.•••••.•, •.••.•. _ .._.~--~-=·--· 
Pete Demmerle, Notre· Dame's All-American can­didate at split end, has his sights _set on more than just another national ·championship. Taking into considera­tion his off-the-field future as well, Pete is planning to apply in October_tor a_ Rhodes Scholarship. · 
The senior from New Canaan, Conn., does not count out a future in footbali but adds: "I don'fwant to feel that I have to go into-that just because Tplay 
college football." -.·_ -.·. 
He feels that continuing his. studies wili at least give him time to think. about what he wants . to pur-. sue in life, andat the same time prepare hini 'in the field or fields he's interested in: · ··· · .. · 
Pete admits that it. co~ld be on the football fieid. 
'-• '.• < -., \ • • •• '. 
"I like football. I wouldn't play it)f I didn't.If He also . says that .if accepted as a Rhodes' Scholar he -would miss playing football. But he adds: "I can'(play:foot­baU all my life, but I'll have to think all my life/' 'i'-lot­ing that it's hard to start 9ver at 30, he wants to b~ pr~ .• pare_d when that time com.es'. . . . --. . . ­
It is the high quality of academics present at,Rhodes .­which mainly attracts.him, concedes Pete. He is quick to point out, however, that Rhodes provides a. good combination ofsports and studies; Though not, positive in what.field of study he would go into if accepted, he expressed '.interest in_ both' English 'and Jurisprudence. 
Pete's academic as well as athletic credentials are impressive, yet he-dosn't believe he has .ariy better chance than anyone else. We hope he makes it. Best :of luck, Pete! · · · 
Quote of the week: after Notre Dame' crushed Georgia .Tech '31-7, fullback Tom Parise was asked' what he thought was the turning point of the game. "I really think the turning point came ·with two seconds left in the game. I called, time-out,! primarily. because_! wanted to score." Thankyou very.mucli, Tom: 
Assistant Basketball Coach Dick Dibiaso spent two weeks this summer in Aesta, Italy, at the. request of the Italian government to set ui> a·basketball program for· the Italia-ns. According . to,,Dibiaso,, a . group of Italian coaches had visited mari)"basketball camps that universities offered _during : the· summer/ and·• they had found Notre Dame·to have the best program for kids. Upon the urging of these coaches, the National Italian " Basketball League invited Coach Dibiaso to come over and coordinate a sound camp structure .that would benefit the people. 
His keen recollections were about the people of Italy. "From the minute we stepped off the plane,. _we (his wife accompanied him_ on the trip) were treated like kings and queens. The people were so great to us that we really hate<;). to leave." . . . 
While the trip'-·and everything connected with it was perhaps the greatest thrill of his life, Coach Dibiaso says that his major priority is still to Digger _Phelps and the-Notre Dame Athletic Program. Dibiaso is one of. the finer coaches in collegiate basketball;· and we're 
. really glad of his decision, and wish him continued luck in the upcoming season. 
If you were a student here· last year, youmay have noticed the poor condition of the turf in the football sta­dium. The reason of ·this problem was due to a bac­teria that infected the turf, causing the discoloration and bare spots. New fertilizers and a new irrigation system have brought the· field back to a readiness for some great games in the Notre Dame Football Stadium. 
N.D.'s Women Grew team ·is already off and row­.·. ing: Headed by coach "Clete" Graham and . captain · Marilyn· Crimmons; • nearly 25 girls row 6 ·days· a week on the St. Joseph River. Their fall season is only a short 7 weeks so itis spent mainly on learning tech~ niques, ·extensive workouts and· rowing whenever pos­sible-all to prepare for their big spring season. This year's team· is the· defending· Midwest•, Lightweight champions. We'll see how they prove theinselv~s in 
. their two races this fall and at least· three major meets next . spring. ­
Another Notre Dame basketball team. is : in· the making-'--the women's team that is.-,,Through'·the hard work of Mary Clemency and· Sally; Smith the .gals ··have finally. attainect·club statu~ for a'basketballteam. Their coach, Jeanne Early, is a physical education ma­-jor from Indiana University and presently a grad­·. :uate 'student here at N.D. Mr. Napolitano, director of 
; nonvarsity sports, informed · Miss· Early ,that the women's team "will· get equal treatment as .the boys with. the same· budget and facilities." ·Their eventual goal-a varsity team. :·. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 



This year the University,has taken against .the giris. Except for her first_ yet another .step in ·the ·process: of two years, she has always worked in 
l
. coeducating Notre Dam~a woman coeducational situations. "There is , l physical educ~tor. Astrid· Hotvedt ,_no reason why a womari'or a fellow (it's Norwegian) is quite a lady, shouldn't be in the same class. I with ~ 'lot of experience and en-_-,There's a time··fodearning ·skills for -­
t 
I
thusiasm for her job. "I wiil be ·able ariy beginner; Male or:_female_ should ­to add ·a woman's touch_ to an all-. not matter. In a game situation, if · men's. program." ·_the partners '.are. picked correctly .. 
·1i·-· -·•.·_.· 
·_·.:-:_·. ~;-"t/·._!':-:.~·-·:_.

· Miss · Hotvedt attended .Eastern · · competition between men and women ·, 
. ; ;;,,,.,: \. :_, ..

Michigan University. There she had . can be very fruitful and very excit­
a . very • generalist background. ·"I . ing." . · · · · . · 
_have a· broad base with:. ~ lot more . . . Miss Hotved t is very excited about than ·just. the physical education .. the future of women's·sports here at · • women to go ·out for the ·1eve(-of major.'' Previous to Notre Dame she Notre Da~e. ;,I have dreams, includ­activity' comparable to their. skfll. has taught. · physical education at ing enhancing ·the present offering : . , If we' have varsity caliber, then several grade schools in Michigan ·for women's·· clubs and sports with we should have varsity teams.n : .. 
. and at the University of Illinois for . the . future .. outgrowth of . varsity ._ Astrid Hotvedt is really anxious to the past year:·Her area of specializa-sports. My favorite activities include get women's sports moving. She has tion is in movement with an empha-field hockey and gymnastics." Pres-· lots of ideas and is obviously willing sis on gymnastics and modern dance. ently Miss Hotvedt is in the process to help~ All she needs· now is some 
In classes, Mis~ _Hotvedt teaches of seeking out women coaches· for talented women-athletes and women· the variety of rotations just as the w6men's sports. Already Dr. :Carole cfaculty for; coaches. . men do. She likes the present class Moore is the sponsor and advisor-for · · · · · ·· · · ,.--'-:-Eileen O'Grady situation with the boys playing the women's tennis·club. Miss ·Hot-· 
The'· Ph~ntorn Sp:eaks
·: ' . . . . . 
(~dnote-,ceach week of the foot­It wouid be shaky if we were not • help now! A long _look down the ball ·season an anonymous· member awa .. but :.. and road at an arch rival -will riot help of the coaching staff writes a letter this on the particular day of a . contest . to the· team, regiraing -· the upcom­rel with a different opponent. The game ing. game. O<Ypies· of the. letter ._are · th~ we .are most involved with ~ the -given· to· each player for; his own . most important contest in the ~orld personal .reading. This-practi~~m-,­·1:0 all'of us here and now~ is the been· going on for over ten yea ·_ o~e:we: are going to play. In this Notre Dame, so the "Phantom" .case Northwestern's Wildcats; become an .institution for th~ti1.Crt:::,;:::­.Each inan learns to believe in him­ball prograin; Here below is '­selfand the things he belo"i1gs to. We tom II," the letter given to th all belong to this 1974. Notre Dame for · the •upcoming·· · game a team: We-must,. therefore, . ·believe . Northwestern.) that:.·•our smaii-···parts ·may become 
THE PHANTOM SPEAKS. big parts in .the overall success, We 
When the•·"Fighting Irish" assem cannot·. . waver. or• . weaken,. _only . bled for their· last reminders, against prepare. · Georgia Tech; when they kneeled Someone once said that, "Success en·' masse· • 'reaching out · to touch _ hen-preparation meets oppor­someone else on "our team"; the· fl Many ·people never find .it uriity of. team intention and dedica­it is. hidden under hftrd tion told trie we would not be beaten atN_ od_ · things -and· mo­easily! . .. . . No:_Brea -, ith work," let :us 
·•. Having prepared physically, men­or ahead by · g_ is sadder tally, -arid emotionally; only t_he exe-· you with the been." Few cution and effort remained to bring sity because· a han "We d_id us our first 1974 season victory. itself be bea_te~, ca i~llefl. v. e:Stern!l ·. 
Everyone we play will rise up to . (2). NO GAME"·IS ~ . WILDCATS!!!!! their highest point for us. This is a TANT AS THE ONE YOU_ ARE' .The Phantom . tough reality that is really a high . PLAYING!· (What went before ...:... form of compliment. r. · other games, and other times,· won't 
SEPTEMBER_ 20, 1974: 35 
._· ved.Fis also seeking skilled arid in-· te:rested girls. "I would encourage 

Atlanta, 

Ah, the South. Gorgeous belles _ 
that· your mother always· told.' you about (though she never told you to be associated with them), with their long-flowing dresses and floppy hats. . Bourbon and water, the sweet smell of magnolia blossoms, the slow, easy way the Rebels live-all this is justa_ small part of .that grand and glori­
ous tradition, which is the South. 
Spending three days .in beautiful 
Atlanta certainly ·has to -be,one of 
those happenings you'll never· for-. 
get. Six Flags Over Georgia, a Dis­
neyworld-type amusement..park; 
with · its Great '.·American :Scream 
Mac!1Jne (a humongous roller, coast­
er that scares.the hell out of you). 
, Seeing ·the Atlanta·, Braves ·play. 
before a-measly crowd-of 5,000, but 
finally catching your first glimpse of 
the: )egendary Hank -Aai:on. You 
wonder _why this.gr~at man had not 
received any attention in his earlier, 
years, but:;you :look at America _in 
those years, and you. really, know 
why. . 
'l'HE SCHOLASTIC 



G~orgia 
· And the game.' Down in Rebel country, feeling uneasy, unsure with. every step taken before • the game. Wondering how our players. feel: season opener; away, at night, and on national television. 
Winning 31-7, proving. that. we are a. team· to be reckoned· with, no matter what anyone else says. We'.ve come. a long way back since last May, arid we're going to get ·better game by game. ' 
Interviewing Pepper Rodgers, . a gracious ·m·an_ after·defeat.."I never. scheduled them, never would have, or never will,'! said a . mild Pepper. "Notre Dame did not want to lose tonight, and son; they surely didn't.". 
Saying.. good-bye. to friends and to the· city was very hard to do. • High ·atop the Hyatt Regency, in the· revolving•. Polaris Room,. we promised · to meet again soon. ··•Atlanta, a city of.beauty and forid remembrances.. 
=-:-Bill Delaney 

·:·. 


Mr. Duffy stopped our ~lass early . · Conditic;ms in that prison had bes '-way we are all responsible for the last Friday. We had been discussing come' so. unbearable that the prison-murder of thirty-nine people in a Greek tragedy; more specifically, ers could no longer endure them. New York prison three years ago. how the Greeks forbade violence in · -Their. takeover of the prison brought· Perhaps the immediate reaction _their theatre. _But Mr. Duffy stopped into . sharp focus the inadequacies is to say that it's impossible to ex­our class to remind .us of a historical and ·injustices o·f .· that abomination pect us here to have any kind of ef­tragedy, the violence .of .which· in-of -our society, the American ·penal feet on the prisons in New York. The flicted a deep and festering wound.· system .. The report of the conditions poison of Attica, though, is not local­on a whole nation. . in that prison must have created a jzed; it is spread throughout our 
•. Three years ago_ on that elate, stark contrast to the vision.of Notre country. You can see the disease in Duffy had been walking around. this Dame's campus... . .. _.. the treatment of the poor, the black, campus early fo the afternoon. While:. Among the prisoners'.,. demands the Chicano. You can see it in the he didn't tell us:ihis, perhaps he saw: was a.request for amnesty, noLfor lives of those imprisoned by an in­all the oak. and. elm trees· stili. in· their'past crimes, _but only for their human criminal system or by mental their deep, rich;' late-summer green. . partin the takeover. Nelson Rocke-retardation. You can see the poison He might have seen. the pigeons as . feller; governor of NewYork at that in the kind of lives forced on the they circle the cross on· top of Sa-time, refused to discuss that demand elderly and the homosexual. 
.cred Heart Church, and perhaps he ·and si_mt his men· over the walls with · A great deal of this ·issue of 
heard the heavy flapping of their ·.. rifles blazing. ._ . . . . Scholastic has been devoted to the 
wings; He might have seen the ge~a-:{ · Duffy ·recalled Rockefeller saying presentation of the various commu­
'niums blossoming in their'last,spien~ -• that to gl_'.ant such a request-for am-nity. service. projects operating in 
dor hefore autumn.. nesty'. would 'be' to jeopardize the this·_, community. These . organiza-
He might have watched freshmen, :rights and 'safety of the individual tions are working against the poison 
they'd · be seniorsnow, as they. ·. and to strike a great blow to the that· makes Atticas, Birminghams, 
\valked ·across the. quads> He might· structures of our society. ·This is the Wounded Knees, Kent' States, the 
have looked in. their young eyes and .. same man, now· the country's vice c: sex-killings in Houston and all the 
seen how they rivalled, the beauty of . preside'nt, who said· the. recent·. am-acts of quiet· violence that go un­
the September 'sky. In 'their young, .. riesty given to another criminal was noticed every day. 
vita} bodies·· he might have seen the ·an act of courage, conscience ·and •The people around, this campus 
reflectionOof greater life.. . . compassion. You wonder what the have·.a great·potential for iife and 
It's' hnpossible, though, to tell dead _would say. . . agreat potential for giving it. They 
what's ·going_ on· inside someone_ . ,Attica is a· deep wound in our so-have it now just as they.had it the 
else's mind, let alone:· guess his ; dety and ti~e has. only served to day Duffy found out about the At­
' thought~ three years ago; Thi/sights close it 011: the surf_ace., Closing the tica !<illings. · and sounds described represent. affir-. · wound,: however, ·is· not __ enough.• to ' Mr.· Duffy st0PPed our class early mations of life. Theyare here this heal it. A . wound must, be cleaned laSt Fdday. He·. said .that lately, in faU as.~hey were then; but if that's: ,first,·otherwis_eif ~iHfester. the aftermath of Watergate, there 
. has been a lot of glib, political talk 
what Duffy saw can't really besaid.: ._ .... Healing is a· _long, hard process . about "healing thenation's wounds." 
·'.:Mr..Duffy, howe~er, did see one which ~akes a great deriland o~ Duffy was angry with those people 
thing. ' . . · many people, an_d the de~and is not who spoke of healing the nation's 
'He_'bought a N~ York Ti??Ws a·~d just for words but for action. Everi woungs without ever really looking 
the headlines' 'read that' ~t .·Attica. at_ a.university, which must.always at them. 
State Prison in New. York, thirty-deal with words, action is necessary.' "Healing for whom?" he asked. 
nine .people ·were dead. . ·. Itis necessary because in a very real "Remember Attica." 
THE SCHOLASTIC 



AMERICMS FARMWORKERS ·ARE ASKINCi 
YOU TO BOYCOTT CiALLO WINES. 
HERE'S WHY:· 
,After suffering for years under unspeakable living and working conditions, America's farmworkers came together in the 1960s to form a union, a union : that would fightfor their rights and articulate their needs. · 
The union was the United Farm Workers of 

· America {UFWA), and under itsleadership conditions improved dramatically. A little too dramatically to suit some 1t of the growers, and when the contracts expired last summer many growers did their best to destroy what the workers had built. 
· Ernest and Julio Gallo, the world's largest winery, spearheaded the union­busting effort. Last June, Gallo announced that UFWA contracts·would not be · renewed. New contracts were signed with the . Teamsters Union, contracts that had been worked out behind closed doors with no worker participa­tion. Not surprisingly, the contracts gave. Gallo . and the Teamsters Union · everything they wanted,. and gave the .workers ·almost nothing. The Teamsters' con­tracts brought dangerous 
. pesticides back into · 
,l the fields, and allowed virtually unlimited automa­tion. Fair employment practices went out the_ window, and living and working conditions returned to the bad old 
-days:UFWA organizers and sympathizers were systematically fired and evicted from company­owned housing. 
Faced with the prospect of a giant step backwards, : . Gaile's field hands chose · 
. to go' out on strike. But · men, women and children manning the picket lines were met with a massive campaign of violence and intimidation forcing them to withdraw from the fields and return to the consumer boycott But 
·· they need your help to. make it work. ­--The basic issue in the 
. ~alloboycott is, simply, . 
Bdemocracy. The workers . want the right to choose their own union through . free, independently supervised elections. 
.Other American workers , are guaranteed this right . · by law, but agricultural 
workers aren't. By 
boycotting all Gallo 
products, you can help 
give them this basic right. 
Boone's Farm, Spanada, 
Ripple, Thunderbird;. ·. 
Tyrolia, Andre, Eden Roe, 
Carlo Rossi, Red Moun­
tain and Paisano are all 
made by Gallo, and should 
be avoided. America's ·· 
farmworkers have broken · their backs for hundreds . of years to put food on . . your table. Now they're 
asking you to do some­
thing for them. Will you? 


I enclose$ __-_to help the fann workers survive the coming weeks or months without a working wage. · 
. Iwould like to help with the boycott ­of Gallo Wine. Please serid me more infonnation. 
·vourName _______ 
Address-----'---­
City----~---­
Make Checks Payable lo "United Fann Workers of America" . · · · 
Mail to: United Fann Workers of hnerica ...,.. P. 0. Box 62 . -. ::W:: · Keene, Calif. 93531 
Call (805) 822-5571.for further info. 


·.· :Wbnt y()ur family to· khow· what'sTeally happening at ND?·· 
. . . 
·send.them-_ 
·.. :· 

·and: :get news analysis, in-• ~: _·: 
•·· ·.. i. deptJ-i.S[Jo.rts,jhe JUggler and ..·. ··th;e Fijotbdlr':·:RevieW~ Fof:;:·t':i '•. 
' . . • 'I ' •• 
.·. ·.. ·on1y:·•$s.·oo :.:. : 
·.·. .
,'. .~ ~-: ; . . . . i' . ... ; >--: ·:--·--. 
. NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC ' NO'.rRE DAME; INDIANA 46556 . · -·­. ; '• . _} ,-'' \ .· Please send me. a. subscription. to SCHOLASTIC for  .  
":· ...... years af$5.00 a year.  
·. . . : " ---~,  . -.  . . - lam enclosing$:.....~ ...~.·, ........i.. · . ................. ,.~CASH ·' .·'········..··:::::CHECK Name .. ··................. ·., ... _. ·.. ····.··.··········.;.· :··········· ·: .. ·~·····.·········  .. ·:.  
.· . Adctre'.ss  ......... : ...... : ..;.:.......... : .... : ..: ....... ::.·....... ,,.: ........... ~.:::..  




'.·. City ............... · ·.··:................ •·,:_ ... ·.... · ..... : .. > ... · .......... · ..·.· ...· .·, 
. ,. '~-. ·•:· .,, ;j­
'· 

'\. . . -~ ·: 
··State·, ............·--' ..... · ........ " .. ·.. ~ ...-.: .' 1.-• • '·.Zip ................... . 
_;,.

' :~ '; : ·~; ,l • -• 
·,• .. "' ._. ___ 




