IF YOU CAN WALK WE’LL TEACH YOU TO
DANCE.. . THE GEORGE DAVIS Way
Special 2 for 1 Rates for Notre Dame Students
Two Can Learn for the Price of One and Save 50%
Rumba
* ALICE AND GEORGE DAVIS, directors of the George Davis Studios, who head a thoroughly experienced staff of experts.
Jitterbug
DANCE FIESTA
Every Thursday
9 p. m.
All Notre Dame students invited to attend our friendly socials. No charge.
Eox Trot
If you can walk we guarantee to teach you to Dance — even if you’ve never danced a single step before . . . Our short cut method based on George Davis’ simple system of teaching, makes it possible for you to master the Fox Trot, Waltz, Jitterbug or any other dance in just a few hours of private instruction.
Come in or phone for your free trial lesson.
DIAL 3-8229
NORTHERN INDIANA’S LARGEST DANCE STUDIOS
106 W. MONROE
SOUTH BEND
CORNER MICHIGAN

2
The Scholastic
YOU CAN LEARN TO MORE THAN DOUBLE YOUR READING CAPACITY
This instrument makes a record on movie film of your eye movements as you read.
No matter how fast you are reading now, you can double your rate and improve your powers of comprehension.
Would a reading rate of 650 to 1,000 words a minute (2 to 4 average book pages) help you in your studies? Hundreds of students have been helped to better grades with this new skill.
Learn how you, too, can acquire this valuable new skill in a short period of time!
Stop in for a free copy of the booklet “YOU CAN READ BETTER,” and receive a demonstration of instruments and methods used in this unusual training.
FOUNDATION FOR BETTER READING 114 E. LaSalle Avenue Phone 3-0077
Oct. 6, 1950
5
We'll loan you a Camera ...
Send Your School Pictures to the Folks at Home . . .
r— Here's What You Get —
2 Rolls Film, Eastman or Ansco. We will develop and finish the 16 pictures.
Loan you a Camera
ALL $4% FOR
Your I. D. Card is all you need.
Ault
CAMERA SHOP. Inc
122 So. Main St.
Ph. 3-5041
Your Eastman Kodak Store
1
A
Comfort at its smartest!
ROLL COLLAR RUTTON-DOWN
OXFORD CLOTH SHIRTS
Fish, Steaks, Chops and Chicken
At Prices You Will Appreciate
Here's a new high in- comfort! . . . the roll-spread button down collar with a low-slope neckband. It offers you the style and smoothness of the dress collar with the comfort of a sport shirt.
The secret is the neckband which is regular height at the back and slopes to practically no band at all in front. See it tomorrow, in fine oxford cloth. In white or colors.
Our Specialty
yQ Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes lug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
$7.05
MICHIGAN
A T
W ASHINGTON
JOE NABICHT'S RESTAURANT “Chicken in the Rough” 213 N. Main	Open Sunday
4
The Scholastic

Top of the Week
The speed and efficiency afforded by - the new mail boxes in each residence hall. ...	'
Giving Points
As sure as the leaves will turn colors and fall in the Fall, we have been deluged once again in the epidemic of football parley tickets. These fiendish devices can take money out of your pocket faster than General Hershey can call us up for military service, and you’ll have to admit that’s pretty darn fast.
Last week’s bookies were giving North Carolina 27 points, and Notre Dame men full of confidence in the 1950 Fighting Irish and pockets full of hole-burning money, really fell for the racket by putting up 50c and up on ND.
We can’t object to betting on a sure thing if you can afford it, and since everybody on campus can afford it we had better not say anything. On the other hand, the buck you spend on a parley ticket could be spent on four-fifths of a haircut, four copies of the Juggler, or almost seven chest x-rays in the basement of the Dining Halls. The last suggestion may be a little shocking, but you can never tell when you’ll need an extra chest x-ray, or an extra chest.
Airwave Indigestion
We were hoping that the steam pipes that burrow beneath the glitter and swank of the Quadrangle might do something to WND’s operative facilities this year, but we hoped for too much. If you have a strange sub-conscious desire to keep your radio tuned away from 630 on your dial, the Week psychoanalysis service can tell you why. WND, the supposed campus voice, is back.
If you like music, and even the wild S beast is calmed by some, you might be [ able to listen to the programs for about 28 minutes. During this time you will get approximately 13 minutes of something that surely resembles music and 15 minutes of something that resembles Milton Berle on a bad day or Arthur Godfrey without the little Godfreys and his teeth.
This year’s crop of WND announcers
and disc-jockeys are doing more for the advance of television than anything we know of. They do a fine job when the words in their script are no longer than seven letters long, even when they try to invent then- own.
Don’t think we fail to appreciate the tremendous effort being exerted by every staff member in their attempt to make the station a success. We hme th°v will reach that goal eventually, but in the meantime, fellas, let’s untwist our tongues and put on another record 'without trying to be Dave Garroways or Symphony Sids.
Series Stuff
After- 35 years the Philadelphia Phillies managed to squeak out a National
Makes a Man Love a Pipe and a Woman Love a Man
Choice white Burley • Smooth and mild
League pennant and the New York Yankees reincarnated memories of the 1920’s by copping the Junior loop flag a la “Murderer’s Row.”
We don’t care much who wins the series, but we are worried about the uniforms of the rival teams this year. Both clubs wear the same type of pinT stripe outfits and a lot of bar television observers will really get confused. Can you imagine Dimaggio doubling to the left field wall to score Seminick and Waitkus and on the throw-in being tagged out at third by Johnson?
It will all be over soon and then we can settle down to football, or can we? Last week’s showing against the Tar Heels was almost disastrous, and if it weren’t for alert team-play on the part of men like Flood, Mutscheller, and Dunlay we would have had to write something consoling after the first ND defeat in our college career.
We have our insurance premiums paid up and an assortment of various excuses in all sizes on hand, so we’re all set to watch tomorrow’s game.
Bottom of the Week
. . . the possibility of forgetting your combination, getting somebody else’s draft notice, or getting no mail at all.
Oct. 6,1950
5
OCTOBER 6
FIELDHOUSE—The Freshman band will file into the big barn, after touring the campus, at about 7:30 p. m. The year’s second rally will probably be minus the television lights so don’t bother bringing your swimming trunks. The Purdue battle will be another tough one and the squad needs everyone’s support.
COLFAX (through Oct. 11)—Walt Disney hangs up his palette for Treasure Island (Legion of Decency Rating A-l), an all-live action picturization of Stevenson’s classic. This production won’t tax the bean but it will make you forget your troubles for 96 minutes.
PALACE (through Oct. 7)—Peggy (A-l) is one of those silly trifles that try but fail miserably to depict college life. The Rose Bowl game and parade lends the only interest, to this pic which co-stars Diana Lynn and Charles Coburn. House By the River (A-2) is a modest thriller.
OCTOBER 7
STADIUM—The Boilermakers of Purdue will face the Irish before a capacity crowd at 2 p. m. Cross those fingers again.
PALAIS RO YALE—The Student Council will sardine-ize the ballroom for the third time "this year. Hours are the same—8:30 p. m. to 11:30 p. »n.
WASHINGTON HALL—A more appropriate film than Top O’ the Morning (A-l) is hard to imagine playing at our displaced bit of Ireland. Bing Crosby, ND’s favorite Ann Blyth, and Barry Fitzgerald are the trio who make this happy pic so wonderful.
AVON (through Oct. 10)—Lady Without Passport (A-2) is a dismal flop with a'sloppy plot. It’s, all about Hedy Lamarr’s attempts to illegally enter the U. S. and John Hodiak’s moon-swooning efforts to stop his lady love. In the first place, who would try to stop Miss Lamarr from doing anything?
OCTOBER 11
CAMPUS—Student Trippers will catch busses in time to board the special New Orleans-bound train at 6 p. m. from Union Station. A long but slap-happy night will follow as the group darts southward.
OCTOBER 12
CAMPUS—In commemoration of the University’s Founding Fathers, a holiday is granted to the entire student body. A special Mass in -nem-ory of the Founders will be held in the Main Church at 8 a. m. Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., will be the celebrant.
COLFAX (through Oct. 18)—Lana Turner returns to the screen after two years to star in A Life of Her Own (B). Ray Milland, poorly cast ever since the memorable weekend, plays opposite the bleached star. As for the picture itself, it is fine proof that soap operas, if they 'nust exist, should remain on air lengths and not on screens.

Vol. 92 October 6. 1950 No. 4
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus
Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor
KENNETH A. THOREN '51
Associate Editors
WALTON R. COLLINS '51
JOHN H. JANOWSKI '51
JOHN J. POWERS '52________________News
CHARLES B. DULLEA '52....Assistant News ALPHONSE A. LAPORTE '51________Features JOHN F. MEANEY '52 Sports
JACK R. VARLEY '52______Assistant Sports JAMES E. McLAUGHLIN '51._Photography LEON GARDNER, '52_______Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER____________Advertising
WILLIAM J. HOSCHEIDT '51____Advertising ROBERT WILDEMAN '52_________Circulation JAMES ROGERS '51____________Circulation
DALE FRANCIS__________Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.	i
COVER: Satirizing that old character known as Joe College, Pat McAteer dons a racoon coat, a beanie and sports a pennant - for this week’s Scholastic. The hot-rod boy Pat, a Senior English ma j'or,-portrays has nothing in common with the sincere “thunder shaker” written about in this issue’s lead editorial. With the flask and the Stutz Bearcat, Joe C. happily became extinct after the 20’s.—Photo by Jim McLaughlin, ’51. .
The Scholastic
6

The Thunder Shakers
Last summer a student from another college said the men at Notre Dame were nothing but a bunch of “thunder shakers.” His remark referred to that line in the Victory March about . . . shake dowii the thunder and was meant to be derogatory. He meant the students here were nothing but a tremendous lot of super-spirited enthusiasts of the University.
After thinking it over for a while, the remark became as high a compliment as could be paid—and also, an apt definition of the student body. Notre Dame has always had a reputation for its spirited undergrads. Up until this year, however, at least during the past few years, the reputation was a bit unfounded.
Sure, the student section always strained their lungs at athletic events, but, on the whole, there was a sad relapse of spirit. The main reason can probably be traced to the effect of the war and to the deluge of veterans following it. These men were older. They had no use for the razz-ma-tazz associated with school spirit. Their dislike for anything that even slightly spelled ra-ra-ism was sincere.
Unfortunately, though, this feeling was passed down to some of the men who followed them and became a pseudosophisticated outlook. Spirit and all that it suggests is a great thing for high school kids but why not leave it with them? We’re men now so let’s forget about it.
This attitude must have died a natural death last June for already this semester a discernible renaissance in spirit is taking place. It seems the entire student body has adopted a more positivistic attitude toward life at Notre Dame.
For one thing, you don’t hear half as much griping. But you do hear a lot more praise. Criticism is a natural form of expression, but this year you hear much more of the constructive rather than the destructive type.
And then, to get back to athletic events, there was Saturday’s game. You could never find a bigger, or louder, bunch of “thunder shakers” than those who shook the clouds that day. It is fairly obvious that our team is going to have a tough time of it this year but you can put your bottom buck down that the students will be behind the squad all the way.
We’d like to see an old-timer who can remember when a student section ever yelled louder than did last Saturday’s. For too long it looked as if we might lose the game or, if lucky, get away with a tie. And then when Jim Mutscheller caught Bob William’s second touchdown pass the stands went wild.
Call it whatever you like—it all boils down to the same thing: spirit. It shows we take an interest in our school
Oct. 6, 1950
and an interest in whoever or whatever group is representing the University.
The resurgence of school spirit is good. It makes for a better atmosphere and a better life. Let our detractors call us what they want. But so long as they call us such things as “thunder shakers” we shouldn’t mind at all.
We should feel proud that people point us out as a spirited lot. For people who don’t take an interest in anything, who don’t work and pull for a common objective, and who remain cooped up in their own selfish interests, are introverted parasites.
There’s nothings better than a well-chosen cause. And every Notre Dame student has a terrific cause to root for. Sure, just a bunch of “thunder shakers,” that’s us. But we’re proud of it.	.
Growing Pains
If there is any one organization on campus caught between “the debbil and the deep blue sea” then it is the University Theater. Artistically speaking, it has made great strides on its progress chart. But as far-as popularity goes, judged on a basis of a following, it has progressed very slowly.
The last time Washington Hall was packed for a local stage production was for the student musical in 1948. This year, however, it looks as if the University Theater is out to rectify this non-support from the students. ;
The organization has listed four productions for the 1950-51 school year that should meet with great approval from the community. The directors of the group must certainly have had their eye on prevalent tastes. They picked an hilarious comedy in The Man Who Came To Dinner. Gold in the Hills is an example of old-time buffoonery. Then there will be the revived student musical, poorly labeled at this time, Faith, Hope and Hilarity. The year will end with -a production of Faust.
No matter how artistically perfect a theater group is, it is absolutely worthless if it does not have a following. This year the University Theater should at long last justify its existence and jam the house every night of a show’s run.
Once it gets this support, however, the organization should not continue to merely please. It should strive to improve local tastes. It should not be afraid to dabble with something more mature than three of this year’s selections. But that’s a problem for the future.
Right now it is hoped the University Theater and its productions get the support they so rightly deserve. If they don’t then they might possibly be dropped from the list of campus activities. And that’s one thing that should not happen.
-a-j. + a
Ike. twosMs ’Mst ukcfy to suaeed, okom campus
HEALTH SPOT
MEN WOMEN AND CHILDREN
209 West Colfax Avenue Paul Whalen, Mgr.
JW!
Burt—oxford button-down collar with the soft roll (the college man’s staple diet). A "Manhattan,” of course.
Welcomes Notre Dame students to come in and visit with us.
We carry a large showing cf fine Watches and Jewelry . . .
We maintain a complete Watch and Jewelry Repair Service.
Ill SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
Range—fine white broadcloth with the wide-spread collar. Made by "Manhattan,” which means perfect fit.
Send
SCHOLASTIC
Home
The folks back home would like to know about the activities at Notre Dame so why not send them a gift subscription? The price is $4 a year, and it means your parents will receive your magazine.
Get the
The student literary magazine, the Juggler, costs $1 a year. This year the magazine is going to feature a special issue that will be the talk of the campus. To get your copy you have to subscribe or send your dollar now.
Send subscription to
PUBLICATIONS, Notre Dame, Ind.
The Scholastic
VOLUME 92, NUMBER 4
OCTOBER 6, 1950
Sophs Sign Masters For 'Evening in Paris'
Theater Group Plans Year's Dramatic Fare; 'Man Who Came to Dinner' to Open Season
Perfume or no perfume, there will be “Evening in Paris” in the air this fall, as the theme of the Sophomore Cotillion, , major social event of the semester. The evening is No?. 10; “Paris” is appropriately the Palais Royale ballroom in South Bend.
Danceable music, Parisian or otherwise, will be supplied by Frankie Masters and his Orchestra, currently appearing at the Stevens Hotel in Chicago.
Now on sale in all Sophomore halls and in the Dining Hall, tickets for the dance are priced at $5.50, which includes bid and favors. Although sales will continue for a month, only the earlybirds i will be able to obtain the limited number of football tickets and hotel reservations available.
Pairs of tickets for the Pittsburgh game on Nov. 11 can be ordered with the dance bids. For accommodations at the LaSalle or Hoffmann hotels, Bill Dargan is the man to see. The Cotillion is also open to Juniors and Seniors, who will be able to purchase tickets later this month. Ticket sales are being supervised by Jim Hutchinson and Ed Murphy.
s. As favors, George Higgins and his committee have chosen attractive gold bracelets which bear the ND monogram and a tiny perfume atomizer. Each girl escorted to the Cotillion will receive one of these gifts.
“An Evening in Paris” will begin at 9 o’clock and overlap an hour into Saturday morning. For- those attending the Cotillion, car and 2 a.m. permissions have been secured. A full weekend of activities is in store for most of the Sophomores and their dates: the Pitt • game, the Victory Dance Saturday evening, Sunday Mass in Sacred Heart Church, and the inevitable tour of the campus.
Converting the Palais from South Bend to Paris is the task of John Brady and Larry Pridmore. Mike Dolan and Bill Reidy are handling the arrangements, while Bob Hoodecheck and Gerry Marshall have charge of finances.
Other committee heads are Dan O’Leary, transportation; Mike Higgins, band; Bill Kilminster, publicity, and Paul Gabler, printing.
By JUSTIN BOLGER, ’52
Notre Dame playgoers are in for a varied and entertaining theatrical diet in the coming year, according to Mr. William J. Eisen, Head of the Department of Speech. He has announced that this season’s plans call for a quartet of presentations, including a musical and a melodrama, a comedy and a classic drama.
In mid-November, the University Theater will open its season on a humor-
ous note, presenting one of the most successful Broadway comedies of the past decade, “The Man Who Came to Dinner.” Written by Moss Hart and George S. Kaufman, this farce was distinguished by Monty Woolley’s famous portrayal of the writer who came to dinner, and then stayed on as an extremely unwelcome house guest foi- six uproarious weeks.
According to Mr. Eisen, this particular play was selected “primarily because it provided a splendid opportunity for characterizations and contains a fairly large cast, of 24, and also because of its sure-fire entertainment value and comedy situations.” Casting tryout dates will be announced shortly.
And a few weeks later, student first
nighters will be treated to a genuine, old-fashioned melodrama. In mid-December, the curtains will rise on a three-act opus entitled “Gold in the Hills,” or “The Drad Sister’s Secret.” Complete with the usual quota of persecuted heroines, stout-hearted heroes and unscrupulous villains, together with some 20 other very assorted characters, this presentation is designed as a new experience in audience-theater participation. Appropriate catcalls, booing and hissing will not only be permitted, but will be heartily encouraged. As the action becomes heart-rending or side-splitting, an orchestra will be on. hand to render “Hearts and Flowers” and other suitable favorites of the gas light era.
Third on the season’s program will be an original student musical, to be produced some time next March. Coauthored by Dick Marshall and Bill Carey, this musical is tentatively entitled “Faith, Hope and Hilarity,” and will feature original songs and music, and also a female chorus line.
To ring down the 1950-1951 season, the University Theater will present an adaptation of “Faust,” in the early part of May. Selected for those who care for a more serious and dramatic theater . fare, this famous tragedy will be produced in a modem dress version.
Council Presents Second Victory Dance at Palais
Tomorrow night the Palais Royale will be the scene of the second Victory Dance of the season. Designated as the “Boilermaker Ball,” the affair will run from 8:30 to 11:30 pan. All students have 12:30 permissions.
Featuring this week’s dance will be a Charleston contest. Gene Hull and his Lettermen will supply the music.
Helping to celebrate the outcome of the season’s opener with North Carolina, the Student Council played host to a near-record crowd at its initial Victory Dance last Saturday. A capacity crowd of over 750 couples filled the Palais to dance to Gene Hull’s music.
Oct. 6, 1950
9
Glider Men Soar Into Wide, Blue Yonder; Spirits Now Skyrocket on Thermal Currents
In addition to the Irish navy there is now an Irish air force flourishing’ on campus. This group of avid air enthusiasts takes turns riding the thermals in a powerless glider every weekend and Tuesday afternoon at Cadet Field, seven miles from Notre Dame.
The idea of having a glider club at Notre Dame was originated by Mr. Robert S. Eikenberry, instructor in the Aero Engineering Department, and a glider enthusiast himself since his undergraduate days with the University of Michigan glider club.
Arnold Andenjaska started the student movement behind the glider club idea and brought the club into existence. Pete Skerrett of Rochester, New York, later took over the leadership of the club and handled the sheaves of triplicate forms to be filled out for the Civil Aeronautical Commission and the University.
The club then went ahead and purchased a glider. The craft, a single-seat Schweizer glider valued at $800, was purchased from a resident of South Bend for $300. Its tubular steel construction and doped canvas covering closely resembles that of the “Piper Cub” type aircraft. Weighing in at 300 pounds, it has a length of 20 feet and a wingspan of 40 feet.
Launching is accomplished by tow-car method from a half-mile sod runway. A long tow-line with a special pulley attachment is connected from the nose of the glider to the rear of the tow-car. During takeoff procedure the tow-car moves ahead to take up slack in the tow-line, and then awaits a signal from the pilot by a movement of the rudder. , The car then moves forward rapidly, and the glider attains an air speed of 15 miles an hour before dropping the tow-line.
The craft can reach a maximum altitude of 300 feet and an air speed of 40 miles an hour under the present launching conditions. In landing, the glider comes in on a single center wheel and nose skid. It also has two auxiliary wing skids for balancing.
With a minimum ground crew of eight men working at top speed, an average of a flight every five minutes can be maintained. This same crew can also assemble or disassemble the glider in 15 minutes.
The Glider Club, composed of Aero Engineers, has 25 members at present, five of whom are regular licensed aircraft pilots. Mr. Eikenberry, the faculty moderator, is the club’s present instructor.
The club plans to train the five licensed pilots as glider pilots first. After each man has had 100 hours flying time on a glider he can qualify as a glider instructor. Then, as instructors, they can train the other members of the club.
—Dave Hayes, ’5-)
—Brickson
Prof. Eikenberry instructs aeronautical student on points of piloting a glider.
Famous Book Display At University Library
During the month of October, the University Library will display a collection of famous writings in the main lobby of the building.
The writings, reprinted by the Peter Pauper Press, Mt. Vernon, N. Y.,- include such classics as, Gulliver’s Travels, The Compleat Angler, Cyrano de Bergerac, and the sonnets of John Keats.
After the display period, the books will become the property of the Library.
The ND Library was selected to display the collection because of a letter from Paul R. Byrne, Director of the Library. Letters from 75 various libraries throughout the United States were judged by a committee composed of Clifton Fadiman, Christopher Morley, Frederic G. Melcher and Peter and Edna Beilenson, owners of the printing company, and Notre Dame was among the winners.
The Peter Pauper Press is a small, personal establishment that specializes in reprinting literary classics in volumes that are within the financial reach of the book collector of modest means.
Father Sheedy New Religion Dept. Head
The Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., has been appointed Head of the Department of Religion at the University of Notre Dame.
Father Sheedy, who has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty for the past eight years, will succeed the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Executive Vice-President of the University. Father Hesburgh was Head of the department since October, 1948. Father Sheedy previously had served as Assistant Head of the department.
A native of Pittsburgh, Pa., Father Sheedy was ordained to the Catholic priesthood in 1942. After graduating from Notre Dame in 1933 with degree of Bachelor of Arts, he received an LL.B, degree from the University of Pittsburgh three years later. In 1947 ?>e received the degree of Doctor of Sacred Theology from the Catholic University of America, Washington, D. C.
Father Sheedy is the author of The Christian Virtues, a textbook used in the teaching of Catholic Morals courses, as well as a number of articles for magazines and newspapers.
First Colloquium Scheduled On Latin American Program
The first of a series of Colloquia conducted by Dr. Thomas E. Downey of the Department of History on problems of Latin American studies will be pre- ( sented next Tuesday, October 10, in J Room 101 of the Law Building, at 7:45 p.m.
Presentation of an opening papei* by the director of the Colloquia will be followed by discussion by those attending. Dr. Downey will conduct the Colloquia once each month during the school year on selected topics. Foi- the first semester the general topic will be “Some Economic Problems of Latin America.”
The Program of Latin American Studies, of which the Colloquia are a part, is open to all students of the Uni- ' versity. Particular emphasis is given the history and culture of Latin American and commercial and business relations between the United States and the countries south of the Rio Grande.
The program went into effect for the first time this semester. Besides offering classes in the Departments of Modern Languages, History and Foreign Commerce the program will include lectures on the comparative law of North and South America and a series of lectures and colloquia.	f I
10
The Scholastic
Since Congress suspended the statutory ceiling on .the strength of the armed forces, chances that the average man between 19 and 25 will go into the armed forces have increased greatly. In the current emergency, the armed forces are preparing to increase their- strength to three million.
There are now 1.5 million men under arms. It is expected that three out of four of the 2,000,000 reservists will be called for physical examinations, but that only one third of them will be able to pass under the present stringent standards. This means that the reserves can be counted upon to supply 500,000 of the men needed.
The National Guard is expected to provide 200,000 men. Over 80,000 have already been called, with the rest slated for service as facilities are readied and units are needed.
Selective Service
All of the foregoing total only 1.7 million men. The Selective Service System is expected to supply the remainder, 1.3 million men.
The system reports that, under present rules, there are 2,000,000 men in the 1-A classification. Students are probably listed here, too, for the report came before very many classroom deferments could be arranged.
Draft calls for November and the succeeding months will be for 70,000 men each month. Nearly every man now in 1-A classification can expect to be called for physical examination within the next ten months because of the great number who will flunk the physical. Past experience shows that 60 per cent will fail mental or physical exams. Another 100,000 will be deferred foi- various reasons. This leaves 700,000 men, enough to last ten months, and 600,000 men short of the goal.
The men to fill this void will have to come from students and veterans, the only pool of manpower left. Present policy on students is nebulous and subject to various interpretations. -
Some local boards place students in class 1-B, others in 2-A. The length
You and the Army
By DAN BRENNAN, ’51
of student deferment is in a similar state of confusion. Some boards will defer students for only the remainder of a term, others for the rest of the academic year. The decisions lie with the local draft boards, and are tempered by the supply of manpower- available to each.
Some Deferments
Renewable deferments for students have been discussed, but here too, the decisions lie with the local draft boards. There are no distinctions for class or major subject being made at the present time. By presidential order, however certain classes of students might be deferred. These include medical students, chemistry and physics majors and certain other men in training for critical
skills. It will be the advanced and the graduate student who will have the best chance of completing his course.
The Notre Dame man who wishes to apply for deferment as a student may go to the office of Academic Affairs in the East wing on the ground flooi- of the Main Building. When he goes, he must take his selective service card with him.
Married men may lose their deferment by presidential order, and they, too, will be inducted. Recent provisions for dependents of service men make it possible to take fathers. A man with four or more children will probably not be inducted.
The blanket deferment of veterans will most likely be modified soon by Congress. The procedure will be to allow drafting of vets who have had no combat or overseas service before battle-weary veterans are called. The length of service will also be considered.
Deferment has been ordered for the sole surviving son in a family in which one or more boys were killed in the last war. All draft boards have been ordered to give special consideration to cases in which drafting would cause especial hardship.
Some reservists and national guardsmen may be deferred, but such cases will be rare.
This is the procedure for a reservist who wants to be deferred: After receiving the call to duty, he writes asking for deferment. If Army, to commanding general of this army area; if Air Force, to the headquarters of the numbered air force where he lives. A Naval Reservist, nonaviation, writes to his naval district commandant; if in aviation to Chief, Naval Air Reserve Training, Glenview, Ill. A marine’s request must go through channels, starting with the local inspector instructor. If he is applying for a job deferment, his employer sends an accompanying letter, stating the facts.
Headquarters reads the letter and decides on the request. Maximum delay is six months, but this is renewable. Appeals may be carried to the headquarters of the respective services in Washington for the final say.
National Guard Obeys
National Guardsmen obey the same rules as the reservists, except that they appeal to the adjutant general of the State. Requests for deferment are addressed to him, by way of the local cmo-mander. Requests must be made as soon as the alert arrives. Each state handles its problems in different ways.
The potential draftee has ten days to file an appeal for deferment after he is classified 1-A. Next, he gets a physical examination. If he is physically fit, his case is referred to the State appeals board. If unfit, he goes into class 4-F.
If he is in 1-A the state appeals board looks at his papers. Included in them are the letters sent out from the University and referred to above. .
It takes a unanimous vote of the (Continued on Page 31)
Oct. 6, 1950
11
Students Registering At Placement Bureau
Students, both graduate and undergraduate, who will receive degrees in 1951 are registering in large numbers with the Placement Bureau on the ground floor of the Main Building, West Wing.
In its new offices, which were opened last Spring, the Placement Bureau, under the direction of William R. Dooley, is beginning its first full schoolyear of full-time operation with increased facilities.
“During the summer/’ reports Mr. Dooley, “we built up our files to the point where we now have much more information about various industries and companies than we formerly had. With the aid of many Chambers of Commerce, we also have available a great deal of information about job opportunities in various communities all over the country. If a man thinks he wants to work in Milwaukee, for instance, we can give him a pretty comprehensive idea of possibilities there.”
Having as its theme “help • the man help himself,” the Placement Bureau emphasizes individual counseling in connection with job placement and invites any student expecting to receive a degree in 1951 to take advantage of its counseling facilities.
“In the final analysis, getting a job is an intensely personal, individual thing, even though there are certain general technioues that should be followed,” advises Mr. Dooley. “It is only by talking to men individually that we can really do the most good. We welcome this sort of opportunity.”
The Placement Bureau also provides various lists of employers, as well as sample personal qualification records and assistance in the procurement of pictures, mimeographing and printing.
Reflecting the employment demands of the times, the Phillips Petroleum Company, Bartlesville, Okla., will send its representative, F. J. Heller to Notre Dame .early in the present semester to interview chemists and chemical engineers who expect to receive their- degrees on January 28. Mr. Heller will be here on October 10. J. E. Schoenberger and S. D. Clarke of the Puget Sound Naval Shipyard, Bremerton, Wash., were here for interviews on September 29.
Other organizations which have already made tentative arrangements to interview on’the campus in October include the American Cyanamid Company, Merck K Company, Standard Oil Company (Indiana) and the U. S. Naval Ordnance Test Station, Inyokern, Calif.
Prof. Olgyay Designs 'Temperate House';
Climate Control Stressed in New Residence >
Mr. Victor Olgyay, of the Architectural Engineering Department, has proposed a new development in climatic controlled architecture termed “The Temperate House.”
Realizing the need of houses with greater temperature control, Mr. Olgyay devised certain means of shading and landscaping by which the building would be made cooler by 18 degrees in the summer months and would require 20 percent less fuel consumption in the winter months. By these radical changes in temperature regulation, the homes can Have weather characteristic of places 600 miles distant.
This type of building is yet in the experimental stage as far as actual construction is concerned. The efficiency of temperature control of these homes, which can be constructed in individual as well as settlement house form, will be greatly increased as further developments go on.
Another outstanding feature of the settlement house arrangement, which is circular in form, is that pedestrians are not required to cross any streets in the entire community. All facilities and emergency units are located in the center of the circular set-up for easy access to all occupants of the community. Administrative facilities are located in the center of the community for efficiency and economy.
The proposal, a result of years of re-
Thie Awarded Fellowship In Atomic Study by AEC
Among 148 students who were recently awarded scholarships by the atomic energy commission is Joseph A.. Thie, a Notre Dame graduate student from Indianapolis, Ind.
Award winners were examined first by the national research council of the National Academy of Sciences and appointed by AEC regional fellowship boards. To fit them for employment in the atomic program, the new fellowship winners will study in fields closely related to atomic energy.
The fellowship provides $1,600 a year for study in the physical sciences, with extra sums for dependents.
Hold Annual Law Smoker
To allow the freshmen law students to meet and mix with the upperclass barristers-to-be, the Notre Dame Law Association will stage its annual smoker at 7:30 p.m. Wednesday, Oct. 11.
search in climate conditions of the United States, was placed before a group of 80 scientists, architects and engineers at the Space Heating Symposium at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Aug. 21-26. Canada, South Africa, Israel, England and the United States were represented at the assembly.
After lecturing to the engineering department at M.I.T., Mr. Olgyay was asked to give another lecture to a Federal Housing Administration group. He 1 then received a special invitation from FHA officials to appear in Washington, where his plan again received favorable recognition.
Further research and designing has been temporarily halted pending action of the FHA concerning sanction by the federal government.
Law Senior Elected to Post In Law Student Association >
During the recent second annual convention of the American Law Student Association in Washington, D. C., Henry M. Shine, Jr., a senior in the College of Law, -was elected national vice-president for the Seventh Federal Judicial Circuit. The seventh circuit includes the ten law schools in the states of Indiana, Illinois and Wisconsin.	'
Because Shine is the presiding officer of the circuit, the • College of Law becomes the regional headquarters of the American Law Student Association until the next national convention in New York City in September, 1951. It is customary for the regional headquarters to hold a circuit convention in the Spring. The circuit and national conventions discuss the many activities of Colleges of Law and provide an interexchange of ideas through panel discussions covering legal aid, moot courts and placement service. .
With the - national convention of law review editors scheduled for Notre Dame in the fall of 1951 the tentative spring convention places the College of Law in an important position of dual responsibility.
In attendance at the convention in Washington besides Shine, who is Director of the Moot Court, were Norman Kopec, president of the Notre Dame Student Law Association, Bruno Bernabei, past president of the Notre Dame Student Law Association, and John L. Glo-bencky, associate editor of the Notre .. Dame Lawyer.
12
The Scholastic
PICNIC CANCELLED
The Senior Class picnic, scheduled for this Sunday, Oct. 8, has been called off, according to Jim Hennessy, Senior Class president.
Council Grants Chest Appropriation of $300
Highlighting Monday night’s Student Council meeting was approval by the Council of an appropriation of $300 for the Community Chest of South Bend. The donation will come from the Campus Charity Chest, thus eliminating the necessity of a door-to-door canvass of the residence halls as in the past. The principal source of revenue for the Charity Chest is the annual Mardi Gras Carnival.
Council approval was given to the designation of the Pittsburgh game week-end as the time for hall decorations. The same weekend will witness the Sophomore Cotillion which was underwritten by the Council at this meeting.
The form for these underwriting contracts has been standardized and hereafter all dances will be underwritten through this contract, simplifying the Council’s bookkeeping.
The Hall Council Committee submitted a plan for hall elections tentatively planned for Oct. 10 to Oct. 17.
During the meeting, William Lowenstein, a representative of the National Students Association, addressed the Council.
Continue Daily Adoration In Sacred Heart Church
The traditional October Devotions will continue next week as the Sophomores keep watch before the Blessed Sacrament in the Adoration Chapel of Sacred Heart Church. The Sacrament will be exposed daily from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Benediction follows each day’s adoration.
Members of Liturgical Life have canvassed the residence halls and 30-minute adoration periods have been assigned volunteers from all four classes. The Junior and Senior- classes will serve on the last two weeks of the month. The Holy Hour for vocations will continue every Thursday at 4:30 p.m.
Joe Boland, Father Barry Speak at Pep Rally Tonight
Notre Dame’s fieldhouse will ring tonight with the cheers of thousands of Irish rooters, as the year’s second pep rally gets underway in preparation for tomorrow’s game against Purdue.
Rev. Joseph Barry, c.s.c., will speak on behalf of the University and one of the assistant football coaches will give the students a briefing on the team itself. Guest speaker for the .evening will be Joe Boland, familiar to the residents of South Bend as a member of the staff of WSBT and a Notre Dame alumnus.
The man in the spotlight tonight, though, will be Herb Jones, Business Manager of Athletics, who will receive recognition for his work in behalf of
Notre Dame. The Freshman band will leave Washington Hall at 7 p.m. and tour the campus before the rally proper gets underway at 7:30 pan.
WND Will Broadcast All Saturday Football Scores
Highlighting the list of new programs on WND is a continuous one-hour broadcast of the scores of all football games played throughout the nation. Starting 25 minutes after every Notre Dame home game, the show is made possible by WND’s recently-installed Western Union teletype.
The campus radio station is also preparing another new program, a Round Table Discussion, which will take the air in about three weeks. Various faculty members, the Economic Round Table, the Commerce Forum, the Wranglers, and members of the debate team are the probable participants. Joe Shelly will do the announcing.
Another- program innovation is the Feature Man of the Week Interview, with an outstanding man on campus. This show will be in addition to Ray Earl’s Huddle interview.
Former station manager Jack Dunlevy resigned early last month and moderator Jerome Fallon has appointed former business manager Jack Maher to the vacant post. Jim Carrig was chosen business manager and Jee Shelly will continue as chief announcer.
Other appointments include: Halley Hall, chief engineer; Bob Doherty, production engineer; Bill Ryan, program director, and Jim Kingsley, public relations director.	•
Scenes at First Pep Rally
Roof-raising rally in the Fieldhouse on eve of North Carolina Jerry Groom displayed a talent typical of Notre Dame captains battle brings fans by thousands out of ten-month hibernation. in drawing cheers and chuckles from the crowd with his humor.
Oct. 6, 1950
13
Audio-Visual Course Accents Color Photos
With 77 students already enrolled and applications received from 25 more, the Audio-Visual Center has begun its course in color photography with a film showing the use of light and a demonstration of various lighting eifects upon a piece of still-life.
The program offers no black-and-white work and stresses practical experience in color and lighting techniques.
“This emphasis upon light will permeate the entire course,” stated Mr. Orville Foster, of the Audio-Visual Center. “With proper lighting, good composition, and color film the students should be able to produce pictures approaching a good oil.”
Mr. Foster explained that this program is attempting to introduce a spirituality into photography and to make it a serious medium of art. Many leading photographers today have been promoting this “return of photography to God.” Among them are two of the Continent’s ablest men, Tabard, in France, and Fossbender in Germany.
“In the United States the work of A. C. Shelton, one of our leading color photographers, has been influential. In fact, the outstanding results achieved by Mr. Shelton in a color seminar held this summer were largely responsible for the Center’s offering this present course in color photography.”
Mr. Foster commented that this semester-course is being presented on an experimental basis and will be continued next semester if the results prove satisfactory.
Dr, Shanahan to Attend Gathering in French City
Ur. William 0. Shanahan, professor -of History, and a member of the Committee on International Relations at the University of Notre Dame, will represent Notre Dame at a UNESCO-sponsored International Conference of Universities to be held Dec. 3 to 9 at Nice, France.
The purpose of the meeting is to set up an “International Organization of Universities and of kindred Institutions of Higher' Education.” Statutes will be drawn up and methods of financing the organization’s secretariat will be discussed.
Sixty colleges and universities in the United States have been extended an invitation to attend the conference. Notre Dame is one of the three Catholic schools invited. More than 90 schools from over 30 different countries have already agreed to attend.	' "
14
Dr. Stephen Kertesz, Man Without a Country, Scores Russia's Block of 'One World* Ideal
By JACK BRADSHAW, ’52
As North Korean Communists blasted across the 38th parallel on a June morning, another threat of Red aggression became a sharp, stinging reality. With United States troops again waging bitter, hand-to-hand warfare against the forces of aggression for the second time in five years, Americans began to listen more and more attentively to the quiet, persistent voices of warning and counsel from the refugees and voluntary exiles of those unfortunate countries already
—Brickson
Dr. Stephen D. Kertesz
trapped under the Communist blanket.
For those of us who have not lived, seen and felt what these people have, there are many stories to be told as well as many that can never be told. And such a man with a story and without a country is Notre Damens newest addition to the Political Science Department, Dr. Stephen D. Kertesz.
Bom in 1904, Dr. Kertesz received his J.D. degree from the University of Budapest in 1926 and studied International Law and Relations at the University of Paris and at The Hague until 1929. Shortly afterwards he began work in the agency representing the Hungarian government before the Mixed Arbitral Tribunals and the World Court. From 1935 to 1937 he visited the United States and western European countries as a Rockefeller Fellow. Since 1938 Dr. Kertesz held various positions with the . Hungarian government. In 1942 he was first secretary of the Hungarian Lega
tion in Bucharest and during 1943-44 he worked in the political division of the Hungarian foreign ministry, charged with the preparation of the Hungarian case for the peace conference in event of a German defeat. He continued this work underground after the German occupation of his country. Later he was imprisoned and court-martialed for treason by the Hungarian Nazis, but he escaped and with his family spent the seven-week siege of Budapest in a small basement.
Escape From Russians
After another narrow escape — this time from the Russian “liberators" who tried to kidnap him as a prisoner of war — he was charged by the new regime to prepare the Hungarian case for the peace conference. As Secretary General of the Hungarian Peace Delegation, Dr. Kertesz saw the preparatory work get more and more hopeless due to the increasingly tighter grip the Russians maintained over Hungary’s political and economic life.
After the peace conference he was appointed Hungarian Minister to Italy. However, he was there only a few months before the Communist ‘putsch’ in which the Reds, casting aside all restraints, practically took over the government despite their minority position of only 17 per cent of the seats in Parliament. Seeing Hungary completely abandoned with no possible fulfillment of the Yalta agreement, he asked for his dismissal but refused to return to Hungary.	■
“There can be no ‘One World’ organization,” said Dr. Kertesz, “as long as Russia remains a closed orbit and until she permits cooperation and communication with the rest of the world. This is unlikely in view of present conditions as well as avowed Russian policy. There is not much chance for a voluntary Russian withdrawal from the satellite countries. Moscow knows that without Russian military support, the Communist regimes in Eastern Europe would collapse.
“The minority Communist parties obtained all the key positions during the Russian occupation. As a result, Eastern Europe is now politically and economically enslaved to Soviet Russia and isolated from the western world. The Communists also control all the newspapers and thus the people have no way of knowing what really goes on outside the Iron Curtain.
The Scholastic
“For instance, a recent news article in the Budapest Szabad Nep said: ‘In the American democracy a man has only to utter a careless remark, some criticism of the Marshall Plan to his neighbor, and his neighbors will be pounced upon by the FBI, his colleagues and his boss questioned; he will be smeared, accused, fired from his job and only too often ruined . . . ’ •
“The same paper on August 4, 1950, furnished the following intelligence: ‘Pope Pius XII has acquired the agency for iCoca Cola in Italy. This beverage is harmful but yields great profit to those who sell it. It seems indeed that it has been especially invented for the Vatican . . . ’ ”
Two Main Factors
When asked about the possibility of war in Europe, Dr. Kertesz replied: “Notwithstanding the great strength of the Red Army there are, in my opinion, two main factors influencing Red policymaking. One is the United States’ probable superiority in atomic bombs. The other is the pace at which the Western nations are re-arming. The probability of war will be greatest when the Reds think they have enough atomic bombs to offset the West’s advantages therein, and when Western re-armament begins to endanger Russian military preponderance on the European continent.
“At the present time, Western Europe is practically defenseless, with virtually no military force to. compare with the Red Army. This quasi-vacuum of power is a permanent, tempting inducement to the Reds, since the Russians have never cared to start an offensive war unless they thought they had military superiority. But if Western Europe is strong and united, the permanent inducement will disappear in the long run.
“However, and this is the important point, there might be a critical period before the completion of Western rearmament when the Reds might choose to fight while they still have overwhelming military strength. Regardless of their plans, the best alternative to World War III is super-strong, solidified Western co-operation along economic, diplomatic and military lines.
Misery and Ignorance
“A rising standard of living in the free world is important since both human misery and ignorance are apt to further the progress of Communism. Nevertheless, the Marshall plan and other economic help are decidedly not enough. People need faith and to have faith they must believe in the western solution of world problems. The Western states have to give up their rather passive attitude and must meet the Soviet
ideological challenge by positive assertiveness. It would be possible to prove to the common man that he can obtain all economic and social advantages advertised by Communism, in a free state system, -without giving up his liberty and human dignity.”
After he left Europe in 1948 Dr. Kertesz was a Visiting Lecturer in Law at Yale University for two years and also at Notre Dame University during the summer sessions of 1948-50. At the International Relations Symposium held here last February he delivered an address on “Methods of Soviet Penetration in Eastern Europe.” He now teaches a course on the structure of the United Nations Organization and another entitled “American and Soviet Politics in Eastern Europe.” Dr. Kertesz resides with his wife and two daughters in South Bend.
Tough luck, Smith—it's 12:01.
47 Students Apply at Tryout for Debate Team
Forty-seven students have answered the call for the varsity debate team. Professor Leonard Sommer, coach of the debate team and director1 of Forensics, is giving the team lecture material on the organization of a debate case and the point-by-point rebuttal system.
Each applicant null shortly be required to give a five-minute speech defending one point of an argument. Each speech will be followed by questions from the other members of the group. A debate tournament is also being formed for all non-varsity members to determine their ability to think in formal argument.
Meetings of the debate team are held on Monday, Wednesday and Friday at 4:15 p.m. in Room 327 of the Main Building. Any student who -wishes to try out for the team may do so by attending one of these meetings.
Schedule Announced For Campus X-Rays
The St. Joseph County Tuberculosis League will give chest X-Rays to all Notre Dame men beginning this coming Monday, October 9. As it was last year, the X-Ray survey will be conducted in the basement of the Dining Hall.
Each subject is sent a confidential report of his diagnosis. There is a charge of fifteen cents for reading of each film by an X-Ray specialist.
Students living in Breen-Phillips, Badin and Alumni will be X-Rayed October 9, from 11:30 a.m. to 3:30 pjn. The men of Dillon are scheduled on the same day from 5:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m.
The time schedule for the remaining days follows that given above. Lyons, Howard and Farley will be handled during the first period and St. Edward’s and Cavanaugh during the second period, on Tuesday, October 10. Sorin, Walsh and Zahm halls are due Wednesday, October 11, during the first period and Morrissey and Vetville residents during the second.
On the survey’s last day, Thursday, October 12, Holy Cross Seminary, Moreau Seminary, Sacred Heart Novitiate and Dujarie Seminary will be X-Rayed from 11:30 p.m. to 3:30 p-m. Religious and lay faculty, day students, employes and other residents of the campus are encouraged to report at any of the previously listed dates. .
The League, advocating a chest X-Ray for everyone once a year, has declared that although anyone may catch TB, most of the deaths are people between the ages of 15 and 34.
This year in conjunction with the debate team the Department of Speech has inaugurated a Debate Workshop for students with no previous experience in the field of debate. The workshop will introduce the inexperienced students to argumentation and debate.
This group will meet each Wednesday at 3:15 p.m. in Room 327 of the Main Building under the direction of Mr. Edward A. Malcak.
The workshop will be conducted as follows: 1) Introduction to argumentation and debate; 2) Materials as strategy; 3) Explanation of strategy; 4) Methods of refutation; 5) Five methods of refuting arguments; 6) When to use these five methods; -7) Rebuttal plans; 8) A general plan for rebuttals; 9) Affirmative issues, how to meet them; 10) Negative issues, how to meet them; 11) Falacies; 12) Dilemmas.
Oct. 6, 1950
I
the SUN HERALD
Catholic Daily Crashes Newspaper Big Leagues With Publication Tuesday From Kansas City
Next Tuesday, October 10, a small daily newspaper will attempt to crash the “big time.” The paper, coming out of Kansas City, Mo., will be unlike any other now reaching the public in the United States. This uniqueness is its selling point, for the Sun Herald is a Catholic daily.
The Herald will print as a 12-page, five column tabloid with a maximum advertising con'ent of 20 per cent. Chicago’s Sun-Times gives some idea of the appearance in format, though obviously larger and carrying more ads than the Herald. *
Breaking into the group of successful newspapers is, at best, a mighty difficult proposition. To the necessary items of a staff, printing plant, reasonably certain market, wire and photo services and luck, a big piece of capital—usually a slice ranging upwards from a million dollars—is vital. Even with all of. these in comfortable proportions, success can never be guaranteed. In the case of the Sun Herald everything is there but the capital. It’s going to press on a shoestring.
Catholic newspaper men have tried in the past to place an entrant in the newspaper world which could pull its own load while it was dispensing the kind of print which these men have realized
Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt
is very much needed. The efforts have been few and far between. There is, at present, not one such paper in the United States, if we discount the few foreign language dailies in some cities. The last such effort died in Dubuque, Iowa, after a life of some six years.
Catholic dailies have run up against some obstacles not confronting the secu-
The drawings in this feature were done by two members , of the SUN HERALD art staff: Mrs. Roosevelt by Fred Sanchez, and General Bradley by Ed Willock.
Subscription rates for the SUN HERALD are: SL25 for one month; §3.65 for three months; $7.25 for six months; and $14.00 for one year. The newspaper will be sent by air express. Subscribers write: the SUN HERALD, 702 East Twelfth Street, Kansas City 6, Mo.
lar press in their efforts to sell. The nature of the Catholic paper itself tends to become a barrier, for the public shies away from a newspaper which, it feels, will begin every sentence with “Dearly Beloved” and end every column with a prayer. If the daily is taken on by a diocese, it is limited by that connection. It receives a reputation for being “straight laced,” “Victorian,” and is dismissed as a pious work. Its role is that of the “second paper” in the home, the expendable item when a budget has to be pared.
The Sun Herald will be different. Its staff has the necessary ingredient of realism about the task before them and they are determined to make good. In the language of the Marines, the esprit deco-ps is high.
Catholic Daily Needed
Four years ago, Miss Carol Jackson, co-editor of Integrity, sent letters to several Catholic' newspaper men and women around the country. Each person recognized the need of a Catholic paper, one to come out daily, to present news and features which were worthwhile reading, which got away from the sensational, and which were written without a materialistic yardstick near
the typewriter. In answer to her letters an exchange of ideas on the subject began, and the mails were soon carrying a series of mimeographed letters on a “round robin” basis.
When as much exchange had taken place as was possible through post office boxes, twelve of the group met in the first council of Avar. The meetings were held in the home of Mr. Dale Francis, Notre Dame’s Director of Publications, here in South Bend. As Father Paul Bussard, the editor of the Catholic Digest, was talking of a Catholic daily in his June, 1949, commencement address to the Notre Dame graduates, the twelve “apostles” were crystallizing their plans in the Notre Dame cafeteria.
Location was a big question for the paper. Local circulation would have to come from a pretty heavy Catholic area, yet the national edition of the paper would require a focal point where distribution lines could be relatively equal. Chicago was tried, but the company finally settled on Kansas City, though its total population is only 399,178, and of this number only 11.1 per cent are Catholic. Kansas City supports only one paper, the Star, and its location is nearly ideal for national distribution. Hence the choice.
As its promotional throw sheets have indicated, the Herald is taking a levelheaded approach to its problem. The (Continued on Page 28)
General Omar Bradley
16
The Scholastic
For a Catholic World
Notre Dame Clubs Cooperate With Other College Students Through Bigger NFCCS Campus Council
NFCCS—what is it? What does it do? How does it affect Notre Dame and her students? These and other related questions about the NFCCS have long gone unanswered, leaving the student body unaware of the part they play in the organization.
The NFCCS stands for National Federation of Catholic College Students. It is a bond between nearly 160 Catholic colleges and universities in the United States, representing 90 per cent of; the American Catholic college enrollment. This means that every Notre Dame student is a member.
As the NFCCS constitution states, the federation’s aims are, in part, to promote Catholic Action, to encourage Catholic student unity, to develop democratic student government, to prepare Catholic leaders, to supply information on student life, and to represent U. S. Catholic students to the nation and the world.
Since its conception in 1937, the NFCCS has been a union of, by, and for students, under the guidance but not the control of the Catholic hierarchy. At an annual national congress, the delegates elect their executive officers and act as a legislative body. Every school has a voice in formulating the national plans of the federation. The number of delegates to this convention from any one college are determined by the school’s population, although each may send at least two representatives.
Top Fund-Giver
One of the major projects conducted by the NFCCS is the Overseas Service Program, a fund-raising campaign to aid students abroad. Notre Dame has long been the leading contributor. By means of last year’s Mardi Gras Carnival, $10,000 was netted for the fund. In 1949 Notre Dame Senior Lou Burns served as national OSP chairman, and over $100,000 was raised for foreign student relief.
Chief plans for the national federation this year include the congress, tentatively scheduled for August, and the National Press Workshop, to be held . later this month at Collegeville, Ind.
The federation is organized on a two
fold basis, regions and commissions. To save time and expense, the member schools are grouped^geographically into regions, within which arei.various commissions, covering every phase of student activity and linked; to. the national commissions.	x ' C
Each region meets. several times a year, for such purposes as business meeting, a regional congress, and commission “workshops.” It is through the commissions that th e~-various campus organizations are kept informed of activities of similar clubs in the other colleges and share in joint projects.
Notre Dame joined the NFCCS as a member of the Fort Wayne ^Region in 1943. Before long, Notre Dame men served as regional presidents. However, in 1948, the University transferred to the Chicago Region in hopes of finding more in common with the larger schools there. Last May, Notre Dame rejoined the Fort Wayne group and has already taken an active part in regional activities.
Campus Nl-uCS officers are (from left) Jr. Delegate John O’Connell, Sr. Delegate-Pres. Jim Garvin, Jack Hines of the Student Council, and Sec.-Treas. Don Carbone.
Of the four regional meetings this year, one, the congress, will be held at Notre Dame in April. This will enable the student body to see exactly how the NFCCS operates to help the student.
More Student Participation
In the past, the crying need of the NFCCS has been that of bringing itself closer to the average student. At Notre Dame, the junior and senior delegates are chosen from the Student Council, so that they are best suited to represent student thought and administration policy.
To coordinate all campus clubs and activities with those of other colleges in the federation remains as the paramount task of the campus council. Toward that end, steps are being taken to reorganize that council' to include representatives of all existing campus clubs.
Once this is achieved, regular meetings will be held to keep the local organizations in contact with their respec-
(Continued on Page 32)
Oct. 6, 1950
17
A Blue Circle member [upper left) helps a visitor find her way about the campus and inevitable lunch queues form (upper right) outside the cafeteria. Another visitor (below) signs the register in Our Lady's Chapel of Sacred Heart Church.
The fine weather and the long caf lines are ienough to convince (below, left) Mrs. Frank Leahy of the benefits of a picnic lunch outside the stadium. Meanwhile a visitor (below right) buys a rebel flag from a hawker before the Carolina game.

VISITORS SWARM CAMPUS
Photographs by JIM McLAUGHLIN, 51 Text by CHARLEY DULLEA, '52
“But isn’t there a statue of the Four Horsemen somewhere around here?” the woman asks the young man in the booth. He smiles resignedly. Another football weekend.
Saturday saw the first of these great autumnal festivals as the rebel hordes of North Carolina invaded Notre Dame/ Hotels were filled, buses jammed, parking space almost non-existent. And there are more to come.
A few early birds arrive each Friday for the pre-game pep rally, the reunion with old friends, and the visiting of sons. Hoarse cries shake the fieldhouse that night and parties abound. Not till the next day, though, do the swarming hosts descend.
From Farley to Lyons, from the golf course to the boat house there is one great sound of tramping feet, one great creak of upturned necks. “I want you to meet my roommate,” say a thousand students to a thousand weekend dates.
In hushed little groups, visitors stand reverently within Sacred Heart Church. Somewhat more boisterously, they marvel at the architecture of Sorin Hall. “Say, that’s where I lived in ’23,” exclaims a perspiring gentleman.
Then it’s time for lunch and everyone gets the idea at the same time and pretty soon it looks like an English queue for cigarettes outside the caf. Feet begin to ache and foreheads to glisten, but .the inner man is not to be denied.
American enterprise shows itself on the turf outside the stadium, however. Some of the more hardy have packed baskets and are now holding impromptu picnics.
Game time approaches. Hawkers begin their spiels and the crowd starts rolling toward the stadium’s gates, the perennial yellow chrysanthemums lighting the way. “Buy me a pennant, huh?” a little girl implores her father.
A shiny coin spins in the air and the game is on. There’s the dash down the sideline and the thud of a block and a punt soaring high. Pennants wave; feet stamp; voices call down retribution from the heavens.
Suddenly, a whistle blows. and the players trot off. The game is over and yet it seems to have started just a minute ago. Time to move. The exits are glutted as the crowd pours out. Back to the hall, back downtown, back home — off they go.
Ground Broken for New Science Building
Ground breaking ceremonies for the new $2,098,000 University of Notre Dame Science Building were held this afternoon at 1:30 p.m. The ceremonies were held in conjunction with the Fall meeting of the Advisory Council for Science and Engineering at Notre Dame.
The contract for the project, which is one of four new buildings planned by University officials for the next two years, was awarded to the Sollitt Construction Company, Inc., 301 South Columbia street. It was the lowest firm bid from seven which were submitted to the building committee.
Bids from other firms reached as high as $2,339,534. Rising costs of materials and labor required an amount of $348,000 more than the original cost estimated by university officials, while alumni and friends of the university had previously contributed $1,750,000.
Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C.. executive vice-president of the University, announced that an additional $250,000 would be necessary for architectural fees and equipment used in the building.
Commerce Profs Promoted; Forum, Accountants Meet
Faculty promotions in the College of Commerce have been announced by the University. Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c., has appointed Mr. Joseph J. Miller, Jr., assistant professor of accounting and business administration, as Assistant to the Dean of the College.of Commerce. Mr. Daniel L. Klein, assistant professor of accounting, was named Assistant Head of the Department of Accounting, while Mr. Thomas P. Bergin, assistant professor of business administration, became Assistant Head of the Department of Business Administration.
Commerce Forum held an organizational meeting and also welcomed their 15 new members last Wednesday at the Club Normandy.
An Accounting Club steering committee met Tuesday under the direction of Mr. Dincolo and Mr. Morgan. High on the agenda are plans for four panel discussions, two each in October and November, to be held in conjunction with the South Bend chapter of the National Association of Cost Accountants. The panel will consist of a professor, a public accountant, and a private industrial accountant.	'
An extensive file on accounting majors will be designed to supplement the Placement Bureau.
Subsistence Checks for Vets Arrive Within Two Weeks
Veterans at Notre Dame enrolled under the GI Bill should receive their subsistence checks by October 20 at the latest, according to M. D. Cummins, Indiana regional manager of the Veterans Administration.
Checks covering amounts due for October will come at the end of the month, as per usual. A small group of veterans who enrolled in September will not be among those receiving their first check by October 20, the VA manager said. This group includes veterans whose cases have been delayed in processing or whose certifications of enrollment arrive in the VA after the books are closed for the month. Veterans affected will receive a combined check at the end of October, covering subsistence due for both September and this month.
Any veterans not paid by November 7 should notify the VA at once, Cummins warned, to make sure that their cases are in process.
Mass Schedule
Saturday, Oct. 7—white—Most Holy Rosary. 2nd or. Sts. Mark and Sergius. Credo, Preface of the Blessed Virgin.
Sunday, Oct. 8—green—19th Sunday after Pent. 2nd or. of the Rosary,* ** 3rd or. for Peace, Credo, Preface of the Trinity.
Monday, Oct. 9 — white — St. John Leonard. 2nd or. of St. Denis and companions, 3rd or. of the Rosary, 4th or. For Peace. -
**Tuesday, Oct. 10—white—St. Francis Borgia. 2nd or. “Defend us,” 3rd or. of the Rosarj', 4th or. for Peace.
Wednesday, Oct. 11—white—maternity of the Blessed Virgin. 2nd or. of the Rosary. Credo, Preface of the Blessed Virgin.
**Thursday, Oct. 12—Mass of the preceding Sunday without Gloria or Credo. 2nd or. “Defend us,” 3rd or. of the Rosary, 3rd. or. for all the Faithful Departed (from the Daily Mass for the Dead), 4th or. for Peace.
**Friday, Oct. 13—white — St. Edward, Patron of the Founder of Notre Dame. 2nd or. “Defend us,” 3rd or. of the Rosary, 4th or. for Peace.
*This is the oration from the Mass for the Feast of the Most Holy Rosary (Oct. 7). It :s to be said in every Mass (except Doubles cf the First Class) during the diocesan Family Rosary Drive.
**A Requiem Mass or a Votive Mass is permitted.
Modern Languages Introduces New Plan
Learning a new language has • always been a difficult assignment for college scholars. This Fall in order to help first-year language students become more skilled in speaking and in aural comprehension of the foreign tongue they are studying, the Department of Modern Languages has initiated a new plan.
By this means the Department hopes to bring student and teacher together for longer periods without increasing the allotted study time for the subject.
Beginners’ Section
One beginners’ section in German, French and Spanish will be an experimental class. Under the present schedule at Notre Dame the language course consists of three periods a week of fifty minutes each for an academic year of thirty weeks. A student is usually expected to spend at least 100 minutes on his own in preparation for each fifty minute course.
Under the new plan, however, the students in the experimental classes will be required to prepare class work for only two periods a week. The 100 minutes usually spent in individual preparation for the third class of the week will be utilized on different afternoons for supervised drill.
A modern language student, under the new system, has to prepare for only two classes a week. The other three periods are spent in supervised drill in making new sounds, in uttering old sounds in ’ new combinations, and in acquiring new rhyme patterns. Thus the new language will be learned not only through the eye but also by speaking and hearing it spoken.
Audio-Visual Aids
Motion pictures, recordings (both tape and wire), and special drills with different teachers will be utilized to help the student attain mastery of the four language skills: reading, writing, speaking and aural comprehension.	*
This system has been tried with great success at the University of Purdue. The Department of Modern Langauges here at Notre Dame believes that the system will increase student interest in the, language they are studying and will make for faster and greater learning. The opportunity for more practice in hearing and speaking a foreign language should also increase the student’s retention of that language.	.
—V. Roger Fernandes
20
The Scholastic
YEARS AGO
Fifty Years Ago:
From the October 6, 1900, Scholastic: A columnist commented on a new development called wireless telephony, but it was not thought practicable. . . . A great season was predicted for the football team after crushing Goshen in the first game. . . . The football schedule .included Englewood High School, Lake Forest U., Cincinnati U., Indiana, Beloit, Wisconsin, Michigan, Rush Medical College, Iowa, and Purdue.
Twenty-five Years Ago:
From the October 9, 1925, Scholastic: Work was progressing on Morrissey Hall, the new Freshman hall. . . . Question of the week: “Do you think Notre Dame is'losing its he-man atmosphere?” . . . Typical answer: “Yes, after Notre Dame lost the Nebraska game two years ago, the boys got up at four in the morning and went downtown to meet the team when they returned. No such spirit is being shown lately.” (See this week’s lead editorial.) . . . After several dormant years, the steeple clock on Sacred Heart Church was fitted with new chimes and put in working order. . . . Prices for the student trip to the Notre Dame-Minnesota game at Minneapolis were announced. Seventeen dollars would buy a round-trip Pullman ticket and a ticket to the game. . . . The Irish beat Lombard 69-0 at Cartier Field.
Ten Years Ago:
From the October 4, 1940, Scholastic: Wendell Willkie visited the campus on his presidential campaign toui\ . . . Warner Bros. Knute Rockne, All-American was having its world premiere in South Bend. . . . The Notre Dame Concert Band appeared on Kate Smith’s CBS radio program at John Adams High School in South Bend. . . . Classes on Saturdays featuring home football games were cut from fifty minutes to a half hour. . . . Ticket manager Herbert Jones reported that the coming Army game was a sellout. . . . Elmer Layden’s Irish were favored ovei- College of Pacific in the season’s opener.
Commerce Forum Meets
A meeting of the Commerce Forum was held Tuesday with many professors of the College of Commerce attending. Walter McGovern was elected program chairman replacing Matt Tuitte. Tuitte was called into service this Summer.
Officers of the Forum are Joe Mac-Cormac, president, Jack Schumacher, vice-president, and Bob Klingenberger, publicity chairman.
The Church, the State and Mr. Blanshard-11
It has already been said that Paul Blanshard, author of the book American Freedom and Catholic Power,- is a legal positivist. That he is also a political positivist, is a natural concomitant. A political positivist is one who “regards the state as the unique and absolute source of all rights.” Carry this premise to its logical consequence and one will have to say with Mussolini that there is “nothing above the state, beyond the state, outside the state.” This would be essentially fascism except for the fact that Mr. Blanshard’s state is democratic. However, the possibility of tyranny developing out of a democracy is not non-existent, especially as Jefferson pointed out, in an urban industrial society.
Positivism, also, denies a true hierarchy of values. Blanshard’s nonawareness of a valid hierarchy of values precludes any true notion of the right relations between church and state in a democracy. For him the only legitimate role of a church in society is one of silence and subseivience and complete non-interference in the laws and institutions of the state, no matter what they may be. Any attempt on the part of the Church to influence the individual as a political, .economic or juridical being becomes an encroachment upon the individual’s personal liberty. This liberty is at the core of democracy and its total maintenance is absolutely necessary for the preservation of democracy.
Father Jerome D’Souza, s.J., has something quite different to say on this score. In an address given at Loyola College, Baltimore, Maryland, January 29, 1950, he said:
The essential thing in democracy, and the final justification for the democratic form of government, is the safeguarding of individual freedom. Pushing this idea still further we see that this concept of liberty as the means of safeguarding spiritual values and the primacy of conscience implies another fundamental concept, namely, that of two perfect societies each exercising authority in its legitimate sphere and each helping and complementing the other.
The temporal order has its own organization, the State. The spiritual order has its own organization, the Church. The church recognizes the right of the state to legis
late for the ends propel* to it and proclaims the obligation of the individual to submit to the laws of the state. The state ensures for the citizen the preservation of order and facilitates these conditions of life by which he can freely and fully give himself to the higher pursuits of the spirit.
In these parallel and perfect societies, however, the Church and the State, the right hierarchy of values must be maintained. ... If America is to defend liberty in the most efficacious manner, she should hark back to the doctrine of the primacy of spiritual values and the coexistence of two perfect societies.
Furthermore, Blanshard misinterprets Catholic political philosophy when he accuses the latter of holding to the divine right of rulers theory, basing his accusation upon the Church’s statement that “All authority comes from God.” It is a scholar’s error, on his part, for failure to find out just what is meant by this statement.
Father George Dunne, S.J., asserts in this regard that “the question in terms of which the divine right of rulers is resolved is whether this authority, whose ultimate origin is God, rests proximately in the people, who may delegate its exercise to prince or president, or proximately in the prince, who is then answerable not to the people but to God alone. The latter alternative is the doctrine of the divine right of rulers. The former alternative, which vests sovereignty in the people, is Catholic political theory.” (Religion and American Democracy, page 17).
Also, to say that American Catholics do not believe in the constitutional principle of the “separation of Church and State” with the implication being that we favor a theocracy of some type, is false. If Blanshard had said that we do not believe in absolute separation, he would have been correct. On this question he seems to have ignored Cardinal Gibbons’ statement in the North American Review for March, 1909, which said:
American Catholics rejoice in our separation of Church and State, and I can conceive no combination of circumstances likely to arise which would make a union desirable for either Church or State.
—Frank Brophy, ’51 (To be continued)
Oct.6, 1950
21
WEMRE them AU!
Philip Moums . ■■
b™„d 'so, “?
I ? 1
I HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF SMOKERS, who tried this test, report in signed statements that PHILIP MORRIS IS DEFINITELY LESS IRRITATING, DEFINITELY MILDER!
1 Light up a Philip morris. Just take a puff— DON’T INHALE—and s-l-o-w-l-y let the smoke come through your nose. Easy, isn’t it?

CT


2 Light up your present brand. Do exactly the same thing—DON’T INHALE. Notice that bite, that sting? Quite a difference from PHILIP MORRIS!
Other brands merely make claims—but PHILIP MORRIS invites you to compare, to judge, to decide for yourself. Try this simple test. We believe that you, too, will agree . . Philip Morris is America’s FINEST Cigarette!

WO CIGARETTE HANGOVER »•—s more smoking PUa;o" e


sSMUUP MORRIS
22
Scholastic


Boilermakers Up For Tomorrow’s Battle
Autumn Means Nothing to Baseball Squad; Invaders Confident Team Takes to Diamond in First Fall Session After Texas Showing
For the first time in Notre Dame annals, fall baseball practice is being conducted and Coach Jake Kline is merrily humming What a difference a month makes. In this autumnal experiment will be sown the seeds determining whether the 1951 Irish nine will enjoy a fine year or whether- they will once again sink into mediocrity.
Thus far, all indications point to a resurrected ball club, which will blend the abilities and experience of the monogram men with the determination and hustle of the oncoming youngsters. Coach Kline’s enthusiasm for the recent innovation is twofold: 1) it will give the athletes a chance to display the skills and wares acquired during the summer, and 2) it will give Jake and his staff an insight as to what fellows will make the southern jaunt which will inaugurate the spring diamond season.
Approximately 50 selected men reported to the Freshman baseball field east of the Stadium on Monday, September 18. After spending a week in a conditioning and experimental program, the team was divided into two squads. On the Gold squad were the monogram men and a few recruits from last year’s frosh nine. The jayvees and the subs of the 1950 season made up the rival Blues.
The scores from the resulting scrimmages were a welcome surprise to all, when considered in the light of last year’s debacle. The Blues took three games by 4-1, 1-0 and 1-0 scores, while the only Gold victory was a 4-2 affair. One session ended in a’4-4 stalemate.
Coach Kline hopes that these scores are indicative of a fine pitching staff come Springtime. “The pitchers looked good,” said Jake. “They had good control and issued few walks. Those free passes were the things which hurt last year. We have also shown improvement defensively. A few good stickmen will do wonders to a pitcher’s morale and to the scoreboard.”
Except for the pitchers, who will rotate, the squads will remain intact throughout the fall sessions. Any
marked superiority of one squad over another may result in starting positions next Spring for that team’s members. Special attention has been focused on (Continued on Page 26)
John Kerestes
John Beletic
By JIM BRISLIN, ’52
The Fighting Irish tangle with the Boilermakers tomorrow afternoon at the Stadium. Kickoff time is set for 2 p. m. Notre Dame a heavy favorite, is picked to run its defeatless string to 40 consecutive games and win their, twelfth in a row.
Although regarded' by many as just another whistle-stop on the path of the Notre Dame Limited’s run to another National Championship, the boys from Lafayette will take the field with upset in their eye; and, as any of the older men on campus who- were fortunate enough to stand up under- the strain of the ’48 opener can tell you, tomorrow’s is a game in which anything can happen.
As the string lengthens, the strain becomes a greater and greater burden. The old law of averages figures to catch up on the Irish sooner or later, and there’s not a team in the country that wouldn’t be content with losing every other game if they should be the lucky one to derail the Irish.
On paper, Purdue doesn’t seem io measure up to her regular standard, and it would appear that the Boilermakers will be number 40 for the Irish.
The same problems that faced Frank Leahy this year were also the concern of Stu Holcomb. Graduation took 15 Pur-
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUPS
Notre Dame	Purdue
Mutschdler ______E------------ Sugar
Toneff __________T__________ Janosek
Burns ___________G___________Jackson
Groom ___________C_____________Knitz
Wallner ______.G__________ Skibinski
Flynn -----------T___________Beletic
Ostrowski _______E_________ Brewster
Williams --------Q___________Samuels
Gay -------------H_________ Maccioli
Barrett .........H__________ Schmidt
Landry ---------.F_________ Kerestes
Kickoff: 2 p. m.
Oct. 6, 1950
23
due lettermen, including such favorites as halfbacks Harry Szulborski, Norb Adams, and Captain-center Angelo Car-naghi.
Szulborski needs no introduction hereabouts. One of the Big Ten’s finest backs, he had been one of the nation’s most prolific ground gainers for the past four years. Adams and Carnaghi were lesser headaches, but they could hurt. Lost also were Ken Gorgal and Bob Hartman who practically monopolized the quarterback post last season.
Only nineteen letter winners were on hand at Ross-Ade Stadium for the beginning of fall practice, and, of these, only four had 200 minutes of actual game experience out of a possible maximum of 540 minutes. Sophomore spirit will have to take the place of mature experience at Purdue this season.
But don’t chalk up another victory on the wall of your room—yet. The Boilermakers picked up 282 yards by rushing against the Irish last season, twice as much as any other Notre Dame opponent got on the ground, and the main cog in that running attack, co-captain John Kerestes, is back at fullback this year. The 194-pound back from Streator, Ill., led Purdue in ground gained from rushing last fall and ranked fourth in the Big Ten with an average of 4.6 yards per carry. Last week he scored the first Purdue touchdown on a 30 yard dash around left end as the Boilermakers bowed to Texas, 34-26.
Mike Maccioli, Junior letterman, will hold down the left halfback spot, though Sophomore Phil Klezek figures to see plenty of action. Neil Schmidt will handle the other halfback position. Coach Holcomb is still undecided between Senior letterman Dick Schnaible and
Sophomore Dale Samuels at quarterback.
200-pound co-captain John Beletic and Jim Janosek will start at tackle, with Bill Jackson and Joe Skibinski at the guard positions. Veteran Clint Knitz is at center. Darrell Brewster and Leo Sugar, who last week played a brilliant defensive game and scored one of three Purdue touchdowns, will hold down the flanks.
Only the good right arm of Bob Williams kept the Notre Dame defeatless string intact last week as the Baltimore lad threw two paydirt passes to right end Jim Mutscheller in a slim 14-7 Irish victory over a vastly underrated North Carolina eleven. Except for one occasion when Bill Barrett broke away on a 51 yard dash—which might have been a touchdown had not the little speedster been injured previously — the Irish ground attack was found to be woefully lacking.
Notre Dame drew first blood on a first quarter fourth down pass from Williams to Mutscheller. Caprara’s conversion made it 7-0. The Tar Heels tied it up early in the fourth period when Bud Wallace took it over from the Irish twenty on two carries and Sherman made the conversion. Then, with only two minutes and 40 seconds left to play, another Williams-Mutscheller pass made it 39 in a row for the green-shirted Irish.
TOMORROW’S SPORT SCHEDULE
10	a. ni. FOOTBALL — “B” Team vs. Purdue “B”.
11	a. m. CROSS COUNTRY —Purdue.	-
2 p. m. FOOTBALL—Purdue.
—Brickson
Mutscheller snags the winning pass.
Further Interhall Athletics Scheduled for Fall Program
The remainder of the Fall Interhall athletic program will be inaugurated soon, the interhall athletic officials announced this week. Volleyball, soccer, swimming, and touch-football will be available for participation by teams from the halls.	.
Mr. Frank Maxwell plans to get his volleyball and soccer league undei- way in the neai' future. Mr. Gilfred Burdick, swimming instructor, has made plans for Frosh and Interhall swimming meets. In place of the proposed baseball league, which didn’t get much student support, Mr. Maxwell and Mr. Ernest Szekely have laid plans for a touch-football league which should get underway within the next week.
All 22 players appear in this picture of Billy- Barrett on his way toward the Tarheel goal. Irish blockers rush up . . .
—Brickson
. . . but make feeble attempt at blocking Carolina's Bunting (30) out of the play. He stopped Barrett after 51-yard run.

24
The Scholastic
Irish Iron Men Back; / Platoon System Out
A preview of things to come was afforded spectators at the Notre Dame-North Carolina game, as they saw 11 of the Irish turn in what could be called irun-man performances of more than thirty minutes playing time. The end at least temporarily, of the two-platoon system at Nofre Dame was forecast as Bob Toneff, tackle, Paul Burns and Fred Wallner, guards, Jerry Groom, center, and Chet Ostrowski and Jim Mutscheller, ends, all played more than 40 minutes. Mutscheller, Wallner and Groom bettered 50 minutes.
The iron man in the backfield was John Petitbon, New Orleans junior left halfback, who performed both on offense and defense for a total of 44 minutes playing time. Others who played more than half the game were Bob Williams, quarterback, Dave Flood, halfback, Bill Flynn, tackle, and Bill Gay, halfback.
Williams and Barrett Irish Offense Leaders
Bob Williams, Notre Dame senior quarterback and Bill Barrett, junior right half, took over where they left off last December in continuing to lead the Irish in passing and running, as a result of their respective performances in the season’s opener with North Carolina. Williams completed 14 passes in 27 attempts for a .519 average, while Barrett gained 72 yards in nine tries for an eight-yard average.
Including the North Carolina game, Williams now has a collegiate record of 111 completions in 182 attempts for a completion percentage of .609. Barrett has a total of 431 yards in 82 tries for an average gain of 5.3 yards. Bill, a Chicago junior, was unable to get a start in the scoring race in which he was tied with Emil Sitko last year—54 points each. Jim Mutscheller, a junior- end, scored both Irish touchdowns in the Tar-Heel contest. Williams, who was a bright spot in the Irish offense against North Carolina, completed more passes in that game than he has in any single game previously.
“B” TEAM FOOTBALL SCHEDULE
Oct. 7—Purdue at ND, 10 a. m.
Oct. 20—Illinois at ND, 3 p. m.
Nov. 4—Arkansas at Fort Smith, 8 p. m.
Nov. 17—Purdue at Lafayette, 1:30 p. m.

Monday Morning Quarterback
Notre Dame successfully passed their first test of the season last Saturday, but you can’t say they did it with flying colors. North Carolina was just as tough as was expected—at times even tougher. It’s a rare sight to see a Notre Dame blocker coming out second best. But it happened more often than usual last week.
At times the Tar Heels played as if they didn’t know or* care whom their opponents were. And there wasn’t enough Notre Dame blocking, particularly downfield, and Notre Dame tackling to remind them of the fact. No doubt these two fundamentals were given a thorough review this past week. The Irish have a long way to go if they hope to hang on to that National Championship.
Just as Frank Leahy has been saying, the Irish are weak in reserves. Most of the first team admitted it was one of the toughest games they ever played, mainly because they played so much of it and had little chance to rest.
Two men playing their first game for Notre Dame showed up well. Sophomore Jim Dunlay played a strong defensive game at tackle. It was he who jolted Dick Bunting, causing the Tar Heel’s pass to go into the arms of Paul Burns and killing a Carolina chance to tie the score.
Dave Flood was all over the Irish secondary and it was his interception of a pass that set up the winning touchdown.
A Rocky Road Ahead
Of their showing last week, some Irish opponents appear to be shaping up stronger than expected.
Texas is supposed to be the class of the Southwest Conference this year, but" they had a hard time in beating Purdue. The Boilermakers are much like Notre Dame, young and inexperienced, but nevertheless they pack a scoring punch.
Michigan State was known to be a strong outfit which would give the Irish a busy afternoon. In beating Michigan, they gave a pretty good indication of just how good they really are.
Out on the Pacific Coast, Southern Cal was being mentioned with Stanford as the team to beat for the PCC crown. The Irish *remember only too well what happened the last time they played in the
Los Angeles Coliseum. S.C. played Iowa last week in their own backyard, and the Hawkeyes won, 20-14. Now we have Iowa to contend with.
As if that weren’t enough, there are now women in the Notre Dame press box for the first time in history. Tradition fell before the progress of seven teleprinter operators from Western Union.
Cross Country Takeoff
Tomorrow the cross country team opens its season with a meet here against Purdue. Notre Dame has practically an entire veteran team on hand and should have one of its best years. The cross country team is no different from the football team—they need the support of the students, too. If you haven’t any classes tomorrow at 11
Dave Flood
o’clock, why not drop down and cheer the Irish runners on to their first win? Race starts in front of the Grotto.
Prediction of the Week
Purdue scored 26 points against a strong Texas team last week, but the Irish held a strong Carolina eleven to seven points. The Notre Dame offense should be much improved tomorrow.
Notre Dame, 28; Purdue, 13.
Oct. 6, 1950
25
Farrell Tops Angyal To Cop Tennis Crown
In the finals of the annual Fall Interhall Tennis Tournament, Freshman Jim Farrell defeated Ken Angyal of Hamtramck, Mich., in a hotly contested match—10-8, 4-6, 6-4, 6-0.
Playing the same brand of smashing offensive tennis, the two men battled each other on near-even terms throughout the entire contest, with Farrell’s greater experience the deciding factor. An odd sidelight of the final round was that it took two days to play. At the end of three sets, Farrell had a 2-1 margin when darkness forced a halt to the day’s action. Approximately 24 hours later, the match was finally completed.
Held annually every autumn, the Interhall tennis tournament is open to all undergrads with the exception of monogram men. This year, a total of 110 entries was received, making the 1950 field' one of the largest in history. Despite the- size of the turnout, the quality of play did not suffer. In fact, Coach Langford asserts it is as high as it ever has been.
For the event, ten men were seeded. Farrell, Angyal (a second semester freshman), Sophomore Ray Smith (last year’s champ), and Dick Simons, another first year man, were placed on top. All foul- gained the semi-finals.
Farrell hails from Kalamazoo, Mich., and in 1949 was ranged 14 in the National Juniors. The 18-year-old Zahm resident displays a fine service and excellent control of his ground strokes. Before entering ND, Farrell had an impressive string of victories to his credit.
—Fran Meaney,
Baseball
(Continued from Page 23) Junior hurlers Bill Froats and Jack Ruckelhause, both of whom showed great promise as Freshmen but who have been bogged down by bogie 77’s.
Since the success of a.Fall session is making itself more apparent daily, Coach Kline intends to make it an annual institution. This is not original with Notre Dame, for other schools, especially where baseball coaches are not connected with football, have used the autumnal affairs with good results.
Until recent years Coach Kline was an assistant grid coach, but now that he has been relieved of those duties, he is devoting all his time, including the Fall, to baseball. Asked about the duration of these Fall practices, Coach Kline replied: “Who knows? If this unusually fine Indiana weathei' holds up, we may play straight through till- June.”
—Jack Economou, ’52
ND Opponents Drop Five, Win Two, Tie One; Michigan State's Upset Win Saturday's Best >
By JACK VARLEY, ’52
As Notre Dame trudged to its 14-7 victory over North Carolina’s Tar Heels last Saturday in the Stadium, five Irish future opponents were fighting losing causes, one managed to come off with a tie, and two posted their colors in the win column.
At Ann Arbor, an inspired Michigan State team upset the highly favored Wolverines of Michigan. The Spartans utilized everything in football, the single wing, the double wing, the T, the box, to emerge victorious by a 14-7 count.
State drew first blood in the initial period on a 66-yard march to the Michigan six. From here Quarterback Al Dorow threw a pass to Halfback Everett Grandelius who stood alone in the end zone. Bob Carey’s boot was good and the Spartans led, 7-0.
In the third period a pass interception led to the Wolverines’ tying touchdown. Frank Howell intercepted Dorow’s pass and ran it back 25 yards to the State 20. After much misplay in the Michigan backfield, Halfback Don Peterson got off a good pass to End Fred Pickard in the end zone. End Harry Allis’ conversion was good and the game looked as though it might end in a tie.
But, in the last quarter, State’s Jesse Thomas returned a Wolverine punt 22 yards to the Michigan 18. Then Bob Benson, Grandelius, and Leroy Crane combined to smash out the remaining yardage with Crane scoring from the seven.
At Lincoln, Nebraska, a hard-fighting Indiana eleven scored a touchdown in the last quarter to tie Nebraska, 20-20. Soph Halfback Bobby Reynolds of the Cornhuskers was easily the outstanding man of the day as he scored all but one of his team’s points.
With the score 20-14 and the time running out Hoosier Guard Joe Balabon recovered a Husky fumble on their 29. A few plays later Halfback Bobby Robertson smashed over, but Guard Danny Thomas missed the conversion and the 20-20 score stood.	-
In the East, Maryland dedicated its new $1,000,000 stadium with a 35-21 triumph over Navy. Maryland’s Sophomore quarterback, John Scarbath, was ■the difference between the two teams. By the end of the first half he had put his teammates out in front, 21-0, by running for two touchdowns and passing for one.
In New Orleans, Alabama’s Crimson Tide took to the air for their first victory over Tulane in four years.
During the first half the Green Wave could do nothing but watch the passes of Alabama’s Ed Salem zoom over their heads. It was not until the second half that Tulane even smelled pay dirt, scoring once in each period to come out on i the short end of a 26-14 mark.
Purdue, tomorrow’s opponent, invaded the Southwest to meet the mighty Texas Longhorns, put forth a heroic effort and lost, 34-26. Texas passed for two markers, but it was their smashing ground attack that crumpled the Boilermaker defenses.
At Durham, North Carolina, Pitt’s Billy Sichko threw a scare into the partisan Duke fans as he ran back the second half kickoff 85 yards for a touch- , down to give the Panthers a 7-0 lead. But then pandemonium broke loose as Duke scored twice in each period to down the Panthers, 28-14.
Out on the West Coast, an underdog Iowa eleven upset the much praised Trojans of Southern California, 20-14.
While the Irish are entertaining Purdue tomorrow, Tulane will be getting ready for the Irish invasion next week in a game against Louisian^ College. Indiana is at Iowa, Michigan State is home to Maryland, and Navy meets < • Northwestern at Baltimore.
Pitt runs into Ohio State at Columbus while Southern Cal attempts to rack up win number one in a visit to Washington State.
ND-Purdue Harriers Vie Tomorrow Morn '
First event on the Notre Dame-Purdue sports program tom arrow will be a four- ' mile cross country race between the two schools. The race will be held at 11 a.m. as a prelude to the grid fray.
The harriers will start in front of the grotto and will circle each of the campus lakes twice and finish back at the grotto. The runners will pass this point three times during the twenty-minute race, giving the spectators a much more continuous view of the race than most cross country courses allow.
Bob Rodibaugh, Purdue’s Indiana	. -
State cross country champion of last
26
The Scholastic
year* is back, and since he bested Notre Dame’s best on three different occasions last year* he must be given the favorite’s role. Coming up for Purdue is Sopho-‘ more Johnny Stayton, who was a high school All American miler two years back at Anderson High. Purdue Senior Jim Weisfog is from the South Bend area and has always run especially well against Notre Dame.
Benny Almaguer demonstrated his ability as number one man on the Notre Dame team when he won the University four-mile Cross-Country Championship race last week, an event held to pick the competitors for tomorrow’s meet, by 300 yards over George Helfenstein. Ben left the others behind after the first mile and ran with ease finishing with a terrific kick in 20:52 seconds. He left the distinct impression that with a man such as Purdue’s Rodibaugh to extend him he probably would have run a much faster time.
Sophomore George Helfenstein was second, while Cross-Country captain Jim Kittell, always slow getting started, had to turn on the heat in the final mile to beat fourth-place Bob Fieler. Tony DaDamio took fifth place, ten seconds behind Fieler.
Two other sophomores, John O’Connor and Henry Snyder, grabbed the final two places on the team by taking sixth and seventh. George Gross, John Mohar and Con Tetrault, all regulars on last year’s team, were the next three finishers in the University race. These three men have suffered injuries and have had trouble getting in shape. They ■will get another chance to break into the lineup ? when they run as added starters tomorrow, although their places cannot count in team scoring.
Seven men form a Cross-Country team. The place numbers of the first five finishers for each team are added to give a team total, and the low scoring squad wins the meet.
Nine Interhall Squads Ready For Campus Champion Battle
Nine teams will comprise this year’s Ifiterhall Football League which got underway yesterday on the fields behind the tennis courts. The nine teams will be split into two divisions, East and West, with the winner of each division participating in a play-off game to determine the campus champions.
Of the nine halls fielding teams, four of them are Freshmen. Coach Aaron Dyson of Farley will utilize the T behind a 185-pound line. Coach Riba of St. Ed’s is working his boys six days a -week in an effort to weld them into a team capable of winning the division championship. Zahm is anothei- Frosh team running out of the T and is coached by Tony Amato. Coach Al Kohanowicz of Breen-Phillips will have the lightest team—a 165-pound backfield operating behind a 175-pound line.
Ovei- on the Gold Coast, Coach Bleyer of Alumni reports he will have a “representative team.” He plans to alternate the T and single wing to make his light, fast backfield very effective. Lyons boasts a fast, hard blocking team with emphasis on passing, according to Coach Shaughnessy.
The Sophomores at Morrissey, under the direction of Tom Canfield, are using a single wing with a straight power offense. The backfield weighs 180 and
Fishy Contest Begins On Local Lake Shore
A campus fishing marathon began in earnest this week with the inauguration of something new in ND contests.
The Student Council is sponsoring a bass-fishing contest on St. Mary’s and St. Joseph’s Lakes. Running from Oct. 1 to Dec. 1, the competition is open to all Notre Dame students. No state license is required.
All entries must be registered with Rev. George J. Baldwin, C.S.C., in Corby Hall, within 24 hours after being caught.
Father Baldwin, the man who first suggested the contest, estimates that there are between 10,000 and 15,000 small- and large-mouth bass in the two lakes. The state of Indiana restocks the lakes with up to 6,000 fish every year, so there is little danger of a serious depletion in the lakes’ floating stock.
The winning catch will be announced at the conclusion of the contest. The largest bass will earn its owner a rod made by the South Bend Glass Casting Rod Co.
The second largest entry will win a casting reel by the same company. Both prizes are being donated by the Reco Sporting Goods Store of South Bend.
the line’s average is near the 200 mark. Over at Cavanaugh, Coach Owens will combine the T and the single wing in an attempt to enrich the Cavanaugh trophy shelf. The heaviest team in the league will be that of the Off-Campus students. Coach Turco boasts a line averaging 205 pounds and a backfield of 185.
Harriers take off on four-mile run around the lakes to deter-	Ben Almaguer, the eventual winner, holds the lead at the end
k mine who will run for the Irish cross country team this fall.	of two miles. Tony DaDamio and unidentified runner keep pace.
Oct. 6, 1950
27
Sun-Herald
(Continued from Page 16) paper will carry United Press, NCWC, Labor Press Association and Religious News Service bulletins and news sotries. Correspondents are stationed throughout the country, in China, Korea, Spain, Italy—wherever the news is being made. Acme photo will supply news shots of world-wide subjects.
Features in the Herald won’t be Sunday sermons, but down to earth, living stuff. A wide variety of interests are under fire through columns about subjects of the day, humor, book reviews, health, recreation, and a five-kid family. Tossed in is one on the life of a young Negro girl, a serialized printing of her autobiography. Both novels and nonfiction will be presented this way, providing the books that are worthy of the ink. Sports and sports coverage will be light because there is fear that specta-toritis may replace recreation and the paper does not wish to contribute to this chance.
But it is the presentation of news that merits attention in the Herald. The policy is to print accurate, non-sectarian, non-partisan accounts of happenings in the world today. There won’t be any Catholic news for the sake of “Catholic,” and no sides for the sake of taking sides. Editorially, the Herald will comment on the news in the vein of pointing to certain values which must be lived by, playing up in these editorials the truth and right judgment, discarding or ignoring the sensational and distorted.
It is this spirit of catholic—small “c” —truth that has filled each member of the Herald’s staff. Though their paper will begin, of necessity, on a small scale, printing five days a week, they know it’s going to click. They’re not in this business for the sake of making money, of racing to stories in Cadillacs. Quite the opposite, they’re not being paid any flat salary or space rate basis. The staff is working, if you will, for room and board.
From Editor Bob Hoyt on down the line every member considers his work as a vocation, not a profession. Voluntary poverty is the rule of existence. It’s this spirit of self-sacrifice and hard work that permeates every member in his every deed. In order to write Catholic, to work Catholic, they live Catholic. Even when—not if—the project.hits full stride and can produce enough revenue for regular salaries, they will still depend on the needs of the individual. This policy has not been adopted just to cut expenses, though that is one side of the wall, but because poverty has an im
28
portant effect on people as a traditional means of sanctification.
If the ability and prestige of its advisers means anything, then the Herald is assui’ed clear sailing. On the list are Donald Attwater, associate editor of Orate Fratres; Dorothy Day, managing editor of The Catholic Worker; Helene Iswolsky, author of the Soul of Russia; Paul McGuire, author of There’s Freedom for the Brave!; Gerald Quinn, associate editor of Vivant; Lois Schumacher, co-editor of Today; and Edward Skillin, editor of The Commonweal, in addition to the aforementioned Carol Jackson. Notre Dame is represented on the advisory staff by Professor Waldemar Gurian, editor of the Review of Politics; Professor Willis Nutting, author of Re
OSJD^sesraxt Alfr AMERICAN, CHICHAKLEY MADE THE , TODGBST SCORE/
p
IN 1919,AGAINST WISCONSIN,HE TOOK A PASS, WENT 50703 FOR A SCORE AND WAS CALLED BACK... NEXT PLAY HE BAN SO TO THE GOAL AND WAS CALLED BACK* ...SO HE KICKED
A 55 YARD FIELD GOAL?
—.STAR PERFORMERS-ON GRIDIRON AND COURT
theSPALDING J 6-V football EAMOUS IN GRIDIRON CIRCLES COAST-TO-COAST AS THE BALLIHATS official BY CHOICE IN THE BIG COLLEGE GAMES..-.
AND THE GREAT BOWL CONTESTS
SPALDING
OFFICIAL
SPALDING
TOPFLITE
THE SPALDING LAST-BILT®
BASKETBALL...
AAADE OVER A nxtta SPHERICAL LAST... guaranteed For.
■ PERFECT ROUNDNESS, BALANCED' FLIGHT, TRUE REBOUND.
OFFICIAL IN ’50-51 RULES
clamation of Independence; and Mr. Francis of University publications.
The Herald’s staff’s spirit is. if anything, contagious. Hard bitten characters swing around to help, businessmen work a couple of hours after their own day’s labors are finished, letters come in with donations and promises of prayers. Two Notre Dame graduates are in on the new movement—Bill Weir in Kansas City and Larry Connor of the Indianapolis Star as a correspondent.
In the street outside their offices, the one made famous in “Twelfth Street Rag,” there is a hustle of activity. Within their plant the pace increases. The new Catholic daily goes to press Monday, October 9. Tuesday tells the story . ..

The Scholastic
Korean Report
Editor:
This is your Far East news correspondent making his first sizzling scoop to the ND press. . . .
I . . . reported to my destroyer in Newport, R. I., on June 22 for a South American good-will tour. Three days out of Newport we received orders to cancel the cruise, refuel at Balboa, C. Z., and head for Pearl Harbor. We had a five-day yard availability there and shoved oft' to join some transports full of Marines on the way to Sasebo, Japan.
We escorted a broken-down LSD in':o Yokosuka first, joined the CVE Badoeng Straits at Kobe, Japan, and headed for Pusan. From there we joined the Seventh Fleet on temporary duty with Task Force 77; the Valley Forge and Philippine Sea included, and spent many moons at sea with them around Seoul, Inchon and up to Pyongyang. On Sept. 1 we came back to Sasebo and drew shore bombardment duty in Pohang harbor till yesterday when we came in for replenishment.
We were very fortunate and had no direct hits from counter-battery, though the flak caught some seriously. On Sept. 4 the helicopter from the cruiser* Helena landed on our fantail with the top secret operations orders on the invasion on both coasts. You didn’t hear about the one on the east coast for it was on a smaller scale. We shifted to T.F. 95.2, taking over blockade duty and bombardment from Pohang to the Russian border and have been quite successful in all endeavors.
I met a number of ND grads of ’50 in the officer’s club at Sasebo the last time in. If you remember Ed Walsh, Bernie Weigand, Steve Caliente, Vic Chaco, or John Ferry from our class. They are on the Samuel Moore, Stuenson, Badoeng Straits, Manchester, and Juneau, respectively. Bernie’s ship got direct hits
in the west coast invasion and only one officer was killed—not him, though, thank God. Steve, Bernie, and Vic were all at Inchon, while Ed and myself were in naval gunfire support of the First Cavalry and Marine enforcements on the Taegu-Pohang sector.
John Ferrys’ at Okinawa. Ed Kelly is in the Mediterranean, Bill Bradley in Norway, Dick McGoldrick and Ken Lisy at Bayonne learning to shoot typewriters, and Charlie Mouch is there too— married. Lou Louro married his Huntington, Ind., girl on Sept. 2 and Paul Schlafly married Bob McGillian’s sister this month also.........The boys who went to Quantico for training had their nine-month course cut in half, as did the supply corps at Bayonne.
.... The intelligence report we just broke this morning says the boys have advanced to Yongdok on the east coast of Korea. That’s a 25-mile run since we left there yesterday morning. I am First Lieutenant and assistant gunnery officer on this tin can. We have a good gun gang and have received fine compliments from Admiral Hartman on the Helena.
(Continued on Page 33)
Geologists Hold Dinner
The Notre Dame Geology Club held a dinner and meeting at the Oldenburg Inn Tuesday. Discussion of the annual Tristate Geology Field Conference was held. The Conference is scheduled for Octobei* 14 and 15.
Dr. Erhard Winkler, Geology professor, presented a talk and color slides of his field trip through the Canadian Rocky Mountains this Summer.
Rudolph Kuzmich, ’49, first graduate of the Notre Dame Department of Geology, and now a geologist with the George and Rather Drilling Company, Mount Carmel, Ill., visited the campus last week-end. Kuzmich addressed the faculty and students of the Department concerning his work in the Illinois petroleum industry.
STUDENT SPECIAL PIPE SALE
at the "Huddle"
Thursday and Friday, October 12th and 13th
A famous $3.50 Trapwell pipe and a large humidor of
Prince Albert or George Washington tobacco—
Your choice of each — only $1.75
Oct. 6, 1950
29
M Sessions Gef- Steer
When it’s your turn to fix the “spread” for the crowd, don’t go through the fuss and muss of brewing coffee.
Make fresh, delicious coffee the instant way with Nescafe.*
No pot, no grounds. Simply put one teaspoonful of Nescafe in a cup, add hot water (preferably boiling) and stir. There’s never any waste. And that little 4-oz. jar makes about as many cups as a pound of ordinary coffee—costs far less.
Because the Nescafe process protects the pure coffee goodness, every cup’s a fresh cup! If you like good coffee, you’ll love Nescafe.
Get a jar today.
More people drink
NESCAFE
than all other instant coffees
•Nescafe (pronounced nes-cafay) is the exclusive registered trade mark of The Nestld Company, Inc. to designate its soluble coffee product which is composed of equal pans of pure soluble coffee and added pure caibo-hydrates (dextrins, maltose and dextrose) added solely to protea the flavor.
By JERRY MORRIS, ’52
For a long time, I had been wondering just exactly what good mountain music is. I had heard the terms, mountain music, cowboy music, and hillbilly music, but to me it all meant much the same thing: a plunking “gee-tar” and a squawking violin. I found, however, that there were students on campus who were real authorities on the subject, so I decided to discover the Foggy Mountain Breakdown phase of music.
To one really in the know, comparing mountain, cowboy and hillbilly music is fine, just as long as you don’t try to pass them off as one and the same thing. That is the capital sin of the Smoky Mountain Boys.
Music has always been the chief source of enjoyment and diversion for mountain folk. The people in completely remote areas have few amusements except those self-provided. They gather* in the evenings to play and sing, and since it is the one form of entertainment they have, it has become a highly specialized and perfected thing. .
A typical mountain band has four-players, with the indispensable fiddle to carry the melody, mandolin, dulcimer (which sounds much like a Zither), and a guitar for background. As a rule, the four sing both verse and chorus, but occasionally a particularly talented boy takes the verse and his friends join him in the chorus.
This is the type of music which is strictly remote, and it is rarely heard on radio or records. Some of'the musicians have come to the city, and made records and radio appearances. Earl Scruggs, one of the best banjo players in the world, Lester Platt, Bill and Charley Monroe, and Carl Storey are a few of these.
Sunny Italy
A Notre Dame Tradition
GRADUATE EXAM
All graduate students wishing to take the graduate record examination are advised to contact Mr. Leo F. Kuntz of the Department of Education not later than Oct. 10.
The examination will be held Oct. 27 and 28.
Hillbilly music is an entirely different thing and a mountain musician would be highly indignant at being accused of hillbilly tendencies. The “hillbillies” are strictly bai-n dance variety, and are usually heard on all-night record programs. Hillbilly groups are often one less in number than those of the mountain boys. They usually have one singer, accompanied by a guitar and fiddle.
They are extremely popular in the midwest and in rural farm lands but the mountain people would appreciate not being considered in the hillbilly clans. Many city people have a fanatic liking for hillbilly music, and it is not unlikely to find a performer coming from un-hillbilly places like New York and Chicago.
Yodeling is another thing which is attributable only to the cowboys and occasionally to the hillbillies. However, the moaning love of a cowboy for his cow seems to be yodeling’s . most popular-form. If ever the mountain folks feel so exuberant that yodeling becomes necessary, it is of a completely different type, usually a yell rather than the commercialized gurgle.
Some of the outstanding mountain pieces done with a vocal are John Henry, When You’re Lonely and Barbara Allen. Mountain fiddle numbers which are considered classics are Foggy Mountain Breakdown, which has one banjo sounding like a whole band, Sally Gooden and Blue Grass Ramble.
“Rosie’s.” Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles
30
The Scholastic
Draft
(Continued from Page 11) board, after a personal interview, to draft the man. If even one member of the board votes to defer him, the draftee can carry his case to a three-man board appointed by the President, in Washington.
Men in the 19-to-25 age bracket will find it hard to convince local boards that they are in essential occupations. It is a fact, however, that a man. of 23 or 24 can be an old and experienced hand in certain fields, for instance electronics equipment manufacture.
Q Medical specialists are subject to a special kind of draft. Under this law, physicians and dentists will register with local boards. Then young men who were educated at government expense during the last war will be taken. They will be given the choice of accepting a commission with a SlOO-a-month bonus, or of being drafted and given commissions with no bonus.
Veterinarians, optometrists, chemists, physicists, and more than 20 other scientific technicians are potentially eligible for the draft. The maximum age is now set at 50 years.
Standing Force for U. S.
What effect the recent successes in Korea will have on the over-all strategy is not evident yet.
Recent talks with European powers seem to have committed America to increasing her forces in Western Europe, so plans may not be altered materially. As the plan is laid out now, the U. S. will maintain large standing armies until the threat of Communism dissolves itself, or it has to be met with force of arms.
OXFORD button-down |
I I I I
I I
I I
I I I I I I I I I
$095 Tailored to a college man’s taste—oxford J button-downs. Casual, comfortable . . . nonchalant—no wonder they’re the most popular shirts on campus. Van Heusen button-downs come in whites and colors - - - with average length collar for that always correct look. Be an Oxfordian with Van Heusen button-downs.
A new shirt free if your Van Heusen shrinks out of size.
Van Hensen
"the world's smartest” OU.-IJL I/O
Broderick Addresses Club
Professor John J. Broderick, Jr., Assistant Dean oi rhe Uotre Dame College of Law addressed the Kiwanis Club of Bremen, the week of September 17. The Kiwanis celebrated “Constitution Week” during that time and Mr. Broderick spoke on the Constitution of the United States.
Choose your VAN HEUSEN SHIRTS
from the complete selection in the Men’s Shop at
First Floor
ROIWm’S
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N. Y.
Make GILBERT’S
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
GILBERT'S
813 - 817 S. Michigan Street
Open evenings until 9 o’clock
Oct. 6, 1950
31
NFCCS
(Continued from Page 17) tive commissions and to inform the student body of the progress being made. All students, club members or pot, are represented on the NFCCS by the Student Council.
Among the campus NFCCS tentative plans for this year are two major events in which every student can take part, a bigger and better carnival and raffle, The council hopes to be able to promote with more profits for suitable campus causes and charities. The second key project is a well-planned May Day Ceremony.
The part of the average student is to support the NFCCS-affiliated organizations of which he is a member. If a student does not belong to any specific club, he can still help by cooperating with all campus-wide NFCCS activities.
The NFCCS is a student organization, and as such, must have wholehearted student support.
ATTENTION
Primary elections for hall Student Council members will be held next Wednesday, Oct. 11. Watch your bulletin board for further information.
<Cllsluoitf)’s
Arrow “Dart”
Glee Club Schedules Early Concert Tours
A schedule of concerts has been tentatively arranged for the University’s Glee Club for the Fall semester. Appearances at one or two of the pre-game pep rallies are first on this agenda.
A few weekend concerts are being planned for the latter part of November. This is an innovation for the Glee. Club which formerly made most of its appearances in the Spring semester. These trips will be to neighboring cities and will usually include two performances on each outing.
The annual Christmas concert will be held again this year’ in Washington Hall. Also, another extensive national tour will be arranged for the vacation between semesters.
Tryouts were recently held in the Music Hall to fill up the vacancies caused by graduation. Fifty new men were accepted out of the 100 that applied.
The new members were introduced to the veterans at the Fall picnic of the Glee Club held last Sunday at the home of the director, Daniel H. Pedtke.
QUALITY
STYLE
VALUE
Suits Ready to Wear or Tailored to Tour Measure
Most popular of all white shirts . . . and with reason. Has die neat non-w'ilt, non-wrinkle collar: is Mitoga cut for grade A fit.
MEN’S SHOP . . . Main Floor
PARKER - WINTERROWD has always been noted for their superlative quality of fabrics, the deft handling of cover and pattern, and the exacting fit as well as flattering fashion. Select from our abundant array of popular models and hundreds of patterns.
SUITS and COATS
$55 upwards
PARKER-W1NTERR0WD
1151/2 -1171/2 North Main St.
Second Floor
32
Letters
(Continued from Page 29)
We stay on fire-station 2,000 yards off ,' shore in Pohang harbor for- 72 hours at a clip, watch on watch, then the fourth day take a speed run north to the Russian border firing at targets of opportunity, bridges, troops in junks, etc. I could spin many a sea story, but won’t waste your time now. Imagine you read about the Russian plane which made a run on us by Pyangyang, 30 miles from Manchuria. A ‘gyrine’ C.A.P. caught it just in time and we picked up the pilot, quite dead, but full of papers he shouldn’t have carried. Quite an international in-S cident, but believe it was hushed.
John “Sparky” Thornton
For the benefit of new men “Sparky" was president of last year’s Senior Class and was a member of the campus NROTC group.—Editor
Tar Heel Pleased
As one of the alumni of the University of North Carolina present at the game today, I wish to express my thanks and the thanks of all the alumni and students , with whom I talked to your student body and your- excellent team for their assistance and excellent sportsmanship in all ways.
Although ours was the losing team, we are certain that we could not have lost to a more honorable opponent. And we are equally certain that we experienced sportsmanship in all ways on the playing field, campus, and in the stands —that is seldom equalled and never bettered.
We look forward to having Notre Dame as our honored guests next year.
Richard L. Bowen A.B., U.N.C., 1949 Bloomington, Ind.
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry, Gift Items
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY — WATCHES
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J. M. S. Bldg.
Hemisphere Affairs Club Meets Next Monday Night
Next Monday the Inter-American Affairs Club will hold its first meeting of the year at 7:30 p. m. in the Audio-Visual Room of the Main Building.
The club is primarily concerned with subjects of current interest pertaining to the western hemisphere. In addition" to regular meetings, the club publishes the Inter-American Affairs Newsletter which is circulated to college clubs of a similar nature throughout this region.
Dr. Thomas Downey of the Department of History and an expert on panAmerican affairs, will continue as faculty moderator for the coming year. The club’s offcers are: Carl Lish, president; Adolfo Calero, vice-president; Tom Been-ning, secretary treasurer; and Jaime Saenz, corresponding secretary. Tom Costello has been named editor of the Newsletter.
Lish announced that anyone interested is invited to attend Monday’s meeting.
Get more fun out of life this winter
COME INTO , fflORMOW
Free Club Dance Every Thursday
Call Today for a FREE Trial Lesson
Brother Authors Article
Brother Finbarr Buckley, C.S.C., staff member of the Ave Maria Press, has authored an article appearing' in the September-November issue of The Associate of Saint Joseph. The Associate is issued quarterly by the Brothers of Holy Cross.
In the article, “Builders of Notre Dame,” Brother Finbarr recounts the founding of the University and pays tribute to the excellence of the lay professors teaching here.
Italian Club Meets
Officers of the Italian Club were introduced to new members at a recent meeting in the Law Building. The semester’s activities came in for discussion, among them being the bowling and basketball teams and club dinners.
Sal Fiorello heads this year’s officers as president. Vice-president is Ed Vasta, secretary Dick Viola, and Treasurer Don Carillo. Dick Petraca, Lou Garippo, and Al Piaso are committee heads.
and be all set for winter parties
Winter’s the dancingest season of the year. So get in step for parties and vacation fun. now. Let one of Arthur Murray’s talented experts introduce you to “The First Step to Popularity.” After that, every dance is a breeze. Come in today. See how easy it is to dance your way to popularity this summer the Arthur Murray way. Everybody knows that good dancers have the best times. So be sure you’re a sought-after partner this winter.
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. Wayne Ph. 2-3339
Oct. 6,1950
33

Victory Dance
It was a hot, crowded Palais Royale last Saturday night that housed over SOO gently steaming couples. The combination of mid-summer heat and the large crowd made dancing a humid business.
Orchestra leader Gene Hull pulled a little surprise out of his sax. The “So You Wanna Lead Hull’s Orch” stunt was a pleasant and entertaining interlude. Shows the spirit of American ingenuity is kicking.
- Hull has a pretty good outfit when you come right down to it. Sometimes his medleys are a bit long, but that’s one of those de gustibus deals. It is unusual to find an outfit of comparable size coming up with original arrangements. And it is also pleasing. The stocks are okay, but they tend toward monotony. Some of Hull’s originals are mighty good.
One observation: You’ve got to be really good to put over Dixieland.
Crowds
Last Sunday’s 10 o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church was mobbed. People were standing in the side aisles half way back. This Mass has always been the most popular with students. On football weekends it is quite popular with visitors. We urge all students who can possibly do so to attend a different Mass, especially on football weekends.
Whew!
Many noticed a rather prominently stuck out neck last week. The neck belongs to us. It began to look like the Phillies were out to call us a liar. It must have been a plot of some sort.
But the Phillies have their first pennant in 35 years and everyone, more or less, is happy. Who cares about the World Series? I care, that’s who.
Survival
A couple of weeks ago Scholastic reporters dashed here and there about campus, asking a pertinent question. The results were published last week.
The question, of course, was “Do you think college men should be exempt from the draft?” So far as we can gather, the answers stacked up like this:
Freshmen and Sophomores answered an unqualified yes.
Juniors and Seniors said Juniors and
Seniors should be allowed to finish college.
Vets said everyone but vets should be drafted.
Non-vets said no one but vets should be drafted.
Everyone said something that sounded like “not me.”
Nobody asked us what we thought about it. Cowards. So we’ll say what we think:
“They can draft anyone they feel like drafting, so long as they don’t draft me.”
What’s the cheapest way to get to Mexico?
Tubas and Trombones
The Notre Dame marching band is good. We make this bald statement ad-
LIKE TO STUDY ABROAD HEXT SUMMER?
You can earn full credits on an all-expense, university-sponsored study tour via TWA
Now’s the time to start planning for one of t he most interesting and profitable summers you’ve ever spent________ sightseeing and studying in Europe while you earn full university credits. Again in 1951, TWA will participate in the tours that proved so popular for the past two years... in cooperation
Look at this list of study-tours being planned for next summer (from four to nine weeks abroad), and check the ones that interest you:
□ SWITZERLAND □ University of Geneva
□ University of Zurich, School for European Studies
□ University of Lausanne
’	□ Fribourg Catholic University
□ FRANCE Sorbonne (Paris) □ Lille (at Boulogne-sur-Mer) or
□ Toulouse (at Nice)
□ AUSTRIA University of Salzburg
□ BRITISH ISLES AND IRELAND Study at various universities
□ SPAIN Madrid and Barcelona
□ ITALY Florence and Siena
□ GENERAL EUROPEAN Study and Travel Tours
□ INDIA "India and Problems of the Orient," including Cairo visit, a 6-week tour leaving in January, 1951.
Across ihe US. and overseas...
>	you can def
John H. Furbay, Ph.D., Director TWA Air World Education Service, 80 East 42nd St., New York 17, N.Y.
Please put me on your list to receive detailed information about study tours via TWA indicated above, to be sent as soon as available.
Name-----------------------------------Position------------------------
Address----------------------•-----------------------------------------
City Zone----------------------------State-------Phone No.-------------
C-ll
visedly. The band has always been good, but last week’s game showed that, like movies, the band is better than ever.
Emphasis this year is 'on precision marching and half-time shows are given a back seat. So maybe we don’t have an aggregation like Purdue’s mammoth band. We aren’t government subsidized, either.
The fact remains, we’ve got a band to be proud of.
One little suggestion that has been chasing around in the writer’s cerebellum for several years. After we score a • touchdown, the band plays the Victory March. Is there any way for the students and band to get together on this march? As things stand now, the band ::s up to “send a volley . . .” before the student’s join in en masse. Maybe the band could wait about 30 seconds until the wildest of the cheering has died down after the point is kicked. Then we could all be together. The thing to be looked for is “effect.”
The Last Word
This week’s bouquet of large yellow mums to Jim Donnelly for his excellent interview with the sportscasters after last week’s game.
with the “Institute of University Studies Abroad. ’ ’ And you’ll have a chance to learn at first-hand the new concept of air-age geography... traveling by luxurious TWA Skyliner. Remember, half your time will be devoted to touringEurope and the other half in residence study as indicated below.
34
The Scholastic
THE DU PONT
DIGEST
V-belts of "Cordura" and rubber keep even tension, far outlast others.
Chemical Research helped produce
The tires on your car right now may have cords of Cordura* High Tenacity Rayon yarn. If so, you benefit from one of the most important contributions that Du Pont scientists have made through the years to the automotive industry.
"Cordura” High Tenacity Rayon is comparable to structural steel in tensile strength. It makes possible L	tires that are at once lighter, stronger
and safer than pre-war tires. Unlike natural fibers, the qualities of this product of chemical science are always uniform.
UNDIES TO TIRES
At first, rayon was used mainly in making articles of clothing. However, with an improved tire cord in mind, Du Pont scientists set out to produce a tougher rayon than any previously J known. The problem was given to a
skilled team whose members included organic, physical and analytical chemists, physicists, and chemical and mechanical engineers.
One of their first discoveries was that strength could be increased by using cotton linters as the source of cellulose, in place of wood pulp. It was found, also, that the viscose solution had to be prepared and handled with extreme care. Perhaps the most important lesson was one which the silkworm had taught centuries before: stretching increases strength. The Du Pont experimenters stretched the new yarn and made rayon with a tensile strength of about 70,000 pounds to the square inch—more than twice the strength of textile rayon then being produced.
TRIED AND PROVED
With the cooperation of tire manu
facturers, "Cordura” was tested in heavy-duty tires on baking-hot desert roads. During the war it proved itself on command cars, trucks and jeeps. Today, rayon-cord tires are widely used on trucks and buses, and leading manufacturers use Du Pont "Cordura” in tires they make for passenger cars.
The combination of lightness and strength offered by "Cordura” has also earned it a welcome from makers of conveyor belts, V-belts and hose for domestic, agricultural and industrial uses. It is used to reinforce laminated kraft paper, to tie wires to electrical switchboards and as a chain warp in carpets to bind the wool tufts firmly in place. One of the newest uses is in plastic clotheslines. The Du Pont Company makes none of these articles. But because Du Pont scientists had an idea and the facilities and funds to develop it, many businesses can now offer you better products to make life safer and more enjoyable.
*REG. U. S. PAT. OFT.
SEND FOR "The Story of Cellulose,” a 43-page, illustrated booklet that describes the making of viscose and acetate rayon, lacquers, plastics, coated fabrics, etc. Many charts and equations. For free copy, write to the Du Pont Company, 2503 Nemours Building, Wilmington, Delaware.
R-G. U.S. PAT. OFF.
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ...THROUGH CHEMISTRY
Great Dramatic Entertainment—Tunein”Cavalcade of America” Tuesday Nights, NBC Coast to Coast
Oct. 6, 1950
35
famous stage play
tobacco man knows .. -
the MILDER cigarette'' C^JtrrdjLnXcIn^Ajsi^^ Starring in "BORN YESTERDAY" A Columbia Picture based on the
r
RROMiNENT TOBACCO PARMER-MVA. VA.
B YOU smell that milder tobacco aroma. No other cigarette has it.
You can prove what I proved -Chesterfield is
^t,ap^te5

Let R.O. Mc CORMICK tell you how to-
BE YOUR OWN CIGARETTE EXPERT
A YOU buy a pack of B) YOU smell that milder C YOU smoke Chesterfields Chesterfields and you *  No	and prove what every
Ri
4 & ■ '&£*
open it up.
tobaccos that
Smell MilderSmoke Milder
a



X@i E STE R Fl E LD
the cigarette that Smells Milder and smokes milder :
