Mbcdl belalh'ng about this WXW!
of
"Funny What a Dime Can Do The Mary Osborne Trio's latest Decca disc
pared, Camels are the “choice experience.”
ing" CAMELS -than ever before!
More people are smb
R. J. Reynolds Tob Co. Winston«Sidemf N» C,
CIGARETTES
CAMELS
suit me
And here's another great record
It’s a strummin’, hummin’ disc by the Mary Osborne Trio—and it’s headed for “top billing” with the platter set.
Mary knows the songs that suit her best . . . knows her cigarettes too. As Mary says it, “I’ve tried them all -
Camels suit me best!”
Try Camels on your “T-Zone”— T for Taste, T for Throat. Find out for yourself why, with millions of smokers who have tried and com-

TPRMSH V DOMESTIC ■ BLEND
u
J < §
u u I


LETTERS
It’s Adlers
TUT, TUT, TUT
Dear Editor:
In the beginning I should like to make an apology for my narrow-mindedness and inability to assimilate the correct view on conditions and events. For apparently I am lacking since I can see a controversial point brought forth by “Reader Corrigan” in his recent letter tc the editor concerning “Let Jerry Do It.” If I may, Mr. Editor (and I humbly bow my head in your direction as I say this), I should like to point out that there are many thoughts to be weighed in the discussion — political, economic, and perhaps emotional. I side completely with neither you nor “Reader Corrigan.” No, I don’t care to rehash that subject for you have, by your final comment, rapped the gavel.
Rather I toss a pebble from this safe distance, hoping of course to hit your desk and not your waste basket, in an objection to your caustic twenty-seven-word and one article (I know you’ll count) comment to “Reader Corrigan.” This of course also covers the Editor’s comment to “Eagle-eyed Lou.” ’Course Lou wasn’t as nice as he could have been but maybe he is a victim of the same circumstances as I.
The thought conveyed to me was that the Editor is very very close to being perfect and objects to anyone finding fault in his words or the product of his hand. Perhaps I am being presumptuous but you know I doubt if the Editor is perfect. In which case he might make himself better understood and a better person to listen to, if he’d admit the possibility of his having an imperfect nature by at least refusing to comment if he can’t think of something civil to return.
In short, “C’mon down with us, Jack; we ain’t perfect and we sort of doubt if you are!”
And now I retire holding odds that you’ll reply (if you permit that condition to rise) to my lonely toss with a catapult and a half dozen sling shots.
James M. Wetzel
St. Edward’s
’OVER THERE'
Dear Editor:
It was my good fortune to receive your Scholastics recently. They gave my morale a great lift. I had not seen any since my graduation in June. Brother, I am really homesick after reading them—old ND with all its dances (there seem to be quite a few according to your
FOR
VAN HEUSEN
ON THE CORNER — Michigan and Washington
Our subject for today is
Wide-spread Van Britt
Average length Van Carson
Wide-spread, Button-down Ace
Here’s your favorite clastic in smart new editions by Van Hensen, M.S. (Master Shirtmakers.) This is rich, luxurious oxford—sparkling white—laboratory tested and Sanforized. A new shirt free if your Van Heusen shrinks out of size! These three collar models make you a smart scholar in the eyes of any class, or lass. All feature new low-setting "Comfort Contour” collar styling, action-room tailoring, tug-proof pearl buttons. §3.95 and §4.95. Phillips-Jones Corp., New York 1, New York.
_	You’re the man most likely to succeed in
0 Van Heusen Shirts
TIES • SPORT SHIRTS • PAJAMAS
3
magazine), carnivals, etc. That Army game must have been terrific. I would even eat some of the dining hall chow again if I had a chance.
I have a choice lot of news for you. You have, no doubt, heard of Theresa Neumann. She suffers Christ’s agonies of the Crucifixion. Well, I witnessed this on Good Friday afternoon. Before I entered the house of this woman I met two other ND men that I knew, and a third that I had never met before. The four of us witnessed this extraordinary
phenomenon and were duly impressed as to its authenticity.
I had not seen the ND men since graduation in June, 1947—I never even knew they were in Germany. So this strange coincidence, meeting these men ir. this remote Bavarian village on Good Friday afternoon, seems like real news to me.
The men were Bob Gochwend, ’47, Tom McMahon, ’47, and this other fellow—for the life of me I cannot think of his name. The excitement of seeing tills woman and the effect it had on me probably accounts for my forgetting his name.
John L. Maher, ’47
OMG Hesse APO 633
LS—SK Offenbach c/o Postmaster, N. Y.
“What** a little rap like twenty years if 1 can have all 1 want of delicious, clean tasting Dentyne Chewing Gum. Just think—twenty years to enjoy that rich, long lasting flavor and all that time Dentyne will help keep my teeth white.”
Dentyne Gum—Made Only By Adams
TOP OF THE WEEK
From the rumbling oratory of last week’s mock Republican convention the elastic Drill Hall turns tonight to the rumbling strains of Wagner, as the South Bend Symphony Orchestra and Helen Traubel present an all-Wagnerian concert. This, the climax of the most musical week Notre Dame has enjoyed in some years, represents an outstanding bit of programming by Father Thornton and the local symphony association. Don’t miss it.
NO BEARDS
Don’t miss it, that is, unless you’re a senior. For also on tonight’s agenda is
the anxiously-awaited and high-priced Senior Ball. Upwards of 500 tuxedo-uniformed seniors will gather their charming ladies and scamper down to the Palais tonight for the biggest social evening of their lives. In connection with the Ball, committee chairman Tom McCaffrey wants it known that only those citizens with clean-shaven chins will be admitted. McCaffrey justifiably fears that the philosophic beards being sported on the campus would muffle the music.
We also understand that Bucky O’Connor has two dates for the Ball, which is a heckuva way to do business. For Bucky we have a suggestion: tie both girls in a sack, drop ’em in the St. Joe River, and hustle down to George’s. We’ll have a red-hot pinochle game going in the back booth.
NO SENSE
The South Bend Tribune’s movie reviewer gave The Fugitive a vigorous panning last week. He said the plot was weak. This is the same newspaper which called the last Joe Palooka picture excellent entertainment . . .
The student trip poll has hit a slight snag. Most students picked the Navy game, figuring it for Cleveland. But municipal authorities in Baltimore suddenly realized the Monument City was letting a good game slide away and announced the reconstruction program on their stadium would be finished by Oct. 30. No announcement yet, but if the game does go to Baltimore, it will mean considerably more dough—spelled
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
Break up the White Sox!
MARVIN JEWELERS
(Inc.J
126 N. Michigan St. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
up
PHILIP MORRIS is so much better to smoke!
PHILIP MORRIS offers the smoker an extra benefit found in no other cigarette. For Philip Morris is the ONE, the ONLY cigarette recognized by leading nose and throat specialists as definitely less irritating.
Remember: Less irritation means more smoking enjoyment for you.
Yes! If every smoker knew what' Philip Morris smokers know, they’d all change to PHILIP MORRIS.
s PHIUP MORRIS
TRY A PACK... TOOAY
s
SCORNER'S SEAT
National Game Takes Back Seat As
Costin Plugs Local Bloomer Girls
By Joe Wilcox
writer or commentator, Mr. Costin is far from first rate. I doubt if he likes the game at all.
I note that of all the registered voters in South Bend, an approximate fourth went to the polls in the Spring primary elections. On the basis of past performance, an expected half of all the registered voters in the country will hie themselves to vote come next November when we choose a president.
This situation is a pretty kettle of fish for a nation which prides itself on the fact that it can complain until it is blue
in the face about its administration. A registered voter—or one eligible to vote who has not registered—who does not take the proper steps to make his choice known is derelict in his duty. There is too much opinion to the effect that one can vote or not vote, as the fit takes one. The civic right of the franchise carries with it the duty of exercising that franchise. It is the moral duty of a citizen to participate in the public affairs of the republic, to the extent allowed by the law. If one has the right to vote and does not exercise it he is not acting morally in accordance with civic duty. He loses his right to criticize when he does not attempt to remedy a situation which it may be within his power to alter.
Next fall should see all eligible voters who are able to get to the polls, voting. But it won’t. Somewhere in the vicinity of half of them will sit at home and do nothing, and complain for the next four-years because the election went the wrong way. People who do not appreciate the right to vote ought to talk to a citizen of Czechoslovakia.
I hate to harp on sports, which is not my department, but I herewith serve a complaint on one Jim Costin, who exercises the function of sports editor of the South Bend Trib u n e. Football editor would, I think, be a better term. So far this spring, Mr. Costin has been busily engaged in rehashing the past sixty football seasons. The direction of Mr. Costin’s mind,
bent as it is to one purpose, may be much commended by those who dote upon singleness of purpose as a quality much to be admired.
But for the information of Jim, to whom the thought seems to have occurred only fleetingly, the major league baseball season has been underway about two weeks. Save for murmurings concerning an aggregation of females called the South Bend Blue Sox, seemingly Mr. Costin’s argument for keeping minor league baseball out of South Bend, he has not bothered to give the national sport much of a blow. He has devoted a few paragraphs to a Robert Rush, a South Bend youth who now toils (rather unsuccessfully, to date) as a hand of the Chicago Cubs. If Rush flops (’tis said, however, that he has what it takes to stay), Costin will probably blame it on Len Merullo, Cubs’ shortstop who took the Costin rap for the sore arm of Eddie Hanyzewski, another South Bend contribution to baseball who finally quit the game last year.-
Incidentally, there is a new class “A” baseball (not modified bloomer softball) league operating in Michigan, Ohio, and Indiana. There is a team in Fort Wayne, but one will scan the Tribune’s sports section in vain for the scores. Last winter Costin devoted considerable effort writing about how baseball could not succeed in South Bend, while apparently discouraging efforts to bring a franchise in the new league to South Bend. Apparently he feared that his Blue Sox could not compete with the real thing. Anyhow, as a baseball
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger Nail Test
THIS IS no ‘‘yoke”, son. If people have been calling you egghead because your hair looks soft-boiled, here’s eggs-actly what to do. Get busy with popular Wildroot Cream-Oil hair tonic. It grooms your hair neatly and naturally without that gooey look. Relieves annoying dryness and removes loose, ugly dandruff. Helps you pass the Fingernail Test! Wildroot CreamOil is non-alcoholic . . . contains soothing Lanolin. Get a tube or bottle of Wildroot Cream-Oil at any drug or toilet goods counter today. Always ask your barber for a professional application. (Better be hard-boiled with your roommate — keep egging him to get some Wildroot Cream-Oil of his own. It’s tops for keeping your sunny side up!) + of327 Burroughs Drive, Snyder, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
caooKmua
6
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
IlianHlliillieillllHltlHitllllllllillllHIllllllllllIllIIllIllliaailllllllllltlllMailHIIIIlllHillllllllttlilllllMinil
THE STAFF
JOHN A. O'CONNOR, Editor
Associate Editors EDWARD J. SNYDER JOSEPH A. DOYLE
JOSEPH WILCOX _____________________________________________  Features
PETER BROWN __________________________________________________ Sports
SHAUN McDERMOTT News
ROBERT T. STOCK ____________________________________ Assistant News
JAMES FERSTEL  Photography
Editorial Associates HARRY MONAHAN	BUZZ WRIGHT KEN THOREN
JOE HERRINGTON VIC DORR	GREG HALPIN
WILLIAM GORMAN _________________________________ Librarian
JOHN CLARK  Circulation GEORGE KORHUMEL _____________________________  Circulation
B. T. KYSER __________________________________ Advertising
JOHN S. BRENNAN  Faculty Moderator
tltllllllliHIIIHililllHHIIIIIIIHlriilltllliltltinitttllllllllllillllllllllHIIIIIIHIIIirlllllllllilHlItlllllllllHlIlt
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.

Don't Miss — In This Issue
NEWS	Page
COMMENCEMENT—Paul Hoffman, Chief Speaker.. 9
DANCES—Senior Ball at Palais Royale Tonight .  10
NFCCS—Appeal for Student Government _________  19
FEATURES PICTURES—Pictorial Highlights of the Week .  14-15
FOOD—Cost is Big Item in Dining Hall Problem- 16-17
SPORTS
BOWLING—Playoffs between Gold and Blue on Sunday 20
FOOTBALL—Last Drills Before Old Timers Game--- 21
TRACK—Irish Win Triangular at Peoria --------- 22
SPLINTERS—Czarobski May Work Down to 238 _____ 23
COVER
Couple dancing thru Notre Dame ring is symbolic of seniors' final hop this week end. Photo by Jim Ferstel.
CALENDAR
MAY 8
PALAIS ROYALE, Tea Dance for Senior Ball crowd. Sunny Dunham behind the stick.
JOHN ADAMS HIGH AUDITORIUM, Wayne King and his musical show at 8:15 p. m. An evening of popular and semi-classical music, featuring the Waltz King’s specialties, soft sleepy, memorable tunes.
MAY 9
MOTHER’S DAY. Notre Dame men will remember their mothers at Mass and Holy Communion.
GRANADA, Tarzan and the Mermaids. Weismuller, fat, fortyish, and as doltish as ever, shares billing with an orangutan, who doesn’t seem to mind. Brenda Joyce, former UCLA campus queen, has to move over for Linda Christian, a newcomer who has been new-coming for two years now. The ape turns in a sterling performance.
STATE, The Swordsman, with Larry Parks. Companion feature, The Corpse Came C.O.D. which is undoubtedly the worst murder movie ever made. The beach-party scenes are hilarious —the whole cast, plus producers, should have been taken out three miles and let over the side.
MAY 10
CONFEDERATE MEMORIAL DAY, in North and South Carolina.
MAY 11
PALACE, My Girl Tisa, with Lili Palmer and Sam Wanamaker. If Lili’s in it we can take it. Companion feature, Whispering City. Something wrong with its throat.
MAY 13
COLFAX, Saigon, with Alan Ladd and Veronica Lake. What-a-man-Ladd, all 140 pounds of him, cleans up on half of Asia and Mishawaka besides, and comes through with only a cut lip and mussed locks. Veronica is as mysterious as ever. The mystery is how she can get paid for that stuff. Ruff I
GRANADA, So Well Remembered, James Hilton’s novel, brought to the screen by a British production company, featuring John Mills, Martha Scott and Patricia Roe.
STATE, Ride the Pink Horse, with Robert Montgomery, and Ragtime Cowboy. The first is a murder, the second is an excuse for murder.
MAY 14
PALACE, High Wall, with Audrey Totter and Robert Taylor. RIVER PARK, Thief of Bagdad. Brilliant technicolor photography lends romantic charm to make-believe story featuring Sabu, lovely June Duprez and the late Conrad Viedt.
COMING
GRANADA, Shoeshine. The brilliant Italian film will be shown at this theatre for two days only, May 20 and 22. Italian dialogue, English titles, artistic photography, and a moving story of two kids in post-war Rome, caught in the net of blackmarketing, betrayal, cniel systems and despair.
7
Hue- Zditoik	.
Bye, Bye Professor
The Notre Dame student, proudly touring his parents or visiting friends around the campus walks, has never failed to point out with beaming elocution the happy landmarks of tradition—the Golden Dome glittering through pastel-pink magnolias; the rustic log chapel with its twinkling vigil lamps; the shady quadrangle, beclouded with squadrons of gnats these humid spring evenings. Proud too is the student who nods to a passing faculty member, and then in a tone of hasty elation informs his guests, “That’s Professor So-and-So. He teaches me history. He’s a great guy!” For the Notre Dame student his professor has always been a wise and considerate friend, an older and more mellowed member of the Notre Dame family, and as much a part of the deep-rooted tradition of the University as landmarks, scenes or annual campus activities. But in the too-near future touring students may unhappily finger a passing prof as one of the last of a vanishing race. For the traditional college professor seems to be on the way out.
Expelling force in the drive that may clear the traditional professor from the American college scene is the snowballing trend towards departmentalization. This movement, a ramification of the increasing secularization of big-time education, makes fearsome use of a most effective weapon, the departmental exam.
For many years the professor at Notre Dame, both lay and cleric, has been a true father. He’s planted the seed in good ground; he’s cultivated it with an eye towards responsibility and nurtured it with an eye towards its developing potentialities. He jabbed his fingers down around the roots and ripped out the weeds of prejudice and error. He pruned the sprigs of adolescence and grafted on a healthy piece of his own mature personality. And now that personality, the biggest part of the professor-student team that made Notre Dame the flourishing ground for ideal faculty-student relations, seems headed for the scrap heap to make way for the podium jockey.
Notre Dame professors, grounded in Christian philosophy and imbued in the spirit of culture and scholarship, have always been individuals—that was the secret of their admirable strength and their popular influence. All members of the teaching body, yet all adequately independent as to authority and responsibility in their proper domain. They primed the intellects of tens of thousands of good men, and turned out tens of thousands more—without departmentals.
But clear the tracks for the Departmental Special! The pragmatization of big-time education in America has already reduced the role of the true educator at most state universities. No longer is the college professor the partisan of independent thinking, the sage soul who summer-schools in New England and vacations in Heidelberg every ten years. In bigtime education Mr. Chips is all washed up.
Just how pragmatic can we get? Notre Dame might have been the sacred preserve of the traditional college professor, representative of independent scholarship and individual leadership. But the handwriting’s on the mimeograph sheets— departmentalization has moved in. What does the future hold? Will we follow the lead of the diploma-factories in replacing the lecturer with the Capehart record-player? Will the seam-bursting expansion of the University lead to packing the stadium with freshman English classes while loudspeakers blare out passages from Beowulf and row upon row of mouths sing out rotish Milton like the deutschers at Nur-
8
emburg? Will test-papers be graded by wheezing mechanical monsters akin to our modern coke-machines?
The Notre Dame student, proudly touring his parents or visiting friends around the campus walks these lovely spring days may well nod respectfully, if not a little sadly, at the passing faculty member. For like the plains Indian and darling Clementine he may be lost and as good as gone forever, dreadful sorrow—departmentals.
Something for Your Best Girl
Every loving son’s best girl gets a present Sunday.
Here at Notre Dame, thousands of spiritual bouquets will be dispatched to the various homefronts. After all, it is only fitting that a university, dedicated to the Queen of all ' mothers, does something special for its best girls.
Yet it seems that Notre Dame may be overlooking some very special mothers—the ones who live in the shadow of its Golden Dome.
Before the war women were rare on the campus. Only on dance weekends did femininity burst forth in all of its frilly < flower, clothed in the latest styles and the brightest smiles.
Then came the war. And up sprang Vetville and heels were clicking on all sides. But where were those giddy girls of the past ?
Many of them were about the business of making a home for book-weary husbands and raising a family under the most trying circumstances. What’s even more amazing is the remarkable job they’ve done!
Today almost every Vetville wife is a mother too. On sunny days you see her pushing her offspring about the campus in every conceivable type of perambulator. What you don’t see, however, are the trials and tribulations that she must endure in her little Vetville home.
She has sacrificed plenty so her husband could finish his education. She’s stretched G.I. checks to the breaking point, and budgeted herself to the mill to cover expenses. She’s turned plain, old barracks into comfortable homes by extra hours of scrubbing and decorating. She’s kept wearing the same “old look” dress while other women sported the latest fashions. Yet through it all she can still smile and radiate happiness when hubby trudges home after a long, financially unprofitable day in class.
Yes, Notre Dame should beam with pride upon Vetville’s mothers. For these ladies have proved beyond a doubt that they’re modern mothers in a good old fashioned way—in a way that must certainly please Notre Dame’s patron Mother.
A Better Army
While statesmen all over the world are making various efforts to stop the rise of communism, Notre Dame students have found another way to solve the problem. Through a crusade of prayer they hope to stop the red advance and to promote Christianity throughout every country. By gathering at the grotto each evening and by saying the rosary daily, they become one of the many divisions in Oui- Lady’s army. The ranks are crowded, but there is still room for more volunteers in this fight for peace.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.	.
VOL. 89, NO. 25
MAY 7, 1948
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
Hoffman to Speak at Graduation
Set Class Elections
For Drill Hall Thursday
An expected 3C00 students will make the long trek to the Drill Hall next Thursday to cast their ballots for next year’s class officers. Something new in the political history of Notre Dame, the May elections are expected to create better unity within the classes and more extensive and well-planned activities during the year.
Ivo Fatigati, Student Council Representative from Morrissey Hall and head of the election program, urged that nominees go “all out” in their campaigning this week and that they use all the campaigning devices possible to bring cut the voters. Such things as posters, torchlight parades and door-to-door campaigning are encouraged in order to rouse enough interest in the various classes to bring to the polls the necessary plurality, without which the elections would be invalid.
Chairman Fatigati disclosed that the voting will take place from the beginning of the lunch hour on May 13 until after* dinner that evening. There is some possibility that voting machines may be used, but if not, the usual ballot system will be in effect.
For the benefit of off-campus students, provisions have been made to set up a ballot box in the shack by the bus stop at the circle. Here the voting will start earlier in the morning, in order to give all the off-campus men a chance to boost their favorites.
Fatigati also revealed that a new system of electing Student Council representatives from the colleges will go into effect this year. Instead of being appointed by the respective deans, as was the former practice, all nominees for this position will submit petitions signed by 25 students to the dean, and from these candidates the individual representatives will be chosen.—Walt Collins
PAUL G. HOFFMAN From ECA to UND
S. 8. Tribune to Award Prizes For Journalists' Best Work
Students in the Department of Journalism, who worked on the departmental paper, the Journalist, may find their labors have blossomed into tidy cash stipends.
The South Bend Tribune’s owner, F. A. Miller, announced this week that the Tribune would award $100 in prizes for the best makeup, photograph, news story, feature, and job of headwriting and editing produced in the paper.
The prizes, $20 each, will be awarded to the managing editor whose make-up was best; to the city editor or sports editor, who printed the best picture; to the writer of the best news story; to the writer of the best feature; and to the chief copy editor responsible for the best head-writing and editing.
Five members of the Tribune staff will judge the papers and make the awards at a meeting in the Law Building May 13. The Journalist, printed six times, was published by publicity media classes of the department taught by Edward Fischer.
Archbishop Cushing Gives Baccalaureate
The man who has taken on the job of buying world peace, Paul G. Hoffman, newly appointed director of the Economic Cooperation Administration (ne ERP) and former president of the Studebaker Corporation, will deliver the address at Notre Dame’s Commencement exercises Sunday, June 6, according to an announcement made yesterday by the Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University.
Father Cavanaugh announced simultaneously that the Most Reverend Richard J. Cushing, d.d., Archbishop of Boston, Mass., will deliver the baccalaureate address on Commencement Sunday. The Most Reverend John F. Noll, Bishop of Fort Wayne, Ind., will celebrate the Baccalaureate Mass. '
From automobile salesman to president of the corporation is the Horatio Alger script Mr. Hoffman followed in his rise to the top of American industry. He started selling Studebakers in Los Angeles in 1911 and in eight years owned the agency. Six years later, in 1925, he was appointed vice president of the Studebaker Corporation in one of the fastest ascendencies to the Studebaker administrative hierarchy ever recorded.
The ECA post is far from Mr. Hoffman’s first contact with national affairs. He served as chairman of the board of trustees of the Committee for Economic Development, chairman of the Automotive Safety Foundation, honorary chairman of the United China Relief, a member of President Truman’s Commission on Foreign Aid and a member of the Business Advisory Conference Council of the United States Department of Commerce. At the time of his appoint-, ment to head ECA he had just returned from an industrial survey of Japan for the government.
9
SENIOR BALL GUESTS OF HONOR —JANE KELLY, MARCIDINE HENINEN. AND PATRICIA LAWLOR The 'feathery feelin? . . .
Senior Ball Week-end Is Launched Tonight With Dates, Dunham
That “feathery feeling” has settled over the campus again. This time the Seniors are the victims. Females from all over the country have moved into South Bend for the Senior Ball weekend, which officially gets under way this evening at the Palais Royale. Sonny Dunham and his orchestra will be on hand to ease the strain the couples will have to overcome in making the switch from letter-writing to conversation.
Tom McCaffery, Senior Class vice president, and co-chairman of the Ball, has announced that Miss Patricia Mc-Grane will reign as queen of tonight’s affair. Miss McGrane comes to Notre Dame from Manhasset, Long Island, N. Y. She is the guest of George Sullivan, president of the Senior Class. The guests of honor will include Miss Jane Kelly of Austin, Illinois, and St. Mary’s-of-the-Wood College—escorted by Tom McCaffery; Marcidise Heninen of Osseo, Minnesota, and St. Mary’s Hospital of Minneapolis—guest of Larry Ryan; and Miss Patricia Lawlor of Pontiac, Michigan, and Marygrove College—guest of George Burns.
Saturday shows promise of out-strip-ping tonight’s dance for sheer entertainment. An intra-squad football game (potentially the best college contest of the ’48 season) will be on tap in the afternoon. In addition, there will be a buffet supper at the Palais from 5 until 9, with music by Sonny Dunham again. On Sunday morning the center aisle of Sacred
Heart Church will be reserved at the 10:10 Mass for them.
McCaffery has also announced that the guests of the class will include: Dean and Mrs. Karl E. Schoenherr, Dean and Mrs. Lawrence H. Baldinger, Mr. Edmund A. Smith, Mr. and Mrs. Frank W. Leahy, Mr. and Mrs. Bernard J. Voll, Mr. and Mrs. J. Arthur Haley, Mr. and Mrs. John V. Hinkel, Mr. and Mrs. James El Armstrong, Mr. and Mrs. William R. Dooley.
The patron committee was composed of Frank Perez, Ted Nordone, and John Brunke; programs—Phil Lyons, John McCormick, and Jim Heck; favors— Dick Jacobs, Tom McGowan, and Bob Flannery; arrangements—Jim Carrol,
QUEEN PATRICIA McGRANE . . . will settle tonight
Walter Fisher, and John Clark; publicity — John O’Connor, Dick Byrne, and John Hiller; decorations—Patrick Gallagher, John St. Germain, E. V. Carlson, and Thomas Barber; tickets—John Harrington, Bob Dalton, Francis Fitzpatrick, Robert Hennessey, John McKinley, Paul Long, Jack McLaughlin, Neil Gillespie, Felix Suarez, Jack Murphy, and John Zarante; orchestra—Patrick Doyle, Arthur Smith, Charles Owens, and William Russell; door committee—Francis Pilara, and Paul Reilly; supper dance— Stanley Stone, Jack McKeon, and Bill Vangen—Larry Connor
ND Architects Celebrate 50th Year With Exhibit
The 50th anniversary of the Department of Architecture at Notre Dame was observed last week-end by members ot the Indiana Society of Architects and former University architect students. The reunion ended Saturday afternoon after- an admirable exhibit of old and new architecture at Notre Dame.
Because of popular demand, the exhibit was extended and attracted large crowds of both students and visitors on Sunday. The main hall displayed the work of present undergraduates, with emphasis on each phase of the department’s courses. Sculpture, water colors and abstract sculpture complemented the designs and models of buildings. The second portion of the exhibit displayed early examples of the department’s work and also the completed work of graduates.
Francis W. Kervick, head of the Department of Architecture, was in charge of arrangements for the reunion.
10
New Show Shapes Up As Rehearsals Roll
Bare brick walls, a large no-smoking sign, thread-like scenery and a dripping ceiling served as the backdrop for the group of energetic actors, engaged in rehearsals for the student musical, “It Ain’t Hay.” Going into their second week of production, the cast has been completed and are now knocking the show into final shape.
Audiences are guaranteed to leave the spring musical whistling, singing and humming the catchy tunes by Ed Cashman. Those who can not wait until May 18, 19, 20, 21 and 23 can hear the music echoing from Washington Hall four nights a week. The chorus and principals have got their “teeth into their roles” by this time and are really going to town.
The female parts were cast this past week with Nancy Gradecki assigned to the romantic lead of Lilly Mae. Terese Lazzara is to play rambunctous Maw, while Beverly Watson will undertake the prim role of Daphne. Lois Lenon rounds out the feminine leads with Edie Morgan. These and the large girl chorus are all from South Bend.
Don Birren has designed the sets and is now in charge of executing the colorful designs. Frank Malzone is orchestrating the score while Jack Harrington has taken over the job of property man, in charge of special effects.
•	—Ken Thoren
Five Speakers to Compete Monday for Oratorical Prize
Washington Hall will be the scene of the finals of the Cavanaugh-Goodrich Oratorical Contest Monday night, May 10, with five speakers propounding their views on the fundamentals of American government. Three prizes, $100, $35 and $15, will be awarded to the top trio. Judging will be by a committee appointed by the president of the University.
William P. Dixon, of Casper, Wyoming, will speak on “The Rights We Defend.” “Lamented Decision” will be the topic of Albert Grzebien, of Providence, Rhode Island. Seminarian Donald Kersten, C.S.C., will try for speaking honors with the subject “Bloodless Altars.” Donald Kiene, of Quincy, Illinois, will review “The Privileges and Responsibilities of Citizenship,” while “The Constitution and the American Citizen” will be examined by Quintin Marlow, of San Antonio, Texas.
The prizes for this contest are derived from a fund established in 1939 by the Hon. James P. Goodrich, ll.d., Class of '17, in memory of the Rev. John W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the Univer
sity from 1905 to 1919. Contestants must not only deliver their speeches, but also must submit three copies of the speech to the committee prior to delivery. Entries are judged on the thought and expression of the manuscript as well as on the orator’s speaking ability.
FATHER LASKOWSKI Fire engines and airplanes
Piper Cub Papa Talks At I. A. S. Banquet
Mr. William T. Piper, president and director of the Piper Aircraft Corporation and the “Henry Ford of Aviation” will be guest of honor and principal speaker at the semester banquet of the Notre Dame Student Branch of the Institute of the Aeronautical Sciences to be held May 13 at the Oldenburg Inn, South Bend.
The Reverend Cornelius J. Laskowski, c.s.c., chaplain of the Notre Dame Fire Department, will also be a guest speaker. Rudy Kempter and Tom Neff are in charge of banquet arrangements and Ernie Turisch is running publicity. Walt Marut and Jack Hoey are directing the program arrangements and ticket sales are being supervised by Bill Alden.
Mr. Piper is best known for his production of the Piper Cub, the “flivver” of the aircraft industry.
Highlighting the last meeting of the IAS Professor Elmer F. Bruhn, head of the School of Aeronautics at Purdue University, addressed some 60 students and faculty members on the responsibilities of colleges in preparing their students for technical duties in aviation.
Professoi- Bruhn’s address, held in the Biology Auditorium, was preceded by a club dinner held at the Ramble Inn. Following the talk a movie, “The Lockheed Constellation,” was shown.
Council Hears Report Of NFCCS Confab
“The Notre Dame Student Council has to do a better job,” Lou Burns told his fellow members Monday evening.
Reporting on the recent NFCCS convention in Philadelphia, Burns said that other Catholic colleges looked to Notre Dame for leadership in promoting good student government. He said “there have been, and there are gross inefficiencies” in our local set-up and urged that the Council here “become more serious.”
Burns believes that the NFCCS is “beginning to come into its own.” With an emphasis upon student leadership, the convention was almost entirely conducted by students, clerical influence being reduced to a minimum. Over 300 people attended the discussion on student government.
Ivo Fatigati, election chairman, expects three or four voting machines for the class elections at the Drill Hall, May 13. Voting will be from 11:30 a. m. till 7 p. m.
A proposal that Council officers be elected next week met defeat. The present body had approved an amendment which they do not want — it calls for Council officers to be elected in the spring. At the next meeting, there will be a vote for repealing the amendment.
NS A dues and Blue Circle pins still plague the treasurer. Members voted to pass the NS A problem to the administration as they do not have the sum required. They felt that they were not obliged to drop out of the organization, since the student body has already chosen participation. A motion that they pay $64 for Blue Circle pins was tabled until a committee investigated.
One more motion met defeat. This one called for awarding Council pins to all members who had “worked diligently,” but had to quit the Council.
The next meeting was postponed till May 17, at which time President Len Boykin will be back from South Carolina where he is taking the bar examination.
SPRING FOOTBALL GAME—MAY 15
The annual spring football game between the 1948 varsity and the graduating seniors will be held in the Stadium Saturday, May 15. at 2:30 pan. Students will enter at Gate 14 and must show ATHLETIC BOOKS. There will be no reserved seats for this game.
Married students may purchase admission tickets for wives at the reduced rate of fifty cents at the Ticket Office, Breen-Phillips HalL by presenting identification cards.
11
DOUBLE TROUBLE
Identical twins make rectors, profs, dates check their specs
By WILLIAM H. LYMAN
There are four sets of identical twins at Notre Dame this semester. Their stories make for laughs, confusion and downright mass chaos in some official circles.
On the door of their office in the Architecture Building the sign reads: OL-GYAY & OLGYAY.
“That’s the way it is,” explain the handsome Hungarian twins who now teach architecture at Notre Dame. “We’re a firm: Olgyay and Olgyay. We do everything together . . . and get a lot accomplished that way.”
Victor and Aladar Olgyay came to Notre Dame from their home in Budapest where they began their joint careers. Fresh out of school, they founded their firm and started designing family houses, apartment buildings and factories.
But they wanted to see things together. Izmir (Turkey), Rome, Vienna, London — they visited each, leaving samples of their skill as they went; and they worked up a little specialty on the side — exhibition houses at world fairs. Finally, ten years ago, they designed the Hungarian Pavilion at the New York World Fair; they saw the United States, liked it, and decided to return as soon as possible. This they did, and they came to Notre Dame.
Oh yes, and they have an identical
twin yarn they like to tell, too. It happened at school when Victor broke his leg skiing a week before final exams. Aladar took his own calculus test one day and Victor’s the next. Nobody knew the difference.
But ironically enough, Aladar got a much better grade for his brother than for himself. When he told Victor, the only reply was a grin and “Didn’t I always say I was cleverer than you.”
Up in 404 Howard live another pair of identical twins, John and Lawrence Terrio.
Jack and Law are both Juniors at Notre Dame, but that’s as far as their scholastic careers concur here. Jack is a commerce man, while Law takes aeronautical engineering. And their favorite pastime is debating the merits of their major subjects.
But the brothers, who come from North Quincy, Mass., enjoy hashing over their days at North Quincy High much more than telling war experiences. Their favorite story happened when they were both ranning the half mile for ol’ North Quincy High in a meet at the University of New Hampshire. There were so many runners in the race that it had to be started in two rows; Law drew the first row; Jack the second. At the last minute, the starter rushed down on the
track, grabbed Jack’s arm and demanded to know what he was doing out of position. That did it; before he finally got the twins straightened out, the starter was definitely a basket case.
Jack won the race, but, leading in the stretch.battle, Law developed a cramp. The brothers are still arguing how they would have finished, if it hadn’t been for the cramp.
The pretty, dark-haired girls, whom people at Notre Dame have been trying to tell apart since August of ’46, are the Bonicelli twins, Inna and Ida.
Irma, oldest of the sisters by a few minutes, works in the Science Library, and Ida in the Architecture Library. They like to work apart so they won’t become too dependent on each other.
“That’s the danger of being twins,” they warn. “Twins can easily get too closely attached. When something happens to one, the other is lost.”
The sisters Bonicelli like Notre Dame as their brother Orlando said they would. Orlando, who monogrammed on Notre Dame’s ’42 and ’43 basketball squads, arranged for the girls to come here from St. Catherine College in St. Paul, Minn., where they received degrees in Library Science.
Irma and Ida smile when they recall an incident that happened back home in Chisholm, Minn. One night, double
THE TERRIOS AND THE BONESSIS	THE OLGYAYS AND THE BONICELLIS
Confusioa and chaos in official circles
12
dating with a pair of Kcal fellows, they got shuffled coming out of a movie theater; Irma took Ida’s man and vice versa. The sisters say they’ll remember as long as they live the silly expressions on those two fellows’ faces when, at the end of the evening, they finally discovered their mistake.
Out Father McCarragher’s way, on the first floor of Zahm, live John and Jim Bonessi, sophomore pre-med students.
The brothers came to Notre Dame from Chester, West Virginia, a little town of 5,000, where they had spent all their lives. They came here for the same reason almost everyone else does: because they always wanted to. And they’re happy they came, as their Notre Dame friends treat them as individuals.
“But twins have lots of advantages,” they say.
Once when John had a part in the senior play at Chester High and was unable to appear because he was playing varsity basketball, Jim took over and nobody knew the difference.
Then there’s morning check at Notre Dame. If one of the boys is a little tired and behind on checks, the other could easily step down to the chapel for him — but they claim they wouldn’t do a thing like that to Father Mac.
The pay-off came one semester when Jim got John’s pinky. They’re still trying to figure it out over in the Director of Studies office.
First N. D. Symphony Since '40 Set for 26th
After eight full years of symphonic silence, Notre Dame will again have an orchestra playing a symphony on May 26. The Chamber Orchestra will make its second appearance of the season, playing Schubert’s B-flat Symphony No. 5, the first symphony to be presented by a Notre Dame orchestra since 1940.
The program is to include the Overture to Iphiginia by Gluck, the aforementioned symphony, a solo by Ed Ci-prus of Lalo’s Symphony Espanole, movements I and IV. The second half of the program will begin with Bachs’ Air on the G String and the Sonata A Quarto, a selection written for string quartet by Allessandro. The next selection will be by Scarlatti of the preclassic period, and used by the entire string orchestra as a pre-classical chamber orchestra novelty. A solo of Bizet’s Angus Dei, on the cello, by Brother Jacob, c.S.c., superior of the community house, will follow.
Charles A. Biondo will direct the orchestra. It will play from special scores prepared by Mr. Robert Welch, made necessary because music is not available for the thirty-piece chamber orchestra.
Debaters Lose at West Point As Small Colleges Steal Lead
It was a duplication of the old “David vs. Goliath” theme at last week’s National Invitational Debate Tournament, held at West Point, N. Y. Frank Finn and Bill Carey, Notre Dame’s representatives, were eliminated after the first five seeding rounds, as small colleges stole the spotlight from the “big name” schools.
West Point, Navy and USC, heavy pre-tourney favorites along with the Irish, all fell by the wayside during the preliminary seeding encounters. Southeastern University, tournament champions last year, UCLA, Baylor and the University of Chicago also failed to place among the top 16 to qualify for the final rounds.
This was the final event of the season for the N.D. arguers. Ultimate goal of all collegiate debaters, it brought together 34 hand-picked teams, representing the cream of the crop from all over the nation.
Law Grads to Hear First ’Lawyer’ Editor
The last social activity of the Notre Dame Law Club this semester will be the annual Hoynes Law Banquet, given in honor of graduating seniors of the College of Law, on Thursday evening, May 13, in the Oliver Hotel.
Principal speaker at the banquet will be Clarence J. Ruddy, LL.B. (Notre Dame, 1927), who is a practicing attorney in Aurora, Ill. Mr. Ruddy, the first editor of the Notre Dame Lawyer, returns to the campus on the occasion of the Lawyer’s 25th anniversary.
The toastmaster for the evening’s program will be Tom Broden, of Indianapolis. He will introduce speakers Ruddy, John Mowbray, Bradford, Ill., who will deliver the traditional farewell address to the seniors, and Larry Turner, Indianapolis, who will deliver the seniors’ acceptance.	.
Guests of honor will be the members of the faculty of the Notre Dame College of Law, their •waves and guests, and municipal, and state judges in the South Bend area and their wives and guests.
Noted English Theologian To Lecture Here Tuesday
At the invitation of the Department of Religion, the Rev. Victor White, O.P., of Blackfriars, Oxford, England, will speak Tuesday at 4:15 p. m. in the Law Auditorium.
The subject of his lecture will be “God and the Unconscious.”
Seniors Plan Retreat To Begin May 21
Hoping to establish a new tradition, the senior class this week announced plans to hold a retreat which will begin on Friday, May 21.
According to Tom McCaffrey, vice president of the class, emphasis will be placed on the responsibilities of Notre Dame men after graduation. In order to accomplish this purpose the class intends to have some of the favorite and high ranking lecturers give the various conferences. In addition it is also expected that a prominent member of the alumni will address the class on the transition from college days to business life.
According to present plans topics of the conferences will be: “On Leaving Notre Dame in Good Spiritual Condition;” “What It Means to Be a Catholic in the Twentieth Century;” “Opportunities for the Lay Apostle;” “The Catholic Family Man;” “The Spiritual Legacy of Notre Dame;” and “The Responsibilities as Catholics in the Professions and Public Life.”
In addition to the series of conferences and lectures there will also be an opportunity to make a general confession. Plans are being made to have a schedule giving the time and place where the various priests will be hearing confessions. In order to keep those making the retreat in the spiritual mood it is expected that a special section of the Dining Halls will be reserved, possibly with a more appetizing menu.
WND Radio Gadgets Overcome Static
Station WND took a progressive step this week toward eliminating one of the worst blights of the campus radio listener—the buzzing interference of electric razors and fluorescent lights. To improve radio reception, WND distributed “noise suppressors,” easily installed gadgets designed to eliminate or greatly reduce outside interference to radio programs. Complete with detailed instructions, these condensor-type devices are quickly attached to the wall plugs of radio sets.
Tonight’s news discussion program over WND will attempt to answer the “Is Compulsory Military Training Necessary?” question. Colonel Robert Brown, former military attache of the State Department and history instructor at Notre Dame, is scheduled to head a round table discussion on the subject. Broadcast time 7:30 p. m.
WND will program Sonny Dunham tomorrow night at 8:30 from the Senior Class Buffet Supper at the Palais Roy-ale Ballroom. Thirty minutes of Dunham music will be followed b yrecorded music.
13
CAPT. A. L. DANIS WAXES JUBILANT AFTER CROWNING JOANNE McCABE QUEEN OF THE N.R.O.T.C. BALL SATURDAY NIGHT
Pictorial pl ighligbts of
K. OF C. DANCE notables—Mr. and Mrs. Bob Sullivan, Queen Margaret Murphy, Chairman Bob Luther, Eva Habig and Tom Broden. Over 100 couples attended the hop at Progress Club.
FINAL TOUCHES are applied by two lovely K. of C. dance goers. This lengthy ritual, one of oldest known to womankind, will be repeated often this week end by Senior Ball guests.
14
A PAIR OF QUIZZICAL STUDENTS EYE FREEHAND DRAWING DURING THE ARCHITECTURE SCHOOL'S ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION
this //eek's ^Jews
GOODYEAR'S J. W. Basista gives members of College of Commerce the inside story on marketing, part of his company's million-dollar visual educational program. Wednesday.
WHO'S WHO award is given to Larry Turner by Father Joseph Barry during banquet last week for this year's ND entrants into "Who's Who in American Colleges and Universities."
15
CHOW A LA N. D.
Soaring food costs have made steak a semi-annual event
BYJOHN P. WALKER
“How come this semi-annual steak?” “Where are the fried eggs?” “Who stole the bacon?” “Why don’t they serve pancakes?” Questions such as these are continually on the mind of the student and since they are well-intended questions, they deserve an answer. The answer to these questions and to a good 80 per cent of other student complaints about the dining halls is a small four-letter-word that packs a whale of a wallop—cost.
The fact that these items are missing from the fare or are served only at rare intervals is either that they are too expensive to serve currently in the dining halls or that they create a difficult serving situation. Take the fried eggs, for example. In order for fried eggs to taste any different from yellow cardboard, they must be freshly fried. That means frying them on the spot on the chow line and this adds up to eight more cooks to do the frying. The day has passed when cooks will work a split trick or will be content washing down the walls between cooking operations. Then again, an on-the-spot frying job might serve to slow down the chow lines although most students wouldn’t mind the wait. This same situation applies to pan cakes. It is true that these items are not too expensive, but the problem of serving them in the form desired is what complicates matters.
The bacon, in fact all meat at breakfast, was a casualty of the austerity program to check the mounting meal
Editor's Note: This is the second of two articles dealing with the Notre Dame Dining Halls and. food situation.
costs in the dining halls. How about that once-in-a-blue-moon steak? From the period April 1944 to April 1948 loins of beef, from whence come the periodic steaks, rose from 33 cents the pound to $1.00 the pound, something near a cool 203 per cent increase. The dining halls, like all other purveyors of food, have been caught in the high cost of living. To give you an example of just what has been going on in the food market since April 1944, your attention is called to the comparative chart of prices paid at wholesale by the dining halls for their commodities. The prices listed below were drawn off actual invoices on file
with the manager.
	Price	Percent	
	April	April	of
Commodity	1944	1948	Incr.
Smoked Ham (per lb.) 		■? .31	$ .52	67.0
Beef US Choice (roast beef) 		.21	.58	176.1
Frankfurters 		.30	.45	50.0
Boiled ham 		.545	.82	49.0
Pork sausage 			.30	.47	56.6
Pork loin 			.27	.48	77.7
Rounds of beef 				.23	.62	169.5
Loins of beef (steak meat) 		.33	1.00	203.0
Turkey 			.40	.57	42.5
Veal carcass (cutlet—roast veal)	.21	.35	66.6
Potatoes 			.05	.07	40.0
Flour 		.04	.08	100.0
Butter 						.45	.87	93.3
Shortening (for baking) 		.17	.32	88.2
Ribs of beef 					.25	.75	200.0
Coffee 		.34	.45	32.3
Sugar 		.06	.09	50.0
Milk (per gal.) 			.40	.48	20.0
In addition to the rises in price of food items, the labor cost per meal in the halls doubled since 1943 and trebled since 1939. Some of this spiral in cost has been absorbed through a rise in the general fee charged by the University. A survey taken by the editors of College and. University Business and appearing in their April, 1948 issue indicates that among the 92 schools reporting in the 2,500 to 5,000 enrollment group, the average increase for board allotment of the 1947-48 school year over the 1946-47 period has been 14 per cent.
Bargain Day
The biggest bugaboo in the dining hall setup is the rising cost of food, but every so often a bargain will come along. Some time ago Mr. Ford received a letter from a bank which had foreclosed on a defunct frozen food company. Considerable frozen food was on hand, so the halls sent for samples, tried them out, found them satisfactory and upon one Friday noon the thundering herd roared in for Lobster Newburg. Blase New Englanders sniffed genteelly to the effect that it was “fair.” Bewildered Midwesterners, once they discovered what it was, thought that someone had slipped a mickey to the dining hall buyers, because they identified it with some ultra-swank establishment with fancy French food and fancier American prices. Ordinarily such plutocratic fare is far and away out of
SUNDAY'S DINNER COOLING OFF AND A DONUT'S EYE VIEW OF A CAFETERIA CUSTOMER
16
BRAIN TRUST of the Dinin? Halls—Seated: Manager Ford and Supervisor of Service Owens. Standing: Supervisor of Kitchen Kucharczyuk. Assistant Manager Kes], Chief Storekeeper Chacho and Chief Chef Hirou.
the reach of ND dining hall pocketbooks.
One general student misconception is that the dining halls operate as a concession and are, for the most part, autonomous. In reality, the manager reports to the Business Manager of the University, Rev. John J. Burke, c.s.c., and the halls are operated like any other facility of the school. The halls have under their wing, the Huddle and a cook’s house across the road from Farley Hall, and until recently, the Golf Shop in the Rockne Memorial.
Some Conclusions
What can we make of all this? There are some valid conclusions that can be drawn from the cost figures and from the general over-all picture. The building and all of its equipment was originally designed to feed family style with about 2,000 students being fed at one time. Currently the halls feed about 3,000 cafeteria style and this of necessity puts a crimp in what can be served. The most important problems are the increased costs of doing business, the labor and the food charges. These two items have resulted in the dining halls operating over their budget for a period of years.
All of this puts the student squarely
in the middle. He doesn’t know the intricate back stage manueverings that go on in the halls, and he isn’t much concerned. He judges the dining hall on one point and that is the taste of the food. If it is not to his liking, he blames the cooks. If it tastes good, he goes back for seconds. The student would be happier with the management if they remembered that he is essentially their customer, and not a necessary evil. The student is the reason for the existence of the hall and in the final analysis he helps pay the bills. For the most part he is used to being served at dinner, and not having it thrown at him or all the portions piled upon one another so that his supper is one gooey mass. He would appreciate a smile and a friendly word when he comes over for dinner and not the glacial glare which sometimes greets him. He would like a little more variety, please, in the interminable series of beans, stews and hot dogs, if that variety could be had without jacking up the already sky-high cost of doing business. He would thank the chef and the cooks to be a little more careful in their preparation so as to make the food more tasty.
As far* as the dining halls are concerned they would like the student to stop taking things that he will not eat. They
would like him to cooperate in the terrific waste problem they have. Since there is over 50 per cent wastage of bread, the halls would ask the student to take only the bread he will eat. They would like to have him stop lending his ID card to unauthorized persons so that they can eat free. The dining halls would like to tell the student that when he wastes food or allows another to use his credentials that he is only causing the food costs to go up, and for which he is ultimately going to have to pay. Cooperation from both sides can make for better relations all the way around.
Some Progress
The students, especially the upper classmen, appreciate the fact that the dining halls have made great progress since those black days in 1945 which occasioned some serious unpleasantries. They trust that there will be continued improvement. Of course, the- only real solution seems to be the construction of a second dining hall and the hope of more reasonable prices in the fields of food. But until that fabled day the halls must fight the good fight in the meat markets and trust that their customers will understand what a tough job it is to feed so many with so little.
17
Smoke, Hung Thick; Wardheelers Relax
The United States Navy got its Drill Hall back this week and, after looking it over, decided a political invasion has great potentialities for atomic warfare. The politicians had gone back to their home wards but they had left a lasting impression on the huge auditorium. The smoke still hung thick and faint echoes of “we want Vandenberg” were heard bouncing among the wooden rafters.
All over campus, political experts were still giving the “inside” on how it all happened, and Dan Norander was receiving tempting offers from campaign managers all over the country. Over in Lyons Hall, the Scholastic’s “political expert” was reminding the world that he had called the turn on the nomination in a WND interview after the first ballot. George Gallup was reported corresponding in an effort to size up the coming national campaign.
And John Ready O’Connor, surprise and extra-efficient permanent chairman of last week’s affairs, just wasn’t talking. He couldn’t—his voice had finally failed him. Meanwhile congratulations were pouring in from all quarters to Frank Keenan and the National Committee foi- a great job of administration.
It was reported early this week that the only dissatisfied faction were the “free silver” boys lead by Jack Donahoe. They were claiming a “fix,” contending that their candidate, Burton K. Wheeler, was actually the most popular candidate on the floor but had been pressured out
of the nomination by the “gold clique from Alumni and Dillon.”
Post Convention Notes—Undoubtedly influenced by the powerful Notre Dame electorate, Harvard College last week also elected Arthur Vandenberg as their Republican Presidential hopeful. . . . Harold Stassen was reported discouraged by the ND returns while Dewey and Taft were considering grabbing back their chapeaux. . . . The New England bloc is still much distressed and perplexed at the failure of their nominee, Joe Martin, to snatch the vice presidential post. . . . All convention-goers were unanimous in their opinion that the whole affair had been a great success.
—Greg Halpin
Cleveland Club Will Hear Hometowner on Mother's Day
For its annual Mother’s Day Communion Breakfast the Cleveland Club will hear a home town speaker, Brother Theophane Schmitt, C.S.C., headmaster of Gilmour Academy, a prep school recently founded in Gates Mills, Ohio.
William R. Dooley, Assistant Alumni Secretary, will also speak at the breakfast, which will be held in the Faculty Dining Hall after an 8 o’clock mass in Dillon Hall chapel. Rev. Edgar Misch, c.s.c., will say the mass.
Vincent DeCrane, newly elected club president, will be awarded the first annual Student Prize, donated by the Cleveland alumni to the student excelling in club and scholastic activities.
Sacred Liturgy M.A. Offered This Summer
Courses leading to the degree of master of arts in sacred liturgy will be offered by the Graduate School of the University during the 1948 summer session. The full program of studies will comprise a four-year course in undergraduate as well as graduate work. An extensive staff has been assembled to carry out these liturgy instructions.
The undergraduate work to be offered this summer includes courses in Liturgical Life, Liturgical Arts and Gregorian Chant. Applicants who already have completed the equivalent of these undergraduate courses will be permitted to take the graduate studies in the Liturgy of the Day, Jewish Background of Christian Liturgy and Gregorian Chant. The purpose of the graduate program is to introduce the student to research work in the field of sacred liturgy. Both programs will provide daily liturgical functions and ceremonies.
The Rev. Michael A. Mathis, C.S.C., will direct the summer Liturgical Program. The instructors for the courses are Dom Godfrey Diekmann, O.S.B., editor of “Orate Fratres” and professor of Dogmatic Theology at St. John’s University, Collegeville, Minn.; Rev. H. A. Reinhold, pastor of St. Joseph’s Church, Sunnyside, Wash.; Dom Edmund Kestel, O.S.B., professor of Plain Chant at Conception Abbey, Mo.; Rev. Aloys Dirksen, c.pp.s. associate professor of Religion at Notre Dame, and Dom Irmin Vitry, O.S.B., of St. Mary’s Institute, O’Fallon, Mo.
Sectional Color, Flaring Tempers Mark End of Convention
National Chairman Frank Keenan (back to camera) attempts to herd Dan Norander (center) and Tom Brogan from the platform during verbal tussle over parliamentary ethics involved in announcement of Warren's withdrawal.
Members of the Texas delegation, resplendent in boots and sombreros, listen attentively to convention procedure. Claiming Yankee infiltration into its ranks, it later split with Southern bloc and helped Vandenberg cause.
18
NFCCS Convention in Philly Takes Stand Behind Progressive Student Government
Notre Dames’ delegates to the recent convention of the National Federation of Catholic College Students returned from the Philadelphia meeting a pleasantly surprised and greatly encouraged trio. They had not expected the convention to be the productive, fast moving meeting of progressive Catholic students that it turned out to be. With a firmness of purpose befitting the responsibilities of the representatives of the nation’s Catholic students they put themselves on record with an unequivocal stand on the hotly debated subject of student government.
Notre Dame' Commended
The Notre Dame student body as a whole and delegate Lou Burns in particular were commended for their amazing work in contributing over $32,000 to the recent European student relief drive. A citation from the federation was the token extended to the students, while the National Chairmanship of the European Student Relief Fund was tendered Burns in recognition of his outstanding work during the campus drive.
Believing that this year’s fund of $148,000 is only a small part of the national potential of the member schools, Chairman Burns and his committeemen are planning to set the 1949 goal very much higher.
“They are out to beat Notre Dame,” is Lou’s comment on the sentiments of the other schools. Notre Dame is by no means the largest school in the federation, but took top honors in the national drive. “To many of the schools it is still a mystery how a school in this part of the country, located near a town the size of South Bend, could do so well.”
Participating colleges have profited from this year’s experience and are expected to eliminate the difficulties which hampered their 1948 efforts. Some of the colleges were not fortunate enough tc have had the administrative cooperation that the Notre Dame group enjoyed. This is one of the obstacles which Chairman Burns believes will be corrected.
The 1949 campaign will be augmented by a solicitation for spiritual as well as material aid for European students. Prayer, while not stressed in previous to the European students. In a recent campaigns, can be of immeasurable aid article written for a student publication at New Rochelle College, New York, Lou Burns advocated a prayer a day for the destitute overseas students.
The federation did not propose any immediate or radical changes in the current student government situation on
Catholic college campuses. Instead it attempted to establish both the administration and student viewpoints on the subject. From these considerations it recommended to the National Catholic Education Association that a joint study panel of students and educators be established.
The NFCCS recognizes — and hopes that it can get students and educators to recognize — the dual responsibility incumbent on the student body and the administration for successful student government. Administration’s recognition of the existence of a national and international student community is essential to the program. In addition to his duties to God and self, the student has obligations to country, school, and fellow students, while each in return has a duty to him. Recognition of this obligation on the part of administration leads directly into the three-point program which it must study.
Today's Student Is Tomorrow's Leader
The first move by administration is to appreciate the position of the Catholic student in the Catholic lay movement. Admitted that the student body is a transitory element while administration is permanent, college years are still the formative ones in which the student prepares himself for his position in that lay movement. The college student of today if the lay leader of tomorrow. He must be trained for that office.
The responsibility of Catholic educators to prepare the student for that leadership is point number two. Where else can the Catholic student secure that training, but in a Catholic college? The third proceeds directly from these two. The best way for the student leader to be trained is by practical campus experience.
But NFCCS realizes that student responsibilities in student government are equally great. The student must first prove that he can exercise discretion and leadership. The Notre Dame campus has witnessed two practical student demonstrations of these qualities in the recently concluded mock convention and the very successful student relief drive. There are functions which the student community can do. It is the duty of the student government to seek these functions and to prove that they can handle them as well as the administration can.
St. Joseph's Shows the Way
The experience of St. Joseph’s College in Brooklyn does much to support this contention. Although it is a small girls’
school, its progressive administration and student body have recognized student ability. The discipline is completely under student control except for offenses meriting expulsion. Even in the latter cases a student representative sits with the faculty board.
NFCCS is not proposing immediate adoption of such a plan on the nation’s Catholic college campus. It recognizes the fact that students must be trained, before such responsibilities can be assumed. It further recognizes that such a liberal program might not be advisable for the larger colleges. What it does wish to point out in such an example is just what student government can do.
Student government groups must always be on guard against misuse in the performance of its functions. Students must choose their representatives with a view to ability. Neglect of either of these student responsibilities will be—in fact already has been—detrimental to the progressive cause of more liberal student privileges and functions. Administration must keep its veto power, but at the same time it is advised to use it judiciously to control student government operations.
Administration must make an earnest effort to assign to student government such functions as the student body can responsibly perform. The student body must accept, even seek, these functions, not just for the purpose of doing, but for the more profitable purpose of acquiring leadership training.
On such a basis, the NFCCS recommended at its Philadelphia convention that each member school form a joint committee of representatives of the student community and the administration. Each of the two parties would prepare a list of what each believes constitutes the sphere of responsibility for student government. At a joint meeting these lists would be compared and a workable foundation for student government prepared. Such a “meeting of minds” has already been attempted and successfully carried out at St. Mary’s College, Winona, Minnesota.
Working through the Notre Dame Administration and Student Council, the energetic Lou Burns and his fellow NFCCS delegates hope to bring these recommendations before the responsible parties on campus. Burns is emphatic in pointing out that NFCCS is not a political action group. It gathers, by means of these periodic conventions, the fruits of the experience of other student government groups and offers them to the Notre Dame authorities for what they may be worth in the local program. At the same time it passes to other NFCCS members any profits from similar experience on the Notre Dame campus.
19
SCHOLASTIC SOOLTJ
Keglers Climax Season on Sunday
Vets Versus Villagers In Blue-Gold Playoff
The first season of campus bowling will end Sunday at the Bowl-Mor Alleys when the Blue and Gold league teams meet to decide the Notre Dame Bowling League Championship. This day will climax 16 weeks of competitive bowling during which the 12 teams of each league jockeyed for roll-off positions and a crack at the title. Vetville’s buggypushing crew grabbed first place in the Blue League and the Villagers took top honors in the Gold. These two teams will match strikes and spares for the Notre Dame title. The rest of the teams will roll off as follows:
BLUE	for Position
Vetville	vs.	Villagers ........... 1
Toledo	vs.	Inter-American ------ 3
Fox River Valley vs.	Rochester ........... 5
Pittsburgh	vs.	Italian Club ________ 7
Syrian-Lebanese	vs.	Buffalo ............  9
Chemists	vs.	Detroit ............ 11
Texas	xs.	Boston ............. 13
Met Club	vs.	Rockford ___________ 15
Monogram	vs.	St. Louis .......... 17
Aero	vs.	Jet Propulsion _____ 19
Milwaukee	vs.	ASME _______________ 21
Columbus	vs.	Youngstown 23
Blue League Standings Team	W. L. Pts
Vetville ........................   38	13	51
Toledo .........................    33	18	46
Fox River Valley .................  31	20	43
Pittsburgh .................        30	21	38
Syrian-Lebanese ................    27	24	36
Chemists .....................      26	25	35
Texas —...........................  23	28	31
Met Club ..._...................    23	28	29
Monogram .......................    21	30	28
Aero ...........................    20	31	24
Milwaukee _______________________   17	34	24
Columbus .........................  17	34	23
Gold Lague Standings Team	W.	L.	Pls
Villagers ----------------ri______ 34	17	46
Inter-American Affairs ____________ 30	21	40
Rochester -----------------------   29	22	40
Italian _______________________     27	24	39
Buffalo .........................   30	21	38
Detroit  28	23	38
Boston ---------------------------- 27	24	37
Rockford _________________£T._____ 25	26	32
St. Louis  23	28	31
Jet Propulsion  21	30	27
ASME ------------------------------ 17	34	21
Youngstown ______________________   15	36	19
In addition to the 17 trophies the keglers will also be shooting for some cash awards. The keglers supplied the dough through weekly dues. Money prizes will range from fifty bucks for the first place team down to a few bucks consolation prize for the cellar outfit.
The Syrian-Lebanese Club took the team single game trophies with a smash-20
PLAY BALL!
The first pitch of Notre Dame's 1948 home season is winged plateward
ing 1011 last week. They outdistanced Buffalo by three pins. Art Arquilla of the Italian Club rolled a 621 three game series early in the season which the other keglers have been unable to match. Art will be awarded the high individual three game trophy. Jim Jennewein of the St. Louis bowling five, holds the single game record with a 255. High team three game trophy will go to Toledo. They hold the record with a 2816 three game series, three pins ahead of the Syrian-Lebanese camel-riders. Here is the rundown on the team and individual honors.
High Team Three Game Toledo ________________________________________   2816
Syrian-Lebanese ...............................   2813
Fox River Valley .............................  2806
High Team Single Game Syrian-Lebanese ..............................  1011
Buffalo _______________________................ 1008
Fox River Valley  1003
High Individual Single Game
Jim Jennewein (St. Louis)  255
Art Arquilla (Italian Club) ____.'.............  254
Paul Pukish (Rochester).......................   242
'High Individual Three Game
Art Arquilla (Italian Club) 621
Tom Simon (Syrian-Lebanese)  609
Chuck Derrico (Italian Club) 596
There should be a lot of thrill-packed bowling Sunday at the Bowl-Mor Alleys when the keglers hit it off at 1 p. m. Spectators will be admitted free of charge.
lauiiiiiimititmMiiitHititiiiiiiiiiteiuiiiiiimmiiiiMeitiHiimtiiiiittii
Over the Goalposts
By PETE BROWN '
tiltiiiiiilttitiiiiiiiititlillliililllltlttliilillltllttllllliitittitinillttiilllli
Several weeks back my colleague, Joe Wilcox, continuing one of his most prominent habits, stuck his neck out by predicting the outcome of the major league pennant races. Since that time I have received many rebuttals for Joe’s selections along this line, “What’s the big idea of letting him get away with that, you’re the sports editor; you should make the picks. Joe Cheney always did.” Most of these rebutters were larger than I, so much so that rather than have both myself and my good name dragged through the mud I hereby select:
AMERICAN LEAGUE . . .
1.	St. Louis Browns. The Browns faked the rest of the league out by trading all their ball players to Boston. They have a surprise ingredient which they will unleash around mid-season when everyone considers them out of the race. The ingredient is a pitcher named Fleegle.
2.	Chicago White Sox. Look for the Sox to be with the Browns right to the wire. They have no stellar performer, just an over-all power and pitching strength. Rain will be a big factor in their pennant drive.
3.	Cleveland Indians. Feller and Lemon should win 70 games between them. Boudreau and Keltner should hit over .400 for the first half of the season, but from then on they will be stupi-fied by Fleegle.
4.	Washington Senators. The Senators are now engineering a trade with the Bugs for “Spike” Kleats. This addition will aid their pitching staff, but will not help them to finish any higher than fourth.
5.	Philadelphia Athletics. If Connie Mack can get in a few more than his usual 70 games and bat his usual .207, the Athletics might finish higher.
6.	Detroit Tigers. The shadows from the new light towers have completely unnerved the Tigers. The only reason the Tigers will finish this high is that these shadows will have some , effect on Fleegle’s whammy.
7.	New York Yankees. The Sophomore jinx will catch Joe Page and Yogi Berra. However this might be offset by the Yankees new sensational rookie DiMaggio. The powerful Yankees are a thing of the past. They are too busy taking screen tests for the “Babe Ruth Story.”
8.	Boston Red Sox. The papers and the magazines have been all wrong about the Red Sox power. It is an optical illusion.
NATIONAL LEAGUE . . .
Selection in this league is more difficult than in the American. In our opinion the teams will finish roughly in this order—Chicago, Cincinnati, Pittsburgh, New York, St. Louis, Brooklyn, Philadelphia and Boston. We won’t stake our reputation as a predicter on this list because as we see it any one of these teams can win the pennant. Between the first and eighth teams there will be no more than four percentage points. With players such as Blackwell, McBatt, Rush, and Yokum in the league, competition is bound to be at a high pitch.
Klinemen Win Opener, Lose Nightcap to Hoosiers
Capitalizing on six Indiana errors and two timely blows from the bat of right fielder" Bob Machado, Coach Jake Kline’s Irish nine came from behind to trip the Hoosiers 5-3 in the opening day doubleheader on Cartier Field last week. In the second game the Indiana boys took an early lead and held it for seven innings to win 5-1.
The Klinemen were again conspicuous for their lack of power at the plate. In the first contest nearly all the Irish runs were scored on errors or set up by errors. Only Bob Machado was able to find the range consistently on Hoosier pitcher Ward Williams’ offerings. The little right fielder tagged the lanky Indiana basketball star for three singles which accounted for two Irish runs.
Irish pitchers Creevey, the starter, Sherman and Mahannah were touched for but four hits by the Hoosiers. Mahannah received credit for the win after pitching three innings of hitless hall after relieving Sherman in the seventh.
The Hoosiers went all out in the second game. Led by McClean, Birko, Litz and Wellman, the Bloomington crew unleashed a potent eleven-hit attack to knock two Irish pitchers from the mound and gain the victory. Notre Dame’s starting twirler for the second game, Dick Kluck, who was also the losing pitcher, was replaced by southpaw Jack Campbell in the fourth. Another Irish southpaw, Eldon O’Brien, came through in seventh-inning relief as a
Vinegar and Brown Paper Squad Takes Rest In Hopes of Cohering before Saturday Match
By HARRY MONAHAN
Coach Frank Leahy decided last weekend to give the remains of his football squad a few days off, hoping no doubt that the rest from Friday until Wednesday would permit enough of his battered gridders to recuperate sufficiently to permit the daily scrimmage sessions to co i-tinue. The Irish grid machine was definitely down at the heels as it was sent through a final scrimmage before the rest period. Injuries have played havoc with the squad, and Friday drills found the head coach with only one experienced fullback ready for action.
And even on Friday the jinx did not completely desert its Cartier abode. Big Emil Ciechanowicz, 230-pound tackle from Chicago, sustained a back injury during the early part of the session. The six managers who were required to carry the hefty lineman over to Hugh Burns’ Stadium infirmary got a heavier* workout than most of the players. Earlier in the week, Pep Panelli came up with a leg injury and Lank Smith’s hand was so swollen that it put him on the sideliv.es.
While the injury list was being increased, one Irish lineman returned to action to ease the desperate shortage. Johnny Frampton’s fractured left hand was healed and the Pomona, California, guard has thrown his helmet back in the ring for that second string spot.
Friday was the Scooter’s day and Cou-tre made the most of it. The fleet little back from the Windy City punched his way through a stubborn second team defense to tally five times for a makeshift first string offense. If his blockers couldn’t open up the holes, the redhead would get on his skates and race down
probable ND starter in the future. In this, his first game, he rendered the outstanding pitching performance of the day, striking out all three Hoosiers to face him.
This afternoon in Madison, Notre Dame opens a two-game series with the University of Wisconsin. Still on the comeback trail while trying to better their record, Coach Kline’s squad will have a formidable foe in the Badgers. Bolstered by such power hitters as Stu Locklin and Rhinert Tadych, the Wisconsin team currently holds fourth place in the Big Nine standings. Following the Wisconsin game the Irish travel to Lafayette for a night game with Purdue. The next home contest will be with Ohio State on May 14.—Vic Dorr
to put the snatch on a pitch from Tri-pucka or Williams. Larry scored a sixth tally, but was hit hard on the play and fumbled.
Steve Oracko put in another bid for the point-kicking assignment next fall. Steve had trouble during the early part of the spring drills and the frosh quarterback ace, Bob Williams, was called on for the extra point attempts. But Oracko booted seven out of seven in the offensive team attack. He muffed five field goal attempts, however, to mar his record in the Friday performance.
Jack Landry, Rochester, New York’s contribution to the Notre Dame eleven, continued to boost his chances for that traveling squad. His running has reminded some of the Cartier spectators of Bob Livingstone, with his high stepping drive. Jack also gathered in a pass to score. With a little faster set of blockers he would have scored another time, but was dragged down on the two-yard line.
Spring drills are going into the final week before the annual Stadium clash between the varsity and the Old Timers (augmented by the varsity reserves) will give Coach Leahy the first practical test of his 1948 entry in the collegiate .football scramble. If injuries continue, this year’s game may have to be played under the sponsorship of Hugh Burns in his rather cramped quarters under the Stadium. But on the greensward or in the whirlpool, next weekend will probably set the value of Notre Dame stock in the coming fall campaign. Sportswriters will be getting on or off the Irish bandwagon according to the final score.
St. Joe Valley Alumni Slate Golf Tourney for June 22
The annual golf tournament sponsored by the Notre Dame Alumni Club of St. Joseph Valley will be held on June 22 at the South Bend Country Club, it was announced today by Edward W. Krause, Head Basketball Coach and Assistant Director of Athletics at Notre Dame, who is chairman of the 1948 links tourney.
Chairman Krause said the golf tournament will be followed by a program of entertainment in the clubhouse. Final details of the tournament will be announced in the near future.
21
Smith's 9.6 Century Features Peoria Rout; Marquette Next Foe on Trackmen's Slate
By JIM HOWARD
Tomorrow at Milwaukee Notre Dame will renew a rivalry with the Marquette track team which to date has resulted in four Irish vicories and three Hilltopper wins. Marquette will be striving to even the series, while the Notre Dame spike-sters, flushed with their overwhelming victory at Peoria over Drake and Bradley universities last Saturday, will attempt to start a winning streak with consecutive meets.
The Irish and the Hilltoppers have not met in a regular dual contest for two years but have taken part in triangular battles with each other. N.D. has emerged victorious in all of these three-way encounters. The Notre Dame speedsters are definitely favored in tomorrow’s duel, but Marquette is expected to offer strong resistance in the hurdles, middle distances, pole vault, broad jump, and the weight events.
The pole vault in particular is conced- • ed to the Milwaukee aggregation because of the outstanding performances of Roy Potochnik in many relays held earlier this year. Potochnik has cleared 13 feet consistently, and Jim Miller and Ray Struble will be forced to exceed their past performances in order to take the title or force a tie. If Ray Espenan is released from his football duties, he will boTster the N.D. strength in that Irish weak spot, the broad jump.
Floyd Simmons, who won the javelin throw at Peoria with a toss of 162 feet 5% inches, will be featured in duel with the Marquette star Carl Schuette. Notre Dame shot putter George Sullivan will clash with Gil Stocker in another of the features of the affair. In the last meet in 1946, the Irish were edged 66-65 in the closest battle of the series.
Coach Doc Handy will rely on the usual stellar performances of Bill Leonard, Jim Murphy, Bob Smith, Bill Fleming, Jim Kittell, Ernie McCullough, and Ray Sobota for the major share of points in the battle at the Marquette stadium. Smith who blazed through the 100-yard dash in :9.6 in the Bradley-Drake affair is favored to again capture the century title. The South Bend speedster also won the 220-yard dash in the triangular last Saturday, and is not expected to receive any real challenge in that battle. Leonard will compete in the 880-yard run, and may also run in the mile. He toured the Bradley oval in 1:55.1 last Saturday.
Fleming was the top scorer in the three way contest last Saturday with
22
wins in the high and low barrier events, and a third in the high jump. If John Smith is not well enough to take part in the Marquette rivalry, Fleming is expected to duplicate his feats of the past weekend.
The Notre Dame distance runners, Murphy and Kittel, are not expected to relinquish their superiority in the mile and two-mile runs to the Hilltoppers. Murphy received a tremendous ovation from the Peoria crowd as he won the grueling two-mile by 220 yards last weekend. Kittell displaying the drive and form that made him a top high school miler staged a strong finishing kick to win the mile at Peoria in 4:23.1. The Montana flash revived sufficiently to take third in the two-mile event later in the day.
John Johnson who took the discus honors at Peoria with a toss of 143 feet 9 inches is expected to be in top form by the time tomorrow’s battle arrives. He has far surpassed the 143 foot mark in the past.
Irish Take Last Set To Beat Wolverines
Notre Dame and Michigan put on a thrilling tennis spectacle last Saturday, with the Irish emerging victorious, five matches to four. As predicted it was a battle down to the wire with the outcome hinging on the last set of the afternoon.
Michigan applied the pressure in the early singles matches by winning three straight but then ran into the Big Thr'-e of Notre Dame tennis, Capt. Jerry Evert, Jim Evert and Bob David. Jerry disposed of Fred Otto in two sets and David got revenge for last year’s defeat by beating Bill Mikulich in two Laid sets.
After winning the first set, Jim Evert ran into trouble with Michigan’s ^ough Andy Paton and dropped the second set 4-6. With the chips down, however, Jim played a great third set and won, evening the matches at 3-3 and leaving the outcome of the match to the three double matches.
Once more Michigan spurted off to an early lead. Fred Nagel and Gene Lyons, Notre Dame’s No. 3 doubles team, were decisively trimmed in two sets and Mikulich and Paton beat Jim Evert and David 7-5 in the first set. Then Evert
THE VICTOR S SPOILS
Samples of trophies to be awarded, flight winners in Student Golf Tourney, which began Tuesday
and David rallied to even the match and the outcome of the afternoon’s pro. eed-ings hung on the decisive third set, Jerry Evert and Gene Biittner having previously trounced Otto and Jack Hersh in straight sets.
Both men came through with some of their best tennis of the season as they won four of the first five games and applied the clincher a little later when David served and won.—Tom McNally
Bowlers Roll in 4-Way Meet With Purdue, Valpo, St. Joe's
Intercollegiate kegling activities in Indiana will be highlighted this week by a quadrangular meet at Collegeville, the hometown of St. Joseph’s College. In addition to an entry from the host, teams from Notre Dame, Purdue, and Valparaiso will tangle on the Remington alleys to demonstrate their abilities with a 16-pound ball and the elusive tenpins.
The Notre Dame aggregation, selected on the basis of averages compiled in the Notre Dame Bowling League competition, has an ample supply of strikes which have been kept in storage since the recent matches with DePaul, and Valparaiso. Ernie Huffman, President of the Notre Dame Bowling League, has indicated that this reserve will be utilized whenever necessary next Saturday.
Competition in the afternoon matches will be determined by drawing. In the evening, the two afternoon winners will meet for the tournament championship.
SPLINTERS
from the Pressbox
By JIM BUTZ
Zygmont Peter Czarobski, noted football player, lecturer, master of ceremonies, etc., has been visiting at school
off and on for the past several weeks. Zig has been dressing, and helping in the coaching of tackles out on Cartier. This is also in line with his getting-in-shape - for-the - Old - Timers-game policy. Most of his conditioning has come in marching off five-yard penalties, but Zig claims that he will
be all set on May 15.
“The Old Timers will be particularly strong at tackles,” ventures the Aiderman. “We might even have a few cute tackle-eligible plays so that we can take advantage of my speed and shiftiness. We’ll have speed to burn at the tackles with Connor, Sullivan, and Czarobski— although not necessarily in that order.”
Czarobski weighs in now at 240 pounds, but he expects to melt that down to 238 or thereabouts before game time.
Ziggy’s latest game story concerns Johnny Lujack. During one of last fall’s victories, Czarobski began to question Lujack’s play-calling (for the first time, Zig hastens to add).
HOLIDAY
An Adventure in Good Smoking
Larus & Brother Company
Richmond, Virginia
“We were doing all right around end and in the air, but I thought we could really pick up some ground through the tackles—especially with such great men as Connor and Czarobski leading the way.”
“I pointed this fact out to John who shut me up with a ‘Dry up, Czarobski, or I’ll bite your head off’.”
“If you do, you’ll have more brains in your stomach than in your head,” was Ziggy’s snappy rejoinder.
The most noticeable thing about spring football practice is the lack of established Irish backfield stars. Injuries or late classes keep most of them from
tMMdTap-HMatywrPiwMly.
SPALDING SETS THE PACE IN SPORTS
practicing daily. The injury list, which has been growing steadily all spring, contains such men as Ernie Zalejski, Mike Swistowicz, John Panelli, Emil Sit-ko, Coy McGee, Larry Coutre, and Lancaster Smith. Each has had various periods on Hughie Burn’s casualty roster.
The result has been that many boys from last year’s freshman squad have been getting more than their share of attention—and profiting by it. Jack Landry, at left half, has impressed Coach Leahy with his speed and aggressiveness. Landry might hold the key to Notre Dame success next fall in the event that Terry Brennan and Zalejski don’t recover from knee injuries.
100 Business Leaders Here For Conference
More than one hundred prominent bus-ness leaders will gather on the campus next Thursday to attend the first annual Notre Dame Foreign Trade Conference. All members of the faculty and all students of the University are invited to attend. The conference is sponsored by the Department of Marketing of the College of Commerce in connection with National Foreign Trade Week, May 16 to May 22 .
The conference is expected to fill a practical educational need in that it will afford business men of smaller midwestern firms an opportunity to discuss their particular interests with a group of specialists actively engaged in various fields of world trade. At the same time it will allow the interested students of the Uri-versity to make valuable contacts and discuss their chances in the foreign commerce field with men who are in a position to know.
A luncheon will be given in the faculty dining room of the Dining Halls at noon. Mr. Richard Hutchinson, president of Studebaker Export Corporation, will introduce the guest speaker, Mr. Herbert Prochnow, who will speak on the subject, “World Trade and World Stability.”
The afternoon forum discussion will be held in the Engineering Auditorium. A panel of six advisors will conduct the forum and will be ready to answer any questions on their specialties. Dean James E. McCarthy will be chairman of this panel. The six men are: Mr. Clarence Reuthling, assistant cashier of the First National Bank of Chicago, finance; Mr.’ Robert Larracuenta, president of the United Export Corp., selling; Mr. Martin Plotnick of Plotnick Marine Insurance Co., insurance; Mr. Alfred Kelley, treasurer of D. C. Andrews Freight Forwarding Co., shipping; Mr. E. L. Davidson, chief of world trade section, Chicago Regional office of the U. S. Department of Commerce, government; and Mr. John Briel, Readers Digest International representative, foreign advertising.
The conference will close with a dinner at six in the faculty dining room. Dean McCarthy will introduce the principal speaker, Mr. Richard Hobbs, who will speak on the subject, “Overseas Problems in Distribution, Merchandising and Selling.” Mr. Hobbs is vice president of Irwin-Vladimir & Co. of Illinois, Inc., foreign advertisers.—Pat Stanton
200 Married Vets Renew
Vows at Cana Conclave
In an impressive ceremony climaxing the annual Cana Conclave of Notre Dame’s married students and their wives, over 200 couples renewed their marriage vows last Sunday afternoon in Farley Hall Chapel. The Cana Conclave is designed for the married couples to review their married lives and is con-
GREYHOUND FARES ARE
S^^ay
for your trip HOME!
Those mighty-low Greyhound fares will give a welcome boost to your ailing year-end budget . . . and you’ll be sure to like Greyhound’s comfort, convenience, denendabilitv!
Cleveland, Ohio ...	One Way ...$ 4.00	Rd. Trip S 7.20
Detroit, Mich		... 3.30	5.95
Minneapolis, Minn.	... 8.00	14.40
Pittsburgh, Pa		... 6.20	11.20
New York, N. Y....	... 12.95	21.80
Muskegon, Mich. ..	... 3.15	5.70
Washington, D. C. .	... 10.95	19.75
Philadelphia, Pa. ..	... 11.55	20.80
Boston, Mass		... 14.05	22.65
[Without Tax)
ducted annually by Reverend Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., Vetville chaplain.
Sunday’s program opened with a recitative mass and sermon at 9 a.m. in the Farley chapel and was followed by a conference on “What to Look for in Marriage” in the Vets Rec Hall. The first afternoon session was held at 2 o’clock, followed by the recitation of the Rosary at the Grotto. After* a questionbox period the couples moved to Cartier Field for a picnic lunch.
	One Way	Rd. Trip
Buffalo, N. Y		....$ 6.90	S12.45
Denver, Colo		.... 18.60	33.50
St. Louis, Mo		.... 5.60	10.10
Columbus, Ohio ..	.... 4.75	8.55
Kansas City, Mo. .	.... 8.75	15.75
Memphis, Tenn. ..	.... 9.65	17.40
Cincinnati, Ohio ..	.... 4.95	8.95
Louisville, Ky		.... 5.00	9.00
Scranton, Pa		.... 11.20	20.20

24
Names Make News
Plans & Prizes
The Central Soya Company of Fort Wayne, Indiana, has established a chemical fellowship at Notre Dame to be used for research on the most efficient utilization of farm products. The first recipient of the fellowship is AUGUST L. LEGEAY, of Paducah, Ky., who received his bachelor of science degree in chemical engineering at Notre Dame in 1943. He will be allowed §1,200 for the calendar year plus remission of tuition and fees. . . .
Plump, jovial DAN NOR ANDER, campaign manager for Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg, presidential nominee in the recent mock republican convention, received the following telegram from the Michigan senator last week:
DEEPLY APPRECIATE NOTRE DAME’S CONFIDENCE AND YOUR EFFECTIVE LOYALTY. YOU PLACE ME GREATLY IN YOUR DEBT BUT I THINK YOU KNOW MY POINT OF VIEW, THAT I CAN BEST SERVE MY COUNTRY BY COMPLETING MY PRESENT TOUR OF DUTY IN THE SENATE.
SENATOR A. H. VANDENBERG
The captain of last season’s Irish basketball team, JOHN (BUSTER) HILLER, has been named head basketball coach at St. John’s College, Collegeville, Minn. Hiller, a senior from East Bernstadt, Kentucky, will assist head football coach JOE BENDA in the pig-
BUSTER HILLER A job
skin department. Benda was a former end coach at Notre Dame. . . .
Last week in an address before students in the College of Law, Oxie Reich-ler, editor of the Yonkers (N. Y.) Herald Statesman, advocated a closer relationship between judges, lawyers and the press in the United States to more fully satisfy the needs of a public which looks to them for guidance and aid. Mr.
Talks & Travel
Two well-known professors of political science at Notre Dame, Dr. FERDINAND A. HERMENS and Dr. WALDEMAR GURIAN, will leave the United States this month to teach special courses at the German universities of Bonn, Cologne, and Munster. Dr.
DAN NORANDER A wire
Hermens, who is one of the leading opponents of the proportional representation system in national government will lecture on the general problems of democracy and constitutional reconstruction during May, June and July, and will return to the campus for- the fall semester. Dr. Gurian, eminent authority on Soviet Russia and editor of the Notre Dame-published Revieiv of Politics, has also been invited to lecture at the University of Munich and to take part in the jubilee celebration at the Cologne cathedral, but he will return to Notre Dame for the summer session....
A panel discussion on “The Broad Objectives of Engineering Education” to be held in Chicago on May 7 and 8 will include the Rev. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., President of the University of Notre Dame. The discussion, which will be held at the annual meeting of the Indiana-Illinois Section of the American Society of Engineering Educators is tentatively scheduled to be
FR. CAVANAUGH A panel
broadcast over radio station WIND in Chicago on the morning of May 8. . . .
In the May issue of Sign, a national Catholic magazine, Rev. JOHN A. O’BRIEN, of the Department of Religion, is the author of an article entitled “The Hundred Million.” He surveys the possibilities of making converts among the millions of non-church-going Americans and reports on current Catholic efforts, terming them “a drop in the bucket” compared with the distribution of literature by Jehovah’s Witnesses. Estimated membership of the Witnesses, he reports, has skyrocketed from 44,000 in 1940 to 500,000 in 1946. . . .
Bride & Groom
Engaged to LOUIS J. MUSTICO, Commerce junior from Elmira, N. Y.: Miss Eileen Granahan, of Chicago, DI. The wedding will be in the late summer. . . .
Engaged to BERNARD BEIER, mechanical engineering senior from . Topeka, Kansas: Miss Mary . Cieslewicz, St. Mary’s sophomore, from South Bend. No date has been set for the wedding....
Married to AUGUST B. CIFELLI, junior from Pittsburgh, Pa., and tackle on Notre Dame’s football team: Miss Marguerite E. Varga, of Mishawaka, in Holy Cross Church, May 1. . . .
Married to Harry S. Ciesielski, of South Bend: Miss ANNE STROYNA, of Notre Dame’s department of Student Accounts, in St. Casimir’s church, May 1. . . .
Born to Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD T. CASIN, a son, in St Joseph hospital, April 29. Weight: 7 lbs. 12 ozs. Ed Cassin is a commerce junior from Chicago, Ill. .. .
25
CAMPUS CLUBS
MET CLUB DANCE
Friday night, June 18, the Met Clubbers will once again defy the elements which ruined their Christmas Formal. This time the Knickerbockers have scheduled a spring formal in the Grand Ballroom of the Hotel Pierre, a Fifth Avenue mecca of society.
According to Chairman Jack Caem-merer, the dance will be held from 9:00 until 2:00, with the music supplied probably by Harry Arnold and his band.
Publicity chief Don Jost and his assistants have placed six posters around the halls announcing the affair and make but one request—please leave the posters up. Ed McEneaney, Bid Chairman, and Al Pais, his right hand man, have released tickets priced at $5 to the hall representatives. There is no door sale planned.
SONS OF ALUMNI CALL FIRST MEETING
The committee of Notre Dame men whose fathers or grandfathers attended the University plan to hold the first meeting of their new organization at 7:30 Thursday, May 13, in Room 100 of the Law Building.
All students whose fathers or grandfathers attended Notre Dame are invited to participate in the formation of the club.
Moran Urges Individual Treatment of Criminals
“There is as much difference between individual inmates of prisons as between students of any university,” the Honorable Frederick A. Moran told Notre Dame students and faculty members here last week.
Mr. Moran, chairman of the New York board of parole and a correctional worker for thirty years, emphasized the complexity of criminal cases, which must be considered on an individual basis. He said that “the correctional worker must discover all past motivation of behavior in the individual man.”
Nearly 40 per cent of all boys in reformatories come from homes broken up by death, divorce or extreme family insecurity. Mr. Moran attributes this to the fact that insecurity occurs when children are not able to pursue basic human wants or desires.
For a social worker’s creed, he suggested Chesterton’s description of St. Francis, who looked kindly upon everyone, trying to find the best qualities within each person.
ND Students Write Three Articles for May CONCORD
Three Notre Dame students—Robert L. Reynolds, Vincent J. Giese, and Joseph V. Wilcox—wrote articles in the May issue of Concord magazine.
Mr. Reynolds, the editor, is a junior in the College of Arts and Letters. He reports the “little U.N.” meeting at the University of Chicago which attracted 182 students from 22 states. Invited by the Chicago Student Forum and Chancellor Robert M. Hutchins, the college
jDouq£aiShoa
W. L. DOUGLAS/SHOE CO., BROCKTON 15, MASS.
210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
delegation gained a “working knowledge” of the U.N., each one representing a different member nation.
“The Student Press” of Mr. Giese points out the great interest that today’s college student shows in the nation’s politics. Giese is a Political Science gi ad student.
Various types of college students are classified in the third article, “Great Danes in the Poodle Pens.” Joe Wilcox, the Scholastic’s feature editor, comments on what he terms “abnormal'’ college students.
26
For graduation choose larker 51 ...the world’s most wanted pen
• Success and Parker “51” just naturally go together. Leaders in every field — the world over—prefer this pen. No wonder seniors at top universities have again and again voted “51” the pen most wanted for graduation.
The way the “51” will speak of your good taste — the way it will spark your thoughts and always show you at your best—these can mean so much in the years ahead.
So plan now to graduate to a Parker “51” — the pen that “writes dry with wet ink!” Try it at your Parker dealer’s. Get acquainted with its instant starting... its swift sure glide.
Choice of colors and custom points. Twa sizes: regular and the new demi-size. The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wis., U.S.A., and Toronto, Canada.
PARKER "SI"—PERFEC T FOR EVERY GIFT OCCASION: GRADUATION • FATHER'S DAY • BIRTHDAYS • WEDDINGS • ANNIVERSARIES
Copyright 1948, Liccett & Mms Tobacco Co.