
Bruno's 
Pizza 
ONE 18-INCH PIZZA WITH 3 TOPPINGS FOR $12.00 EVERY DAY 
119 U.S. 31 (just north of campus) Open for carryout, delivery & dine-in 11 :00 to 1 :30 Lunch 
4:00 
to 10:00 Sunday to Thursday 

4:00 
to 11 :00 Friday and Saturday 


273-3890 
"All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" We offer FREE DELIVERY to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses. 
Subscribe to: 


MAGAZINE 

Only $35 a year -12 regular biweekly issues plus the annual Football Review: 
You'll find: 
• 
the latest campus news and sports 

• 
national and campus entertainment coverage 

• 
controversial campus issues 


• what's happening on weekends · • off-the-wall humor 



M A G A z N E 


Quarter Dogs Bark at G) 
Every Breath You Take 


They know what you' re up to. They have cameras peering down as you walk to class. They have easy access to your grades, your e-mail and all sorts of private information. Some sort of para­noid rambling? N_ot entirely. by Jake Mooney 
Midnight 
They're bored. They're hungry. They're slowly killing them­selveswith dangerously over-processed meat products. Scho­lastic investigates the quarter dog culture. by Heather Hogan 
.Sticking With It Q) 
The lacrosse team finished a disappointing 5-7 lastyear. This year they've los.t several stars to graduation. See how the squad plans to handle the '.99 campaign. by Corey Spinelli 
Considering the Consequences by Katie Keller 8 Home Improvement by.Jina Zurcher 12 Liquid Asset by Patrick Downes 13 ·The Complete Player by Brian Vernetti 19 Friday Night Fights by Patrick Downes 22 Life's a Beach by Katie Rak 25 Tuning Up by Joe Gallagher and Katie Cleary 26 

Departments . 
From the Editor 2 
Special 4 
ND Notebook 5 
Man on the Street 7 
Campus Watch 18 
Splinters from the Pressbox 24 
Out of Bounds 28 
Week in Distortion 29 
Comic Strip 29 
On Other Campuses 30 
Calendar 31 
Final Word 32 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME•MARCH 4, 1999 
~ 
0 
l­
o 
w w I 
I­
~ 
0 
~ 
LL 




Paranoid Android 
Kurt Cobain, the erstwhile front man for the grunge band Nirvana said it best (what didn't he say best, really) when he sang, "Just because you're paranoid Don't mean they're not after you." Had Cobain gone to Notre Dame, rumors ofa high-powered camera atop the stadium, loose e-mail security, and personal infor­mation flowing freely to rectors, RAs and . evenprofessors,mighthavedriven the young rocker up the nearest Ivy-covered wall. When News Editor Jake Mooney first decided to follow up on the rumors, most of 
·us-includingJakehimself-thoughtthat some Cobain-esque paranoia was taking over. Butafter doing some research, Mooney found that most ofthese rumors have some merit. To find out who has access to your information, and maybe a nice picture of your buddy tossing an octopus in the sta­dium, check out our cover story on page 16. 
Also Inside 
The fin~ls of the Bengal Bouts were last Friday, and Scholastic was there with cam­era shutters snapping. Check out the photo essay on page 22. Also, take a peek at some of Scholastic's regular features. Joe Gallagher penned both the Final Word and Out of Bounds, the entertainment editor's regular column, for this issue. You can find Gallagher's work on pages 32 and 28, re­spective! y. 

Thank You 
When I was a young buck -a freshman and a Scholasticrookie-then-editorSteve Myers used to speak of"loving" the maga­zine. Frankly, I thought he was a nut. But three years and 44 issues later, I realize I'll. 
miss Scholastic after this, my last issue, is 
complete. You can't spend most of your 
college career and countless late nights with 
Scholastic and not grow attached -even grow to love-'-this magazine and the people that make it work. 
On one level, Scholastic belongs to all NotreDame students, but on another level it belongs to the people who spend gajillions of hours putting it to press. 
This magazine wouldn 'texistifitweren 't 
for the work of Scholastic's· talented staff. Graduating seniors Corey Spinelli, Jake· 
Mooney, Joe Gallagher, Gordie Bell, Paul 
Bohensky and Mary Beth Ellis anchored their respective departments with skill and 
dedication all yearand willbegreatly missed 
as they graduate. 
Allison Fashek deserves a very special 
thanks as well. The managing editor spent a 
good portion of her life in the basement of 
South Dining Hall this year, mopping up 
stories, harassing people whose work was 
behind and, most annoyingly for her, con­
ducting-photo poll interviews. She did this 
and much more without nearly enough rec­
ognition and praise; 
So to Allison, ~1 the other seniors, and all 
those who've graduated after passing on 
their knowledge, thank you. 
Thank you to the underclassmen as well, 
who will be taking over after Spring Break. 
Brian Christ and Meredith Salisbury,. both 
eminently qualified and deserving, will be 
the new co-editors. To Brian and Meredith 
and everyone else onnext year's staff, thank 
you and good luck. 


Correc'tion 
The interviewer for the 10 Questions seg­
ment in the last issue of Scholastic was .. incorrectly listed as Kimberly Blackweli. Nicole Shirilla actually conducted the inter­
view with Admissions Officer Felicia 
Johnson. Scholastic regrets the error. 

Editor in Chief 


SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 


r­
m
--i
--i 
m 
~ 
er, 



Letters.
. .­
Letters rn _5:oo P.rn ust be rece;"' issue · Monday b ed by 
. efore the 




Letters to the Editor:,-
SCHOLASl~C 
MAGAZDNIE 
LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 


e-mail: Scholastic.scholast. l@nd.edu 
MARCH 4, 1999 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

...J 
<(­
u 
w 
a.. 
(/) 

Christ and Salisbury Elected Co-Editors in Chief 
Double the pleasure, double the fun 
Media veterans positions at the magazine over Brian Christ and the past three years, including Meredith assistant news editor, copy edi­Salisbury, in an unprec­tor· and most recently, associ­edented move, have been ate editor for copy. She also elected co-editors in chief interned at Notre Dame Maga­of Scholastic Magazine for zine. the 1999-2000 school year. The dynamic duo is looking Christ, a junior majoring forward to bringing the maga­in electrical engineering, zine into the new millennium. hails from York County, "Not only is it an honor for me, Penn. (home of York Pep­but it's an opportunity to im­permint Patties and the prove what is already a terrific Harley-Davidson motor­publication," Salisbury says. cycle). He is also a member "We'll focus on making the of the Tau Beta Pi honor magazine as appealing and society and, along with. readable as possible by work­Salisbury, teaches a reli­ing with reader and staff feed­gious education class for back." third graders at the Holy Projected changes include Cross Parish. He has been the updating of columns and working as the magazine's the addition of a sports note­layout editor since Septem­book section. "We also wantto ber of 1996 and served as work on making the staff all the associate editor for pro­happy people," Christ adds, cit­duction this year. ing plans to bring a comfort­Salisbury, also a junior, is able couch into the office and majoring in English and possibly redecorate the walls government with a concen­in pastels. tration in journalism. A na­The co-editors will take over tive of fun-to-pronounce for Patrick. Downes, a senior Mahwah, N.J., she is a mem­history .major from Scher­berofPi Sigma Alpha honor erville, Ind., after spring break. society and the Arts and Let­When asked what they like ters Student Advisory Coun­best about being a part ofScho­cil, a group that advises the lastic, Christ simply ·replied, dean on suggestions. for "The great view from the base­changes within the college. are not dating and do not plan to, even though their children would ment ofSouth Dining Hall." Salisbury has filled various probably be very attractive -or at least very active in the media. 
-Allison F ashek 

SCHOLASTIC MARCH 4, 199.9 
MAGAZINE 


GIRL POWER 
Diamonds in the 
Rough 
The softbal.l team looks to improve on last 
year's record of34-22 
Winners of three straight Big East South Division titles, it is no surprise that the Notre Dame soft­ball team has shown flashes of dominance in its first nine games, with a 7-2 record to show for their efforts so far. After posting a 34-22 mark a year ago, the Irish have managed to carry that momentum into the 1999 season, outscoring its oppo­nents by a total of 42-14. The Irish got the season off on the right foot when they upended sixth-ranked South Florida 2-0 in the first game ofthe Gladstones Tournament, held in Tampa, Fla. After knocking off Georgia Tech, Miami (Ohio), and Tennessee -falling only to Kansas ­the Irish staked claim to the best record among the teams in tournament play. Last weekend, the Irish continued on their tournament tear, winning three offour games at the Choo Choo Classic in Chattanooga, Tenn., which included a no-hitter versus Tennessee-Martin. Senior Angela Bessolo and sophomore Melanie Alkire combined to earn the 23rd no-hitter in Notre Dame history and the first since Joy Battersby shut down St. John's on April 21, 1996. Freshman Jarrah Myers and Lizzy Lemire provided the offensive fireworks, with Myers 
going two for three at the plate and account­ing for four RBI and Lemire concluding the day with four hits, one RBI and two runs scored. 
With two more tournaments left in Tuc­son and San Jose, the Irish are continuing to sharpen up before conference play begins on April 3. Notre Dame was picked to finish second to Boston College in the Big East in a preseason poll conducted by the conference's coaches. The Irish will have their hands full overtaking the Eagles, who are returning all nine starters from last year's Big East championship team. 
With the addition of Pittsburgh to the Big East this season, the conference has ditched the North and South Division format, in favor of one, undifferentiated division con­sisting ofall nin'e ofthe conference's teams. 
This revised format means the Irish will only play each squad in the Big East twice, placing more importance on every confer­ence match-up. Ofmore imminent concern, though, are the games against LSU and Texas Tech, which take place tomorrow. 
But given Notre Dame's performance so far this season, the Irish don't have much to worry about. 
-Christopher Hamilton 


Q&A 

1Questions with 


Father Bill Wack 
One ofthe original Men in Black 
You probably know him as one ofNotre Dame's original "Men in Black," serving as a recruiter for life in the collar-voca­tions director. Scholastic asks what it's like ferreting out those potential pastors. 
Why did you want to become a priest? 
When I was younger, I was always doing something in my parish -serving at Mass, volunteering in the school, going on a mis­sion trip to Mexico, etc. 
Do you think the "vocations crisis" is as bad as everyone makes it out to be? No and yes. While there are far fewer men and women entering religious life and the priesthood in the U.S. today than there were 30 years ago, many more are stepping up to serve as lay people. 
What was your favorite comment from the Pope when you were in St. Louis? 
"Christ is calling you. The Church needs you. The Pope believes in you, and he ex­pects great things from you." 
Who is your current role model? 
Mother Teresa. She lived her life simply, serving God in others. She prayed like mad and lived life with more gusto than anyone else I know. 
Bible aside, what's your favorite book? 
The Catcher in the Rye. I always considered continued on next page -. 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

z 
0 
Z! 
Oi
-I 
m 
cc 
o, 
0 
7\ 

~ 
0 0 
co 
LJ.J 
r­0 
z 
0 
z 
Q&A 
continued from previous page 
myselfto belike HoldenCaulfield, trying to save the world in his own way. 
Did you think you would be aHoly Cross priest when you were growing up? No. When I was a little boy, I just wanted to be the guy who gets to tumon the siren in the police car. 

Where is the farthest place -from home that · you have. preached the Gospel.? 
In the middle of the jungle in El Salvador. While I was preaching (in my pitiful Span­ish), a pig was chasing two roosters under the altar and around my feet. That just doesn't happen a lot at the Basilica. 
What's the best ND football game you've ever seen? 
ND-Miami: Oct. 15, 1988. It was one ofmy last home games as a student here. That game decided the national championship, for all practical purposes. 
What is life like in Zahm hall? 
Loud. Scary. Fun. Faith-filled. Drafty. Un­predictable. Cool. 
What is the best Catholic joke you know? 
If I told you that, I'd have to go to Confes­sion. -Kevin Keifer 
RADIO DAZE 




RealRadio is coming 
WVFI has a new plan to reach all ofcampus 
Getting a little fed up with the same old CDs and U93? Help is on the way, and from an unlikely source. WVFI, the student-run, on­campus radio station that went off the air in November, is launching a comeback via the web. By the time.students return from spring break, the station will broadcast through the address www.nd.edu/~wvfi. Freshman Brian Snyder, the station's new web administrator, is excited aboutthe tran­sition. "By broadcasting over the Internet, we will be in stereo and the sound will be very high quality," he says. Having never listened to WVFI when it was on the air himself, Snyder expects a huge increase in listenership because ofthe new easy access. According to senior and Assistant Station Manager Kathleen Sullivan, when the sta­tion first shut down, using the Internet as a platform was not considered realistic. The initial plan was to update the transmission system to reach all dorms on campus. "In~ stead we've totally switched ourmediums," she says. "Students will be able to hear.us in DeBartolo, professors can even listen to us. Anyone can listen to us except for those not hooked up to the ND server." 
Sullivan predicts that the move will prob­ably change the station's programming style. "People who come to see the Notre Dame home page can see us and listen to us," she says. "We'll really represent the univer­sity." As a result, the station hopes to give their DJs more consistent shifts, focusing on their personalities and individual shows, rather than justfilling in time slots. Sullivan also sees the station as becoming a source for students to find out information about daily events, in a more accurate and flexible medium than that ofThe Observer. "We've found a. better way to serve the audience, and we want to be able to help students and faculty to better know what's going on." 
Snyder agrees. "I'm not sur,e about other campuses, but commercial stations have donethis, and theirbiggest problem is usu­ally having too many listeners [trying] to tune in at once,'' he says. "Hopefully, we'll have that problem too'." 
-Allison F ashek 



-' lf'§Jt·r~ Iltit iiilpfe~s~a··w{tilthe heir! are ~eetings.or '~ngageipents ·,tha:t?f~r in-· :· has ·a, range' of:100,.to ~ ,000 m~es, and 
: . bo61cstor~_oi the n_ewvi.sitcirs!:beht~i,b'.e .'. stance, Father Malloy would-like to ,attehd . IDOV(?S ataground·speed ofabout300 mpij. ' ; iippress~(l bftb.1s:·~otr~Jj~e·9.w;ns ai1} tlmt_would otherwis~ r~qrifre spencHng llof· : N?tre t>a~~ Fetain~, rwo reti~~d ini~.tW)' 

6 

SCHOLASTIC MARCH 4, 1999 
MAGAZINE 
' . . ., . . 
·why.domosfstµ-·.· de11thatetalki11gto · ca111piis fuedia? . 
.",,. 
•..·· ,_ .bf. 
.ng chimber.;. •-•· 
·. ·' 


>~>: 

'.6';\, 
·, 
<?::· 

MARCH 4; 1999 
Sau Somethir1g sau Ar1uthir1g 
Wanted: An Opinion 
BY ALLISON FASHEK aybe we have met before. I'm one 
ofthose annoying members ofcam­
pus media who approaches people in the dining hall, Lafortune orin the middle of a quad, asking for an opinion on any given subject. Ifwe haven't met, let me fill you in on what usually happens: a couple of really nice people will provide coherent and creative answers, and even smile if I try to take a picture ofthem. Butfor the most part, it doesn't go that well-at all. 
The majority of the people I .approach don't want to talk to me. They don't have time. Suddenly, getting to chemistry class on time is the most important thing in the world. Ofcourse, sometimes it can be hard to string a couple of words together and form a sen­tence that answers a question. Sometimes it's hard to actually have an opinion. I know it often keeps me up at night. It might require thought. Who's got time for that? 

As for the rest, they will start out with an opinion, but justas they start to voice it, they begin thinking that their friends might read about it and later make fun of them. Upon making this realization, they usually stop ­mid-sentence and start backing away from me. Ifthey are in a group, they will suggest that their friend does the talking. He or she will have a much better answer. 
But for the average student, there's just too much pressure. The fear of seeing their names in print associated with an opinion that might not be popular takes over. Or maybe their hair doesn't look right and having a picture taken would equal public humilitaion. Whatever the case, they apolo­gize because they can't think ofanything to say, or they get mad and tell me I'm asking questions that are either too stupid or too difficult. 
Or worse yet, some students will give me really thoughtful ideas on a topic. I'll write them down and then they'll say that they don't want to be quoted, or that they wish to· remain anonymous. Fine. Being anonymous 
M 
when you're talking about an eating disor­der or alcohol abuse is completely reason­able, but maintaining anonymity when you're talking about dining hall food or an SYR mishap is not. 
One girl I spoke with called. me hours after the interview, saying that her coach did not want her quoted in the magazine. She had spoken to me about a speeding ticket. 
Ofcourse, this is allpartly my fault, right? After all, I am part of the intrusive media, constantly bugging people, interrupting their busy lives as they walk to South Dining Hall or while they are hanging out at Lafortune. 
Well, I don't buy this line of reasoning, and here's why: the people who have no answers to my questions, who blow me off when I try to report their opinions, are the same people who flip through TheObserver and Scholastic. every week, complaining there is nothing to read and that nothing ever happens on this campus. 
Well, here's the biggest news flash I will probably ever write during my career with the media at Notre Dame. If there isn't any news going on around campus, you are partly to blame. You, meaning the people who have no opinion when asked a simple question.You, meaning the people who will read these words and adamantly disagree with everything I say, and yet still do noth­ing about it. 
These are the kind ofsorry circumstances that make me thankful for angry letters to the editor and for the people on this campus who produce Right Reason or write in The Observer's "Inside Column." Because even though I disagree with justabout everything that comes out of their mouths, at least they are talking. They have thoughtful, if not rational, opinions. 
That's more than most people on this campus can ever say. D 
The opinions expressed in this commenta,y are those ofthe author and do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial staff of Scholastic Magazine. 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

~ 
zi)> i 
0 
z 
-I 
I 
m 
(/) 
-I 
;:;o m m -I 

!, 
I, ! 
I; w 
....J 
Cf) 
:) 
a.. 
~ 
<( 
u 





Considering the Consequences 
The prevalence ofdrinking on campus has prompted 
new alcohol awareness programs, sparking hopes that education will solve the problem 
BY KATIE KELLER hen did th.e "Screw" in "Screw 
Your Roommate" come to stand 
instead for "screwdriver?" 

SYRs are only one instance of popular alcohol abuse at Notre Dame. In fact, the use and abuse ofalcohol is itself considered a Notre Dame tradition. The Office ofAlco­hol and Drug Education is constantly search­ing for weapons with which to combat this problem. With its most recent attempt, the two-year-old Peer Education program, the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education is attempting to nip alcohol abuse in the bud by sending upperclassmen into the dorms to discuss drinking at Notre 
W
Dame with freshman. 
Helen Gutierres, "When students find out they Assistant 'Director 
could have a Residence Life 
of the Office of Alcohol and Drug 

blemish on their permanent
Education, says 
the program has record, or that they may not be 
been running for 
five years and has able to go overseas, they may 
recently ex­
panded to include a think twice about drinking follow-up sessions in 

choices.. " -Helen Gutierres
the spring semester to dis­
cuss how students are deal-. ing with alcohol issues. "The discussion groups allow for honest discussion about the different options for students including abstaining and drinking in moderation," she says. 
Gutierres adds that the -~---•-'lllii·iali',-,~---information about what's going on." 
groups also discuss con­crete issues such as the con­sequences for drinking infrac­tions. "When students find out they could have a Residence Life blemish on their perma­nent record, or that they may not 
8 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 


Janor claims that the program is sue­cessful because it involves students in · an open discussion. "It's not a rector or an alcohol counselor preaching at them," he says. Janor believes most students have prejudices about Notre 

be able to go overseas," Gutierres says, "they may think twice about drinking choices. 
Gutierres claims there are other benefits to the program. "The students get a chance to form lasting relationships with upper­classmen. They have someone they can go to with questions whether they want to know how to get to Chicago, or who is a good theology professor." 
Peer Educator JulietteRederstorff, a Lewis junior, is one ofthe upperclassman who will be implementing the program. "The peer educators serve as good role models of students who drink responsibly or do not drink at all," she says. 
Rich Janor, a Keenan senior, has been involved in the Peer Education program since his sophomore year. "We engage the 
students in interactive discussion," Janor 
says. "Our goal is to get them the correct Dame social life. "For example, people think there is a lot more binge drinking going on than there actually is," Janor says. "You never hear about the kids who are playing basketball or watching videos on the week­ends, but everyone knows about the kid who puked in the elevator." 

Janor also says that the Office·of Alcohol and Drug Education amends the program according to student feedback. "The evalu­ations [from students] have generally been positive and that is where we got the idea to do the follow-up," he says. The newly imple~ mented follow-up program allows students to meet with their peers again after they have had some experience with Notre 
Dame's social life. 
Rederstorffhas adapted this aspect of the program to function within Lewis Hall sec­tions. "This format has worked really well because the sense of community in the sec­tion allows students to be comfortable dis­cussing issues at hand," she says. 
As well as offering insight into Notre Dame social life, Peer Education also pro­vides valuable information regarding how to recognize alcohol poisoning and get help. Janor, Rederstorff and the 50 other students involved give the students their phone num-
MARCH 4, ·1999 


SPEED LIMIT 
0.1 




"Some ofthe worst problems are with sophomores. They think they have a handle on things and think they are invincible." 
reported incidents of alcohol abuse. Lori Maurer of Residence 
underclassmen are adjusting to_
Lifosays, "Alcohol incidents re­ported to us usually involve a sec­
... new opportunities to engage ond offense, or anything that in­volves security, somebody get­in alcohol consumption. A lot of ting hurt or (property) damage." Regarding campus drinking, she people have not gotten usedto says, "I doubt there is an increase, 

making those kind of
but definitely not a drop. I think drinkll!-g is as significant as ever." 

decisions." 

Recent police crackdowns at popular underclass bars Bridget Katy Gallagher McGuire's and Irish Connection 
MARCH 4,, 1999 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

bers in case they ever want to discuss any issues related to alcohol use, especially if they do not feel comfortable talking to their RA or rector about it. 
First-year students are targeted because they are faced with many new choices when they enter college. Katy Gallagher, an RA in Lewis Hall, says, "The first dance of the year, the underclassmen are adjusting to a 
new social scene and new opportunities to engage in alcohol consumption. A lot of people have not gotten used to making those kind of decisions." 
Christian Sabella, an RA in St. Edward's Hall agrees. "Naturally freshmen want to meet people, so they go to parties where alcohol is an ingredient." 
Of course, alcohol problems lie not only with first-year students. Sr. Annette George, rector of Lewis Hall says, "Some of the worst problems ate with sophomores. They think they have a handle on things and think they are invincible." 
The issue touches all classes, according to Fr. Tom Doyle, rector of Keough Hall. "Each class has a different sub-set of prob­lems," Doyle says. "Freshman have explor­atory issues, but juniors frighten me the most with the tradition of 21 shots. Why an alleged friend would bring someone close to death is beyond me." 
Residence Life deals with all have taken legal consequences of drinking far beyond a visit to Residence Life. "There has been a recent rise in off-campus arrests for underage drinking," Maurer says. "There are also a handful of DUI's on and off­campus every year." Maurer reports that well over 50 percent of cases at Residence Life involve alcohol in some way. 
Despite proactive attempts by the Office 



-Sr. Annette George 
of Drug and Alcohol Education, drinking trends at Notre Dame do not seem to have changed much. Rex Rakow, Director of Notre Dame Security, is notified when rec­tors decide that medical attention is needed for an intoxicated student. "I 

would not say that it happens &71.liia~~ "In theory it is a good idea," she 
nightly," Rakow says of over-in-.. toxi~ated students leaving cam-

It./ 
pus m an ambulance, "but at tr~ least several times per week." .f 

Rakow believes that "there are more students involved in non-drinking activi ties over the past few years, but that among those that do drink, they are drinking more, ~~~~~ or at least getting more intoxicated." 
Doyledoesn'tthinkthe(ehave been many 

"The first dance ofthe year, the 
changes. "I would say that since my fresh­man year in 1985, drinking patterns have not significantly changed." Doyle notes also that the busting of underage bars is not new to Notre Dame either. "I don't think of it as recent. [Underage consumption] is illegal and everyone knows it." As far as the shut­ting down of such bars, rectors and RA's don't seem to think it has much affected the 
campus drinking scene except for perhaps an increase in off-campus parties. 
The Office of Alcohol and Drug Educa­tion forges on. "I think any education is a good idea," Doyle says. 
George is guardedly optimistic. 
says, "but it really depends on the personality of the students. Every kid comes in with an idea / about whether they are going to 
/ use or not use or experiment." 
Ultimately, however, as the Natty : Light and vodka continue to flow, stu­dents alone must decide how they will swim thetide. "If students have courage · and convictions the change will come, but it will not come from a mandate or educa­tion alone," Doyle says. "It has to come from the students themselves." D 

w 
--' 
(/) 
~ 
0.. 
~ 
<( 
u 

The Huddle offers America's least nutritious food 


at the best price in town 
BY HEATHER HOGANParietals have dimmed the hallways of the dorms, but somewhere on campus, social interaction contin­ues to breathe. An 11-person line has formed at the Huddle Convenience Store's only available cash register, forcing one worker to drop her ice cream scoop at the Edy's stand to open the other. Classmates shout at one another across racks of school supplies and shelves ofpotato chips, gabbing green plastic trays, 

Huddle Convenience Store five years ago. The idea originated with Jim La Bella, op­erations manager of the Huddle. Unlike the LaFortune of today, the tiny Huddle area used to be an area of slow traffic in the late hours of the night. La Bella decided to combat the sluggishness with 25-cent hot dogs. The cheap snacks were a hit, and they're just as popular now. "The idea was to have something ridiculously low-priced to. attract students in the hopes that they would buy something else with it," La Bell~ says. "We just never stopped offering them." 
And the students never stopped buying them. A student in shower sandals, her hair in a ball cap and eyes dulled with exhaus­tion, loads two hot dogs onto her tray. 
"I've been sleeping with someone else, and it's your sister," announces a woman on the television screen across the Huddle, Two men in Knott sweatshirts pound their trays, cheering the news along with Jerry Springer's studio audience. At the table next to them, a euchre game is in full swing, fueled by Dr. Pepper and, of course, dogs. 




The addition of Burger King and Reckers has taken its toll on quarter dog sales. With the new Flex 14 meal plan, food prices are no longer a deciding factor re­garding snacking habits; the appreciation for a good bar­gain is gone. Yet a number of students still attribute the attraction to quarter dogs solely to their price. Junior Larry Kajmowicz says, "If quarter dogs ever increased in price and I didn't have Flex 14, I would never buy one." 
Dog sales may have slowed this year, but the Huddle has 
still sold more than 31,000 of them since August. Beth Frick, a worker in the convenience store, reports that 15 to 20 pounds are sold each week, or about 175 hot dogs per evening. Such steady sales may be attributed to such loyal customers as freshman Sean Thomas, who comes to LaFortune every night with friends to. watch television, check out the scene and scarf quarter dogs. "They're just something to eat," Thomas says. 
La Bella has had thoughts of discontinu­ing the quarter dog offer in the past couple of years, but even the suggestion incurs the wrath ofthe student body. While the Huddle might not clear a significant profit from quarter dog sales, Food Services is willing to continue the deal for the students' ben­efit. 
And you thought no one in the adminis­tration was listening. · 
Part of the attraction of quarter dogs is their late-night availability. Burger King closes at midnight -exactly when quarter dogs go on sale, Since neither is available at the same time, they avoid direct competi­tion. Sophomore Neil Hoyt says, "IfBurger King were open until 12:30 or 1 a.m., and I had to choose, I would get Burger King, especially [because of] the Flex Point sys­tem." 
Back in the Huddle, The Jerry Springer Show hits its halfway point; an argument breaks out in the middle ofthe euchre game; two engineering students flip pencils off a tabletop. A woman in afarcomer has conked out, her head resting between the pages of Modern Philosophy. The open register count is back down to one, but the naked dogs in the store's cart continue to find willing buyers. 


It's doubtful that students buy quarter dogs for their nutritional value. With three different salt extracts added to the preserva-. tive-ridden frank, the only dietary element they satisfy is hunger. It's not surprising that some students become ill after a quarter dog-heavy evening. Senior Patrick Schlehuber worked in the Huddle as a fresh­man preparing quarter dogs. Today, he won't go near them. "They're gross. I would never recommend them to anyone. Go to Burger King," he says. 
Indeed, some quarter dog aficionados ad­mit to having ulterior motives for chasing down a late-night snack. According to Kajmowicz, "The besFlooking girls on cam­pus eat quarter dogs." He uses the midnight munchies as an excuse to frequent the Huddle. Hoyt looks at the deal as "a way to escape the dull quiet of the dorm. It quiets down after [parietals], so I go looking for a little activity and food." 
By 2:00 a.m., the activity and food has dwindled. Someone has traded the violence of Springer for the relative peace and quiet of a hockey report on ESPN. Green trays pile up atop a garbage can. As Burger King workers begin to stack chairs on tables for a pre-closing sweeping, two or three gray, unadopted dogs are wheeled out ofsight and a few empty bun bags swept away. But when witching hour returns, the quarter dogs will too. 



''The best-looking girls on campus eat quarter dogs.'' -Larry Kajfllowicz 
MARCH 4, ,1999 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 






Home Improvement 
A $7 million renovation at the Center for the Homeless will provide 
5 (/) 
plenty ofextra volunteer opportunities 
hood development center for homeless chil­predation of the intrinsic worth of people
w 
BY TINA ZURCHER

z 
dren. It will include the only Montessori outside their own immediate surroundings. 
Ev.ery night, almost 150 people find preschool for homeless children, child care, "Almost all ofour big problems are mani­safety, food and a place to sleep at counseling and tutoring. fested in an acute fashion in the homeless," South Bend's Center for Homeless. Matt Towey, director of volunteer ser­Buscareno says. The Center hopes to better 
This is a huge step in the effortto combat vices for the Center, says that more volun­combat these problems with its unique mis­poverty in the community. But it's still not teers will be needed for all programs after sion and programs. enough, and the Center has plans to do even the expansion, especially in the numbers of The Center has developed an innovative, more. adult tutors, dorm helpers and people help­step-by-step program to help the homeless 
Although the Center for the Homeless ing with children. served over 1,517 different residents in 1998, More than 4,000 it still had to tum away 985 people due to people currently do­lack of space. The need for housing has nate their time to the increased in South Bend, and in order to fill Center, but the in­it, the Center has embarked upon a compre­tended increase in the hensive expansion project to be finished in -number of people March 2000. This expansion will create served will put a strain even more opportunities for Notre Dame on volunteers. students to volunteer at the Center. Towey says that )> 
i The $7 million project is twofold: it will Notre Dame students z 
Gl 
result in the construction of a new 37,000 can help most in the m s.:: 
)>
square-foot building as well as inthe reno­new programs that will ;:: 0 vation of 20,000 square feet of the present increase services pro­0 .,, facility. Presently, the residential capacity vided to the commu­en of the Center is about 150, including 15 nity. as well as to the family units, five male dorms and one fe­Center's guests. male dorm. The renovation will increase the "Historically, Notre capacity to about 200 through the addition Dame has been extremely important to the achieve self-sufficiency. This program, ofseven family units, six double-occupancy Center -it was one of the four founding called the "Homelessness to Home-Owner­rooms for men and two double-occupancy partners of the Center," Towey says. The ship Continuum of Care," is based on part­rooms for women. university is especially important in pro­nerships with over 15 local service provid­

"Most of the addition is in family ser­viding volunteers: 32 work study students, ers, 25 corporate sponsors, 4,000 volun­vices, so the huge amount of ND student six interns and 200 volunteers work at the teers, and many churches and benefactors. volunteers there can be increased even more," Center individually. These numbers do not More than 2;500 people a year benefit from says Drew Buscareno, director offundraising even account for students coming in groups this program. for the Center. Families are the fastest-grow­through the CSC, Circle K, the dorms and So far, the center has raised $5.75 mil­ing component of the homeless population. other campus organizations .. lion of the costs through fundraising 
The new building will house services "It's amazing in this community that events, private donations and public provided by the Center such as a medical whatever people are good at they share," grants. Notre Dame has been helpful in clinic, an early childhood center, drug and Towey says. gaining community support for the en­alcohol treatment facilities, educational pro­Notre Dame's involvement in the Center deavor as well. According to Buscareno, grams, job training and programs for the coincides well with the Center's mission. the athletic offices in particular have been mentally ill. Importantly, the new building According to Buscareno, the Center's mis­instrumental in donating equipment for will enable the Center to provide aid not just sion has three parts: the first is breaking the auction and in hosting the Center's annual to its guests, but also to members of the cycle ofhomelessness; the second is bring­holiday luncheon to raise funds. community who are not necessarily home­ing together disparate groups so that each. Through its expansion, the Center will be less but who are struggling financially.· This can discover the worth, dignity and poten­able to increase its efforts to combat should help people to keep their homes and tial of the other; and the last involves pro­homelessness and create awareness in the prevent the last step to homelessness. viding a service model worthy of replica­community, and Notre Dame students will 

One ofthe other main purposes ofthe new tion. By helping at the Center, Notre Dame have many more opportunities to help those building is the construction ofan early child-students and other volunteers gain an ap-the Center serves. . 
12 SCHOLASTIC MARCH 4, 1999 
MAGAZINE 




Liquid Asset 
A Student Senate resolution may reopen Senior Barfor lunch on Fridays 
BY PATRICK DOWNESMusic is pumping near the dance floor. Cue balls are crashing in the pool room. Bad pickup lines are flying everywhere. Greasy fingers are soaking up the last bit of hot sauce from a basket ofwings, which willbe washed down with a big cup of Bud Light. Or two. Then. we'll treat ourselves to a Guinness. And what the heck, class is canceled tomorrow. Let's get a pitcqer. Ahh. Another night at Senior Bar. Now lower the music. Add some more food, maybe some burgers orpizza, and tum the lights up. No, not those lights, the big yellow one in the sky. That's right, it's daytime. You 're at liquid lunch, a Friday tradition at the Alumni-Senior Club that the administration discontinued in May of 1996, Ancient history, right? Not if a proposal sponsored by the Alcohol Committee ofthe · CLC picks up more steam.The proposal for a new lunch (from 12 -2 p.m. on Fridays) 

was passed in the student senate by a vote of 
24 to 1, and Mickey Doyle, the off-campus 
senator and chairman of the Alcohol Com­
mittee hopes to pass a similar resolution in 
the CLC. This will require Vice President 
for Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara to issue 
a written response on the matter. 
In the meantime, the senate's vote puts 

the proposal on the desks of officers in 
Student Activities and Student Affairs. If 
they approve, a modified version of the 
tradition may return, Doyle hopes, by the 
end of the school year. 
The old liquid lunch -not its official 

name, ofcourse-began with the intention .ofencouraging interaction between faculty and seniors in anon-classroom setting. The mainattractionwassupposedtobethefood, 
but alcohol was served as well. 
Things did not develop as planned. Liq­

uid lunch became popular -it was a prof­
itable endeavor-butonly among students. 
"After a while it became apparent that the 
faculty weren't showing up," Doyle says. 
Also, as time went on, food became a less important part of the meal. "The intake of alcohol was very high compared to the food," says Mary Edgington, who oversees the bar for the office of Student Activities. 
-· The administration gave these reasons­the lack of faculty participation and the unbalanced ratio offood to drink -as the main ones for the removal of liquid lunch from the bar. But there were other objec­tions, and there are also objections to the current proposal. The simplest is that stu­dents were, and will be, drinking too much too early in the day. Another is that classes are going on at the same time. Doyle sug­gests that the university is apprehensive about "students going to COBA and DeBartolo half-snookered." 
Doyle believes that the Alcohol Committee's proposal -which he sug­gested after repeated requests from his con­stituents -answers some of these objec­tions. First of all, students will be encour­agedtoconsumefoodaswellasalcohol. "In order to get a cup, you have to buy a meal. You can't just go to drink," Doyle says. Also, Doyle and the Alcohol Committee plan to address the issue of faculty atten­dance at the lunches. After spring break, they will be issuing a survey to faculty members to gauge the possibility of their participation. 
Doyle also hopes that students will not look at new liquid lunch simply as a chance to get drunk in the middle ofthe day. Infact, he believes that "liquid lunch" would be the wrong moniker for a new Senior Bar mid­day meal. Edgington agrees that attitudes 
•would need to change in order for the pro­posal to work, but she is skeptical. 
BrianO'Donoghue, anothermemberofthe CLC, is less so. He still believes that both sides will have to show a willingness to trust each other, however. "I d?-ink it's going to take an open mind on the part ofthe administration," he says. "It's going to take a demonstration of responsibility on the part ofthe students. 0 
SCHOLASTIC 13 
MAGAZINE 

z 
m 
~ 
C/'J 



>­
0:::'. 
1­
(/) 
Ct:::'.
:w 
~ 
. U 


ex Rakow swears that he has no interest in invading your privacy. 
When the director of campus security describes the camera that 
hangs from one of the stadium light towers -the one powerful enough to take a reasonably clear picture of a car driving past the Line­backer, or to zoom in on the faces ofhalftime fish-throwers -he stresses its importance in helping Notre Dame's police force protect students and their property from crime. 
The same goes for the similarly high-powered camera ontop ofGrace Hall that points toward Juniper Road, and for the cameras that Notre Dame Security plans to install in the new bookstore, the Eck Center and the basement of South Dining Hall. 
"It's really not Big Brother watching," Rakow says. 
He pauses, smiling, and adds, "But some may define it that way." 

14 SCHOlASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

Who's watchingyou, and what they can see 
by Jake Mooney 
MARCH 4, 1999 

GIVEN THE PERSISTENT RUMORS HAUNTING THE CAMPUS -THAT SOMEONE GETS paid to keep an eye on tailgaters from a dark room in the security building; that rectors gather personal information on the residents of their dorms; that certain administrators can read files in students' AFS space; that professors can run a background check on that loud kid in the front row -Notre Dame students can be forgiven some degree of paranoia. 
Especially since each ofthose rumors is, in some small way, grounded in 
·the truth. 
!Eyes; nlfil Hoe §iky In the case of the cameras, Rakow ex­plains that security does use the technology to watch over pre-game tailgate parties during football season. "We're just basically looking for huge gatherings where tailgating activity is in­fringing on the rights of others," Rakow says. He points out that duLac forbids all students from holding tailgate parties on campus for the purpose of serving alcohol, and says, "We look for large student gath­erings to enforce university regulations." Spectators inside the stadium fall under the camera's watchful eye as well. It is capable. of recording the activities of ap­proximately 85 percent of the crowd, and plans are underway to add cameras to ex­pand that coverage. Rakow says that usu­ally, the camera's mere presence is enough to deter football fans from misbehaving. Stadium security warns disruptive fans that they are being watched and, Rakow says, "Most of the time that will keep 

people settled down. Theydon'tpar­ticularly want to see themselves on Monday morning acting like an idiot." 
Saturday-morning crowd control is only one ofthe functions ofthe cameras. During most of the year, the stadium camera fo­cuses on the Cl parking lot, and the one on top of Grace keeps permanent watch over 
MARCH 4( 1999 
the lots that line the eastern edge ofcampus. Rakow says that since the installation ofthe Grace camera, vandalism of cars in those lots has declined. 
"Video is a relatively inexpensive way to have more eyes out there than what you can hire people to do," he says. "Without that technology we'd have to have a much larger staff to accomplish the same thing." 
The cameras are proving so effective that Notre Dame security is in the process of installing 13 more in buildings around cam­pus. 
There are some limits to what the cameras will observe. Federal laws prevent them from recording sound, and there are cur­rently no plans to mount outdoor cameras on the quads or anywhere else in the interior of campus. 
Also, Rakow stresses, "We never use them in places where people would have an expectation of privacy." 
At least in theory, though, students should 

not consider any outdoor location among those private places. "I don't think that if you're out walking ... you'd necessarily have an expectation of privacy," Rakow says." [But] that's for the courts to decide." 
Wlhieire Yoan !Lh,e 

A camera mounted on top of a building can gather 24 hours' worth of information on one tape, and security saves each of those tapes for a month after recording. 
But all ofthe information in Notre Dame Security's video archive pales in compari­son to the wealth of personal data that students voluntarily turn over each year to their rectors and RAs on yellow three-by­five inch cards. 
These hall registration cards ask for the name, religion, hobbies and home address of every dorm resident. There are also blanks for both parents' marital status and place ofemployment, and for names ofany siblings. On the back ofeach card, students list any medical problems they have, and by signing their names authorize rectors "or others designated by them" to use the information to initiate medical treatment. 
Joe Hauser, a Keenan Hall RA, says that he and other RAs review the cards, "just to know a little bit about you. . . . It's not something that we study, but we peruse it just to get an idea of who you are." 
Hauser also says· that he has had the opportunity to review personal statements from the college applications of residents of his section. He says that the practice allows hall staff to get to know freshmen better, and adds, "It's not like the guys would put any information that they really don't want people to know in 
their personal statement." 

In addition to the background that stu­dents bring with them to Notre Dame, rectors also receive updates on the contin­ued progress of their halls' residents. Brother Bonaventure Scully, 'rector of Keenan Hall; explains, "I get the grades 
SCHOLASTIC . 
MAGAZINE 





once a semester and [ deficiency reports] once a quarter. We used to have an extra copy to give to the RA, but no more." Scully says that when he does share information about a student's academic progress with his staff, he does so only verbally, with the intention ofencouraging the RA to provide guidance. 
Lewis Hall Rector Sister Annette George says that she does receive copiei; ofstudents' transcripts, but adds, "I do not reveal grades and I do not let RAs see academic records or anything like that." 
Finally, Scully says that he keeps RAs informed ofthe dis­ciplinary cases that he refers to the office ofResidence Life. He uses this as a way of receiving input on what should be done, 

but the RAs are supposed to WATCHFUL EYES. Student dispatcher Jessica Hauser observes a monitor in the security building. The keep such cases confidential. "I camera is trained-on one of the parking lots. get upset if the RAs say some-
secretaries who require access to the infor­

thing, and sometimes they do. [But] nottoo your transcript. ... It's important that each mation that the registrar's office compiles 
often," he says. "Most of the time they ofthe people who have access to that infor­would be very careful. I think most people must now undergo a training process that mation understand the rules and regulations • includes a 30-minute session on the Family 
are prudent enough." of what they can and can't do with it." -Education Rights and Privacy Act (FERP A), 
Hauser agrees, and says,. "I could defi­Even if everyone involved does under­nitely see the potential for it leaking some­the piece oflegislation that regulates the use stand and follow the· rules, those rules only and disclosure of private student informa:. 
how, but I've never heard of it..; . I think govern the handling of certain kinds of tion. Only faculty members who complete 
that's totally based on the RA's own discre­confidential information, such as past grades. tion and trust. There could be a real jerkRA the course receive a password granting them By law, the university is free to disclose to access to the-files, and only. faculty who
that does it just to get the person in trouble, a third party 12 other types of information have what the registrar's office terms a
but that would be really, really rare." about its students, without receiving the . "need to know" may participate in the train­
students' permission to do so. This non­. ing. 
protected information includes any student's 
IExtrnclUIrrffcM ~ idlr 
Finally, everyone undergoing the FERP A 

photograph, local· and permanent address, AccUvnUe§ training must sign a statement informing date and place ofbirth, dates ofattendance, Rectors and hall staff are not the only­them that they face disciplinary action if 
major, sports and activities and -in the authority figures with access to personal they violate confidentiality Jaws, and the 
case of athletes -'height and weight. Be­information about students. Most profes­registrar's office temporarily deactivates the 
cause FERP A regulations do not govern the sors have the ability-through one channel password ofanyone about whom it receives 
exchange of this information, no training or_anoth~r-to_gather personal information complaints related to the handling of confi­
program is in place for anyone who may on members of their classes. dential information. 
request or obtain'i~. Associate Registrar Lora Spaulding ex­University Registrar Harold Pace ac­plains that under the old . system, which knowledges, however, that despite the mea­
System§

remains in place throughout the university, sures his office takes to secure student in­
departments retain files with copies of stu­formation, the possibility does exist that §ecllJlrHay 
dents' transcripts. Departmental policies professors will obtain and misuse informa­The section in dulac on privacy and con­
vary, but any professor or secretary with tion, given that most departments still keep fidentiality of infomiation technologies at 
access to those files could view their.con­their.own records. Pace says that in practice, Notre Dame reads, in part, "The University 
tents, which can include past grades of stu­departments have a great deal ofleeway on reserves the right to inspect and examine 
dents in the department. .. what-constitutes a "need to know." any Notre Dame owned or operated com­
The new computerized system that the In cas_es where such a need does not exist, munications system, computing resource registrar's office now employs takes some Pace says, "We would tell them not to share and/or files or information contained therein steps tolimit faculty access to student infor­[ confidential information], but there is a lot at any time." mation. Deans, departmental advisors. and of discretion because they probably have According to Vice President and General 
16 SCHOLASTIC· MARCH 4, 1999 
MAGAZINE 


Counsel Carol Kaesebier, the university has the right to look at e-mail or other material stored in students' AFS space without first obtaining either a subpoena or a search warrant. 
That right, though,.is one that Kaesebier says the university invokes "only when we feel that we actually have to, to prevent some sort of violation of the law or a viola­tion ofuniversity procedure that's a serious 
\ one." Kaesebier makes such a decision in col­
f laboration with otheruniversity officers who have knowledge of the specific case. "I want to emphasize that we do this in ex­tremely rare situations," she says, adding that she can recall authorizing the examina­tion of private AFS space only twice in her 11 years at Notre Dame. Assistant Vice President for Residence Life William Kirk also stresses the rarity of such drastic action. "I can't imagine us gaining access to someone's AFS space," Kirk says. "It's real hard for me to try to imagine the case, although the policy does recognize that the space is university­owned," Kirk believes that the role ofthe office of Student Affairs in disciplinary cases in­volving electronic data is similar to its role in any other case. "I ~on't think of the medium as making anything we do ... any different," he says. Kirk draws a parallel to the university's right to search students' dorm rooms, point­ing out that while such an action is rare and is not undertaken without some justifica­tion, it nevertheless is permissible under Notre Dame's guidelines. The reason that a search of this kind is even possible is that systems administra­tors, who are responsible for the operation and security of networked computing re­sources, have the same level ofaccess to any student's files as does that student. 
Assistant Provost for Computing Larry Rapagnani explains that this level of clear­ance is necessary to allow the administra­tors to-fix problems, and that all systems administrators receive training in the laws that govern the confidentiality of student data. 

"They are not intently looking for any­thing," he says. "Even in the process of doing their business they arenotproactively searching for information." 
Rapagnani acknowledges that systems administrators potentially have access to sensitive information, but he believes that sufficient safeguards are in place to prevent 
MARCH 4, 1?99 
;t;J)f~;i.{?i}{}~{{?.::;:f-.t=:•:;'•',l,''C '•~f.:•;,,_•:,~~o--•:.••;,, •:• 


··••.;<·tJ?1re¢.t91{9f~ajd¢.11(A.st.1y1_t1_e_sq9e.-G~ss1-dy.etpla1Il:sfrgit,f1hn.sarefr¢que11tlyd¢111ed\Y:.,••. 
C~q~~~~~gf?~c-~R~:~:;~¥'.~,~~~-@:~~-ci~~~~:~i¼f~~~tli~T;~?n.i~I()c;_~bJft~r,:~~ite#~~i-~gs;~;t '?th.eyh1cty~t9.Raya.Jjfe.nsµi~J~~-'.:':W~cl911}t,J-i.ay,~_theJ?roper,pµl:ili.cperf,ormari9,yngl"lr;:.:f;


~l~ii&i.~t~li!ii~!~l~ifi~~f1i~t~l
..;,[pr,qMfdtngJ;,Wt,9PP9I:tu.m,tyiJorismdents',x1eWmg,i[tlie1Illto·haveJboughtiwOYokm~ er 

improper use of that access. He points out that there are only one or two systems ad­ministrators for any given service, and that their behavior is monitored. 
"We do have a lot oftrust in those people," he says. "But it's not a big population of people." 
In light of the large amount of informa­tion that students give out about themselves during their time at Notre Dame, and of the opportunities that faculty, administrators; rectors and even strangers have to gain access to that information, the most that students can do is trust that everyone in­volved follows the rules scrupulously. 
And as for the possibility that someone along the line will fail to do so? As Spaulding puts it, "Unfortunately, it's possible." D 
Jim Pastore contributed to this article. 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 


11e Gipp wants to begin this week's olumn by bidding a fond farewell to the past year's Scholastic staff. He also wants to report that because attempts to remove him kicking and screaming from the SDH basement have failed, he will con­tinue to write the column in this space at least until graduation. Maybe even after that, if he doesn't bring his basketweaving grade up really soon. 
World's Worst Devil's Food Cake 
For all ofyou who plan to travel to warm, 
exotic locations for spring break, the Gipp 
has just a bit of advice: remember that 
trouble can strike even in 
paradise. Oh, and don't eat 
anything if you don't know 
where it's been. 
That would probably ~lso 
be the advice ofa tipper who 
shared a traumatic experi­
ence from her recent trip to 
Mardi Gras. She reports that 
early one morning, a mem­
ber of her group woke up to 
find a strange guy standing 
in their RV. 
When questioned, the guy 
-who had his face painted 
like The Crow -laughed 
and said, "I must have th,e wrong RV." 
The next morning all of the RV's resi­
dents went about their business until they 
began to _notice a foul smell coming from 
18 SCHOLASTIC . 
MAGAZINE 
the kitchen. They noticed that the oven door was partly open, and when they investi­gated, they found that the previous night's mysterious visitor had left them something: a "home-cooked brownie," if you catch the Gipp's drift. 

-So with this tip in mind, be careful out there, kids. It's a wild world, and the spicy food in those vacation spots does funny things to people. 
With Extra Relish 
Speaking ofthings you'd probably rather not read during dinner, the Gipp heard one more reason why every inch of Reckers should be hosed down dailY,. 
LatelastFridaynight,duringabitofpost­formal revelry, an Alumni resident came into the eatery with an unusual request. He answered the cashier's innocent "May I 


help you?" by demanding, "Just give me 
something that tastes better than this," at 
which point he unzipped his pants, reached 
down the front, and slapped down on the 
counter something that the Gipp thinks no 
one should ever have to think about the taste 
of. 
If Reckers can take solace in one thing . about this whole sordid tale, it's this: no 
longer can the Huddle Mart and its quarter 
dogs claim a monopoly on spoiled, shriv­
eled meat that makes people sick. And the 
Gipp has a feeling the guy's date would 
agree that in his case, a quarter is way too 
much to ask. 
The Drunk Guy Always Rings Twice 
Some guys tum into John Holmes when 

they get drunk. Others tum into Sherlock 
Holmes. The Gipp wants to thank both 
types for making this column possible. 
One especially successful junior detec­

tive couldn't wait to hear the campus gossip 
from the Gipp, and decided to investigate a 
rumor he had heard. Snooping around next 
to Dillon Hall late one night, on the side 

facing SDH, he found a secret doorbell 
hidden in the vines. Hoping to confirm the 
story he had been told -that the bell was 
rigged up to a room on the third floor by a · 
guy who used .it to sneak his girlfriend in 
after parietals -our friend rang the bell and 
ran. Then he did it again. And again. And 
again. You get the idea. 
He kept ringing it and ringing it, presum­
ably until he passed out. 
The Gipp doesn't know whom to side 
with in this case: the resourceful Dillon Don 
Juan, orthe guy who managed to use the bell 
as an instrument oftorture against its owner. 
Since it's impossible to decide who de­
serves more credit, the Gipp will remain 
neutral, and suggest that all of you find the 
bell for yourselves, give it a ring and then 
make up your own minds. 
The Gipp is full of advice 
this week. It must be be­
causehe'sso glad to bestaying around 
for a few more issues. Here's another thing 
to watch out for: If you're on the basketball 
team, and you have a really awful game 
against Syracuse, please don't let out your 
frustration by throwing a bottle at a school 
bus. The driver will recognize you, and 
you'11 get suspended for a game. Oh, and if 
you do get suspended, please don't lie to 
people and say that it was because you got 
caught with a girl after parietals. Nobody 
will believe you anyway, Jimmy Dillon. D 
MARCH 4, 1999 



The Complete Player 
Through determination, Danielle Green excels on 
and offthe court 
BY BRIAN VERNETTIMany of us grow up fantasizing about certain dreams we hope to some day make reality. How­ever, few ofus can actually say that we are living up to our dreams. Danielle Green is an exception to this case. The senior guard is one ofthe main reasons why Notre Dame's women's basketball team is currently ranked 10th in the nation with 25 wins and only four losses. "Notre Dame has always been my dream school. I can remember telling my mom when I was seven that I was going to go there. Ever since I saw Notre Dame featured on one of those halftime episodes, I knew it was the place for me and that I would just work hard in school and on the court to get a scholarship to go there," Green says. The journey to South Bend was an arduous one 
Green tore her Achilles tendon. It was a career-threatening injury, and she sat out the entire season. She felt useless because of her inability to help the team. "It was very hard for me to deal with such a hard and devastating ordeal," she says. "My goal sophomore year was to heal myself physi­cally and get back on the court. Each day was a struggle, but I went in to rehab each day with this main goal in my mind." 
Coach McGraw saw the injury in a posi­tive light. "The year she injured herself allowed her a chance to take a step back and analyze the game from a different perspec­tive," she says. "She really listened to what the coaches were saying and realized what we were trying to do with the team. I think she gained a renewed appreciation for the game of basketball by being sidelined for a year." 
Green eventually came back from the injury and started in the first 14 games ofher junior year. She became the fourth leading scorer and rebounder, averaging 10.2 points per game and 4.8 rebounds per game. Green scored in double figures in 11 games and reached a new career high of 22 points in only 22 minutes of action against Provi­dence. She went on to have several out­standing offensive performances including back-to-back 19-point games against UCSB and UCLA. She also accomplishedadouble­double, scoring 18 points and grabbing a 
. career-high 12 rebounds in a win over South Florida. Green proved to be one of the team's most improved players and contin­ued to contribute through two rounds in the NCAA tournament. 
In her senior year, Green has .put all the pieces of the puzzle together to become a more complete player. Off the court, she earned close to a 4.0 for the fall semester. On the court, McGraw feels that Green will continue to grow. "I think she can be even better and I don't think we've seen the best out of Danielle." 
Green is a focal point for an Irish team 
that builds off her energy, tenacity and spirit. 
The team feeds offher speed and aggressive 
style of play which set the pace for an up­
tempo game. Irish point guard Niele Ivey 
looks to her for encouragement and assis­
tance. "If I have any questions about a 
(/) 
-0 
0 
7v
--, 
(/) 
for Green. Little did she know that the most diffi­cult part ofher journey was still ahead. 
Freshman year, Green's goal was· to detach herself from what she considered a high school mentality. Af­ter a slow start, Head Coach Muffet McGraw noticed that her work ethic began to improve both on and offthe court. "Danielle came in with a tremendous work ethic, but I did notice im­provement in her game each year." ~ 
Greenplayedin27 games ::;; ~ as a freshman and began to ~ establish herself as a guard ~ with outstanding rebound-~ ing capabilities. She looked ~ forward to her sophomore ~ yearwhenshehopedtoeam fli a starting spot, but her plans § would change. 8 
During the first practice 5 of her sophomore season, 1l: 
MARCH 4, 1999 
\ 
particular play, I just look at Danielle because I know she will be doing what is right," Ivey states. "Iadmireherwork ethic during the off-season and the fact that she's always work­ing to get better." Ivey de­scribes Green as a mellow leader and a genuine person. "IfI had one word to describe Danielle it would be 'real"' Ivey says. 
Because of the year Green missed due to injury, the se­nior has another year of eligi­bility. The College ofArts and Letters has designed a special program for her so that she can stay in school for a fifth year, and she would like to return for another year. The final de­cision as to whether Green will return is up to Coach McGraw, though. 
Considering Green's perfor­mance and growth over the past four years, the decision 
shouldn't be difficult.  0  
SCHOLASTIC  19  
MAGAZINE  






Stic
(/) 
I­
0 ~ 
a... 
(/) 

With It 
The lacrosse squad looks to improve on an underachieving '98 campaign 
BY COREY SPINELLI


Men's lacrosse Head Coach Kevin Corrigan figured that 1998 would be a breakout season for his Irish squad, one that would vault Notre Dame into the national spotlight. After all, the Irish had qualified for six straight NCAA Tournaments from 1992 to 1997, and they boasted the talents of All-American per­formers in the senior trio of Alex Cade, Jimmy Keenan and Todd Rassas. Cade had m~ed the goal for four years and finished his career second on the all­time saves list. Keenan led the Irish in scoring for his final three seasons and Rassas, a three-time defensive All-American, was named the Great Western Lacrosse League :i. Player ofthe Year in 1998. Butthe achieve­
'' 

ments of the three seniors and the contribu­tions of several impressive underclassmen couldn't make Corrigan's hopes come true. The Irish fell well short ·of expectations, failing to advance to postseason play and 
finishing a dismal 5:..7. 

"There's no question that last season was 
a great disappointment to our program," 
says Corrigan, currently in his 11th year at the helm of the men's squad; "A number of factors hurt us early on, as injuries and a few close losses knocked the. wind out of our sails for the rest of the season. As a result, we definitely· approached this off-season with the mindset that there's something to prove this season. I liked our collective attitudes during conditioning and during the fall season." 
With the departure of the 1998 senior class, the question of exactly how a sub­

.500 team can improve upon last season's 
record remains. And the grueling schedule 
won't help matters. Nine of the 13 oppo­
nents on the 22nd-ranked team's slate enter 
the year ranked in the Face Off Lacrosse 
Preseason Poll. Corrigan hopes that a more 
MARCH 4, 1999

balanced and versatile team will compen­sate for losses at several key positions. 
"For the first time in six or seven years, we really have no marquee players," Corrigan says. "The strength of this year's squad is definitely our balance and depth. If opposing teams key on just one player, we have multiple offensive threats who can score goals." Notre Dame will rely on con­tributionsfrom all four classes on the field this spring. 
After three years of waiting in the wings,, Kirk Howell and Patrick Darcy face the tall order of replacing Cade in the net. Howell loss ofRassas. "Our four defensive starters, Dave Biddison, Ray Cross, Laurence Galli and Steve Sepeta, have valuable experi­ence, but our most athletic defender is sopho­more Mike Adams," Corrigan says. Co­captain Biddison was a full-time starter last year and Galli started eight of nine games a year ago. "We need to start playing better defensively as a unit and less as individu­als," the coach says. 
The midfield is another area where the Irish are very balanced. "We have contribu­tors from every class in. the midfield," Corrigan says. "We expect big things from '98, was the team's fifth leading scorer a year ago. Sophomore Todd Ulrich made an immediate impact against Penn State, tally­I 

I 
ing three assists, and should adapt comfort­ably to his starting role. "Also, freshman Chad DeBolt has great potential, and will contribute immediately at defensive midfielder," Corrigan says. 
Corrigan feels that once fifth-year senior Ned Webster returns from a nagging knee injury, the Irish attack will boast the most depth of any position on the team. Webster scored 13 goals and handed out 18 assists in '97 before being sidelined with the injury. 


"We definitely approached this offseason with the mindset that there's something to prove this season. I liked our collective attitudes during· 
conditioning and during the fall season." 
played only 41 minutes in three games last season. "Both players work extremely hard and have patiently waited their turn," Corrigan says. "Howell will be the starter, and Darcy is very capable in goal." In last Sunday's 13-8 loss to Penn State in the season opener, Howell made only eight saves and allowed all q goals, but Corrigan is still impressed with his progress. "It might be hard to believe ifyou just look at the final score," Corrigan says, "but Kirk played well against Perin State. Our defense just didn't give him much of a chance." 
On the defensive end of the field, senior experience should help to make up for the 
-
Brad Owen this season. He had an excellent off-season and enters the spring ready to put up impressive numbers." Owen scored 10 goals in '97 before being slowed by injuries in his junior campaign. The senior found the net twice in the season opener and should easily surpass his sophomore goal total in '99. 
Juniors Kevin Higgins and Stedman Oakey are also mainstays of the midfield. "Higgins handled most of our face-offs last year and will do so again," Corrigan says. "We'relooking for him to be more active on both offense and defense this year." Oakey, who posted seven goals and five assists in 

HIGH SCORER. Co-captain Chris Dusseau is a preseason All-American. The senior's 91 career points put him 12th on Notre Dame's all-time list. 


Coach Kevin Corrigan 
Senior Chris Dusseau, a College Lacrosse USA Preseason All-American, also looks to close out a stellar career in '99. The co­captain enters the spring with 91 career points, making him 12th on Notre Dame's all-time list. Dusseau has led the team in goals every year at Notre Dame and posted 24 in '98. "Chris is obviously a potent scorer," Corrigan says. "But he is a great leader off the field and, along with co­captain Biddison, has set a great example for our underclassmen to follow." 
The impact ofthen-freshman David Ulrich in '98 was a pleasant surprise for Corrigan. Ulrich was the team's second-leading scorer with 34 points, including 16 goals and 18 assists. The sophomore shows no signs of slowing down, as he scored two goals and dished out an assist against Penn State. Ulrich will join fellow sophomore Tom Glatzel in the starting lineup this year. Glatzel earned three starts as a freshman late in '98 and should markedly improve upon his total of three assists last year. 
Freshman John Flandina and senior Ben Savage, who notched eight goals and two assists in '98, will also receive extensive playing time. 
Corrigan feels that focusing on the present instead of the big picture will keep the team on track throughout the season. "We con­stantly emphasize to our players to keep their goals immediate and improve daily," the coach says. "Ifwe maintain that focus, then I believe we will achieve our ultimate goal of getting back to the NCAAs this 
year."  _O  
SCHOLASTIC  21  
MAGAZINE  


(/') 
I­
0 ~ 
0... 
(/') 



r1• ay 




The 69th annual Bengal Bouts thrilled a larger-than-usual crowd and raised a record amount for the Holy Cross missions in Bangladesh 
I
• text and photos by Patrick Downes• t didn't talce long to figure out that last tion from the crowd and responded with a Friday night's BengalBouts finals would deep bow. In the evening's second fight, be a particularly exciting set of fights -. Boxing Club President Will held off the · a look at the lineup before they began could powerful Maguire to capture his third title have told you. Two ofthe the bouts-Mike in four years. Freshman Edward Hernandez, Maguire vs. Tommy Will and Mike anexperiencedamateurboxer,followedthe Romanchek vs. Brian Gaffney -featured Will/Maguire fight with a victory over jun­junior and senior captains facing off, and ior captain J.R. Mellin. Both boxers wowed 
· · several others promised to be entertaining the crowd with huge hits. as well. They did not disappoint. More significant than the evening's en-The large crowd saw all but one of the tertainment, was the money raised for the bouts, David Murphy's third-round knock-Holy Cross missions in Bangladesh. The out of Tom Cronley, go the distance. The 69th installment of the Bouts earned more highlight of the night was three-time cham-than $50,000. That record figure topped last pion Gaffney' s split-decision loss to year's $41,000, then a record, and should go Romanchek. After the thrilling display in a long way toward repairing flood damage the ring, the pair received a standing ova~ in the poverty-stricken country, D 
11~1rn111MmBIII 

Senior captain David Murphy (left) nearly leapt out of the ring after defeating Tom Cronley in the 155-pound championship. 
MARCH 4, 1999 
a 
Iti~• IIJ 111111111 
Freshman Edward "El Papoose" Hernandez's cheering section (right) might have helped him defeat J.R. Mellin (below left) in the 150-pound title fight. 

1KuNHm111;,1m111 
Junior captain J.R. Mellin (left) prepares in the locker room before his fight. 

I 
I (/)
I 
!· I­
0 ~ 
c.. 
(/) 



SPLINTERS 
FROM THE PRESSBOX 
Edited by Christopher Hamilton Men's Tennis • 1999 Record 8-4 
Streaking: The number-24 Irish have reeled off four consecutive wins and have been victors in five of their last six matches. Prime Time Performer: Senior Brian Patterson is coming off a successful week, which saw him win ·all four of his singles matches and three of four doubles matches. Did You Know? Notre Dame's latest victim, Indiana, had its five-match winning streak snapped in the 4-2 loss to the Irish. On the Horizon: Notre Dame's next match is at Miami (Fla.) on Saturday, March 13 at 1 p.m. 
Women's Softball • 1999 Record 7-2 
Streaking: The Irish have come away with a winning record at both preseason tournaments they have participated in this 
year. 
Prime Time Performer: Angela Bessolo and Melanie Alkire combined to throw a no-hitter last Friday against Tennesse-Martin. . 
Did You Know? Last Sunday, Freshman Jarrah Myers hit her first career grand slam versus Maryland to guide the Irish to a 6-0 win. On the Horizon: The Irish travel to Tucson, Ariz. for a tournament this weekend. Notre Dame will face off against 


LSU, Texas Tech, Arizona and Kansas. 
Women's Basketball • '98-99 Record 25-4 

Strea~ing: The Irish had won i6 of their last 17 games before falling to Connecticut on Tuesday. Prime Time Performer: Senior Sheila McMillen contributed 19 points in Notre Dame's 68-61 win over Rutgers in the 
semifinals of the Big East Tournament. Did You Know? Notre Dame has advanced to the Big East 
title game three times in the past four years. On the Horizon: The Irish await word on who their first opponent will be in the NCAA Tournament, which begins Fridar, March 12. 


. Baseball • 1999 Record 3-4 
Streaking: After dropping four straight contests, the Irish have 
posted wins over New Orleans and Southern Illinois. Prime Time Performer: Rightfielder Jeff Perconte led the Irish to a 15-5 win last Sunday over Southern ~llinois by 
going 4-for-4 at the plate, scoring four runs, and recording two RBI. 
Did You Know? Senior Jeff Wagner's two RBI last Sunday give him 170 for his career, leaving him four behind J.J. Brock for fifth on the Irish all-time list. 
On the Horizon: The Iris~ take on Pen~ State twice this weekend, as well as Yale, m San Antomo, Texas. 


·24 SCHOLASTIC , MARCH 4, 1999 
MAGAZINE 



Life's a 

Beach Every spring, Notre Dame students migrate to hot spots around the globe. This year, it's Jamaica 
BY KATIE RAK 
lthough thoughts of midterm papers 
and tests have permeated campus for 

the last week or two, the minds of some Notre Dame students have been over­taken by other things. The biggest distrac­tion is obviously spring break -a chance for students to leave the drudgery of South Bend and take off for warm and exotic destinations. For many students it becomes the biggest incentive to make it through the week: a light at the end of the midterm tunnel. 
In making their big plans for fun in the sun, some students book flights and hotel accommodations via theJntemet, while oth­ers deal with travel agents back home. Many other students take advantage of Anthony Travel, the on-campus travel agency lo­cated in the basement ofLaFortune. Inaddi­tion to having a knack for dealing with students, Anthony's also provides many cost-effective options for spring break get­aways. 
Kayleen Carr, a travel agent from An­thony Travel, stresses the importance of having many options for students who come in, even those who have a destination in mind already. "We try_ to give people as many options as possible; Obviously, not 
A 
everybody has the same taste." 
Although there are countless places for students to choose from, it seems like a few destinations become the favorites each year. This year one of the most popular destina­tions is Jamaica. This tropical island is a hot spot for spring breakers every year, but due to promotions and discounts, Jamaica has become a top site for spring break '99. 
"I think this year the big spot is Jamaica . . . especially for seniors," Carr says. "I think more or less it's one person is going there, so then that promotes another group to go there. It's kind of like a domino ef­fect." 
The dominoes fell quickly at Keough Hall, according to junior Jeff Komack, one of a group of 16 Jamaica-bound students. "There's a lot ofpeople that we've heard_are going down there. We already know some girls from McGlinn who will be down there and with all the Notre Dame people going to Jamaica, we're bound to bump into some of them. It should be a great time." 
In fact, running into other Notre Dame students over spring break is not all that uncommon. Stephanie Eden, a junior who spent spring break '98 in Cancun, recalls that some of the best times of the trip were with fellow students whom she met there for the first time. "We met a group ofpeople in 
HEY MON. Photos, like this one from a travel brochure, may entice students to travel to far­
off lands like Jamaica. Of course, relatively inexpensive package deals can't hurt either. 

Cancun last year and had a great time. We soon found out that the guys lived in the dorm next door. When we got back we made sure to get in touch and we still hang out," Eden says. 
Many people attribute the fact that so many people are going to the same place to the way travel agencies promote their trips. While some agencies focus on one specific destination and package, Anthony Travel makes sure that it has a trip for each taste and each budget. 
"Basically, we work with one spring break tour operator that we've worked with for the last four years. They're a reputable company. They only do a limited number of places. This year their primary focus is Jamaica, Cancun and Acapulco/' Carr ex­plains. When we pass out that sheet that's all it's going to have on it, but that doesn't mean that's the only spring break package we have." 
Even though there are places that people immediately associate with spring break such as Florida, Cancun an(! Panama City, there are a few students who choose to be a little bit more creative when choosing a destination. "We do a lot of Europe," Carr says. "I would say in the past the most exotic place has been Aruba. For the most part people go to the common destinations, unless they're going home. It doesn't seem like people do anything that extravagant." 
While these places may seem like com­mon spring break destinations, the students embarking on their trips hope that their experiences are anything but common. Some students have received advice from spring break veterans on how to make the most of their trips and what to expect. Some people have even issued warnings to those who are migrating to warmer places. "We've gotten some advice about our trip," says Mike Roszak, one of Keough Hall's "Jamaica Crew." "The most important being: Only take the cabs with red license plates or you're a voodoo sacrifice," he says. "Ithink we're going to heed that advice." 
So as midterm week comes to a close and the last multiple choice answer is circled, many students will be flocking to warmer climates to kick back and take a much­needed deep breath. They will leave behind the sweaters and mittens ofNotre Dame for swimsuits and tank tops. They will leave behind hot chocolate and coffee for more refreshing beverages. In short, they will be leaving behind the live~ of students in ex­change for a week of no cares, no worries 
and a whole lot of fun.  0  
SCHOLASTIC  25  
MAGAZINE  


m 
z 
m 
,0 
z -. 
~ 
m 
z 
-I 
. 
1­
z 
w 
~ 
z 
~ 
~ 
w 
1­
z 
w 
I 
I 
! 



Tuning Up 
The Undertones, the new male a capella group, is making an overwhelming entrance into the national music scene 
BY JOE GALLAGHER AND KATIE CLEARY 

hile some schools have several a 
cappella groups competing on 
campus, Notre Dame's only all­male a cappella group has managed to dis­tinguish itself nationally. With one CD out and another on the way, several dorm con­certs and off-campus performances under their belts, and a couple of awards from a national a cappella invitational, the Under­tones are well on their way to success. Such achievements are noteworthy enough for any college singing group, but still more surprising considering that the group has only been around for a year and a half. 
"If a year ago someone had told us, 
'You'll be in the top 36 groups in the 
country,' we would've said, 'Yeah right,"' 
says junior Pat Quigley, who handles the 
group's musical arrangements. Two years 
ago most of the Undertones members were 
W

singers in the Glee Club who shared an 
interest in singing and a cappella music. "A 
cappella," literally meaning unaccompanied, 
refers to music performed without instru­
ments. "The fall Glee Club tour of my 
freshman year in 1996, we were listening 
to the senior a cappella group, the 5th 
Harmonic, perform 'Lady in Red'. They 
were so cool. We decided we had to start 
ourown group," junior Zachary Gustafson 
recalls. 

Thus was born a four-member Under­tones. Since then, the group has expanded to include a senior, seven juniors, two sopho­mores and three freshmen, all with diverse backgrounds. "We have a few business · majors and I'm in aerospace engineering," Gustafson says. Quigley adds that while only two of the members are music majors, many have "amazing tonal memorization. You just play a piece of music and they can 
instantly recall every note." 

This year the Undertones acquired four 
new members. "We did not perform much first semester because we were getting the new guys acclimated," Gustafson says. "But our lineup for the rest of the year is pretty busy." In order to perfect their performance at concerts and paid off-campus events, the Undertones practice quite a bit. Rehearsals run many hours, two to three times a week, not including time spent arranging the mu­sic and management details. "We head to [Bond Hall] in the middle of the night to practice," says Quigley. "The lobby of the architecture burlding has the best acoustics on campus, and it's good to be able to hear yourself sing." 
The Undertones have builta following on campus, mostly through concerts at female dorms. One particularly memorable concert . occurred when the group visited Badin Hall. According to Loubel Cruz, president of Badin Hall, "Outofabout 120 girls in Badin, about 60 have Underton.es CDs. For about a week after they appeared, all you could hear 



26 SCHOLASTIC -MARCH 4, 1999 
MAGAZINE 


in the hallway was the CD." 
One of the appeals of a cappella music is the chance to hear popular music in a different way. After listening to a song on the radio, Quigley ar­ranges the song so that every instrument can be performed through vocal­ization alone. "It's almost universal that everything that's done is a cover," says Quigley. "A cappella started as bar­bershop and evolved from that point to now; things have changed, but the basics remain the same." This gives a cappella groups a mar­ketable edge over other musical performers. Quigley notes, "There's no equipment involved -often we don't even 
need mikes. We had a 500-person banquet at Navy Pieronce, and we just went table to table singing." 
Cruz believes that another factor in the Undertones' appeal lies in their skill as performance artists. "They have their own unique sty le," she says. "Watching them in person, you see they have a love of per­forming. They have an intrinsic love to sing." The group's ability to entertain a crowd plays a factor as well, as anyone who's seen their live rendition of "The Lion Sleeps Tonight" (complete with ani­mal noises) will attest. "There's a lot of humor in our show," Quigley says, adding that skits, jokes and mixing songs bring variety to the all-vocal lineup. 
The Undertones, however, are a serious a cappella group in addition to an enter­taining group of singers. In their first year together they traveled to the University of Michigan to compete in the National Cham­pionship of College A Cappella Invita­tional. The group entered the contest with about 150 to 200 competitors, and simply advancing to the semifinals placed them in the top 36 a cappella groups in the country. Though they didn't advance to the finals, they did manage to come in second to the hometown team, the Michigan Amazin' Blue in the semifinals. 
"Both of the quarters and semis of the National were incredible, especially going 
MARCH 4, 1999 
on after the quarterfinals," says Quigley. Quigley .himself was a runner-up for best soloist, while junior Adam Charnley took home second in best soloist. The fact that they were competing against well-estab­lished groups only made the victories more surprising. "The Friars at Michigan are 50 years old," says Quigley, speaking ofone of their competitors. "They have libraries and libraries of music to draw on, and we do our own." 
Though members are serious about the group, the Undertones are not an officially recognized campus club. "We 're sponsored by the Alumni Association, so we're not underneath student activities," says Keith Cosbey, business manager for the group. "We don't have as formal a tie to the univer­sity [as other clubs]. We're allowed to use the logo and some campus facilities, but that's it." 
Because ofthis, members are chosen from the Glee Club rather than open auditions. However, all of the Undertones members remain active within the Glee Club, despite the fact that the two commitments tend to take up a lot of time. "Between the two, you get several hours ofpractice every week and two concerts every weekend," says Cos bey. 
At the same time, between concerts and competitions, the Undertones were work­ing on recording their CD, 8 Degrees and Rising. "There were only eight of us work­ing on the CD at that time ... hence the title," says Gustafson. Cosbey adds, "We're in the process of putting together our second CD. We're recording it in Chicago, and it prob­ably won't be out until the beginning ofnext year." Undertones fans may notice a differ­ence in the two CDs, brought on by a year of experience and performing. "We've changed our style since the first CD, I think for the better," Quigley says. "The first CD had a traditional male a cappella repertoire, like 'For The Longest Time', and 'The Lion Sleeps Tonight.' The second CD is all Un­dertone-written arrangements." 
Though the 5th Harmonic disappeared from the Notre Dame music scene when its members graduated, the Undertones plan to continue after some of their members move on. "One reason behind expanding was to let the group continue after we graduate," Quigley says. 
The bookstore (which carries their cur­rent CD) has asked them to sing every home-game weekend. Their follow-up CD should arrive in October, and several more concerts have been planned at female dorms for the rest of the year. 
While synthesizers ai,id remixes may con­tinue to dominate SYRs, the Undertones will continue to add their distinctive sound 
to Notre Dame.  D  
SCHOLASTIC  27  
MAGAZINE  



i,i 

. ··, ­

. ·cnmsE CONTROL. emy ~ircraft or returning from Vietnam .. Even when your family name isn't the 
. e·--_· B·o·o·k. of. rru··,s·e· bestiritheNavy;youcanstillenterthetop
Th I, 

one percent of. all naval aviators. Then . . again, you don'tneed to be in the military, Distilledknowledgefrom everyone's sinceyoudon'tneedapatchonyourami:. 
. . . . . . . . to have ho.nor ... · · 
l
.·Javorife·lOJ} gun ·. Frorri Cruis{youlearn to never, ·never .· . •· --.· . . leave your w.ingman. Not evert if,he's.h~irt~s Cniise Mapother IV'. Five fe~tl. ·_ d~ad. Nobody ],mows what·_ happens next, annoyingly drunk and you have to bring 
mr.. e_._nc.eginncx·zheed~'tbhr,o_eme otnx·mthees tahsirdth.oef._Jm~ol_y_.s·_·_·t, . but you must be i-eady for it.nevertheless. him home, not o~er significant others ·or 0 You need to have the instincts of a panther relationships; not even ifyou have a clean beautiful of People magazine's 50 Mos't because only then .can you ~ontrol some-shot at Viper while he's safe hunting. Beautiful People. Women lovehim, men . thing that's out of control. . . Jester . .Youjust don't do it because some­like him, Sciehtologists go crazy for him. .. ..YOU learn about the appreciation of fine . times; friends :can seem like the only . Sure he~~ got :charm and good loo~~. l:>lit• . things fromCruise. 'J.'here.t;ruly ism) substi-·• family you have,,. · • ·· · he's. n<>(just another pretty face; ·_You ·.. ,tutefor a Porsche, e~ceptlllayb~ al\,fiG21. Ofcourse; Cruisedoesn'tteach thatlifo ·· . could learn afotfroinTom. Cruise. C' . · From Cruise you l~arn that K::maitsucks is an' furi;:sorri~tii:ries life ·can be hard.. It· ·. : Watclrlng Cruise, you .learn .how_ 'to.: /(though you probiblykn~wifdidanyway). . ·can b~a~:µp~ai~dawn, prid~'-swallo.wing .. 
reboundfro~ a tough si~ation: Espe~.·_ . . .  .. . . . .  .  s~ege tha(you can never fully"tei.I other  
cia:liy whenyour ex~girlfrierid dumps  ., : .  'people about.It can becomeone long  .  
meatloaf and chicken ala king mi your  -~..  . night with a few comatose daylight hours  
juit, or you lo_se th.e number one draft pick,  .  (hot unlike college). It niay involve seek~  
· the night befor{ the draft. You need a  .. in~ the truth even when you cah'thandle  
poker face .:...::... if sonieth:ing·'doesn't go  it, or being honest even when: talking  
your.way, don't hang your head; don't  seems like fighting. Buttli:erewards are  
shift in your seat. Ev.en. when yo{! get  as great as the sacrifices, and even ifyou  
· spooked; never show,:sutprise~d never  failas·much·a:s·you !iucceecl,_thingscaii ·  
lose your cooL Youhave to looklike it's  ·. stillJ:mn out all right.·,•.-. ··•• · ·  
"exactly whatyou kriew\vas 'gonna hap­ . •Allright,la:dmitllearned abouta:llthe.  
. :pen. This attitude'may'see~' arrogant, but  . important: stuff from: other people;',I  
•. a little arrogance is .ok;ay. As ~ong as you  learned about strength ~nd faith from my:  
· don'tlet your ego write checks-your body  parents, Uearned aboutcamaraderie from ·  
cari't cash.  my friends, and lleamed about growth·  
Ofcourse; projecting confidence isn't  and change from c6llege: And l.fl ever  .  
. enough; you also-need to l>ack it up'. . '"  re~nY were to talk:to Tom Cruise, we'd  
/Especially since college w6mei1cansmell  .  ·  probably only talk about Scientology and ·  
··· ignoraricelike doggie:doo~doq.So when  :· NicoleKidina:iibefore~erario:u(of things ·  
•jiou say soniething,}ike~.•~yOll complete  •·-· to say:  -·  .  -·  . .  .  . . ..  

-me;'. or ''I'm more afraid ofbe_in' nbthfng . . . . · ... But some_tiqi_e__ s_;lrieed~_dt_ <lknbw wha_t_•. 
. . . . : AL!,;Tl·fi:;J=il~HT;IDEAS, Cruise mc.,vie~~ ·.: . .. . . -. . .. . , ....... . ·' ;than I a'm•·o(beµig htirt'\or_ '.'Evildoers · , offer a target-rich environment for. wisdom . ·fr' wru; like to be 'a·'facecar ddver or a . taste. better" to a y10ri:lan, youid,darn well seekers: . ' -. · . · . fighter pilot orapool sfiru:k.Ineeded to be ·better mean it! Unless ofcourse you actu-able to give a cocky 'grin even when .·. ·anylook like Tom' Cmi's,e,in v.ihich case FroIIl Ciuise·yduie~thatthe University ol .:things weren't gohfa my waY I rieeded to· ­.you,cansing HYoti'veLosfThat Lovin' Illinoisjs a fine·altemative to Princeton;.•·.· knowhow toprojectan:artificial sheen of · . :Feeling?' off-key .rui(stiU have women (though; of course, Notre Dame i{a better\._.·confidence and charm~ and act c:ool even·. 
;~?~~i~~!~ ... 1;.ii~t~.t:z:i:!'.·~f:f~~\~~~fiamT;·· 

28 SCHOLASTIC . MARCH 4, 1999 
MAGAZINE 


Otherdom 
Heading into graduation with no plans for June can be daunting 
BY KELLI SHANNON 
I've been having these anxiety dreams. You know, the usual late-for­class-and-can't-find-my-keys dreams. (I bet you wouldn'thave thoughtto look in the bottom of your laundry basket either.) That was just the beginning, though. Most re­cently, while sleeping, I thought it was com­pletely logical to take offmy pants in the car before walking into themall. Ieven shrugged off a group of boys in LaSalle High letter jackets laughing at me. It was under the Edward Debartolo hometown heroes sign that I remembered it is socially inappropri­ate to wanderthrough Tidbits Fieldinjockey briefs. Embarrassed and flustered, I ran to the car only to realize I'd forgotten where I'd parked. At least I had my keys. I felt a little bit better after a friend told me he dreamed he was chased and bitten by a penguin. I'll leave that one to the experts. 
All of these dreams can be linked to the fact that I am a second semester senior and have no idea what to do with my life. So if you are asenior and your plans for next year include Andersen, Deloitte or investment banking, you can stop reading right now. You just wouldn't understand. 
For you underclassmen out there, save this article. In the future you may glory in the fact that you have beaten my condition, or at least take comfortin knowing you are not alone. But my beloved comrades, se­niors denying the real world, this is for you. 
As a•-biology major, every year I get a list 

of statistics of what recent graduates are doing. Usually around 75 percent have cho­sen to go on to medical or graduate school, 10 percent do service and five percent enter the work force. Those remaining are simply classified as "other." I said it wouldn't hap­pen to me -I've got my life together. But hereI am, less than three months away from graduation, on the brink of "otherdom." 
You too may be suffering from this con­dition, but it will be difficult to diagnose yourself. The first sign is denial, both of your present situation and the future. You say to yourself, "Look, I even have a resume!" Let me ask you, does this so­called resume include such honors as Re­gional Geography Bee runner-up or Honor Society Treasurer? Does your work experi­ence include such titles as "child care pro­vider".or "outdoor engineer"? (You aren't fooling anyone. They know you've been babysitting and mowing lawns.) Does the suit you 're going to wear to an interview have daiquiri stains from your last SYR? If you answered yes to any ofthese questions, I'm afraid you've got a bad case, my friend. All I can say is welcome to the "other" side. 
Inorder to rescue myself from the prover­bial Sea of Otherdom, I perused the career section at Barnes and Noble. Iwas intrigued by such titles as lobs That Don't Suck, Cool Jobs in Paradise, and my personal favorite, How to Jumpstart Your Career in Firefighting. Not finding much valuable information there, I sat down in a cushy chair and made a list of mv ideal iobs. I've grown so attached to the greater Michiana area that my top five jobs are ones I could do wh:ile still calling South Bend my home. 
At the top ofthe list was opening my own jewelry store at the UP mall. Low competi­tion, original idea -immediate success awaits. I also thought about submitting an application to the baggage claim depart­ment at the Michigan Regional Transporta­tion Center. I mean, what an easy job! I would sort and handle luggage on those few occasions when flights are canceled or de­layed. I'm not sure if such a position exists, though. No need for it, I guess. 
What I'd really like to do, however, is be the echoing voice at amusement parks. You know, the one that tells you to "Keep your hands and arms inside the vehicle at all times. No food or drink is allowed for the duration of the ride." Or I'd be the an­nouncer of those Classic Moments in Foot­ball they show on Sunday afternoons in the off-season: "It was a cold November after­noon, the Jets were down by six on their own 
20. With 45 seconds remaining, they were showing signs ofweariness." Unfortunately, all these positions seem to be occupied by men. Hormone therapy is always an option. 
Okay, I'll stop dreaming. I know that none of these jobs will pan out. I guess I'll go work on that resume tonight and maybe compose a cover letter or two. That sounds like a good idea. But boy, a Long Island slushee at Club would sure sound good about now.... Maybe it's not so bad being "Other." 0 

~ 
m 
m 
7\ 
z 
0 
(/) 
-I 
0 
iU 
-I 
0 
z 


'Jiff S/J()l)Ylhowe.r 

AnJ. a\$0 ~ covp le.
"~' vmwi.,, ~
Hf! !'ol l;~e. one · 

c:o'1ple. fr-ee cokes 
(If +hos-e fish
fr-a ha" br1,qer... 

(tho{ $Offlt ftte ff'ies, 
Hlir.~~, fo-r fret, 

MARCH 4, 1999 SCHOLASTIC. 
MAGAZINE 


I 
Cf)
·' 
w 
.··Notre·.•••Dame's·....·Leak·
Cf) 
Th caseyoifweren'fpaying attention d.ufing thef~otbhllrecruit­
:) 
ing period, Notre Dame lost outoti one ofthe bestquarterbacks in the nation, C.L Leakqf Charlotte, N.C. Apparently,Lealcwas 
a.. 

~ 
thoughtto be•. a lo.ck and surpdsed everyone· in the. country by
<( 
picking Wake Forestonsigning day. Skeptics are wondering how 
u . Leak could-have changedhis mind so.quickly;OOCgot the scoop 011.the young man's decision. An insidesource from theLeakcamp
a:::: 
states, "Once C.J. got a: new Mustang: a Sony Discman· and
w 
••··... Charlotte .Hornetstickets,hewas almost corivinced. Then the coach 
I 
••... offereda nightwith his daughter,•and C.J. signed on the dotted 
l-
line." When members cif the Notre Dame. athletic depmtment were · o ••. askedto make a statement-r~gardingLeak'sdecision, they replied, .··."Well, it came down to the wire: They made anoffer, thenwe made
z 
an offer, and then theythrew inthe cqach'.s daughter and we thought _wehad run·out.of·ammuniticin;ButJinaHy,wehroke.down and
jl 0 
·. offered·~ pair ofseason ticket~. for the men's.basketba.U: team; I
,[ 
guess itwas justtoo little, too late/'
ll 



Chelsea is Available 
Another casualty has emerged in the midst ofPresident Clinton's impeachment inquiry. OOC has learned that Stanford University's Chelsea Clinton, has broken up with her boyfriend ofalmost a year. Apparently the relationship was not working out (Chelsea repeat­edly tried to hook up with her beau and he would always make that "Secret Service" excuse). After a year of waiting, Chelsea decided to draw the line and she dropped the guy like a bad habit. In case you were wondering, many new guys have made proposals to Chelsea but once they found out they wouldn't be able to visit Camp David or meet any White House interns, they took themselves out of the running for First Boyfriend. 
ell ri-5g)ff/$ . 
of ~lie­
.V<Prillcl. 
30 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

Hollywood Comes to Pittsburgh 
The campus ofCarnegie Mellon, usually one ofthe dullest places on Earth, got a bit ofexcitement fora change when W amer Brothers started to film a movie on its campus. The film, entitled The Wonder Boys, stars Michael Douglas, Uma Thurman, Robert Downey Jr. and Dawson's Cr~ek star Katie Holmes. ACMU correspondent for On Other Campuses says the crew was careful to pick an area on campus that was deemed useless and wouldn't harm the routine of any productive students. Apparently Warner Brothers is also work­ing on a sequel toRudy, and crews have been seen roaming around campus to scout for locations that seem to be unproductive. So far they have scheduled filming in PLS classrooms and throughout COBA. 
Star Trek 101 
In a move to advance enrollment in its religious studies classes, the Arizona State University Religion Department has inserted a class entitled "Religions ofthe World" that integrates Star Trek into the course. Apparently, the professor teaching the course is a huge Trekkie and episodes from the original Star Trek archives and the Next Generation series will be shown in class. The Trekkie profes­sor claims that "many religious themes can be seen in Star Trek and it helps bring the subject to the '90s forum." Other more conven­tional sources such as the Bible and the Koran will be studied and papers will be written as well. Notre Dame also has decided to offer new courses to boost enrollment in the history department. A new class entitled "Fallen Empires" will be taught and the course will highlight the fall of the Romans, the Ottoman Turks and the Notre Dame football program. 
by Eric Yuva 
MARCH 4, 1999 

G ;'\fttitH:ffiril~it1t 
!.·'Aquatic Cen.ter:,:_.<c</ £1::/>. ' <, · <..·... ···.'~ ''.·yo.iPdmsillt'··.•·1·._J J.:..····.; ". ,,., .. J'~at i1eas.t,;:?.
{'.· ; ;·. ;;,,;,; ' ... ,.:.r ·y ~wak~>.< <!:-; ;.';'';.;/ ,:: ~i; .\,:,.,,·,;,,,.,., :· •· . ,,<;: leck,out th ( ':6ot8"~ <:;'.'.,). ·:-:j 

MARCH 4, 1999 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 


''NGO~ 
f:~:.-.:/h::=\~{ 
.),:•/". 

D , s T R A c T I o N s:·~.(~:~·.:/;2Ju:~v~j\~·.::-..)~ :· .:fillilin~~d~i~~m,hand t/~-~-·~ -~.h : / "'' : 
! . women, Shamrock classic~ 1,1:00 AM to :-°:.:::, ::, · ' lJ · ·,·.,:. 
' . .
~ 



~~;~}fJ1~J~:;~t~;}:I
!t.'it:;r;~0!Ji;tt:;i~r~f~1:ri,::l~,n.L;.:-·.-~ 
[,: g~tifug;taitoos Oh lhelfmilioflci. but you •.• s·J !)\i~~dn'.t niiss'.01ioihhe..excit/rii~rit. There;:~:

i!1j·•~P•t:'S!~(i~•(~·'t.) l 
:, .-~ <.;\·.: ;,. ... -~ 
;·-:! 
::.,;; 

n 
)> 
r­
m 
z 
0 )> 
70 
'i 
1!· 
.. :. 
·,! 
·i 
i 0
•I 
.I °'
I 
i.
:
;I 0 
:1 
!I ~ 
ii 
_,J
ii
::1 <(
I'i
,, 
II 
z
'I
i.! 
t:l u..
r··ji 
'I 
I 
A SI ig ht Case 

Ithink I've got senioritis. For those underclassmen unfamiliar with the 
term, "senioritis" refers to the lethargy that settles over members of a senior class as they ap­proach graduation. Symptoms vary, but one of the most common signs of this dreaded disease is an increased reluctance to do work. 
Hard-working adults often use senioritis as a syn­onym for laziness. "He's only taking a credit and a half this semester; must be senioritis," they say, knowingly nodding their responsibility-bearing heads. 
But senioritis is more than that. 
It's a kind of unnerving calm that affects your whole being. I'm not exactly sure when I contracted senioritis, but I think one catalyst was the realization 
_________..____________ that any schoolwork I do 
now won't matter in a

You're ready to conquer the 
few months. 

world, but you're still stuck in 
That single epiphany school. It's the spiritual and mental opened my eyes to the fact that my days of be­
equivalent of being all dressed up 
ing a student are prettywith nowhere to go. much over. 
Joe Gallagher is the entertainment editor for 
Scholastic Magazine. 
He stands behind his beliefthat The Simpsons are in a state ofdecline. 
32 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

In some ways it's like being in the eye of a storm: 20 tumultuous years of personal growth behind, a lifetime of responsibility and work ahead, and only a single semester in be­tween. Who wouldn't want to take some time out and relax? 
There is the argument that education is its own reward, but that argument becomes less persuasive when faced with an 8 a.m. walk through the freezing rain for a class that you're taking pass/fail. 
Underclassmen take note: you might think you 're immune, but you're not. Though a mild case of seniorrhea affects high school students, it's only a dim shadow of the full-blown senioritis found in college. In college, instead of saying what you want to _be when you grow up, you begin to say what you're doing next year. 
GP As, class schedules and housing contracts are 
byJoeGallagber 

overshadowed by starting salaries, vacation days and apartment hunting. You begin using phrases like "There aren't enough hours in the day" and "I've beenfeelingrundownlately." Rundown-I'm only 21, for crying out loud! I don't plan on being truly "run down" until at least 25. 
Of course, I'm nowhere near being totally run down, but one side effect of senioritis is an increased sense of melodrama. In some ways senioritis gives people a sense of what's truly important, but it can also distort a senior's perspective so that everything takes on an air of finality. Sure, this may be the last time you will ever order chicken stir-fry with oyster · sauce at the dining hall, but is that necessarily a bad thing? 
Senioritis is thrilling and dull at the same time. On the one hand you 're incredibly excited, you're mostly finished with formal education, you 're ready to get out there and do something. On the other hand, you 're tired of deadlines, you've still got a few months before you can start a job ~dyou've still gottests and papers to finish.-You're ready to go conquer the world, but you're still stuck in school. It's the spiri­tual and mental equivalent of being all dressed up with nowhere to go. 
Most of all, senioritis shifts the focus onto the graduating senior: now that your education is largely over and you have the freedom to do what you want, what do you plan to do.? 
I plan on keeping the perspective that there are other things going on in the world besides my gradu­ation. I plan on remembering that even though I've done a lot, I know there's an entire world that I haven't even begun to experience. And I plan on believing that God knows more than I do, even though I can't always understand God's motivation. 
From what I've_ seen, senioritis can only be cured by graduation. For the moment, though, I plan on making the most of each day as a student until I can make the most of each day as an aluinnus. 
Yeah, I've got senioritis. But it's a small price to pay for being a senior. D 
MARCH 4, 1999 






Holy Cross Associates 

Promoting growth in: •Colorado Springs, co 
• 
Service • Brockton (Boston area), MA 

• 
Simple lifestyle • Portland, OR 

• 
Sprituality • Wilkes-Barre, PA 

• 
Community Living • Others as we grow! 


HCA is a year-long lay volunteer program in six cities across the United St.ates. Now in our 22nd year, and with 37 recent college grads, HCA is inviting individuals to apply for our '99/'00 program year. Interviews will be taking place in late March & early April. Applications can be picked up at the Center for Social Concerns, and at the Holy Cross Associate Office at Moreau. 
For more information, contact: 
Holy Cross Associates PO Box 668, Notre Dame IN 46556 Phone: 631-5521 Fax: 631-6813 E-mail: nd.hcassoc.l@nd.edu http ://www.nd.edu: 80/~hcassoc 



~~Living in the Age of Possiblilities" 
Tickets on sale NOW! 
April 13th 7:30PM Stepan Center 
LaFortune Box Office $6 students $1 O nonstudents 

Traveling improv comedy! 
Tickets on sale NOW! March 22nd 8:00PM Washington Hall 
.. LaFortune Box Office $4 students $7 nonstudents 







