If you’re interested in journalism, graphic arts, layout, photography or advertising then
Scholastic
Notre Dame’s Weekly Student Magazine
wants you.
Stop by our table on activities night and help us stay
“A century ahead of the competition.”
No experience necessary.
Some paid editorial positions are still available. Join Scholastic as we celebrate both the university’s sesquicentennial and our own 125th anniversary.
1
CONTENTS
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
ENTERTAINMENT
7 Music
NEWS
9 Divying Up LaFortune
SPORTS
14	King David : A Sensational Summer
16	One Man Stands Alone
17	National Champions : 1919
DEPARTMENTS .
2
5
12
18
20
Editor's Notes CampusWatch On Other Campuses Behavior Modification Week In Distortion Coming Distractions Glancing Back Final Word
w TA ’.XS"^
On The Cover: Three student organizations lost space in this summer's redivision of LaFortune. Photo by Paul Webb.
AUGUST 29,1991
EDITOR'S NOTES
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME S STUDENT MAGAZINE
Vol. 133, No. 1
August 29, 1991
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gras Moriturus
Founded 1867
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Ian Mitchell
MANAGING EDITOR
Mari Okuda
EXECUTIVE EDITOR
Patricia Doyle
NEWS EDITOR
Kate Manuel
SPORTS EDITOR
Jon Paul Potts
CAMPUS LIFE EDITOR
Kristine DeGange
ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR
Elizabeth Graner
ENTERTAINMENT ASSISTANT
Dave Holsinger
DEPARTMENTS EDITOR
Michael Owen
PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR
Paul Webb
COPY EDITOR
Margaret Kenny
SYSTEMS MANAGER
Kevin Hardman
ADVERTISING MANAGER
David Chmiel
BUSINESS MANAGER
Scott Ecker
GRAPHIC ARTS MANAGER
Jeanne Naylor
Scholastic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examination and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN,46556and printed at The Papers, Inc,, Mil ford,IN46542. The subscription rale is $25.00/year and back issues are available a! $1.25 / copy, The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Not re Dame, itsadmmistrai ion, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicitied materials become the property of Scholastic. .
Copyright 1991 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
2
Welcome
A university is a strange place. Notre Dame celebrates its 150th anniversary this year, but the school is as young as a freshman taking the dreaded swim test, and no older than a senior lining up for yearbook portraits.
Every year a new class of students joins Notre Dame, each freshman looking forward to new experiences, new friends and a winning football season. Every year another class graduates, each senior looking ahead and glancing back at the same time. All students can do is make the most of their four years and try to leave their mark as they pass by.
On behalf of the entire staff of Scholastic, welcome to another school year. My apologies for the sentimental Hallmark card above, but we seniors are entitled, every so often.
Join Scholastic
The magazine is preparing to celebrate its 125th anniversary, making us one of the oldest college publications in the United S tates. Like the university itself, we are both old and young: we have a proud history but are constantly in the process of changing and improving the magazine.
As you look through this week’s issue, you may notice something: you’ll see most of those names printed on the left side of this page atop an article or under a graphic or photo. This is the first issue of the magazine, mainly the work of editorial board members who arrived early to put it together. (Special thanks to each and every one who put this issue together, by the way.) Of course, we all like to write every once in a while, but we’re basically editors, and normally we leave the writing to the staff... (I’m sure you can tell what’s coming up here.)
So, if you’re interested in joining the tradition of Scholastic, stop by our table at activities night or call us at 239-7569 to let us know. We’re interested in both experienced writers and novices who would like to learn, seniors and freshmen and everything in between.
About This Issue
This week’s cover story on LaFortune space may seem a little dry (okay, more boring than death), but the struggle for room between some of this campus’ mest powerful organizations affects all students (it’s our money they’re spending, after all). Scholastic takes a look at who won and who lost in this summer’s fight for elbow room.
Also this week, Sports Editor Jon Paul Polls looks at a rarity in ND football — a single captain — while writer Jim Kuser writes a “How I spent My Summer Vacation” essay for Dave DiLucia of the ND tennis team. While all the usual columns return from summer break, there’s a newcomer to the lineup. CampusWatch, by “the Gipper” will offer news, commentary and all right, gossip about what’s really going on under the Dome.
Another new regular feature for this year is “Glancing Back,” a celebration of Notre Dame’s big one-five-oh through Scholastic archives. This weeks theme, is, naturally enough, the start of the school year.
Other changes in the magazine will continue. This week, for example, the table of contents has been redesigned. You may notice a few other small changes from week to week.
When we call ourselves a “student magazine,” we mean it — we’re learning by doing. Tell us what works and what doesn ’ t by sending in a letter to the editor (letters policy below). Comment on campus issues with a “Final Word.” Most of all, enjoy the issue.
Ian Mitchell
Editor in Chief
Letters to Scholastic must be typed and include the writer's name, address and phone number. University students should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should include their department. Allletlersmust besigned. Nameswill bewithheld upon request in certain instances.
Scholastic reserves the right to reject Idlers that are libelous or obscene by the laws of the United States. Scholastic also will edit for copyfitting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space, Scholastic cannot print all letters received.
Address all correspondence to:
The Editor
Scholastic
LaForittne Center
Notre Dame, IN 46556
SCHOLASTIC
I
NEWS COMMENTARY
CampusJ/l^tc/7
BY THE GIPPER
Information, opinion, attitude and outright innuendo
Sweeping it onto the Rug
Have you seen the new carpeting in North Dining Hall? It looks like a Hawaiian shirt gone horribly wrong. But then, as the Gipp overheard one.student comment, at least the pattern will hide food spills. Even a lost tuna
? a	<••? - >:y> c	.■.
ffl®WGipp?SNew
lilllgii^
:;Noticcthosesigns:aboutusingtheZIP-r4
9codcspricampusmail?Wonderwhy?So £4’4$^
Gipper the
................................................. jjHerc’stH^Wuat^nH^
Gbelicf,^^	....
Oitmustcotho after
--Zzi.LX;	* -.v
■.‘"/■OmO	'll■"'A-O .'O
OAnd.bere:theyaib:

Broch-Phillips
Cavanaugh
Flanner:
•5603 ■5604
•5605
•5606
■5607:
•5608
•5609 5610 ■5611
muffin or two would be obscured in the mesmerizing bird-of-paradise motif.
Taste of Notre
Dame
Like many Domers, the Gipper enjoyed the
Grace ;;
Howard: G/j-A
Keenan J&oiC Lewis Lyons;
.Morrisse^G- -Pangborn -PasquerillaEast
Siegfried ;5 •; ?<;}? .Ej ii ■
St. Edward’s O'01;0 ■: 0 5S \
Stanford':':	0C c
iwhjsiEy^q
Zahm A:Ojo: Jy?Ei:0jyi: FisherGraduate Residences O’Hara-Grace Townhouses
-5612'0 -5614: G $615g $633'0 $616'0 -5617-5618;
$620-$62Tg $6220 -5634o •5625 •5623-:
•5626'0 $627 •5628: -5676 •5619-
ZI14-4 code s^
delivered. And,atleastfornow,mailsans those extra four numbers will continue to arrive at the same thrilling speed you’ve come to know and love. The mail person we talked with said, however, that using the extra four digits will speed up the delivery of your mail once the ND post office gets its automated mail sorters installed. The P.O. is hopeful that it will get the sorters later this year.
Taste of Notre Dame on Monday. This j festival of free food is meant to give students	;
a chance to sample foodstuffs and vote on whether products should be served by University Food Service. While he admired the	!
students who thought ahead and brought large boxes or milk crates to haul away the . ; bounty, the Gipp was especially impressed i by the vendors at some booths, who were : seen industriously filling out the student ’ feedback cards themselves. The Gipper is | just sure that they were fairly evaluating [ their own products, not just stuffing the । ballot box.	;
Bookstore Revenge
Visit the bookstore yet? Think nobody could possibly have spent more on textbooks than you? Well, now’s your chance to prove it: drop off a copy of your bookstore receipt at the Scholastic office (303 LaFor-tune) or send it by campus mail (ha ha!). Both number of books bought and sheer cost of the books will be taken into consideration. The ol’ Gipper is the sole and final judge of all contest entries. The “winner” will be annouced in this space two weeks from now. ■
Tip the Gipp
Who knows what evil lurks in the hearts of men? The Gipper knows—with your help.	।
If you have a story tip or inside info that everyone on the outside should know, be a Junior CampusWatcher — tell the Gipp! No, you can’t meet the gossiping ghost, but you can leave a message for him: by phone (239-7569, call anytime), in person (stop by the office Monday-Friday 2-5 p.m.) or by campus mail (303 LaFortune). The Gipper is waiting for you.
AUGUST 29, 1991
3
I
B-!^=====
____ON OTHER CAMPUSES
The Job Market Is Worse
j
I
1
Than You Thought
Someone Help This Guy
We all know times are tough for those graduating into the job market. However, according to the College Press Service, no one has sunk as low as Big Jim Kutsko, Jr., billboard stud. In his dcsparate search for employment, Jim decided to plaster his likeness and an ad stating “Hire Yourself an Experienced Marketing Graduate” on the side of a truck. Apparently Jim has already invested over $350,000 for three tractor trailers. The first was defaced by young hoodlums scralling “Nice Hair, Kutsko!” and “Sling Fries at BK, Loser!” on one side. Another was destroyed in a twenty car CHiPs pile-up by a woman who reportedly saw Elvis’s head on Jim’s torso. Please, no crank phone calls, Jim only considers serious offers.
Nice Neighbors
Canadian University Presidents recently concluded in a survey that they have serious concerns about their present students states the National On-Campus Report. The survey concluded that the majority of the administrator’s students are preoccupied with career interests, have no interest in broad intellectual topics, and are generally lazy. To top it off, the highest non-academic concerns were alcohol abuse, antipathy toward female activists, and theft. Who says Canada is just a bunch of American wannabees?
B.U. (Boringly Unoriginal)
The Dean of Boston University’s School of Communications was forced to resign over the summer reports the College Press Service. H. Joachim Maitre apparently “borrowed” over a dozen paragraphs from a film critic’s speech when he composed his commencement speech. Students caught for the same offense face expulsion at B.U. Someone who plagiarizes and retains an initial for a first name, what a spud.
Miami Defines the Greek System Bonus
How’s this for a sugar-coating of fraternity and sorority indoctrination? According to the University of Miami’s First Impression issue, students receive “not only a better opportunity to enhance their education, but, they have also learned social awareness, received personal growth and built lasting friendships.” (Read: Most Miamians enjoy the opportunity to merge into one meaningless personality).
First Row Geeks
According to a study at King’s College in Pennsylvania reported in the National On-Campus Report, students with greater self-esteem tend to sit in the first two rows of a classroom, although they do not perform better academically. Look around you as you begin this fall semester. Those people in the front could be our future leaders. But don’t risk breaking the honor code for them -they’re not that smart	□
Edited by Kim Cenedella
' SCHOLASTIC
BEHAVIOR MODIFICATION
Intergraduate Fever and A Hesitant Hoosier
Mr. Manners returns to solve the problems of the lovelorn, impolite, and generally stupid people of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary’s “family.”
This week we start off with an oldie but a goody. (One that was sent to me after the last issue came out, but that’s O.K. too). My first disciple writes:
Dear Mr. Manners,
I cannot stop noticing the disparity of good looks between the graduate and undergraduate male populations on this campus. As a female graduate student, I find myself strongly attracted to the handsome, muscular, well-dressed undergrads. Is this a proper thing? I know I should associate with my own age group but they are a bunch of out-of-shape, Pocket-Protector sporting toads. Help!! By the way, I love your column and will do whatever you tell me to.
Sincerely, Unglad to be a Grad
Dear Unglad,
I think you’ve brought up a very serious problem here. I think we can talk about this attraction for undergrads more personally, say at my apartment.... Just kidding. Actually, when I find myself in such a situation, I reach for one source that helps me time and time again. It’s Jessica Hahn’s Love Phone. Jessica is so understanding. She helps me find out true fantasies at the touch of a button. And it’s such a bargain.
If you’re not up for that, I’d say go for it anyway. So you date a guy half your age. Hang out at Bridget’s on a Wednesday to find true Frosh bliss.
Dear Mr. Manners:
I am new to this campus and have a lot of questions about this my newly found nirvana. Chief among them is the topic of Hoosiers. I am a freshman from New York and my
roommate told me he is a Hoosier. I didn’t want to embarrass him so I smiled and said “Can you cure that?” I really don’t know what the hell a Hoosier is. He gave me a weird look and cranked up that Slayer disc he keeps playing. Mr. Manners, please give me an honest definition of Hoosier.
Sincerely, Frosh Dork from New York
Dear NYDork,
You really picked the wrong place to slam Hoosiers. In case you didn’t know, you are now in the Hoosier state, surrounded by millions of Hoosiers. I’m glad you and your parents decided to tour all of your prospective campuses. New England we are not.
To tell you the truth, Hoosier comes from the French word meaning “one who worships Recreational Vehichles”
It is not a disease, just a way of life. Consider yourself lucky to be only a few miles from Michigan. Father Sorin could have picked Terre Haute.
Dear Mr. Manners,
What’s to do here?
Just Wondering, Bored Freshbabe, Walsh
Dear Freshbabc,
What a typical freshman question. Actually, I’m still asking it. The key to surviving in this place is to be creative, break the rules, and make the best out of what you have. (And quit being such a whiner).	□
You, too, can have your important problems solved just by writing to Mr. Manners c/o Scholastic, 303 LaFortune, Campus Mail.
AUGUST 29, 1991
5
WEEK IN DISTORTION
Welcome Back ... To The Same Old Questions
By Roger Hipp
Q o, for the thousandth time, how wasyour kJ summer? As tiring as this question may be, it’s better than a lot of alternatives you might be tempted to ask, like “Hey Joe, what’s that furry creature attached to your chin?” or “Hey Jane, what on earth did you do to your hair?” So I’m still sticking with “How was your summer?” for now. It’s like Notre Dame running the ball on third and long. It’s not the most original or effective way to go, but at least it’s safe and well-tested. My summer was fine, by the way.
Yes, the first part of the year is a time of cliches. We use them in conversation because it’s hard to keep up a witty dialogue when both parties are trying to remember the other person’s name. (“Oh, your name isn’t Mike? Well, you sure look like a Mike! No, my name’s not Mike either.”) They appear frequently in the first issues of campus publications because nothing worth writing about has happened yet.
It’s difficult to successfully make fun of dining hall food we haven’t eaten yet, snow that has yet to fall, or university officials who might manage to hold off a few weeks before making their first major blunder. All in due time. The greetings we receive from the university don’t vary much from year to year, either. “Dear Student: Please note the new restrictions and penalties added to du-Lac for the coming academic year” is the university’s way of saying, “How was your summer?”
Then there’s the cliche-ridden advice we upperclassmen feel compelled to impart to freshmen. (Please substitute “upperclasspeople” and “freshpersons” if you are politically correct.) Again, even the most
worn clichds look good compared to the alternatives. We can’t give out practical advice, like how to find the nearest bathroom, because that would only rob the new members of our Notre Dame Family of the thrill of discovery. Some people like to give out universal, apocalyptic advice, like “I’ve done it wrong, all wrong, do you understand? Don’t do anything I’ve ever done!”
iStudentte Policies and Procedure! Xlniveraity;:6f^
This approach is a good way to make sure that the freshmen in your section won’t bother you much, but if you go this route they probably won’t lend you their dogbooks, either.
So instead we say things like, “Your time here wi 11 go by so fast—it will be over before
you know it” I’m always embarrassed when I pass on this little lie, since I remember spending several regrettably long lifetimes during Thursday morning lectures alone. No matter who the lecturer is, it is impossible for a 75-minute class to be over before you know it.
But in case any freshmen are reading this, I don’t want to make it sound like budgeting time shouldn ’ t be a top priori ty. In these first weeks before the homework starts piling up, it’s important to make a daily schedule to get the most out of your spare time. You might start with something like this:
1)	eat
2)	take either a walk or a nap, depending on the weather
3)	visit some friends down the hall and hope they’ll offer you a beer
4)	skim a textbook for thirty seconds or until you are bored, whichever comes first 5) sleep
I know some of you free spirit types might have trouble sticking to such a rigid daily regimen, so let me point out that by varying ’ the order of these five tasks, you can come up with 120 different permutations, which is more than enough to last the semester.
Fortunately, it won’t be long before we have new conversation openers to take the place of “How was your summer? ” like “Did you hear about Rick Mirer’s eardrum?” or “When do deficiency reports come out?” In fact, with the time going by so fast, before you know it you’ll be asking, “How was your fall break?”	q
Roger Hipp is a Dillon Senior who spent last semester in the London Program
6
SCHOLASTIC
MUSIC
LOlLILAIPAILOO^Ag
SCHOLASTIC'S OWN EDITOR-IN-EXILE REVIEWS WHEN THE FESTIVAL HIT CHICAGO
It wasn’t exactly the Woodstock of our generation, but this Summer’s Lollapalooza Music Festival was definitely one hell of a show. Organized this spring by Jane’s Addiction’s lead vocalist Peny Farrell, Lollapalooza was intended to fill this summer’s major concert void, and it did so in grand style. According to a security guard at the World Music Theatre in Chicago, where I caught the show, this concert had been the only one so far in the 1991 Summer season to sell out the venue. In fact, judging by the traffic (both human and vehicular) at die show, I would say that it was oversold. The lawn at the World was completely jammed with people, making viewing the bands a near impossibility unless one pushed, shoved and kicked his way to the front of the lawn area. Even so, the stage was still a good 400 yards away, which made even the mighty Jane’s Addiction look like ants.
But I don’t mean to detract from the show in any way. The only problems I had with it were the fault of the venue (like the food prices — six bucks for a brat and a Coke? And $4.25 for a 20 oz. beer?). From a technical standpoint, this show was amazingly well staged. Each band played with a completely different set (some of
them rather complex), and there was never more than a 15 minute wait between bands. Technical screw-ups were few and far between, and mostly the fault of the musicians (someone should tell Corey Glover of Living Colour that it’s a bad idea to walk in front of the P. A. speakers with his mic in his hand.).
Diversity seemed to be the theme of the day. Lollapalooza was intended to be a gathering of all different types of fans and bands, and the line-up of bands reflected this. In addition to musical diversity, political diversity was also stressed. Groups like Refuse and Resist and PETA, among others, were on hand to pass out information. Yet this was no “politically correct,” obscenity-sanitized, forced-diversification project. What Lollapalooza meant was real diversity, as in, “This is our music, and this is what we believe. You can either like it or leave it alone, but it’s how we are, and we’re not going o change.” No one was forced to endure long political monologues. Everyone knew why they were there. All anyone had to do was accept what diversity meant and sit back and enjoy the show.
Obviously, the inclusion of African-American acts such as Living Colour and Ice-T was an intentional motion towards promoting diversity. However, these bands
Ice-T got busy at Lollapalooza
made no preachy statements on racism. Rather, they made their statements in their own ways: rocking hard. Ice-T in particular made a unique statement by fusing his style of “Gangstar” rap with thrash metal (he was backed by the L.A. band, Body Count, for three numbers). Among the thrash-rap fusion numbers performed was “There Goes the Neighborhood,” a statementon the music industry’s view on blacks in rock.
Without too much thought, though, anyone could have gone through the day without realizing what an important statement on diversity this festival made. Music was the focus, and there was plenty of it. The day began with the Rollins Band,
AUGUST 29,1991
7
who unleashed a fearsome tonent of noise onto the crowd promptly at 2 p.m., marking the beginning if the day’s nine hours of music. Most of the crowd seemed to be uninterested in the experimental punk noise of the Rollins Band. As Ice-T stated later, “My man Henry Rollins came on stage, and GOT BUSY, and you all just sat on your fat butts.” Indeed, the barefoot, shirtless Rollins howled, screeched and condemned life, society and just about everything else in his scathing 45 minute set, creating a storm of noise that was thoroughly rewarding for those who paid any attention to him.
After a short break, the Butthole Surfers proceeded to confuse most of the crowd. I found it better to lay back and listen to the dissonant, rolling waves of feedback and grunge coming from the stage, interrupted by the odd gunshot of vocal effect. With my eyes closed, it was easy to become drawn into the auditory hallucination that the Bulthole Surfers produced. Again, most of the audience couldn’t have cared less. I could tell by the number of Nine Inch Nails shirts in the crowd that they were really waiting for someone else.
Ice-T, as I said before, was definitely one of the highlights of the day. Even though he often sunk to the old live rap cliches of “Everybody in the house say YEAAHHH!,” Ice-T put on a rockin’ good show. His set was split between older material like “LGBNAF’ (you know what the acronym stands for) and “Colors,” and newer material like “O.G.” and the three songs which he played with Body Count.
I had known all day that the crowd was going to go nuts for Nine Inch Nails. They did,. Because of our seating arrangement, I had decided to watch the first three bands while my cohorts sat on the lawn and watched our stuff. In return, I had to watch the stuff while they watched Nine Inch Nails. Reports have it that Trent Reznor shoved his guitarist into the audience, simulated intercourse with a keyboard and did all sorts of other nasty things that are not appropriate for the singer of a nice Casiotone band to do (I do jest here. Nine Inch Nails arc not Casiotone Casiotone with guitars, maybe ... ). Favorites like “Head Like a Hole” and “Terrible Lie” sounded decidedly less synthesized live, and “Get Down Make Love” came off well also. Like I suspected, the 40 to 50 percent of the crowd that was wearing Nine Inch Nails shirts seemed to be 8
in some mystical ecstasy the whole time. Some things I’ll never understand.
Living Colour, for all the hype about their live performances, struck me as very sloppy and unprofessional in concert Yes, Vemon Reid is a phenomenal guitarist, but you can only take so much of his guitar virtuosity in a one hour set. Singer Corey Glover was likewise too indulgent, often to the point of rhythmically fouling up the rest of the band on certain phrases. Their set was still
Living Colour, on the cutting edge of rock, performed on the Lollapalooza tour
impressive, with songs like “Type” gaining a new kind of energy in a live situation. Their cover of “Should I Stay or Should I Go?” was also entertaining.
Siouxsie Sioux, you luscious temptress, you, I can’t even begin to say how good you and the Banshees sounded. From the moment Siouxsie and Co. took the stage, it was apparent that they were the oldest and most experienced band of the day’s line-up. The opener, “Cities in the Dust,” was done perfectly, and it was an indication that this show was not going to be a release-centered promotional gig. Siouxsie and companions Budgie and Steve Severin churned out oldies like “Happy House,” “Paradise Place” and the remarkable “Spellbound” right beside new tunes like “Kiss Them For Me,” “Silver Waterfalls” and “Fear of the Unknown.” The huge crowd and outdoor ambience only augmented their set, letting the sound echo across the lawn and off into the air. The Banshees have only matured with age, and S iouxsie looks better than ever (one might even say normal!). Her feline movements around the stage made the music all the more seductive and entrancing. By the time the band played the encore of
“Spellbound,” the crowd was just that.
Headliners Jane’s Addiction ran the crowd through every possible emotion and then some in their full length set, the only one of the day. Opening with the eerie “Up the Beach” and then lurching into “Whores,” their force as a live act was undisputable. Guitarist Dave Navarro’s solos were a tour de force live, churning, spinning, and then slipping back underneath the rest of the songs, whether they were thrashers or psychedelic ballads. The set’s highpoint came early on with a 12 minute rendition of “Three Days,” executed perfectly and accompanied by a complementary piece of psychedelic video. Also notable were “Then She Did ... ,” “Stop” and of course, “Been Caught Stealing,” which sent the mosh pit in front of the stage into a frenzy. Ice-T made a cameo, singing (gasp!) in a new piece of material, the politically incorrect but forceful and fun, “Don’t Call Me Nigger, Whitey.” The first encore provided a moment the was simultaneously surreal and cathartic, as “Summertime Rolls” spilled off the speakers and into the cosmos and Perry Farrell exhorted the crowd to “Rage... rage hard.” Apparently following his advice, the band pounded into a version of “Ocean Size” that shook theEarth out of its orbit. Now that I’ve heard “Ocean Size” live, I don’tknowif any band will be able to impress me anymore. Pretty much anything would have been anticlimatic at that point, but “Classic Girl” ended the show nicely.
Now that you ’re almost as exhausted from reading this as I was after the show, I would advise you to look out for Lollapalooza ’92 (most likely sans Jane’s Addiction) as the future of diversity in music expands at an exponential rate. Already, bands like Anthrax and Public Enemy are recording together and touring together (P.E. has gigged with the Sisters of Mercy and Sonic Youth). Rage... and rage hard. The music industry may be sacred, but the future can’t hold back the newly discovered possibilities for recombinant rock and roll.
By Dave Holsinger
Dave "Dave” Holsinger is on foreign assignment for the entire school year. Hopefully this will allow him to find out what "Le Grand Poisson du Soir” means. Lizzie Graner is his personal idol..
SCHOLASTIC
NEWS
Divying Up LaFortune
Student groups vie for office space	|
1
by Ian Mitchell
The core of LaFortune Student Center was built in 1883, making it one of the older buildings on campus. It began life as the Science building and now serves as the center of student life at Notre Dame.
This summer the historic structure, rather than being preserved in in its old age, was modified again — some new walls were built and others tom down as the second floor office space was reassigned.
Administration and student groups were reshuffled in a new redivision of the building’s rooms; some gained space, and some ended up losing ground in the fight for square feet.
Space in LaFortune has always been tight, but the groundwork for this summer’s action may lie with some of the events of last year.
Last spring Students United For Respect (SUFR) demanded office and lounge space in LaFortune. The group asked that Theodore’s, the student center’s non-alcoholic nightclub/ballroom facility, be converted to a multicultural center as a temporary measure on the road to the eventual construction of a separate building to house such facilities.
But the committee formed to examine the future of Theodore’s decided that the area would remain a facility for clubs and events, not dedicated for multicultural uses.
Before closing up shop for the summer, all student groups with space in LaFortune got a letter from the Office of Student Activities which asked for detailed information.
“Everybody had to put in a proposal to justify their space and how they were using it,” said Lynn Ramsay, board manager of the Student Union Board.
The letter asking for justifications of the student groups’ office space had an ominous tone that may have served a purpose — motivation.
While examination of office usage is made every year, this year “I made a conscious effort to try to get student organizations to take the request more seriously,” said Joe Cassiday, director of student activities.
According to Cassiday, the responses his office received were helpful in determining just how groups used their allotted space, but some decisions — the relocation of the Office of Minority Affairs and the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education — were already made.
Cassiday said that he did have input into which student groups were to have their space reduced, however.
“The allocation of administrative space ends up being done by the student affairs level,” Cassiday said. “I then end up working from there for space allocation for student organizations and meeting rooms space.”
He added that no student groups were completely eliminated from LaFortune in the office reshuffling, and one group, the Multicultural Executive Council, was added to the LaFortune club.
Three groups saw their space in the building reduced, however. The Club Coordination Council, the Student Union Board and
campus radio station WVFI all lost some office area.
Jennifer Blanchet, head of the C.C.C., said that the council’s operations wouldn’t be affected by the move to a smaller office.
“I’m happy with the space that we received,” Blanchet said. “We’re going to be able to function just as well in the new space.”
Ramsay, manager of S.U.B. said that her group may actually receive some benefits from losing space.
“I think the new changes will improve lines of communication, at least for my organization,” she said, explaining that the smaller room forces board members to work more closely together. “We’re just a little more cozy, that’s all,” she added.
WVFI Station Manager Kevin Flaherty also felt that his organization could cope with the smaller space.
“It’ll be cramped [but] we’ll be all right,” he said.
But of the three student groups which lost space, WVFI may have been the hardest hit “We had a reception area, we lost that and an adjoining engineering room,” Flaherty said.
He said that after this summer’s construction, in which two new club offices were carved out of WVFI’s previous space, the reception area was “virtually” gone, and the equipment in the engineering area was put in the record library.
“I know that we can deal with it, that we can make do with whatever we have,” he said, adding “I was more upset at the principle [of thedecision process] than theactual loss.”
AUGUST 29,1991
9
Flaherty said that he did not learn of the cut in his station’s office space until two weeks before arriving at school.
“I wasn’t happy with the amount of student input,” said Joseph Blanco, student body president.
The second floor receptionist has now been moved inside the student government office, a move that Blanco said would help com munication. “I don’t think the outcome was bad,” he said, “But I’m not sure I can endorse the process that was used.”
Student input into the process came after the decisions concerning which groups would have smaller offices had been made. At that point, Blanco and Ramsay were consulted to provide a student voice in the reallotment.
“The point when students had input was after space had been lost,” Ramsay said. While student government and S.U.B. had no say in who lost space, they were allowed to make recommendations about which
groups would gain from the new arrangement.
Blanco and Ramsay said representatives of other student groups with LaFortune space were called for advice and suggestions as to where groups should be located.
Ramsay, Cassiday and Blanco agreed that the resulting student recommendations were largely followed.
In fact, the only change made to the student recommendations was to relocate the Graduate Student Union office from the third floor to the second floor.
“Theroom they’re in now was originally a conference room two years ago, and the institution started putting more emphasis on graduate students, and felt that with the emphasis on graduate students that the GSU ought to be in [LaFortune],” Cassiday said. “So we put them in that conference room, as a temporary move, until we could identify some space for them on second floor, because we really want them down on second
floor with student government, S.U.B. and the classes, because they should interact.”
With the new arrangement, the minority affairs office has swapped places with alcohol and drug education, which will now be located on the mezzanine level. The minority affairs office is also now in charge of scheduling for the new student lounge to be located in the old Club Coordination Council room.
“That room was set up similar to the ISO lounge, that is it has been allocated to the Office of Minority Student Affairs similar [to the way] the ISO lounge has been controlled by the International Student Affairs Office,” Cassiday said.
He added that the Foster room, which had been made available for similar functions as
These maps show the former division of space in LaFortune (left) and the current reallocation of space (right).
WVFI
Student Union Board
1 i ! i !
Theos
Shenai igans
Beverage Soph Bar ~
Class
Senioi Class Junior Class,
Theodores
1 IA&D
I CA(f Ed.
Alcohol Glee
Dnig Fd. I clubJ
Recep tionist
Theos
Club
Office Space
nternaiiflnal
Sti
dent
Af 'airs
Notre Dame Room
Student Government
10
SCHOLASTIC
a temporary move, will now return to its regular meeting room status.
Theodore’s, the space that SUFR initially criticized as underutilized, will remain a ballroom and meeting space for campus groups, with fewer restrictions governing its use.
“It’s really operating now like a meeting room, that a residence hall or student organization can reserve it for their purpose or their function and they set up the parameters,” Cassiday said.
He added that he did not foresee dividing Theodore’s for use as office space.
“It’s the only ballroom that we’ve got for student use ” Cassiday said. “If we took it away for that purpose, I’m not sure what the programs that are now going in there, where they would be displaced. Stepan’s too big and cavernous, otherwise they would be forced off campus, or to places like the C.C.E. or the Joyce A.C.C. where you would have to pay rent.”
Although this year’s changes are finished, next year may bring another realignment. While Cassiday said that he did not think there would be another move of administrative office space (such as the Office of Minority Affairs) for some time, he added, “We will continue an annual evaluation of student office space, and we do that also with meeting room space.”
The fight for office elbow room may enter yet another round at the end of the year.	□
Safi sfacti o n i4 a fa n teed
Saturday, August 31 & Sunday, September 1 FEATURING
ESP Showman, Mentalist "He's Amazing!"
8:00 p.m. Washington Hall
Tickets $3 at LaFortune Information Desk
For More Info Call 239-7308

Senioj
Class
Shenai igans


Student Union Board
Theos

Theodores
Beverage Soph
Bar ~
Junior
Class
Class'
Theos
Office
MS
-203B
Notre Dame Room
Student Government
203 C
ternatidnal Sti dent
AUGUST 29,1991
11
0
a
Goming usstraco©ns 11 day calendar Make sure your event gets listed -- send information (including date, time, and cost) to: Coming Distractions, Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune,orcall Entertainment Editor Liz Graner at 239-7569. Sunday	Monday	Tuesday	Wednesday				1 S E P S S tl F e 8 $ s
September 1 Seniors: Class Mass at Grotto, 5 p.m. Sophomores: Class Mass at Grotto, 2 p.m. Psychic magician: Craig Karges performs in Washington Hall, 8 p.m., $3.	September 2 Labor Day (So what? No day off!) Films: “Risky Business,” 7 p.m. “The Cheat,” 9:15 p.m., Snite, $2 each. Sophomores: FB ticket Distribution, 9 a.m. - 6 p.m.	September 3 Student Activities Night, 7-10 p.m., J.A.C.C. North Dome. Films: “Nosferatu,” 7 p.m. “Fatal Attraction,” 9 p.m., Snite, $2 each. Freshmen: FB Ticket Distribution, 9 a.m. - 6 p.m.	September 4 SMC Activities Night 8-10 p.m., Angela. Juniors: Lake Michigan cruise, $25.	c C 1 s 1
September 8 Sophomores: Trip to the Dunes	For More Information Call: On Campus	Touch Four LaFortune Information Desk: 239-8128	. Call 239-2500, then pf Student Union Board: 239-7757	ext. 2101	for movie ini Snite Film Series Hot Line: 239-7361	ext. 2114	for the musk News Line (summary of campus events): 239-5110 ext. 2112	for concert ii JACC Ticket Information: 239-7354	ext. 2117	for theatre in Notre Dame MenuLine: 283-FOOD	ext. 2525	for a list of c Senior Class: 239-5136 Junior Class: 239-5117 Sophomore Class: 239-5225 ■ \			
’hursday	Friday	Saturday.
digust 29 eniors: FB Ticket Jistribution, 9 a.m. - 6 .m. Picnic at Alumni-enior Club ophomores: Capture leflag, Stepan, 6:30. jreshmen: Bowling light, bus leaves from lain Circle at 6:45 and very half hour until :45, $1.75 per game, 1.30 for those keen hoes.	August 30 Film: “Defending Your Life,” Snite, 7:15 and 9:45 p.m., $2. Music: XYZ Affair at Fieldhous, 6 p.m. Grad Students: Party at Wilson Commons, 8 p.m. Juniors: FB Ticket Distribution, 9 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sophomores: Barn Dance	August 31 Psychic magician: Craig Karges performs in Washington Hall, 8 p.m., $3. Grad/Law Students: FB Ticket Distribution, 9 a.m. - 6 p.m. Seniors: Trip to the Dunes Sophomores: Class Picnic 11:00 a.m. at Stepan Field.
September 5 4ovie: “Die Hard,” Ashing Aud., 8 and 0:15 p.m., $2. ieniors: Golf oumament	September 6 Movie: “The Doors,” Cushing Aud., 8 and 10:15 p.m., $2. Film: “Edward Scissorhands,” 7:30 and 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2 each. Ventriloquist: Lynn Trefzger, Wash. Hall, 8 p.m.	Sptember 7 Home Game (vs. Indiana) Movie: “The Doors,” Cushing Aud., 8 and 10:15 p.m., $2. Film: “Edward Scissorhands,” 7:30 and 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2 each. Ventriloquist: Lynn Trefzger, Wash. Hall, 8 p.m.
Pick of the Week: Craig Karges, "psychic magician," is the first performer in Student
Activities' "satisfaction guaranteed" series. The unsatisfied can get refunds at the info desk after the show. So either you enjoy the show or you stiff
Student Activities -— what’s to lose?
Movie Theatres
|ss:	100 Center Cinema I & II: 259-0414
formation	Scottsdale Theatre: 291-4583
> line	Town & Country Theatre: 259-9090
^formation	University Park Cinema East: 277-7336
iformation	University Park Cinema West: 277-0441
ollege events
SPORTS
King David:
A Sensational Summer
By Jim Kuser
HF he typical college student spends his summer trying to rest and to relax before returning to the stresses that can accompany life on a college campus. But Dave Di-
Paul Webb
Dave DILucla, senior captain of the men's tennis team, prepares for the Pan American games and the US Open.
Lucia, the senior captain of Notre Dame’s men’s tennis team, is not the typical college student. DiLucia spent his summer on a tennis tear that took him first to the NCAA national championships in both singles and doubles in Athens, Georgia; second to the
Pan American games in Havana, Cuba; and third to the US Open in Flushing Meadows, New York.
DiLucia dazzled in the NCAAs. After breezing through the first few rounds of singles competition, he was defeated by Juan Noriego of the University of San Diego in the round of sixteen. “Losing to Noriego was frustrating for me,” says DiLucia, “because I had beaten him in the quarter finals of the Volvo All-Americans. But he is a great competitor, and it was a good match for both the players and the spectators.” Teaming with junior Chuck Coleman in doubles competition, DiLucia defeated a team from . the University of Kansas before being defeated by a highly touted team from the
University of Southern California. Although DiLucia played exceptional singles and doubles tennis, he insists that it was the success of the Notre Dame team that was most gratifying for him. “This was the first time in about twenty years that Notre Dame has qualified for the NCAAs as a team. It was great to represent the Irish, to represent the University of Notre Dame. Our team’s success was an appropriate tribute to coach Bob Bayliss and athletic director Dick Rosenthal.”
After the NCAAs, DiLucia returned to Notre Dame where he took nine credits from June 18 to August 1 in order to concentrate on tennis this fall. While at Notre Dame, he hit the weights with coaches Martinov and Schmidt and ran sprints with the football team. Football player and friend Bernard Manley was amazed by DiLucia’s speed. "I never knew those tennis players were that fast We ought to give him a helmet and throw him a few passes this fall.”
Following summer school,. DiLucia flew to Havana where he was the only male amateur named to Team USA. After professionals Jim Grabbb and Ricky Leech, the world’s best doubles player, were forced to withdraw from the games, DiLucia was the only male representing the United States. “That was a lot of pressure, but when the pressure is on, you have to perform.” After six rounds, DiLucia had defeated two plyers ranked in the top 200 in the world and found himself facing a hard hitting Brazilian named Nelson Aertzs, ranked 210 in the world, in the quarter finals. DiLucia and Aertzs slugged it out shot for shot for an amazing three hours and twnety-six minutes from 11:15-2:45. There, in the sweltering
14
SCHOLASTIC
120 degree heat of midday, a raucous crowd of 5,000 cheered the two. After losing three match points and a 5-2 lead in the second set, DiLucia got his second wind and came back to win the longest match in tournament history 7-6,6-7,6-3.
In the semi-finals, DiLucia locked horns with Pino, himself a Cuban. Again the stage was set: 5,000 raucous fans and 120 degree heat. The difference: the fans were no longer bipartisan. DiLucia described his feelings at that time saying, “It’s hard to play before a crowd that size when they areallagainstyou. I saw only three
Dave DILucia talks with Bobby Bayliss, coach of the men's tennis team.
American flags in the stands. That was it. It was a feeling of total isolation on the court.
The fans chanted ‘Cuba! Cuba!’ I told myself‘USA! USA!’ I closed out the noise and concentarted on my game, point by point. Wearing the stars and stripes fired me up. 1 would look at those three flags in the stands and think to myself, ‘You cannot blow this. You are representing your country.’ It all worked out and I won.” Final score: 2-6,6-2,6-3.
Now DiLucia found himself in the finals. His success created such a stir among the media that he was personally interviewed on ABC and TNT. He faced a
formidable opponent in Luis Hererra of Mexico who had recently beaten Jim Courier and Brad Gilbert. Hererra beat DiLucia 6-3,6-2, but DiLucia was suffering from a stomach virus during the match. In mixed doubles, DiLucia teamed with highly heralded professional Pam Shriver who had won thirty titles with Martina Navratolova in recent years. “It was great playing with
Pam,” says DiLucia. “She went pro out of high school. She went to the semis of the US
Open in her senior year of high school.” DiLucia and Shriver teamed to win a gold medal after defeating a Brazilian team 6-4, 4-6,6-0. “Gelling up on the podium to get a silver in singles was great, but getting up to get a gold was a dream come true. There Pam and I stood as we watched the flag hoisted and beared the national anthem played. I was so proud to be an American.” When asked what was most important to him about the Pan Am games, DiLucia replied, “Wearing the stars and stripes was a big rush. Also, I learned that there are a lot
of misconceptions about the Cuban peple. They treated us very well, and I wish that our relationship with Cuba could imrove.”
After returning home for a few days, DiLucia received an invitation from the USTA to play in qualifying rounds for the US Open. “The invitation was a great honor," says DiLucia, “because last year it took one ATP point to receive an invitation
and this year it took 26 ATP points.” In the qualifying rounds, DiLucia defeated Fran-
sisco Uynss, who was in the top 50 in the world five years ago, before losing to Montana, the world’s 130 ranked player and tenth player in this particular draw. DiLucia developed a rotator cuff problem during his grueling loss to Montana and plans to rehabilitate it before this fall’s seaon begins. “I’m psyched for the season,” says DiLucia. “All the guys worked hard in the off-season, and the unity and morale on the team is great. Our goal is to win the NCAAs, and we believe that that goal can be achieved if we play it day by day.” DiLucia will be the first
or second ranked player in the country in all the pre-season polls, but team success is his first priority. Perhaps the best insight into DiLucia’s drive for success is what he says, “Notre Dame has made a commitment to me, and now I am making a commitment to Notre Dame. I am committed to winning a national championship along with therest of the team.”	□.
AUGUST 29,1991
15
____ SPORTS________
©k® Mom
Senior tailback Rodney Culver emerges from spring football as the only captain on a young Notre Dame football team
By Jon Paul Potts
"O eing captain of the Notre Dame football JDteam is a huge responsibility. There’s more to it than just theopening handshake or speaking at the pep rallies— it is a position that demands discipline and leadership by example.
In the past, there have been three, even as many as four (the 1990 captains were Ricky Watters, Mike Heldt, Chris Zorich and Todd
Lyght) captains who shared the job of leading the Fighting Irish to victory.
But this year, for the first time since Mike Kovalcski captained Lou Holtz’s first Notre Dame squad, the job falls squarely on the shoulders of one man, senior tailback Rodney Culver.
Culver, nicknamed “House” by his teammates, returns as the team’s leading rusher after a compiling 725 yards and five touchdowns in his junior campaign. He has been a stalwart ill the Irish backfield since he made a big splash on the college football scene his freshman year against Purdue, bulldozing his way to 61 yards and a touchdown on ten carries in the bright lights of Notre Dame Stadium.
The Detroit, Michigan, native has come a long way since he graduated from that city’s Sl Martin dcPorres High School. Entering
college, United Press International ranked Culver as the 33rd best football prospect in the nation, but that whole class was overshadowed by the arrival of the Rocket. Even last year, when Culver was quietly establishing himself as an honorable All-American and earning the Toyota Leadership award in the biggest game of the season, Notre Dame’s spectacular 29-20 victory over the
Captain Rodney Culver turns the corner for some big yardage against Air Force last season.
Paul Webb
hated Hurricanes of Miami, the exploits of Raghib “Rocket” Ismail outshone all those of his teammates, including Culver. But now, Culver has become the best of the five Parade All-American running backs in the 1988 Irish recruiting class.
Culver came to Notre Dame as a fullback, but has successfully made the transition to tailback to give more playing time to emerg
ing star Jerome Bettis. These two bruising runners are sure to give opposing lineman and coaches alike a few headaches.
The last single-captain, Kovaleski, was an inside linebacker on Holtz’s first team that struggled to a 5-6 record. But that team was a tough team. They lost five of their games by a combined total of 14 points, including a 24-23 loss to Michigan, a heartbreaking donnybrook in Notre Dame Stadium that made the cover of Sports Illustrated and woke up the echoes of Notre Dame football after a three or four year struggle with respectability.
Now, six years later, one man is again being asked to lead the Irish. Rodney Culver will be more that up to the task of guiding a young but hungry Notre Dame team to the top of thecollege football heap.	□
16
SCHOLASTIC
SPORTS
A Tradition of ExeMence: ISIS National
Champions
Coach: Knute Rockne.
Captain: Leonard Bahan.
Notes: Notre Dame finished in a three-way tie for the top spot nationally with a Harvard team that finished 9-0-1 and the Fighting Illini of the University of Illinois who rounded out their season at 6-1... This was the second of the legendary Rockne's 13 seasons as coach of the Fighting Irish... Also was the second of halfback George Gipp's three seasons at Notre Dame before he died tragically of strep throat near the end of the 1920 season, becoming a folk hero after Rockne's famous “Win one for the Gipper” speech ... Gipp led the squad in rushing with 729 yards in the nine games ... Notre Dame rolled through their schedule, outscoring the opposition 229-47 ... Team captain Bahan was also the quarterback... The Irish were still playing their home games at Carlier Field, which is still in use as a practice field for the football team.
1919 National Championship Team
Back Row;	Andersun. Gipp, Sbnw, K»k( Amkisoii; Second Row: Rockne, Kiley. 'f^her,, Madigan, Cccj^ihn.
Prxdcy, SbtMoid, taats: Front Row: Malwsr, Soihh, MUta, Baksn. Brandy, B.irry, Hayei.
Courtesy of Sports Information
October 4	W	Kalamazoo	14-0	H	5,000
October 11	W	Mount Union	60-7	H	4,000
October 18	W	Nebraska	14-9	A	10,000
October 25	W	Western Michigan	53-0	H	2,500
November 1	W	Indiana	16-3	N	5,000
November 8	W	Army	12-9	A	8,000
November 15	W	Michigan State	13-0	H	5,000
November 22	W	Purdue	33-13	A	7,000
November 27	W	Morningside	14-6	A	10,000
SENIOR PORTRAITS
WHO:
WHEN:
WHERE:
WHY:
BRING:
Class of 1992
Pictures Taken
September 2-20
Third Floor, LaFortune
To Be In 1992 Dome
Minimum Fee $10.00
AUGUST 29,1991
18 4 2 - I. 99 2 | University of Notre Dome)
S E S QU ICENTENNIA L ANNI VERS A RY
Compiled by Mari Okuda
JL or 100 odd years Notre Dame men, and later Notre Dame women, have survived the heat and anxieties of their first week. For those new “fresh” faces everything is a wonder, while those returning
discover changes and new additions to ND’s ever-expanding campus. This academic year sees Notre Dame growing as a national research institution, gaining another quad’ and celebrating another anniversary.
After a dust-choking exploration of Scholastic's archives, we have found some thoughts and images representing past Domer “Welcome” weeks. The following are all random, but direct, quotes from previous Scholastic issues — really!
September 6,1876
' -Watermelons are plenty just now.
. -Fish is abundant in the lower lake.
; -New sewers have been dug about the : premises.
. REGULATIONS:
All students are required to attend the exercises of public worship with punctuality and decorum.
No one shall leave the University grounds : without the permission of the President or ’ Vice President.
Students are expected to take baths regularly.
; All letters sent or received by students : may be opened by the President or his representative.
August, 1898
-A large number of old carpets are located in the bicycle room at Sorin Hall. Anyone wishing a fine Moquette, Persian or Turkish rug, a valuable Brussel or Ingrain carpet is respectfully welcome to help himself.
-Yockey announced [that] an excursion train from his town would be in bringing half the people of the village. The train arrived Friday with six men, two women, five frogs, eight cattle, two musk rats and a mud turtle aboard. We accept his word about its being half the population.
18
Glancing
Back
The University of Notre Dame as sketched In 1898
August, 1910
-Several stories of great catches have come from the lakes. They are purely fish affairs, and are so recorded.
-The walls of the natatorium (An indoor swimming pool—Ed.) bathrooms are being fitted in marble. When finished the “Nat” shower and needle baths will bear comparison with those of Walsh Hall.
September 24,1910
-The statue of Bernadette in the Grotto of Lourdes is one of the changes noticed by old students.
-In regard to your room — oh, you couldn’t get any! Then we’ll take up the question of football for a change.
September 25,1936
Planting of shrubbery has also beautified the many intersections in the cement walks that lead to all the buildings on the new quadrangle, and even greater beauty has been added to Dillon, Alumni, Engineering and Law buildings by the shrubbery which
surrounds them. The entrance to campus has been greatly improved by the addition of the flower bed and the cement drive.
TOP OF THE WEEK
From no less a personage than the senior class president comes a large slice of whimsy. With no warning a yearling demanded “How often does a guy have to shave around here?” His best Kentucky courtesy in evidence, [president] Parker Sullivan refused to commit himself. How would you answer that query? You’ve shuddered atmen who shave once every full moon, whether or not they need it, and you’ve marveled at smooth-cheeked razor devotees. And now a word or three to the puzzled frosh: Lord love you, son, one doesn’t ask about those things. One just shaves or doesn’t shave and relies on the indisputable tenet that Notre Dame stands for personal expression — within reason.
September 23,1938
INTRA-MURAL CENTER READY BY SPRING
Knute Rockne had great dreams for his boys at Notre Dame. His one great wish was to provide a place where young meh could improve themselves in all forms of recreation. Where they could build strong physical bodies capable of and necessary to carry on active and healthful living, both in body and soul.
“Rock’s” one great dream is materializing in the form of a memorial — the Rockne Memorial, built and dedicated to the memory of America’s ideal scholar, educator and coach.
REGIMENTATION
On our first visit to the cafeteria we read with awe the boldly-printed sign, “Ladies are requested to refrain from smoking in cafeteria.” Then we read it again to make
SCHOLASTIC
univehsjt^'-j^f^
Registration Day, 1946: Dick Nesline gets his first view of the campusand Our Lady atop the golden dome.
sure it said what we thought it said. It did. [Here] was a sutble distinction drawn between male and female devotees of nicotine, a suggestion that public smoking by a woman is perhaps ungraceful.
We looked around for further evidence of Fascism. The “Do Not Destroy” command on the cover of the Student Manual sounded ominously suggestive. The crowning blow, however, was the discovery that all our airplanes (See Student Manual under the word “Airplanes”) are to be taken away from us. Life didn’t seem worth living without our airplanes. But we were given renewed confidence in the security of our position—we discovered that a student in Alumni Hall actually has been grantedpermission to have a private telephone installed in his room. Democracy stills reigns supreme.
September 26,1941
TOP OF THE WEEK
Students permitted to see tomorrow’s game.
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
45 minute visits to Cartier field.
NEW NAVAL R.O.T.C. UNIT ESTABLISHED
In these times of National Defense, Notre Dame has assumed the task of preparing a select group of students for commissions in the United States Navy.
At the opening of the school year a total of four hundred and fifty applications, almost entirely from the Freshmen class, had been received for enrollment in the course.
September 11,1950
HAIL THE FRESHMEN
You can always spot the Freshmen during registration periods in the Drill Hall. They’re the ones who fill in their census cards legibly, smile when their I.D. photos are being taken and don’t ask for class schedule changes. To a Freshmen an 8 a.m. class looks as good on the schedule as an 11 a.m. class.
POSTMORTEM
It’s been a real nice vacation, but thank goodness it didn’t last too long. A few more months and a lot of us wouldn’t be deferred. The situation in Korea is on everybody’s mind these days and for good reason.
There’s one bright spot, however. If the war spreads and Notre Dame once again takes on the appearances of an Annapolis, with V-12’s and R.O.’s marching to class, Army may schedule us again in football.
When we went up to our Draft board recently, we asked the head man if our attending school would necessitate a deferment. “Ha” was the unencouraging but prompt reply.
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
... the same long Bookstore lines, 11 o’clock lights and Coach Leahy’s woeful season forecast.
September 22,1967
MORE THAN MEETS THE EYE
Forget the rumors that the old post office will be converted into a pizza parlor, or even a soda fountain. It won’t even be used as a halfway house for Carroll Hall students as they trudge wearily to O’Shaughnessy.
The campus council of the Knights of Columbus, a group that includes alumni, faculty and students, have turned over $500,000 for the building that construction workers probably vetoed as a possible lunchroom site.
Of course, there’s more to the deal than
meets the eye. The cash is actually a donation that will be invested and the income used to establish the K. of C. Sholarship
Sorry Dick, "no one climbs the steps of the Main Building until he has that sheepskin clutched in his hand."
Fund, which will provide financial assistance to worthy undergraduates.
September 18,1985
IF I HAD A HAMMER
4.5 million dollars is going toward an extensive renovation of the LaFortune Student Center. Construction has already begun on an addition to the east side of the building which will add almost 25,000 square feet of space to the present building.
□
AUGUST 29, 1991
19
FINAL WORD
Theatre at Notre Dame
Senior Tim Deenihan encourages student involvement in COTH productions
Q ome argue that he knew Fr. Sorin, 0 though they’re probably exaggerating.
Probably.
In the forty years Fr. Art Harvey has been
a part of theatre at Notre Dame, he has
directed something more than forty productions and either befriended or worked with figures such as John Barrymore, Helen Hayes and small timers like Alec Guiness
and Laurence Olivier. But with experience like his, what does he expect from those actors he sees in auditions? What kind of experience should one have in order to audition? What does such a seasoned veteran of the stage demand of his cast and crew?
Nothing more than talent, a sense of commitment to the ensemble and a genuine
love of the theatre, would be the answer. (Auditions for Fr. Harvey’s production of
Athur Miller’s The Crucible are tonight from 7:00 to 11:00 in. Washington Hall) These demands express more than just Fr. Harvey’s requirements for his company. They more or less encompass the entire department’s expectations.
Theatre at Notre Dame is a relatively small scale happening. Small as in ‘growing.’ Asin‘potential.’ Over the summer, the Department of Communication and Theatre has added two new faces to its faculty: Bruce Auerbach as scenic and lighting designer and Rick Donnelly as costume designer. Though this is his first year as full time faculty here, Donnelly has been the visiting costume designer for all of Notre Dame’s mainstage shows for the last four years. Previously at Purdue, and having seen a number of other theatrical companies at work, Donnelly observes Notre Dame’s strength as its “humane-ness.” By this, he says he means that Notre Dame has a realistic approach to theatre. It’s not over-pro
duced. It’s not about all night rehearsals, or diving so heart and soul into the theatre that students and faculty have no life outside the
playhouse. The department does not see
itself as a training program; it is no Julliard or Carnegie Mellon. It is part of a liberal arts college working to help the individual express him- or herself while at the same time
providing a cultural experience for the student body and neighboring community.
Unfortunately for the department, and consequently the university, the department’s small size is often equated with elitism. Says Kevin Dreyer, technical director for departmentally produced shows such as The Crucible, “A lot of people have
the misconception that they need a long list of training and experience before we’ll even
let them through the door. Butthat’s just not the case. All we want is a genuine interest, a curiosity.”
Tom Barkes, the house manager for Washington Hall, keeps a list of roughly 250 names of people who in the past have expressed even a trace of an interest in the theatre. In addition to that, he receives a list from the Freshman Year of Studies of approximately 350 students who in their interest surveys indicated an attraction to the theatre. He will send out something like 600 invitations to audition and be a part of either the technical or artistic dimension of any upcoming productions. He does this every semester. In response, he will get anywhere from the 125 students who wanted to be a part of-the 1988 production of Amadeus to the 15 who turned out for last year’s Accidental Death of an Anarchist. A large per-centageof these will never have appeared on either list, but came because a friend suggested it or they saw a classified in the paper.
Maybe because they read this. All he is
looking for is a spark of interest, a curiosity. And he finds it“incomprehensible thata20-year-old student whose mind is in its most creative and inventive stage would write off
the chance to be apart of something like that simply out of a fear of the unknown.”
“We’re a doing program,” observes Dr. Reg Bain, who acted in Fr. Harvey’s first show here and is now in the beginning stages of preparing his own production of King Lear for the spring. To back his claim, Bain points to what he calls the ‘shadow’ majors
who make up the majority of all productions. These are the countless numbers who are not
officially Communication and Theatre majors, who perhaps have never taken a theatre course in their lives, and yet often fill the most vital student positions in the production of departmental shows.
Notre Dame’s theatre has plenty of growing to do. The acquisition of Auerbach and Donnelly this year is a healthy first step. It could stand to acquire another acting coach and director (and probably will with time). The Performing Arts Center to be built on the DeBartolo Quad outlines an appealing future. But Notre Dame’s theatre will be nothing without the participation and expression of its students.	□
Tim Deenihan is a senior English major living in Zahm Hall. He's been involved in departmental mainstage and lab theatre productions since his freshman year and, yes, he had that cheesy mustache in the Honor Code video.
20
SCHOLASTIC
3f\ie
3
fit
co
co
IS
3 S o J § 8
o
From a cult horror film to a Donald Woods Lecture and from a Smithereens concert to the An Tostal Spring Festival, the Student Union Board makes things happen! S.U.B. provides a wide range of Intellectual and Social opportunities to the entire Notre Dame campus. But none of these events would have been possible without student organization, planning, and ideas. Only your ideas can continue the S.U.B. tradition. So come join the team and help create a more exciting Notre Dame...
Look for us at activities night
On September 7th the Hoosiers from Indiana University are going to step on our turf and try to rain on our parade. They'll step outside the basketball court and try their hands at football. They'll be wishing that this day had never come as they are greeted at THE STADIUM by the 59,075 screaming fans wearing the BLUE that GOD gave to the FIGHTING IRISH of NOTRE DAME!!!
THE SHIRT, a royal blue t-shirt that will differentiate our FIGHTING IRISH fans from the white and red of Indiana, will be sold for only $10 by hall officers and section reps. With your participation and cooperation we will successfully regain what was ours...