I
Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras morrturus.
Vol. XVII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JULY 3, 1884. ■	No. 43.
The Work of the Church in the United States and Mexico.
ORATION OF THE DAY
Delivered at the Fortieth Annual Commencement of the University of Notre Dame,
By Rt. Rev. Ignacio Montes de Oca y Obregon, D. D., Bishop of Linares, Mexico.
“ Few passages in the history of the Church are better calculated to raise the Christian heart in admiration and gratitude to the Giver of all good than her fortunes in the United States.” Allow me, Rt. Rev. Bishops and Rev. Fathers, Ladies and Gentlemen, to begin my discourse with these remarkable words, which, pronounced by Cardinal Newman many years ago, have been repeated ever since by thousands of admirers of the great works which the Catholic Church has accomplished, and is every day undertaking in North America. It is indeed a subject of wonder to the whole world, to see the rapid increase of the Catholic population, to contemplate the Hierarchy every year more numerous and active, the clergy ever filling up its ranks, and still hardly sufficient for the wants of the faithful; the religious orders ever flourishing, the colleges and convents never losing their credit even among our separated brethren, and growing (if I may so express myself) like a thick and immense forest from Hudson Bay to the Rio Grande. No wonder that when you see your bishops assembled in plenary and provincial councils, walking in gorgeous processions through the streets of the most populous and fashionable cities, visiting their dioceses, erecting new sanctuaries, and receiving into the Church many prodigal children, ever surrounded by their loving flocks, and honored with the respect of strangers,—no wonder that you look back with holy pride to the time when only two Bishops, a few scattered missionaries, and a handful of Catholics, lost in the great majority of Protestants, infidels and heathens, were all that the Church of Christ could recognize as her own in this vast portion of the New World. No wonder that, gazing upon the white marble of the majestic cathedral •recently erected in New York, you remind the stranger that a hundred, nay, fifty years ago, few were the Catholic temples worthy of the greatness sand prosperity of your country—none that could
stand by the side of the basilicas of the Old World, or those of the sister-Republics of the Western Hemisphere, No wonder that, reckoning your almost numberless colleges and academies, convents and monasteries, schools and asylums of every description, you thank Almighty God for His protection; but also you delight in your own work, and rejoice at your activity and successful exertions. No wonder, lastly, that at every Annual Commencement of this prosperous University, you retrace in your memory its providential history, its beginning, its growth, its progress, its destruction, its rising again from the smouldering ashes, like the phoenix of the fable, more magnificent, more youthful, more prosperous even than in former days.
Whilst making such comparisons, and meditating upon such facts, a question arises in the mind of a careful observer: Is this rapid and wonderful development of the Catholic Church in this country an isolated fact, without example in her history? Is the activity displayed by Catholics in the United States owing to their peculiar character, to the favorable circumstances in which modern inventions and free institutions have placed them, to the vigorous races from which they have sprung? or is it rather to be attributed to the spirit of Catholicity, giving them life and energy, which would . equally show itself in any other country, under any other government not hostile to Religion ? Is there any other period of history, from the time of the Apostles to the age of steam and electricity, of railways and telegraphs, during which the Church may be seen not only baptizing myriads in one day, as did St. Peter or St. Francis Xavier, but thirsting after sacred and profane knowledge, imparting it generously to her children, and opening in 'the space of half a century universities and colleges and schools, depending exclusively upon herself?
What a magnificent subject, not for one discourse, but for a book, nay for several volumes! What glory would Catholicism derive from such a study 1 how profitable would such a work be to the interests of religion in this great Republic, and now many of her most intellectual subj’ects would its perusal add to the children of the Catholic Church!
I am not equal to such a task, much less could I undertake it in the limited space of a brief address. Still I will call your attention to an epoch and a land which seemed the least suited to the diffusion
678	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of knowledge and the progress of Christianity, and in which the Church showed herself more active, more energetic, more enterprising than even here and no~v. notwithstanding the difficulties she had to encounter, and which to us people of the 19th century, accustomed to steam navigation, postal and telegraphic communication, and comforts of every description, would appear insurmountable. In choosing this subject for my discourse, I obey the laws of hospitality, and endeavor both to suit your taste and satisfy your curiosity. Indeed, I will not only recall to your memory the day on which my reverend friend and host, the venerable Father-General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, laid the foundations of the University of Notre Dame in the wild plains of Indiana, but going still farther back, bringing you tidings of the country where I was born, and, satisfying your desire of hearing strange things from a stranger’s lips, I will speak of the first University ever founded in North America, nay, even in the New World,—of the first books printed on this side of the ocean,—of the first progress in science made bjr the inhabitants of this Continent,—of the first roads opened, which were destined eventually to establish communication between the spot which was to be one day my birthplace and the site of this magnificent building. You will then yourselves compare those times with the present day, —the labors of the Church in Mexico in the 16th century, with her undertakings in the United States three hundred years later; and you will see and proclaim that the Catholic Church is ever the same, and makes heroes and apostles of her children, whether they be born amid the snows of the North, as Bede of England, or under the equatorial sun, as Austin of Africa. You will conclude, I hope, that if she takes hold immediately of all modern inventions for the spreading of her doctrines and the diffusion of knowledge, she is not dependent upon them; and, whether in swift steamboats, or slow sailing galleys,—whether in fast trains or by narrow footpaths,—whether protected by kings and emperors oi* left to her own resources, she moves with equal rapidity, and accomplishes her mission of teaching all nations.
■	I.
Your great historian Prescott has made you familiar with the exploits of the conquerors of Mexico. The name of Ferdinand Cortes is as well known to you as that of George Washington; and any scholar can trace the career of the former, from his juvenile adventures to the assault of Montezuma’s capital, almost as accurately as he can follow the latter from Bunker Hill to his last restingplace at Mount Vernon. The superhuman strength both of mind and body of the Spanish hero is fully appreciated by the American writer; who, describing his talents as a general, his skill as a commander, his boldness as a soldier, his abilities as a statesman, his religious spirit, his disinterestedness, his undaunted courage, makes the reader share his own admiration, not only for the warrior himself, but for those who followed him in his wonderful en
terprises, and for that extraordinary race of men in general which “Providence caused to exist contemporaneously with the discovery of the New World, that those regions should be brought to light which were beset with dangers and difficulties so appalling as might have tended to overawe and to discourage the ordinary spirit of adventure.” *
Yet, it is this very acquaintance with the history of the Conquest which is apt to give, not only foreigners but natives, a wrong idea of the progress of religion, science and literature during the first years of the Spanish domination in Mexico. After many a battle, we see the conqueror take by assault the once flourishing capital of the Aztecs; we contemplate him, even aftei- the victory, obliged to destroy each house, turned into a fortress by the desperate patriotism of the defenders, and to fill up with corpses the canals and lakes of that city, then a rival of Venice. Cortes takes no rest, but continues his work of conquest and discovery, by land and sea, southward and northward, either personally or through his lieutenants. He goes himself to Honduras, guided in those unexplored regions only by a compass, and again comes up to the Gulf of California without even a pilot. In these daring and not prosperous expeditions, he spends no less than twenty years; and in the meanwhile the governors and magistrates sent to New Spain seem more intent upon destroying Cortes’ power and prestige, and heaping up for themselves mountains of gold, than willing to rebuild the city, or to make of the conquered kingdom a civilized colony. It is true the historian speaks of twelve missionaries who were received with great honors, and who applied themselves with alacrity to the conversion of the natives. But he also repeats the old story about their burning valuable Aztec manuscripts; and, notwithstanding the praises he bestows upon them, he leaves upon- the reader the sad impression that neither they nor their companions and followers were learned and enterprising men, but poor^fanat-ics, who did nothing in favor of learning, and little to spread civilization in the New World.
Yet such was not the case. In 1521 the city of Mexico was razed to the ground by the exasperated Castilians: before the end of the century it had not only been rebuilt on the best European plans, but it was one of rhe most populous, civilized, and beautiful cities then existing in the world. It is not my task to speak of its material greatness, but to point out to you its intellectual and religious progress. The conqueror died in 1546; only five years later, in 1551, the Emperor Charles V signed the Charter for the erection of the Mexican University, which was opened two years later. Immediately learned professors from Salamanca, then one of the four most celebrated seats of learningin the civilized world, left the mother country, with a full cargo of books and scientific instruments, and a staff, not only of masters, but even of students. In fact, twenty years after its foundation the number of scholars was so great that a new site had to

* Hist, of Mex., B. VII, ch. iv.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
$79
be procured and enlarged, and the stern magistrates of the colony wanted it to be removed to a spot where that swarm of noisy alumni might not disturb their deliberations.
Please, ladies and gentlemen, not to forget that a University supposed then, as it does yet in Europe, a number of pre-existing colleges dependent upon the Alma Mater, and furnishing each a rival corps d'armce ever ready to break a lance with one another in literary and scientific tournaments. In the old European Universities, as you know full well, these colleges belonged to different nations oi' provinces. In a new colony, like New Spain, other incitements to that noble emulation indispensable in any academy had to be sought for; but, I am proud to say, this was the only essential difference between the new-born University and her elder European sisters.
When, a few years ago, the celebrated Cardinal Newman, then a simple priest of the Oratory, received the mission of founding in Ireland, and in the 19th century, a Catholic University, he published a series of lectures well known to the English-speaking public, in which, with brilliant style, powerful arguments, and copious historical proofs, he shows what a University ought to be in our own time. Would you believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the type he sets forth is the very image of what the Mexican University was three hundred years aero, and continued to be till its extinction?
“ The first step in intellectual training,” says the learned Cardinal, “is to impress upon a boy’s mind the idea of science, method, order, principle and system; of rule and exception, of richness and harmony. This is commonly and excellently done by making him begin with Grammar. . . A second science is Mathematics; this should follow Grammar, still with the same object, viz., to give him a conception of development and arrangement from and around a-common centre. Hence it is that Chronology and Geography are so necessary for him when he reads History, which is otherwise little better than a story book. Hence, too, metrical composition, when he reads poetry, in order to stimulate his powers into action in every practicable way, and to prevent a merely passive reception of images and ideas, which in that case are likely to quickly pass out of the mind as soon as they have entered it.”*
It would be easy to show, by reading the Constitutions of the University of Mexico and the colleges depending upon it, that such were the principles upon which they were based. But as it often happens that laws are enacted which are never enforced, and rules given which have no practical application, I prefer to mention some facts which will prove that practice was in accordance with theory; that the Charter of Charles V was not only signed by the Emperor, but obeyed by his subjects of the New World; that the regulations of the old University of Salamanca were not only written out for the Mexican Institution, but applied to a considerable number of professors and students
* Idea of a University (Preface).
on this side of the ocean, and were attended with marvellous literary fruits.
Spanish literature, which is inferior, to none in dramatic productions and pastoral poetry, can also boast of two epic poems, which, if not equal to Milton’s “Paradise Lost,” dr Tasso’s “Jerusalem Delivered,” hold still an important place among the creations of modern genius. One of the four dramatic authors, and one of the two best epic and pastoral poets, were indebted to the University of Mexico, when yet in her infancy, for their early education. Alarcon’s dramas and Bishop Balbuena’s “ Bernardo,” and above all the latter’s “ Golden Age,” show how profound the study of the Greek and Latin Classics was in the newly-founded Institution, and that its chief excellence was according to Cardinal Newman’s idea, in the Faculty of Arts. And do not think that this superior knowledge was confined to the two privileged geniuses I have just mentioned, and that private study, more than public teaching, gave them that proficiency in classics which made them become classical authors themselves. The above-mentioned Bishop Balbu-ena, when a young student, only seventeen years old, gained a prize in poetry for which 300 scholars contended. The certamen was held before the Archbishop of Mexico, Don Pedro Moya, and six other Bishops, then holding the third Provincial Council in Mexico, in 1585; that is to say, only thirty-four years after the foundation of the University.	.
With regard to the Philosophy taught from the beginning in the Capital of New Spain, allow me to call your attention to a singular coincidence. Five years ago we read with admiration a Pontifical document which was to cause a revolution, if I may so call it, in the philosophical and religious world. It was the Encyclical AEterni Patris, wherein Pope Leo XIII ordered the Doctrines of St. Thomas Aquinas to be taught in every Catho- ' lie college and school. Perusing this splendid effort, and pausing over the praises it bestows upon the Angelical Doctor, we cannot help comparing them with those which, every year, and almost every day, resounded under the vaulted arches of the Mexican University halls. Indeed had the old European academies which the Holy Father mentions in his Encyclical preserved their traditions with such care and scrupulous fidelity as that of New Spain, the reigning Pontiff would not have been obliged to issue the aforesaid document, in order to restore Thomistical Doctrines. Both in Philosophy and Theology they were taught and professed in the Academy of Mexico, from the first days of its foundation; and before being adorned with the Doctor’s cap and ring, the graduate had to take a solemn oath to follow those doctrines in all their purity.
Still, a few exceptions were made. One cap was generally given to a member of the Franciscan Order, who had to explain the works of Duns Scottis, the celebrated Doctor subtilis. Faithful to its name, it professed universality of studies and universality of doctrines, ever, of course, within the boundaries of orthodox teaching.	-
68o
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
If even in modern times Theology ought to be an important branch in university education, as Cardinal Newman demonstrates in his books, you may well imagine that it was the principal branch in the 16th century and in New Spain. Yet the Faculties of Canon and Civil Law were immediately established, as also that of Medicine, and as early as the end of the same century no less than eighty doctors had taken their degrees in these several faculties. And please remark that before receiving the longed-for cap, the candidate, besides having gone through the full course of arts, had to attend the schools in his faculty at least four years, and wait two more before he could pass the final examination.	'
How, in such a short number of years, there could have been in a colony just founded, in a barbarous kingdom just conquered, such a number of young men thirsting after learning more than after gold, or power, or military glory, is a mystery which the present age cannot explain. We would almost be inclined to consider it a fable,—one of those exaggerations so common at that time,—if we had not trustworthy and undeniable documents to prove the perfect exactness of-our statements. Allow me to give you a few dates and numbers. In 1521, as I have said above, the city of Mexico was finally conquered. In 1525 an ecclesiastical college, a sort of -petit seminaire^ called in Spanish Colegio de Iiifantes^ was opened close to the new Cathedral. In 1529 the College of St.John Lateran, and in 1533 St. Paul’s College,—the latter exclusively for Indians,—were founded. In 1544 the Seminary of the Archdiocese was duty established, according to the decrees issued by the Council of Trent. In 1553 the .University was opened, as we have already stated. In 1575 the Jesuits founded the renowned College of St. Ilde-fonsus, and the Augustinians another Athenseum, dedicated to St. Paul. And by this time St. Raymond’s and Christ’s Colleges, and a great number of schools, were attended by a large number of both Indian and Spanish children. In 1584, a new college for Aztecs rose in the old city of Tlaltelolco, then part of the newly built capital. Ten years later there were likewise forty-two convents of different orders, and no less than eight hundred professed nuns within the walls of the same city, which only seventy years before was a heap of ruins," with not one church erected to the true God, not one cross yet planted on the site of the old temples of bloody idols.
But were the efforts of the Spanish rulers and missionaries confined to one city alone? or did they irradiate in all directions, and impart to distant lands and tribes the blessings of religion, learning, and civilization? Let us, ladies and gentlemen, cast a rapid glance at the whole of the country which was called New Spain, and which comprehended not only the present territory of Mexico, but extensive tracts of land both towards the North and the South. The learned . Franciscan writer, ■ Father Mendieta, has left very minute statistics of the Catholic Church in North America at the end of the 16th century; and, although I will not tire
your patience by repeating, one by one, all the details and numbers we find in the 43d chapter of his Historia Ecclesiastica Indiana. I will give you an extract from one of the most important passages in that part of his remarkable work. I cannot refrain, however, from translating literally the simple but expressive words with which the holy friar begins the above mentioned chapter:
“ In order that our Lord God, the Author of all good, may be praised for the widest and most extensive propagation of His holy Faith and Christian Doctrine in this New Spain, which began with only twelve friars, insignificant and poor, like the first twelve fishermen-Apostles, it behooves us to give the sum of the monasteries of religious orders which have been built up to the present day, and of the parishes wherein reside secular clergymen charged with the duty of instructing the native Indians.”
Then the holy man, beginning with the five Provinces of his own Order of St. Francis, names each convent, each house, each bishop, prelate, oi" superior. W.e find that there were, besides the Archbishop of Mexico, ten other bishops. Notwithstanding the enormous distances that separated them from each other, and the imperfect way of travelling, they had assembled already three times in Provincial Council. The number of monasteries or convents reached 400; the parishes entrusted to secular priests likewise counted 400; each monastery or parish had several churches and missions, which were -attended by the priests and friars of these central houses.
“ It would be impossible,” says Father Mendieta, “to number these secondary churches; but knowing that the Province of the Holy Gospel (of the Order of St. Francis) has more than one thousand, we may estimate the great number of those belonging to the other four- Franciscan Provinces, to the other religious orders, and to the secular clergy in the bishoprics we have mentioned. May Our Lord guard these new Christians, and provide them with such ministers as their faith and piety require! ” The number of infidels baptized was no less than nine millions; and although Prescott thinks that there were not so many inhabitants in Mexico at that time, we must beg to differ from the learned historian, as ecclesiastical records were kept from the beginning with scrupulous exactness by both the secular and the regular clergy, and where figures and names are minutely specified, there is no danger of falsehood or exaggeration.
Now, tell me, ladies and gentlemen, is there any other age—even the Apostolical times not excepted—in which the Church has done so much in so short a time? Was not the activity displayed in the 16th century in the southern portion of North America equal, at least, to her development in the United States in the 19th century?	•
,11..
It behooves me, ladies and gentlemen, to do now what I should have done in the beginning of my discourse, and what you expect me perhaps to leave till the end, viz., to beg your indulgence. Had I asked it too soon, it would have appeared as an act of false humility; had I waited till the epilogue, it would have seemed as if I craved for
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	6Si
undeserved applause. Now you can judge of my sincerity when 1 declare that I only accepted the task of addressing you to-day in order to give the Founder and the Professors of Notre Dame University a proof of my friendship and gratitude; but I felt that I should deceive your expectations. Excepting a few occasional visits to England 01* the United States, I have lived, twenty-five years in countries where no English is spoken, and where I have had very few opportunities of reading or writing, much less of speaking, a language which, however perfectly I may have learnt it in my early youth, must be very nearly forgotten after more than a quarter of a century. I feel that my style is defective, my accent imperfect, my elocution too foreign; I fear even that I mav not have been very successful in the choice of my subject, and that in the second and third parts of my address I may touch topics (as the French say) trop decousus ; but in my own mind they have a close connection with my peculiar circumstances and with each other, as I will endeavor to show you.
When the last stone of your new Science Hall is on the eve of being solemnly laid, nothing more natural than that I should commemorate the eventful day in which the foundations of the first University of North America were begun. When everything around me proclaims the great development of Catholicity on this Continent, it is but just that I should recall to your memory an age when, without railways or telegraphs, the Church advanced over the New,World more rapidly perhaps than even now. But what connection can there be between the present solemnity and the first printing-press that was brought to this side of the ocean?
Through the kindness of the University, I receive, ladies and gentlemen, and read with pleasure and attention, the two periodicals so beautifully printed at this institution. I see the interest taken by the able President in refilling the Library destroyed by the great fire; and in the catalogue of the books lately procured I see the title of the first Catholic book published in the United States. All this makes me think again and again of a venerable monk who, in a time when books were not so abundant nor so cheap as they are now, brought over from the Old World thousands and thousands of them: and finding that this was not enough to diffuse knowledge and religion among the conquerors and the conquered, transported both a press, and a printer, and inaugurated, by publishing one. of his own works, that era of innumerable newspapers and pamphlets and books in which we live. His name ought to be pronounced with reverence and gratitude by all those who love science and civilization, by every man who was born or lives in America. It was the first Bishop and Archbishop of Mexico, Don Fray Juan Zumarraga. It was as early as 1540. The first Viceroy of New Spain, Mendoza, helped the Archbishop in his glorious work; the celebrated editor Crom-bergei* of Seville furnished the materials and the men; John Pablos was the name of the typographer chosen to cross the Atlantic, and an abridg
ment of Christian Doctrine, in both the Spanish and Aztec languages, was the first book overissued by the press in the New World. -
When you see, ladies and gentlemen, those enormous sheets on which the Herald is published; when you admire the beautiful engravings which adorn the splendidly printed books daily issued at New York and Philadelphia, please not to forget the poor friar who brought to the New World this wonderful art; and you may feel proud of belonging to the Catholic Church, which has ever been and ever will be at the head of civilization. .
III.	’	'	.
This year will occupy a prominent place in the history of the American Continent, as being the first in which the capitals of the United States and of the Mexican Republic were linked together by the long and wonderful railway which has just been inaugurated. The Catholic Church has had in this remarkable event a great part, and profited by it sooner than might have been expected, as you know full well, Professors and students of the University of Notre Dame. It was one of your staff, followed by a great number of young men from different parts of the sister Republic, who crossed that extensive tract of land from the old Aztec capital to the spot where once rose the huts of the wild inhabitants of Indiana, in the first train ever ‘ brought to this country from the City of the Mon-tezumas.	.
Though I did not make that trip, I came over part of the road, as far as Zacatecas, with my distinguished friend, your Professor of Physical Science, being the guest of the kind manager of the Mexican Central Railroad. While I admired - _ the newly constructed bridges, and saw the high mountains so skilfully cut through by your engineers ; whilst I enjoyed the rapidity of a journey in which I had formerly lost several days, and even weeks, and which was now performed in less than twenty-four hours, I could not help thinking of the first man who opened a practicable carriage road among those mountains and woods, and of the first who conceived the idea of building railroads in Mexico, with part of the property, then considerable, of which he was the administrator. Both belonged to the Catholic clergy: one is still living, and holds the most exalted position in the Mexican Church; the other is in heaven, and his body, uncorrupted of after more than two centuries, is venerated in one our most magnificent churches in the city of Puebla.
Not many years, after the Conquest, a Spanish' -peasant came to the New World in search of gold, like most of the colonists—but not for Jiimsef. He was one of the first who constructed wagons,. . and who drove them himself over a great part of country, opening roads wherever he found that woods or mountains or rivers placed obstacles to his traffic, which was considerable for those days. The large fortune he amassed by his- industry and; . toil was all spent in works of charity, till at last he • himself became a member of the Franciscan Order. Among the roads he opened was that which leads.' . from the city of Mexico to Zacatecas. He did not perform those wonders of engineering which -
r
•	t
r-
682	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

we admire in. the newly built railroad; but he wrought true miracles, and Nature obeyed him, as she did oui' first parents in paradise. He could remove mountains at his pleasure, like Saint Gregory; and the wild beasts became his humble servants, as we read in the lives of the Fathers of the Desert. It is but just that while celebrating the completion of the first railroad to connect the capitals of the two Republics we should also commemorate the saintly man who laid the foundations of this great road, whose memory will live in the hearts of all Christians long after the names of the great railway kings have been forgotten; whose shrine will-be honored by future generations; whom we venerate upon our altars, and who was inscribed by the Holy See in the catalogue of Saints under the name of the Blessed Sebastian of Apparitio.
These facts are public; you can read them in the “ Lives of the Saints,” or in the Roman Breviary. But what I am going to relate, and what I wish to make known in the United States, has been hitherto almost a secret, and I would hardly venture to publish it had it not been revealed to me by the most trustworthy persons. At the very time when the war-cry against the clergy and Church of Mexico was first sounded; when the former was accused of opposing modern improvements, and of squandering their property in dark conspiracies; then precisely the present Archbishop of Mexico, at that time Bishop of Puebla, had conceived the plan, and was trying to obtain the necessary supreme permission, to invest a great part of the Church’s property in a net of railways which should communicate with each other and with the adjoining Republics of the United States and Guatemala, and join together the most important cities of Mexico. He was prevented from carrying out this wonderful plan by the Revolution which drove him into exile, plundered the Church property, destroyed temples and monasteries, and inflicted such a wound on civilization that it has been impossible to heal it. We must give honor to whom honor is due. Both your country and mine resound with the praises of the present Government of Mexico, which accomplished what promises to contribute much towards the well-being of the people of both Republics. What the Civil Government has done with borrowed money the Church was going to do with her own resources. What the President has performed, listening to the suggestions of some of your countrymen, the Archbishop was about to carry out motu proprio, inspired only by his own great soul, and by'the spirit ever active of the Catholic Church, of which he is such a worthy prelate. Let us not, therefore, forget the Mexican Church in this ' eventful year, and give her the share of praise and thanksgiving she fully deserves, even for the latest improvements in that part of the American Continent. .
IV.
Now, ladies and gentlemen, what are the practical conclusions we should draw from the historical. facts, to: which I have briefly referred. First of
all, we must conceive great admiration for the holy Catholic Church, and be proud of being her children. She is ever the same, full of life, and energy, and vigor. Whether under the Roman Emperors or in the Italian Republics of the Middle Ages, whether under the absolute power of ' Charles V or the free institutions of the United States, she is always thirsting after the salvation of souls, anxious for the diffusion of knowledge, and science, and civilization. When she finds nothing but the sands of the desert, or rugged mountains, or impenetrable forests, she, as Holy Scripture says, runs over them, exulting like a giant: if she sees steamboats and railways, she takes possession of them, and onward she moves, more rapidly than any human institution. To her, therefore, and not to local circumstances, you must attribute the great progress of Religion and Science in the United States during the last fifty years. Not satisfied with what has been done, you must persevere until the end, and advance more and more, making use of that liberty which you enjoy at present, and taking care that this liberty be not restrained, as the Catholic Church acquires more influence and extends her glorious realm over a larger number of souls.
How is it that, having performed such wonderful feats in the 16th century, the Catholic Church in Mexico is now so humiliated, with her precious mantle torn to pieces, not by heresy or outward enemies, but by her own undutiful children? It is a mystery, indeed; but whatever be the causes of this misfortune, you must take heed lest the same should happen to you. England, the Isle of Saints, became the seat of heresy; the first-born child of the Church, as France is rightly called, is now the headquarters of the enemies of our Faith; the-faithful and Christian Spanish Republics in America can no longer be called faithful, and hardly Christian. Be careful, young men, lest the rising generation in this country, instead of the religious spirit it now displays, should fall back from Catholic principles and put a stop to the development of the Church.
My learned friend the Bishop of Vincennes complains in a recent Pastoral of certain symptoms of uncatholic disloyalty, of a dangerous drift, not Catholic nor laudable, which he has observed in his own diocese and elsewhere. Let no such tendencies be shown by the students of Notre Dame. Let them follow the advice of the Prelate who rules spiritually over a great part of the State of Indiana, and obey the Vicar of Christ, not only in matters of faith, but in whatever he commands or teaches. “To measure our duty to the Holy See,” says Cardinal Newman, “and to him who sits therein, it is enough to say that in his administration of Christ’s Kingdom, in his religious acts, we must nevei- oppose his will, or dispute his word, or criticise his policy, or shrink from his side. We must never murmur at that absolute rule which the Sovereign Pontiff has over us; because it is given him by Christ, and in obeying him we are obeying his Lord. We must never suffer ourselves to doubt that in his government of the Church he
is guided by an intelligence more than human.” “ All this,” says again Bishop Chatard,cc in a minor degree applies also to episcopal authority.”
May these words ever remain impressed upon your souls! May they be the rule of your life! Obeying faithfully and in everything the Sovereign Pontiff and the local Hierarchy, the Catholics of the United States are sure never to lose that strength and vigor which has made the Church become so great and prosperous within the last few years;
I must now thank you all for your patience in listening to my discourse, too short for the importance of the subject; too long, if we regard the abilities of the speaker. I have talked to you about the University of Mexico: its Rector, whilst in office, had all the privileges of a first-class Spanish grandee. Were I powerful enough, I would bestow the same and even greater honors upon your President, and above all, upon the Founder of Notre Dame University, Father General Sorin. May Almighty God send upon them and upon you all His choicest blessings!
o
[For the Notre Dame ilScholastic.”~\ Love Fulfils the Law.
BY ELEANOR C. DOXNELLY.
I.
The Genoese Saint Catharine
Once pleaded with our Lord: “ How can I love my neighbor, O blest Incarnate word!— How can I love my neighbor, How make his needs mine own, When love, and life, and labor,
Are all for Thee alone ? ”
xi.
But sweet a Voice made answer: “ God’s love, beloved one, Embraceth every creature
Above, beneath the sun;
God’s love is Love’s perfection, For God is Charity,—
And he who loves Me, Catharine, Loves all things loved by Me 1 ”
The 40th Annual Commencement.
Commencement this year attracted an unusually large gathering of visitors from all parts of the country. This was not a matter of surprise as it had been expected that the great increase in the number of students would cause a proportional increase in the number of visitors,—parents, relations, friends, etc.—whom these concluding days of the scholastic year would call together. At Notre Dame all was life and excitement. The visitors flocked in with every train on the first day and continued coming far into the second day. But great as was the crowd everybody was made welcome and accommodations provided for all. The exercises on each of the three days proved interesting and enter
taining and at the same time served to set forth the capabilities of the leading students. The proceed- , ings on
Monday
were fully described in our last number. But in order to show ourselves “ as others see us ” we may be permitted to insert the following notice taken from the South-Bend Tribune:
“. . . . The opening exercises occurred last evening, in Washington Hall, and were witnessed by a large and interested audience. The students maintained the usual high standard of literary and forensic excellence, for which Notre Dame is noted and which seems to improve each vear. lifter an overture by the N. D. U. orchestra, Sir. D. C. Saviers delivered the speech of “ Regulus ” in a loud, clear voice, followed by J. J. Conway in a speech entitled ‘‘Arnold,” spoken with distinct enunciation and good gesture. W. E. Ramsay then rendered a vocal solo, “Larboard Watch,” in a voice of surpassing beauty and compass. He was vociferously encored, but only responded with a graceful bow. An oration on the “Drama” by Elmer A. Otis, showed Mr. Otis to be well gifted in oratorical talent with a voice well adapted to impassioned oratory and the drama. The speech on the “ Spanish Duel,” by Daniel G. Taylor, was delivered in a clear, ringing voice with splendid articulation, and evidenced good training. Prof. Paul and W. Schott rendered a pretty “ Polonaise ” on piano and violin, followed by Mark Antony’s oration on the death of Cresar, rendered by Otis B. Spencer, in a manner that showed him to be a careful interpreter of Shakespeare as well as a lover of the drama. William E. Ramsay then appeared in a character recitation entitled “First Impressions of Music.” He was dressed in the costume of a Yankee which elicited considerable laughter and introduced his recitation with a song, which he followed with “ How Rubenstein Played the Piano,” which was extremely laughable and brought down the house. Mr. Ramsay undoubtedly possesses a fine dramatic taste and is a success as a character impersonator. The principal event of the evening was the oration by J. Solon. His subject was “ The Power and Influence of the Orator.” He exemplified what these are in the matter of his speech and personified it in the manner of the delivery. No performance of the evening was so heartily applauded, and Mr. Solon is to be congratulated on his success. ThesongbyyoungT.Cleary,“MarthadiFlotow,” accompaniment on violin by Bro. Anselm, was warmly applauded, as was “ Sheridan’s Ride,” so well rendered by Master Devereux. The evening’s entertainment concluded with the Trial Scene from the “ Merchant of Venice,” with the following cast of characters: Shylock, D. C. Saviers; Duke of Venice, E. A. Otis; Antonio, Merchant of Venice, W. E. Ramsay; Portia, J. J. Conway; Bassanio, O. B. Spencer; Gratiano, J. T. Carroll; Nerissa, H. J. Fitzgerald. The costumes were as elegant and costly as those seen on any stage and the presentation of the play was as excellent as if the work of regular actors instead of amateurs. It was followed by the distribution of premiums to the Minim department which, of course, was done by Very Rev. Father Sorin, and it was hard to decide which enjoyed it most, the Reverend Father or his “ little princes.”
Tuesday, the second day was fittingly begun by the solemn celebration of the Alumni Mass, of which we spoke in oiir last number. After an hour or two devoted to greeting new arrivals and social inter-course with friends, .old and new, came the Regatta on St. Joseph’s Lake, a report of which will .be • found in our cc local ” columns.
The next feature of the day’s proceedings was the
ALUMNI MEETING,
at which, among the important business transacted, a resolution expressive of the sense of the association touching'the Alumni Scholarship, was intro-
MtE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
duced and unanimously adopted. In pursuance of it$ a committee consisting of Rev. N. J. Stoffel, Prof. William Hoynes and Prof. Florian B. Devoto, was appointed to notify the Alumni of the action taken and request responses in reference to the same. The hope was expressed that scholarships, open to general competition, will hereafter be founded from time to time, and that the Alumni may improve this opportunity to take the initial steps in the matter and found the first of them. Animated by a desire to further this laudable undertaking, the Rev. T. E. Walsh, President of the University, expressed his willingness to contribute $100 toward it on behalf of the Institution, and promised to give a like amount from year to year. This leaves but $200 to be raised annually by contributions from the Alumni. It was the sense of the meeting that the matter ought to receive immediate attention, and that the scholarship should be made available for a competitive examination before the commencement of the September term. This examination is to be open to applicants generally; and to the young man whom it shows to be best qualified and most deserving, the scholarship will be awarded.
After the meeting, the members, together with invited guests, members of the press, and the officers of the University, repaired to the Juniors’ refectory, which had been handsomely decorated for the occasion, and in which the
ALUMNI BANQUET
was served. The menu was' choice, and included all the delicacies of the season. Very Rev. Father General Sorin presided, having on either side of him Rt. Rev. Montes de Oca y Obregon and Rev. J. R. Dinnen, President of the Association. Prof.
■ J. A. Lyons, acting as toastmaster, proposed the following toasts:	.
“Our Holy Father Pope Leo XIII.”
Response b}r Father General Sorin. Father General said: “Pope Leo is difficult to approach, difficult to know; and in this respect very different from his predecessor, Pope Pius, tie receives visitors only a few hours in the week. But I do not reproach the Pope for his seclusiveness. He is obliged to see a great many people, and did he admit indiscriminately it would seriously interfere with Ins duties. As we all know, he is a thorough scholar. His papers surpass anything we have had for hundreds of years. I loved Pope Pius more tenderly, but, considering the intellectual brilliancy and executive ability of Pope Leo, I feel that the Church is blessed with having such a leader.”
“ The University of Notre Dame.’
Response by Rev. J. R. Dinnen. Father Dinnen said that he had entered the University twenty-three years ago, and had ever retained a sincere affection for Notre Dame; and whenever assailed— as it sometimes was—always spoke in its defense. “ It is on such occasions,” he said, “ rather than on this, that I prefer to speak of Notre Dame.” - Father Dinnen then spoke eloquently of the beautiful significance of the name “ Our Mother.” ,
“ The President of the United States.”
Response by Hon. Judge Cleary, of Covington, Ky. The Judge remarked that he was a Kentuckian, a son of an Irishman, an ex-confederate soldier and a thorough democrat, and perhaps was not quite the proper person to call on for a response to such a toast. He could perhaps talk much and say little of the present head of the Government, for if the administration had been a success it couldn’t.be proved by him. He concluded, however, by saying that all must uphold the civil head, and that in honoring it we honor ourselves.
“ The Associated Alumni.”	•
Response by Hon. John Gibbons. He said: “ It is sixteen years to-day since I left the University, and I always return with a feeling of sadness caused by regret that I did not pursue my studies longer here and better fit myself for. the battle of life. Nothing does me more good, however, than to come back and see the old faces, the old grounds and buildings made new, and I rejoice at the prosperity which has attended the University.” '
“ The Press.”
Responded to by the Hon. T. G. Barry, of the Newspaper Union, Chicago. Mr. Barry considered the subject too heavy to undertake without preparation, but spoke briefly on the relations of the press to oratory.
•In conclusion, Father Sorin thanked the Alumni for their attendance on the graduating exercises, and paid a handsome compliment to President Walsh on the prosperity with which the University had been favored under his administration.
In the
Evening, at half-past seven o’clock, all were assembled in Music Hall, to hear the Alumni Oration and to witness the exercises of the Thespian and Orphe-onic Associations. It is needless to say that the hall, large as it is, was filled to its utmost capacity; but the fact gives us occasion to remark that the methods of ventilation are very defective, and as we learn the designs of the architect in this particular have not as yet been fully carried out, we would venture to suggest that the sooner this little matter is attended to the better. Despite these drawbacks, the audience were agreeably entertained, and expressed themselves favorably in regard to all that took place.
The University Orchestra, assisted by the Elbel Orchestra, of South Bend, forming altogether a grand combination of twenty-five instruments, opened the exercises with an overture by Ch. Bach, which elicited great applause. A Cantata, from Rossini’s “ William Tell,” was then given by the Orpheonics,- under the direction of Bro. Anselm, with accompaniment by the grand Orchestra. The Cantata proved very .effective; but the sue- • cess attending its rendition was - due to the beauty and grandeur of the music itself, and the nicety of its arrangement. The Orchestra was too strong for the voices, and in many passages the vocal parts were completely covered by the instrumental. However, judging by the frequent ap-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
plause, the whole effect was agreeable; then, too, there were many redeeming features, as in the solos, when the instrumentalists were led into softer moods and the singer’s ambition was aroused. Among the soloists who distinguished themselves were Messrs. G. Schaefer, T. Cleary, J. McIntyre, and Master W. Devine.
What followed is thus described by the Sotith Bend Times of June 25 th: “ Prof. William Hoyncs, A. M., of the Law School,'who was on the program for the Alumni oration, briefly addressed those present on the subject chosen, and announced that his speech would be found in full in the Scholastic, as the length of the program would scarcely permit of its delivery that night. What was said by the Professor on his subject was told in a telling manner, and received hearty applause.
“ F oil owing another pretty selection by the Orchestra came the presentation of Dion Boucicault’s adaptation of Louis XI, arranged in three acts for the Thespian Society. The parts in the play were assigned with a display of good judgment, and the setting of the piece and the costumes were all that could have been expected or desired, as in each case they were as good as .	could be seen in many metropolitan theatres. The
}	various actors were up in their lines, and, taken as
’	a whole the performance was first class for amas	teurs. Mr. C. Tinley, as Louis XI, and Mr. O.
j	Spencer, as Duke de Nemours, are especially
j	worthy of mention for excellence in acting, while
I	there was scarcely one in the caste of characters
’ .	who did not act well his part. Some improvement
j	could have been easily made in one particular, and
j	that was in speaking more distinctly, as in this
‘ one respect the performance was somewhat marred.
*	The entertainment did not conclude until almost 11
;	o’clock, when the vast audience dispersed, well
pleased with the evening’s experience, and eager to witness the exercises of the morrow, which would bring to a close the fortieth annual grand Commencement of Notre Dame University.”
i	WEDNESDAY MORNING,
;	at half-past eight, the concluding exercises of Com-
‘	mencement were begun in Washington Hall. The
‘	coolness of the weather made the attendance de-
lightfully pleasant. Rt. Rev. Bishops Dwenger, of Ft. Wayne, Rademacher, of Nashville, Montes de j	Oca y Obregon, of Linares, Mexico, were present,
;	with Very Rev. Father General Sorin, and many
I	other distinguised.visitors of the Clergy and laity,
j	mention of whose names must be deferred to our
j	personal columns.
5	At the time mentioned, the University Quintette
|	opened the proceedings with a “ Quintuor,” from
|	Haydn, which was well received. The curtain
||	was then raised, and the Class of ’84 was discov-
1 ered seated upon the stage, and their appearance g	^yas greeted with applause by their fellow-students
g	and friends. The Class is composed as follows:
H	Neal H. Ewing, A. B.; T. Ewing Steele, A. B.;
William H. Bailey, A. B.; Francis W. Gallagher, A. B.; Elmer A. Otis, B. S.; William W. Gray, B. S.; John A. McIntyre, B. S.; Charles A. Tinley, B. S.; James Solon, B. S.

Mr. Neal H. Ewing stepped to the front of the stage and delivered the valedictory, which was well written. We regret that Mr. Ewing did not leave his manuscript for publication as it was well worthy of being perused by a numerous class-.of readers.
After the valedictory was pronounced, Rev. President Walsh conducted Mgr. Montes De Oca y Obregon, to the stage and in a brief but eloquent speech, introduced him to the audience as the Orator of the Day. President Walsh spoke in substance as follows:
. Rt. Rev. Bishops, Very Rev. and Rev. Fathers, Ladies and Gentlemen: At a time like the present, when so many efforts are making to draw closer the political and commercial bonds of union between the two great Republics of the Western Continent, any attempt to promote the interchange of ideas between the two countries,— to make the people and institutions of the one better known and appreciated in the other must be considered an important and praiseworthy task. What aim, therefore, more laudable or more worthy of an American educational institution can there be than to assist in brushing away the clouds of prejudice that may have hitherto prevented the truth on many points from being seen and felt in all quarters? This the University of Notre Dame hopes in a measure to be able to accomplish by affording her alumni and patrons a better knowledge and consequently a higher appreciation of the intellectual and educational status of our neighbors south of the Rio Grande.
Needless to add that she is proud of the privilege which she to-day enjoys ofintroducing to this distinguished audience, and through it to the American public, a prelate and scholar whose merits have won recognition on both sides of the Atlantic, and whose name is familiar'wherever the language of Cervantes is spoken or understood—Rt Rev. Bishop Montes de Oca of Monterey.
The Rt. Rev. Orator then came forward, and by his graceful carnage and dignified bearing at once gained the attention of the audience. We are happy to present the Oration in full to our readers; it will be found in the first pages of the present issue, and it will well repay the most attentive perusal. The Bishop was frequently applauded during its delivery. It was certainly a matter of pride that a Mexican Bishop should thus appear before an American audience—which, though comparatively small, was representative of every State in the Union,—and give evidence of the culture and enlightenment of our sister-Republic.
After the Oration, the stage was prepared for the conferring- of Degrees, Prizes etc., etc. When © © * . » • everything was in readiness, the three visiting prelates, accompanied by Father General Sorin, Rev. President Walsh and other officers, took their places upon the stage, and the distribution began under the presidency of Bishop Dwenger. The Degrees conferred, honors awarded, etc., will be found in another column.
When the last prize was carried away, Bishop Dwenger spoke a few words of sound, solid, practical advice to the students. As the South Bend Times says: “Our Bishop spoke, like a father, good common sense, and right from his soul. It was no studied effort, but was a piece of his experience and observation. It was an admonition so timely. cBoys, strive to"make your father and mother happy who have done so much for you.’ Every boyMn our broad land ought to have heard that two-minutes’ talk.”
686	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
All then was over. Notre Dame had seen its 40th Annual Commencement. The Class of ’84 were numbered amongst its Alumni. May our Alma Mater behold many another such happy anniversary!
The following is a list of the Degrees, Diplomas, Medals and awards conferred at the Annual Commencement: .
CONFERRING OF DEGREES.
The Degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred on Rt. Rev. Ignacio Montes de Oca y Obregon, Linares, Mexico.
The Degree of Master of Arts was conferred on Francis W. Bloom, Vincennes, Ind.
The Degree of Master of Science was conferred on Eugene C. Orrick, Canton, Miss.; John B. Berteling, M. D., Cincinnati, Ohio.
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred on Neal H. Ewing,Lancaster, Ohio; Thos. Ewing Steele, Lancaster, Ohio; William H. Bailey, Sommerville, Mass.; Francis W. Gallagher, East Cambridge, Mass.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science was conferred on Elmer A. Otis, San Antonio, Texas; Wm. W. Gray, Grayville, Ill.; John A. McIntyre, Milwaukee, Wis.; Charles A. Tinley, Covington, Ky.; James Solon, Ivesdale, Ill.
The Degree of Bachelor of Laws was conferred on Joseph E. Farrell, Lorain, Ohio.
A Medical Certificate was awarded to F. E. Burke, Ashtabula, Ohio.
DIPLOMAS.
Diplomas admitting to Freshman Class were awarded to M. Mulkern, Dubuque, Iowa; Francis Hagenbarth, Challis, Idaho; E. Porter, Eau Claire, Wis.; C. Mason, Chicago, Ill.; W. Mahon, Columbus, Miss.; J. Halligan, Union, Mo.; John Kleiber,Brownsville, Texas; C. Hausberg, Charles City, Iowa; W. Henry, Cincinnati, Ohio; M. Sykes, Fort Gibson, Indian Territory ; J. Wagoner, Denison, Iowa; B. Barela, Albuquerque, N. M.; G. Costigan, Telluride, Col.; P. Yrisarri, Ber-
COMMERCIAL DIPLOMAS.
Commercial Diplomas were awarded to William E. Jeannot, Muskegon, Michigan; J. M. Rogers, Alexis, Ill.; Jno. E. McDonnell, Des Moines, Iowa; E. B. Gerlach, Portsmouth, Ohio; Michael B. Mulkern, Dubuque, Iowa; Louis J. Kavanaugh, Des Moines, Iowa; Michael O’Dea,; Columbus, Ohio; Warren A. Cartier, Ludington, Mich.; F. H. Dexter,-Kansas City, Mo.; Edward Ott, Norwalk, Ohio; Geb. N. O’Brien, Tiffin, O.; E. M. Holbrook, Manchester,’Iowa; • G. S. De Wolf, Denison, Ibway Chas. E. Carroll, Grand Forks, Dakota.	-
Certificate' fori Telegraphy, was awarded to B.
Cussen, Antwerp, Ohio; William Berthelet, Milwaukee, Wis.; Geo. De Haven, Chicago, Ill.; Jno. Gallagher, Philadelphia, Pa.; J. Neeson, Philadelphia, Pa.; F. T. O’Rourke, Cold Water, Mich.
CLASS MEDALS,
CLASSICAL COURSE.
The Quan Gold Medal in the Senior Class, awarded to Neal H. Ewing, of Lancaster, Ohio
The Gold Medal in the Sophomore Class, awarded to Sydney Dickerson, of Denver, Col.
[The Medals in the Junior and Freshman Classes of this Course were not awarded. J
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.	'
Junior Class—Medal awarded to Charles C. Kolars, Le Sueur, Minn.
Sophomore' Class—Medal awarded to W. T. Mug, Lafayette, Ind.
Freshman Class—Medal awarded to J. A. Ancheta, Mesilia, New Mexico.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
The Commercial Gold Medal, awarded, ex cequo^ to George E. O’Brien, of Tiffin, Ohio, and Eugene J. Ott, of Norwalk, Ohio.
The Gold Medal for Proficiency in Penmanship, awarded to W. E. Schott, of Ft. Wayne, Ind.
SPECIAL COURSES.
The Dwenger Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, awarded to Joseph E. Farrell, of Lorain, Ohio.
The Sorin Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, awarded to T. A. Ancheta, of Mesilia, New Mexico.
The Corby Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, awarded to George O’Brien, of Tiffin, Ohio.
The Oechtering Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, awarded to Frank Hagenbarth, Challis, Idaho.
The Gold Medal for German, awarded to E. C. Ott, Norwalk, Ohio. .
The Gold Medal for Improvement in Penmanship in the Minim department was awarded ex cequo to Cale West, Cynthiana, Ky.; Augustus Meehan, Covington, Ky.; William Cole, Denver, Col.; James Fitzgerald;Muscatine, Iowa; Elmer Scherrer, Denver, Col.
‘	PRIZE MEDALS.
The Gold Medal for English Essays (Presented by Mr. John R. English, of Columbus, Ohio,), awarded to Mr. Thomas Ewing Steele, of Lancaster, Ohio. '
The Mason Gold Medal (Presented by Mr. Geo. Mason, of Chicago, Ill., to the-student in the Junior Department having the best record for the entire year,) awarded to Francis Hagenbarth, of of Challis, Idaho.	" -
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	6^
[This Medal was closely contested by Frank W. Dexter, Kansas City, Mo.; J. E. MeDonnell,.Des Moines, Iowa.]
The Ernest Gold Medal (Presented to the best student in the Minim Department), awarded to Mortimer E. O’Kane, Cincinnati, Ohio. (Closely contested by Benjamin B. Lindsey, Denver, Col.; Francis I. Otis, U. S. Army; Leo M. Scherrer, Denver, Col.; William P. McPhee, Denver, Col.; Edward Kelly, Joliet, Illinois; John Ernest, Denver, Col., and Eugene Amoretti, Lander City, Wyoming Territory.)
GOLD MEDALS FOR ORATORY AND ELOCUTION.
The Gold Medal for Oratory, awarded to Mr. James Solon, of Ivesdale, Illinois.
The Gold Medal for Oratory and Elocution (Presented by Prof. Joseph A. Lyons, A. M.), awarded to Mr. Elmer A. Otis, of San Antonio, Texas.
Lyons Senior Gold Medal for Excellence in Elocution, awarded to Delano C. Saviers, of Columbus, Ohio.
The Shea Gold Medal for Proficiency in Elocution, awarded to Mr. William E. Ramsay, of Lead City, Dakota.
The Gold Medal for Progress in Elocution, awarded to Mr. Otis C. Spencer, of Denver, Colorado.
The Lyons Gold Medals for Improvement in Elocution, awarded to Daniel G. Taylor, of St. Louis, Mo., and J. J. Conway, of Ottawa, Ill.
The Minim Elocution Gold Medal (Presented by Very Rev. Edward Sorin, Superior-General, C. S. C.), awarded to Benjamin B. Lindsey, of Denver, Colorado.
The Gold Medal presented to the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was awarded, ex cequo, to R. V. Papin, St. Louis, Mo.; John A. Wright, Denver,Col.; F. P. Nester,Detroit, Mich.;Francis I. Otis, U. S. Army; Richard Morrison, Clarksville, Texas; William P. Devine, Chicago, Ill.; Mortimer E. O’Kane, Cincinnati, Ohio; John P. Devereux, St. Louis, Mo.
FIRST HONOR GOLD MEDALS.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
First Honor Gold Medals were awarded to Jos. Farrell, Chas. C. Kolars, Albert A. Browne, Henry. Steis, James ■ Solon, D. C. Saviers, A. P. Coll, W. Orchard, M. O’Dea, L.tPour, J. Rogers, Otis Spencer, J. F. M. Grothaus, J. D. Reach, E. E. Smith, Wm. Barron, F. T. O’Rourke.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
First Honor Gold Medals were awarded to Fred. Curtis, Chas. Cavaroc, Geo. Costigan, Frank Fehr, John Fendrich, John Halligan, John Hagerty, Wm. Mug, J. McDonald, Wm. Schott, Chas. Porter, James McGordon.
MINIM DEPARTMENT. .
First Honor Gold Medals were awarded to Chas. H. Spencer, J. A. Wright, H. A. Schmitz,
H; C. Dirksmeyer, F. I. Garrity* E. A. Thomas* J. P. Devereux, J. M. Studebaker* B. B. Lindsey, W. P. McPhee, E. McGrath, J. T. Kelly, R. V. Papin, F. I. Otis, W. A. Welch.
SECOND HONOR SILVER MEDALS.
SENIOR department.
Second Honor Silver Medals were awarded J. McNamara, F. Delgado, Samuel Crawford.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Second Honor Silver Medals were awarded to Wm. Berthelet, Jno.Dorenberg, Henry Foote, Joseph Chaves, Frank Hagenbarth, George Schaefer, Paul Johnson.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Second Honor Silver Medals were awarded to W. J. Stange, R. C. Morrison, C. A. Lindsey, J. A. Kraus, J. F. Coad, I. L. Bunker, G. A. Landenwich, E. P. Costigan.
THIRD HONOR CERTIFICATES.
SENIOR department.
Third Honor Certificates were awarded to J. Anchondo, T. Cass, J. Kleiber, T. Callaghan, J. De Groot, G. De Wolf, A. J. Dennis, C. Paschel, J. F. Rudge, A. Gonzales, R. Aguilera, V. Burke, W. Lucas, J. Ancheta, P. Howard, R. Marquez, J. Mittendorf, Geo. O’Brien, E. Ott, D. Gonser, H. Paschel, P. T. Goulding, Fred. Combe-, T. Becerra, J. Guthrie, J. Uranga, T. McKinnery.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Third Honor Certificates were awarded to B. Arnold, L. Anchondo, J. Baur, J. W. Breen, F. Dexter, A. Finckh, J. Grunsfeld, W. Houlihan, G. Houck, S. Holman, S. O’Brien, J. Rogers, C. Reynolds, W. Sedberry, M. Uranga, W. Wabrau-shek, J. Monschein, T. Cleary, E. Gimbel, P.?Mul-lane, L. Scheuerman, T. Williamson, C. Stubbs.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
. Third Honor Certificates were awarded to M. E. O’Kane, G. J. Meehan, G. La Tourette, W. D. Cole, W. J. Henry, A. T. Loya, J. A. Lewis, E. Amoretti, C. E. Delaplane, J. J. Boos, F. H. Crotty, L. W. Scherrer, C. A. Scherrer, E. A. Scherrer, E. Kelly, W. C. Butterfield, C. Curtis, M. L. Crawford, J. M. Uranga, I. Grunsfeld, F. M. Benner, F. J. Noonan, F. B. Weston, M. A.. Cummings, J. A. McVeigh, A. Nester, H. j. Ackerman, V. J. Papin, D. Quill, H. A. Morgan, M. J. Coad, J. W. Ernest, W. Quiggle, H. G. Addington, J. S. Addington, J. J. Fitzgerald, J. O’Connor, J. F. Sokup, C. F. West, F. J. Mullen. :
Note-
[The following Second Honors, received at ' the Commencement of St. Mary’s Academy, were. unavoidably crowded out of their proper place in . the report.]	-
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Malboeuf, Murphy, Durlacher, Roddin, -M. Ducey, Morrison, Regan, Van Horn, Stumer. ; ;
688
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, July 3, 1884.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Seventeenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate lor the favor and support of the many old friends rhat have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves •during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.	'
" Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,	’
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Si .50 j>er Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
—Commencement has come and gone; the Class of ’84 has bid adieu to Alma Mater and gone forth into the busy world without. Ye chief still sits in the sanctum solitary and mournful—“all his lovely companions (of ye Staff) having faded and gone.”
To the life and activity of the college year, culminating in the bustle and noise of Commencement time, has succeeded a quiet, restful calm—almost silence—which causes a feeling of loneliness and a depression- of spirits such as to make the concluding act in our present journalistic career one difficult of performance. We think of the Class of ’84, who have severed their connection, as students, with Notre Dame, and we ask ourselves how will it fare with them in the new sphere of life upon which they will enter? Let them be true to the principles with which they have been imbued while here and they will ever be an honor to themselves, their Alma Mater and their country;—they will be good men, loyal citizens, and faithful Christians.
• #
The Scholastic with the present number closes its seventeenth volume. We think we may congratulate ourselves upon the prosperity which has attended our little paper during the past year. Thanks to its advertising patronage and an increased number of subscribers, the Scholastic is now placed upon a solid basis and more than repays the expenses incident to its publication. We have every reason, to believe that this good result will be continued in the future.
’85 will,in all probability,bring to the “Staff” next' year a good force, so that the maintenance of the paper’s literary excellence and its general interest
is assured. We hope, too, that the beginning of the new scholastic year will witness a still greater manifestation of interest in their college paper on the part of the old students. They are few, indeed, to whom it is not a pleasure to look back upon college days and cherish within their hearts an affection for Alma Mater; and to them there can be no more pleasing reminder of this youthful period and no means better calculated to keep alive an interest in the career of their early guide in the paths of knowledge than their college journal. We hope, therefore, that the list of subscribers to the Scholastic wilLbe swelled to still greater proportions, for the number of “ old boys ” is legion.
* * *
For ourselves, in taking our leave at present, we desire to thank all—and they are many—who have during the year obligingly aided us in our efforts to make the Scholastic entertaining and profitable. To them and to all our readers we proffer our best wishes for a successful and happy life.
New Publications.
Francis Macary, the Cabinet-Maker of Lavaur. By Henry LassereC Translated with the Author’s approval. “ Ave Maria” Series No. I. Notre Dame, Ind. “ Ave Maria ” Press. Price 10 cents.
This little brochure should have a wide circulation. At a time when skepticism is widely prevalent, a miraculous event so irrefutable as the case of Macary should be brought before the eyes of all. The cure of the poor artisan is certainly among the most extraordinary on record, and is certified to by the most eminent physicians and scientists. It is told in Mr. Laserre’s well-known pleasing style and will be read with interest. It forms the first of a “series” of publications to be issued under the auspices of the “Ave Maria.”
The Children’s Book. Songs and Stories Imitated from the German of Julius Sturm, by Agnes Sad-lier. With Illustrations from Original Designs by German Artists. New York: D. and J. Sadlier & Co., publishers, 31 Barclay St. 1SS4. 135 pages royal octavo. Price, $1.50.
This is a beautiful book—full of charming stories and nice pictures,—droll pictures, some of them, that will make little boys and girls laugh and grow fat. The stories are droll, too—just as droll as Hans Andersen’s—and none the worse because they have a moral hidden beneath their quaint simplicity. In this respect Agnes Sadlier’s book is far superior to many of the captivating but very nonsensical story-books published by Cassell, Petter & Galpin, while it is just as funny and entertaining as any of them. Little boys like “ Cross Freddie,” and girls like “ Lazy Margaret,” who “don’t know what they want,” want just such a book as Mrs. Sadlier’s to make them good-natured and happy,—contented with, their lot, whatever it may be.	.
The book is gorgeous in its blue and black and gold cover and gilt edges—just the book for a Christmas-gift or New Year’s gift. A boy or girl
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
689
with such a book cannot fail to be happy—happier than if they had Hans Andersen’s wonderful “Shoes of Fortune,” which got their owner into all kinds of difficulties.
St- Joseph’s College Memrameook, N. B.
[From the Moncton	“ TimcsPy
In 1S64, a young Canadian missionary arrived in Memramcook to assume the duties of pastor. He-was a member of the Congregation of Holy Cross—his name one that has since become a household word among the French population of the Maritime Provinces. Father Lefebvre was a fearless, energetic and sanguine young man. He surveyed the condition of his people—saw that, almost without exception, they were debarred, through want of education, from the liberal professions and the higher stations of citizenship; and he resolved to take the first step towards ameliorating their prospects. Sending for one or two of his brethren in Canada, he opened a school in a small wooden structure on the 10th of October, 1864. This was the foundation of St. Joseph’s College, and the most important epoch in the history of the French Acadian people since their expatriation more than one hundred years before.
For long years there were hard struggles to keep the college running—waves of financial depression more than once threatened to engulf the little bark that Father Lefebvre had launched; but the hand that guided the helm was ever firm—the eye that watched the breakers ahead looked away beyond the present obscurity and tempest and gloom, and saw in the distance peaceful waters and a pleasant voyage. .
Numbering at first only fifteen or twenty, year by year the students increased till additions to the first building were found essential. Other additions followed, until in 1875 the dauntless founder, still in his prime and as energetic as ever, determined to erect the present stone structure—a splendid building four stories high, one hundred and twenty feet long and sixty feet wide. A new wing has been found necessary, and we understand will be built during the present year.
Of the work done by this institution, especially for the French Acadians, it is not easy to speak too highly. A college isscarcely emerging from infancy when its existence dates back only twenty years, but the change effected in the social status of our French fellow-citizens within that period amply testifies to the healthful and beneficent influence exerted by St. Joseph’s. A new era of advancement, of liberal progress, and immeasurably superior social improvement set in with the diffusion of the education which had formerly been wanting to the descendants of the peaceful Acadian people whom Longfellow immortalized. But it is not only on the French population of New Brunswick and the other Provinces that this beneficent influence has made itself felt. Englishspeaking students have also flocked to Memramcook since 1864, and many of St. Joseph’s gradu
ates, of both nationalities, occupy to-day honorable positions in the different professions or in the commercial world:
If, as we see no reason to doubt will be the case, the success of the next two decades will be in proportion to the two just completed, St. Joseph’s will undoubtedly prove one of the foremost educational institutions in our Dominion, as it is now one of the foremost in our Province.
A new impetus has lately been given to both the commercial and the classical courses. Diplomas are to be given to graduates of the business class, and degrees will be conferred on graduates of the classical course who follow the revised programme of studies introduced last year. The success achieved by her graduates thus far fully warrants ' the faculty of the college in awarding these insignia of merit, and their waiting so long before exercising-this power of granting degrees will be a point in their favor with those who value thoroughness rather than superficial show.
Personal.
—John B. McGrath, ’80, (M. l’Abbe) was ordained Deacon at the Trinity ordinations of St. Sulpice, Paris.	'	-
—Thomas Dundon, ’73, lately completed the Law Course at Ann Arbor, Mich. His friends at Notre Dame are proud to hear of his success.
—Mr. Geo. E. Clarke, of ’83, has the sympathy of his many friends at Notre Dame in the affliction which has lately befallen him by the death of his father Mr. Mathew Clarke of New Orleans, La.
. —Mr. Allan Pinkerton died at his residence in Chicago on last Tuesday morning. The deceased, who from humble beginnings had risen to a position of world-renowned prominence, was the father of Robert E. and William Pinkerton, both old students of Notre Dame. Their friends here extend their heartfelt condolence.
—On Tuesday, the 1st inst., the Rev. P. P. Cooney, C. S. C., Miss. Ap., ’59, celebrated his Silver Jubilee, or the twenty-fifth anniversary of his ordination to the Sacred Priesthood. Theoccasion was made one of rejoicing, and-the reverend gentleman was the recipient of numerous congratulations. During his twenty-five years in the Sacred Ministry, Father Cooney’s career has been marked by a singular effectiveness, the result of untiring zeal and" energy, aided by his talents as a pulpit orator. He is well known throughout the great part of the United States, and the good wrought -by him remains wherever he has been to attest his efficiency. In union with his many friends we wish him continued years of usefulness, and hope that he may celebrate his Golden Jubilee in the full enjoyment of health and strength.
—The following is a partial list of the visitors at Commencement:	’	' ~	.
Among the clergy were: Rt. Rev. Joseph Dwen-ger, Bishop of Ft. Wayne; Rt. Rev. J. Rademacher, Bishop of Nashville; Rt. Rev. Ignacio Montes de Oca y Obregon, Bishop of Linares, Mex-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ico, the Orator of the Day; Very Rev. Father General Sorin, C. S. C.; Rev. Fathers Riordan, Dunne and Burke, Chicago, Ill.; Rev. John R. Dinnen, ’66, Crawfordsville, Ind.; Rev. A. B. Oechtering, Mishawaka, Ind.; Rev. P. P. Cooney, C. S. C., Miss. Ap.; Rev. W. Kroager, Elkhart, Ind.; Rev. A. Kroeger, Goshen, Ind.; Rev. M. Capin, Niles, Mich.; Rev. M. B. O’Reilly, Valparaiso, Ind.; Rev. Fathers Walters and Guend-ling, Lafayette, Ind.; Rev. Fathers Christian and Alphonsus, Winamac, Ind.
Among the old students were: Hon. John M. Gibbons, ’68, Chicago, Ill.; Frank W. Bloom, ’81, Vincennes, Ind.; Eugene C. Orrick, ’S3, Canton, Miss.; Geo. J. Rhodius, ’83, Indianapolis, Ind.; Moses L. Foote, ’83, Burlington, Iowa; John R. English, ’yS, Columbus, Ohio; W. Ad. Harden-bergh, ’y8, St. Paul, Minn.; Harry Kitz, ’82, Indianapolis, Ind.; A. Wilkinson, ’S3, Peru. Ind.; W. McEniry, ’yS, Rock Island, Ill.; Harold V. Hayes, ’74, Chicago, Ill.; John R. Lambin, ’yy, Chicago, Ilk; George F. Sugg, ’Si, Chicago, Ill.; Frank Quinn, ’83, Danville, Ill.; P. L. Garrity, ’59, Chicago, Ill.; J. C. Larkin, ’83, Pottsville, Pa.; Anthony J. O’Reilly, ’69, Topeka, Kansas; James E. Hagerty, ’y6. St. Louis, Mo.; E. J. McMahon, ’y8, Chicago, Ill.; M. W. Carr, ’72, Indianapolis, Ind.; Cyril Williams, ’64, St. Louis; Harry Fitzgibbon, ’64, Chicago, Ill.
Among other lay visitors were: Mrs. Gen. W. T. Sherman, Miss Rachel Sherman and Mr. Tecumseh Sherman, St. Louis, Mo.; Hon. P. B. Ewing, the Misses Angela and Mary Ewing, Mrs. Col. C. F. Steele, Miss Steele and Miss Fanchon Tuthill, Lancaster, Ohio; Misses J. R. English and the Misses English, Columbus, Ohio; Geo. Mason, Chicago, Ill.; Judge and Mrs. W. W. Cleary, Mrs. J. S. Hudson, Mr. and Mrs. Meehan, Mrs. and Miss Tinley, Covington, Ky.; Mr. Jacob Wile, Laporte, Ind.; F. Nester, Saginaw, Mich.; Mr. and Mrs. Edwin G. Miller, Buffalo, N. Y.; Mrs. L. Schmauss, Rockford, Ill.; Mrs. M. Rhodius, Indianapolis, Ind.; Mrs. James O’Kane and the Misses Emma and Luella O’Kane, Cincinnati, Ohio; C. C. Connolly, Miss Ada Lontz, Simon Quinlin, P. O. Beirne, W. Devine, Chicago, Ilk; Miss Kate Reynolds, Minooka, Ilk; Mrs. M. Humphrey, Miss Johnston, East Townsend, Ohio; Mrs. A. Eaton, Chicago, Ilk; Mrs. A. Dennis, New York, N. Y.; W. Lyle, of the Chicago Times; A. Miller, and T. A. De Weese, of the South Bend Tribune; A. Beal and E. Molloy, of the Laporte Herald Chronicle; A Barry of the Chicago Newspaper Union; C. A. Fassett, of the South-Bend Register; W. Barr, of the SouthBend Times; J. Freeman, Cleveland, Ohio; Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Bunker, Kansas City, Mo.; "Mrs. A. R. Beardsley, Elkhart, Ind.; T. D. Huestis, Crawfordsville, Ind.; J. Eisenhauer,'Huntington, •Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Welch, Des Moines, Iowa; Jos. M. and M. J. Kindle, Curtis, Ohio; Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Berthelet, Milwaukee, Wis.; Mr. and Mrs. J.,R. Williamson, and J. R. Williamson, Jr., Kansas City, Mo.; Mrs. C. Crawford, Dallas, Texas ; Mr. and Mrs. J. G. Burroughs, Rolling Prai
rie, Ind.; F. P. Franklin, New Carlisle, Ind.; Mrs. Ora Drummond, Rolling Prairie, Ind.; E. W. Bowers, South Bend, Ind.; Miss Etta Dexter, Miss Mattie Sweeney, Kansas City, Mo.; Mr. and Mrs. H. Fendrich, Evansville, Ind.; Mrs. Geo. Rudge, Miss Agnes Rudge, Youngstown, Ohio; Mrs. N. Kimball, Mrs. E. Curtis, Adrian, Mich.; C. Cavaroc, Chicago, Ilk; Mr. and Mrs. T. Nester, Miss M.Nester, Detroit, Mich.; N. S. McDonnell, Des Moines, Iowa; Mr. and Mrs. M. J. Farrell, Lorain, Ohio; Mrs. M. Warner, Mrs. Louis Hasbrouck, AV. T. Holly, Chicago, Ilk; Geo. Bowers, Jr., Wheeling, W. Va.; W. J. Wagoner, Denison, Iowa; Louis H. Jackson, Ft. Sully, Dakota; H. G. Guynn, Cedar Rapids, Iowa; N. Nelson, D. Inderrieden, J. Scanlan, Mrs. J. R. Lambin, Chicago, Ilk; Mrs. E. P. and Miss Hale and S. F. Hale, Bunker Hill, Ilk; Mr. and Mrs. Scherrer, Denver, Cok; Frank Mattias, Chicago, Ill.; A. Bruhn, Texarkana, Texas; Mr. and Mrs. Jas. Murdock, Michigan City, Ind.; J. McDevitt, W. J. Flanery, Boone City, Iowa; E. Horn, Columbus, Ohio; Mr. and Mrs. E. J. McMahon, Chicago, Ilk; L Hetz, Muskegon, Mich.; B. Eisenhauer, Huntington, Ind.; J. Francis Smith, Denver, Col.; Jas. Delaney, Erie, Pa.; L. Austin, Denver, Col.; Miss Martha Johnson, Aurora, Ilk; Miss Josie Holt, Anamosa, Iowa; Edith Nichols, Aurora, Ill.; Geo. Giffoy, E. G. Christoph, Chicago^ Ill.; J. and H. Commerford, Joliet, Ill.; Mr. and Mrs. C. D. McPhee, Mrs. Cole, Denver, Cok; Mrs. L. Graham, Mrs. E. Pohl, Mrs. J. and M. B. Warner, Nashville, Tenn.; Mr. and Mrs. J. Rogers, Des Moines, Iowa; Jos. Ruppe, Hancock, Mich.; R. E. Flemming, Henderson, Ky.; Miss Estelle Smith, Chicago,fill.; Mr. and Mrs. L. Fox, and Miss Fox, Grace Dunn and Anna Jacquith, South Bend, Ind.; Mrs. Harold V. Hayes, Mr. and Mrs. Ryan, Chicago, Ill.; Mrs. J. Freeman, and Miss Marie Freeman, Cleveland, Ohio; and many others whose names we did not learn.
Local items.
—Good-bye!
—All things gone up!
—The Campus looks deserted.
—We did have a boat-race this time, and a good one.
—As usual, a St. Cecilian carried off the Mason Medal. . .	- -	'
—The sign-board looks like the last rose of summer.
- . -—About thirty students are spending the vacation at Notre Dame.
—There are some interesting games of football during these cool evenings.	_
—The Euglossians, Thespians and St. Cecilians went off with flying colors.	'
. —The 4-actDrama of “ The Prodigal Law Student” will soon be published.
. —-’84, and all ye old students of Notre Dame, don’t forget the Scholastic.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
691
—The Prize for the best essay on “Dr. Brownson ” was awarded to F. Hagenbarth.
—Found.—A plain gold ring, supposed to be lost during Commencement week. Apply at this office.
—An Index to the present Volume of the Scholastic is being prepared. Copies will be furnished on application.
—The principal medal for Athletics was presented by Messrs. Morse and O’Reilly, old students of Notre Dame.
—Students returning in September who wish to obtain reduced rates should write to Prof.Lyons about the 15th of August.
—Work on the western wing and on Science Hall is being rapidly pushed forward. Both will be completed for the opening of the next term.
—The supply was not equal to the demand for the last number of the Scholastic. We have profited by our experience. The present edition is 2,500.
—Thanks are returned to the gentlemanly officers of the L. S. & M.- S. R. R. for courtesies shown the students and then* friends travelling over their lines.
—Many of the Brothers from the missions have returned, among whom those best known to old students are, Bros. Philip, Gabriel, William, and Theogene.
—Messrs. Robinson, of the Alton road; Frawley, of the Wabash; Caldwell, of the West Shore; Freeman, of the Lake Shore, were present at the Commencement exercises.
—Last Saturday the stay-at-home members of the Faculty went off on a picnic to the banks of the St. Joe. They enjoyed themselves in true rustic style, and it is said the chef surpassed himself on the occasion.
—Arrangements have been made to give the vacation students a grand excursion by boat and rail to the principal cities of the East and Canada. The trip will last one month, and will begin about the 18th.
—Our gas-works failed us at the beginning of Commencement week, and still continues “ on a strike.” We have gone back to the primitive oil lamp. But everything will be all right and in good working order before the month is over.
—For the past two weeks painters, under the direction of B. Frederick, have been busily engaged in painting the Dome and the statue'of Oui Lady. The work- of gilding the statue has been begun and will soon be completed. The lower and upright portion of the Dome is being sanded, and the whole, when finished, will present a fine appearance.
—The Feast of the Sacred Heart—the patronal festival of the priests of the Congregation—was observed with befitting solemnity at Notre Dame. Solemn High Mass was sung by Very Rev. Father General Sorin, assisted by Rev. Fathers L’Etour-neau and Fitte as deacon and subdeacon. In the afternoon, at two o’clock, an imposing ceremony
took place, when Rev. Father O’Hanlon and Du-hald and Messrs. Thilman and Scheier made their religious profession.
—We give herewith the names of the crews en-gaged in the Regatta,in which the “Evangeline” 00	O'	o
carried off the trophy:	'	' '
Evangeline.
Celia, ’85, stroke.
Gallagher, ’84, 5th.
Laslie, ’87, 4th.
Guthrie, ’85, 3d.
Murdock, ’85, 2d—Captain.
Saviers, ’85, Bow.
Otis, ’84, Coxswain.
—The “Atlantics”
■ Minnehaha.
Snouffer, ’87, stroke.
McKinnery, ’85, 5th.
Bannigan, ’86, 4th.
Mathers, ’86, 3d.
Steis, ’86, 2d—Captain.
Goulding, ’86, Bow.
Tinley, ’84, Coxswain.
met with a Waterloo last
Saturday, at the hands of a picked nine composed of students from the Senior and junior departments. Hogan and Burns formed the battery for the Atlantics, Browne and Neeson for the students. Hogan’s pitching puzzled the college boys for the first five innings; after that they took to him kindly, and kept the fielders of the Atlantics constantly at work hunting the ubiquitous sphere. Browne’s delivery proved very effective. At the end of the ninth inning the score stood 11 to 13 ;■ in favor of the vacation boys. J. Larkin um- -pired the game.
—The bust of Bishop Foley which adorns the upper corridor is the work of Mr. William W. Starr, nephew of the well-known writer, Miss Eliza Allen Starr. The bust is an exact copy of the one made by the same artist, which adorns the Cathedral in Chicago, and of which the Chicago Tribune thus speaks:
“ The artist has succeeded beyond all anticipation in giving a life-like representation of the- deceased prelate. The bust strikes one at the first as a most correct likeness: the pose of the head, the decisive lines of the mouth disclosing the will-power, with the genial smile, all commend themselves as admirably and truthfully depicted.”
—The following are the members of the Or-pheonic Association of ’84:
Director, Bro. Anselm, C. S. C. Soprani—W. Devine, R. Papin, J. Fitzgerald, F. Garrity, F. Crotty, W. McCourt, E. Adams, W. McPhee, J. McGrath, J. Kelly, L. Scherrer, J. Wright, E. Scherrer, C. Smith, J. Devereux, C. Curtis, E. Amoretti, B. Lindsey, A. McVeigh, E. Thomas, M. O’Kane, W. Stange, W. Welch. C. Harris, C. Delaplane, E. McGrath, J. Boos, G. La Tourette, T. McGuire, F. Weston, H. Ackerman. Alii—G. Schaefer, C. Cavaroc, J. Chaves, J. Kelly, J. Garrity, J. Courtney, E. Schmauss, B. Arnold, E Uranga, E. Howard, A. Warner, E. Gimbel. 1st Tenori—H. Foote, W. Ramsay, E. Gerlach, F. Combe, H. Paschel, A. Plischke, J. Crawford,. T. Cleary, H. Warner. 2d Tenori—L. Gibert, W. Mahon, J. Gallagher, C. Paschel, C. Johnson, W. Cartier, J. Kleiber, W. Hetz, J. McIntyre, W. Bailey. Sassi—J. Murphy, W. Orchard, F. O’Kane, L. Kavanaugh, J. Crawford, P. Gal-arneau, W. Dennis, j. McCabe, J. Shea.
—A very pleasant and appropriate celebration took place at St. Joseph’s Novitiate on last Tuesday, on the occasion of the “ Silver Jubilee” of Rev. ~ P. P. Cooney, C. S. C. Under the auspices of Rev. D. J. Spillard, C. S. C., Master of Novices, a grand banquet was spread, at which a number of the clergy, among whom were Rev. Fathers Granger and President Walsh, met to do honor to the reverend subject of the rejoicings. Father
6^2
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Cooney occupied the post of honor at the table, .and after the repast, received and responded to the numerous congratulations proffered him. Among the testimonials of esteem of which he was made the recipient was a valuable set of books—the gift of an old friend.
—A magnificent statue of St. Edward, the Patron Saint of the- Founder of Notre Dame, was placed in St. Edward’s Park on June 20th. It rests on a large mound of the richest and rarest flowers. The statue is made of cast-iron, finished in marble; it is the work of Froc-Robert, Paris. Connoisseitrs^ among whom is the famous Italian artist, Signor Gregori, say it is a masterpiece of .art. The figure is majestic, and the face strikingly beautiful. The right hand holds a sceptre, emblem of regal authority, and the left supports a church, after the model of the Church of the Sacred Heart at Notre Dame. All heartily welcome St. Edward to thepremises, feeling that after St. Joseph no other saint deserves more a place of honor than the glorious Patron of the Founder of Notre Dame.
—The South Bend Tribune thus describes the REGATTA:	•	'
About half-past ten, the students, members of the Alumni and visiting guests began repairing to the beautiful lake in the rear of the college where the regatta was to take place. The beautifully shaded grove which slopes gently down to the lake on all sides was soon well covered by spectators who had taken various positions which they conceived to be advantageous for the best view of the race. A refreshing breeze was coming from the west, causing a gentle ripple over the clear waters of the lake, making the prospect as viewed from the banks very delightful. The clouds in the west looked rather portentious at first, but it soon cleared oft'and everything was auspicious for the occasion.
Shortly before 11 o’clock the two boats were launched from the boat house each manned by six oarsmen and one cockswain. The crews were a fine-looking body of young men, and they displayed their oars with a vigor that evidenced careful athletic training. The boats were the “Evangeline” and the “ Minnehaha,” manned respectively by the cockswains Elmer Otis and Chas. Tinley. At the signal both crafts started from the lower buoys, on the west side of the lake. The measured dip of their oars as they rowed side by side, made a beautiful picture, and as they neared the eastern buoys the spectators on the banks received them with shouts, wild clapping of hands and waving of handkerchiefs. The Minnehaha was the first to reach the first buoy but the Evangeline gained about a half length in turning and got the best start toward the second buoys. At the second buoys the Evangeline again gained advantage by the quickest turn and then commenced the tug of war. Excitement now ran high and spectators rushed to the edge of the banks to gain a better view. The Evangeline was in the lead and as soon as it had gained a length the crew of the Minnehaha began to lose energy and finally lay on their oars, when they saw the day was lost to them. The winning crew was received with enthusiastic cheers, and the members were presented with gold anchor pins by President Walsh. The Evangeline Avon the race by the quickness of the turns which were due to the efficient bow, Mr. Delano Saviers.
Examination Averages.	•
[LZVt? Average under 60 is. ^ublishedi\ '	, SENIOR DEPARTMENT. .	.
J. Anchondo, 86; J. Ancheta, 100; R. Aguilera, 94; F. Baca, 89; AV. Bowers, 77; G. Broseau, 75; W. Barron, 89; T. Becerra, 86; A. Browne, 84; V, Burke, 93; F. Burke, 94; F. Combe, 89; C.
Combe, 68; J. Carroll, 83; C. Carroll, 88; A. Coll, 85; P. Carbajal, 68; T. Cass, 77;- W. Cartier, 86; J. Cusack, 82; S. Crawford, S3; J. Conway, 88; B. Cussen, 78; T. Callaghan, 93; J. Creel, 95; F. Delgado, 90; J. De Groot, 76; G. De Wolf, 93; G. De Haven, 84; S. Dickerson, 96; A. Dennis,72; AAC Dennis, 80; F. Danielson, 77; J. Delaney, 62; J. Daily, 85; L.Feltz, 89; W. Fogarty,
J.Farrell, 100; T. Fenlon, 91; E.Fenlon, 92; H. Fitzgerald, 85; J. Fox, 84; J. Grothaus, 86; D. Gonsor, 87; W. Gandrup, 73; L. Gibert, 88; P. Goulding, 88; A. Gonzales, 81; J. Guthrie, 85; T. Gutierrez, 79; J. Gallagher, 88; P. Galarneau, 91; P. Howard, 79; C. Hausberg, 83; W. Hetz, 73; J. Hamlyn, 88; E. Hotaling, 81; W. Johnston, 90; A. Jones, 85; C. Johnson, 88; L. Kavanaugh, 91; C. Kaufman, 88; C. Kolars, 95; J. Kleiber, 91; H. Lister, 71; W. Lasley, 71; F. Lucas, 90; R. Leffingwell, 75; J. Murphy, 79; AV. McCarthy, 88; G. McErlain, SS; J. McCabe, 78; T. Mc-Kinnery, 86; L. Mathers, 89; R. Marquez, 90; S. Murdock, 91; C. Murdock, 99; A. McMurray, S3; J. McNamara, 83; P. McLaughlin, S3; J. Madden, 93; T. Morris, 74; A. Mueller, So; AV. Mahon, So; J. Neeson, Si; G. O’Brien, 97; E. Ott, 9S; M. O’Dea, 97; F. O’Rourke, 87; AAr. Orchard, 91; G. O’Kane, So; AV. O’Connell, 93; J. AL O’Donnell, 89; C. Paschel, 86; H. Paschel, 87; L. Pour, 86; H. Porter, 94; P. P. Proud-homme, 81; J. Rudge, 82; J. Rogers, 90; J. Reach, 93; J. Riley, 69; AV. Ramsay, 90; J. Shea, 79; H. Steis, 87; AV. Slattery, 94; J. Spangler, 87; B. Scholfield, 76; M. Sykes, 92; O. Spencer, 85; D. Saviers, 86;. E. Smith, 79; J. Smith, 89; G. Smith, 88; A. Sanchez, 74; J. Shields, 92; A. Snoufler, 90; J. Uranga, 74; C. Warner, 83; J. Wilson, 96; J. AVagoner, 91; F. AVaggoner, 81; P. Warren, 75; A. Wendel, 79; J- Banigan,-9O.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. Arkins, 68; A. Adler; 85; B. Arnold, 92; L. Anchondo, 90; D. Armijo, 81; M. Aguilera, 69; AAr. Borgschulze, 77; S. Barons, 73; AAL Berth-elet, 95; P. Barela, 83; F. Brown, 75; J. Baur, 86; D. Barclay, 92; E. Benner, Si; J. Breen, S3; H. Barnard, 79; H. Cohen, 87; G. Cartier, 81; D. Cartier, 75; J. Courtney, 86; J. Crawford, 81; F. Curtis, 87; J. Chaves, 82; C. Cavaroc, 91; F. Combe, 76; G. Crilly, 78; T. Cleary, 94; M. Clarke, 91; G. Costigan, 96; T. Cassily, 8’4; M. Coleman, 80; J. Dwenger, 90; R. Devereux, 88; J. Dorenberg, 74; F. Dexter, 95; C. Dennis, 65; F. Deadrick, 76; C. Duffin, 85-; J. Devine, 91; E. Ewing, 88; A. Eisenhauer, 78; J. Fitzgerald, 84; F. Fehr, 77; J. Fendrich, 86; M. Fierro, 75; FI. ‘ Foote, 73; A. Finckh, Si; J. Garrity, 85; E. Gerlach, 93; E. Gimbel, 82; J. Grunsfeld, 84; W. Hemisbaugh, 76; F. Hagenbarth, 98; E. A. Howard, 83; E. J. Howard, 79; J. Halligan, 89; J. Hues-tis, 75; B. Henry, So; J. Henry, 68; W. Henry, 96; W. Houlihan, 65; P. Hagan, 78; C. Harris, 79; G. Houck, 87; S. Holman, 86; J. Hagerty, 93; E. Holbrook, 90; F. Jensch, 67; P. Johnson, 84; M. Kelly, 80; J. Kelly, 82; T..King, 81; J. Letcher, 79; G. Lewis, 87; R. Lewis, 82; M. Loescher, 64; M. Leoni, 85;' M. Luther, 84; F. Lane, 82; M.
i.	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	693
! _________________________:________________________...__________
Mulkern, 94; A. Muessel, 62; J. Monschein, 89; P. Mullane, 86; C. Muhler, 76; G. Mcnig, 78; C. Mason, 73; G. Moye, 73; A. Moye, 72; AV. Murphy, 92; VV. Mug, 98; F. Major, 74; G. Martinez, 83; AV. McCullough, 71; J. McDonnell, 94; J. McGordon, 73; G. McGordou, 77; T. McGill, 78; J. Nester, 82; T. Norfolk, 78; S. O’Brien,93; J. P. O’Donnell, 62; A. Plischke, 79; C. Porter, 92; E. Porter, 94; E. Pohl, 93; K. Perley, 80; A. Parres, 85; J. Proudhomme, 60; E. Proudhomme, 60; J. Portillo, 68; D. Quill, 85; F. Rogers, 89; C. Regan, 83; C. Reynolds, 92; T. Rhodus, 83; J. Ruppe, S3; C. Ruffing, 84; J. Shea, 79; H. Sed-berry, 87; M. Scheuerman, 79; L. Scheuerman, 83; P. Servis, 71; E. Schmauss, 82; AV. Schott, 90; G. Schaefer, 94; C. Stubbs, 95; J. Shields, 745 J-Talbot, 86; D. Taylor, 90; G. Tarrant, 87; E. Trepanier, 80; D. Tewksberry, S3; M. Uranga, 77; H. Warner, Si; A. Warner,77; W. Wagoner, 87; P. Wagoner, Si; W. Wabrauschek, 89; J. Weiler, Si; AV. Wright, Si; T. AA7illiamson, 89; G. AA7ilkes, 63; P. Yrisarri, 81.
J \J J	J
® MINIM DEPARTMENT.
E. Amoretti, 85; J. Addington, 90; H. Addington, 70; E. Adams, 70; H. Ackerman, So; S. Arrache, 70; A. Arrache, 70; J. Boos, 85; I. Bunker, 95; AA7. Butterfield, 85; C. Brown, 86; F. Benner, 89; AA7. Calvin, So; F. Coad, So; M. Coad, So; M. Crawford, 86; C. Curtis, 90; F. Crotty, 90; AA7. Cole, 90; M. Cummings, 93; E. Costigan, 95; W. Devine, 90; C. Delaplane, 99; F. Dunford, 75; J. Devereux, 90; H. Dirksmeyer, 93; A. Devereux, 75; J. Ernest, 94; J. Fitzgerald, 90; AV. Fulwiler, 86; F. Garrity, 90; A. Grimes, 75; AA7. Grimes, 79; I. Grunsfeld, 95; C. Harris, 88; AV. Henry, 88; C. Inderrieden, 80; R. Inder-rieden, 76; C. Johns, So; J. Kelly, 95; E. Kelly, 95; J. Kraus, 90; G. La Tourette, 90; G. Landen-wich, So; J. Lewis, 75; B. B. Lindsey, 92; C. Lindsey, 89; A. Loya, 80; F. Manzanares, 82; A. Meehan, 90; M. McCourt, 78; AV. McCourt, 80; F. Murphy, 90; AA7. McGuire, 75; T. McGuire, 89; J. McGrath, 90; E. McGrath, 90; AA7. McGill, 79; AA7. McPhee, 95; A. McVeigh, 90; H. Morgan, 88; R. Morrison, 98; F. Mullen, So; A. Mullen, 80; F. Nester, 99; A. Nester, 88; F. Noonan, 90; F. Otis, 99; J. O’Connor, 90; M. O’Kane, 96; B. O’Kane, 98; J. Padden, 85; R. Papin, 92; A7. Papin, 70; H. Perkins, 75; D. Prin-diville, 90; D.' Quill,'80;' C.‘ Quinlin, 89; W. Quiggle, 88; V. Rebori, 90; J. Studebaker, 90; AV. Stange, 96; F. Salmon, 90; S. Schbneman, 80; J. Sokup, So; L. Scherrer, 95; C. Scherrer, 90; E. Scherrer, 90; C. Spencer, So; C. Smith, So; E. Thomas, 80; J. Uranga, 75; C. West, 97; AV. AVelch, 98; A. AVelch, 75; F. AVeston, 90; J. AA7right, 90; C. Young, 78.
|	For the Dome.
t	Rev. Richard Maher..........................$100.00
i-	A pious soul at St. Mary’s................  10.00
From several..........:..................... 3-oo
Saint Gary's Academy.
Chic Mile West of Notre Dame University.
The Carrier-Dove’s Message to the Alnirmm nf St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
By Eleanor C. Donnelly.
{Delivered in response to an invitation to Represent at the Alumna Meeting', June,
My heart hath heard and answered your sweet call With joyous thrills of tender inspiration;
My Muse hath felt her pulses rise and fall, Responsive to your loving invitation.
What time the winds were blowing from the West, Their Veni! Veni! evermore repeating,—
I fain had cast me on their airy crest, And hade them bear me to your blithesome meeting.
I fain had sped with them o’er hill and glade On pinions light as wings of woodland fairies, To that blest spot so dear to each dear maid
Who styles herself Alumna of St. Mary’s.
But since I may not borrow Ariel’s wings, Nor take my passage on a Zephyr’s pinions;
And since a score of sublunary things
Detain me in my studious dominions,—
My Muse must be my little Carrier-Dove, My tried ambassador, my gentle proxy, To waft you messages of fondest love, Of purest zeal, and soundest orthodoxy
From one who loves you for your Mother’s sake, Your Alma Mater, Queen among her daughters, Enthroned in state beside a limpid lake, Her virgin charms reflected in its waters.
O silver breasted Dove 1 O favor’d Muse I Whose speed of wing ne’er vacillates or varies, ’Tis yours to greet (when ends your airy cruise) The glad Alumnae gathered at St. Marv’s.
To float above each head: and closely cling To each fair hand in joy ful agitation;
Repose on. each young breast your weary wing, . And murmur notes of soft congratulation.
To breathe of memories as pure as snow; -Of golden visions bom of Youth’s romances; ; .
The very dreams of Childhood’s Long Ago;	.
The sunny schemes of Girlhood’s teeming fancies; .
All these, my Muse, ’tis yours to waft afar,—
Sweet recollections waking from their slumbers -As from the twilight springs the evening-star ‘
To sound reveille to the starry numbers,— -	; <
Ah! say to those who, ’neath the Convent spire, ’ Essay to-day, (Alumnae tender-hearted!)— ......
To strike the silver strings of Mem’ry’s lyre,1 ‘	‘
. And sing of days for evermore departed;	. ■ - '
694
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Ah! say to those who pass the Convent gates, And bid farewell to Chapel, glen, and Grotto,—
Remember well, 0 dear girl graduates!
Noblesse oblige must be your changeless motto.
Bom of that blessed spot where Science wears
Her fairest aspect; where Religion hallovs
The golden Aris by sacrifice and prayers;
And Learning lures to depths beyond the shallows,—
Noblesse oblige,—the watchword pure and true
Of lofty souls, of brave devoted spirits,—
In each Alumna’s heart must lie perdu, The spring of all her future deeds and merits.
Veiled with the modesty which best adorns
A gifted woman’s brilliancy and beauty:
To shine like lilies in a world of thorns:
And light the desert paths of darksome duty;
To purify Society: to bless
The sterner sex with Faith’s sublime assurance:
—To others’ woes, a fount of tenderness:
But to her own, a rock of meek endurance;
As wife and mother, daughter, sister, friend,— At home,—abroad,—to aid Love’s missionaries,
Ah! this it is to reach the blessed end,— 2\nd be a true Alumna of St. Mary’s.
Contemplation of the Illimitable.
In the ordinary routine of every-day life what is it that repels the higher aspirations? What is it that nourishes the insatiable longing which seems inherent in the human heart? It is the restraint imposed upon oui" nobler powers by the narrow range of thought demanded. Lead those powers into some new field of research, enlist them in investigations which necessitate vigorous application: the fetters fall from the mind: the wings of the soul respond to the invitation of their native element. This native element is the illimitable; for, though finite, we are still immortal; and, unable as we are to fathom immortality, we yet seek for the expansive, as the hart thirsts after the fountains <f water. No sound, active mind can be content with the limitable. It is ever yearning for something beyond its present capabilities,—something above what it now possesses; something superior to that of which the senses can take cognizance. But where is the response to these aspirations ? In the illimitable—the measureless in time, the measureless in space, the measureless in science, in art, in ethics, and in all that relates to the scope of the senses or the range of the spirit.	■
The illimitable is reflected in science,—yea, in the least of the sciences, just as the mimic heavens are seen in the tiny mirror of the dew-drop. The mazes of Geology will never be surveyed and mapped out like the streets of a city; but, though to us it is at present in a crude state, the science in itself is quite as complete as if its principles had been perfectly demonstrated in the days of Euclid.
The lines of atomic analysis will never be defined;.
nor the labyrinths of Chemistry traversed and explored like the vaults and archways of the Mammoth Cave, with their scintillating crystals. Its hidden wonders are far more numerous than those which have been evolved from the magical alembic since the alchemist first began his search for the o
universal solvent.
The mysterious intricacies of the Galaxy, or the dim, white radiance of far-distant nebulas, will never be subjected to the precise measurement of astronomical investigations. Ah, well we know that the most sublime researches of a Galileo, a Kepler, a Le Verrier, a Herschel, are but the light cruisings of a pleasure skiff along the shore of the mighty stellar sea which has been fathomed alone by Him who fashioned it! There is no end to the chain of discoveries in any one of these branches. This can be proven by comparing, for example, the Chemistry of to-day with that of fifty years ago. The same contrast may be drawn in the case of Botany, Ornithology, and all the other natural sciences.
In the vast creation around, beneath, and above us,—aye, even within us, we see the Ramifications of the .illimitable. It is the inevitable feature which marks the work of the Divine Artificer. Who sets bounds to the waters of the seas that encircle the globe? to the air we breathe, to the light that gilds the mountain top and paints the sunny valley? It is no finite power. The works of man may be fathomed, bounded, measured. The vast edifice of St. Peter’s—a noble monument to the ' genius of a Michael Angelo—is still a pigmy beside Mont Blanc; and however charming or perfect the sky may appeal" in Titian’s landscapes, what is it when compared to a sunset in Naples? God is the artist in the one case, man in the other.
Nature partakes of the ubiquity of its Omnipresent Creator. This forms the charm of investigation. It presents novelty at every point;—no trifling novelty, but that which challenges the utmost exertions of the intellectual powers. It may fascinate the mind with^the delicate mechanism of the ephemera, or with the stupendous action of the mighty Alpine glacier; with the budding of the fragile hairbell, or with the cycles of systems that glide on in tlieir silent, inconceivable march, paying majestic homage to Alcyone, enthroned, as it were, in the centre of siderial space, swaying her golden sceptre amid the pleiades, over the countless orbs of infinity. It may absorb the heart in the unfolding of the mind of the child—the awakening of its conscience, its responsibilities, its imagination, its conceptions of Divinity; or it may, with daring eagle flight, soar to the contemplation of Infinite perfection, and dwell, as it were, in the unveiled radiance of Heaven itself. Thus, it lures us to think upon, arrange and classify ideas respecting things, human and divine. But this classification and arrangement do not affect nature: they affect us.	'
All things—nature, science, art,—urge us onward to grasp that which appears unattainable, just as the young bird is impelled to essay a flight that is impossible. Are the efforts of the little
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	695
creature folly? They are not; nor is our striving after greater things than we can accomplish. To evade or ignore them is to thwart the growth of the intellectual being. The unattainable of to-day is the child’s play of to-morrow.
The grandeur of science consists in its power to awaken the dormant energies of the soul, and it is by the expansion which research imparts that these energies are aroused. The low aims of the illiterate, and the selfish apathy of the luxuriant, contract the heart, the mind, and the soul. They make us of the earth, earthy; but forth on the field of noble investigation we walk with God, as did our first parents in the Garden of Eden.
Belle Johnson (Class of ’84).
Valedictory.
BY ESTELLE TODD (Class of ’84).
■	The line of beauty is a curve. Angles mark the
grotesque, the picturesque, and the sublime; but, from the two last named, remove the elements of their graceful sister beauty, and they sink to the mere level of the vapid or the grotesque.
When, in the year 1300, the Holy Father wished to prove the powers of a rising Florentine artist, he sent a messenger to request specimens of him. The artist traced a circle upon a card and said, “Take this to the Hol}’- Father.” Upon the reception of the token,which, to the uninitiated eye of the bearer seemed almost an insult to the Holy Father, the Pontiff exclaimed: “This man is the most wonderful artist of the day! ” Giotto’s O has been synonymous with the perfection of a circle from that day to this. A straight line might have reflected the skill of the artist, but, like the Author of all grace and loveliness, Giotto chose the matchless curve. The sun, the earth, the moon, the countless orbs of space were his instructors, and in what more appropriate and simple form could the mastery of all that is centred in the soul of the true artist be embodied?
The circle is the emblem of eternity—a fitting symbol of our life’s career; hence the initials of our class motto have been appropriately embossed . on a golden circlet, and this we shall cherish as a precious souvenir of our last year at Alma Mater. As Giotto’s O to the eye of Pope Boniface VIII was the seal of unparalleled genius, so shall our class motto be to us a reminder that Alma Mater has to , our keeping imparted the key to the peerless prize of mental, moral and spiritual success.
'■'■Esto Lux Benigna!”—“Be thou a shining light!” Ah! this talisman of gold shall speak to us of other circles, less tangible, perchance, but none • the less real, and to which the fabled magic ring ; and lamp of Alladin, with all their marvellous 1 power, would be but as a gossamer thread in the s strong wind of a clear summer morning.
u	"Esto Lux Benigna!” In these charmed cir-
||	. cles, first and foremost of all is that of home,—
| there our dutiful offices shall, by the grace of I
Heaven, render some slight return to our beloved parents for ail the sacrifices they have undergone in our behalf, and the affectionate devotedness with which we shall endeavor to environ the home circle and the lives of our younger brothers and sisters shall be the golden harvest of their loving solicitude in placing us here, where the circle of academic studies has encompassed everything that can contribute to our happiness.
As sound waves are propagated in spherical shells, each one growing more and more extensive as the distance from the sonorous body increases, so is the influence of a thoroughly-educated mind communicated to society—now, in the administration of justice by a skilled member of the legal profession; anon, in the ubiquitous benefits at the bedside of the sick and suffering, by a noble member of the medical profession; now, in the multitudinous ministrations- of the zealous ecclesiastic: sometimes, and more potent perhaps than all,— alas! too rarely—in the gentle, pervading power of the perfectly cultivated lady in society—the noble, conscientious woman in the home circle—but in each case, imparting a vitality to the social body which the narrow sphere of the ill-informed could never reach.
Monsignor Ignacio Montes de Oca y Obregon, from your far-off tropical home, your occidental city rising with that of the Montezumas as a majestic monument of Christianity triumphant over the darkest form of paganism, welcome to our Commencement exercises! Accustomed as you are to the perfection of even that w’hich is best in art and science, we do not flatter ourselves that we shall deserve any great degree of commendation, but trust that our unpretending efforts will not be quite unworthy of your lenient smile. The amplitude of vibration, the waves of holy influence which took rise in the heart of Rome when there you were preparing for your grand western career, have graciously embraced St. Mary’s in their golden circles. For this accept our thanks; and though meeting and parting in the same short hour, yet hoping, Monsignor, that this, your second visit, will be but the prelude to more than one in the future, and believing that you will sometimes kindly remember those who to-day leave their treasured Alma Mater, we proffer you our respectful adieu.
Rt. Rev. Bishop of Nashville, the charms of the sunny southern land have not withheld you from our more northern clime. In your new and more important field of labor you do not forget the scenes of Indiana, so lately your home. . In your kindly presence we feel assured of your not unfavorable judgment. Your sympathetic interest, we feel, is forestalled. With this confidence in your generous approval, our cordial welcome we weave with our regretful adieu. ' o	_
Esteemed Rt. Rev. Bishop of Ft. Wayne, perhaps to no other heart in this vast American Republic is the cause of Christian education dearer than to your own, and on this account we congratulate ourselves on our good fortune in coming within the range of your episcopal control. Thanking you, Rt. Rev. Bishop, not only for our
THE NOTRE NAME SCHOLASTIC,
selves, but in the name of the vast circle encompassing so many youthful minds iti the pale of its beneficent influence, we bespeak your encouraging presence for our successors, and with sentiments of deep regard present our grateful farewell 1
Very Rev. and Dear Father General, with no small degree of satisfaction we greet your venerated presence in the glow of health improved, and high hopes realized. Can you, dear Father, overlook the faults of impetuous, wayward hearts, and to-day, forgiving us, pray that the future may redeem the past? Be assured, Very Rev. Father, that we shall not fail in our endeavors to honor you, bv honoring the institution to which you have given your life-long devotion. Thanking you for your world-embracing charity, and assuring you of our affectionate remembrance wherever we may be, yet hoping sometime to meet you again with St. Mary’s Alumnse, we bid you a reluctant farewell!
Our Rev. and Dear Chaplain, your daily care for our progress, your indefatigable exertions forward our best interests for time and eternity have laid us under an endless debt of gratitude, the sense of which shall not soon pass away. Yes, Rev. Father, as long- as life shall last, the thought of your devotedness shall never forsake us; and we shall revert with pleasure, alas! mingled with pain that they are gone to return no more—to the precious hours in which we have assembled to receive your valuable instructions. “ Esto Lux Benigno!” We receive this command, dear Father, as your parting gift. True to this mandate, we shall be likewise true to oui' ever-venerated teacher.
Rev. Assistant-Chaplain, Father Saulnier; dear Superiors; our beloved Prefect of Studies, whose devoted interest and untiring care has smoothed - many a thorny way, and planted many a fragrant flower in our path, we lay at your feet our fond tribute of gratitude. Forget our foibles; remember only our better qualities, and accept our loving farewells!
Our dear companions,—you whose scholastic career is still incomplete—when a few weeks shall roll away you will once more assemble at St. Mary’s to resume the routine of study. Our hearts shall be with you, though we shall be far away. Do not forget us *
“ When you meet to mingle your cares and tears, Your joys and your sorrows, your griefs and fears.” .
With the assurance that by' us you will be lovingly remembered, we bid you a last warm farewell!	-	-
Loved classmates, on the eve of our separation. ! we pause a moment and revert to the years of mental toil and vicissitudes in which we have been associated. Words that we may utter now will . not add to or detract from the benefits gathered under the same instruction; but to - the end we shall recall the years passed under these consecrated shades, as the most precious of oui' - lives. The motto assigned us .must never be forgotten. Worn next to our hearts; and remembering . that “ nobility, obliges ”; - that, having, in.. the
honors of to-day received so high a pledge of confidence from our Alma, Mater, we shall never sully our escutcheon or bring sadness to the hearts that have trusted us.
“Esto Lux Benigna!” Following this banner, keeping the light of truth in our souls, pure to the last, we shall earn the happiness to gather, an unbroken circle, in the white light of a blissful eternity!
The 29th Annual Commencement at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
The Commencement this year at St. Mary’s— on the 24th and 25th—drew an immense concourse of relatives and friends from various parts of the United States. The beautiful grounds, the Studio, the Library, the Fancy Work room and the Museum presented a lively appearance during the two days,—a constant stream of visitors passing back and forth. The proximity of the two institutions —the University and the Academy—helped to increase the throng, no doubt, as many parents had children at both institutions; but even if they had not, they would hardly leave Notre Dame without visiting St. Mary’s and its picturesque surroundings. A more beautiful suburban retreat or a better location for an educational institute could hardly be found. The grounds are tastefully laid out and finely shaded. The walks and summer houses bordering the steep banks of the St. Joseph are delightful resorts. Here can be had a fine view of the river and the surrounding country, with the lofty Dome and the church towers of the University rising above a mass of foliage towards the south. A beautiful spot, truly, and one not soon to be forgotten by those who have visited it.
The examination in the more solid branches of an English and Commercial education,—together O_	J o
with languages, music, and domestic economy,— had been in progress for nearly a week, with the . most gratifying results, as we were informed; and . now that all this drudgery was at an end, the pupils were about to receive their well earned premiums and entertain their friends with some choice musical and intellectual treats in the large hall of the Academy. And choice treats they certainly were. Amid the throng and bustle of the occasion, l am afraid I did my work very imperfectly, and will undoubted!}’- get some things mixed, while others are wholly neglected; but I will do the best I can with my notes..	•
At 3 p. m. on-Tuesday—Concert day—the visitors being:assembled in the large hall, the following programme was rendered by the pupils:. Chorus—“ I Waited for the Lord ”.....	.Mendelssohn
. Vocal Class, Accompanied by Miss Laura G. Fendrich.
Essay—L’emulationremporte Ies Lauriers. .Miss Etta Calk Terzettino.........................A.	Randegger
-. Misses Bertha English, Mary Hale, Emma Neu.
Recitation—“Pippo’s Vision”........Eleanor C.Donnelly \	Miss Anna Murphy. . .	.	;
. Essay—“Votiye.Oilerings”..:... Miss Laura G. Fendrich Valse.Impromptu' Op. 36........:. .f..Xavier Scharwenka Miss Martha E. Beal. ;
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	. 697
Essay—“Die Hauptstiitze des nationalen Wohlstandes,” Miss Clai-a Ginz.
Song—“Liete Signori”..............From Huguenots
Miss Mary Hale.
Essay—“ Contemplation of the Illimitable,” Miss Belie Johnson.
Chorus—“ Let their Celestial Concerts all Unite ”—Handel .	Vocal Class.
The choruses and vocal solos were marked by a nicety of execution and delicacy of expression which spoke well for the vocal training at St. Mary’s, for which the Academy has long- been held in high repute. The rest of the musical part of the programme was equally good. Miss Beal, in her difficult piano solo, and Miss Fendrich in her accompaniments, showed fine technical skill. Miss Anna Murphy’s rich, powerful voice showed to splendid advantage in her recitation of “Pippo’s Vision,” from the gifted pen of Miss Eleanor C. Donnelly. The recitation was in keeping with the subject, fervent and dramatic, and elicited rapturous applause from . the audience—a merited compliment to both the speaker and the writer.
The literary essays were of a superior order— much superior to the effusions on similar occasions elsewhere. Evident signs of admiration and delight were visible on the countenances of the many visitors familiar with the language of the Fatherland at the splendid composition and delivery of Miss Ginz’s essay, in which the sonorous tongue of a Schlegel and a Schiller was superbly handled. The young lady well deserved the gold medal awarded her for proficiency in the German language. Miss Etta Call’s French essay was a real gem and was read with much dignity and grace. The language of the polite European world found in Miss Call a worthy representative. These languages are, we are told, taught by teachers to the manor born.
Last, but by no means least—for every American should, above all things, have a good command of her own mother tongue—the English essays were well composed and well delivered. Miss Laura G. Fendrich’s “ Votive Offerings ” was replete with beautiful thoughts suggested by her surroundings: an affectionate tribute to her Alma. Mater, it could not fail to elicit the warmest commendation and esteem for her filial devotedness and superior gifts of mind and heart. Miss Johnson’s essay, “The Contemplation of the Illimitable,” will, I am glad to say, appear in this number of the Scholastic, so the reader can himself judge of its merits, which were greatly enhanced by a splendid delivery.
After the exercises the fancy-work room and St. Luke’s Studio were open to visitors, and the walls and numerous tables bore noteworthy evidence.of the skill and industry of the students. In the Artdepartment was shown a splendid collection of finished work,—prominently three grand paintings in oil at the farther end of the hall, facing the entrance. These were a Christmas scene and two Stations. There were- arranged on one side numerous landscapes in oil, painted from nature, heads and various subjects in crayon, fine panel paintings, painting on satin, Kensington work in
oil on panels, lustra, Limoges or barbatine work . velvet plaques, mirror frames, burses, etc. Two ■ splendid studies in crayon, from the easels of Miss L Martha E. Beal, of Laporte, Ind., and Miss Cath- : arine Campbell, of Jamestown,: Dakota, closely contested the gold medal in this branch, which was awarded to Miss Beal on the decision of Prof. , Luigi Gregori. The winning study excelled in . expression, while the other was undoubtedly superior in delicacy of shading and finish. In the Limoges and lustra work, for which the Academy is becoming noted, the principal exhibitors were Miss Mary Hale, of Bunker Hill, Ill.; the Misses -Murphy and Heckard, of Ill.; Miss Catharine Fehr, of Kentucky; Miss Sophie Papin, of SL . Louis; and Miss Tynan, of Savannah, Ga. On the opposite site of the room were exhibited beautiful china ice-cream sets painted by Miss ' Laura G. Fendrich, of Evansville, Ind.; Miss Augusta Legnard, of Chenoa, Ill.; Miss Mary Stackerl, of Dyersville, Iowa; Miss Marie Tynan, of Georgia; Miss Catharine Campbell, of Dakota; Miss Agnes English, of Columbus, Ohio; Miss Catharine Fehr, Kentucky; and Miss Manuelita Chaves, of New Mexico; in pastel and terra cotta, superior work was exhibited by Miss Laura G. Fendrich, and Miss E. Estelle Todd, of Chicago, Ill.; in landscapes—Miss Laura Fendrich, Miss Callie Udall, and several others; ornamental mirror frames in velvet—Misses Fendrich, Legnard, and Fehr; velvet plaques,— Miss Tynan^ and others; painting on satin—Miss Mary T. Dillon, of Chicago, with many others.	■
In the fancy work department a splendid mirror frame in velvet, worked with silk and velvet, by Miss Fendrich, and a superb ottoman in crimson ‘ velvet first attracted attention. There was also a variety of fine needlework and painting combined, = by the Misses Estelle Todd, Belle Johnson, Bertha Kearney, and others; fine embroidery by the Misses Tynan, Babcock, Johnson, Alice Gavan, M. Hale, and Philomena Ewing.
Among the post-graduates of St. Mary’s who attended the Commencement were Miss Catharine Young, of the Class of ’72; Mrs. M. W. . Ryan, nee Corcoran, ’73; Miss Elizabeth M.
Black, ’74; Mrs. H. V. Hayes, nee Foote, ’76;	•
Mrs. Agatha Ward, nee St. Clair, ’76; Miss M. J.
Bennet, ’77; Mrs. Carroll, ’79; Miss M. Ewing, ’80; Miss Angela Ewing, ’81; Miss Henrietta ’ Rosing,’Si; Miss Ella Wright,’S3. There were, besides, several graduates and former pupils whose names I did not get.	-	;
On Tuesday, at 1.30, p. m., the Associated ? Alumnze held their meeting. After the transaction of business, the following officers for the ensuing * year were elected: President, Miss Young; VicePresident, Mrs. H. V. Hayes; Secretary, Miss N. . McGrath; Treasurer, Mrs. M. W. Ryan; Toast Mistress, Miss Faxon; Essayist, Miss A. Ewing.
The Alumme banquet was given at the close of : the exercises on Wednesday. Among the illustri- . . ; bus guests present was Monsignor de Oca ,y .. Obregon Bishop of Linares and Monterey, Mexico, / the orator of the day at St. Mary’s.	■
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Second Day.
. On Wednesday, the 25th, long before the hour appointed for the commencement of the closing exercises—11 o’clock—the large hall was packed with visitors. Many of those present, unable to procure seats within the hall, betook themselves to the verandah and seated themselves in front of the open windows. Among the more distinguished visitors were the Rt. Rev. Don Ignacio Montes de Oca y Obregon, Bishop of Monterey, Mexico, who was to deliver the oration of the day; Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger, of Ft. Wayne; Rt. Rev. Bishop Rademacher of Nashville; Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C.; Rev. Fathers Riordan, Dunne, and Burke, of Chicago; Rev. J. R. Dinnen, of Crawfordsville, Ind.; Rev. A. B. Oechtering, of Mishawaka; Revs. M. Kroeger, of Elkhart, and A. Kroeger, of Goshen, Ind.; Rev. Father O’Reilly, of Valparaiso, Ind.; and Rev. Fathers Walters, Guendling, Christian, Alphonsus; Rev. Father Cooney, C. S. C., Miss.-Ap.; Rev. Fathers Shortis, Saulnier and Spillard, C. S. C., and other clergymen. Among the more distinguished lay visitors were noticed Mrs. Gen. W. T. Sherman, Miss Rachel Sherman, and Tecumseh Sherman, Jr., of St. Louis; Hon. Judge and Mrs. W. W. Cleary, of Covington, Ky.; Hon. Judge Philemon B. Ewing, and daughters, of Lancaster, Ohio.
The weather was pleasantly cool, and notwithstanding the dense packing in the hall no inconvenience was felt. The following was the programme of the exercises: o
GRAND ENTRANCE OF THE PUPILS.
Marche Heroique.....................Franz Schubert
Misses Fendrich, Bruhn, Beal, Shephard, Cummings, Hale, Gove, Crawford.
Harps—Misses Dillon and Neu.
Gipsey Chorus...........................Schumann
Vocal Class, Accompanied by Miss L. G. Fendrich. DISTRIBUTION OF PREMIUMS—JUNIOR DEPARTMENT. Duett—“ Caro, piu amabile belta ”...... G. F. Handel
Misses Bruhn and Tynan.
DISTRIBUTION OF PREMIUMS—PREPARATORY DEPARTMENT.
Aria—“ Che pur aspro al cuore”............Mozart
.	. Miss M. Bruhn’.
DISTRIBUTION. OF PREMIUMS—SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Sestette—“ Chi mi frena” ..............From Lucia
Misses Hale, Neu, Bruhn, Tynan, B. English, and ‘	C. Babcock.
, “ESTO LUX BENIGNA.”
..... (An original Drama?)
, THE JUNIORS AND MINIMS.
Fantasia—Reminiscenses from Norma...........Liszt
Miss L. G. Fendrich.
Recitation—“ The Ladder of St. Augustine”.. .Longfcllozv Miss Martha T. Munger.
Trio and Chorus—11 God is Great” (from Creation), Haydn Trio, Misses Bruhn, Hale, Neu. Chorus, Vocal Class.
Valedictory..................    Miss	Estelle Todd
Oration...... .Don Ignacio Montes de Oca y Obregon Fest Marsch... - -.....................Meyerbeer
' Misses Cummings, Ginz. Neu, Keating, Carney, H.
Jackson, Tynan, E. Sheekey.	,
The instrumental and vocal music of this entertainment was all that the audience were led to expect from the charming sounds of yesterday. At the entrance of the pupils, who gracefully saluted,
then took their places, Schubert’s Grande Marche Heroique—Au Sacre de Nicholas I-—poured forth its complicated harmonies from harps and pianos which sounded as one, so perfect was the rendition of the Misses Fendrich, Beal, Cummings, Gove, Bruhn, Shephard, and M. Hale. On account of the sudden death of a near relative, Miss L. Crawford was, two days before, recalled to Texas. Miss Young, a music graduate of St. Mary’s,— Class of ’72—kindly offered to replace her in the march, and acquitted herself admirably of the difficult arrangement. The harps, played by the Misses Dillon and Neu, produced a fine effect with the four elegant pianos. Schumannn’s “Gipsey Chorus ” rang out from the private pupils’ vocal class, the short solos adding a piquancy to the weirdly restless character of the sparkling compo- • sition. The duett, “Caro, piu amabile belta” by G. F. Handel, showed to good advantage the finely blended voices of Misses M. Bruhn and M. Tynan, and proved what culture can do when seconded by careful study. In Mozart’s exquisite aria, “Che pur aspro al cuore” Miss Bruhn had full scope. Her voice is sweet, powerful at times, and never loses even in its highest range this beautiful quality. The trying sestette, '''•Chi mi frena” from the opera of Lucia di Lammermoor, was taken by the soloists of the day—Misses Hale, Neu, Bruhn, Tynan, B. English, and C. Babcock. It is rare to meet six voices so near alike in timbre, which made the responsive strains so flowing and the phrases so smoothly rounded. The applause which followed showed that when a selection is truthfully given it is certain of recognition.
Miss Laura G. Fendrich, who received the Graduating Gold Medal in the Advanced Music Course, realized the expectation of many in the audience, who remembered her playing and success two years ago, when she graduated in the First Course. The immense technical difficulty of Liszt’s “ Norma” tested her skill and strength; while her sympathetic accompaniments to the vocal numbers showed also delicacy of touch and artistic appreciation. Her repertory is extensive, embracing every style of classic and modern compositions.
The vocal part of the varied programme ended by Haydn’s Grand Chorus from the “ Creation,” —“ The Lord is great,”—sung by the entire vocal Class, who employed their strength in this most effective chorus.
Miss J. Reilly, of Savannah, did not play in public, which was a cause of regret; but the recent death of her father made it an impossibility. However, at the closing examination of music a week before, she played Liszt’s “ Campanella” in a manner that proved the Graduating Medal was in her case wrell merited, and which she afterwards received in public.
The .Commencement exercises closed with Meyerbeer’s stirring “Fest March,” played with precision and spirit by Misses Cummings, C. Ginz, E. Neu, E. Keating, E. Carney, H. Jackson, M. Tynan, and ‘ E. Sheekey. It was remarked by one who is competent to judge, that “St. Mary’s' Conservatory has a large number of talented pu

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
699
pils who will be, when their course is completed, brilliant graduates.”
The Valedictory, by Miss Estelle Todd, was pronounced by everyone who heard it to be as excellent in composition as in the delivery. It will be found elsewhere in the Scholastic. '
A Visitor.
The following are the Honors, Prizes and awards of conduct conferred at the 29th Commencement of St. Mary’s Academy:
GRADUATING HONORS.
ACADEMIC DEPARTMENT.
Graduating Gold Medals and Diplomas were conferred on Laura G. Fendrich, Evansville, Ind.; Belle Johnson, Mendota, Ill.; E. Estelle Todd, Chicago, Ill.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
The Graduating Gold Medal in the Advanced Course was awarded to Miss Laura G. Fendrich, Evansville, Ind.
The Graduating Gold Medals in the Regular Course were conferred on Jennie Reilly, Savannah, Ga.; Martha Beal, Laporte, Ind.
PRIZE MEDALS.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, presented by Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior-General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, was awarded to Jennie Duffield, Galveston, Texas.
The Gold Medal for German, presented by Rev. A. B. Oechtering, Mishawaka, Ind., awarded to Clara Ginz, South Bend, Ind.
The Gold Medal for Drawing and Painting, presented by Dr. J. Toner, of Washington, D. C., awarded to Catharine Campbell, Jamestown, Dakota.
The Silver Medal for General Drawing, presented by Dr. J. Toner, of Washington, D. C., awarded to Charity Babcock, Lincoln, Nebraska.
The Gold Medal for Figure Drawing, presented by Professor Luigi’ Gregori, Notre Dame, Ind., awarded to Martha Beal, Laporte, Ind.
The Silver Medal for Figure Drawing, presented by Professor Luigi Gregori, Notre Dame, Ind., awarded to Catharine Campbell, Jamestown, Dakota.
The Gold Medal for Elocution, presented by Mrs. J. B. Legnard, Waukegan, Ill., awarded to Martha Munger, Chicago, Ill.
The Gold Medal in the Senior Department for General Mending, presented by Mrs. Atkinson, Baltimore, Md., awarded to Miss Annie Mooney, Amboy, Ill.
The Gold Medal for Ess ay-Writing, presented by Miss J. Holt, Anamosa, Iowa, awarded to Miss Belle Johnson, Mendota, Ill. - ■
The Gold Medal in the Junior Department for Excellence in Good Conduct, presented by Snr. Felipe Chaves, Belen, New Mexico, awarded to Miss Mary Dillon,Chenoa, Ill. x The Gold Medal for Politeness, presented by Mr. J. L. Cummings, Chicago, Ill.,-awarded to Clara Richmond, Elliott, Ill.
The Gold Medal for Good Conduct, presented by Col. T. H. Keefe, Chicago, Ill., awarded to Catharine Fehr, Louisville, Ky. '
The Gold Medal for*General Mending, in the Junior department, presented by Mrs. M. English, of Columbus, Ohio, awarded to Minnie L. Schmidt, Chicago, Ill.'	.
The Gold Medal for Elocution, presented by Mrs. M. Rhodius, Indianapolis, Ind., awarded to Agnes English, Columbus, Ohio.
PRIZE PREMIUMS.
The Prize Premium for Excellence in Penmanship was awarded to Virginia Duffield, Galveston, Texas.	.
Prize Premium for Excellence in Christian Doctrine, Junior Department, awarded to Miss Mary Dillon, Chenoa, Ill., closely contested by Belle Snowhook, Chicago, Ill., and MaiyDucey, Muskegon, Mich.	»
CROWNS .
[For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Crowns par excellence were awarded to Misses . Adderly, Stackerl, Dunn, J. Reilly, N. Kearns, E.
Sheekey, Neu, Beal, and Heckard.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Dillon, Richmond, Fehr, E. Sheekey, E. Jackson, McEwen, Snowhook, Chaves.
*
Crowns of Honor were given as follows: * SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Bruhn, Sheridan, Reynolds, Hale, Scully, Lintner, Ginz, Gove, Cummings, Kearney, O’Connell, Quill, Gavan, A. Murphy, McCarthy, Alice Gordon, Addie Gordon, Call, Keating, S. St. Clair, Legnard, A. Babcock, Helpling, Black, . Carney, Mooney, M. Murphy, Ramsey, L. English, Johnson.	,
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Shephard, Schmidt, Bailey, Eldred, Keyes, S. Jackson, H. Jackson.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses J. English, Reynolds, Lindsey, Chapin, Schmauss, V. Johns, Paul, L. Johns, G. Papin.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
[For politeness, amiability, and correct deportment, but in consequence of not having been at St. Mary’s the required time, did not receive Crowns.] . Misses McHale, Kenny, Calkins, Fuller and Tynan.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Cox, Quill, Vradenburg, and Hagan.
FIRST HONORS.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	.
Misses Todd, Campbell, Rosing, C. Babcock, Ryan, Fitzpatrick, Haney, L. St. Clair, Williams, Billings, B. English. O '	.	O -	_
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	'
Misses Best, Halsey, Wolvin, I. Allen, Lord, * ; and M. Otis.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	.	?. V.;
Misses Maggie Ducey, S. Van Fleet. ;
700
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Send to
South Bend Floral Company
FOR
ELEGANT BASKETS AND BOUQUETS.
Crowned With Stars.
z
An Exquislie Volume of Poems in II nor of the =d Virgin Mary, Queen of Heart n,
BY
Eleanor C. Donnelly.
First-Class Work Only. “@[1
Published to Aid in Placing on the Dome of the New University of Notre Dame, Indiana, a Colossal Statue of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Crowned with Twelve Stars. .
All orders supplied on short notice.
Price, -	-	- gilt, $1.35; plain, $1.00
Our Cut-Flower Department is constantly full of the choicest
ELECANT ROSEBUDS.
Magnificent Designs for all occasions, of all Descriptions.
JAS. HUEY, Prop.
. C. M. TREANOR, Mgr.,
118 to 126 South Lafayette St.,
South Bend, Indiana.
BUCKEIWORF,
FLORIST.
RARE and BEDDING PLANTS
ALWAYS OX HAND.
CUT FLOWERS, DESIGNING, and DECORATING.
GREENHOUSE, 217 JEFFERSON ST.,
SOUTH BEND, IND.
EUGENE F. ARNOLD (Class of’78).	W. II. LANDVOIGT.
ARNOLD & LANDVOIGT,
Attorneys and Counsellors at Law,
54g Louisiana Avenue, N. W., WASHINGTON, D. C.
Address
STUDENTS’ OFFICE, Notre Dame, Indiana.
L S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, May n, 1884, trains will leave South Bend, as follows:
GOING EAST:
2.04 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.20 a.m.; Cleveland, 1.55 p.m.; Buffalo, 7.35 p.m.
10.54 a-m-, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.05 p.m.; Cleveland, 9.42 p.m.; Buffalo, 3.30 a.m.
8.41 p.m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. xArrives at Toledo, 2.15 a.m.; Cleveland, 6.35 a.m.; Buffalo, 12.45 p.m,
11.53 a.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line arrives at Toledo, 5.10 p.m.; Cleveland, 9.40 p.m.; Buffalo 3.30 a.m.	.
5.54 p.m., Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, 10.00 p.m.; Cleveland, 1.10 a.m.; Buffalo, 6.40 a.m.
GOING WEST:
2.04 a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.56 a. tn. Chicago, 5.40 a.m.
4.28 a.m., Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.25 a.m. Chicago, 8.00 a.m.
7.11 a.m, Limited Express. Arrives at Laporte, 7.52 a.m. Chicago, 10.10 a.m.
1.02 p.m., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.02 p.m.; Chesterton, 2.47 p.m.; Chicago, 4.30 p.m.
4.15 p.m., Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5.07 p.m.; Chicago, 7.40p.m.
F.	C. RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CART’, Gen’l. Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
A. G. AMSDEN, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
W. P JOHNSON, Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago P. P. WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup., Cleveland.
• JOHN NEWELL. Gen’l M’ger, Cleveland
Michigan Central Railway.
Time Table—Dec. 9, 1883.
NILES AND SOUTH BEND DIV-
GOING NORTH.
GOING SOUTH.
Lv. So. Bend, 9.10 a.m.,	6.05 p,m.	| Lv. Niles,	7.00 a.m.,	4.10 p.m.
“ N. Dame, 9.1S “	6.15	“	I	“	N. Dame,	7.34 “	4.44 “
Ar. Niles, 9.55 “	6.55	“	|	Ar.	So. Bend,	7.40	4.50 “
O. W. RUGGLES, E. C. BROWNE, II. B. LEDYARD,
G.	P. & T. A. Chicago. Gen. Sup., Detroit. Gen. Mgr., Detroit, G. L. ELLIOTT, Agent, South Bend, Ind. -