DISCE-QUASI-SEMPER-VICTURVS-V1VE- QUASI- CRASMORiTVRVS
Vol. LI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, December 15, 1917.	No. n.
A Christmas Ballad.
4	____
BY LEO L. WARD, ’20.
J WENT that night to Bethlehem, And over the silvered snow—
The winds call out, I answer them
-j	As heavenward they blow.
Within a stable there I found
• A manger made of light, . From which there overflowed around
A flood of holy white. /
A	There in the silence slept a Child,
The King of Heaven, He;
And over Him a Virgin smiled, .
The Queen of Heaven, she. ----------------------—
The Diamond Jubilee.*
BY JAMES J. WALSH, M.D., PH.D.
SN June of the present year the University of Notre Dame, situated near the little city of South Bend, Indiana, some eighty-five miles from Chicago, celebrated its Diamond Jubilee—the seventy-fifth anniversary of its foundation. In 1842 the Rev. Edward Sorin with six Brothers of the Society of Holy Cross, a Trench teaching Order, accepted from Bishop de la Hailandiere of Vincennes, Indiana, the offer of a tract of land in Northern Indiana, which had been bequeathed to the Bishop by Rev. Stephen Badin, the first priest ever ordained in the United States. Eather Badin had looked forward to a great increase of Catholicity in the United States, and had felt that this property might serve for a college, so the bishop deeded the tract of land containing many hundreds of acres to the Holy Cross Society on1 condition that within two years the Society should build thereon a novitiate and college, and should assume the spiritual care of the Catholies, both white. and Indian, in the district.
Father Sorin and the six" brothers located themselves in a log cabin, and began the work which has now blossomed into one of the most important Catholic universities in the world having some twenty important buildings on its campus and more than 1,500 men occupied with educational matters. Father Sorin himself was the soul of the institution and gathered round him, as the years went on, a group of men of different nationalities—French, German, Polish, Irish, and American—all equally zealous, though probably the Irish, because of their numbers, have come to take a larger share in the work than the others. Father Sorin had literally boundless faith in the future of Notre Dame under God’s help; and while at times his efforts did not meet with all the success that'he would have wished, he kept right on. with the work' and success has crowned his labors, if not always in his way, surely in God’s way.
Father Sorin was broad enough to realize; the necessity for enlarging' the- curriculum of the French classical school, which very naturally Notre Dame was at the beginning. Indeed it is curiously interesting to note that practically all the teaching in the Catholic colleges of America during the first half of the nineteenth century j and even a little later, was a replica of this French classical school work, and most of our teachers had themselves been trained in French schools. This was almost as true in Notre Dame, in St. Charles, Maryland, in Emmitsburg, in Fordham, iri Georgetown, in Holy Cross College, Worcester, as with any of the schools of Canada. Father Sorin was wise enough to add special scientific courses and thus depart from the old educational traditions.
The same spirit of progressiveness has marked the development of Notre Dame University in more recent years, as we had a right to expect from this fine example set by its founder.
* Reprinted by permission. from the September number of Studies, a quarterly review published in Dublin. v
178.	'• < THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
.	I
Nearly forty years ago a Law School was established, some of the professors being from the. town of South Bend, but others coming all the way from Chicago. A School of Pharmacy was opened, and then a School of Engineering, in which' eventually six 'courses were offered. Architecture was the next subject taken up; and then, by the aid of a liberal-minded Jewish merchant of Chicago, who had been watching Notre Dame’s development for years and who recognized the social value of Catholic teaching, a school of Journalism was established. The erection of a magnificent new library at a cost of a quarter of a million dollars suggested the introduction of a course in the management of libraries, a new science and a new profession which is attracting a great deal of attention in America. The war has aroused a special interest in the problem of food-production, and Notre Dame has responded by opening a school of Agriculture, for which its broad farmlands provide excellent facilities and opportunities.
At the Diamond Jubilee celebration came the announcement that Notre Dame is now to have two years of medical studies, in _ which the fundamental medical sciences of anatomy, physiology, chemistry, medical biology and pathology are to be taught in preparation for the two clinical years which follow and which are to be taken in some large city where abundant clinical facilities are at hand. A number of our Catholic Universities in this country have thus taken, up the preliminary teaching of medicine; and even such important institutions as Cornell and the University of Wisconsin give only the first two years, leaving- the student free to select another college in a crowded centre of population in which to do his clinical work.
While the burden of the work at Notre Dame - - * # .
has been done by the members of the Society held this position in former days. Indeed those of Holy Cross, they could not have accdm- who know him feel that to him more than to any
plished all of the teaching. Accordingly, they other single factor is due the fine development proceeded to the -formation of a lay. faculty, of. Notre Dame.in ever so many ways in recent and succeeded admirably. .' The lay members yearsj and he seems just the man to be in charge have indeed come to be looked up to by all who of the’institution whose Diamond Jubilee foreknowthem as sterling' auxiliaries in this great shadows a career, of still greater usefulness than Catholic, educational achievement. Some, of
, . .	. . .	..	.	ever;- Certainly there seems no doubt, that
the men have spent long,lives in connection with Notre Dame will have within its walls in 'the
Notre'Dame, giving of themselves to the fullest . course of the next generation three times as ! in the . work, father; Talbot Smith, writing many students as at present, nor indeed would it recently, with; regard to them in the Catholic . be a.surprise if its centenary should find 5,000 Wdrld^^oiMTAH these men.received so little ,ybung men.seeking the benefit of its teaching, money as almost to have practised the vow of	The earnest of this is to be seen'in the magni- j
poverty, and displayed"{a; devotion7 to the uni- ficent celebration of'its Diamond Jubilee at mid-	|
Notre Dame, giving of themselves to the fullest
versity unsurpassed even by the religious themselves.” They are striking exemplifications of the fact that it is not money and great buildings that make institutions of learning, but men thoroughly interested in their work and finding their highest satisfaction in its accomplishment.
The spirit of Notre Dame has been of the finest, and its hold on its students after their graduation is a noteworthy testimony to the way that hearts are won as well as intellects trained in the college and university work. Athletics at Notre Dame have always attracted . attention; for its many hundreds of acres afford every facility for outdoor games; and as many of the boys come to the Junior Department at the age of ten, or even less, there are long years of training in the sports to bring out all that is best in them physically. The result has been that Notre Dame’s athletic teams—baseball, football, and others—have won many victories from some of the most important universities and colleges in the country, and have come-to hold a valued place in popular estimation. The fine manly • spirit and the open air life have attracted many students, and so it is probable that Notre Dame is better known as a* Catholic college throughout the whole country than any of the other Catholic colleges and universities that we have.
Father Sorin, the first president, was succeeded by Father Walsh, to whom probably more than anyone else is due the magnificent modern development of Notre Dame. Unfortunately his career was cut off untimely, and he left a void that indeed was not easily filled. He was succeeded by Father Andrew Morrissey, whose rectorship ceased only when he became -Provincial of the Congregation. The present rector, Father John Cavanaugh, is a worthy successor of the' distinguished educators who
$
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
June, when the Laetare Medal was conferred in praeserdia on Admiral William S. Benson, ranking officer of the United States Navy. On Sunday Cardinal Gibbons officiated at a F* solemn Pontifical Mass, at which a number of
Archbishops 'and Bishops were present—the preacher being the Most Rev. George W. Mundelein, Archbishop of Chicago. On the following day a Pontifical Mass of Requiem ■ for deceased students of the University was celebrated by the Most Rev. John Bohzano, Apostolic Delegate to the United States—the preacher being the Most Rev. Edward R. Hanna, Archbishop of San Francisco.
On Sunday afternoon the new University Library was dedicated by the Rt. Rev. Thomas 7 J; Shahan, rector of the Catholic University of America, the orator of the occasion being Hon. W. Bourke Cockran, the distinguished American statesman- and( former recipient of the Laetare ' Medal. Besides the celebration of the opening of the magnificent library building, which cost
• some $250,000, the Commencement Exercises were the occasion for the laying of the corner-
* stone of a new and more commodious Chemistry Hall, the orators of the occasion being the Hon. James Putnam Goodrich, Governor of Indiana— the State in which Notre Dame is situated, and
- the Hon. Edward J. McD(ermott, former Lieutenant Governor of Kentucky—the State which lies immediately south of Indiana.
The central feature of the Diamond Jubilee celebration was a long letter of greeting from His Holiness Pope Benedict- XV. to Father Cavanaugh, the President of the University/ in which His Holiness, among other’ things, said:
Your own personal merits, and those of your congregation and university, have achieved the universal recognition of bishops, clergy and laity. It is through their co-operation that the resources of this noble home of learning have been increased, that the number of its < students, drawn .from all, parts of the world, has steadily grown,.and its educational influence become ever greater and more far-reaching. In view of all this We congratulate them and exhort them to persevere in their generous encouragement and support of this
. godly work. ...	, ‘
Christmas .1917. '
.'	‘‘,Gloria in excelsis!”
The happy children chant aloud ,	.
In Norman home and Schwarzwald cot.
They know the snows their fathers shroud;
He fights nd more, but sings he not \ ‘ /‘Gloria in excelsis?” :/ A.S.
179.
“This Day is Bom to You a Saviour.”
BY LEIGH C. HUBBELL, ’l8.	'
Stretching eastward from Bethlehem in Judea is a pleasant valley. Here, on the green and lovely slopes, once stood Migdal Eder, an old crumbling tower, overgrown with wild vines, the decaying relic of happier days.' By this tower the patriarch Jacob pitched his tents, and mourned there for dear Rachel. In .that valley the fair Ruth went about her gleaning, and the boy David guarded his father’s flocks. But now, with the dissolution of the tower, evil days had come to Judea; the might of Rome: held ‘ her hills and valleys in Caesar’s grasp; a shadow-king ruled by Caesar’s grace.
One night the shepherds of Migdal Eder sat watching and talking, the old tower looming over them, a black mass in the starlight, leaning over, one might have fancied, the better to hear the muttering shepherds,—massive Rome listening for Judea’s whispered discontent. = ' Michas, the oldest of the circle, was speaking. He had been in Bethlehem for Caesar’s-census that morning, and there was much to tell.
“And so, I say, woe to Judea, and woe to Israel! For now what are we but bondmen, sworn subjects of Caesar’s? If Augustus barks, we must bend the knee. Ah, woe to God’s chosen ones!” He paused.
• “And yet, God is hot mocked. He holds us in His hand; ’He hath sworn truth to David, and He will not make it void.”
A stone went clattering down the slope, and Reuben, the youth of the group, stood before the old man. The fiery pride-of his race leaped, in his impulsive soul.
“Hear me, men of Migdal Eder! Lam weary-of naught but speech-making! Why sit we stricken amongst our. sheep, whilst in town the Pharisees show us how to-give the slip to Rome? Why.do we not join these, our leaders? Then perhaps they, shall show: us how to revolt,, how to give battle with other than scripture .sayings—”	,
' “My son, for shame!”, cried old Michas. “Do I hear "you contemn the word of God! For shame!” ’	\ -	. '	.	'
' The youth. hung. his head, but only for a moment.	.	’/.	■	-/	.	■
“I do not,, contemn Holy-'Writ,” he said,. but I, for one, shall place my trust' in deeds, and that this very night.’’ .	.	■
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
180
So saying, Ruben, threw down his crook and walked off toward the west,—toward Bethlehem.
“Alas for youth which will not put its trust in God!”	,
The old man drew his cloak over his head, and sat down, bent and sorrowing. The other shepherds held their peace, for they saw that he was praying
An hour passed. The shepherds moved about at their usual tasks, then returned to the shadow of the tower. Only Michas had not moved.
Quietly, unseen, a mantled figure came out of the darkness and dropped at the old man’s knee.
“Father, forgive my impious words! Forgive and bless me!”	.	.
Michas, took the boy into his arms and kissed him. As he did so a great terror filled his eyes. He turned Ruben’s face to the east; both of them, and the others likewise, fell prostrate, for all the sky before them shone with a brightness too dazzling for mortal eyes.
Immediately a celestial voice reassured the trembling shepherds.	-
“Fear not; for behold, I bring you tidings of, great joy. This day is born.to you a Saviour, Christ the Lord, in the city of David. And this shall be a- sign unto you. * You shall find an Infant, wrapped in swaddling clothes, and lying in a manger.”	'	■
As. the shepherds listened, bent low on that damp hillside of old Judea, their souls aglow with unspeakable joy, music from a heavenly choir smote their ears. It was a chant, the first Gloria ever heard by a human ear: “Glory to God in the highest, and bn earth peace to men of. good will.”
' The joyous chant grew softer, and with it receded the; heavenly light into the far depths of the skies. The shepherds found themselves alone again, with only the chill stars and’dark tower for company?	‘	•
Michas was the first to rise. , -	'
“Let us go into Bethlehem,” he said. “Let us go unto our Saviour.”
. A Redeemer;
i .	... .	~ . -	.	.	.	■
J-JUSH! for in the womb of time there lies A baby King, whose natal day .
, Shall soon draw near, whose infant cries > A war-sick world shall soon obey. . M. A. C.
And Dan Cupid Smiled.
BY FRANCIS R. LOCKARD, T9
“How do you do, sir?” frigidly greeted Jack . Barry.	.
“Tolerable; and how are you?” returned Harry Norton icily. '
The scene of this exchange of formalities was the home of one Mary Wilkins, where these gentlemen, bent upon the same purpose had 4. met. That the two young men were at odds was the result of the very evident desire of each to take the aforesaid Mary unto himself exclusively. Up to date there had not been the slightest indication by the much-courted Mary as to her preference between them. One day r she was with Jack, the next she gave herself to Harry; she accepted their attentions, their flowers and candy with impartial grace. The two were running nose and nose. It was obviously anybody’s race. Had either of the contestants been a deep-dyed villain, he would ' have promptly put the other out of the way and have appropriated the prize. But this summary solution was not practicable, since * the rivals, though wealthy, were honest withal.
The situation was simply a deadlock. Clearly the only way out of it was for the two of them to wait until one or the other died. In this settlement of the case, however, besides the 4 difficulty of the indefinite delay, was the danger that in the meantime the object of their affections might die of .old age. Norton could picture Barty gallantly releasing the girl to himself; Barry could see the same solution with Norton as the hero, but neither could visualize himself * in this role. And so the two of them paid florist’s and confectioner’s bills as perseveringly as the lady smiled upon them.
Months passed and both held doggedly to their courses. Barry reviewing the situation and seeking a way out of it, finally concluded * that it was utterly, hopeless unless one or the other would give up his claims. He decided to risk everything to a game of chance. He informed Norton of his plan in a very formal note and invited him to call for the purpose of arranging the details.	4
Norton called that evening at the time- set and expressed his willingness to do anything in reason to end the “pickle,” as he termed it.
“We’re both good sports, Norton, and there is only one way to settle this difference. One
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
181
Barry hopefully.
of us must go and leave the field clear to the other. It is to decide the question as to who is to be who that we are gathered together this evening. Now how about poker?”
“I don’t play cards,’’.objected Norton; “ but what do you say about golf?”	.
• ‘‘Don’t know a caddy from a bunker. Still we might try checkers, chess, billiards, or some. thing in that line,” proposed
'	: ‘‘Never cared for them and never learned.
But what’s the matter with tennis, rowing, or maybe croquet,” returned Norton.
“It seems that we just can’t get together. I don’t-play your games and you don’t play mine. We have one way left though. We can flip a coin. Heads you leave town and tails I do. To think that the selection of her husband is to be trusted to the twirl of a'coin!”—and Jack Barry almost smiled at the thought.	■
“You agree then, Norton? Very well; ring for Jones and let’s have it over with. - We’ll grant him the honor of tossing the coin.”
’ “Have you a gold piece Barry? Nothing less ' would be worthy of the prize at stake—do you think so?” Here the telephone clattered.
“Just a minute,” Barry excused himself.
’ “Hello—yes.”	’
“What?”	'	■	’•
“Ybu don’t say—well I’ll be durned.”
► “Yes. I’ll tell him. Good-bye.” ■
Slowly almost painfully Barry replaced the receiver. When he turned, his countenance was a study- in despair: Then his sense of humor came to the rescue, and he grinned at his old rival.	'	.	■
» - “Norton,” he chuckled, “we’re it. She has already eloped with the chauffeur.—Let’s go out’ and have a drink.”
-	I---!--------------
A Prayer.
, ^WEET Babe of Bethlehem, Teach me the way '	.
s , To love Thee as I ought
On Christmas Day. ,	.
Give me the grace to be, like Thee, . A.lover .of kind charity;
i .	,
Oh Lord, mine be the right
Truly,t° say*, 1 .	*
“Uoved my fellow-»nen”
’ On Christmas Day. :	:
' Give me the light thkt I may be ' ' A lover of kind charity. D. C. R.
Description in “Last Days of Pompeii.”
BY LEO L. WARD *20.
. importance throughout the book.
In “The Last Days of Pompeii” we' find description of both persons and things in abundance. No fewer than ten characters figure prominently, five of whom are of major The life
of Pompeian people is pictured by way of narration and of conversation; there is, here and there, an elaborate description of parts of the city, the houses-, the streets, the baths, the temples, and, even in the opening pages, Vesuvius is briefly touched upon; .	-
If we would consider the leading characters in the’ order of their relative importance, we must begin with Ione. In the reader’s introduction to this Grecian maiden, he is immediately given a general idea of her beauty. In this, the author uses but one. phrase of pure description when he refers to her as “that bright, that nymph-like beauty.” Yet; by employing dialogue, Ione’s beauty is impressed on the reader’s mind more than several paragraphs of description could possibly have done. The scene is a dining-room 'in ■ a luxuriantly furnished home where several of the main characters are banqueting. At the first mention of Ione’s name, epithets descriptive of her beauty flow from every side. Prom one we learn that she is a “most rare beauty”; from another, that she is the “chief charm of the city,•’’.from others, that she is “a second Helen” and that “her beauty is most dazzling.” Thus we see that the author, at the very'; outset, insists on this quality of the maiden Ione:' But beauty of form and face is not all that is claimed5 for her, nor are men, excited by wine, the only ones to recognize her charms. There is in her a beauty of mind and of spirit, expressing itself in her love for poetry and art and in the influence for good which she exercises over her admirers. She is young and gifted, a beauty and a genius, yet, withal, she remains, “bright, pure and unsullied in the midst of the gayest and-most profligate gallants of Pompeii'.” .............
The female character next in importance after Ione , is the blind girl Nydia. We,-first meet her in the crowded streets- of the gay city, .and immediately our sympathy tends toward her. A poor blind orphan; “ still halfchild,” she melts every heart with her- sweet voice, and her innocence, and her natural and
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
182-
ready blushes. We are told that she was young, but older-appearing than her years would warrant (doubtless from her affliction); that she was not beautiful in face or form, but decidedly so in the gentleness of expression and’the patient aspect. Possibty a more detailed description is given of her than of any other character in the book; she bore “a look of resigned sorrow, of tranquil endurance,— something timid and cautious in her step, something wandering in her eyes,—she - was blind, but in the orbs themselves there was no visible defect; their melancholy and subdued light was clear, cloudless and serene.” And not only this vivid portrayal in words reveals the gentle Nydia, but her conversations and her occupation, and her frequent embarrassment when praised, betray her particular beauty and truly feminine characteristics.
It is difficult to determine just what male character deserves first mention. Cladius and Did med, with whom the book begins, are certainly minor characters.. The former who, according to himself, is “a noble spendthrift,”, is described, in the very first paragraph, as young and small, and by his dress as effeminate and a hanger-on. His companion, Diomed, is described by the author as “an ostentious, bustling, ill-bred fellow,” and scorned as “the son of a freedman.” Later in the narrative, Cladius is referred to as a dissolute and arrogant parasite and “the best-known idler in Pompeii.” These two men do not assume any particular importance in succeeding chapters, but always measure up to the reputations first accorded them. Their purpose seems to be the introduction of. the-Grecian Glaucu^. He is slender, and beautifully formed, of the type “from which the sculptors, of Athens drew their models; his Grecian origin -betrayed itself in his light but clustering, locks, and the perfect harmony of his features.” We - are. told that he had beauty, health, fortune, genius,\ illustrious descent, a .heart of fire, a mind > of poetry ’ ’; but, being born at Athens, was, therefore, a Roman subject... We read that he is imaginative, youthful, and talented, but lacking in: inspiration.. and ambition;. that< his * house. was ; the
riotous living that he may again seek enjoyment in seclusion by way of contrast.
The remaining male personages of particular importance in this novel, may well be grouped, because, of their mystic inclinations. The most prominent of these is Arbaces, the Egyptian, a strange, gloomy character, foreboding evil.' He is tall, thin and nervous, but muscular; hisz skin is dark and bronzed, revealing his former dwelling-place; his nose is sharp and raised slightly; his cheek-bones prominent and forbidding; his eyes, “large and black .as the deepest night, shone with no varying and uncertain lustre.” His smile was cold and had something of blight in it; Glaucus describes him as “that7dark Egyptian, .with his gloomy brow and icy smiles,” who “seems to sadden the very sun.” Ione,‘ however, insists that “he is kind, and wise, and gentle,” and that “his calm, hiss adness, are perhaps but the exhaustion • of past sufferings.” Intimately . connected with the Egyptian is Apaecides, the brother of Ione and a priest of Isis. Although ' he is not clearly revealed in his actions and conversation, he is, like Nydia, ’ brought into bold relief by a minute description. He is young, -but has lost the fire of youth; his eyes and cheeks do not glow, his frame is stooped; and \ the veins in his unnaturally small hands are blue and swoolen, due to inactivity. He re- 4’ sembles his sister somewhat; but, in her, there is something majestic, calm, compelling, while in = him, the whole bearing is wild, feverish, and powerless. - Closely connected with him are two characters of less importance, Calenus, * a priest of Isis, and Olithus, a Christian. The ’ o former is well pictured; “his skull was low and ’ . narrow, the eyes, dark and small, rolled in a mudd}r and yellow orbit, the. nose, short yet coarse, and the thick but pallid bps, the high cheek-bones, the lurid and motley , hues that •' struggled through the parchment skin, com-	v
pleted a countenance which none could behold -■ without, repugnance and few without terror -and distrust.” Again we find such phrases as “the animal frame,” “the wiry muscles,” .	.
“the nervous; hands”and lean, gaunt arms.” Olinthus,. the7 Christian, is described at less .
rendevous-of the city’s profligate sons and, at length/ He is set.iorth as.a man of a steadier the same time,- of her art-lovers. He is at-first and more solemn; mien than the ordinary .	'
utterly; devoid of any ambitions other, than Pompeian;?, as being sturdy, Terventand en-seekirig his own satisfaction;/he lives in solitude .thusiastic. He is .taken simply, as typical of for a time only , that-:he may enjoy dissipation the early follower 'cf Christ, possessed by a zeal A later, and then follows up -with a period of which nothing frustrates or discourages. ’	T
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
In- his portrayal of character, the author of “The Last Days of Pompeii” 'does not neglect descriptions of the city and its parts. Indeed his descriptions of the houses is most painstaking. The author avows his intention of making “this description as clear and unpedantic as possible.” And certainly he succeeds to a remarkable degree, the reader being led through every apartment. Nor is the ex-q position of the popular bath treated slightingly.
The tendency to monotony in continued description is avoided here by employing conversation. The author sees fit to title the chapter, devoted largely to this description, “A miniature likeness of the Roman baths.” • In the lengthy treatment on the temple, the common polytheistic views are revealed, the interior and exterior of the temple are described, and somewhat also of the religious . rites practised. Then, finally, there is mention made of Vesuvius. lone^speaks of the mountain i as “dark-and tranquil in the distance,” but which “once nursed the fires, forever quenched.” Then as she gazed upon its heights, suddenly there appeared over its summit a cloud, ‘ black and ominous,” while “the rest of the sky was bathed in rosy and tender hues.” In the descriptions, narration, and conversation there is frequently a disclosure of the life of Pompeii’s * people. Streets are filled with men and women , teeming with life; furniture and clothes are effeminate and costly; in their chariots, their . houses, their joys , and ideals, everywhere and in everything there is evidence of gayety, ease, luxury. . Yet interwoven with all their effeminate and dissipated life there is a love for poetry and art, which is in itself passionate.
In the literary life of Bulwer-Lytton, the author of “The Last Days of Pompeii,” if there is one. characteristic preponderating all others, it is that of versatility. He imitated, at ‘ various times, authors differing so widely as Byron, Thackeray, Dickens, and Scott, The work under consideration is in imitation of the. historical fiction of the last-named writer. r And with truth might it be said that in “The Last Days of Pompeii” may. be found traces 1 of each of Buiwer-Lyttdn’s literary masters.
Very plain in many passages is the effect of r. f his poetry; he plays with words of' poetic harmony; and often, in description, his power as an essayist is utilized. The result'is a work highly literary, and; at the .same time, enter' taining as fictionj and valuable, historically.
183
Senior Thoughts.
Memory is the mirror of the past. :
Be a builder, not a mere “knocker.” '
Virtue may work us overtime, but pays us time-and-a-half. . .	• 7
. Has-anybody the.text of the Kaiser’s Thanksgiving proclamation?	.
Victory must come sooner or later to the vir-tuoiis and valiant. /	; ■	'
To many a man the greatest benefactor, is his wide-awake rival.	.	'
Winter has its jos, among which its termination is not the least.	-	'
Some men go in for a solid education, and some for the filigree sort.	. .
Keep yourself off dead center, and it will not be so hard to' get started.	.
The Kaiser is the world’s champion in the art of fiction, with no second. '*	' ’	•
A knowledge of values is ever so much better than a mere knowledge of prices.
The pen is mightier than the sword—if the other fellow hasn’t the sword.	.
Waving a’flag may be good exercise, but‘ it is no sure sign of patriotism. .	'
Things are going the. Kaiser’s way- with a vengeance since Byng began his drive. ..	.
Some politicians are not gifted with fluency of speech, but their money talks for them. .
If “Nick” Romindff w’ere in New York now he could sign up for a whole season of shoveling. snow.	. ■	' '	-
The path of life has many turns, and the successful men are the ones that can see around them.	.•	■;	*
The campus luminary is the chap who :can quote all the sport statistics for the last* ten years. '	'	; .	-	.	_.. -
During the. football,.season Notre Dame demonstrated that “beef” is not the only source of strength. .	.	.	. ..
It is. comforting to reflect that sooner or later we may be “Somewhere in France” and not somewhere in Siberia. ’ .	z
No, Wilhelm, at the final reckoning you will never get by .the ethical principle, “Causa, causae est^causa causati.” -	• . y: -v h; y :
■ Beach-combers are not confined to .the-<seashore. Kvery campus ? knows - the type—the man who lives on what he can pick up. -	■
184
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
B>ome €trtetma£ Vv&t.
In Olden Yuletide.
Ye Goode Oide Christmas Spirit.
J HE north wind soughs beneath the eaves, It blusters loud, then low; ,
On window-panes it shapes and weaves
Fantastic forms with snow.
Within, the yuletide log glows bright,
Good ale is flowing free,
And folks make merry this Christmas night
In gladsome revelry.	.	■
With tales and song and sprightly jest,
The long night soon doth pass,
Then the splendid dawn with rosy crest
Lights up the way to Mass.	f
‘	’ IV. C. H.
The Real Santa..
I used to wonder long ago
■Who it was that went around,
And scattered gladness high and low, - Where little folks were found.
\ -
Down from the very richest child,
- "To the poorest little thing, ’ He looked on them, and then He smiled,
. While the choirs began to sing. ’	•
Oh thanks to Him who from days of old . -Has madeAhose young hearts gay, .
And kindled the firesides bare and cold .
, On many a Christmas Day. •
.	.	T. C. D.
To The Boy.
■ ■ \ ‘ ‘
Ah, boyl It is Christmas Day.
. Though we miss your laugh and cheer, -Somehow all is not'complete,
. No one fills your empty seat, -, From , our hearts, not quite so gay, ' ' . Merry Christmas and New Year! •
Ah boy! How we wish'you home! ' ’For we know your heart is here. . ' May you not be gone for long.	"
.. Right must triumph oven.wrong. , '. •-TiU that dayrwhen back youfllcome, .?	.
A Merry Christinas and-New Year! ; <	-
; \	'C' .\ - v a	F-
]^ET the wind howl on Christmas Day
While snowflakes dance and the wild winds play;	'
Just poke-up the fire and. roll on a log And fill up the cups with stout apple grog.
A. 5.
The Message.
. A crystal night,	.
The stars full bright, •	.
Over Bethlehem light	1
Of glory lies. .	.	■
Heavens tremble,	.	•
.	Choirs assemble;	. . .
.	Cribs resemble	'
; Paradise ■ .	,	-
Wherein the Saviour lies in all His state. Fleet-winged heralds, radiant and elate . Bid the shepherds come and feast their eyes . On the pride and wealth of Paradise. ’
A Mother’s kiss—
A world of bliss—
Sweet Mary lays upon the roseleaf cheek , Of Him who brought	.
What men long sought, • . ■	. .
Joy to the poor, and peace to the meek. , , .	. ’	J. G.
His Christmas. Tree. .
He had, I think, the tree of trees, -	,	.
. Those years when all was bright, ■ Eight' children’s eyes were candles, .	:.. .
And she the topmost light.	.
Aloft she was his guiding star,	' 4
His joy seemed limitless,
' Until a tender; heavenly breath, - Blew out his happiness. '	.	’
Of topmost candle then bereft, ,	.
. The pride d his great tree,	• 1
To comfort him the eight were left,
. So thankful still'is he. ’	'	. '
- His only, hope is that the ten. , . .	...
,	- May :have their full reward,	. ■ .
.-To. be together once again, -
■ A tree of our dear Lord. J. W- C.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC '	185
kJ
Anydne who does is disloyal. If his
A Chance
To Do Our Bit.
DISCE-OUASI-SEMPER-VICH/RUS-VIVE- QUASI- CPAS- MORIWRVS
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter.
Published every Saturday during the School Term at the ’ .UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE-DAME.
VOL. LI. . DECEMBER 15.. 1917. . L NO. n
Board of Editors. *
_ Delmar J. Edmondson, ’i8
Charles W. Call, ’18 John A. Lemmer, ’18 John L. Reuss, ’iS ‘
George D. Haller,’19 Thomas F. Healy,’19
. . Brother Austin, C. S. C., ’iS
—To dll the readers of THE SCHOLASTIC, students, alumni, and friends, to those in our. ■printing office, and to all who have helped us in any way, the Editors extend the greetings of the Christmas and New Year season.
—To win this war is the aim of all America, riot subscribe to that aim disloyalty reaches the proportions of treachery to the Government or treason, actually or construc
tively he ought to be interned or shot, with no respect of persons. What is true of our general
war aims applies as well to those various subsidiary ■ issues into which the more general matters necessarily ramify; such for example, as the Government Loans, Food Conservation, .Red Cross work, etc. The latest of these measures designed to strengthen the arms of the Government'and help win the .war is" the WarSaving Certificates, with its corollary of the Thrift Stamp. This is an arrangement whereby the very.lightest investors may help by lending, their small savings to the Government. Its appeal is especially to the children, from whose pennies, invested in thrift stamps, the Government expects to realize the immense sum, for immediate use, of two billion dollars. Attention is called to this matter in a general way now, and.it is likely that before long,' the campaign will be laid in detail before the students of this University.. A- strong local committee has been formed by the Government for the city of South Bend, and an important post on it has been assigned, to1 the Rev. P. J. Carroll, C. S. C., pastor of St. Jo-eph’s Church, and for many
years a professor- at Notre Dame. . Father Carroll’s numberless friends among old students of a few years ago will rejoice to know that though disappointed of his hopes to serve as a chaplain he is throwing himself with zeal and intelligence into this work, as from the very beginning of the war he has shown himself by word and deed a genuine American.
■-------- - - -
—Notre Dame offers its debaters again this year a question of exceptional timeliness and interest, the city-manager plan of government..
- ;	The operation of the
The Question for Debate. American muni ci.	pality, with misman-
agement and corruption so prevalent, has long been. lamented as the most conspicuous failure in the United States. However, American cities have progressed more in clean and efficient administration during the last* decade than during the preceding half-century. The concentration of the attention of specialists in government has resulted in the improvement of business methods in the municipality and in the simplification of its governing machinery. With the introduction of the commission plan, reform in the administration of municipal affairs gained ’ prominence, and some three hundred cities throughout the nation have abandoned the mayor-council system: The next step in the development of methods
of city management was the evolution. of the city-manager scheme. This plan - centralizes ,all the powers. of the city, in a small elective council, or commission which hires, a city manager, a professional administrator. to conduct the government. . Approximately fifty American municipalities are now being operated under this plan, Dayton,. Ohio,.being the preeminent example of its success. The city manager is. a member, of a new profession, a profession that presents a novel opportunity to the college man; he must be a specialist, a keen, student of government, and a student of engineering as well, since the management of a city demands an intimacy with its various departments.- But the city-manager plan is still in its infancy, and the result of .the little experience that American municipalities have.had with it leaves the desirability of the system highly debatable. A study of the forms of municipal government should attract every college man. His success in the commercial or in the professional world demands a familiarity with the
186	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
government of his community and an eagerness to aid in its amelioration. Now is the time, in trying out for the varsity debating team, to secure that familiarity and to acquire that enthusiasm, and incidentally to develop forensic ability.	'
Notre Dame Army Chaplains.
The laudable patriotic spirit which characterized Notre Dame during the Civil War has been reproduced in the student-body and the clergy in response to the country’s call for men. Five hundred students of the University are already 'serving under the national colors, and mow six of her most noted professors have been selected to act as chaplains in the present conflict,- from the twenty-five priests who had volunteered their services to the Government. The list of those chosen is headed by Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C. S. C., professor of history, and for the past six years vice-president of the University ; the others are Rev. John J. McGinn, C. S. C., professor of philosophy and sociology; Rev. Charles O’Donnell, C. S. C., poet, professor of English, and associate-editor of The Ave .Maria; Rev. Edward Finnegan, C. S. C., professor of history; Rev. Ernest Davis, C. S. C., professor of chemistry; and Rev. George Finnigan, C. S. C., of the Holy Cross Mission band.
''The names of these men have.been sent to Washington, and the call is momentarily expected. - While, no doubt, another group of names adequate for army service might have been selected, a more representative list could hardly be drawn, for the loss is distributed over the executive, professorial, journalistic, and missionary departments of the University activities.
The loss of these men will be most keenly felt because of their prominence in the vitality of Notre Dame and the high regard in which they are held by both the clergy and the students, and their absence from the campus will be lamejited by an immense number of friends.
Notre Dame is proud , of ’the fact that the present generation of faculty and students has not lost any of the. military spirit that has brought fame and honor to the University, and has symbolized Catholic patriotism. Though this is the first increment of the religious to go, further response to national need will be most enthusiastically made by those of the clergy who have already volunteered their services.
Book Reviews.
The Quest oe El Dorado. By the Rev.
J.~ A. Zahm, C. S. C., Ph. D. (H. J. ~ Mozans). ’ D. Appleton & Co.
The fascinating story’ of the Conquistadores in South America contains no more thrilling episodes than the search for the Fountain of Perpetual Youth and the quest of'the wealth and civilization of the Gilded Man. They are “such stuff as dreams are made of”; and while there is mirage and myth in plenty enveloping all the exploits of the Conquerors, there is something peculiarly romantic in the fateful and persistent beguilement of these two visions.
Love of gold and love of youth allure as much as poverty and old age repel even -the common mind, and the hardy adventurers of South America were in no sense common. How one after another sought this pot of gold at the end of the rainbow of El Dorado is the subject of this charming volume; how they discovered that it always lay just beyond the horizon makes up the tragedy of the theme. And yet though it were a dream, it was a dream so beautiful that the men of that time were dignified by the dreaming, and the sordid life of the pioneer in a strange land was illumined and glorified by the touch of it. All empirebuilders have been dreamers of dreams because in the long run a dream is the most practical and fruitful of labors.	.
Dr. Zahm’s treatment of this dazzling theme is, as ' a matter of course, charming. There is not the same opportunity for the display of his remarkable versatility, his -power of literary and historical allusion and his linguistic quotation, but the touch of the master is . unmistakably upon it, and it has the hallmark of excellence that distinguishes all the work of Father Zahm. His admirers—their name is legion!—and especially his “old boys’’ at Notre Dame and elsewhere, will hail 'this opportunity of procuring another Zahm book for themselves and as a holiday gift for their friends.
■ May we not express the hope that an author so skilful and a scholar so well prepared may give us a companion volume dealing with the search for the Fount of Perpetual Youth?
Catholic Churchmen in Science. Third
Series. By Janies J. Walsh, M. D., Sc. D.
The Dolphin Press. Philadelphia, Pa. $i.	*
Dr. James J. Walsh has found time, in spite of his many activities, to get out another volume of his “Catholic Churchmen.” The purpose of the book is to give a brief account of the activities of noted . ecclesiastics in science. A sarcastic remark of Huxley, that “the popes or cardinals never distinguished themselves either in physiology or in physics furnishes ’the provocation for the first lecture. The author takes vigorous’exception to the . statement’ and proceeds to prove most- conclusively that the cardinals and popes were the greatest friends of these sciences, when .the sciences were most in need of friends. Two lectures, one on Roger Bacon, the brilliant but eccentric ' monk- scientist, the other on Father
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
187
Obermaier’s study of the cave man, are of exceptional interest. The first of these is a careful study, interspersed with some dry humor, of this great scientist’s work. The second considers a Catholic priest in the rather new field of Paleolithic art. The style is unusually lucid, and lends itself admirably to exposition. The whole book is of valuable information, and should run into many editions.—B. A.
The Rhythm of Prose. By William Morrison Patterson. Columbia University Press.
We were reading Sir Arthur Quiller-Couch’s “ On the Art of Writing” when this American work came along. The Oxford scholar, discussing “The Difference between Verse and Prose,” thought it wise to remark that “literature is an art and treats scientific definitions as J. K. Stephen recommended. From them
It finds out what it cannot do, And then it goes and does it.” (Page 65)
More particularly, with regard to prose rhythm, the professor observes that until recently no real attempt has been made to reduce it to rule, and adds, “ I doubt, for my part, if they (prose rhythms) can ever be reduced to rule.” Now comes the scientist of letters who “finds out” what science can not do, or what the artist doubts that science can do, and proceeds to do it. At least, for the scientist in this case happens to be a modest scholar, tries to demonstrate how it may be done.
1 In “The Rhythm of Prose” Dr. Patterson advances,’ with a detailed account of methods, the theories that underlay and the results that followed on a series of experiments designed to solve the problem of prose rhythm. This work though published in the Columbia Series of Studies in English and Comparative Literature, is really a study .in experimental psychology applied in the field of letters. The author claims for it that it is only a beginning. It is a most interesting beginning, breaking ‘new ground as it does and opening up avenues of escape from a certain kind of professorial superstition. Into details we can not enter in this review, though we hope to see this volume made the subject of intensive study on the । part of some aspirant for a literary degree; but we must note in passing that nbt only old theories but also new, fall before Dr. Patterson’s level stroke. He finds vers libre no new kind of rhythm, but a mixture of prose and verse.movements. Oddly enough, Quiller-Couch regards Walt Whitman a poet. (op. cit., 65).
At the Foot of the Sand-Hiles. By the Reverend H. S. Spalding, S. J. Benziger Brothers, New York. Price, $i.
.The scene of this latest story of Father Splading is laid in the breezy uplands of Nebraska. The series of hunting trips in the heart of these western wilds, which this successful author . of Catholic juveniles presents so vividly, will surely appeal to the Indian romanticism of all his young readers. Boys will peruse the account of the “duck blind,” the capture’ of the marauding wolf, the stories of the hunt for wild geese, the search for the prairie- chickens, the shooting . of the coyotes, and of the adventures of the red-whiskered outlaw, with breathless suspense. The
hunting experiences ofj the chief character, a Walter Blackstone of Chicago, on vacation in the Sand-Hill country, engage the climacteric interest of the reader to the end of the story. It seems to us, however, that the author is not quite so much at home in this story as in some of his former ones, laid in his, native Bluegrass country. Still “At the Foot of the Sand-Hills,” with its persistent novelty of the hunt, with its healthy-spirit and its freshness, is the kind of story that the real, red-blooded American boy is sure to like, and is at the same time another of the kind so much needed,— stories that will satisfy the juvenile taste without doing harm.	•	M. E. C.
Stanley Benefit Success.
The “good old days” were bettered Wednesday evening by the Stanley Benefit Vaudeville, originated by Ass’t Coach Knute Rockne and put over by the athletes and other performers of the school. Something more than four hundred dollars was realized for the fund which is to be an expression of the athletes’ and students’ regard for Basil Stanley, who was injured fighting for “ole N. D.” The performance was a scream from first to last and to pass the palm to the cleverest would be a task to shame Paris. Miller and Powers as acrobats and Kelly as a comedian opened the bill with a first-rate exhibition. Eddie Mann proved that his nimble toes had lost none of their cunning in delineating the Highland Fling and clog dances. The “Varsity Quartette,” Madigan, Powers, Andrews and Spalding, interjected an .ultra-harmonious farce. ‘‘Combat de Ferme Yeux” proved one of the brilliant ideas of the evening, Dave • Hayes being rather gentle with “Calcium” McEllen, considering some of the blows he received. Lawrence Ott gave a pleasing rendition of “Little Gray Home of the West” which allowed him to show the effective scope of his voice, and “The Sunshine of Your Smile” was wistfully beautiful. Local color ran riot in the sketch “Boys Will Be Boys” featuring King, Andrews, Dickson and Rockne. Though , a trifle indecorous, it very evidently “got by.” Pearson gave a good imitation of a side-show barker introducing his “Mandolin Boys” and the string artists performed in a very ‘capable and finished manner. Ward, Ess, Hogan and Pearson pleased with individual or trio numbers. One of the stagiest and most attractive numbers was the “Neapolitan Duo.” Pete Ronchetti, as the Italian laborer, showed himself a skilful musician, while Zoia, his wayward college son, held the closest attention
i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
188
of the audience. Charles McCauley, “King of Ragtime,” rendered some new songs in the inimitable manner that our gifted gleeist has made his own. Perhaps the biggest hit of the evening was the “New England Club Minstrels.” Granfield certainly did have them “all going wild oyer him,” his eccentric antics as a dancing, colored lad}- being the climax of the act. O’Keefe sang well as usual, and Murphy and Donovan as end-men were clever, while Dooley and Ambrose exhibited real voice quality. But we must not neglect those other end-men, Holton and Spalding whose Southern dialect was not touched with any bleak New England provincialism and whose stage presence was catchy. Nor can we omit a mention of the orchestra and its leader, Patterson, who .did most of the accompanying. Abe Lockard acted the theatre manager to a T. We might suggest that performances like this would get across very often in the future, and with.a variety of acts could be put on every month until Stanley, no longer needed the kindness of the. actors and-audience.
Obituaries.
The first Notre Dame man, to die in his country’s service during the present war, was Joseph Archer Smith (student ’09-T0). He was killed in an automobile accident while on duty at Camp Dodge, Iowa. As is usual with Notre Dame men, Sargeant Smith had advanced rapidly in the service, and was shortly expecting a commission as second lieutenant. Faculty and students unite in extending their sincere sympathy to the parents of the young soldier whose untimely death cut short a promising career.
4* ■	'
Another one of Notre Dame’s graduates has been summoned to his reward. This time it is Eugene A. Delaney, ’99, who died at Windber. Hospital, December 1st. Mr. Delaney was chief engineer of the Berwind-White Coal Mining; Company, and was one of the most prominent.residents of Windber. As a student and later as a graduate, Mr; Delaney displayed qualities which marked him as one of Notre Dame’s most distinguished sons. The- local press writes of him:. “The quiet; efficient', energetic man had friends in quarters which he probably little realized and news of his death brought expressions of sincere regret in hundreds of Windber homes.”- The :University mourns the loss of a noble son; May his soul rest in peace!
.Local News.
—This will be the last number of the Scholastic before the Christmas holidays begin. The editors take this occasion to wish all friends, subscribers and advertisers, a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.	’
—As a result of the preliminaries in the Breen Oratorical contest, eleven men were eliminated, and the following were retained for the final competition: John A. Lemmer, Thomas H. Beacom, Francis J. Boland, and J. Sinnott Meyers.	'
—Word has reached us recently, that Brothers Kevin and Albeus have arrived at Australia after a three months’ journey. The monotony -of the trip was broken by. stops at Honolulu and Auckland, New Zealand. The Brothers are making their extensive trip in the interests of the Ave Maria. .	-	•	,
—The sophomore lawyers convened recently and elected the following executives: Leo ' Dubois, Sapulpa, Okla., president; Norman Barry, Chicago, vice-president; J. J. Sullivan, Hartford, Conn., treasurer; R. Flaherty, Dubuque, la., secretary; Dominic Slupski, .Detroit, sargeant at- arms; entertainment committee— Frank Sweeny and Paul Swift. •
—Father Finner and Brother Peter left < Friday for Vancouver, .the first lap on their long journey to India. There they will meet • two more Holy Cross religious from Canada, and will sail on the “Empress of Russia” for Japan, after which they will proceed to India by way of Hong Kong. They expect to complete their journey about the middle, of'March.,
—According to custom . several special cars have been arranged to carry home the' Christmas crowd of Notre Dame students living in the East. Four, such cars will leave	'
South Bend Dec. 19 and they Will make stops ,	«
at Buff aloe Rochester,. Syracuse, and ’ New York City; Maximilian G. Kazus 'and Frank P. Monighan are, in charge'of the arrangements. .
—The new prefects of q’ur latest residence hall, are Rev. Frank McGarry, C. S. C., R.ector; Reverend Fathers James McManus and Frank S Wenninger, prefects; Sixty rooms, ten of them double, are open and nearly all occupied. The . restaurant, habitues who have . moved are the winners by the change, but the old guard” ’ of the refectories has quite a. journey-to its commissariat.	‘	'	-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	189
— Activities of the Cincinnati Chamber of Commerce for 1915” was the topic of a short talk delivered by Bernard Devine Wednesday afternoon before the students of the Notre Dame r. Chamber oft Commerce. Carl Eigelsbach of Rensselaer, Ind., spoke on “England’s Commercial policy during the war” at Thursday’s meeting and William Rice told what the Rochester, N. Y., Chamber of Commerce accomplished last year.
5 —Saturday evening wasv a blustery one. Outside a frigid blizzard—on the Washington hall screen that little zephyr Douglas Fairbanks. But all forgot was the blizzard outside as we watched ‘‘the shrinking violet of the movies” jump from the frying-pan into the fire, as he ‘ skidded between the devil and the deep sea
• (all in a manner of speaking). But the moviemaniac in the ‘‘Matrimaniac” was an evening’s enjoyable entertainment.
—Wednesday evening Frank McIntyre in ‘.‘The Travelling Salesman” was the feature in Washington hall’s screen repertoire. The picture was a comedy well acted throughout and with' some instances of artistic photography, but was marred, as a whole, by the insertion of an unnecessary and illogical bit of action, the violence scene near the end. We hope that such episodes will disappear with other relics of cave man period and stone age methods in the movies’? , —At a reception given to Mother M. Pauline at St. Maryas on her return from a western trip, . Reverend Andrew Morrissey, C. S. C., Provincial of the Holy Cross Congregation in the United States, addressed those assembled for the occasion. A -handsome flag" was presented to Mother Pauline after a delightful musical program and Father Morrissey took occasion . to say a few words on patriotism, which he called the distinguishing characteristic of Notre
. Dame and St. Marys..	’
. —Corby, with its characteristic initiative, has taken the first steps toward honoring the patriots of its last year’s /roster.. A service flag of 32 stars now adorns the bulletin board f of that hall and the Corbyites are justly proud of having taken the initiative in this laudable work. The men who are remembered here by a.star while they take their place under the Stars and , Stripes, are: Charles Bachman, Fr,ank‘ Coughlin, James Crane, Mark Cullen, Eldoni Daley, Thomas Dollard, Edward Donahue, Edward Malley, Frank Doyle, Archibald
Duncan, Arthur Farwick, Leo Fitzgerald, James Huxford, Thomas Cyril Casper, Francis J. Keenan, Michael King, Thomas King, Frank Kirkland, Clarence Cline, Grover Malone, Bdward'Meehan, Andrew Moleski, Gus Mom-sen, Henry Lloyd Morency, Leo Mui queen, James Murphy, Jerry Murphy, James Phelan, Albert Ramacciotti, James H. Ryan, Leonard _ Speers, Harold Sheteney.	’	,
—The junior lawyers ‘ ‘ hopped ” into the social spotlight on Wednesday evening, Dec.’ 5, with a dance at the Oliver Hotel. The dance ■ was attended by sixty couples and was a social and financial success. The music was furnished by Messick’s Orchestra. Judge and Mrs. F. J. Vurpillat, Prof, and Mrs. J. Tiernan, Judge and Mrs. G. A. Farabaugh and Prof, and Mrs. W. B- Farrell were the patrons and patronesses. . The success of the affair was due to the efforts of the committee composed of Humphrey Leslie, chairman, Edward Donnolly, Paul FenIon, Thomas Lavery, Walter Miller and Joseph Suttner.	-
—The members of the Oklahoma Club of Notre Dame staged a banquet at the Farmers’ Trust Inn, South Bend, Tuesday evening Dec. " 11. Toasts were responded to by Messrs. ‘ Dubois, Daley, McGraw, Black, Strong and Soldani. A musical program, exhibiting considerable ability and talent, closed the evening- . Those present were Messrs. Delaney, Dubois, Beacom, E. L: Donahoe, D. J. Donahoe,. McGraw; Daley, Creegan, Black, Strong and. Soldani. The Oklahoma Club is the first State organization at Notre Dame to raise a subscription to the Ambulance unit which will be sent from here.'	-	...
—The Pam Club, the organization of senior journalists, held its first smoker of the year, Thursday, Dec. 6. The four journalism classes and a few "invited guests were present. The feature of the evening was the reading by Father Arthur Barry O’Neill of a chapter from a book, which he is soon to have published. His subject, the correct use of our language, was especially interesting to the scribes, all of whom responded with “a few words.” Mr. Sczepanik, during . the course of his talk, claimed the distinction of having worked for three papers in one week,—
, but, of course, Alec explained. The evening -. was thoroughly enjoyed, and requests . were numerous for the frequent repetition of such
. meetings.	.	\
i9d	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
—The local council of the Knights of Columbus held a regular meeting at eight o’clock in the club rooms in Walsh Hall on Tuesday evening, Dec. 4. After the usual routine business, candidates were initiated in the first degree. Following the degree work, district deputy J. F. Hines gave the candidates a short instruction regarding the second and third degrees. The first degree was given by the local degree team, composed of Martin hammers, grand knight; Walter Miller, deputy grand knight; C. J. McCauley, chancellor; Frank Goodall, financial secretary; and Thomas Kelly, lecturer. On Sunday, Dec. 9, the candidates received the second and third degree at the American hall in South Bend. The initiation began at one o’clock and lasted until seven in the evening. At eight o’clock the candidates were tendered a banquet at the Oliver Hotel by the local council. About two hundred knights were present, including a number of candidates from Michigan City, Mishawaka, Niles and Elkhart, who were “put through,” along with the Notre Dame men, by the degree team of the Michigan City council, No. S37, and Jack Loftus and staff .of Chicago. Although the candidates were run through “the mill” of two degrees there was no noticeable “diminution” in their appetites. Father John O’Hara, C. S. C., acted as toastmaster of the banquet, and the invocation was given by Father William Lennartz, C. S. C. Following the banquet, district attorney James C. O’Brien of Chicago, addressed the knights, after which K. C. members of the Glee Club and the Orchestra rendered some appropriate selections.
Personals.
—“Jerry” Murphy, who played the center position on last year’s basket ball team, is now a lieutentant in the 58th Infantry at Gettysburg.
—Mr. and Airs. George Emmet Attley, 5903 Midway Park, Chicago, were blessed with a son, Robert Emmet Attley, oh October 31st, 1917. George received his. “ C. E - ” from Notre Dame in 1910. -When will “Bobby” get his? In ’38? . y . .	\ T ; v .
—Alfred A.; Burger, St. Joe Haller ’11-I14, write'sthat he is . an embryo soldier at. Camp
Finley says, “I.made special mention of Notre Dame, the only sight of which I had years ago as I was paddling or poling a boat down the Sherman, Ohio. “Al” is in the 34th Company, “St. Joe,”in the wake .of the invisible French 9th Training Battalion, 158th Depot Brigade/ explorers.” • <	.
He praises very highly the work of the Knights of Columbus at Camp Sherman.
—From Newport, Rhode Island, comes the news that “Mel” El ward has joined the Naval Reserve. “Mel” will be remembered as one of ' the best ends Notre Dame has produced in recent years. For the past year he has been football coach at St. John’s, Danvers, Mass.
—Wedding bells were rung in Rushville, Indiana, on Saturday, November 17, for Miss . Erema Wilk and Miller Hamilton (student ' ’o6-’o7). The ceremony was performed at the home of the bride’s parents. After December 15th Air. and Airs. Hamilton will make their home in Washington, D. C.
—Lieutenant Edward J. Aleehan is with ' _ Headquarters Company 137, Field Artillery, Camp Shelby, Hattiesburg, Alississippi. “Eddie’s” cheerful smile is missed at the University this year, but the rub will come hardest when the track season opens. “Eddy” was fourth runner on our last year’s champion two-mile relay team. The three remaining men of the famous ’ quartet, “Cy” Kasper, “Pete” Noonan, and Andy AIcDonough are also in the service.
—Camp Shelby has been especially fortunate in securing some of our best athletes. Among them, William Vaughan, former football star, has finished a successful season as Coach of the 38th Division team. He was ably assisted by John Aliller, Captain of last year’s track team, and the fullback of_our all-Western football team. On Liberty Loan Day at the camp, Aliller ran the 220 yard dash in 21 4-5 seconds. John is also assistant -track coach at the camp. , .	'	*
—When President John P. Finley of the University of the State'of New York, went to Europe last Spring he bore with him messages from the leading universities of America to the chief universities of France. From President Cavanaugh he obtained a letter which,' with others, 'was read in the following universities: Paris, Nancy, Dijon, Lyons, Grenoble, Alont-pellier, Toulouse, Caen, Rennes, Poitiers, and . Bordeaux. The French Government is using these brief; messages for distribution throughout France. In a letter received here, President
<
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
191
Athletic Notes.

ALL-WESTERN TEAMS BY G. W. ALEXSON. " Of the Chicago Herald.
Laun, Iowa_____________
Hauser, Minnesota.......
Higgins, Chicago_______
Rydzewski, Notre Dame.
Ecklund, Minnesota_____
Philbin, Notre Danie_____ . Kelly, Wisconsin_______
Verges, Ohio____________
Simpson, Wisconsin_____
Harley, Ohio.__________
Koehler, Northwestern....
_____End ____Tackle ____Guard ____Center ____...Guard ____Tackle ____.End Quarterback ......Halfback ......Halfback ____Fullback
The one team which played an almost consistent game throughout the year was Notre' Dame, but even the Hoosiers suffered an upset when they were defeated by Nebraska by one touchdown. Outside of this blow Notre Dame showed exceptional strength, defeating
West Point and Washington and Jefferson in the ' against the most powerful opponent, and his accuracy
. East. These were noted as the top-notchers of Eastern elevens. . . . Here is a man (Philbin) of exceptional ability as a lineman, strong on offense and defense. His 195 pounds has not slowed him up and with his experience he must be ranked as one of the best tackles in the country. His work against the Army at West Point contributed largely to Notre Dame’s victory. He opened up holes wide as a barn door for the backfield men, was down on punts and played a generally aggressive game throughout. ... At center we find a real football player for the pivot position in Rydzewski of Notre Dame. This player was by all odds the class of the center rushers of the West. Not only that, but he held his own with the strongest in the East. He weighs 205 pounds, just about right for the place. For such a heavy man he is extremely active, especially on defense. During the season he played all over the field and has to his credit two touchdowns after long runs. He is a’ star in intercepting forward passes, while his own snap back work is on a par with the best.
BY PADDY DRISCOLL.
Of the Chicago Examiner.
Bolen, Ohio State____________________
Hauser, Minnesota..________________....
Ecklund, Minnesota...................
Rydzewski, Notre Dame__________ Higgins, Chicago________________ H. J. Courtney, Ohio State...-._ Kelly. Wisconsin_____________________
Simpson, Wisconsin (Capt.)___________-..
Harley, Ohio State_____________.,____
Ellingwood, Northwestern..„
- Koehler, Northwestern________:_______
.'..End _....Tackle _...Guard _....Center _Guard _Tackle ___..End Quarterback _Halfback _Halfback _Fullback
Rydzewski of Notre Dame is placed at center. He is a tall rangy fellow with plenty of weight and speed, ideally built for-a center. He is a great defensive player, is all over the field and in every play. In passing no one is his.equal in accuracy, and offensively he could always be counted upon to make an opening for the backs.	.
ALL-AMERICAN TEAM BY JACK VEIOCK
Sporting Editor, International News Service
Miller, Pennsylvania________
Carlson, Pittsburgh........ Cobb, Syracuse,........................ Hauser, Minnesota__________
Neeley, Dartmouth.......... Sutherland, Pittsburgh..... Rydzewski, Notre Dame...... Boynton, Williams.......... Harley, Ohio State......... Oliphant, Army............. McLaren, Pittsburgh........
.lEnd ._..End .Tackle .Tackle .Guard .__Guard .Center Quarterback .Halfback .Halfback .Fullback
The center position on the first eleven is given to Rydzewski of Notre Dame. Coach Harper uncovered a diamond in the rough several years ago when he found Rydzewski, and his playing for the last two years has placed him in a class with the great Peck of Pittsburgh’s 1916 eleven and McEwan of last year’s Army team. Rydzewski is a shark in his place ~ in the line. On offense he can more than hold his own
in passing the ball was marvelled at in Notre Dame’s victorious attack against the Army this year. Oh defense the big center is equally efficient.
Basketball and Track.
To-night at Purdue University, Notre Dame • will open the winter season of athletics with a game of basketball. Shorn of nearly all the brilliant players that composed the quintet a year ago, Coach Harper has been hard put the last two weeks endeavoring to whip to-' gether some sort of a combination that will make a creditable showing against the Boilermakers. With Captian Tom King holding a “be ready in twenty-four hours” notice from his local conscription board, it has not been possible to count on his services for to-night’s game. “Pete” Ronchetti is the only other veteran who is trying for the team. There will be but one game before the holidays and Coach Harper has intimated that the team will play only a short list of games compared with other years.
Coach Rockne has had informal workouts for his track , men in the apparatus room of the gymnasium since the close of the football season. He has only four monogram men from a year ago—Captain Mulligan, Call, McGinnis, and Rademacher. - These men, together with ' Harbert, Sweeney, .Van Worterghen, Gilfillan, and others, have been loosening up prior to the strenuous work that will commmence on the resumption of school in January. The schedule for the track men is not available as yet, but it is understood that Michigan will be dropped and Purdue .may be substituted. Illinois will undoubtedly come to the local gymnasium sometime in February. .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Safety Valve.
Eddie was a poor little boy who had no shoes. It was Christmas day when everyone was joyous and happy, but Eddie had no shoes. The Lawyers and Merchants in New York drove their big machines down Broadway carrying Christmas gifts to their family, but poor little Eddie had no shoes. The children of Boston were all dressed up in shining new suits and with spotless white collars and they played with their Christmas toys in heavy carpeted rooms. But poor Eddie had no shoes. He did not complain, however, as he lived in Africa where they do not wear shoes. He wore only a smile. No mother lay awake nights wondering how she could scrape together enough money to buy Eddie a fur coat for Christmas; no father was saving money to buy Eddie a seal skin hat, because Eddie wore only a smile. And think of it, most ferocious reader, in these times when people are living in luxury and eating ice-cream cones and cracker-jack, poor little Eddie had no shoes under his feet and only the blue sky over him. Think of poor little Eddie when you are doing your Christmas shopping—thoughts don’t cost anything.
***
No, a moron is not a man who has several wives, neither is a man with two wives a pugilist.
. ***
And last Monday when the thermometer was ten below zero Doc. Evans had an article in the W. G. N. on screening against mosquitoes.
• ' ***•
’	CHRISTMAS POMES.
Christmas comes but once a year What in ell do we care.
. Poor Bo Peep lost all his sheep ,
Couldn’t find them nowhere	,
Mary had a little lamb;
Lambs are always blear-eyed.	•
Notwithstanding, none the less
Wish you merry Yule-tide.	’
The war is on! - the war is on!
But you dear friend are oil.
• I never said that castor oil	' ■
Would cure the whooping cough, .
Prunes may be good for rattle snakes, But mush is good for you, dear, -
I wish you Merry Christmas and A mighty happy New Year.
. ’ n	MERRY CHRISTMAS	•
Once there was a poor little drummer boy who was all alone on Christmas day and who was hungry. He met a man driving a provision wagon and turning his little white face up to the man he asked that he might have something to eat. The man looked down into, the large blue eyes of the youngster and his heart was moved. He hit the little fellow on the head with an axe. Wishing you many happy returns, etc., etc.
Once there was a -man who said to another man: “I wish you a Merry Christmas.” The other man said, “I wish you the same.” This naturally started a fight. Now I can’t fight and I ain’t going to wish nobody nothing.	•
***
ECHOES FROM EXAMS	■
On entering the room you can see several paintings on the walls of great men.
One end of the room is quite irregular in shape, having three Gothic archives in place of the flat wall.
He was attentive to the ladies, as may be judged from the fact that almost every evening he took one of his fiances to some picture show.
*
Once there was an old man whose face was covered with a frowsy beard and whose hands were black. He dearly loved soap. He would take a cake of soap and wrap it in tinfoil or cotton and put it away for years. It hurt him to see anyone mistreating soap by wearing it out in water. He would call dear names to soap and guard it tenderly, but he would never anger it so that it frothed and he never worked it hard enough to get it into a lather. This dear man also loved work. He would stand at a great distance and admire it. He did not believe himself worthy to come any nearer. He was sure work was very sacred, and he believed himself very profane. It must have been his unworthiness that kept him from sawing wood or carrying out ashes. He was so humble that he distrusted his own ability to earn money and always got it fromzsomeone else. He didn’t believe either that he was worthy to cook and always visited other people at meal time.; This dear man died, and that’s all.
*** . . .
Johnny was a cross-eyed youth
With freckles on his nose,
And hardly he did work each day At writing verse and prose:	.
But somehow Johnny’s feet were not What haltless feet should be,
And like his nose his labored prose Had freckles plain to see.
•. Johnny went to class, oh strange! ...	■	,
. , . That he should do so much, .	.
Johnny handed in his themes . ,	.	.
Composed in’ verse and such .	.
And to the teacher he did say:	.
. ‘‘This, here verse that I-, writ .	.
Is just about as perfectly	,
. As. any you will git.”.
Teacher didn’t like the things
That Johnny’s pen had wrote, *	' j
And with pencils red arid blue	•	■
His paragraphs she smote. -	'
‘.‘Spelling’s rank,’’she. wrote to him	-
Your paragraphing’s worse, >- • /	- ’ ■
But Johnny, Johnny, Johriny, Oh! - • • '
You write the hella verse.”
* v'"	-	'	j
J, \	. j
