Do you hove to make eyes to make A’s?
We could flutter our lids till our eyeballs ached and it wouldn’t help. Our Prof is strictly business. He’s the public.
Every 6 months Bell Telephone Companies ask the public for their grades. It’s done by opinion surveys. We ask thousands of customers to tell us what they think of our sendee. On the basis of their reports we try to improve where they think we could be doing better. Subsequent surveys show us if we’ve been successful.
This search for better ways of serving
people is only one aspect of the Bell System business philosophy. It underlies our constant search for ways to provide everbetter telephone service at the lowest possible cost.
For qualified college people interested in engineering, operations and administration, we offer many opportunities. We believe you’ll be interested to leam what we mean.
Your college placement office will be glad to give you more details.
Bell Telephone System
The Scholastic
Everything on campus has
PRIZE WINNING
MICROTOMIC
—the Absolutely Uniform
DRAWING PENCIL
•Absolute uniformity moans drawings witbout “weak spots”—dean, legible detail. Famous for smooth, long-wearing leads. Easily Astin-
guished by bull's-eye degree stamping on 3 sides of pencil. At your campus stere I	J
EBERHARD FABER
Plaid Sports Shirts in a wide selection of colors and fabrics $5.00 up
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
ARROW -------------------------------------------- ---SHIRTS • TIES • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS--
TYPEWRITERS FOR RENT
All Makes—Large Selection Students Special Rates
3 Months for $8.75—
One Month, $3.50 Rental may be applied on Purchase. Sales Service all Machines Michiana’s Largest Dealer
SUPER SALES CO.
Phone: 66328	315 W. Monroe
South Bend, Ind.
Make GILBERT’S your ARROW headquarters
GILBERT’S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o’clock
Oct. 17, 1952
"The MEN'S Comer"
Home of Nationally Accepted Merchandise
Is Your Headquarters for Arrow Shirts
Rtss s Kara
MAIN AT COLFAX
SOUTH BEND 7. INDIANA
Vol. 94 October 17, 1952 No. 4
OCTOBER 17
DRILL HALL (8 p.m.)—ND men who have a coat, tie, and two-bit ticket will be permitted to “entertain” the gals from St. Mary’s in the home-front’s first Blue Circle-sponsored mixer.
COLFAX (through Oct. 22)—Just for You is still around. Recommended for the stoutest of heart among Crosby fans.
AVON (through Oct. 24)—The original—and better—film version of What Price Glory? (A-2) was around before our time, so unless you’ve seen it on television you might enjoy the modern production.
RIVER PARK (2927 Mishawaka)—Carbine Williams (A-2), a well-told story of the convict who invented a famous rifle, is back in town for a couple of days. With it is a slightly different Abbott & Costello ditty called Jack and the Beanstalk (A-l). A must for ND’s younger set.
OCTOBER 18
WNDU (640 kc, if you can get it) and WSBT (960 kc)—Notre Dame will try to improve its 1-1-1 record the hard way—by taking on Purdue in Lafayette. Kickoff time: 1:30.
WASHINGTON HALL (6:15 and 8:45)—To the dismay of those who paid a whole 35 cents to see it at the Oliver not long ago, Scaramouch# comes to ND. Maybe it will inspire Coach Langford’s green fencing squad.
PALAIS ROYALE (8:30 to 11:30)—Don Gels and his Lettermen will provide the music for what we hope will be a victory dance. At this writing, tickets were still $1 per couple, but get this: it’s GIRLS PAY night. (If your date is broke or from St. Mary’s, you can slip her a buck beforehand.)
OCTOBER 19
GRANADA (through Oct. 22)—Yankee Buccaneer (A-l), improbable but colorful, has good pirates and villainous officials, battles, storms, sharks, and all the ingredients, not to mention Susan Ball. Co-pic is something called Army Bound (A-l).
OCTOBER 22
DRILL HALL (9:05 a.m.)—All good Democrats, interested independents, and curious Republicans can hear Gov. Adlai Stevenson state his views and disclose who he thinks should be the next president. All 8:30 and 9:30 classes will be cancelled, regardless of political affiliation.
LAW BUILDING (8:30 p.m.)—Continuing the political atmosphere of the morning, the Academy of Political Science has arranged for several gentlemen wise in the ways of the present campaign to discuss the issues from both sides.
OCTOBER 23
STATE (one day only)—A South Bend theater has finally arranged a show especially to please the hearts of Notre Dame men. The bill: 25 — cartoons — 25.
Discc Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor
ROBERT G. FINNEY
Associate Editors DONALD J. CARBONE THOMAS E. FOOTE
PATRICK C. CARRICO ..............News
PETER K. CONNOLLY ....Assistant News LAWRENCE J. BREHL .. .Assistant News ROBERT E. HAINE .............Features
JOHN F. SAND...................Sports
WILLIAM F. NOONAN ....Ass’t. Sports THOMAS C. MURPHY ...........Advertising WILLIAM KERWIN .............Circulation JOHN P. DEFANT ....Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: Quoting from “The' Functions of Your Student Government” by Tom Field in the Oct. 3 issue, “. . . the number of student representative's on the senate has been more than doubled. . . . The president of each class is on the Student Senate. Each college has a student senator, as do the graduate students, the families in Vetville, and the off-campus students. ...” This means that every student will have available a senate representative to whom he can bring his suggestions or gripes. You must know to whom to bring your gripes and/or suggestions, so the Scholastic this week presents the pictures of your student senators. On the cover we find Student Body President Tom Reedy presiding over a Senate meeting, assisted by Secretary Jim Richards. See pages 10 and 11 for pictures of all the senators, and memorize the' faces in case you ever have a complaint.
Photo by Jerry Sheehan.
The Scholastic
By Mort Luby
Top of the Week
The authorities on student government . . .
A Game
Most people are of the opinion that there are only two commendable ways to while away your patient wait for a modern, safe, economical, time-saving, NIT bus to take you back to school. The first way is to play this game.
Immediately behind the bus stop is a pleasant restaurant called “Clark’s.” It has nice, big windows that serve the dual function of (a) letting you observe the bourgeois eating habits of the
customers, and (b) providing the cus-
corner,
tomers with a sort of floor show as they watch the funny way you ogle them. ■
“Say buddy, I pride myself on my amazing capacity to spot a St. Mary’s girl in any given group of people. And I’m willing to wager a buck you can’t pick out a girl in Clark’s who. can escape this uncanny sixth sense of mine.”
“Go away. I don’t want any,” he
She looks up at you with those big blue eyes and says softly, “Me Olga. Chust come over from da old kuntry. No spick da English.”
“Humm,” you say.
And go dancing through Clark’s closed glass door. Only this time somebody has closed the door and you have to get youi- face stitched up before you can resume your wait for a modern, safe, economical, time-saving, NIT bus.
An Alternate Game
If, for some reason this game doesn’t appeal to you, you can try your luck at window shopping along Michigan. You will agree, no doubt, that the man who decorates the show windows at Max
Now as you’re standing on the fiendishly disguising the fact that you are a Notre Dame student,
you approach the man standing next to you and tap loudly on his lunch pail.
Adler’s is a sage observer of Indiana weather phenomena. Behind a careful display of alligatoi-raincoats is a sign which says “It’s sure to rain.” As far as we know, no one has been seen raising h i s eyebrows at this prophetic u n d e r s t ate-ment.
The current avalanche of sunlight has got everybody befuddled. ' But old hands are carrying their umbrellas and wading boots to class expecting the worst.
And in The Next Window
In Thom McAn’s window they are featuring a queer type of greyish footwear. The sign says, “Dirty White bucks — The right
** s ha d e from the
start!” The shoes are admittedly dirty looking, but as all veteran buck wearers can tell, it is not the authentic shade of dirty white. This effect is produced only after years of curing the shoes by carefully scraping the uppers against a concrete surface, a nightly sprinkling with cigarette ashes, and the application of an occasional grass stain.
Cheer, Cheer
A few stodgy old believers in college spirit will claim that organized cheering at a football game is still powerful good medicine when the home team is drooping a little. Although you wouldn’t know it if you happened to see the Pitt game last Saturday, the job of directing these yells is supposed to fall upon the cheerleaders.
Cheerleaders are usually vivacious little fellows who run about squealing through megaphones, flinging their arms in the wild abandon of a soul-stirring cheer, jumping over each others heads, and performing other frenzied activities which somehow keep the screaming populace in unity.
We had five cheerleaders last Saturday. Occasionally they would gather enough vigor to grunt half way through a yell. The boys must be plump tuckered out from their performance. We all think you tumble just gym-dandy (pun), guys, but how about helping us through a few yells too.
Bottom of the Week
. . . never vote in the election.
says distractedly.
“Oh please, puleeze, sir,” you scream and begin jumping up and down.
To get rid of you he points aimlessly at a cute little blonde in the second booth.
“Ha!” you chuckle proudly and go bounding through “Clark’s” glass doors, hoping they are open. There she sits, behind a deluxe cheeseburger; a vision of loveliness. But is she from St. Mary’s? You perceive those chic white gloves, those chic opera pumps, that chic little chapeau, that typical cdme-hither look. Of course she’s from St. Mary’s. You didn’t go to all those chic Tea Dances for nothing.
Then very nonchalantly you coo, “Hi there! Haven’t I seen you at St. Mary’s?”
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
"Rosie’s.” Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE 601 North Niles
Oct. 17, 1952
give gourself a
Coffee-break
Next time you make a date... make it a date for coffee! You’ll have more fun over a cheerful cup—it’s the lift that puts life into every crowd! Wherever you go —whoever you take — give yourself a coffee-break!
Pan-American Coffee Bureau, 120 Wall St., New York 5, N.Y. Brazil • Colombia • Costa Rica Cuba • Dominican Republic Ecuador • El Salvador Guatemala • Honduras Mexico • Venezuela e>»«
class of the campus
Distinctive dotted pattern, tailored of rich, moth-proofed wool jersey. Single needle construction, reinforced arm holes, fully lined collar, placket, cuffs, ocean pearl buttons. Choose from 5 handsome color combinations. $8.95.
DUKE — same style and quality —’ choice of 8 solid colors. $7.50
blend
Popular campus sweater — style no. 8716. Beautiful Cashmere
mere for softness. Zephyr wool for lightness. Nylon for strength. Smart Singer sandwich neck. 10 handsome shades. $12.50. S8300 sleeveless, 5 shades—$9.50.
Cash-
See the latest Revere Styles at ROBERTSON BROS. ROSE & KATZ
^ncaneacancaaaaaoafSfSSSESSnancacacacannanaeacacacscscacxxx^x^xxxx
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Stevenson Speaks Here Wednesday
Will Cite Campaign's Moral, Spiritual Issues
Governor Adlai Stevenson will address the faculty and student body of the University of Notre Dame at a special convocation around 9:00 a. m. Wednesday, October 22nd, it has been announced by the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University.
Father Hesburgh had invited both Democratic and Republican presidential candidates to speak at Notre Dame “on the crucial moral and spiritual issues of the current campaigns which are of vital interest to all Americans.” General Dwight D. Eisenhower, the GOP standard-bearer, visited the Notre Dame campus September 15.
In a telegram accepting Father Hes-burgh’s invitation, Stevenson declared: “Greatly appreciate your invitation to speak at Notre Dame on the morning of Wednesday, October 22. I accept this most gracious invitation with pleasure. I always look forward to speaking to young people since they hold the future of our great democracy in their hands.”
The Democratic presidential candidate will be in South Bend for an hour and 20 minutes. His presidential campaign train is scheduled to arrive at Union Station at 8:30 after which he will speak to the people of South Bend from a platform above the Lafayette Blvd, viaduct of the New York Central System before hurrying to Notre Dame by automobile to deliver his second address.
Governor Stevenson and his party will
NEED EXPERIENCED WRITERS
Experienced writers who would like to join the SCHOLASTIC news staff may do so by seeing Pat Carrico, News Editor, in the News Room of the Publications Office at 6:45 p.m., Wednesday.
The Publications Office is located in the basement of Farley Hall, on the corner near the bus stop.
be met at the Circle by Father Hesburgh, and after a short tour around the campus will arrive at the Navy Drill Hall where he will be received by University officials and members of the board of
GOV. ADLAI E. STEVENSON
Notre Dame a Whistlestop
lay trustees. At approximately 9:15, Stevenson will be introduced by Father Hesburgh and deliver a 15-minute address.
Although the exact nature of Stevenson’s speech is not certain, Paul Butler of South Bend, Democratic national committeeman for Indiana who is in charge of all arrangements, is of the opinion that it will be a climactic one in the campaign.
To give all students the opportunity to attend, 8:30 and 9:30 classes will be cancelled that morning. Students are requested to congregate in the Drill Hall at 8:30, to avoid congestion when the Governor arrives.
Immediately after his speech here, Gov. Stevenson will be hurried back to his train, and at 9:50 will leave South Bend to resume his eastbound stumping trip. The only other Northern Indiana stop will be a 10-minute pause in Elkhart.
The Scholastic will be represented
Expect Huge Turnout For Shrine Dedication
Hundreds of priests, seminarians, and Brothers of the Congregation of Holy Cross, headed by their superior-general, the Very Rev. Christopher J. O’Toole, C.S.C., are expected to swell the crowd of Notre Dame students and South Bend residents gathered for the dedication ceremonies at the wayside Fatima shrine Sunday.
Slightly elevated on a five acre tract of land adjacent to the University of Notre Dame, the new shrine faces U. S. Highway 31 opposite the entrance to St. Mary’s College.
The Most Reverend Albert Cousineau, C.S.C., Coadjutor Bishop of Cap Haitien, will preside at the solemn dedication at 3 p. m. The Rev. Patrick Peyton, C.S.C., who recently returned to the United States after inaugurating the Family Rosary Crusade throughout England, will deliver the dedicatory sermon.
The shrine commemorates the six apparitions of Our Lady to three Portuguese children at Fatima in 1917. A white marble statue of Our Lady is the central figure. Three statues in a kneeling posture represent Franciscus, Jacinta, and Lucia—the children who witnessed the apparitions and relayed to the world Our Lady’s plea to pray the Rosary. There will be daily recitation of the Rosary at the shrine and Mass will be offered there on special occasions.
The Moreau Seminary Choir of the University of Notre Dame, under the direction of the Rev. William McAuliffe, C.S.C., will provide music for the dedication ceremony. The Rev. Charles R. Callahan, C.S.C., a native of Paterson, New Jersey, is director of the shrine as well as superior of the Mission Band of the Indiana Province of the Congregation of Holy Cross.
by Editor Bob Finney and Associate Editors Tom Foote and Don Carbone in the press party of the Democratic nominee’s campaign train during the trip from Chicago to South Bend.
Oct. 17, 1952
7
Dr. Bartholomew to Conduct Annual Trip To Capital and Environs Jan. 29 to Feb. 4
Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew of the Department of Political Science will conduct the annual between-semesters trip to Washington, D. C., and surrounding points of interest once again this year.
The tour, open to all Notre Dame and St. Mary’s students, is scheduled for Jan. 29 to Feb. 4.
While in Washington, the group will attend such function as Supreme Court and Congressional sessions, an embassy reception, lunch in a number of noted restaurants, such as the Senate restaurant, and take guided bus tours to the Washington Monument and other historical and scenic points of interest.
Side trips will be made to Mt. Vernon, Jamestown, Yorktown, Alexandria, and historically restored colonial Williamsburg, Va. The side trips include a round trip steamer ride from Baltimore, Md., to Norfolk and Williamsburg, Va. Two nights will be spent aboard the steamer.
Each year the students have been guests for an evening of entertainment at the home of Walter Trohan, the Chicago Tribune's Washington representative, and a Notre Dame graduate.
Also, each year the trippers are guests at an embassy reception though no certain invitation has been accepted as yet for the coming trip.
Last year, as every year, several different activities were arranged. These included a reception with Mrs. Truman at Blair House, an inspection of the FBI headquarters, and a trip to the Bureau of Engraving and Printing to observe the procedure involved in producing paper currency and government bonds.
The students will leave the campus on the evening of the last day of exams, board the B&O “Columbian” streamliner
|	Short Issues: An Explanation
Budget difficulties are always with us, and this week we present you with a 20-page issue instead of the regular 36. But we would like to take this space for an explanation of the few short issues which will be published during the year.
Last Spring, when making up the publishing schedule, the Scholastic was confronted with a problem of quality or quantity. We knew from past experience that we could not give you the picture spreads, features, and layouts which we wished and stay within our budget.
Therefore, it was decided to plan definitely four short issues. By planning ahead we tried to choose “slow” weeks and weeks with holidays, such as Founder’s Day last Monday.
Thus we hope we have solved the problem. In all the short issues, as in this one, editorials and some columns will be deleted, and features will be kept to a minimum, so that the Scholastic can publish a maximum of campus news.—Editor.
8
at LaPaz, Ind., and arrive in Washington the following morning. They will return to the campus to register the day before classes resume.
While in the Nation’s Capital, special busses will transport the tourists on their sightseeing and other tours.
Though no price has been arrived at yet, it will cover all expenses including tips, meals, accommodations, etc. Only money for souvenirs and incidentals will be needed by the students.
For further information and reservations all interested students may see Dr. Bartholomew in his office, Room 230 of the Social Science Building.
Dems, GOP Air Views
In Forum Wednesday
To present both sides of the presidential race to the student body and the faculty, the Academy of Political Science will sponsor an Issues Forum Wednesday at 8:15 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium.
Speakers for the' Democratic view will be Mr. Edward F. Voorde, Democratic county chairman, and Mr. James A. McCarthy of the College of Engineering. On the opposite' side, will be Mr. Thomas Bath, Republican county chairman, and another member of the Notre Dame faculty, still to be chosen by the Academy.
Each participant will speak for ten minutes, with the four major issues of the campaign as his main topic.
Chairman of the forum is Tom Has-senger, while Al DeCrane will act as moderator.
JOHN CONNELLY De Minimis Non Curat Est
'Autumn Nocturne' Set for Oct. 24 Ball
The Student Law Association of Notre Dame will open its 1952-53 social program with the 42nd annual Law Ball, featuring the theme, “Autumn Nocturne,” Friday evening, Oct. 24. Don Gels and his Lettermen will supply the melodies from 9 to 1 a. m. at the South Bend Country Club for the lawmen and their companions.
Reigning over the affair as queen will be Miss Lois Hoag, a senior from St. Mary’s College and a Chicago resident.
Dean and Mrs. O’Meara of the College of Law will be the guests of honor. The other- faculty members will attend the dance, as is customary.
Giving a twist to the invitational policy, a document of law — well-known subpoena—will be issued to the girls. The document will order the girls to appear on the specified evening and take part in the festivities.
General Chairman John J. Connelly, a senior hailing from St. Paul, Minn., is being assisted by the following committee chairmen: John O. Celusta, bids and publicity; Robert Savage and William Freer, decorations; Paul Votilla, transportation; Andrew Walsh, arrangements; William Fleming, dates, and William McMillan, music.
Connelly asserts “De minimis non curat est,” or in other words, “The law does not concern itself with trifles”— a lawyer’s way of promising a good evening’s entertainment.
Bids for the ball are being sold for $4.
The Scholastic
Near Thousand Sign For Navy Game Trip
Cotillion Ticket Soles Trickle to Near Sellout; Plans for Oct. 24 'Carolina Moon' Readied
Ticket sales for the 1952 student trip closed this afternoon with an expected 1,000 members signing up for the three-day frolic to the shores of Lake Erie.
Over half of these student trippers signed up for the overnight accommodations in the Cleveland Public Auditorium, provided by the committee, headed by Hugh Braun and Bill Meyer. Beds were sold to the students for $2 a night.
The train tickets and lunch totaled $16.09 for each person, while the dance bid was $2.50. Blind dates are available from Ursuline College, Notre Dame College for Women, and St. John’s School of Nursing, all located in the Cleveland area.
The present plan calls for the official train to leave St. Mary’s siding at 4 p.m. Friday, Oct. 31, arriving in Cleveland at about 10 p. m. A massive pep rally, staged by the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland will be the first matter on the agenda.
A special Mass at St. John’s Cathedral will be offered Saturday morning for the team and all those on the trip.
The Irish will tackle the Middies of Navy in Cleveland’s Municipal Stadium to climax the weekend’s activities. The victory dance will be held that evening at the Carter Hotel under the auspices of the Cleveland Club.
Those going on to Cleveland by approved means, other than the official train, are reminded that they must pick up their free game ticket at the Sixth St. entrance of the Cleveland Public Auditorium between 9 and 12 on the morning of the game.
The return trip will begin at 4 p. m. on Sunday afternoon and reach the campus around 9 p.m. that night.
All underclassmen are again urged by the committee to check their permission cards in regard to student trip procedure.
All those going to Cleveland by private means are to read carefully the Prefect of Discipline’s bulletins regarding the trip.
Political Science Academy
A mock national election sponsored by the Academy of Political Science will be held in the residence halls Oct. 27. Those' wishing to vote in the election must register Oct. 22 and 23.
Registration will be handled by two men on each of the floors of the residence halls. These men will be picked at random by the Academy, and will also serve as election officials for the voting on October 27.
Cotillion ticket committee chairman Dick Malesardi, has announced that several bids for the Sophomore dance are still available and may be obtained by sophomores and upper-classmen alike in the main lobby of the Dining Hall during the evening meal hours.
Jimmy Palmer, the man who has acquired the intriguing epithet of “Dancing Shoes” because of his slow, smooth
JIMMY PALMER
Sophs Sway Under Carolina Moon
rhythm, will supply the music for the annual Sophomore Cotillion to be held on Oct. 24 at the Palais Royale. Promgoers will swing and sway to his lilting melodies from 9:00 to 1:00.
Palmer, a recognized college prom favorite, began his career as a solo vocalist. After attaining much popularity on his own he formed his twelve man aggregation in 1946, and almost immediately rocketed to stardom. This Spring he was selected as one of three popular orchestra leaders to appear on a nation-wide television network. He is currently fea-
Plans Mock Election
Each resident hall will represent a township, and each floor will represent a precinct. The voting will be for President only.	•
This election is being held to determine which national political party is strongest at Notre Dame, and to introduce those students who have not voted to election procedure.
Co-chairmen for the event are John Reidy and Joe McDade.
tured weekly on the NBC circuit.
In addition, he has waxed out eleven hit recordings for Mercury, and yet finds time to furnish scintillating dance music for many of the nation’s colleges and universities. Palmer’s feminine vocalist is blonde, blue-eyed Joni Linn, whose dulcet tones are known to regular TV viewers everywhere.
As a special added attraction to the evenings festivities, the nationally famous “Harmonicat” quartet will brighten the intermissions with their unusual renditions of current favorites. Under the inspired direction of Jerry Mured, the “Harmonicats” topped all record sales for the year 1947, with their spectacular arrangement of “Peg O’ My Heart.” Later, they followed with such smash hits as “After You’ve Gone” and “Charmaine.” They have now become the number one foursome of their kind in the country.
Yet a third inducement to prom-goers is the fact that Jim Hesburgh, publicity chair-man for the dance, has contacted a famous Hollywood personality and requested his presence at the Cotillion.
General Chairman Tom McIntosh has secured car permissions for the entire Cotillion week-end, extending from 12:30 Friday to 12:30 Sunday.
Although the precise nature of the favors still remains a closely guarded secret, John O’Meara, bids and favors chair-man, promises they will be both ornamental and useful.
Decorations, appropriate-to the theme of the dance, “Carolina Moon,” are well under way. They are being handled by Gordon Goeteman and Manuel Villazon.
THE HARMONICATS
Another Top Attraction
Oct. 17, 1952
9
KERWIN FULTON, Senior Class
JIM RICHARDS, Junior Class
BILL WALSH, Sophomore Class
10
The Scholastic
GEORGE VOSMICK, YCS
JACK MURRAY, Law
ERNIE BARTELL, Commerce
Meet Your Senators
By TOM REEDY
President, Student Senate
The “senators” whose pictures you see on these pages comprise'the first Student Senate at the University of Notre Dame. Now in its first year of operation, the Senate is a well-thought-out, completely revised system of student government designed to adequately meet the needs of Notre Dame.
We hope you approve of the progress that has been made to date. We pledge
On these pages the SCHOLASTIC introduces the members of the Student Senate, on the assumption that everyone should know his representative in student government. Pointless complaining never accomplished anything, but constructive criticism or suggestion in the right place can sometimes get things done. These men pictured represent the right place.—EDITOR.
ourselves to an ever-increasing advancement and greater capacity in the future.
We sincerely welcome your suggestions for oui- improvement and invite your proposals. Any senator will be happy to bring up on the floor- any business matter you wish to have discussed.
No constitution or system is worth the ink it takes to print it with, without the full-fledged, active, and whole-hearted support and cooperation of the entire student body. You are the only reason the Senate exists and functions.
- The Senate meets on Monday evenings at 8 o’clock in Room 100 Law Building.
In Action Secretary JIM RICHARDS, President TOM REEDY
Oct. 17, 1952
11
Washington Curtain Rises Thursday Night; ND Thespians Clear Aisles for Rolling Bodies
By IRV CARRIG
Srad ^Notes
At 8:30 p.m. next Thursday the curtain will go up on the first production of the year for the University Theatre. William Shakespeare’s farce Comedy of Errors will keep them rolling in the isles for two hours at Washington Hall.
Tickets may be obtained free of charge in the Dining Hall beginning next Monday. The play will run through Sunday evening, Oct. 26, with a matinee performance Sunday afternoon.
There will be no admission without tickets except to the Sunday matinee.
Comedy of Errors has been planned as a part of the North Carolina weekend. It is hoped that students will use the play as one more means for entertaining their guests.
Actually there' are six leads, including two sets of twins. Antipholus of Ephesus will be played by James Nichols. His brother, Antipholus of Syracuse, is Douglas Cole.
The female stars are Sylvia Schneider as Adriana and Mary Jo Bujarski as Luciana.
Comedians of the cast are another set of twins, each a servant of one of the first set. Jerry Godwin is Dromio of Ephesus. Richard Lewis is Dromio of Syracuse. Luce, the female comedy lead, will be acted by Louise Warnicke.
Another first for the year will be' the costumes. There will be nothing resembling modern dress as the cast will be shrouded in the folds of Greco-Roman togas and flowing robes.
Set man Dick Byrnes designed the colorful garbs, and the' young ladies of St. Mary’s made them under the direction of Lynn Fellbrath and Ann Murray.
The Dick Byrne's set is one of the finest he has done for the University Players. Mr. Michael Casey has been supervising the building process along with Byrnes. The play is using a unit set representing the city of Ephesus.
Under the direction of John Turn-pane; assisted by Mr. Casey, Comedy of Errors has the makings for a riotous evening. It is low comedy at its best, full of slapstick and running gags. A summary is impossible for the endless twists and entanglements of the' raucous comedy.
It seems that the two sets of twins have become separated at one time or another, and two brothers serve two brothers, but each in a different city. When chance brings the pair from Syracuse to Ephesus, the home of the other pair, life becomes anything but dull and dreary for the people involved.
Among other drastic mistakes the wife of one master believes his twin to be her husband. The comedy leads
BUJARSKI, GODWIN, NICHOLS
Display SMC - styled Costumes
are sent sprawling every few minutes, and generally end up in rather bad shape.
The' play will be difficult to stage in the small area allotted at Washington Hall.
Undoubtedly there will be great interest shown in this first production of the year at Notre Dame. In years gone by there has never been a bevy of ladies from west of the highway pacing the boards at Washington Hall as there will be for this play and for those to come.
Others in the cast are: Richard Bas-gall, Joe Gargan, Alex Petrillo, Jack Wilcox, Allen Haffner, Al Wood, Robert Christopher, Dave Miller, Marilyn Beck, Nancy O’Hearn, Maureen .Bennett, John Murray, Geraldine Krysco, Clarence Donovan, Ann Murray, Don Ameche.
MASS SCHEDULE
Monday, Oct. 20—Feast of St. John Cantius, Confessor.
Tuesday, Oct. 21—Feast of St. Hilarion, Abbot.
Wednesday, Oct. 22—F e r i a I Wednesday.
Thursday, Oct. 23 — Ferial Thursday.
Friday, Oct. 24—Feast of St. Raphael, Archangel.
Saturday, Oct. 25—Saturday of Our Lady.
Anyone aware of the occurences upon which last week’s news was based is also aware of the rather loose agreement between the news as reported and the events as they happened in actuality. No reasonable explanation will explain the looseness of the aforementioned loose and even though your reporter is well equipped to give the alternative explanation he won’t do so because of space limitations.
Dr. Pap is forgiven for speaking on a topic other than the one reported: Fr. Moore is forgiven for being absent from the gathering at which he was reported present; and the organizers of the foreign grad reception are forgiven for holding this reception at a place other than the one reported. (Please note the magnanimity of your selfless reporter.) In the future we will attempt to see that all speakers, guests, and what not at these events receive an advance report of what they have “done” that they may act accordingly and, of course, correctly.
Last night the Grad Student Association had its stag party. Dr. F. A. Her-mens of the Political Science Dept, spoke on “Trends and Issues of the Current Campaign.” Dr. Hermens received his Ph. D. and Diploma in Economics from the University of Bonn in Germany. He was forced to leave Germany in 1934 because he supported the Catholic Center Party.
He sojourned in Paris and London for a short while and in 1935 he came to Catholic University at Washington, D. C. as a Professor of Economics. In 1938 he joined the Political Science Dept, at Notre Dame. Recently he served with the staff of the High Command in Germany helping decide electoral and other political problems of the present German government. Among his publications are the following books: Democracy or Anarchy, The Tyrants’ War and the Peoples’ Peace, and Europe Between Democracy and Anarchy.
After Dr. Hermens’ interesting and informative talk the group retired to the Vets’ Rec Hall or to rec the Vets’ Hall, a point dependent entirely on point of view. A thoroughly garbled program for the forthcoming semester was decided upon. One thing for sure though, we’re going to have a stupendously magnificent or magnificently stupendous Halloween dance.
Those with decorative abilities (no wallflowers) should contact Ed Cochran of the Chem Dept. We’ll need their talents to pretty up the dance hall.
—Joe Kelly
12
The Scholastic
Irishmen Peril Unbeaten Boilermakers
BERNIE FLOWERS
Most Consistent Boiler End
DALE SAMUELS
Faces Irish Third Straight Year
MAX SCHMALING
Ace Fullback Leading Scorer
Notre Dame Looks to Rebound From Pitt Jolt Against Purdue in 24th Renewal Tomorrow
By BILL NOONAN
Striving to shake off the effects of last week’s stunning upset by Pitt, Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish make a short jaunt to Lafayette, Indiana tomorrow to take on unbeaten Purdue.
It was just a little over two years ago that the Boilermakers, led by the passing and play calling of diminutive Dale Samuels, came to South Bend and wrote finis to the 39 game unbeaten streak of the Irish in a 28-14 thriller.
The same Mr. Samuels is now a senior and tommorrow will direct a team which has thus far won two games and tied one and is the pace setter in the Big Ten race. The Boilermakers, coached by Stu Holcomb, were tied by Penn State in their opener, 20-20, but rebounded the following week to take the measure of Ohio State’s Buckeyes, 21-14. Last Saturday Purdue had themselves a party in rolling over Iowa, 41-14.
The Black and Gold backfield is a potent aggregation of seasoned veterans. Besides the illustrious Samuels who has
compiled a pass completion average of .468 in two seasons, there is pile-driving Max Schmaling at fullback, Phil Klezek
TOM BETTIS
Top Ranking Defensive Guard
at left half and Rex Brock at right half. The 200 pound Schmaling and Klezek tied for team scoring honors last year with six TD’s apiece. So far this season the fullback leads with four. Jerry Thorpe, switched from fullback this year will share the right halfback position with Brock.
If there is any drawback to the backfield alignment it is the weight. Only Schmaling hits the 200 pound mark. The rest of the starters are at or under the 170 pound mark.
Boiler Linebackers Light
A similar situation exists in the defensive secondary but like their offensive counterparts, they are deep in experience. Double-duty man, Allen Hager at 185 and Norm Montgomery at 177 are the line backers while Jim Whitmar and Tom Redinger, both 170 will probably get the call at the defensive halfbacks. Phil Mateja, 155 pound senior, will again hold down the safety position he starred at last season. Reserve backs, Earl Hen-inger and Ed Zembal are expected to see two-way action tomorrow.
The Boilermaker* line, though raked by the graduation of three of 1951’s
Oct. 17, 1952
13
stalwarts, is still a solid group. Gone are ace wingmen, Leo Sugar and Darrel Brewster as well as the rock-like center, Clint Knitz.
Replacing Knitz is Walt Cudzik, a 195 pounder with little varsity play behind him. At the offensive guards, Jack Houston and the aforementioned Hager hold forth with Tom Bettis and Fred Preziosio taking over on defense. Bettis recently fulfilled a lineman’s dream by scoring a touchdown against Ohio State. Ken Panfil, the heaviest squad member at 244 pounds and Dave Whiteaker, 210 are the starting tackles with Billy Bruner and Joe Wojtys the defensive operatives.
Flowers Brightens End Picture
The departure of Sugar and Brewster would seem to make the end situation acute, but the presence of Bernie Flowers, veteran glue-fingered pass receiver at left end, brightens the picture considerably. The 190 pound senior has always been a consistent performer. The unusually light John Kerr, 162 pounds, will play right end with Jim Wojcie-howski and John Konkol, both 200 pounders operating on defense.
All in all, 29 lettermen have returned to bolster Purdue’s bid for the Big Ten crown and a trip to the Rose Bowl. Right now, however, Purdue’s objective is to beat their arch-rival, Notre Dame. In a series that began in 1898, Purdue has won only five times. The Irish have taken sixteen and two have been ties.
Panthers Upset Irish, 22-19
Little else can be added to what has already been said about last Saturday’s 22-19 shocker. The 13 point hole the
KICKOFF TIME: 1:30 CST
RALPH GUGLIELMI BREAKS THROUGH Pin DEFENSE
Irish Quarterback Picks Up Valuable Yardage
Irish got into in the first quarter was just too big an obstacle to overcome.
Just as in the Texas game, the Irish, aftei- a sluggish first half, broke loose in the second sixty minutes. Ralph Gug-lielmi began to hit the mark consistently after the intermission and varied his attack with vicious ball carrying by Neil Worden, John Lattner, and Joe Heap. Worden’s 12 yard slice up the middle netted the first Irish tally and later the quarterback himself bucked over from the one.
Between these scores Pitt picked up another on Mattioli’s dive over the middle.
In the fourth quarter Heap brought the crowd to its feet with a scintilating 92 yard punt return. A holding penalty, however, nullified Mavraides, tieing placement, and on the next try the pass from centre bounced off Tom Carey’s hands, and Pitt was home free.
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUPS
(Offense)
PURDUE	NOTRE DAME
Flowers .....LE.......... Penza
Whiteaker	..LT...... Murphy
Hager .......LG......... Seaman
Cudzik .......C.... Schrader Houston ....RG....AIessandrini c. Panfil ...........RT_. Poehler
Kerr .......RE......... Hunter
Samuels ....QB......  Guglielmi
Klezek ....LHB............ Heap
Brock .....RHB......... Lattner
Schmaling	..FB....... Worden
EYEFUL FOR LAUNER
Halfback Caught Pass Anyway
Five Remaining Foes Still on Unbeaten List
Last Saturday’s gridiron card featured two games involving four Irish opponents. Lafayette, Indiana and Dallas, Texas were the scenes of these two offensive packed thrillers as Purdue and Texas clashed head on with Iowa and Oklahoma.
In the Big 10 battle at Lafayette, Purdue again proved its strength as it smothered the winless Hawkeyes of Iowa, 41-14. Dale Samuels, the pint-sized quarterbacking genius was the principal thorn in the Iowa defense. He passed foi-two touchdowns, ran a third and called plays with devastating accuracy, while Jerry Thorpe, Max Schmaling and Rex Brock ripped through the Iowa line for large gains. Although the Hawkeyes were overpowered by the superior manpower of Purdue they demonstrated that they still possess considerable scoring punch. The win enabled Coach Stu Holcomb’s boys to take the lead in the mighty Western Conference title chase.
The Oklahoma-Texas clash was a typical Southwestern razzle dazzle football circus as the two leading teams of that sector met in the Cotton Bowl before 75,504 spectators. Oklahoma struck hard in the first quarter and built up an insurmountable lead of 28-0. The talented offense of the Sooners featured the running of Buddy Leake, Buck McPhail and Billy Vessels as they each drove into the Texas endzone twice. However, much (Continued on page 16)
The Scholastic
14
Close Games Feature Hall Pigskin Openers
By BOB FROLICHER
Interhall football moved into full swing last week as the eight teams battled on almost even terms in four low scoring contests.
The best game of the week, and the one which undoubtedly will have much influence on the final outcome of the season was the Morrissey-Dillon clash in Cartier Field with Dillon emerging the victor, 6-0. A blocked punt in the second quarter picked up by Gene Kelly who ran the remaining 35 yards for the only long run of the game.
It was mostly a defensive game and towards the end Morrissey appeared to have the edge. The contest was a stalemate until the fourth quarter when Morrissey sparked by fullback Mike Fox moved the ball from their own twenty to the Dillon thirteen where a fumble ended their most serious threat. The running of Bob Chickey and Mike Laughlin and the pass offense of Dillon also began to click in the second half. However, when necessary the defensive line stiffened and choked off any more serious threats. Morrissey’s stout line was led by tackle “Butch” Vallase, end Jim Burns, and defensive linebacker Joe Hayden.
In the other western league game, Off-Campus topped St. Ed’s, 6-0. The only touchdown was scored by halfback Dan Yarr on a 25 yard run. Jack West at center, and Ed Hogan, defensive left tackle were the Off-Campus standouts. However, Jim Wilson’s St. Ed’s forces protested the game because of the ineligibility of the Off-Campus quarterback and end, and the game is to be replayed at a later date.
On the other side of the campus, it was another defensive game as Ralph Weiss’ Breen-Phillips eleven battled Tom Parsley’s Cavanaugh forces to a 0-0 deadlock. The Cavanaugh team tried valiantly to score through the air, but either the B-P line stiffened or the Cavanaugh receivers just couldn’t hold on to the ball.
Fullback John McCaxtan was the star of the Farley-Zahm scrap as he scored the only tally on a 2 yard line plunge to give Zahm a 6-0 lead which they never relinquished. The Zahm line was led by tackles Bob Fisher and 230 pound Bill Harrington.
Joe Sassano considers his Zahm eleven lucky because their pass defense was not good, and occasionally the Farley team was unable to hang on to passes when nobody was near them.
Zahm has set a tentative date, Nov. 9, to meet the Prison team.
By Jack Sand
Football Coaches Face Drastic Reforms	•
A code of ethics under which football coaches face drastic reforms was exclusively revealed a few weeks ago in the Sept. 22 issue of Newsweek magazine. Not scheduled for presentation to the full membership of the American Coaches Association until January, the code was recently completed and has already been approved by the Association’s board of trustees, the magazine said.	•
Among the highlights of the code, based on information Neivstveek secured from “sources other than compilers” are:
“It shall be unethical for coaches to pick weekly game winners or to participate in football polls or rating systems.”
“On-and-off-the-record criticisms of officials to players or the public shall be considered unethical.” During a game “Coaches should be as inconspicuous as possible.”
“To show (movies of) critical plays to sportswriters, sportscasters, alumni, and the public which may incite them to label officials as incompetents, must be considered unethical conduct.”
“It shall be considered unethical under any circumstances to scout any team, by any means whatsoever, except in regularly scheduled games.” This prohibits “any attempt to scout practice sessions.”
“It shall be unethical for coaches to use (alumni, booster, and quarterback) groups to attempt to defeat or obstruct administrative or institutional athletic controls.”
According to Newsweek, the annual meeting of the American Football Coaches Association in Cincinnati last January unanimously voted to formulate, adopt and enforce a code of ethics for their work. If, as expected, the code is approved next January (effective in 1953), it will not lack for the instruments of effective enforcement, the magazine said. “Violations will be investigated by the committee on ethics, and its report and recommendations will be passed on to an annually appointed five-man board of review with the power to suspend and expel members.”
Prediction of the Week
Turning from ethics to logic we find Notre Dame’s unpredictable football team facing unbeaten and favored Purdue tomorrow at Ross-Ade stadium. With Dale Samuels, the Boilermakers’ engineer signaling full steam ahead, Leahy’s lads will have to show some of their second half strength in the first 30 minutes in order to come up with a victory. We think they’ll do it. . . . So watch for the Irish to reverse that famous upset of 1950. Notre Dame 28, Purdue 14.
Interhall Baseball
The Interhall Baseball round-robin tournament is moving along at a good clip, thanks to a timely assist from Old Man Weather.
So far, the only real difficulty encountered by the baseballers has been conflicting class schedules. However, the teams seem to have overcome that nicely and have now been battling each other for more than two weeks.
There are two leagues, a Blue and a Gold, with four teams in each. In the Blue league are Lyons, Farley, Cavanaugh, and Dillon. The Gold league has
Morrissey, Sorin, Howard, and the other Dillon crew.
Lyon’s Sophomores seem to be the class of the Gold league. At the start of the week they had no losses while the other three all had one defeat to show for their efforts. Even so, these three are capable clubs, and Lyons will have to stay tough to win the Gold section.
In the Blue league Dillon appears to rate the top spot but they are being pushed hard by Morrissey. Sorin and Howard are also very much in the running but they must hustle to beat the top two.
Oct. 17, 1952
15
ND Opponents
(Continued from page 14) of the credit must go to the Okie quarterback, Eddie Crowder, who expertly-handled the Spilt-T offense of the Soon-ers and riddled the Texas defense with his accurate heaves.
Elsewhere in the gridiron world Navy, Michigan State, and Southern California continued on with their perfect records as they7 smashed highly regarded opponents. The Midshipmen whipped William and Mary, 14-0 as their iron clad defense continued to lead the nation in statistics. Quarterback Bob Cameron’s spectacular passing proved the difference in the defensive battle as the Midshipmen racked up their third victory of the season.
Before the nation’s eyes via TV, Michigan State put on its best show of the year- as the Spartans struck hard and often at the Texas Aggie defense as they amassed 529 yards in total offense. Coach Biggie Munn sent in his third and fourth stringers in the final period but even the “scrubs” looked like world beaters
Dandelions Won't Rate for Your
Cotillion Date
*	Your date for the Sophomore Cotillion rates the very best in flowers.
•	And you can be sure they are the best if you get them from South Bend Floral.
•	Our corsages are guaranteed fresh and guaranteed to add that finishing touch to your date's ensemble.
We'll be glad to assist you in choosing the perfect Corsage for her dress
South Bend Floral
114 S. Michigan	3-8827
o
as they counted four times in the fourth quarter.
Southern California’s defense proved to be the difference at Los Angeles as the Irish’s final opponent defeated the pro-studded San Diego Naval Training Center, 20-6. The USC defense accounted for all the scoring as a punt return, intercepted pass, and fumble gave the Trojans their 20 points.
SWIMMING CLUB MEETING
A meeting for the purpose of organizing a Swimming Club will be held Thursday evening, October 23, at 7:30 in Room One of the Rockne Memorial. Those men who have submitted their names to Mr. Burdick are requested to attend. Any who have not as yet seen Mr. Burdick may give him their names at the meeting.
First ND Mixer Offers Combo, Skit Tonight
Something new in the line of weekend social life is in store for Notre Dame g-uys and their gals tonight when the first Notre Dame-sponsored mixer will be held in the Drill Hall at 8.
Young ladies from across the Dixie and St. Mary’s Academy in South Bend have been invited to the affair. The girls have been invited gratis, while an admission fee of 25 cents is required of all Notre Dame students.
Amusement for the evening will be provided by a combo — consisting of members from Don Gels’ campus orchestra, the winner and runner-up in the Wednesday night WNDU talent show, and a group of University Theatre players under the direction of Mr.
" John Tumpane.
20?^ DISCOUNT For Notre Dame Men SAVE on Cleaning and Pressing
RUBIN CLEANERS
217 E. Jefferson	1st Corner Across the River
--On the Bus Line-
St. Mary's College Hosts Catholic Press Association
Preparations have' been completed by the journalism department of St. Mary’s College for the biennial regional meeting of the Catholic School Press Association, to be held at the college on Oct. 18.
Student editors, advisers, and staff members of Catholic colleges and high schools in five states will participate in the meeting. About 360 schools in the region, which includes the' states of Indiana, Illinois, Kentucky, Ohio, and Michigan, are members of the Press Association. More than 300 student journalists are expected to attend.
Among the writers or authorities on scholastic or professional publications who will speak are: Rev. John Crowley, S.J., of St. Louis University High School, who will speak on “Press Agents for Christ.” Also speaking will be Louis Hasley, Director of the annual Notre Dame and professor of English at the University, and Mr. Edward Fischer of the Department of Journalism.
Moot Court's Junior Group To Begin Arguments Oct. 28
Initial oral arguments in the Junior division of the Notre Dame Moot Court have been scheduled for the evenings of Oct. 28 and 29, according to Hugh A. Henry, Jr., executive director.
Mr. Henry predicts an interesting and eventful session for the fledgling barristers, and reminded participants that briefs are due Oct. 24 in the Moot Court Office on the second floor of the Law Building. He also suggests that it would be well to have a meeting with both sides as soon as possible in order that issues may be stipulated and sides chosen.
I
16
The Scholastic
Concert Unit Forms New Advisory Body
Rev. Janies E. Norton, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of student affairs, announced the formation of a new advisory committee for the’ University’s Concert and Lecture Series this week.
The committee, comprised of Mr. Thomas Stritch, head of the Journalism Department, Mr. John Tumpane, director of the University Theatre, Mr. Eugene Leahy of the Music Department, and representatives of the Student Senate and the Scholastic, had its first meeting last Tuesday. The purpose of the committee is to advise Father Norton in selecting entertainment which will be interesting to the' students.
Several evenings’ entertainment have already been scheduled. Catholic University’s famed Players Inc., will invade Washington Hall for two performances of Shakespeare’s “Love’s Labor Lost” on Dec. 2 and 3. The Juilliard String Quartet will play a one night stand on March 5, 1953.
The Xavier University Choir, an outstanding Negro choral group from Xavier University of New Orleans, has been tentatively scheduled for March 23 or 24.
On April 19, the Concert Series, in conjunction with the South Bend Symphony Orchestra, will present the Isaac Stern Concert in the Navy Drill Hall.
In addition to this outside entertainment, the Concert and Lecture' Series will also sponsor the usual three University Theatre productions and the student musical.
Civil Service Announces Test For Meterological Positions
The United States Civil Service Commission recently announced an examination for Meteorological Aid positions paying from §2,950 to §3,410 a year. Most of the positions are in the Weather Bureau and are located in Washington, D. C., and throughout the United States. Some positions will also be filled outside the United States.
A written test will be given; appropriate experience or education is also required.
Full information regarding the requirements, and instructions on applying may be secured at most first and second-class post offices, or from the United States Civil Service Commission, Washington 25, D. C. Applications must be filed not later than October 21, 1952.
NFCCS Students Go To Science Workshop
A team of five or six: students will represent the University of Notre Dame at St. Joseph’s College, Collegeville, Ind., tomorrow and again on Sunday for the opening of the Science Commission’s Workshop.
Besides the group from Notre Dame, there will also be teams from eight regional colleges and universities present at the meet. This assembly will be under the sponsorship of the NFCCS.
• The main objective of the new Science Commission at Notre Dame will be to aid and supplement in the school’s science club’s activities. This does not place any of these clubs under any obligation.
The keynote speech of the assembly will be given by Mr. J. Karabinos, Ph. D., under the title of “Science Today.” In - the second session, to be held on Sunday, Father Hinton will give a short talk on the preparation of papers written in a popular style. Miro Pregelj, president of the Fort Wayne Commission of the NFCCS, will conclude the program with a talk on the Commissions and the Commission activities. Following the talks of each session will be a question period.
MEDICO
A secure future, exceptional opportunities for advancement, and a-high starting salary await you at Fairchild, if you are one of the men we are looking for. We have openings right now for qualified engineers and designers in all phases of aircraft manufacturing; we need top-notch men to help us in our long-range military program: turning out the famous C-l 19 Flying Boxcar and other projects for the U. S. Air Force.
Fairchild provides paid vacations and liberal health and life insurance coverage. We work a 5-day, 40-hour week as a base. Premium is paid when longer work week is scheduled.
f MgRfkf’ 4^ Finest Medico ever made. Tw Exquisite Burgundy Finish
MEDICO V. F. a.-*2 With NEW NYLON BIT. ’.
Exclusive! Guaranteed Bite-Proof!
Odorless! Tasteless! Cushion Bite!
MEDICO medalist-H.50
When filter turns brown—in Medico
Holders—throw
Pipes or Cigarette ; ■ it away, with nicotine, juices, flakes, , ■ tars it has trapped, k- Insert a fresh filter i: for cooler, cleaner I and dryer smoking.
I- Imported Briar. (
, Box of lOfHtors-IOt ..
:	Wide variety of styles and sizes.
( : Write Medico Pines. Inc. N.Y. 22. for Booklet 0 •
X^MEDlCtt CIGARETTE I CIGAR HOLDERS- $1 y
Bi ENGINE AND AIRPUNE CORPORATION
I AIRCHILD yfaemfiDwittm,
HAGERSTOWN. MARYLAND
Oct. 17, 1952
17
By Paul Zalecki
For many reasons it is difficult to realize that this past week the University celebrated its 110th anniversary. From its humble origin over a century ago, Notre Dame has become probably the best known Catholic university in the United States. It would not be far from the truth to say that numberless Americans associate Catholic education with Notre Dame.
Such an enviable position is not without responsibilities. The administration constantly has striven to improve educational facilities and raise academic standards. In this difficult task, the University first and foremost must prove to its own student body that Notre Dame offers educational opportunities which, to some degree, approach the school’s unique reputation.
The Educated Christian Gentleman .
In spite of all administration efforts, however, the final test of Notre Dame’s success rest with the student body, with the Notre Dame man. But what exactly is a Notre Dame man? He is not only a Christian gentleman, but an educated one. It is this latter quality, moreover, which is his most important attribute. By that I mean that education is the primary purpose of Notre Dame.
Possibly some may not agree and may feel that the main advantage of Notre Dame lies in its possibilities for moral advancement. Without a doubt the religious facilities here are tremendous, and similar ones probably never will be available to any of us again. These opportunities, however, still are a secondary concomitant to the' educational function of Notre Dame.
A few remarks might bring out this point better. The person -who is looking for a place that offers religious training thinks not of Notre Dame' but of a seminary or monastery. True, we talk of moral and intellectual education, but morality cannot be taught, only lived. When we take' a course in ethics or Christian virtues, it is essentially an intellectual course, which tells us what morality or virtue is. It does not guarantee, however, that we will act virtuously or morally. The best which the University can do along this latter line is to encourage and prod us to behave like Christian gentlemen. And, without any attempt at being cynical, the Sunday sermon can do this almost as well.
Another illustration of the Univer
sity’s inability to make us act morally can be seen in the attitude towards numerous school regulations. When the rules appear most onerous and oppressive, the student may even feel that the University is not giving anyone the chance to act like a Christian man.
University’s Educational Standards
On the other hand, I doubt if any student feels that the University is being unfair in maintaining strict educational standards, or that • any course should not be as difficult as it is. As one department head recently stated, “We maintain high standards, but we also help you to get there.”
If, then, it is the school’s function to offer a good education, it is even more so the student’s duty to take advantage of all opportunities here. All, moreover, does not mean merely attending class, doing the required work, and passing. It means more, for there are almost unlimited chances for intellectual advancement at Notre Dame.
The University does not close up shop when classes are over and lie dormant until the following day. Nearly any evening the interested student can find some worthwhile lecture', discussion, or program being held on the campus. Already different departments have sponsored such varied things as a foreign film, Paisan, and a series of lectures by Dr. F. S. Dainton, Professor of Chemistry at the University of Leeds, England.
Poor Attendance at Evening Programs
Yet—with the exception of such events as the Natural Law Institute or the appearance of some dignitary like' Jacques Maritain—most of these evening programs do not obtain the attendance they deserve. One of the reasons may be a lack of publicity. The University Calendar, however, which carries the news of most of these activi-ite's, is posted in several prominent places.
Another, subtler, reason may be that they are among the few things which are not regulated. Though regulations —such as compulsory attendance at class or required courses—are intended to be merely the minimum, they frequently become the maximum. It is not too uncommon for a student to make
sure that he takes every cut allowed in a class because, “He has got it coming to him,” or to hear someone say, “Why go to lecture's; you do not have to.”
In case I might have awakened the opposition of some students or faculty members, I am advocating neither introducing compulsory attendance at lectures nor eliminating it for classes. I am merely suggesting that the lack of enthusiasm for lectures and discussions may be due to the attitude' which compulsory classes tend to create.
An additional difficulty with required courses is that they may make the' student intellectually lazy in planning a general program of study for four years. Instead of getting a wide perspective of undergraduate subjects as a unified whole, he may look shortsightedly from course to course and disregard their inter-relation.
On the other hand, some courses may not offer much. Someone may have slipped up somewhere. I still have not figured out why, as an AB freshman, I had to take “The Elements of Statistical Analysis.”
In the long run, however, unnecessary courses are eliminated and better ones substituted for them.
Place for Each Course
Indeed, it is true that the various programs of study have been planned by men who know what they are doing, and that each course has its place. And it is here that the student’s responsibility begins. It is up to him to see to it that he implements his classes as best he can, by discussions with his professors and other students, by using the facilities of the library, by attending lectures.
If little or nothing is done along these' lines, it is going to be rather discouraging at the end of four years trying to figure out what we have gotten out of our stay here. Then we will face the final test of proving that Notre Dame is a center of Catholic education and that its reputation is deserved.
Keep the faith.
18
The Scholastic
I
to bn rough-they love it!
the Van Heusen	shirt
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N. Y.
Make GILBERTS your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET .	Open evenings until 9 o’clock
Here’s a new wrinkle . . . shirts that won’t! The patented soft collar on Van Heusen’s Century shirt can take it like a 200 pound fullback! Won’t wrinkle in your suitcase ... won’t wrinkle no matter how long you wear it ... even your laundry can’t wrinkle it. Regular or spread collar ... white or colors. A new Van Heusen free if your Century ever shrinks out of size.
Fine broadcloth, white, 3.95, 4.95 colors, 3.95 Van Heusen Century Shirt-mate Tie, $1.50
i i
I i
SOPHOMORE COTILLION
Special Student Rates j
Over 600 suits to choose from in all styles and sizes. Boys’ 3 to Men’s 56.	. Is
Alterations included for personal j satisfaction. Please place your I order early.
LOGAN'S
TUXEDO RENTAL i
107 North Main. South Bend (in the Oliver Hotel Bldg.)
HEALTH | SPOT |
SHOES
For Men Women Children
Paul Whalen, Mgr.
209 W. COLFAX AVENUE
Oct. 17, 1952
19
CHESTERFIELD
f IRST PREMIUM
QUALETY CIG ARETTl
TO OFFER BOTH REGULAR & KING-SIZE
LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO
UGGETT A MYERS TOBACCO CO
ASK YOUR DEALER
FOR CHESTERFIELD
EITHER WAY YOU
LIKE EM
lit;
ST
. 5&I
CONTAINS TOBACCOS
CIGARETTE
S3
1$
OF BETTER QUALITY &
HIGHER PRICE THAN ANY
OTHER KING-SIZE
BOTH regular and king-size Chesterfields are premium quality cigarettes and come in the smart white pack.
BOTH contain only those proven ingredients that make Chesterfield the best possible smoke: the world’s best tobaccos, pure, more costly moistening agents (to keep them tasty and fresh), the best cigarette paper that money can buy—nothing else.
BOTH ai’e much milder with an extraordinarily good taste and, from the report of a well-known research organization — no unpleasant after-taste.
BOTH are exactly the same in all respects. There is absolutely no difference except that king-size Chesterfield is larger—contains considerably more of the same tobaccos—enough more to give you a 21% longer smoke, yet costs very little more.




Buy CH ESTE R FIELD_4/^ Milder
Copyright 1952, Uc«n & MreuToucco Co.