ENGINEERING GRADUATES!
Representatives of	WRIGHT
CURTISS-WRIGHT CORPORATION AERONAUTICAL DIVISION
Will Be On the Campus
NOVEMBER 17
BE SURE TO CHECK WITH YOUR PLACEMENT BUREAU FOR AN INTERVIEW I
• Wright Aeronautical Division o
of Curtiss-Wright Corporation is a world leader in development and production of reciprocating and jet engines, and development of turboprops and ramjets.
These activities require a vast pool of engineering specialists who work in many fields... mechanics, electronics, metallurgy. In the con-
tinuing search for new materials, new processes and techniques, there are many and varied projects affecting both Government and industry in general.
This makes for long term stability and creates sound career opportunities for engineers, with a wide
O	7
choice of interesting, well-paid jobs.
If you are looking for a secure and rewarding future, be sure to talk it over with the WRIGHT AERONAUTICAL men.
Jobs are waiting for engineers in these fields: AERONAUTICAL • MECHANICAL
METALLURGICAL
WRIGHT AERONAUTICAL DIVISION
CURTISS-WRIGHT CORPORATION
Wood-Ridge * New Jersey
November 13, 1953
3

They’re here men! those perfect-fitting
KHAKI WASH SLACKS
{also in slate grey)
4.98
Tailored like fine wool slacks . . . completely sanforized (even the pockets and trim) so that they’ll keep their good looks and perfect fit through countless washings. Tailored to set low on the hips. The polo shirt in 2-ply brushed cotton, by Munsingwear, is also 4.98.
MICHIGAN AT WASHINGTON
Controversy Over Front Stairs
Editor:
After having my attention drawn to Ken Murphy’s dissertation on the evils of walking up and down the front steps of the Main Building, I felt it my duty to retort. In the name of sister-secretaries (and there are quite a few) I would like to ask Mr. Murphy and any of his friends a few questions:
1.	Why is it that the secretaries here at the University (and other employees, for that matter) are always the target for all the petty complaints some of you Notre Dame gentlemen dig so far down to thrive upon?
2.	As for tourists, do you think they came clear in from the main gate just to enter the Administration Building via the entrance under the front steps and see, first of all, two sand containers for cigarettes, and not for paper cups, wrappers from gum, straws, cigarettes, or candy, etc., that seem to litter these containers daily), a few offices, the phone booths and finally, the back entrance? After all, the main corridor with its wall paintings, inside view of the Dome, and information centers is one of the highlights of the campus and not a place to be' reached by the “back” stairs!
And before you come back at this question by saying, “Why can’t they use the same steps we do?”—until such time as these so-called Notre Dame gentlemen step aside or open a door for a lady or an elderly person, whether she be secretary, tourist, maid, or otherwise, we prefer to walk where students are restricted and there will be no cause for elbowing.
3.	Just what do you and your friends expect University personnel to do, come into their offices at 8 a.m., and not stir from that “sanctum sanctorum” until 5 p.m.? There are times, you know, when we have to leave the Main Building just as classes change, too; can you suggest any other way of getting out of the building other than the front steps without being bumped into, stepped upon, or otherwise mistreated?
In closing, THE WEEK can just keep harping on the subject all it wishes, but should not expect those concerned to “detour” just because it aggravates a few boys to see someone else doing something they can’t do.
Hoping that Mr. Murphy and his cohorts spend as much time on their studies as they do on composing criticisms, and that they, too, may some day be properly qualified to use these controversial steps.
Mary McCarthy
Secretary—Main Building
4
The Scholastic
by Ken Murphy
Top of the Week
No snow yet in Indiana . . .
Wherefore Art Thou, WNDU?
We don’t know if it’s a case of laryngitis brought on by the cold weather or what, but the local answer to a radio station has lost its voice.
We haven’t as yet had a chance to check into the cause behind this sudden influx of static on the old crystal set, but you can rest assured thalt an investigation will be forthcoming. Senator McCarthy said he might even lend us a few of his

junior G-men to find out if some Moscow short-wave set has been cutting in on the local circuit, possibly to get fuel for its propaganda fire.
Speculation on campus has been widespread. Some feel that WNDU may have gotten a couple of its signals crossed, while others feel that the kilocycles may not be on speaking terms with the thing-amajigs. A few others even insinuated that the static sounds better.
But most of the troops sincerely miss the friendly chit-chat and worn-out recordings, particularly the show “Letters from Home” — it’s the only mail some of us have been getting.
.Chop Chop?
Received word from our Shanghai correspondent, Aw Fooey, the other day that the current yakker around the Oriental circuit goes something like this:
What time is it tvhen a Chinaman has a toothache?
Tooth-hurty !
We promptly wired our correspondent and told him to go into exile some' place.
Time Marches On
The Penn may be mightier than the sword, but not when an all-American is wielding the sword. Methinks Lattner should have his picture on the cover of Time every WEEK . . . “yaaaahhrrr.”
Query of the Week
Wonder if the late E. A. Poe could have had mid-semester exams in mind when he wrote:
“Once upon a midnight dreary, as I pondered weak and weary.”
The Social Bears
Needless to say, the Chicago Bears of the two-platoon football league haven’t exactly been rolling over their opponents. In fact, one might even go so far as to say that the Bears are nothin’. But we think things hit some sort of a
high (or low, depending on which way you look at it) last Sunday. We’re referring to the appearance of a social reporter from one of the Windy City’s tabloids in the booth of the radio announcer who was broadcasting the Bears-Packers game. No, it wasn’t Ann Landers.
Hickory Dickory Dock
W’e were sitting around the' other day thumbing through some other college papers when we ran across an interesting little article in the Potsdam State Teachers College handbill. The dissertation said that the clock on the tower of the administration building had started to run after reading 12 o’clock for the past year and a half.
Obviously somebody was beginning to wonder what time it was.
Till I Waltz Again With You
We noticed an ominous silence in the general direction of the Drill Hall last Saturday evening. Upon closer inspec-
Students!
SPECIAL RATES
RENT A BRAND NEW PORTABLE OR LATE MODEL STANDARD TYPEWRITER
All makes of
Up to three months rental allowed on	Typewriters Rented,
purchase price if you decide to buy. Sold and Expertly Serviced.
SUPER SALES COMPANY
PHONE 6-6328
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA	.
(Next to Sears)	315 W. MONROE ST.
tion of the situation, we discovered that there wasn’t any Student Senate dance taking place.
Sensing the possibility of a scoop . . . well, maybe not exactly a scoop, but at least something with which to fill up space in this column ... we tore over to emcee Phil Bolin’s room and asked him, in no uncertain terms, just what the heck .was coming off. He informed us that he had originally planned to join the safari to Philadelphia and since he couldn’t locate a substitute announcer, had decided to call the whole show off.
He tried to get some guy named William Steam to sub for him, but old “I-calls-’em-as-I-sees-’em” was busy doing something with one of the networks at the Penn game. Bolin then tried to get one Harold Wismer as a sub, but old Hurryin’ Harry said he wouldn’t be able
to climb down from his place high atop the field in time to keep the engagement.
The ND emcee told us not to worry, though. He said the SS dances would soon be back in swing, starting with a good old fashioned hoe-down tomorrow night. Oh well, there’s always “Indian Uprising” and “Deep in the Heart of Texas” at the State.
Bottom of the Week
. . . because it’s so cold here that the snowflakes freeze to death before they hit the ground.
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 S. MICHIGAN
Next to Avon Theatre 7-5477
NEW Rental Purchase Plan
November 13, 1953
NOVEMBER 13
STUDENT CENTER (9	a.m.)—Dick Carlton and his orchestra
provide the music for 160 engineers and their dates in a “Moonlight Bay” background.
AVON (last day)—Except for a few overdone parts and various lulls in the action, Take the High Ground offers a fairly realistic picture of life in an infantry boot camp.
COLFAX (through Nov. 17)—A top cast and a story chock-full of adventure make All the Brothers Were Valiant a worthwhile evening’s entertainment. Ann Blyth, an ND student favorite of long standing, Stewart Granger, Bob Taylor and Keenan Wynn have major roles.
PALACE (ends tomorrow)—Fair Wind to Java, starring Fred McMurray, features piracy, search for a treasure, romance, mutiny, and lots of action. Flight Nurse, the second attraction, is ideal for the matinee popcorn chompers.
GRANADA (through Nov. 18)—East of Sumatra (B) and Man of Conflict are still hanging around despite the fact that hardly anybody seems interested.
NOVEMBER 14
CHAPEL HILL, N. C. (1 p.m. CST)—After four straight hectic weekends, the troops can relax, sit back in their easy chairs and listen to Joe Boland describe the play by play of the Irish-Tarheel battle. On paper number seven looks pretty routine, but one can never tell.
DRILL HALL (8:30 p.m.)—The Senate offers a little change of pace with a square dance featuring the Kenosha Cornhuskers and that renowned star of stage, screen, and radio, Vigoro, the Singing Rooster. There’ll be regular dancing in addition to the Smoky Mountain stuff, and favors (cowbells) will be given to the gal friends. To go along with the spirit of the thing, cider and donuts replace the usual cokes.
WASHINGTON HALL (6:40 and 8:40)—If you’re broke and can’t hit the town or attend the square dance, you could force yourself to see Francis Covers the Big Town (A-l). Cheer up, the cartoon might be good.
AVON (indefinite run)—Mogambo (B) has received a tremendous amount of publicity, but it isn’t quite as good as the drum-beaters say.
NOVEMBER 15
SACRED HEART CHURCH (3 p.m.)—Notre Dame and SMC students and their guests get together for a family rosary. An open house will follow in the Center. No charge.
RIVER PARK (through Nov. 18)—Two very different but enjoyable motion pictures, Lili (A-2) and Monkey Business. Leslie Caron as the girl who loves puppets gives a convincing dramatic performance in the title role of the first pic. Monkey Business, with Cary Grant and Ginger Rogers, is an oldie, good for plenty of laughs.
NOVEMBER 17
STATE (two days)—Two wing-dingers that by their titles, seem to promise improbability, Man Who Murdered Himself and Hell Breaks Loose.
NOVEMBER 18
COLFAX (through Oct. 25)—That girl, Doris Day, is back again, this time she’s wearing buckskin and totin’ a gun as Calamity Jane. It’s a first rate musical comedy that is bound to appeal to just about everybody.
NOVEMBER 19
GRANADA (indefinite run)—The Robe (A-l) has been classified as one of the outstanding pictures in the history of the screen. It is deeply moving, warm and brilliantly done, with the added feature of the new CinemaScope process. The Robe is certainly one picture ND men should not miss. Distinguished performances are given by Jean Simmons, Richard Burton and Victor Mature among others.
STUDY IN EUROPE NOW
Again the Institute of European Studies offers students an economical European study and travel program.
Student groups live and study in Vienna, Austria, taking the English taught courses at the University of Vienna. They spend eight weeks travelling through nine countries of Europe and North Africa.
The Second Semester group sails Feb. 6,1954, on the Ryndam and returns to the U.S. in July 1954. Entire cost of program is $1035.
Price includes:
Room and board for 5J6 months. Round trip ocean transportation. Travel expenses through 9 countries. Tuition at University of Vienna. Special field trips and lectures.
Application deadline — December 1, 1953.
If you are interested please fill out this coupon and you will receive complete Second Semester information. Mail to:
THE INSTITUTE OF
EUROPEAN STUDIES
A non-profit corporation
7325 South Maryland Avenue Chicago 19, Illinois
name
College
address
city	zone state
GLASSES FITTED
SATISFACTORY OPTICAL SERVICE IN SOUTH BEND
FOR OVER 50 YEARS
Lenses Ground in Our Own Shop.
J. BURKE
Optometrist
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. M. I. MITTERMAYER
Associates
228 So. Michigan St.
6
The Scholastic
Vol. 95 November 13, 1953 No. 8
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor PATRICK C. CARRICO
Managing Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate Editor WILLIAM F. NOONAN
PAUL FULLMER ...............    News
FRED C. ECKART .................Copy
JOHN A. ADAMS ........Assistant Copy PAUL J. LaFRENIERE....Assistant Copy JOHN E. SLAVICK ......Features
ROBERT B. FROLICHER .....Sports JERRY D. BAIER .....Advertising B. JERRY CAMPBELL ..........Circulation BOB FOWLER--------Editorial Cartoonist DICK HAIRSINE-----Photography Coordinator
JOHN P. DEFANT....Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Bill Burnett, Dick Connelly, Carroll Dowden, Ellis Joseph, John Manion, Jim Mason, Dick Norton, Jim O’Brien, Henry O’Bryan, Pete Sturtevant, Mike Ward.
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Dick Bennett, Gordon DiRenzo, Jim DuBois, Bob Fowler, Jim Guide, Bob Huddleston, Bob Mackey, Gerry Trafficanda, Ed Turner, Dana Weithers.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Our Cover: That old nemesis of the college student, the mid-semester exams, is upon us again and the midnight oil is burning brightly in the halls. Senior Bob Chickey is no exception as he “bones” up on a few back assignments. Although admittedly not as industrious as the picture indicates, Chickey resembles in a way the typical “crammer” that is so prevalent here during the test periods. -
Gerry Trafficanda persevered to arrange the volumes and subject before snapping the “classic pose.”
THE NOTRE DAME
Scholastic
The New Center: A Good $200,000 Investment
The meager crowd of about fifty couples, who spent last Saturday night dancing and chatting in the $200,000 atmosphere of the new Student Center, proved that away-game weekends don’t necessarily have to be the dull, uninteresting things they have been in the past.
The home-game affair—a crutch upon which Notre Dame’s social calendar has leaned heavily in past years—has found competition now that the Center provides students and their dates with a place to spend a quiet, enjoyable evening of doing what they want to do without getting trampled to death in the process. In fact, if last week’s reaction is any indication, it’s safe to predict a time in the near future when off-game weekends around here may push their way to the top of the students’ preference list.
The Center can’t be beat for atmosphere. It wouldn’t take much looking to find out that someone like Laura Jenkins, interior designer for the White House and the Morris Inn, had a hand in dressing it up from the gaudy motif of a museum to a campus country club. The facilities not only make it a perfect place to take a date, but students can drop in during the day and play cards, study, or just rest. Student manager Jay Baier has also promised early delivery of a television set, and one of the circular rooms adjacent to the main ballroom will be used as a video-studio. Plans are also being made to transfer pool tables and ping-pong paraphernalia from the basement of Washington Hall later on.
Also, the Sunday afternoon problem of what-to-do has finally been solved. If the facilities of the Center aren’t adequate to replace the anti-climax of a post-weekend afternoon, there aren’t any.	'
What is equally important, however, is the economical aspect For those who can’t break the habit or for those who have bulging bankrolls, there are still movies in downtown South Bend where you can take a date on Saturday night. But most students, we think, will prefer the casual atmosphere of the Center—where you can enjoy cards, television, or dancing with your date and friends at a minimum . . . for free.
It would be impossible to give all the thanks to one particular person or group for their efforts in making our Center a reality at last. But a special citation, at least, should go to Mr. and Mrs. Joseph La Fortune of Tulsa, Oklahoma, who provided the bulk of the funds with their $135,000 contribution. It was through their thoughtfulness and generosity that concrete plans for renovation of the Old Science Hall made the first, important strides. Nor can we overlook contributions like the one of Private Elmore Smith, an alumnus, who bequeathed a sizeable sum to the Center before he died on a battlefield in Korea.
The many smaller contributions that students, alumni and friends made in the final stages of the campaign won’t be forgotten either. Much of the thanks should go to the wives of Vetville, who staged the pie contest last Spring in an effort to raise funds. There were also many individual contributions by students that didn’t get any publicity; and there were those who gave up their afternoons, tearing out partitions, painting, etc., to have the building ready for the Cotillion on opening night.
Finally, a tip of the hat to the Senate and the administration for proving to everyone that good cooperation is the prescription for effective results. .
November 13, 1953
7
The Class Ring You Are Privileged to Wear
Notre Dame Miniatures For Your Sweetheart
Miniature Notre Dame Rings and Bands
The miniature Notre Dame Rings are available in several styles. Here are the most popular styles in 10K:
The Official Notre Dame Rong
So that you might proudly wear an Official Notre Dame ring as a loyal son of the Uni
versity:
Black onyx stone only ....................$25.00
Blue Spinel, synth. Ruby, Tourmaline (buff or faceted) ............  27.00
Garnet, Sapphire, synth................... 28.00
Add $3.00 to buff top for 24K gold encrusting ND monogram seal ...........plus $3.00
20% Federal Excise Tax Extra
All diamond cluster, 10K..................$125.00
Diamond cluster with oval synth, sapphire, ruby, or tourmaline............. 69.00
Black onyx stone set. only ..............   16.00
Amethyst, Blue Spinel, Garnet, Ruby, Sapphire or Tourmaline ............  17.00
Wedding bands in 10K quality gold:
Ladies’ 10K plain......$ 6.00 contoured....$ 8.00
Men’s 10K plain........ 10.00 contoured.... 12.00
Ladies’ 10K beaded.... 6.00 contoured.... 8.00
Men’s 10K beaded....... 10.00 contoured.... 12.00
If interested, in other stone settings write for special ring folder.
20% Federal Excise Tax Extra
NOTRE DAME BOOK STORE University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana. Ph. 3-7111, Ex. 530
IDEAL CHRISTMAS GIFT!
s
The Scholastic
The Scholastic
Volume 95, Number 8
Notre Dame, Indiana
November 13, 1953
Center Hosts Engineers* Ball Tonight
Carlton 'Smart Music' To Provide Gala Motif
In the pleasant atmosphere of “Moonlight Bay,” Miss Mildred Brandt of Oklahoma City, Okla., will reign supreme tonight as the queen of the 1953 Engineers’ Ball at the Student Center from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m.
Miss Brandt, 21-year-old fiancee of dance chairman, Jack Nashert, is a graduate' of St. Anthony’s Nursing School in Oklahoma City. In connection with her coronation as queen of the Ball, she has recently been named cover girl for an Oklahoma City entertainment magazine. She is currently serving as a surgical nurse.
Nashert announced last week that tickets which went on sale Oct. 26 were completely sold out for the first time' in the history of the University’s oldest college dance.
An expected crowd of 260 engineers, the largest ever to attend the Ball, will escort their dates to the gala event at the new Student Center. At the door they will be provided with corsages which were included in the price of the bids.
The dance-goers will waltz to the music of Dick Carlton and his orchestra. Featuring “America’s Smartest Music,” Carlton has been a consistent national attraction for some years. He has appeared periodically in the' Statler Hotel chain and has been heard over nearly all the major radio networks.
Music, Decorations Suit Theme
Don Gels’ ensemble will furnish melodies during the intermissions.
Both music and decorations for the affair will conform to the “Moonlight Bay” motif. Highlighting the preparations will be a specially constructed fountain in the patio. Couples attending the dance may have souvenir photographs taken against the theme background.
Tradition demanding, favors have been kept carefully secret. The committee,
MILDRED BRANDT
Sets Sail Tonight on “Moonlight Bay”
however, is certain that they will be very pleasantly surprising.
Refreshments will be served free of charge in the Center’s two downstairs anterooms.
There will be bus transportation from St. Mary’s to the campus beginning at 8:40 p.m. Busses will leave every 25 minutes thereafter.
Chairman Nashert was aided in the work for the dance by Bill Till, business manager; Ed Christiano, ticket chairman; and Lee' Brockway, publicity chairman.
FRESHMEN TESTS
Freshmen who have not yet received their admission test results may do so by reporting to the Department of Guidance and Testing, Room 251, Administration Building, to be scheduled for future interpretive sessions. It is desired that all test results be given out by the end of the present month.
Nieuwland Science Hall Is Rated Best
Dr. Lars Melander of Stockholm’s Nobel Institute is of the opinion that Notre Dame’s science setup is one of the best in the country. “The building is probably the best I have ever worked in,” says Dr. Melander of the Notre Dame Nieuwland Science Hall. When asked how he enjoyed his visit Dr. Melander replied that it had been “most agreeable” and that the University had been “very hospitable.” .
Dr. Melander, a member of the Reilly Lecture Series group, has been delivering his lectures on “The Use of Nuclides in the Investigation of Organic Chemical Reaction Mechanisms.” He has been here since mid-October and plans to leave the University next Thursday. He will then travel to Oak Ridge, Tenn., Columbus, Ohio, and Brookhaven National Lab on Staten Island before leaving the' United States on Nov. 26.
This is Dr. Melander’s second visit to the states. He was also here in 1949 at which time he visited the Argonne National Labratory in Chicago, among others.
Head of Nobel Chemistry Institute
The 34-year-old head of the Nobel Institute of Chemistry at Stockholm, to which position he was appointed in 1952, recieved his Fil. Mag., which is about the equivalent of our B.S., in 1943. During the years 1943 to 1946 Dr. Melander did research work for the Swedish Research Institute for National Defense while working for his Fil. lac., which has no American equivalent because of the fact that it takes three years of work to obtain it to only one for our M.S.
In 1946 he became a member of the Nobel Institute of Physics and in ’47 he received his Fil. Doktor in 1950. At the Nobel Institute of Physics he re-the present time he is a member of the present time he is a member of the staffs of both the institutes of physics and chemistry.
November 13, 1953
Students Warned to Avoid Schedule Conflicts As Preregistration Begins in Deans' Offices
Notre Dame students now find themselves in the' middle of the annual task of preregistration for the second semester of the academic year. Preregistration for all colleges began last Thursday and will continue through ne'xt Wednesday. This change is due to the alteration of the University Calendar eliminating the period between the semesters.
This year the class cards will be distributed some time during the final exams, so there will be no activity pertaining to registration held during the period between the semesters. Because of this, special care must be taken to avoid class conflicts, and students must be sure to register for the classes they
Alumni to Mark Dec. 6 By Annual Communion
The 16th Annual Notre Dame Communion Sunday, which will be observed by thousands of alumni from coast-to-coast on Dec. 6, will be dedicated to the success of the forthcoming Marian Year recently proclaimed by Pope Pius XII.
The board of directors of the Notre Dame Alumni Association has requested 140 alumni clubs throughout the world, as well as individual alumni outside these areas, to devote this Sunday nearest the Feast of the Immaculate Conception to the success of the centenary observance of the dogma which was defined in 1854.
“Because Notre Dame is the largest school in the United States dedicated to Our Lady, and because Pope Pius XII himself is an honorary alumnus as the result of the degree conferred on him during his visit to the campus in 1936, the alumni board feels that Notre Dame men have both an obligation and a privilege to promote the Marian Year,” James E. Armstrong, executive secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni Association declared.
The Notre Dame clubs’ annual observance was inaugurated in 1938 because of the need for stressing the close ties between religion and American citizenship, beautifully symbolized in the dedication of the United States to Our Lady in hex- Immaculate Conception by the American hierarchy more than 100 years ago.
Club observances will center around attendance at Mass and Communion breakfasts with speakers from Notre Dame or the local area stressing the history and nature of the dogma of the Immaculate Conception to be commemorated during 1954.
want and need, so that confusion may be cut down to a minimum at the beginning of the second semester.
Commerce students are registering according to their year in school and are being divided alphabetically. Seniors have completed their registration, while juniors have partially completed theirs. The remaining juniors, from L through Z, will register Monday. Sophomores register as follows: A through D, Tuesday; E through K, Wednesday; L through Q, Thursday; and R through Z, Friday.
Freshmen will register on Nov. 23, 24, and 25: A through E, first; F through Me, second; and lastly, Me through Z. Registration is being held in the machine room, second floor, East wing of the Commerce building, from 8:30 a.m. to 11:50 a.m. and from 1:30 p.m. to 5 p.m. on the appointed days.
The only exception to the above schedule will be found in the Experimental Program whose students will register with the head of the program in accordance with announcements made in their classes.
The College of Arts and Letters is splitting up their registration by the student’s year in school. Freshmen and sophomores have completed their registration, while approximately half of the junior class have yet to do likewise. The remaining juniors will register on Monday, and the seniors on Wednesday and Thursday. The senior and junior classes are given two days each to register because of the flexibility of their course's. It has been announced that a ten dollar fee will be charged to any student registering on a day other than the one assigned to his respective class.
Science School Registration
In the College of Science upperclassmen have been registering since last Wednesday and will continue through next Wednesday. Freshmen will be taken care of from Nov. 19 through Nov. 25. Registration will be held in the dean’s office from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Monday through Friday and from 8 a.m. to 12 noon on Saturdays. Students majoring in biology, chemistry, physics, mathematics, and geology are asked to see the heads of their departments before registering.
In the Engineering School upperclassmen register at their own convenience on the appointed days with their department heads. Freshmen are registering similarly in the dean’s office.
Law School students may register at any time on the appointed days in room 108 of the Law Building.
JOE MADIGAN
Chairman of 1954 Mardi Gras
Mardi Gras Will Open With Dance Feb. 12
The Mardi Gras carnival will officially begin Feb. 12, 1954, with the Mardi Gras Ball. Ralph Marterie and his orchestra will highlight the dance set for the new Student Center.
On Saturday, Feb. 13, the carnival booths in the Navy Drill Hall will be open to the public. There will be a total of 24 booths which will be sponsored by the various clubs on the campus. Also included are four booths sponsored by St. Mary’s, which will be run solely by St. Mary’s girls.
The pre-Lenten festivities will close on Tuesday night, Feb. 16, with the giving of the cars. A 1954 Chrysler will be given to the winner and a 1954 Ford “Victoria” will be awarded to the student salesman. The awarding will officially close the Mardi Gras carnival.
The committees, selected by Chairman Joe Madigan, for the Mardi Gras are as follows: Dick O’Donnell and George Carhart, co-chairman for the car raffle; Jim McComb and Ned Guff er, co-chairmen for the carnival; Bill Reynolds, dance chairman; and Joseph Giovanini, business manager. Further plans for the carnival will be announced later.
COMMITTEEMEN NEEDED
Anyone interested in working on Mardi Gras committees is urged to immediately contact either:
Jim McComb, 319 Alumni or
Ned- Griffin, 366 Alumni
10
The Scholastic
Notre Dame TV Bid Before Commission
With the submission of a license application to the Federal Communications Commission, Notre Dame has moved one step closer in its bid for a television station.
South Bend has been assigned two commercial television channels by the FCC. WSBT-TV is already operating on channel 34, but channel 46 has not yet been assigned. The Michiana Telecasting Corp., incorporated by University officials, has applied to the FCC for this channel. Another group, the South Bend Broadcasting Corp., has also asked for channel 46.
4 At the present, Notre Dame’s application is awaiting action by the FCC. No hearing has been scheduled, but it is expected that the case will be reviewed in the near future.
The contemplated station for the University is to be of the UHF commercial type. To be affiliated with a network, the station will stress cultural and educational programming. The installation and studios are expected to be housed ■ on the campus and will be operated by a professional staff.
An educational channel has also been assigned to South Bend. The expenses involved in setting up and operating a TV station, however, are such that an educational channel is beyond Notre
• Dame’s resources.
If the TV station becomes a reality, Notre Dame would be the first of the nation’s colleges and universities to take full advantage of this new educational medium.
Frank Sheed Gives Talks On Theology Early in Week
Tuesday night, after being introduced by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president, Mr. Frank J. Sheed delivered the first of two lectures on the study of theology. The subject of the talk was “The Importance of the Study of Theology for Catholic Laymen.”
Following this session there was a discussion with the' faculty of the Department of Religion over a controversial pamphlet that Mr. Sheed published on Oct. 7. The title of the pamphlet is Are We Really Teaching Religion?
On Wednesday evening, Mr. Sheed addressed a group in Washington Hall on the subject “How to Study Theology.”
These lectures are part of a series of religion talks to be given throughout the year. The talks are being sponsored by the Department of Religion and the Committee on Self-Study of the College of Arts and Letters.
Student Senate Auditing Committee Formed To Examine Concession Books PeriodicaBy
Something new has been added to the Student Senate and Notre Dame. Initiated in October, the Auditing Committee of the Senate was created to handle the increasingly complex financial problems facing the student leaders.
The committee, appointed by Chairman Rick Hicks, is composed of Michael Costello, Ron Keuber, and Richard Williams, all Senate members.
O'Shaughnessy Studios to Open in Second Semester
As more and more equipment comes into WNDU’s new studios in the O’Shaughnessy Building it appears that WNDU’s broadcasting will be moved , there definitely at the beginning of the second semester.
The only major piece of equipment that has not yet arrived is the console. The new turn tables are highly praised by all of those who have had the good fortune to hear them.
The rack panels are all set to go and soon Jim Bergquist, WNDU’s record librarian, will begin the long and difficult task of moving all of WNDU’s many records to their new home. The wiring is almost complete and will be finished as soon as the engineers can get to work on the yet-to-arrive console.
KEUBER, WILLIAMS, HICKS, COSTHLO Senate Auditing Committee - -
“The general function of this committee is checking the books of the numerous concessions which are given the right to operate by the Senate,” said Hicks, Student Senate treasurer.
It was originated this year, since it was realized that a very large amount of money is handled by the individual concessions in carrying on husinpaq Some of the more prominent include the flower concession, photograph concess-sion, and sale of the popular green Irish hats by the Marketing Club.
The volume of business demanded the formulating of such a service. The photograph concession, for example, did a gross business exceeding $6,000 last year.
The specific function of the committee is to check books against improper order or possible error. The Senate receives a proportion of the profits realized by the concessions; therefore, it is mandatory that their books be checked for accuracy. The services of the auditing committee are submitted voluntarily by its members.
There is no set time or schedule for this auditing: the books are checked irregularly.
All members of the new group are students in the College of Commerce and have had at least two years of accounting.
November 13, 1953
11
KEN MURPHY AND DICK GERBRACHT Pressmen Prepare for Dinner, Mixers
Pressmen to Sponsor JMD-S+. Mary's Mixers
* ’ The University Press Club met last ^'week in the Student Center with eight St. Mary’s College journalism minors to discuss plans for inter-group activities during the remainder of the year. Recently elected President Dick Gerbracht and Secretary Ken Murphy presided at this initial meeting.
Gerbracht stated, “We hope to make some sort of arrangement with the girls interested in journalism at St. Mary’s for holding joint meetings and mixers.”
He added that the two groups were planning to have a mixer sometime during November but that no date or place has been decided, upon yet.
The Press Club members also decided to invite all of the St. Mary’s girls who either minor in journalism, work on the school paper, yearbook or literary magazine, to attend the Club’s annual Fall dinner, Dec. 7. An estimated 45 people work on the various SMC publications. B. Jerry Campbell was appointed to make arrangements for the dinner.
At present, the SMC journalism minors are looking into the idea of forming some type of press club to better coordinate inter-group functions with Notre Dame journalists.. There is no major in journalism offered at St. Mary’s.
The Notre Dame Press Club is composed of all the seniors and juniors who major in journalism. The senior officers, Gerbracht and Murphy appointed Jim Sherer and Dave Cohen, juniors, to serve on the club’s executive committee until the early part of December when the juniors will elect the Club’s vice-president and treasurer.
New Regulation Permits Unlimited Class Cuts For Upperclassmen Possessing 88 Averages
The academic council of the University has recently announced a new policy concerning unlimited absences from class. The new regulations go into effect immediately. The revised regulations will appear in the General Bulletin of the University for next year.
More than 475 students now possess an average of 88 percent or better, and may skip class at any time without penalty.
The new rule reads as follows: “These regulations on absences do not apply to graduate and Law students nor to undergraduate students in the upper three years who are on their Dean’s current Honor List of those who have maintained a general average of 88 percent or better in the work of the previous academic year. Such students are judged to assume personal responsibility for class attendance and for class work and tests missed.”
This means that a student must be on the Dean’s Honor- List for the year 1953-54 to be eligible for unlimited cuts in the following term. Last year’s honor lists will not come under the new rule, because the new honor lists include only those students with an 88 average or better for the previous year.
Rev. Philip Moore, vice-president in charge of academic affairs, states, “The average used will be the same average used for the Draft Boards, which averages are made up in June of each year.” This means the student’s general average will go a long way in determining his selective service status.
Concerning absences from quizzes Father Moore says, “If the honor student misses a class during which there was a quiz, he receives a zero for that test and does not have permission to make up the quiz.”
Only when the student has been excused from class because of illness will he be allowed to make up missed work. Permission to make up all quizzes must be obtained from the Office of the Prefect of Discipline.
In addition, Honor students are held entirely responsible for “pop” quizzes. Although the teacher should announce his policy concerning unannounced tests at the beginning of the semester, he does not have to remind the honor student of his policy. The teacher cannot allow an honor student to make up unannounced quizzes without permission from the Prefect of Discipline, except in the case of illness as stated previously.
The new regulation also involves sev
eral problems concerning physical education courses.
Upperclassmen who are on the Dean’s Honor List and have completed their freshman phy. ed. courses are permitted unlimited cuts in the sophomore phy. ed. course provided they can pass proficiency tests in three sports, one of which must be swimming. But upperclassmen who have not finished two full semesters of freshman phy. ed. are subject to the usual regulations for unexcused absences.
The new rule does not apply to honor students who have transferred to the University at the spring semester. In order to be eligible for unlimited absences the honor student must have been at Notre Dame for both the Fall and Spring semesters of the previous year. Also, summer school averages are not computed in the general averages of the honor student which are prepared each June.
Breen Oratory Contest Prelims to Begin Nov. 30
Prof. Leonard Sommer, director of forensics, recently announced the dates for the annual Breen Oratorical Contest. Preliminaries will be held Nov. 30 at 4:30 p.m. in Room 104 of the Liberal Arts Building. Entrants must register with Professor Sommer in the office of the Department of Speech, Room 344 Liberal Arts Building, by Nov. 20.
The oration must consist of approximately 1,000 words—seven to nine minutes in length. Subject matter is to be selected by. the. individual contestants. The final contest is scheduled for the evening of Dec. 7 in the Law Auditorium.
The Breen Medal for Oratory was founded by the' Honorable William Patrick Breen, ’77, and is awarded annually to the student who excels in oratory.
LECTURE ON INDO-CHINA
The Committee on International Relations is sponsoring a lecture by Professor J. B. Duro-selle on “The War Against Communism in Indo-China.” It will be held at 8 p.m. on Wednesday, November 18, in the Rockne Memorial Lounge. The chairman is Reverend Stanley J. Parry, C.S.C., head of the Department of Political Science. Everyone is cordially invited.


12
The Scholastic
Cadet Selection Team Interviews NextWeek
Information concerning the U. S. Air Force Aviation Cadet Program will be available to all interested students here next week.
This announcement, from the Aviation Cadet Selection Team from O’Hare International Airport, Park Ridge, Ill., comes in advance of the team’s visit set for next Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday.
During this period, members of the team will be in the Dining Hall from 9 a. m. to 4 p. m. to answer questions and counsel students concerning Aircraft Observer and Pilot Training
' programs.
Capt. Maurice G. Steele, team president, and his assistant, Airman IC Carl Brice, are the team members who will visit Notre Dame.
Aircraft Observer training classes begin every two weeks, the entire program lasting approximately 14 months—three months of pre-flight, 30 weeks of primary, about five months of basic, and a final two months of advanced or crew training.
Successful completion of the course brings Aircraft Observer wings, a second lieutenant’s commission, and a career as a rated flying officer, skilled in a technical specialty such as navigation, bombardment, radar, electronics aircraft performance engineering, and armament operations.
Barristers Summon Ladies
As 'Interlude' Opening Nears
Only a limited number of bids remain for the Law Ball Nov. 20, Jack Bradshaw, general chairman, announced last week.
Bids to the “Barrister’s Interlude” next Friday at the South Bend Country Club sell for $4 apiece. Bids this year have taken the form of “Writs of Habeas Corpus and Danceamus,” a takeoff on the Old English writs, and scribed in typical early legal vernacular.
Football tickets for the Iowa game may be secured with each bid for the regular price of $4.80 apiece.
Ticket Chairman Tom Hanrahan heads a committee of bid salesman in each class. They include: Seniors Sam Adelo, Don Bebenek, Sam Rodino, Joe Canouse, Joe Orso, Jack Malik, and Don Ward; Juniors Paul Jackowitz; and Freshmen Jack Rosshirt and Bob O’Leary.
Corsages are barred from the “Interlude,” Bradshaw added.
Notre Dame Mourns Death of Fr. Furstoss; Requiem Mass Celebrated by Fr. Hesburgh
Funeral services were sung Wednesday morning at 9 a.m. for Rev. Bernard J. Furstoss, C.S.C., director of Notre Dame’s purchasing department, who died Saturday, Nov. 7, in the Students Infirmary. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the’ University, was the celebrant of the Solemn Requiem Mass in Sacred Heart Church. Interment was in the Community Cemetery on the campus.
His body lay in state before the altar in the Chapel of Our Lady in Sacred Heart Church on Monday and Tuesday.
Stricken in July
Father Furstoss was stricken with a heart ailment in July. He was in critical condition for many weeks but appeared to be recuperating when he suffered a relapse last Saturday evening.
Prior to his appointment as director of the purchasing department in June of this year, Father Furstoss had been supervisor of maintenance and rector of St. Edward’s, Alumni, and Badin halls.
In the years following World War II, Father Furstoss was especially popular with the returning veterans in his capacity as the manager of Vetville. He
REV. BERNARD J. FURSTOSS, C.S.C.
Purchasing Head Dies After Illness
also served as chaplain of the campus Knights of Columbus Council.
In order to fully supervise the Department of Maintenance, he was often seen riding around the University grounds in a jeep. He spent his entire eight years
as a priest here on the University campus.
Born in Chicago
Father Furstoss was born Jan. 31, 1910, in Chicago, Ill. He entered the Congregation of Holy Cross in 1934, making final profession as a member of the order in 1940. He received his A.B. degree at the University of Notre Dame in June, 1941.	.
After four years of theological study at Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C., Father Furstoss was ordained a priest on June 10, 1945, in Sacred Heart Church by Most Rev. Amleto Cicognani, Apostolic Delegate to the United States.
Danforth Applications Now Open to Seniors
Applications for the Danforth Graduate fellowships for the 1954-55 academic year will be’ accepted by Dr. Bernard J. Kohlbrenner, liaison officer for Notre Dame, in his office in the Department of Education.
The Danforth graduate fellowships are open to students in all fields of graduate study which are’ teaching fields in the undergraduate college.
The fellowship committee will choose approximately fifty candidates for the 1954 fellowships on the following qualifications: high academic ability and achievement; acceptable record of health and emotional stability; personality adapted to teaching and counseling; continuing concern for the welfare of people; choice of college teaching as a Christian vocation; deep religious conviction; and a growing religious perspective.
The foundation welcomes applicants from the fields of natural sciences, social sciences, humanities, and other fields of specialization to be found in the undergraduate colleges.
For those needing financial aid, a fellowship-grant will be given; others will participate in all the activities and privileges of the program.
The fellowships are granted for one year with expectation of renewal. Applications for renewal will be considered by the foundation on the basis of academic success, the continuation of the vocational objective of college teaching, and sympathy with the program.
To be considered for the' 1954 fellowships, an application with all required recommendation forms must be completed by Feb. 15. Further information may be obtained from Dr. Kohlbrenner.
November 13, 1953
13
Bartholomew Attributes Democratic Victories To Lack of Republican 'Will to Do Something'
By DICK CONNELLY
‘‘The recent Democratic victories in New York, New Jersey, and Wisconsin are signs of growing Democratic power throughout the country, mainly due to the lack of right-mindedness and ‘will to do something’ by the Republicans,” said Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, commenting on the present day political situation.
Dr. Bartholomew, a member of the Political Science Department here at Notre Dame since 1929, forecasts a possible Democratic victory in the nearing California elections. “So far, the Republicans haven’t done much,” he said. “Their time is slowly running out; however, they might salvage something when Congress convenes in January.
“When Dwight D. Eisenhower was elected in 1952, the' Republican platform included the KKK slogan—Korea, Communism, and Corruption. In considering the platform promises made, we find an indefinite stalemate in Korea; the Congressional Committees have been ‘carrying the ball’ in the' fight against Communism; and the Republicans have not developed a militant attitude toward conniption or Communism. However, part of the Republican failure in emphasizing these matters has been due to poor public relations. The fact that the President plays a fair game of golf should not be dramatized to the extent that more important legislation or accomplishments of the administration be minimized.”
Dr. Bartholomew believes the Republican New Deal should be a real thing and not merely a pale copy of the New Deal of old or a “synthetic” Republican plan.
“The Republicans will miss the political brain of Senator Taft. The rifts and confusion in the Republican party will result in a splitting of the party on a liberal basis. President Eisenhower hasn’t as yet exhibited the necessary qualities of political leadership. Taft could conciliate the opposing camps of the G.O.P.; the present majority leader (Senator Nolan, Rep.-Calif.) hasn’t the prestige to do so. As a result, party members have felt freei- and more independent of party policy.”
Commenting on the midwestem political scene, Dr. Bartholomew indicated the possibility of two or three Republican districts in Indiana as going “either way.” The Democrats have a fifty-fifty chance of gaining in the Hoosier state although there is no real Republican revulsion apparent.
“The Republicans should be more ag
gressive on matters of setting things right—financial wise. The G.O.P. hasn’t shown a consistent tendency to do something at first opportunity. Although out of office for 20 years, miracles cannot be expected; however, it is simply a matter of the will. If the people want a more conservative regime, it is up to the administration to do something.”
Dr. Bartholomew went so far as to predict a possible Democratic victory in
DR. BARTHOLOMEW
‘Republicans Haven't Done Much'
Congress in 1954 and a presidential victory in 1956. “The Republicans are making trouble for themselves; they were elected to do something and haven’t. Due to the fact that some Democrats were disappointed in Adlai Stevenson following the election and his trip around the world, the Democratic candidate of ’52 will face more opposition if he chooses to run in 1956.” Dr. Bartholomew’s views on the recent Democratic upset in the East follow those of Stevenson who attributed the Democratic victory in New Jersey to “disgust, discouragement, and disillusionment.”
Freshmen Jam Polls to Elect *53-'54 Class, Hall Leaders
Climaxing nearly a month of political stumping, which proved a bit more spirited than usual, the freshmen trek to the polls today and mark in “x’s” for their class favorites. Election of hall officers also are being held today.
During the past week campaign efforts of the various candidates soared to a fever pitch, with gaudy posters,
handshakes and introductions, and even paid political radio announcements — all aimed at capturing those all-important votes.
A run-down of nominations, which closed last Tuesday, shows the following organized parties:
The Representative Party, which boosted Frank Petace for president; Bill Labor, vice-president; Tom Edwards, secretary; and Dick Hocks, treasurer.
The Blue and Gold Party consisted of Marty Murphy, president; Joe Sheridan, vice-president; Joe Manzo, secretary; and Mike Ahern, treasurer.
Bert Millin, president; George Strake, vice-president; Robert Weiner, secretary; and Mark Maley, treasurer, formed a third group named the Shillelagh Party.
Also tossing their hats into the ring were independents Ed “Tex” Prud’-Homme, running for president, and Jack Moynahan, another candidate for prexy.
Chicago Club Dances In the Drake Nov. 25
Next week, just before Thanksgiving rolls around, those attending the annual Chicago Club dance will find themselves swaying to the music of Johnny Marlow and his band. Marlow’s seven-piece band hails from the Windy City, adding a “home town” touch.
The dance will be held in the Grand Ball Room and French Room of the Drake Hotel on Nov. 25. These two rooms were procured at great expense by the club, and are reported by the club president, John Andreas, to be one of the best locations the club has ever obtained.
The hotel is supplying a number of tables sufficient for the expected crowd and will add more if necessary. There will be room for ten persons at each table. The club officers suggest that those going to the dance get their groups together beforehand.
Dancing will be from 9:30 p. m. to 1 a. m. Bids are $4 on campus and §4.50 in Chicago. They can be bought from representatives located in each of the halls. Off-campus students can obtain their bids from Bob Poden in 119 Alumni.
The French Room will be used exclusively for tables and the Ball Room for dancing. There will be refreshment centers located in these two rooms.
Chairmen Bob Poden and Bob Krop have been working along with the Club’s officers in planning the dance.
The Scholastic
14
*
Washington Hall Resounds With Porter Music As 'Kiss Me, Kate1 Rehearsals Get Under Way
For the next two and one half weeks Washington Hall will echo with a strange combination of sounds, the songs of Cole Porter and the lines of Shakespeare. The reason for this singular association is the University Theatre’s staging of the musical comedy, Kiss Me, Kate. Each evening some 45 actors and actresses, singers and dancers will be preparing for the opening of the show on Dec. 1.
Eugene Gorski, well-known baritone soloist of the Glee Club, has the male lead of Fred Graham. Dalis Ann Yoder has the part of Lois Lane. The roles of Lilli Vanessi and Bill Calhoun have been double-cast. Billie Baum and Jinny Myler will take turns as Lilli, while William Hamel and Ward Mercier will play Bill on alternate nights.
The play, based on the original book by Sam and Bella Spewack, tells the story of a divorced acting couple who meet in the production of The Taming of the Shrew. The husband, Fred, is the director and plays the male lead Petruchio. His ex-wife Lilli is Kate.
Cole Porter’s 14 songs provide Kiss Me, Kate with the best of musical scores. Among the songs are “So in Love,” “Were Thine That Special Face,” “Wunderbar,” “Always True to You Darling in My Fashion,” and “Brush Up Your Shakespeare.”
Charles Spicka portrays Harry Trevor, an actor. The two gangsters are Pat Cannon and Russ Hemphill. Ralph, the stage manager, is played by Joe Juricic. Hortensio and Gremio are John Noland and Raymond Papay. In the role of the stage doorman is Richard Six, while Richard Robison plays Harrison Howell.
Thomas Bloomer and James Ryan are Paul and Gregory. The taxi driver is Cliff Carlson, while Nathaniel is played by Terry Crowley.
Members of the chorus include Thomas Laboe, Bruce Brown, Robert Pan-zica, Thomas Hawekotte, Jack Funck, Joseph Ryan, Charles Minck, James Stockwell, Michael Higgins and Orlando Maione. Others are: Denni Egry, Mary Jane Paden, Eleanor Kaskey, Dorothy Cochane, Pat Jaworski, Annabelle Tchida, Jane McCarthy, Mary Ellen Dempsey, Elfried Martens, Kay Gooley and Kathy Billisitz.
On the production end of the show, Marion Leszczynski and Stephen Steck-beck will handle the sets. Stage manager is Jerry Godwin, while Joe Huebner is in charge of costumes. Hildegarde Vargyas will supervise make-up. Lights will be handled by Ramon Berrios and Robert Panzica.
The production crew is comprised of Jack McMahon, Thomas Hawekotte, Cliff Carlson, Charles Digiacomo, Terry Crowley, Reginald Bain, Jerome Sweeney, Pat Hosey, Michael Regan, Bruce Brown, David Friske, and Ed Sexauer.
Prof. John Tumpane of the Department of Speech will direct the production of Kiss Me, Kate. Assisting him will be John Kirby, technical director; Alan Powers, dance director; and Dudley Birder, musical director. The accompanists are Sylvia Moran and Terry Steinhoffer.
Production dates are Dec. 1st to 6th. All seats will be reserved. The tickets and publicity are being handled by the Marketing Club.
Tickets for students, faculty, and University employees are priced at $.75. Other general admission seats are $1.50. Seats may be purchased in advance by writing: University Theatre, Notre Dame, Ind.
Eiberger Appointed New Editor of N.D. 'Lawyer'
Carl F. Eiberger, Jr., winner of the Clarence E. Manion award, has been chosen as the new editor-in-chief of the
CARL EIBERGER, JR.
Editor of Notre Dame ‘Lawyer’
Notre Dame Laxvyer, a quarterly law review. Eiberger is also co-director of the Moot Court.
The former editor, Joseph T. Helling, has been chosen as research assistant by Crumpacker, May, Beamer, Leny, and Searer, one of South Bend’s leading law firms. This employment opportunity was
granted on the basis of his high scholastic standing and in recognition of his work as editor-in-chief of the Lawyer.
Helling has relinquished his former staff position on the Lawyer, hut will remain as honorary editor to give technical assistance to the staff until his graduation in June.
Helling and Eiberger composed the winning team in the fourth annual Moot Court competition held last year, meriting the Clarence E. Manion award.
The' new staff of the Lawyer for the coming year also includes: Edward L. Burke, associate editor; Donald J. Prebenda, articles editor; James Uhl, note editor; and Robert LeMense, assistant case editor.
Joe Boland Signed to Emcee Irish Grid Testimonial Dinner
Joe Boland, sports director of WSBT and WSBT-TV, the Tribune’s radio and television stations, will serve as toastmaster at the 16th Annual Testimonial Dinner for the Notre Dame football team, Dec. 9, in the Notre Dame Dining Hall. Harry F. Koehler, president of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of the St. Joseph Valley, made the announcement recently.
Boland, who broadcasts Notre Dame football games across the nation over the Irish network, is a former Notre Dame player and coach. He starred as a lineman on Knute Rockne’s teams of 1924-25-26. His playing career ended when he suffered a broken leg in the 1926 Minnesota game.
After graduating magna cum laude from Notre Dame in 1927, Boland served as line coach at Santa Clara and as head coach at St. Thomas College, Minn., before returning as line coach at Notre Dame under Elmer Layden. Boland also coached the line at Purdue before assuming his duties with WSBT.
General chairman for the affair will be Mr. Daniel J. Youngerman. He has announced the following committees and their heads to abet him in the affair:
Tickets and finance—Jim Hannan and Chet Grant, co-chairmen; Raymond Reutz, Gerald Hickey, Albert McGann, and William Meehan. Pre-banquet—Bill Gibbons and Joe Lynch, co-chairmen; William Ryan, Wayne Wahl, Don Fisher and Elmer Horvath. Program—Guy McMichael and Charles Callahan, cochairmen; Robert Grant, J. J. Crowley, Jr., and William Sheehan.
Publicity—John Cackley and Robert Lehman, co-chairmen; Frank Crosiar, Joe Doyle, Richard Cody and Vince Doyle. Food and arrangements—James Beaudway and Tim Waite, co-chairmen; Charles Sweeney, Jim Leahy, Joe Hickey, Jack Moulder, Rudy Goepfrick, Dick Kaczmarek and Rollie Poulin.
November 13, 1953
Fr. Putz Will Keynote St. Joe Meet Nov. 21
Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., professor of Religion at the University, will keynote a two-day Interracial Collegiate Conference, sponsored by the College Program Committee of the Catholic Interracial Council of Chicago, which will begin Nov. 21 at St. Joseph’s College, near Rensselaer, Ind. Attendance and participation is anticipated from college students throughout the Illinois-Indiana area.
Other speakers over the weekend will be the Very Rev. Raphael Gross, C.PP.S., president of St. Joseph’s College'; Hugh McAvoy, president of student government at St. Joseph’s College; Lloyd Davis, executive secretary of the Catholic Interracial Council of Chicago; and Walter Baker of DePaul University.
Conference members will be divided into various commissions which will meet twice on Saturday afternoon. Topics to be discussed in the commissions include: racial injustice on the campus; racial injustice in the Church; and racial injustice in the community at large. Sub-commissions will discuss housing, education, governmental responsibility, and employment.
The faculty and student government of St. Joseph’s have made theii- campus facilities available for the weekend. Registration will take place at 9:45 a.m. Saturday, Nov. 21. Saturday evening visitors will attend a basketball game in the College gym and an informal dance following the game. Benediction will close the meetings just before' lunch on Sunday.
The total cost of the weekend will be S4, including lodging Saturday night, all meals while at St. Joseph’s, the basketball game and the dance. Those interested in attending should contact the YCS office in the basement of the Law Building or Chuck Weitzel, 425 Walsh Hall, as soon as possible in order to make reservations and arrange for group transportation.
Aesculapians Introduce New Student Study Aid for Frosh
The Aesculapians, an organization comprised of pre-med students at the University, has inaugurated a new system aimed at aiding the freshmen both academically and socially. According to club president, Jim Norton, each of the freshman members of the club ..has been assigned an upperclassman, advisor.
The advisor will be ready to help his ward on any problem that might arise out of his studies or social life. If he finds himself incompetent to help with
a specific problem he takes upon himself the responsibility of directing the freshman to one who will be able to assist him.
So far, 90 freshmen are included within the advisory system with 25 more soon to be assigned counselors.
PROFS. GEORGE AND THOMAS WACK Like Father, Like Son
WackFa+her-Son Duo Teaches in AB School
It’s' not unusual for a father and son to be in business together, but a father and son combination on a university faculty is indeed rare. Such a pair is George J. Wack and Thomas G. Wack who teach in the University’s College of Arts and Letters.
Prof. George J. Wack is now in his 30th year of teaching German in the Department of Modern Languages. His son, Thomas G. Wack, has been an instructor in American literature for three years in the Department of English.
Several parallels link the lives of the two men. Both are Notre Dame graduates, both did graduate work here, and both decided on a teaching career while serving in a world war. . Incidentally, both men chose brides from South Bend.
When Thomas Wack was born, his father had already been teaching German at Notre Dame for two years. He grew up in the happy, cultured home of a university professor and from his earliest years came' to enjoy the campus way of life. The elder Wack, although a specialist in the theory of German grammar, had a deep appreciation of literature and did much to direct the reading of his son and stimulate in him a keen literary interest.
Thomas Wack is the eldest of six chil-
SS Qualification Test Set for Thursday A.M.
An estimated 150 students will take the Selective Service Qualification Test next Thursday in rooms 250 and 254 of the Main Building at 8:30 a.m. The test, to determine which students are eligible for student draft deferments will be administered by the Department of Testing and Guidance.
A score of 70 for undergraduates, or 75 for graduate students, is necessary to obtain a II-S classification. However, a passing score does not necessarily guarantee a deferment since classification is made at the discretion of the local draft boards.
The tests are corrected by the Educational Testing Service in Princeton, N. J., and the marks are then sent to the local draft boards. Students may obtain their marks directly from their local draft boards in about a month by enclosing a self-addressed, stamped envelope with a request for the marks to the board.
Admission to the test is by ticket only. Students are urged to be on time for the test. Since it is being administered under Federal supervision, the testing must begin promptly. Students are also requested to bring a number 2 pencil with them to the test.
This test is the last that will be given until April 27, 1954.
Mr. Edward E. Quinn, head of the' Department of Testing and Guidance, advises those who are to take the test: “Get a good night’s sleep before the test. It is impossible to cram for this test.” He added, however, that a general review of physics and English might prove helpful.
Mr. Quinn also advises the good student to take the test as soon as possible. “Even the student who already ranks high enough in his class to be eligible for a deferment without taking the test should take it as insurance,” he said. “An unforeseen circumstance such as a prolonged illness may result in a drop in your average.”
According to Mr. Quinn, the student who is having difficulty, especially in mathematics, would be wise to wait as long as possible before taking the test since his chances of passing it improve' substantially year by year.
The three-hour, multiple choice examination tests linguistic and grammatical skills and mathematical reasoning ability.
dren, three boys and three girls. The youngest son, now a junior here, soon will jcin his father and two brothers in the ranks of Notre Dame alumni.
16
The Scholastic
QIba Club . . .
Concert in a Hurry
The house-lights dim, a hush falls on the audience, and the curtains part. To the sound of polite applause, a man walks from the wings, bows to the audience, turns to the' men in back of him, raises his hands, and another Notre Dame Glee Club Concert begins.
November 13, 1953
To the audience, it’s quite a sight— thirty-six men standing straight as arrows, almost shining in their white ties and tails. And the singing is quite a thing to listen to.
After the concert, the Club gets a big round of applause, and the audience
17
Buzz Helfrich and Walt Sneider relax after concert with song and beer.
Charlie Gomez has a difficult tie straightened by his brother.
goes home pleased and not at all aware of the rush and trouble that went into this concert in Chicago, or any other nearby city.
The rush starts after the Club members’ last class in the afternoon, when they run to make the bus waiting at the Circle. They get to the bus exhausted and usually stay that way the rest of the trip.
Long before the bus has left the Circle, however, some’ of the members have been hard at work loading the stands on the bus. This “stand detail” is also in charge of setting up and taking down these stands once the Club gets to the auditorium—all in all, it’s quite a job, and it’s no wonder that the men on the “detail” are those who haven’t traveled before.	'
“When Do We Eat?"
There are the usual laggards who are always late for the' bus, getting a hiss and a boo when they finally arrive, but the Club finally leaves the Circle and is on the road.
If the trip is to the Windy City, as it usually is, the trip isn’t too interesting. The bus is usually too warm, and a headache' isn’t unusual. A few guys try to study, and some try a couple of hands of bridge. Quite a few of the boys hum over some of the music, because no one ever seems to know it all. Mostly though, it’s just waiting until the bus reaches its destination.
Finally the Club arrives, and then the perennial questions arise: “Where’s the auditorium?” “Where do we change clothes?” And loudest of all, “When do we eat?”
Tony Trigiani, the business manager, noses around a while and finally comes up with all the answers. The auditorium and a place for suitcases and carry-alls is found, and it’s time to eat.
The sponsors of the conceit have laid out a terrific meal for the Club members, and some of the local girls, who’ll be ushers at the conceit, do the serving, getting many longing glances from the boys. There are double servings on everything, and a horse laugh for the Dining Hall chow.
Usually, though, there’ isn’t time to eat the meal in a leisurely fashion. Because the bus was late leaving school, there’s only forty-five minutes in which to eat, get in tails, warm up, and get out on stage.	.
Trouble with Tails
AfteT hurrying through the meal, the club members start the fight with their tails. Somebody’s got to button up the stuffed shirt and tie the ties. Guys are running around looking for extra collars, shirt studs, cuff links, and even shirts. And this is where the audience' gets fooled. The fellows who look so nice
The Glee Club makes another <
with the lights shining on them on stage aren’t really so good-looking after all. That fancy white shirt might very well be' a paper dickey, and somebody is sure to have-a towel wrapped around him as a substitute for a vest.
Argyle Socks and Suede Shoes
Quite a few of the boys have to borrow tails because they don’t have the required sixty bucks to shell out for a pair, and even those that do own their own have probably bought them secondhand. In other words, they don’t fit. The pants are' too short and the argyle socks show, and the coats are too small. Blue suede shoes do for black leather ones, and ROTC clod-hoppers do for dress shoes.
A couple of guys have indigestion from bolting their dinner, when it’s time for a last-minute warm-up before the concert. But the show must go on, and
The Scholastic
18
that range from ill-fitting tails and lost shirts to indigestion and headaches.
'd-pleasing performance, in spite of difficulties
A Job Well Done
Buzz Helfrich, and the concert is on.
At intermission time, most of the Club members just collapse on the nearest chair. But those with enough strength are on the loose, looking for the good-
(LEFT) Last warm-up and throat-loosening is Pedlke prescription for a good concert. (RIGHT) Jack Clemency and Fritz Owens catch some sack on the way back
it’s down to the stage, where the soloists are walking around loosening up their throats, and Dick Casper tries out the piano. The stands are arranged, and places are found. A short prayer led by
looking ushers. It’s surprising how well they get to know the girls in half an hour, and quite a few dates are made for some week-end in Chicago.
After the concert, the tails come off
as fast as possible. There’s a last-minute j talk to the girls, and then it’s back to the bus.
On the way back to school, there’s just enough time to hit a bar for a little drink if you’re twenty-one, or for a hamburg if you’re not. Then the long ride back to school. There’s a little’ singing on the bus, but that quiets down and everybody tries to get a little sack time.
Groggy-eyed, the Glee Club hits the circle about 2:30. Everybody has lost a night’s study and a half night’s sleep, but they have a sense of accomplishment and pride in a job well done.
November 13, 1953
19
Getting too familiar with job interviewer and smoking without his permission are two good ways of making a bad impression.
looking for a ...
JOB?
Messy Application blank—one strike before you get up to bat.
One of the most urgent questions in the mind of every college senior is, “Where do we go from here?” Although the final decision rests with the student alone, the University has helped considerably to facilitate this tremendous decision by providing the prospective job-seeker with the services of the Notre Dame Placement Bureau.
Basically, the Placement Bureau, under the direction of Mr. William Dooley, is a University Office with a twofold purpose: first, to help students and alumni with regard to seeking and getting full-time, “permanent” jobs, and secondly, to help employers by providing a single centralized point of employment contact with Notre Dame.
To accomplish these objectives, the Bureau has three main functions. It provides an Information service, with a large and growing occupational library. A Counseling service is provided to give advice on all phases of job-seeking. The third function of the Bureau is its interview service, whereby employment interviews arranged by the Placement Bureau are held on the campus throughout much of the school year.
Any student may avail himself of this assistance simply by taking fifteen minutes to register with the Bureau.
• In his work with the students, Mr. Dooley feels that he cannot stress too heavily the importance of the student
choosing the job that is right for him. Not only does a man’s job decide his own future success and happiness, but it also exerts a profound influence on the happiness of his future family.
For this reason, the Placement Bureau conducts its services with a Catholic viewpoint always in mind, on the principle that the man with the job best suited for him is more likely to be a better layman and citizen, and therefore a spiritual as well as a social and economic success.
One of the questions most commonly asked of the Bureau by the future jobholder is, “Is it worthwhile to register when I am practically sure that I am going to be in the Armed Forces soon after I receive my degree?” The answer .in Mr. Dooley’s words, is “Definitely yes!” First, you probably need the informational service and counseling service which the Placement Bureau provides.
Secondly, things may change substantially between now and the time you get your degree. And even if they don’t, and you land in the Armed Forces soon after graduation, you still will be looking for a job two or three years hence. Now is the time to prepare to get it.
Finally, it is Mr. Dooley’s experience that employers generally are entirely willing to talk to any students about a job, without regard to his Armed Forces
status. They may be able to train him for two or three months, and then get him back after his period of service. Or they may just put him on a preferred list for later consideration.
Your interview with a prospective employer, or with his representative, is of primary importance to you, since it is principally on this that your possible worth to a company .is evaluated. Therefore, it is absolutely essential that you are adequately prepared beforehand if you hope for a successful interview. The experience of the Placement Bureau has been that the most common reason for an unsuccessful interview is that the jobseeker hasn’t prepared himself as far as he and the company are concerned.
The student should try to anticipate the questions which will be asked in his interview, and be ready with answers that have been carefully thought out beforehand.
One question which is inevitably asked by the interviewer is, “What kind of work do you want to do?” Although it is not expected that a student know exactly what he wants to do, it is essential that he at least show some evidence of having tried to find out. For this reason, Mr. Dooley suggests that the student avail himself of the services of the. Testing and Guidance Department, and all other possible sources of
(Continued on page 32)
20
The Scholastic
College Draft Forecast: Continued Stormy
By TIM DEVEREUX
Because of the present shortage of draft-age youths, the Selective Service is expected to adopt a stricter application of the deferment rules. According to Major General Lewis B. Hershey, director of Selective Service, “Calls will be larger next year and exemptions fewer.” The present call totals 23,000 per month, but this total is expected to be raised upwards to between 40,000 and 60,000 by .July 1, 1954.
The number of 18-year-olds in the preceding decade was much higher than the present decade. In the 1940’s 12 million youths reached the age of 18, the legal draft-age of the Selective Service. The expected total of the 1950’s shows a decline to eleven million, thus creating a shortage in draftable youths.
This scarcity of 18-year-olds is traced back to the low birth period in the depression years of the 1930’s. For comparison sake, the 1960’s are expected to produce a total of 16 million draftable 18-year-olds. The reason for such an increase (45 percent over the 1950’s) is due to the prosperous years of the 1940’s, World War II, and its postwar period.
Of the 5,346 students enrolled in the University, 1,783, or approximately one-third of them, are members of the Army, Air Force and Navy ROTC programs. The Air Force has the highest enrollment with a total of 700 cadets. The Army enrollment totals 691 cadets, while the Navy, the smallest unit, totals 392 midshipmen.
Draft Prospects Changed Little After All
According to Rev. Robert Woodward, C.S.C., of the Office of Military Affairs, only ten of the 60 students who have left the University this year have been, drafted. Last year ten of 157 students who left school were drafted. The 1951-52 school year saw eight of 147 students being drafted.
Thus, regardless of the Korean truce, draft prospects are little changed after all. The draft will bear down hard on youths in nonessential jobs but rejections are numerous and many deferments will continue to be available.
Stricter Deferment Rules Seen
Because of the Korean truce some may have expected draft prospects to change. But, because men are coming back from the services to take jobs and go to school, a stricter application of the deferment rules will be in effect to keep the armed forces up to its present defensive strength.
College students will continue to be deferred as long as they qualify on the Selective College Qualification Test or are in the upper levels of their classes. Graduate students, however, will be' confronted with higher standards than in the past. A rule will soon go into effect requiring a graduate student to rank in the upper one-fourth of his class, or make an aptitude test score of CO, to qualify for deferment. The present requirement for graduate students is that they be in the upper half of their class, or obtain a test score of 75.
ROTC Selection Standards Rising
Because the armed forces are being forced to reduce commitments all along the line, ROTC selection standards are rising. The Army and Air Force ROTC units on campus ai’e stiffening their requirements for acceptance into the advanced courses. The Navy has always maintained high standards for entrance into its program, thus the reduction of commitments has had little effect upon Navy acceptance standards.
November 13, 1953
21
'Juggler' Adds New Cover, Freshman Section; First Edition Appears at Close of November
The first issue of the 1953-54 Juggler, Notre Dame’s literary magazine, will appear at the end of November. The Fall issue will be marked by several innovations, including a newly designed cover and a special section devoted exclusively to freshman writing.
At the helm of this year’s Juggler is Editor John Burns, a frequent contributor to Jugglers of the past. His chief aides are Joe Imbriaco, assistant editor, and Bob Gorman, business manager.
John Mitchell, a member of the regu-
Fr.Cunningham Urges Student Development
The specific, essential function of the Catholic college is the “development of its students as contributing citizens in a free society and apostolic members of the Church,” according to Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., professor of education at Notre Dame.
Having laid down this precept, Father’ Cunningham specifies “what college is not” in his new book, General Education and the Liberal College. In the words of the veteran Notre Dame educator:
“A college is not a clinic or a hospital, though it will safeguard the health of its students and promote vigorous living on the’ campus as the best guarantee of health in later life.
“It is not an orphan asylum or a home, but it will manifest paternal solicitude for the well-being of its students and exercise a fatherly care in all spheres of life.
“A college is not a farm or factory, nor a store or office, but it will give a fundamentally broad training that will prepare its students to become efficient producers of goods or services.
“It is not a park or country club, but it will have a well-planned program of social activities and physical education . . . giving its students in their leisure hours relief from their work, which is study.
“A college is not a monastery or a church, but it will have a vital religious program which, in addition to the development of the intellectual virtues through the curriculum, will develop the moral virtues through a life of Christian self-denial on the campus, and the theological virtues through private devotion and public worship with active participation in the’ liturgy of the Church.”
lar editorial staff of the magazine, is the designer of the new cover. The freshman section is an innovation designed to uncover hidden, but diffiident talent among the first year men. The department is a revival of a similar feature formerly carried in Script, the Juggler’s predecessor.
Subscriptions at Peak
Business Manager Gorman estimates that the total of student subscriptions this year will be the largest in the magazine’s history. The circulation of the Juggler consists of subscriptions and over-the-counter sales in the cafeteria.
Gorman adds that subscriptions are still being taken at 203 Walsh Hall or by mail. Address, Juggler, Department of Publications, Notre Dame. Subscription price for three issues is 75 cents.
An evenly-divided lineup of essays, short stones, poetry, and book reviews is featured by the Fall Juggler. An incomplete list of the contents includes essays on Paul Claudel by John Burns; on Reinhold Niebuhr by Dave Burrell, and on Gerard Manly Hopkins by John Green. The short stories are “Gandy-Dancers” by Bob Gorman, “The Wreck” by Bob Swanson, and a story by Ken Angyal. There will be poetry by Pete Simpson and others.
Rounding out the Juggler’s contents will be reviews of four books: 311 Congress Court by Richard Sullivan, a member of the Department of English; The Conservative Mind by Russell Kirk; Creative Intuition in Art and Poetry by Jacques Mari tain; and Hopkins Reader by John Pick. The reviews will be handled by Yates Hafner, John Son-tag, John Griffin, and John Burns.
Regular Staff Helps Out
Assisting the editors in the preparation of the magazine is a regular staff consisting of Frank Maier, John Sla-vick, Jim Mitchell, John Sontag, Jim Cannon, Yates Hafner, and Dave Burrell.
Circulation of this year’s Juggler will be about 600 copies. More than half of these will go to students and the rest to faculty members and interested persons outside the campus. The practice of giving free copies to all faculty members who requested them will be discontinued this year.
The succeeding issues of the Juggler will appear in February and May. Copy for the February issue will be accepted until the end of January.
Six Southern States Get '54 Scholarships
One student from each of six southern states will be eligible for a four-year scholarship at Notre Dame beginning in September, 1954, it was announced recently by Rev. Alfred Mendez, C.S.C., chairman of the University’s scholarship committee.
The Meehan Scholarships, founded in 1936 by the late Augustus F. Meehan of Chattanooga, Tenn., provide an annual stipend of $750 for four years for one qualified high school graduate from Alabama, Georgia, Kentucky, Tennessee, Texas, and Virginia. Neither religious creed nor financial necessity are determinants in deciding the scholarship winners.
They must present a birth or baptismal certificate attesting that they are native born American citizens. They must also forward a recommendation from their high school principal and a letter of character reference from a clergyman, prominent citizen or Notre Dame alumnus who knows them personally. They also must complete the official scholarship application form and arrange to take the Scholarship Aptitude Test. This must be done by March 1, 1954.
The official application form and other details may be obtained by writing the Meehan Scholarship Committee, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame; Ind.
Second Commercemen's Ball To Be Staged Here Nov. 20
The second annual Commerce Ball pessimistically tabbed the “Bankruptcy Ball” will commence in the new Student Center next Friday night at 9 p. m., with Hal McIntyre and his orchestra furnishing the music.
Entertainment during intermission will be provided by the Glee Club Octet and a violin solo by Leo Michuda.
The dance will be a semiformal affair with the usual 2 a. m. and car permissions. No flowers will be permitted, but Chairman John Gross-pietch and his committee plan to have a shipment of baby orchids flown in from Hawaii and presented to the ladies as they arrive at the dance.
Saturday’s features will include the ND-Iowa game with the usual Student Senate Victory dance in the evening.
The weekend festivities for the ballgoers will close with a Communion Breakfast Sunday morning in the Morris Inn following the 9 o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church. Phil Brehm will serve as master of ceremonies, with assistant coach Bill Earley as one of the principal speakers.
22
The Scholastic
Geology Profs Attend Meeting
Dr. Raymond C. Gutschick and Dr. Erhard Winkler, both of the Department of Geology of the University, made a trip to Toronto, Canada, where the Geologic Society held its annual meeting last Monday through Wednesday.
Included in their trip was a geologic field excursion to the Sudbury, Canada, nickel basin. Doctors Gutschick and Winkler visited the mines of the International Nickel Co. in the Sudbury region which supplies 95% of the world’s nickel. They inspected several mine shafts, as well as the open pit mines and the mill of the company.
These mine shafts extend around the perimeter of the Sudbury region which measures 35 miles long and 15 miles wide. Besides nickel, other minerals extracted from the region include gold, silver, iron, copper, arsenic, bismuth, platinum, and cobalt.
Capt. O’Reilly Joins ROTC
A recent addition to the Anny ROTC staff is Capt. Robert M. O’Reilly, Armor Corps. Captain O’Reilly reports to Notre Dame from Korea and more lately Fort Ord, Calif. A native of Los Angeles, he will be a member of the teaching staff and will specialize in weapons instruction.
On Dec. 10 the Army rifle team will participate in the' 33rd Annual William Randolph Hearst ROTC competition.
Open to all the ROTC units in the country, the match offers plaques to the Army, Navy, and Air Force units turning in the best scores. A grand trophy is awarded to the best unit among the three service branch leaders.
Dallas Club Announces Dance
The Notre Dame Club of Dallas has announced that its annual Christmas Ball will be held on Saturday, Dec. 26, at the Lakewood Country Club.
Billy Mayo and his orchestra, well-known radio and television band, will play for dancing, commencing at 9:30 p.m.
Proceeds of the dance will go to the club’s scholarship fund. Formal dress will be optional.
There will be a special admission fee of $10 per couple for students only, a reduction from the regular price’ of $12.50. The charge includes all refreshments.
Students may secure tickets by sending a check or money order made out to the Notre Dame Club of Dallas to Ticket
Chairman Warren Higgins, 523 Wilson Bldg., Dallas, Texas.
Capt. Peterson Appointed Adjutant
Air Force Capt. L. T. Peterson, accompanied by his wife and two children, recently reported to the Notre Dame AFROTC detachment. A service man for eleven years, he will serve here as an adjutant and supply officer. Captain Peterson and his family recently completed a tour of Alaska.
Announce Matthews Award
The J. B. Matthews Testimonial Dinner Committee announces a cash award of $500 for the best essay on “Communism and Academic Freedom,” written by an undergraduate Student of an American college or university.
Essays must be limited to 2,000 words or less and submitted not later than Feb. 1, 1954. All manuscripts must be typed. and only original essays will be considered.
The winner of the award will be announced on March 1. Judges will be' George E. Sokolsky, Eugene Lyons, Ralph de Toledano, and E. Merrill Root.
Manuscripts should be mailed to the Matthews Award Editor, The American Mercury, 11 East 36th Street, New York 16, N. Y.
Exhibit Visits Notre Dame
The Department of Architecture has announced a schedule for the visits of the round robin traveling architectural exhibit during the academic year 195354.
Notification will be posted periodically for all exhibits throughout the year.
The first exhibit, that of the University of Illinois, is currently on display here at Notre Dame. It will be' followed by the University of Cincinnati exhibit which will be here during the week of Nov. 22.
Montavon Publishes Tax Article
Dr. Paul A. Montavon of the Department of Economics recently wrote' an article, entitled “Sales Tax,” which appeared in the November issue of the Grail.
This article attempts to apply some considerations of social and distributive justice to the advisability of enacting a national sales tax. The author objects to such a tax on the grounds that it would represent an unjust distribution of the tax burden. He reasons, moreover, that such a tax would occasion a
shift in disposable income. Such a shift might disturb the balance between consumption expenditure, the level of savings, and the level of investment to the detriment of the whole economy.
Plan January Art Trip
The Department of Art has announced its decision to open its annual field trip to students outside the school of art.
The trip will be made Sunday, Jan. 17, 1954, and will feature a visit to an exhibit of Whistler and other 19th century painters at the Art Institute in Chicago. The entire excursion, including transportation and a lecture, will cost a little less than five dollars. Anyone interested. in taking advantage of this weekend should contact Bob Fowler, 214 Walsh Hall.
La Raza Plans for Thanksgiving
After terming their La Raza Day banquet a success, the Spanish Club of Notre Dame, La Raza, has made* plans to celebrate a holiday more common to the United States than to their homelands—Thanksgiving.
The La Raza Club will hold its first dance of the 1953-54 school year on the eve of Thanksgiving, Nov. 25, in the Student Center.
Latin American music will be featured with the club’s own combo providing the pulsating rhythms of the tango, samba, rhumba, and mombo. La Raza extends an invitation to other students to join the club for the festivities, provided they bring their own dates.
Tickets for the dance, priced at one dollar per couple, may be purchased from either Federico Teran, 168 Dillon, or Freddy Umbert, 110 Dillon, ticket managers for the affair.
Splinter Addresses Engineers
Mr. W. ,H. Splinter, machinability engineer for the Republic Steel Corp, of Chicago, addressed the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Society for Metals at its November meeting held last Wednesday in the Engineering Building.
Maritain Concludes Series
Dr. Jacques Maritain, eminent Catholic philosopher, delivered his third and fourth lectures in the series, titled “The Responsibility of the Artist,” yesterday and today in the Science Hall.
The talks concluded his current series intended primarily for faculty members, graduate students and their guests.
Noted for his lifetime of philosophical activity and for his leadership of the neo-Thomist group in modern thought, Maritain served as French ambassador to the Vatican from 1945-48. For many years he taught at the Catholic Institute
(Continued on page 30)	'
November 13, 1953
23
! ef Mg 11 It
I ^aaj^Uoti

Poll Reveals Concern For Leahy's Ailments
Although the playing unit of Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish is rated the strongest physically in the country, Notre Dame’s coaching staff is not quite up to its charges. Frank Leahy, head coach for the past ten years, has suffered from acute internal spasms, resulting in his hospitalization for one week.
Throughout the country, great concern has been expressed over the condition of the ailing Irish mentor; however, the feelings of the student body over Leahy’s illness and the possibility of Leahy’s forced retirement have resulted in various opinions.
Illness Inspires Team
All of the students polled were deeply concerned over Leahy’s untimely illness. Jim Costello, a junior from Hollis, N. Y., thought Leahy’s illness a “grave danger to the future success of the Irish. As •witnessed by the Navy game, Leahy’s illness inspired the team to a one-sided victory. However, without him on the bench in future games, our team might not be as successful.”
Considering the possibility of forceful retirement for Coach Leahy, Tom Conlon, a soph transfer student from the College of Steubenville, says, “A retirement of Frank Leahy will definitely have a pronounced effect on Notre Dame’s team in years to come.”
Art Johnson, a Dillonite from Ohio, went so far as to predict a possible successor for Leahy: “If Coach Leahy is forced to retire due to ill health, I think Coach Joe McArdle would be a good successor as he has had ample experience and is familiar with Leahy’s brand of football.”
Considering another candidate for future work as Irish head football coach,
24
Dave Russell, Evanston, Ill., thinks, “Wally Butts from Georgia might be named new7 Irish coach.”
Bob Dahlen, a Badinite from Indianapolis, Ind., thought we were really “up” for the Navy game; however, “It probably hurt us more at the Penn game through Leahy’s absence on the practice field rather than the inspiration the team received due to his illness.”
A dissenting opinion came from Pete Walsh, Staten Island, N. Y., who said, “I don’t think Leahy’s illness had any direct effect on the outcome of the games although it probably did inspire the team to play harder.”
All in all, the average student was more concerned with Leahy’s illness than a possible successor.
Mr. A. P. Brennan Regional Personnel Manager for Montgomery Ward will be in the Placement Bureau, Main Building, on Friday, November 20, to interview midyear graduates who are interested in a position with Montgomery Ward.
Wards has a number of training programs which lead to executive assignments in Store Management, Merchandising, Administration, Operating and Accounting.
Please call at the Placement Bureau for a definite appointment.
Gels Travels to Terre Haute
For St. Mary's Junior Prom
Don Gels and his “Men of Note” will play for the junior prom at St. Mary’s of the Woods College at Terre Haute, Ind., tomorrow7 night.
The 12-man group and featured vocalist, Butch Hickman, will play their first out-of-town job of the year for the semi-formal affair. The band will provide dance music from 9 p.m. until midnight and will feature their “Saints on Parade” march through the audience as part of the entertainment.
The ‘men’ w7ill leave the campus at noon tomorrow and stay overnight in Terre Haute before returning.
The Scholastic


Scholastic Sports
Irish Tackle Tar Heels At Chapel Hill
ND Win Streak on Line Tomorrow Against Barclay's Unpredictable No. Carolina Eleven
By BOB RUHL
Notre Dame will be protecting a sevengame winning streak when they invade Chapel Hill to tangle with the Tar Heels of North Carolina tomorrow afternoon. Carolina’s first-year coach, George Barclay, ■will field a contingent which has won victories over North Carolina State’s Wolfpack, 29-7, Washington and Lee, 390, and Wake Forest, 18-13, before tasting defeat at the hands of Maryland, 26-0, Georgia, 27-14, Tennessee’s Volunteers, 20-6 and the Gamecocks of South Carolina, 18-0.
Although the Tar Heels have lost four straight, they still will field a formidable array of talent to do battle with the Irish. Captain-elect Ken Yarborough leads the attack from his right end position. The 216-lb. senior .is playing his fourth year with North Carolina. Last year he held down the offensive right tackle slot, seeing a lot of double-duty action. He is an excellent tackler and
Special South Bend Tribune Transmission Photo
IRISH DUMP PENN, 28-20, FOR SIXTH STRAIGHT Guglielmi Plows Way Through Quaker Defense For Second TD
can grab the passes when needed.
Dick Kocornik plays the left-side flanker position. He is the tallest, biggest and most experienced end and worked both ways in the old two-platoon system.
The tackle positions are ably manned by Francis Fredere, a 226-lb, 6’-4” senior, who provides the left side of the line with ample protection and is one of the fastest men on the squad, and • sophomore Jim McCreedy, who played only defense last year, but is doing well as a full-time right tackle this fall.
Juniors Steve Marchinko and Ed Patterson man the guard positions for the Tai- Heels. Both were noted for their offensive talents last season, but have capably made the switch to two-way Play.
Bill Kickman, a 190-lb. junior, plays the center slot for the Tar Heels, and has done a creditable job due to his aggressiveness and experience.
AP Wirephoto
LATTNER SAVES THE DAY
Penn Defenders Hit High and Low
In a backfield lacking driving power, but attempting to make up for it with speed and shiftiness, Sophomore Marshall Newman is playing his second season as the starting Tar Heel signalcaller. Last year he completed 34 of 92 passes for 564 yards and 7 touchdowns.
Leonard Bullock, also a sophomore, has been moved into the key master-minding position to help bolster the passing attack. At the halfback positions the Tar Heels alternate Ken Keller and Flo Worrell. Keller, as a freshmap last season was the leading Tar Heel scorer with 12 points. Junior Larry Parker played both ways at Chapel Hill last year and though he is not too fast, is a fine broken-field runner.
Billy Williams, 180-lb. senior, handles the tough fullback position in Carolina's tricky split-T offense.
ND Fights Back To Drop Penn
Notre Dame’s victory caravan continued its roll toward the National Championship last Saturday on a snowframed Franklin Field, downing a valiant Penn team, 28-20.
Halfback Johnny Lattner .showed the Philadelphia fans why he’s an AllAmerican, returning a kickoff 92 yards
November 13, 1953
I
KEN KELLER
Speedy Tarheel Halfback
for a score, lugging another one back for 56 yards and intercepting a Penn pass in the fourth quarter in -his own end zone which stopped the Penn drive that would have put them within one point of a tie.
Penn started a 61-yard drive to paydirt the first time they had the ball. The drive was highlighted by Gramigna’s pin-point passing from the T and Hynos-ki’s running from the single wing. On second down and goal to go, Hynoski, running from the single wing behind vicious blocking, scored standing up. The Red and Blue led 7-0 as the Penn partisans shook the rafters of Franklin Field.
Their joy was sweet but short. Fifteen seconds later Lattner took the kickoff on his eight, headed for the sidelines, picking up superb blocking which knock-,ed Penn defenders flat, and after reaching mid-field out-ran the Quakers. Mav-raides’ toe provided the tying point.
The Irish scored again on 16 plays which chiseled out 68 yards. Lattner set it up with a circus catch of a Guglielmi aerial on the Penn six with two defenders on his back. Worden hammered over but an offside penalized Notre Dame to the six. Guglielmi then bootlegged around the left side to score standing. Mavraides added the point and the Irish led, 14-7.
The Irish second stringers scored after five seconds of the second canto. Schaefer went over on a sneak. On the attempted conversion the pass from center went bad, and McHugh lateraled to the surprised Schaefer who promptly skirted the left end, fumbled in the end zone, then dropped on the ball.
It was a different Penn team that opened the second half. Penn took the kick and returned to the 30. Penn start-
(Continued on page 31)
Three Future Foes Score Impressive Wins; USC Comes From Behind to Down Indians
As Notre Dame was taking Pennsylvania into hand at Philadelphia, three of Notre Dame’s future opponents were victorious, while North Carolina, next Saturday’s opponent, was blanked, 18-0, by South Carolina. It was the Tarheel’s fourth straight loss of the season.
South Carolina’s win over North Carolina was their first since 1944. The dull Atlantic Coast Conference clash was South Carolina’s ball game all the way, as the Gamecocks scored in the first third, and fourth periods, while the Tarheels fumbled the ball away three of the first four times they had possession, and never- were able to move the ball inside the South Carolina 20.
After a scoreless first quarter, marked by strong defensive play, Iowa’s Hawkeyes unloosed their offensive power
PROBABLE STARTING LINE-UP		
NO. CAROLINA		NOTRE DAME
Frye 	-			LE		 Matz
McCreedy ....	LT	.. Varrichione
Neville 		LG		 Lemek
Koman 		C		 Schrader
Patterson 			RG	.... Mavraides
Yarbo’h .. C.	..RT			 Hunter
Adler 			RE	.. Penza (C.)
Newman ....	QB		Guglielmi
Parker 			LH		 Heap
Gravitte 		RH		 Lattner
Lackey 			FB		 Worden
Kickoff Tim«	s—1.00 C.S.T.	
to rout a hapless Purdue squad, 26-0. Iowa scored once in both the second and third quarters, and tallied twice in the final period.
Sophomore fullback Roger Wiegmann led the Hawkeyes in a 94-yard march midway in the second period for the Iowan’s initial tally. A lateral by quarterback Jerry Reichow to Lyle Lein-baugh finished the scoring job, and Jim Freeman’s toe made it 7-0.
The contest was orderly until the closing minutes of the third period when the lowans exploded for three TD’s in the brief span of 2 minutes and 23 seconds which bridged the end of the third quarter and the start of the fourth.
Halfback Eddie Vincent’s 55-yard run, complemented by Dusty Rice’s five-yard plunge scored one; a 26-yard run by junior quarterback Lou Matykiewicz scored another; and a pass interception by Rice and a 25-yard run by Matykiewicz gave the Hawkeyes their fourth and last tally.
A last quarter rally capped by place kicking specialist Sam Tsagalakis’ 38-yard field goal in the final 14 seconds gave the Trojans of Southern California a 23-20 victory over the rampaging Indians of Stanford. It was Stanford’s first defeat in the Pacific Coast Conference Rose Bowl race, and placed the Indians in a tie with UCLA for league leadership.
Stanford opened the scoring in the first period as Garrett passed his team 58 yards in a 67-yard drive, and then connected with right end John Steinberg for the score.
Southern California roared back in the second period as halfback Aramis Dandoy made the final three yards in a 67-yard march, and quarterback George Bozanic connected with halfback Lindon Crow on a 52-yard scoring pass.
With Stanford trailing, 13-7, going into the final period, Garrett unloosed his passing attack. He threw seven straight passes that brought two touchdowns and put Stanford in the lead.
Early in the fourth period Southern California tied the game at 20-all, when Bozanic passed to Ron Miller for 15, and then to Tom Nickoloff for a 25-yard pass and a touchdown. Tsagalakis’ perfect conversion produced the deadlock.
With two minutes to go, a Garrett pass was intercepted by Miller and run back 47 yards to the Stanford 20. Then, with 14 seconds left and the ball on the 20, Bozanic placed the ball on the 28,
(Continued on page 31)
CAPT. KEN YARBOROUGH Alternates Between Tackle and End
26
The Scholastic
»	Cleveland, Philly, KC
;	Hold Lead in Keglers
After two weeks of bowling the Kam-pus Keglers took a break from their activities last Sunday, because the student trip had originally been planned for the weekend when the league schedule was drawn up.
. The early team leaders are the Cleveland and Philadelphia clubs, who are tied for the leadership of the Blue League with seven points, while the Met club and AIEE teams are tied for third place with five points each. The K of C, with eight points, holds undisputed possession of first place in the Gold League, with the Detroit, Account-/ ing, and Aesculapian teams tied for second place with seven points each.
One of the big reasons for the Cleve, land club’s success is the bowling of 1 Buz Velotta, who leads the individual averages with 185 for six games, six pins better than his closest competitor, > Jim Haering of the AIEE.
Other individual leaders include John Pittas, of the Washington, Maryland, and Virginia club, who, to date, holds both the high series, 577, and the high individual game, 232.
Paul Pfohl of Notre Dame, secretary , of the Midwestern Intercollegiate Bowling Association, attended a meeting of the group in Chicago last Sunday to draw up a schedule for the season. He will announce details concerning the selection of a team to represent Notre Dame in the eight-team MIAB, next week.
‘ Irish Crew Captures Second In Angston Regatta Regional
Diamond Lake’s choppy waters and the cold winds of last Saturday were' not enough to stop Notre Dame’s sailing , team from garnering a second place in the regional eliminations for the Midwestern Fall championship. Both first place Oberlin and second place' Notre Dame gained the right to participate in the Timme Angston Memorial Regatta on Thanksgiving weekend in Chicago.
After the last of the ten races had been completed, the leading point maker among the Irish mariners was freshman skippei- Tom Burke. Burke gathered 29
■ points in five race's, while Ed Rogers picked up 12 in three races, and Bob Fisher netted eight in two tries. John Chomeau, Bob Miller, Tom Clifton, and
1 Bill Lenihan shared the crew duties.
Next Saturday Burke and Don Math-
| ews will travel to Columbus, Ohio, to represent Notre Dame in the Ohio State Invitational Regatta. Crews for this trip have not yet been selected.
ALUMNI WINS WESTERN GRID TITLE Victory Puts Veith’s Squad Into Championship
Alumni, St. Edward's Meet Sunday in Cartier To Battle for Campus Interhail Grid Crown
Alumni and St. Edward’s, the class of this year’s interhall football crop, tangle for the title at 1:30 p. m. Sunday in Cartier Field.
Both halls will carry unblemished records into the key battle as they each held first place in their respective leagues all season. Alumni’s giidders chalked up four straight victories to clinch the crown in the Western Division. Coach Tom Meglen led his St. Ed’s team to five triumphs in a row in the Eastern circuit.
Lyons was the toughest barrier for Alumni to hurdle on its road to the league championship. The Western league champs edged Lyons, 13 to 6, in the season opener. Surprisingly enough, St. Ed’s most taxing contest was also won by a 13-6 score. Farley was responsible for the top challenge in the Eastern division.
Both title-contenders can boast of a power-laden offense and a rugged defense. Alumni has displayed a dangerous passing attack throughout the season. The aerial combination of quarterback Marty Veith to ends Don Zech and Tom Short is Alumni’s major offensive weapon. Veith and Zech also coach Alumni.
St. Ed’s attack has been sparkplug-ged all season by a pair of fleet and agile halfbacks, Jerry Ryan and Tom Hawkins.
Alumni finished their regular season last week by romping over Morrissey, 28-0.
Capitalizing on a fumble by Morrissey on the kickoff, the men from Alumni combined a passing and running
attack to move to Morrissey’s four-yard line. A pass from quarterback Marty Vieth to end Tom Short scored the TD. The try for the extra point was good.
Alumni’s last score came in the final period when Short took the ball on an end around from the Morrissey twenty, eluded a host of tacklers, and went over for the score standing up. The conversion was good.
It was 27-0 as St. Ed’s completely outclassed Cavanaugh to gain their fifth consecutive win in the Eastern league, to succeed last year’s champs ■ of Breen-Phillips.	,
Utilizing their split-T- to their best advantage and with the excellent blocking of their big forward wall, Jerry Ryan, Gene O’Connor, Tom Hawkins and Pete Fieweger each hit pay-dirt in every period of the shut out.
A much improved Breen-Phillips’ eleven held once defeated Farley to a scoreless tie, as B-P played its best game of the season against a slightly overconfident Farley team.
Farley’s offense, led by Jim McCauley, consistently gained, but could never go all the way. Breen-Phillips threatened to score late in the second quarter when John Peterson, B-P’s left half, intercepted a pass on his own ten, and returned .it to Farley’s twenty, but time ran out.
The regularly scheduled Zahm-Off-Campus game was called off by the mutual agreement of the two coaches, Jim Metress of Zahm and Skip Carlin of O-C.
November 13, 1953
r
by Bob Frolicher
Have the Irish Reached Their Peak?
The best Irish performance this season was Notre Dame’s 27-14 conquest of classy Georgia Tech and the snapping of the then-longest existing modern unbeaten streak in college football. After barely squeezing by a tough Penn
squad, 28-20, last Saturday, many people wonder if the Leahymen haven’t reached the top and are now on the downgrade. Undoubtedly, the Irish were up for the "Ramblin’ Wrecks,” and little could go wrong that afternoon. The galloping horses ground out a total of 411 yards, one of their highest so far, and every member of the starting backfield averaged close to five yards a carry.
However, in between the Tech and Quaker tilts, Notre Dame swamped an outclassed Middie squad. 38-7. The starting eleven played only a little more than a quarter, and sat out the second half while the assistant coaches emptied the bench. Still most people will admit that the first quarter of the Navy game was sloppily played. It didn’t look like the same eleven that bounced back and scored 26 points in the second quarter to overwhelm the Middie
attack.
It appears that Notre Dame had their toughest game of their first six last Saturday. After the game Penn Coach Red Munger stated that it was the Quakers’ best showing of the year. The Penn squad all began to click at one time and proved a formidable opponent for the Irish. Notre Dame will reluctantly admit that a plane ride beats the trains any day. The Quakers took advantage of the tedious train trip and the worn-out Irish to clip off large gains in the second half.
Always There When Most Needed
As long as Notre Dame is led by the ever-improving Lattner, there is little chance of the Irish being on the downgrade. Although the star halfback started the season slow and had little to show as far as average' and scoring were concerned, he has pulled his average up to a point that he is near the leaders, Halfback Joe Heap and Fullback Neil Worden.
Lattner has always come through when most needed. In the Irish opener, he snatched off a Sooner pass when Oklahoma threatened to tie up the game. Against Purdue Lattner took a kickoff and streaked 85 yards down the sidelines, while in the Panther clash he grabbed off a Pitt toss which proved to be an important factor in the final outcome. In the Tech game Lattner celebrated his 21st birthday by ripping the Engineer forward wall and scoring-one- of the four ND touchdowns. Navy was fortunate in the fact that the first team didn’t play enough for the Middies to feel the full impact of ND’s All-American, but while he stayed in, Lattner averaged near five yards pel- carry.
Lattner’s best day this season came in last Saturday’s thriller over Penn. After the Quakers drew first blood, he gathered in the following kickoff and scampered 92 yards down the sidelines, aided by some excellent blocking, to tie the score. Later on he took another Quaker kickoff and ran 56 yards before being pulled down from behind. In the fourth quarter he snatched a Penn pass in the end zone to stop their hopes of pulling a major upset.
Prediction of the Week
Tomorrow Notre Dame meets North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and although the Tar Heels have lost four straight, 34 returning lettermen can be dangerous on any team. The Irish will prove they aren’t on the downgrade, refusing to let the Tar Heels get moving, coming back from the Hill with a 35-13 win.
JOHNNY LATTNER
Mr. On-The-Spot
Alumni Whips Prison Squad in Title Tune-up
Alumni played an easy tune-up game for the campus title in the first of the annual series between the interhall teams and the Michigan City Prison team thumping the Prison squad, 38-7.
Marty Veith’s boys scored twice in the initial period on plunges of one and two yards by halfback Jack Rosshirt and fullback Fred Bellisimo. The Michigan City touchdown came in the second quarter when one of the prison eleven’s tackles intercepted a Tom Parsley pass and scooted 50 yards for the score.
Alumni’s big period was the third, when they crossed the goal three times, s Halfback “Tex” Tyson got two of these on runs of eight and one yards. Parsley scored the other from 15 yards out. In the final period Bellisimo picked off a stray Michigan City pass and went 30 yards for the last Alumni touchdown.
The line play of end Don Zech and guard Jim McInnis contributed much to the triumph which was Alumni’s fifth straight without a loss. The reversal brought the Michigan City slate to 2-3. They had previously lost to the J.V. squads of Valparaiso and Wheaton, while they own victories over two semi-pro outfits.
The rest of the interhall schedule with the prison team as released by Mr. Napolitano is: Morrissey, Nov. 15; Dillon, Nov. 22; Lyons, Dec. 6 (possibility).
Netmen Initiate Winter Drills To Prepare for '54 Season
The Notre Dame tennis team recently began practice in the old fieldhouse on the basketball floor. This marks the first time a Notre Dame tennis team has held .indoor winter practice.
The practice sessions are on a strictly informal basis and no one is required to come, but Mr. Samson is pleased with the number who are taking advantage of the available facilities. The team has been handicapped in previous years by having had little more than a week’s practice before its first match.
Mr. Samson feels that practicing on the hardwood of the basketball floor is actually better than on the clay courts. “It produces a fastei- game and thereby trains the boys to play a more aggressive game,” he said.
Coach Samson termed this year’s prospects “fair.” Despite six returning lettermen led by captain Don Crowley, graduation left the number two, three and four spots vacant.
This year’s frosh appear excellent, according to Mr. Samson. One, Harry Pagel, last summer ranked first in the Eastern juniors.

28
The Scholastic

I	_______________
j	PROGNOSTICATOR PREDICTS:
(Last week’s total—15 out of 20; •	percentage, .750). (Six-week total
—67 out of 95; percentage, .705).
Georgia Tech, 20; Alabama, 13 SMU, 34; Arkansas, 14 Navy, 27; Columbia, 7 Iowa, 21; Minnesota, 14 Northwestern, 26; Indiana, 20 ■ Illinois, 14; Wisconsin, 13 Pittsburgh, 35; No. Carolina St., 6 Ohio State, 24; Purdue, 7 Oklahoma, 27; Iowa State, 13 California, 21; Oregon, 7 Rice, 19; Texas A & M, 6 Texas, 32; TCU, 21 Penn, 20; Army, 14 U.C.L.A., 28; Washington, 14 ; So. Carolina, 21; West Virginia, 20
; Heap Maintains Top Pace In Rushing and Receiving
' Neil “Bull” Worden gained 96 yards in 15 carries last week, to come within .3 of a yard behind Joe Heap, who currently leads the modern “Four Horsemen” for the third straight week with a 5.3 yard average. Johnny Lattner is next with a 3.7 yard average.
? In their defeat of Pennsylvania last Saturday in the snow, the Fighting Irish boosted their total team offense to 2,082 yards for the six games. This, however, has not increased the average yards-per-try, which remains at a commendable 4.1.
Score-wise, Heap and quarterback Ralph Gugliehni are still tied with 6 TD’s apiece. Heap scored his sixth six-* pointer by latching on to one of “Gug’s” passes and going the rest of the way.
Guglielmi continues to be' the leading regular- passer with 33 completions in 67 attempts for a .493 average, just .26 lower than two weeks ago. The “Columbus Cannon” is still “favoring” Joe Heap - as a receiver, however. The shifty halfback has hauled in 13 of “Gug’s” aerials for a total of 285 yards.
The Blue and Gold has scored 181 points to date, while their hapless opponents have been able to garner only 83.
Indiana Captures State Meet As Irish Squad Is Runnerup
Defending champion Indiana University captured the state collegiate crosscountry meet for the second straight ** year at Butler University in Indianapolis.
i Jim Lambert, a junior at I.U., who j finished first last year, won again easily in the fast time of 20 minutes, 26 seconds. Frank Zellers of Indiana was
second while Jack Alexander of Notre Dame was third.
Overall the Hoosiers left little doubt as to which is the top team in Indiana cross-country circles, by leading Notre Dame, the second place squad, by over 40 points, 20-65. Ball State was third, 65 points off the pace.
The men from Bloomington placed five men in the top ten and that in itself shows the whole picture of the meet. Van Eck, Winniger, and Wellman of I.U. were fourth, sixth, and seventh respectively in the overall showing.
In the little state and Indiana Conference, Ball State placed first, followed by Butler and De Pauw. John Owensby of Butler was first in this class with the time of 21 minutes and five seconds. Jim McKeever of Ball State was second. Owensby came in fifth in the all-around standings.
Out of the field of approximately 100, Notre Dame placed six in the top fifty, including Alexander. Jim Daly, a very promising sophomore, was eighth. Dick De Schriver was eleventh, Bill Lenihan was fourteenth, Dick O’Keefe was thirtieth, and Bill Richardson was thirtyfourth.
Summary: Indiana U., 20; Notre Dame, 65; Ball State, 88; Butler, 103; De Pauw, 136; Earlham, 160; Wabash, 179; Indiana Central, 192; Valparaiso, incomplete team; Purdue, did not enter.
Scheduled Meets Confirmed; Swedes to Perform at ND
Notre Dame’s intercollegiate gymnastic team, under the heading of Coach Ray Runkle, has announced the confirmation of the Iowa and Illinois meet to be held at Chicago on Feb. 19, and the Chicago and Illinois meet also at Chicago on Feb. 26.
Mr. Runkle also expressed the hope that the world famous Swedish National Gymnastic Team would be able to put on an exhibition at Notre Dame University either the 9th or 11th of February.
The Swedish Gymnastic team has gained world recognition in the field of gymnastics. Last season at the international meet in Rotterdam, Holland, they were unanimously rated as the number one exhibition team. They are going to start on their tour of the United States in the month of February. The team consists of 12 to 14 active gymnasts who will perform in group calisthenics, tumbling, apparatus work, and vaulting.
The aim of the Swedish Gymnastic team in coming to the United States is to give American gymnasts and gymnastic leaders many new ideas and, above all, greater inspiration to go ahead and work for a better showing in the future Olympics.
Cagers Extend Drills; Starting Five in Doubt
With approximately two weeks of practice behind them, the Notre Dame varsity basketball squad is gradually working into shape. After experimenting with two starting units, and shifting his players from one position to another, Coach Johnny Jordan has finally come up with a temporary starting team.
Joe Bertrand, who had been working as either a forward or a guard, seems to have assured himself of a starting berth at one of the forwards. Bill Sullivan is his running mate at the other forward, while sophomore prospect John Fannon, who had seriously been considered for starting duty at a forward post, is sidelined at present with a bad ankle.
Captain Dick Rosenthal has laid claim to the tough center assignment, after playing at forward in the past. “Rosie” will be heavily counted on to fill the tremendous gap left by the graduation of Norb “Gootch” Lewinski. He has been working hard and has shown a great deal of promise, and should do a creditable job in the forthcoming campaign.
Junior Stephens will once again be at his familiar guard position for the Irish, while sophomore Bill Weiman has shown well enough to land himself the other guard assignment on the starting five. John Reynolds is Weiman’s capable replacement at guard.
With the season’s start only three weeks away, Coach Jordan has lengthened his workouts. Intensive drills have been held each day — 40 minutes of full court action and 40 minutes of half court work — to ready the squad for their opener on Dec. 3.
IRISH READY FOR OPENBI Cagers Sharpen Eye For Ball State
November 13, 1953
29
LATTNER
Better Than Lujack?
>	Shy, modest by nature,
•	yet so savage in a game
;	he almost scares his
friends. Is Lattner an all-
s	time great? What is the
?	big flaw Leahy finds in
j	Lattner’s play? Read The
;	Bashful Terror of Notre
I	Dame, today.
The Saturday Evening
POST
November n. 195.3 -
A CURTIS PUBLICATION
SPAGHETTI RAVIOLI
CHICKEN STEAKS
We Cater to Banquets and Parties
The new tradition at Notre Dame is...
Flamingo Restaurant Open Sundays
610 NORTH MICHIGAN
3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
You Always Get a Square
Deal at Breen's
WATCHES DIAMONDS RADIOS SHAVERS EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING
BREEN’S
Jeweler
325 So. Michigan St. Ph. 7-3630
Capsule Corner (Continued from page 23) of Paris and at the Pontifical Institute of Medieval Studies in Toronto. He joined the' Princeton University faculty in 1948. He is also a guest lecturer at the University of Chicago.
Maritain’s most recently published work is The Intuition of Art and Poetry. Among other allied works are Art and Scholasticism, Art and Poetry, and Georges Rouault.
Feierabend Speaks Tonight
Dr. L. Feierabend, formerly of the Czech government, will speak tonight at 8 p.m. in the Rockne Memorial Lounge on “Soviet Conquest of the Iron Curtain Countries: The Technique of Seizure.”
American Study Council Lists Summer Courses in Europe
The American College Council for Summer Study Abroad has announced six courses to be taught in European centers next year. The Council is a nonprofit organization of 14 American institutions designed to give college students opportunities for combining serious academic study with residence abroad.
Courses to be offered and their locales include: Chaucer and His Contemporaries, Cambridge; British Economy and Politics since 1918, London; The North Atlantic Community, Paris; Music and Drama at the Salzburg Festival, Salzburg; An Introduction to Italian Art, Rome, Perugia, Florence and Venice; and Spanish Art, Madrid.
The normal duration of the courses will be six weeks, and the period of study will normally be spent in a single place of residence, although each group ■will travel to points of interest during the period of the course.
For further details, students should write The American College Council for Summer Study Abroad, 11 Boyd Street, Newton 58, Mass.
DRRW TURBOW
\PPTOMETRIST
— OPTICAL REPAIRS —
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring In The Pieces”
I— EYES EXAMINED —
207 W. Washington
Oliver Hotel Phone 4-5777
Kenosha Corn Huskers Play Saturday Dance
Tomorrow night, the low-down, hoedown music of the Kenosha Com Huskers will replace the usual music of Don Gels’ orchestra, and the Navy Drill Hall will be converted into a barn, as the square dancers take over the weekly Student Senate dance.
The Kenosha Corn Huskers (from Chicago) will bring with them a variety of entertainment including on-the-spot instructions for any of the “city slickers” who aren’t acquainted with square dancing. Also on the roster for the evening are ballroom dancing, a stage show, and community singing.
The special attraction of the evening will be the mascot of the band, Vigoro, the singing rooster. Another feature will be the souvenir cow bells to be given to all the girls.
The Corn Huskers, who are in the business of teaching beginners how to square dance, will bring with them all the props necessary to turn the Drill Hall into “a regular barn.”
The queen, Miss Kenosha Corn Husk-er, will be selected by the usual method of drawing a stub from a hat.
The Office of the Prefect of Discipline has issued an order that no overalls or levis will be permitted, therefore the proper attire for the evening will be slacks and sweaters.
The regular- victory dance will be brought back next Saturday night. There will be no Senate dance on the Thanksgiving weekend, but plans are now in the embryonic stage for the biggest victory dance in the history of the University to honor the coaches and the team on December 5.
Cleveland Club Plans Dinner, Christmas Party at Meeting
Cleveland Club secretary, Bill Woodward, last week announced a schedule for the club which will include two steak dinners and a Christmas party.
The first of the two dinners was held Wednesday night at Rosie’s Cafe. Following the meeting, arrangements were made for transportation to Cleveland at Thanksgiving. The club also made plans for a special train at Christmas.
The Christmas party, slated for Dec. 30, will be under the co-chairmanship of Joe Madigan and George Vosmik.
The last event scheduled before the election of officers is a steak dinner to be held Wednsday night, Jan. 30.
Present officers, besides Woodward, are Jack Coyne, president; Jim Libera-tore, vice president; and Don McLaughlin, secretary.
30
The Scholastic
Irish Down Quakers
(Continued from page 26) ed a crushing 70-yard drive which saw hard blocking enabling the Penn backs to grind out five yards per clip. With a third down two situation on the two-yard stripe, Gramigna crossed up the Irish defense with a pass to Felver and the Quakers were back in the game, 2113.
Stung by the touchdown, Notre Dame came roaring back, Lattner returning the kickoff 56 yards. Two plays later Gug-lielmi hit Heap for the foui-th Irish tally. Mavraides’ kick made it, 28-13. Penn again came back with a brilliant display of power, speed and passing with Va-raitis who later went over on a one-yard plunge, culminating a 78-yard drive.
Midway in the last quarter Penn made their final bid. The Quakers started to move, Gramigna started to hit end Castle and Penn in two and a half minutes was down knocking on the Irish door on the nine-yard line with first down goal. Here again John Lattner slammed the door in the Quakers’ face; he picked off a Gramigna pass in the end zone to halt the threat.
Microtomic
A prtdsin iistnatif hr professional IkhhIs
Microtomic—the finest example of research in drawing pencils. Designed to stand the most rigid drafting room comparisons. Test them todayl
Only Microtomic offers you—
HI-DENSITY LEADS
Lines are absolutely opaque to actinic rays.
ABSOLUTELY UNIFORM
Every Microtomic of the same degree marking is identical.
NEW DUSK GRAY
Professional men acclaim it the best color for a drawing pencil.
BULL'S EYE DEGREE MARKING
Easier to read — easier to find — positive identification.
ALSO
Choice of holders and Microtomic leads.
NOTRE DAME ■
STUDENTS I
For the Best in Italian American Dishes
For the Best of Service Eat at the . . . VOLCANO
PIZZA OUR SPECIALTY
________The_________
V o L C A N
EBERHARD FABER |
VOLCANO
RESTAURANT
vqaDF MARKS REG.U.S FAT.OFF.
219 No. Michigan
Future Irish Opponents (Continued from page 26) and Tsagalakis came through with the game winning 38-yard field goal.
Southern Methodist scored in the first two minutes of play, and then added 17 points in the final period to smash out a 23-0 victory over an impotent Texas A&M squad.
A bobble of an Aggie handoff in the opening minutes of play was recovered by the Mustangs on the A&M 21. From there Duane Nutt passed 17 yards to Ed Bernet who raced over for the score.
Both teams were scoreless during the second and third quarters, but SMU was threatening. The Aggies could only get past the midfield stripe twice all during the dreary afternoon.
A field goal by Sam Stollemwerck from the A&M 15, and two line plunges by Frank Eidon and John Marshall completed the day for SMU, and left the Mustangs in strong contention for the Southwest Conference title.
Be popular...get more fun out of life
COME IM TO,
NOW
and be a sought-after dance partner
LIBRARY HOURS
Monday - Friday: 8 a.m. to 9:30 p.m.
Saturday: 8 a.m. to 12 noon, (football season) 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. (after season) Sunday: 1 p.m. to 9 p.m.
Everybody knows that good dancers have the best times. How about your dancing? Does it get you invitations? If not, let one of Arthur Murray’s talented experts show you die shortcut to popularity. You’ll be amazed how easy it is to learn to dance the Arthur Murray Way. And it’s such fun you’ll wish you’d started years sooner. So come in now and be sure of having the time of your life at your next party.
Trial Private lessen
ARTHUR MURRAY School of 'Dancing
“Studios Coast to Coast”
120 E. Wayne 2-3339
November 13, 1953
31

Job Searching?
(Continued from page 20)
you CAN'T SET A 6IRL
a
-fe
occupational aid, before attempting an interview.
It is essential that he at least have a general idea of his occupational preference, such as “steel business” or “marketing work.” In general, the student should use one of two principal means of “nailing down” his job preference. First, by naming the specific occupation itself, or secondly, by naming the industry.
Of course, it is expected that the senior know the proper way of conducting himself at the interview and not suffer the misfortune of a job applicant of last year, whose first words to the interviewer were, “Ya gotta cigarette?” The story is also told of the student who, rather than be late for his interview, showed up fresh (?) from a Phy. Ed. class garbed in his gym clothes and sneakers!
Of interest to the slide-rule set is the fact that the greatest demand at the present time is for graduate engineers and scientists. So the stress and strain boys can cut themselves the biggest piece of “Pi” this year.
The Placement Bureau will be moving to a new home very shortly, and it is expected that the change will be completed in November. The former Journalism office, along -with the two adjoining offices, are being renovated in order to provide new and larger quarters for one of the University’s most profitable services to its students.
Once there was
a
WITH 4 CHIP
How do you know when your best foot’s forward?
Senior who was
Shy. (Look, this is a story. It permits certain liberties with the truth.)
He’d call up a Girl, stammer incoherently through the Preliminaries, gurgle helplessly through the Bicuspids, and hang up. Dateless. One day his room-mate took him in hand. “Herman, old buddy,” he said, . . . and unfolded a Plan.
Next day the Big Girl on Campus got a Telegram. A terse message. Simply: “Will pick you up at eight P.M. Friday. Regards. Herman H. Glockenspiel.” She was Intuckered and waiting when Herman sheep-ished up the steps of her Sorority house.
“Are you Herman H. Glocken-
105 N. Main St.
spiel?” she cooed. “Ulp,” said Herman. “Ooooh,” she said, taking his arm, “I just love Original, Masterful Men.” Herman was on his way.
Now Herman has more dates than the Syrian Desert. Still makes ’em all by Telegram. No fool, this Herman.
When you’ve got a Date in mind — Whether it’s with the Campus Queen, a Smith Siren or a Big Moment Back Home—a Telegram has the Man-of-the-world Approach that pleases. Equally effective, too, for birthdays, Mother’s Day and Easter Messages, congratulations, or yaps to Pop for Cash, or to Sis to Airmail you The Baggy Sweater. Just call Western Union and see.
Telephone 3-6101
ABROaD
Travel and
32
1 am interested in: University credits □
Resident study at a foreign university □
Special countries or areas □
( Specify)______________
tty the finest
Name____ Address, City State
Wallace Will Speak On Industrial Relations
Dr. S. Rains Wallace will continue the current Commerce Lecture series with his initial talk on Monday. The talks will be given Monday at 2:30 p.m. in the Law Auditorium and Tuesday at 2:30 p.m. in room 188 of Nieuwland Science Hall where he will address history and human relations groups on “Human Relations in Industry.” At 10:30 a.m. Wednesday, Dr. Wallace will address all the seniors in the Law Auditorium.
Dr. Wallace is now Director of Research of the Life Insurance Management Association. Former chairman of Tulane University’s Department of Psychology, Dr. Wallace received his Ph.D. in Philosophy at the University of Virginia.
He has done extensive work for the U.S. Army, including the development of aptitude tests for men in the Air Forces. After V.E. Day, he directed the research activities of a group of German scientists in Europe.
1
VIA
A wonderful way to earn full college credit and enjoy a thrilling trip through Europe or around the world!
Roam abroad in leisurely fashion seeing all the famous sights and cities... study at an accredited university from 2 to 6 weeks in an educational center such as London, Paris, Rome. You can do both in one glorious trip on a university-sponsored tour via TWA—world leader in educational air travel. Thousands of students and teachers have taken these trips in the past five years, enjoying a fun-filled jaunt while earning full college credit. You can take a tour dealing with a special field such as music, art, languages ... attend the World Educational Conference in Geneva.. .arrange a visit to the Orient.
The cost in time and money is surprisingly small. You’ll speed to Europe overnight via TWA. And thrifty TWA Sky Tourist fares stretch your budget. Mail the coupon today!
nuns WOULD AIKUNIS
John H. Furbay, Ph.D., Director TWA Air World Tours 380 Madison Ave., New York 17, N. Y.
CM-NO
Please send me information on the Flying Educational Tours to be offered in 1954.

Position,
_____________Zone, .Phone No.___
The Scholastic
Ten Interviews on Tap For January Grads
Monday will feature two interviews: Wright Air Development Center will interview B.S. and M.S. candidates in electrical, aeronautical, and mechanical engineering.
A.B. and Commerce graduates and chemical, mechanical, and industrial engineers will be interviewed by Pillsbury Mills, Inc., for sales, engineering, advertising, and traffic office management.
Only one' interview will highlight Tuesday’s schedule. Wright Aeronautical Division of Curtiss-Wright Corp, will interview seniors in aeronautical, mechanical, and metallurgical engineering. M.S. and Ph.D. candidates in mechanical engineering, physical metallurgy, or atomic physics will also be interviewed.
Wednesday will have three interviews. Marathon Corp, will interview: A.B. and Commerce graduates for accounting, marketing, personnel and production; M.S. and B.S. chemical and mechanical engineers; and M.S. chemists.
Ph.D. chemists will be interviewed by Hercules Powder Co.
Chevrolet Flint Manufacturing will interview Commerce graduates for a training program in industrial accounting.
There will be two interviews on Thursday’s agenda. Monsanto Chemical Co. will interview Ph.D. chemists.
North American Aviation, Inc., will interview B.S., M.S., aeronautical, civil, electrical and mechanical engineers.
Friday, National Carbon Division of Union Carbide and Carbon Corp, will interview M.S. and B.S. chemists, physicists, civil, and chemical engineers.
Montgomery Ward will interview A.B. and Commerce graduates for the retail management training program and for executive training in mail order, buying, and controller branches.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
“Rosie’s.” Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles
WHATDIDHESAY?
MASS SCHEDULE
Monday, Nov. 16—Feast of St. Gertrude, Virgin.
Tuesday, Nov. 17—Feast of St. Gregory, “The Wonder-Worker,” Bishop, Confessor.
Wednesday, Nov. 18 — Consecration of the Basilicas of Sts. Peter and Paul.
Thursday, Nov. 19—Feast of St. Elizabeth of Hungary, Widow.
Friday, Nov. 20—Feast of St. Felix of Valois, Confessor.
Saturday, Nov. 21—Feast of the Presentation of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
A very fastidious college senior decided to add a few colored shirts to his wardrobe. So one afternoon, he strolled down to the local shirt shop. "I’d like to see your smartest colored shirts,” he said to the clerk.
The clerk laid several Van Heusen Vanahue Broadcloths on the counter. “These are our best sellers,” he said. “They’re tailored of fine, high-count broadcloth that’s very smooth and luxurious. And you can take your pick of eight different collar styles—including Van Heusen’s new short collars that are the rage of the college set.”
“They sure look good to me,” said the senior.
“Good? They’re terrific!” replied the clerk. “Just look at that magic sewmanship—Van Heusen’s finest. Why, even the buttons are top quality, genuine ocean pearl. And Vanahue Broadcloths come in every color of the rainbow—from soft, subtle shades to rich robust tones. What’s more, they’re only $3-95 apiece.”
“Do you have henna color?”, asked the young man.
"That’s just what I got finished telling you,” answered the clerk. “You can have henna color you want!”
November 13, 1953
33
was really ashamed over what the state of music was in this day and age. Now I have a pretty good regard for the things that are going on right now but I just kept still.
Nothing But Jazz
He got to raving about how the music of the old masters wasn’t really appreciated any more. They didn’t even realize what serious stuff was any more. Why just the other day he’d tried to get one of his fancy pieces performed at the county fair on music night but they’d told him that they -were going to have a jazz concert instead.
Now he claimed that that stuff wasn’t even music, let alone anything that a real lover of music could even bear to listen to. He said as how there wasn’t any melody or harmony oi- counterpoint to it.
I didn’t know what counterpoint was so I let it pass.
He wound up his whole speech to me by saying that the only time that people appreciated the old classics was when they came out on these new-fangled records and made a lot of money for the record companies.
He sighed a couple of times and went off with a couple of tears in his eyes. I guess that he must have gotten a piece of cinder in them. I’d just watched his long, black coat go flapping around the corner of the Feed and Supply Store, when up pops Bennie Pastrami. Now Bennie claimed to be a musician of some sort or other so I figured I’d kind of like to hear his side of the whole thing.
South End of Duck Going North
Bennie dressed sort of queer and talked even a little queerer. Some folks thought he was a little queer. He was always wearing pants with real tight cuffs and nice lavender shirts. He had
by Gordon Bergquist
The other day I was walking down the street when I happened to run into the fellow who’s the big musician in town. We chewed the fat for a while about this and that and then I kind of steered the conversation around to music and I didn’t have to do any more' talking for about a half an hour.
Now this fellow was a pretty big fellow out in our neck of the woods. He’d written a couple of symphonies and some of that other Italian stuff and had got to have quite a name in the country. After -we’d been talking for a while, he got to feeling sort of low and sad. I pryed at him for a while and finally he let on what was bothering him. It seemed that he
a haircut that looked sort of like the south end of a duck going north. Maybe some folks had a reason to think he was a little queer.
I got to talking with him about this and that. Course he was kind of hard to understand. Every time I’d say something he’d say, “Man.” Now I knew that I was a man but it was kind of nice to know that other people cared too. Sort of gets on your nerves after a while though.
I told him what the other fellow had said to me. Course I kept his name out of it. I didn’t want to start any wars in’ our little town. He sort of stared at me and then said, “Why, man, that boy’s gone.” I’d just seen him leave so I had to agree with him. Like I said, some folks thought he was queer. He went on talking like this for quite a spell. I finally managed to get it all translated so’s I could figure out a little of what he’d said.
Just Don’t Have It Anymore
He claimed as how those old mouldy classics might have been all right in their day, but they just didn’t have it any more. They’d been left. These old pieces just didn’t get through to people. They might have a little to say but they hid it real well. Now he claimed that the only thing that really was music was jazz and a lot of this popular stuff. He said it was real dreamy but I didn't believe that.
Jazz was just the thing to let a man go; jazz really got into you and made you feel it. He went on claiming great things about jazz freeing man from a whole lot of compulsions and fancy things like that. He said as how the melody and all of that technical stuff wasn’t important anyway. It was just what you felt. Ehythm and a good beat
were the real things in music anyway.
He was getting real excited now and got to waving his hands in the air and pounding me on the shoulder. He closed off his little speech saying that maybe some of those old fellows could write nice sounds to come out of a trumpet or- a violin but they were just nowhere when it came to hitting real high or low notes that didn’t sound a bit like a trumpet or a violin.
I said goodby to him and then walked back home doing a little thinking. I figured that if both of these fellows were right about their kind of music being the only kind, it just sort of left those poor fellows like Stephen Foster and Irving Berlin out in the cold. I got a bit sad then for them; they’d tried so hard but they just hadn’t even written music.
They were the least, to say the most!
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
XAre we stretching things a bit? Maybe — but when you find out how mild and sweet and refreshing the Medico pipe can be, you’ll go for Medico, too! It’s the replaceable filter in Medico that makes the big difference. That little filter traps dangerous nicotine and tars, disagreeable juices and flakes.
That’s why countless smokers, beginners and old timers alike, who never enjoyed the pleasures of a pipe, now enjoy the clean mild fragrance of Medico — the pioneer in filtered smoking.
Try a Medico Pipe. See why Medico’s filter has sold over a billion to date!
Y°m	‘n 0
MEDICO V.F.Q- *3
MEDICO FILTER PIPES
*Hi witty el-styles ail sins. Write Beta tyes, lee., H.Y. 22,ferleeUet I
34
The Scholastic
I
Illi Dr FONT DIGEST
AND DEVELOPMENT
Call for Knowledge, Ingenuity, Teamwork
Making new products in large amounts, devising new processes, and improving old ones—such problems are the job of Design and Development. An example was the development of a large-scale process for making "Orlon” acrylic fiber starting from small laboratory samples of polyacrylonitrile.
Quantity production of polymer was only a beginning. A whole set of new and unusual problems arose in spinning the fiber, because polyacrylonitrile decomposes before it melts, and it dissolves only in high-boiling solvents.
A team of Du Pont technical men—chemical and mechanical engineers, instrumentation specialists, metallurgists, and materials handling experts undertook to find a solution. Here are a few of the problems they met:
1.	Solve problems in heat transfer and fluid flow arising from the fact that the spinning solution must be blanketed with inert gas to prevent fire hazards.
2.	Design a system for controlling the temperature of the viscous spinning solution within ±0.5°F. at hundreds of points in the plant.
3.	Design new mechanisms for winding yarn at high speed without any deviation in yam tension.
4.	Design air conditioning and ventilating systems to remove fumes from specific spots, but still allow easy access to all areas.
Among Du Pont’s many research and engineering activities, Design and Development jobs provide great opportunity for the knowledge, ingenuity, and teamwork capacities of men in a great variety of technical fields.
Th* characteristics of a super-pressure pump, designed by Du Pont engineers and made in Du Pont shops, are studied by Ralph C. Grubb, B.S.M.E., Tennessee ’51, and Paul D. Kohl, B.S.M.E., Purdue ’46.
Albert Rand, B.S.M.E., M.I.T. ’50 (right) develops controls for chemical equipment.
Carl Hellman, B.S.Ch.E., Syracuse ’50, and J. M. McKelvey, Ph.D.ChK., Washington ’50, search for new ways to coat plastic on wire.
■C6.U.S.MZOfC
ASK FOR "Chemical Engineers at Du Pont.” New illustrated booklet describes initial assignments, training and paths of promotion. Just send post card to E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington, Delaware. Also available: "Du Pont Company and the College Graduate” & "Mechanical Engineers at Du Pont.”
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING
... THROUGH CHEMSnr
Watch “Cavalcade of Aaerica,” m TeiemiM
SMOKERS BY THE THOUSANDS
/^CHANGING TO CHESTERFIELD
the ONLYcigarette ever to giveyou...
A
uwtn l MW»S TOBACCO co
'H'*1 sis*
PROOF of LOW NICOTINE HIGHEST QUALITY
The country’s six leading cigarette brands were analyzed — chemically—and Chesterfield was found low in nicotine—highest in quality.
Martti

A PROVEN RECORD with smokers
Again and again, over a full year and a half a group of Chesterfield smokers have been given thorough medical examinations...the doctor’s reports are a matter of record, “No adverse effects to the nose, throat and sinuses from smoking Chesterfields.” A responsible independent research laboratory supervises this continuing program.
CHESTERFIELD BEST FOR YOU
G-SIZE
UCGETT A MYEfiS TOBACCO CO* *