In This Issue:
Grid Season Opens . . . Symphony Orchestra Reorganized ... Dr. Guth Interviewed . . . New Cotillion Idea . . . Reserves Play Purdue . . . National Broadcast of Grid Games . . . The Week . . . College Parade . . . Splinters .. . Introducing
October I, 1937
2
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
fit THE SETUI^D^Y EVENING POST thfS Week
Will SIOIEN SIGNALS
win theWor/dSeries?

BEGIN A NEW ROMANTIC NOVEL And One Was Beautiful
A SECOND BASEMAN unwittingly tips . off each pitch to the batter, and his team loses a World Series. A catcher casually touches his shirt or someone hollers “Come on, Hank,” and an entire team knows the next play. Signals run a ball game, and signals can ruin a game when a smart opponent steals them from you. Here’s how baseball’s tricky sign language works, and what happens when dugout detectives discover the mysterious hipper-dipper. Read “Will They Steal This Series?”
Would you reveal a sister’s crime to save the man you love? Start this powerful story of young love and a crime that upset the lives of three people. First of six exciting parts.
by ALICE DUER MILLER
Author of "MANSLAUGHTER"
by STANLEY FRANK
THtSWCSKiN

AND Damon Runyon’s story “A Job for The Macarone". . /’ Uncharted Honeymoon” by Ruth and Bill Albee Thomas McMorrow introduces “The little thug” Frederick, aged eleven, in '‘Difficult Child”____“Cloudy to Fair” by M. G. Chute.. .“Dead Mileage” by Joseph Marshall_______“Seven Must Die,” a South Seas mystery by James Warner Bellah... And
cartoons, editorials, poetry. I Plenty of fun in this week’s Post.
Now at your newsstand
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Auhorized June 25. 1918.
Vol. 71
October I, 1937
No. 2
DINING HALL TO BE SCENE OF COTILLION
•
For the second time in its existence the Notre Dame Dining hall will be the scene of a class dance. Approximately ten years ago a Junior Prom was held there. This year the Sophomore Cotillion will be the occasion for the use of the hall, on Friday, Oct. 22.
In securing the dining hall for the Cotillion, sophomore class officers have begun something that the present generation of Notre Dame students has not experienced.
The dance will feature the music of Reggie Childs and his NBC orchestra, returning from triumphs on the west coast; at present he is playing in Memphis, Tennessee. Appearing with Childs and his orchestra is his famous feminine trio. A portion of the dance will be broadcast over the Columbia Broadcasting System. The motif of decoration will be a summer garden scene, with artificial grass, palm trees, and lawn chairs.
A section of the football stadium will be reserved for the Sophomores and their guests at the Notre DameNavy game.
General chairman of the Cotillion is Tom Tiernan. The committees and their chairmen are: Tickets, Daniel Sallow; decorations, Jerry Donovan; music, Paul Menneg; patrons, Bill Tobin; arrangements, Tom O’Reilly; and programs, Jack Ekolt.
Press Club Meets
The new officers of the Press Club convened last Tuesday to discuss plans-for the coming year. They are: Jack Freedy, Chisholm, Minn., president; Stephen Dietrich, Port Chester, N.Y., vice president; Ed Brennan, Chicago, treasurer; and Phil Kirch, Des Moines, Iowa, secretary.
Sometime during the football season a well-known sports writer and commentator will be asked to speak before the club. All journalism majors and others interested in journalism are invited to attend the first meeting. The date will be announced soon.
PROF. PEDTKE TAKES STEPS TO RE-ORGANIZE NOTRE DAME SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA
Immediate steps were taken this week to re-organize the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra after a lapse of one year as one of the first of several projects contemplated by Professor Daniel H. Pedtke, new head of the music
department.
"Canes Out," Lawyers Agree in Meeting
No longer will the seniors of the Law School be seen carrying canes about the campus. In their first meeting of the year the Law Club decided to dispense with the custom of carrying canes and to wear, instead, emblematic keys. ’
The meeting was held in the Law building on Monday, Sept. 27, Louis Vettel presiding. Social meetings will be held this year on the third Tuesday of every month. An outstanding speaker will be engaged for each of these monthly meetings.
A new constitution, to be drawn up by a special committee, will be presented to the members of the club for their approval at the next meeting.
McCarthy To Omaha
Dean James E. McCarthy will represent the University of Notre Dame at a testimonial dinner in honor of Mr. William M. Jeffers, newly elected president of the Union Pacific Railroad, and his wife. The dinner will be held in Omaha on Saturday evening, Oct. 2.
The dinnei- is being sponsored by the Old Timers Club of the Union Pacific Railroad.
NOTICE
All those interested in contributing to the literary pages of THE SCHOLASTIC are invited to call at the Scholastic offices in the Ave Maria building, Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday evenings between 7 and 8 o’clock.
Mr. Pedtke announced that this organization will study and perform the classics of symphonic literature as well as the better known light favorites. Rehearsals are held each Monday and Thursday nights at 6:30 o’clock in Washington hall.
Student enthusiasm for the project is at a high peak, and the sponsors of the movement hope to have a personnel for the symphony to exceed one hundred performers. Any student who wishes to join the symphony should get in touch with Professor Pedtke in room 1 of the music hall (Washington hall).
In discussing the project, Mr. Pedtke declared:
“We realize there must always be a beginning and we will not expect every member to be a virtuoso. Only time and practice will bring about the desired results we hope for. The symphonic orchestral field represents the finest there is in music which is in keeping with the highest educational standards of Notre Dame. Every student who has had experience, regardless of how little, should feel it his duty to lend his wholehearted support to this most worthwhile of the finer arts.”
It is also planned to organize a supplementary group to the Glee Club from members of the freshman class, rehearsals for which are to be held on Wednesday and Friday evenings at 6:30 o’clock. One of the projects of this organization will be to present an operetta early in December.
New courses are being added to the musical curriculum to meet with the requirements of the National Association of Music Schools the highest accredited association of the music world, thereby raising the standard of credit for the Notre Dame music student to equal that of the best music conservatories in the country.
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
CHARITY WORK OF VINCENTIANS RESUMED; PRESIDENT BEASLEY SEEKS NEW MEN
Under the leadership of Charles Beasley, senior accounting student, the St. Vincent de Paul Society has again resumed its work of charity in South Bend and the neighboring vicinity. Although losing some of its active members through graduation the society has already reorganized and an appeal for new members has been issued.	,____________________________________
Charles Beasley
Representing one of the finest fields of Catholic Action, the Notre Dame Conference affords the opportunity for any student to do his part in promoting the welfare, both material and spiritual, of the poor.
Following the plan of last year, members of the society will visit those patients of the Healthwin Tubercular sanatorium who are without the comfort of their friends and relatives.
Plans are also being made to continue last year’s program of lending religious instruction and financial assistance to St. Augustine’s parish. St. Augustine’s is a small, struggling colored parish located next to St. Joseph Church, South Bend.
It has been and will in the future be the policy of the Conference to maintain close cooperation with the downtown Vincentian service bureau and through it with all the social agencies of South Bend. This cooperation consists for the main part of directing needy cases to the proper agencies.
Another important phase of the Vincentian work is the tutoring of children, who because of some physical or mental condition are not able to attend school and whose parents cannot afford private tutors. Members of the society are also called upon to serve as teachers for the children of the poor.
In the past, transients were given clothes at the campus office, but they are now being sent to the Vincentian Service bureau in South Bend, where their needs can be more thoroughly investigated.
This year the society has pledged itself to serve Catholic education directly by buying textbooks for children in Catholic schools who are unable to buy them.
Other officers for the year are: Vice presidents, Joseph Harrington and Vincent DeCoursey; secretary, Louis McKean; treasurer, Nelson Vogel; keeper of the wardrobe, Fred Sisk.
New Faculty Members Dine at First Meeting
•
Members of the Notre Dame faculty who are spending their first year at the University were the guests of Rev. John F. O’Hara, president, at a luncheon in the University dining halls last Wednesday noon. Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice-president, and Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies, were also present.
The new faculty members include Dr. Eugen Guth, Dr. Robert L. Anthony, Dr. John J. Fitzgerald, Mr. Lawrence F. Stauder, Mr. Francis J. Hanley, Mr. Matthew A. Fitzsimons, Mr. Lee Byrne, Mr. Harold J. Heck, Mr. James Dincolo, Mr. Bernard B. Finnan, and Mr. William J. Mac-Daniels.
End Upper class Mission
With the bestowing of the Papal Blessing following tomorrow morning Holy Mass in the Main Church, the second Student Mission will come to an end. Rev. William Burke, C.S.C., pastor of Christ the King Church and former member of the Holy Cross Mission Band, has been conducting the Second Mission.
In his initial sermon Sunday night, Father Burke spoke on the purpose of life and the salvation of the soul, urging his listeners to look at life through the eyes of spirituality and not from a material viewpoint. He concluded by pointing out the fallacy of a man who thinks he can profit by gainging the whole world only to lose in the end his own immortal soul. The services consisted of Mass and instruction in the morning, with sermon and Benediction in the evening.
University Guests
Mr. and Mrs. A. Lee Read of Chattanooga, Tenn., are spending the week-end at the University of Notre Dame as the guests of the administration. Mr. Read, a former Notre Dame student, is vice-president of the Ross Meehan Foundry Company of Chattanooga, and is a nephew of the late Augustus F. Meehan, one of the University’s outstanding alumni.
CASH GETS CLOTHES; NO CLOTHES, CASH
o
There seems to be no end to the clever things that the “boys” do during the summer time. Annually the reports start drifting around the campus that somebody was selling “3 for a dime” portraits on the western slopes of the Rockies; and that someone else was pounding stakes for Ringling Bros. But this week into The Scholastic office came the prize of them all.
Jack Murphy, sophomore of Emigrant, Mont., clothed in loin cloth and blushes, rode down the main street of the thriving town of Bozeman, Mont., in the first All-Montana parade, clad in the above, and riding an untethered horse to take all the honors awarded that day. Handicapped by the fact that he was labeled “Appeal to the Great Spirit,” he held one position for more than two hours; although this can partly be accounted for by the fact that had he moved very much his apparel would have been more blush than loin cloth. His feat is the more remarkable in that he was some 58 minutes in front of the grandstand.
The awards that he won totaled one hundred dollars, and with it Jack announced intentions of buying a pair of pants. Several of them as a matter of fact!
Misnomer Spotted
We rise in protest.
Always we have been taught that the thing to do to get along in this life was to call things by their right names. And so help me, we are betrayed !
In the nomenclature (we hope it’s nomenclature) of the students there has never been any such term as “bunk session.” Shades of the ghost of Brownson Hall! Were he still patrolling the rafters of the Main Building there would be no such mistake made; or if there were, vengeance would be swift—and terrible. We take this opportunity of pointing out the heinous mistake that appeared in one of the South Bend papers recently.
Student opinion is crystallizing, and if the man who coined the phrase “bunk session” to apply to the perfectly adequate, and legitimately descriptive “bull session” ever dares to again attempt to cross the “boys” it should properly be “Avast fishes, make way for a landlubber!”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
5
FR. GORMAN RETIRES AS K. C. CHAPLAIN
"AMERICAN COLLEGE STUDENTS WORK HARDER THAN EUROPEAN FELLOW." SAYS DR. GUTH
James L. Quinn, Grand Knight of the Notre Dame council of the Knights of Columbus, announced that
Rev. Leo W. Gorman, C.S.C.
“Regrets to go.”
Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., will succeed Rev. Leo W. Gorman, C.S.C., as the chaplain of the council. Father Gorman resigned the chaplaincy because of ill-health.
C. Richard Jenney, senior in the College of Commerce, has been appointed chairman of the membership committee for the coming year. Jenney will select the other members of this committee and will make the announcement concerning these appointments on Oct. 5. The investigation committee has also been duly appointed, but the names are never disclosed.
The newly elected officers exemplified the first degree on 22 candidates from the South Bend council on Monday, Sept. 27. This was done on the invitation of the Grand Knight of the South Bend Council.
Other special and remaining standing committees for the year will be announced by Grand Knight Quinn at the next meeting.
Little Notes From
Here and There
A good part of the world’s war jitters can be blamed on faulty diet, the international food conference at the Massachusetts' Institute of Technology was told.
Lewis W. Waters, food technician, foresaw doom for the “wallflower” and a race of healthier, less jittery people as a result of food technology.
Declaring surveys showed American college boys and girls today were taller and stronger than were .their parents at similar ages, Waters said it must be attributed at least in part to “better and more varied foods.”
The American college and university student is a more diligent worker worker than the student in the European schools according to Dr. Eugen Guth, recent addition to the faculty of the Notre Dame physics department. Dr. Guth comes to Notre Dame from the University of Vienna where during the past
Deane Rushes Patrician Membership Drive
In their first meeting of the year, Tuesday night, the Patricians made active plans for the new session. Joseph Nigro was appointed chairman of the membership committee by John Deane, president.
The desire for an enlarged club has prompted the committee to announce an intensive membership drive. Notices have been sent the faculty of the Classical department asking that they inform their classes concerning the club. Bulletins also will be posted on the campus.
All students taking or auditing Latin or Greek classes are eligible for membership. Any other students evidencing interest in the classics may be admitted upon the report of the membership committee. Sincerity, ability, and achievement in classical courses are the only requirements for membership. Those desiring to join the club should get in touch with Joseph Nigro, 112 Walsh Hall.
Architect Scholarship Awarded to ’34 Grad
John Joseph Brast, Milwaukee architect, and Notre Dame graduate of 1934, has just been announced as the winner of one of the eight Edward Langley Architectural scholarships for study in Europe.
Mr. Brust was proposed for the honor by Richard Phillip, Milwaukee architect. He won the award in competition with 71 candidates, composed of architects, architectural draftsmen, graduate students and teachers of architecture.
While at the University, Mr. Brust was the winner of the Commencement award from the American Institute of Architects. After graduation he continued architectural studies for over a year at the Catholic University in Washington. Then he studied in Europe under John E. Miller, former teacher at Notre Dame, and won an honorable mention in the Finals of the Prix de Rome while in Italy.
seven years he has gained international reknown as a physicist and authority on rubber.
Prof. Guth pointed out that the numerous examinations and tests that are common in the American universities cause the student to work harder at his books. He said:
“The average American student works harder than the average European student. This is due a lot to the great number of examinations that the American student has to take in the course of his study. In Vienna the student never takes over five examinations during his entire college course.”
Dr. Guth was impressed by the well-equipped laboratories and science buildings on the Notre Dame campus. He cited these convenient facilities that are being offered in the American colleges as the reason why the United States is gradually becoming the center of scientific research work.
Prof. Guth, said that Notre Dame is well-known in European chemist circles for the discovery of synthetic rubber by the late Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C.
His first trip to the United States has already furnished him many interesting experiences. He was much amazed and bewildered by the traffic problem in New York City and frankly admits:
“If I didn’t have some friends and relatives to direct me I would still be wandering around in one of those subways or trying to decide whether to go on the green light or stop on the red.”
“And I will be reading last Sunday’s copy of the Times all week,” he smiled. “We have no newspapers this thick in Vienna.”
Dr. Guth is of Hungarian descent and was born in Budapest. He is 32-years-old. He received his early education at the Benedictine High school in Komaron, Czechoslovakia and then attended the University of Vienna where he received his Ph.D. degree in 1928.
He has never seen a football game and is looking forward to watching the Notre Dame eleven in action. He enjoys chess, ice-skating, and ping-pong.
Dr. Guth delivered seminar lectures in various branches of theoretical physics at the University of Vienna He will continue his research and experimental work at Notre Dame.
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
STATISTICS ON THE NOTRE DAME POST OFFICE ARE AMAZING. REPORTER LEARNS
PEP MEET FOR DRAKE TO BE HELD TONIGHT
By Red E. Sisk
Though it occupies only a medium-sized plot of ground upon a campus of 1200 acres, the Notre Dame postoffice is the biggest year around business establishment on the campus and is a good example of a large volume of business within a small space.
From the timid Freshman to the “fashion-plate” Senior one of the first places visited at the beginning of the school year is the grey brick building on the north edge on the front quadrangle of the campus. But the postoffice is not one of those con-
N. D. Post Office Here is Big Business.
cerns that has to worry about their customers coming back, for figures reveal that all the students, faculty, and University offices as a whole are loyal customers of the Notre Dame ■postoffice during the nine months of the school year.
During last year, 5,000 registers were received in the postoffice, and a grand total of 16,000 were sent out. Of this amount which were sent out, the University athletic department contributed 12,000, most of which contained football “pasteboards” for the Irish fans.
Insured parcels received last year totaled 7,000 pieces, while 2,000 were mailed out of the local office.
Many of us know how much it adds to the day to find a money order check in a letter from home. However, it’s nothing new for one of the employees in the campus postoffice to see one, because during last year figures show that 16,000 money orders were cashed which represented a total value of approximately $219,000.
The various Notre Dame publications also contribute a great amount to the volume of postoffice business. All the issues of The Scholastic, Scrip, Annals of Lourdes, Midland Naturalist, Santa Maria, Alumnus, the University Bulletins, the Notre Dame Lawyer, and the Catalyzer totaled 70,000 pounds for three months of last year.
(Continued on Page S3)
*----------------------------------
Servers Club to Meet
The first meeting of the Server’s Club will be held Monday evening, in the sacristy of Sacred Heart Church, at 6:45 p.m. All those interested in joining the club are urged to be present.
Larry Hess, president of the club, has outlined an interesting program for the year which he will give in detail at the meeting. These plans include talks on the Eucharistic Congress at Manila. Several addresses on church traditions will also be given.
Brother Boniface, C.S.C., sacristan of Sacred Heart Church, and advisor of the group, will be on hand to greet the old and new members. According to his announcement, experience in the method of serving Mass is not a requirement for admission to the club. For those desiring to learn how to serve the priest at Mass, special instruction classes will be formed. It is the aim of the club to fulfill the club motto, “Every Notre Dame man a server.”
Lost and Found
The University maintains a Lost and Found department at the laundry office in Badin Hall. Articles found in the Cafeteria and Dining Halls are in the care of the cashier at the cigar counter. These are the places to go when you have lost anything as also to deposit anything if you are the finder. Just plain honesty and courtesy! But all should be careful. That ring, watch, wallet. Do not lay them down where anyone can pick them up. You are one of some 4500 residing or working within the limits of the campus. Add another 500 daily as visitors, people on business, the merely curious, or even those on evil intent. Your own thoughtfulness is your best protection. Keep your door locked even though you are to be absent for only a short time. The University keeps a special watchman at each hall during a football game. Even so, leave nothing valuable unprotected. And keep your door locked!
The first of the year’s Pep Meetings will be held immediately after supper in the Notre Dame Field House. The meeting will be held under the sponsorship of the S.A.C., assisted this year for the first time, by the Presidents’ Council.
Several prominent speakers will be introduced by Scott Reardon, president of the S.A.C., who will also speak for the student body. Among the speakers will be Coach Elmer Layden; the others will be announced at the meeting. The members of the football team will be introduced and several of them will speak.
The line of march will be marked by members of the S.A.C. and the Presidents’ Council, and the band will lead the student body to the field house.
Adoration Begins Today
The annual October Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament began this morning with the exposition of the Blessed Sacrament at 7:30 o’clock in the Chapel of Our Lady, Sacred Heart Church.
This year, adorations will begin on Monday morning and end on Friday afternoon of each week. The daily half-hour periods, which number approximately 350 for the month, will start at 7:30 in the morning and close at 5:00 in the afternoon.
The Blessed Sacrament will be taken from the monstance at 5:00 o’clock after the October devotions and benediction. These October devotions consist of the recitation of the Rosary, the Litany of the Blessed Virgin, and the Prayer to St. Joseph.
In keeping with the custom of the past three years—the October Adorations were inaugurated at the Uni-cersity in the fall of 1934—at least two adorers will be expected to be present before the Blessed Sacrament during each of the half-hour periods.
Kanaley Donates
Byron V. Kanaley, ’04, Chicago, has presented to the University a letter written in 1820 by Charles Carroll, one of the signers of the Declaration of Independence. The letter has been added to the collection of Carroll letters in the University archives. Six of these were written by Archbishop John Carroll, of Baltimore, first Catholic bishop in the United States and a cousin of Charles Carroll.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
7
N. D. EARLY HISTORY RECALLED BY EXHIBIT
"Haste of City Life Terrifies 'Boys'," Scribe Says—Nimbly Dodging Tram
Last Sunday witnessed the commemoration of the 100th anniversary of the death of Father Louis John de Seille, famous missionary to the Indians of Indiana, Michigan, and Illinois.
A collection of the missionaries records and letters has been on display in the catalogue room of the Notre Dame library for the past several weeks. Outstanding among the relics are the thread-worn amice of Father de Seille; the baptismal record of the mission of St. Mary’s of the Lake; and Father de Seille’s reply to a letter from John Frederic Raze, first bishop of Detroit, authorizing the establishment of a parish at Bertrand.
Father de Seille was born in Sley-dinje, Belgium, of aristocratic parents. He was early inspired with a vocation for the priesthood, giving up the advantages and comforts of his class to devote his life to the poor. He was ordained in 1821, and did parish work in Belgium for a time. The desire, however, to remove the last remainders of the ease and wealth in which he had been reared apparently prompted him to accept in 1832 the urgent call from the diocese of Cincinnati to work among the Pottowottami Indians.
He came to the tiny settlement that is now Notre Dame, then a permanent village of the redskins. Here he carried on the work of Rev. Theodore Badin, first resident missionary in Indiana. Hunger, cold, and arduous journeys on foot were customary experiences in Father de Seille’s work.
Such hardships soon wore down the resistance of even so hardy a missionary, and in 1837 he breathed his last. John Worden has portrayed his dramatic death in a beautiful painting, the original of which now hangs in the Log Chapel on the campus; a replica of the chapel in which he died. In the painting the artist shows Father de Seille being supported by two Indians as the priest administered the Holy' Viaticum to himself. Benjamin Coquillard is pictured as a witness of Father de Seille’s death. It was this same Co-quillard’s son, Alexis, who became the first student to register at Notre Dame.
Originally buried beneath the log cabin that housed his chapel Father d Seille’s body is now interred in a vault beneath the main altar in the Sacred Heart church.
You may not suspect it—perhaps yon won’t even believe it—but there are people on the campus who hold some pretty definite views on South Bend. Unfortunately, such opiniated
“Whaddaya mean, Palais Pete!”
people are usually taciturn; so we had to question some of our victims incessantly—and in one instance use “third degree” methods—before they broke down and spoke for publication.
For example, we dragged “Buck” McArdle down to The Scholastic Offices, last Tuesday night.
“What do you think of South Bend?” we asked.
“I got nothing to say,” he answered.
“Stick him over in that draft by the window-sill,” suggested ‘Hard-Guy’ Vaslett. “He’ll talk, all right.”
An hour passed. McArdle sneezed. Another fifteen minutes. He sneezed again, and his eyes began to water.
“Have a heart, fellows,” he begged, I’ll get pneumonia in this draft—and I promised my girl that I’d save all my cuts for Christmas.”
“Are you ready to talk?”
“I’ll talk—anything to save those cuts.”
He paused to blow his nose; then began. “South Bend is a great consolation to me. Frequently, Saturday night finds me financially unable to go into town and have my soda at Walgreen’s. At such a time it is consoling to know that it is South Bend I can’t afford to go to. Can I leave, now, Fellows?”
“O.K. Let him out. . . . Who’s next?”
“Louis Brady, Arts and Letters 3, LeRoy, N. Y.
“Well, Brady, are we going to have trouble with you?”
(We had no trouble with Mr. Brady. You may have an unexpurgated mimeograph copy of his remarks either by calling at The Scholastic Offices or at the Editor’s room in 237 Walsh. Although the censorship of The Scholastic is less rigorous than that of most college magazines, we are unable to carry the full text of Mr. Brady’s remarks.)
“Say, that guy Brady is all right.”
“Did you ever hear such clear, forceful language.”
Vaslett banged on the desk.
“AR right, you guys, pipe down. Let’s have a little order around here.” The chatter subsided.
“O.K. Who’s next? . . . Wait a minute. Who’s making all the racket knocking on the door? Someone open the door.”	x S
The door was opened and a gentleman with a fuzz-haircut entered the room.
“My name’s Jim Daner,” he said. “I heard that you fellows were looking for opinions about South Bend. . . . and I’ve got one.”
“Let’s have it.”
Daner began, “South Bend is . . . ah.” His face fell.
“What’s wrong?”
“I forgot what I wanted to say . . . but waita minute. I’ll go for a walk and I’ll remember. I’ll be back.” He ran out the door.
“Who’s next?”
r' “Edward Thomas McDermott, Commerce 2, Kane, Pa.”
“What do you think about South Bend, McDermott?”
“I hear that it gets to be a pretty nice town up around Chicago.”
“I agree with you, Mr. McDermott. . . . Next.”
“Kenneth Homer Duffy, Arts and Letters 2, Detroit, Mich.”
“Well, Homer, what do you think about South Bend?”
“To tell the truth I don’t go downtown often; so I don’t like to commit myself. However, I flew over South
“Yep, sonny, this’s South Bend.”
Bend last July and it looked like a nice place—only when we got to Chicago the aviator told me that the town I saw was Fort Wayne.”
“Hmmmnnn. Well, I guess we have enough for a story. Might as well let the rest of these fellows go, and close up for the night.”
The door opened. Mr. Daner was back. “I’ve got that opinion now.” He pulled a sheet of paper from his pocket.	'
“I wrote it down this time so that I wouldn’t forget,” he explained. He read:
“South Bend by any other name would still be South Bend.”
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
CALLAHAN BECOMES PRESIDENTS" PREXY
Charles Callahan, Lexington, Mass., a senior in the College of Arts and
Letters, last week was elected president of the President’s club. Calla
han is also president of the Boston
Charles Callahan
charters.
club.
He has been active in campus politics and a member of the Scholastic staff for the past two years.
The new president urges all club leaders to get in touch with Jack McKendry, secretary of the club, and submit their applications for club
Meetings of the Presidents’ club are to be held monthly according to Callahan. A new duty taken on by the club will be assisting the S.A.C. in conducting pep meetings.
A change in the election of its officers was inducted by the club this year. Formerly they were chosen by the “rule of the hat.”
College Editors Meet
Plans for the largest convention of college and university undergraduate publications workers ever to be held in the U. S. are now being formulated by officers of the Associated Collegiate Press, national association of college publications’ editors and business managers. The convention will be held in Chicago Oct. 14 to 16.
With a program headlined by Henry Goddard Leach, eminent editor of the Forum magazine, and Howard Vincent O’Brien, news-making editorial columnist for the Chicago Daily News, delegates will attend a real short course in newspaper, magazine and yearbook business and editorial management.
Delegates to the convention will be entertained by Dusty Miller, famed Indiana publisher, and the music of Al Diem and his broadcasting orchestra. Chicago radio artists will also appear on the program. Delegates will also make tours of the up-to-date Chicago newspaper, printing, engraving and cover-making plants, each personally conducted by an expert in one of these fields of publications work.
Special round-table meetings for the discussion of current editorial and business management problems are being arranged, with experts in each field leading each discussion.
“Late again, eh?” Watch in hand, Bill Condon, football equipment manager, checks up on those who move his precious equipment out to Car-tier Field for daily football sessions.
. . . hails from Greenville, Mississipi, where they “reach right down in the ol’ river and pull out a catfish by his whiskers.”
Terrifies freshman and sophomore managers, with a deep frown, which he acquired last year when worrying about his philosophy grades. Spends his spare time wondering if the trains will run on schedule so that he’ll have plenty of time to find the locker-rooms in strange stadia . . . got plenty of practice in reading time-tables this summer when working for the government by studying river charts . . . claims he cannot understand either.
He is anxiously awaiting the Army game, since Arlington Hall isn’t such a great distance from the Big Town.
Reckons that there is a distinct disadvantage in living with a roommate (Donnelly’s neck-band is several sizes smaller than the Rebel’s).
An ardent admirer of the late Kingfish, Bill is preparing to emulate him by studying law. Hopes that someday he can bring the entire student.body of “Ole Miss”..to see N.D. beat Pitt.
Those freshmen and sophomores interested in trying out for the sports and news staff of THE SCHOLASTIC are urged to attend a special meeting in the Scholastic offices, in the Ave Maria building, Thursday night, Oct. 7, at 7:00.
CASASANTA TO KEEP MUSICIANS OCCUPIED
Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, bandmaster and director of the glee club, is confronted with the task of discovering replacements for 45 men that left his 100-piece band of last year via the June commencement.
Band candidates have been rehearsing in the music rooms of Washington hall at 4:15 daily, and late this week Prof. Casasanta began a search for drum majors to replace Louis Alaman, graduate; and Joe Pawlowski, who has gone to Poland to study music.
While rehearsing the glee club during the daily lunch hour, Mr. Casasanta found time to present his 40 male singing chorus over the Columbia Broadcasting System last Sunday evening in a sustaining feature, “Columbia Football Pre-vue,” originating at WSBT, South Bend.
Accompanying Coach Elmer Layden, who was one of several national football figures interviewed in a coast to coast outlet, the glee club delivered a series of campus football songs.
Aside from leading the student body singing at the football games this fall, the next public appearance of the glee club is scheduled for Dec. eighth.
The band will be headed by James Murphy, president; Leo Boyle, business manager; and Roderick Trousdale, assistant manager. William O’Brien is president of the glee club. Other officers are: Arthur Davidson, vice-president; and James Murphy, business manager.
Bookmen Candidates
The Bookmen, with President Hal Williams presiding, held their first meeting of the year in the Commerce Forum, last Tuesday evening.
William Mahoney, chairman of the membership committee, issued a call for candidates to fill vacancies within the club. Mahoney stated that he and his assistants, Frank O’Loughlin and Robert Mullin, will welcome candidates and take them before the Bookmen, Oct. 6. The candidates will be interviewed by the club members and those showing tSe greatest merit will be elected to membership.
Four books were selected for review before the next meeting. The selections are: The Years by Virginia Wolff; The Flowering of New England by Van Wyckbrooks; The Seven Who Fled by Frederic Prokosch; The Dance of Quick and the Dead by Sitwell.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
9
THE WEEK By Harold A. Williams
BROSIUS PLANS FOR COMMERCE FORUM
Laundry
We filled our space last week before we got around to mentioning the renovated laundry department in Badin. We like the new arrangement very much with the exception of the chicken wire fence. The chicken wire fence has us puzzled—we can’t imagine why it was erected. We’re going to ask the brunette the next time we’re over that way. The brunette is very talkative. She told us the other day that with this new system of entering one door and leaving by the other it should be possible to get waited on in the unheard of time of eighteen or nineteen minutes. But it’s still necessary, she said, to have the laundry card, passport picture, and letter from the rector, to get what’s left of your laundry.
Naive
From last week’s Scholastic : “This is the first of the weekly calendars that will appear in the Scholastic. Within a fair degree of accuracy we can vouch for its completeness; but the Scholastic can not be held responsible for any errors or ommissions.”
This is so naive we think that it is worth reprinting whether it is significant or not.
Problem
Over on the north-eastern section of the campus in semi-isolation majestically squats the Biology building. As it’s quite a distance from the rest of the campus we wondered how the boys made class on time. The fourth floor of Lyons was the farthest inhabited spot from the Biology building so we decided to see how long it took from one place to the other. We walked fast and did it in 13 minutes and 10 seconds. While we were resting on the top steps of the Biology building a breathless youth struggled up. We asked him if he was from the fourth floor of Lyons. He was. He paused long enough to catch his breath and pant that he usually made it in 12 minutes and 50 seconds, if he didn’t eat any meat for breakfast. He also admitted, somewhat ruefully, that he hasn’t been on time for a class yet.
Now this is not only a problem for our breathless acquaintance from Lyons. The pre-med students who live in Morrissey, Howard, Dillon, Badin, or Alumni, have the same problem. In the hope of helping our classmates we open “The Week” to anybody who has a suggestion as to
how these winded fellows can make class on time.
No. 1
This is the story of Virgil Schlitz, IV. Schlitz isn’t his real name, but Schlitz will do for the purposes of this story. Virgil exists in Cavanaugh, and his Daddy is “king” of something or other. He is, we understand, extremely popular across the road and already has caused many hearts to flutter. Virgil evidently is one of those chosen few who have been ordained to set things right in this sorry old world. Virgil must have been pretty busy setting things right because he had certain visiting hours. Seven-thirty to eight, we believe the sign on his door read. So far he’s attempted to set rectors, prefects, professors, Sophomores, cafeteria cooks, and taxi drivers, right. He even went so far as to storm into his neighbors’ rooms, shouting in a tone that even a prefect wouldn’t dare use, “Turn off that radio. And get this straight: When a Schlitz says turn off that radio, that radio must go off. Schlitz is a power to be reckoned with.”
Last week the boys in Cavanaugh decided to set Schlitz right. The outcome, as you know or should have guessed, was the first lake party of the year. Schlitz came out wet and a different man. He admitted he had it coming to him, and agreed to let rectors, prefects, professors, Sophomores, cafeteria cooks, and taxi drivers, stumble along as best they could.
Virgil Schlitz, IV. is no longer a power to be reckoned with, except across the road at Sweetbriar on the St. Joe.
•
Suggestion
Aside to certain Freshmen: We’ve watched you parade around the campus with those high school letters on your chests. Perhaps you didn’t know it, but one of the many traditions here is that high school letters are not worn, whether they be for football or Yo-Yo twirling; the idea being that it’s not what you were, but what you are here. We just thought we’d tip you off before it was too late. See item headed “No. 1.”
Inexplicable of the week
The ice cream and macaroons on Saturday night.
A revived Commerce Forum, under the leadership of Charles Brosius, plans this year to carry out the popular ideas inaugurated last year.
The Forum
Charles Brosius
adopting this
is opened for membership to all commerce students who have a minimum scholastic average of 82. For. the first time in its history, freshmen will be allowed to join—on probation— and will retain this membership depending upon their average at the close of the school year. By new rule, Brosius be
lieves there will be greater opportunity for all members to participate more actively in its functions.
Last year the Forum sponsored many trips to nearby commercial and industrial plants. The biggest trip of the year was their visit to Chicago where they saw the Board of Trade in action. Similar trips are planned for this year.
The membership drive is still on. All students in the College of Commerce who are eligible to join may do so by calling on Charles Brosius, Walsh Hall, or Phil Maloney, secretary, Dillon Hall.
Dome Pictures Start
Frank Reppenhagen, editor of the Dome for 1937-38, announced that the individual pictures of the junior class will be taken, starting Oct. 4. The members of the class will be notified individually as to the time of their sitting.
A “Candid Camera” snapshot contest in which the student is invited to submit the startling pose of the unaware is to be featured. Further details of the contest are not available and will be released through The Scholastic at a later date.
Eighty freshmen were present at the first meeting of candidates for the Dome staff which was held last week in the editorial offices.
Movie Schedule
Oct. 2—League of Frightened Men.
Oct. 9—The General Died at Dawn.
Oct. 12—Quality Street.
Oct. 16—Ramona.
Oct. 23—The Big Broadcast of 1938.
Oct. 30—Lloyd’s of London.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
CALENDAR
COLLEGE PARADE
By John A. Callaghan
STUDENT TRIP PLANS SLIGHTLY ALTERED
Friday, October 1
Mission services for upperclassmen at Sacred Church, 6:30 a.m., 7:30 p.m.; Adoration starting immediately after the Mass, and continuing through to Benediction at Mission; Pep meeting, after supper, field house; Scholastic meeting after Mission services.
Saturday, October 2
Close of upperclassmen Mission, Sacred Heart Church, 6:30 a.m.; Football game, Drake, Stadium, 2:00 p.m.; Tickets for student trip on sale, laundry office, Badin, morning; Movie, Washington Hall, “League of Frightened Men,” first show for freshmen only, 6:40, second show, 8:20.
Sunday, October 3
Student Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6, 7, 8, 9, a.m.; Meeting St. Vincent de Paul Society, Knights of Columbus chambers, Walsh Hall, 11:00 a.m.
Monday, October 4
Start of Dome pictures for juniors, Walsh Hall. 1:30 p.m.; Adoration, Lady Chapel, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.; October devotions and Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament; Servers’ club meeting, 6:45 p.m., Sacristy, Sacred Heart Church.
Tuesday, October 5
Adoration, Lady Chapel, 7:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.; October devotions and Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament; Meeting, La Baza club; Meeting, Chicago club; Dome pictures, Juniors.
Wednesday, October 6
Adoration, Lady Chapel, 7:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.; October devotions and Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament; Dome pictures, Juniors 1:30 Walsh Hall.
Thursday, October 7
Adoration, Lady Chapel, 7:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.; October devotion and Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament; Dome Junior pictures, Walsh Hall.
“A woman’s college is not concerned with the war between men and women. . . . The notion that women’s colleges were designed to gear women to fight men is out of date.” Wellesley College youthful president, Mildred H. McAfee, discusses her hope of training young women to take their places in society, not militantly, but intelligently aware of their responsibilities as citizens.
Up at Northwestern they seem to have developed the best idea of the year in news distribution — the collegiate newsreel. The handling of assignments is simple — the editor sends his cameramen to cover all stories on the campus. Arrangements have been made with a neighborhood theatre to have the completed newsreel shown for an entire week. The Purple Parrot, student magazine at Northwestern, also has its own promotional ideas. The editors have started a subscription drive with a free trip to Hollywood by air as bait. The two circulation salesmen who bring in the most new subscriptions will fly to cinemaland as guests of the Parrot; and everyone selling ten subscriptions is entitled to a trip by air over the campus.
No Smoking
“Purdue’s ‘No Smoking’ tradition, old as the institution itself, exists no longer in the eyes of the Student Senate — a body representative of University students.” — The Purdue Exponent.
Another tradition gone up in smoke —podden.
Not-Scissored
This actually happened to us and we relay it to you with all its baffling complications. We were strolling along in front of the Law Building when a tall, gangling gent stopped us and fixing us with a baleful eye, whispered, “Do you know what time it is?”
We hunted for our watch, couldn’t find it and answered that we were sorry but we didn’t know the exact time.
With this our tall friend uttered a snort and triumphantly snarled, “Then why didn’t you ask me?”
Well, what do you think—and so do we.
Jottings
Charlie McCarthy, stage and radio stooge for Edgar Bergen, was pledged to the Delta Upsilon fraternity out at the University of Kansas. Bergen himself is a D.U. at Northwestern, where McCarthy worked Bergen’s way through school. . . . There are more part time students enrolled at New York University than there are full time students in any other college, excepting California. . . . Betty Co-ed is exactly 100 years old. It was in 1837 that it was throwing its doors open to “young ladies of good minds, unblemished morals, and respectable attainments” who would “attend recitations with, young gentlemen in all the departments.”. . .
It was learned late this week that
the special train carrying students to the Minnesota game in Minneapolis on Oct. 30 will be a “through” affair without benefit of a stopover -
Frank Delaney
in Chicago, as announced earlier.
The student - trip committee, under Chairman Frank Delaney, has promised to keep open its office, the old laundry in Badin Hall, from 9:00 to 11:00 a.m. tomorrow morning t o accommodate the late reservations. Trip
goers are reminded that a five dollar deposit is required for student reservation.
The student train is tentatively scheduled to leave South Bend at 10 p.m. the Friday preceding the game. Leaving Minneapolis at midnight of Saturday, the student special will return Notre Dame students to the campus in time for Mass on Sunday morning.
The customary authorization from one’s parents to make the trip will be required as well as for any stop-over in Chicago on the return trip.
Lloyd Names Salesmen
Mr. Frank Lloyd, Comptroller of the University, announced last Tuesday that arrangements have been effected by which the L. G. Balfour Company of Attlebboro, Mass., will again handle the sale of jewelry on the campus this year.
Four years ago the University assumed responsibility for the concession on the campus and by consolidating all purchases through one responsible concern has been able to secure the best possible arrangements for the student body.
Representatives this year are:
Eugene L. White------Dillon	Hall
Maurice Kennedy.______Walsh	Hall
Scott Reardon.........Sorin	Hall
John Lechner..........Off Campus Robert Scally........Brownson Hall
Allen Mago.........Freshman Hall
Thomas Sheehan.......Dillon	Hall
Mr. Lloyd stated that each salesman will carry in his display case an official price list of. the jewelry, as well as a letter authorizing him to work in the hall. Prices will again be at a minimum.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
II
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
World Premier of the Second in Our Series of One-Act Plays 11!
“FARDELS OF A PHARAOH” or
Uneasy rests the head(?) that sports a crown
(The curtain rises on a scene in the tropics with palms waving, both those on the trees and those on the natives. Everyone is waving except the critics who are resting cozily in the lap of Morpheus. A large croivd is gathered aroztnd the throne of the Potentate, the Monarch of Monarchs, the last of the Fanchu dynasty, His Royal Highness, “Crack-down” Condon. The Emperor is seated comfortably on his throne, complete with ermine cape, sceptre, and crown on which is emblazoned the imperious device: “Give Me That Siveatshirt!” The Potentate at this moment is cackling the mad cackle of the scientist and waxing his moustaches enthusiastically as he gazes delightedly at the writhing bodies of twelve student managers who are, as the old Romans so subtly put it, “on the rack.” As the rabble quiets down and slowly bows back a short distance, the air is rent by the cries of the tortured. One voice rises above the others:)
The Voice: “Oh King, we know nothing. Pray, free us from these, —er, these wringers.”
King: “Yo’all stay theah till one of yo’ talks. Incidentally, yo’ fust statement was the truth.”
(Door at the side of the stage opens and a man in uniform sticks in his head. He speaks.)
The Man: “Say, King, how about two tickets to the Army game?”
The King: “Yo’all get outa heah.” (aside) “See me later back of the palace.”
(Exit man)
Prisoners: “Oh Most Kind Euler, Benefactor of the Whales, on our collective honors, we know nothing of the theft. We implore you—set us free.”
The King: “Yo’all is gonna stay theah till one of yo’ talks. It was in the equipment room yestuhday, and it’s gone now.”
(Man in uniform appears)
The Man: “Say, King, what about those tickets. I’m in a hurry and—”
The King, (screaming): “Yo’all get outa heah! Can’tcha see ah’m busy?”
(Man in uniform withdraws, alarmed.)
Prisoners: “Oh, Most Gracious Pharaoh, release us. We know nothing of the theft.”
The King: “Now listen heah, stooges; that football shoe was lying theah
in the co’nuh last night and this mo’nin’, it was gone! Now aftuh it has been theah foh ten years, it wasn’t gonna get the powah of locomotion ovuhnight. Now, come clean, WHEAH IS THAT SHOE?”
(Man in uniform enter his head into the proceedings again).
The Man: “Say King, about those tick—”
The King: “What? Ah yo in heah again? Say, who ah yo’ anyhow?”
The Man: “Well, I used to go to Army. My name’s Chris Cagle and I —”	(curtain)
* * *
Society Notes:
hal wardell is at home to guests in Walsh Hall between the hours of 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. Mr. Wardell suggests that visitors merely inform the watchman they are calling on him (Mr.W.) and admittance will be immediate. . . . The “Never-Say-Die” Club, of which mr. Thomas funk is president, will present a combination clam-bake and steak-fry in the stadium next Saturday immediately after the Drake game. . . mr. william dolan will review the latest best seller: “Wading Through Crows in the Illinois Valley With Frank Buck” the caws will be inserted at apropriate moments by the secretary and chief sound-effects man of the club, MR. JACK RICKERT. CHARLES Callahan, retired Notre Dame politician, made his debut last week-end into the St. Mary’s political entanglements.
* * *
First letter from THE ONE GIEL back home.
Dear Herman:
You have been gone only a week and yet it seems such a short time.
. . . and what do you boys eat for breakfast?
Eeally, you don’t know how I miss you. The folks miss you too, Herman. Eeally, you don’t know I miss you. The folks miss you too, Herman. Dad says that the cigars are holding out longer but mother is serious and really looks different. She claims that the neighborhood has never seemed so quiet.
I miss you too, Herman. I just can’t seem to find anything to do since you left. By the way, you should have been at Susie’s party last Friday night. I went with Jack Morton and don’t you think he’s SUCH a nice boy? I think so. The next day we went to the club and played tennis all day.
Then Jack picked me up at the house that night, and you should have heard Dad! He was so silly. He just raved and raved for joy when Jack told him that he didn’t smoke. (You know—fooling) Dad’s such a scream when he wants to be.
That night we went to the sorority dance and the next day all of us went to the lake to swim all afternoon. School started Monday, you know, and after school we all played tennis, and then went to a show that night. Well, that brings me up to today, Herman, and I want you to know that I have EEALLY missed you. It doesn’t seem like the same neighborhood with you not here and nothing to do. Have to go now. Jack’s honking in front. Write soon, Herman.—Yours, Wilhemina.
P.S.: Those nasty little McGuire boys pulled poor little Tommy Tucker off his bicycle yesterday and then hit him on the head with a ball bat. Jack says that they should be syko-analized, whatever that is.
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C.............Faculty	Adviser
EUGENE F. VASLETT......................Editor-in-Chief
LOUIS DA PRA............................Managing	Editor
Departmental Editors
Harold Williams The Weefe
John Callaghan----------------------------College Parade
John F. Clifford---------------Splinters from the Press Box
News Staff
Vincent DeCoursey News Editor
George Haithcock____________________Assistant News Editor
Frederick Sisk____________________________Graham	Starr
Robert Sheppard---------------------Michael Mongoven
Vernon Sneider____________________________Edward	Huff
Joseph Miller__________________________Thomas Marker
James Dempsey_______________________________John	Kohn
William C. Fay______________________Fructuoso Barreda
James Hufnagel
Sports Staff
Mark J. Mitchell__________________________Sports Editor
Frederick Digby_____________________Assistant Sports Editor
Nick Lamberto-----------------------Charles Callahan
Andrew M. Crowe___________________William A. Donnelly
Andrew F. Wilson_______________________Robert Voelker
Clarence Sheehan
Art Staff
George Elmore_______________________________Art Editor
Tom Powers____________________________________Ed Cort
Member Catholic School Press Association and Member of Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 237 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Vol. 71
October I, 1937	No. 2
FIRST THINGS FIRST ...
IN HIS opening sermon the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., told the student body to “put first things first” while at Notre Dame and in later life.
On the eve of another football season the student body has its first opportunity to apply Father O’Hara’s advice in a concrete way. Football games in any collegian’s life have an important part. But they should not become the most important part. Let them be important to you—in their place. Mere athletic predominance does not make a university a great one. Great universities go deeper than that, and Notre Dame is no exception.
Put first things first. Hold no delusions that Notre Dame will emerge national champions. Right now we have no reason to expect one. Do as the athletic administration does; take every game in stride.
If you think that Notre Dame will have a. national championship don’t let this dampen your enthusiasm for it. Show the team you are behind it win or lose, that’s what counts at Notre Dame.
Certain tenets of football conduct at Notre Dame will
bear repetition here. Take your defeat, if a defeat comes, standing up. After a game, in the dining hall, applaud your team like Notre Dame men. Sincere applause means more than shouting and whistling, that’s a Notre Dame tradition.
When a victory comes, and we know they will come this year, remember that rushing downtown theatres, restaurants, and street cars has passed from the local scene. That’s story book stuff and what’s more it’s mob reaction. Don’t be one of the mob. Be a Notre Dame man, treat your opponents with respect, and put first things first.
V
A STEP FORWARD ...
IT IS a strange and peculiar anomaly on this campus, where once a great tradition in music was born and fostered, that so little attention of late has been directed by the general student body to the plans, aims, and activities of the music department. Today the music department bids for attention; more so, it bids for student cooperation.
This week Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke was named to be the head of the University’s department of music. Mr. Pedtke has been with us only for the past two years, but in that time he has become acquainted with the traditions of music of the past which is now exemplified by the national acclaim which has greeted the University Band and the University Glee Club.
In a week Mr. Pedtke has shown himself to be a far-seeing man, an ambitious man. Within a week he has begun very progressive plans which will revolutionize the department. Too, he has made to the student body a bid for co-operation to re-organize the Symphony Orchestra. This is the main news of the week. It is good news.
The Symphony Orchestra was, through student lack of interest, allowed to disband a year ago. That organization had an interesting history during the past few years. It had been born of a string quartet during 1931, grew rapidly, and in 1935 contained thirty-five members. The concerts given were devoted entirely to classical music. Its repertoire consisted of the works of Beethoven, Haydn, Bach, Tschaikowsky, and Strauss.
Music lovers will undoubtedly greet this attempt of Mr. Pedtke with great enthusiasm. Enthusiasm, no doubt, is needed. Unfortunately, however, the organization of a symphony orchestra requires violinists, cellists, pianists, trombonists, and the like. If we must, and we wish, to perpetuate a tradition, we must have concerted action. The Scholastic last week invited freshmen generally to join various campus organizations. This week your weekly invites you all to accept Mr. Pedtke’s bid.
Let’s have a symphony orchestra.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
How Lake Wolkerno Came to Emerald Valley
Wolkerno hung low over the straying Pennsylvania valley. He drowsed in a warm up-draft and sweat gathered on his damp forehead to fall earthward in long drops. He was more at home here above the restful fields than over the crowded cities where little boys grasped menacing bats and glowered out windows at his provoking drip-drip-drip, wishing in their boyish hearts that he would go away. Here, the hospitable farmers welcomed his productive visits, and he returned their cordiality with even, steady showers which transformed their neatly furrowed fields into green, pleasant landscapes.
Wolkerno stretched noisily, touching his thinning white hair with a fleecy hand. “I’m getting old,” he reflected. “All this gallivanting about in such damp weather doesn’t do anyone much good, and it’s time I were settling down, as all clouds must, eventually.”
“Here, here,” he blustered, “you’re getting soft. There’s many a good shower left in the old man yet.” Besides, he had that downpour scheduled for Baltimore on the morrow, and it was against his code to be late. Whereupon, the old cloud gathered in his tattered edges and dried his purple, ominous eyes, preparing himself for he overnight trip to Baltimore. .
The following morning, Wolkerno thundered into Baltimore. He had a few scores to settle with the Weather Bureau Agent, a supercilious young upstart who was continually predicting “Fair and Warmer” for the newspapers and, in general, behaving in a manner which stroked the old cloud’s fleece the wrong way. Wolkerno held a one-cloud water carnival all day. Occasionally, he directed a splattering squall against the prognosticator’s rattling window and rumbled uproariously when that woeful gentleman’s teeth chattered together. Eventually, Wolkerno tired of the sport and roared off towards the distant Blue Ridge Mountains.
He amused himself for several hours in the mountains, circling and winding ’round the jagged peaks where snow still lay in scattered blotches. The cool air rejuvenated the old fellow and he began to cut up and frisk about. A high peak loomed ahead and, rather than expend the energy to rise above it, he decided to employ a trick which he had learned from his mother so long ago that he didn’t even care to think about it. Just when it appeared certain that he would crash head-on
By William Cullen Fay
against the barrier the wily old fellow suddenly divided. Half his blackish bulk swung to the left, hugging the mountain wall, and the remainder turned to the right. He finally got back together again on the other side of the peak, but something was wrong. There was a flaw somewhere in his machinery, for no watery trail followed his misty tail. It required the terrain beneath. Presently, he worked off his bad temper and began to look forward to his next day’s assignment.
He was going to jump around a little and pay a flying visit to Topeka. A friendly weather-man lived there, and Wolkerno often went out of his way to oblige him, when some other less dependable cloud failed to show up for work. Besides, the fellow was such a' frank chap. He al- > ways had his invitations set up in black type a day ahead of time— ' never prevaricated when rain threatened on Declaration Day ,or the Fourth-of-July. Instead, he came out straightforwardly ajid predicted “rain and cooler.” Wolkerno, a frank blustery sort of fellow himself, admired him for it and often made flyingtrips, as he was to-night, to help him out when a forecast went awry.
He was weary and content to loiter along with the wind. Consequently, dusk was slowly gathering in the hills for a final swoop before he hovered once more over his valley. The old cloud was tired—too spent in fact to refresh the pansies with a twilight sprinkle. He nodded sleepily and failed to observe the approach of another cloud until its shadow cut off the fading sunlight from his sleepy eyes. Wolkerno glanced upwards. As he became accustomed to the darkness, he recognized the newcomer as Himmelnu, his sister’s youngest boy. Wolkerno rumbled a drowsy greeting to the younger cloud whom he scarcely identified as the misty little blot which, formerly, was forever becoming separated from his mother’s skirts, causing her to scurry about in the sky in distracted pursuit.
“Well, Himmelnu,” began Wolkerno a bit timidly, “you certainly have grown. You’re not the same naughty little fellow, I remember. Heh. Heh.” Wolkerno had no children, and was always perceptibly embarrassed when among youngsters.
Himmelnu replied testily, “Yes, yes, Uncle, “but it’s been a long time since you saw me.” Like all young people he disliked to be reminded of his youth.
Wolkerno nodded a dreamy assent. Truly, it had been a long time.
“Well,” remarked Himmelnu swinging around as if to depart, “I can’t wait around here much longer. I’m going down south for a while. The folks down there don’t care for rain—hurts their tourist trade, they say. And their Chambers of Commerce are willing to come through with a pretty penny to buy me off. Why, do you know, Uncle, I had to pay more than three-hundred-dollars additional income tax, last year, just from what I picked up for lying around in the sunshine?”
“Is that so?” Wolkerno was a bit hurt to hear his nephew talk so. Of course, Wolkerno knew that blackmail had been resorted to by unscrupulous clouds before, but to have his own water-and-mist mixed up in such a business—well, he just didn’t like to think about it.
“Say, Unk,” added the younger cloud, “why not come along with me? You look like you could use a little extra money. That old black coat of yours is breaking out at the elbows.”
Wolkerno paused before answering. Of course, he couldn’t accept Himmelnu’s invitation; but still, he didn’t want to hurt the young fellow’s feelings, either. finally he simply said. “No, you’d better float along without me. I’ve got a pretty big job on tap upstate for next week, and I can’t miss it. Some other time, perhaps.”
Sorrowfully, Wolkerno watched Himmelnu wisp away. Deep down inside the old cloud was a trifle ashamed of himself. He had intimated to Himmelnu that he had a contract for a big job the following week, and he didn’t—that is unless you considered sprinkling Tom Howard’s small farm near Erie a big job.
“Oh well, I guess I’m just an old fog of a cloud,” he concluded, and with that thought the old fellow stretched out and fell asleep—and as he slept he gently passed away. . . .
When morning came, a small blue lake lapped softly at the foot of the grinning pansy beds and mirrored the silvery birches. And if you should ever be near Pittsburgh and traverse the gently sloping path which leads downward to a green silent valley and a shimmering blue lake, be careful—for if you are not, a native of the valley will accost you and tell you the story which I have written, how Lake Wolkerno came to Emerald Valley. . . .
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ATHLETICS
IRISH OPEN FIFTIETH GRID SEASON IN TILT WITH POWERFUL DRAKE TEAM TOMORROW
By Bill Donnelly
Some person, who obviously had not thought very much on the subject, called Drake the soft spot of Notre Dame’s 1937 football schedule.
Perhaps he had been misinformed, any rate, he didn’t realize that when season to-morrow afternoon, it be- , gins a series of nine successive Saturdays, on which it will face a more formidable combination of opposition than any college football team in the country. And there are several good reasons for believing that Drake is not even the “least-hard” game on this schedule.
The Bulldogs scored 268 points last season to become the second highest scoring team in the country, but judging from, the results of the two games they have played already this year, they must have been dissatisfied with that record. They rolled up a score of 47-0 in their opener against Central College of Des Moines, and last week they trounced Washington University of Missouri—the team that held Notre Dame to an eight-point margin in 1936—by a score of 32-2.
Coach Vee Green, who played for Illinois at approximately the same time that the Four Horsemen were running up and down football fields for Notre Dame, lost only five veterans last year. Pug, 200-pound fullback, and Phil, a 170-pound quarterback, younger brothers of Minnesota’s famous ex-fullback, Jack Manders, starred for Drake as sophomores in 1936, and they are big guns again in this year’s backfield.
(Continued on Page 21)
or perhaps he was merely joking. At Notre Dame opens its fiftieth football
Grid Games Will Be Aired Nationally
•
Once again fans from Maine to California will have the opportunity of hearing broadcasts of all Notre Dame football games. The broadcasting schedule, which has recently been announced, is as follows:
The opening game with Drake will be handled by NBC with Ford Pearson, Lynn Brandt, and Bill Stern doing the announcing. WLW, Cincinnati, will also carry the game.
The following week CBS takes over the Illinois game at Champaign; Ted Husing will be at the mike. This broadcast will also be heard through the facilities of station WLW, Cincinnati.
Bob Elson of the Mutual Broadcasting System will announce the Carnegie Tech game from Pittsburgh on Oct. 16. Listeners in the vicinity of South Bend will be able to hear this broadcast through station WGN, Chicago. Elson will also announce the Northwestern and Southern California games.
From Minneapolis on Oct. 30, Ted
CAPTAINS NAMED FOR SPRING SPORTS
•
Four senior monogram men were chosen to lead their respective teams this coming spring.
The varsity baseball team will be led by Charles Borowski, a senior who has had two years experience on Jake Kline’s nine. He succeeds Ennio Arboit, senior pitcher, as captain.
When the season arrives for the track team to kick up the cinders, it will be piloted by Bill Mahoney. In two years of competition Mahoney has made an excellent record in dual as well as national meets. A leg injury last spring kept Bill on the side lines the latter part of the season but complete recovery assures Nick of an active point scorer and captain.
Senior Eugene Milbourne, of Omaha, will lead the golfers when they open their season. Although Gene was out of competition for a while last year, he is familiar enough with the prospective opponents to make an able leader.
The tennis squad, which has already been practicing this fall, will find Ed Kilrain, heading the team as captain. Ed and his teammates have been taking advantage of fair weather. They can be seen every day at the courts, storing up enough technique to last them until spring.
Husing will broadcast the Minnesota game, while on Nov. 6, Red Barber will handle the Pittsburgh game. Barber will announce the Army and Navy games also. All these games may be heard through the facilities of the local stations, WSBT-WFAM.
EIGHT OF THE BOYS WHO WILL BE OUT
ZWERS
PUPLIS
Ruetz
O’Reilly
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
BRUSHING UP
By Ed Brennan
Lynn Waldorf, Northwestern’s football coach says that his team is not due to beat Notre Dame until 1969. When the Wildcats defeated the Irish 14 to 7 in 1935, it was their first such victory in 34 years. . .
Manager Steve O’Neil of the Cleveland Indians is trying to teach Bob Feller his juvenile mound ace, the pitching motion formerly used by Walter Johnson. Baseball experts are agreed that if Feller catches on to the new delivery it will ease the strain on his arm. . .
When Pittsburgh beat Ohio Wesleyan last Saturday they had 56 men out in uniform, and every one was used. . .
A favorite dug-out story is the one often told regarding the humor of Burleigh Grimes, now manager of the Brooklyn Dodgers. The incident occurred about six years ago when Grimes was hurling for the Chicago Cubs in a game against the Pittsburgh Pirates. Lloyd Waner was the first batter for the Bucs in their half of the eighth inning, and he hit Burleigh’s first pitch for two bases. Big Brother Paul promptly followed with a smash through the infield that scored Lloyd with a run that proved costly for the Cubs. When Grimes finally regained his poise, he nonchalantly turned to his infielders and said, “I’m darned glad the other Waner never made good.”. . .
A Minneapolis high-school football conference has banned the use of the sleeper play in all league grid contests. . .
Slingin’ Sam Baugh, former Texas Christian grid luminary, and now a member of the newly organized Washington Redskins, proved that his ability as a football player does not stop with accurate bullet-like passes. In the recent All-Star game (Continued on Page 22)
GREEN "OPTIMISTIC" OVER DRAKE'S CHANCES; "ACID TEST" SAYS BULLDOG EDITOR
Patil Morrison, Sports Editor, Drake Times-Delphic
•
DES MOINES, Iowa, Sept. 30—(Special)—Drake’s Bulldogs will receive the well known ‘acid test’ Saturday when they meet the famous Fighting Irish of Notre Dame at South Bend. It will be the first game for the Irish while the Bulldogs have already garnered two victories, one over Central, 47-0, and
Week’s Grid Practice Features Blocking
•
This afternoon the Notre Dame football squad held their final practice session before the opening of the 50th Irish gridiron season. With the Drake curtain-raiser coming up tomorrow, the workout was restricted to limbering up and signal drills.
Stress has been laid on the fundamentals all week- by Coach Elmer Layden and his assistants. The reason for this lies in the fact that Coaches Grant and Cerney, who saw Drake beat Washington last week, report that the Iowa club relied solely on straight football. To give the Irish a line on the type of attack to expect, Coach Kline had his freshmen use Drake plays in scrimmaging against the Varsity.
Very little deception was instilled in N. D. attack during the week, so spectators tomorrow may expect nothing in the razzle-dazzle line from either side. For one thing, the Lay-denites cannot be expected to “shoot the works” when in the stands there will be scouts from Minnesota, Pitt, Illinois, and others.
The past week of practice brought out the very best playing on the part of every squad member. There were many reasons. In the first place, the
(Continued on Page 22)
, another from Washington univer’ sity’s Bears, 32-2.
In the opening game the Bulldogs ran rough-shod over the small, Central college team and in their initial conference game Friday night they looked very impressive. The Blue and White team scored after only six minutes of play and came back in the second stanza to count 19 more points. In the third quarter the Bears held the Drake eleven scoreless but the Bulldogs pushed over . another touchdown in the final period.
Drake’s line outcharged and outplayed the Bears so thoroughly that Washington had to resort to its famed aerial attack to make any headway at all. Not once were the visitors inside the Drake 15-yd. line, and not until the last quarter, against Drake’s third team, did they threaten to score.
Coach Green, who is somewhat more optimistic now over his team’s chances against the Irish, will use the same starting lineup in Saturday’s game as he did in the Washington contest. Bus Bergmann, 190 pounder from Chicago and Bill Luft-man, 185 pound Jewish boy from Minneapolis, will man the wing-posts. Capt. Herb Hedlund will have Dick Tomlinson as his running mate at tackle. Tomlinson, a 190 pound junior from Clarinda, is the most improved ball player on the squad.
Charley Lyon, who weighs only 170 but who is one of the ‘fightingest’ players on the team will hold down (Continued on Page 22)
TO MUZZLE THE BULLDOGS TOMORROW AFTERNOON
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING By Mark J. Mitchell
A lot has been said about that elaborate scrimmage last Saturday which masqueraded under the title of a Varsity-Frosh game. With the Bulldogs occupying all attention at present, and eight other teams providing material for speculation in the future, probably not very much more will be thought or said about the aforementioned spectacle. But before it is too late we
intend to insert a shilling’s worth or so from an angle which many critics seemed to overlook.
The Varsity didn’t seem to have much drive. When the backs did get through the line they just about tore their own holes. And did you notice that the white shirted lads didn’t run Freshmen punts back very far? Which brings us to the point of all this. The Varsity was playing a man short. He’s a little fellow with bushy hair, and two of the best things he does are bowling over opposing forwards and returning enemy kicks. 0 f course h e plays quarterback too, and his signal calling gladdens even Elmer’s sad heart. But you must
have recognized this figure by now. He is Andrew Joseph Puplis.
For the chronologically minded, Andy was born in Chicago on February 1, 1915 of Lithuanian parents. He grew up on Chicago’s West Side, and enrolled at Harrison Technical High school. There under Bob Dougherty he quarter-backed one of the greatest prep teams this country has ever seen—quarter-backed them to a national high school championship, if there really is such a thing.
Yes, we remember very well that dark afternoon when Andy and his mates including Hank Pojman, Frank Kopczak and Andy Pilney wiped the field with a pretty good team from Mount Carmel and won the Chicago high school championship by a score of 44 to 6. But then Pilney, Kopczak and Pojman graduated leaving little Andy to pilot the Harrison Hornets alone. And two years later Puplis led another great Harrison team against Mount Carmel, but this time he had to do all the work alone. The result was a 7-0 decision against him.
Notre Dame was Andy’s choice when it came to continuing his football career. He had a long, hard road to travel before he got to the top of Layden’s squad. However, he did break into the lineup as a sophomore, and in the Wisconsin game of 1935 he returned a punt almost the length of the field before a vicious tackle downed him, forcing his removal from the game.
Last year he arrived as first string quarterback, and there displayed some of the headiest football the Irish had ever seen. This fall, when Layden was looking for a triple-threat man at left half, he hit upon the idea of shifting the stocky quarterback to that position. At present Puplis is still a quarterback, (Continued on Page 20)
VARSITY SNEAKS BY STRONG FRESHMEN
•
By Robert Voelker
A very spectacular but methodically trained varsity made its debut last Saturday against a squad of inexperienced freshmen, and just as methodically ended its appearance on the long end of a 22-0 score.
The No. 1 men, led by the sprinting Bunny McCormick, managed to score two touchdowns in the first 15 minutes of action. The Laydenmen played the line, with the bulk of the yardage resulting from end-sweeps, accompanied by good blocking.
In the second quarter, Layden sent in one of the better reserve teams against his veterans, and they put on a real show. With poor punting and the opposition of the Sullivans—Dan, Bob, and John—they had all they could do to keep the greens in check. Although the varsity pass defense was good, its attempts to crash the reserve’s line proved futile. Louis Zontini, however, filling the left halfback post for the varsity, showed ability as a broken-field runner when he went 40 yards around his own left end.
The varsity third team started the second half with the No. 2 freshman outfit as its opponents. This period was made interesting by the splendid 70 yard punts of Freshman Peipul. The varsity showed they also had a kicker when Hofer booted a perfect field-goal from the 17 yard line. Both teams showed a lack of blocking ability.
In the fourth quarter another varsity team went into action. With both teams playing rather uneventful ball, the period drew to a close without a score being chalked up on either side. However, when the varsity got the ball on Emmett Crowe’s interception of a Frosh pass, they clicked again. A 35-yard pass from Burnell to Arboit, who made a splendid catch near the goal line, ended the scoring.
Layden particularly felt the need of Andy Puplis, who was still out of action due to leg injuries. However, he will probably be in shape for the game with Drake Saturday. Meanwhile the coaching staff will continue its search for a left halfback, effective punters, and an efficient'blocking combination to be formed around McCormick and McCarthy.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
1937 RULE CHANGES REMEDY FAULTS
•
The National Collegiate Football Rules Committee meeting this winter took the following action:
1.	“Hereafter only one kick-off which goes out-of-bounds will be allowed and if the ball is kicked off out-of-bounds it is to be put in play by opponents from scrimmage on their own 35-yard line or 10 yards in from the point where it crossed the side line, whichever is more advantageous.”
“This will greatly simplify the rule and the play and also will tend to speed up the game.”
2.	“In recognition of the merits of the suggestion made by the Coaches association, the numbering of all players both front and back was made mandatory.”
3.	“In order to clear up the misunderstanding on the part of some of players and the public as to what constitutes legal interference on a forward pass play, the following was adopted: During a forward pass play it must be remembered that defensive players have as much right to the ball as the eligible opponents and bodily contacts between the players, however severe, who are making a ‘bona fide’ attempt to catch or bat the ball shall not be construed as interference.”
4.	“The committee found it impossible to more definitely define the limitations put upon players ineligible to receive a forward pass and seriously considered a further restriction to hold these men on the line of scrimmage. Unless coaches assume the responsibility of keeping ineligible players away from that part of the field to which the forward pass is thrown, it will be necessary to adopt a rule requiring ineligible players to be held on the line of scrimmage.”
5.	“To clarify the rule against kicking a free ball, the present approved ruling was superseded by the following: ‘A free ball is struck by a portion of a player’s body other than his foot. This is not to be considered as kicking a free ball.’ The penalty is loss of ball to opponent at spot of foul, for kicking a free ball.”
Candidates for the Varsity Fencing team which will begin its second year as a recognized minor sport this winter were present at a meeting yesterday in the Science building. Coach Pedro de Landero briefly outlined the schedule for the year, indicating that it would approximate that of past seasons in its difficulty. Practice will begin Monday, and tournaments for both the Varsity and the Freshmen will be held before the season opens.
Donovan and Sheehan Tied in Final Round of Fall Golf Tourney; Play-off for Title
By Fred Digby
After leading the field into the final round of play in the Eighth Annual Fall Golf Tournament, Tom Sheehan turned in a poor card of 80 on his last 18 holes, and Bud Donovan was able to tie him for first place.
Sheehan was ahead by three strokes at the beginning of his match. On the par four 13th hole, however, he faltered for the first time in the tournament and took six strokes before finally sinking his putt. This allowed Donovan to equal his 72-hole score of 306.
The lowest 18-hole card of the tournament was turned in by Sheehan, a 73 made on his second round. Donovan was but one stroke behind with a 74.
A freshman, Sammy Neild, finished in third place behind Donovan and Sheehan. He shot a ruinous 84 in his first 18 holes, but steadied in the
1937 SCHEDULE AND PRICES
Game October 2—Drake at Notre Dame 		Box 	$4.40	Side $2.20	End $1.10
October 9—Illinois at Champaign 			3.00	
October 16—Carnegie Tech at Pittsburgh .		 3.85	3.30	1.65
October 23—Navy at Notre Dame 				 5.50	3.30	2.20
October 30—Minnesota at Minneapolis—THIS GAME SOLD OUT			
November 6—Pittsburgh at Notre Dame 			 5.50	3.30	2.20
November 13—Army at New York—THIS	GAME SOLD	OUT	
November 20—Northwestern at Evanston .		3.30	
November 27—U. S. C. at Notre Dame 			 5.50	3.30	2.20
Coaches Layden, Grant, Benda, and Boland.
next three rounds and closed with two 75’s and a 76. His total was 312. Had he shot a better first round he might have upset the tournament dope and even approached Bud Donovan’s tournament record of 290. This mark was made last year.
Following Neild was Chuck Bennett with 315. Phil Donahue was two strokes behind the latter with 317. Other totals were Milo Wolf and Roger Hutter, 320; Joe Stubb, 321; Bob Bertsch and Walter Hagen Jr., 322; and Maurice Quinn, 323. These were the survivors of a field of approximately 60 men.
Sheehan and Donovan planned to play off their tie for the championship during the week but could not decide on a definite date. The name of the winner of the match will be engraved on the William J. Burke Memorial trophy, a permanent possession of the University, now hanging in the Library index room.
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By John F. Clifford
Over the radio Sunday night, with the “Varsity Show” in the Stadium the day before still in his mind, Elmer Layden was asked a leading question: “Mr. Layden, what team do you think will give Notre Dame the toughest game on its schedule this season?” In other words the announcer wanted to know what team would Notre Dame “head” for this year. With such an array of potential National Champs facing the Irish this year, such a question would stump anyone who has not a keen football mind of the caliber of Mr. Layden’s. But quite naively he answered, “Why, that’s easy!—Drake!”
V
Now, Elmer Layden has an acute sense of humor—no one denies that after hearing one of his pep meeting “That-reminds-me-of-the-time—” stories. But in this instance he was not the least bit funny; nor was he trying to be funny. It must be remembered that the last time he saw the Varsity in action was the day before when a Freshman team again stole the show completely, turning the annual game into nothing more than an over-rated scrimmage. The few consolations that Layden has do not comfort him a great deal. Bunny McCormick is a sweet ball carrier; he can pick holes like a cat in Dogtown, yet when it comes to down-field blocking he receives very ineffectual support. The same applies to the rest of the back-field.
V
We, of course, realize that with such a limited number of plays to be called during the afternoon of a pre-season game and these as old as the Notre Dame system itself, neither team could show all its stuff. However, the fact remains that the Freshman, abetted by a few members of the A squad, looked better than their more experienced brethren, both teams using the same plays. So, we came to the realization that Mr. Layden spoke the truth. The Irish have been “heading” for Drake all week, tightening loose parts, getting those fundamentals down cold, so that in “heading” for to-morrow’s game they will be ready for the “breathers” that follow.
V
"B" SQUAD LOSES TO NIAGARA U.. 21-0
•
The Notre Dame “B” team opened its season rather inauspiciously when it bowed, 21 to 0, to Joe Bach’s Niagara university gridders at Niagara Falls last Sunday afternoon. The Irish reserves were outplayed in every department of the game by the more experienced New Yorkers.
The Niagarans displayed a powerhouse attack as they piled up 189 yards by rushing while the Irish Bees could only net 57 by the same route. The Irish got only three first downs while the Purple Eagles garnered 10. Niagara was content to use straight football almost exclusively. Only, seven passes were thrown by the winners.
In winning, Niagara uncovered a sensational sophomore back who is destined for starring roles if he stands the pace in the future. He is Caisse, who in his first intercollegiate football game, played a major role in the victory over the Notre Dame reserves. He was supported by Regan, Rybank, and Freeman. Borer, Saffa, and Kuhlman gave a good account of themselves in the Irish lineup.
The B team series with Niagara now stands at 3 to 1 in favor of Niagara.
The lineups:
Niagara (21)	Notre Dame Bees (0)
McArdle ------------EE------------ Biagi
McCarthy ----------1.x---------- O’Neill
Albano ____________-LG__________ Zuendel
Tosi _______________C.________ Battaglia
Beningo ____________RG------------- Ames
Kellogg ------------RT.----------- Allen
Ingrasci __________-RE-------- Hrachovec
Cavanaugh __________QB-------- Masterson
Rybank _____________LH------------ Saffa
Regan _____________.RH---------- Kuhlman
Freeman_____________-FB_______ Binkowski
You, of course, have read of Mr. Norman Sper who, from questionnaires sent to all the coaches and players of the leading football teams of the country, discovers what teams last year showed all-around strength—and then picks the winners for this year. Sper has almost a “cum laude” average in his prognosticating so far, and he must therefore have something on the pigskin. But we think we are going Mr. Sper one better. Steve Miller, fullback on the last three Notre Dame elevens, has agreed to predict the outcome of some of the games each Saturday. His predictions will not be the result of vicarious opinions, but first-hand information received from the hard years of experience as a fullback. Steve is a student—a student of law and a student of football. He knows the game from coast to coast—from So. Cal. to Army. Whatcha got, Steve?	‘
V
NOTRE DAME 20, DRAKE 6
California over Oregon State Carnegie Tech over N.Y.U. Holy Cross over Providence Texas A & M over Manhattan Wisconsin over Marquette Minnesota over Nebraska
Northwestern over Iowa State Ohio State over Purdue Stanford over Oregon Southern Cal over Washington Yale over Maine
Michigan over Michigan State
On the Enemies’ Trail
DRAKE has defeated Central College 47-0, and Washington University 32-2.
ILLINOIS has beaten Ohio University 20-6.
NAVY has beaten William and Mary 45-0.
MINNESOTA has beaten North Dakota State 69-7.
PITT has beaten Ohio Wesleyan 59-0.
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA has beaten College of the Pacific 40-0.
THIS WEEK:
DRAKE plays Notre Dame.
ILLINOIS plays De Paul.
CARNEGIE TECH plays New York University.
NAVY plays The Citadel.
MINNESOTA plays Nebraska.
PITT plays West Virginia.
ARMY plays Clemson.
NORTHWESTERN plays Iowa State.
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA plays Washington..
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	19
TENNIS MEET STILL IN FIRST ROUND
•
The Annual Fall Tennis Tournament got under way last Thursday, but due to inclement weather, late afternoon classes, and other activities the first round has not been completed as yet. This year’s entry list, numbering over 60, is the largest in the history of the tourney.
Captain Eddie Kilrain, Fred Simon, Whit Gregory, Bill Arnold, and Frank Reppenhagen, of the Varsity, along with Bill Fay, frosh ace of last season, have been seeded. Thus far these boys have come out on top but, as upsets feature this meet annually, some "dark horse” may hand them a trouncing and thus give the dope-sters a big surprise.
Bill Fay crushed Hennessy, 6-0, 6-0; Captain Kilrain easily disposed of McNamara; 6-1, 6-2; Bill Arnold won from J. Demer, 6-4, 6-3; Frank Reppenhagen was victorious in his match with Anderson, 6-3, 6-2.
Other scores:
P. Bowes won by default from J. Larkin; B. Mahoney defeated A. Mairin, 6-2, 6-3; B. Armel won from P. Tuson, 6-2, 7-5; R. Converse trimmed Von Houne, 6-1, 6-3; T. Hardhart dropped J. Nagel, 6-2, 6-1; G. Lampert beat R. Holtz, 6-4, 0-6, 6-4; and T. Fitz topped C. Kelly, 6-3, 8-6.
Reserves at Purdue
While the Varsity is playing the Drake “Bulldogs tomorrow, the “B” squad will be trying for their first ■win of the season against the Purdue reserves at Lafayette, Indiana.
Outplayed last Sunday by the more polished Niagara team, the "hamburgers” spent the past week brushing up their own details and scrimmaging against the Varsity. The use of Drake plays against the “A” squad this week may hamper their offense somewhat, but the addditional practice should enable them to give the Boilermaker “B’s” a strong fight.
While the definite lineup has not been announced as yet, it is thought that approximately the same squad that went to Niagara will make this trip.
Should you notice any lads in civilian clothes limping around the field tomorrow, they are not injured football players, only members of the managers organization after two weeks of hard scrimmage. Incidentally, with the second call for managers, about 25 additional freshmen reported, raising the total number of freshmen managers to 75.
RIGGED FOR FUN
in Which Our Scribe Gives Us Some Inside Dope on Tennis* Stormy Petrel, Bobby Riggs
BY WILLIAM C. FAY
(Continued from last week)
Riggs didn’t complain; he just kept on having fun. While the team was in Europe he marked time by winning every important grass court tournament—and Shields and Allison, a pair of former Cup stars, were in those tournaments.
The Solons pretended not to notice. They smiled complacently when Budge won the Davis Cup, and waited for their Davis Cuppers to come home and clean up on Bobby.
Finally, the Cup Team came home. And at the Westchester Country Club Riggs met Parker in the final round. True to past performance Bobby sought a little relaxation the night before; and being a very thorough relaxer, he didn’t come home till five in the morning. As news will, the information of his late arrival made the rounds and quite a little money was bet on Parker. At ten, Riggs appeared in the diningroom for breakfast. He yawned from time to time, and there was a little of the last night’s sunset in his eyes. However, he seemed to be enjoying himself.
At two, he was on the court to play Parker; and, for a weary man, he played fairly well. Well enough to erase Parker’ in straight sets, 7-5, 6-3, 6-4.
Naturally, the Solons weren’t pleased. After all, they had decided definitely in the spring that Parker was a better tennis player than Riggs. It was very disturbing to see their judgment probed so cruelly.
However, they had one ace left in the pack. There was another tournament the next week and Budge would play. Budge would stop Riggs. Perhaps even Parker would revenge himself another meeting. There was another, this time in the semi-finals; but again Riggs won decisively. Then Budge opposed Riggs in the finals. And finally the Solons had their day, for Budge won in four blistering sets —but not before Riggs had staged a magnificent pull-up to save the second set and had continued his surge to come within an eyelash of winning the round.
All of which left the Solons pretty. much in the hole. Evidently, there
was nobody save Budge capable of beating Riggs—and Budge could beat anybody. So the Solons began to talk of Riggs as “potential Davis Cup material.”
Then came the nationals. Bobby had fun. He waltzed into the quarter-finals, and then stroked his way into the semi’s with a slashing five-set win over Hare, the English Davis Cup star. That victory placed him opposite Baron Von Cramm, admittedly the world’s second best amateur. Bobby gave the Baron the match of his life, winning the first two sets and coming within a hair of landing the fourth set for the match. The Baron finally won out in the fifth set, but Bobby had clinched his Davis Cup berth for next year.
So now the Solons have him. And whether they know it or not, they have a real tennis player—perhaps not the best-looking tennist in the world, but very nearly the best playing. His shirt tail does stick out; his hair does hang in his eyes most of the time; and when his bow-legs point west his askew feet do point northwest and southwest. He walks like “Donald Duck”—but he can do things with a tennisball.
His serve is well-placed and paceful. He is steady off the ground from backcourt and his drives off both wings open the way to the net where he volleys effectively. Overhead, he is severe and accurate. And most important, he has brains; he is a tennis tactician.
And the Solons had better take him as he is and cherish him; for too soon their current pride, Mr. Budge, will succumb to the jingling coffers of professional tennis, and when he does the Solons will find Mr. Riggs a very handy man to have around — especially when Australia, Germany, France, and England come looking for our Davis Cup.
And Mr. Riggs will be around. And even then though his askew feet will try to lead him astray, his heart will remain pure and will push him down the straight road to Davis Cup success and the National Championships—that is, if he doesn’t find too many new ways of having fun.
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING (Continued from Page 16)
While you were
on Vocation—the TORTURE WHEEL WASN'T/ _
The Douglas Torture Wheel doesn't get "time off." Day after day it marches along, proving that Douglas All-Leather construction means shoes that keep their shape. And when we say "shape" we mean it! Come in and cast your critical eye over Douglas' line-up for Fall and Winter. Style? You bet your life—and it's built in, not just "added." At prices so modest they almost blush!

. $4-40 I' *5-«
F $5.40
(Men’s Normal-T reds—$7.40)

W. L. DOUGLAS STORE in South Bend
210 South Michigan Street OPEN SATURDAY EVENINGS
but should an emergency arise, little Andy will be there to lug the ball just as effectively as he blocks for the other ball-carriers.
He is a Phy-Ed major, and lives in that triple on the fourth floor of Walsh along with O’Reilly and Zwers. His two most prized possessions are a picture of Dottie which stands on his desk, and a battered alarm clock which he keeps beside his bed. It is said to be certain death for anyone to meddle with these things.
Thus we leave the little fellow wih his 5 feet 8 inches of length and 167 pounds of sinew, hoping that he’ll get a chance to show those twinkling feet to a lot of Bulldogs and other zoological specimens before he hangs up his cleats for good.
Traffic Regulations
The South Bend Police and Fire departments are making special efforts to handle this year’s football crowds efficiently. It was announced this week that traffic approaching the Stadium from different directions will be routed directly to a certain designated one of the four parking fields, which are known as Green, Blue, White, and Orange, from the color of their respective tickets.
SWIM in one of the finest pools in the country
NATATORIUM 1044 West Washington St. (for ladies and gentlemen)
Open daily, except Monday, 12 to 9 p. m.
Sunday, 2 to 6 p. m.
•
25 cent admission fee includes suit, locker, towel, soap, plunge and use of sun lamps.
PHONE 3-8611
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Shorts About Sports
In his final warm-up for the Nationals at Berkeley, California, last June, Greg Rice followed Coach John P. Nicholson’s instructions and ran a mile and a half in the fast time of 6:56. Immediately several coaches ran over bemoaning what was, in their opinion, such poor judgment, but when Greg set a new record in. the two mile a few days later, they had to swallow their advice and admit that Nick really knew what he was doing.
Bing Bingkowski, junior fullback from Chicago, who refereed the be-tween-halves portion of last Saturday’s warm-up football game, apparently had a momentary relapse when he confused the rules for safety and field goal and placed the ball for a kick-off from the 20-yard line after a field goal had been scored. Immediately informed of his error from the sidelines, he rather sheepishly brought the ball up to its proper place on the 40-yard stripe.
"Red” Darcy, senior member of Notre Dame’s 1936 football squad, played for the Boston Shamrocks this summer in their game with the Eastern All-stars. Although the Allstars won by two touchdowns, Darcy’s forward passes were the most effective offensive weapon of the Shamrock team.
CROSLEY R. C. A.
ADMIRAL MOTOROLA
Radios $19.95 up
Authorized Campus dealer. Used Radios from $5.00 up Repair Service on All Makes
Miholich Appliance
1603 Prairie Avenue Phone 3-8175 South Bend, Ind.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
Drake Tomorrow
(Continued from Page H)
Two 155-pound veterans, Bud Suter and Bob Underwood, and a sophomore named Thell Fisher, will take • care of the halfback positions. The line compensates for a possible weakness at center and guard with its stand-out tackle, Captain Herb Hedlund, and Bus Bergmann who was one of the best ends in the Missouri
Conference last year.
As for Notre Dame, Elmei- Layden is still experimenting; the Irish line-up, untried in real competition, is apt to be juggled at a moment’s notice. No one can be sure, but those who can be almost certain of getting into the starting line-up are the two South Bend Josephs, Ruetz and Ku-harich at the guards, Len Skoglund and Joe Zwers at the ends, Pat McCarty at center, and Bunny McCor
mick at right half. Whether Simon-ich or Tonelli, McCarthy or Burnell, Puplis or O’Reilly, Beinor or Emanuel, Kell oi- Shellogg will fill up the other positions is still unpredictable.
Notre Dame and Drake have met seven times on the gridiron, and Notre Dame has been seven times the winner. With superiority in general power and reserve strength, the Irish should win again. But they will have to fight hard for the victory.
uni
Because It’s Got What It Takes
over any two others combined
£ VACUMATIC
GUARANTEED MECHANICALLY PERFECT

It’s the College Choice
A Wholly New and Superlative Model of the Revolutionary Sacless Pen —Parker’s Speedline Vacumatic!
Stop today at any good pen counter and see Parker’s latest and greatest achievement—the Parker Speedline Vacumatic. A princely new model of the Pen that does what no other pen can do.
Here’s a new all-time high in ink capacity, yet size reduced to a slender, restful Speedline.
A Pen that shows the ENTIRE ink supply—shows when to refill —hence one that never runs dry in classes or exams.
The world’s smartest style— Parker’s exclusive laminated Pearl and Jet—wholly original.
Pens, $5, $7.50, $8.75, $10. Pencils to match, $2.50, $3.50, $3.75, $5.
And not merely modern in style, but modem also in mechanism. Its revolutionary SACLESS Diaphragm Filler radically departs from earlier types, whether they have a rubber ink sac or not. A patented invention—GUARANTEED mechanically perfect.
Once you try this pedigreed Beauty, with its marvelous Scratch-Proof Point, you’ll feel sorry for anyone who doesn’t have it. Go and see and try it today. The Parker Pen Co., Janesville, Wis.
Makers of Qaink, the new pen-cleaning writing ink. 15c, 25c and up.
HOLOS 102% MORE IMK THAR OUR FAMOUS DUOFOtO

22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
We Nod
In the last issue The Scholastic was in error in attributing the designing of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering to Mr. Charles Ma-ginnis. The credit should go to Professor F. W. Kervick, head of the Notre Dame School of Architecture.
We're glad to See You Back!
Good luck to ail of you—and greetings, Class of 1941. South Shore Line trains are still the fast, SAFE way to go to Chicago—with fares geared down to college bankrolls. There’s a train almost every hour ... to and from the heart of Chicago’s Loop.
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
Football Practice
(Continued from Page 15)
starting unit has not been definitely selected. Secondly, this game with Drake is supposed to be the only “breather.” of the year. Consequently, for the men on the fifth, sixth, and lower teams—some of whom are seniors still trying to break into the lineup—it may be the one chance of the year to see service. Then there are the sophomores, all of whom would like to get into the first game.
Jack McCarthy, Andy Puplis, and other members of the punting crew got off some beautiful kicks, but there still did not appear to be any semblance of a Shakespeare hanging around the premises. The passing attack with Captain Joe Zwers, Skoglund, Sweeney, Brown, Murphy, and Clifford doing the receiving was tuned and retuned.
Quarterback Andy Puplis returned to the team at the beginning of the week. Injuries kept him out of the freshman fray. At a late hour no new injuries had been reported, so the squad will trot into the stadium in perfect fettle physically.
Specializing in the examination of the eye.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor To
Rogers
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8211
CARBURETOR &£ YELLO-BOLE
New way of burning tobacco —better, cooler, cleaner. Carburetor-Action cools smoke. Keeps bottom of bowl absolutely dry. Caked with honey. At dealers’ now.
UPDRAFT
Drake Editor
(Continued from Page 15)
one guard position while Alex Peset-ski, tow-headed junior from Chicago, will start at the other. Both men are fast.
Bill Cicero, the only sophomore to start the Washington game, will be in at center again. Bill, a 200-pound-er, is on the casualty list with a bad finger, but he should be in shape for the contest. If not, Green can use another newcomer, Jim Woolley, or Paul Behn, last year’s letter winner.
In the backfield Green will start the two Manders brothers, Bud Suter and Bobby Underwood. Phil Manders does all the signal calling for the Bulldogs and is one of the best blockers on the team. Pug, at fullback, is all any coach could ask. Suter led the conference in scoring last season while Underwood tied with Pug Manders for sixth highest scorer in the nation last season.
Although Coach Green was well pleased with the showing his men made in their first conference game, he knows well what Drake will be up against Saturday. The Bulldogs were weak in kicking and also in pass defense.
It is probably asking too much for a victory over the Irish, but the 1937 Drake team will undoubtedly make as good a showing as any previous Bulldog eleven has made against any opponent the caliber of the Irish.
Brushing Up
(Continued from Page 15)
in Chicago, Baugh not only threw the touchdown pass to Tinsley, but he ran, punted and blocked brilliantly. . .
Clift Melton is gradually supplanting the once invincible Carl Hubbell, as the star of the Giant pitching staff. If the slim left-hander is selected to open the World Series against the Yankees, he will be the second first year man in history to do so. Paul Derringer started for the Cardinals in 1931 but failed to be effective. . .
LATEST DISCOVERY IN PIPES
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
N. D. Post Office
(Continued from Page 6)
In addition to serving the University, the Notre Dame postoffice also is the distributing point for the Holy Cross office. Nineteen trips a week are made from South Bend to Notre Dame with mail, and thirteen are made from Notre Dame to Holy Cross, Indiana.
From September to after the Christmas holidays is the busiest season for Uncle Sam’s local unit. During this period, it is estimated that between 3,000 and 5,000 pieces of first-class mail are passed through the cancelling machine daily.
Brother Theogene, C.S.C., is postmaster of the Notre Dame postoffice. Besides him, Brother Marcellinus, C.S.C., Brother Austin, C.S.C., Brother Sylverius, C.S.C., Brother Oliver, C.S.C., and Mr. Alber* assist in the handling of the business. In addition three special delivery carriers are required to handle the “special deliver- -ies,” plus a carrier for each of the halls.
Freshman Basketball
Freshman basketball practice scheduled to open last Tuesday has been postponed until a later date, according to an announcement made earlier in the week.
The newly polished hardwood floor in the field house, that will not be ready for use for at least ten days, has caused the delay. This year’s freshman squad will be coached by John DeMots, monogram winner from last year’s team and a first year- law student.
“Through proper education of American youth, and only through such means, will this country be able to ward off the menace of Fascism and Communism,” said Dr. Allan Hobbs, dean of the college of arts and sciences of the University of North Carolina, to his students.
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eye and the making of fine glasses.
Intelligent service
Reliability
34 years' .experience are our endorsements.
Optometrists Est. 1903
314 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
TIHOUGH the Bell System is made up of 315,000 men and women serving every corner of the country, its structure is simple. The American Telephone and Telegraph Company coordinates all system activities. It advises on all phases of telephone operation and searches constantly for improved methods. The 25 associated operating companies, each attuned to the area it serves, provide local and toll service. Bell Telephone Laboratories carries on scientific research and development.
Western Electric is the Bell System’s manufacturing, purchasing and distributing unit. The Long Lines Department of American Telephone and Telegraph interconnects through its country-wide network of wires the 25 operating companies and handles overseas service.
Thanks to the teamwork of these Bell System units, yon can talk to almost anyone, anywhere, anytime—at low cost!
•S
Here it is

AtUi J
|	... Turkish tobacco ... world famous
for aroma and fragrance... no other . tobacco like it on earth. The import duty alone is 35c a pound.
Chesterfield goes half way around the world to get these fine Turkish tobaccos to add their spicy flavor to the best mild ripe tobaccos of our own South.
From far and near... at great expense ... Chesterfield selects these mild ripe aromatic tobaccos to give smokers just one thing—MORE PLEASURE.
