DISCE- QUASI- SEMPER- VICTURVS- VIVE • QUASI- CRAS- MORITVRVS
Vol. LIV.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, December ii, 1020.	No. 11.
Notre Dame Football, 1920.
BY ALFRED N. SLAGGERT, *21. -
ff AUDED from coast to coast by recog-. || nized critics as the greatest of the great
*n f°°tballdpm, Rockne’s super-eleven of 1920 has just emerged from another season with nothing but victories to its credit. Even the most conservative are forced to concede to this wonder eleven and 'its peerless mentor first place when ranking the country’s best gridiron machines of this year.
A bewildering aerial, attack, herculean lineplunging, faultless team play, brilliancy in. both offensive and defensive play—these were some of the many merits shown consistently in the games against Nebraska, the Army, Indiana, and the other conquered elevens, each of which had saved its best energy and strategy for the clash with Noire Dame, for the reason that a victory overthe Gold, and Blue would have meant well-deserved acclaim wherever the pigskin pastime is discussed. To Rockne and Halas and their valiant knights of the gridiron—whose classic work has given to Notre Dame a superior position in the world of athletics—is due the appreciation of every loyal friend of the' University.
Kalamazoo College, the first opponent of the season, was-easily overwhelmed by the Varsity, 39 to o. The Wolverine men, confident in consequence of their recent victory over the Michigan “Aggies,” came advertised as able to give the Gold and Blue a real test in its initial -battle. It was evident from the very beginning of 4 the contest, however, that they- were not equal to the task. They fought tenaciously up . to the very last minute of play, but it was a fight against impossible odds. To mention the Varsity men whose play came well up to the, expectation of the “fans”, would be to give the whole personnel of the team. The feats of that afternoon augured well for victory in the big
battles to come. Wynne toted the oval across -the enemy’s, zero line for the first touchdown of the season, following several titanic advances by the battering backs of the first string.. Early in the second quarter these same backs again
. began to evidence greed for yardage, and Gipp,<. hurtling through the Wolverine tacklers, struck a spectacular gallop for thirty yards to another touchdown. .Mohardt and Coughlin, who were substituted for Gipp and Barry, plunged time ' after time through the Kalamazoo wall and had advanced the ball to the opposition’s four-yard line when the half ended.. In the second half there came a shower of touchdowns—by Barry, Brandy, Kasper, and Mohardt., In .the last quarter Kalamazoo. failed miserably in its attempt to save itself via the air route from-a zero defeat.	. .	,
The next visitor to Cartier field, the . Western Normal eleven, also succumbed to the crushing ’ offensive and impregnable defensive play of the Varsity; Except for occasional flashes of fairly good defensive work, the Normals were pitifully helpless, whether in their effort to curb .the advances of Rockne’s plunging aces or in their failure to make an impression on the Varsity forward wall. The final score, 41. to o, would undoubtedly have been doubled had it not been for heavy penalties imposed upon Notre Dame and the extreme humidity of the afternoon.
■ Rockne’s men underwent their first real test of the season when they met the beefy team, of Nebraska at Lincoln. Coming from behind in the latter part of the game, they drove their way. through, to a, 16-to-7 victory over the Comhuskers, before the largest crowd that has ever attended a game in that city. As a result of the game, Notre Dame’s great coach was acclaimed by the attending gridiron critics “the wizard of footballdom.” The two teams fought evenly through the first half, the Varsity using pass after pass in the hope of getting within striking distance of the R.ed and White
./
162
None dame ^cholascie
posts. The Notre Dame aerial tactics having been temporarily frustrated, Gipp, Castner, and Barry began a series of off-tackle crashes and flank dashes which took the ball to the Cornhuskers two-feet line. Here the Westerners fought like madmen and held. Shaw spilled the attempted punt, which was recovered by a Nebraskan behind his goal line, thus giving the Varsity two points on a safety.
In the second period Nebraska began a wonderful drive toward the Notre Dame bar and
spectacular affair, sprinkled with sensational novelties in strategy. The “Valps,” in proud possession of a three-point lead at the end of the first period, were worn to shreds in their bitter attempts to withstand the continual pounding of the local shock squad. Early in the second period, Rockne withdrew his Reserves, and soon the Valparaiso defensive was crumbling before the onslaughts of the Aces. Plunge after plunge netted long gains. Wynne went over the top, followed by Gipp a few minutes later. Gipp
with the ball on the three-yard line, Hubka substituted for Hartley at lefthalf, charged through for a touchdown. The Nebraska stands went wild with joy over the spectacular advance of their heroes. The Varsity, nothing daunted by the success of the Huskers, began a counter-charge, with Mo-hardt and Wynne, who had just entered the game, bearing the brunt of the attack. Twice the Cornhuskers held for downs, and again the Varsity resorted to the hurling game. The Gipp-to-Anderson combination netted sixty yards with two perfect throws, putting the ball well into Nebraska territory. Then the ball was tossed successfully to the enemy’s two-yard line, and Brandy on the second play cut his way through the Red and White line. In the third quarter Gipp’s
dash for a touchdown, in the execution of Rockne’s yearly “stunt” prepared especially for Nebraska, was disallowed because of holding. The last touchdown of- the game followed a series of scrappy counter-skirmishes, Gipp going through tackle for the score. The game ended with Nebraska resorting in desperation to an overhead attack. -	-
A week later eight thousand spectators crammed into Cartier field and saw the “Rockmen” humble the grim, fighting team of Vai-paraiso,^2 8 to 3. The contest was a bitter,
♦				—.—— .. 	.4 NOTRE DAME RECORD, 1920 KNUTE K. ROCKNE. Coach WALTER HALAS, Asst. Coach FRANK COUGHLIN, Captain		
■ -	N.D.	Opp-
Kalamazoo College	•		0
at Notre Dame	39	
Western State Normal		0
at Notre Dame	41	•
Nebraska		7
at Lincoln	16	
Valparaiso		3
at Notre Dame	28	
Army		17
at West Point	27	
Purdue		0
at Notre Dame	28	
Indiana		10
at Indianapolis	13	
Northwestern		7
at Evanston	33	
Michigan Aggies		0
at Lansing	25	
Total Score	250	44 ;
j.. , — - -		 		1		
found the enemy trench again in the fourth quarter, and “Johnny” Mohardt wriggled over for the fourth touchdown of -the game, following Hayes’ scoop of Kercheval’s wild delivery.	.
Eastern critics are still sounding the well-deserved praises of the “Hoosier” eleven which invaded the East late in October and, for the third consecutive time, defeated the Cadets of West Point, this time by taking the Army eleven into camp, 27 to 17. “It was the struggle of a good team against a great one,” writes a prominent New York critic. ‘ ‘ Beaten, though the Army was by a score of 27 to 17, the glory of a .gallant fight against a too powerful foe remains with West Point. Against a machine capable of pounding its way for successive marches of seventy-five and eighty
yards the Cadets went down—as almost any other eleven in the East must have if it had faced the Notre Dame eleven that took the field today.” Concerning the classic struggle the New York Times said: “The Notre Dame team which played rings around the Army this afternoon was a big, shifty, well-drilled football machine, which looked as strong as. any football team seen on an eastern gridiron this season. . .. . The Hoosiers were a better developed and a better trained eleven and played the kind of football which sends a crowd pf spectators into
Moure (bame Scholastic	.	163
realms of excitement every minute.” Notre Dame supporters at the game were legion, and they saw a Gold and Blue eleven fighting in its best manner; they saw Gipp, hailed as the peer of football champions past and present, run, punt, plunge, and pass with scintillating accuracy; they saw Mohardt cleave the Cadet wall in every-attempt; they saw .Wynne smash through the tackles in heroic drives; they saw Captain Coughlin, Kiley, Anderson, Shaw, and Smith, each put up a game which astonished the East; they saw in action a team which showed itself “about thirty points better than the Army-and at least one touchdown better than any eleven in the East.”
The fracas with the Boilermakers of Purdue was the piece de resistance of the Notre
dashed, and dodged through a maze of black and Brown tacklers, eighty yards to a touchdown; he hurled to Kiley and Anderson for gains totaling one hundred-thirty yards, and sent the oval squarely between the Purdue sticks three times for goal points. Grant’s fifty-yard canter, the most sparkling bit of work in the game, gave the Varsity its first score. Captain Coughlin, “Hunk” Anderson,' Shaw, and Smith opened great holes for Wynne, Barry, Mohardt, Coughlin, and Castner, who either walked peacefully through the Boilermakers’ defense or trotted around the ends, advancing for good gains on every play.
Next came the gruelling battle with Indiana, which taxed all the resources of the Champions. For three periods the Stiehm squad with sen-
•	THE SQUAD OF 1920.
From lop and left: Voss, Kelly, Walsh, DeGiee, Phelan, Cotton, Mixon, Oberst, Kennedy, Castner, Mehre, Garvey, Halas, Rockne Gipp. E. Anderson, Dooley, Kiley, Barry, Brandy, Smith, Coughlin, H. Anderson, Larson, Hayes, Shaw, Grant, Wynne D. Coughlin, Thomas, Wilcox, Carberry, Logan, Seyfrit, Kane, Prokup, Mohardt.
Dame home-coming day. Long before the opening whistle it was necessary to hang up the S. R..O. sign, so great was the holiday crowd that-surged into Cartier Field. Old “grads”— six hundred strong—were there to see the hero gridders of 192o treat Purdue 28 to o. “ Red ’ ’ Salmon, all-timeNotreDamefullback,FrankHering, “Red” Miller, Tom Shaughnessy, and other magnates of the past graced the President’s box and shared with the team .the noisy acclaim of the student “rooters.” Ease and ever-increasing power characterized the Varsity play. The Boilermakers approached the Notre Dame goal once—in the first period when they faced the Reserves, who fought them evenly for more than a third of the game. The versatile Gipp was' at his best in this contest. He twisted,
sational football held the Varsity scoreless. Coach Stiehm—who has been an assiduous observer of the Notre Dame system, particularly • during this last season—was more than ready to meet the Notre Dame attack with clever strategy. Gipp, the object of practically every defensive play, did superhuman work despite a fractured shoulder. The Indiana stands were rampant with joy when the last quarter opened with their team ten points in the lead, but the “Rockmen” had already worked themselves up to the occasion late in the third quarter and now one of the grittiest rallies ever staged by a Gold and Blue eleven was on. Barry had taken Mohardt’s position and “Johnny” had relieved the battered Gipp. At the end of the thir period Barry, the hero of the day, and Mohard
164
Houre dame ^chdasde
had succeeded in cutting the Crimson defense and working the oval to the enemy’s one-yard line. The fight of the Indiana line had worn out. Gipp returned to his position and on the first snap of the ball carried it across, and then added a point with his toe. Another N. D. drive followed the kick-off, . which Wynne hustled back in a thirty-two yard' squirm. The Notre Dame offensive battered and beat
back the opposition till the ball was on the business this year
Crimson two-yard line, whence “General” Brandy carried it to a touchdown. Anderson, Smith, Coughlin, Shaw, and Larsen' fought desperately on the fine against heavy opposition. Kiley and Anderson worked smoothly on the flanks, and Barry, Mohardt, Wynne, Castner, and Brandy performed in meteoric manner in this severest battle of the campaign.
It took McDevitt’s big Northwestern squad only a few minutes to realize that the pigskin argument with the Gold and Blue “would not
be a tournament of roses.” Practically the. . whole student-body of Notre. Dame attended' / the game and, together with the hundreds of Gold and Blue. enthusiasts from South Bend and Chicago, accorded the N. D. men royaL support. The Varsity .scoring spree'began in the second quarter and the whistle at the’.end . of the halffound N/:D.-with fourteen'points..
Grausnick, the Purple hero 'of' the day, got away ’ to a pretty, dash in the'tfiird period; netting the .
Evanstonians a touchdown and a goal. The “Rock” demons opened up again, and in a twinkling Anderson was across the Purple line with the ball. Gipp, handicapped with his bad shoulder, entered the game in the last quarter and was given a rousing ovation. Each of two passes by this wonder man, one to Kiley and one to Barry, resulted in a touchdown. The tussle ended with Notre Dame again charging close , to the Purple posts.	;
Finally, the Varsity Reserves were victors over the Michigan “Aggies” in the Turkey Day joust,‘25 to o. “Danny” Coughlin crashed through an army of Green and White grapplers eighty yards to a touchdown from the first kickoff. In the third quarter Castner made the “Aggies’” goal line for two touchdowns, and
in the final period “Eddie” Anderson galloped across, following his recovery of a blocked punt.
to captain the squad of 1920.
Notre Dame, by virtue of her remarkable .	.	.
record of eighteen victories, with no defeat and	George Gipp
no tie in the last two seasons, has won a promi- Four years ago last September a modest, nent place in the athletic sun. With her in- almost timid freshman from Laurium, Michigan,
domitable fighting spirit she has shown herself uniformly capable of rallying with superhuman vigor in the face of impending defeat, as* in the Indiana battle. The team of this year had all the qualities which have characterized the great Gold and Blue squads of the past. It has not been by good luck at all but in virtue of sheer superiority that the great machine of 1920 has credited itself as being “the best team in the
The Mighty. Men of 1920.
Captain Erank E. Coughlin.
Notre Dame feels that she, has no words with which to properly speed in farewell the one who
has proved himself so truly “a Notre Dame man,” Captain Frank Coughlin. Certainly there are nd words of eulogy relative to leadership which he has
■ hot deserved: As leader of Notre Dame’s undefeated eleven of 1920—he has raised the standard of captaincy, which has always been held high in ! Notre Dame athletics, and Ke has
surely approached ’ very dose' to . the ideal. .. The coaches, the faculty, the alumni, and the students of Notre Dame will all
testify in unmodified terms to the respect and confidence accorded him. The captain?s tact, good sense, and spirit have been in large measure responsible for the tiptop morale of the squad through thick and thin. He has been a unanimous choice for All-State and All-Western honors by critics both friendly and unfriendly. His work in the one appearance of his men on an Eastern field was such as to startle the football oracles of the East into raptures of praise for himself, -Rockne, his team, and for Notre Dame teams in general, and the chorus of praises has not yet subsided. The undefeated champions of 1919 surely picked “a big man for,a big job” when they fell upon “Little Willie” Coughlin
'Sfie Moure Same Seholascic
165
reported to Coach Fitzgerald on Cartier field as a candidate for the first-year football team.
Some two months later, after football scribes had diligently • but vainly searched the football guides, records, and encyclopedias, the name of this youth was being flashed over every
■MH telegraph wire in the States. This unknown freshman had in
VKHEHII a game between the Freshman team and Kalamazoo College |S^^B come within three yards of the world’s record for the dropkick. He was no other than H M our own George Gipp. Today he W B is the same unassuming person, S Shk. although he is now about as Ok	weU known as Jack Dempsey
or “Man-’o-War.” In reading of this peerless half-back this year the schoolboy of the backwoods on the frontier was wont to ask, “Who is this guy, Frank Merriwell?” The season just finished has shown this greatest of players at his best. In one game after another ■ he “showed them how.” The ground he gained ‘ against Uncle Samuel’s men at West Point
exceeded the number of yards made by the whole Navy team in their victory over the Cadets. Why was Gipp better than any other half-back in America? The answer is easy to any one who saw him play last season. In executing the forward-pass he was as accurate • as De Oro. He has. the kicking ability of a
Brickley, an Oliphant, and a Cofall, and unless Notre Dame was behind her own thirty-yard line the opponents’ goal was always in danger. To stop Gipp on the run was about as easy as damming Niagara, and an opposing runner needed an aeroplane to get by him. Finally he has the head of a Dorais, in which every play was precisely staged before its execution. The selection of Gipp by the numerous football critics as the greatest of the half-backs of this year has been all but unanimous. Not a few of them are of the opinion that the gridiron has never known a player superior to him and a few urge that it has never witnessed his equal.
Chester Allen Wynne.
If there be a fullback in the West who is better than “Chet” Wynne, it will be a hard task to prove the fact to any student of Notre Dame. Young, modest, unassuming, aggres
sive, determined, the Kansas Cyclone has obtained an enviable place in the hearts of all Notre Dame men.’ On offense “Chet” has no equal and he is a power on defense. He was a star at running interference for‘the fastest backs in intercollegiate football. His real forte, however, is line-plunging. In the Nebraska game he took the heart out of the huge “Cornhusker” linesmen by his terrific plunges, which netted him large gains every time he struck the line. It was in the Army game that this 175-pound fullback, the lightest man playing the position this fall, proved to the Eastern critics that Notre Dame had a running attack as well as a strong aerial attack. Wynne crashed the Army forwards consistently for gains. His fleetness and his wonderful leg-drive made it almost impossible to stop him either in the open field or on the line of scrimmage. The Eastern critics after witnessing the Army game pronounced Wynne “the hardest hitting fullback of the year.” “Chet” has, we are most happy to say, another year of intercollegiate football. .
Norman Christopher Barry.
In the passing of Norman Barry from current
college athletics we lose from Notre Dame a unique gridiron figure. He began his development as an athlete more than a decade ago on the Minim team of St. Edwards Hall; in his growing years he played in Carroll and Brownson Halls, then on the Freshman team, and finally on the representative eleven of his school. His remarkable success on the football field has
been attributed to his love of action and clean fight. It has been easily observed also that the big days and minutes of • his career were made just when the game seemed lost and the fight hopeless. We remember well how he started the rally against the Army in 1919 when the score stood ominously against Rockne’s men, and how later in the same year he brought the team to life in the contest against the Michigan “Aggies,” who were playing the superior eleven of Notre Dame to a standstill. Finally, it
was “Norm” who, with the aid of Mohardt, late
in the game turned what seemed to be certain
166
Noure dame Scholagcie
defeat into victorv in the terrific contest with the Crimson of Indiana on November the 13th last at Indianapolis. At Evanston Barry played against Northwestern the game of his career— before hundreds of his “home-town” friends, gathered from all parts of Chicago to see him in action. Whatever the amount or quality of the . opposition, it was rare indeed that Barry did not go forward when called upon. This typical “fighting Rockman” leaves the gridiron with the best wishes of every Notre Dame man for success in whatever- he may undertake.
Edward George DeGree
Following in the footsteps of his noted brother “Cy”, Edward DeGree stepped out upon the gridiron and won his monogram in the first year of his eligibility. He was a veritable - pillar of concrete from shoulders down and alive with a football instinct which carried him into the very heart of every play. With his combination of brains and brawn, he was a source of worry to every ambitious fullback who attempted to pierce the Notre Dame line. As a punter Eddie has few superiors. Time after time in the Northwestern game he relieved the dangerous situation-by his long twisting spirals. He is scheduled for a climax next fall. ..
David Vincent Hayes
The doughty Dave Hayes has been a successful candidate for end position on three great Notre Dame teams. The small boy from Connecticut has uniformly given to Notre Dame the best that was in him. In 1917, his first
year out, he made his coveted position and performed brilliantly. Early in 1918 his fight , was transferred to the Argonne front in France, where he functioned heroically under the direction of Uncle Sam. Severe wounds, received in a singlehand combat with a • .dozen Huns, prevented him from being -in the final touchdown “over there.” He promptly returned to his school as soon as he was sufficiently recovered from his wounds and gamely fought for his old position at end on the team of 1919. Hard
work and sheer grit won for him, despite unusual competition and the handicap his injuries im-
posed. This year Dave put up the same old fight for his place and to the joy of all who know him has won his third monogram. “Honest” Dave Hayes is the never-say-die type of fighter that you read about and a man of whom Notre Dame is particularly proud.
Heartley William Anderson.
Heartley Anderson, whose slogan, “I’ll do the best we can,” was adopted as the watchword of the whole team, formed a perfect running-mate for “Morrie” Smith. A veritable Roosevelt Dam on defensive and the proverbial “Big’Bertha” on offensive, “Hunk” has proved at least a match for any of his opponents.' He is the type of man who plays the game for the sheer love of playing—a man who would rather fight' for the Gold and Blue than eat, a man whose happiness comes in the glor}'- of his team and of his school rather than in plaudits for any individual achievement of his own. That a man of this stamp is of incalculable value to the morale of a team goes without saying. Anderson started with his “pal,” Ojay Larson, in 19'18, and his sterling heart, remarkable strength, and admirable grit will be at the service of Notre Dame for the last time in 1921.
. : Joseph Ralph Brandy
. It was in 1915 that the Gold and Blue abandoned the slam-bang, line-rush type of'football; since then it’ has depended in great measure and with unique success upon the condition, speed, and intelligence of the men.' Since 1917 Joe Brandy, of Ogdensburg, New York, has been the brain and nerve center of the. most effective attack and defense devised in recent years, the Harper-Rockne system, Joe has signalized his career as field general of the Gold and Blue teams by leading them in
. four successful invasions of the East. Three of these resulted in victories over' the "Army, at West Point, in which Brandy did much more than merely give orders; the fourth proved a triumph over Washington and* Jefferson—which was denominated “ a pure Brandy victory.” . Joe has the unique honor
of - having led two successive Notre Dame squads to eighteen victories in succession. On
'CTe Noire Some Scholastic
167
more than one momentous occasion the fortune of the day depended upon the “Little General’s” quick judgment, and he was always there with the right play. His coolness, counsel, and courage never failed at a crisis. Coach Rockne designates him the ideal quarterback, “cool under the heaviest fire; sure to send the right play to the right place, and a clean,- inspiring fighter of the unbeatable type.”
Frederic Adolphus Larson.
Everyone knew that Larson would be a flying buttress in Rockne’s stone-wall line of 1920. He had proved himself in the fall of 1918 when, in his first year of collegiate football, he won his monogram with ease. . This year there were sore and weary Nebraskans, tired and humbled Cadets, and weak and staggering sons of Northwestern whose broken spirits could testify to the power of this mighty center far more convincingly than the pen of any critic. It may be reasonably urged that Larson was the best center in Hoosier football—the sportwriters who chose their champions from “Maumee Tech” and “The Montague School of Nursing” to the contrary. Notre Dame will be most fortunate in having “ Ojay’s’ ’ services for two more years, during which time he may be depended upon to do his part in making our record of the future a worthy sequel to that of the past.	'
Arthur Aloysius Garvey.
“Hector” Garvey, the star among the Notre Dame Freshmen of 1919, substituted this year for Captain Frank Coughlin and developed ■into a most reliable understudy. Although a novice in rank, he played the game like a veteran whenever the opportunity was given him. He was a demon on offense and impregnable on defense. He had a habit of opening huge holes in opposing lines, as if they were made of tissue paper, and it was not an infrequent sight to see him break through and throw an opposing back for a big loss. He was in the Indiana game only a few minutes, but during that time he nailed the “Hoosier” backs in their tracks on five consecutive plays. For a large man, stand- ing six feet and one inch and weighing two hundred and fifteen pounds, he is exceptionally fast in getting down the field. under punts. Arthur has two more years to play, and if his past performances are a presage of what is to develop, his name will go down in the Notre Dame hall of fame as one of our greatest linemen.
Maurice Francis Smith
To the Notre Dame men of the' last three years the name “Morrie” Smith means grit, courage, and fight. The phrase “only a guard” has come to be an affectionate tribute to this modest ‘‘ Movie.” Smith is in the completest sense “a Rockman,” for be it known that this stellar midget of the line, hailing from Central Illinois, played his
‘first football under the Miracle Man at Notre Dame. His career really began in the memorable game against the team of the Great Lakes Training Station in the war time, in which contest he proved conclusively that size and weight are by no means the sole qualifications of a real linesman. With one year of experience the little guard became a recognized star and in 1919 was placed or mentioned in all the best selections of All-Westerners. This year he has credited himself with the critics of both East and West as “the lightest big-time guard in the United States.”. It goes without saying that he has provided for himself a lasting place in Notre Dame’s hall of famous athletes.
Paul Henry Castner
Paul Castner, the rangy son of St. Paul, Minnesota, was the star fullback of the great Freshman eleven of 1919. He is the natural football player of the titan type. He has a left foot that is already educated to an advanced degree, and on several occasions this fall did Coach Rockne sigh, “Another good ball gone wrong,” as Castner’s trusty south toe sent the spiral down the field. His attack is varied; his line-plunging is a feature in every game in which he takes, part, and his open-field running is sensational for a fullback. He had of course during the season much brotherly opposition in the persons of Wynne and Phelan. This peerless triumvirate of fullbacks has been the despair of opposing teams. Paul has two more years in which to make himself All-American, and if he continues to grow as during the las two years, even Mr. Walter Camp will be able to observe in the West another Eichenlaub.
i68
Zfte Moure dame Scholascic ■
Roger Joseph Kiley. -	•
Playing his second season on the Varsity, Roger Kiley easily lived up to all that had been expected of him and by his star work enrolled himself without question in that goodly company of famous Notre Dame ends. He. was one of the main men in Notre Dame’s noted aerial attack and established for himself the reputation of being one of the best receivers of the forward pass in the country. His defensive work was of the highest order, and—to quote the New York critic on his and Ed. Anderson’s ability, to get down under punts: “Fast! why they couldn’t come any faster and be human!” “Rog” was honored with a place on the second, All-Western team of the Chicago Daily .News and has been picked for several - All-State selections. Notre Dame is indeed fortunate in having this man eligible for another year.
Edward Nicholas Anderson.
Eddie Anderson has fulfilled the duties of • title-winning back-field when next October
regular end on Notre Dame teams for the last three seasons, but never before has this star shone as during this fall. He. was on the re-.ceiving end of many a sensational forward-pass from Gipp,. and .not a few touchdowns made by the “Rockmen” are credited to this huskj' right end. As a defensive player Eddie has no superior and his skilful manner of evading interference and of breaking back into plays is a spectacle admired by friend and foe alike. He shares with Kiley the tribute of the Eastern critics, “the best seen in the East this year.” He is given a place on Snyder’s second. AllAmerican and is named as member of several of the All-State and All-Western teams. The big Iowan has another year to play, and-the Notre Dame followers have no misgivings concerning, the right end on. the team:.of 1921.
' Lawrence Timothy Shaw. .
“Buck” Shaw is too modest and unassuming to be a hero, but he . ranks with, that legion of great warriors, whose prowess is unsung. He has .received comparatively.1 few. press notices; . yet he is .regarded by his teammates as a truly
his .work lacks that sensational element which
often secures all-star mention, lineman will be back- ne season with the Gold and Blue.
This mighty for his final
John Henry Mohardt. '
It is generally agreed that Johnnie Mohardt was one.of the best backs of the year. He alternated with “Norm” Barry as Gipp’s running-mate and always held up his side with ease. A ground-gainer of unusual ability, he slipped around the Army ends for distances of from five to twenty-five yards. He was fast and elusive, and once started Mohardt could outdistance any opposition. Nebraska, Indiana, and Northwestern as well as the Cadets witnessed his work with mingled feelings of admiration and despair. • He has another year of eligibility, and with Danny Coughlin as a parG ner for him, Notre Dame is little worried about her prospects for another brainy, smashing, -
rolls around.
. Daniel Martin Coughlin.
Not a few are of the mind that Danny Coughlin will be a worthy successor of the famed Gipp. There is at least no doubt in the minds, of those who have seen him perform on Cartier Field that he will develop into a star of the first magnitude. In open-field running he has few equals. He squirms, dodges, ducks, and shakes off tacklers in whatever number they come at him—just how, no one seems to know. The season just finished was his first year with the Varsity. Last year he was one of the mainstays of the star Freshman. eleven. Football is not his only sport; as he is a star performer on the basketball court and, after the fashion of his Northland, he plays hockey.. We expect to hear much more about him before the end of the year and all about hid. next fall. .
William Lawrence Voss.. ~
Last year Bill Voss came to Notre Dame and played center for, the Freshmen. When, however, he returned’in September looking so well corn-
great tackle. As fast as any end, a hard, low fed, Coach Rockne discerned in him the makings tackler, and' an\effective charger, he .played a. of a wonderful Tackle, and.accordingly shifted wonderfully, consistent... game - throughout the him from center to theexalted position, of tackle season. . “An end playing alongside. Buck opposite Hector Garvey. This brace of fighters: Shaw on defense is. a mere observer,”, is what taught ifiany'opposing teams the.fine points in one .wise wing-man says about Shaw. He fits : football, and, more than once their fight, paved so naturally and neatly into his position that the way to victory-for the Varsity. Big of frame
■ .-A —	'	-	/	/	• ’	- ■ '	- - " '	- - V - -	; > / - -	.

’^ne Noure dame Scholastic	169
and fast of foot, Voss has the ideal build for a tackle. His chief accomplishment is his ability-on the offense,’ and many a time during the season did he pave the way for a substantial • gain by one of his backs. On the defense he is a terrible tiger, crashing down the interference of the opposition-and making* the tackle easy for the end. His only fault—and this one he does not confess—is the persistent size of his appetite. He has two more years, in which he is destined to make for himself a name among the few.’	■
1
‘ Donald Chester Grant.
■ “Chet” Grant returned to us this year after playing the game “Over There” as a lieutenant. He weighs but 150 pounds, but his lack of avoirdupois was no handicap when it came to running back punts, at which task he is as elusive as an eel. Individually Grant is a dangerous man at all times, and as a field general he ranks with the best. In the Purdue and Northwestern games, particularly, he showed every quality that bespeaks a star on the gridiron and, need-
; less to say, Rockne can be sure that the pivot position will be well taken care of next fall.
Glen Michael Carberry. •
“Judge” Carberry literally made himself felt whenever a play started in the direction of left end. With his 185 .pounds of high-power muscle he regularly knocked the opposition into • submission with his hard tackling. “Judge”-started four games with the second string, and in each instance put up a smashing defense, which took the fight out of the opposing backs. •When on other occasions he was substituted for Kiley he played strong football,- especially on the defense. At West Point he was in the game for , only a few, minutes, but the Cadet, backfield was painfully aware of his brief presence.’ As a defensive man “Judge” 'has few’ superiors, and with two more years to play he * should develop into an end entitled to take'rank with Notre Dame’s greatest wing guardians. '
... Harry James Mehre. .. . .
Harry. “Red” Mehre played center..like a , regular whenever called upon during the season. Off.the field he was one of the squad’s comedians, 1 but his sense of humor'.did not appeal to. the backs who attempted to gain .through the middle of the-line when he was facing them; He gave ■ more than ? one aspiring, line-plunger.. a. tragic , bump. Big, strong;, and. fast, .“Red” was. a
prominent member of Notre Dame’s “wrecking crew, ’ ’. the second-string - line. He - worked in ‘ the primary defense with 190 pounds of beef and excelled in hard, low tackling that . hurt. Offensively, too, he was. ever on the alert and was effective at blocking and passing. Already a player of Varsity calibre, the big fellow promises even better 'football next year. He came to Notre Dame with no previous football experience, and the season of 1921 will be his third, last, , and best season on the Gold and Blue squad.
James Ryan Dooley
As was anticipated by all who knew him, “Big Jim” Dooley came through . and appropriated his second monogram this season. Carrying with- all grace more than two hundred pounds of avoirdupois and possessing a keen knowledge of the gridiron game, the Massachusetts giant was a very obstinate, problem for every opponent that met him. Whenever a play was shot at the Notre Dame line Dooley was invariably and effectively there to stop it. He has another year ahead of him, and the big fellow is hot the kind of athlete that disappoints.
Earl Francis Walsh.
Earl ‘ ‘ Katie ’ ’ Walsh played with the handicap of a bad knee, and as’a‘result failed to do all the brilliant things predicted of him by those who admired his strong line-plunging and fierce tackling of last year. Walsh did not have sufficient opportunity to prove himself, particularly on offense. In those games in which he took part, he- either was not called upon to carry the ball often or was hurt in the first few minutes of play.1 Nevertheless, as his knee improved so .did his work, and toward the dose of the season he was showing flashes of his old form in every kind of play. Willingness to hdp the’ other' fellow is a virtue of consequence in fdbtball as elsewhere, and Walsh possessed this •virtue in a high degree. He has another year to’’compete, and if he gets an even break in * luck^“Kate” can be counted upon1 to bear out. •in'igriTthe prophecies of 1919. '
.	Robert,Richard. Phelan.
. The third of-Rockne’s great trio. of strapping fullbacks vis Robert Phdan. Together- with Paul; Castner he .backed up- Wynne’ in. .most masterly, fashion, and with, them he.will return next year to.make that position.in the Notre , Dame backfidd. still,:stronger. As a consistent
170
'Sfie Norre dame Scholastic
punter and a shifty, crashing line-plunger, he has brought cheers from the Gold and Blue supporters in every game on Cartier field this year. Chicago saw some of his work in the game at Evanston and Lansing watched him plow through the line of the “Rustics.”
. -----------------—— The Coaches.
Coach Knute K. Rockne.
In the football world Mr. Knute K. Rockne, director of athletics at Notre Dame, is entitled “the Miracle Man of 1920”; by the studentbody of the University he is considered “the greatest coach of all times”; to his football men on the field he is known simply and affectionately as “Rock.” As a student-athlete, as' assistant-coach, and finally as head coach, he has a record of ten successful years at Notre Dame without a break,. With not a little reason has he been called? the “Victory Builder.” In his first three years at Notre Dame, 1911 to 1913, the football team did not- suffer a single defeat in twenty-two games. In his last year as player he captained the great Western eleven that startled the East, West, and South. As assistant-coach from 1914 to 1917 his linemen did more than their share in the remarkable - victories of that period. When as successor to Coach Jesse Harper he took full charge of Notre Dame athletics in the war year of 1918 the football conditions were hopeless, but Rockne would not see them so. He drilled a squad of
men averaging only 160 pounds and made of them one of the most heroic of Notre Dame’s - I	*	•
fighting teams. This midget Varsity fought the heavy Nebraska to a tie in the mud, won from Purdue, Wabash, and Case, and for a surprise climax tied the team of the Great Lakes Training Station, the national champions of that year. In 1919 Rockne’s squad of veterans romped home without a defeat or a tie—in such an impressive way as to disconcert most of the adverse critics. If any further success was needed to prove Coach Rockne and his Notre Dame system, it has been superabundantly provided this year. The success which has so uniformly attended his work Coach
Rockne modestly and sincerely attributes to the quality of the material provided him, to the unmatched morale of the squad, to the superb leadership of such captains as Frank Coughlin, to the natural • football instinct of such players as Gipp, Brandy, and Smith— summarily to the clean living, clear thinking, and hard fighting of his men. These no doubt have been important elements in Notre Dame’s football successes, but we believe that they would have been of little consequence without the coaching of Rockne. His great elevens have on every occasion, and especially in the more trying ones, reflected the keenness, determination, and sportsmanship of their great coach— showing themselves true “Rockmen.”
In order to make sure that our Notre Dame estimate of Coach Rockne is not an overestimate, we have asked several experts in football for an opinion concerning his work, and, with gratitude to them for kindness in sending us their words, we take great pleasure in quoting here their several - testimonies:
Major C. D. Daly, football coach at West Point:
“The Army-Notre Dame game has always been one of the best of the large intersectional contests. We have always found the Notre Dame team to be most excellent sportsmen, playing the cleanest and hardest of football, good losers and generous winners. It is very easy for me to testify to the high ability of Mr. Rockne. The clean sportsmanship of his teams and the highgrade, winning quality of their play leaves no doubt that Mr. Rockne is among the very best coaches in this country. It is a pleasure to so testify.”
Walter H. Eckersall, sports-editor of the Chicago Tribune, writes to us concerning Coach Rockne:	.	.
“It has been my pleasure to know Knute Rockne ever since he broke into football fame as a member of an eleven in one of the preparatory schools of Chicago. In those days, when he never dreamed of coaching an eleven which today is rated among the powerful of the country, Knute was a keen observer. It was his ability to absorb conditions and to reason for himself that Jhas really made him - the coach who is rated among the leading gridiron mentors of the country. Even in his preparatory-school days there was little about end-play he did not know, and when he entered Notre Dame he was considered a superb flank-player.
'efie Notre dame Scholastic
“ When Jesse Harper was in charge of the football situation, Rockne was generally: sent away on Saturday to scout games. On a number of occasions I acted as an official in games which he saw, and in our talks after the contests I learned that he had a thorough inside knowledge of Notre Dame’s future opponents. In other words, he was one of the best football scouts I have ever known. Since he assumed ’ complete charge of football, Rockne has conformed to Western Conference rules.. Notre Dame athletic teams are respected wherever they go, and there are not a few who would like to see the institution a member of the Conference.	.
“Coach Rockne possesses all the traits which go to make a clean sportsman. Unlike some football coaches, ■ Knute never criticises the work of a football official, and he is a. pleasant man to work for. He can take a defeat just as gracefully as a victory, and the outside world appreciates such a character. Coach Rockne knows football and he knows how to teach it.-Notre Dame will continue to have strong elevens so long as he is' at the helm, and it is hoped that some day in the near future, Notre.Dame will be a member of the Western Conference.”
E-.O. Stiehm, athletic director at the University of Indiana:	.
“In all my personal and athletic relations with Mr. Knute K. Rockne I have always found him a gentleman and a sportsman. Athletic relations - between Notre Dame and Indiana were resumed primarily because of Mr. Rockne. I know that he will insist upon standard eligibility rules and play clean, -hard, advanced football. The Notre Dame team of 1920 is one of the very best teams Notre 'Dame has ever had, and I have been? watching Notre Dame elevens for many years. The team is clever, aggressive, and of championship caliber. I hope it will be possible to continue our athletic relations.”	. . :
N. A. Kellogg, athletic, director at Purdue University:	. -	?	. : •	;	> •
v “You can say for publicity over my name that Notre Dame has a great football team and a fine coach.”	.
A. . G. Scanlon, football coach • at Purdue. University:. -	. - -	;-	- -
“I wish to say that the Notre Dame: team on the day that we' played them; November 6th, was. the best-looking?team that I have ever seen. They had no weaknesses that I.-could
171
discover, .and were, a well-balanced team. Although Coach Rockne turns out smart football teams, this is the best team I have seen.”.
George E. Keogan, athletic director at Valparaiso' University: M •
“One of the greatest pleasures of my season at Valparaiso University was the opening of relations between Notre Dame and Valparaiso. We feel that we played the best team in the West. One cannot give too much credit to the man responsible-for this great machine. Notre Dame .reflects 7 the spirit of Coach Rockne. Game, always a fighter, and always a live sportsman, Coach Rockne has accomplished wonders at the Catholic school and has placed . Notre Dame’s athletics on a plane-with those of any university in the West.” •	•
C. - L. • Brewer, athletic director at the Michigan Agricultural College: ■	• - ■
“I have, known Coach Rockne personally since his first entrance into Western football, and I know him to be a clean, hard-playing,' square sportsman. It is my judgment that the 1920 Notre Dame football team is-one of the strongest. and most versatile teams ever developed either in the East or in the West.”
Harry Gill; Athletic Director at the University of Illinois:'
“I have often been greatly impressed with the success ’of the Notre Dame football teams, especially. .within the last few seasons.. With only a comparatively small student-body to choose from and playing a schedule that neces-4 sitates. much travel, it seems to me that Coach Rockne’s success with the team is truly remarkable.” ;	’	1	?	•'
T. E- Jones, football coach in the University of Wisconsin:	'	.	■	.
“I have known Mr. Rockne for the last six or. seven- years—during athletic relationships between our institutions.: I am glad to say that I regard Mr. Rockne as one of the best coaches in the business. He has been remarkably sue- . cessful in both football and track, and has made and .kept Notre Dame a leader in athletics.” .
James Phelan, football coach at the University of. Missouri: . ■	...	’	7
“Coach Rockne-by his untiring effort,- his superhumamenergy/and by his driving, forceful personality;-, combined with, a thorough knowledge of; football, has succeeded in developing one of the greatest football teams of all times. He has not only developed a great football team, but.:he . has been- responsible :for establishing,
vj 2	'Sfie Houre Same Schdasric
the famous Notre Dame system. Notre Dame is one of the few colleges with a real football system, and Coach Rockne is the man who has developed this system to its present state of perfection. Notre Dame plays a brand of football all her own, and the players ar,e of a type found only at Notre Dame. There is that fight, drive, and slam-bang attitude about the team which results in a style of game which can be imitated elsewhere but can be produced only at Notre Dame. Rockne has originated and developed a style of end-play which has not been equalled; his line-play is clever and is distinctively his own style; and the outstanding feature of a Notre Dame team is the brainy, reckless, fearless, and fighting back which typifies what we coaches call Notre Dame or Rockne football. Captain Coughlin and George Gipp are without doubt the two greatest stars in present-day football, and praise from me would add little to the glory of these two AllAmerican men.”	’
John W. Head, sports-editor of the Indianapolis Star:
“Football is the great college sport. It is played, patronized,, and appreciated in even the remotest sections of the United States. But there is not a place so far removed from Indiana as not to have heard of Notre Dame football teams and the snowy-haired coach, Knute K. Rockne. For years and years Notre Dame has been noted for its football teams; but in all those years, even with Bichenlaub, Rockne, Feeney, Dorais, and myriad others, no team has created such a record as the 1920 team—under the tutelage of the former Notre Dame star-performer, Knute K. Rockne. For two years the team has sailed along without a defeat and has been looked upon ras the championship team of the Middle West. With each succeeding game added glory has been piled up for Notre Dame and Hoosierdom. Not only have Notre Dame football teams advertized the University, but in doing so they have heaped laurels upon our Hoosier State.
“The Notre Dame team has been referred to 9	_
as Gipp and Co., but it is far from this, for with the peerless half-back removed from the contest, the Irish machine has been able to smother all opposition. With Gipp in harness and playing as he knows how, the Notre Dame eleven is practically unbeatable. It is a well-oiled 1920 football machine that Notre Dame boasts of and one that every alumnus, student, or
follower of Notre Dame may well be proud of.” Charles W. Bachman, football coach at the Kansas State Agricultural College:
“Notre Dame football and K. K. Rockne have become synonymous. The team of 1920 stands out pre-eminently as the peer of any in the country. No team in the history of Notre Dame football has brought more glory to the name of our Alma Mater and to its able mentor than the team of 1920. The clock-like precision which characterized the play of the Notre Dame team during the past season stands out as a glowing tribute to the coaching ability of “Rock.”
Coach Walter Halas
The announcement came last summer after two weeks of uncertainty in which the University Athletic Board considered the qualifications of a whole corps of candidate coaches whose records are on the tongue-tip of every follower of athletics, that Mr. Walter Halas was commissioned as adjutant to field-marshal Rockne. Within the few months since then the new coach has proved himself on the football field to the satisfaction of all at Notre Dame. He was, however, engaged primarily because of his prestige as a mentor in baseball.
Last season Halas was an Integral unit on the pitching staff of Bloomington in the Three-Bye League, where his variety of delivery was such as to dissipate the hopes of any .300 aspirants who faced him, and his work attracted not a little attention from major-league experts. He is a graduate of the University of Illinois and a three-letter man in Illini athletics. He played end on the eleven that cleaned up the rest of the Conference in 1918, which fact accounts for one monogram; his consistent performance during three years in the Illinois basketball five earned for him the second letter, and as a slab artist on the always powerful nine of the Champagne school, he starred in his favorite sport for the third “I.” It is said that when Halas took leave of his Alma Mater Coach Zuppke for the first time in his crisscross career used his handkerchief for lachrymal purpose. The Somerset High School in Kentucky was gainer by his graduation from college. The quality of the young coach was soon advertized when Somerset took the blue ribbon in four departments of interscholastic sport.
Thus Rockne’s running-mate came to Notre Dame with a reputation worthy of the Gold
Nocre dame Schotasuic
S.hd Blue standards. The press, from Maine to Montana, concedes Notre Dame to be on the gridiron the best in the West and as good as anything anywhere else, and Coach Halas is using his energy and skill with a view to having the Varsity execute its basketball schedule with equal, success.
As for baseball, which is the forte of the new coach—Halas himself is of the opinion that a few more candidates for the big leagues will be forthcoming next spring, which reminds of the fact that Notre Dame has graduated from her diamond more major-league men than any other college campus. —Starrett-Stevenson. --------------------
The Notre Dame All-Honor Men. ’
It has not been possible, of course, to give explicitly in this issue full credit to the men of the football team which represented Notre Dame on the gridiron of 1920. By way of compensation we present here a few of the many mythical elevens on which Notre Dame men have found place and notice of the honorable mentions received by others, as indication of the*regard in which “the Wonder Men of 1920” are held in the football world.
Mr. Walter Camp’s annual selection of AllAmerican football teams no longer elicits the blind faith which was accorded it some years ago. There has been year by year a growing sentiment against the provincial one-man judgement as to who is who on the gridiron. Nevertheless, Mr. Camp’s list is still more highly regarded than-that of any other single critic. His selection for this year, appearing this week in Collier’s Weekly, bears witness to the force of public opinion. Mr. Camp, in company with some other critics, has at length come to realize the' quality of Western football, which until a year or two ago was openly made little of in the East. This year for the first time Mr. Camp selects for his first team a player from a Catholic school. That man, George Gipp, of Notre Dame, has, no doubt, won his way to this distinction by force, of previous, unanimous, and nationwide selection of him as one of the . very greatest football players of all time— which verdict would have made utterly ridiculous any All-American selection which ignored him. In addition to naming one of Notre Dame’s great eleven for a first place, Mr. Camp ' gives “ honorable mention ” to Eddie Anderson, Maurice Smith, John Mohardt, and Captain
Coughlin. In ranking the ten best teams of the season the. Yale mentor places Notre Dame third, after Princeton and Harvard. Ohio State, Notre Dame’s only rival for first honors in Western football, is given ninth place on the list. The following are Mr. Camp’s selections: •
FIRST TEAM	'
End—Carney, Illinois
Tackle—Keck, Princeton
Guard—Callahan, Yale	-
Center—Stein, Pittsburg" Guard—Woods, Harvard	■	'
Tackle—Scott, Wisconsin
End—Fischer, Georgia Tech.
Quarter—Lourie, Princeton
. Halfback—Stinchcomb, Ohio Halfback—Way, Penn State Fullback—Gipp, Notre.Dame
SECOND TEAM	’
Urban, Boston College E.
Goetz, Michigan	T.
Wilkie, Navy	G.
Cunningham; Dartmouth C.
Alexander,	Syracuse	G.
McMillan,	California	T.
LeGendre,	Princeton	E.
McMillin,	Center	Q.
Garrity, Princeton	H.. I
Davies, Pittsburg	H. J
French, Armv	F. B
THIRD TEAM
Ewan, Navy Voss, Detroit Breidster, Army Havemeyer, Harvard Trott, Ohio State Dickens, Yale Muller, California Boynton, Williams . . Haines, Penn State . Leach, Virginia M. I. . Horween, Harvard
Dean Snyder, for the National Enterprise Association, presents^ the following as first and second All-American teams of this year: ’
First Team Muller, California Keck, Princeton Tolbert, Harvard Depler, Illinois Griffiths, Penn State Sonnenberg, Dartmouth Carney, Illinois McMillin, Centre White, Oklahoma Gipp, Notre Dame Horween, Harvard
Second Team *
R. E. Weston, Wisconsin R. T. Scott, Wisconsin R. G.	Acosta, Yale
C. Alexander, Syracuse L. G. Woods, Harvard L. T. Smoot, Oklahoma L. E. E. Anderson, N. D. Q. B. Lourie, Princeton R. H. Haines’ Penn State L. H. Stinchcomb, Ohio F. B. Crangle, Illinois
Mark Kelly in the Herald-Examiner, of Chicago gives as his 1920 All-Westerns: .
First Team	Second Team
Weston, Wisconsin	R. E.	.	Belding, Iowa
McGuire,- Chicago	R. T.	Scott, Wisconsin
Smith, Notre Dame	R. G.	Huffman, Ohio
Depler, Illinois •	C.	Bunge, Wisconsin
McCaw, Indiana	L. G.	Taylor,’ Ohio
Coughlin, Notre Dame	L. T.	Goetz, Michigan
Carney, Illinois	L. E.	Hanny, Indiana
Devine, Iowa	-	Q. B.	Brandy, Notre Dame.
Stinchcomb,: Ohio	R. H.	Fletcher Illinois'
Gipp, Notre Dame	L. H.	Oss, Minnesota'
Crangle, Illinois	F. B.	. Kyle, Indiana
John W. Head, sports-editor of the Indiana-
$
i74
Noure 6ame S’choiascic
polis Star, offers these two selections as the first were no doubt .some dozen other All-American
and second All-Indiana:
First Team
Anderson, Notre Dame Milstead, Wabash Coughlin, Notre Dame Ogden, DePauw Risley, Indiana Birk, Purdue Hanny, Indiana Kingslover, Franklin Gipp, Notre Dame Mohardt, Notre Dame Kyle, Indiana
L. E.
L. T.
L. G.
C.
R. G.
R. T.
R. E.
Q. B.
R.
H.
H.
Second Team
Carmen, Purdue Claypool, Purdue
Hungate, Butler
Pierce, Indiana Smith, Notre Dame Leonard, Indiana Kiley, Notre Dame Mathys, Indiana Englehard, Rose Poly Galloway, DePauw
F. B. Wynne, Notre Dame
In connection with these selections Head gives honorable mention to Shaw, as tackle, to Larson as center, to Brandy as quarterback, and to Barry as halfback.	-
. These selections are published, here in full because they do more justice, we believe, to the Notre Dame stars than any others that have come to our notice. Lack of space does not permit our publishing the numerous other selections which give, place to one or more of the Notre Dame players, and the best we can do is to show summarily where credit has been given.	'	’
George Gipp is referred to in connection with the All-Star Eastern team selected by Robert Maxwell for the Philadelphia Public Ledger ■ as the greatest half-back of the season. He is ’ placed as half-back: on the Buffalo Courier's All-American; the Boston Post’s All-American, by Neil R. O’Hara; the New York Evening Telegram’s All-American, by Vernon Van Ness; the New York News’ All-American team, by John Foster; the New York American’s AllAmerican, by Arthur Robinson; the Washington Evening Star’s All-American; the New York Tribune’s . All-American;’ the Chicago News’ All-American, by ‘ MacLean; the Philadelphia Bulletin’s All-American; the New York Herald’s All-American, by Daniels; the United Press’ All-American, by Henry L. Farrell; the Associated Press- All-East, -West-and-South back-/ field, by Grantland Rice; the Chicago Tribune’s All-Western, by Eckersall; the National Enterprise’ Association’s All-American, by Dean Snyder; the Chicago Herald-Examiner’s All
Western, by Mark Kelly; the Chicago Journal’s
All-Western; the South Bend Tribune’s All- All-American, along with George Gipp, and
selections honoring the great half-back which have not come to our notice.
Frank Coughlin, Notre Dame’s great ta'ckle .and captain, is placed at his position on: the All-American of the Chicago News, by MacLean; the All-Western of the Chicago Tribune, by Eckersall; the All-Western of the Chicago Herald-Examiner, by Mark Kelly; the AllWestern of the South Bend Tribune, by Kessler; the All-Indiana of the Indianapolis Star, by John Head; the All-Indiana of the Indianapolis News, by Hendricks; the All-Indiana, of the Indianapolis Times; and on the second AllAmerican of the Youngstown Daily, by Jack Vieock.
Eddie Anderson is given* place at left end on Dean Snyder’s All-American, and on the AllAmerican of the New York Herald, by Farrell; on the All-Western teams of the Chicago Journal, the South Bend Tribune, and the Chicago Post; on the All-Indiana teams of the Indianapolis Star, the Indianapolis News, and. the Indianapolis Times.
Maurice Smith is honored with his position as guard on the All-Western of the Chicago Herald-E,xaminer, by Mark. Kelly; on the second All-Western of the Chicago Tribune, by Eckersall; on the second All-Western of the Chicago Post, and of the South Bend Tribune, by Kessler; on the first All-State of the Soutli Bend Tribune, and the second All-State of the Indianapolis Star, by ’ John W. Head.
Farrell, in' connection with his selections for the New York Herald, gives special -praise to Kiley, Shaw? Mohardt, 'Wynne, and Brandy in comments on the Army game, rating.them as the best seen in the East in 1920. Mark Kelly, in the Herald-Examiner placed Brandy as quarterback for his . second All-Western team, and named Kiley, Larson, and Wynne as deserving honorable mention. The first team of the Chicago Post included Gipp and Coughlin; the second team, Kiley, Anderson, and Smith. Wynne led the fullbacks for hpnor-able mention. (Mohardt was mentioned for halfback, and a half column was devoted to Gipp’s remarkable work, jack Vieock of the Youngstown Daily picks Roger Kiley for his
Western, by Kessler; the Indianapolis Star’s gives honorable mention to Brandy, Mohardt, All-Indiana, by John W. Head; the Youngs- and Wynne. The Chicago Journal’s All-Ameri-town Daily’s All-American, by Jack Vieock;' can selections placed Gipp and Coughlin as and Carl A. Reed’s All-American. There regulars, and mentioned favorably Kiley and
Norre dame Scholastic
i75
Anderson, at end, Smith at Guard, and Barry at half. Eugene Kessler, of the South Bend Tribune chooses E- Anderson, Coughlin, Mo-hardt, and Gipp for his first All-Western, and Kiley, Larson, and Smith for his second. On his first Indiana selection he gives places to E- Anderson, Coughlin, Larson, Smith, Kiley, Mohardt, and Gipp, and on his second to Shaw, H. Anderson, Brandy, and Wynne. Thomas Hendricks of the Indianapolis News indicated Notre Dames monopoly on the State laurels by selecting for his first team Coughlin, Smith, Gipp and Barry; for his second, E. Anderson and H. Anderson; and for his third, Mohardt. Honorable mention is given to Carberry, Kiley, Brandy, and Wynne.
Lawrence Perry of the Associated Press publishes in the Cleveland News one of the most consistent of the All-American selections. George Gipp is the only Notre Dame man selected, but Perry mentions Brandy as the directing force of the smoothest-running offensive and hardest defensive team in the country. His eulogy of Gipp is of a piece with the many already published in these columns.	'
Finally, we are sure that no selection of star teams will be . of more interest to our readers than the following one made by Coach Rockne for the Scholastic and for the American Sports Publishing Company, of New York City, which issues Spaulding’s Football Guide, containing the most authoritative selections of the year. It will be obvious to those who have followed closely the football of the country throughout. the season that Coach Rockne’s elevens present the maximum in offense and defense. And we
do. not believe that anyone knowing who’s who in football will think him partial tb his ownmen. TheseareCoachRockne’stwoline-ups:
All-American .
Urban, Boston College Coughlin, Notre Dame Griffith, Penn State Alexander,. Syracuse Sedgwick, Harvard Keck, Princeton Carney, Illinois Gipp, Notre Dame Davies, Pittsburg Robertson, Dartmouth
All-Western L. E. Weston, Wisconsin L. T.Coughlin, Notre Dame L. G. McGuire, Chicago C.	Wallace, Ames
R. G. Smith, Notre Dame R. T.	Voss, Detroit
R. E-	Devine, Iowa
L. ,H. Gipp, Notre Dame R. H. Stinchcomb, Ohio F. B. 'White, Oklahoma
Without any reflection on the selections made, it may be believed that several other of the Notre Dame champions would have received All-Western or All-American honor if they had been distributed in several schools.	.
'	■	—E. M. STARRETT, *21.
Varsity Verse.
Lochinvar—1920 Model.
Young Lochinvar came out of the West
And met the Army clan;	-
He cleaned ’em up and beat ’em down2—	2
The .gang yelled: “He’s a man ■	.
Who’s a man? .	*	.
Smithie! Brandy! Coughlin!”.
The Army lad gave all he had,	•
And did it well, say we,-
But not enough. Young Loch was mad—,
The gang yelled: "U. N. D.	,
•	Rah! Rah! U. N. D..Rah! Rah!
■	• Who Rah! Who Rah? '
.	-U. N. D. Rah! Rah!.- '
,	. .	Team—Team—Team!”	.
He plunged and fought and ran and kicked Without a trip or- slip; .
And all-American was picked—	. .
The gang yelled: “O Boy, Gipp! '	,
Give my clothes tb the Belgians.”
What mattered it, that first-half score, To a lad who loves a fight?
He plunged the line, round ends he tore— The gang yelled: “He’s all right!
■ Who’s all right?
Mohardt! Kiley! Eddie!”
Go, east, go west, go north,- go south, He treats ’em all the same.	-	-
When evening comes the same old gang	.
Yells: “Sis-s-s, Boom! Notre Dame!	.
Hunk, Wynne, Larson, Shaw!
Barry! Grant! Rah! Roh!	.
--FRANK WALLACE.
. .	.	.	“Hunk.”	7
When the Gold and Blue is forced to fight And battle for a yard; .	.	.
Who tears a hole in the opponents’. line? ' Why Hunk, our. fighting guard.
But when our team is driven back. . . And a victory seems so hard;.	/
. Who tackles the runner for a loss?
Why Hunk, bur fighting guard. .	-
Now if I were a Walter Camp	.
And wrote of the men. who starred, Upon whom would ! heap my praise? Why -Hunk,' our fighting guard.—h/E- mck.
“Praestamus”	'
From out of the West ’
Came Rockne’s crew,	.-	'	’
A band of warriors tried and true;	‘
They answered ‘‘here’’;.the whistle blew— . .	:
Cadets you did your best—	'	..	. . . . <
The fighting team from Notre Dame . ... .
Once more wrote victory ’round its name.—A> j. c.
^e- Noure dame Scholastic
176
The Master of the Megaphone.
If at some time in the years to come the Dome should prematurely cave in, Alfred N. Slaggert will be held responsible. It was his power of persuasion in calling forth at the football gamesthe “ U. N. D.” in such a volume of voices as to try several of the venerable structures on the campus. His interpretation and direction made of the. “Notre Dame Victory-Song” a classic of the gridiron. The spirit of the men of Notre Dame has always been remarkable; but it has been reserved all these years to Cheerleader Slaggert, however, to make through the medium of perfect organization the most of that" spirit for the big athletic purposes of 1920. He has acquitted himself of the task as only Slaggert could. The enthusiasm of the “old-grads” at the Home-coming was testimony to the success of the demonstration at the Purdue game, as at all the others.
Captain Coughlin, who from the beginning of the season persistently urged the importance of enthusiastic student support as condition of a successful team, has spoken most highly of Slaggert’s work. Needless to say, the Captain has voiced at the same time the sentiment of all the other members of the team. The finely loyal cheering in the Notre Dame gymnasium on that anxious Saturday afternoon when Rockne’s men at Indianapolis were fighting the fight of their lives to overcome in the latter half of the battle the ro-to-o lead which Indiana had scored upon them was a manifestation of spirit to be remembered. Those valiant warriors knew, instinctively that the men here were heart and soul behind them. Did not Eddie * - -
Anderson at the very crisis of the conflict which was going all wrong appeal to the team—“Men, for love of the pigskin, remember the kids at home! ” This was perhaps at just the instant when Slaggert in a maimer which inspired the completest confidence was calling upon the host at home for the cheer demanding two touchdowns—and at the end of that last quarter of the desperate fray the score stood 14 to 10 for Notre Dame.
Slaggert’s practice of holding frequent “pep” meetings in the football season is one that must be continued. It was at these gatherings that the real organization was effected. They are indeed the only practical way of securing the unity necessary to a cheering body that will really help a football team.
Nor must we fail to acknowledge the good work done by Slaggert’s assistants, Emmett Burke and William Eckerle. In all the games at home and in the Northwestern game at Evanston they performed as understudies in leading the cheers, and it is they who will be in charge of the work next year.
To the freshman of this year the spirit of the football season may seem to have had its part as a matter of course; but to the older men and to the alumni, who have had the opportunity to compare this spirit with that shown in former years, it seemed in no small degree extraordinary, and these men are superlative in their appreciation of the work of “Al” Slaggert.—e. w. murphy, ’23. -----------------------------
Sometime Ago and Now.
As a student in high school a few years ago I watched a Notre Dame team beat the team of Wabash College in football. Such a victory was by no means an unusual event in the gridiron experience of Notre Dame, but to me it was one of extraordinary interest, because I had never before seen a Gold and Blue eleven play. Through the sporting columns of the local press, I had been for years a close follower of university athletics, and my own abnormal appetite for active competition in all kinds of sport had engaged my leisure time. It happened that on the day of this game between Notre Dame and Wabash our high school had no contest scheduled, and so the players together with their coach and manager eagerly accepted an invitation to be present at the college event.-No doubt it has been in some measure by way of consequence that a considerable number of the members of our Tan and Blue squad have been since then more or less prominently identified with college athletics. Our captain, Walter Kirby, was a brother of Harley Kirby, the famous Irish half-back of old. Berkey and Wolfe our ends, later played at Notre Dame: ‘ ‘ Cupid ’ ’ Gross; our bouncing left guard, is now well known to many Notre Dame students by his combined attractions of personality, interest in Notre Dame football, and skill as a “restaurateur.” Nicar, Rowe, and Whitaker afterwards starred atstate schools.
The particular season ih . which the game occurred was that which saw at Notre Dame such men as “Red” Miller, “Pete” Vaughan, “Cap” Edwards,Rosie” Dolan, Matthews

Noure dame Scholastic
i77
the Indian, Don Hamilton, the giant Ralph Dimmick, Philbrook, and other noted members of the famous team. Wabash at that time properly played under the title of “the Little Giants,’’ a sobriquet earned by their hard, slashing tactics on defense. Their team of 1909 was said to be a good exponent of this style of play, and hence a hard battle with Notre Dame had been predicted, the Northern school, of course, ruling the favorite. The Gold and Blue men, whose exploits had already captured the long-distance admiration of us all, gave us at close quarters every promised thrill. They won the game by a large number of points, although the Giants put up a valiant fight from beginning to end/
The conclusion of the contest found me in a state of football frenzy, from which I have not yet perhaps altogether recovered. At any rate, I could see “Red” Miller vividly for days pounding down the field from punt formation, his straight arm leaving the ground of his irregular wake strewn -with Cay on’s tacklers: There was no fence post or tree along the stretch from the entrance of the' university grounds to the street-car line wsich I did not »push aside with right or left jab as I cleverly evaded its fancied dive at my legs. It was all I could do to restrain myself from doing the flying tackle at every standing object along my route. Then’ I could see myself electrifying future high-school audiences with my lensational blocking. This ambition to become efficient in interference was inspired in me by sight of the Indian, Matthews, smashing those Wabash ’ ends, who were presumptive enough to start down under the punts. So badly battered was the end who faced “Matty” that toward the close of the game the Notre Dame Star had his man on the ground not two yards from the line of scrimmage on every kick. In accordance with the style of play which characterized the Notre Dame’s defense, the end took care of the opposing end on punt formations and put him out of the play as soon as he could get to him. As the ball was passed to the kicker “Matty” waited, with lowered head, in order to assure himself that a punt was actually intended; then, as the punter’s leg swung upward, he gathered himself and made.a short, fierce dash toward his opponent, who stood as if petrified by his approaching fate.’ With a terrific legdrive and plunge of his body “Matty” knocked the Little. Giant- completely off his feet. He
repeated this procedure on every punt, thus giving Hamilton the chance to get started on his many brilliant returns. I decided then and -there to treat somebody in that fashion in my next game, but I believe, that the resolution did not materialize; at least, no casualties for the opposition were reported after our engagement. .
Only the humilitating realization of my meagre physical proportions prevented me from visualizing myself as another “Pete” Vaughan, whose powerful line-hitting and blocking made him the All-Western man of that year and, in spite of a bad knee, a potent factor in Princeton’s offense two years later.
Since the day of that game two more Millers, brothers of “Red,” have come to Notre Dame, played their game, and gone; two Dorais’ have risen and retired; a Rockne has come to play and stayed to coach; an Eichenlaub has joined the football immortals of the Gold and Blue; a Mclnerny and a Murphy, I am proud to say, were my teammates, before they went to fight and die for their country. I went from Notre Dame with these two into the service, but had to come back without them,;—came back to new faces,’ new rules, and new ideas, perhaps, but to the same old spirit. I .have watched one Bergman immortalize the name in Notre Dame football, have tried to help a second add to its lustre, and am now happy to be a fellow-student and fellow-athlete of a third, who promises to do the name all justice.
More than a decade of years has passed since that Notre Dame-Wabash game of vivid re-’ collection. The interval has been time ample for any man to make his mark in a practical world. I have not as yet made any mark. In being human, I want name and fame. Yet I would not exchange what I have now, this opportunity to observe and partake in—with a sense of experience and appreciation which only experience can give—Notre Dame’s splendid spirit, to enjoy her associations and live her life—verily, I would not barter my obscure place on the football team of 1920'for that which the world calls success. I am glad.I came back; I wish that I could stay. And when I do finally go for good, I shall ask no greater honor than to be considered friend and comrade by my teammates, to have Notre Dame and all her people ever willing to think of me as having been true to the traditions of Notre Dame football—as having been, in my poor way, a Notre Dame man.—donald c. grant, ’22.
I
Moure dame Scholastic
178
Ballade to the Team of Old.
Let’s cheer the team that won today— The dreamy field is rife with men Who bore the pigskin yesterday, Yes, all this score of years and ten. Raj- Eichenlaub is there again, . And Salmon speeds the ball away; Dorais was not mightier when He led the Marquette squad astray.
Let’s cheer the team that won today-— The glory of the Gold-blue men Until the last day’s trumpets play Will linger on, and even then .
If Peter meets a denizen
Of Notre Dame, I’m sure he’ll say. “Rock, get your huskies out again .
And put the hogside into play.”
Let’s cheer the team that won today— But Kelly’s no comedian, The enemy is Dimmick’s prey And Bergman is their suzerain;
Red Miller eateth posts, I wen, Pete Vaughn is out to slash and slay: Three hundred burly touchdown men . Are back to make red holiday.
Envoi.	■
The Gold and Blue has won again— Our ghosts have held their trysting-day; All hail their scattered brothers when We cheer the team that won today.—M. E. w.
A Word for the “Subs.”
At the end of a football season, when the scribes vie with each other in paying homage to the outstanding warriors of the time, when paper after paper -with’characteristic oversight “plays up” the spectacular half-back or linesman with photographs, full stories of his life, and little anecdotes of his gridiron career, it is surely . fitting that we say a word of the men who do disinterestedly so much in the making of great teams, the men who force the stars to a brilliancy by which their own is made negligible— the “Subs.” The rewards of football, like the rewards of any other struggle in life, are limited. Monograms, for instance, if they are to mean anything, cannot be given to everyone. who strives to make the team; yet who will say that the man who makes the stout, honest effort is not entitled to some word of recognition.
Certainly it would be a thoughtless, heartless review of our football season at Notre Dame which did not pay the meed of praise to the valiant “Subs” of Notre Dame. Did they not day after day hurl themselves against the
dummy or into the scrimmage with as much good will'as the Varsity fullback? Did they not in game after game pace the sidelines praying for just one chance in the fray? Did they not time and again in the crucial moments of the campaign provide fierce opposition while the regulars took the rest which prepared them for triumph? In justice, they have a goodly share of the credit—“They also serve who only stand and wait.”
There was one member of the Notre Dame squad whose peculiar side-steps while travelling around end and whose grace in evading enemy tacklers earned for him the name of “the floating half-back”—“Red” Shea. Nimble as a circus acrobat and brawny as an East-side policeman, his two remaining years should be as glorious as his crimson top-knot. Contrary to all traditions pf the gridiron, he is a commerce man.
Constant running-mate to Shea and bantam half-back extraordinary is “Micky’’ Kane. He refuses to believe that might is essential to’ the gridiron hero. “Micky” is one of the lithe, wiry, Joe Brandy type of players—small but fast as the- proverbial lightning. During the last quarter of the Purdue game at least, his work was nothing short of brilliant. He has two more years at Notre Dame. While we are " speaking of small men who are mighty players, it is time to introduce George Prokop. Having won for himself a monogram in baseball last spring, and believing that one good game demands another, he went in for football in September and made good from the first. As his position in baseball was at the third corner, what could be more natural for him than-to play end on the football team? He was used in several of the games, and will be counted on by Rockne next fall. The subject of his studies at Notre Dame is law, in which course he is now a Junior. Another “nifty” end is “Si” Seyfrit—husky, handsome, jovial “Si.” He is a . source of unfailing good humor, even when an opposing end is trying in divers ways to blacken his eyes, disrupt, his ribs, and place him on the permanent injured list. His philosophy seems to be that a smile is the best preparation for a forward-pass and a grin the best preventive of a long gain by the foe. In accordance with the ancient habit of Gold and Blue gridders, he is studying law. Cartier Field will be the scene of his athletic endeavors for two more years.'
Good nature is also the prevailing mood of Eugene Oberst. This man is a worthy product
Moure &ame Scholastic
i79
of old, Kentucky, and his six feet of solidity has stopped many an ambitious fullback from bumping through the Gold and Blue line. He is a guard in all that the name means at Notre Dame. Like his fellow humorist, “Si” Seyfrit, Eugene is a sophomore in the College of Law ’ and will grace the local chalklines for two more seasons. Notre Dame had a wealth of capable reserve guards. In addition to Oberst, there was “Sarge” Owens, who was a principal in the unbeatable Miles-Owens combination, of interhall fame last year. Until his retirement early in the .season due to injuries he showed all the punch, grit, and fight necessary to make a great linesman. He is a big muscular fellow, with a heart to match, and the student-body sincerely hopes to see “Sarge” back next fall, ready to don the moleskins and take his place among the wearers of the big N. D.
A good'student, always a gentleman, and a true representative of Notre Dame on- the gridiron—is what we must say of Percy Wilcox, halfback. His record since coming here in the fall of last year has been one of remarkable consistency. He was a regular member of the invincible Freshman squad of last year; he is quite as regular as a'star student who receives high grades in every subject in every quarter; and as a regular fellow he is esteemed second to none. We would have done with him briefly by making his middle name “Consist; ency.” It is the hope of everyone that nothing may interfere with his returning to Notre Dame for the two remaining years allotted him.
Quarterbacks seem to be versatile as a class. There is Frank Thomas, for example, who is not only very agile both physically and mentally on the football field but is also able to run around with the elite on the basketball court. Again, there is Leslie Logan, of Fort Wayne,-who feels equally at home on the gridiron, on the diamond, and between the basketball hoops. He was big-man on Brownson’s champion basketball team of last year and may be such on the' Varsity five pf this season. In football Leslie has shown exceptional form as a plunger, . a caller of plays, and a passer. - Leo. Mixon, all the way from Texas, the tall, lithe, Interhall center of this year and last, has convinced Coach Rockne that he is a man who deserves observation. Daniel Culhane alsoj of Rochester, New York, does not need to emphasize.any longer the. fact that he was the winner of the cross-country chase last year, for his plunges, his speed
and his kicking on the Varsity gridiron have recommended him as a man who can do great things in football.	-
Light but fast, and able to break- through for . tackles and to throw back the opposing linesmen, Alexander J.,Colgan, of Berwin, Pennsylvania, has by his football achievements added not a little to his track repute. With the courage to range himself with the stalwart fullbacks of this year, he took the ball down the field like a veteran when he got the chance. Forrest Cotton, who “subbed” during the season, is pretty sure of a gold monogram on a blue sweater next year. As a tackler he is 'fast and certain and he takes the bumps of the game in good part, always carrying his broad smile with him as he smashes through the opposing wall. Finally, the tall and lanky Eugene Kennedy, who came to Notre : Dame from Lafayette, Indiana, is a good and dependable center, at which position he promises to distinguish himself in football quite as thoroughly as he did last winter in basketball.
—ENGELS-FLANNERY.
A Glance at the N. D. Gridiron Record.
The season of 1920 was Notre Dame’s thirty-second year in intercollegiate football, the sport having been initiated here in the spring of 1887, when the team of the University of Michigan came to Notre Dame, played an exhibition game, drilled our men in the use pf the pigskin, and then took them on for a “practice game.” Michigan won the contest by a score of 8 to o. The last gridiron encounter with the Wolverines took place at Ann Arbor. in 1911, in which Notre Dame triumphed; 11 to 3.
Since that first game .with Michigan Notre Dame has played 220 games on the gridiron, of which she has won 168, lost 36, and tied 16. In those contests she has crossed the opponents’. goal line for a total of 5,742 points, against a total of 1,084 for the opposition. Within the last twenty years Notre Dame has played 158 games, won 129, lost 19, and tied 7; within the last ten years she has played 78, won 67, lost 6, and tied 5. In the seven games played against the Army at West Point, the first of which was in 1913, Notre Dame has won 5 and lost 2; in her 6 games against the University of Nebraska she has won 3, lost 2, and tied 1; in n games against Purdue ..University she has won 6, lost 3, and tied 27 in n games with the University of Indiana she has won 6, lost 4, tied _
i8o
'Site Norre Same Scholastic
i; in the 5 games with Northwestern University she has won 3, lost 1, and tied 1; in her 13 games with the Michigan Agricultural College she has won 11, and lost 2.
The Notre Dame eleven of 1920 is the eleventh undefeated team to represent Notre Dame. Thus more than one-third of all the Notre Dame teams have left a record of no defeat. In 1'903 and in 1899 the Gold and Blue was not scored upon. The record for high scoring was made in 1912, when Luke Kelley’s aggregation counted 389 points against its opponents and permitted them only 27 in return.
Notre Dame’s supremacy in Hoosier football has not been questioned for many years, the Gold and Blue having won the State championship fifteen times by directly defeating all contenders for the title, such as Indiana, Purdue, and Wabash. In ten other years in which the schedules have not brought together the leading teams in decisive -contests the State championship has been awarded to Notre Dame by popular and press verdicts.
The worst defeat suffered by the Gold’ and Blue was at the hands of the University of Wisconsin in 1904, in which the “Badgers” drubbed us 58 to o. Our hugest victory, considering merely the size of the score, was the 142 to o against the team of the dear old American Medical College, of Chicago, in 1905. The South Bend High School had a place on the Notre Dame schedule in 1892, the fourth year of Notre Dame football, in which the “Highs” suffered defeat 56 to o.
Notre Dame began to attract national attention in football about 1909, as the result of invasions of. the East, West, and. South; with resulting victories which added much to her gridiron history. “Red” Miller was the first to lead a great Notre Dame team into the East—against the University of Pittsburg, then the new giant of the Eastern gridirons. Notre Dame won that first foreign contest, 6 to o. .Since then she has played fifteen games • in the East, in which she has won eleven times, played to a tie once, and suffered three defeats. Notre Dame’s victims in the East include the Army on five occasions, Pittsburg on two, Penn State, Syracuse, Washington and Jefferson, and. Carlisle.	.	-
The record of the Gold and Blue in the West is even more remarkable. Twenty-one games with leading teams of the Missouri valley have resulted in 18 victories, one tie, and two defeats.
Nebraska has furnished the only serious opposition in that region. The Valley champions have been played on their own grounds for six consecutive years, in which Notre Dame has won three games and tied another. Creighton University, the University of South Dakota, Morningside College, the Haskell Indians, and the Christian Brothers’ College, in St. Louis, have yielded in turn to Notre Dame. In the South the Gold and Blue twice tamed the Texas “Longhorns, ” after the latter had reigned supreme for many years in Southern football. The Rice Institute also succumbed on two occasions.	.	’
These are a few of the facts in the Notre Dame football history upon which she bases her claim to consistent supremacy in Western football. If there be in the West another university or college with a record which excels or equals this one, we should be humbly interested in knowing of it.—E. m. STARRETTi
Our Football Freshmen.
It is the lot of all Freshmen to smile, despite J “the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune”	;
as wielded upon them by ruthless upperclass-	j
men,. and surely none have smiled more truly j than the men who composed this year the | Freshmen football eleven at Notre Dame, who I day after day withstood the murderous on- I slaughts of the Varsity while that powerful | machine was making ready for the games which	|
achieved for it the name of being the best grid-	|
iron aggregation of 1920. When that title was	|
won it was not to the Freshmen that the glory	|
came; yet they had no small part in the win- | ning, and they were gladdened to know that	I
they had helped to beat the Army, to beat	|
Nebraska, to beat Indiana, and the others.	1
A number of the Varsity men have now	j
completed their allotted years of college foot-	1
ball. Their places must be filled next season,	S
and from the Freshmen will come most of the	S
men who must sustain Notre Dame’s football	S
record. From among the men who trounced . J Culver 13 to 7 and the Fort Wayne Friars 18 to	»
7 will come the new heroes of Cartier Field.	»
Perhaps the most promising of them at present	3
is one Lieb, fullback, who was chiefly respon-	S
sible for the Culver triumph and who made his	3
way through the Varsity line as few enemy	3
backs of the season did. He is a four-letter	S
man and was captain-elect of this year at St.	J
Nocre ^ame Scholastic	181
Thomas College, Minnesota. According to Coach Rockne, who knows, “he has more drive than any man since the days of Eichenlaub.” Another star under the wing of Coach Frank Miles last season was Joe Bergman, “Dutch III.” of the famous family of Peru, Indiana. Joe is a left half-back. His 75-yard run did much to win the contest with the Friars, who were captained by “Cy” Degree, former Notre Dame star, and who count several other players about as good as Degree.
And then there is McGivney, quarterback, a passer and a field general extraordinary; Maher, right-half, a clever open-field runner; Reese, quarterback, who came from Chicago “U” with a reputation; the ends, Shaugnessy, Mayl, and Cameron; the tackles, Murphy,, Flynn, and Du Jardin; the guards, Hogan, Berberich, and Hieb; the centers, Reagan and Bolowski, and Alfred Arthur and Kelley. Flynn is almost certain Varsity material for 1921. Bolowski; clever on defense, should figure in several line-ups; and Berberich, of South Dakota, also looks especially good.
The Freshmen, under Coach Miles, have all been hard and faithful players, and Notre Dame needs not fear that the loss of a number of this year’s stars will prevent her having another great team in 1921. The Freashmen of this year, ’ in short, promise that they will “carry on” in way worthy of their illustrious ■ predecessors.—h. w. Flannery, ’23.
Interhall Season, 1920.
	W	L	T	
Brownson	5	0	. 0	1.000
Corby	3	0	*	0	1.000
< Badin	2	2	0	.500
Carroll	2	2	0	.500
Sorin	1	2	1	•333
Off-Campus	0	5	1	. :OOO
Walsh	0	0	0	.000
Interhall football at Notre Dame came up for the season of 1920 like “Jack” Dempsey at Toledo and went down like “Charlie” ' Chaplin under a barrage of custard pies. If the analogy be further permitted, the ingredients of the fatal pies were too many outside games, frequent wet grounds, and the distractions afforded by the Varsity schedule. The rules for next season will probably guard more carefully against the evil of too many outside games; wet grounds and interest in the Varsity are not so easily obviated, -
Seven hall teams competed this year. Ten games were actually played and four contests were forfeited. Of the fifteen outside contests, six games were won and one was tied. Brownson and Corby failed to get together for the deciding game of the season and are deadlocked for first place.	•
Brownson had a well-rounded, heavy, fighting team which proved itself ready and able at all times to take the measure of its scheduled opponents. Weight and natural ability were supplemented by consistent coaching. Brownson was the “good big-man” of the league. Corby showed enough to win from the Off-Campus and the Carroll outfits, and would certainly have presented a stiff front to Brownson. The team, heavy, powerful, well coached, seemed to be going at its best as the season ended. Corby was the “dark horse.” Badin played an interesting game in every instance, and in a longer season might have come out on top.- It forfeited to Carroll, and lost to Brownson in the last minute of an otherwise even game.
Carroll Hall, entering the competition- this year for the first time, was the “good littleman” of the league. A light line was the weakness of the team; yet in aggressiveness and courage the forward wall equalled that of any in the field. The squad was active, colorful, and always interesting. Sorin, with a better team than its final standing indicates, was handicapped by the usual difficulty of getting an interhall team from upperclassmen. Although coached by the best football brains, the squad had too many “one-game” men. Nevertheless, it furnished an interesting argument when it did muster enough men for a fight. The Off-Campus aggregation was treated roughly on its first entrance to Interhall company in recent years, and was handicapped by the natural disadvantages of “students residing off the ' campus.” Nevertheless the “Dodgers” played more actual games than any other team, and improving gradually, they actually outplayed Sorin in the final game. The R. O; T. C. team as finally constituted was inferior to none,' and it represented areal triumph for its coach and those “loyal Sox” of the outfit .who weathered the storm of the. early season.
Walsh was the hard-luck team of the League, . suffering injuries in the early part of the season which seriously affected the quality of the team. Although they lost both games played, the boys were not outclassed. They furnished one of ,
i82
Norre dame Scholastic
the prettiest rallies of the season against Carroll, after seeming to be overwhelmed.
In the arrangement of the Interhall all-star combinations which we present we have been guided by the selections of the coaches of the various squads. No attempt has been made to equalize the preferences of the various halls; but we have sought to recognize the efforts of the men whose work has merited most recognition. Outside games have not been included, and, all other things being equal, positions have been given to those who played the largest number of games.
Seyffit, of Badin, was a popular selection for end. He was a deadly tackler and a clever receiver of passes. His greatest service to his team was a psychological one: with Seifert in the game, Badin fought for every point— and the personal element goes a long way in football. Walsh, of Carroll, repeated his claim of last season to the other end-position. He was a hard man to keep out of a play, he followed the ball closely, and his handling of passes was perhaps the best. He has natural ability, and with good coaching he will make a strong bid for a'place on next year’s Freshman eleven.
Sanders, of Brownson, put up a defense excelled by no other in the conference. On the offense he hit hard and fast and he was a diffi cult man to stop. Heis, in brief, a plugging linesman with a natural love for battle. At the other tackle, Hunsinger, of Badin, showed a different type of game. On the defense he was usually on the bottom of his plays, and he entered the offense with a rare vitality. He was a good receiver of the pass and was perhaps the best punter in the. League, not infrequently going down under his own punts for tackles.
Oberst, of Brownson, was , an .almost unanimous choice for guard. To look at this Kentucky giant is to know the reason. If his appearance or his voice did not stop the enemy, . “Kentucky” had a pair of willing arms that . craved action and strong legs which drove him through opposing lines. Cleary, of Sorin, was certainly the soul and most of the body of the Sorin line. He interpreted a play quickly, went through fast and low, and possibly stopped more plays back of the line than any other man. ; His general pla}’: resembled closely the type of the Varsity lineman. A fighting leader, and an old head in Interhall football, Cleary, is made the captain of the first team. Mixon, of Corby, reasserts his all-hall right, to his position’ of
last year at center. A good passer, he played the “ loose-mentally ” game at pivot and was one of the chief secrets of Corby’s success. With Seifert and Oberst, Mixon “did time” on the Varsity throughout the year.
Connell, of Carroll, has the distinction of being the only unanimous choice in the eleven. Coming to the “Preps” as an all-Wisconsin high-school back, this husky youngster tore his way through opposing lines with a swinging drive which old-timers at the school compare with that of Stanley Cofall. On the defense he covered both sides of the line; and when Connell tackled an opponent he was tackled. He is “football-minded” and excellent material for next year’s Freshmen eleven. As the other half, Nicholson, of Badin, makes an ideal run-ing mate for Connell. He is a good line-plunger, a clever open-field runner, and a deadly tackler. Nicholson figured prominently in almost every play of his team.
Wright, of Brownson, has been shifted from half to full because of his line-driving force and his superiority over any of the regular fullbacks. He never scintillated, but he played a steady game which always brought good gains, passed well, kicked the only field-goal of the season, and presented a strong secondary de- .. fense which excelled in breaking! up passes.
Schmitt, of Brownson, appropriates the quar-	-
terback place. Though fiery in temper, he	s
directed a varied attack which did much toward taking his team- through the season without 3 defeat. He was a consistent gainer through the j line, and he starred especially in returning punts 1 and in running back intercepted passes.
With these reasons and with all deference 1 a to the dissenting opinions of others, we submit ] the following as our all-hall selections:	J
Position ist	Team	1
’	L. E—Walsh	(Carroll)	j
L. T.—Sanders (Brownson)	.	|
L. G.—Cleary	(C.) (Sorin)	1
C. —Mixon (Corby)	-	' |
R. G.—Oberst (Brownson)	1
R. T.—Hunsinger (Badin)	|
R- E—Seyfrit (Badin)	|
Q.	B.—Schmitt (Brownson) '	I
L. H.—rConnel (CarrolQ	’ t- |
L. H — Connel (Carroll) -.	I
R.	H.—Nicholson (Badin)	.	1
Br B.—Wright (Brownson)	J
. Position , 2nd Team	f
L. E.—Schmitt (Off-Campus)	1
. L. T.—Elinn (Corby) ....	,	a
L. G.—Owens (Sorin)	j
i	•	'
«
I	-
I
।	Moure Same Scholastic	•	183
C. —Weischarr (Off-Campus)
R. G.—Maag (Sorin) ■	/ t
R. T.—Nadolney (Off-Campus)
R. E-—McGarty (Corby)	.
Q. B.—James (C) (Corby)	'
L. H—Driscoll (Walsh)
R. H.—DeCorps (Carroll) -
F. B.—Joss (Walsh)	'
Position- 3rd Team
L. E.—Vignos (Brownson)
L. T.—Hanrahan (Sorin) •
L. G:—Lando (Badin)	'
C. —Wrigley (Carroll)
R. G.—Blum (Carroll)
R. T.—Hart (Corby)
R. E.—Keeney (Walsh)
Q. B.—Walsh (C) (Off-Campus)
L. H.—M fir ray (Off-Campus)
R. H.—Whelan (Badin)
F. B.—Riley (Brownson)
—Frank Waeeace, ’23.
A Sixty-Yard Run.
It was tlie day of the great football classic between Notre Dame and the Army at West Point in 1919. While eleven blue-jersied warriors fought valiantly for victory on the Plains overlooking the Hudson, fifteen hundred anxious students prayed and cheered and waited as each play was flashed over a thousand miles of telegraph wire to the stands on Cartier field. Many, were the tense moments of suspense and breathless hushes when the little yellow slips-of paper were read intermittently, for this was indeed a battle of men. Dor three-quarters of the game Notre Dame wrestled fiercely with the “Army’s Finest,” in an effort to drive over the touchdown which “the bunch back there” were calling for, and for three quarters the Soldiers had thwarted them. All the excitement and tenseness of those actually watching this mighty struggle seemed to be transferred a hundredfold to that expectant crowd on Cartier field, just as the throaty “U. N. D. Rah! Rah!” at Notre Dame seemed to be heard by the battling team a thousand miles away.
It was Notre Dame’s ball in the middle of the field. There followed a long interval. What was the matter? Then the stands hushed of a sudden: a message was coming over the wires. Steadily the instrument clicked off the words from the Hudson. When it paused, the cheerleader dashed to the center of the stands, and £ shouted in clear voice: “‘Notre Dame makes sixty-yard run’—could not get player’s name.” When the frenzy of yells subsided another
message had been received and the cheerleader continued: “Last message incomplete— ‘Mal Gooley makes sixty-yard run with waterbucket. Both teams take water. ’ ”—a.c.shea,’22
The Spirit of the Team.
Two seasons without a defeat or a tie score is no mean record for any football team. Seldom does a team of calibre accomplish such result if its opponents be of equal standing with itself. Most of the recognized top-notch aggregations of both the East and the West play more mediocre teams than good ones during the course of their schedules; and their hard games are so arranged that no two of them will fall within a period of two weeks. Thus a week of rest^ generally precedes a big game. Notre Dame, however, has not been particular as to the succession of formidable foes on her schedule after the first two games at the opening of the season. From the .first real game until the end of the season no mediocre elevens find place on the-Gold and Blue schedule, and there olcurs no rest-week to prepare the team for its next worthy opponent.
Practically every team from husky Nebraska to the aggressive Michigan “Aggies” was pointed toward one game—that with Notre Dame. These teams nursed along their best men, keeping them out of preceding games in order that they might be in their best form for • the battle with Notre Dame. Little did they care, it seems, for victory over other teams; a successful season meant above all a triumph over Notre Dame. Under such conditions has the Gold and Blue battled successfully on the gridiron for the last two years, and it is with not a little pardonable pride that the studentbody and the alumni of the University look back on the glorious achievements of the teams of 1919 and 1920.
It is a striking fact in our victories over Nebraska, Valparaiso, West Point, and Indiana that each of these opponents scored first, and that then the Varsity struck its stride and turned the tide to victory for itself. Throughout the season the morale of the team was 1007^, and a handicap score of ten points or so by the opposition only served to arouse the fighting and winning spirit of Captain Coughlin’s men. When on these occasions the team came from behind in the middle or last quarter pf the contest it was surcharged with a driving force which
184
Nocre dame Scholastic
was irresistible and which in ever}’ instance scored a final victory. Such is the spirit that has enabled Notre Dame to achieve a record of two years without a defeat and to lay good claim to the championship title in Western football.—E- B. DEGREE. '
Gridiron Genealogy.
Somebody ought to write a history of football and somebody else ought to lecture on the subject three times a week. :Think how popular a course it would be and how easy for the professor: no muddle-headed questions, no absences, no ponies, and no conditional ‘ ‘ exams! ’ ’ Really, football history is of just as much importance as the story of the ancient Patagonians or the kings of England. The writer could call his work “Kick Chronicles,” or “Pigskin Papers” or, if he had studied in Germany, ‘ ‘ The Evolution of the Cheerleader, or a Study in Insanity.” He could use the diction of ancient times and speak of Sir Knights charging down the lea; and, exercising his scientific genius, he might construct all sorts of hypotheses to account for the fact that Notre Dame is not in the Conference.	.
This brings us to what we wanted to say. This old school would stand out in football history as a Napoleonic dynasty that never saw Waterloo. Over in Australia they tell of Sir George Gipp who as governor of the Island rooted the Bushmen; but our own George smashed the'American Army! P. T. Barnum brought back Jumbo’s scalp from India once; we have taken it from Indiana twice. Many outposts have been captured in battle, but nobod}’- except Notre Dame ever ran away with goal-posts. Philbrook and Sunnybrook had the same effect on folks years ago, and since the passage of the Volstead Act, Brandy has intoxicated thousands. There is nothing that figures in victory like a Wynn, and the last but not least, the only King Knute we recognize in this Republic lives in South.Bend, Indiana. We could continue indefinitely, but paper is scarce. Anyhow, we do not wish to convey the impression that we are as impartial as Walter Camp.	,
Football is not scholarship, but neither is war. Hindenburg has no more concern with the culture of the mind than Eichenlaub. But the ungentle art of transporting the pigskin has meant a great deal to the lads at Notre Dame,.
It has told folks about the place and eliminated a big supply of supercilious eyebrow-raising when we told them where our degrees were going to come from. When the great Doctor Green became a Catholic many “noble” scientists forgot him; the Orestes Brownson who lies buried under our chapel has been consistently ignored; Stoddard and Stace and Gregori have been overlooked by the American intellectuals: but the common people in whom we trust have learned all about Notre Dame from the score-board. The}’’ can’t be told that there is no such place when they have seen the Gold and Blue on many a field. Sooner or later they will discover—are discovering—the other sides of the genius of Notre Dame, and this school will inherit the dignity for which it has labored so long.	.
There! We have drawn one moral from our history. It wasn’t done intentionally but we’ll leave it. When we chuckle over the team that did big things this year, let us remember the great and goodly men of the past: Sammon and Dorais, Edwards and Fitzgerald, Farley and Hamilton, and Pliska and Elward and Miller and a hundred more—men, all of them, who put their best into the game and established a tradition which we must work our heads off to live up to. When Coughlin and Barry and Smith and the rest of those who take sheepskins with them next June leave the field for history we can only say with the poet that they go with a glorious company; that they can wrap the drapery of their blankets about them and lie down to pleasant dreams. As for us, we’re not going to lie down at all: we’re going to give nine ’rahs for everybody.
To the Team.
. J. A. FOGARTY, ’22.
You swamped Kazoo and crushed Purdue, And Valpo was a dream;
You walked straight through Nebraska’s crew— " You fighting N. D. "Team. .
- You cleared the sod of Army’s squad,
■ The Hoosiers were your test;
You onward trod with conquering rod And quelled'North western’s best:
O Gold and Blue, your worth shows true, You stood the test and won;
We’re proud of you, of Rockne too,	,
And weTau^ ypu every: one.
Norre dame Scholascie
) j
t
1
|otpe]Jamdf|c^
DISCE- QUASI- SE?\PER- VICTVRUS-Vl’vE- QUASI- CRAS- MORITVRVS
the harder. And the Notre Dame fighting spirit is not easily beaten, as. the Indiana game of this year clearly demonstrated. Onward then, Team of ’21, to a year typical of Notre Dame! Onward to another year of victories.—j. T. d.
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter.
Published every Saturday during the School Term at the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
VOL. LIV.	DECEMBER u, 1920.	NO. 11.
Board of Editors.
Alfred N. Slaggert, ’21 Walter M. O’Keefe, ’21 Morris Starrett,’21 Henry Stevenson ’21 Edward B. Degree, ’23 Leo R. Ward, C. S. C., ’23 R M. Murch, C. S. C., ’23 Charles P.
M. Joseph Tierney, ’21 Emmett Sweeney, ’21 Edwin W. Murphy, '23 Vincent Engels, ’23 J. W. Hogan, C. S. C., ’22 Frank Wallace, ’23
H. W. Flannery, ’23
Mooney, ’22
With Coach Rockne again in charge of o	o
athletics at Notre Dame, the football prospects for 1921 is by no means a gloomy one. The , team of next fall should be
The Prospect for „	,. ,	,	,	,,
w	, well able to step to the
Next Year.	, ,	.,	. - , ,
pace set by the undefeated
elevens of this year and last. If, as we all hope, it can acquit itself as the third successive “cleanslate” team, it will bring to Notre Dame and to itself still more recognition and honor. This year we lose Gipp, but we still have Mohardt; we lose Barr}'-, but we still have Danny Coughlin and Walsh; we lose Brandy, but we still have Grant and Thomas; we lose “Maurie” Smith, but we still have Ed Degree and Dooley; we lose Dave Hayes, but save Carberry and Prokup ; we lose Captain Trank Coughlin, but Hector Garvey, who tore open the opposition so consistently last season, will be with us. Back, and better than ever, will be: Eddie Anderson and “Rog” Kiley, “Iron-Man” Shaw and “Hunk” Anderson, “Ojay” Larson and Harry Mehre, “Chet” Grant and Frank Thomas, “Chet” Wynne, -with Paul Castnef and Bob Phelan, and “Johnnie” Mohardt, with Earl Walsh and Dan Coughlin., 0 Man, what an aggregation! But they are not all. Supporting these and fighting for their places will be: Oberst, Kean, and Cotton; the star Freshmen, Leib and Reese, and a host of others. Only
• the pessimist can have misgivings. A defeat— if it should, come—-would only make us fight
It is by struggle that living things grow strong. Centuries ago men battled with the elements and the beasts of the jungle, and thereby acquired great physical “They Who Make strength. Great nations the Team.” have developed their ascendency only by struggle. Great men gather strength out of contest with powerful adversaries. The great football team is no exception to this rule of life: it is made mainly by the opposition offered it by gridiron antagonists. In football practice this antagonism must be furnished by men whose chance to win places on the representative team is slender but whose services are absolutely indispensable to the making of a team that can win. Were it not for the efforts engendered by the strenuous competition for places there could be no successful football season. Hence a great meed of credit is due to the men of the “second string,” who day after day go through the long gruelling drills and furnish gratis the opposition so essential to the development of a strong first eleven. In a very literal sense, it is they who make the team.—E. p. S.
It is a pity that at the close of an otherwise faultless football season on Cartier Field it seems necessary to say a word of the “grandstand heroes.” Despite all the KiU Them Off. efforts that have ’ been made to eliminate the species, it must be admitted that £ few specimens of the pest still survive—and a few of this kind is. a whole multitude. One still hears a few “bim- . bos” shouting, “kill him,” “break that guy’s neck,” and other well-timed exhortations to the team, which are sheer insult to the men who have made for themselves such an enviable name for clean sportsmanship. The conduct of our cheering section is largely responsible for the impression which visiting schools and the public receive' of Notre Dame, and hence all. ‘ grandstand heroes’ ’ should be annihilated rather than allowed to disgrace the school. If these noisy “rough-necks” who are. able to distinguish themselves by nothing better than barbarism could only be put into the gridiron battle
186	'fete Norre dame Scholastic
for about three minutes—but this type of “sport” never gets any closer to a football game than the last seat in the bleachers. We are proud to say at least, that there are at Notre Dame only a few survivors of this pestiferous breed. If you believe in true sportsmanship, help to kill these things off as quickly as possible by feeding' them an abundance of discouragement.—a. j. c.
Football is perhaps, next to baseball, the most popular athletic pastime in the world. It is not, however, as we are apt to think, an altogether modern game. Football of Old. It is, in fact, a very ancient form of exercise and amusement. The Indians of North America and the aborigines of many of the Pacific Islands played a game essentially the same as our modern one, and it is not at all improbable that football in some form was in vogue in the ancient days when all Europe was in barbarism. The Greeks, it seems, taught a sort of football to the Romans and the Romans in turn through their soldiers to the Britons and other races of the North. In the Middle Ages football was played in the British Isles by whole communities, who without any very definite goal kicked the ball back and forth along the rural highway or . the city street. The Virginia colonists brought the sport to America in 1630. Since that time the game has grown gradually into its present developed form, and has become like several * other, forms of. athletic confpetition, a highly specialized'activity in college life.—b. S.
It was observed by more than one football scribe in the season that Notre . Dame had two teams: one composed' of George Gipp and the other, consisting of his •“The Third Team.” ten colleagues on the "	•. gridiron. This was by
no. means the.whole truth: Notre Dame had ' three: teams. Two of them the critics observed correctly; but the third they entirely over" looked, and naturally, because they never saw it in action. This third team is made up of the second-line . men, that aggregation of . very ’ exceptional players who failed to get advertisement, not -because they , lacked distinction but because, there were. at . Notre Dame a sufficient number of stilEgreater adepts in the manipulation of the pigskin. L These Reserves wore out. the energy of Purdue, and j then turned, them
over to the Varsity in order that the score board might be filled up more quickly. They played the Valparaiso eleven to a standstill, and then allowed Gipp and his brethren to demonstrate that the Gold and Blue has on its football team better track men than Harvard. These are but a few of their feats. If the whole Varsity eleven had been annihilated, Notre Dame would still have won the majority of her contests. Indeed, if the fighting Reserves had received the undivided attention of the ‘ ‘ wizard coach,” they might have made the defeatless record that was actually achieved by the regular aces.—r. j. h.	’
If you look over the Notre Dame schedule of the season just finished you will find that the Varsity has the.habit of scoring a number .	of points corresponding ex-
Observe the Dates, actly to the date of the month on which the game is played. At Lincoln on October the 16th Notre Dame secured sixteen points. In the game with Indiana on November the 13th the Gold and Blue got the unlucky number of points, but it was sufficient to win the game. On Thanksgiving day, November the 25th, the second-string counted twenty-five points against the Michigan ‘ ‘ Aggies. ’ ’ The big games. of next .year should be scheduled for the end of the month, as no team has been able to run up a high score against the Gold and Blue.—L. a. w.
■ ♦ ■ ' ' _
Next week the Notre Dame men will scatter to all corners of the country to enjoy the Christmas holidays with the folks at home. Eager lips will speak to willing ears
Add Your. City of the glories of the school, to the List, of the prowess of the football - team, j3f the religious atmosphere which pervades every part of the institution and which inspires a loyalty much deeper than mere school spirit. In recent years the .. students of a few of the larger cities have made their home-going the occasion of a social affair for Notre Dame students, alumni, and friends. According to the plans already laid, this most praiseworthy custom will be greatly extended this Christmas. Notre Dame celebrations are to be held in Chicago, ’Rochester, Cleveland, Louisville, Indianapolis, Pittsburg, Akron, To- ' ledo, and Wheeling. The idea of a Notre Dame celebration in the home-town at some time with- ; in -the holidays is most commendable. If j
Noure dame Scholastic
ybu think that Notre Dame represents something somewhat different from what other schools stand for; if you consider the University the proper sort of institution for the education of Catholic boys; if you are proud of your connection with Notre Dame—let the world know it. You can do this in a measure at least by seeing that your city is added to the list of those which have a Notre Dame celebration at Christmas time.—F. w.
The glory of Notre Dame on the gridiron has been celebrated by every newspaper and critic of the country. The players of Notre Dame’s invincible eleven have found their The Heroes, pictures over columns of com’ . ment on their work. But we have heard nothing of the men who “did not make the team”—or rather of the men who did make the' team. Bruised and battered, these men lined up day after day against the regulars, took their punishment unflinchingly, and- in the end were doomed to fhe obscurity of the sidelines. These fellows are, in our estimation, the real heroes—heroes because they were able to work so well without reward, heroes because they are strangely happy in their disappointment, heroes because they did not complain when other men took the places they coveted, heroes because they gave their best that Notre Dame might triumph over all.
—w. a. c.
The Students Activities Committee at the University was born just one year ago. Fostered by the cooperation of a very considerate Faculty
Council and of an
Support the S. A. C. appreciative student body, it has developed into an efficient agent for the common welfare ’ of all in the school. It . has tided itself very successfully over the teething period and is now able to work on solid food. It has already within its one year done numerous things of consequence. It arranged a fitting reception for the football heroes on their return from. West Point; it cooperated very effectively with Cheer-leader Slaggert in the celebrations on. the occasions , of the Purdue and the Northwestern games; by its effort. the quarterly examinations were’advanced a week in order that the students might have the' ordeal , off
Knitting South. Bend and Notre . Dame together, which has been going on for some time, andseemingly consummated by the dinner given the Notre Dame football team by the business and professional men of' the city under the auspices of the University Club ’ Tuesday, night, bodes'well for. both/the city and the University; It beats all—-the superior magic that there is to a football team, -over the departments of book learning, quizzes and lectures, in our modern educa,	.	.	tional institutions, but better that to. fire the public
their minds for the trip.to Chicago,- except.for interest than to have /nothing.’ Notre Dame has .a the management of the Committee the round- football team; indeed, to be proud of, but it is because
■187
trip*to Chicago could not have been made for. the ordinary one-way fare; it arranged for the numerous reservations for students at the -theatres and for other kinds of entertainment in Chicago; it succeeded in retrieving the good will of the Indiana Electric Company after it had been seriously shaken by the inadvertent misconduct of some of the students on' the evening of the Purdue rally; it has helped in numerous ways to secure the good will of numerous* other concerns in the. city; it has effectively forbidden strangers from profiteering among the students in the name of remote “worthy causes” and has licensed Notre Dame men to put before the student body things of interest and value to the men of Notre Damein short; it has effectively and ■ consistently consulted the interests of the student body, whom it ■ represents. The Committee wishes hereby to express to the Faculty Council, and to the students its genuine gratitude, for their confidence and support, and to say that it is anxious to be of much further’' and greater service. We shall be glad to do anything and . everything that may merit in the. future the same cooperation we have received during , the past three months.' To any member of the University who will submit to us his complaints, suggestions, or what not, we promise our best sendee. At any rate feed your infant on continued cooperation; keep “knocking” and islander from its diet, and watch it grow. -By all means be with the Committee. Buy nothing, for example, on the Notre Dame campus unless the solicitor presents his authorization. card from the S. A. C. This is for your protection;
.,	—Chairman, S. A; C.
Notre Dame students of former years who. remember the distance between South.Bend;and the University will be interested in these paragraphs from an editorial which appeared in the South Bend News-Times bn Sunday, November the 28th, 1920:
i88
Noure dame Scholastic
the team is emblematic of the school and of the spirit of the school demonstrated in the team that South Bend does well to express its pride in Ijoth.
. . . The University is one of the landmarks of this vicinity. It stands among the great institutions of learning of the country. Its influence is bound to be wholesome. Quite as was said by one of the speakers at the dinner, we will perhaps never know the influence that it wields over a considerable portion of our population, not alone in a religious sense, but in the makings of good citizens. Its influence in that section of the city, for instance, from whence so-called radicalism might be expected to proceed, has no doubt had a very quieting effect throughout the recent months of unrest.
■Any school that sends its students out into the world trained for progressivism and imbued with a regard for our institutions and methods of government figures in the salvation of the nation.
Besides, the more university training we have among the general run of people, the better. Every graduate becomes more or less- of an uplifting influence among those with whom he comes in contact. Say what you please, with all our snobbery, and bowing and scraping at the feet of wealth, the American people admire brains—the trained mind. Notre Dame should accordingly be encouraged, and as far as possible patronized, not alone at athletic events, such as football, but in the class rooms. In fact, we would put our emphasis on the class rooms. Bootball is all right in a way. The good football player soon learns how to use his head and think quickly, to decide in a second what to do, and how to do it, which is good mental training, but in the battle of life this training, with the class room also at its back has an even greater advantage.
Let us regard Notre Dame then as one of our institutions of learning; permit her to put us on the educational map as a city where higher education flourishes, as well as where plows, and automobiles, and watches, and sewing machines—and municipal administrative blunders—are made. The University Club performed a splendid service by arranging that dinner. "The city did splendidly by way of response. It could scarcely' have been improved upon and we are certain that both Notre Dame and South Bend appreciate it. It is "our university” more now— in a social sense, a cooperative sense, and a community sense.—An editorial in the South Bend News-Times, Sunday, November 28, 1920.	.
South. Bend’s Tribute to the Team.
From the rousing Notre Dame March which opened the program to the. lusty “U. N. D.” led by Cheer-leader Slaggert at the close, the banquet tendered by the University Club of South Bend to the “ Wonder-Eleven of the West ’ ’ was , without its equal in the annals of good fellowship in South'Bend. Four hundred prominent business' meh chose this means of expressing their sentiments to the team and the coaches who had brought them “over the top.” Those
who have followed South Bend-Notre Dame social affairs for a period- of years were unanimous in acclaiming this function the peer of them all. Due to excellent committee management, the banquet was, in the parlance of the epicure, “perfect from soup to nuts”. In addition to the Notre Dame squad and numerous members of the Faculty, Coach Grandsen and his embryonic stars from the local High School were guests of the Club.
The magnificent Menu for the banquet, “honoring the 1920 Notre Dame football team and their coaches—given under the auspices of the University Club of South Bend,” presented the following as foreword “To Our Guests”:
“You have toyed with Kalamazoo, ‘ played with State Normal, and foiled mighty Nebraska. You have vanquished Valparaiso, crushed the ambitious Army,, and overwhelmed Purdue. You have again humbled Indiana and punished Northwestern. We know what you will do to the Aggies.
“When we could, we have been present to cheer in person your success. When we could not, we have hung on the ticker and boosted you by mental wireless. Tonight we gather to express, in a feeble way, the gratitude South Bend feels for the glory you have brought to this city.
“We do this because, in a closer sense than ever before, Notre Dame’s team is South Bend’s team. When you shine we bask in the glory; you fight, we support. If you should lose—the powers forbid—we will grieve. You are ours . and we are completely yours >
“As for Rockne and Halas, what more can - be said? Your glory is their.own; your victory, their reward; your exaltation, their compensation. College generations may come and go and city populations change, but so long as blood runs red and warm in the veins of youth and football is played on college field, their names and yours will endure.”	.	-
Following the invocation by Rey. Matthew Walsh, C. S. C., and.the.address of welcome by Mr. J. E. Neff, of the University Club, Judge G. A. Farabaugh, as toastmaster, introduced Frank Coughlin, ‘ ‘ the greatest. captain of the
„greatest of great teams,” who in turn presented the other members of the team. Every player, from the veterans Brandy, Barry; and Hayes, who are completing their last year of eligibility, to the third-string substitutes “ who only stand
Noure dame Scholastic'
189
i
and wait,” was given a rousing salute by'the gathering.. There were at intervals repeated calls for Gipp, but on account of illness he was unable to be present.
Mr. R. M. Hutchinson in his ‘ ‘ Tribute to Coach Rockne” proclaimed the Notre Dame mentor the man who has brought together Notre Dame and South Bend more closely than ever before. In closing his address he presented the coach with a South Bend watch in behalf of the Club. In his address, “Ties that Bind,” Mr. Trank EHering (’98), a former football star of Notre Dame, now one of South Bend’s most prominent citizens, payed superlative tribute to Rockne, Halas, and the team. He spoke particularly of the spirit fostered by' American universities, which prepared our college men to lead the greatest army in the world’s history. When he referred to Notre Dame’s war record— “Every monogram man under arms,” he elicited the, greatest cheer of the evening:
Rev. Dr. James A. Burns, C. S. C., President of the University, himself a Notre Dame athlete in his days as student, received prolonged applause when he declared that the University wishes to work hand in hand with South Bend for mutual advancement. To Coach Rockne he referred as a marked leader of men, both on the athletic field and elsewhere. Among others called upon for remarks were Father Matthew Walsh, and Walter Halas, assistant-coach.
The banqueters were most agreeably surprised by a telegram from Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C., former president of the University, and by another from the Notre Dame Club of Syracuse. One of the finest tributes of the occasion to the prowess of the football team was that of “Bob” Peck, football coach at the Culver Military . Academy, whd has been acclaimed the All-Time All-American ^center, from the University of Pittsburgh. Indicative of the originality and enthusiasm of the whole event was the extra edition of the News-Times, proclaiming the “Rockmen” as the only logical selection for the All-American team. Mr. South Bend)and Mademoiselle Notre Dame were forever joined in wedlock by “His Grace of Michigan Street, ‘Mike’ Calnon.” - Musical selections by Misses Wing and Oaks, of Chicago, interspersed the program. To those privileged to attend the banquet it' will live long as a worthy tribute to the men who have added so much glory-to the athletic traditions of Notre Dame.
.	.	, —w- m. o’k.
Washington Hall Events.	•
The DeMille quartet of male singers furnished a very pleasing evening of song in Washington Hall on Wednesday, the 1st of December. The members of the Glee Club were out in force, taking notes and accumulating atmosphere for their own purposes.
Mr. Edwin M. Whitney, of Boston, dramatic reader, achieved a triumph in his presentation of George Cohan’s “On the Square,” or “Hit the . Trail Holliday,” in Washington Flail on Saturday evening of December 4th. The reader displayed very exceptional histrionic ability in his simulation of the characters and voices of the numerous cast through four acts. Attractions of the quality of this one by Mr. Whitney would quickly assure the cheerful attendance of all students at the events in Washington Hall. ■ No other entertainer of the year has elicited from the student-body so many expressions of appreciation.	’	"•
Dr. Ernest C. Partridge, of Oberlin College, for twenty years president of a college in Armenia, addressed the students in Washington Hall in the afternoon of December 10th on behalf of the American Committee for NearEast Relief. He sketched the religious dnd political differences between the Turks and their Armenian subjects, and described the methods employed in the last massacre and deportation. ' He stated that there are in Armenia more than 100,000 orphans and 150,000 girl slaves in most urgent need of our help. He spoke of course from first-hand knowledge of conditions existing there, obtained while he was a: member of the first American relief expedition. . He asked aid for the sufferers on the grounds of commonhumanity, of their patriotism during the war, and their heroic devotion to the Christian religion, which latter is the chief. causeTof the persecution they suffer. .	[•	'
. Griffith’s' “way down east.” ‘	1
A most delightful three hours were spent by the students and faculty of the University last Saturday morning in witnessing Mr. D. W. Griffith’s wonderful screen production of “Way Down East.” In as much as all had looked forward with keen anticipation to. a promised visit of the great director himself, real disap-
190
'Sfiv Novre dame Scholastic
pointment was felt when it was announced that business duties had made it impossible for Mr. Griffith to be with the students when his play ’ was presented. “Way Down East” is without doubt the most notable histrionic effort shown in Washington Hall since the production of Mr. Griffith’s masterpiece, “The Birth of a Nation,” some two years ago. Both of these great plays have been presented as compliments to the University. Mr. Hector Fuller, a former war correspondent, in a few words before the play conveyed to the audience the message of compliment from Mr. Griffith.
The screen version of the present story by Elaine Parker is. in substance essentially the same as that of the play produced twenty years ago on the regular stage. The theme of the piece is as old as man. The play presents the trials of a young and all too trusting country girl, who is betrayed by one of the city’s rakes, and her ultimate success, in the face of seemingly insurmountable opposition, in finding happiness among the simple country folk of a remote corner of New England. It is just the kind of story that keeps the handkerchiefs at the alert position. The accumulating tragedy, however, is very artfully relieved by just the right amount of the lighter side of life. It is this blending of pathos with relief comedy that constitutes one of the chief charms of this classic production.	•
Every rdle of the cast, even to the least of ’ the minor parts, is interpreted by a star actor.
The leading characters, David Bartlett and Anna Moore, the victim of Lennox Sanderson’s mock marriage, are most effectively done by Richard Barthelmess and Lillian Gish. By right does the part of David, the swain, of broad vision, belong to Barthelmess. The adaptation of the role of the unprotesting Anna to the personality of Miss Gish could not be more perfect if the piece had been originally written for her. The control of the tears evinced by the little actress touches the heartstrings of the spectators throughout the play. The other notable impersonators in the cast are Kate Bruce, Burr McIntosh, Mary Hay, Creighton Hale, Viva Ogden, and Lowell Sherman. The excellent special orchestra of twenty pieces which accompanies the picture contributes very much toward the full effectiveness of the entertainment.
The play as presented in the picture is highly artistic and true to life. In a few instances,
however, it may be thought that the great producer in an effort to heighten the realism of his creation has slightly overdone his effects. The scene in which Lennox Sanderson and Anna Moore are upon the couch in the bridal suite and the last ten seconds of that scene might very well be eliminated, without in any way injuring the effectiveness of the part. These two episodes are altogether unnecessary to the progress of. the story and are un-profitably suggestive to the spectator. Aside from these slight excesses, Mr. Griffith’s “Way Down East” is a faultless chef d’aware of the moving-picture art.—c. p. mooney.
Personals.
*
—Paul Thompson, student at Notre Dame in 1916-17, spent a few minutes at the University, recently.	.
—Jerry Powers, whom a sheepskin made a Ph. B. in Commerce last year, is now sticking his head into law books at the University of Wisconsin.
—Prof. W. A. Johns, former head of the Agricultural Department at Notre Dame,isnow vice-president of New Evansville College, at Evansville, Indiana. His numerous friends at Notre Dame rejoice in his promotion.
—The recent observance of Holy Name Sunday in Grand Rapids, Michigan, was featured by an address by Mr. William Hake, ’92 years of age and the oldest Holy Name man in Grand Rapids. The venerable lecturer is well known at Notre Dame, where all of his eight'sons have been educated. •
—From Elgin, Illinois, comes the news of the marriages of two Notre Dame.alumni, William E. Pierce (LL. B., ’06) and Edward J. McOsker (Ph. B., ’17). Mr. Pierce, who-is a prominent ' lodgeman, politician, and former city attorney, . was married to Miss Nell Agnes Wallace, of Elgin. Mrs. McOsker was .formerly Miss Ethel . Lucille Pritchard, also of Elgin.
—The echoes of Notre Dame’s successful football season are beginning to resound. From Bemidji, Minnesota, comes a congratulatory letter from John. C. Burke (C. E., ’14)	]
in which he'says: “Kindly put me down for a ; year’s subscription to the Scholastic,' and send j if possible all the back numbers of this year.	1
By all means do not forget: the football num-	|
ber,—I note today that George Gipp has prob-	I

£
Noure dame ^cholasuic
ably passed his crisis. I am not acquainted with Gipp, but I am sure for him and sincerely hope he wins his greatest battle.” John is now chief engineer in a large project of Beltrami County, Minnesota.
—We read in the Buffalo Enquirer that the ■chief factor in the defeat of Buffalo’s mighty eleven by Jim Thorpe’s Canton team was the playing of Al Feeney, former Notre Dame center. “Al” decided the contest by lifting a soggy, heavy oval over the bar from the 20-yard line.
—Charles W. Bachman, star fullback of Notre Dame in recent years, now football coach at the Kansas State Agricultural College, says in a letter to one of the editors: “It may interest you to know that the entire football world is watching with anxiety the daily reports concerning the illness of George Gipp. Everyone is hoping for his speedy recovery. Please extend to him my earnest wishes for an early and complete,return to health.”	■
—Fred A. Hayner, football critic on the Chicago Daily News writes to the editors of the Scholastic : ‘ ‘ In a talk with a football man coming to New York from New Haven, a man who apparently had played'football and studied it for years, he said: ‘I saw the Notre DameWest Point game. I had heard much about Gipp, but a study of the team impressed me as to the wonderful work of the backs as a group. The smoothness which they displayed in attack far outshone any individual effort in the game. The backfield had been wonderfully coached and worked like clock action. That, to my mind', was the real strength of the team.’”
—Harry Mulford Jewett (C. E-, ’90), a classmate of the President of the University some thirty years ago writes from Detroit: ‘‘I see there are three of us here who played on the original football team at Notre Dame— Hepburn, who used to play end, Sawkins, who played guard, 'and myself. ; Every once in a while I meet our old center, ‘Dutch’ Fehr. I received a letter from him the other day from Louisville. Of course, if you moderns get gay down there at Notre Dame I shall write to “Dutch,” get the three of us, and we shall challenge the whole team of 1920—just to show that we are not “selling-platers,” and that while we are a little bald we still have the old Notre Dame punch.”
—With raw material and the. fighting spirit of the student-body of Gonzaga College, Coach
191
Charles E. Dorais has this year put Spokane on the football map. In former years Gonzaga for lack of the best coaching has not competed very successfully with the teams of the Northwest Conference. During this last season, however, Coach Dorais has demonstrated the possibility of developing a winning team by professional training. He has been engaged for another year at Gonzaga at an increased salary. He did good work here at Notre Dame last year as assistant-coach in football and as coach in basketball and baseball. Notre Dame ' claims him also as one of her law graduates of 1914 and as one of her greatest football stars. All of his friends here rejoice at his success in his new position and hope that good fortune may favor him increasingly in the coming year. ,
—Stuart H. Carroll, former Notre Dame journalist, is for the time being at work on an Indiana farm journal published in South Bend. Until recently he was Sunday editor of the South Bend News-Times. During the war he managed the circulation of the Stars and Stripes, official organ of the A. E- F. Leo Berner, well known to older graduates, is special-assignment man on the News-Times. Up to last July he held down the desk of city editor in the daytime. Among others in the Notre Dame representation on the local newspaper are Freeman Scully, sporting editor, Frank Farrington, Sundayfeature writer, and Dillon J. Patterson, court reporter. Miss Loretto Lorde’n on the Sunday staff-,of the News-Times is a summer school student.
—Mr. Albert J. Galen (LL. B., ’96), AssociateJustice of the Supreme Court of Montana, in a letter acknowledging the congratulations sent by the President of the University, on the occasion of the judge’s recent election, writes: “Whatever I have accomplished or may yet accomplish in life is due chiefly to the interest which was taken in me during the years I attended Notre Dame. If dear old Col. Hoynes is still alive, I wish you would convey to him my best wishes and advise him of my election. I should be very happy to have my boy at Notre Dame, and have been at work in an endeavor to bring it about. After the first of the year many grave and important duties and • responsibilities will devolve upon me, and. I only hope - and pray that with my limited capacity I may be able-to function satisfac- x torily?’—E-‘ p.SWEENEV.	,	.
192
Noure ^ame Scholastic
Mass by Bishop Legrand, C. S. C.
Local News.
Bishop Legrand, of the Bengal Missions, India, pontificated at the Solemn Mass in the University church on the feast of the Immaculate Conception. Owing to the effects of an attack of bronchitis, contracted in Canada last month, Bishop Legrand was unable to address the students. This was very regrettable, as the venerable missionary appreciates highly the assistance he receives from the students of Notre Dame, whose increasing interest in the apostolic work of the Church affords him and
the other missionaries of Holy Cross in Bengal the greatest encouragement and support. Bishop Legrand assisted at the convention of the Students’ Foreign Mission Crusade held in Washington last August. In his discourse to the student delegates at the Catholic University the Bishop detailed the many advantages of the Crusade accruing not only to the Foreign Missions but to the students themselves and to the Church in the United States. The Bishop feels he has every reason to hope that the fullest measure of success will be realized by the Notre Dame Units. He will watch with keenest interest the growth of the foreign mission spirit at the University. The Bishop, accompanied by Father Timothy J. Crowley, C. S. C., (’02), came to this country last summer to attend The general chapter of the Con-z gregation of Holy Cross. He expects to sail for
Bengal early in the new year,	. '
—The New England Club will go home for the holidays in big-league style. Private cars will convey the “Yanks” from South Bend to Boston, where the company will scatter in groups to their respective home-towns.
—Rev. L. V.Broughall, C.S. C., of the English Department, spoke to the members of the Writers’ Club at its semi-monthly meeting last Friday night. Charles Molz read a shortstory of merit, and a free-for-all followed.
—The annual banquet of the New England Club was held in the Kable Dining Hall in South Bend on the Saturday evening following Thanksgiving. Notre Dame’s representation from the “Far East” numbers nearly one hundred men.
—The erection of a rink on the Badin campus presages an active hockey season at Notre Dame. Father Cunningham will push his squad with, characteristic vigor. Requests for games have already been received from Michigan University and the Michigan School of Mines.
—The numerous IFriday night meetings on the campus were held last week. The Players’ Club and the Kentucky Club met in the Library, the Surveyors in Science Hall, the Pre-Medics and the Forum in the Main Building, and the semi-finals for the Breen medal in oratory were held in the Library.	.
—The Ohio Club at a recent meeting formed a bowling league, which includes teams representing Toledo, Cincinnati, Akron, Lima, Dayton, Canton, Youngstown, and the “Big Six” from smaller towns. The members from Cleveland, Akron, and Toledo will entertain the Varsity basketball squad on its trip through Ohio during the holidays .■ .
—A number of the students in engineering attended the regular monthly meeting of the St. Joseph’s Valley Chapter American Association of Engineers held in the museum room of the Y. M. C. A. building on Monday evening of December 6th. At the end of the cafeteria dinner Mr. J. L. Stevens discussed the subject “Licensing Engineers in Indiana,” and Mr. Dalton Moomaw talked bn the “Commission-Manager. Form of Government.” These matters will be presented to the General Assembly early in January. For the convenience of the students, the time of .the regular meeting
‘ - - : •
Noure Same Scholastic
193
Of the Chapter has been, changed from the evening of the second Monday to the evening of the second Wednesday of-each month.
—Keen anxiety is being felt by everyone at Notre Dame concerning the illness of George Gipp, a senior in law, now known throughout the country as one of the most notable gridiron figures in 1920. A few days after his last game he suffered a severe attack of tonsilitis which has developed into septic pneumonia. As this issue goes to press, his condition remains, as it has been for several days, very critical. It is the ardent prayer of his host of friends and admirers that he may quickly pass the danger in which he is at present.
—The more important election returns are now at last coming through. We learn that John F. Shea, president of the class of ’06, has been elected to the Senate in his home State of Massachusetts. Besides leading the class of ’06, John played Varsity • baseball, wrote the words of the song which we sing, standing and with bared head, (his brother, the Rev. Michael Shea, ’04, wrote the music), proposed and largely put through the first Dome, Incidentally, there are not two more loyal alumnPany where than John and Father “Mike” Shea, and Notre Dame is proud and happy in their success.
—The Rochester Club met recently to discuss affairs regarding their holidays at home. Rochester is one of the cities of the country over which Notre Dame has established a mandate. Last year the Rochester men held a Christmas banquet at which they entertained the bishop of the diocese. The gathering together of students within the holidays for a social evening with the.local alumni of the University is a most commendable movement, and it might well be imitated in any city in which there is a sufficient number of Notre Dame students and alumni. The alumni will be more eager for news of.the old school this year than ever before.
■—The first meeting of the Round Table came to order at. the call of Daniel Coughlin, who demonstrated his ability to do other things besides running ninety yards through the Michigan “Aggies.” Vincent Engels read an interesting paper on “Why I became a Journalist.” Dr. John M. Cooney, professor of journalism, lauded the spirit shown by the scribes and predicted an. early return of the journalism students to the prominent part in
school activities which they played before the war. Rev. Paul Foik, librarian of the University, Morris Starrett, assistant-manager of athletics, and others gave informal talks.
—The Players’ Club was reorganized recently and plans have been developed for the production of a stage play or a musical review, to be written and produced by local talent. At the meeting a committee was appointed to wait upon the President of the University concerning the project. The following members were elected as officers: John Dempsey, president; Alexander J. Colgan, secretary; Arthur Shea, publicity agent; and William Lawless, business 'manager.
—About fifty members of the journalism and commerce courses met last Tuesday evening under the direction of Father Lahey and organized the Notre Dame Advertising Club. The organization has for its purpose to keep in touch with the developments in advertising in all fields, through cooperative study.' The new club will work in harmony with the Palette Club of the commercial-art department, for the furtherance of interest in the advertising field. The officers of the Advertising Club are: Father Lahey, general director, Harold McKee, president; James Skully, vice-president; Gerald Ashe, secretary; George Slaine, treasurer; John Higgins aud Walter Stuhldreher, consultors.
—The first quarterly issue of the Notre Dame Law Reporter for the present year seems to indicate that this periodical, the publication of which began last year, is destined to be of great interest and value to the students and alumni of the Hoynes College of Law. The current issue contains, in addition to the reports the cases of the last quarter of last year from the Junior Moot Court,’ the Court of Appeals, and the Supreme Court of Notre Dame, an instructive article contributed by Colonel William Hoynes, entitled “The Law and Lawyers,” a number of letters from men of the class of ’20 and news items concerning other members of that class.. An excellent idea is the alumni directory of the College of Law,. begun in this number. All in all,, the faculty and the students of law are to be complimented on the quality of the Reporter.
—The Notre Dame Club of Cleveland will hold its first formal ball in Cleveland in the hall of the Gilmour Council of the Knights of Columbus, 9104 ^Euclid Avenue, on Monday evening
194	Noure dame ^cholasdc
Il
of January 3rd, 1921. It is tlie intention of the club to have ever}'' Notre Dame man within a reasonable distance of Cleveland present that evening. Tickets for the dance may be secured from Pierre Champion, of Walsh Hall, or by addressing in Cleveland any one of the following committee: Ray S. Miller, Leader News Building; James P. Devitt, Harcourt Drive; Bernard C. McGarry, in care of The City Architect’s office, City Hall.
—For the information of any students who may be interested, the American Chamber of Commerce in France requests this announcement concerning the “Toleration” Prize Bssay. Mr. Henty Peartree, one of the founders and a former president of the American Chamber of Commerce in France, donated some time ago to the Chamber the sum of 10,000 francs as a prize fund, to be distributed in equal shares this year and next for the best essay or treatise on the subject of Toleration, economic, political, or religious. The papers, written in the English . or the French languages, should be addressed to the American Chamber of Commerce, in France, 32 Rue Taitbout, Paris—for next year’s prize by September 1st, 1921,, and for that ’of the year after not later than March 1st, 1922, in packages marked: “Toleration Prize Bssay.” Bach paper should bear the name and address of the author. The length of the essay or treatise should not exceed 10,000 words; but there is no obligation on the writers /to attain this limit. The treatises may deal with the subject from every .point of view or with any part, phase, or ; aspect of.it.- .	.
;—At the last'fortnightly meeting ot the St. Thomas Aquinas Society Mr. James Hogan, C' S. C., read a very careful and interesting paper on “ Philosophy and Progress.” Mr. Hogan defined philosophy as a synthesis of knowledge, which derives its dignity from being . able to satisfy the natural craving of the human mind for truth. He contrasted the broad outlook of real- philosophy with the very narrow scope of science. He denied that progress consists, as: so -many think, in a rejection of old truths, and asserted’ that it is ■ rather the gradual ex-pansion\of the .fundamental principles- which . "govern life. .He next outlined the new movement in philosophical.. methods sponsored by Leo XIII and developed: by Cardinal Mercier, and :.sketchedjjitsk ever-widening influence, on social life in being a sane and practical application
of old principles to new problems. In the discussion which followed Father Cornelius Hagerty made the points that science is not opposed fundamentally to philosophy and that much of the support of Catholic philosophic teaching in recent times has come from scientists outside the Church. Father Cunningham observed that the World War was obviously a result of false philosophy and that the best thinkers of the day are returning to the logic, psychology, and metaphysics of the schoolmen, winch, he believes, will receive in the years to come the serious attention which they deserve.
—Mr. Howard W. Matheson, vice-president of the Canadian Blectro Products Company, of Canada, has on behalf of that company . presented to the University a research fellowship, worth five hundred dollars for the rest of the year, to defray the expenses of a graduate student who is to pursue investigation in acetylene derivatives. The main offices of this company are in Montreal and the principal plants at Shawingan Falls, in the province of Quebec. -The Canadian Blectro is unique in being the one organization exclusively engaged in the manufacture of acetylene compounds. During the late war it produced by catalytic process more than fifty tons of glacial acetic acid a week. Since the signing of the armistice its efforts have been devoted to the manufacture of various forms* of acetylene products for commercial purpose. It is interesting to know that a number of patents secured or applied for by the Notre Dame research laboratories have been accepted on option by this company.
—Ninety Notre Dame men -were initiated into the Notre Dame: Council of the Knights of. Columbus last Sunday.afternoon at the W. O. W: Hall in South Bend. The local Council • conferred the first degree on Friday evening and the second on Sunday; 'the third degree, which immediately followed the second, was in charge of District Deputy Timothy P. Galvin (’17), and his staff'from Valparaiso. Supreme Director John F. Martin, of Green Bay, Wisconsin, was the speaker at the banquet held in the Oliver Hotel after the conferring of the degrees. Mr. . Martin recounted some of his interesting experiences bn the recent pilgrimage of the Knights of Columbus to the battlefields of France, to the Vatican, and to terror-stricken Ireland. He was a member of
/
Noure 6ame Scholastic
I95
the committee that presented the statue of Lafayette to France and the marshal’s baton to General Foch. In the absence of Father Thomas Burke, due to illness, Grand Knight Cusick, of the Notre Dame Council, presided as toastmaster. He introduced Mr. Galvin, who gave a delightful talk on the spirit of Notre Dame. Father George Finnigan, C. S. C., told of the high regard in which the Knights of Columbus were held by the A. F. F. Walter O’Keefe gave a very entertaining monologue, entitled “The Fourth Hawaiian”; Miss Josephine Decker, accompanied by Miss Helen Guilfoyle rendered several songs which were highly appreciated, and Miss Helen Miller entertained with a novel Oriental dance. Midnight brought to an end a very interesting day for the Knights both new and old.
--F. A. WALLACE.
All-Western berths. George Gipp of Notre Dame heads the list. He excels as a forward-passer and kicker, and is a dashing open-field runner of superior type. The Notre Dame star is touted for an All-American berth. He looks to be entitled to it. His punting, and drop-kicking are superior to that of any other man’s in the West, and that is saying , a lot.—(By .Mark Kelly, in the Chicago Herald and Examiner, December 5, 1920, on the All-Western selections.)
* ' * * . ' -
Out in the West football fans think their best player of the year is George Gipp, of Notre Dame, and in the Bast the general opinion is that few backs have been developed in recent years who. had anything on him. 5 for all-around ability. Gipp is one: of the cleverest players ever turned out in the Mid-West at throwing the pass, and when it is considered that the passing game was practically invented at Notre Dame, to rate him as the peer of all passers in that section is
speaking pretty good of Gipp.—(From the Post, November 22, 1920.)
That Notre Dame University had the football team in the West this season and a
Havana
greatest machine
Press Comments on N. D. Football.
Once upon a time years ago there was a King Knute who asked the ocean waves kindly to back up, and they didn’t. Right now up in'Northern Indiana there is another King Knute who is too busy developing a championship football team to command any wavelets to back water, but all Notre Dame University will tell you that anything he says goes, and they better not let him too near the ocean, if they want it stayed put. Of course this modern King Knute wears no . crown and he goes about the land under the name of . Mr. Knute K. Rockne, but he has it on Knute No. 1, for he is one of the best football coaches in the country today. Saturday., afternoon at Washington Park Indiana University meets Notre Dame University. It will not only be a good battle between two elevens . on the field, but it will be a battle on the sidelines between Jumbo Stiehm, the Indiana coach, and Knute Rockne, the Notre Dame athletic director.* The Stiehm system is one of the few that has checked .up victory over a Rockne team in the last few years, and if there is any one in the country to stop Rock this season, it looks as if it would have to be Stiehm. At least it will be a good game.—(Thomas A. Hendricks, in the Indianapolis News.}	'
* ' - * 4s	-
Notre Dame played but three Conference games. Indiana, Purdue and Northwestern were snowed under. Rockne had a great outfit 'at the Catholic school. There are-those who believe Notre Dame’s claim to Western championship the best. At any rate, Notre Dame has a perfect right to claim a tie with Ohio State on her remarkable showing in the East and at home. ... -. The first-string* tackle jobs go to McGuire of Chicago
through the season without a defeat.. He knows the position , thoroughly and at Notre Dame is rated with the best linesmen -in the. history of the institution. .
the'general run for the season. He wins easily. . . . The Notre Dame leader was one .of the main factors Brandy of Notre Dame runs a team with greater ■ in the victory, of his team over the Army. His sterling dispatch and speed than any other Western quarter. playing brought forth, praise from Eastern critics,
and Captain Coughlin of .Notre Dame. . . . Maurice Smith of Notre Dame stands head and'shoulders over
that could have vanquished Ohio State, winner of . the Big Ten Conference championship, is the.opinion'of Elmer McDevitt, Duluth attorney, who has just returned to his local law practice after spending the fall season at Evanston, Illinois, where he was head coach of the Northwestern eleven. . . . “The Notre Dame team, which I look upon as the* champions of the West, had one of the best-balanced elevens I have seen in recent years, every man being especially power-
ful in his particular position, great, yet simple. The team power.”—(From the Duluth
Their offense was truly ' had wonderful driving
Herald, November 30,
If one were to select an all-star array from this combination he should undoubtedly begin with George Gipp, of Notre Dame, the best back in the country, a back who can punt, drop kick, pass, break a line, or run an end..........There has been a big scarcity this season of triple-threat backs of the Mahan type; not Mahans, for they are always scarce, but ’merely Mahan types. The triple-threater can kick, forward pass and lead the rushing game. Gipp was far and away the best, not very far from being another Mahan. . J' . Gipp alone was worth two or three specialists for Notre Dame, for when he dropped back the defence had no idea whether he intended to pass, kick, slide off tackle, or run an end. And he could do all four jobs better, than any of the specialists could do one. —(Grantland Rice, in the New York Tribune, December 2.).............-	\
. The other tackle position is given to Captain Frank . Coughlin of Notre, Dame, who piloted his eleven
. . Fourteen halfbacks were considered for. All- some of whom, place him on a par with Keck, the great
196
Moure Same Scholastic?
Princeton tackle. Coughlin’s long experience—this being his third year on the Notre Dame eleven—is one of his best assets. He knows how to do the right thing with the least effort, and like Voss mixed in every play. In-the Northwestern game it was a frequent occurrence to see him run behind his own line and tackle a Purple player who had crossed the scrimmage line, on cutback-in plays. He was also down the field under punts and was a natural leader.
George Gipp, the great Notre Dame halfback is placed at right half-back. This player is probably the greatest back developed at Notre Dame in years, and ranks well with the leading ball carriers ever turned out in the section. There is little about football which this player cannot do and do well. . . . Gipp would be delegated to do the punting and field goal kicking. He also would be used to run or forward-pass from punt formation.—(By Walter Eckersall, in the Chicago Tribune, December 5, 1920.) * * A
Four years ago George Gipp entered Notre Dame University unheralded and unhonored. He had never played a football game in his life. Coach Rockne discovered that the green kid had a penchant for kicking and gave him a uniform. Today Gipp is the hero of the Hoosier school and considered one of the greatest backfield stars in moleskins. ... In 1919 he was hailed as one of the greatest throwers of the forward pass, but this season he has added punting and .endrunning to his repertoire of accomplishments. During the Army game Gipp’s punts averaged 60 yards, although for two quarters he was kicking against the wind. He has always possessed a penchant for doing the unexpected. The battle-cry of opposing elevens this year has been “Get Gipp.” But they never do. That also is a part of- his gridiron smartness. No matter how hard opponents play to get him, the Notre Dame Tarsan manages to shine with greater luster on every appearance.—(By Dean Snyder, in the Buffalo Sunday Times, November 21, 1920.)
* ■ * * *
Numerous stories concerning the eligibility of George Gipp, Notre Dame’s halfback, have been circulated without.-fairness, according to the Indianapolis News. Notre Dame, like all other large universities, has a three-year varsity limitation rule, and the Notre Dame facility and athletic authorities enforce this rule throughout. This is George Gipp’s third and last year.—(From The Torch, Valparaiso University, November 19.) - - - - ' * • % _ * .* *
“The forward pass will never be worth developing,” comments an Eastern scribe. No, not when the talent at hand is made up of timber jacks and deck hands, but'no other play of the game can produce the thrills and gain the ground of a forward pass worked with the proper precision. It is the most dangerous angle of-the sport. The East was very slow in taking up this modernized version of football. It was not until the light'Notre Dame eleven ran the»Army into a trance some years ago,that this style was taken seriously along the Atlantic seaboard. Dorais, of some such
.	..	..	.	Point game a week ago, Eastern critics, usually so
. coye, pegged so many passes on the Army that the	conservative,, shouted it from their headlines, and not
spectators were dizzy following the ball. The score	a few frankly said that in. their opinion-Notre Dame
was about 35 to o,when the sailing ended. The Army ’ was one touchdown better than any team in the coaches were not blockheads, however, -and whaled country. ' .	'	.	-	.	.
the wadding out of the Navy in the annual game that season, and they did it by picking up the plays that had been worked on them by this same speedy Notre Dame array. Since that time-the East has recognized in the forward pass the widest possible range of play and has lost little time in working the overhead attack.
—(The Memphis News Scimitar.}
* * *
Our Army eleven, mighty throughout the season and for three-quarters of its game against Notre Dame, ran into a cul-de-sac or a chevaux-de-frise or perhaps an abbatloir, during the last period, and Notre Dame today is hailed as second to none.—(By George Currie, Brooklyn Eagle, November 1.) f	-
sc . * *
Just once this year I have seen the quick kick utilized ' in a major game. Notre Dame flashed it against the Army on last Saturday and gained more ground with it than with any other kick it made. The soldiers, sucked in close by a line-attack, were taken completely by surprise, and the ball rolled deep into West Point territory. With a clever punter to do the booting, there is no reason why this manoeuver should not come into greater use. It is sound, if used wisely, and has a demoralizing effect.—(New York Evening Sun, November 13, 1920.)	■	'
* * *
Back in that winter of 1S42 when Father Sorin and his little band of followers, just landed from France, made their perilous journey through the wilderness over snow and ice, and in the heart of an unbroken forest began work on a small log- cabin between two beautiful little lakes in St. Joseph County, Indiana, they certainty started something. No doubt even in the bleakness of their first Hoosier winter the little log-cabin school became in their visions the great institution that Notre Dame University is today.
However, could these educational pioneers have dropped in casually at Cartier field last Saturday afternoon and heard the wild war-whoops that greeted . the' whirlwind Notre Dame attack that swept the Purdue defense off the field, even with all their constructive imagination, so characteristically French, they scarcely would have recognized these athletic phenomena as among the things they, had started. In fact, they probably would have thought that the Indians they had come to civilize had won after all. For wilder than any Pottawotamie yell that ever ripped the early Hoosier atmosphere was the Notre Dame victory cry that’rose and swelled from 12,000 spectators when George Gipp running from pimt formation raced eighty yards through the whole Purdue team for the touchdown that marked the high spot of a game full of high spots.
Notre Dame beat Purdue 28-0, and the score might just as well have been 50-0 had Knute K. Rockne ' so willed and kept his firs^ string men on the job. This is no slam at Purdue—it simply means that the 1920 Notre Dame team is one of the greatest football aggregations in America today. Following the West
6
Efie Moure Same Scholascic
i$7
This Notre Dame team is wonderful. It has weight, speed, variety of attack, initiative galore, and football genius. Just how much of this is Knute Rockne and how much is natural ability is hard to say, but the two have fused and welded into a whole that has made good the boast of the Notre Dame song, "Old Notre
Dame Will Win Over All.”
There is no doubt
that George Gipp is one of the greatest football players that ever came out of the West—or East, for that matter—but Notre Dame is not a one-man team by a whole lot. When Gipp gets away with his sensational runs he has the very able co-operation of the ten other men on the field. Without Gipp it still would be a great team.—(Thomas A. Hendricks, Indianapolis News, November 9.)
* *
* *
The Boilermakers put up a great battle against the Irish, but "the greatest team in the country” was simply too good, and the Boilermakers bowed in defeat before the mighty Catholic aggregation. The game was exceptionally clean and good sportsmanship marked the contest throughout the entire afternoon. It is surely no disgrace to be beaten by such a wonderful aggregation.—(The Purdue Exponent.)
- • * * *
Fighting to the last, the plucky Army eleven outplayed but game, went down to defeat^here today before the fast, powerful eleven from the University of Notre Dame, of South. Bend, Indiana. The final score was Notre Dame, 27; Army 17. Although the Westerners trailed for three-quarters of the game, their powerful reserve told in the end.and in the final period they put the quietus on the Army men. The . game was witnessed by a crowd estimated at 10,000. The field was in good shape in spite of the recent rains.
Notre Dame resorted to forward-passing frequently, Gipp and Kiley figuring in several long gains through this medium. But the Westerners qutrushed the Cadets in every quarter. Mohardt and Gipp bored through the Army line almost at will. Gipp proved a powerful runner, the like of whom has not been seen here since the days of Jim Thorpe, the old Carlisle player. He was' prominent in every advance of the visitors.—(From the Brooklyn Eagle, October 31.) * * *
It was a football exhibition well worth going many miles to see. It was a hard contest, fought with vigor " and vim by both sides all the way, but it was also the greatest game, both for attack and defense, which has been seen in the East this season. The Army was beaten, but even in defeat it covered itself with glory. In the development of defense, in all-around effective-
ness in both the old and the new football, in sheer -him’out. Coughlin generally manages to upset most
brilliancy, the eleven from Indiana, with the scintillating Gipp always in the van, practically outclassed the Army. Notre Dame made twenty first-downs, as against only four of.the Army. We do not think
better this season.—(Walter Eckersall, in the Chicago that any team in this country could have won over Tribune, November 28.)
the team from the West as it played here today.
—(Daniel, in the New York Herald.) • _ *
f	*	*
It was home-coming day at Notre Dame and the' old grads came all the way-from Missoula, Montana, and Pittsburg for the big day, the biggest that South Bend has ever seen. The bunch -included Louis Sam
mon, John Miller, Al Feeney, “Red” Miller, Ray Eichenlaub, and many other old football stars. Notre Dame certainly knows how to treat visitors. Friday night the student body threw a parade for Purdue, flocked into the Oliver hotel and cheered every man on the Purdue team individually. Then they called for speeches. Cooley, the big Purdue guard, who, by. the way, played one peach of a game, won the oratorical honors with the following masterpiece, which met with . 100 per cent approval from both teams: “Fellows,” he said, “I don’t know which of us will win tomorrow, but this I do know: both of us are going to beat the life out of Indiana.” Prolonged applause.
Notre Dame’s cheering was splendid. Al Slaggert,
cheer-leader, was refreshingly short on acrobatics, ■ but long in getting the noise of the stands unified. Every Purdue player who left the game or was injured received a cheer. The singing was as good as any heard in the State this year.—(“Mixed Up Pickups,” Indianapolis News, November 9.)
v	*
* *
. . . Notre Dame which swamped the- Army today at West Point could fairly smother either the Buckeyes or the Maroons'-—(The Lincoln Star.)
Notre Dame, if it wins its remaining games—ancU there is .every reason to believe it will—should be . rated one. of the strongest teams in the country. The decisive victory that Coach Rockne’s team won over West Point, 27 to 17, stamps the aggregation as one of the greatest offensive and defensive powers, and half-back Gipp, of Notre Dame, as one of the best back-field players in Hie country.—(The Chicago -Tribune.)	-	*'
■ * .
* *
Knute-K. Rockne’s Notre Dame eleven, undoubtedly one of the greatest if not the greatest football team in the country, buried the fighting Boilermakers Saturday afternoon on Cartier field, before a Homecoming crowd of 12,000 people, 28 to o. George Gipp, although he played but two quarters of the game, stood head and shoulders above any backfield man on the gridirom As one of the spectators was heard to say, “it was worth the price of admission to see Gipp make that eighty-yard run.”—:(By Robert McMahon, in the Indianapolis Star, November 8;)
*** -
There are a number of great players on this year’s Notre Dame eleven. Captain Coughlin, the tackle, is one of the best performers in the country, regardless of the' many plays sent at the tackles, some of which call for the tackle to be boxed, and others to knife
plays sent to him. Besides Captain Coughlin in the line, Smith is probably the best guard in the West. He was a tower of strength a year ago and is playing
They are saying this year that Notre Dame has two teams—George Gipp and ten other men. The lithe-limbed Hoosier halfback is the Goliath of a big, shifty, well-drilled and powerful eleven. If there is anything that Gipp can’t do on the football field it isn’t discernible to the naked eye. . > . It' is his last year at

Noure dame Scholastic
Notre Dame and it might be added that the door to the All-American mythical eleven of 1920 is standing wide open to the great Hoosier back.—(Dean Snyder, in the Toledo Times.)	.
* * *
But the Army was up against more than it could handle—possibly more than Harvard, Yale, Princeton, or Pitt could have handled—another. Penn State plus George Gipp. . . . George Gipp, of Notre Dame, a • long-legged, spraddle-legged Kangaroo halfback, steps into the picture as the leading 1920 star. Gipp is the best back we have seen in a lohg time—another Eddie •Mahan and every whit as good.—(Grantland Rice, in the New York Tribune.) ■ * _ - * *
While Penn State has the best record in its region and now looms up as the strongest Eastern team, the best of all the American college teams this year is Notre Dame. The writer’s candid judgment is that Coach Rockne’s Fighting Irish, playing on a dry field, can trim any other aggregation—East, West, South, or Far West, by as much as two or three touchdowns. . . . Having seen Way (Penn State) when he was scintillating at his verj7 best, the writer considers Gipp a more versatile and, therefore, more valuable backfield performer than the Penn State dazzler. Gipp can do everything that a high-class footballer is expected to do, and his equal is not in moleskins on any college eleven this year. - Next to Heston, Michigan star of fifteen years ago, and Guy Chamberlain, who flashed so brilliantly for the Cornhuskers of 1914 and 1915, Gipp is the greatest backfield performer the West has developed in a long stretch of gridiron history.—(■' Cy ” Sherman, in the Lincoln Daily Star.)
' ***
In the matter of coming from behind to win out in football, one of the hardest assignments in the world of sports, the Notre Dame eleven seems to be in •a class by itself. In three of its seven contests with the Army, it has turned the trick. In 1917 the Westerners won' out late in the game. Last year with the score 9 to o against them, the Westerners came, back in the second half with a spirited rally, and a brilliant, aerial attack and won out, 12 to 9. Last Saturday the Cadets were leading up to the last period, when the Indiana team uncorked a hard-hitting- attack to win by 10 points. —(Grantland Rice, in the New York Tribune.)
- . . * ' ' - - .
Only a game between Ohio State and Notre Dame would convince the Hoosier following that Gipp and, . his-band are.the best in the West. With no way ol ‘	- settling the - dispute about the relative ability of the
teams, it is. a matter of opinion and the East favors Notre. Dame.—(Henry. Farrell, in the , South Bend ■News-Times.) .	.	,	. .	,	'
With the final swing. into the homestretch of .the . football season, those who. have been watching the . performances of the various football teams through -the .schedules have been'tucking away back in their . memories .the doings of certain players . who. .will be . -trotted out later, on as members of the mythical eleven .which: is supposed to represent the ideal of the gridiron.
.	• One.chap stood hut in the.game in theEast yesterday
- .. -who looks like a certainty. .That is,George Gipp, whom
we watched on the Plains at West Point running riot for Notre Dame against the Army. There were few of those who saw him as the Cadets were routed who did not agree that he is one of the most spectacular and startling players of the year. . . . That Notre Dame eleven looked about as good as anything that has been seen in the East this year and it seems a pity that it is not scheduled to meet Penn State or Harvard. . . . The team has everything necessary in its repertoire up to the minute and Saturday it lived up to the form it displayed when it came here first a few years ago and opened the eyes of the Easterners by a dazzling display of whizz-bang aerial tactics. . . . The name of Gipp may not. have a romantic sound to it, but its echo ought to be heard for many a day where deeds of the gridiron are recounted.—(Van Ness, in the New York Evening Telegram, November 7.)	.
---------•••------- '
The Final Victory. -
Notre Dame, 25; M. A. C., o.	'
The Notre Dame football team of 1920 completed on Thanksgiving Day at Lansing, Michigan, its list of nine victories for the season. This makes for Notre. Dame the second consecutive year without a defeat and the eleventh without a defeat since she first entered the intercollegiate sport in 1887. The 25-to-o victory scored by Coach Rockne’s men over the renovated team of the Michigan Agricultural College emphasizes again the real championship calibre of the Gold and Blue. Though lacking the services of its great star, George Gipp, the team performed most admirably, and for. nearly a half of the.game functioned perfectly with all second-string men in play. The comparative power of the winners is not adequately , indicated by the score. A cold, drizzly day, a muddy field, and a wet ball hindered the usual sprint and dash features of the Gold and Blue attack and made the forward-pass precarious. The backfield combinations, .however, were consistent in sleeping gains through, around, and over the “Aggie” defenses. The line did its work magnificently, in the second half repeatedly smashing the. “Aggie” plays before they were fairly started.
Danny Coughlin’s ninety-five yard run on the first kick-off was the feature play of the contest. Mohardt’s forward-passing showed where the key to the 1921 aerial attack is to be found. Castner plunged, for handsome gains every time he was permitted, and Barry’s lastgame dashes around the ends were a fitting climax to his stellar career. Of the linesmen Captain Coughlin was. easily the most brilliant. In the latter part of the third period he began
I
Howe §ame Scholastic	199
. his old role of breaking through and inhibiting the opponents’ attacks before they had started or breaking up their formation on its first move. Several times the Captain’s aggressiveness forced the “Aggies” to kick onthe second । down. “Buck’’Shaw also had a hand in mussing }	up the Green attack and for the fifth time this
I	year blocked a punt, preparatory to a Notre
i Dame touchdown. Smith, Anderson, and Larson ! in the center of the line deserve special mention.
Coach Rockne’s men were the first on the field, and they entertained an interested crowd with the usual preliminary signal drills, kicks, and passes. Everybody wanted to know which was Gipp and was disappointed when his ab-- sence was announced. The green-clad “Aggie” crew trotted in and began their warming-up maneuvers. It was evident that they had a heavy line and plenty of “pep.” Captain I Coughlin won the toss and chose to defend the - south goal. Rockne then detailed his second-string warriors to start the battle. Few specta-. tors realized that the regulars were in reserve and few believed it when told. , The first ball sailed high and lazily down the field and finally, Danny Coughlin took it, standing on his own five-yard line, with a horde of tacklers sweeping upon him. The “gang” bowled over the more dangerous ones, and Coughlin started his weaving sprint through and around the others. The fast interference swept to the right side as far as midfield, where Coughlin sprinted ahead of it, dodging and side-stepping the opposition, and then was off on a bee-line for the “Aggie” goal, with the whole field after him, some in useless pursuit and others, for purposeful protection. He registered the touchdown with . time to spare. The “Aggie” crowd groaned, while a few scattered Notre Dame followers cheered and whooped wildly. ' Coughlin failed to kick the goal.
On the next kick-off Castner received the ball and ran it to his own thirty-five yard line,’ where the battle began in earnest. Walsh ’	featured in slashing off-tackle drives and Castner
■ in fine-plunges. On the fourth play Coughlin was thrown hard as he ripped through the center of the line for a substantial gain', and sustained a shoulder injury which took him from the game. Mohardt was substituted, but the attack could not get going fast enough for the end-runs of the Gary speed-boy. The,“Aggie” linep responding, to the cheers of the crowd, held courageously, and it seemed; as if Notre
• -	.	f ■
Dame’s scoring would cease. Well into the second period the forwards of the opposition held stubbornly,'and the backs kicked out of £. danger when they got the ball., Toward the end of the second period Coach Rockne sent in his * . regulars. Under the command of Brandy the. Varsity machine got slowly but surely into action and plowed its way irresistibly toward? the “Aggies’” goal. On the third down, with only three yards left, the whistle blew for the half, with the score at 6 for Notre Dame and o for the “Aggies.”	, •
The Hoosiers got down to business promptly in the third period. Shaw’s kick-off went out of bounds on the “Aggie” five-yard line,-and on the second kick-off Eddie Anderson threw. Johnson for a two-yard loss as the latter caught the ball. Captain Coughlin’s crew presented a stone-wall defense, and the “Aggies” kicked.
. Notre Dame failed to complete passes by Mo- , hardt. Castner punted and the “Aggies” returned the compliment. After gaining twelve yards on the exchange, Notre Dame started a drive from her 35-yard line. Mohardt and’ Barry went around the flanks for twentyyard gains until the ball was on the opponents’ five-yard line. Here Castner on a fake off-tackle play plowed through center and scored the second touchdown. Shaw, failed to make the goal.	.
Shaw kicked to Johnson, who ran the ball back twenty yards but fumbled as he was tackled. Brandy recovered it and speedily the Notre Dame line .and backs drove, the Green’s defense back to their, goal. The Far- - . mers failed to stop Castner’s plunge for the third touchdown. Again the kick for goal went amiss. .	..
At this point .Phelan, Hayes, and several other second-team men were returned to The ’ field. Notre Dame received the kick-off, but failed to gain appreciably. It was well towards the middle .of the fourth quarter, .after Schwei ; had • attempted a punt from-his own twenty-five yard mark, that the fourth touchdown • resulted. On this play Larson, Coughlin, . Anderson,, and Shaw all broke through and rushed the kicker. Shaw blocked the ball, and Andersow recovered and carried it across ; the “Aggie” goal. Brandy added with his toe the twenty-fifth point. For the remainder of the game the Varsity was content to hold things even. And thus ended the ninth and last battle of 1920, in whichAlfe Rockne system triumphed
1
200
Nocre dome Scholastic
over the Zuppke system, as exemplified by-“Potsy” Clark’s men. Line-up and summary.
Notre Dame Hayes
Voss
Degree
Mehre ’
Dooley
Garvey Carberry Grant Walsh
Coughlin	:
Castner
Score by Periods: Notre Dame________ Michigan Aggies___
M. A. C.
Bassett Bos Mattson
Ball Radwald
Lefter Thompson
Springer Johnson Noblett
Hammes
Left End
Left Tackle
Left Guard Center
Right Guard
Right Tackle
Right End -
Quarterback Left Half-back Right Half-back
Fullback
o
o
6 o
Substitutions—Notre Dame: Brandy
o o— o for Grant;
Mohardt for Coughlin; - Barry for Walsh; Kiley for Hayes; E. Anderson for Carberry; Larson for Mehre; H. Anderson for Dooley; Shaw for Voss; Phelan for Castner. Michigan Aggies—Anderson for Bos; Larson for Rawaid; Schwei for Noblett.
Notre Dame scoring—Touchdowns: Coughlin, Cast-ner 2, E. Anderson; Goal from touchdown, Castner. Officials—Referee, Gardner, Cornell; umpire, Lipske, Chicago; headlinesman, Samp, Wisconsin. Time of periods, 15 minutes.	'
Safety Valve
.. The 1920 All-Eleven.
We have used more care and taken more time in the selection of this year’s "Valve” team than ever before. This was due partly to the fact that we were campused .and were not compelled to go to town every day, and partly to the fact that we did not have to. worry about our classes, since we flunked in all of them. Some of the players when viewed as football stars are probably not entitled to the consideration we have given them, but they received Thanksgiving boxes from home and invited us to partake of them, and surely gratitude is a precept of the natural law. Besides, the good players that were left’ off this team passed in all their classes, . and it stands to reason that a fellow who spends^so . much time at his books can’t excell in football. Many of them, too, were never inside of Hully and Mike’s, . the home of the criss-cross play, where the prefect . comes in the front door and the student goes out the back door. Apart from having chosen the men we like and the men who fed us, no favoritism has been shown, and the team stands on its own merits—though . many of the players are ladened with demerits. '
R. E.—Hamm (D)
J . R. T—Stone (B)	.
R. G.—Gorilla (D)
:	C.—Savage (D)	f
' > ' f - - L-- G.—Furey (D)	-
; L- T.—Steele (D)	'//’	-	'
’ -	L. E.—Hunger (Br).	/ :	.
R. H B.—Pierce (Bd) ' <	<
’ r	\	.5:
-'	• Q. B.—Foote. (Library)... .. ,	' •
, _•	F. B.—Dashbach (W)
We have placed Hamm and Hunger at ends simply on account of one play which they have perfected and which never fails to gain ground. It is the old play of the left end skirting the right side of the line. Hamm starts down the field at full speed and the quarterback having tucked the ball under Hunger’s arm without the latter’s observing it puts him on the trail of Hamm. No eleven players this season have been able to keep Hunger from getting Hamm, and for this reason many. touchdowns were made. As tackles, we have selected two of the hardest men at the University, Stone and Steele, These men, though they do not play a shifting game, can be relied upon to stop any plays coming their way, and many a head has bumped into them only to be compelled to open up, instead of playing the line-plunging game.
As guards, we have placed Gorilla and Furey on account of their agressiveness „and because of the terror they inspire in opposing players. When these two guards are linked with Savage, the pivotal'man, they form a veritable trio of wild men who would
. scare most any-kind of opponents. •
We have chosen Foote as quarterback on account _ of his ability to punt and drop-kick. In so far as we know, no one in the country is able to kick like Foote. Should it seem desirable to use forward passes, Hand might easily be substituted for Foote.
Our two half-backs are Pierce and Sharp, and they have been put at this position because of their penetrating power.. Pierce can plunge through any kind of a player and Sharp has a cutting way-that gives him the edge on most other half-backs in the school. As substitutes for these men we can use Ford and Carr of the Day Students, who have probably more speed than any students' at the University.
We looked long for a fullback who would be worthy of the position and finally decided on Dashbach. Since we have no desire to see a man take a ball and dash back instead of forward, we conceived the idea of heading this man toward his own goal and giving him the ball. Of course the opposing players would see him, Dashbach, but what could they do? He would probably make many touchdowns for the team.
We thought somewhat of using Barber of the Day students as an end, but he has a habit of clipping which-the referees do not like and the last man that played
against him had a close shave. Mudd of the Day Students was also a strong contender for a place, but he is a dirty player and was barred for this reason. Although Bell of Walsh played excellent football all season, on account of his being a ringer we could not give him a berth on this eleven. Doll of Corby and Love of Brownson were also suggested to. us by friends, but both are so soft that we feared they might weaken the " team. If any one is to be substituted in the line proba-
bly Lawless would best take the place of Savage or Furey. Derrick of tlie Day Students will be on the bench and will probably be used, as he is a wonder at lifting an opposing player from his feet and dropping
. him softly out of the play.	,
' . -This is our selection and we make no apologies for it.. We wish to state however that the players who made this team are not to pay us in checks, as we find great
.trouble in cashing, them..	. '