by the
The Modern Gilbert’s
PRESENTS
as Official
Smartness is natural to a naval officer. His clothed thoughts and actions. It is our privilege not only to uniforms supplied by the Naval Uniform Service, h tomized uniforms by Hickey-Freeman as well as fim '	hl
personalized fitting service assures you of the fit tn bert’s — with prompt delivery.	|
3
I
U. S. NAVY APPOINTMENT
TAILORED
TO ORDER'
REGULATION UNIFORMS
OFFICERS’ UNIFORMS
Commissioned Officers’ Service Blue, $40.00
Commissioned Officers’ Overcoat, $50.00
Commissioned Officers’ Raincoat-Overcoat (with removable wool lining) $37.50
19 oz. Elastique Uniforms, $54.00 Whipcord Uniforms. $52.50
Custom Tailored Khaki and White Uniforms
In South Bend — taxi free to Gilbert’s
813-817 S. Michigan Street
THE MODERN
GILBERT
3

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC £
COLLEGE PARADE
JOHN A. LYNCH
Disce Quasi Semper Viburus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
The College Parade this week feels it has made a startling discovery in finding that other collegians besides Notre Dame students are experiencing a few troubles. Glenn Hanson, columnist for The Minnesota Daily, probably didn’t know he was hitting the local nail on the head when he described in the following article the University of Minnesota’s dining problem. We quote from Mr. Hanson:
“1. Now it came to pass in the winter of the forty-third year that there came to the University a freshman, that he might drink at the fount of learning.
“2. And he brought with him a great thirst for knowledge, and several extra Arrow shirts and a case nigh filled with extra coats and ties and he didst also bring his class ring which he didst covet and which had Menagha High inscribed thereon.
“3. Now it came to pass that one day the freshman was sore famished with* his ordeal in Freshman Hall, and, behold, he didst set out foi' the camp of the Union cafeteria that he might eat of manna with his classmates.
“4. Now as the freshman came upon the cafeteria, weak with hunger, so also did great legions of students, who also were waiting in line.
“5. And the freshman’s breath waxed hot and heavy with an exceeding great desire for manna but the line scarcely moved.
“6. Now when the pangs of hunger didst smite the freshman mightily, the lines did open up and the freshman didst see before him the Union food.
“1. And the freshman offered a prayer to heaven and thereupon he began to fill his tray that he might assuage the pains in his midriff. He didst take a Union salad composed of two orange seeds and a toothpick that cost twenty talents.
“8. Thereupon the freshman didst grab a piece of beef roast that was so small it hid behind a wisp of parsley and thence he did ask for potatoes which cost a pretty penny.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
3

Daniel Downey, Editor Ted Weber..............Managing	Editor.
Bill Boss................Sports	Editor
Dave Condon..............Campus	Editor
Robert Kopf..............Admin.	Editor
Phil Keen..........Asst.	Sports Editor
Robert Lonergan..............Promotion
Al Schaefer.........Staff Photographer Rev. C. M. Carey, C.S.C., Faculty Adviser



- Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated' Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by. National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published thirty times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, 313 Sorin Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria -Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p. m.	,	.
UL
“9. Now time didst bring him unto the bread where he took a pat of butter. Thence did the freshman grab a dried rye crust and a piece of pie.
IN THIS ISSUE
“10. So the freshman staggered onward to the cashier, saying:
■ ■ “11. Behold, I take of this manna. Mark it up that I might eat.
“12. And the cashier didst pound upon her machine with great joy and she gave the check to the freshman and thence went back to studying her Econ. 7.
“13. And the freshman didst look at his check and didst think that he was looking at the national debt and thereupon he began to weep. And when he wist that weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth would get him nowhere he didst send an epistle to Jesse Jones by Western Union asking that Jones hasten with succor in the form of RFC silver to pay the cafeteria check.	:
“14. And when Jones of RFC didst succor the freshman with compassion it was found that the RFC loan could underwrite the bonded indebtedness of the city of the Minneapolitans. Which is a nice chunk of hay.
“15. Now, verily, when the freshman was assured that his check would be paid he set about eating of. the Union fare.	.
“16. And when he wist what Union food was like, he fell on his face and beseeched the manager saying:	.	.	.
“17. Oh, Jahveh, makest thou me strong that I never again-will be tempted to ' partake of manna at the Union. Not only cost it too many talents but also it nourishest . not. Keep me strong, 0 Jahveh. .	.	..	'
.	“18. And thereupon he fell upon his face .and they carried .him away to the Temple
of thfe*Health Service where he.was revived and plied with sulfa drugs.”.	- . /
CAMPUS
Regional Convention, March 13, 14___5
Gracie Barrie's Band—Cotillion 7
Students Part in .Bengal Missions _ 9
ADMINISTRATION
Fr. Moore's Publication List____11
Dr. Allers and The War 11
Prof. Brown, to Leave for China 12
NAVY PAGE 15
SPORTS
12th Annual Bengal	Bouts 16
Netmen Close Season	Tonight_____18
Baseball • Begins _____________ 21
FEATURES
- College Parade •_________________4
' The. Week _______________i  _____6
‘ Man About Campus	10
; The Ears Have It	13
"Warming The Bench    :____________20
Splinters x___:__________;________23
; Music •„___________,____________25
The Notre Dame
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 78	' MARCH 12, 1943	’ -' / i
Regional Convention Will Meet Here For Two Day Parley; Terry is Chairman
More than 175 students from surrounding colleges will gather for the second regional congress of the Fort Wayne region of the National Federation of Catholic College Students starting tomorrow morning on the St. Mary’s campus.
The second day, the parley comprising Nazareth and Aquinas colleges of Michigan, Mary Manse of Toledo, St. Mary’s, and Notre Dame, with four or five additional colleges, will move to the Notre Dame campus for meetings.
Five Notre Dame men hold high positions in the N.F.C.C.S. and will be in charge of proceedings. John Terry will act as chairman of the congress. He is also vice-president of the Fort Wayne Region of the federation. George Baris-cillo is chairman of the entertainment committee and junior national and senior regional delegate. Robert Kurtz, junior regional delegate, is also financial secretary of the congress. Charles Metzger is a member of the program committee and vice-president of. the Notre Dame Student Commission. James Cunningham is president of the Catholic Action students and serving on the publicity committee of the congress.	.
After preliminary registration the first general session, incorporating the theme of the congress, “Peace and prayer and action through Oneness in Christ,” will open with amaddress of welcome by Sister M. Madaleva, C.S.C., president of St. Mary’s. A synopsis of the National Congress will be given by Betty Navarre, of Nazareth college and president of the region, and resolution by Helen Asplan, national treasurer. Al Sommers, of Notre Dame, will speak on the “Fundamental Agreement of the Atlantic Charter and the Papal Peace Plan.” Rev. William T. Craddick, prefect of religion and federation regional moderator, will be honorary chairman. -
The Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., bishop of Fort Wayne, will be honorary
chairman of the second general session which will include talks by Elizabeth Cole, Vicki Henry and Dorothy Midden-dorf, all of St. Mary’s. John Sweeney and Frank Carver of Notre Dame will be discussion leaders.
The third general session will be in charge of girls from Nazareth college. The program will feature speeches by Helen Asplan, Ann Tradii and Frances Mary Jessup. Rev. Matthew Schumacher, C.S.C., is chaplain, and Evo Fatagati and Brock Lynch of Notre Dame will serve as discussion leaders.
Entertainment that night will feature the Notre Dame glee club under- the direction of Mr. Daniel Pedtke. The premier of the long awaited “Spirit of Notre Dame,” a choral symphony written by Kelly Cook, will be sung.
Sunday the congress will move to this campus with opening Mass in Alumni chapel at 8:00 a.m. Breakfast and a tour of the campus will pave the way for the fourth general session at which the Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., C.A.S. moderator, will be honorary chairman. Chairman of the meeting will be Daniel Downey. James Cunningham and Brock Lynch will speak on “Peace Through Oneness in Action,” and freshmen Robert Reynolds and Larry Keenan will, be discussion leaders.	■
The fifth, and last, general-session will see the Rev. Arthur Busowski, president of Aquinas college, honorary chairman, and Byron Zielbeck of Aquinas, chairman of the Victory Commission.
Medalist to be Named
The 60th anniversary of the founding of Notre Dame’s famed. Laetare Medal will be observed April 4 when the-name of the 61st winner will be announced. The 1942 wanner was Helen Constance White; historian John.Gilmary Shea was first recipient in 1883.	. -	- .
Glee Club Will Present Vf Convention Concert
The Notre Dame Glee Club, under the direction of Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke^ head of the department of music, will present its first concert of the year in Angela Hall at St. Mary’s tomorrow-, nightf at ' 8:15 p. m. .	.	:	:	7 ..
The conceit is to be presented in connection with the regional convention of " the National Federation of Catholic Students, held jointly at St. Mary’s and:No-tre Dame this weekend,7 The Glee Club will be the main event in entertainment. ’
Scheduled for itsinitial try-out to- . morrow night at the concert will be the now celebrated feature of the club, “The Spirit of Notre bame.” A choral sym-* . phony, this poetic history of Notre Dame was written by Kelly Cook, Editor of the December Dome -who recently left for. the Air Corps.: The musicwas arranged by Mr. Pedtke. David J. Curtin, Rochester, New York, is .the narrator.
Other .highlights of the program will f‘; f be a solo by tenor Edward Hoban, River J L f;< Forest, Illinois; violin selections by Rocco fSvXff Germano, distinguished member,of the.-.: . South Bend Junior Symphony Orehestra;^?^ and piano solo by John Witt, Glee Club . . . " • accompanist from South. Bend.
-	_ ■* .	' ' ‘	‘	' ■ Z
- ■ - ’
THE WEEK
JACK WOELFLE
TOP OF THE WEEK
Seven weeks till vacation.
JU-SE-NIOR PROM BALL
"Delightful,” was the opinion of most of the lads who took in the dance last Friday night. The girls as usual had to beg, borrow, or steal, to get here. They arrived on coach and Pullman. One young thing came via Railway Express. She explained that “The best girls by far come slow freight and box car.” Some guests
were beautiful girls from the East, and some were beautiful girls from the West, and some came from St. Mary’s. There were a lot of blind dates here though. In fact there were so many blind dates that the school had to borrow 200 seeing eye dogs from the E.R.C. As usual we had a lot of real home-spun humor in the crowd. One girl’s idea of a good gag was to stick her finger down her throat. From all reports, however, the music was good and the crowd just right. But after talking with Georgia and Orry—two veterans of many campaigns, we are forced to admit that:
“The best girls of all Didn’t get to the ball.”
JUST AROUND
The pictures in Washington Hall are definitely improving. . . . The laundry system is finally running smoothly. . . . First semester seniors are pretty worried over prospects of receiving their degrees if they don’t come back after this semester. Nothing to worry about, men!
VICE VERSA
Belinda Dear:
It seems so quiet here since you went home. I sure am glad you were able to come to the Ball. Of course I didn’t mind your coming on Wednesday instead of Friday. I probably would have used those cuts for something foolish like playing golf or something. It was real nice of your father and mother to come along too. We just didn’t have a chance to get lonesome. And naturally I didn’t expect your father to pay the hotel bill.
He was very kind driving the car for us all weekend. We probably would have had to park or something if he hadn’t. It was fun showing your mother around the campus, and boy! was it a riot when she called my math prof a funny looking man. Oh boy! I’m still laughing. I didn’t like the course anyway. Tell youi' father not to feel bad about burning the hole in the rug. I’ve had the thing for all of three months now. Pardon the writing, honey. I’m not used to this pen. I guess your father forgot to give me mine back.
Love,	Oswald.
P.S. The Rent-A-Car Co. says that it's only going to cost me $15 to straighten the fender where your father hit that post. Isn’t that swell?
LA DE DA
One of the neatest balancing tricks, if you can do it, is to carry cereal, eggs, fruit juice, bread, butter, two very open bottles of milk, a cup of coffee, a knife, fork and spoon, a napkin, and a hat, all on a very dented tray. Here’s the approved way of doing it. Put the cutlery in your back pocket, the fruit juice in your side pocket, the milk in the other pocket, and the coffee in your hat. Messy, isn’t it? But you’ll find that your head is so warm when you walk out. . . . New theme in the Huddle: “Pick up—a frosty ice cream cup of Royal Crown.” Capless milk, capless coke, — pretty soon we’ll be getting skinless bananas. ... A big blow for Slim, head waiter of the east dining hall, who left last week.
RATIONING?
The Freshman formal over at the Rock two weeks ago, from all reports, took oh the appearance of ye olde 17th century, the light for the party being provided by candle light. A persistent draft seemed to keep blowing out the candles and old fashioned electricity had to be resorted to a number of times during the evening. Gene Slevin showed up at the party with a new style set of tails. From all appearances Gene had gotten dressed in the Rockne Memorial and he was proclaimed by all to be the most dressed person at the dance. The famous St. Mary’s punch was served, of course. A definite improvement has been made in the formula since the Prom three weeks ago. It didn’t cause the fillings to fall out of the teeth till the next day.
PUNCH ME AROUND AGAIN WILLY
With the approach of the Bengals comes the promise of spring. (Ah, what a brilliant sentence that is!) Anyway, the lads will soon be stepping in the old ring to give and take for the benefit of you fellows and the missionaries in Bengal. It isn’t any fun getting punched around in front of a couple of thousand people, they tell me, and the guys have been putting in a lot of time preparing themselves for the effort. Probably when the battles are over, there will be enough teeth to make plates for all St. Mary’s. So let’s get behind the bouts and really pack the fieldhouse the nights of the first fights, and every night thereafter. It’s a pleasant way to be charitable, and its a charitable way to show appreciation to the fighters.
TRAIN TIME MUSINGS
Wonder where she is? Said she’d meet me 15 minutes before train time. Here comes someone. Shades of murder, what a mess! What? Oh yes. Yes I do. Yes Notre Dame is nice. What! Oh you do. Oh you are! St. Mary’s! Is that so? Well I never ivould have known it. How could I? She has a face, and with a nose and teeth. She must be proud of them the way she’s taking them out and cleaning them every two minutes. What? Oh you are? Oh, you’re travelling in the ladies’ car. I don’t know why. What? Oh yes I’ll see you later. I’m glad that one’s gone. Where the devil is.... Huh? Oh Gloria!
I never thought you’d. — What? Who was she? She was a St. Mary’s girl. Yes she was. What are you laughing at? What, I can go over there as often as I like? Yes. Yes Gloria, they all look like that. Honest. Oh stop laughing.
5
8 TO 12
The lads with the cash these days are the lads with the funny pictures pinned to their belts, ties, and shirts. They are the alumni of old Ball Band. They talk a strange language, such as: “I roll the inside and he rolls the outside.” At first you imagine it’s two chefs from the dining hall discussing the mystery ball production. The boys don’t get much sleep but after working a few weeks the linings of their wallets are greener than a Notre Dame banana.
s
r
17
SONG OF THE WEEK
. . “Don’t sit under the banana tree with anyone else but me.”
1
1’1
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
The latest issue of The Green Banner.
J
GamiMiA. M&mA.
Gracie Barrie's Band Featured by N. D.
Sophs Centenary Cotillion on St. Pat's Eve
Sophomores continued to shatter1 tradition following a meeting Monday afternoon when it was announced that the Centenary Cotillion, already as unorthodox as a nightmare, would be open to the entire school — including freshmen. This will mark the first time in recent years that frosh have been admitted to the soph classic.
St. Pat’s eve will be celebrated by the Fighting Irish at the Notre Dame Sophomore Centenary Cotillion, scheduled for the Palais Royale, Tuesday evening, March 16, with Gracie Barrie, the colleen
Miss Rita Richards, Guest of Honor
of the platters, scheduled for honors of waving the baton.
It’ll be a tradition-shattering Cotillion for the sophs. First off there is the question on Gracie Barrie, self-styled easy to dance with warbler, who becomes the . first damsel to lead a band for one of Notre Dame’s class dances. Then, with the old soup and fish gone to war, the affair will be strictly semi-formal. Bids, to be sold in Dillon hall, will retail for $3.50, with tax included.
Gracie Barrie, who brings her band down to South Bend from the Blackhawk in Chicago, is wife of Dick Stabile and
took over the band when Dick entered the service with Uncle Sam. Dick, who is striking up sour notes for Hitler and Company, was rated as one of the country’s leading bandleaders before his call to war. Gracie, the delicious eyeful and earful, warbled with the band when Dick was leading, and still sings the ditties for her band.
The Centenary Cotillion will follow close on the heels of the combined JuniorSenior ball held at the Palais last weekend. It will probably mark the first time in the history of the university that the three class dances have been held wihin a period of ten days.
The path of the Cotillion has been a hectic one, with the sophomores originally planning to congregate on the jackpot wesk-end of March 6 and hold a dance that Saturday evening, the day following the junior-senior- event. Plans for this fell through when the Palais Royale could not be obtained for that evening. A suggestion to combine "with the other dance was quickly vetoed by some upper-class powers that be.
Decorations for the Junior-Senior ball, planned by the Sherer brothers, will be used at the Cotillion. Programs will remain a secret until the night of the dance.	.
Miss Janos Murray, of Fort Wayne, Ind., guest of general chairman Bob Franz, will be queen of the Cotillion. Rita Richards, also of Fort Wayne, escorted by president Hartman, will be guest of honor.
Following the announcement that freshmen would be sold bids to the dance, members of the bid and decorations committee announced that they had telegraphed for a large number of extra
In order that Students going to the Cotillion will be able to attend the Bengal Bouts, the preliminaries next Tuesday will start at 7:30 instead of 8 o'clock. Special seats will be reserved for Cotillion-goers and their guests.
programs and favors and that more bids were being printed. A special day, to be announced later, will be set aside for the selling of bids to residents of -Breen-Phillips and Zahm, and other freshmen halls. The Cotillion is being publicized over Dillon radio station WNDS, operated by “Ace” Clemens; and Gracie Barrie, leader of the band, broadcasts nightly from the Blackhawk over Mutual.
Miss Tanos Murray, Queen of the Cotillion
John Anhut Elected
Student Council Proxy
Student Council members met Wednesday, February 24, to elect new officers and decide upon further policy.. .
Newly elected officers include John Anhunt, president; Dick Doerner, vice- . president; Jim Crowley, secretary; Frank Crowley, treasurer. .
A motion was made to have representation for the Scholastic on the council. Robert Lonergan attended the meeting, and asked the support of the council to commemorate Notre Dame men who have given their lives for their country.. It was also decided that the Student Council is to assist the Scholastic in running the Bengal bouts this year.
Father John Burke, Prefect of Discipline, was in attendance at the meeting, and in a brief talk emphasized the point that a more powerful - council could be had if Student Council members put forth all their efforts.
7
Food Rationing Cuts Student Consumption Forty percent; Cat to Report to O. P. A.
JOE WILCOX
The government tells us we must be ready to take it on the chin. The columnists scream for the truth on naval losses.' The public demands the “in” on food affairs, and that’s where we come in. Notre Dame men love their stomachs. They want food, and they want to know what is in the food. From Mr. E. It. Connolly, dean of the department of dietetics, the Scholastic garnered the truth.
Approached by a scribe on the subject of food, Mi-. Connolly was glad to state the caf’s side of the food story. Asked about the food in general, he said, “It’s going to get worse before it gets better, yes indeed.” Nothing like starting optimistically, we say.
The Notre Dame Assembly Line
“Until about a year ago,” Mr. Connolly went on, “students were eating family style, with all the milk they wanted and butter on plates and meat of various kinds and—but we don’t talk about that.” Just about a year has gone by since the food pinch began to be felt. Dish by dish, Mr. Connolly told how the situation was at present, how it would be affected by the new point rationing, and how the prospects looked for the future.
Despite rumors contrariwise, there has been but little change in the quality of meat obtainable here. However, the caf can’t get what it wants always; there is a natural decrease in the variety, but there is plenty. Alhough the students aren’t eating as much, they aren’t wasting as much either. It seems the late lamented family style was more wasteful.
We are now able to get from 60 to 70 percent as much butter as we received previously. We have about enough to go around for one piece per student, per meal, and with a possible cut to 50 per-
cent of normal that is all we can expect.
Milk has been cut about 40 percent also. The man who insists on two milks a meal is lucky to be getting one, because the farm help shortage and the meat crisis are forcing many a farmer to sell his cattle. Therefore, although we’ll probably have no further cut in milk, we won’t tickle our palates with any more.
The new point rationing is, as the government has told us, no Utopian conception. Starting March 5 the caf began making reports to the OPA. Each pound of canned, dried, or otherwise prepared fruits and vegetables, will take from eight to 13 points. We’ll have less vegetables ; each person will be munching but three-fifths of what he did in December.. Fruits will be scarcer than vegetables. Fresh fruits and vegetables won’t help much; it all goes back to the inexorable law of supply and demand. The increased demand will make less available. “We’ll just have to get along on less than we did before,” summed up Mr. Connolly.
Mr. Connolly said be believed the students would still be much better fed than the general public, the opinions of the students on the point being irrelative. Notre Dame has a geographical advantage over the rest of the country.
The combination of ice cream, ice and ice cream, and just plain ice, will continue. The first of the month we’ll have ice cream,, but when the allotment is gone we’ll have more ice than cream. Ice, agrees, Mr. Connolly, is cold.
We’ll neither have the coffee without the sugar nor the sugar without the coffee. We won’t be short on eithei- to any extent. Mr. Coffee Nerves will remain unfoiled. Notre Dame has not been forced to use any coffee substitutes or fillers.
Asked about the general outlook, Mr. Connolly reflected, “Well, we’ll be eating less of everything, and so will everyone else.”,	.	.
And there you have it. .There will be less beef, literally and figuratively, this wartime. Less-food for us means more for the front. We can always reflect; we. can remember and think of steaks .with onions, pitchers of milk, pounds of butter, rich7 ice cream, two kinds of vegetables. We can sing the song of the sorrowful substitute, '	.
:	■ Let’s gorge ourselves on shoes and vellum
. And sing of dear old Ante Bellum. ..
Junior-Senior Ball Goes
On Record as Success
- Two hundred and forty-six couples danced to the smooth rhythm of Ted Fio Rito at the joint Senior-Junior Ball last Friday in the Palais Royale. The decorations . featured an “artists and models” motif artistically drawn on a huge scale by Bill and Jack Sherer, senior architects. Satin drapes in pastel shades added to the effect.
Perhaps it would be unfair to say that transportation difficulties were responsible, but the dance resulted in one of the largest rushes on St. Mary’s in the history of Sweetbriar, practically the whole school turning out en masse for the affair. Northwestern girls were also well represented.
The dance was officially culminated by a tea dance Saturday afternoon with Bobby Lewis’ orchestra furnishing the music. .	,
Dick A’Hearn and Richard Murphy were general chairmen of the dance, with Paul O’Connell and Roy Grumbine acting as co-chairmen of the patron committee. Publicity was ably handled by John An-hut and Bob Tanning, and programs and bids by Jack Hughes and Dick Ungaschick. Tea dance chairmen were Vince Duncan and Jim Casey. Sterling silver bracelets with an N.D. monogram were given as favors.
Chaperones at the dance included: Captain and Mrs. H. P. Burnett, Lieut. Commander and Mrs. W. S. Howell, Mr. and Mrs. Frank Leahy, Mr. and Mrs. Edward C. McKeever, Mr. and Mrs. James E. McCarthy, Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence H. Baldinger, Mr. and Mrs. Paul C. Bartholomew, Mr. and Mrs. Walter M. Langford, Mr. and Mrs. John J. O’Brien, Mr. and Mrs. Ernest M. Morris, Miss Elizabeth Rigney.and Guy W. Mar-tin.—John Anderton
Graduate Student Has
Latin Poem Published
Francisco J. Cabrera, from Mexico City, hasn’t yet appeared on Hobby Lobby, but he should. Cabrera lists writing Latin, poetry as his hobby and that, gentlemen, is a task for any ten men. Recently one of Cabrera’s poems was published in The Classical Bulletin, printed by St; Louis University.	.
, Several other of Cabrera’s poems have also been published. He came here, in ; September, 1941 after attending school at Ysleta, in El Paso, Texas. He is study, ing for his doctor’s degree in philosophy.
8
Bengal Bouts Are Source of Income For Missionaries Laboring in Bengal, India
JOHN
. Deep in the storied land of India, where there are jungles unpenetrated by man; where there are 7,000 snakes to the square mile in addition to the lion, tiger, rhinoceros, and practically every other type of animal in existence today; where the monsoon rages and the sun bakes the earth till it becomes unendurable even to the natives; where a white man, though he controls half the nations of the world, is only a white man, insignificant amongst 350,000,000 natives — deep in this land of India are 30 Fathers of . the Congregation of Holy Cross. Who are these priests? Where are they from? What are they doing in India, and what is their source of livelihood?
To begin with, these priests are Americans,. many of them former teachers here^on the campus beneath the Golden Dome—priests and Brothers just like the priests and Brothers the students of Notre Dame are in daily contact with.
Their business in India is, in the words of Pope Leo XIII, “. . . not the conversion of souls, the addition of new members to our statistics, but the building up of the Church on a permanent basis.”
And finally, what are their sources of income? They are not numerous, but one of the most important is the Bengal Bouts at the University of Notre Dame.
The 50-cent pieces that Notre Dame students pay as their admission to the Bengal, India. Dacca may be found on are being charged admission at their own request) are sent directly to Bishop Crowley at Dacca, in the province of Bengal, India. Dacca may be located on a map some 25 miles northeast of the Ganges River at a distance of over 100 miles from the Bay of Bengal.
•v
Bengal Bouters battle tough odds for Missionaries; Missionaries battle tough odds for Christ.
hi
MISZ
Bishop Crowley uses the money for the support of priests, Brothers and catechists. The latter are natives, who, after instruction from the Fathers, proceed into the jungles to bring the Church to the highly prejudiced natives of the interior.

Money, however, is not the only worry of the missionary in Bengal, although it is one of the most prominent, for the “steel like” caste system of India forces missionaries to live as comfortably as possible, or else the other classes will lose respect for them, and a great portion of the progress already made would be shattered.	.
Then there are the Japanese, who, by repeated bombings have reeked untold damage to missionary accomplishments. Especially is this true in regard to the mission at Chittagong, a town of 53,000 inhabitants on the east coast of the mouth of the Ganges, for this is but a short distance from Japanese-controlled Burma.
Even more troublesome than the Japanese, however, are the natives themselves. Their degraded living conditions
and their intense superstitions are a direct cause of Moslem and Mohammedan influences.	'
This, the unbelievably ancient civilization of millions of ignorant natives in addition to problems of supplies, militarism and countless other barriers, 30 missionaries have undertaken to bring into the Church. They need the help of Notre Dame students. Let’s support them in the Bengal Bouts!
New Racketeers Find
Haven on N. D. Campus
In the past students have been picked of their turkey and trimmings by. every conceivable scheme, including pools and professional book buyers.
The latest brainstorm of these Junior Comm an d o Dillingers has' been the picture coupon
racket, whereby for one green banana you receive a coupon on a downtown studio that entitles the purchaser to one gorgeous, de-lovely, tinted photograph, guaranteed to make the little woman think you are one up on Gable.
Here’s the way the racket has worked. There is a bang on' the door and a rejected gigolo peers in, his arm laden with a bunch of pictures—with so much coloring they look like the Navajos at ceremonial dances. Then, generous soul that he be, offers one coupon for one dollar. No takers. Well, through the charity of his heart and chopping off his commission, he’ll sell three for two dollars. But don’t tell the studio, fellahs! Finally, aft. er he has leveled off his machine gun, three students shell out two dollars and he rattles off the coupons.
He goes to the door and then stops to think the situation over. Well, fellahs, you know I was once in college myself. I’ll let someone have these last two for a . quarter a piece. He’ll sell coupons to everyone in that bull session if he has to go down to ten cents per on the final coupons. All the time he explains that : he is losing money, but then, he makes it up on the volume.
After the fleecing has been completed, the hero departs for greener pastures in another room. He’s two steps ahead of the G-men going down the stretch, but his lead is being whittled down rapidly. And take it from the Jaw, all that remains at . the end of his trail is a noose and a low limbed cottonwood tree.
Jim Cunningham
Number One campus entertainer. — He of the 190 pounds and mighty bag of cracks.... David Joseph Curtin.... Mas
ter of Dramaturgy, Master of Song, Master of Wit, and Master’ of Ceremonies. ... Started his buskining with the famous Black Friars years before his 75 inches of height became a trademark at the Washington Hall .extravaganzas.
Before heading for the halls of higher learning
after high school Big Dave rolled up a bank account by holding down a position he calls “sanitary engineer” with the Kodak company in his hometown, Rochester. ... Was all set for an Eastern institution when his N.D.-Fan sister sold him a ticket to South Bend.... Says Dave, “I didn’t know about the Saint Mary’s girls, otherwise she would have convinced me a lot quicker.”
“There’s nothing like the Sweetbriar girls,” continues Dave, “this malignant stuff about them that’s said and printed is all the bunk______ Great kids”.... The Curt likes blonds, brunettes and redheads, and claims he will go off to war with none in particular left behind.
Things are dull for the mighty Curt these days.... He’s rehearsing for the lead in “Tailor Made Man” which will open on the campus March 21.... Practicing his lines in the “Spirit of Notre Dame” which debuts at St. Mark’s tomorrow night . . . and getting ready to take over one of the main parts in the new campus musical which goes into production next week. . . . But outside of these minor activities, a few dates here and there, and his work as a journalism major, the life of Big Dave is one snooze after another.
Playing a role in a student-written-and-produced musical comedy has long been his big ambition. . . . Now that the great day nears Big Dave will admit, “I’m eatin’ my heart out for action,” as he daily curses the Sorin mailman for not bringing him his marine orders.
After a little fighting Dave would get into radio and lead a life of laughs, women and song. . . . Once conducted a
campus quiz show with Bearskin Downey. . . . “It was great, but we ran out of bear traps and couldn’t get any more contestants,” sighs the Curt opening his second pack of cigarettes for the day.
Dave reads Time and Neto Yorker. . . . Week-ends often at the Brown Derby in Chicago. . . . Hopes to torture Japs by bringing them back to Indiana and making them eat in the N.D. dining halls. . . . Spends much of his time listening to the sage of Sorin, Joe Gallagher.
"Scholastic" Queries
Sophomores on Cotillion
The Cotillion has gone to war: semi-formal, mid-week, freshmen, et al., and as is inevitable, students had various opinions to voice on the matter. Since it is the sophomore Centenary Cotillion, Scholastic has recorded the opinions of various sophs.
Sigismund Czarobski: “ 'Something new has been added’ is an expression used in many different ways—even concerning a soph Cotillion on a Tuesday night. The semi-fonnal angle of the dance I’m in favor of one hundred per cent. I always felt terribly uneasy in a tux and I never could do my intricate dancing arrange- . ment in a stiff dickey. Tell the gals I’ll be at my best in a plain conservative serge.”
Dan O’Neill: “I like this Tuesday night dance. It gives you an extended week-end with the gals. From Tuesday to Sunday is better than from Friday to Sunday. I also favor the informal idea because then I won’t be too conspicuous in Kew-pee’s after the dance.”	-
Frank Peluso: “Here’s to the boys who have finally decided to send the tux and tails to war—maybe now we’ll feel more like dancing. It’s freedom that counts, and this is the time to start thinking about liberty. Hats off to a really swell idea—it’s terrific.”
Lynn Bryan: “The idea of semi-formal is very satisfactory, but Tuesday night is not too handy.”
Tom Fry: “What do the guys want, an egg in their beer? We’re lucky to have a dance. Besides, stiff collars make my neck sore!”
Ed Noonan: “Since it’s our last dance we really ought to make this a formal affair. Besides we look good in tails. This Tuesday business isn’t so good, I’ve got an eight-hour schedule on Wednesdays.”
—Bob Davies
Play Set for March 21,22
Nightly rehearsals are being conducted to put the final polish on “A Tailor Made Man,” four-act comedy by Harry James Smith, to be presented in Washington hall on March 21 and 22, under the direction of Rev. Matthew A. Coyle, C.S.C.
The play, written several years ago and centered in the 1920’s, has been one of the most popular productions to hit the comedy stage. It was the first play to be produced by Father Coyle.
Popular Dave Curtin is cast in the male lead and is supported by Miss Barbara Dolezel, who plays the feminine lead.
New Navy V-12 Program
Outlined by Fr. Trahey
A new Reserve Officers Training Corps, V-12, will soon be in full swing. The distinguishing feature of this new reserve is that it will contain marine, coastguard and navy reserves.
Those who wish to enter V-12 must apply at Father Trahey’s office within the next few weeks. Applicants will take a general intelligence test on April 2.
If he passes this examination, the applicant then goes to the nearest V-12 registration center, at his own expense, where he will take a physical examination. (18-20 eyesight is required.)
Upon successful completion of this physical, the applicant must appear before a V-12 board, which will decide his acceptance.
The main body of those accepted will receive orders to report July 1, at which time they will be assigned to V-12 colleges and universities with pay and uniform. They will be allowed to choose, as far as possible, the branch of service they are to enter, (Marine, Coast Guard, or Navy) the university or college at which they are to receive their training, and the course they are to take.
Those who enter medical or dental school will be given the equivalent of a six year college course in medicine, and those in engineering will receive the equivalent of a four year course in a school of engineering. Those not in a special course will attend school for one year or more. It is expected that full college credit will be given for all courses successfully completed.
If time permits, V-12 men may participate in all school activities and other extra-curricular activities connected with the college they are attending.
—John Misz
10
> x > x sAdminUbuditMi M^utA ,	,	,	,	,
<^t.	■	. ' '-	'-'. '" '" '    — — --' ^"" ——	z	tSKJ
Dr. Allers Says War Is From Bad Philosophies
Dr. Rudolph Allers, professor of psychology at the Catholic University of America, spoke on “Philosophy in a Warring World” last Friday in the Law auditorium.
A graduate of the University of Vienna and internationally known for his work on the psychology of character, Dr. Allers stated that this war is a war of ideas born out of a numbei- of false philosophies. He said a good deal of war and trouble has resulted from bad philosophy and that the theory of Positivism should not be termed a philosophy at all.
The fact that our way of living has changed more in the last 100 years than it has in the period of 1500 years before is due to science, he said, but science, which is responsible for the advancement can only supply the means. We must use metaphysics to answer the ques-
Dr. Rudolph Allers
tion of who man is, and what he is here for. Dr. Allers believes that the ideas of Kant and Hegel are still reflected in much of our conduct.
Much of the philosophy today, he went on, has been drugged with science. Scientific propositions which are “true” today have to be given up tomorrow, so there is really no truth in them. “They have only the ‘latest truths’ which they come out with every day.”
In concluding the talk and tying it down to the present war he asked, “How shall we know the things we are fighting for are good if we have no standard of good?” Science, with its facts and figures cannot tell us why, only philosophy can solve the problem. Outside of our philosophy, he made clear, there is no
yard stick to order things; to measure things. Philosophy is the only true way to measure or figure the value of truth and goodness.
Dr. Allers spoke before a very interested audience and his speech was well applauded. Father Philip Moore, C.S.C., introduced the speaker.
Dioceses of Country to
Cut Centennial Program
The cooperation of Notre Dame clubs in a number of dioceses in the country which are celebrating their centennial along with Notre Dame has been curtailed along with the projected celebration here.
Most important among these is the Diocese of Chicago, erected in 1843, which almost became the site of the University through Father Stephen Badin, C.S.C., pioneer American missionary, who bought the land on which Notre Dame now stands. Fr. Badin was a close friend of the Indian agent in Chicago, who along with the missionary was vitally interested in the need for higher education in this locality.
Other dioceses which share 1843 as the founding year are: Hartford, Conn., Little Rock, Ark., and Pittsburgh, Pa., all of which have Notre Dame clubs situated within their boundaries.
School is Possible Site
For Service Training
Notre Dame was officially listed in a Washington release of March 2 as being among the 238 schools added to the number previously announced as selected for service training centers.
The University was named for inspection and possible contact in connection with the Navy’s new V-12 college program. No details of the extent or the effects of this program are known at present.
Fr. Sheedy Named Editor
Father Charles Sheedy, C.S.C., assistant prefect of religion at the University has taken over' the editorship of the Chaplain’s Digest, published by the Student Commission and the campus council of the Knights of Columbus.
Father Sheedy took over the position vacated by former editor Father Norman Johnson, C.S.C., who left for chaplain’s school.
List of Publications” .
Compiled by Fr. Moore
A Selected List of Publications of the Faculty of Notre Dame University will soon be made public. The List has been edited by Rev. Phillip Moore, C.S.C., who has long been engaged in collecting material for this purpose. A minimum of the publications have escaped his investigations, although some works by faculty
Compiles Faculty Book List
members who have long been gone from Notre Dame have probably been overlooked.
Although most of the items appearing on the List have been written by present members of the faculty, many names connected with the early history of Notre Dame will be found. Among these are Fathers Corby, Zahm, Scheier, Nieuw-land, Wenninger and Professors Lyons, Egan, Maurus, Phillips and Haas. Also among the authors listed will be found the names of the last six presidents of the University, Fathers Cavanaugh, Burns, Walsh, Charles O’Donnell, O’Hara and J. Hugh O’Donnell.
The list contains articles covering 31 fields of learning in both the arts and sciences. Among them are: philosophy, politics, sociology, history, law, education, biology, chemistry, physics, mathematics and metallurgy. Many of these have appeared or are appearing in learned jour-als and series sponsored by the University such as the American Midland Naturalist, Publications in Mediaeval Studies and the Reviezu of Politics.
Those who have been considered as members of the faculty for this List are the teachers who have held qualified positions on a departmental staff, with minimum rank of instructor, for at least one complete school-year.
Only items of scientific, critical, doctrinal or literary quality have been selected including books, articles and book reviews.—J. Ross LoCascio
11
Government Wil! Take
Faculty Prof, to China
Mr. Frank N. M. Brown, head of the department of aeronautical engineering of the University of Notre Dame and member of the faculty since 1935, has been named by the government to spend a year in China aiding in the organization of aeronautical education in Chinese universities.
Mr. Frank N. M. Brown
He is the inventor of a valuable highspeed space-time recording device now being used in improvement of landing gears in American plane production. Mr. Brown’s background of consulting engineering has linked him with many industrial firms. He was technical editor for the material division of the U. S. army air corps, and was attached to the U.S.S. Macon from 1933 to 1935 as aeronautical engineer.
Twenty-seven specialists were requested by the Chinese government to help in the education and reorganization of the curricula in the Chinese universities and Prof Brown’s unsolicited selection by the state department is a high personal tribute to his record, and reflects considerable credit on the College of Engineering at Notre, Dame.
Deep Secrecy Shrouds Science Hall Research
Hush hush is the attitude being taken . by all those connected in some manner in the Science and Physics laboratories of Notre Dame. It is no secret that important government research work is in the- making.
Atoms are being bombarded daily into thousands of bits by the gigantic atom-smasher. Experiments are carried out every day and careful records are being compiled. Undoubtedly scientific history is being recorded at Notre Dame.
The nature and progress of the work remains unknown and is a great mys7 tery to everyone except to those confined •within the science lab doors. The only thing your reporter was able to find out is that something big is brewing within
12
the confines. Results are expected to be attained which will be of great significance.
The only comment Rev. Henry J. Bolger, C.S.C., head of the department of physics, had to make is that there will be plenty of headline news after the war; for the present we must not let any news leak out.—Jim Daskaloff
Fisk Jubilee Singers
To Appear Here Monday
The Jubilee Singers of Fisk University, acclaimed by musicians as the finest vocal ensemble of the Negro race, will appear in concert in Washington Hall, Monday, March 15, at 8 p.m.
The tradition of the Jubilee Singers is a long and honorable one. On Oct. 6, 1871, the original Singers went forth from Fisk University to raise money to save their struggling school. Fisk University, located at Nashville, Tenn., at that time was little more than a cluster of abandoned barracks of the Union Army. Thanks to the zeal and sacrificing spirit of the original choral group, this embryo of Negro college education has been transformed into the present institution, famous for the high quality of its academic work and the strong leadership it provides for Negro communities all over the Nation. In 1933, Fisk University was approved by the Association of American Universities, the first Negro college to achieve that rating.
The present group of Jubilee Singers, under the direction of Mrs. James A. Myers, have sung with the symphony orchestras of Boston, Chicago, and Los Angeles, have recently made recordings for the Brittish Broadcasting Corporation, and are heard weekly over the coast-to-coast NBC network. They are acknowledged to be the greatest interpreters of Negro spirituals in the world today.
In these times, when cultures and traditions are being destroyed and abandoned, it is encouraging to find such a group as the Fisk Jubilee Singers singing the beautiful Negro spirituals which have an important place in the history of the Southland and in the cavalcade of American music.—Jim Murphy
Prof. Menger Lectures
Professor Karl Menger, head of the Notre Dame mathematics department, recently gave a Putnam Memorial Lecture at Harvard University. The Lecture is held annually at Harvard and was established four years ago. Professor Monger’s topic was on general geometry. Last year’s Putnam Memorial Lecture was also delivered by Professor Menger.
Special Lenten Services
Conducted Wednesdays
Another wartime Lent was ushered in as large numbers of students attended Sacred Heart Church for Ash Wednesday services. Ashes were distributed before and after Mass and breakfast was moved up to eight o’clock, with first classes in the morning being cancelled.
An announcement from the office of the prefect of religion stated that the Way of the Cross will be made in the various hall chapels at times to be announced by the respective hall rectors. Special provisions are being made so that members of the naval midshipmen school here on the campus may also attend.
Special Lenten services will be held each Wednesday evening in the main church, with the Rev. Thomas P. Irving, C.S.C., head of the department of religion, officiating.
Prof. Shanahan Delivers
War Speech at Luncheon
Prof. William 0. Shanahan, assistant professor of history at the University, delivered an address entitled “Grand Strategy of the War” last Monday before the weekly luncheon of the Association of Commerce.
Prof. William O. Shanahan
The analysis of war strategy dealt with questions of the necessity for a full scale western front invasion; whether the United Nations have manpower and production resources sufficient to win the war; and what steps are necessary to demolish the enemy’s war machine.
Michigan Engineer Talks For Society of Metals
Col. A. E. White, director of the department of engineering research of the University of Michigan addressed the March meeting of the University chapter of the American Society of Metals last Wednesday evening in the engineering auditorium.
Prof. White spoke on investigation concerning causes of corrosion of boiler tubes in power plants. A simple remedy was explained and illustrated with lantern slides.
THE EARS HAVE IT
By VAIL W. PISCHKE
Notre Dame students will have another opportunity to hear music from the Palais Royale when the campus studios atop the engineering building present the Sophomore Cotillion with Gracie Barrie and her orchestra. (Note: Radio club members are invited to try out for the announcing job on Monday from 3:30 to 5). The broadcast will be from 10:15 to 10:30 on Tuesday, March 16.
The following night, the radio club will have an important meeting. Guest speaker for the evening will be James Armstrong, of the Publicity Department. Several topics will be discussed, but the most important one will be the possibility of future improvements in N. D.’s broadcasting studio (hoping to make it “studios”) and equipment. Post-war plans call for Notre Dame to have its own broadcasting station, featuring the letters “WND”—no take-off intended on Alumni’s senders.
At the present time, N.D.’s airing over WSBT has been reduced greatly, due to commericalism and the war effort. Three shows are within ear’s reach every week: the N.D. Sportscast, with Bill Boss, Gene Fehlig, and Tony Early, heard on Tuesdays at 3:45; the N.D. Authors show, with Joe Flynn and George Bariscillo, heard on Thursday at the same time; and the N.D. Views and Previews show, with Warren Dana, Bob Martina and yours truly, heard on Saturdays at 12:30.
Laff of the week: Harry Hershfield, “clown prince” of “Can You Top This?” claims that Italy is getting out a new issue of stamps. Seems they had a stamp with the picture of Hitler and Mussolini, and people were spitting on the wrong side of the stamp!
Notes: The February report of the Cooperative Analysis of Broadcasting gives Fibber McGee and Molly the highest rating ever received by a half-hour commercial show in this particular radio survey. Fibber and Molly have started a new weekly series of recordings titled “Headlines from Home,” which will be shipped to Uncle Sam’s fighting men around the world.... March 27 will mark the introduction of the new Groucho Marx comedy over CBS. Its cast will in
clude the dead-pan comedy warbler, Virginia O’Brien, and Donald Dickson, the fine baritone who embarrassingly broke completely while trying to hit a B sharp on the Charlie McCarthy show last summer. ... Well, for the first time a film firm (Columbia) will sponsor 15-minute newscasts, with name reporters to do the gripesome but “radios-gotta-have-it” commercials.... Hope the rumors are wrong when they say that Fred Allen is on his last year of broadcasting. They say he wants to quit for good.
Finish-up: A big blow for Bill Boss, . Bob Martina, and Dan Tomcik for their work on the broadcast for the Junior-Senior dance last Friday at the Palais Royale. As they found out, it’s no fun to haul all the broadcasting equipment back to the University at 1 a.m. still having to set it all back in broadcasting position at the studio for the next day’s show.
Ghosts Move in Empty
Halls, Sub Also Vacant
Brownson and Carroll halls and Sorin sub, three of the oldest traditions at Notre Dame, are now being vacated, the University has announced. Carroll, shadowed these long years by the golden dome, has already been abandoned and the landlords have served notice on the tenants of Brownson and the Sub.
For a century the students of the University have been living the common life of the dormitory—the life of 120 roommates, dressing on the first floor, studying on the second, and sleeping on the third. Brownson and Carroll date back to the huge fire. They are housed in the main building, erected in 1879.
The regiments of green desks, scarred by time and students, and the long rows of tented beds, will be evacuated immediately and the dormitories, which antedate by many decades the resident halls of the Gold Coast, will be empty for the first time since the Main Building was opened. Now, only the ghost of Washington hall will live in those two wings and the only memory of past days will be a light left burning in the window by one of the former residents.
The occupants of Sorin Sub will be transferred to the stratosphere. Their rector has already given notice that they must leave the bowels of the earth because the hall, oldest on the campus, cannot stand the extra strain on its electricity, which has been caused by a sudden wave of burning the midnight oil as students crammed for the quarterlies.
Residents of the evacuated halls have been absorbed in other campus residential districts, where they have been in
troduced to the luxuries of life, including the Caf Society of Dillon and Alumni, and the famed Blue mural room of the Huddle, so close to Cavanaugh and Zahm, and numerous other benefits of modern civilization.
Passing of aged Brownson and Carroll has been accomplished without fanfare. Now, within the shadow of the Dome, only St. Edwards stands moaning, waiting the inevitable days when the axe must fall.—T. J. Pequigney
Students and Alumni Use New Prayerbook
The Prefects of Religion of the University have published a new Notre Dame prayerbook as part of the Centenary program. This 40-page book is not a substitute for the missal, but contains prayers for each day of the week and morning and evening prayers that generations of Notre Dame men have recited together on campus. Small and attractive, the prayerbooks are in demand by alumni, service men and parochial schools already.
Students may take them for their own use from the hall chapels. Additional copies may be had from the offices of the Prefects of Religion.
Novices Were Behind
N. D.'s "Irish Rebellion"
Ever hear of the “Irish Rebellion” of Notre Dame? The proximity of St. Patrick’s day recalls Fr. Hope’s account of the “rebellion” in his history of the school and her fighting Irish, recently published.
Says Fr. Hope: “A little balcony ran around the edge of the dome. The door leading to it was kept locked, but now and then some student got through. We know that Tim O’Sullivan made it on the 17th of March, about daybreak, and before anyone could stop him trumpeted ‘St. Patrick’s Day in the Morning.’ Fr. Sorin was very much chagrined.
“Fr. Sorin, in the interests of Americanism, once forbade any special celebration of St. Patrick’s day. Two young novices, Dave O’Leary and John Quinn, . were so aroused by this ‘unjust’ order that they went to the chapel, extracted the green ribbon from the missal, cut it in two, pinned it on their surplices and marched into the sanctuary. Years later, Quinn returned, a fine priest and a noble monsignor, to deliver the baccalaureate, sermon, in what was interpreted as a vindication of the ‘Irish Rebellion’.”
—Joe Wilcox
13
"Scrip's" Recent Years Show Development Of Magazine Into All-Student Publication
Clear, simple, but fresh and forceful writing has always characterized Scrip, the University literary quarterly. Each issue has been a milepost for the magazine and for its student contributors in that it has provided a medium for the expression of the more serious thinking
of young minds. As a publication the quarterly hit one of its most significant mileposts with the second number of the 1934 volume. That issue was a memorial to the late Charles Phillips, world-renowned University English instructor who had died only recently when the number was published.
Charles Phillips was a friend; a friend of the University, the students, and of Scrip. It was his nature to be a friend of all who knew- him. The memorial issue was dedicated in its entirety to Charles Phillips.
On the second page of the magazine was an insert sketch of the English professor, and opposite that, on the third page, G. K. Chesterton said: “Charles Phillips was a man who could not be mistaken. Charity shone from him like a nimble light, and the great work he did on the history of Poland, the most tragic and chivalric of nations, was but one example of a general instinct of generosity for taking a handsome view of human problems, which was obvious in his contact with any student or stranger. I know one stranger at least, who will never forget him.”
The edition contained many works concerning Phillips, and was interspiced with some selections, of his poetry. Norbert Engels wrote Transmutation For Charles Phillips, and many other contributors, including Brother Leo, F.S.C., professor of literature at St. Mary’s college in Oakland, Calif., and Margaret
Anglin, Laetare medalist in 1927, sang the man’s praises.
Charles Phillips came to Notre Dame and joined the English department in 1924. He had been editor of a diocesan weekly in San Francisco. He often appeared before the disciplinary board to plead the case of some student, and boys would tell how he would often spend the greater part of a night talking to them in an attempt to iron out their problems. Among his innumerable books were Back Home; The New Poland; High in Her Tower, and the biography of Paderewski: The Story of a Modern Immortal, which, perhaps significantly, hit the stands almost on the same day that Charles Phillips died.
As Scrip grew older, the list of contributors mounted. Familiar names among the writers were T. Bowyer Campbell, Dr. Daniel C. O’Grady, John Frederick Nims, and Dr. Francis E. McMahon.
In later years Scrip became an entirely student publication. This was as it should be, and the quality and calibre of work appearing in the magazine continued to improve. The last years of Scrip have been particularly noteworthy.
In several recent editions appeared the names of Dan Canale, University tennis captain, and Albert Del Zoppo, last year’s freshman basketball mentor. Other names, too, became familiar, such as those of C. J. Kirby, Don Connors, George Kelly, John Gilligan, Joseph Hil-
The late Professor Charles Phillips
lebrand, and John Sprague, who contributed as freshmen and continued to write until they were graduated.
In March, 1941, editor Felix Pagliano, Jr., experimented with turning Scrip into a slick magazine. The slick paper lasted two issues, but with the coming of a new school year the editors returned to the old paper. In the past year editor- Jack Gilligan brought out two -issues of the
publication; it is now being published once a semester instead of quarterly. These issues were “among the best ever-published.” Now, in March, 1943, editor Edward Meagher is preparing copy and doctoring manuscripts for another edition of Scrip.
Scrip is a student publication. It has maintained a high literary standard throughout its existence and has not had an easy path down through the years. Nevertheless it has struggled to provide the best of student offerings, and has never fallen away from its principles of decent and honest writing. This, in itself, is commendable. Certainly the editors of the magazine can feel justified in choosing to sacrifice unanimous campus popularity in order that they might follow the ideals which have established the magazine as one of the country’s outstanding literary efforts.
Opportunity Offered to
School's "Young Women"
The Scholastic’s own special press service has received notice that between 80 and 100 young damsels between the ages of 18 and 22 will start a radio technician training course at Purdue University around May 1.
The announcement was made to Scholastic from Julius Haber; of the Press Department of the Radio Corporation of America through his abbreviated tabloid, Netos Information.
Scholastic, in passing, merely notes that the number of coeds from Notre Dame enrolling at the technicians school will be relatively small, and unless Purdue should be able to uncover a couple of promising halfbacks and perhaps two or three tackles in the new group, it will hardly be worth the effort.
However, interested candidates may write to F. H. Kirkpatrick, RCA Victor Division, Radio Corporation of America, at Camden, N. J.
More N.D. Men Fighting Now Than in First War
Statistics show that already Notre Dame has given more of her men in this war than in World War I.
The memorial door of Sacred Heart church lists 46 who died in the first World War, and office records testify that 2,200 students took part in the battles and six priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross served as chaplains.
Thus far in .this war the number is close to 3,000 and still climbing, with students leaving for various branches of the service, while the known number of dead is about 35. Twenty priests have left to become chaplains.
14
V3L_	__ -■	11	—	'	—	-- ---■	, -fey
> > > > NtUM^ al Ao/te ^barne > > > e^< ■■	-■■ - -       ■■	~~ ~~ ~	——»??
WGN To Air Navy Quiz
Midshipmen will have the novel experience of getting paid for answering questions.
The “Shoot the Works” radio quiz program will be at the school this Friday night. The show will start at 1930 in the drill hall.
Two pretty girls will circulate among the audience of midshipmen and station personnel and select men who will be asked questions.
The first question pays a dollar even if it isn’t answered correctly. From then on it doubles in value until the last question is reached. Then you are asked:
“Do you want to keep what you have or ‘shoot the works’?”
If the person being questioned accepts the challenge and answers correctly he is paid $32.
Midshipmen will be marched to the hall at 1900—a half-hour before the show , starts—in order that the procedure may ' be explained to them before the program goes on the air.
The show will be broadcast by station IVGN in Chicago.
Service Men Statistics
In compiling statistics of the present class of midshipmen, the Public Relations Office discovered that—
There are 46 states represented.
293 colleges.
96 fraternities.
That—
Dartmouth leads in the number of alumni—96.; University of Minnesota is second with 35; Illinois third with 24; Wisconsin 21; John Carroll 19, and Michigan 19.
Sigma Nu and Phi Delta Theta have the most members here with 22 apiece; Alpha Tau Omega is second with 18; Lamda Chi Alpha has 16; Beta Theta Pi has 15, and Sigma Chi 14.
If the following men live up to their scholastic records in college they should be up around the 3.8 boys in their marks at the Midshipmen’s School:
Samuel Allcorn, Jr., U. of Newark, Summa Cum Laude; R. E. Bacon, St. Louis U., Cum Laude; A. E. Balocca, John Carroll, Magna Cum Laude; John Black, Harvard, Magna Cum Laude; H. E. Blake, Atlantic Christian, Who’s Who
in American Universities; A. S. Bolster, Jr., Dartmouth, Summa Cum Laude; H. W. Brunn, Minnesota, Cum Laude.
The late Morrissey Hall
L. B. Cappuccio, Boston U. Law, Cum Laude; D. F. Chester, State Teachers of Pennsylvania, Who’s Who in American Universities; J. E. Connor, Mt. St. Mary’s, Cum Laude; J. R. Covington, Ohio State, Cum Laude; R. B. Dawson, Texas Tech, Who’s Who in American Universities; P. L. Defliense, C.C.N.Y. & N.Y.U., Cum Laude; J. W. Dority, Providence; Who’s Who in American Universities.
W. J. Georgitis, Bowdoin, Who’s Who in American Universities; Adam Gifford, Portland U., Who’s Who in American Universities; R. G. Hammond, Utah U-, Who’s Who in American Universities; P. J. Hanley, U. of San Francisco, Cum Laude; N. R. Heller, N. Y. U., Cum Laude; R. J. Hodous, John Carroll, Cum Laude; L. J. Keyes, Minnesota, Magna Cum Laude; R. P. King, Muskingum, Cum Laude. . ’ .
M. V. Loyde, Dartmouth, Cum Laude;
J. B. Malley, Dartmouth, Cum Laude; J. A. Maloney, Providence, Cum Laude; E. G. Miller, Dartmouth, Cum Laude; A. B. Nagy, Moravian, Who’s Who in American Universities; E. F. Neagle, Notre Dame, Magna Cum Laude; R. D. Noble, U. of Iowa, Who’s Who in American Universities; B. Olswanger, Memphis State, Who’s Who in American Universities; J. R. Oppenheimer, Dartmouth, Magna Cum Laude.
• P. L. Parker, Dartmouth', Cum Laude; D. N. Rothman, Johns -Hopkins, Who’s Who in American Universities; A- G. Rud, Dartmouth, Magna Cum Laude; G. R. Stange, Harvard, Summa Cum Laude; S. J. Stein, Harvard, Cum Laude; R. E. Stokes, Howard Payne, Who’s Who, in American Universities; B. E. Thompson, John Carroll, Who’s Who in American Universities; R. N. Watson, Dartmouth, Cum Laude.
M. L. Wehle, Harvard, Magna Cum Laude; Stanley Williams, Southwestern, Who’s Who in American Universties; W. J. Wuebbold, Notre Dame, Cum Laude; L. M. Christ, Rensselaer, Who’s Who in American Universities; C. F. Devoe, Hays State, Who’s Who in American Universities; T. G. Townes, Tenn. Stater Who’s Who in American Universities.
Navy Marks University Official Training Depot
The University of Notre Dame has been designated as an official school for increased Navy training, but there are no details as to what that actually means. The Navy is at present making a survey of the. facilities not already in its use. However, the services have announced a policy which permits at least 25% of the facilities of schools selected by them to be operated on an independent basis by the school itself to permit academic continuity and to provide • education for those not coming under any service training program. The students and faculty will be advised of developments as soon as they can be defined.
In the present semester, which began Jan. 20, 250 Notre Dame students have left the campus for various branches of the armed services. Largest single group to leave was the Army Air Corps reserve, which took 147 students. Others have gone at the request of local draft boards.
15
Annual Bengal Bout
Honorary Referee: Lieut. Arthur Donovan
Lt. Arthur Donovan, U.S.N., the most illustrious referee in boxing’s aged history, will officiate at the finals of the 12th Annual Bengal Bouts in the University fieldhouse, March 19.
A telegram from the ring luminary early this week announced his plans for arriving in South Bend the day of the finals and officiating the charity matches in the fieldhouse that evening.
Donovan has for many years been the standout boxing judge of the nation. A. championship match with announcer Harry Balogh’s voice echoing, “Arthur Donovan, the referee." is now a tradition
Scannell, Dove, Waters Condition Bengaleers
The training and conditioning of the
Bengal fighters this year is in the hands of three top notch men. Professor John Scannell, head of the department of physical education; Bob Dove, All American end of Leahy’s Fighting Irish squad, and Chuck Waters, 175 pound' champ of last year’s Bengals, have put in many hours with the boxers prepping them for their gruelling tests.
Mr. Scannell is director of interhall
athletics and has been actively connected with the interhall program for several years. He has always shown interest in the annual bouts and this year is engaged in supervising the preparations of the fighters.
Former Champ Kermit Rousseve throws a hard right at an unfortunate opponent
of the boxing world. Lt. Donovan, who enlisted in the Navy late last fall, has worked many bouts during the past decade. He has broken the clinches of Braddock, Baer, Schmeling, Louis, and a score of other boxing champions. His impressive record of fairness has made him the idol of the nation’s boxing public.
Lt. Donovan has been directing physical preparedness classes at the Providence, R. I., Navy base. He is one of the most respected members of Lt. Tom Hamilton’s service sports program. He is the father of Arthur Donovan, Jr., of Breen-Phillips hall.
Bob Dove, from Youngstown, 0., was
named All-American end for the last two years by most of the sports writers throughout the country. He is a senior in the department of physical education and will graduate this coming spring. Bob is in charge of getting the men in shape for the big nights.
Chuck Waters of Chicago, Ill., takes over for the instruction in ring tactics. Chuck captured the 175 pound title last
year and is well versed in this field. He has drilled this knowledge into the 50 battlers for the past weeks and reports all men ready for three rounds of fast, interesting action as March 16, 17, and 19 rapidly approach.
Bob Dove and Chuck Waters, student A. Scannell, supervisor of instruction. Al Waters have whipped the boxers into fine
Quinlan Only Returnim Fifty Fighte
BILL
One lone champion will step between the ropes to defend laurels won in ’42.
Farrell Quinlan, of Lake Bomoseen, Vt.,
and lord of the 155’s, will alone start at the top. Two weeks ago, Sammy Atwater, one of Notre Dame’s top men on the canvas square, left for Florida and the Army Air Corps, and abdicated from his 135 pound
throne. So now, more than ever, the Bengal Bouts will be a struggle, not between two or three men, but 50.
Under the capable tutelage of Chuck Waters, 1942 light heavyweight champ from Chicago, now a sophomore in Phy-Ed, and footballei- Bob Dove, aspirants have daily worked in the boxing and apparatus rooms of the Rockne Memorial. With Bob building the muscles, and Chuck coordinating them, the faithful
16
Start Next Tuesday
tructors, talk things over with Mr. John lerican End Dove and Bengal Champ 3e.
lengal Champ;
Will Tangle for Titles
KEY
flock has developed into a sturdy, ringwise body of possible champs. Now it’s up to the boys themselves. Next Tuesday will tell the story.
In the 127’s Frank Debitetto looks like the class. A freshman trackster from St. Ed’s and brother of an old Bengal veteran, he is fast and throws a lightning left. Mahoney, a lad who is having trouble with his weight, will be troublesome if he makes the limit. Bog Gaffney, a late starter, has come along smoothly and is a contender, as are Tim Crowe, troubled by sickness, Tom King and Clemens.
A summer champion, Joe Farrell, will move one grade up the scale and try to tie on to the now vacated 135 lb. title. Though experienced and a vicious counter puncher, Joe will find the going rugged against spirited Don Hummer, a definite cnner, and Cyr, a formful tosser. Not to be overlooked are Larry Leonard, a
promising Canadian, McCarthy, Seghers and Roney.
Lightweights Laden with Talent
The lightweight division should be a battle royal between Wally Romito, Bob Lee, Bill Leonard and Caron. Romito is a veteran summer campaigner and victor. Lee is a heady boy and a hard hitter, as are Leonard and Caron. Lalone’s natural talent and fine build marks him as dangerous, while hard working Frank' Fitzpatrick has steadily improved. Also worthy of favorable mention are Jack Murphy, Vince Laurita, Shellworth, Freda, Conoty, and a southpaw, Patane.
Strongest challenge to Farrell Quinlan’s reign over the 15-5’s will probably come from Virgil Turner, brother of Bulldog Turner of Hardin-Simmons and Chicago Bear fame. Though a smooth fist flinger himself, Turner will face in veteran Quinlan a stylish operator with a deadly right. Other contenders include Bennett, Cooney and Willett.
Frank Lonbardo, a “fancy dan” with the mittens, is a slight favorite in the middleweight division. .A sophomore in Phy-Ed, Frank fought as a welterweight last year. His bitterest opposition will come from Don Hester, and Dick Arado, another muscle major. Warren “Sugar” Kane, Bud O’Reilly and Mike Cutt all have the ability to emerge winners. Their presence lends added zest to the compe-tion, which also includes Bill Bevington and Paul Ragan.
Just as in the 165’s, the light-heavyweight battle will be decided in the ring, not on paper. Every entry has the physique and ability to bring home a sweater. Bill Lightheiser, an angular, sun-tanned native of Florida has the punch to win. Conscientious Bill Martin is another powerhouse with great potentialities. Nelson “Jack” Boswell, Hanson and Carroll are equally fine prospects.
Heavyweights Scarce
Up high on the Fairbanks, Theodore Joseph Budynkiewicz and Danny Scherrer appear to have things all to themselves—they are the only entries as yet. It may develop, however, that if some of the light-heavies can’t make the 175 lb. limit, the ranks may be swelled. The Bull has thirty pounds on Danny and is an aggressive, powerful puncher. His right hand, with 220 pounds of beef behind it, carries plenty of authority. Scherrer also, has mule kick in either glove. This battle should be one of the top attractions on Friday night.
So now, until the bell calls the boys around Referee Arthur Donovan in the center* of the apron on next Friday night for instructions, the names on the championship program will remain in doubt. Remember! anything can, and usually does happen, in the Bengal Bounts.
Fighters Eye Awards
As "Big Night” Nears
To the pugilistic brethren amongst us, “Bengals, dead ahead,” is the watchword of the moment. On Tuesday evening next, some 50 hardy aspirants for campus boxing titles will throw leather in the Field House. After semi-finals on Wednesday, and the mammoth show on Friday, seven champions will have been crowned Kings of the Fighting Irish. Material reward, too, awaits the victors, for to the finalists in each class, boxing sweaters and emblems will be awarded.
Also on the prize table will be two beautiful trophies, awarded annually. The first, and traditionally the oldest, is presented by the “Huddle,” through manager E. F. Connolly, the Bengal Bouts Sportsmanship Trophy. Last year it was won by red-headed Tommy Spencer, who lost his 135 pound title to freshman Sammy Atwater.
The other trophy is awarded permanently to the hall scoring the highest number of points according to A.A.U. rules. It is the donation of William Lubber, South Bend sports enthusiast and propri-tor of the Recreational Equipment Co., (Reco). In 1941 it went to Alumni, and last year to Badin Hall, which was “home” to three winners.
If you like Action you’ll like the Bengals
17
'	, ; , , faite ^bame. Sp&tiA. , , , , ,
N. D. Netmen Seek Win in Season's Finale Detroit Defense Demoralizes Opposition
BILL BROWN
Once again the Notre Danie fieldhouse is going to get the action it craves, action that has been lacking since the University of Wisconsin left here earlier in the season. Tonight, the basketball Titans from the University of Detroit invade the Irish court with their air-tight defensive formations.
The Titans’ defense is judged the best in the nation by the National Collegiate Athletic Bureau; the human web has held the opposition a per-game average of only 27.4 points. Notre Dame has averaged better than 55 points each game; Illinois also had a 55-point average when they challenged the Titans and was held to a mere 38 points. The Titans themselves bank an average of 43 points in each fracas.
Detroit’s coach, Lloyd Brazil, is of the Maginot Line school of thought, firmly believing that a good defense is a good offense no matter how one looks at it. Detroit has won 14 out of 18 games to date which goes to back up Brazil’s contention. Remember, though, that the Germans by-passed the Maginot Line, and Loyola of Chicago, unaware of Brazil’s axiom or ultimatum on defense hit Detroit for 52 points on March 1.
Detroit, too, has been adjudged the best team in the state of Michigan by the selective board for the annual Intercollegiate Basketball Tourney which picked the Titans to represent the state in the tourney this year at Kansas. City. Detroit had to decline the offer because of previously scheduled contests.
Individual honors on the team undoubtedly go to Lee Knorek, Joe Mader, and Art Stolkey. Knorek is their 6 foot 1 inch center who is currently leading the team in scoring. His work under the baskets, Detroit’s and their opponents’, is remarkable because of his height.
Mader and Stolkey are the forwards in the starting line-up. Mader has the qualities of a good guard; he can step in and steal the ball on a dribble, turning the opponents’ threat into a Detroit scoring play.	.
Art Stolkey is the captain of the team and last year’s top scorer. This season his scoring has slipped but his defensive ability has picked up to the, point of equalling fellow forward, Joe Mader. :
Jack Quinn and Ray Kelly are the unsung guards of the team who complete the defensive fivesome.
A new form of "The Ballet"
This will be the final game of the 194243 season for the Fighting Irish and has all the aspects of turning into the best game of all even considering Carnegie Hall. What with the Irish offense and the Titan defense it could even develop into a stalemate. But basketball is free from such a leash.
Interhall Basketeers
Await Crucial Games
Bob Erkins
Interhall basketball is now drawing to an end with a great deal of interest being shown. The scores have been close and the teams have had to play many overtimes to try and. decide the champions of each league. The winners of each league will be decided on a percentage basis; Light and Heavy winners will play for the championship on the varsity floor in the fieldhouse. Medals will be awarded to the winners of the Heavyweights and the Lightweights. As the teams stand
now, a win or a loss by the top members will change the whole picture. In case of a tie, the teams concerned will play it off. At present the Lightweight leagues have been having practice games so that their series will be finished at the same time as the Heavyweights. This practice will allow the winners of the Lights to be better prepared to meet the winners of the Heavies.
Bill Amann will announce through the coming Scholastic his choice for the Interhall All-Star team. The best players of the different leagues will compose this quintet. There -will also be a playoff between the Rockne League and the New League at a later date. It is now planned that after the interhall series are finished, there will be some post season games added.	-
Heavyweight I
The Cavanaugh heavies now have a firm grasp on first place, having won five and lost none. Alumni I and Sorin are knotted for second place with four wins and one loss. Each team has fought hard to try and overcome its opponent.
Heavyweight II
The other teams have been unable so far to break the hold that Alumni II has on first place. Alumni II has four wins and no defeats to theix* credit. Close behind them comes Dillon II with three wins and one loss. In third place are the Walsh and the N.R.O.T.C. teams, with three wins and two defeats each.
. Lightweight I
Cavanaugh and Breen-Phillips are still tied for first place. The men of Breen-Phillips have won foui' and lost none, while the Cavanaugh team has three wins and a cipher in the loss column. Dillon is close behind with two wins and one loss.
- Lightweight II
The Naval R.O.T.C. is now far ahead in their games. They have won four games and have as yet to lose any. Zahm is second with two wins and a loss, while Off Campus is third with two for two.
Following a suggestion made by the fighters themselves, no complimentary tickets for the Bengal Bouts will be issued. Promoters, managers, officials, and boxers will all pay their way into the Fieldhouse. This step was suggested by participants in order that larger gate receipts could be turned over to the Bengal Missions.
18
Standings as of Feb. 19 to March 5.
Heavyweights
LEAGUE I	w	L	pct.	LEAGUE II	w	L	PCT.
Gavanaugh	5	0	1.000	Alumni II	4	0	1.000
Alumni I	4	1	.800	Dillon II	3	1	.750
Sorin	4	1	.800	Walsh	3	2‘	.600
Dillon I	3	2	.600	N.R.O.T.C.	3	2	.600
Alumni III	2	3	.400	Zahm	2	2	.500
Dillon III	1	3	.250	St. Ed’s	0	4	.000
Law Club	0	4	.000	Brownson	0	4	.000
Breen-Phil.	0	5	.000				
Lightweights
LEAGUE I	w	L	PCT.	LEAGUE II	W L PCT.		
Breen-Phil.	4	0	1.000	N.R.O.T.C.	4	0	1.000
Cavanaugh	3	0	1.000	Zahm	2	1	.667
Dillon	2	1	.667	Off Campus	2	2	.500
Law Club	2	2	.500	Alumni	1	2	.333
Sorin	0	3	.000	Walsh	1	3	.250
St. Ed’s	0	4	.000	Brownson	1	3	.250
Red Wings, Hot Shots
Top New Net League
Four new teams have been added to the New League, as a greater interest is developing in the latest of the intercampus basketball leagues. The new teams are, the Hoosier Hot Shots, the Phantoms, the Tee A. C., and the Back Bay Angles.
The New League has brought out and . developed some fine players in the last few weeks, who have shown their ability in their latest games.
The Cavanaugh A. C. was defeated by the Hoosier Hot Shots, 18-36. Livingstone of the winners scored 18 points. The Bat Roosters, with the aid of Ankenbruck’s 16 points, were able to trounce the B-19’s 53-19. The Colonels suffered their second defeat at the hands of the Cosmos. Jim Kennedy tallied 28 points for the winners; the score was 53-23. The Red Wings easily defeated the Civil Engineers, 48-15. Dries dropped the ball into the hoop for 13 points for the Reds. With the aid of Jim Donovan’s nine points, the Hoosier Hot Shots in a close game won over the Zahm Zombies, 25-21.
The B-19’s lost to the Cavanaugh A.C., 49-17. Johnson of the A.C.’s scored 11 points. The Red Wings, with the help of Gorman’s 10 points, defeated the Bat Roosters in a close and hard fought game. The score was 32-31. Cavanaugh A.C., led by Mazza’s 24 points, was able to defeat the Phantoms by the score of 51-28. The Hoosier Hot Shots, with Donovan’s 16 points, defeated the Civil Engineers whose high point man was Warren with 10 points. The score, 44-30. The Colonels were defeated, by the B-19’s, 31-41. McDonald of the Colonels and Cul-
linen of the B-19’s each tallied 14 points.
The New League will finish its games the last of March and will hold an elimination contest. The contest will decide the New League champion and this champion will enter into a playoff with the Rockne Memorial League. The New League will decide its best team by seeding the teams according to their standings.	-
Standings as of Feb. 19 to March 5.
New League '	■
TEAM	W	L	PCT.
Red Wings ______________ 3	0	1.000
Hoosier Hot Shots ______ 3	0	1.000
Cavanaugh A. C. _________2	1	.667
Zahm Zombies ___________ 1	1	.500
Cosmos _________________ 1	1	.500
Civil Engineers ________ 1	2	.333
Bat Roosters ___________ 1	2	.333
B 19’s _________________ 1	2	.333
Colonels  0	3	.000
Back Bay Angles_________ 0	•	0	.000
Tee A. C________________ 0	0	.000
Phantoms _______________ 0	0	.000
Netmen Approach End Of Brilliant Season
The Notre Dame basketball team again set their sights on the victory trail last Tuesday when they drubbed Butler, 64-32, in the fieldhouse.
In the first ten minutes, the Irish dumped 20 points through the cords and pulled steadily ahead throughout the remainder of the game. Bob Faught and Tom Brennan led the point parade with 12 each.
After pulling out to a safe lead in the first half, Coach Ed Krause substituted freely, using 16 players in the rout. The Irish hit 26 of their 77 attempted field goals and sank 12 out of 14 in the free throw column.
. Subdue Spartans - ~
Paced by- rangy Bob Faught, who garnered 16 points, the Irish outscored a stubborn Michigan State quintet, 4542, at East Lansing.	.	. .
From the opening gun, it proved to be a ding-dong battle with the lead chang-* ing constantly. The Irish spurted to an early 6-2 lead, but Cawood found the range and the Spartans went in front, . 9-8. The two teams matched goals for the remainder of the half, ending with a knotted 22-22 score. - After the intermission the Irish pulled out to a short lead, but Michigan State hung, on till the closing seconds of play.
Bob Faught took the scoring honors with six field goals and four fouls. White
and Cawood mustered 15 and 13, respectively, for the losers.	;
Smother Wabash
Captain Charlie Butler and his gang put an abrupt halt to a 14-game winning streak of Wabash by slaughtering. the visitors, 69-34. Flashing brilliant speed and teamwork, the Irish picked up a quick lead that was never seriously threatened. The visiting Hoosiers were always behind the winners by at least 13 points.
Bob Faught and Frankie Curran headed the long list of Irish, scorers, while Greve starred for the losers.
Out-last Marquette
The Marquette Hilltoppers gave the Irish netmen a stiff battle before succumbing, 49-47, last Saturday evening-It was win number 16 in 18 games for the Blue and Gold squad.
The Krause-men built up an early lead, but the Hilltoppers came right back to trail at the half by only one point. The Irish again stepped out in front, 39-35, as the second period progressed. Skat of Marquette pulled the Hilltoppers up to a 47-46 advantage with 30 seconds remaining, but Bob Rensberger tied it up with_a free throw. Captain Butler then came through with a beautiful “sleeper” and it was all over.
Curran, with 12 points, and Butler, .with 10, led the winners’ attack. Skat, Kuffel, and Chandler accounted for 35 of Marquette’s 47 points.	'
Surprise Sailors
The Irish hardwood gang tasted the sweetness of revenge last "Monday night when, they handed Great Lakes a 44-42 overtime setback before an exclusive saQ-or crowd at Great Lakes Naval Training Station.
During the entire regulation game the two teams .matched points with neither team able to pull out to a safe lead. Tom Brennan accounted for the overtime with a two-pointer- in the midst of a wild - scramble under the basket. From here, the Irish took command as completely as Great Lakes did in last month’s encounter which they won 60-56. Charlie Butler hit for two points, Frankie Curran added a free throw, and Great Lakes got a pair on charity tosses by Schumacher and Sobek. Bob Rensberger put a black out on the Sailors hopes with a long set shot. The losers best efforts gave them one free throw and a great Irish victory was recorded.
19
BILL BOSS
sey, Tunney,
Warming the Bench
With Bill Boss --	—	-	' "'	■-=ae»
Mashed between scores of hearty sports spectators and flaunting wild tangles of sunlight that all but blurred vision we watched a parade of boxing champions paying tribute to Billy Conn in a ring erected in Grover Whelan’s Court of Nations at New York World’s Fair.
And even as Demp-’onard, Canzoneri and
the rest of the boxing’s minions glided by we waited with tickling interest to hear the greatest contemporary boxer of tlie era, Henry Armstrong, speak. Armstrong, triple crown holder, stood erect and smiling as loquacious Harry Balogh announced him. Then a cheer that could. be heard from Flushing to Rye echoed from the thousands that crowded the arena. Homicide Hank’s reception overcrowded that of any the Harlem favorite, Joe Louis, had ever received in the Metropolitan area. His words showered through the tepid air that day and crammed their way to the heart of every patron. Truly, Henry Armstrong was a great fighter, a deserving champion.
We remember watching Hammering Hank sprint around the ring. He wasn’t the slow shuffler with dynamic fists like many of his contemporaries. But he was an alert scientifically-bound adherent of pugilism. His style shadowed the swooping “bolo” chop of Ceferino Garcia and the revolving mitts of Beau Jack.
1937 was Armstrong’s outstanding year. He whipped opponents of all shades and annexed three crowns during the span. But then Hank began to fade. Finally, Fritzie Zivic’s molded dethroning fists clashed and the last of Henry’s titles. tottered and fell. Armstrong was a torn boxer, badly bruised and scarred from overactive ring engagements. Two-fisted aggressiveness inlaid with simoon slashes were the indelible markings of Henry’s boxing greatness.
The mind of the boxing world was slowly rinsed of the memory, of Henry Armstrong and when he recently stalked. the comeback lane the .dubious gentry shook their heads. But to the. wonder-' ment of all, ..Homicide Hank buckled through 15 consecutive, bouts with only
' 20.	. -J
one uncertain setback marring his record. An operation that erased dangerous tissue beneath his eyes supposedly set the little keg for bruising combat.
“Sugar Ray” Robinson, who during' the past month has broken even with Jakie La Motta in a pair of duels, refused to meet the colored boy, not from fear of Hank’s electric fists but for fear of permanently injuring the game battler. Last week Willie Joyce, who is stationed fifth in current lightweight ratings, sliced and outboxed Armstrong on the coast which should give Hank ample warning that he is wobbling with the years.
Beau Jack, the Georgia shoe artist,. whose “duration” title has been tampered by the veteran Fritzie Zivic in two tight bouts, is scheduled to battle Armstrong in Madison Square Garden on April 2. Jack, you’ll recall, is the locker ro o m attendant enthusiastic sportswriters sent from Bobby Jones’ Augusta layout to eastern rings. When Armstrong was swinging on the pinnacle of his tri-crown Jack was dangling an impressive winning streak in the lower sections. Freddy Archer, however, halted the southerner’s stretch swinging cruel punches at Royal Windsor Palace early in ’42. Cruising in jagged bounces Jack finally bounded from the ring with a creditable victory over Terry Young at the St. Nicholas Arena later in the year and has been climbing over the smooth links that chain Sammy Angott’s vacant throne. Should the Armstrong-Jack bout see Garden canvas it may be the most destructive move in Armstrong’s long and partially successful comeback act which has been directly influenced by floundering finances. Armstrong’s eyes are tender and subseqeunt punishment from as fierce a thumper as the Georgian may cripple Henry for life.
Jack’s consistent head punches and wicked slashes to the jowls that he so fluently exhibited against the waning Zivic may crush the weak tissues around Armstrong’s eyes. Hank’s tutors and friends have constantly pleaded that he should not enter the square with a competent gladiator. The chalk list that he has battered behind him are, in some re-^spects, notably proficient sluggards but Armstrong has never faced a foe as brilliantly guarded by a pair of cast fists as Jack possesses since his championship days. Blindness could quickly shade the optics of the game fighter but he shuns the idea and resolves to grasp needed cash while he is still able. Such = effects may not result in the scheduled . engagements. We hope not but the boxing populace would be greatly saddened if such1 a grand: sportsman as Henry Armstrong were incapacitated for life.
N.R.O.T.C. Riflemen Win
One of Three Matches
Despite their best shooting of the season, the Naval R.O.T.C. rifle team was unable to do better than win one of their last three matches. The Irish shooters were able to score a 909 to 863 victory over the Naval R.O.T.C. of the University of New Mexico but fell short of the 927 and 917 totals turned in by the U.C.L.A. and Georgia Tech units respectively.
The one victory and two defeats give the N.R.O.T.C. a season total of three wins and eight losses. The triumphs were registered over Marquette, Michigan and New Mexico while Pennsylvania, Colorado, Tulane, Virginia, West Virginia, Oklahoma, Georgia Tech, and U.C.L.A. hold victories over the Notre Dame squad.
Thomas B. Mahar, of Fair Haven, Vt., led the Irish sharpshooters with 186 points out of a possible 200. This is the best individual score turned in by the Notre Dame team to date. John H. Zwicker, Appleton, Wis., and Alan H. Guard, Geneva, N. Y., tied for the second spot with 182. They were followed closely by Edward K. Handlan, of St. Louis, Mo., with 180 and Donald A. Finelli, of New York, N. Y., with 179.
Four more matches remain on the Irish schedule before the firing for the Hearst Trophy. These meets are with Northwestern, Minnesota, North Carolina and Rice. Following the Hearst Trophy match will be a special Naval R. O. T. C. meet which will end the season.
Irish Ace Photographer
Retires After 20 Years
Harry Elmore, whose air views, commencement pictures, and sport shots have been seen by Notre Dame followers and students for the last 28 years has retired to live in Miami, Fla.
Thus has departed the free-lance and newspaper photographer who has shot every major Notre Dame event for the past years. In his files repose over 20,000 negatives which are a veritable history of Notre Danfe since the First World War. He has also collected many negatives and pictures of old Notre Dame.
- Since becoming. affiliated with the school in 1914, Harry Elmore has undoubtedly, seen more Notre Dame athletic teams _than any other person living today. He. has photographed hundreds of Irish, stars and players many of whom
have since become renowned in the sports world.
A sports lover of great renown, Harry has established an almost undebatable reputation on the golf links. He has won permanent possession of the coveted Erskine cup by topping tournament competition three years. Baseball, too, stands high in the mind of Elmore as a competitive sport, himself having been closely associated with Billy Sullivan, famous backstop of the Chicago White Sox many years ago.
Harry’s collection of sports photographs goes back to his first year here, 1914, when Notre Dame was just gaining prominence in the athletic world. He delights in recalling Irish wins over the so called “big teams” of the period and the gradual rise that has characterized Notre Dame for the past 30 years.
He has watched a complete transformation, a transformation which has brought Notre Dame from a college of high scholastic rating but bewildered in the annals of the sports world to a university of prominence all over the world, tops in academic standing and in intercollegiate athletics—a college, whose spirit has become the keynote of millions of Americans.
As would be expected, Harry pays special tribute to Knute Rockne — not only for doing what he has for the school and football in general, but for the type of men he has developed. George Gipp was the greatest natural athlete Harry has ever had the privilege of watching. “He took to everything very fast,” he concluded. Schwartz, Dorais, Walsh, Ca-rideo, Cannon, Metzger, Milner were mentioned among others as the greatest grid stars to come out of Notre Dame. He gave high honor to the Irish’s present passing wizard when he rated Angelo Bertelli as even better than Marchy Schwartz at throwing the pigskin.
The walls of Elmore’s office were lined with dozens of shots of teams, individuals and spectacular plays executed by Notre Dame. Pictures taken by him have been used in sports and pictorial magazines many times during the past years. A number of his photos were used by Warner Bros., in the filming of “Knute Rockne—All American.”
And so with the resignation of Harry Elmore, another of Notre Dame’s famous sport’s family has left the Golden Dome.
Spring Practice Retarded
Inclement weather forced Coach Frank Leahy and his aides to cancel plans for Spring Football practice early this week. When the snow is brushed from Cartier Field and the cold winds subside the Irish will start, drilling.
Inexperienced Baseball Material Abundant As Coach Jake Kline Sounds Spring Call
DICK GRANT
Coach Clarence “Jake” Kline greeted approximately 100 baseball aspirants last Wednesday, March 3, in the University fieldhouse. The competitors were given encouraging words from the very start as “Jake” told them that the positions on the teams were wide open because of the dent put in the squad by the summer and fall graduation, plus the toll taken by the armed forces. Jim Carlin and Harold “Hal” Smullen are the only returning lettermen. Jim is a consistent and stellar performer on the hot corner. Hal was the outstanding hurler of last season; his greatest achievement was defeating the star-studded nine that performed under the Navy banner of Great Lakes, 8 to 6. The squad is bolstered by five of last year’s squadmen: John Hickey, first base; Frank Vignola, shortstop; Steve Wiegle and Dick Grant, third basemen; Dick Kisgen, the Carroll, Iowa, flash, who roams the outer gardens; and Norval Trimborn, relief hurler.
With the frosh rule now in effect Coach Kline welcomed many fine ball players in this group. Tom Sheehan, a catcher1 with plenty of experience, played with the New Haven Sailors last summer and swatted the horsehide for,a .460 clip against the finest offerings in the east. Bob Kline, a promising shortstop, and Tom Carlin, Jim’s younger brother, who have seen a lot of action, -fill out the squad.
The vacancies that must be filled are numerous: graduation took such stars as Bernie Crimmins, valuable backstop; George Sobek, keystone guarder; Freddie Gore, flashy shortstop; and Andy Chle-beck, a .400 hitter from the outfield. Buster Hiller, who enlisted in the navy during the summer, held down the right field position and is now starring along with Sobek on the Great Lakes basketball team. Jack Tallet, elongated first sacker and leading hitter from last year’s team, was inducted-into the Army Air Corps just recently; and Frank Sanfilippo, left fielder, was drafted by Uncle Sam during the summer vacation. Smullen and Trimborn are the only returning, pitchers as Fireballer Johnnie Metzger, Bob Fisher and Bud Dudley ^received their degrees during the summer semester. ’	. •	.
Coach Kline said that plans are now being formulated for the erection of a new diamond which will, be located south of the former site, which was lost when . the Navy erected their new drill hall
last fall. Just when the grounds will be ready for play is unknown because of the Indiana spring that is usually overabundant with its showers.
A schedule of about 12 or 15 games has been tentatively arranged and in-
Coach "Jake" Kline
eludes such teams as Michigan, Michigan State, Western Michigan, Indiana, and Northwestern, all booked on a home-and-home basis, plus a few. service teams. Coach Kline also said that there may be a possibility of arranging several games with major league teams which will be training in the southern part of the state by the time the collegiate ball season b’egins.	’
Notre Dame Offensive Features Fast Break
Ed Krause, basketball mentor, explains that there has been much accentuation on speed of late in the Irish offensive and it has turned out to good advantage. The fast break has really been paying . dividends.
Tom Brennan in the forward position has been one. of the late frequent substitutions, where formerly most of. his . chores were done in Bobby Faught’s . stead. Johnny Neimera at guard has . been another maneuver, fillihg the vacancy left by Ray Kuka.
A number of plays have been receiving rather strenuous work, but none as much as the .speed emphasis. Coach Krause states, however, that nothing has been done in the way of a major adjustment since the death of George Keogan. . :
Modern University Infirmary Serves Navy;
Keeps Notre Dame Student Body Healthy
RICH FREMD
Boasting the reputation of being one of the finest and best equipped infirmaries in the country, the University of Notre Dame infirmary is doing its part to help the war effort by taking care of 1200 naval men as well as the regular student enrollment.
“Sick bay” in navy lingo, “pillhouse” to the students, at present is taking care of 11 cases of sickness among the sailors. “Cat fever,” in navy talk and catarrah fever in medical terms, and just a darn cold to students, is the most common complaint. Sprained ankles and innoculation reactions also stand near the top of the list of common causes for illness.
The infirmary is also used to accommodate the guests of the University and almost all of the first floor is used for visitors. Among the more important guests who have stayed at the infirmary included Rear Admiral John Downes, commandant of the Ninth Naval District, who was here for the navy graduation on Jan. 28, Lt. Commander Powell, also here for the graduation, and Dean Roscoe Pond of the Harvard law school.
Doctor James McMeel, in charge of the infirmary and on duty every morning and part of every afternoon, is on call day and night. Dr. Joseph Caton was also associated with infirmary but is now
The fellow on the extreme left is telling the crowd that there's no quality in the Dininq hall and no quantity in the Infirmary
serving with the armed forces at Camp Carson, Colo. Among the staff members are five graduate nurses.
The first floor is devoted to. rooms for the priests and faculty members, waiting rooms, and emergency rooms which include all the latest minor operating equipment, sterilizers, and the doctors’ offices. Critical and very serious operations are sent to the St. Joseph’s hospital. Also on the first floor are the infirmary kitchen and a dining room which can accommodate 56 persons at one sitting.
The second and third floors are occupied by patients. The infirmary can easily accommodate about 50 patients. On the third floor is located the infirmary chapel and mass is celebrated daily at 5:45 by Father P. J. Carroll.
Built in 1936, the infirmary has everything a modern hospital might possess save for a major operating room and an X-ray machine. It even has an automatic elevator I
The infirmary is operated by a well trained and competent staff of Sisters of the Holy Cross Congregation. It is bright and cheerful and always neat and pleasant. It is without doubt one of the finest college infirmaries in the country.
Discussion Contest
In May Is Announced
Announcement has been made of a national discussion contest on inter-American Affairs. Notre Dame undergraduates are eligible to participate in the series of contests which will culminate in a national broadcast, May 20. The subject for discussion will be “How the American Republics are Cooperating in Winning the War.”
Not more than two representatives from each school will send written manuscripts of not more than 1,000 words to the National Director. The eight best manuscripts from each of six regions will be selected and the students who prepared them invited to participate in the regional discussion contests, with all necessary expenses paid. The Notre Dame regional will be held at Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio, on May 4.
The regional competition will consist of an afternoon discussion group, approximately one and one half hours in length, and an evening meeting where each of the contestants will present a prepared speech on a topic that will be assigned him when he is selected for participation in the regional meeting. The winner of each regional contest will appear on the “America’s Town Meeting of the Air” on May 20; this broadcast will constitute the national finals.
Regional first-place winners will be awarded a tour of Mexico, or if such a tour is rendered impossible, suitable study awards to the amount of $500 each will be substituted.
Railroad, hotel, and meal expenses of all contestants selected for regional participation will be paid by the contest management. Winners who go to New York will also have all expenses paid.
The contest is sponsored by the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs.
Students wishing to take part in this contest should leave their name and local address at Father Cunningham’s office, 141 Sorin, or with Mr. Frank Kelley, 319 Main Building. Mr. Kelley will be in charge of the contest.
The local manuscripts to be submitted to Washington must be typewritten, unsigned, unidentified, and double-spaced. They must be received by the National Director, George Washington University, Washington, D. C., not later than April 10, 1943.

"RED” LONERGAN
"THINGS ARE JUMPING"
They certainly are, for all you see in the Rock these days are the boys running pell-mell up the steps enroute to the box
“RED” LONERGAN
ing or light apparatus rooms. Both have a ungent odor of resin and sweat, the confusion of shadow boxers and rope skippers. Director John Scannell is quite enthused at improvement shown in recent weeks, which
should gratify instructors Dove and Waters, who have been tutoring the candidates in their tortuous basic workouts.
The heated practice sessions have now aroused the interest of the midshipmen who crowd the walls while waiting to take over the floor. The most paradoxical fact about the bouts this year is that, though enrollment here at Notre Dame is only 60 percent of the past two years, there are as many participants in the •bouts as ever. The boys deserve quite a hand, for the inconvenience of late afternoon courses has forced the lads to train in their free hours early in the morning or late at night. The reason for this enlivened interest may lie in the fact that the boys are using the exercise as a conditioner for the services, so their efforts are for causes charitable and patriotic.
"INTRODUCING"
In the 120-140 pound classes are found a promising group of pugilists, not to mention quaint characters. — One who stands in a class by himself (literally) is Harry Osborne of Elgin, Ill. Harry tips the scale at 115 and has been unable to find a boy who will put on the gloves with him. He’s an individualist, for no other Bengaleer can claim that distinction. ... In the 127 pound division we have Tommy King, a New Englander who is, mind you, an Eagle Scout, an honor all of us wanted to attain once. Then too, there is Frankie Debitetto, a Brooklynite who covered a lot of ground as a highly touted cross country runner in his high school days, which ought to make him a man of endurance in the ring.... Mike Kelly, a strong 145 pounder, thumbed up from Indianapolis for the summer bouts last year and proved to everyone’s satisfaction that he’ll be in there swinging until that last bell. He is one of the boys who, because of class
conflicts, has been forced to work out by himself at night.... “Doc” Romito says his greatest thrill came when he was knocked flat on his back by a log while working in a mill at Ravenna, Ohio. By his past performances in the bouts it will take another’ log to knock him down again.... Frank Fitzpatrick lives just a short distance from the famed Notre Dame guard, Jack Cannon, in Coshocton, Ohio.
SOME MORE
John Caron, also weighing 145, claims his greatest thrill was catching a marlin off the Mexican coast—I should think so, John.... The next pugilist is known to all Notre Dame men who have been here at least two semesters; he is Farrell Quinlan. “Hutch” is a member of the Knights of Columbus who claims his favorite drink is a short coke—quite a compliment for the K. of C. men. His biggest thrill was winning the Bengals last year, although the rest of the boys are out for his scalp.__Just ten pounds heavier there is Frank Lombard, who hails from the land of tall and slim buildings (not men), and who has that glamorous summer position of life guard at Coney Island. His interesting experience was being KOed by Farrell in last year’s bouts.... Dan Hester carries the same number of pounds as Frankie, but comes from our big Mid-West metropolis, Chicago. He went to De La Salle, the same school where Eddie Riska and Ed Krause, former Notre Dame greats matriculated. His biggest thrill was his first airplane ride, and he hopes to become a C.P.A.
AND MORE
Warren Kane is another of our fiery New York City pugilists, coming from Long Island. He is a rather close neighbor of one Harry Wright. He was a wrestler, baseball and basketball player in high school._We have all heard of the prowess of the phenomenal “Bull Dog” Turner, center of the once invincible Chicago Bears; and by next Friday night we’ll probably be talking about his kid brother “Dugie” Turner. This short, well built Texan’s favorite hobby is dancing, and he’s not alone on that score either.... Next we have an engineer from the tropics, Bill Leitheiser of Clearwater, Fla. His most exciting experience was walking one-quarter of a mile in his sleep. We are wondering if
Father Burke would accept that as a legitimate reason for walking out of the hall after midnight.... Bill Martin had the pleasure of playing on St. Phillip Neri’s football and baseball team when they were city champs of Detroit.... Mike Cutt, another 175 pounder, kept in condition all summer by working on a construction gang near Buffalo, N. Y._ “Bud” Sherrer plays a mean guitar and has the distinction of being one of those boys who scored a touchdown the first time he ever handled a football. He was given quite a workout one day when a horse kicked him in the stomach.______ Theodore Budynkiewicz, also a heavyweight, hails from the same high school as Angelo Bertelli, and was almost as famous as the rifle armed quarterback. He won six letters in football, basketball, and hockey from high school and prep school. He was all-city and all-state in football also. That’s the type of line they try to give us over Jack Armstrong’s program, only in this case it’s true. So there you are, boys, you know all the boxers—come out, get behind them, and give them your support! .
NOTRE DAME OVERSEAS
Yank, the Army weekly, gives us this story showing that American youth’s main interest is still in sports. When one of the boys was getting off his boat in preparation for attacking one of the African coastal towns his main interest was how Notre Dame came out against the Army that day. Another boy stationed over in England has written for programs, pictures, and reports on this year’s Irish team. He told how he took five pounds (20 bucks) from a technical sergeant with whom he bet that Notre Dame would defeat Pre-Flight.
Hmmml Could Bel ’
Despite the pleas of the Religious Bulletin that utensils have been disappearing from the dining halls and later turning up in waste baskets in the residence halls, (to wit: knives, forks, spoons, coffee pots, etc.) Tony Pojman believes that he has uncovered a case that is more vice- than versa.
The other day Tony was taking his evening meal in the upstairs dining room over in the cafeteria, and between courses was philosophically eager to examine the eating utensils. It is more fact than fiction that the spoon Tony was using turned out plainly marked “La Salle hotel.” And this only a week after a freshman had turned up a knife marked “Oliver.” Well, could be!
23
INTRODUCING
Bill Waddington
“Big Jim”—but legally Francis James Delaney—hails from ’Frisco. . . . Jim actually came into being March 1, ’21, in Butte, Mont., but moved to the west coast metropolis at the age of three, with the help of his parents, of course. . . . High school competition turned out to be a good criterion for his present success. . . . Shot and discus constituted the whole of his prep athletic training— a four-letter man in it, too. . . . Threw the 12 pounder 58' %" for a new city record bettering the old 51' 11" mark considerably. . . . Got another high school toss of 58' 6" which grabbed off the California state high record—plenty of territory in that span too. . . .
The late John Nicholson was out on the coast in June of ’39. . . . Jim saw him and on to N.D. . . . Currently captain of the track team . . . working for his third monogram. . . . Best outdoor heave is 51' 8%"; indoor it’s 51' 1%" . . . made the latter as a sophomore. . . . Finished third in the nationals. . . . Fin

NOTRE DAME - 100 YEARS $4.00
COLLECTED POEMS $2.50 of Charles L. O'Donnell
			
ished second with a flat 51' in the A.A.U. meet in “the garden” two weeks ago. A throw of 52' 4" by an NYU man did him wrong. . . . Greatest thrill has been the two-year winning streak of the Butler relays . . . also hasn’t been beaten in any dual meet in three years . . . some record, huh? . . . Holds the Michigan State fieldhouse record where he annexed another Central Collegiate title last Saturday . . . won it last year with 50' 4".
Jim Delaney
. . . Would also like to break his own 51' 1%" Notre Dame gym record. . . .
Naturally, he’s phy ed major . . . coaching track appeals to his inner self. ... V-7 has other plans for the immediate future, however. . . . Jim weighs a powerful, muscle adorned 205 . . . stands six feet . . . resides in 243 Alumni . . . confesses no favorite food, orchestra, or hobby ... so, what am I going to do with a guy like that except say “that’s all, folks.”
Novel Show Planned
For Bengal Finals
Bengal bout fans can plan to enjoy something new in the line of intermission action this year when two navy experts present an exhibition of “judo,” the American-ized version of jiu jitsu.
Chief Specialists W. W. Sheerer and Charles Aherne of the Midshipmen’s school have arranged a demonstration which should provide plenty of laughs and some valuable knowledge of the art of judo.
The art is used by unarmed combatants in battle. It is a violation of all the rules of sportsmanship and fair play. Judo is typical of the athletic code of the Japanese who originated it. It is based upon the principles of balance and lever. age as contrasted with the rougher principles of force and strength. The Samurai alone were initiated into its mysteries for many centuries. About 1867 a knowledge of it became general and it was introduced to the Occident at the beginning of the present century. Leverage is applied to the opponent’s limb in such a manner that he must yield to avoid having the limb broken. The spine, kidneys, nerves, and arteries are operated on to cause a temporary paralysis.
Several years ago American combat experts, realizing the effectiveness of such an art, introduced it to the army under the title of “judo.” Today .it is taught to the men in all branches of our armed forces.
Radio Club to Meet
Members of the University radio club will meet in the campus studio Wednesday evening, March 17, at 7:00; the meeting scheduled for this week was cancelled.	-
James E. Armstrong, editor of the-Notre. Dame Alumnus, will be the principal speaker of the evening..
It was also announced that this meeting would be the last chance for members of the radio club to get their club . keys. ...	‘
24
'
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at South Bend's Leading Jeweler
BHMBS
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
MUSIC
J. C. R.
Beginning Monday, March 22, the Metropolitan Opera Company will present
operas in the Chicago Civic Opera House.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
The repertoire will consist of Italian, French and Wagnerian opera, but the Italian predominates. Two performances of W a g n e r’s “Tristan and Isolde” and “Tannhauser,” will be
j. c. t:. clai.k included but several other of the greater Italian and French operas such as “Rigoletto,” “Manon,” “Madam Butterfly” “Lucia” and others are omitted from the program. The omission of these popular operas is rather startling for they appear on almost every series of opera performances, no matter how short the series.
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
But of possible interest to some of us here at Notre Dame who may prefer to spend a week-end or one evening at the Opera while in Chicago instead of the Black Hawk or McGovern’s, are these Friday and Saturday performances. On Friday evening March 26, Mozart’s “Magic Flute” will be given in English with Bruno Walter conducting the orchestra. Saturday, March 27, Bizet’s “Carmen” will be given in the afternoon and Verdi’s “Il Trovatore” in the evening.
STORE HOURS: 9:30 to 6:00
CtLJWRTIB
As Welcome as Spring
ARROW SHIRTS
Fresh new colors that will make your spirits match spring days. Arrow has everything, marvelously styled collar and a "fitted to a man's figure" cut!
The following week end, “Boris Godun-off,” by Moussorgsky, will be given Friday evening, April 2; Saturday afternoon, Mozart’s “Dom Giovanni” will be given and in the evening, Verdi’s “La Traviata.”
Beside the usual galaxy of Metropolitan stars and conductors, this two-week run will bring to Chicago two of the world’s great conductors, Bruno Walter, who formerly conducted the Vienna Philharmonic and Sir Thos. Beecham, former conductor of the London Philharmonic and conductor of the BBC orchestra. Most seasons at the Met see the usual Metropolitan standbys conducting, usually Cesare Sodero and occasionally George Szell and a few others, but very rarely men of such importance as Beecham and Walter. But this last season in New York has seen frequent appearances of Beecham and it possibly marks a new trend, although symphony conductors have done these things before.
While most of the famous Met- names appear on the pre-announced program, missing are such names as Lily Pons, Gladys Swarthout and the fading Grace Moore. One would at least expect to see Gladys Swarthout in “Carmen” and Grace Moore in “Manon” or “La Bo-heme.” But “Manon” and “La Boheme” are not being given, so that disposes of Grace Moore, but we still wonder what has happened to Gladys Swarthout. Some of . the casts that have been announced are composed of almost unknown artists, at least not the headliners, although one cast may be jammed with big names, such as that for “Don Giovanni” with Bidu Sayao, James Melton, Ezio Pinza, Salvatore Baccaloni, Zinka Milanov, Jarmila Novotna and Norman Cordon with Bruno Walter conducting. And so this suggestion for an interesting, beautiful, safe and sane weekend, either March 26 and 27 or April 2 and 3.
We didn’t attend the Junior-Senior ball, but we heard the broadcast, heard the plane zooming around the airwaves, and heard that novelty number,. “I Said . No” done by Ted Fio Rito and his band.
I used to like, or at least tolerate the “Sky-line Rhythms,” but now, I don’t know.
A week ago Wednesday, Dimitri Mitropoulos and the Minneapolis symphony orchestra gave a concert at the John Adams auditorium. Rumor has it that at the last minute, and it was the last min-, ute, they had to recruit a bass player from South Bend. But those who heard the orchestra enjoyed it and their comment was that the orchestra played faultlessly but uninspired. And such is usually the case with the Minneapolis under Mitropoulos.
25
Alumni Represented
In "Books on Trial"
Notre Dame is represented by four alumni in the current issue of Books on Trial, which is edited by John C. Tully. Recently he was elected to the Board of Trustees of the University. Mr. Tully founded and conducts the Thomas More Library and Bookshop in Chicago, a •‘not-for-profit” organization, which like his periodical is an excellent medium of Catholic Action.
'COMPANY HALT. FALL OUT FIVE » MINUTES.”
TfHZ MOMENT”
double job. In
‘A WA.A.C. does a
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
HANKGOODNESS
’MW
Wfl AN ICE-COLD LONGING F0%
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND

doing her own job, she releases a man for combat service. In a way ice-cold Coke.is like that, too. Not only quenches thirst but brings energygiving refreshment, too. And on top of that it offers the taste you don’t find this side of Coca-Cola, itself. How about a 'Coke date’, now?’’
Another alumnus to be featured in Books on Trial is the Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., professor of philosophy. Several columns are given to a review of his latest volume, Nova Scotia, Land of Cooperators.
Brother Aidan, C.S.C., of the Department of English, reviews The World’s Great Catholic Literature, an anthology edited by Dr. George N. Shuster, president of Hunter College, New York City, a former head of the Department of English here.
COCA-COLA.
Wranglers Hear Sommer On Post War Problems
President Emeritus Jack Ryan of Denver, Colo., conducted last night’s meeting of Wranglers in the absence of President Bill Lawless and Secretary James O’Dea, both of whom were on a debating trip. Alphonse Sommer, Jr., Golf, Ill., was speaker for the evening giving a paper on “The Military Situation in the Postwar World.” Sommer’s paper was divided into a philosophical and historical approach to the problem. He concluded with a plan for post-war world organization.
A week ago Thursday Bill Lawless gave the paper, speaking on “Social Problems in the Post War World.” In his extremely well-written and logical paper, Lawless touched on relief, rebuilding, and reconstruction after the war. The place of labor was also discussed.
Wranglers have announced that applications are being accepted for the spring membership meeting. Notices of time and place to submit such applications are posted in each of the residence halls. Plans for a speaking bureau and discussion of publicity concluded the meeting, held as usual in the Seminar Room of the Law Building.
Social Work Dept.
“What is home without a mother?” he asked.
“I am tonight,” the sweet thing answered.
—New Rochelle Tatler
— RECORDS —
ELBEL BROS.
234 N. Michigan St.
Largest Stock—Hits and Classics
VICTOR—COLUMBIA—DECCA
26
Bowling Bits
Tom Halligan
The year 1942 was a very good year for bowling. Even with the war holding the spotlight most of the time, the great indoor sport went ahead and surpassed all previous records both in attendance by spectators and the number of participants in the game.
Billy Sixty, bowling editor of a prominent Milwaukee newspaper, gives credit for the rise of bowling to one man, Charles Petersen. He is the man behind the gun that presented bowling fans with the recent Chicago Tribune All-Star Bowling Tournament. This to the fans was indeed a shot in the arm. The spectators had longed for many a year for a bowling show similar to this idea of Petersen’s. It had everything. It meant man against man, ball for ball, strike for strike, game for game.
The old master attempted to introduce this type of tournament way back in the early 20’s. The American Bowling Con
gress frowned on the idea and would not back it because it believed the tremendous prize list offered would bring bigtime gamblers into the sport. Well, after several more unsuccessful attempts, Petersen with the aid of the National Bowling Proprietors’ Association and the “greatest newspaper in the world” finally arranged an all-star tournament. In December of 1941 the first show was staged in Chicago Stadium with the erection of 10 new alleys for the occasion. It was a minor success. But these men tried it again and profiting from their past mistakes -made this year’s endeavor a great success.
Splits from the kick-backs—Budweiser’s of St. Louis are going to bowl Detroit Strohs for the match game championship of the world. The site in St. Louis will be Nelson Burton’s Palace of Bowling, and in Detroit it will be Harold Allen’s West Palace Recreation.
This column has heard that a move to have a campus doubles and singles bowling tournament at the Bowl-Mor is under way. If you have any ideas to offer on this praise-worthy effort be sure to contact this column or Dick Gunn of Zahm Hall.
Irish "Victory March"
Gets War Time Chorus
Lane Technical High School Chicago, Illinois
March 9, 1943
Dear Editor:
As a part of our war effort, Mrs. Dorothy Weber, our school dramatic coach, has written words to several well-known school songs.
The words for your school song follow: Tune: Cheer, Cheer for Old Notre Dame
Bonds, stamps we’ll buy every day
To send our- cruiser out on its way
Oh Chicago hear our vow
To Tokyo we’ll go and how
So climb aboard Chicago’s new ship
We’ll buy our share and go on this trip Buy and. Buy—our battle cry .
Till we’ve won our victory
This song and others will be sung at our rally which celebrates the culmination of our 3300,000 drive for a Flying Fortress.
Very truly yours,
J. J. Hunter
War Co-Ordinator
PARKER-WINTERROWD
115% N. MAIN ST. — UPSTAIRS — NORTH OF OLIVER HOTEL
REPRESENTING M. BORN & COMPANY — CHICAGO
ALL GARMENTS MEASURED AND FITTED
IN OUR OWN FITTING ROOM
ENSIGN SUITS
SERGE, 16 OZ. .	.	.	38.00
ELASTIQUE. 16 OZ.	.	.	47.00
WHIPCORD. 16 OZ.	.	.	47.00
WIDE WALE SERGE, 16 OZ. 47.00
WHITE TWILLS	RAINCOATS
TWO FOR .	25.00	SERGE .	.	42.00
		ELASTIQUE .	42.00
		WHIPCORD .	42.00
ALL ACCESSORIES AT REASONABLE PRICES
SEE OUR CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVES — BOB DAVIES — REGGIE FLYNN
27
IT has been estimated that 63,000 telephone calls are necessary in the building of one 10,000-ton cargo ship. And America is sending these vessels down the ways by the hundreds.
We cannot build additional facilities because materials for telephone equipment are going into war weapons. Yet today the men and women of the Bell System are handling more telephone calls than ever before — about 90 million conversations a day. It’s an important wartime job. It will continue to be done well.
Track Squad Prepares For Chicago Relays
Bob Cronin
Within the past two weeks, our busy track team has defeated Indiana University, 76-28, and has successfully defended its Central Collegiate Conference title. By winning the C.C.C. meet, Doc Handy’s boys took their 13th title in 18 C.C.C. indoor meets.	i
This year’s track team ranks among the very best and well-rounded ever developed here at Notre Dame. The Irish boast of several of the highest ranking trackmen in addition to a number who are capable of hoarding their share of points. In Oliver Hunter III, we have the nation’s fastest collegiate two-miler. Hunter has been breaking records consistently and has already run faster than Greg Rice did during his college career. He recently ran a 9:01.1 two-mile in New York in finishing second to Greg Rice. Hunter gave Rice the most persistent competition he has ever encountered. Two weeks ago Ollie set a new fieldhouse record of 9:15, and last Saturday at East Lansing he cracked Greg Rice’s 1938 C.C.C. record by knocking off the two-mile in 9:12.8.
Jim Delaney, our star shot putter, keeps on breaking records and winning new laurels for the Blue and Gold. In New York he distanced 51 feet in placing second in the national A.A.U. meet. Captain Delaney set a new fieldhouse record at Michigan State last week by tossing the heavy sphere 50 feet, 5% inches. Earlier in the year he had set the State record at 50 feet 4% inches.
Tomorrow the Irish will compete with several Big Ten and other leading schools in the Armour- Tech Relays in the fieldhouse, Chicago. Events to be held are the one mile relay, two mile relay, sprint medley, 70 yard dash, 70 yard low hurdles, 70 yard high hurdles, 880 yard run, one mile run, high jump, pole vault, and the shot put.
On March 20 the team will perform
Gl4Bia Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDU6 E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mig. Opticians
S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
28
at the Chicago Relays in Chicago, and on March 27 they will compete with several other schools in the Purdue Relays at Lafayette. The Irish will also run in the Drake relays at Des Moines, April 24, probably their only outdoor meet of the season. The team will be represented at the Cleveland K. of C. meet, March 27, while most of the squad participates in the Purdue relays.
The Notre Dame track team coached by Doc Handy is currently rated as one of the finest in the country. It is strongin all events and is enjoying one of the most successful seasons ever played by the Blue and Gold. In addition to Hunter and Delaney, we have several other leading scorers. In the one mile relay we have Jones, Lundergan, Tupta, and Fehlig; the two mile relays of Currie, Maloney, Conforti, Hunter, and Brehmer; the sprinters, Jones, J. Murphy, Clifford, and Currie; the 70 yard dash, Murphy, C. Miller, and Clifford; the 70 yard low hurdles, Dillon and Nicholson; the 70 yard high hurdles, Dillon, Nicholson, and Huber; the 880 yard run, Currie and Tupta; the one mile run, Conforti and Maloney; the high jump, C. Murphy and Ed Keelan; the pole vault, Jack Wiethoff and Zilly; the shot-put, Captain Delaney and John Yonakor; and in the 440, Fehlig. Too much credit cannot be given these boys for a most successful season.
Patronize Our Advertisers
Fencers Drub Purdue;
Call Halt to Season
The Irish fencing team were forced to call an abrupt halt to their intercollegiate schedule this week when several prospective meets had to be cancelled due to transportation difficulties.
The swordsmen ended the season with an impressive 12-5 win over Purdue in the fieldhouse. Frank Repilado, Bob Wi-tucki, and Elmer Silha sent the home forces out to an early lead as they accounted for wins in the first five foil bouts. The sabre men, Dave Roney and Gene Slevin, kept pace taking three of the four bouts in this weapon to boost their lead to 10-3. Charles Raley and John Watters put the finishing touches on the victory by winning two of the four epee bouts.
For the Irish, Elmer Silha, Bob Wi-tucki, and Gene Slevin had unblemished records. Aaron Kaufman of Purdue topped the losers with a record of four wins in five bouts, personally accounting for four of his team’s five points.
Walter Langford, coach of fencing, announced that 40 fencers are scheduled to start interhall activity this week-end. There will be nine bouts in foil and four in sabre. A season consisting of ten matches is planned.	.
Upon completion of the league play, the fencers will conclude the season with a team round robin tournament.
IIO'RoaIA Mojuh SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
Bruggner's in the J. M. S. Building have a fine line of Tobaccos, Cigarettes, Pipes — Novelties — Fountain Service — Billiards.
IHaun a/nd
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
Bruggner's News Comer for magazines, books, maps, and greeting cards.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. DJJ.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE. DJJ.S. PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S. .
623-629 Shetland Blds.
South Bend, Ind.
From Down-Town South Bend to Down-Town Chicago
There is always a South Shore train to or from Chicago. Hourly service each way. For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N.’Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building
Phone 3-2674
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY ■ Diseases and Surgery of Month and Jaws X-Rars and Consultation
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bldg.. South Bead, Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 Shetland Building
Phone 3-1254
South Bend. Indiaaa
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Shetland Building
L. E. Fisher, M.D. M. J. Thornton. MJ.
29
I
OFFICERS’ UNIFORMS
Naval officers uniforms by Finchley may be worn with pride and confidence. They are regulation to the core and their fine fabrics, precise fitting qualities and engaging appearance effectively complement the highest traditions of the naval service. Prices are very modest and the service rendered is in keeping with the highest Finchley standards. Inquiries welcome. Please call.
NAVAL UNIFORMS • TOPCOATS
JT/m WHITES • KHAKIS . OVERCOATS • CAPS • SHOES • INSIGNIAS SHIRTS • TIES • HOSIERY . JEWELRY • SLACKS • REEFERS • ARMY BLOUSES
19 East Jackson Boulevard, Chicago •	564 Fifth Avenue, New York
, Robert Driscoll Hotel, Corpus Christi, Texas
'	A Safe Investment for a Safe America—Buy War Savings Bonds
30
OLIVER HOTEL, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
Football Next Fall?
Divided Opinion Found
Bill Waddington
In view of the infringing conditions, much interest has been focused around the possibility of intercollegiate football at Notre Dame this fall. Of the opinions expressed, both negative and affirmative decisions held forth with equal stress.
The question asked : Do you think there will be football at Notre Dame this fall? Here are the answers:
John Cahill, Brownson—“I think that Notre Dame will not have a team unless it’s a Notre Dame service team. Too many present players are in the reserves.”
Rudy Anderson, Brownson—“I can’t possibly see how N.D. will, have a team unless the freshmen ineligibility rule is dropped and the teams are made up of fellows below draft age.”
Jack Finneran, St. Ed’s ----- “If there are any students at Notre Dame, there will be football unless some law is enacted whereby football is stopped. Then college service teams loom as a great possibility.”
James Retter, Zahm — “I think they will, since the Navy is taking over the school and have announced their plan to continue intercollegiate sports.”
Quido Alexander, Sorin — “I don’t think that we’ll have one because specialized training men won’t be allowed to play. That would take all the good men.”
Bob Kurtz, Cavanaugh — “There might be a Navy football team representing the school or an all-freshmen team under the University.”
John McShane, B. P. — “Golly, with everyone leaving, it doesn’t look as though we’ll have a team.”
John Metallic, B. P. — “We’ll have a team but made up mostly of freshmen who haven’t attained draft age and also those deferred.”
Jerry Cunningham, Dillon — “I don’t think so. Too many E.R.C. and Marine boys who are due to leave soon.”
Ernie Sedlmayr, Alumni — “I think they’ll have a team because football is necessary for war morale. However, if the Navy takes over, it’s questionable.”
Bill Amann, Alumni — “Too many think so. Too many E.R.C. aand Marine military service makes it hard to give any definite answer.”
j Oliver Baumgartner, Walsh — “If ; freshmen are allowed to participate, we’ll have football next fall. Otherwise the calling of reserves makes it improbable.”
Ed. Schmid, Walsh — “We’ll have a team of hoys on campus who are in
i V-l, V-7, and 4-F.
"Notre Dame Lawyer" Makes Late Showing
The December issue of the Notre Dame Lawyer recently made its appearance after a hectic delay. The printer who took the contract for the issue decided it was too big for him when he was half way through the job. The postmaster shelved the issue for several weeks in the absence of an overlooked postage check. These factors themselves could provide material for legal interpretation for the editors in their next issue!
The issue has several fine features, fortunately not of news nature. Two articles by Anton-Herman Chroust of the Harvard Law School on legal angles from St. Thomas and Aristotle and an article by Robert N. Wilkin, U.S. district judge for Northern Ohio, on “Jurisdical Order Fundamental for Peace” are included.
March issue of the Lawyer, now on the press, will print four lectures of Roscoe Pound of Harvard, delivered on the Notre Dame campus in January, dealing with the last 50 years history of law in this country, divided into more specific fields of torts, contracts, equity, and real property.
A chasuble once worn by the explorer priest, Father Jacques Marquette, and now possessed by the University library, will be featured in an “Album of American History” to be released soon. The chasuble, which bears the date 1638, was obtained for the University several decades ago by Prof. James F. Edwards, until 1911 librarian at Notre Dame.
Annual University Boxing Championships BENGAL BOUTS
MARCH 16.17 and 19 UNIVERSITY FIELD HOUSE
LT. ARTHUR DONOVAN	GREATEST PROGRAM IN
Guest Official	N. D. BOXING HISTORY
NEW BOYS' HOME
The St. John Boscoe center, a home for underprivileged boys of high school age, was recently dedicated by the Most Rev. Charles D. White, Bishop of Spokane, Wash. The home is a gift of Mr. and Mrs. Milo Flannery, Spokane, in memory of their parents, to the diocese, and is destined to be the center of a new kind of charitable work there. Brothers of Holy Cross conduct the center. The director is Brother Octavius, C.S.C.
Notre Dame HUDDLE
GYM SHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. “T” SHIRTS GYM PANTS
SUPPORTERS
SOFT DRINKS CIGARETTES
CANDY TOBACCO PIPES
31
Copyright 1943, Liggctt Myers Tobacco Co.
WOMEN AT WORK
It is estimated 15,000,000 women
ore employed in U. 5. industry today
YOU MAY BE NEEDED NOW
Ask ot your nearest United States
Employment Service Office

C^IWERFIELD cormu taste
len you’re doing a bang-up job you want a bang-up smoke and for anybody’s money you can’t buy a belter cigarette than Chesterfield.
Try them yourself.. .you’ll find Chesterfields as Mild and Cool as the day is long...and Better-Tasting, too.
WHERE A CIGARETTE COUNTS MOST
Ji's Chesterfield