The Campus Shop knows

I £ I
CHARGE IT
THE CAMPUS
SHOP WAY
IN
No Carrying Charge
1/3 IN JULY
1/3 IN JUNE
1/3 AUGUST
On the Campus—Notre Dame
Mt >
F
*1
Hl
..And we have it!
. . . so select what you need now: a new suit or topcoat for the holidays ahead . . . gifts for special friends, and charge them the Campus Shop way. By the way, the Campus Shop will give you quick, expert fitting service so that what you purchase now will be altered and ready before. you leave the campus for the holidays. Merry Christmas and Happy New Year!



^GILBERT'S




^OnCami«sJ.g„i
(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Divarf", “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
DECK THE HALLS
The time has come to make out our Christmas shopping lists, for Christmas will be upon us quicker than you can say Jack Robinson. (Have you ever wondered, incidentally, about the origin of this interesting phrase “Quicker than you can say Jack Robinson”? Well sir, the original phrase was French—“Plus vile que de dire Jacques Robespierre,” Jack Robinson is, as everyone knows, an angli-cization of Jacques Robespierre who was, as everyone knows, the famous figure from the French Revolution who, as everyone knows, got murdered in his bath by Danton, Murat, Caligula, and Aaron Burr.
(The reason people started saying “Quicker than you can say Jacques Robespierre (or Jack Robinson as he is called in English-speaking countries)” is quite an interesting little story. It seems that Robespierre’s wife, Georges Sand, got word of the plot to murder her husband in his bath. All she had to do to save his life was call his name and warn him. But, alas, quicker than she could say Jacques Robespierre, she received a telegram from her old friend Frederic Chopin who was down in Majorca setting lyrics to his immortal “Warsaw Concerto.” Chopin said he needed Georges Sand’s help desperately because he could not find a rhyme for
“Warsaw.” Naturally, Georges Sand could not refuse such an urgent request.
(Well sir, Georges Sand went traipsing off to Majorca, but before she left she told her little daughter Walter that some bad men were coming to murder daddy in his bath, and she instructed Walter to shout Robespierre’s name when the bad men arrived. But Walter, alas, had been sea-bathing that morning on the Riviera, and she had come home loaded with sea shells and salt water taffy, and when the bad men came to murder Robespierre, Walter, alas, was chewing a big wad of salt water taffy and could not get her mouth open in time to shout a warning.
* ♦ *
And for further Yuletide joy, give Marlboro’s nonfiltered companion cigarette, mild, flavorful Philip Morris—in regular size or the sensational new king-size Commander. You’ll be welcome aboard!
4
Robespierre, alas, was murdered quicker than you could shout Jacques Robespierre (or Jack Robinson as he is called in the English-speaking countries).
(There is, I am pleased to report, one small note of cheer in this grisly tale. When Georges Sand got to Majorca where Chopin was setting lyrics to his immortal “Warsaw Concerto,” she was happily able to help him find a rhyme for “Warsaw,” as everyone knows who has heard those haunting lyrics:
In the fair town of Warsaw,
Which Napoleon’s horse saw,
Singing cockles and mussels, alive alive o')
But I digress.
We were speaking of Christmas gifts. What we all strive to do at Christmas is, of course, to find unusual, offbeat, different gifts for our friends. May I suggest then a carton of Marlboro Cigarettes?
What? You are astonished? You had
not thought of Marlboros as unusual, offbeat, different? You had regarded them as familiar, reliable smokes whose excellence varied not one jot or tittle from year to year?
True. All true. But at the same time, Marlboros are unusual, offbeat, different, because every time you try one, it’s like the first time. The flavor never palls, never gets hackneyed. Each Marlboro is a fresh delight, a pristine pleasure, and if you want all your friends to clap their hands and exclaim, “Yes, Virginia, there is a Santa Claus!” you will put them at the very top of your Christmas list.
© I960 Max Shulman
Inarticulate Society
Editor:
Mr. Hudson, in last week’s Repercussions, took issue with Mr. Smith’s hierarchical theory of government: it was Mr. Hudson’s contention that if a state were wrongly articulated, then it should be the function of the federal government “to establish a form of^s society which is properly articulated.”
Now, I must take issue with Mr. Hudson; he operates under an all-too-com-mon delusion. A federal government cannot, in any case, institute any form of articulation: articulation falls only within the realm of power of the individual members of the society; it is a form of organization from the bottom up, not from the top down. And, I would suggest, although a federal government'', might institute order or conformity, it* could never create proper articulation. I am shocked that Mr. Hudson would propose such a thing: it is the justification given by totalitarian governments the world wide to institute their purges.
Jeremy Jon Kaye
Be It Resolved:
Editor:
Whereas, The editors of the Notre Dame* Scholastic have offered an opinion concerning the motivation of the Student Demonstration, and
whereas, there is a need for such publication of student opinion and
whereas, almost all students at Notre Dame are sincerely interested in seeing their University truly advance to the goal of excellence, then
The members of the University of Notrd*f Dame Student Senate hereby
Resolve, that the editors of the Scholastic deserve commendation for their editorial; and that the editorial concerning the Student Demonstration is as . representative as possible of the opinion of the Student Body.
Jack Clark
Secretary, Student Senate
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class x mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
The Scholastic

Al
i
Notre Dame
3 d

*
•?Y
Founded 1867
1^
[
editor-in-chief	\
CHARLES RIECK . .. \ "
( associate editor	: - ?
ROY RUBELI A ; < '
news editor	:
THOMAS WEISS ..	John McCabe :	.
features editor : / / :	THOMAS SULLIVAN
’	. William .Gorman Y.Y ■ /
Andrew Griffin ^Y'\.,Y_ ( ThomasHoobler
' sports editor •’ . '• <- Y;y JAMES KILROY ^Y.
y William Cary s \ Y-John Bechtold . . : f
copy editor .. '	■ .-Y
■	THOMAS MARCINIAK
/	Gene Dombkowski
f , . Philip Larrabee * executive assistant 3	,
WILLIAM VEEDER J < art editor ‘	--
Y J-- Y DENNIS LUCZAK \ : : ;"Y.Y Thomas Hanson	: Y?-/'?
.r'	photographer.	> '	Y...
y> Y WALTER DALY, Jr. <’ y'Y Q ? business manager Y<Yy'Y JOSEPH FINNIGAN
'•■rY' Robert Buckley .. .'-jlY-'
circulationmanager	\
■ Y'V ' JAMES HICKEY
” moderator -‘f ■ • < f • V-” 7< -S ; REV. CHARLES CAREY, C.S.C.
news staff ' -'Y' Y.. j(y, J°sePh Caspar	‘
Frank Cuiffo Richard D’Amico ,'O	’ -
. Y Y “ Lawrence. Kavanaugh. , ■ f Y YY. Ralph Kent	yy;-Y"
; -rX v Thomas Scheuring; .
--Y OS^Y^^f5tuechelij'^';4£ Y Y
Robert Chiappinelli _ Thomas Walsh -Terry Wolkerstorfer Y - ^omes?Wyr«h „ \ A „
4
The editorial staff of The Scholastic extends sincere Greetings o	o
to the Notre Dame community in this joyous and holy season of Christmas
<
CRIME AND PENALTY: We note with regret the latest devices employed hy the library to speed return of overdue books. During the past few weeks, students have received personal letters from the director of the library, urging them to be considerate of other students. In some cases, summonses have been issued from the director. All these make plain the library staff’s intention to improve the lending procedures and cut down the annual book loss; no doubt we are seeing preparations for the “foolproof” system to be employed in the new library. We simply question the efficiency of these latest devices and the man-hours consumed. Wouldn’t a less painstaking method be cutting off book circulation from students who have failed to correct serious delinquency. Comparison of ID cards with a master list at the check-out might awaken both students and faculty. .
AND OTHER PUBLICATIONS: The Scholastic wishes to pass on the many compliments it has received to the editors of the Notre Dame Alumnus. Through their efforts the special insert seen in last week’s Scholastic was prepared, and theirs must be the credit for continuing these timely and significant brochures.
1
FLY NOW: It has struck our curiosity that no action has been taken by the Student Senate regarding chartered flights to Europe. As we (October 14) and others have pointed out, these flights save the traveler half of the usual §500 plane fare. Perhaps the Senate has relinquished its opportunity to NSA, which has a score of European tours with charter rates. But these suffer from the disadvantage of giving the student an “instant” Europe by putting him on a rigidly organized schedule. Though some students might desire these, more would prefer a liberation from guides so that they might see the continent at their leisure. Unfortunately, it is now very late; action must be quickly taken to allow students time to suiwey their affairs, financial and otherwise, at home. A vote of rejection by the Senate would at least indicate that the student must search elsewhere.
1?:^
i
BRIGHT PLANS: Compliments are in order for hardworking John Kromkowski and his international commission of Student Government for their success in lining up next semester’s activities. So far they have received a grant of $1,000 from the Carnegie Foundation to help finance their symposium on international relations sometime in March. Adlai Stevenson and Ralph Bunche have registered a willingness to participate in what promises to be the high point of next semester’s activities. Foi- the same week, Kromkowski has scheduled an international culture show to be brought down from the University of Michigan’s foreign student group.	—R&R

SM. &
OUR COVER: This week’s cover trys to capture the decorative effect of the coming holidays. The over-all design is
JEWELERS TO NOTRE DAME FACULTY AND STUDENTS FOR OVER 38 YEARS.
Gifts Wrapped and Mailed To All Parts of the World
one keyed to modern simplicity yet it
Cor. Mich, at Wash, in Downtown So. Bend
CE 3-0578
224 E. LA SALLE ST. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
★
Famous for Pizza, Spaghetti and Ravioli
contains the traditional Christmas colors of red and green. In the weeks following the holidays and into next semester I will continue the modern tangent set for the SCHOLASTIC covers by Dennis Luczak. I hope my efforts are viewed with a non-objective eye from the student body.
—Tom Hansen
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist • EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED •
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
choose the protection of...
AFTER SHAVE LOTION
Skin protection, that is. Old Spice refreshes and stimulates, guards against the loss of vital skin moisture. Feels great, too. Brisk, bracing, with that tangy Old Spice scent. It does seem to attract female admirers, but what red-blooded
man needs protection against girls? 1.00 plus tax	S M U LTO N
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
6	>	The Scholastic
BURNS AND BROWN
a twist of holly
I
' Through the window across the aisle I could see the tundra of northern Indiana stretching to meet a lead sky. Swirls of dirty snow rose up behind the car, the 9 last one on the train. As I looked down, my eyes fixed on a hole in the wom green rug, eaten out by some bad Scotch that had been spilled years before. There’s something friendly about a club car at Christmas, I mused.
“Angola,” the conductor interrupted. “Angola.” The train jerked to a stop. A copy of The Critique of Pure Reason which was lying open in my lap slipped to the floor. Bending forward for it, I * saw a black wing-tip shoe come down on it and I heard the binding crack.
“Gee, sorry kid.”
An almost middle-aged man, the kind which inevitably appears in a club car, stood over me. “Mind if I sit down?” He lifted some newspapers from the seat next to me and tossed them onto another. As he eased into the chair he looked anxiously around the car for the waiter. I sensed a conversation coming _ so I closed bruised Kant and put him
“You go to school, kid?”
“Notre Dame.”
“Notre Dame, huh? That’s kid. I almost went there once, instead. Started selling. I’m
all right, Got a job a district
II manager now. Religious goods—plastic I statues, medals, you name it.” His voice F lowered. “Hey, you want to see the big | seller for sixty-one?”
i £ Surreptitiously he reached inside his I coat. I almost expected a French postcard. Instead he pulled out a small dash-I;	board statue.
i “What is it?” I asked.
I “St. Francis of the Highway. Look at the birds on his shoulder. And get this!
I When you push him here his head lights
I up and you can use it as a map light. Great, huh?”
i “Incredible,” I agreed. How could the 1962 model top this, I wondered. A a chrome-plated statue of St. Procopius, perhaps. He returned the statue to his pocket.
“Your boys had quite a season, huh?
Took a few lumps.”
“We had oui* share,” I replied.
“What’s Kuharich got for next year?
Any good boys?”
“Oh, yes sir. There’s a fellow who plays end who’s an English major. He’s very interested in the creative vision of Ezra Pound and will probably spend a
lot of time studying it. Then there’s a middle linebacker who’s fascinated by Kafka’s existential . .
“Excuse me, kid. I think I’ll go back to the dining car,” he said, picking up his drink and moving to another seat.
I was in the mood for conversation.
“Nice day, isn’t it?” I said to the man who had taken a seat near me and who was sipping a Tom Collins. He was a large man with a round bald spot on top of his head.
“You raise the question,” he said, “on whether the day is nice? It might be objected that no weather near South Bend could be called nice. Further, it is said that the essence of weather is not heat but humidity. But on the contrary, the Weatherman says: Fair and warmer. I answer that the weather can be known by the light of human reason and that the felicity of . . .”
“Dumb ox,” I muttered, turning away. For the first time I noticed the girl sitting by my side. She smiled shyly at me as she ordered a drink and motioned to the waiter that I would pay for it. I gave the waiter a five.
“Nice day, isn’t it?” I said suavely.
“What?”
“Would you like a cigarette?”
“I don’t mind.”
The waiter returned with my change and set it on the table, but while I was fumbling with the cigarettes he backhanded the change into his pocket as a tip.
“Thank you, sir!” he said, beaming.
I continued to converse with the girl. “Do you like Dave Brubeck?” I asked. “What?”
“He’s a musician.”
“I don’t very much like music,” she admitted alluringly. During the next half hour I learned that she lived in my home town and that she could consume large quantities of expensive liquor. I was about to ask her for a date when she said pensively, “Gee, you have another year at college, two years in the army, and three years in law school. A girl would have to be out of her mind to wait that long for you.”	'
She got up and went over to sit with a sailor, taking her drink with her.
For some reason or other, I absently removed my watch and set it on the table.
“Thank you, sir!” said the waiter, stufiing the watch into his pocket.
Now the car was filling up with holi
day travellers easing the journey to the in-laws with a few rounds. With the temperature rising and the smoke growing more dense, I decided to go out to the platform for air. Thirty seconds of shocking cold and I was ready to return.
On the way back I ducked into the washroom to dean up. In the tiny stainless steel compartment the jostling of the train became a major hazard. As I reached for a paper towel, my face wet and soapy, the car lurched and my head squarely banged the wall. I recovered in time to see my class ring rolling down the sink basin toward the drain. I tried vainly to stop it, managing only to open . a gash on my left hand by scraping it on the faucet.
When I emerged, my hand wrapped in paper towels, the only seat available was next to a haggard man in a Santa Claus costume. He held a tassled cap and a dirty beard limply. I was conscious of gaping at him as I approached the empty seat.
“Hello,” he said, smiling weakly and taking a long drink. '
“Hello,” I answered. “Say, isn’t that a Santa Claus costume you’re wearing?”
“That’s right. I’m Santa Claus. Not the real one. I work at Lobert’s in Ashtabula.”
“Why are you wearing it on the train?”
“This is the only way I can get to work. I’ve taken this train every evening. since Thanksgiving . . . Only four more nights to go.” He nodded to the waiter who quickly responded with a refill.
“I’ll bet it’s interesting talking to those children.”
He grimaced. “The running noses and X bubble gum are bad enough. But I think I could stand it if I didn’t have to face kids all day.” Tears glistened in his eyes . as he continued, “I’m a fourth grade ' . teacher in East Cleveland. I do this -every year at Christmas for spare cash. \ Actually, it pays much more than the / teaching job.”	;
“Ashtabula. This stop Ashtabula,” called the conductor.	.
“This is where I get off.” He emptied X; his glass, ice cubes and all, and stood ~ ' up unsteadily. “Merry Christmas,” he . said as he fastened on his beard and ■ adjusted his cap.
As he shuffled down the aisle Iman-aged to wave and reply, “Merry Christ- ' mas.”	■
It looked like the usual vacation. /.'..X'
December 16, 1960
I
Solid opportunities with solid state devices
A big part of Western Electric’s job is to manufacture the miniature “new arts” products that are changing the science of communications. It’s a job which offers you a challenging career—a chance to plan new methods of mass producing ever-improving kinds of transistors, ferrite devices, diodes, special purpose electron tubes, etc.
You’ll be with a company that is expanding rapidly in this field. At present our Allentown and Laureldale, Pa., plants are devoted exclusively to making election devices, and a big new plant is under construction in Kansas City. The needs of the Bell Telephone System for these products are increasing daily and will multiply enormously with the introduction of Electronic Central Office switching now nearing trial operation.
These devices are changing the scene at all our manufacturing plants as they go into the startling new communications products developed by our associates at Bell Telephone Laboratories. From microwave transmission equipment to submarine cable amplifiers, our products call
for creative production engineering, installation planning, and merchandising methods. Our job for the Bell System and the U.S. government has grown to the point where we £ are now one of the nation’s “Top 11” in industrial sales. And your chance to play an important part in our future growth is solid!
Opportunities exist for electrical, mechanical, industrial, civil and chemical engineers, as well as physical science, liberal arts, and business majors. For more information, get your copy of Consider a Career at Western Electric from your Placement Officer. Or write College Relations, Room 6105, Western Electric Company, 195 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y. Be sure to arrange for a Western Electric interview when the Bell System recruiting team visits your campus.
$

MANUFACTURING AND SUFHY
UNIT OF THE BEU SYSTEM
Principal manufacturing locations at Chicago, Hi.; Kearny, N. J.; Baltimore. Md.; Indianapolis, Ind.; Allentown and Laureldale. Pa.; Winston-Salem. N. C.; Buffalo, N. Y.; North Andover, Mass.: Omaha, Neb.; Kansas City, Mo.; Columbus, Ohio; Oklahoma City, Okla. Engineering Research Ceiter, Princeton, N. J. Teletype Corporation, Skokie, III., and Little Rock, Ark. Also Western Electric distribution centers in 32 cities and installation beadouarters in 16 c ‘ies. General headouarters: 195 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y
The Scholastic
Mardi Gras
€ Shelley Manne +o Star In Week-End Concert
by JOHN McCABE
Featuring Peter Palmer, his voices and orchestra, the 1961 Mardi Gras Ball scheduled for Friday, Feb. 10, 1961 in the North Dining Hall from 9 till 1, will again begin the pre-Lenten festivities on the campus. This year’s Mardi Gras Committee has imported the highly touted drummer Shelley Manne for a week-end concert to entertain those not attending the Saturday night Carnival. Further innovations include a revised
layout for the 31 booths and variety show now planned for the three-day Carnival.
® The distribution of tickets will be held in the Student Center from 6 to 9 p.m. on January 4 and 5. To eliminate the prodigious list characteristic of previous campus-wide dances, a $5 deposit will be required for those wishing to enter the drawing for bids. The actual lottery will be held in the Rathskeller on Thursday, Jan. 5 at 9:15 p.m., and the list published in the Huddle and South Dining Hall, Friday, Jan. 6. £ Those students who have sold and returned 10 raffle books by Jan. 5, the next collection date, will pick up their bids on Monday evening, Jan. 9, in the Mardi Gras offices in the Student Center. For the men whose names appear on the lottery list the forfeiture deadline is Tuesday evening, Jan. 10. By this date the tickets must be claimed personally or through the winner’s I.D.
THE 1961 CADILLAC COUPE
The Tailfin Society meets the Charity Chest.
December 16, 1960
Ball to Feature Palmer
card, though the 2 a.m. permissions will apply only to the actual name on the list. Unsold bids will be distributed Jan. 11 in the Drill Hall according to the waiting list posted by the committee. If the student fails to pick up his ticket on the specified date, the $5 deposit will be refunded in the Mardi Gras offices between Jan. 12 and 16. Dance ticket returns will be accepted until 12 noon, Feb. 8 by the Mardi Gras Ticket Chairman, and after that time through the Vice-President of Student Affairs or the ticket chairman.
According to Tom Conneely, Mardi
Alter Library Schedule For Christmas Vacation
A shift in library procedure for the Christmas vacation has been scheduled by the University’s Director- of Libraries, Victor Schaefer.
According to the new plan all two-week books checked out between Dec. 16 and 19 inclusive will fall due on January 14, while those already charged out and due during the vacation period from Dec. 21 to Jan. 2, must be renewed before leaving for home. Further, the library has reserved the right to limit the books for out of town use. Complementing this regulation, no reserve books, periodicals, reference books and the like may be withdrawn from the city during the recess. As of Dec. 20, 1960 and remaining in effect through Jan. 2, 1961, the following schedule of library hours will be: Dec. 20 through Dec. 23, inclusive 8:00 to 5:00; Dec. 24, 25, and 26 — closed; Dec. 27 through Dec. 30, inclusive, 8:00 to 5:00; and, Dec. 31, Jan. 1 and 2 — closed.
Gras Ball chairman, the featured band for the Friday evening Ball, Peter Palmer and his Orchestra, was chosen for its combined talents of instrumentation and vocal arrangement. His mixed chorale group, recording on Mercury Records, will entertain the couples with a style of singing patterned after Ray Conniff. Drummer Manne, appearing at the Saturday night jazz concert, has been selected for Downbeat’s All Star Poll six years running, and appointed Metronome Yearbook’s “Musician of the Year” in 1956. His latest record, “Shelley Manne and Russ Freeman” on the Contemporary label, has been lauded by reviewers for Doivn Beat and The New Yorker.
Theater Group to Play For Campus Audience
Two graduates from the University of Notre Dame will be in the company when Players Incorporated pay their annual visit to Washington Hall Jan. 13 and 14. William DeSeta, who took his degree in communication arts, and Richard Robison, who was a political science major, are with the group on its annual tour, presenting Shakespeare’s The Merchant of Venice on Jan. 13 and The Oresteia of Aeschylus on Jan. 14.
The members of the company are graduates of the Speech and Drama Department of the Catholic University of America in Washington, D. C., noted for the many Broadway hits which have originated in its theater. The C. U. Drama Department is under the direction of the Rev. Gilbert Hartke, O.P., one of the most prominent figures in the American theater today, and the founder of Players Incorporated.
Currently touring for its twelfth consecutive year, the company has become the longest-running national classic repertory theater- in the United States in the twentieth century. They recently completed an off-Broadway engagement at Carnegie Hall Playhouse in New York City. In their first eleven years of touring they have made seven trips abroad under the auspices of the Department of Defense to entertain troops in Korea, Japan, the European Command and the Arctic Circle.
General admission price for tickets is $2.00; the University Faculty and Student rate is $1.50. Mail orders are accepted and phone reservations can be made by calling CE 4-9011, Ext. 608. The box office will be open from 4 to 6 p.m. beginning Jan. 11.
9
Fr. Hesburgh to Launch Marriage Institute; Seniors to Sponsor Annual Lecture Series
Launching the seventh consecutive Notre Dame Marriage Institute this coming February 19, Father Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., will deliver a lecture entitled “Courtship and Marriage.” The purpose of his and the subsequent talks is to give authoritative insights, from the Catholic point of view, into marriage, its problems, responsibilities, and rewards.
The joint Religion Department-Senior Class project was initiated in 1955, and culminated in seven successful and well received lectures. The Institute has since become an annual event and is considered one of the most important items on the senior calendar. Five talks are scheduled for 1961, each treating a distinct phase of the common topic.
The four lectures following Father Hesburgh’s Sunday night opening will be given on the Wednesdays of March. On the first of the month, Mr. and Mrs. James Butler are scheduled to discuss “How Man and Women Look at Marriage.” The Reverend Arthur Meloche, lecturer at the University of Detroit on Marriage Theology, will present “An Image of the Trinity in Sanctity, Sanity, md Sex” on March 8. “The Doctor’s Viewpoint” will be given March 15 by Dr. Louis Leone, who has been brought back year aftei- year to the Marriage Institute by popular demand. Notre Dame’s Dr. and Mrs. Robert Christin will conclude the series with “Success in Marriage” on March 22. Each lecture, beginning at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall, is to be followed by a free-ranging question and answer period.
General Chairman Bill Pflaum, a senior English major from Dayton, Ohio, is supervising the preparatory
jack McLaughlin, nil pflaum, nil lehr, alan bosch New bottle, old wine.
groundwork. Experience on the Commerce Activities Council has come in handy for Bill Lehr, finance major from Silver Springs, Maryland, in his office as general arrangements chairman. Another English major from Ohio, Alan Bosch, whose home is in Cincinnati, is in charge of publicity. Tickets will be handled by Jack McLaughlin, economics major from Ogden, Utah who spent his first two college years at Seattle University.
Tickets, to be sold in senior halls with the help of the Blue Circle, will be offered on Tuesday and Wednesday, Feb. 7 and 8. Engaged underclassmen may purchase them in the Catholic Action Office in LaFortune Student Center. Sales to off-campus students will be made at the bus stop, and in the Student Center. Students attending all of the five lectures will receive the Marriage Institute Cei-tificate. This cei-ti-ficate is often accepted as satisfaction of the obligation to attend parochial Pre-Cana conferences in dioceses requiring such instruction.
SNOW WONDER
St. Mary’s College Student Council will present its annual Charity Ball, “Snow Wonder,” at the Indiana Club from 8:00 till 11:30 on Saturday, January 7. Bids for the dance which will feature Dick Anderson and his orchestra are being sold today at the SMC Dean's Office for $3.50, including transportation. Proceeds from the affair will go to the home and foreign missions.
Glee Club to Present Annual Yule Concert this Sunday
Notre Dame’s Glee Club will present its annual Christmas concert at Washington Hall Sunday night, Dec. 18, at 8:15 p.m. The program will include a wide selection of numbers including several arrangements by the directory Daniel Pedtke, who is celebrating his~^ twenty-fifth year at Notre Dame.
The concert will include selections varying from the more popular Christmas carols to Appalachian folk carols, including such numbers as, “’Twas the Night Before Christmas,” “Birthday of a King,” “Lo, How a Rose Er Blooming,” and a medley of carols.
Foregoing families and Thanksgiving dinner for bus seats and Howard Johnsons, the men of the Glee Club com-<) pleted a highly successful Thanksgiving tour to Cleveland and the New Jersey shore area. The club covered 2000 miles in four days, starting the tour with a concert in Lakewood, Ohio, where a postconcert reception was sponsored by the Cleveland Club. The singers then moved on to New Jersey for concerts in Asbury Park and Newark.
After the conceit in Newark on Saturday night, many of the members took^ the short ride into New York City,' gathering at Joe King’s German-American Club for an impromptu songfest. Sunday afternoon the bus started back, ending the vacation.
To Elect Four Members Directors of Alumni Club^
Eight Notre Dame graduates have been nominated to serve on the board of directors of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, according to an announcement by executive secretary James Armstrong.
Four of the group will be elected to three-year terms on the board in nationwide balloting among the University’s 30,000 alumni. Balloting will close Jan. 1, Armstrong said, and the new directors will be installed at a campus meeting of the twelve-man board Jan. 19 and 20.
The nominees are Thomas Carroll, executive vice president, Master Manufacturing Co., Hutchinson, Kan.; Anthony Crowley, president, McNamar and Crowley, Inc., Salem, HL; John Dempsey, manager of the municipal bond department, Kidder, Peabody and Co., Philadelphia, Pa.; and Patrick^ Dougherty, president, Patrick A. Dougherty, Inc., Minneapolis, Minn.
Also William Fallon, general sales manager, Flinn Motor Corp., New Rochelle, N. Y.; Oliver Hunter, senior resident FBI agent, New Castle, Pa.; Harold Klein, senior vice president, lowa-Des Moines National Bank, Des Moines, la.; and Timothy Toomey, compensation claims manager, American Casualty Co., Boston, Mass.
The Scholastic
10
0
Keegan Launches Student Complaint Board; Group to Air Views on Disciplinary Conditions
/ht Qnaltam
Student Body President John Keegan initiates his newly formed Complaint g Board this week as it appears before the Rector’s Council in a concentrated —effort to air the students’ position on *hall discipline. Composed of a rotating hoard of student body officers, class officers, hall senators and hall presidents, the eleven man group will discuss the many issues now before the council’s chairman, Rev. George Bernard, C.S.C., Vice-President for Student Affairs, and the various rectors. Related, at least in I name, to the Senate’s Welfare Committee presently studying Dining Hall conditions, the Complaint Board warned g against uncontrolled optimism over the * possible relaxation of present hall regulations.
Admittedly a gamble with no foreseeable concrete results, the Student Body , President feels the board’s chief purpose is “to educate both administration and student on the problems confronting the University’s academic community, and to work together to achieve a better understanding between the two.” Presently he fears the administra-• tion is unaware of the conditions found within the halls, and hopes through this organization to answer- the students’ demands for a more liberal and responsible relationship with the authorities.
Ou Mie Shu Lecture to Open Advisory Board Talk Series ff Tom Colleton, AB Senator, announced, that soon after the Christmas vacation, the AB Advisory Board will present a lecture by Ou Mie Shu. This will be the first in a series of lectures centered about the liberal and fine arts. The purpose of these lectures will be to give the Notre Dame student an opportunity to learn something of art and music. The Board hopes that student interest in 9 this and the subsequent lectures will justify the effort being made to bring a more personal and authentic insight into the arts to the Notre Dame student.
According to Colleton, it has been difficult to justify the disinterest towards the arts that has been demonstrated by the student body in recent years. Certainly some of the poor response is due to the poor efforts of publicity committees. “Hence,” says Colleton, “we hope that this early an-0 nouncement will enable students to plan well ahead and that all interested will be able to attend. There is a great deal that can be learned from a good artist. Ou, a graduate art student from Formosa, now studying at Notre Dame, is certainly a ‘good artist.’ ”
This series of lectures is being organized by Tony Bill, 203 Dillon Hall. Anyone interested either in further information or in helping with the series is encouraged to see him.
December 16, 1960
So far this year the Student Government has created several committees designed to speak directly to the policy-making organizations of the University. The Complaint Board, though a part of this over-all plan, is not connected with the University President or his advisors, confining itself to the Rectors’ Council. Operating within these bounds and subject to Father Bernard’s approval, the board’s powers depend entirely on the quality of its members and the degree to which the Rectors’ Council will bend from accepted tradition. According to John Keegan, a majority of the rectors are in favor of removing some of the more onerous rales enveloping the students’ campus life, though there is no assurance that noticeable progress will be made with this Council.
Offer Cash Prize, Medal For Original Short Story
A $1000 cash prize is being offered jointly by the Thomas More Association and the McGeary Foundation for the best short story written by an undergraduate presently enrolled in a Catholic college. The McGeary Foundation Gold Medal, designed by Ivan Mestrovic, will be presented to the college of the winner.
To be elegibie for the award the entries must be an original work, previously unpublished, typewritten and received by the Thomas More Association, 210 West Madison Street, Chicago 6, Ill., on or before April 1, 1961. The selected short story will be printed in The Critic and first option on the remaining pieces will be given them at regular publication rates. Manuscripts by such distinguished authors as Richard Sullivan, of the Notre Dame department of English, Flannery O’Connor and Mavis Gallant have already appeared or are about to appear in this magazine. Judges reserve the right, however, to issue no award if no article of sufficient caliber is received.
The actual presentation of both the $1000 and Gold Medal is scheduled for the 22nd Anniversary Celebration of the Thomas More Association, Sunday, May 7, 1961, in Chicago.
TALENT PARTY
The Hall Presidents Council will put on a “Talent Hunt Party’’ the afternoon of Jan. 8, 1961, first Sunday after Christmas vacation. Featured will be ND and SMC student groups in acts which will appear at later Student Government functions. Tickets will be sold by the Hall Presidents; watch for further information after the holidays.
Scholarships, $4,000 Worf*
Joel Haggard is the tall, serious, Senator from Sorin Hall. He is articulate in a flawlessly logical manner.
Monday night Haggard’s cogent stand on Mardi Gras funds was representative, in a meeting marked by intelligent discussion.
Perfunctory matters were quickly disposed of. The officers and commissioners reported; and Christmas allocations Chest were approved.
President Keegan reported that a series of student talks with Father Hes-burgh will be held over WSND, and that questionnaires will be distributed to the students asking for their criticism and constructive suggestions concerning the Dining Hall.
The battleground was now left open for debate on motions concerning student discontent and Mardi Gras funds.
Last week the Scholastic ran an excellent editorial on the Thanksgiving demonstration, suggesting that it was engendered by a general discontent with Notre Dame life. Ollie Williams presented a motion by mandate of the JEC which would commend the editors for their editorial. Some comments:
John Clark, “We have endorsed everything from the UN to the University Band. Here is something where our endorsement does mean something.”
Rice, “I don’t like the motion as stated.”
Jalovec, “There is no reason for this motion.”
The motion passed with twelve for and eleven against. John Clark, Jack Clark, Colleton and Haggard were for it; Rice, Jalovec, Lund and Buckley were against it.
Most senators would agree that it was the Senate’s responsibility to show its awareness of this problem of student discontent. Some thought this should not be done by a motion commending the Scholastic or that the motion should not have been worded as it was.
Mai*di Gras debate centered around whether to allocate $4,000 or $8,000 for scholarships.	J
Lund, quoting Denny Shaul, talked of ' a Senate responsibility to make a “significant contribution to the academic.”
(Continued on page 19)
Now an engagement ring design so distinctive— it is protected by a U. S. design patent*! This exclusive Artcarved "Evening Star" design dramatizes the diamond as other rings can't do. Even a modest diamond appears impressively radiant and rich. Isn't this what you want for your love? Then accept no less. Look for the name Artcarved stamped in each ring. It is your only assurance of the genuine "Evening Star" engagement ring. And only with Artcarved® do you receive a written guarantee for diamond quality—plus the protection of the nationwide Permanent Value Plan.
•U.S. DESIGN PATENT NO. 186,805 * MM MM	MM	mm	mb	MM ^M	MM	^M «M» •
- Discover more about this exciting ring and other valuable tips on diamond ring buying. Write to:
J. R.Wood & Sons, Inc., Dept. CP-90, 216 E. 45th St., N.Y. 17, N.Y.
NAME—________________________________________________________
ADDRESS—_______________________________________
CITY________________ZONE_____STATE_____________
DIAMOND AND WEDDING RINGS
Beloved by brides for more than 100 years (1850-1960) '
your HEADQUARTERS IN SOUTH BEND FOR
Artcarvec
DIAMOND RINGS
Top
Evening Star Engagement Ring §475.00
Bride’s Circlet............... $	60.00
Bottom
Emerald Cut Engagement Ring $225.00
Bride’s Circlet ............... $	30.00
Wonderful selection of Artcarved Diamond Rings from $50. All fully guaranteed for diamond quality and Permanent Value.
★
CREDIT (with no interest) AND LAY-A-WAY
AVAILABLE TO NOTRE DAME MEN
★
121 W. WASHINGTON CE 4-1311
AuthoriMd Artcarved t«w«i»r

12
The Scholastic
OOTBALL
clicked his tongue in disappoint-turned off his desk lamp, and out the window. The street lights illumined the campus walks were
there, ment, stared which
There were millions of them — perfectly arranged in mile-long columns, in companies ten-wide and five-deep, in bat-(Continued on page 17)
* * *
Fai- off a drum-roll started.
In the afternoon it had rained and now the cool night air was moist and silent. From time to time footsteps could be heard passing by on the concrete walk beneath the window. Mostly, however, there was only quiet, a dull dead quiet. The drum-roll rose out of the moist air like a murmur from a distant womb. It seemed to be the first murmur of life.
The blond-haired boy looked up from his book.
“What’ll they think of next?” he asked. But his roommate had long ago fallen asleep. The boy looked at him sleeping
still on, and a dull glow crept into the wet air from bulbs which should have been changed before the First World War.
The sound of drums had grown louder but it was still distant and muffled by the night. A floor below him, the boy heard a door open, then another. The drumroll became more pronounced; it was coming nearer. As it moved slowly across the sleeping campus other drums joined in, one by one, and the sound began to rise and fall in somber rhythm. Other doors were being opened and still, hurried footsteps were descending the stairs.
The blond-haired boy heard a‘ scuffle behind him and turned in time to see his sleeping roommate slip out the door, walk to the stainveil, and disappear. Along the corridoi- almost all the doors had been left open; the darkened rooms had given up their contents. He felt / alone and scared. The building was , z deathly quiet. Outside the sound was ' beckoning. He slipped on his shoes and left.
13
Relig
I N LAST week’s issue of Time magazine, the cover story on Jesuit theologian John Courtney Murray served as the most recent reminder that we are living in a “pluralistic society.” What is a pluralistic society? In our case it is the American historical phenomenon of a politically united but theologically divided nation. More concretely, it means that Protestants, Jews, Catholics, and secularists, embracing the four main attitudes towards our relation to a supreme being, have somehow been able to agree on a viable code of political beliefs, well-articulated in the Constitution and Declaration of Independence.
By no means has this been the societal condition of man during his four hundred thousand years of existence on earth. Cicero’s principle “Cuius regio, eius religio” is one that has dominated human history, and even in present times it still holds in many parts of the world with varying degrees of influence. Except for recent times, the extent of a particular religion was largely determined by geographical factors as was the extent of the national sovereignty. The result of this has been the union of a particular religion with a particular government, the antithesis of the first amendment to the Constitution, which Thomas Jefferson interpreted as an intention to erect “a wall of separation between church and state.”
From a Catholic viewpoint, the existential situation of a number of diverse religions must be looked upon as an unfortunate fact, since we proclaim not only to have a true religion but the true one; but, leaving aside our regret that all men do not belong to the one true Church, the success of the coexistence of four widely different religions groups must be explained. That is, religiously speaking pluralism is an unfortunate fact; is this also true politically speaking?
It is nothing new to say that man is the only creature who must establish relations with both a temporal, earthly world and a supernatural world, but this is essential in a discussion of pluralism. It is often difficult to see the distinction
in actual human existence, but the two orders in reference to their ends are clearly discernible. Man, in the temporal political order, aims to establish internal peace, protection against enemies, the autonomy of certain rights of the individual, material welfare, and other goals usually grouped under the common good; but in the supernatural order he strives only for one end, salvation, in our terms, possession of the Beatific Vision. And it must be emphasized that, although the temporal order is ultimately subordinate to the eternal order, it is an end in itself, apart from being subordinate to supernatural goals.
However, it may be objected that besides a plurality of means to salvation, different ways of worshipping, there is also a plurality of speculative theologies and speculative philosophies. Would there not be divergence at the very roots of a political society if it is ultimately to be based on some common core of thought and if there is no one predominant philosophy or theology?
“DEMOCRATIC SECULAR FAITH”
Professor Jacques Maritain states that the basis of any true pluralistic society is a “democratic secular faith.” This common “secular faith” is not the least common denominator of the majoi’ philosophical and theological systems; in fact, it must be distinguished both from religious truths and from the whole order of speculative truth. And yet it is a common core of thought which the society must be aware of and to which it ought to continually refer. But it is a core of thought which is in the practical order; it deals with practical tenets, which are arrived at by the human mind without the pitfalls and complications of speculative thinking, because “they depend basically on simple, ‘natural’ apperceptions, of which the human heart becomes capable with the progress of moral conscience.”
A few of the items with which a charter of practical tenets would be concerned are: political rights and liberties, justice between persons and the body
politic, rights and duties of persons who are part of a family society, religious freedom, exclusion of the resort to political coups, etc.
A further point which Maritain makes is that we must maintain a clear distinction between these practical tenets and their theoretical justification. It is impossible that these practical truths be completely isolated in thought from any religious or philosophical position, and, in fact, it is not desirable that this be attempted, as these truths will be more meaningful to persons if they are integrated into their own world-view; but the fact still remains that it is the practical truths and not the theoretical justification on which unanimity is desired. It may be that the truths of the Gospel support and strengthen political truths within the hearts of men, but in the temporal, earthly political order it is the practical “secular” truths which are im- ’ portant.
These insights of Maritain’s have been historically substantiated by the success of modem democracies. If we deny them, we will have difficulty explaining the existence of present day America, a successful political society comprised of four different “religious” groups and many philosophical traditions.
However, some will emphasize that it is still a “relative” success as it is necessary to be continually renewing and clarifying our understanding of these truths. Father John Courtney Murray urges that “what is at stake is America’s understanding of itself. Self-understanding is the necessary condition of a sense of self-identity and self-confidence.” In order to arrive at this self-understanding we must be time to one of the distinguishing factors of a political society, its forensic quality. We can only preserve and clarify our “secular faith,” the “democratic charter” through a process of dispassionate argument, a rational dialogue.
This dialogue, centering around the American political consensus, is, nevertheless, complicated by the fact of religious pluralism. Although we can distinguish practical truths from their orientation in a religious or philosophical
14
The Scholastic
0
jus Pluralism and Political Life
by JAMES J. O’ROURKE
€
position, in practice it is difficult to separate them. We cannot talk about them in isolation from oui* other- intellectual leanings. Fr. Murray points out two factors which influence our experiences in civil discourse. First of all, it is inevitable that in discussing the American political consensus there is at some point a moving upwards into the realms of metaphysics, ethics, and theology. This happens naturally, as man does not think in isolated compartments. Secondly, each religious group is, to some extent, a product of its spiritual and intellectual '	history. And the common history that we
t	share as Americans is rather minimal
|	when compared to the long traditions of
|	Christianity and Judaism.
Also, there seem to be, within the four |	groups, deeply rooted prejudices and
|	suspicions which militate against any
£ properly rational dialogue. The most ob-S vious is the age-old distrust and resent-1'	ment of the Jew—hardly only a theologi-
cal disagreement, but rather a passionate dislike, shared in various degrees by many members of the Christian and secularist communities. The Jew himself is । fearful of the power of the Protestant , and Catholic influences, fearful that his . own religious liberty and independence - will be curtailed. The Protestant, aware " of the unanimity of dogma in the Catho-i lie Church, sees it as an enemy of the “American” spirit of individual freedom of thought and expression. This is especially true when a Protestant identifies his theological tradition with American culture, recalling that our founding fathers were predominantly of the Protestant faith. And it has been said that the two most influential factors in shaping our libertarian form of government were Protestant dissent and secular human-V ism. The Catholic is in an unfortunate position in this regard, as he arrived on the scene after the foundations of the American democracy had been laid. Finally, the secularist has a natural aversion to all religious truths, especially since they assert the insufficiency of human reason and the correlative necessity of faith. His vision is limited to temporal earthly goals, and he regards religious pluralism only as a divisive element in the political order.
December 16, 1960
Both the divergence of the intellectual traditions of the four groups and the prejudices and suspicions they have of one another have made the rational dialogue a difficult though not unconquerable task. The National Federation of Catholic College Students has centered its 1960-1961 national program around this general problem. Its theme is An Understanding of Our Time: Catholic Responsibility in a Pluralistic Society. At Notre Dame, foui- particular problems will be discussed: the one already touched upon (the nature of the pluralistic society), the limitations of the Catholic College as a preparation for this dialogue, our attitudes towards other theologies, and the relation of church and state with particular reference to the school situation.
“GHETTO MENTALITY”
The second problem, concerning the adequacy of the Catholic College, has been recently touched upon in discussions of the Catholic “ghetto mentality” and “provincialism.” Does the Catholic College foster this ghetto attitude? It is obvious that the Catholic intellectual has become more in evidence in recent years, and that Catholics have been taking a more prominent place in the higher levels of American political life, but’ judgments similar to the following are still made: “By and large, American Catholics do not seem prepared to meet the challenge of their new status: they either tend to look back nostalgically to the familiar security of the old ghetto, or else they tend to be frantically eager to get rid of then- distinctiveness and assume the protective coloration of a homogenized Americanness.” If this is true, and if the Catholic College can be said to exert a significant influence (as it should) on the American Catholic mentality, then there is obviously something to be desired. It is failing to graduate men who have the correct attitude and proper background necessary for participation in the interfaith dialogue.
This raises the third problem to be discussed, our attitude toward other theologies in the discussion of actual theo
logical matters. Is the ear of the Catholic closed before the Protestant or Jew completes one sentence dealing with his theological position? An understanding of the other religious groups and their theological positions seems to be of significant importance for a profitable coexistence in the American pluralistic society. Also, the question may be asked “Does the ease of communication on the social and cultural level prevent a deeper intellectual exchange which is necessary in a serious theological discussion?” The majority of Americans get along with one another very well in the ordinary social and cultural matters; but theological . differences are sharp, and they clearly indicate a disunity of the American people. Thus, theological discussions are avoided as they are considered to be both embarrassing and “un-American,” and there is a shocking absence of communication in this area.
The final problem to be discussed is probably more controversial than any other matter presently being tossed about in the interfaith dialogue. It is the issue of religious schools and governmental aid, which involves interpretation of the Constitution, the relation between church and state, and many other related problems. James M. Conant, in his book Education and Liberty, struck out virulently at American private schools. He stated that “The greater the proportion of our youth who fail to attend our public schools and who receive their education elsewhere, the greater the threat to our democratic unity.” A reply to this was given, that “His (Mr. Conant’s) whole argument . . . rests on a conception of democracy far closer to a monolithic state totalism . . . than to the pluralistic system established by the Founding Fathers.” And the debate is still raging. It has also been stated on the one hand that if the state begins to subsidize religious schools it will curtail then* freedom, and on the other hand that the state is bound by the laws .of . distributive justice to aid all private . schools.	.
Beginning in January these four prob-, lems will be dealt with in a series of lee- . tures and discussions, which will comprise the NFCCS Pluralism Program. .
15
MH/
As Notre Dame men, we have all heard of one of Mary’s more famous sons—Dr. Tom Dooley. We know this Irishman as a doctor who has dedicated his life to his fellow men in Asia by bringing to them his medical knowledge and his human compassion. Not many of us, though, have heard of a Korean boy who was here at the University last year as a junior in the department of Electrical Engineering and has since gone over to Laos to help Dr. Dooley. Some of us know this Korean as John Kim—a lad who has interrupted his college career to help those who, as Dr. Tom would say “don’t got it so good.”
During the Korean conflict, John became friendly with an American GI who later brought him to this country. He entered a public high school in New York City and progressed from an unnoticed freshman to the president of the student body four years later. John was an honor roll student, a representative of his school to the National Science
16
Fair and a starting halfback on one of New York City’s champion teams. After graduating from high school, Kim received a money grant from the Notre Dame Alumni Association of New York to attend the University. Since John left Korea, he has been sponsored by many good-hearted Americans and there is nobody more appreciative than Kim. He has always been interested in going back to his native land after completing his education to help his own people and also to serve as a living example of how wonderful the American people are.
Now that we have all become acquainted with Mr. John Kim, let us read what he has to say to us, his fellow students of Notre Dame.
Hi Fellows,
It has been nine months since I left the campus; I have returned to Asia, the continent of my birth. I am trying to do what all of you are hoping to do in the future; I am trying to help those who need so much. It seems strange to
be here in a land similar to the one I _ left so long ago. I have remembered * what hunger and poverty are like; with all the comforts of campus life I had forgotten.
When I arrived at Vientiane, the capital of Laos, I was met by the director of U.S.I.S., Mr. Miller. I took advantage of his kindness and spent a couple of days at his home while I was trying to get transportation to Muong Sing.
Just after I arrived in Vientiane, the Laotian government gave a reception for the good will ambassadors from Hawaii, 9 and I was fortunate to attend. I met all the dignitaries of the American and Laotian governments, including Ambassador Smith and His Excellency, the Premier of Laos. Here, I noticed a strange thing: whenever I was introduced to somebody, whether he was a prime minister or a village chief, I was respected as a Notre Dame man. This woke me up to the fact when you are a Notre Dame man, it is for the rest of
The Scholastic
€
your life. I was ashamed to think how I had griped when the fathers tried to tell me what a Notre Dame man should be.
The nearest place where we can attend Mass is a two days’ walk from here. I miss those Masses one flight down from my bed. The “church” is a little house run by Italian priests, and I was able to attend a Mass there.
£ Here, in Laos, I can see the universality of the Catholic Church as a physical reality. When I see the Kock-Ko tribesmen in the clinic making the sign of the cross, I feel a strange sentiment overpowering me. I don’t see the coat of filth on his clothes nor the unwashed face but the familiar motion of his hand. This is the man I see in the clinic every day who cannot tell me how many children he has; this is the man who tells me his age is between twenty and thirty-C’five. God does work in strange ways, doesn’t He.
One day I asked a Protestant missionary, who is working among the people about a day’s walk south of here, why these people let him work here, especially since we are so far north. He said that it was because of Dr. Dooley’s work, that these people’s hearts and minds have been opened to the fact that not all the white people are colonialists. £. This enables them to settle down among these people and to bring Christianity to them. So, you see, this is one of the many unknown deeds which Dr. Dooley has accomplished; and this he has done, not by bringing Christianity to these people, but by bringing human understanding between two different worlds.
For the Doctor, there is no time off; sick people come to him at all hours
whether it is in the middle of a meal or the middle of a night. Disease isn’t the only thing we have to fight, we must also combat the strange beliefs of the people. The other night we had a call which made a nervous wreck out of me. As it usually happens, they came to us as a last resort after’ trying all the crazy native medications. This time it was a girl who had been sick for months. She was dying from malnutrition, dehydration, and some kind of disease which is unknown to me. When we arrived, her life was hanging on by the last thread. When someone is sick, all the neighbors and relatives pack into one room. While we were giving her shots, she went into a coma, and the whole room went into a screaming hysteria. They began pulling and squeezing the bony girl and blasting her name into her ears. While I was fighting off the hands and trying to restore her to consciousness, I noticed a man biting on the ends of the girl’s hair. He pulled out a long knife (which they use for everything from cooking to chipping wood), and my heart skipped a beat. He started to swing it above our heads screaming in an unbearable pitch of voice. Another man was sticking a piece of metal into her bony ribs and, of course, there was a witch doctor doing his tricks in the corner of the room with some strange object on the end of a stick. I didn’t pay much attention to the witch doctor, because I had enough trouble worrying about the girl and that knife circling about my head. I was also too busy saying the Hail Mary; everytime I felt the knife coming around, my prayer came out louder and louder. I don’t know whether it was my Hail Mary or that knife swinging around, but I
thank God that after an hour of this jam session, she came around. To say the least, I was breathing much easier. While I was doing my duty of being a Catholic, I was making darn sure that the guy with the knife wasn’t looking or listening. His knife tricks were chasing the ghost away and, believe it or not, the girl said to her parents that she saw the ghost who was trying to take her away. I hope you fellows don’t mind if I say that I sure wasn’t about to contradict her. One hour later, she entered into her everlasting peace. So, you can see that modern scientific knowledge is minimized in this state of hysteria.
In every village that we visit there are children with bulging bellies and spindly legs and gaping round eyes that tell me that they need help. Everywhere there are weak and disabled children who are frightened by their sufferings. Here, life seems so cheap. You hear a woman complaining of pregnancy pains, and she tells you to take the baby out because she doesn’t want it. She already has nine children.
In the world I came back to and in your world, I have noticed one thing very clearly. There are no basic differences among human beings who know suffering. Black or white, yellow or brown, Moslem, Hindu, Buddhist, Christian, Jew, pagan, or atheist, men and women of the West and the East are moved by the same hopes and fears, the same aspirations and anxieties.
Farewell, but we shall meet again where men do not hate each other or despise each other, but understand each other’s heart.
From the valley of Muong Sing, —John Kim.
Football Forever
(Continued from page 13)
taiions of a thousand souls. They shuffled along in unison, their eyes shut tight, compelled by the deafening throb of the drums. The blond-haired felt fear. There was a caving in his ribs. He became frantic. He ran along the edge of column crying to them; but he could do nothing; there was nothing he could do. They • heard nothing. The death march of the drums had hold of them. Their eyes were shut. In one motion, one million feet rose and fell. They marched forward hopelessly into the night, and as they marched their jaws opened and fell monotonously. No sound came forth, but the words were everywhere: “We want football! We want football! We want football!” they chanted. And their voices were as one voice.
The boy ran along and when he came
too close long black arms reached out and grabbed at him. He beat at the arms, flailing like a little child, his clothes ripping. He tore himself free and ran on calling to the million souls; but they did not heed, marching on unmindful to their goal, driven by the heaving drums.
There were no leaders; there were no drumplayers; only the relentless moan of death. No signals were given. The men walked blindly on following those in front of them who followed those in front of them who followed those in front of them. All the time the throbbing, the dead endless throbbing became louder and louder, and when it was too loud to be heard it stopped. The souls stopped too. The rhythm changed and the drums began anew.
This time it was faster, lower, more savage, starting slow as it had begun before with drums joining in and the rhythm swelling. The men did not move any more. The companies had reformed, still in perfect schools, perfect departments, now with all the faces, the dead faces and tight-shut eyes turned toward the center of the mob. The jaws were still rising and falling with the new cadence: “Burn the books! Burn the books! Bum the books!” And still no sound came forth.
A rope was thrown over a limb of the great black lifeless tree which rose grotesquely in the center of the throng. One end was fastened securely to its flailing prey; the other was drawn slowly down. The boy watched in horror as another blond-haired boy was slowly lifted
December 16, 1960
17
above the heads of the million souls. It was only when a thin flame crept up to lick at the feet of the former friend, it was only when he began to jerk and twist in terror of the killing flame that the blind mob was grasped with frenzy, that they danced madly on the turf, that they threw back their heads and howled a vast inaudible howl of despair.
* * *
At the Theaters
It was only then that the boy really knew. He knew that the world had always been mad, but that now at last it was going somewhere. A million and one souls were uniting themselves with the deafening roar of the dead. The lost souls would march forth, they had to march forth from this heap of burning books and this burning soul to do something. And nothing would stand in their way. Nothing. They had found the unbeatable team: death, darkness and destruction. And they would kill, kill, kill. Cheer cheer they would for the million souls. They would wake up the echoes of a long gone day. Thunder would be shaken from the sky. For centuries to come, in every night to come, the loyal sons of the million-and-one dead souls would march forever endlessly down the field to victory over all.	.
Now at last he knew, he understood. With the cheering crowds urging him on, on to an everlasting string of undefeated seasons, and with the twisting, jerking figure above his head, and with the burning books he knew and he understood and it was beautiful and he wanted to hold this feeling for the rest of his life, wanted to sing to the world. And he would; he knew he would. He forced his eyes to close, close tightly. He held it in. And the joy was swimming in his lungs and he felt he was going to die with the pain of his happiness. And he flung back his head and howled, howled desperately, into the night.
But of course no sound came from his lips for everyone else was howling and no one could hear anyone.
sk *	*
It was all over now. The charred heap still glowed, dumbly giving smoke to the night. The grass had been trampled; strips of sod were gone; black earth was revealed. A cool breeze pushed along the grass, through the barren branches, caught at the whisper of smoke, and stole away. The boy stood quietly to the side. His face was subtly traced by the glow of the heap. His hands were thrust deep in his pockets. A passer-by might have thought him a pyromaniac entranced by the smoldering flame for he never moved. His dull blind face looked straight forward into the quiet conflagration. His hair was darkened by the shadows, brushed gently by the freezing wind.	—Gordon Quinlan
Well, gents, this will be the last you’ll hear from me for this (calendar) year. We can’t complain about the theater managers. They have allowed us to stay in and study this week end by showing such a wide array of crumsville movies. To start off the list:	'
The Truth About Women in that they are Adorable Creatures. At least the Avon thinks so. These two gems represent the increasing foreign influence on our fair hamlet of South Bend. But hold on, there’s more to come.
Like, for example, a second week of that rousing love spectacle, Esther and the King. Not that we need it, but nevertheless it’s being rammed down our throats. You must admit, though, that Joan Collins makes a perfect lozenge. During the filming of the movie, she caught several viruses (viri?) but failed just short of BB’s record. Richard Egan is also in the movie, starring dutifully.
About this point is where I start thinking this whole movie business is getting ridiculous as far as South Bend is concerned. Things reach a new low when the only thing available at Washington Hall is Dog of Flanders. Some might argue that this is a reflection on the regular WashHallers, but even if it is, it’s an insult. Onward!
At the State Allied Artists have sent us a couple of movies even before we could • get our hands on any reviews. Wonder why. The first one is Tormented, with Richard Carlsen, who is still leading three lives on NBC-TV at 12:05 a.m. (no payola-roll blues here—the program doesn’t deserve it). Then comes the movie whose title can be spelled several ways: Caltiki, The Immortal Monster. (This is pidgin English for CalTech, a tough school.) You know, if the thing is really immortal there’s little you can do except hide the rest of your life. I don’t know about any of you, but this reviewer is going into hiding at home on Tuesday without having spent a buck for any downtown shows.
The Granada outdoes itself this week and gives us a double spectacular: Legions of the Nile and Journey to the Lost City. You don’t think these two sound too spectacular? Well, just listen to the group who do the screenplay for Legions: Vittorio Cotta-favi, Giorgio Cristallini, Arnaldo Marrosu, and Ennio De Concini, and there’s more. Vittorio Cottafavi (of screenplay fame) also directs the picture, but there’s a special director for the battle scenes, Giorgio Ubaldy. It sounds like the cast of The Untouchables. If you see the movie you’ll no doubt wonder what all these men did, because the screenplay looks like something you’d dream of after one of Zyggy’s Friday abominations. Well, it’s rumored that all of these fellows were deported after the Appalachian summit meeting and they’re trying to get even with us. Anyway, the movie stars Linda Cristal, who plays Cleopatra. (The plot is loosely based on Shakespeare.) There’s been an editing job done on it, and I guess that’s why it’s playing at the Granada instead of at the Avon Art. Debra Paget and Paul Christian star in Journey to the Lost City.
Continuing with the Granada, they showed Key Witness last week together with their announced Girl of the Night. They didn’t say anything to me about this Witness bit, and I can’t say I blame them. This is by far one of the most useless movies yours truly has ever had the disgrace of seeing. In general, the actors go through their paces
(Continued on page 24)
18
The Scholastic
io
Scholarships
(Continued from page 11)
John Clark said, “The administration hires people who are eminently qualified to carry on the academic process. We should try to make this academic process more bearable.”
Clark thought that scholarships were outside the realm of student government. “The scholarship fund should be only a token, showing that the Senate recognizes a need.”
Joel Haggard, who had been busy taking a poll in Sorin Hall during the week, reported that, “88% of Sorinites wanted the money tui-ned back into student projects.”
Father Bernard wondered, “whether the Mardi Gras was instituted for charity or as a means of making money for student government.”
Lund’s proposal was defeated. Only Lund, Jack Clark and Jalovec voted for it. Rice’s motion of $4,000 for scholarships and $12,000 for the student fund, passed unanimously.
One question. Is $4,000 a “token” sum?
RUBIN CLEANERS Save 20%—Use Student Discount Card 217 E. JEFFERSON Downtown—on the Bus Line COMPLETE LAUNDRY SERVICE FIVE SHIRTS LAUNDERED FOB $1.10
Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 40 Years!
IN CHICAGO!
SPEND YOUR NIGHTS OUT AT BIRDHOUSE
Chicago’s Newest Jazz Spa in a Concert Night Club Setting
Dec. 7-18
HORACE SILVER Quintet
Dec. 21-31
QUINCY JONES 18-piece band
Special New Year’s Eve Parly
Week Nights. . . $1.50 Fri. & Sat..........$2.00
1205 N. DEARBORN Ml 2-8250
NOW! Come Up...All The Way Up
to the MENTHOL MAGIC of KOOL!
When your taste tells you it's time for a change, remember: Only Kool— no regular filter cigarette, no other menthol cigarette— gives you real Menthol Magic!
©1960. BROWN & WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORPORATION
THE MARK OF QUALITY IN TOBACCO PRODUCTS
YODFEEL A N EWSMWTHNESSU DEEP IN W1R THROAT?
ALSO
AVAAAOLI
MTWNIT
RLTOI
M»ID MENTHOL
December 16, 1960
19
WANDERING SONG
Stag or drag the Annual Notre Dame Christmas Carolling Party guarantee an evening of social fun, Friday, December 16. Refreshments will follow the night's singing as the girls from St. Mary’s and Holy Cross gather in the Student Center to meet their favorite beaus.
TRAPPIST RETREAT
Gethsemani, Ky. will be the site of the annual between semester retreat sponsored by the campus YCS. Applications for the retreat must be submitted to the Catholic Action Office of the Student Center before December 17 to be eligible for the 41 openings.
This Grand Tour of Europe can be yours... next summer!
England ... the Continent... touring capital cities, hamlets . . . traveling through beautiful countryside, quaint villages and passing landmarks .. . enjoying good fellowship ... laughter, conversation and song! And it’s all yours when you choose one of the American Express 1961 Student Tours of Europe! Groups are small, led by distinguished leaders from prominent colleges. Itineraries cover England, Belgium, Holland, Germany. Austria, Switzerland, Italy, The Rivieras and France. There are 12 departures in all, timed to fit in with your summer vacation; ranging in duration from 47 to 62 days ... by ship leaving New York during June and July.. .startingas low as $1402.50. And with American Express handling all the details, there’s ample time for full sight-seeing and leisure, too!
Other European Escorted Tours from $776.60 and up. MEMBER: Institute of International Education and Council on Student Travel.
For complete information, see your Campus Representative, local Travel Agent or American Express Travel Service or simply mail the coupon.

American Express Travel Service, Sales Division 65 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y.
Dear Sir: Please send me literature on Student Tours of Europe □
European Escorted Tours—1961 □
Name_______________________________________________________
Add ress___________________________________________________
City Zone_________________________________State
■ a a a a a a

BEST BUYS IN PAPERBACKS
•
FERNAND KAZAN ART SERIES BOOKS (3 for $1.00)
•
NEW BARNES NOBLE OUTLINE SERIES
Bridge Players Dictionary
Nelms—Play Production
History of Russia World Atlas
World Literature •
LITURGICAL PRESS
New Testament Reading Guide
Series on Gospels and Epistles of St. Paul
Commentary by Outstanding Scholars
ATTENTION: Faculty and Students • Handbook of Chemistry and Physics (Latest Ed.)
• Special Price $5.50
Notre Dame Bookstore
on - the - campus
20
The Scholastic
IRISH CAGERS FACE TOUGH ROAD TEST
Holiday Season Starts Against UCLA Bruins r
by JOHN BECHTOLD
Starting with the UCLA game tonight in Los Angeles, the Notre Dame eagers play nine games before the next Scholastic issue comes out on January 13. These games will be against some of the top teams in the country and will hold the key to deciding the fortunes of the Irish hoopsters this year.
The UCLA game tonight will start a _ long road trip for the Irish which will B find them away from home until January 4. The Bruins look like one of the powers on the West Coast with all their lettermen returning except one. They also have a sophomore who could take his place next to Bruin great Willie Naulls in 6-4 Ron Lawson, who smashed UCLA’s freshmen scoring record last season. The veterans he joins are led by two juniors, 6-3 John Green, the team’s leading scorer, and 6-5 Gary Cunningham. Coach Johnny Wooden’s Brains are noted for their fast break attack.
Tomorrow night the Irish engage the Trojans of Southern California. On the surface, the Trojans would appear to be rebuilding this season. Only one startei* returns from last year’s club that went to the NCAA playoffs. However, in preseason polls, the Trojans rank with the West’s top teams once £ again. The reason foi’ this is the return of 6-6 Junior John Rudometkin. Rudometkin resembles the great Tom
COACH JOHN JORDAN CONFERS WITH CAPTAIN Bill CROSBY
The Irish mentor and outstanding floor leader think about the difficult road ahead during the Christmas holidays.
a
December 16, 1960
i	.
!
Gola in his all-around performance. The quarterback of the Trojans is Chris Appel, rated by Coach Forrest Twogood as the best backcourt man on the coast.
Next Tuesday night the Irish return to Indiana to face the Hoosiers of Indiana at Fort Wayne. Eight lettermen return for this top-ranked quintet, including stratospheric Walt Bellamy, 611 All-American and Olympic center. Also returning are lettermen Charley Hall, a 6-6 forward, and 6-0 guard Gary Long. Two sophomore All-American prospects have broken into the starting five. Forward Tom Bolyard, 6-4, averaged over 30 points a game in high school, while Jimmie Rayl, a 6-2 guard, is rated as the best shootei- to come out of Indiana high schools in years.
On December 27-28, Notre Dame is entered in the Hoosier Classic. The games are played in the Butler Fieldhouse in Indianapolis and this year will feature host Butler, Purdue and Illinois.
Purdue has its entire starting five back and is rated as the tourney favorite. Leading the attack is 6-6% Terry Dischinger, a member of the Olympic team, the Big Ten scoring champ and an All-American in his first year. Coach Ray Eddy’s team uses the fastbreak with an assortment of set patterns.
Illinois is tall, fast and loaded with good shooters. Three sophomores are expected to pace the Illini this season. Bill Burwell, a 6-8, 243-pound giant was one of the most heralded high school stars to come out of New York City. Two Illinois high school all-staters are also expected to join the starting quintet. 6-4 Dave Downey is called by Coach Harry Combes “the best I’ve ever coached.” Bill Small, 6-2, is also rated
JOHN DEARIE
High scoring junior
highly. Senior John Wessels, 6-7 high scorer, will start at forward.
Butler has one of its youngest and most inexperienced squads. Coach Tony Hinkel is counting on Larry Ramsey, Ken Freeman and Don Haufman in this rebuilding year.
Northwestern’s Wildcats host the Irish in a New Year's Eve game. Coach Bill Rohr has two starters and a host of promising sophs back. Returning regulars are flashy playmaker Ralph Wells and 5-11 Bill Cacciatore.
The Irish hoopsters return home on Wednesday, January 4, to host Butler in a regular season game.
On January 7, the Irish journey to face North Carolina in Charlotte. The Tar Heels’ incomparable coach Frank McGuire once again has one of the t©p squads in the country. Two All-American hopefuls, Doug Moe and York Larese, pace the powerful Tar Heels. 6-8 Dick Kepley returns to handle the boards.
Notre Dame hosts St. Francis on January 12. St. Francis has lost most of last season’s starters and will depend on a ball-control offense. 6-2 Ed Winters and 6-0 Cal Fowler are the only returning starters.
The Irish have split their last two games, losing to Kentucky arid beating Bowling Green. The Wildcats of Kentucky handed the Irish their first loss of the season, 68-62. No more than nine points separated the teams in a game which saw Notre Dame lose three key players via the foul route. John Dearie, Captain Bill Crosby and Carl Roesler were the victims.
Notre Dame drifted through their 6150 victory over Bowling Green. The usually phenomenal passer Crosby had a rare off-day although contributing ten points, while Dearie and Armand Reo both fouled out.
21
JIM KANE Injured captain
ND Wrestlers Hindered; Jinxed By Key Injuries
People connected with the guidance of Irish athletic teams labor under a harrowing, frustrating, and wearisome jinx these days, the jinx of injuries. Coach Tom Fallon of Notre Dame’s wrestling team said recently: “Injuries to some of our top men have hurt us, particularly because we are not deep and because we do not have many adequate replacements.”
Notre Dame’s young grapplers started the season off well enough, finishing second in a quadrangular meet at Purdue, with the host team triumphing there. But Captain Jim Kane was not presept, having sustained a leg injury a few days before the first action. John Churnetski, a finalist at Purdue, sustained a rib injury a few days after the Purdue meet and will be lost until after Christmas.
On December 6 the Irish, hurt by key injuries and the temporary loss of another man, dropped a match with the University of Illinois at Chicago, 16-14. On December 8, Northwestern outpointed the Green, 24-8. Rory Weber, a heavyweight who finished fourth in his class in the NCAA finals last spring, gave an outstanding performance for the Wildcats.
The Irish got back on the victory trail last Saturday at Detroit, where they beat Wayne University handily. Last Wednesday Notre Dame met Western Michigan, a team the Irish defeated last winter. Fallon stated, “They are much improved.” A 157-pound young man indigenous to South Bend, Bill Forrester, headed the roster of the Broncos.
Dick Martin, a quick 123-pounder, has been the outstanding wrestler for Notre Dame. He has yet to lose and was the only winner for the Irish at Purdue. Dave Ames, together with the aforementioned Churnetski, was a finalist at Purdue and has shown consistent form.
22
ODDS and ENDS
Recently published was the Extension Catholic All-American team. The Fighting Irish were conspicuous by their lack of representatives. Joe Bellino, Mike Ditka, Ron Mal tony, Wilburn Hollis, Mike Stock, Jerry Mauren, Greg Larson and the McKeever twins were the greatest attractions on this star-studded squad. Who said Catholics don’t make great ballplayers????
— o —
Ex-Irish All-American George Connor tells the story of bow he was clipped four times in the mouth in his first four plays of pro football. George finally realized that enemy lineman thought he was All-League tackle Fred Davis. Connor, who was subbing for Davis, wasted little time in revealing his own relatively obscure identity, as a means of self-protection. Let it be known, however, that Connor developed into somewhat of a star himself. . . .
Green Bay was a champion mudder in its victory over San Francisco last Saturday as Jim Taylor and Paul Hornung once again proved to be the running pair on any pro eleven.
— o —
Well, hockey fans, the Western Intercollegiate Hockey League has started another season. This is the prince of collegiate hockey circles, and embraces such powerful teams as Michigan State, Michigan Tech, North Dakota, Michigan, Minnesota, Denver and Colorado College. In early season play Minnesota’s Ice Gophers defeated Michigan State in two successive games at Lansing.
The league is tom by dissension however, as the trend in the past few years has been towards recruiting Canadian players from the Junior Leagues, the same leagues that serve as farm teams for the National Hockey League. It seems that many of these players are considerably older than the average college student, and there has been a great amount of doubt cast upon the academic abilities of many of these n ear-pros.
Minnesota is the only team that doesn’t use these Canadian wonders and has their best team in history this season. But they seem doomed to a just average season, due to the increase of these Canadian boys who should almost be rated as pro athletes.
— o —
Somebody made a near fatal mistake last week when he elected to pick Bob Wetoska’s pockets in a Chicago hotel. The hopeful thief failed miserably, but should be thankful that Mr. Wetoska, formerly of Notre Dame and presently with the Chicago Bears is a fairly merciful fellow. ...
C4RK C4LLS 'EM
Tonight
California over San Francisco St. Louis over Cincinnati Holy Cross over NYU LaSalle over Muhlenberg St. John's over Ohio University
Tomorrow
Bradley over Wisconsin Providence over Canisius Dayton over Drake
North Carolina State over Georgia Tech
North Carolina over Kansas
UCLA over Butler
Wake Forest over Maryland •) Kansas State over Michigan State Villanova over Niagara
Notre Dame over Southern California Seattle over Oregon State
Seton Hall over Boston College
December 19
California over Northwestern
Ohio State over Loyola	$
December 20
Indiana over Notre Dame Utah over St. Mary’s
December 23
Bradley over Cincinnati DePaul over Marquette
f) Game of the Week
Ohio State over Detroit
Upset of the Week
Temple over Kentucky
Last Week’s Results 19 right, six wrong, 76 per cent
Buoniconti, Roy Elected Irish '61 Grid Captains
Junior guards Nick Buoniconti and Norb Roy have been named co-captains of the Fighting Irish football team for 1961. This will mark the fourth straight season that a guard has either been captain or a co-captain. Captains Q are selected at the end of each season by the squad members.
Buoniconti, from Springfield, Mass., was second on the team in tackles this season to Captain Myron Pottios. His linebacking was one of the highlights of the season.
Roy, from Baton Rouge, La., looked outstanding in the Navy and Southern California games. He was among the team leaders in tackles with 65.
The Scholastic
I
1
o
THREE IN A ROW
They did it again! Yes, the allconquering hordes of Dillon Hall won their third straight interhall football title last Nov. 20, decisioning Stanford 24-6 in the Stadium. Dillon tallied all their points in the second half in overcoming Stanford’s 6-0 halftime lead. Mike Myles with a 40-yard touchdown scamper and fine all-around play was the Dillon sparkler.
TIME OUT
Met Club Favored to Repeat; Ace Floorman Gatti Returns
f The Interhall Basketball League for 1960-61 has been formed with a total of 95 teams in 14 leagues. The program is expected to include over 1100 active players on its rosters during the season. The hall league includes 53 teams, five seven-team leagues and three six-team groups. The club league has 42 teams in six seven-club loops.
Only one team in either league can be rated accurately: the Met Club won ^the campus-wide title last year, and has wstar backcourt man Joe Gatti returning; they are distinct favorites to repeat.
There will be two championship tournaments played this season. The top eight teams in the hall league at the end of the season will play for the hall championship. These same eight squads will then face the top eight quints in the club league for the Campus Cham--pionship.
w Hall league teams will play their games on the courts in the Rockne Memorial Building. Play in the hall circuit began December 13, and will continue through February 22, with the schedule interrupted by the Christmas holidays.
Club league play, with games from December 13 to February 24, will be on the Varsity court in the Fieldhouse.
f This week end’s games:
HALL LEAGUE
Friday, December 16:
4:00—B-P White vs. Pang. White
4:45—B-P Black vs. Dillon Black
6:00—B-P Yellow vs. Howard Yellow
6:45—Howard Gray vs. Zahm Gray
7:30—Lyons Green vs. Stan. Green
8:15—Lyons Gold vs. Stan. Gold
CLUB LEAGUE
Friday, December 16:
6:00—Villagers Gold vs. Cent. Pa. Gold
6:45—Villagers White vs. Cent. N. Y. White
7:30—Villagers Yellow vs. Pitt. Yellow
8:15—Chicago Black vs. Mardi Gras Black
9:00—Chicago Red vs. Cent. Ill. Red
December 16, I960	23
Notre Dame officially called a close to its 1960 football season last Monday night with the 41st Annual Civic Testimonial Banquet held in the new dining hall. The banquet must have been one of the most successful in recent years as the guest speakers, Jack Quinlan, Jim Conzelman and Duffy Daugherty, had the 1,100 donors (at seven dollars a plate) in ecstatic laughter throughout the evening. Quinlan, a true funny man who broadcasts the Chicago Cubs baseball games, was the official toastmaster and he really played his role to perfection. Seldom was there a quiet moment when Jack took the podium to speak; funny quip after funny quip left no time for the audience to gain its composure after laughing.
Conzelman, a former Head Coach of the Chicago Cardinals, was also a comedian with that rare quality of holding the crowd. Conzelman spoke briefly however, so that the program would not last through the night. The list of visiting comedians didn’t end with Conzelman; Duffy Daugherty stepped up and issued forth his usual amount of wit. Coach Joe Kuharich then gave his official farewell to the seniors while complimenting the team, for their perseverance during a losing campaign. All in all the evening was a tremendous success; a tribute to Notre Dame football even in the “lean years.”
A TRIP TO NEW YORK
Congratulations are in order for Bill Reagan, a junior from White Plains, N. Y., who was the recent winner of an all-expense-paid trip to New York City for the National Football Foundation Dinner. Reagan received the honor as chairman of the Student Hall of Fame Committee organized on the campus in conjunction with the national campaign. During the home football games the committee here set up information booths at strategic points and then passed out brochures on the Hall of Fame. As head of the Notre Dame student committee, Reagan was awarded the trip. Among Bill’s dinner partners at the affair held on December 6 were such notables as former President Herbert Hoover and retired army general, Douglas MacArthur.
Notre Dame proved its superiority by winning the first prize in the national competition. The award was based on the contributions made here, the publicity for the Hall of Fame in the Notre Dame area and general interest initiated for the spectators in the Stadium.
JORDANMEN TRAVEL WEST
Notre Dame’s eagers, boasting an unimpressive 3-1 record, begin their western competition this week end against UCLA and Southern California. I said the Irish record was unimpressive simply because the hoopsters have yet to beat a team of any caliber. Certainly, no one will accord the Green national rank from the menagerie last Saturday in the Fieldhouse. Bowling Green proved to be the third straight incompetent visitor that Notre Dame students have viewed this season. Certainly, the prediction that the 1960-61 home schedule was the greatest ever is far from the truth.
In a preseason statement (apparently a rumor), it was stated that Coach John Jordan planned to go with the fast break this season; such a weapon has been an auspicious lack in the Notre Dame offense for the past two seasons. And at this time, I can say that I have seen no semblance of the fast break by the Irish basketbailers. Obviously, Coach Jordan isn't a fast break proponent; yet, it wouldn’t hurt to vary the offense with the fast break as a last resort in case everything else goes wrong (as happened in the Bradley game last season when the Bears “zoned” the Irish and then literally ran them off the floor.
THE REFEREE PROBLEM
With only a small knowledge of how the referees are selected for the Notre Dame basketball games, it seems ridiculous, at any rate, to see such second-class officiating at the Notre Dame home games. In two of the Jordanmen’s first three games, most of the spectators expressed disapproval at many of the calls, even when they were against the opposing team. Certainly, Notre Dame has top quality basketball and merits top quality refereeing to go along with it.
—J.K.
INTRAMURAL BOXING
A novice boxing tournament is being held this week in the Fieldhouse. The winners of preliminary matches held last Monday and Wednesday meet this afternoon in the championship bouts starting at 4 p.m.
campus character:
KEGLER'S KORNER
In reminiscence of the perennial taboo which Michigan State has held over the Notre Dame football team in recent years, the bowling team has created its own private nemesis in Valparaiso. Last year the bowling team might well have won the conference title had it not been for Valparaiso; this year Valparaiso defeated Notre Dame 7-4, and a good possibility exists that this defeat will drop Notre Dame into second place for the remainder of the season.
The results of the Loyola-IIT match have not yet been received, but any sizeable victory by Loyola will put them ahead of the Irish by a few points. The season is not yet half over, but the team is aware that they cannot afford to let down again as they did last Sunday.
The scoring of the Notre Dame-Val-paraiso match follows:
Valparaiso: 904, 840, 891, 976, 819— 4430.
Notre Dame: 884, 945, 923, 860 767— 4379.
Individual standouts for the Irish were Dan Halloran with a 964 series, and Bill Liebei' with a 951 total.
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
BLACKSTONE TORT
Pride of the law school, Blackstone has never lost a moot trial. But there’s nothing moot about his preferences in dress. He finds that when he’s comfortable, he can trap a witness and sway a jury like Clarence Darrow.
CONTACT LENSES Inquiries Invited
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS 1 to 24-Hour Service
305 S. Michigan	AT 7-5477
ARTCARVED DIAMONDS and WEDDING RINGS . . . JEWELRY
J. TRETHEWEY
For: Hamilton - Elgin Bulova - Longines and Wittnauer Watches
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St.	LM.S. Bldg.
So he always wears Jockey brand briefs while preparing his briefs. Exclusive Jockey tailoring gives him a bonus of comfort he gets in no other underwear. Fine Jockey combed cotton is more absorbent, smoother fitting, too.
Tolookyourbest, feel your best, take a tip from Tort. Always insist on Jockey brand briefs, $1.25. Your campus store has them now!
COOPER'S INCORPORATED-KENOSHA.WIS.
A ^ockeq
® BRAND W briefs
ND Swimmers Seek Victory I Over Central Michigan Chips I
Tomorrow night Notre Dame’s swim- I ming team goes out after its second | victory of the year against the Central I Michigan forces of Leo Wisneski. The ’ meet will be only the second of the year i for the Irish, while the Michigan boys I will be engaging in their sixth matchy t . Starting time is 7:30 at Rockne Me- ’ morial Pool.
Coach Wisneski has several veterans back from last year’s team which compiled a 6-5 record. Dick Griffith, in the 100-yard freestyle, and Jim Brickiehurst, in the individual medley, both winners against Notre Dame last year, are returning along with backstrokei-John Russell and diver Roland Ruhland. The team also has depth in the distance, races.	•	(
Coach Dennis Stark’s charges ■will base their hopes for victory on fine overall depth, particularly in the freestyle events.
At the Theaters
(Continued from page 18)
with all the poise of a herd of drunken, I elephants, following a plot line so used® | I up that the lines are past the cliche stage | already. Tom Morrow (Jeffrey Hunter) | sees a gangland murder committed in | broad daylight and proceeds to be a per- | feet citizen about it. As a result, his | wife (Pat Crowley) and children (un- I knowns) share in the misfortunes of be- | ing terrorized by the gang of young hoodlums. There’s Cowboy, the murderer, who is useless. Among his cronies there’s a guy who honestly looks like a side-^ ( burned Jerry Lewis, and a girl (Susan I Harrison) who is rather on the free i side. She apparently is an orphan, and it seems highly unlikely that she ever had any parents at all. In one of the high points of the movie, this young lady manages to suffer a shoulder separation, a dislocated hip, and several pulled mus- ' cles while ambling across the street. It’s that kind of movie.	£
Though Kenny and Waxie’s shuttle service is closed for the winter, they are j accepting invitations for dinner. So, ; girls, just send your requests and you too may be lucky enough to be eaten out of house and home by them.
Tony Wong
Complete Optical Service . . .
• EYES EXAMINED • GLASSES FITTED
Broken Glasses Repaired
Fast Service—“Bring the Pieces”
BURKE
OPTOMETRIST 228 S. Michigan
24
The Scholastic
c
Debaters Post High Average During Semester Competition
With the last speech contest before Christmas already written in the record books, the Notre Dame Debate Team has a won-lost record of 77-29, good enough for a .725 winning percentage.
The latest debate laurels came last t-week end, when a group of freshmen and sophomore debaters took four “superior” ratings at the tournament held at the University of Illinois. The af-finnative team of Gary French and Ray Kelly and the negative team of Chris Lane and Martin Gordon were both undefeated.
Captain Jay Whitney earned an individual speaker’s placing of 10th out of 72 entries at the National Invita-Ctional Debate Tournament held at the Air Force Academy on the week end of Dec. 2 and 3, as he and Chris Lane ran up a tally of eight wins and four losses in the team competition. In that same week end, a group of novice speakers were walking away with a first place trophy at the Butler novice tournament.
To give everyone in the school a chance to participate in some form of ^debate, the Interhall Debate Tourney •will be held sometime in January. The topic will be “Resolved: That the federal government should adopt a system of compulsory health insurance for all citizens.” All students, with the exception of varsity debaters, are eligible to enter. The exact times and places ■will be announced later.
Announce University Theatre Cast for 'Othello1 Production
James Loula, a junior from Rock Island, Ill., has been selected to play the lead in the University Theatre production of Shakespeare’s Othello, scheduled for presentation on Feb. 9, 10, 11, 16, 17 and 18. The part of the villainous Iago will be taken by Dick Kavanaugh, a sophomore from Washington, D. C. Mary Armbruster, a junior at St. Mary’s College, will appear’ as Desdemona.
Other members of the cast, as announced by the director Fred Syburg,
LEARN 3,000 WORDS of CLASSIC ITALIAN in a Few Hours with "SHORTCUT TO THE ITALIAN LANGUAGE" New Approach to Language-Study $4.75—WRITTEN BY MAJ. W. A. RIGAL Mt. Pulaski, Illinois
are Hank Whittemore as Cassio, Bill Flaherty as Roderigo, Diane Crowley as Emilia, Hans Hermans as Brabantio, Robert Love as Lodovico, Michael Zwett-ler as Montano.
Also Philip Smith as the Duke, Su
during the Christmas Holidays select your clothing and furnishings AT OUR UNIVERSITY SHOP
In our New York, Boston, Chicago, Pittsburgh and West Coast stores, an interesting selection of good-looking suits, sportwear, evening clothes and outerwear awaits your visit...made to our exacting specifications in sizes 35 to 42...and all moderately priced for such fine clothing.
Suits, $75 and $80 • Tweed Sport Jackets, $50
Topcoats, from $80 • Outerwear, from $45
ESTABLISHED 181*
Mens furnishings, ^ats ^^hoes
74 E. MADISON ST., NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. NEW YORK • BOSTON • PITTSBURGH • SAN FRANCISCO • LOS ANGELES
san Hunt as Bianca, Jack Schober as the clown, and Ken Piccoli, Dennis Shaughnessy, Michael Hartford, Dave Deka, Ron Saldino, and Michael Gorman. Dick James has been named stage manager.
December 16, 1960
25
apathy...
or responsibility
The common good subsists according to moral goodness and justice as far as these can be publicly perceived, and the existence of a true common good in this sense differentiates ours from the “common good” of a ruling class that tyrannizes the people of its nation, or Jacobinism, where the common good degenerates into an anarchical welter of private interest. Yet the former degenerates into the latter unless the true common good continues to become more truly the common good. As the perception of the full implications of our moral and ethical tradition is not an immediate and universal thing, but a gradual and evolutionary process, this truth finds its reflection in the gradual unfolding of social, political and economic justice within the society itself, according to its existential condition. Hence we see today the emergence, or rather the continued development of positive moral attitudes towards questions dormant for long periods. Probably most pressing among these is today’s Negro problem; the demand for true social and economic justice, equality before both the letter and the spirit of the laws of the land.
THE STUDENT’S ADVANTAGE
As a member of the society of students that the university is, the student is by no means a creature temporarily deprived of his own social and political nature and responsibilities. He, who is in a special position in his role as student, as one engaged in the active pursuit of knowledge, is one of those able to see more readily the unfolding implications of the truths of our national heritage. He is able to see more quickly what precisely true economic, social, human justice requires within the framework of our common good, which is, among other things, an ethical and moral common good. Moreover he has duties toward maintaining and expanding the common good as far as intelli
26
gence and wisdom demand, precisely as the citizen that he is.
Intellectualism may have, at certain times in the history of our Western heritage, placed itself above “banal” political realities, or may have submitted to the hypnosis of ideology. The responsible moral man, especially the educated, the wise man, must not allow himself to fall into the abyss at either extreme. His must be the honesty, perceptiveness, and moral rectitude of Socrates’ kind. He must promote, in his proper way, the good human life of his people precisely as a people, their “communion in good living.” The student cannot cease to be a citizen.
For the society of the university cannot claim the engagement of the whole man in a restrictive manner, that is, to the exclusion of his other responsibilities. In fact, the only society which really does encompass the activities of the whole man is the civil society, the complexity of whose structure the university itself constitutes a pari. Thus the student is not merely a student — if this could be a restrictive designation. He is also a citizen, and he “serves” his society when he fulfills his obligation to seek the “good life” of his people, their real good. The moral, responsible man, student or not, must assume the duties and privileges alike concurrent with his position as an articulated member of a civil society.
Some perceive in the student extraordinary duties of leadership (in some sort of activist sense), and others see the student as a sort of sub-citizen, a thinking neophyte who may not yet assume the mantle of full citizenship. Yet the student as such falls into neither of these categories. All men of wisdom and goodness have “extraordinary duties” because they are by nature able to lead: moral knowledge resolves itself into action, tempered by the good man’s virtue. The majority of students have acquired enough of moral knowledge and intellectual ability to be trusted with at least the normal duties of their citizenship. Because one perhaps cannot yet vote
does not hinder one from effective good citizenship in a multitude of areas. One is legally a sub-citizen of a sort, but intellectual and moral maturity are not factors determined by age.
It is true, therefore, that the justification for the degree of a citizen’s involvement in the affairs of society at large depends upon him; he is capable ancF' he is not tampering with the perfect order of a perfect civil society. Far from it! There can never be a need or 9 a justification for rash or irresponsible public action by any segment of a civil society; yet there is equally no room for any degree of complacency in any citizen of this land — this has been a national sickness — neglect of, indifference towards the proper public concerns of all its citizens.	0)
CHRISTIAN CONTROL
The fear that any public action not emanating through customary or “institutionalized” channels will be demagoguery or misguided blundering does not pertain especially in the case of the students influenced by a Christian uni-0) versity. This would betray a real lack of faith in the value of an education imbued with the spirit of our Christian legacy and of the philosophical tradition of the West: that of Plato, Aristotle, St. Thomas, Maritain, and many others. The spirit of these traditions pervades with renewed vigor the philosophical and Christian renaissance of which we are a part.
We are not disciples of passivity, of ungrounded belief in a static society, noi0) of rash action. We are not, like the assassin of Japanese Socialist leader Inejiro Asanuma, trained in anything like his “ultranationalistic” Fascistic ideology, which makes one blind to philosophical truth. We are not intellectually children. If reliance for the future is not justifiably placed in those who are now students (and truly citizens), where is it to be placed?
The Scholastic^

Marking another Milestone
Rich in history and rich in promise, too —that’s York County, Pennsylvania.
And the telephone company covering this prosperous and progressive community has recently become a member of the General Telephone family.
York’s pattern of growth is typical of the areas Gen Tel serves in 31 states. Long famous for its fertile fields and well-kept farms, the county has enjoyed a remarkable industrial expansion since World War II.
Typical, too, of these growing areas is their growing need for more telephones. And that is where Gen Tel comes in with the experience to provide improved service and the willingness to invest in modem communications equipment.
This is just one of the ways we are working to supply more and better telephone service for a growing America—present and future.
GENERAL TELEPHONE & ELECTRONICS «