
THE HI-FI TREE.
. 
·Ch_ange in bowel or . bladder habits. . . 

. 
· A sore that does not he-al. 



· . -Unusual bleeding or ·. discharge .. 
. Thickening or lump in · breast ofelsewhere. 
o Indigestion or difficulty in · swallowing .. 
. Obvious change in wart . -or mole. 

· . _Nagging cough or · hoarseness. 
. .. specializing 

in quality audio :equipment 
and· 
service· 
. , 
100 CENTER' ··.MISHAWAKA 259-1813 . 



·Somepeople 
·.· ....... cant .· .··· remember· 
· ·these . evenwhen 
···theirlives ••

·a·· ··a·· ..
•. ·e]Ren ··· ·onthem~ 
If you have a warning signal, . · · you should sec adoctor. We want to cure cancer in your lifetime.-·. Give to the American Cancer Society.. 
·. American Cancer Society f. 
IS ... YOUR SECTION . · NUTTY? . RAMBLIN'? PRINTABLE? .Write a stotr,about your wild and craiy section · and Scholastic-will print the best-to your sat-. . isfaction and-your rector's -chagrin. . . 

. ,;,,·7 . 


efj;}}li2P 


. 100 CENTER 

.OKTOBERFEST. 
Fri. and Sat.· till midnight 

OUR RECORD SELECTION SPEAKS FOR ITSELF 
JUST FOR THE RECORD · . I 00 CENTER COMPLEX . MISHAWAKA .. 
259-1813 ·.· .. 
. -. 

· OCTOBER 6th, 7th, & 8th . · 
.· Sunday noon to 6 p.m. · · 
GERMAN . 
D B 


·. 0 E . 0 .·· E 
F R . · · Live Entertainment -· · · 
FREE . · 

· ·· Admission · and .Parking · 

. . 
. A Public Servi~e of this newspaper &_The .Advertising Council m!! 
. . : . -•,,. . . ·; . 



~ Cro&sit ~onyou . 
.. . 
. 



scholastic 
Vol. 120, No; 3, October 6, 1978 Notre Dame, Indiana 
FEATURES 
4 Baseball, Hot Dogs, Apple Pie and Notre Dame Dave Satterfield 
6. New York City, Rosemary Mills 
7: New Orleans ·. Ken Scarbrough 8 · Ne"'. England Jay. Coleman 
9 .California Sean Faircloth 10_ ,West Virgin_ia .. Cindy Dykhoff 11 Chicago:· Mary Ryan 12 South ,America. · Patricia Martinez 18 The Street Where You Don't.Live Gina Giovanini 20 On the· Fighting· Irish · Kathy Ryan 
22 .Women Take the Field · Paul Mullaney 24 (AII-American)2 . '· Greg Solman 26 When Hell Freezes Over Jim Trausch 29 Autumn Wonderland Joseph Evans 
Illustrations: Mike Cantwell, 4, 6, 10, 12, 
REGULARS
13, 15, 26; Cindy Dykhoff, 21, 31; J. Lousteau, 18; M. Molinelli, 28: . 
1'3 Fiction Joe Carey
Photographs: Anne Bennett, 22, 23; Phillip Johnson, 11, 19, 25, 28; Jeff Huhta, 24; 16 Gallery · Dave Schiesher, Mike Cantwell arid Pat O'Brien 
Scholastic Archives, 3, 29. Front Cover: Patrick O'Brien. 28 People atN.D. Tom Balcerek Back Cover: Mike Cantwell 
30 The Last Word Jake Morrissey 
Editor 
John Morrissey 
Managing Editor 
Theresa Rebeck 
Art· Director 
Mike Cantwell 
Produc·tion Manager 
Bernie Valenti • 
News Editor 
Liz Donovan 
Culture Editor 
Dave Satterfield Sports Editor · Mike Kenahan 
Fiction Editor 
Tom Balcerek Copy Editor .. Bob Southard Layout Editor •··· Lisa Hartenberger Photography Editor · Phil Johnson . 
Business Manager.. 
Kimberlie Gumz' . Advertisement Manager · Marcy _Weigle , 
Advisory Board . . . . . Elizabeth · Christman, John· Reid, Thomas Werge, Thomas ·Jeinielity, John Miriam Jones, S.C: · · 
. 0cTOBER·6, • 1978 
Staff . · -. . · -._ . Cynthia Dykhoff, Keith Caughlin, Ken Scarbrough, Eileen Durkin, Eddie Holden, Betsey Sheridan, Sonia Chopko, Clay Malaker, Bob Barnes, Mike Brennan, Mike Greene, Tom Lucid, John Cassidy, Jeff. Young, Greg Vansueh, Pau_l Theil," Kevin McCarthy, Sue Micinski, Mary Clare Toffanetti, Bill Scholl, Jim Trausch, Mike Walsh, Craig Smith, Greg G. Gregory, Leo J. Mulcahey, Dave Mayernik. 
Hall Representatives: . Eddie Holden, Mark Sniegowski, Sean Berry, Brad . Engelland, Keith Caughlin, Ann Gleason, Sonia Chopko, Bill Swift,. Craig Smith, Kevin Courtois, Glenn Killoren, Dave Bartish, Lisa Jaquez, . Mike Szkrybalo, John Ryan, Mary Fran Welch; John Cuckovich, Greg G._ Gregory, Leo J. Mulcahey,. Dave Mayernik, Sean F. Faircloth, Paul ~urley. 
The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those· of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire staff and editorial. board of Scholastic or the University, of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or. the stu_dent
body. . . ... . 
The magazine is represented for. national".idvertising by National Educational'Advertising 
Services and CASS Student Advertising, Inc. Published fortnightly during the school year 
except during vacation.and examination periods, Scholastic is printed-at Ave Maria _Press, 
Notre Dame, Ind.". 46556. · The, subscription rate is $?.00 a year and ba~k . issue~ are 
available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre'Dame,Jnd. 
46556. All unsolicited material. becomes the property_ of Scholastic. · · . · ..· . ... 
copyright © 1978 Scholastic / all righ'ts reserved ) none of .the contents. may be repro­. duced without permission. ·. 

Baseball, Hot Dogs, Apple Pie and Notre Dame 
Imagine: A private, Catholic uni­versity situated in the worst weather zone in the United States, with the possible exception of Buffalo, New Yor~ ·The campus of this univer­sity is -_ stunningly beautiful, unlike the territory_ surrounding it; well­kept lawns and· majestic trees accent the various styles of architecture of the campus' numerous buildings. Ivy climbs decorate and age the brick buildings, providing a perennial green freshness which is joyously welcomed following the unbearable annual, onslaughts of Old Man Winter. The · residents of this uni-
I 

versity_ are, for the most part, under­graduates, 18-22 years· of age and assumed to be of above-average in­telligence and fairly well-rounded persons. The sporting fervor of the university is unparalleled_ by-any school in the country and that fervor often· brings about· many athletic awards, providing the university with one of; if not the-most success~ ful, sporting reputations ,in the country. This fervor extends further than the sporting field, though. At this· university, academics, much like the ivy, flourishes· amongst the buildings and appears_ to be yielding higher quality results annually. The university is far from Shangri-La.or any type of Utopia; at times, ittakes on the appearance of a summer camp where parents may send their children for nine months_ of the year to be educated and disciplined in a "true Christian" . atmosphere. De­spite any student disapproval or dis­gust with the administrative policies of the school, at'tendance is· still maintained and the number of appli­cants grows yearly. 
Assuming that you have some knowledge of the United States and its institutions of higher learning -and_· are somewhat literate,: -you would have known long ago that this university is the University of Notre Dame du 'Lac; ' According to·. pre­liminary statistics obtained through · the :Registrar's _Office, there are 6836 ,undergraduate students in. at­tendance this year of which 1585.are -women and 5251 are men..This year's fresh-!"an dass, the highest 
by Dave Satterfield 
academic achievers in Notre Dame 
history, consists of 1643 students. As 
evidenced by these figures, Notre 
Dame is not a very large university. 
How, then, does this small Catholic 
university become Notre Dame, "the 
greatest Gatholic university in the 
nation"? 

John T. Goldrick, Notre Dame's Director of Admissions, cites several reasons why Notre Dame is Notre Dame. The first, most apparent _and most expressed reason.is the athletic · prowess of the school. Notre Dame's football program has always been strong, from. the days of Rockne t9 
\ 

the present. The name Notre'·Dame has become synonymous with college football _in many parts , -of.-. the _country. The basketball, program here has developed irito a national power and it appears that it will maintain that status for quite some time. Goldrick stressed the fact that with the advent ·and popularity ·of television, Notre Dame's national ex­posure has_ skyrocketed; the-_'name Notre Dame appears. on_'._natiorial television weekly throughout .the ' 
entire fall and winter. And this is not to mention the press coverage that Notre Dame receives; coverage that is unparalleled by any other school. 
Another major reason stated by Goldrick for the success and popu­larity of Notre Dame lies in the graduates of this institution. He says, "No other university in the United States has such a loyal alumni fol­lowing as Notre Dame." By loyalty, Goldrick does not merely mean financial support or football fervor, but a loyalty that extends even to the recruitment of high-quality stu­dents to apply to and attend Notre Dame. Alumni associations are ac­tively meeting throughout the United States and recently, under the di­rection and guidance of the Admis­sions Office, aiumni schools com­mittees have been organized; their function being :tliat of representing Notre Dame at many of the nation's high schools that the admissions people could. ncit possibly attend. 
The best evidence of°attitudes to­ward Notre Dame as a national uni­versity ma·y be found on the applica­tions of the incoming students each year. According to· Goldrick, the second most cited reason for desir­ing to attend Notre Dame is that the reputation and prestige of the school are.unlike anywhere else. The student believes that if he attends a prestigious university, he will be recognized as a . prestigious person. Goldrick believes that the most-often cited reason is because of the aca­demic quality of the university but he is quick to .add that the first reason stated Js ·seldom the real reason why students desire to attend Notre Dame. As he· says~ "Few will admit it, but there are other more obvious reasons." Those "reasons" being the fact that Notre pame is Notre Dame. · 
The geographic representation of students at Notre Dame is in an al­most direct proportion to .the geo­graphic . populations of. th~ United States..In other words, there are only a few students from lightly populated regions such as Montana, Wyoming :and Idaho, while there are many students from the East and from urban centers such as Chicago, Philadelphia and Cincinnati. There are few schools in the country that can make thfs claim and Goldrick at­tributes much of this success in 
representation to not only the "Notre Dame image" but also to the active force of the alumni groups. There is a definite advantage to this varied representation; the. student is ex­posed to a variety of life-styles, thoughts and subcultures. Gold­rick's personal belief is that '.'at least 50 per cent of the learning expe­rience at a university occurs outside of the classroom." But he adds that the Admissions Office does not make the slightest effort to attain this national representation. It accepts only the most qualified of candi­.dates; the representation is merely 
chance. 
Stanford, is extraordinary in that its enrollment is . small and yet its national prominence is un­matched. Goldrick states, "Many people associate· quality with size. If you're well known, they assume you are big." Notre Dame and the other schools are existing proof that that belief is wrong. 
Notre Dame is a national univer­sity, unmatched in national popu­larity. Each year the Admissions Office must turn away thousands of exceptional students and accept only those deemed qualified; Those that enroll become a part of this unique collection of students, here for aca­

11 Many people associate quality with size. if you're well known, they assume you are big." 
· As for applications, this past year 7678 students applied of which 2633 were accepted. and 1643 enrolled, a confirmation rate of 62. per cent; 851 of the applicants were sons or daughters of alumni. Of these, 452 were accepted and 373 are now at­tending Notre Dame, a confirmation rate of 83 per cent which Goldrick terms "extraordinary" and probably due again to the loyalty of .the alumni. 
·The only admissions quota · exist­ing at Notre Dame. now is a self­imposed male-female quota. The Ad­missions Office : would like to see more minorities apply each year, thus helping add to the diversity of the university. There were 25 foreign students, a number that Goldrick be­lieves might be larger if other countries were made more aware of Notre Dame and if financial aid were more plentiful..· · · Notre Dame, along with a few Ivy League schools, and possibly demic, athletic or leisure, who are a part of the loyalty, pride and pres­tige that · makes this Midwestern oasis the University of Notre Dame du Lac. 
Dave Satterfield, Scholastic's Cul~ tu.re Editor, can trace his roots back to his family in Oregon, Illinois. 
The following seven articles were written by ·seven students, inten­tionally chosen because of their home "roots." They· were asked to write about Notre Dame from, a pe:nrpec­tive that only a person from, their area could offer. Other than that, we allowed them. total ' freedom. What they offered is printed here. 


explain ·my second vi~it to ·Notre no right to say anything about' my Dame. To start with it was a fcicit~ home. · · ball weekend~rid we all know:· how Secondly, the difference in life­much work gets .done. on ·football styles amazed me. I never considered 
by Rosemary Mills weekends. Secondly, it was not just myself an Eastern radical; I was 
-any footbaUganie. Notre Dame was open-minded,. but not-· ·exceptionally Seven years ago, after a ·family 
(fl{o";-...~~ . 
i -·~ liberal.. Yet the things. I said _and 
... -~
trip to Milwaukee, my father asked ~,._,, • did, and many of the·opinions I held, if we would like to stop at Notre C ·:-·.P' 
appeared to shock·my fellow fresh­
~
Dame. ·on .the way home. My re­.men. 'Although I understood that 
sponse was: "What's Notre Dame?" 
peopie are brought up differently, I I was equally. unexcited by my first could not comprehend being judgedsteps in the shadow of the golden by others. The very idea • of mydome. While my mom exclaimed roommate voicing her wcirries•about over the beauty of the ivy and my my study'and social· habits ·seemed sister fell in love with her future outrageous. . . . . ...
alma mater, I exclaimed, . ':This · In talking with women from theplace smells funny!" 
same background-as myself, I dis­An avowed, • if adopted, New covered that they felt the same way.
Yorker, I began my senior year of The othe~, :we decided, were All­high school dreaming of going to American girls;.we were ·more prac.:
some college in the East. The tical and realistic: ·And I confess thatthought of journeying to the God­we ~xhibited the one quality of East-forsaken Midwest had never occurred -. erners. which I had always refuted.:....:. 
to me. But, as time wore on and my we could not comprehend the ·con.:
guidance counselor pushed places cept lll:at everyon_e~id not. view thesuch as Manhattan · College, St. 
East as the center of the earth. . . 

John's, Marymount and Mount Saint Over the years, .my views. haveVincent, I slowly realized how lim­changed. I now realize that whileited my horizons had become. Born --people _at Notre' Dame· come fro!Il
within 17 miles of New York City, ..._ -acrciss the country, they do not rep~the majority of my life had been resent. a._ cross-section ·of American· centered around the Big Apple. I life. This is because they come fromdecided that perhaps I should find approximately .the. same . C~tholic 
·out.what the rest of America was 
upper-· arid upper~middle class·homes. 
like. 
playing USC. Thirdly, it was Ho_me-Although the attitudes and· the_ ex~ By that time, my sister was firmly 
coming. Looking back, I can honestly periences are riot' the same, most established in the Notre Dame class 
say that I had the most slanted view people···hold_ highly ·similar _v~lues of 1978. It was arranged that I 
of Notre Dame life possible. "Rose," arid beliefs.· This representsa prob.:should visit her. The results of my 
my sister kepf telling me, "it's not · lem•in that there is no. chaHenge_ to· second visit were much more satis­like this all the 'time.. We usually · f
these belie s. · . . .

factory, arid my mind was made up. 
study a lot." Somehow her warning So . whil~ the inentiori of Notre As a matter of fact, my mind was 
didn't sink. in.· My. memories of Dam~ ·still evokes the'same amount so firmly made up that the guidance 
Nickie's, Senior Bar; Huddleburgers, __ of respect from jriends arid fans a,~department pleaded with me to apply 
and football far outweigh any recol-. home' I must smile at their naivete: to a second school. "Why-waste the 
lections of the Art Traditions. and For irie' Notre Dame has .lived upmoney?" I wanted to know. In my 
English classes which !:attended~ to it~ a~demic reputation. Its ath~ own mind,rwas already enrolled: 
· 'Once I got.here, how~ver, it didn't letic prowess, though of little con~ · Although I knew 'that Notre Dame take me long-to ·discover:what she cern to me,·still continues to impress was a schooi of some national ·recog­
had meant. And if the workload was others. The reality of the Golden nition, I was still unaware of the not•· disappointing. enough; my . glo-Dome;' however, often. has; a·greatsacred reputation it enjoyed with a 
rious vision of a social life with distance' from its ·hallowed appear­
majority of Easterners. When my people from throughout :the country . a.rice. I have riot found. outwhat.the friends' parents began to ask about 
was quickly destroyed. . -. . re~i of America is" .like/but. I have my college plans, I was not prepared 
· First of all, I was appalled that learned that 1· should goon search­for the looks of respect which. the people had the audacity·to laugh at ing. ·I might_ even· stay tn. the Mid~ mention of Notre Dame brought me. 
my "accent." (I still maintain that west after school. But not in Indiana Queries-such as:· "When· did they New Jersey residents have no accent. artd ·certainly_ not ·in·South·Be~d: -, . 
start letting girls in.?" "Notre Dame Whatever differences that..exist in · · · ·. , -· · -.. 
in Maryland?" and "You mean Saint my speech. are the result of·having 
Mary's, don't you?" totally mysti~ spent four.years in New York City:) Rosemary Mil18, a junior American 
fled nie; After all, what was so great True, the Midwest does not'have the Studies major from-Bergenfield; New. 
about Notre Dame? East's urban problems, but in -my Jersey is a frequent contributor 'to 
Before I go any further, · I must opinion, its backwardness · gives it Scholastic. · -· · 
SCHOLASTIC 
"I hate Notre Dame ... because the school always wins," uttered ·a close friend of mine while watching the Texas Longhorns succumb to the Irish last January. Generally, this view of Notre Dame, the idea that Notre Dame is an institution of foot­ball supremacy, is the main· view that most from the South I have encountered hold. Although most Southerners, and, in particular, New Orleanians, consider Notre Dame an important national·. ·university,· few hold this belief as a result ·of a knowledge of the totality of Notre Dame. Indeed, as an university, Notre Dame's fame rests on its long history of football _supremacy. Unfortunate-_ ·· ly; although most of my friends; acquaintances, and peers are well aware of Notre Dame the football school, few are ·aware that Notre Dame is mainly-an institution ·dedi-' 
ever, deeper causes motivated their love for this university: a remem­brance of the holistic atmosphere of Notre Dame that was instrumental in their becoming erudite, "well­balanced" men and the closeness at Notre Dame, evidenced by the unity of the New Orleanian alumni. A certain "craziness" that is Notre Dame unchangeably influenced the alumni. That "craziness". influenced me · and · influenced my decision to apply here.·. 
The "craziness" greeted me imme­diately upon my first visil:here. The campus gave me the impression that Notre Dame was an autonomous in­stitution where one might study, en­joy "the more interesting aspects of life," and grow in a framework of both emotional support and under­standing. · And, two . years later, I still hold this opinion ; however, cer-


New, Orleans 
cated to both erudition and "crazi­ness." . 
As.· I searched for colleges. and universities -to· apply to during my senior year in· high school, I kept the academic-aspect .. of the prospec­tive university as the main criterion for application. Of course, I mainly searched for a university that was holistic; that is,. a .university that possessed not only a strong academic side but also "healthy'' cultural· and social aspects. Not until my mother urged my consideration of Notre Dame as a possibility did I.actually become interested in Notre Dame., 
· However, a true interest in attend­ing Notre-Dame did not flower in me until I came into contact with .the New Orleanian alumni. They pos­sessed· a certain . enthusiasm · (or, should Isay, "madness"?) for Notre 
. by Ken Scarbrough 

. tain experiences during those . two 
years have refined my view of Notre 
Dame. 
These experiences, occurring dur­

ing my freshman year, created new 
perceptions and emotions that 
altered my notions of. Notre Dame, 
Among these _emotions were senses 
of isolation, frustration,· and disillu­
sionment that I ·(and many fresh­
men) felt. The rigors of study and 
the complete rearrangement of my 

life created strong feelings of doubt, 
anxiety, and frustration. During the 

first semester, I often became dan­
gerously disillusioned with both my­
self and my aspirations and, at times, 
I loathed Notre Dame. Fortunately, · 
these emotions were only the prod­
uct of change, . always a difficult 
process. While all of us. still share _a 
certain tenseness ·and anxiety that tension of life." Indeed, as I became fully aware of all that the "crazi­ness" of Notre _Dame offered me, I soon found ways of rechanneling these emotions into productive in­volvements. 
These involvements included read­ing to blind students and cooking steaks with the Knights of Columbus on Saturdays of football weekends. The vibrance of Notre Dame pre­vented me from collapsing into my­self. Certainly, one of the dangers a Notre Dame student must avoid is such a· collapse. This collapse pro­duces selfish and egocentric existence that makes one oblivious to the priv­ilege we possess. I now view Notre' Dame as a privilege more than any­thing else; Notre Dame offers me the opportunity to liberate myself from comfortable modes of thought and egocentrism. Surely, _all of the anx.: ieties we experience can . serve to strengthen our wills if we partici­pate in all of the vibrance of Notre Dame. This vibrance. is the holism, a liolism that integrates the aca­_demic with the social, cultural, and :religious. sides of· Notre Dame:. One possesses the ability to become a "Renaissance man" here-but only if he or she attempts to integrate the knowledge gained in the classroom with the vibrance of Notre Dame. Because all learning . does not take place in the classroom or lab and because Notre Dame offers everyone opportunities to learn through in~ volvement, all, whether engineering, liberal arts, business, or science stu­dents have the opportunity to be­come truly "liberally educated." One only needs to participate in that "craziness" that is· Notre Dame-­craziness because it is so ·different from what our true wishes urge us to do-center on ourselves. 

Unfortunately, many who are not closely· associated with Notre_ Dame do not perceive this holistic charac-.. teristic. Because New Orleans is dis­tant from Notre Da~e, most New Orleanians' contact with ~otre Dame is through football. Hopefully, the day will come when all of our coun­try will view Notre Dame. as a pro­ductive whole consisting. of strong academics, sports, etc.,· and not as a "football factory." ' · 
Dame that, forced me to seriously exist with our constant state of consider the school.: Certainly, the pressure and, often, self-doubt, :.the Ken Scarbrough is a sophomore alumni's. "craze" . was manifest in maturing process at Notre Dame has from New Orleans.·. This is his first 
their love of ~he football team; how-reduced these anxieties to a "normal contribution to Scholastic. 
OCTOBER 6, 1978 
New· England 
When I was . a senior in high school, back· East, people urged me to contact a lawyer, an alumnus of Notre Dame. I did, and he gave. me an old edition:of Notre Dame mag-· azine, with a feature article on then­sophomore Adrian Dantley. Dantley, a "poor boy from D.C.," had rejected a lucrative professional contract to stay at Notre Dame. It seemed that money couldn't touch the inherent worth of the place. "Read ·it,"· said the lawyer, "it'll bring tears to your eyes." I read it, and a few months later I read that Dantley had for­saken his senior year at Notre Dame. for a professional contract. I came to. Notre Dame anyway. . 
Home on Christmas break fresh­man year, I ·went skiing five hours north in Vermont,. bringing my _skis but not my money. I asked to see the manager, and told him I would write a ·check as soori'as I got home if he would give me some credit for the day. He said "fine" if he had some collateral, so I gave him my driver's license and my Notre Dame I.D, After looking at them, he handed them right back to. me. I skied for free that day. 
Notre Dame is alive and well back East. Puritan New England-and, remnants of that tradition do sur­vive -appreciates the conservative tradition that exists here. Since Notre Dame isn't in. the East, the tradition is magnified into a mys­tique that manifests itself in inci­dents Hke those just described. The mood prevails. that Notre Dame turns out the best type:of American male-most don't know that Notre Dame is coed. 
Middle-class Easterners -and, like everything else .in this article, this is a: generalization -tend to distrust Eastern schools, but love Notre Dame. There aren't any left­wing, ponytailed, SDS types at Notre Dame, just conservative, clean-cut Chamber of Commerce types. Ivy League kids smoke dope and revere nothing -they started that damned Lampoon didn't they? -but Notre Dame kids have morals; respect everything -_especially their elders -and only rarely do they have a beer, which is normal and American anyway. Rich kids go .Ivy to be­come elite, distant, arid. snobby; middle-class kids go Dome to pursue life, liberty, and the pursu.it of hap­piness. The All-American kid next door goes Dome; the filthy rich preppie goes Ivy. Harvard kids are spacy intellectuals; Notre Dame kids are just plain smart, and practical too -they can fix that lawnmower in the back yard. The Notre Dame kid is athletic and well-rounded; the Princeton kid wears glasses and trips over his own shoelaces. Har­vard turns out rich kids, in· cahoots with one another, who use big words that nobody can understand any­way; Notre Dame turns out normal Americans. Baseball, hot dogs, apple pie and Golden Dome. "None of those Krishna types out there, Hes­burgh wouldn't have 'em." Eastern schools graduate eggheads; Notre Dame graduates the Hardy Boys. With the probable exception of Dart­mouth, "Eastern schools" are con-• sidered too elite, perhaps even ef­feminate, and regarded with suspi­ciori. It ·all comes down ·to the question of who you want influenc­ing your kids: Timothy Leary or Ara Parseghian? 
· Funny how many "snobby, elite, intellectual kids" come here. Either they were rejected by the Ivy League, or else we're an Ivy-type school.· 
Why this Eastern middle-class reverence towards duLac? First, people want to believe that such a place is out there in the northern Indiana woods. They like to believe the exalted reputation, and they can precisely because Notre Dame is out in the ~ northern Indiana woods. Your average Easterne.r isn't all -that familiar with the real Notre Dame because it's not in the East. 
by Jay Coleman 
"Go there, son. Those Jesuits:give a 
damn fine education." Notre Dame's 
isolation affords it the luxury of 
having a glorified reputation • back 
East. 

Surprisingly; .the Eastern intel­
lectual -the cultured Ivy League, 
New .York type -likes Notre Dame 
also. We're regarded as a fine school, 
perhaps a cut below Ivy, but none­
theless a spirited and frisky school 
that gives a good.education, though 
of course not as fine as that any 
Eastern institution gives. Why? 
The Midwest again. Cultured East­
erners consider the Midwest as, at best, archaic. They picture a vast in-. . tellectual wasteland, barren of any 
redeeming virtue and devoid of 
worth. Against such a contrast, such 
schools as Notre Dame and the Uni­
versity of Chicago seem, why, they 
seem almost . . . Eastern! 

I'm from the East, and I hate the 
Midwest, but more for its natural 
location than its lack of culture. My 
brother-in-law went to the Univer­
sity of Michigan, and said the one 
good thing about . spending four 
years in the Midwest is that it 
makes you appreciate the Coasts. He 
went to Harvard Business School, 
settled in California, and never 
wants ·to see the Midwest · again. I 
agree with him. The Midwest bites. 
But I also think that Notre, Dame 
isn't a -Midwestern school; IT'S AN 
EASTERN SCHOOL,; BUT.'. NO­
BODY KNOWS IT.·.THAT'S OUR 
SECRET. While many come from all 
fifty states and ·abroad,. a large ma­
jority of the ·student body is from 
the Northeast, and an Eastern men­
tality predominates on campus. 
We're an Eastern school all right, 
BUT WE DON'T FLAUNT IT.. 

.Yale has the sedate and exclusive 
Mory's; we have the rowdy Corby's; 
Harvard has Nobel prize• winners 
arid presidential ·advisors; .we. have 
NFL draftees. The Midwest shields 
us from damage to our· reputation, 
providing us protection from real 
observers, thus leaving us free to 
propagate our legend on ABC sports. Adrift in this "cultural wasteland," Notre Dame shines like a beacon on a dark sea to Eastern intellectuals. Isolated from Eastern sight, the .University seems a middle-class American mecca. The intellectuals see Notre Dame as a good school, the middle class ·sees it as heaven. Like the Eastern schools, Notre Dame turns out bright and articu­late kids, but these kids are unpre­tentious and better: they're athletic, modest, clean-cut and American. They carry Kant's Critique of Pure• Reason around on campus because they want to read it, not as a status symbol to show off their intelligence with. 
Intelligent but rounded. People back East trust Notre Dame. In the land of Ivy, the "subway alumni" still thrive. Catholic, · private, and a legend, Notre Dame is THE school back East. 
Jay Coleman, a junior philosophy major, hopes to still have friends when he returns to his home in Bethel, Connecticut. 


,:·•::i. 
·'t,•,'' 

{\lVlierilTwas a~signedr"to::wiite an ·' c6IIrprehend': stucco; Stucco'•, is the•, 
article about beingdrom California· basis of all'existence in the.suburbs and going to Notre Dame:as ·a.'fresh;. oL southern·. California. :, Identical man, I thought, :Wha(a dull: idea.·. stucco-covered houses form identical lcould just see myself writing; "Gee housing,tracts which are_ sui:rounded, goliy: whiz, .:,I· wasi:so 'scared/about by;cernent walls.':Truly/scenic:t" i:i.:• coming to:this']big:schooLitwas so-~ Perhaps I.should, tell.you=a little. 
far away froiii~Mom and,,Dail,·and about-my high:schoot;Marina High . 
those.Saturday nights we·spent, to-School can only be described as re-
gether:having milk'and.cookies after.-. sembling solidified slabs of)mush­
!~{~~;s!h!!t:~·~:!:!;~::i~;~ri~--:~~~t~tg=:~J~r~:-:1~~!t~:t· ··;~~~~:~::!:r=f~i~t~:tta!:J-: 
watching. Lawrence Welk:. Would I be:_ able. to handle homesickness? Would T_be !rozen stiff; in :Indiana weather?\ But, heck, guys and.gals, now 'tnat;rin; here/I,think,'it's ~ so · keen,toibe at;N,D/The,'schoolwork's .· tou'gh:Bu't, go~h,,t.:think I c;ri-~a~e 
it,ifJ trymy,da~~est.-;B_esi(j,~,go_:._: 
ing:to Notrepame dqesn'.t just II1ean: schoolwork. A true Notre Dame stu­
I'm)u1j{,tiiai_:~·:.caiii~rpia')tid.li~e; me, can' even ,take a Notre,;Dame 
winter;;Iieck,-=witll: ali:.. the. wonder~. 
fufpeople Iivii.-'met::at ·Not~e-bame,, I-)iav~(faith'r'tt.iat;i:cari ,d~/any,~; thing.'•;'· Bu.CH ''noE.tiiis 'approach/ what approa.ch,shoui,f:r :use?, I de-: cided. ,very 'icahnly. tiia£ tlie" most" apropos_-'.:'Yay' to ',clea(with Jhis _sit~ uation:'.was·· fo'getideu'riouslji·drunk; In this, state_ of mind thoughts.~ 1:o: what fshould\vrlte ran much more freely' (as, I may so crudely add,' did other_'things)~ Anyway, this is:what -·i'came'up \vith:-;, ,:: : ,'." '>_,· .'.' .. ·­
lTo describe what it's:_likej~ ~''.a 
rooin soup. Builtin 1963, I ca.n only assume' thaf'its main-purpose was to serve as a fallout shelter in prep­aration 'for: ani imminent :Russki . attack Iri ·my a.Ima. mater's' proud . history:she :has produced two.:Nqtre Dame''sbiderits'; The illustrious Rich 
Branning• (for the. ignorant among 
·you,·R..·B:· is 'an eminent Varsity •B­ball_ player): and the perpetually na­
standing characteiistic).>Rich :Bran­ning and I were~ of course, very 
c:lgse;:tcame,w:i~~ ?~,t~,7~:feet ~f 
him on.severaJ occasions (very close f~ria,_high school;of 4000) . .'::_: .-:· _ ..'.Now;· what is the adJustment like' coining from :california to., Notre :bamefWell; .s~~e ofthe riia.fo~ ad­justment!tl'-liaci'to make: had riotli­ing >tcj"do ~ith' befog'/a:~Calif6rnia1t ',• To mime one; r' am not Catholic.. The first Mass I'. ever'.'attended was the· freshman w~lcome Mass. j;had' 'no idea.what to'.expect.·1 was iri'.a con~­stant 'stat~'.()f fear)hatthis'~trange ritual might·resuit in ~oriie kind :of 
native ''Californian -attending.• ·. Notre . bizarre'· sac:':rifice. I' had . a . terrifying Dame; Jt might be.advisable'.to,ex-: fantasyjn __which' Ernil·T. Hofman, plain \vhat 'it's' like 'to· live· 'in. Cali-' -dressed'in a· black' hood, pounced. ori fornia,,_Thi~-is iiripossibl~. The·.1,'Gold~. me ftom' the top of the ACC' and 
·en'.state" is'foo spaced out or/to put . tossed-me into a ;Pit ofcobras. . ­it another way, too diverse. I can tell · There are other adjustments you a little of my• hometown; how.: which are · somewhat .· peculiar to ever. To understand Huntington Californians.·. The weather in Cali­~~ach;' Califofn:i~,: you :·,must:: truly. · f<>rnia, : which_-could :..only :/~e de-

S by Sean Faircloth­
. . ~-. ' .. •. , •,," " 
scribed,as dull; is:~ertainly different 
from .that of South Bend. Our tern~ 
peratures ·range,: between . 65° and 
85° alinost'.:invariably '.for years :on· 

_end! Can:,you ·imagine.: such:.drudg­ery:-?'T. mean Iife''.in the big :suburb· is;rough. The only way we can :tell· the change; ofoseasons; is ,by ~e, surfers'.. skins ,which .begin:.to fade back:)to white in.:patches,:around December, .. since•,many, of them are too busy(fafling school_-tO:;hiLthe beaches.., . : : ; ,., : ; , --, ·. ---. . i-. -. , 'Another,,;,major-; adjustment· ·is dress istyles. Back: borne there-'are. speci~c-_brands of:dis_co slac~ '.Wll_ich, mus(be ,-worn. three ;times'.;~ week accor_ding_to sta.te_la'.\V,_under.,p_enal­ti of,d~ath.-At Notre Dam.e the sit-, uatio~.Js _e!:}tirely ._,different. High 
.iri'the not too distant'.past and have: an: 0ND". emblazoned; upon 'them .. ::one might notice that I dealt with. the subject' of this article in :a..rather lighthearted, (if.°not,.'light~headed) manner.; There· ita reason for this.. The more I meet a.ndtalk to people from:aii"ove;t11e·country, the clearer it. becomes' to me .that there.· are no· deep~rootec('clifferences ·, between Jlie' cultures'' of, various . parts /'of ..the· country..Therefore, an adjµstment il'eperids very little oh . where' you come from: and imuch more,·ori yc,uas: 'a i'i>erson:)ii\the 'firia(analysis·,, I'm convinced that this is' a great: place to be·-and:\vo~. adjtiitt~g : to; ­whether you be _from the_. smog­gy sl_lores of' so~t~ern Cal~orni~\<>r, wherever. . ' "'. 
Sean Faircloth is Huntington 
Beach's contribution to Scholastic 
this year. 


I



West Virginia· 
I 
I 
My hometown is Parkersburg, West Virginia, a town of about 44,000 situated at the junction of the Little Kanawha and Ohio rivers. Contrary to the-picture social work­
-ers and John-Boy Walton would paint of West Virginia and Appa­lachia, Parkersburg is not. a coal­mining town, nor do all the inhabi­tants go barefoot and -brew moon­shine. But we are on the periphery of Appalachia's heartland -and there is (yes, Virginia) a Walton, West Virginia; Parkersburg Catholic plays them in basketball. 
How do people from my home re­act to Notre Dame? The reaction is not at all homogenous, precisely be­cause Parkersburg is neither flesh nor fowl as far as being part of"Ap­palachia. Higher education -is -not a terribly common·thing in the core of Appalachia; In Parkersburg,·going out of state to college is the excep­tion rather than the rule. There's both a definite reaction to Notre Dame specifically and a general re­action to a "good college education." 
Mrs. Pitzer, the owner of the local bookstore,· introduces me with, "..· . and she's the only GIRL I know who goes to Notre· Dame." The reaction I get when I use my Notre Dame ID to cash checks is· much· the-same: the ladies ·in Dils Department Store always look up and smile, properly impressed with the name, ·and mur­nier something about I-didn't-know­that-they-took-girls-there -·and-my­mustn't-you-be-the-sniart-one? . Of course there are advantages to Notre Dame's big name: it has been known to be helpful in tiie· more respectable of my summer job-interviews, and 
. h_as w_~n· .~e,, .othe~is~unearned respect m · some quarters;· But Notre Dame's reputation in­spires more .than awestruck_ excla­
mations. In .many places and situa­tions there is a genuine mistrust of a college education, especially a big­name college. I remember having ­this demonstrated to me when I was working as a waitress one summer: a bunch of kids sat down at one of my tables looking threatening and I, being new, . turned to one of the veteran· waitresses for_ advice. The seasoned waitress, --19 -years old with two kids and a. high school education, surveyed the situation and remarked disdainfully, "Don't worry, .they just think they're hot 
N-#:!:?£ff.ltt(f~~t;tii·.i_·~.--~ ---~~~-~~~~:~:~.: ~--~~._:_1 
j rt"'""•V.•4',. ...+­

, 
I.: ' i 


r-::-:__· . :;t•·~ ."..,,,, -;, '_/1 
, i· ·,·. ·.s., ~ . 
'. ,·,. ·->~;I --: · 
~-~,, ,.. • J ; ---'.: ~:~. ~-• ~ • 
stuff"_:_and then, with the contempt ­
of either great bitterness or great 
pre3udice, "They're COLLEGE kids." 

· Indeed, this is a problem.of great 
importance to me: this mistrust that my college education is _creating-­is it• worth the satisfaction I get from the_ academic life? I wonder about· the worth of something that is putting nie in touch with·a great· · number of ideas and people ·only at the expense of alienating nie from 
a whole. othef body of people,' 

.·rve found that ..iri my ·summer, 
jobs at home.when-I'm dealing with 
people, -arid when I'm· working in 
social W<_>~k sphe~es, ·1 have_ to· curb 
! 
I 
I ! 
_by_ Cindy Dykhoff 
my vocabulary and redirect my in­terests, and all but assume ·the West Virginia accent to_ avoid the mis­trust. The core-Appalachians re­spect my love of the land, or my craftwork, but they don't respect, or even like,· my college education. 
I'm not --quite sure why .there is such mistrust, . but . I copied -down these lines once because they seemed to explain something: · 
I am Appalachia! In my veins 
Runs fierce mountain pride: the 
·. hill-fed streams 
Of passion; and, stranger,·you . 
dori't know me!­
____:_Muriel Miller Dressler 

Maybe that's it, the mountains; they're an exclusive society. Anyone who's come from mountain· country to the -flatlands of Indiana can tell . you that there's something almost violating about the' process. When I stand· in downtown · South Bend I feel exposed, uneasy; ·1 think of the landscape as· · being undefined and, therefore, unreal. The' thought of being able_ to-·see for miles· bothers and almost frightens me; a com­bination of the impossible monofony' of no secrets· for miles and.the in­security of having-nowhere fo hide. ­.... The mountains are a security. for those who·• dwell among·them, and they create a community. 
·"If you ever .hear I'm settling down in Indiana," I write niy friends at honie, ·"you know I'm being held agairist my will, so..come and rescue-_ me." 
. Notre Drune makes me a stranger; maybe? · __ ·.··'· · · 
·. Cind:i/ 'Dykhoff; an English major, from Parkersburg~ West Virginia, also draws_ for. ·scholastic.• -. ­
"Fargo? Really?" 
"No." 
:'What?" 
. "No, Chicago, really." 
"Oh." 
l'Well, outside of Chicago actual­ly. ..." "Oh." To be from Chicago ha~ become 
somewhat passe at Notre Daine this year, so I have begun a search for more exotic roots . . . Lubbock, Texas, for example, or Garfield, Montana. With student discovery of Greyhound and South Shore Lines, Chicago, it seems, has become too common, too real and too close. When I first arrived at Notre Dame, however, Chicago was still consid-


Chicago 

ered big time (at least by the fresh­men). They had all heard about the gangsters and call girls -why, it was almost New York with a little thrown in. 
Despite my being from Chicago, my expectations of Notre Dame were no different than·the thousand other innocents who applied here. I had always thought of Notre Dame as football games, blue skies and green, green· grass. Admittedly, I had been· on the campus before . . . twice to be exact; once for a typical­ly "rah'' football game and_ once for my admission interview/ but I still thought of .Notre Dame as a blue-. and-gold fantasy land where retired leprechauns came ·· to '· give· point spreads on home football-games. Notre Dame, after ·au, ·was God's 
country::_: 
Once: accepted, however, -I began to . panic. ·During: the two-hour ride from. Chicago, rows · or residential frowns : mysteriously turned to corn stalks. -The sky grew bigger and the word -"horizon" took on new mean­ing. "Where is-South Bend?'',I cried, · "and what if ·I don't feel -like going to a football game?" "Do they hum the Fight Song on the way to· class?" "What if I can't remember. the words?" "My God,". I whim­pered, "what have I done?" 
,.,_,._,,  ~-.,.-,;,.,...,..-~,  ¥;­ 
. .  
~  
~­ 
·.  .  .  
. .  
-­ 
·.­ ..,•....·...............  


When I arrived, I was equally sur-: prised to· find that my origins had· somehow qualified me for the posi­tion of informed host. Granted, I was accustomed to the "rolling · plains" of the Midwest and what is commonly called "muggy" weather, but I was not ready to assume the air of authority · concerning ·South 
· Bend nor Notre Daine. 
Nevertheless, no sooner had I put my foot in the door than I was ac­costed by a_ horde of. Southerners 
. from the Virginia~New York area. "Ya'll are from. Shi-caa-go," they cooed, "so ya'll must be used to this weather. We've never been west be­fore." I stared. West? But, as I was informing them of ··south Berid's geographical relation to the real West, ·they added "insult to· injury. · "Ya'll have the strangest accent," they crooned· in· unison,' "Say that again? Shi-caa-go ?" I was dumb­founded. Surely ·everyone kne~ that 
~ ~ 
.. -~ .~­
,~-..~ 
;\ ~ 
\~~"'" ~ 
by Mary Ryan 
people from the Midwest do · not have accents. It was common knowl-' edge. Yet, try as I might, those Southerners would not listen to _.rea­son,· and I soon gave up trying to educate them. · · 
Classes, · meanwhile, had begun, and school, being what it is in any part of the country, blunted our re­gional differences. Chicago became the focus of weekend excursions, and consequently lost its reputation as the last great' gangster holdout.: Water Tower Place and the Sears Tower have become topics for small talk while books, laundry and food have taken their place on priority lists . 
I have yet to see a leprechaun; and the grass is not always green. I' am still riot sure exactly · where South Bend is, but I do know the· words· to the Fight Song -at least, most·· of them. And, about those exotic roots, -how does Wild Rose, Wisconsin, strike you? 
Mary Ryan, a junior American 
Studies major, resides in Kenilworth; 
a nor_thern suburb of Chicago~ 

South 
.c
America 
by Patricia Martinez 

Y~s; Notre Dame is a long way from home! It does not have the Caribbean Sea, nor the Andes, nor the Magdalena River. Nor does it have the pre-Colombian treasures of our natives and the Colombian taste of folk music, nor the dances and coffee of my· people. Naturally, I miss my people, the spicy food, the "rumbas" (parties) by the beach under the starry skies with "cum­bia" (typical dance) and "3 Es­quinas" rum. They are good mem­ories enrooted in my heart, and they build up my pride of my coun­try and people. But I just had to fly once over seas and mountains to ac­quire · a new perspective of the world in which I lived. 
The years spent at Notre Dame have been .years in which reflection has been possible; yea~ to relax and have the leisure time to analyze the different aspects of the life that I left behind. Here I have had time, to reflect in a . more mature way about my people and relationships with them. Mature reflections are difficult in our universities where school is an extension of a student's home life. Students continue living in their houses. We have no campus life. · 
Our universities simultaneously develop a student's social, familiar, intellectual, and • sentimental life. Our society considers college stu­dents as active members of the com­munity. People listen. to what they have to say. Every intellectual, po­litical, and cultural movement arises from our universities. The activity of our society can be measured in the universities. Students are passionate­ly involved in politics and the media upon entering college. I think this is the cause of our political instabil­ity; Our. students have not had the time to. thoroughly reflect on their. ideals· and their political attitudes. The pressing issues of education,· so­cial justice, and equality of oppor­tunities color their ideology. As a · result, many of the students develop 
socialist orientations while they are in college. Upon finishing school, however, most students become more capitalistic than the great businessmen they used to criticize. Their ideas of social change are transient. They all fall, sooner or 
. . .. 
later, into the lazy tradition of en­
joying the· good things of our coun­
try and of criticizing the bad ones 
without any concrete action.. 
. I believe· in the necessity !)f a few 
years of reflection to acquire a more 
objective view. of the. real value of 
our nativ:e larid.-.This is where Notre 
Dame enters my life. Thanks to my 
exposure. to a different culture, I am 
learning a, new . language ·and · new 
customs, as well as a new way of 
approaching the· different aspects of_ 
life. Most importantly, I am ,gain,: 
ing a new perspective on my own 
native values~ • . . 

, We cannot deny that C::<,>lombia is not a highly developed country, but · there is no hope for it if one thinks the solution lies in the adoption of the "American style of life." The solution must rise from the Colom­bians themseives; the change must be in harmony with our spirit. Living at 
-. 


Notre Dame allows nie to compare and select the best elements of each culture. With this experience, we Colombians are 'able to extract the best elements of the two cultures and carry on a new possibility of change and progress. The univer­

sity is a place for reflection for, later action. Colombians recognize · the importance of• the organization, dis­cipline, self-control and · reflective introspection taught at a place like Notre Dame. This is why it is con-, sidered one of the best universities in the United· States.• 
Unfortunately, not · many of our Colombian· students. can., come, to Notre Dame. If they could, ; we would surely find, through the ;ex­change of culture, a way to progress without destroying· our boisterous spirit, our-effective. communication and social intercourse, and our long . tradition· of family ties. Civilization and culture, do not gain their. char~ acteristic seal by, :simple imitation, but by a deep reflective exchange. 
Patricia Martinez is a senior General 
Program major from Colombia. This. 
is her first contribution to Scholastic. 
SCHOLASTIC 
He coughed twice as the door shut behind him. He hadn't wanted to come here, but that lousy Cole Porter tune had whistled his feet in from the cold to a snappy three-fourths beat. Cole Porter was constantly flirting in and ·out of the frame of his life, sweeping him melodi­cally out of the present and carrying him bodily to the far abscesses of buildings and other dust-filled locker­room cubicles. He had once found himself showering in a girl's dorm to the tune of "I Get a Kick Out of You." On this occasion, many moons ago, he· had come to his senses in the midst of four different creme rinses; two acne-scrub s·oaps, and one pair of rapidly dampen­ing wing-tip shoes which ·he had mistakenly put on in the rush to get home. after prayers in sixth grade. The shoes were tight; and the water had felt good, but there was an immediate· ebb of masculinity and a rise in -the throb of his pulse. He learned then that one should avoid combining eroticism and embarrassment while surrounded by • sleepy hordes of wet, naked fe­males. He had also -learned the dangers involved in whistling that particular Cole Porter tune,· and he had suppressed it vigorously now for several years. From that incident onward, he had led :a: somewhat neurotic but stable life .and liked to think of himself as one who "lurked in' the fringes," ·the sort of thing that Lamont Cranston used to do as "The Shadow." 
. He definitely enjoyed music's frequent intrusions into his life and had decided that, aside from the near­fatal side effects of certain numbers; Cole Porter was the one man who could whistle him the furthest Oh, sure, he often reflected, James Taylor or Steve Goodman were fine for the quick jaunt to the laboratory, and of course, "Rhapsody in Blue" could do wonders for· the backswing on long doglegs of par fours, but they didn't hold a candle to the Porter magic. My God, they just didn't have anything on the man, nothing at all. Filth! That's what it is! Not a shred of truth to that rumor of homosexuality, not· a shred! Sons of bitches,· what goddam nonsense do they have to print? he fumed. So they can fill up their black-chauffeured limousines with petroleum and get little kids fresh out of 6 :30 Mass for Urchins to shine their golden hubcaps? Or so they can hump their secretaries in the nieat freezers of their grocery store chains? or behind their padded accounts, chairs and suits? Just where did all this leave him off? Where the hell did it leave him? What could he whistle if they destroyed that musical God? Just take one more thing away! Just try, bastards. And this morning his toothpaste had run out and th~ friggin' yolk had splashed on his authentic silk Flor­entine tie, 
and 
Why is:he chasing me, or am I chasing him? Do I stand a chance of catching him? He's dodging the people like an antelope full of buckshot in his behind. Run. Run. Duck under the awning. Dodge the old bag in a dirndl. God, I'm out of shape. How can he keep this pace in the dark? Images. Kaufhaus Tirol. Pullover Ermassigungen. Run. Run. Stride. I can see his coat. I can hear his breath. I can 
OCTOBER. 6, 1978 
l Pardon, Monsieur, Es Ocupado? 
by Joe Carey 


pass. I have no fault, no weakness, no shred of identity. I'm free of this goddam body. I'm floating high, soaring through l\laria Theresa Strasse in the heart of downtown Innsbruck. I'm immortal. I have the power to fly at will, to pass him in a cloud of fragrant dust. 
Heartbeat. Throb. · 

Laughter. Why did you run you bastard? Fuck, I don't know. Does there have to be a why, or even a who­done-it? Give me my hat or. thee shall die. 
Calzone, schillings. Elation. expansion contraction (contraction) of the mind and soul 
was important to him as the d(?<Jr blew open and shut again. He also delved into jazz whistling. He prided himself on the versatility of his tongue. Yes, in his younger days he could toodle some scales that would make a Zoot Sims blush. God couldn't a tune, or even a song, float one along on breezes of incredible ego, ballooning one to the point of no return and then back again? To the point of bursting a shoelace or an . artery, or just plain popping out from beneath one's very fingernails in December and then letting the blood ooze out onto the snow. Does it crackle when it freezes? Does it matter when he sneezes? Does the wind blow in certain seizures or is the poet a man of leisures ? Incredible questions he· wondered. He also wondered how the others would feel. 
I couldn't answer him just as I couldn't answer my-, self. The task was entirely too difficult to master in the space and time allotted to my fictive existence, espe-· cially when even the space and time of my fictive ex­istence were fictive themselves. God, I could fictionalize myself to death, couldu't I? Sort of like reflecting a mirror into another mirror, like the ones in the barber-, shop. Maybe one c,f the multi-reflections would turn• out a bit odd, a bit more developed and more borderline on the bizarre than the rest. That would really shake. things up, ·wouldn't it? Ha. He. Hee, hee. I really had; to giggle at precisely that moment because I knew exactly what the others were going through. Going through the barbershop. That was what was taking place. Going past the self-stropping blades to the other. end of the room and back, pausing only to sniff the_ imported Goudas and cheddars placed strategically out of sync with their tastebuds, placed only to heip: the journey speed along its concave course. And they; were all in for the razor ride of their innocent little Uves. Down the skull and down the neck. Up the chin and under the. nose, down the chest to take the · pubic hairs in rows. . 
But, no. This time there would be no blade. Ha.· Tee, hee.. No blade. Just the language itself. The: words would strip them down and remove every ex-. terior hair, Denude the already naked aborigine, 'that's . what. And then spin ,him before the mirror to look,· And with that last look he would find nothing in front of him, nothing behind, only the fading words hanging in vacuums of almighty space. My God, what fun the 
· entire process is! , And initial shock! ;What fun the shock is, but it wears off quickly: One .simply;ignores the mirrorsthe rest of one's life and pays the man at the door his.rightful dues. Of course, the man,at the cash register only appears after the. mirrors .are . re­jected. He has to exist then, just as the clean-shaven man must thrive and squirm and shriek within the friendly confines of. the world outside.•the . shop, the world of lions, . tigers, bears, and ulterior motives. 
But then.one:can always whistle, can't one? I do at times. It helps with my Zen studies. Just face that_Fall and whistle the space and your mind into the, same oblivion.~ It's like a whoosh of air, a gentle breeze of sweet• sorrowwhich dampens my throbbing brow, and sweetens the moment of inexorable pleasure before the collapse. There . is always the collapse; . But why? Why collapse? Why contradiction? Why denial? _Why conviction? .What's the story? What's the. line? Where's the courthouse? What's my fine? ,Why a ver­dict? Why ajudge? Why neglect? Why the nudge back 
· toward the door? I breathed heavily and .wondered out loud, as one must. do to be heard against the clamor of scraping thoughts, what does she think? 
: . She ­thought nothing .of it amidst· all this.• She was· con­cerned for the moment with her left breast, which pro­truded slightly from under her shirt. Her left breast often preoccupied her thoughts. She often wondered if it was larger than the right one, for she had read once in Ann,Landers' column that it could be so; Would they notice?, Would it matter here, or in a court of law? Does one's body matter at all? On the earthly scale, it mattered for her, ·but beyond the .peak of sexual pleasure what else did it offer? Her body, as the others in.motion at that time, was a constant mass of malfunctions,· excretions, stresses and misplaced bulges. ·A mere· blob with legs. Legs that spread and received.·· Legs that spread and conceived.· Legs that 
. · crossed themselyes and other bridges. Legs which protruded from under skirts, and which hid beneath pants, peeking out through iankles like . hidden scars. Legs which the others could care less about.· What was their game? What were their names, positions, ranks and files?. 
and look, and-~quint, and stare, and then to look again. • 
She knew they were there for the same reason. She heard the whistle and backed toward the window. What frightened her legs to shake so? Did she care so much? The loss couldn't hurt more than a minute or so, and. then things would be better. They should get better, shouldn't they? Oh, God, she thought. It's got to be . better! They wouldn't let her go through all this shit for nothing. She waited for a sign, for a thunderbolt, for a minor miracle, or for the cry of a bat releasing guano in his blind flight, blind to us yet seeing like. twin beakers of knowledge. 
She got it. I stepped into the light. ·He moved quietly toward the door to block it. There was no moon. In the darkness it seemed there was no door to block. I moved closer. He slid along the wall. · She backed away. I reached out. He caught her leg. She kicked his face. I saw the blood. It trickled onto my shoe. She kicked my groin. I doubled over and grabbed her smaller breast. We fell together in a tri­angle of pain, yet fell pleasurably back toward the place we imagined the door to be. We fell, we swooped, we flew, gliding through the air like the low notes of an oboe, and slipping gently into the gust of the prevailing Wester­lies. · 
There was little time left to think, or act, or stroke each other, but it did not matter. I let go of her breast. The blood on my shoe disappeared in a crackle of quickened light that I could sense,· but not· hear. Then ·there were no senses. The light faded and for an instant there was a moon over our left shoulder, but we were in, above, arid with it. simultaneously. Together we spun away with the moon like an unravelling string into the darkness, unwinding our lives, leaving the flow 
· behind with our shaven pubic. hairs, forgetting to pause to listen to the quiet drop of guano below us. Were we gone? Were we alone? In the night? Close to dawn? Was it blessing? Was it curse? It could be no better. It could be no worse? 
-Joe Carey is a senior English major from Chicago, Illinois, who presently occupies a room in the fieu!Jwuse. He is in complete control of his faculties: 





Dave· ·Schiesher 

Gallery 





'Mike Cantwell 
Moose's Den 

Pat O'Brien 
Skeeboe's 

Resort II 



.The Street Where · 
I had my first birthday· on board a ship in the_ middle of the Mediter­You ranean Sea. I turned tweive in north­ern Japan, sweet sixteen in Istanbul, and twenty-one in Leningrad. But I Don't never saw so foreign a land as the · south side of Chicago. 
With that in mind and with all 

Live 

levity aside, I'd like to propose a Sophomore Year Abroad program in that very place. The Foreign Study by ·Gina Giovanini Office might also consider the Dis­trict of Columbia, the south Bronx read the classics, study the great and downtown Detroit as additional philosophies of man, learn to write, program sites. I'll venture to say analyze, criticize, and compute while that the difference in language. arid our physical needs are catered to. We culture encountered ·iii America's need. not have any greater care than troubled urban areas . would rival · an 8-3 season. . . .· ·.. those met -in .Tokyn or Angers. For some. reason ·though, -amidst 
For. most Notre Dame students, :all the wealth there.are traces of 
•

the inner. city exists on newspaper · boredom.· The perennially fo_rtunate pages and the six o'clock report.. One .most .often are the .victims of this. might drive .through it, around it, ennui;. ·when you're twenty-one'. or by it_.:_but always quickly. This years old, gifted and bright and the alienation is_ easily accounted for. world is your oyster, it's easy to take. 
•:' 
• ..

The unknown and the unfamiliar · things for granteci -After:all, when: have ahyays been a source of fear you've never been on ~ the bottom, and, you see, ladies there don't wear it's hard to tell when you've.reached monogrammed sweaters with golden · the top~ .. . . stickpins. ·Men can't afford the price 'Our student government,. hall of bourbon and. have no patience· .presidents, and.·rank and file alike with beer. They down strained_ mobilized in instant rage when some­Sternos to lose consciousness quickly. one tried to .take our alcohol away. and cheaply.. ·. There are no Fords in · Only when some of that righteous in­young men's futures ·and no· futures . dignation .is channeled onto a new on their-streetcorners. : . . . . course will our· education at Notre 
Meanwhile;.we live s~ounded by Dame begin to be :complete; Next the beauty of l~es and sycamores -..January; during semester break, in where faceless men dutifully pick up · over forty" of America's ma:jor cities, our abandoned beer:cans and •sweep· . Notre Daine and Saint Mary's stu­up after us. After . a few years, • dents will be part. of -an Urban, 
-three-piece suits and"joi>·:mterviews ; Plung~a•brief encounter with life . ·come to us in autumn as naturally as • on the other side ofthe· tracks. For the reddening of theleaves.· We can . forty-eight hours government inajors
. .. -. ~ .. -. . . .---. -. . -. ---'.. -,~ . .·. -• , . --­
':"' ': SCHOLASTIC 


can see the invisible political class take form, pre-meds can begin to feel the physical suffering of hunger, cold and alcoholism, business majors can put faces on the statistics of the financially unfavored. 
When those Urban Plunge students return to Notre Dame a few will change their majors. A few will simply. be more appreciative . of ·the wealth they · possess. And perhaps, one may not return so soon-staying instead in.the.city to begin another kind of education. But everyone who has eyes to,see and a_mind to learn will be just a little bit angry and a little bit ashamed and a whole lot more aware of his position in . so­ciety. Many here atNotre Dame hav.e yet to realize that the 011ly reason they are middle class is because someone else is lower class. I fear that if a Domer were asked to make a sketch of the average Ame~can, he would draw him with an alligator on his shirt. _ 
We have been granted a reprieve-­most. of . us through no virtue of. our own. Law· school, med school, :and the Big Eight await. Th~ road -to suburbia. ;is. paved.wi.th good inten­tions. It's· a comfortable way to travel but before you take your first step, ·. you should. know what you'll 
be missing. -· ­
.. -. 

Gina Giovanini is the Education 
· · n e. 


On The 
ing." He _understood all the conclu­sions that could be drawn, · · 
"The liberal papist note sounds

Fighting 
hollow 

To begin, '.'It was a beautiful morn­ing in Belfast" nourished a starved stylistic cliche; that much I knew before I realized that our first day in Belfast might construct for us a "view on the Irish thing." But it was an unseasonably warm morning the May Friday we trained from Dublin to Belfast and, bundled in . our expectations, we were unpre­pared for the change of temperature and temperament in nearby Ulster. 
Months later, I now wonder if our reasons for traveling to Belfast so late in our Irish year weren't as varied as the causes of Ulster's struggle, weren't perhaps at the root of all the confusions. We had been warned, by school administrators, by parents back home, by the Southern Irish, by the journalists and the skeptics; We knew (or hoped we did) what we were getting into, and we wanted every bit of it. We said that we wouldn't go to gape, but we did; we went to gape and stare and gaze and gasp, to see the barbed wire and dodge the bullets in the streets. Curiosity had· peaked after long months of Southern Catholicism and political speculation.. Belfast was too mysterious ·and too tragic to overlook. The realities of North­ern Ireland had become clear in the
I 
political battles fought in the head­lines, on the radio, at the dinner table, but we would accept none of them. One day in the streets of Bel­fast would tell . the story. Certain that one day months later a neigh­bor or the· friends of parents would ask the magic morbid question, 
20 

Irish 
by Kathy Ryan 
"What is the situation in Northern Ireland reaUy like?", we risked our vivid imagery and our more vivid ignorance to answer the misplaced question. 
JuJieanne_ had traveled a direct route; her.trip began in the heart of Irish Queens generations before. She carried all that ancestry behind her, the pride of American Irishness, the initiators of long-standing hate and the founders of the IRA. That day, however, the full-fledged, green­

·every-St.-Patrick's-Day Irishman had to own up to the. Catholic ghetto, to the barbed wire on Falls Road, to the lives leveled for the cause of Southern pride. 
Doug headed for Belfast on a dif­ferent note. Straight from the Yale English Department, he had all the ambivalence of the trained young writer. He was Presbyterian to the bone and carried the required back-· pack; in it, a volume · of literary myth, ready. to identify the meta-· phor, to capture the . unspectacular spectacle. · · 
We sat on the same train, though, connecting our varied starting 

. points, arid if I knew their curios­ities, I also knew my own. The Irish background and. the writer, pen poised, were a part of me, and no part of my motive _at 'all. No social conscience, no moral obligations in­volved. We had come to Ireland to study something about literature, and the nagging poem was on ·my . mind: the. thoughtful, menacing re­fusal to respond by Seamus_ Heaney, ".Whatever You Say, You Say Noth-. 
When amplified and mixed in with the bangs Thatshake all hearts and windows day arid night." 
or the embers that could be rekin­dled. 
" I sit here with a pestering Drought for words at once both gaff anci bait ' To lure the tribal s.hoals to epi: 
gram And order. I believe any of us Could draw the line through big­
otry and sham Given the right line, aere. peren­nius." · 
I went to Belfast·to test his view, to test the understanding against the answer he gave, responding with, 
" The famous Northern reticence, the tight gag 
of place· And times .... Where to be saved you must only 
save face · And whatever you say, you say nothing." 
The war in Northern Ireland, re­ferred to as no more than "the troubles" in the South,. does not take place on the streets of urban Belfast. The battles are not waged between armies. of British Protestants. and rebel. Catholics. The "trouble" is everywhere but .out in the open; it is. ensconced in the Irish mind. The agitation and anxiety are not politi­cal· questions, and there has never been such a· thing as a religious war. The situation in Ulster is worlds away from Leon Uris' .fairy tale and will never be· captured succinctly in a Dell paperback. The war is less ·than a sectarian issue, less than the -pictori_al "war of children;". less even 

than the metaphoric feud of neigh­boring families. With tolls of tan­gible deaths daily, the source of "the troubles" is an abstraction. 
The war in Northern Ireland is be­ing fought over kinds of Irishness. Like all minority issues, it is reduced to a question of mathematics. There are 32 counties on a single tiny island whose history has narrated two separate stories. Over a period of 800 years, two distinct nations have evolved, as equally· Irish as they are basically dissimilar. Yet history and. republicanism have rea­soned that proximity on this island implies unity; •years·of. unreasonable brutality have aggravated the as­sumption. 
,* * * * * 

We didn't dodge bullets on the streets of Belfast. There was only a little barbed wire, though there were body searches on .the streets, and the dilapidated buildings might 
. •~ ..:..• 
,4....... 
.,,..~ 
'f;:. 
{i 
~~ 
. i;~ 
:·tf~Iii 
fr? 


-. t-<~~:},.
' ;..;:· t.:•:' 
Ill 

have been old or bombed, we couldn't tell. We also couldn't tell much more about the "situation" from the time spent there, though we navigated the city quite successfully. Belfast is a city where people live and work; occasionally there are warm days in early May. The guerrillas are hidden, as are the issues: 
"0 land of password; handgrip, 
wink and nod, Of minds as open as a trap, Where tongues-lie coiled, as under 
flames lie wicks, Where half of us, as in a wooden horse Were cabin'd · and confined like wily. Greeks, .Besieged within the siege, whis­pering morse." 

" I wish I .had .the answer to the Irish thing, .but Heaney was, right: there's still so little to say, and none of it approaches the answer. The Southern politician-historian Connor Cruise O'Brien has several extremely calculated solutions to the "Irish Question"; so, I believe, does John Hume, the Provisional ·IRA and the Ulster Defense Association. While journalists debate the political effec­tiveness of terrorism, I wonder about the decibel level of outrage. I also wonder if the only certainty is the certain frustration of powerlessness and silence. I can't answerthe magic question, and yet I still· care about every backlash and gelignite. While "coherent miseries" make the· head­lines, I understand only why one Northern poet admits default: 
"Yet for all this art and sedentary 
trade 
I am as capable as fungus 
Of breaking my soft grip on· the 
sick place· 
Or its on me." 



There was something special about this one · game, something which made it seem like much more than just a 3-2 victory over Goshen Col­lege in the 1978 women's field hock­ey opener. 
There was much more to celebrate than just a two-goal performance by Carrie Rooney or a key score for Mary Tollaksen.. 
There was more to celebrate be­cause this one game began a com­pletely new chapter in the annals of women's athletics at the University of· Notre Dame. The contest was.. cause for celebration because it marked the first appearance of .the female Irish on the varsity level. 
The University Fa~ulty Board in Control of Athletics, with · Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., ·as its chairman, officially approved the move from a club sport status to varsity status. this · August, making field hockey the fourth varsity sport for women. Basketball was acknowl: edged as a varsity sport a year ago, while tennis and fencing took th'e gianf leap two years ago. 
Women Take The Field 

by Paul Mullaney 
Astrid Hotvedt, Coordinator of Now you're allowed two · substitu­
Women's Sports. at ·Notre Dame as tions, but a • person· can't re-enter 
well as field hockey coach since the once taken out; 
team's inception four years ago, sees "It's an activity where the -girls 
the promotion to· varsity as timely have to sustain themselves· in run­
compared to the sport's growth na­ning-it's a. very healthy. thing." 
tionally and internationally. Although field hockey is played on 
"The colleges seem to be the a soccer-sized-field and has many of 
breeding places • of,' many of ·our the same fundamentals as soccer, 
Olympians,'' she emphasized.-"The Hotvedt finds similarities of many 
inception of field hockey as a varsity different sports in the growing game. 
sport for women at Notre Dame can One of the_ sports she draws an 
be paralleled with the growth of field analogy to, oddly enough, is basket­
hockey on an international basis.· It ball. 
has recently been adopted as a "The field hockey offense is very 
women's Olympic sport beginning in similar to a basketball offense. In 
1980 in Moscow.'' · fact, this past summer I did quite a 
According to Hotvedt, a great deal bit of reading and studying of bas-
of the interest generated by Notre· . ketball books, like how the offense 
Dame students for the sport can be · starts once ·the ball comes down. 
attributed to the high number of "In fact, I've got some different 
Easterners attending the University. plays that we'll be using that I've 
"Philadelphia was, and still is, the · taken · from the kinds of things a 
hotbed of field hockey in the United basketball coach would use: I've be­
States," said Hotvedt, beginning her come more interested· in developing 
fifth year at Notre Dame. "There the a more detailed offensive attack, so 
girls learn it from third grade all I used· the comparisons of basketball 
the way up·to high school, arid their· rather .. than soccer, which I used · skills are very good." previously." · · 
Hotvedt is hopeful .that she .· can • Hotvedt is allowing herself a 
help to gradually develop into her few years to . develop the type of 
team the skills that Connie Appleby skilled . team .that would challenge 
brought to the U.S. from England. some of the tougher · schools in the 
at the turn of the century. East. "We're a couple of years away "The unique thing about field from challenging anyone from the hockey .is: the endurance and the Philadelphia ·area I don't want to stamiii~," explained Hotvedt about go there ·yet.. I think I'd prefer some­the game which features fast-paced where like middle-or up-state New action and no time outs during two · York, where the tradition isn't as · 35-minute halves. "Up until the last powerful, but where the teains would 
few y~ars you couldn't even _· sub-· ·be within reach." The move to var­
stitute unless there was . an injury. sity level should enable Hotvedt to upgrade the schedule beginning a year from now. 
Nevertheless, whatever occurs one, two,. or a hundred years from now is of little concern to women. athletic administrators around the United States, for the future ·. of women's sports is now. 
Women's athletics in the U.S. has been on the upswing since the pas­sage of Final Title IX Regulation implementing the Education Amend­ments of 1972, which · prohibits sex discrimination in education. Effec­tive since July 21, 1975, Title IX stipulates that schools must indeed provide equal opportunity for both sexes fo participate in intramural, interscholastic, and intercollegiate athletics. 
"I feel that the discussions around the country about women in sports, the role of women athletes, especially the professional woman athlete-all these kinds of things are the real positive things that so far have come from Title IX," enthused Hotvedt. 
"But the increase in funding around the . country in elementary and high schools for women or girls is really where the need is for Title 
IX. The emphasis in the publicity seeins to always hit the colleges. But where it really is going to take an effect an·d be a real positive asset to the total education of a woman is in junior high · schools . and high schools.": .· 
Title IX has a different effect on Notre Dame than it does on most state. schools,. since_.the University has · been coeducational for . only seven years.. But·. Hotvedt , doesn't think: this really hurts .the building of. awomen's .. athletic .program. at 
DuLl.c. · · ·· · '. ,"I try to.use it as an asset," she clarified. "The fact that.we have not had a past makes _it possible for us to start .fresh and move in certain directions. . We don't have to tear down . some old ~ traditional lines. When.. something has .. been around for a-long time, like, a sports pro­gram,. there're always the:highs and lows.. This way we don't have any highs, but: we don't have any lows. We're. ~.tarting from scratch/' 
One wouldn't be able to tell, how­

ever, that.there hasn't been a· head 
start at· Notre Dame, for the stu­
dents have been very cooperative, as 
have the University administrators. 
"The cooperation on this campus 

has been very good," stressed Hot­
vedt. "It isn't like having someone 
come in and say, 'We want this.' 
There's been ongoing dialogue since 
I've been· here. People here are 
aware that athletics has a role in 
education. This is where the dia­
logue comes in." 
Hotvedt emphasizes that some of · the reports that have been published 
recently haven't given the complete 
picture of what is happening with 
the women's athletic program. 
"S_ome of the good· things that 

have happened have not come out. 
One ofthe good things is that Betsy 
Shaver made the men's swimming 
team. And there are a number of 
women who are coming to swim 
practice to-try to make this year's 
team.'' 
Some of the better things that are 

happening, according to Hotvedt, are 
taking place in her negotiations with 
University athletic officials. 
"There is no big obstacle in our 

discussions on women's athletics," she maintains. "It's just that solu­tions are still being sought. 
"We still have some goals to set. For instance, there have been stu­dents . doing fine work regarding the publicity of women's athletics, but it has all been volunteer work. Set­ting up salaried positions is being considered, but it's just a matter of working out solutions. 
"We have a good relationship go­ing. For instance, we requested that there be .no football parking on our practice field behind Jake Kline field. The committee, headed by Mr. Joseph O'Brien (Notre Dame Busi­ness -Manager) took actions so this wouldn't occur. It could have been a problem, but· it wasn't. The com­munication was there, and a solution 

· was found.'' While the communication · con­tinues and constant solutions are be­
. ing. sought, women's athletics con­tinues .to become more and · more vital in the Notre Dame framework of education. 
. Paul Mullaney is a so-phomore American Studies major from High­land, Indiana. This. is his first con­trfbution to Scholastic.. 
. 



CAIi American)2 
by Greg Solman 

, There was to be a pep' rally at St. Joseph's High School in half an hour, and Bob Golie was the featured speaker-and concerned about it. 
He sat in his Flanner Hall room; drying his hair with one hand, while he pored over the words in the "Pub­lic Speaker's Treasure Chest" he had borrowed moments ago from down the hall. 
"Let's try• 'spirit,'''. he mumbled to himself, turning to the index. He turned quicklY, to .the page and his huge fingers sought out .. the · refer­ence. . . 
"Better· is ·a handful .with quiet­ness, . than both hands full . with travail and vexation of spirit," he read aloud.• 
"That sounds like it should be used at Mass, not at a pep rally." He · 
was probably right. 244~pound frame. But once again, 
He tried another passage. "Blessed motherly instinct won over brut~ are the poor in spirit; for theirs is · strength, and the magazine was soon the Kingdom of· Heaven." He out of reach. groaned, slammed the book closed "I'll find it,"· Golic's mother said. and tossed it onto his bed. · And she did. 
"That isn't going to make it," he "She's stni trying to protect my sighed, shaking his· head, "Looks innocence,"· laughed Playboy All-, like I'll have to playit by ear." American Bob Golie. "I guess she 
It was quite evident .that Bob figured that I shouldn't be reading Golic's life had changed. Playboy until I'm twenty-one." 
In fact, it changed early last Au-"I mean," he continued, feigning gust when his mother, Katie, re-innocence revealed by a. mischievous turned from work one day carrying grin; "Why else would I be interested a magazine wrapped in brown paper. . in reading Playb<Y]J'/' The entire Golie family knew imme-. One can hardly blame Bob Golie diately that it was a long-awaited for his anxiousness, though. It's not issue of Playboy. · ' every· red-blooded American · male 
Golie grabbed for the magazine that gets fl.is picture in the country's with all of the finely honed quick-most famous men's magazine-with ness he could muster from his 6-3, clothes• on, no less. 

But for Golie, ·· the Playboy .All­Arnerican honor is all:part of the "gravy." It is just one iri. his grow: ing list of accomplishments. · And if Colic's first three garnes are any indi­cation of things to come, then Pl.ay­boy may develop ·a reputation· for knowing football as well as it claims to know beautiful women; · 
Statistics don't tell the Bo!) Golie story, but they certainly paint part of the picture. Golie, the most valu­able · defensive player •in the ·1978 National Championship Cotton Bowl, is ·the first two-time all American since the legendary "Moose" Krause. Last season, he surpassed Greg Col~ lins' single-:season tackle record with 
146. Against Purdue he became the all-time tackle leader in Notre Dame history. Against Michigan this sea-son, he docketed 26 tackles, a game high in modern-day, Notre Dame history. · 

"It feels good .to know that I am living up to my responsibilities as a member ;of .the .team," said Golie, "But all· of the. individual accom~ plishment loses a lot of ·its meaning when the team loses. 
"You -can afford to think more about·., individual accomplishments when you're playing on a team that's doing well." 
And the . team, Golie readily con­cedes, is not doing so well these days. Bob Golie doesn't know quite how to explain it.· As a team captain, he feels that he is doing his duty as one of the leaders of the team. Follow­ing a National Championship, a 1-2 record was the last thing that Golie expected. 
C'In the situation that we are in now," he remarked, "there just seem to be breakdowns in various places. Individual breakdowns that are causing the team, as a whole, to lose·. . and it's nothing you can put your finger on."· 
Golie· remains, however, optimistic on the coming season. "We still have eight games left to: show what we are made of," he'll tell you if you ask him...But, win or lose, it is a long season ... and one that started for Bob early last summer. 
And it would have started earlier had Robert Golie, Bob's father, any­thing to say about it. Bob Hstens to what he• has to say, above all other voices.· 
A gregarious, rugged man, Robert Golie. spent seven years playing tackle for the Hamilton ·Tigercats and the Saskatchewan Roughriders · in the Canadian professional leagues, where the fields are wider, longer, ·and colder. And when he talks, his son listens. . · 
. Well, most of the time. 

"It's only May; and he was already asking me if I had done my running yet," recalls Bob. "And I told him, 'Damn, Dad, it's only May. I haven't even finished last season, yet.' " 
'-'But he keeps right on trying," laughs Golie. '.'Next time I• turn around he's telling me about a deal he got on new tires for the car. 'I'm going to need them for. all of those long trips this fall.' I just tease him and ask him where he's going.'' 
The elder-Golie defends himself; "Somebody has .to ,motivate him," he laughs. "Just look at wha~ hap­pens when. I'm not around . . . he's always the last person out of the locker room." 
"I wish that I could just relax and take it easy during the summer," moans Bob Golie,· "If I had my way I wouldn't start training until the week before I had to be back." 
Despite the teasing he continually gets about his training methods (the wrestling team used to give·him an ovation whenever he_ showed up for practice at the beginning of last year), Golie does take it seriously. And his hard work has not been without reward, .either in football or in his other all-American sport, wrestling. 








When 

The leaves turn gold and brown, 
. the days grow shorter and the nights become nippy ; . . summer is gone and autumn is here. · This is the signal to baseball fans across the country that their long summer wait is over.. The World Series is upon us. The excitement and drama that are the . fall classic . grip the nation . as champions from . both· leagues meet in. battle to decide who is best. In the taverns, on commuter trains, ·even in the churches, idle conver~ sation inevitably reaches one topic-, the Series. The range of the discus­sions are endless; Did Steve Garvey · and Don Sutton bleed '!Dodger Blue" when they fought this summer, and will their feud· stay subdued long enough for the Dodgers to cop the crown? Can the Phillies,· on their third :.try, finally put it together? Wm the.Kansas City Royals choke to the New York··Yankees again in the last ganie of the American . League 
26 
~ell Cflreez_es. <9ver 
Championship series? Just what 
does Reggie J1ackson have. in store 
for us this October? · What percen­
tage of · fans, with. Howard Cosell 
doing the games, will turn off the 
volume on their television sets? It 
is this so_rt of speculation that makes 
the Series a: national event. 

But .in one small section of the country this is not so. · Yes, the peo­ple there will watch-the games but their hearts will not be in it. What strategic maneuvers the LaSordas, Lemons, and Ozarks. perform on a particular night does not fascinate them. These people cannot associate' with a World Series; It is as foreign to them as humility is to Muhammad AIL ·To them, the World Series is the final reminder that once again a year of hopes and dreams and promises _has faded with the summer. They can hardly remember a World Series, the last one coming so long ago. If ever there were; fans that deserved 
· by Jim Trausch 
to see their . team play in the fall classic it would be these fans. They come out in droves each year hoping that this might be THE YEAR and every year it is· the_ same story­nothing. 
Finally, one day, one of these frus­trated fans can ta:ke it no longer. He is ·determined to see his team in the World Series one way or another. With pen in hand he sits down.. and writes .an influential man with the power •and money. and imagination to make his · dream come. true. .This is the content of that letter... 
To: Roon~ Arledge, President of ABC· 
•Re: Future plots for the TV: show · ''Fantasy· Island'' ·. · · 
Dear Mr. Arledge, 

I really enjoy this year;s-lineup of television ·fare offered by your net­
'. ' ' SCHOLASTIC 

work. I especially like the show "Fantasy Island." .As you probably know, the episodes deal with life's losers· who fork over fifty thousand dollars to have their wildest desires fulfilled. No matter how bizarre or outrageous the request, nc> cost is spared by-Ricardo Montalban and his little midgetto complete tlle fantasy. Up until now the plots have been highly imaginative and the show considerably. successful. · 
. I have a fantasy, however, that will put all others to shame. This de­sire, .this Wish, is so. inconceivable that L hardly dare mention it. It rocks the foundations that society is based on. I guarantee no other fan­tasy.will ever approach it. 
My fantasy, pure and simple, is to have. the· Chicago. N atiomil . League entry in the Eastern Division (also known. as. the Northside Boy Won­ders, the Little Blue Machine, or Cubbies) : win its :division and play in the World Series. · I realize that this would be in direct violation of paragraph 8b of the National League Rulebook which states: "the Chicago Cubs shall be excluded from post­season play," but the world is wait­ing for it. Think of it, if • society could handle two .major wars, ·the riots and .assassinations·ofthe '60's; the presidency: of Richard Nixon, and Billy Oarter, it can handle the Cubs in the Series. Just the thought of it boggles the mind. Thinkof the 45 to· 50 thousand people packed like sardines into the friendly confines of Wrigley Field, fans lining the roof­
tops of the tenement flats on Wave­
land and Sheffield, and the real die­
hards hanging from the "El" tracks 
hoping to catch· just one glimpse of 
their heroes-it's scary. The entire 
city of Chicago,· which usually gets 
pennant_ fever by the first of May, 
would• go nutsy. 
-But I seem to be getting ahead of myself here. Granted, it is pure fan­tasy to expect to see the Cubs in the Series, but you -probably~.want· to know if is it possible to stage such an event and film it. The answer is "Yes!" The money will· be easily ob­tained. I will ask the good people of the city .for money and I am sure they · will .respond generously. Fur­-ther, by doubling. the price of bubble gum, it will be easy: to raise $25-30 million. As . for the actual filming; you ·can film ,it in the ballpark in October--'-it is never in use then any­way. Do not be apprehensive about lighting problems; the fans will be 
instructed to bring flashlights. 
The cast I have lined up is dyna­

mite. Mr. Everything, Bill Buckner, 
will be played ·by, who . else but, 
Warren Beatty. The rightflelder, ol' 
Bobby Murcer, can be portrayed by 
Lassie· (no salary needed here, just 
dog biscuits). Jackie Gleason will 
have to portray. the Cub's pilot, 
Hermann ·Franks. Chevy ·Chase. is .. 
the best bet to portray sure-handed 
shortstop Ivan DeJesus. The rest of 
the . Cubs should . be portrayed : by 
qualified stuntmen. · · ­
. The ratings for this would be tre­
mendous·. Cub fans are insane, crazy, 
nutty, but above all, they-are loyal. 

They never have anything to watch 
on TV between the final game of the 
year and opening day anyway. They 
would watch this in great numbers. 

· This, in a mitshell, is my fantasy. I know it sounds bizarre but if read carefully, it is possible. Mind you, I am ·not asking that you have the Cubs win the damn thing, just play in it. Winning a Series is something no Cub fan can remember, the last victory coming iri the 1908 series. If by any chance, however, the situ­ation arises where the Cubs have a chance to win, the following ending will let you off the hook. 
Say the Cubs have . the bags 
loaded, no outs in the ninth inning 
of the final and decisive game, and 
they are down by a run. · Up to the 
plate · marches Marvelous Marv 
Throneberry. He simply lines the 
first pitch to the third baseman for 
an unassisted triple play. Have the 
camera pan in on Marv's• face wait­
ing for the final and definitive com­
ment· that will. sum up the entire 
extravaganza. "I. still don't know 
why they wanted me in this show," · 
says Marv. But we'll all know. 

Yours in fantasy, Joe Fan · 
Jim Trausch; a senior gavernment major from Arlington Heights, Ill., has spent the first. 20 yearsof his Zife in . · the · left-field bleachers at Wrigley Field .100iting · for such a fantasy to come true. 

by Tom Balcerek


People At ND ­

Laughter is the best medicine they say, and at times in the dining hall, laughter is the only medicine. So as the Observer truck crosses the quad towards the cafeteria, and the chopped steak crosses the palate of the unsuspecting student, it is good to know that help is on the way. Michael Molinelli, a sophomore architecture student, is the energy behind the cartoon strip "Molarity" which appears daily 'in the Ob­server. He. is responsible for helping us digest and .we trust him, for he, too, has ventured·• into the land of chopped steak and onions. 
For our entertainment and about $2.00 per strip, Mr. Molinelli spends about 1½ hours a .night drawing "Molarity," and countless hours ex­periencing it. "Most of what I do with the cartoon is a combination of reality and absurdity," states Moli­nelli. "And ·my main character is 'me' incarnate." The strip usually deals with the trials and tribulations of Jim Mole, Molinelli's alter ego, as he traverses the dynamic and some­times silly road of the college stu­dent. He is the perfect foil for his counterparts, Chuck Mason (a ma­chine-gun-brandishing Sixties throw­back) and Mitch, who. Js simply "Mitch," a · moustachioed beer drinker. Despite his common sense, Jim Mole becomes the "schlemiel" as situations repeatedly overwhelm him. This hints at satire which Molinelli acknowledges but is also quick to deny. · 
"I don't consider myself a satirist," Molinelli states. "I'm not cynical or angry. If commentary or personal attitudes are expressed in my work, it's only n~tural because I run in niy work. Basically, I see Molarity as entertainment and. that is what I want to do. If I used the. cartoon only to sound my pet peeves it would become bad and it wouldn't last very long." 
However, with or without Jim Mole and · his . buddies, "Molarity" does delve into issues that concern Notre Dame with refreshingly good­natured statements· that are,· above all, funny: 

Molinelli, who claims to have an inverted thought process, starts a list .of comedians he admires, in­cluding Woody Allen, Tom Lehrer. and Bob Newhart, but he never quite finishes it. "I like anything that's funny," he decides. Admittedly, Garry Trudeau's "Doonesbury" car­toon has had a great influence on his cartooning style. "I started read­i~g it in fifth grade," he recalls. "I've 
:i·•~i~ 
'··,.,,·:.;\-'··;,•"!-"' . 
'":'£:" 

~ .: ~ 
watched it evolve. It's interesting to see the characters fill out their :po­tential as the years go by." Molinelli considers himself a situational car­toonist like Trudeau and cites other contemporary cartoons such ·· as "Travels with Farley" and· "Funky Winkerbean" ·as similar in· style. • 
· Michael Molinelli started drawing at an early age; ''As soon as I was old·enough to play with things with­out putting them in my mouth," he explains. His inspiration came from a desire to create stories, and the quickest and easiest way at such a young age was to relate them through a series of ._ pictures and words. Hey, presto--:-the cartoon. In high school, however, ·.· he' · concen­trated on one-frame ·editorial .car­toons and it wasn't until "Molarity" that he got back to multiple-frame cartooning. " 'Molarity' was · devel­oped when I came ,to college," says Molinelli, "but Jim Mole.·has been with me all my life." . · So now it seems that Notre Dame 
has a "cartoonist-in-residence"; she 
surely deserves it. And for those 
who are wondering, "molarity" sim­
ply means molar concentration. And 
so on.... 
-Tom Balcerek 


It's strange -isn't it -that of the four ·seasons winter. seems to have .a copyright (I won't say ''stranglehold," or "bear hug") on the wonderful word "Wonderland." Why is this? Je ne sais pas -I do not know: I can't figure it out -it "beats me"! I was trying to figure it out the other day -as I sat .be­side Moses,. on one of autumn's "very , most . finest" days. Moses seemed to ·be of precious .little help~ I guess he was thinking about the Law .'--'-and trying .to figure out something about it. He seemed to be completely·•·impervi-OUS .to autumn. Lawyers are like that -sometimes. 
You would have thought that Keats' ·ode To Autumn would have gotten through .to all of us here on earth -and certainly to. Moses in his celestial abode! Why, I remem­ber memorizing this poem when I was scarcely more than, a little ur­chin (or, if you prefer, ragamuffin) -and then analyzing it in school 
(you know how school dissects poems ...)j when I was scarcely more than a little bigger urchin (or: ragamuffin). 'Tis curious how this poem has stayed witth me· -and the hold it has oil me! Yes, the best things ·in life are free. . . . ·Let . us, then, see & hear part of this poem again: 

Autum11 WP1tdcrla11d 
I SEASON of mists and mellow fruit­fulness, Close bosom-friend of the matur­ing sun; Conspiring with him how to load and bless With fruit the vines that round the thatch-eaves run .... 
All right, I take it that even the most listless among us has (have) been awakened from his (or her ­or their, or our) torpor. We are now tuned in to autumn --the Autumn Wonderland -· thanks to John Keats' "To Autumn-ing" it. Allow me the gerund here. You see, their being was very much "To Autumn" -and they radiated this being to us. "Being radiates ...." 
I feel here a Jacques Maritain quote coming on -and I wouldn't call it an interjection (some of you· might·-:-but I wouldn't!). Here it is -on (on the scene, on the page be­fore us) : "... The substance of man is obscure to himself; it is only by receiving and suffering things, by awakening to the · world, that our substance awakens .to itself. The poet can only express his . own sub­stance in a work if things resound in him, and if, in him, at the same awakening, they and. he emerge to­gether from sleep. All that he dis­cerns and divines in things is thus inseparable_; from himself and his emotion, and it is actually as a part of himself that he discerns and di­vines . it, ·and in. order to grasp obscurely his own being through a knowledge the end of .which is ·10 create." (The Range of Reason, p. 18.) 
A · contemporary "bird of a feather" is Robert.Frost....,.... why yes, he is a contemporary -he· hasn't been dead all that long! Moreover, all great philosophers and poets and contemplatives are our "contempo­raries." · As Jacques . Maritain has said _(Jacques Maritain, again ­

by Joseph Evans 
what an_ inexhaustible well of in­sight, of spiritual depth charges!), (" 'What happens,' in the case of spiritual events, comes on the scene for an instance in temporal exis­tence, but comes forever in the ex­istence of souls and of thought"). 
Did you not know -did it never dawn (or twilight) on you -that autumn (as indeed everything in this world here) is ambivalent ­i.e., "glad/sad"? If no -if not ­then you had better get "with it" -I mean, with the wondering . ... Your wondering leaves something to be desired. It needs a boost and I am not averse to giving it one. "Every progress in evolution is dearly paid for: miscarried attempts, merciless struggle everywhere. The more de­tailed our knowledge of nature be­comes, the more. we see, ·together with the element of generosity and progression which radiates from being, the law of degradation, the powers of destruction and death, the implacable voracity which are also inherent in the world of matter. And when it comes to man, sur­rounded and invaded as he is by a host of warping forces, psychology and anthropology are but an ac­count of the fact that, while being essentially superior to all of them, he is the most unfortunate of an­imals..." (On the Use of Philoso­phy, pp. 70-71.) 
Now, I complete the text: "So it is that when its vision of the world is enlightened by science, the intel­lect which religious faith perfects realizes still better that nature, how­ever good in its own order, does not suffice, and that if the deepest hopes of mankind are not destined to turn to mockery, it is because a God­given energy better than nature is at work in us." 
Have -a good wonder -dear read­er -at Autumn Wonderland. May­be we can get Moses -and all lawyers -into the act, too. 


The 


Last Word 
by Jake· M~rrissey 
--I'm sick. 
My nose is .as stuffed as a rush­hour. traffic jam on the Dan Ryan Expressway. My, eyes are watering, my head aches and it's an accom­plishment of superhuman propor­tions to drag my aching bones out of bed in the morning. 
Having any sort of illness at Notre Dame is an unforgettable ex­perience at· best. ·Friends. offer hot toddies and sympathy, but little else. After all, what can they. really ·do? No one else knows how badly you are feeling, ·and a sick Domer must bear. his illness with as much humor and magnanimity as he or she can muster, confident in the fact. that, in a few days, his· roommate ·wm have -it, unless of .course .he is the source., 
The fun begins when you attempt to:lead a normal· exist'ence_with ·cold or flu germs Lwreaking havoc· on your energy level. Going to class. is a real treaCimagine attempting to glean facts from an· interesting lecture, let alone a boring one, while 
. under the influence of aspirin (or your favorite aspirin substitute); cough drops or .Vick's Vapo ·.any~ thing; 
It is also suggested, by those in the know, that one ·develops better hearing during the cold season, since the odds are that at least 20 per cent of a lecture hall will be sniffling or cougl1ing at any one time, making concentration extremely: difficult._ . 
Meals . under . the influence of a cold germ are other .worlds: When 

not in the pink of. condition, dining 
hall food takes another step toward 
the absurd -everything tastes the 
same. This evening's· main course . 
could, for all your taste buds tell you, 
be today's, or even yesterday's, lunch. 
Gravy that once was soup is of little 
consequence when your tongue feels 
like the roof of a Mississippi shanty. 
And there is nothing quite as· stun­
ningly pointless as· eating ice cream 
during "the season." Other than rec­
ognizing a cold,· lumpy substance 
traveling down your esophagus,· the 
aesthetic pleasure stemming . from 
taste is minimal at best. 

Doctors tell us (or at least com­
mercials,saying that doctors tell us) 

to ."get .plenty of sleep" when strick­
en with a cold. At Notre Dame, this 
is_ a· pleasant theory with no real 
practical application. Show me.· a 
Notre :Dame student who gets 
enough. _sleep and . I'll show you 
someone who takes three · classes: 
Even if there is enough ·time to sleep, 
there-is always.a-stereo.fanatic next 
door· or Fifi, ·your roommate's high 
school sweetheart, who·· insists ·on 
calling· at 2 a.m. because the rates 
are cheaper. : ..... Fortunately, my condition is tem­porary. In a few days I .. will rejoin · the ranks of the. 80. per .cent who 
are irritated by the constant snif­
fling and sneezing during a lecture. 
No matter how loud it becomes; 
however, I . will always· have. some 
sympathy for the students :who 
have to ·tolerate both ·Notre. Dame 
and a cold -: no small task. .. 

• SCHOLASTIC 






