The Notre Dame Scholastic
$3.00 THE YEAR
15 CTS. A COPY
APRIL 7 1033
Another aid to business
... a Teletypewriter “Central”
Working out new ways to serve the communication needs of the public is an objective always in the minds of Bell System men. The new Teletypewriter Exchange Service—typing by wire—is an example.
For some years Private Wire Teletypewriter Service has speeded communication between separated units of many large organizations. Telephone men— anxious to make this service more widely useful— have now established Teletypewriter central offices, through which any subscriber to the service may be connected directly with any other subscriber. Both can type back and forth — their messages being reproduced simultaneously at each point.
This new service provides fast, dependable communication and does for the written word what telephone service does for the spoken word. It is one more Bell System contribution to business efficiency.
BELL SYSTEM
___J TAKE A TRIP HOME BY TELEPHONE I I ... TONIGHT AT HALF-PAST EIGHT! I
April 7, 1933
One
SOUTH BEND'S Center of Social and Commercial Activity
THE OLIVER
“Indiana’s Finest Hotel”
Noted for it's:
•	350 comfortable, spacious guest and sample rooms.
•	Luxuriously Restful beds.
•	Free RCA Radio service in every room— choice of six stations.
•	Colored tile bathrooms with combination tubs and showers.
•	Distinguished Cuisine.
•	Courteous service and refined atmosphere.
Rates from $2.00
•	Three Famous restaurants consisting of a beautiful modernistic Main Dining Room, a smart Travertine Tea Room and a popular priced Coffee Shop and Speed Counter.
•	Grand Ballroom and numerous convention and private dining rooms.
•	Headquarters for the Rotary, Kiwanis, Exchange, Knife and Fork and many other clubs.
Garage Attached
^Before business—what?
I	A distinctive advertisement
I	that will remind the public
of your establishment.
I SWotre ^ame Scholastic
Ecce Homo!

The above is a copy of the original painting by Theodelinda Dubouche, later Mother Theresa, frequently referred to in this zveek's “Religious Bulletins.” Story on page 11.
' . . 1
April 7, 1933	Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub- I	hk I	I I	Entered as second-class
listed weekly at the Univers- I	I	Xz*n/\|matter Notre Dame. In-
ity of Notre Dame. Manu- I ll^v I	Cl■ 11diana. Acceptance for maH-
scripts may be addressed to	,	.	ing at special rate of postage.
THE scholastic. Pubii- Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gras Monturus section nos. October s. isn.
cations Office, Main Building.	FOUN. DED 1865	authorized June 2S, 1918.
Edmund A. Stephan.....................Editor-in-Chief
James S. Kearns........................Managing	Editor
Associate Editors F. GRANGER WEIL WALTER JOHNSON
LLOYD TESKE	LESLIE RADDATZ
WILLIAM DREUX
News Staff
MITCHELL TACKLEY...........News	Editor
JAMES BYRNE........Assistant News Editor THOMAS PROCTOR.. .Assistant News Editor EDWARD MANSFIELD RICHARD TOBIN JOSEPH BUCCI.......ROBERT ERVIN
FRANK KELLY	MICHAEL WIEDL
JAMES A. HART	JOHN WALKER
Desk Editors
PATRICK CORCORAN JOHN CONLEY
ROY SCHOLZ	ROBERT DILLON
Department Editors
TIGHE WOODS..............The Week
ROGER BEIRNE ..........Theatre Talk
ROGER McGOVERN.........College Parade
RICHARD PREZEBEL.........Staff Artist
Sports Staff
FRED MacBETH ALBERT L. McGUFF JAMES F. McKEON NICHOLAS CONNOR JOHN CARBINE HOWARD WALDRON EDWARD VAN HUISSELING
Features Staff
LOUIS HRUBY EDWARD J. O’BRIEN WILLIAM KENNEDY BRYAN DEGNAN PAUL DOYLE	LOUIS GIRAGI
JOHN D. PORTERFIELD GEORGE LEYES JAMES FITZPATRICK
Business Staff
JOHN F. STOECKLEY....Graduate Manager J. ALBERT SMITH......Advertising Manager RAYMOND J. NABER...Circulation Manager HARRY'McGOWAN JOSEPH SIMON JOHN F. SWEENEY
Volume LXVI.
APRIL 7, 1933
No. 23
S UMM ARIES
NEWS
Local Debate Team wins decision over Albion last
Sunday .......................................... 5
Monogram Club to award prize for best “High Jinks”
Placard ......................................... 5
Ted Weems to play for Senior Ball.................. 6
“Vagabonds” turn over $298.38 to Bengal............ 7
“Richelieu,” five-act French drama, to be presented in
June by University Players....................... 7
Details of Politics Class trip to Capital.......... 8
Editor Jenny’s March “Catalyzer”................... 9
Engineers hear talk on Chain Broadcasting..........11
“High Jinks” Cast getting set for Monogram Show.....12
Sir Herbert Ames, former financial director of the
League of Nations, principal speaker at Indiana Con-
ference ......................................-..13
March “Lawyer” features Social and Crime problems...17
FEATURES
William Dreux this week’s “Man About The Campus”.... 8
“Voice of The Campus”............................... 9
“News of The Week”................................  10
Story of Picture in Frontispiece.....................11
“Fighting Irish”: fragments of a history............14
Justification of Unemployment Insurance..............15
Sermon delivered by the Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., at late Colonel Hoynes’ Services............16
SPORTS
Practice games feature baseball workouts as squad moves outdoors .............................................20
Golf and soft ball leagues included in Spring interhall athletic program ...........................................20
Coach Nicholson answers objections to starting blocks which cost Metcalfe official record.........................21
Varsity meets freshmen tomorrow to open golf seasoin....21
Murphy wins high jump as trackmen place in four events at Armour Relays —........................21
Tennis candidates reach second round of elimination tourney for varsity positions....................22
Emmerling takes lead in round-robm finals of handball meet; Jaskwhich and Levins also in final bracket.22
Graduating grid stars to face new generation in regulation game in the stadium tomorrow................23
Introducing Leo Dilling............................-24
Joe McCabe reports look in the eyes of members of Retiring Veterans Union forebodes hard afternoon for plebes ...............................-..........25
Splinters from the Press Box.....................—26
On Down The Line---------—......—-.................32
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, April 7.—Scholastic meeting, Editorial Board, 6:30 p. m., Editorial offices, Ave Maria Building; news, sports, and feature staffs, 7:00 p. m.; Symphony Orchestra practice, 6:30 p. m., Washington Hall.
SATURDAY, April 8.—Football, Varsity vs. Oldtimers, 2:00 p. m.; Stadium; Baseball, Varsity vs. St. Joe A. C., Cartier Field, 2:00 p. m.; Movie, Boris Karloff in “The Mummy,” 6:45 and 8:15 p. m., Washington Hall.
SUNDAY, April 9.—Masses 6:00, 7:00 and 8:15 a. m., Sacred Heart Church; Benediction 7:00 ajnd 7:30 p. m.; Explanation of Sociology major by Father Murray and Professor Pettit, 11:00 a. m., Walsh Hall Basement; Golf, Varsity vs. Freshmen, University Course, 1:00 p. m.
MONDAY, April 10.—Examination of sophomores planning to major in English, 6:30 p. m., Commerce Building; Wranglers meeting, 6:30 p. m., Law Building.
TUESDAY, April 11.—Patricians’ meeting, 7:45 p. m., Law Building; Symphony Orchestra Practice, 6:30 p. m., Washington Hall; Economic Seminar, Law Building, at .7:00 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, April 12.—Easter vacation begins at noon.
Four
The Scholastic
THE WEEK
By Tighe Woods
X HE announcement this week that the Monogram Club will sponsor an art poster contest comes as an agreeable surprise. The fact that St. Mary’s College and the South Bend high schools will participate is even better news. Those of a literary bent of mind get many chances to turn their skill into profit during the year, but this is the first time the art students have been given that chance. High school students have always looked up to the monogram men. This contest will show them that Notre Dame athletes are not always thinking in terms of punts and passes. President Harris is to be congratulated. While the prizes are small, every art student on the campus should submit a poster and make this contest an annual event.
X^HE most wonderful tribute a student body could offer to one man was paid at the seventwenty-five Mass last Friday morning. There was no ballyhoo, no publicity attached to any of the proceedings, but the crowded altar rail told the story. While we have no way of getting the actual figures, it seems as if there were fifteen hundred students at the Rockne Mass. A tribute like that does more to honor the memory of a great man, and is more lasting than any monument of stone or steel the world could build.
One man who will mourn deeply the passing of Colonel Hoynes is old Brother Leopold. The fine old gentleman probably knows more of the lore of Notre Dame than any other man living. He has been laboring on this campus for more years than most of our fathers would care to acknowledge. He used to take care of the candy store when St. Edward’s Hall shook with the
running feet of the minims. He kept a rigid economic policy—you handed over your money and
then you picked out your candy. Whether you were buying fine cents’ worth or a quarter’s worth you received as much attention as if you were purchasing a fine automobile. To him the minims were always, “Father Sorin’s little princes.”
ITH the opening of the University golf course the WEEK takes this chance to join its plea with that of the editor for the recognition of golf as a major sport at Notre Dame. There are two reasons for this. There are more students playing golf than any other sport on the campus, including football. Besides, Notre Dame in the last few years has become a constant threat in the national intercollegiate tournament. The year Bill Redmond and Larry Mohler led them to second place in the national ranking was the first time that a midwestern team had ever been more than a contender. And then Captain Johnny Mon-tedonico’s smooth southern drawl could be used to advantage in “High Jinks” of 1933!
PERHAPS this should be taken up with the Izaac Walton League, but maybe the Vigilance Committee could handle it better. It’s about the birds. Gentlemen, the life of every little innocent songster on the campus is in jeopardy. This catastrophic state of affairs has been brought about by the inability of a group of Walsh Hallers to appreciate early morning melody. Because the happy feathered ones persist in chirping their “public paeans” of congratulation before seven o’clock in the morning, these heartless men have vowed their extermination. Their weapon is an air rifle of ancient design. However, the situation is not entirely • hopeless because, as yet, they haven’t been able to hit anything.
April 7, 1933
Five
N.D. DOWNS ALBION IN DEBATE SUNDAY NIGHT
Fitzgerald, Schmelzle, Kirby Talk for Local Team.
By Thomas Proctor
Continuing an unbroken line of victories, Notre Danie’s affirmative debate team, Hugh Fitzgerald, Robert Schmelzle, and William Kirby won a decision over Albion College last Sunday evening in Washington Hall.
William Kirby.
He was disgusted
The negative team from Albion College, Albion, Michigan, met the Coyne-men for this return contest on the question, “Resolved: that at least half of state and local revenues of Indiana and Michigan be derived from sources other than tangible property.”
Professor W. P. Sanford, head of the University of Illinois Speech Department, acted as critic judge for the debate. He did not base his decision on any rule of judgment or specified point, but rather, admitting the closeness of the contest, favored the Notre Dame trio, because they were more sportsmanlike, quibbled less, and dealt with the real problem at hand. He accused the negative of sarcasm and time-wasting.
Refutation Takes Time
Fitzgerald, Schmelzle, and Kirby advanced the points that the present property tax system is antiquated, inequitable, and inadequate; that taxes on certain intangibles, particularly on income and sales-products, would be more suitable to economic needs; that such taxes or such a tax plan would work in practice. Both Kirby and Schmelzle spent considerable time in refutation before beginning their constructive arguments.
The negative, Messrs. Large, Morse, and Anderson, stated that the present tax on tangible property is just and
Contract With Dan Russo and Orchestra for Law
Club Formal April 28
Dan Russo and his orchestra have been engaged to play for the Lawyers’ Ball which is to be held in the Palais Royale Ballroom on April 28, according to a recent announcement by Norb Christman, general chairman.
Russo is familiar as a performer over KYW, Chicago, and the National Broadcasting System. Ticket sales beginning Wednesday of this week will continue until 12 o’clock noon of April 26—which is the absolute deadline. As mentioned before, admission will be $2.25 per couple.
Permissions for the evening have been extended from 12:30 to 1 o’clock. Dancing will end at 12:30.
economically sound; that the Federal tax burden should be taken into consideration before adopting such systems of revenue as the income tax.
In the final analysis the debate narrowed down to the negative contention that tangible property should bear the tax burden because it produces 40 per cent of all income, and the affirmative argument that under such a tax system eight per cent of the total income of taxpayers bears 80 per cent of the total tax burden. Both teams, and particularly the negative, challenged and questioned the authorities presented in the course of the debate, with the result that Kirby, third affirmative speaker, in a tone of near disgust and desperation said, Authorities, authorities everywhere, and not a man to think.” For the negative speakers, Anderson, third speaker, had an advantage over his colleagues.
To date the Notre Dame debate squad has engaged in eight contests, under the direction of Professor Coyne. Five of these have been decision debates, and all five have been won by the men representing Notre Dame. These victories include decisions over Purdue, Albion, and Michigan State.
Professor Joseph Apodaca .of the Economics Department was chairman of the Albion debate.
The law of true art, even according to the Greek idea, is to seek beauty wherever it is to be found, and separate it from the dross of life as gold from ore.—Lafcadio Hearn.
POSTER PRIZE OFFERED
BY N.D. MONOGRAM CLUB
Ten Dollars to be Awarded for Best “High Jinks” Placard.
In connection with the presentation of the Monogram “High Jinks of 1933,” by the Monogram club of Notre Dame, is an art poster contest designed for advertising purposes by those in charge of the show. _ A first prize of $10 will be given for the best poster submitted.
Competition for the prize is not limited to the campus. Members of the art classes at St. Mary’s College, and Central and Riley high schools of South Bend, have been invited to participate. The next four posters judged worthy will be the winners of suitable prize ribbons. All contestants will receive two tickets to the premier performance of the High Jinks.
Rules Given
The contest is under the direct supervision of President James Harris. Judges for the contest are the Reverends Thomas Burke, C.S.C., and Thomas A. Lahey, C. S. C., and Professor Charles Phillips.
The following set of rules must be observed by contestants:
1.	All posters must be in the hands of the judges by midnight, April 26.
2.	The Monogram Club reserves the right to keep all posters until May 7.
3.	Posters will be judged on originality of design and material used.
4.	All posters must contain the following copy: “The Monogram club presents ‘High Jinks of 1933,’ May 4 and 5.”
5.	Posters must be on paper stock heavy enough for window display purposes.
6.	Name and address of the contestant must be placed in a sealed envelope and securely clipped to the poster.
7.	The numbei' of posters which each contestant may submit is unlimited.
8.	Minimum size for each poster is to be 24 inches by 18 inches.
9.	All additional information concerning the contest may be secured by writing to James Harris, Corby Hall, Notre Dame.
10.	Campus entrants in the contest may leave their posters with James Harris, Corby Hall, or Joe Kurth, Sorin Hall.
Six
The Scholastic
Seniors To Have Weems’ Band For Ball, May 12th
KNIGHTS HAKE PLANS FOR ANNUAL PICNIC
Joe Clark Named Chairman of May Frolic.
CELEBRATED MUSIC
Douville And Clark Announce Choice of Orchestra Late This Week.
Ted Weems and his country-wide famous band have been given • the music contract for the Senior Ball to be held Friday evening, May 12, in
Ted Weems
Out of the Night for the Senior Ball.
the Palais Royale Ballroom. Weems, known to anyone who follows radio orchestras, has been engaged at different times by the leading dance havens of the United States, including the Penn G^rill in New York, the Granada Cafe, and the Trianon and Aragon Ballrooms in Chicago, has gained fame for a distinctive kind of rapid jazz program.
Versatile Entertainers
Included in the Weems’ repertoire is individual entertainment by orchestra members among whom are: Andrea Marsh, Parker Gibbs, Country Wash-jurn, and Elmo Tanner.
Co-chairmen of the orchestra committee for the dance are Howard Douville and James Clark.
Announcement of the opening date of the ticket sale will be made in the next issue of The Scholastic. As previously stated, admission will be £8.50, a price which will include the fee for the tea dance on the day following the Ball.
California Boy Likes The Earthquakes; “Just Tanned” is a Bit Puzzled
Editor, Scholastic:
If you have space in your valuable columns for an example of downright casualness, I should like to submit the following excerpts from a kindred note in the hearts of all the boys here from Southern California.
Says the letter: “The earthquake caused no damage at all in our neighborhood and the experience was really quite entertaining. In fact were it not for the damage involved and the loss of life, I’d really enjoy having a quake or two every week. Incidentally we’re still having minor shocks every few days—had a rather severe one at 4:30 this morning.” Just like that! They take their earthquakes as they do Hollywood. . . Incidentally! It must be the climate.
Yours,
Just Tanned.
LAW NOTES
Law seniors Joseph E. Talbot, Clair Randolph, Robert Prescott, Frank R. Dittoe, William J. Sullivan, and John Ruberto, who passed the Indiana State Bar examinations two weeks ago, went to Indianapolis last Monday, April 3, to be admitted to practice before the Supreme Court of the State of Indiana.
George H. Kelley of Milwaukee, N. D. ’02, is a candidate for Supreme Court judge in Wisconsin. The April 1 issue of the Chicago Tribune contained an editorial commending Kelley’s conduct in the campaign for his high office.
Gerald M. McGinley, N. D. ’26, who is practicing law at Ogallala, Neb., and who is county attorney at that place, is planning on spending his summer here at the University.
Colleges are full of young men who should be somewhere else, President Angell of Yale said recently in an address urging more care in the selection of college students.
Joseph Clark, senior in Arts and Letters, has been named by Grand Knight Cahill to the chairmanship of the annual Kinghts of Columbus picnic to be held at Hudson Lake.
Other appointments to the various chairmanships are as follows: Tickets —Edmund Moriarty; Refreshments— Joseph Miller and James Lovelly; Gifts—Paul Kreuz; Sports—“Kitty” Gorman; Transportation — Warren Schwantes; Arrangements — Francis Marley; and Programs—George Len-nartz.
Date May 7
The date set for the frolic is May 7. For many years, the Knights have made an annual trip to some lake near South Bend.
Definite arrangements on all activities of the picnic will be issued at a later date in The Scholastic.
The business of the meeting of the Knights of Columbus last Monday night related to the completion of the personnel of the dominating committee. Fred Becklenberg was nominated and elected to the position. All other members are ex-officio. The group will pass on candidates for K. C. offices, will narrow down the field of contestants. The purpose of the new committee is to do away with as much jlectioneering as possible.
Page Mr. Van Loon
Seattle, Wash.—More than 75 per cent of the students at the University of Washington cannot name all of the 48 states in the United States in ten minutes.
This was proved in a test given students and faculty at the university recently. The faculty did not come out much better.
The condition of the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., Pres- ■ ident of the University, who has	<
been in St. Joseph’s Hospital the	i
past week with a throat infection, is little changed. The latest report “The Scholastic” could get this morning was: “Condition serious— not alarming.”
April 7, 1933
Seven
OPERETTA NETS $298.38 FOR BENGAL MISSIONS
“Richelieu” Will Be Given
By the University Players
Financial Report Given; Total Receipts $499.75.
Profits amounting to $298.38 were turned over to Father O’Hara for the Bengal Mission Fund this week by the directors of the freshman operetta, “The Vagabonds.” The musical play was presented in Washington Hall three nights last week and played to almost capacity houses at each performance.
Receipts and Expenditures
In a letter to T’he Scholastic, the Rev. Charles A. McAllister, C.S.C., and Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, who were in charge of the show, requested that the following financial report be published:
Total receipts (ticket sales, gifts, and advertising in program) _______________________$499.75
Expenditures:
Musical score and orchestration _____________-_________29.50
Costumes, spotlight, and gelatin ______________________ 65.70
Engraving and photography 23.29
Printing __________________ 61.79
Cosmetics _________________ 15.51
Express charges_____________ 4.08
Telegrams___________________ 1.50
Total Expenditures___________201.37
Total Profits____________ 298.38
The production staff wishes to express their appreciation to the members of The Scholastic staff, student body,, and everyone who cooperated with them in making the operetta a success.
Two Papers Are Read At Italian Club Meeting
The Italian club held their last meeting before the Easter holidays Tuesday evening in Walsh Hall. Two papers were read, the first by Joseph Schmidt dealing with a short account of the life of Italy’s dictator, Mussolini. The second paper, “The Italian Renaissance in Literature” was given by Jerome Ferrara, president of the club, and treated the importance of the revival of learning of such men of genius as Petrarch, Boccoccio, Michelangelo, Carduucci, Ariosto, Tasso and Cellini.
First Class Primaries to Be Held on May 1, When Freshmen Meet in Gym
By James A. Byrne, Jr.
Tuesday, May 1, the campus political machines will swing into action when the freshman class meets at 12:30, in the Gym, to nominate its candidates for the sophomore class offices. On the following day the sophomore primaries will be held in the Gym at the same hour. The Juniors meet May 3 to decide upon their candidates for the senior class offices.
Jim Gerend, President of the Student’s Activities Council, sponsors of the elections, announces: “Off-campus juniors will nominate the senior S. A. C. representative from off-campus on Monday, May 1, at 12:30 in a place to be chosen later.”
“Juniors will nominate Senior S. A. C. representatives from the various colleges (Engineering, Arts and Letters, Commerce, and Science) on Tuesday, May 2, at 12:30 in places to be announced later,” stated President Gerend. “The representative to the S. A. C. from the College of Law will be elected at a time to be designated by that College,” he said.
The final elections for all offices will be held Friday, May 5, from 7:30 to 5:00 o’clock in the lower lobby of the Dining Hall. Members of the S. A. C. will supervise the election.
French Club Meeting Is
Held Tuesday Evening
A regular meeting of the French Club was held last Monday night in Washington Hall. Robert Forbes was toastmaster of the program which was featured by a talk by Louis Grosso.
Russell Stemper and George Menard furnished the musical entertainment of the evening. Stemper sang “L’Amour Toujour L’Amour” and “Without a Song,” and Menard rendered “Little Gray Home in the West” and “Away From You.”
The next issue of “The Scholastic” will appear on Friday, April 28. All staff members will meet in the editorial rooms tonight at 7 o’clock.
PRODUCTION IN JUNE
Sixteenth Century Drama of French Conspiracy to be
Presented.
“Richelieu,” a drama in five acts, that has the French conspiracy of the sixteenth century as its plot, has been selected by the University Theater for
Prof. Frank Kelly
Will direct cast of 25.
its commencement production in June. The play, first produced in 1839 in London, was written by Sir Edward Bulwer Lytton, and is considered today as one of the classics.
Professor Frank Kelly, head of the Department of Speech and Drama, has already begun work on the casting of the play. There are 25 parts available and any student of the University may try out.
Any effort is being made by those in charge of the production to encourage student competition for the various roles. For this reason, Mr. Kelly has a large number of scripts of the play on hand for distribution to interested students.
Each student is asked to read the play, and to acquaint himself with a portion of the lines of the character he wishes to portray. At the tryout, (Continued on Page 22)
Eight
The Scholastic
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
COMPLETE DETAILS OF CAPITAL TRIP GIVEN
One of Notre Dame’s most religiously respected traditions meant nothing to an 18 year old freshman back in the Fall of 1929. He knew he had business to do somewhere in the building that had the dome on top of it. The steps in front seemed the most expeditious way of getting into the place—and up he went.
Now there is nothing unusual about such a freshman trespass, because freshmen have been doing this ever since the steps were put there. But there was something a bit novel in bumping into one of the higher officers of the administration who was on his way down. The latter gentleman asked the freshman if he taught at the University. The question sounded singularly complimentary to the young fellow in view of the fact that he had been on the campus only about ten minutes. He told the priest however, that he just wanted to register. The matter was soon straightened out and the two walked down.
Never Forgot It
Such a beginning might easily have unnerved any other person from Winona, but not William Behan Dreux. Priding himself on his ability to ‘take it,’ he buckled down to four years of tradition-observing life at Notre Dame. Intimates say, though, that every September after that uneventful morning in 1929, a wistful look used to creep into the eye of this auburn locked fellow from the north lands whenever an S. A. C. member, sitting at the information desk in front of the steps, would direct a freshman into the bottom entrance.
We would not want to give the impression that Bill’s life at Notre Dame has known nothing but the disagreeable. On the contrary, he has been president of this and president of that. He has a pack of friends in the senior halls who wouldn’t let you say a word against him. He has a fluency in French that would make Father Doremus and Mr. Dubois fearful of their positions. He has never come near flunking a subject, and never will. He succeeds in making people laugh every month in the Juggler, and every now and then he hands over a good story to The Scholastic. Bill’s existe nechere has not been unenviable—but we will have to mention a few more of the disagreeable things.
Nearly everybody who goes to
Notre Dame gets a break in the room drawings once in four years. But not Bill. In his freshman days he lived along side of Jaeger and Drymalski
William Dkeux
Groceries, Hollywood, Kant.
and had to lock his door if he wanted to study. His second year found him up in one of those penthouse affairs in Morrissey’s fourth floor where you have to get on your knees to shave— the ceiling comes down at such a desperate angle. When Bill became a junior he had a nice arrangement in Alumni for sunlight and view, and all that sort of thing, but again Jaeger was only an arm’s length away. Johnson around the comer used to keep on asking Dreux to play bridge with himself and Breen and Gargaro — and Dreux despised the game. Sexton talked the whole second semester about his grocery business; Becklenberg, about Hollywood; and Pick, about the influence of Kant on the German transcendentalists. All in all it was pretty trying, but Bill buckled down again and looked forward to nine months in Sorin.
And he got into. Sorin, into the last room that was left in the whole building. The fellow who was just ahead of him in the drawings had his choice between Bill’s room and one in the sub that has steam pipes going in eleven directions—and he didn’t hesitate a minute in his selection. Bill’s is one of those nooks where you can’t do justice to a picture or anything else you revere because of the way you have to pile things up. There is one photo, for instance, that came down from (Continued on Page 12)
Group Will Leave A Week From Sunday Evening
Last year 15 students of American government and an instructor enjoyed an eventful trip to Washington, D. C. The tour is being repeated this year under the auspices of the Pennsylvania railroad, which has compiled the following itinerary, all expenses to be covered by $32.75. Absence from class will be excused, provided that the work is made up.
The itinerary:
Sunday, April 23—Leave South Bend, coach, 5:20 p. m.; arrive Plymouth, coach, 5:50 p. m.; Leave Plymouth, special coach, 6:07 p. m.; dinner in diner.
Will Visit Annapolis
Monday, April 24—Breakfast in diner; daylight ride through the mountains; luncheon in diner. Arrive Baltimore, special coach, 1:13 p. m.
On arrival Baltimore party will be met by special bus of the Grey Line Sightseeing Company and conducted on a tour of Historical Baltimore, : thence to Annapolis, Md., for a visit to the United States Naval Academy. Return to Baltimore for dinner at the Lord Baltimore hotel.
Leave Baltimore, special coach, 7:15 p. m; arrive Washington, special coach, 8:05 p. m. Special bus will meet party on arrival in Washington, transferring it to hotel.
Tuesday, April 25—Breakfast at hotel. After breakfast board a special bus for the Public Building tour, visiting the Bureau of Printing and Engraving, Pan American Building, White House, Museums and Washington’s Monument.
To See Congressional Library
Luncheon at hotel. After luncheon board a special bus for the trip down 16th Street, passing embassies and legations of the foreign governments, ■ through Rock Creek and Zoological Parks to Georgetown, Ft. Myer, Ar- , lington Cemetery, Alexandria and Mt. j Vernon, Va. Returning, stop at Lin- i coin’s Memorial. _	1
Dinner at hotel. After dinner visit the Congressional Library.
Wednesday, April 26—Breakfast at hotel. After breakfast party will board special bus for a visit to the (Continued on Page 12)
April 7, 1933
Nine
JENNY AND STAFF PUT OUT MARCH ‘CATALYZER’
VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
Alumnus and Student Write Principal Articles
Two articles, “The Manufacture of Gasoline,” and “Underground Corrosion,” head the material between the gray covers of Editor Francis Jenny’s March Catalyzer, published last week by the Chemistry Department.
In his article on the manufacture of gasoline, Albert A. Persyn, B.S. in Ch.E., ’27, who is connected with the Research Laboratories of the Associated Oil Company of California, traced the product from its primary stages in the form of petroleum through the various processes of refinement: settling, distillation, and others. “Finished gasolines are waterwhite, non-corrosive, doctor sweet, and have a volatility curve that assures easy starting, smooth performance, and maximum power,” writes Persyn.
Soil Corrosion
W. E. Leroux, B.S. in Ch.E., ’33, points out interesting facts concerning underground corrosion. “Soil corrosion of iron structures is seen to be an electro-chemical process complicated by its dependence upon several variables,” he quotes. Leroux relates investigation of this fascinating process by the Bureau of Standards from the Gulf coast to southern Kansas, which showed an apparent correlation between soil resistivity and corrosion. The author also explains the manufacture of coatings created to protect pipes from the enemy, corrosion.
An editorial, “Salesmen in Chemistry,” by T. B. Dorris, assistant editor, meeting reports, and Personals complete the pages of the magazine. Of interest in the Personals are the items concerning the attendance of Rev. J. A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., T. H. Vaughn, and R. R. Vogt at a recent meeting of the American Chemical Society in Washington, and a tribute to William Flynn, ’33, former secretary to the Department of Chemistry.
The Capitol District club had a Mass said for Larry O’Neil’s father Tuesday morning in Sorin Hall chapel. Reveftend John A. Farley, C.S.C., was celebrant. The entire club attended the Mass and offered Holy Communion for the repose of Mr. O’Neil’s soul.
All letters to the Voice of the The Scholastic, 119 Sorin Hall, be used upon request.
Minor Sports
Editor of The Scholastic, Sorin Hall.
Dear Sir:
Your recent editorial on more fitting recognition in the form of better monograms for our golf team was timely. I wish to add to that: why not a better monogram for the members of all Notre Dame’s minor sport teams? They deserve a break in that respect.
A chenile letter a bit larger than the present felt one, or even a larger felt letter, would be a more worthy recognition for the hard work done by its winner, and it would show the outside world that Notre Dame has a real appreciation for her minor sports men as well as the football team. I do not mean to infer that the latter group doesn’t deserve recognition—far from it. But I do think the golf, tennis and cross-country men deserve more than they get now. The addition of rifle, squash and fencing is a move to be praised; steps toward the sponsoring of these sports deserve commendation, and better minor letters would also be approved by all concerned. I am sure.
I wish to emphasize that I am not a member of any of the teams referred to here, nor am I a candidate, for such, but the above thoughts were crystallized into words this week when I overheard a minor sports man say he had been asked last summer: “Say, where did you get the freshman letter, pal?”
D. J. M.
Napkin Nuisance
Editor, The Scholastic,
Dear Sir:
I don’t suppose many of the more intelligent men on the campus have failed to notice it, but I think they’ve considered in too trivial a matter to require attention. I’ll explain myself.
At breakfast mornings it seems to be the custom to take any seat but our own, and at any table. Naturally everyone uses the napkin at his place, which must also be used later by the person who sits there regularly.
Anyone having the least knowledge . of sanitation will easily perceive the
Campus must be addressed to the Editor of Names must be signed in full. Initials will
danger of contagion. Not only that but the napkins are left in such a condition that they’re hardly usable at the next meal.
My suggestion to remedy the situation, is to have paper servettes used at breakfast and the linen at the following meals.
J. J. Q.
Symbols
Dear Editor:
Besides the figure of St. Olaf on the plaque of the exterior wall of the Rockne Memorial, referred to in last week’s Scholastic, there are three other interesting carvings on the same stone. The first of these is the Chi Rho monogram, composed of two Greek letters resembling our English X and P. They are the initial letters in the Greek word for Christ. On either side and forming handles to keys are two more Greek letters, Alpha and Omega. Placed side by side, as these two designs are, they show that Jesus Christ is God, and as such has neither beginning nor end. In St. John’s “Apocalypse” we read, “I am the Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, saith the Lord God.” (1:8). The keys also derive their significance from a Bible text— St. Matthew 16: 18-19.
On the plaque, too, are carved the pregnant words of St. Augustine, to which Cardinal Newman attached great importance, Securus judicat or-bis terrarum, symbolizing no doubt Coach Rockne’s conversion to the Catholic Church. In English, it may be worth noting, the complete passage is: “The Catholic Church dispersed throughout the word judges without anxiety that those men are not in the right who, in any part of the Catholic Church, separate themselves from that Church.”
The placing over the archway of Lyons Hall; the coat of arms of the Lyons family, was an afterthought, a fact accounting for its cramped appearance. The carver had perforce to cut the design according to his stone, which was little enough. In consequence he was unable to find (Continued on Page 13)
Ten
The Scholastic
ST. VINCENT DE PAUL SOCIETY OF N.D. MEETS
Fr. Kelley Presides; Members Discuss Work.
The first formal meeting of the St. Vincent de Paul Society was held last Tuesday evening at 6:40 in the basement of Walsh Hall.
Various matters were discussed, and reports of activities read. The names of the following officers were announced: general chairman, Francis J. McGahren; chairman of magazine committee, John Pavlick; chairman of old clothes committee, William A. Brooks; secretary, Gerard M. Mergardt. As the positions are not elective the officers were appointed by Reverend John C. Kelley, C.S.C., and an advisory committee of the faculty.
The Society has delivered over five hundred magazines to various institutions already. It wishes to thank the students for the clothes and other offerings that have been received. The members hope that the students will continue to aid them in their work. Donations can be given to Father Kelley in Walsh Hall, or to Father O’Hara in Dillon Hall.
It has been decided to hold meetings every two weeks. As there will be no meetings during the Easter holiday there will be one next Tuesday night at 6:40 in Walsh Hall.
Start Improvement Work on
Alumni And Dillon Lawns
Work on the levelling of that part of the campus from Dillon Hall to the Engineering building was begun on Wednesday of this week by University workmen, with planting of grass to follow as soon as the grading is completed.
The extensive and permanent changes to be made along Notre Dame’s southern front when the University Plaza project is initiated are not to be started this year, but the levelling of the section in front of Dillon, Alumni, the Law building and the Cushing Hall of Engineering, with the planting of grass this spring will be a great improvement to that part of the campus.
The co-operation of students in using the regular walks and keeping off the lawn areas to be planted will be a step which will enable the grass to grow evenly, without short-cuts and bare spots dug into it by careless feet.
News of the Week
By Paul J. Doyle
While the Japanese army daily makes advances into China, the Japanese government daily loses ground in its economic battle. Because the money put into the Manchurian enterprise does not—so far—give returns, the government faces an enormous deficit this coming year.
To meet a deficit the government generally applies to domestic resources for loans, but the Bank of Japan is disinclined to make further advances, and bonds, if floated, must be absorbed by people, a great number of whom are in financial distress themselves.
If the home loans fail, and already high taxes are not increased, the government must make an appeal for foreign investors. This in the face of two most annoying truths—first, the worth of Japanese bonds has sunk greatly in foreign fields, and second, world sentiment against the Manchurian venture might materialize in a refusal to comply with her requests.
Yosuke Matsuoka, chief Japanese delegate to the Geneva conference, was in America this week in an obvious effort to prejudice Americans in favor of their Manchurian invasion— already preparing us as a friendly market from which to seek the loan aid.
In the April issue of New Outlook, Alfred E. Smith, satisfied “that it is the path back to economic health and happiness,” approved the measures enacted by the new administration. New York papers, last week, carried a story stating that friends are urging his reentry into politics either as a candidate for mayor of New York, or as a candidate for the U. S. Senate. Although reported as being in favor of it himself, when asked he stated that he would have to see how things “shaped up.”
If the plan for reunion of Laetare Medalists is carried out, Mr. Smith will visit the campus early this June
Untimely are any fears that Hitlerites would attempt to disturb world peace (war is still undeclared in the friendly matches going on in China and South America). The Germans
“STARS” IS SUBJECT OF LECTURE TO CHEMISTS
Prof. Daniel Hull Addresses Science Students.
“Our Celestial Neighbors” was the title of a talk given by Professor Daniel Hull of the Department of Physics, to members of the Chemists’ Club at a regular meeting held last Monday evening, April 3, in Chemistry Hall.
The size, position, and color of the first magnitude stars were stressed by the speaker, who also classified stars into three divisions: Red Giants (large stars), Main Sequence (average stars), and White Dwarfs (small stars). The chemistry of stars was clearly discussed. Professor Hull stated that “Light from Antores takes 380 years to reach the earth and this star is four thousand times brighter than the sun. Light from Capella takes 52 years to reach the earth and is 185 times brighter than the sun.”
The meeting was brought to a close with another talk by Felix Weatrow-ski entitled, “The United States Pharmacopoeia and National Formulary.” The history and necessity of such a chemical standard was presented together with its relation with the Pure Food and Drug Act. The physical and chemical properties, solubilities, tests for identity, purity factors, and average doses of 622 drugs are listed in this publication.
Fifteen Enter Breen Contest; First Trials After Easter
Fifteen men have signified thei intentions of entering the 1933 Breen Medal Oratorical Contest, the preliminary trials of which will be held on or near May 1st, according to W. J. Coyne, director of the contest.
This speech event is being delayed somewhat because of certain conflicts; however, those who are entered or who still wish to do so must be prepared immediately after Easter vacation. This warning is given because there is a possibility that the date of the trials will be moved up.
Orations are to be ten minutes in length and must be original.
would need several years to restore a military force necessary for such a move and super-prepared France would have no trouble subduing Germany in its present state.
April 7, 1933
Eleven
CHAIN BROADCASTING DESCRIBED BY SPEAKER
Cleveland Engineer Gives Talk To Local Club.
The Story of The Picture In Today's Frontispiece
By J. D. Porterfield
“Few persons realize that chain broadcasting is composed mostly of wire communication,” stated T. J. Jenkins, chief engineer of the Cleveland district of the American Telephone and Telegraph company, in his lecture on chain broadcasting at the annual joint meeting of the Engineer’s Club and the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, Wednesday night, April 5.
“The growth of chain broadcasting from the first experiments made by A. T. & T. in 1923 to the present system of 173 stations using 32,000 miles of wire on full-time contract and 5,000 miles on a recurring, or part-time basis, has been rapid,” the radio" expert stated.
Use Special Connections
“Broadcasting hook-ups increased 80 per cent from 1928 to 1930, and in spite of economic conditions, continued to grow during the past two years, and are still slowly increasingin 1933,” he added.
The popular idea that radio connections can be made by simply utilizing regular telephone circuits is false, because while two-way communication is used on telephone wires, the programs can go only one way on the radio hook-ups. This necessitates a complete “round robin” circuit, such as the NBC red network, the lecturer revealed.
“Further, the circuit must be free of extraneous noises, interference and cross-talk,” Mr. Jenkins added, as another reason for special wires instead of utilization of regular telephone connections.
“Practically distortionless transmission is possible with the wide frequency band used to take care of very high or very low notes—especially in musical programs,” said the Cleveland engineer. One range is from 100 to 5,000 cycles, with another band of 38 to 8,000 cycles available, the latter affording the nearest approach yet made to completely perfect transmission.
The A. T. & T. special hook-up crew has made a number of trips to Notre Dame to install microphones and arrange circuits and switches for football broadcasts, the speaker brought out.
Moderism is the rule of the day. We do not say this after looking over the pictures of the Chicago World’s Fair buildings, but rather after reading several “modem” books and magazines. Modernism is age old, but it has a way of cropping up every now and again. And with it come its cohabitants, blasphemy and impiety. At such a time as this, a discovery has been made here at Notre Dame which carries us back to a situation much similar almost a hundred years ago.
Copy Painted For Father Sorin
Almost coincident with the opening of the Holy Year by the Holy Father came the discovery of the picture of the Holy Face, a copy painted by a French nun from the original for the Very Reverend Father Sorin. The story of the painting and this copy is rather a unique one.
In the early decades of the nineteenth century there lived in a small town in France a young woman much noted for her piety and devotion to the Passion of Christ. Her name was Theodelinda Dubouche.
Conditions existing in France at that time were much akin to the “modernism” of today. But in the midst of this worldliness this young woman practiced her devotion in face of all difficulties. She was subject to severe headaches, which instead of turning her from the merciful God, only brought her closer to Him, for she joined her suffering with that of the Cross.
Painted Picture From Vision
Such was the girl who, one night in a dream, received an apparition of the living face of Christ, bloody and tom, crowned with thorns and in the agonies of the last Passion. She received this vision several times, and finally sought the advice of a close friend of hers, the mother superior of a Carmelite convent near her home. This nun sent her to her confessor who told the young woman to paint the picture. Theodelinda was somewhat of an artist, but she had never painted without a model. However, she faithfully set to work. As she sat before the canvass she was again favored with the vision. Thus she painted a portrait of the Holy Face.
This was the beginning of a great project for the young woman.
The devotion to the Holy Face spread, and finally the young woman, Theodelinda Dubouche, became Mother Mary Theresa, the foundress of an order of nuns, whose work was perpetual adoration of the Blessed Sacrament and perpetual prayer in reparation for the “modernism” extant in the land.
Copy Discovered At Notre Dame
Father Sorin became much interested in this great work, and at his request, Mother Mary Theresa painted for him a copy of the original picture of the Holy Face. This he brought back to Notre Dame with him.
Notre Dame prospered and grew larger. Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament was instituted among the students and met with instant success. They had joined the ■work of the French order.
Time passed, and “modernism” again became the rule of living. And in the midst of it came the discovery of Mother Mary Theresa’s copy of the Holy Face, here at Notre Dame.
In France it was a -vision, and it resulted in a movement that helped materially to wipe out the blasphemy and impiety of the people. In America, it is the discovery of this picture . . .
Tire picture, which forms the frontispiece of this issue, will be on exhibition in the library during the coming week.
‘The Scholastic,* 50 Years Ago
April 7, 1883.—We are requested to announce that there will positively be no vacation at Easter. Parents and guardians will, it is hoped, see that there be no interruption to classes on the part of their charges.
SPECIAL BULLETIN
The qualification examination for sophomore students who wish to begin their work in the English major program next September will be given by the committee in charge on Monday, April 10, at 6:30 p. m., in the accounting room of the Commerce building.—Department of English.
Twelve
The Scholastic
“HIGH JINKS” CAST IS ROUNDING INTO FORM
Tickets for Monogram Show on Sale April 28.
By Tighe Woods
“If we can’t give a show that will be a hit on its own merits, we’ll cancel the whole thing the night of dress rehearsal!” In those words Joe Kurth voiced the feeling of the cast of “High Jinks” of 1933, the annual show of the Monogram club, now in its second week of rehearsal.
With a cast of fifty skits by Joe E. Brown, Dave Powers, and Joe McCabe and special music written by Russell Hupp, Notre Dame stars of many sports are working to give the campus a revue that will satisfy the most astute sense of humor.
Dutch Dolls, Adagio Dancers
You pleaded with them and cheered for them on gridiron, court, and diamond. Now you are going to laugh at them until your jaws ache and you sob for breath. Can you imagine a two hundred and twenty pound tackle as an adagio dancer, or a basketball guard as a Dutch doll? Well —but that’s enough! You’ll have to wait until May 4th or 5th.
The show is being managed by Joe Kurth who has developed a Flo Zieg-field walk and an Eric Von Shroheim frown. Mr. E. L. Chevraux is doing the technical directing, assisted by Miss Marilyn Jeanne and Russell Hupp, pianist. It is Miss Jeanne who has the task of turning the Notre Dame shift into the more pleasing forms of the dance.
“High Jinks” of 1933 will be presented in fourteen numbers, which come so fast that the management has mercifully declared a ten-minute laugh moratorium between the 7th and 8th skit You will gasp at blackouts and guffaw at pantomime, and you will turn serious for an instant as you watch a truly professional performance.
Tickets will go on sale in all the halls on April 28th. The ticket committee is arranging a novel stunt to open the sale.	-
I would point out that to cultivate art, to love it'and to foster it, is entirely compatible with those qualities which make a successful business man.—Otto H. Kahn.
Sociology Major To Be
Explained to Sophomores
Sophomores in the College of Arts will be given an opportunity to learn about the Sociology major, Sunday morning at 11 o’clock, when faculty members of that department will meet them in the basement of Walsh Hall. Professor Maurice L. Pettit, chief adult probation officer at the South Bend Juvenile Court, will speak on “Probation Work as a Career for College graduates,” explaining the requirements of this curriculum. Rev. Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C., Department Head, will outline the requirements and advantages of the prelegal and general sociology curricula and point out details which should be observed in the preregistration which starts after Easter vacation.
While the meeting is optional, it is felt that many sophomores will attend in order to obtain some idea of the nature of Sociology, since no opportunity is offered to take courses in this subject until the junior year.
CAPITAL TRIP
(Continued from Page 8)
Shrine of the Immaculate Conception and Franciscan Monastery, returning to hotel for luncheon at 11:00 a. m.
After luncheon party will transfer by bus to the Capitol to witness the opening of the Senate or House and to observe the procedure of the afternoon session. Also to observe the Supreme Court in session.
Dinner at hotel. Leave Washington, special coach, 6:45 p. m.
Thursday, April 27—Breakfast in dining car. Arrive Plymouth, special coach, 12:23 p. m.; luncheon at Plymouth. Leave Plymouth, coach, 2:50 p. m.; arrive South Bend, coach, 3:30 p. m.
- All sightseeing arrangements in Washington are very complete in that ample time is allowed at each point of interest on our tour. Lectures accompany party on each trip. The all expense cost of the above tour is $32.75 and this price includes every item of expense.
All reservations must be made not later than Wednesday, April 19th to Paul C. Bartholomew in Room 108, Commerce Building, at 3:15 or 4:05 on Monday, Wednesday, or Friday. Any student who has taken “American Government” at Notre Dame or who has been given credit for such a course from another school is eligible. On to Washington!
FR. HILTNER TO ATTEND ANNUAL COLLEGE MEET
Important Measures Will Be Considered by Association.
Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, will represent the University at the regular meeting of the NorthCentral Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools to be held in Chicago, April 21 and 22.
This 1933 annual meeting of the Association will be one of the most important sessions ever held by the group. In the college division, meetings will be held in the morning, afternoon, and evening of both days.
Topics To Be Studied
Aside from the meetings of commissions for the approval or rejection of applications to memberships, the Association will consider several important questions. Outstanding among those to be discussed are:
1.	Various experiments in educational procedure that have been carried out with the approval of the association.
2.	The revision of standard and crediting procedures of the member colleges.
3.	Methods of evaluating the product of an institution. •
Father Meitner represented the Association in the capacity of inspector some time ago at the University of Detroit.
MAN ABOUT
(Continued from Page 8)
Rosary College several months ago, that is bounded on one side by a package of Bull Durham, on the other by a half dozen pomegranates. An English major, Bill and his esthetic ' nature rebel at the incongruity of the whole business, but he knows of no way out of it.
Bill is going to Northwestern Law next year, but he’s going to see every football game they have down here. What’s more, along about the first of July he’s going to put a want ad in the Chicago Tribune for a nice room anywhere within the city limits. We have known him for a long time and say unqualifiedly that he will be one of those alumni who never stops talking about Notre Dame, room or no room, steps or no steps. '
April 7, 1933
Thirteen
INDIANA CONFERENCE TO HEAR SIR HERBERT ANES
N. D. To Be Represented At Meet Today in Manchester
Sir Herbert Ames, former financial director of the League of Nations, will be the principal speaker at the International Relations Club conference at Manchester College, North Manchester, Indiana, today and tomorrow.
Notre Dame will be represented at the conference by Tighe Woods, president of the International Relations Club, James Doyle, John I. Duffy, John O’Shaughnessey, president of the Economic Seminar, and Dr. Paul Menge, faculty adviser of the club.
International Relations Clubs of the colleges and universities of Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, and Wisconsin, will be represented at the Conference.
Many Accomplishments
Sir Herbert is accredited with organizing the financial frame work of the League of Nations, where he served as financial director for seven years. He has been not only active with the League of Nations but the World Court. Sir Herbert opened the first meeting of the Judges of the World Court at the Hague.
Previous to his entrance into the work of International Relations Sir Herbert had served prominently in Canada. He was elected to the Canadian parliament in 1904 and served continuously in that body through 1917. During the pressing days of the war he collected $50,000,000 for the Patriotic Fund of Canada, of which he was honorary secretary. He lives in Boston, but makes frequent trips to Europe and is in constant touch with international affairs abroad.
Seven Schools Attend
His subject at the Conference will be “The Polish Corridor,” that territory which has been a subject of international importance and interest.
The Indiana colleges and universities represented at the Conference by International Relations clubs members are: Indiana University at Bloomington; Wabash College, at Crawfordsville; DePauw University, at Greencastle; Butler University, in Indianapalos; University ‘ of Notre Dame, at Notre Dame; Manchester College, and Earlham College, at Richmond.
Business Club of Chicago Offers ‘Harvard’ Scholarship
According to a letter received by the Rev. J. L. Carrico, C.S.C., Direct-of of Studies, the Harvard Business School club of Chicago is offering a $300 scholarship for a student from the city of Chicago who desires to attend the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration in September, 1933. Only college graduates are eligible to apply.
The award will be made on the basis of scholastic record, the necessity of the applicant for scholarship aid, and recommendation as to his general qualifications. The total expenses of a student attending Harvard Business School are approximately $1,200 a year. Other than the scholarship offered by the club, a student in good scholastic standing at midyear can borrow $300 from the Student Loan Fund operated by the school, and in the second year may borrow up to $600 from this fund.
Information concerning the scholarship may be secured from the president or treasurer of the club. Mr. J. E. Moran, of William R. Stuart & Co., is the president and Mr. E. F. Blettner, Jr., of the First Union Trust & Savings Bank, is the treasurer. Mr. Moran stated that the club had voted the scholarship to encourage the interest of Chicago students in pursuing advanced studies in business.
VOICE
(Continued from Page 9)
room for the punning motto of the family, Noli irritare leones, “Do not annoy the lions.” Had the shield been larger and in a better position, it would of course show to greater advantage.
Mention is made in the same article of other stone carvings on Dillon Hall. It is regrettable, I think, that the architects did not include the coat of arms of the Dillon family, with its fine motto, Auxilium metim ab alto, “My help is from on high.”
In a similar way the inspiring mottoes of the Howard family would adorn Howard Hall, or indeed any other dormitory: Sola virtus invicta, “Virtue alone is invincible”; Inservi Deo laetare, “Serve God and rejoice”; Virtus mille scuta, “Virtue is a thousand-fold shield.”
B. A/A
FAMED METALLURGIST TALKS TO N. D. CLUB
Outlines Methods of Aston Wrought Iron Process
“A new method of manufacture which displaces a former process used for 150 years, the oldest branch of metallurgy in new garb—this is what we will consider tonight,” began Dr. James Aston, inventor of the Aston process of wrought iron treatment and professor of metallurgy in Carnegie Institute of Technology, in his lecture to the Notre Dame branch of the American Society for Steel Treating, and a number of the Society’s guests, Friday night, March 31.
Gives Method of Technology
“The disintegration of the metallic mass to get a purer wrought iron which did not contain slag was the problem we faced, and it was found that by taking the metal in a molten condition and pouring it in a steady stream without agitation into a specially prepared bath, it would settle to the bottom because of specific gravity differences, and give the desired product: wrought iron with no slag impurities—Iron oxide and sand have a place in the process,” the lecturer explained in outlining his method.
“Uniformity of the product is guaranteed, since the human equation present (in “puddling”) vanishes through the use of automatic mechanisms. The result is a superior product at lower cost, with speedier production and less labor,” he emphasized. Aston process iron was first manufactured commercially in 1927, after an expenditure of $100,000 and following nine years of experimentation.
Wrought Iron Practical
“The fact that wrought iron has survived shows that it has a definite place,” stated Dr. Aston, after reviewing the history of wrought iron manufacture and explaining the various processes. The oil industry, marine and shop uses, certain industrial processes, bar iron for the use of railroads, and pipes for various purposes—these constitute the majority of uses for wrought iron, and resistance to corrosion and shock are the primary factors considered in choosing it, the Carnegie professor brought out.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
“The Fighting Irish”...
Fragments Of A History
The Scholastic’s column “Splinters from the Press Box” last week carried what purported to be an explanation of the origin of the expression “Fighting Irish” as applied to the representatives of Notre Dame in the field of sports. Commenting upon an editorial in the Indianapolis News, the writer of the column placed the nickname as arising from an incident in the Michigan-Notre Dame game of 1909, and credited it to an alert newspaper correspondent.
The fact is, the expression derives its origin from no such casual occurrence and antedates 1909 by many years. The spirit out of which it grew was typical neither of any one time, nor any one place in this coun7 try. This spirit manifested itself often in open insult, not infrequently in destruction of property and almost invariably in social ostracism. Seared upon the pages of our history are examples of that spirit. Its concentration here in a name gave us a hallowed tradition. Indeed opposition to the founding of a Catholic institution in these parts found concrete expression in many ways. One of these still exists in the local town as a building which, intended for a college, is now part of a factory, and an adjoining street which is called “College.”
“Catholics” and “Irish”
From the very beginning games played an important part in the life of the students at Notre Dame. The natural impulse was to seek outside competition. At first this wras reluctantly given. The events themselves were not always characterized by pleasantness. The receptions accorded did not always represent what we have come to know as sportsmanship. Advance notices referred to the “Notre Dame Catholics,” the “Notre Dame Irish.”
Even then, as now, the terms were not inclusive of the men on the teams. Dimmick, Philbrook, and Edwards, to mention only a few, were not Catholics. Eggeman, Neizer, Miller, Davila, among many others, were not of Irish blood. In point of fact, “Catholic” and “Irish” in those far-off days —not to speak of more recent ones— were synonymous, and either one stood for something which, to say the least, should be avoided. So with ribald jest, derisive taunt, and insult
ing phrase of all they held most sacred would the men be greeted on station platforms, in hotel lobbies, from the sidewalks and even from the side lines.
“Fighting Irish”
Recognition came slowly and, strange irony, from afar. The qualifier ‘Fighting’ quite naturally was prefixed to Trish’ and so it remained. The epithet of opprobrium to one generation became one of distinction to the next. The link between them all but unconsciously melted away. It was reforged by a new set of circumstances.
The war and post-war hysteria among other things centered upon the hyphenated American. Attempts were even made to tone down recorded history. Bunker Hill, Lexington, Ticonderoga henceforth should be symbols of an unfortunate mistunderstanding to be condoned instead of symbols of a principle to be safeguarded. Catholics in particular were suspect. The frenzies that followed down to our own day need no recounting here. “Fighting Irish,” thought some, should be dropped. Not quite so simply, however, is the course of history or of tradition to be changed. The Americanism of Notre Dame needs no such subterfuge.
Slogans
The last decade might well be termed the era of slogans. Advertising experts stayed up nights to invent them. Manufacturers arranged contests to discover them. Sports writers tapped them out on the keys. Nor was Notre Dame immune. Dictionaries were bereft of adjectives to characterize the prowess of her men and, lo, there came forth the “Wanderers,” the “Vikings,” the “Nomads,” the “Ramblers,” and a multitude of others that had their brief vogue in the editorial rooms where they originated. Their justification was the fact that Notre Dame travelled so much, and that “Fighting Irish” was no longer appropriate since so many racial strains now composed her teams. We hope to have shown that the first was a contributing factor to the original name and the second as a determining element in the makeup of the teams never had any foundation in fact.
It has been well said that a people without traditions is already deca-
“SANTA MARIA” PASSED OUT TO N. D. KNIGHTS
Spring Number Released At Monday Meeting.
The Spring number of the Santa Maria, the official organ of the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus, came out last Monday evening. It was distributed to Notre Dame knights and was mailed free of charge to all councils in the United States.
In nine pages of news interspersed by a few feature articles, the magazine deals with the activities and the progress of the local council. The more important news articles treated the K. C. initiation here on March 5, the.address of Professor Charles Phillips before the council, the announcement of the annual K. C. picnic, and the record attendance at the meeting of March 6.
At the initiation on March 5, 44 candidates, several of them faculty members, received the Third Degree. Professor Phillip’s address was on “Abraham Lincoln, the Young Man.” As regards the K. C. picnic: it will be self-supporting this year insofar as each member shall be taxed. As for the record attendance it was set at the meeting held in Walsh Hall March 6, when over 200 knights attended.
According to another significant story the Santa Maria has been well received by the Councils of the United States, to which copies of the preceding number had been mailed. Numerous letters from virtually every state in the Union have come into the office of Editor Becklenberg congratulating the Notre Dame Council on its publication.
Among the feature articles are: “Grand Knight’s Chair” by John Cahill, Grand Knight of the local council, “Literary,” by Professor Phillips, and “Contact,” by John McElligott. The Exchange column is handled well by Jack Jaeger. •
dent. It is also true of institutions. No- one can consciously sit down and say “let us create a tradition.” It is something that unconsciously identifies itself, grows out of what is adequately described as the genius of a people. As such it is a sacred thing. To consciously ignore it partakes of the nature of a betrayal. Because of this we treasure and defend “Fighting Irish.”

April 7, 1933
Fifteen
MANY FIELDS COVERED IN LIBRARY ADDITIONS

Works Received Vary From Philosophy to Fiction.
The Circulation Department of the University library announces the addition of many new books. Among the most outstanding ones are those on history, literature, education, economics and fiction.
Some of the listed books are as follows:
Philosophy: Aspects of the New Scholastic Philosophy.	‘
Civilization and Culture: Leisure in the Modern World — by Cecil D. Burns.
History and Description: Atlas of the Historical Geography of the United States (ref. room)—by C. O. Paullin; A Preliminary Study of the Ruins of Coba, Quintana Rao, Mexico —by John E. Thompson, and American Society—by Charles F. Thwing.
Anthropology: The Skelatal Remains of Early Man—by Ales Hrdlicka.
Economics: Business Forecasting— by Lewes Henry Haney; Readings in Citizenship—by John Carton Jones; Introduction t o Technocracy — by Howard Scott, and Economic Rhythm —by Ernest F. Wagemann.
Education: University Training for the National Service—by Conference on University Training for the National Service, University of Minnesota.
Literature: Modern German Literature—by Arthur Eloesser; The Oxford Companion to English Literature—by Sir Paul Harvey, and Some Victorian and Georgian Catholics—by Patrick Braybooks.
Fiction: The Boat of Longing—by Ole C. Rolvaag; The Kennel Murder Case—by S. S. Van Dine, and The Coloured Dome—by Francis Stuart.
Essays -.Afternoons in Utopia—by Stephen B. Leacock, and Recent Prose —by John Masefield.
Biography: The Letters of Robert Burns—by Robert Burns.
NOTICE!
Application for membership in the Bookmen for the year 1933-34 will be received immediately after the Easter holidays. Names should be left at 159 Alumni Hall.
Unemployment Insurance ... Can It Justify Itself?
By Walter Johnson
England, Germany and most of the major nations of Europe, as well as a number of individual companies in this country, have experimented extensively and rather unsuccessfully with unemployment insurance. Judging from their experience alone, its adoption in the United States, as a governmentally controlled p r o j e c t, would seem, at this time, highly unjustified.
Now let’s consider the problem from another angle. In theory, is unemployment insurance feasible from an actuarial position?
Can Fund Be Large Enough?
On the basis of essentials of insurance listed by such authorities as Frederick H. Ecker, president of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, Leroy A. Lincoln, actuary of the same company, and Henry Moir, president of the United States Life Insurance Company, we may list the following questions as criteria of actuarial possibility.
Can a fund, sufficiently large, be accumulated in advance of the scheme? Is the contingency out of control of the individual? Is it impossible for the evil to happen to a majority of the group at one time? Can the rate of occurrency be accurately predicted? And, lastly, is the occurrence of the contingency subject to accurate verification? And a negative answer to any of them would eliminate unemployment from the scope of insurance.
Risk Not Predictable
In the first place, the unemployment risk is not, in all its types, predictable accurately, as is shown by the enormous degree to which the current number of unemployed in England and Germany exceeds the number expected by those who drew up insurance plans in those countries. In this country lack of success in making predictions has been almost too apparent to demand comment. Estimates vary from Hoover’s optimistic eight million to Green’s pessimistic 14 million or more. Even the experts don’t agree.
Too, in order to participate in the benefits, a man must have what is called an “insurable risk.” In this case he must be subject to the loss
of his employment and the income therefrom. Yet chronically idle have no work that is subject to loss, as do, to a great extent, part time laborers. We can expect always to have some without income or jobs — and to attempt their inclusion would violate sound insurance principles.
Unemployment Lasts Too Long
Uncertainty as to the extent of occurrence creates one of the greatest difficulties. As is only too apparent now, unemployment often covers large areas and extends for long durations, ’ with alarming severity. Payment of benefits to the ten million or more now out of work, for indefinite periods, with decreased income for the fund, is impossible under sound actuarial limitations. •
Thus we see that general, all-inclusive, indetermined, unqualified unemployment insurance fails on practically every test. Unemployment is not predictable, not limited in occurrence, verificable only with difficulty, and not subject to proper financing. It is noticeable, however, that each of the objections apply to only a portion of the problem; therefore, while eliminating the possibility of inclusive insurance, let’s consider its more limited, more detailed phases.
Three Types Of Unemployment
The major types of unemployment have been classified as follows: cyclical, resulting from business fluctuations; seasonal, occurring regularly during certain periods of the year, in specific industries; technological, following the induction of machine production and displacement of human labor; industrial disputes, such as strikes and lockouts; and finally, causes of a personal nature, inaptitude, poor training, limited physical or mental qualifications.
As for the last two, we may eliminate them immediately. Industrial disputes fail in two criteria: they certainly are not predictable, and they come within the control of the individual. Personal causes of unemployment are objectionable mainly because they make work impossible, and therefore deprive the applicant of an insurable risk.
With respect to the first three
(Continued on Page 27)
Sixteen
The Scholastic
Fr. Cavanaugh Lauds Col.
Hoynes’ ‘Service’ to N. D.
Outstanding in last Friday’s funeral services for Colonel Hoynes was the sermon delivered by the Reverend John Cavanaugh, C. S.C., former President of the University.
In the opening paragraph, Father Cavanaugh developed the thought that of all earthly creatures, man alone builds tombs, erects monuments, preserves a record of the words and deeds of the dead. One purpose of reverential obsequies is not only prayer for the dead but the perpetuation of the memory of the virtues, services, excellences of such a life as the Colonel’s. All true happiness resides in ardent and wholehearted dedication to the service of God and humanity. Judged by that test, the Colonel’s life had been supremely successful. Father Cavanaugh said: “This sturdy boy who had emigrated from Ireland at the age of seven, tackled life with characteristic force and earnestness when in his early teens he learned the printer’s trade in La Crosse, Wisconsin. For a boy like William Hoynes that was a method of earning his bread and at the same time educating himself in vigorous thinking and in forceful persuasive speech. The long and distinguished editorial career that followed was a necessary consequence of that first step—in New Brunswick, N. J., in Chicago under the famous “Brick” Pomeroy, in Peoria on the staff of the outstanding Transcript. A taste for printer’s ink once acquired becomes almost an intemperate passion: William Hoynes never completely conquered the impulse to ‘write for the paper.’
His ‘Desperate Earnestness’
“Similarly, his adventure in the Civil War was characteristically stout and valiant.” “A mere stripling” was •the way he described himself when he entered the war at the age of 15. In the battle of Prairie Grove, Arkansas, an enemy bullet plowed its way through the top of his skull, leaving a furrow there in which a lead pencil might he completely concealed. Banished by military authority to the hospital, he had not completely recovered when he ‘deserted,’ the hospital and fled to a receiving station where he enlisted a second time. As a slacker he was not a great success.
“This desperate earnestness characterized all his long life at Notre
Dame whether as teacher or professor. The great Father Zahm told me that his first glimpse of William Hoynes was in 1868 when he had just finished matriculating at the Students’ Office. ‘He entered the study hall carrying a tallow candle in one hand and an Unabridged Webster’s dictionary under his arm. The only difference between then and now is that now the Colonel has the dictionary in his head.’ Every moment was scrupulously employed in study, most concentrated study. It became the habit of a lifetime and explains both his character and his acquirements.
“Makes” N. D. Law School
“Fifty years ago the Colonel came to Notre Dame as Professor of Law. He was the entire Law School. He taught four classes every day, using his own written text for the lectures, and there were five days for him in every school week. For recreation on a free day, he held a long Moot Court. During his long career as a teacher, there is no recorded case of a graduate of his failing to pass the Bar examination. I know that the value of this statement might easily be overestimated, but it is true that Notre Dame lawyers everywhere have been remarkable for their firm grip on the fundamentals and solidities of the law. The Colonel taught every subject included in the curriculum. “It could not have been a great law school,’ you say. I am not so sure of that. It was immeasurably greater than the school which produced the illustrious John Marshall who had only a few college classes and a dozen lectures in the law. It was far greater than the school which produced the late Edward Douglass White, second only to Marshall in the history of American Jurisprudence, who assured me himself that he never had a single day in college and never took a single class in a Law School. He “read the law” in a lawyer’s office. But apart from that the young lawyers who spent four hours, daily listening to the Colonel’s learned and limpid lectures were being well grounded in the law.
“The Colonel’s devotion to our alma mater was sacrificial and heroic. No consecrated priest ever had more faith or piety or zeal, and no religious (Continued on Page 30)-
“FRONTIER INFLUENCE”
IS WRANGLER SUBJECT
Hochreiter Traces Institutions To Early American Days
The Wranglers heard a speech from one of its members, last Monday evening, which was a decided departure from what was normally the topic for discussion at previous meetings this year.
Franklyn Hochreiter, one of the men admitted at the start of the second semester chose for his subject, “American Today, and The Relation of Our Early Frontier.” His presentation was basically factual, as he attempted to show how many of the present day American traits can be directly traced to the influence exerted upon them by our people from as early as the Revolution.
Pioneer Spirit Prevails
His first example was that of religion, in which instance he explained that many of the creeds of America (Catholicity excepted) owe the origination of their fundamentals to the pioneer* spirit, rather than to any European influence, as would be naturally believed.
The conduct of American business, the advent of such “professions” as speculation, Hochreiter said, “were merely outgrowths of advance of the frontier, where men speculated with land and money in the barren territories, much in the same manner as is the Stock Market utilized today.”
Governmental operation in America, solely democratic, is an. American institution, rising out of the frontier ideals of our forefathers, Hochreiter thought.
In conclusion he stated: “Though we are perhaps a nation of immigrants, our ideals, accomplishments and heritage, must be, if we accept the conditions as I have stated them, truly American.”
Tarzans Produced At Harvard
Gordon T. Bowles, research student in anthropology at Harvard University, asserts that Harvard men of today of old American stock are taller and heavier than their fathers and grandfathers, are still gaining in height, and are now one of the tallest groups in the world. Bowles says the same is true of women students at Wellesley, Vassar, Smith and Mount Holyoke.
April 7, 1933
Seventeen.
SOCIAL PROBLEMS ARE PROBED IN “LAWYER”
Holy Week Services At Notre Dame Announced
Professor Cain, and Fr. Murray Write Articles.
Several prominent articles on current social and crime problems feature the March issue of the Lawyer, Notre Dame’s quarterly law review.
Professor William M. Cain’s article on “How the Criminal Escapes the Law and How to Stop Him” is a departure from the conventional course of fixing chief responsibility for failure of criminal justice upon the police, since the author places the fault chiefly upon the judges of the trial courts. The various expedients resorted to by criminal defendants and tolerated by the trial courts are detailed, and remedies suggested. The part played by the political underworld in defeating criminal justice is discussed together with a description of the methods employed by the Criminal Court of Milwaukee.
Eugenics And The Lawyer
In “Eugenic Legislation and the Lawyer,” Rev. Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C., Head of the Department of Sociology, describes recent legislative trends' towards compulsory sterilization and birth control, stating that these trends will not be stopped b.y assumed Constitutional guarantees, but only by lawyer-legislators who are acquitted with the scientific, as well as the moral objections to such eugenic measures. Necessary educational equipment to meet the fallacious arguments of “eugenic alarmists,” Father Murray points out, cannot be offered in the law schools at present, but must and should be secured in properly arranged pre-legal college courses.
Other articles are contributed by Attorney John Jones of Ironwood, Michigan, Professor W. P. Sternberg, of the Creighton School of Law, the late Col. W. J. Hoynes, and John M. Crimmins.
The following services will be observed at Notre Dame during Holy Week, beginning this Sunday. The Reverend C. A. McAllister, C.S.C., will be Master of Ceremonies during the period.
PALM SUNDAY STUDENTS’ SOLEMN MASS—8:15 A. M. Rev. C. L. O’Donnell, Celebrant	Rev. M. A. Mulcaire, Deacon
Rev. J. L. Carrico, Subdeacon
PASSION
Rev. L. Gorman	Rev. C. Hamel
(Chronista)	(Petrus)
Rev. L. Heiser	Seminary Choir
(Christus)	(Turba)
WEDNESDAY TENEBRAE—7:30 P. M.
1.
4.
5.
6.
Chorus
Rev. H.
Rev. H.
Rev. L. :
Fiedler Kenna
L Ward
2.
LAMENTATIONS
Rev. W. H. Molony 3. Rev. C. Miltner
LESSONS
7.	Rev. R. Norris
8.	Rev. T. McAvoy
9.	Very Rev. Provincial
HOLY THURSDAY, Solemn Mass—7:00 A. M. ----------------Celebrant _______________Deacon ----------------Subdeacon
MANDATUM—3:00 P.M.
(Ministers same as for Solemn Mass.)
TENEBRAE—7:30 P. M. LAMENTATIONS			
1.	Chorus	2. Rev. J. McAllister	3. Rev. R. Clancy
		LESSONS	
4.	Rev. L. R. Ward	7.	Rev. T. Brennan
5.	Rev. R. Murray	8.	Rev. F. Butler
6.	Rev. J. Fogarty	9.	Very Rev. Provincial
GOOD FRIDAY, Solemn Mass of the Presanctified—8:00 A. M.
Rev. E. Burke, Celebrant
Rev. T. Kelly, Subdeacon PASSION
Rev. T. Lahey, Deacon
Rev. T. Burke (Chronista)
Rev. R. Clancy (Christus) CHAPTER—2
Rev. J. McAllister (Petrus) Seminary Choir (Turba)
:00 P. M; STATIONS—3:00 P. M.
TENEBRAE—7:30 P. M.
Twenty-six groups of people living in the Arctic sections of Russia who before the revolution were absolutely illiterate, having not even an alphabet of their own, now have an alphabet and schools enough to take care of all children in the population.
The American has an innate love of (religious) conversion.—Benjamin de Casseres.
1. Chorus
4.	Rev. J. McDonald
5.	Rev. M. Mulcaire
6.	Rev. J. Reynolds
LAMENTATIONS
2. Rev. L. Heiser LESSONS
7.
8.
9.
3. Rev. C. Doremus
Rev. W. McNamara Rev. H. Glueckert Very Rev. Provincial
HOLY SATURDAY
Services begin at 6:00 A. M.;—Mass at 7:30 A. M.
Rev. C. McAllister, Celebrant	Rev. L. Gorman, Deacon
Rev. N. Johnson, Subdeacon Paschale Praeconium: Exultet—Rev. C. Hamel Prophecies by Seminarians of Moreau Seminary
Eighteen
The Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE
BELIEVE IT OR NOT
The administration at the University of California recently ordered all chairs in the library sandpapered. This was done, believe it or not, to prevent the women students from suffering runs in their stockings.
POPPING!
Visitors at the World’s Fair in Chicago next summer will have plenty of popcorn to eat. Two University of Illinois graduates plan to use 12 freight cars of paper boxes to hold 20 freight cars of corn — after it has been popped at their 40 stands located throughout the fair grounds.
A NEW REFRAIN. -
Students living in one of the dormitories at the University of Georgia were recently warned that if they did not refrain from taking so many baths they would be charged an extra fee.
▼
DISHMASTER!
A woman was granted a master’s degree from the University of Chicago after submitting a thesis on “Four Ways To Wash Dishes.”
TO COLLEGE STUDENTS.
At the University of Washington, the professors of English and of History joined in issuing the following advice to all college students: “It is better to know; but when in doubt, bluff.”
▼
ONE OF THE SLIDING SCALES.
The “dating bureau” is a flourishing institution at Arkansas Polytechnic College. The bureau has a scale of prices, and fees are in accordance with the desirability of the date secured for the subscriber.
CARNEGIE TARTAN:
“We laugh at all professors jokes No matter what they be;
Not because they’re funny ones, Just ’cause it’s policy.”
KNOWLEDGE FILTRATION.
To correct their posture for “posture week” co-eds at Smith College are going about the campus carrying books on their heads.
LAST BUT NOT LEAST.
When the bank holiday was called, the average student fortune at Lehigh was $1.15. The freshmen were the “bloatocrats” of the school with an average of $2.17, while the seniors averaged sixty cents, establishing themselves as the paupers of the school.
' ▼
MEN ARE FOUR.
Some three thousand years ago a very wise man decided that all men could be placed into four classes according to their wisdom. His writing on those classes constitute some very good advice and a careful reading, of them should show some people their exact status, especially in the minds of their friends.
The four classes follow; to which do you belong?
“He who knows not and knows not he knows not, he is a fool — shun him.
“He who knows not and knows he knows not, he is simple — teach him.
“He who knows and knows not he knows, he is asleep — awaken him.
“He who knows and knows he knows, he is wise — follow him!”—Arab Proverb.
' —Georgia Tech Technique.
April 7,1933
Nineteen
EDITORIALS
WANTED: COOPERATION
Sundry complaints have come our way lately regarding the publicity that this organization gets or that that one fails to get in The Scholastic. Behind the dissatisfaction, from what we have been able to find out, is the feeling that the editorial policy is colored, in several instances, by favoritism to some, hostility to others. Nothing could be more completely untrue. It is admittedly possible that a few campus clubs and a few departments of the University are given more recognition than others, but it is likewise possible that they are more active.
Then there is another explanation of the seeming disparity. Scholastic reporters assigned to a particular beat have frequently met with little or no cooperation from the people involved. We might suggest that every campus club appoint one of its members to handle publicity data. A Scholastic man listening to a highly abstruse, technical lecture given to the Academy of Science, for instance, might conceivably be as confounded when the talk is over as any other individual not greatly engrossed with the subject. A little assistance, later, would be invaluable.
The Scholastic has often been confronted with another problem which arises chiefly from the fact that many people in charge of departments, offices, and other branches of the University have been reluctant to give out news of any consequence for fear it will be written up erroneously. “The Scholastic wouldn’t get it right anyway,” “We have given you things before and couldn’t recognize them in print,” have often been comebacks to any questioning of the condition.
The Scholastic knows as well as anybody else on the campus that it has made, does make, and will make mistakes; but it is as equally certain of the fact that it does everything in its
power not to make them, that it would gladly send to the skeptical element on the campus reporters with paper and pencil and instructions to take down word for word the information that might otherwise be distorted. We ask people in positions of importance to appreciate the problems of editing, to be a bit more trusting, and to bury the hatchet of controversies that nobody else remembers.
BUDGETS
Reports last week from two dance chairmen to the effect that both the Senior and the Lawyer Balls will be held at substantially cut rates this year should receive a certain commendation. In saying that the action of the law students is particularly laudable we do not mean to slight the accomplishment of the class of ’33. The officers of the latter, on the contrary, have evidenced a bit of headwork that might have been employed to advantage in years gone by.
The lawyers’ situation, however, is this: Their variable expenses, where economies could be sought, are slight; their fixed charges, comparatively heavy. With their admission reduced and the budget rigidly balanced, a goodly attendance is necessary to insure the success of the dance. As for the quality of the affair we have a serious doubt that it will be only half as good as the Junior Prom—at five dollars a couple.
▼
“VOICE” COMMUNICATIONS
The Scholastic still receives letters weekly addressed to the “Voice of the Campus” which are unsigned—despite the instructions listed at the top of that column. Many of the letters raise excellent points, are well written and could be advantageously used.
Initials only will be signed, upon request, but it is absolutely necessary that the whole name be appended to the correspondence proper. The “Voice” is something which should be kept alive but its existence is totally dependent upon the use which the student body makes of it.
Twenty
The Scholastic
ATHLETICS
Baseball Drills In Full Swing
First Outdoor Practice Game ANNOUNCE INTERHALL Last Tuesday; Fielding Features PROGRAN FOR SPRING
First And Second Nines Play 4-4 Tie in Six Innings; Hitting Power Shown.
By Nick Connor
The first outdoor practice game of the year held last Tuesday evening on the reconditioned Cartier field, was a great success from the scoring and fielding standpoint, as several heavy hitters and nifty fielders were uncovered during the course of the six inning fracas. The score was tied at four-all at the end of the game.
One team composed of Cunha, short stop; Kane, second; White, third; Costello, left field; Dunne, first; Seidl, right field; McGrath, center field; Robinson, catcher; and Huisking and Tourney pitchers, garnered nine hits in the six inning game.
The Other Line-up
The other nine made up of Cummings, right field, Powell, second; Mettler, short stop; Velcheck, left field; Krause, first; Maher, center field; Palmisani, third; Underklofer, catcher; Banas and Golden, pitchers, were able to get but four hits. These timely blows, however, were obtained when needed most.
White, and Tourney of the first club were the only pastimers to have a perfect day at the plate. White secured three hits in as many times at bat, while Tourney got a single in his only trip to the plate. Also, Al Costello pounded out two hits for extra bases in his three times at bat.
Big “Moose” Krause, who held down the first sack for the second team in great style, acquired a hit from each of the two pitchers opposing him in his three times at the plate. Bill Powell and Steve Banas were the other athletes getting the remaining hits for the second club.
Coach George Keogan allotted each
Fencing Team Members To Match Blades In
Regular Bouts At Home
The members of the Notre Dame fencing team have advanced to such a stage that Coach de Landero has introduced them to match tactics. He feels that they have learned the fundamentals well enough to engage in regular bouts. They are all getting in shape for the elimination matches, which will come off about the last of April.
The purpose of the elimination bouts is not to cut the squad but to select the best swordsmen, about whom the team will be built. All those defeated will remain on the squad and receive training along with the other members of the club. If the interest in the sport continues to rise, Coach de Landero hopes to organize an interhall league, in which possible varsity timber may be trained.
In all competition, both inter-collegiate and inter-hall, Notre Dame teams will number seven men. Three will be foilsmen, two sabremen, and two more will use epees, three-cornered fencing blades.
Two or three new men have joined the squad and according to de Landero show signs of promise, although he refused to mention their names. So far in the foils department, Bill Caresio has displayed the best form but he is bound to meet with determined opposition in the coming bouts.
of the four pitchers three innings apiece on the mound in which they tried to baffle their teammates with their fast, slow, hook and curve balls.
The first game of the 1933 season will be played on Easter Saturday in Chicago, against the University of Chicago nine.
Plan Golf, Soft Ball Leagues; Abandon Swimming Meet.
Interhall athletics are at a lull now that the basketball season is over. The customary interhall swimming meet will not be held this year. This meet had been a feature of the Interhall Sports Program in the past, last year attracting large numbers of contestants in spite of wintry weather that prevailed before the Easter vacation. In place of this contest, the Students Activities Council sponsored a swimming meet at the South Bend natatorium a few weeks ago.
An interhall soft-ball league is to be formed again this spring. Two years ago soft-ball made its initial appearance in the Interhall circles and was a decided success. Soft-ball was adopted in the place of the customary baseball, when an evident lack of interest caused interhall authorities to abandon baseball.
Soft Ball After Easter
Anthony Wirry, head of Interhall athletics, announced that a schedule of the soft-ball league will be posted immediately after the Easter vacation. Because of the short period left between Easter and the close of school, it will be necessary to play games during the week as well as on Sunday.
That the soft-ball league has already attracted the attention of many of the students, is evidenced by the afternoon games on the many campus play fields.
With the opening of the University Golf course this week, many of the students are preparing for the tryouts for the hall teams. Each hall is to be represented by a squad consisting of the four best men from their respective halls.
Interhall golf competition will open on Sunday, April 23.
April 7, 1933
Twenty-one
“NICK” STILL DEFENDS HIS STARTING BLOCKS
Answers Objections That Cost Metcalfe Official Record.
By Ed Von Huisseling
With the recent closing of the indoor track season, Notre Dame enthusiasts look back upon the various meets and performances as nothing less than sensational. Probably the most outstanding feat took place on the afternoon of March 11th when Ralph Metcalfe, running for Marquette in the Central Intercollegiate Conference meet, broke the existing record in the 60 yard dash. The big Hilltopper accomplished the same feat a few weeks later.
But breaking a record and having it recognized are two things which do not always go hand in hand. This condition fits Metcalfe’s case exactly because his new time in the 60 has been refused. The reason given is the use of the starting blocks.
Why Nicholson Invented Them
These contraptions which cause so much comment were invented by Notre Dame’s track coach, John P. Nicholson. The reason for their invention as given by “Nick” himself is that “The fellows dug so many holes my first year here that they almost drove me crazy.” After one year of this crude excavating he decided something had to be done and so he brought out the starting blocks.
The powers behind the throne give only one alibi for not accepting recards made through the use of the blocks. It is their contention that they are of great advantage to the runner and the new time probably would not have been made if the blocks were not used.
Blocks’ Effect
“Nick” agrees that the time of an inexperienced runner is lowered by them but that there is no effect on the experienced man. In the start, the blocks tend to keep the runner close to the ground for the first 15 yards or so (the correct form in a good start) while holes force the runner to straighten up almost immediately after the start. The experienced dash man will unconsciously stay close to the ground for the first few yards regardless of whether he used the blocks or not, for the simple reason
(Continued on Page 32)
Trackmen Score In Four Events at Armour Relays
Varsity Golfers to Meet Freshman Team Sunday Afternoon, One O’Clock
By James F. McKeon
The lid will be pried off the unofficial golf season Sunday afternoon when the varsity will meet the freshman hopefuls. The matches are due to get under way at one o’clock with ten men representing each team.
Father Francis Ott, coach of the varsity, is highly enthusiastic with the way things have been going, and is looking forward to a successful season.
Most of the varsity candidates played two practice rounds this week. A number of the freshman aspirants also •went around the course twice. An average of the two rounds will be taken to decide the representatives of the two teams for Sunday’s matches.
The final cutting of both squads will not take place until Tuesday afternon after all of the candidates have shown what they can do in another round either Monday or Tuesday afternoon. After that Father Ott will be able to judge his material better with the result that by the closing of the University for the Easter recess next Wednesday, the men who will make up the squads should be known.
How To Pick Team?
Whether he will pick his men for the intercollegiate matches from their scores in practice rounds during the week or from their showing in the previous intercollegiate matches, has not been decided by Father Ott. However he is inclined to think that he will adopt the latter method.
One of the bright features of the past week has been the shooting of Catpain John Montedonico. His playing this week has shown evidence that he is regaining the excellent form of his freshman year.
Vince Fehlig, Bill Veeneman, and John Banks in addition to Montedonico appear to be standouts for this year’s team. Others whose work has been outstanding include Billy Cole, Tom O’Melia, Bob Albert, Bob Powell, Johnny Jordan, and Bill Burke.
(Continued on Page 30)
VINCE MURPHY WINS
Fran Murphy Runs Great Race in 70; King Places in 880, Gough in Broad Jump.
One of the best showings of the indoor track campaign was turned in by the Irish thinlies at Chicago last Saturday where they participated in the annual running of the Armour Relays.
Before the large gathering in the University of Chicago field house, the local representatives captured three second places and one first. The field was equally as colorful as that which competed at Indianapolis in the Butler carnival recently. Practically all the mid-western stars were on hand.
Murphy, 6 Feet, 5% Inches
Vince Murphy returned to the role of winner in the high jump after being beaten by Willie Ward of Wlichi-gan two weeks ago. Murph’s winning height was 6 feet, 4% inches. His closest opponent was Roberts of Chicago.
Francis Murphy accounted for the most surprising display of the night as far as Notre Dame was concerned. Before the gun barked Frank was not considered much more than an outsider; but as the contestants blazed down the trail, the Irish runner was up in the leaders. He crossed the finish line in second place, only inches behind Johnson of Illinois State Normal who established a new record for the distance.
Murphy was so close to the Normal man that it is probable that he equaled the old meet record of : 07.12 set by Bill McCormick, captain of the 1932 Notre Dame track edition, in 1932. Johnson’s time was :07.1.
King Is Second
Eddie King came into his own in the half mile with a second place. Coach Nicholson had been grooming the Canadian star for the mile but at the last minute decided to run him in the shorter distance. The event was won by Sears of Purdue, who did not run in the dual meet with the
(-Continued on Page 30)
Twenty-two
The Scholastic
A New Store For Men Featuring
WILSON BROTHERS FURNISHINGS
Taffeta
Broadcloth Shirts
Are made in a new weave, marvelously clear and uniform in texture. It w’ears well, launders beautifully. Point by point, it is a superior shirt at its low price. All super-shrunk broadcloth, and made with hand-cut and hand-turned collars. Collar attached in white and solid colors including the new bamboo shade.
OTHERS AT $1.00
Just say: meet me at
HecK&Aker
111 West Jefferson Blvd.
Just off Michigan South Bend
START SECOND ROUND PLAY IN TENNIS MEET
Pairings for 16 Matches Made; Weather Delays Tourney.
Mild weather early this week made possible the completion of the first round of the University tennis tournament. Hoosier weather returned, however, Wednesday and Thursday, with the result that the second round which was to have been completed today, has been postponed until the courts are dry enough to warrant the continuation of play.
Eight On Squad Varsity .
Fourteen men survived the first round of play in which three forfeits and a few close matches figured. These men are paired in the second round with the seeded men and others who drew byes in the opening frame.
During the coming week Louis Chreist, seeded No. 1 in the tourney, Dick Kelly, No. 2, and O’Hanlon, Power, Staley, and Gill, other seeded men, will see action.
A squad of eight men will be chosen from this tourney to represent the University in competition this spring.
The results of the first round of play follows:
Waldron defeated Morrison (forfeit) ; Yeiser defeated Carton, 7-5, 3-6, 6-4; Fallon defeated Haverick 11-9, 7-9, 6-3, and Podraza defeated Ward, 6-3, 6-2.
Hoffman Beats Seward
Shapiro defeated Lynch 6-1, 6-0; Weil defeated Anzlovar 5-7, 6-3, 6-4; Penote defeated Fisher 6-4, 7-5; Hoffman defeated Seward 6-3, 4-6, 6-1.
McGinnis defeated Moran 6-0, 6-1; Putterbaugh defeated Martin 6-3, 6-1; Dillon defeated Marterseck (forfeit) ; Walsh defeated Shiels 4-6, 7-5, 7-5; Hackenbruch defeated Daly 6-2, 6-3; Gibb defeated Leroux (forfeit).
The pairings for the second round follow:
Chreist vs. Dugan, Hearn vs. Walsh, Gill vs. Moriarity, Purcell vs. Hoffman, O’Hanlon vs. Putterbaugh, Dillon vs. winner of Savage-Goclark match, Reeves vs. Podraza, Hackenbruch vs. McGinnis.
Power vs. Valdes, Cashman vs. Shapiro, Staley vs. Brias, Margrett vs. Gibb, Weldon vs. Penote, Fallon vs. wanner of Christiansen-Joyce match, Kelly vs. Weil, Waldron vs.- Yeiser.
FINAL ROUND REACHED IN HANDBALL TOURNEY
Lefty Emmerling Beats Levins; Jaskwhich Third Finalist.
By Al McGuff
Lefty Emmerling went far into the lead in the University handball singles tournament when he defeated “Beppo” Levins five games in as many starts.
Charley Jaskwhich defeated Sturla Canale to enter the final round robin bracket with Emmerling and Levins. Jaskwhich dropped the second game 21-15 after winning the first 21-16 and w-as forced to his best to win the third and final 21-19. Canale put up a fine exhibition of handball, but it was not in the cards for him to win.
Tournament Ends Tuesday
In'the^championship bracket games between Emmerling and Levins many interesting things were witnessed by all who attended, and there were plenty to see the match.
On the serve each man had the other at the disadvantage with their powerful serves. Emmerling is an expert at this phase of the game, and due to hit with both hands won out, 21-8; 21-15; 21-15; 21-15; 21-6.
Saturday will bring Jaskwhich and Emmerling together for the second five game series of the championship bracket. Tuesday, April 11, will see Jaskwhich and Levins bring the tournament to a close.
The gold medals for the winners of the doubles will .be presented to George Kozak and “Soap” Palmisani the first of the week.
TO STAGE “RICHELIEU”
(Continued from Page 7)
he is given an opportunity to recite the lines before a committee.
“Professor Albert Doyle will play the title role, Richelieu. Other characters, not as yet cast, are Louis XIII, Gaston, the Duke of Orleans, Bara-das, the Chevalier De Mauprat, and a number of other historical figures. There are two female parts in the Play.
Members of Prof. Kelly’s class in “Acting” are doing research work in sixteenth century costuming, furniture, customs, etc., in conection with the production.
April 7, 1933
Twenty-three
Veterans Meet Youngsters In Grid Game Tomorrow
TO PLAY IN STADIUM
Harris Leads Strong Group of Old-Timers; New Material
Continues Improvement.
By Howard Waldron
Tomorrow afternoon the All-Americans and near All-Americans of the 1932 Notre Dame football team, who are graduating in June, will make their last appearance, as a unit, on the gridiron of Notre Dame’s stadium. They will be opposed by the men whom Coach Anderson is grooming to fill their vacated positions and some of their teammates of last season, in a regulation game.
Usually, in these Varsity-Reserve games, the Varsity comes out on the short end of the score, but, in view of the fact that this group contains so many graduating regulars, a victory for the Varsity may not be such an outside possibility. Charley Jask-which and Laurie Vejar will bark signals from their old quarterback post, Norm Greeney and Jim Harris will hold down the guard berths, while Ben Alexander will snap the ball from center.
Varsity Borrows Four Men
Joe Kurth and Paul Host will flank Greeney at right tackle and end respectively, but the varsity must borrow Ed Krause, left tackle, and Dominic Vairo, left end, to fill in the left side of the line. Mike Koken will play at left half, but again the varsity must borrow two men to complete their backfield. Ray Brancheau will play right halfback and George Mel-inkovich will plunge from the fullback position.
Last Saturday the weekly scrimmages between the first four teams were even more fiercely contested than usual. The Blue team, representing the varsity, was able to score only one touchdown during the whole afternoon and that came, with only ten seconds to play, on a twenty-yard run by the fleet Andy Pilney.
The second team backfield of Pilney, Mazziotti, Elser, and Costello, put up the best performance of the afternoon. These men seemed to coordinate and team together better than did the other three sets of backs.
MAJOR DOMO
Jim Harris
Heads veterans’ eleven.
Mazziotti at quarterback showed promise of developing into a fine blocker and returned some punts very well. Rey Bonar, at quarterback for the Green team, proved to be a smart field-general, blocked well, and ran back punts very nicely. Johnny Young played a dandy game at left half for the first Blue team wth his plunging, whirling, and hard-running ball carrying.
Discover Good Kickers
Each week better kickers are coming to light. Last Saturday, Big Don Elser, hard-running fullback, who improves with every scrimmage, was booting the ball for fifty yards, while Frank Labome, left halfback, seemed to have recovered his old kicking form when he hit over sixty yards with his spiraling punts. Bill Shakespeare, new left halfback, has also exhibited some classy kicking in the past few scrimmages.
'Along with a plentiful supply of kickers, this squad seems blessed with accurate and sharp-shooting passers. Al Costello, Andy Pilney, Don Elser, and Johnny Young have shown remarkable accuracy on their throws, while Dom Vairo and Davis have done some very capable receiving.
Unusual defensive strength within their own thirty-yard lines was shown (Continued on Page 31)
The
Fleet's in
at
^Kuehn’s
Our “fleet” of Sport Shoes is in — and are they keen looking!
There are whites, tans, and the popular two-tone combinations in buck, elk, and calf — either plain or perforated.
You’ll find them easy on your feet and your allowance too — and you’ll have enough left to wear them places after buying them.
Beacons $3, $4 and $5 Bostonians $5, $6.50
MASTER FITTED
120 5. Michigan Street South Bend, Ind.

Twenty-four
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING Leo Dilling
By John D. Carbine
Leo Dilling won the 60 yard dash in the Purdue meet this winter. He barely won it, for his teammates, Nockles and Huller, pressed him all of the way. But it seemed that the fates decreed that Leo should win. For three years he had been constantly striving to win a Notre Dame monogram; for two years he had failed. And now after four years of untiring effort, he has put himself in an advantageous spot for gaining his monogram by that narrow victory in the Purdue meet.
Attended Emerson High
Dilling began his running at Fairview High School of Northeastern Kansas. But the family, in the middle of Leo’s sophomore year, moved to Gary, Indiana. Dilling then entered Emerson High of Gary, where he really began his athletic career. His first big moment came in his sophomore year when he raced to victory
Style
Q^HAMPION of the world
More MEN, the world around, buy Stetson hats than any other brand. They’re style leaders on Bond Street and the Paris boulevards as they are on Park Avenue. . . . Rich, new colors — superbly finished felts — genuine Stetsons, every one, for as little as $5. Fit one on and know springs really here!
John B. Stetson
Philadelphia	New "York	Loadoa
Paris
and a new regional record for the 100 yard dash in the sectional interscholastic track meet held at Elkhart. In his junior year, he broke the Indiana
Interscholastic record for the hundred with the remarkable high school time of 9.9.
Although Leo was more gifted in
Company
track, he was more interested in football. He played half back on the Emerson teams of 1927 and 1928 both of which took Steve Banas’ Catholic Central outfits into camp. Steve and Leo are now roommates and many an argument ensues on what school should have won those games. Leo usually wins the arguments—he has the facts on his side.
Dilling also played against Nick Lukats when Nick was performing for Froebel of Gary. Leo was rather reluctant to give the scores of these games so we must assume that things didn’t break so well for Emerson when playing against Froebel.
Leo came to Notre Dame in the fall of 1929. He reported for freshman football and won a place on the first team playing along side of his erstwhile rival, Steve Banas. Football over, Dilling went out for freshman track and succeeded in winning his second numeral sweater.
Tried Football
Dilling always cherished the pet ambition of playing football for Notre Dame. But, unfortunately, he picked for his spot on the varsity the right half position in which that brilliant all-American Marty Brill was performing in 1930. Brill left in 1931 but he was followed by Sheeketski and Brancheau, who made life more or less miserable for Dilling. But Leo would not give up. He stuck it out for four years, always hoping that the breaks would finally turn his way. That they did not was not because he failed to try. He was, through four seasons, out for practice every night—never getting the varsity, but always fighting. “An unsung hero,” Steve Banas calls him. Perhaps Steve’s characterization is the best.
In his sophomore year, Leo reported for track. He made the squad but did not meet with any great success. In his junior year he did not go out because of a leg injury received during the football season. This winter, however, he again reported for track to win the 60-yard dash in the Purdue meet and by his victory, five of the fifteen points necessary for a monogram.
Leo and Steve are going to do a dance in this year’s Monogram “High Jinks.” It seems that during the course of the said dance, Leo is going to knock Steve down. “It will be great when I get to knock Banas over,” confides Leo. “It’s the only chance you will ever get,” retorts Steve.
April 7, 1933
Twenty-five
No Daisy Chain Effect In Game Tomorrow—M’Cabe
By Joe McCabe
What has so often been an empty tradition of the spring football training season — the Oldtimers Game — threatens to be a fierce combat this Saturday. It is customary for the veterans to waddle through the game with as little effort as possible to spare their aging legs, relying on their experience to take them to the right spot at the right time—usually the spot where the ball carrier is least likely to be.
The warcries of past seasons are replaced by repartee of the Noel Coward type and everything combines to lend the spectacle the approximate savagery of Daisy Chain Day at Smith.
I say ‘approximate’ because the Smith girls play hockey games with Harvard and have been known to grow very fierce, particularly against a raw decision. Whereas the Oldtime veterans usually hail raw decisions with the cheerful equipois of a butch
er who has been overpaid for underweight, thus assuring the spectators that it is all right as we are all sons of Notre Dame, only some of us have been unfortunate enough to graduate.
However the word is around that things are going to be different this Saturday. This has been told to me by at least three members of the Retiring Veterans Union, and has been accompanied by a look in the eye which my old idol, Burt L. Standish, would describe as ominous, or at least foreboding.
It seems that some of the plebes, as we call them down here at Annapolis, have not observed the traditional humility expected of them, which consists in believing that the man who played the position last year was AllAmerica stuff, even though he got in only because the two men ahead of him were believers in private interpretation of textbooks.
In fact pride is so rampant that
there have even been criticisms of the manner in which certain plays were executed last year, the young ’uns averring that ‘murdered’ would be the better descriptive word.
This is entirely contrary to custom, and the Elders of the House That Rock Built have pronounced that punishment for the heresy will be swift and thorough, by the process of knocking ears off. (From the construction of some of the freshmen the effect of this will be salutary more than punitive.)
The affair will be undeniably interesting to watch, particularly—if you will pardon this old eye a tear—from the sentimental point of view. For many of the veterans it will be the last game. The last time we shall see the bull-like Harris, the burly Greeney, the fleet, sturdy Koken, and the elusive, darting punt-retums of Laurie Vejar and Norb Christman, Captain Host, Joe Kurth, Chuck Jaskwhich— the last time they will draw on football pants. (As we hear the pro football field is overcrowded, although there’s always room at the top.) And we imagine they will be glad of it by the time they are ready to pull the pants off.
(Continued on Page 27)
Home For Easter Vacation!
Round Trip from South Bend to
CHICAGO
Take advantage of this low rate if you are going to Chicago for the Easter holiday.
Tickets will be on sale April 10 to 13, inclusive, with final return limit April 24.
See Janies McGrath, No. 1 Morrissey Hall for complete information.
South Shore Line
Every Hour on the Hour Between South Bend and Chicago.
O. A. CLARK'S
RESTAURANT
104-106 North Michigan Street
South Bend’s Oldest and Most Reliable Eating House
| Catering to > NOTRE DAME MEN ? for over thirty years <
Complete Dinner - - 35c to 50c
For a Real Man’s Meal Drop in Any Time.
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
FIGHTING IRISH
We wish to plead mis-information as the cause for our item last week on the origin of the name “Fighting Irish.” We cited a 1909 incident as the first mention of the name.
On page 14 of this issue is an accurate, fragmentary indication of the birth and development of Notre Dame’s nickname. We recommend it to all of you. In the interest of accuracy and for the purpose of makng yourselves well informed on Notre Dame tradition, we think it is a story you all should read.
MINOR SPORTS
In the sports columns of The Scholastic during the past weeks have been numerous accounts of minor sports developments on the campus. Tennis, golf, fencing, the Bengal Boxing Show, a rifle team, handball tournaments, the S. A. C. swimming meet, and other similar events have been chronicled with more than a usual amount of space.
We feel that such publicity of the less known sports is justified because they form a very definite side of Notre Dame’s athletic program. Their position is as desirable as it is definite.
We are glad to see the present boom in minor sports. Boasting one of the best major sports systems in collegiate America and probably the most complete intramural football, basketball, baseball, and track organization in the country, we think that a development of minor sports at the University with an eye towards increased intercollegiate competition in these lines, is a timely and very much worthwhile procedure. There is much room for profitable progress in an official minor sports program.
BASEBALL
As we held forth on minor sports earlier in the column, we did not intend to convey the idea that we were pushing them to displace any of the four big branches of athletics here.
One of those four will get underway next Saturday when George Keogan’s baseball team opens its season at Chicago. The Irish baseball coach apparently has the makings of a great team in his squad this year. He has been tremendously handicapped by inclement weather during the past two weeks.
However, it is safe to predict that the Irish will have a team that will
stand up with the best collegiate nines in the country. The pitching is naturally an unknown quality before the season, but the defensive strength and hitting power of the club have been plainly indicated.
Baseball is deserving of more support from the student body than was its share last spring. We hope to see bigger crowds at this year’s games, crowds that have the sort of enthusastic interest that a Notre Dame varsity sport should elicit from a Notre Dame audience, crowds that want to see, and will see, nine innings or more of well played college baseball at each home appearance.
ON “MOOSE”
From the Marquette Tribune via Hank Schroeder, N. D. ex-’34, this week, a clipping on Notre Dame’s “Moose” Krause.
Says the Tribune’s sports columnist in recounting the superlatives of Marquette basketball history:
“Greatest foeman: Ed Krause of Notre Dame. If you saw that battle at the Auditorium last March 7 and happened to be around any other time he was in against Marquette, you’d see for yourself.”
OFFICERS OF NOTRE DAME MILITARY CLUB WILL ATTEND BANQUET
LEMONTREES
Optometrists
222% S. Michigan Street	102 W. Washington Street
GLASSES . . .
Properly styled and properly prescribed to give better vision and more comfort by competent specialists.
(Exclusive for those particular people who are interested in good eye-care.)
□
Broken lenses duplicated promptly and accurately.
Officers and faculty advisers of the Notre Dame Reserve Officers’ Club will be guests of the South Bend Chapter of the Club at a banquet to be held at the American Legion Hall tonight. Major Bondi, who is in charge of the organization in this section of the country, will be one of the speakers on the program.
The Notre Dame organization has not yet received the consent of Major Bondi to start a troop school here but his approval is expected soon. There is also a possibility that the club may receive membership in the Scabbard and Blade, a national college military organization.
Requirements for entrance into the Reserve Officers’ Club have been made more strict. It is now necessary to have completed at least four years of C. M. T. C. work, or three years of R. O. T. C. training, or to have spent two years in the National Guard to gain admission into the group.
April 7,1933
Twenty-seven
UNEMPLOYMENT
(Continued from Page 15)
groups, study of our experience till the present can give no definite conclusions, hut it has indicated a number of limitations. Cyclical unemployment, in its full scope, is uninsurahle. Too many men are affected, for too long a time; extent in number and in time is indeterminable. Without governmental aid, a limited benefit alone would be possible.
A Limited Benefit Plan
Technological unemployment, too, is still a mystery. Some authorities go even so far as to deny its existence, arguing that men displaced are reabsorbed into luxury trades created by increased purchasing power which results from the saving in commodity prices effected by machines. Others, the Technocrats, state that were production conducted efficiently and our machines used full time, the number of unemployed would increase almost indefinitely. Here too, a limited benefit plan of insurance might be tried. By that we mean a plan under which the insurer contracts to pay insurance benefits only to the extent of the fund created.
Bankruptcy of the fund to be taken as a sign of failure and necessity for discontinuance.
Seasonal unemployment would seem the most naturally adaptable. A risk exists, it is measurable, it can be determined. There remains only the initial fund, which can be built up over a period of years before the plan goes into effect. Yet even this phase of the problem is subject to cyclical changes, provision against which would have to be made.
General Insurance Impossible
To summarize briefly, that type of unemployment which comes to the in-dustirous, efficient workman, lasting for a relatively short period of time, can be compensated for by insurance principles. To do so, would require that the amount of benefit, as well as the duration of benefit payment, and a sufficient premium calculated. Each industry and each individual would present a new problem, as would each change in business conditions.
On the basis of European and American experience, theory, and authority, we have come to the conclusion that general unemployment insurance, from a strict actuarial viewpoint, is admittedly impossible. Seasonal unemployment, in a restrict
ed degree, by governments, and de-cidely limited phases of cyclical and technological unemployment by individual concerns, may prove practicable.
Italian Line Arranges Pilgrimages To Rome
Realizing that thousands of American Catholics will respond to the wishes of His Holiness, Pope Pius XI, that the faithful of the world “come
BUY QUALITY That's~All We Sell
Cheer up! Dress up!
Good news? You bet it’s good news. Now you can buy the clothes you’ve wanted — at a price you’ve wanted to pay, S21.50 — the price of twenty years ago — that’s the price of
Hart, Schaffner & Marx New Easter
SUITS
See these famous suits in the new Wales Stripes, Wales Plaids and many
Other Easter 2-Pants
Suits at $20 and Topcoats at $15, $20 and $25
Sam’l Spiro & Co.
Home of Hart Schaffner & Marx Clothes
in very large numbers in pious pilgrimages to this city . . . and to the Holy Places of Palestine,” the Italian Line is making special arrangements for a series of pilgrimages to Rome and the Holy Land during the Holy Year.
The pilgrimages will begin with the sailing of the “Conte di Savoia” from New York on March 18. There will be frequent voyages throughout the year. The first schedule is timed so that pilgrims may visit Rome or the Holy Land during Holy Week.
which he stopped a 9 lb. cannon ball shot from a fully charged cannon. The audience gasped when the gun flashed and the human Gibraltar stepped forward out of the smoke uninjured, with the 9 lb.
It’s fun to be fooled__
The trick lay in the way an assistant prepared the cannon for the performance. He used the regulation amount of powder and wadding, but placed the greater part of the charge of powder ahead of the shot. The cannon ball was propelled only by the small charge behind it which was just sufficient to lob the 9 lb. ball over to the strong man.
Q
It is a fact, well known by
KEPT FRESH IN THE WELDED HUMIDOR
KO TRICKS
JUST COSTIIBR
TOBACCOS
IN A MATCHLESS BLEND
.its more tun to kimuw
A performance sometimes staged in cigarette advertising is the illusion that cigarettes are made easy on the throat by some special process of manufacture.
explanation*. All cigarettes are made in almost exactly the same way. Manufacturing methods are
standard and used by all. A cigarette is only as good as the tobaccos it contains.
Camels are made from finer, MORE EXPENSIVE tobaccos than any other popular brand.
In costly tobaccos you will find mildness, good taste, throat-ease.
Smoke Camels critically, and give your taste a chance to appreciate the greater pleasure and satisfaction offered by the more expensive tobaccos. Other cigarettes, we believe, will taste flat and insipid to you forever after.
Thirty
The Scholastic
FR. CAVANAUGH’S SERMON
(Continued from Page 16)
of Holy Cross had ever more loyal devotion to Notre Dame. During the 35 years of his professorship, he was content to receive the salary of a high-class domestic or a chauffeur. This was a necessity of those heroic days when the total net income of the / university for the year was $20,000, to be devoted to growth and expansion. And yet the Colonel towards the end of his days was able out of the scant earnings of so consecrated a life to bestow an endowment of $30,000 an average of nearly a thousand dollars per teaching year—on our sem-‘ inary for the education of priests of Holy Cross to whom he was from beginning to end of his career so beautifully and ardently devoted.
“Simplicity . . . Vivacity”
“Every great historic campus is sure to have its picturesque figures, its quaint characters. No one who knew the colonel can ever forget his gigantic virtues and characteristics. No man surpassed him in substantial wisdom, in sobriety of judgment, in hard practical common sense. But what made him specially beloved were the simplicity, the amiability, the pleasant, cheering vivacity, that clung like vines around his giant strength and power. His speech and behavior were of a maidenly modesty and no one ever took a liberty with him. He had a humorous story for every mom' ent of the conversation, but never did anyone hear a word, phrase, suggestion from his lips that suggested, in slightest measure, anything unrefined or unclean. He was completely virtuous himself, so utterly honest he could not conceive anything less perfect in another, and therefore whenever complaint was made in any respect about his law students, the colonel was at once transformed into a quick-firing and thunderous battalion of artillery in their defense. Certainly they did not always deserve this chivalrous protection; certainly, also, they were the better their whole life long for knowing that the Colonel defended them and believed in them. His life was completely innocent but he was not over quixotic and he . was worldly wise in this sense, that he knew as a child knows and understands the words of the examination of conscience in the prayerbook. His days were laborious, his whole life was sacrificial and knightly. He was widely and deeply learned in his ponderous polysyllabic way. He was one of the
great figures in the long succession of notable Notre Dame professors. He bore his own great part in the making of our alma mater.
“Colonel William Hoynes will be re-member^^with love and reverence on this campus until the last who knew him follow him to eternity. His life will be example and inspiration for generations to come.”
OLD TIMERS TOUGH
(Continued from Page 25)
For the kids are in shape, where most of the Olds are not. The game will resolve itself into the old contest between youth and brawn and age and experience which used to be good for so many pages in Sport Stories Monthly. It will accomplish one thing to the interest of all: in the event of any Gillette decisions (cf: Southern Cal. game 1931) against the veterans we shall gain some idea of the popularity of the Roosevelt policy among the A. E. F. The game is sponsored by the Monogram club and there will be an admission fee of 15 cents.
CANDIES
. . . and Salted Nuts
Fresh Every Day from our South Bend Kitchen.
V
THRIFT SPECIAL ... 50c lbf FAMILY ASSORTMENT . 60c lb.
FRUITS AND NUTS . . 70c lb.
. V
Special Attention to Mailing
Open Evenings and Sundays
V
Mrs. Thompson’s Candy Shop, Inc.
Phone 4-5491	h the Oliver Hotel
GOLF PRACTICE
(Continued from Page 21)
A number of outstanding golfers have cropped up in the freshman aspirants, another thing which has encouraged Father Ott considerably.
Win Day, winner of the fall tournament last year, appears to be headed for a certain berth on the ’36 team, but he will receive some stiff competi- i tion for first honors from Herman । Green, and Louis Lange, both of whom turned in good scores this week.
The first varisty match of the intercollegiate season is scheduled for April 22, with Loyola University at Chicago.	.	’
ARMOUR RELAYS
(Continued from Page 20)
Blue and Gold here earlier in the year.
The broad jump once again brought out the ability of Eddie Gough. With a jump of 22 feet, 3 inches, Eddie finished second to Brooks of Chicago.
April 7, 1933
Thirty-one
GRID GAME TOMORROW
(Continued from Page 23)
by both Blue and Green outfits. The outstanding lineman of the day was rotund Harry Wunsch, roly-poly guard, who made tackle after tackle behind the opposing line of scrimmage and who, with a little improvement on his offensive blocks, should be in line for' Jim Harris’ vacant berth. Joe Pivamik turned in his usual fine offensive and defensive play at guard; Bernie Witucki, tough little
center, played good defensive ball and led the other centers in the passing department. Esser played well at left tackle.
Three ends were outstanding—Hugh Devore with his fierce tackling, good pass receiving, and fine blocking; Sturla Canale with his fine defensive play at left end, and Wayne Millner, another left end, who turned in play after play on the defense and proved very fast in going down under punts.
The delays caused during past weeks by inclement weather have
forced Coach Anderson to continue practice for a short period after the Easter recess. After the return from the Easter vacaton, Coach Anderson will make hs delayed division of the squad into teams. There will be an “A” group using the Notre Dame system, and a “B” group playing with the systems used by their fall opponents.
Women school teachers in Great Britain are revolting against a ban on married women teachers.
An Opportunity for Rich Spiritual Rewards ... in your
HOlYYEARfc
Choose the smooth SOUTHERN ROUTE to all EUROPE and the HOLY LAND via the Mediterranean
REX	Conte di SAVOIA
AUGUSTUS ROMA Conte GRANDE and Cosulich Liners VULCANIA	SATURNIA
ROUND TRIP FARES from $162.50 (Third Clai«}—depending on accommodations and ship selected.
ROME
HOLY LAND
In his recent proclamation, the Holy Father emphasized the rich spiritual rewards to be granted those who visit Rome during the Holy Year. No Catholic who is in a position to go should hesitate to take advantage of this opportunity.
By going via the smooth Southern Route, the voyage can be made on ships providing unequalled facilities for religious devotion at sea . . . many with beautiful chapels—ail with facilities for hearing Mass. This distinguished fleet, headed by the new super-liners "REX" and "Conte di SAVOIA" offers direct service to Italy and Rome with connections for all Europe and the Holy Land.
HOLY YEAR PILGRIMAGES
To supplement this service, the Italian Line is also offering a series of Holy Year Pilgrimages embracing Italy, Egypt and the Holy places of Palestine. Complete information and detailed itineraries will be sent upon request.
Apply local tourist agent or One State Street, New York, N. V.
@ ITALIAN LINE
AdNo.G-7439
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
On Down The Line
Fred MecBeth^^_=i
REGGIE McNAMARA, veteran six-day bicycle rider, has been competing in races for 27 years ... in that time he has traveled approximately 125,000 MILES on tracks all over the world . . . WINNIPEG (CANADA,) a city with a population of 200,000, boasts of 27 golf courses . . . PAAVO NURMI, FINNISH TRACK STAR, will run at the CHICAGO WORLD FAIR . . . perhaps as a professional . . . with the belief that a hurdler is hampered, not aided, when he knocks down a hurdle, the INTERCOLLEGIATE A. A. A. A. has passed a rule whereby a hurdler may knock down any number of hurdles and still get credit for a record, should he make one.
FIFTY-FIVE pounds is the weight of the average racing greyhound. . . women golfers played 35 per cent of the 80,0000,000 rounds of golf totaled in the UNITED STATES during 1932. . . . GENE SARAZEN HAS PICKED AN ALL-AMERICAN TEAM OF GOLFERS. . . . ONE PLAYER FOR EACH OF THE TWELVE CLUBS... DRIVER, BOBBY JONES; BRASSIE, GEORGE VON ELM; SPOON, PAUL RUNYAN; No. 1 IRON, MACDONALD SMITH; No. 2, OLIN DUTRA; No. 3, TOMMY ARMOUR; No. 4, WALTER HAGEN; No. 5, LEO DIEGEL; No. 6, FRANCIS OUIMET; No. 7, CRAIG
EA’/ REDUCTION W/o in RAILROAD FARES for Students’ Spring Vacation
ONE FARE for ROUND TRIP in coaches only
Tickets may be purchased to many points in the United States good going and returning on dates conforming to closing and opening of College. For > further particulars consult railroad ticket agent.
SAVE TIME - TRAVEL BY TRAIN in SAFETY and COMFORT
WOOD, and PUTTER, JOHNNY FARRELL .... DUKE KAHANA-MOKU, international! famous swimmer and former OLYMPIC CHAMPION, is operating a gasoline service station in HONOLULU.
BILL TILDEN says there are 100 MEN TENNIS PLAYERS WHO COULD BEAT MRS. HELEN WILLS MOODY . . . MAXIE ROSENBLOOM traveled 73,000 miles to box 30 times in 25 cities during 1932 ... he does most of his traveling by automobile . . . recently he did 1400 miles from MILWAUKEE to NEW YORK with BUT ONE HOUR’S SLEEP . . . JOHN McGRAW missed training this spring for the first time in 43 years . . . CHARLEY DEVENS, who learned baseball at HARVARD, is ping-pong champion of the NEW YORK YANKEES . . . “BLONDY” RYAN, rookie shortstop of the GIANTS, once threw a 60-yard pass that gave HOLY CROSS a football victory over HARVARD.
SYDNEY FRANKLIN, BROOKLYN BULL FIGHTER, says the most sensitive parts of a BULL’S ANATOMY are the tips of its horns . . ■ he should know. . . . BILL TERRY, manager of the GIANTS, has banned the wearing of ‘‘LUCKY” SHIRTS, CAPS, SOCKS, etc., by his players . . . . this will be a blow to CARL HUBBELL and his flaming red shirt . . . . LIONEL HITCHMAN, defense star of the BOSTON BRUINS,
learned to “get his man” as a member of the ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE. . . . DAZZY VANCE’S CONTRACT with the CARDINALS CALLS FOR A BONUS IF HE WINS A CERTAIN NUMBER OF GAMES. . . JIMMY BRITT once offered $50 to any fighter who could KNOCK OFF HIS MONOCLE. . . . BABE DIDRIKSON SEEMS TO HAVE FADED OUT OF THE PICTURE ENTIRELY.
STARTING BLOCKS
(Continued from Page 21)
that he has been coached and has done a lot of running.
Because of this Coach Nicholson still stands firm on his belief that the time of a star runner is not effected by his invention.
The question then arises as to why, if there is no difference, are starting blocks employed? The answer is simply this, that digging holes at the correct angles takes an unnecessary length of time and thus the blocks are put to use in every meet in which the officials have any love for precision and smooth running of the events on the card.
Nick Wants Action
There is also a possible danger of injury as a result of digging holes all over the track. Even when the turf is replaced, there is a danger of sprained ankles if the runners trod on the replaced soft turf. In a recent meet, in which the Irish indoor crew participated, the holes used by the dash men were not filled in after use and injuries might easily have taken place as a result.
Because the starting blocks are shunned by the governing body of amateur track, stars who are out to set a new record in an event sometimes frown on them and dig holes so that if they do establish a new mark, they will be sure of getting it accepted. This is liable to have a bad psychological effect on a new runner who views this. The green man will see that the ace does not employ the starting blocks and will refuse to use them himself. This will diminish his effectiveness considerably.
What will be the ultimate outcome of the present tangle is not certain, - but “Nick” plans to swing into action this summer and ask that his invention either be totally accepted or completely barred.

After College WHAT?
Journalism?
Thomas W. Gerber of the executive staff of the United Press says: "Seeking, reporting, interpreting and distributing news is today a complex business, an exciting profession, a responsible career. It is a field only for serious-minded, dear-thinking men and women. The day of romantic, adventurous assignments is largely over.”
THERE’S no more " newspaper game.” Today, it’s a business— still exciting, but calling for all-round resourcefulness. That’s why newspaper men agree with college men in choosing a pipe as their favorite smoke. A pipe helps a man organize his mind for clear thinking.
Why did college men choose Edgeworth as their favorite smoking tobacco?* Because it’s individual! A blend of fine old'hurleys that’s different.
But the proof of the pudding is in the eating. So drop a line to Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va., and let them send you a free sample of Edgeworth to try before you buy. You’ll like it!
*A recent investigation showed Edgeworth the favorite smoke at 42 out of 54 leading colleges.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms—Edgeworth Ready - Rubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. All sizes—15^ pocket package to pound humidor tin. Some sizes in vacuum sealed tins.
Were you
Born
Tired?
When you see Niagara Falls on the package, you KNOW you have Shredded Wheat.
HO, HUM . . . another day, another dollar. But why let it put you in a state of vertical collapse, when the nearest campus eating place has the best pick-me-up awaiting your command?
It’s Shredded Wheat, the food that’s VITALLY DIFFERENT, that puts the spring in your step. Some folks call it “energy by the bowlful.” And it is—for Shredded Wheat is whole wheat, the one cereal grain that’s packed with proteins, carbohydrates, minerals and vitamins. AU these vital, lifesustaining elements—nothing add
SHREDDED WHEAT
A product of NATIONAL BISCUIT COMPANY “Uneeda Bakers’*

ed, nothing taken away—come to you in Shredded Wheat. With just the right amount of bran, measured for you by Nature.
You’ll like the taste. Millions say they do. Have it served any way you like—with milk or cream, fresh or preserved fruit. It will even put new life in your pocketbook ... it's a lot of food for a little!