uwuaNK
SEK
* a k a n r	0
rroM ‘he Libre;;
FEBRUARY 14, 1936
^6e NOTRE DAME
Scholastic
0B3RSRSHS9COK5CSraiSKXBBSB9SESKKn9KSeSSK9BSfinS^^^
GLASSES Properly FITTED
COLLEGE PARADE
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BERRY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. Michigan St. South Bend, Indiana
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
Established 30 Years
OPTOMETRISTS
222^ South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
▼
The success of your school year will largely depend on the efficiency of your eyes.
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
By Anthony F. O’Boyle
With daily journals the country over laying down a constant barrage of printer’s ink about old age insurance, workman’s compensation insurance, and unemployment insurance it is interesting to read that one of the nation’s foremost educational institutions, the University of California, has also been giving the insurance question considerable discussion but in a totally different fashion.
According to an article in The Daily Californian, the daily student publication of that school, an insurance program for 750 University of California athletes who are engaged at the present time in intercollegiate athletic competition is being considered. A broker has been called in to assist those attempting to install such a program “at rates that are not prohibitive.” The adherents of this insurance idea contend that any athlete merits full protection when he is engaged in athletic competition as a representative of his school since in so participating he is aiding his Alma Mater. On the other hand those opposed to such a project maintain that “hard knocks” are to be expected when one is engaged in sports and that if the insurance plan were adopted it would tend to commercialize intercollegiate athletics and remove all traces of true amateur status. The coaching staff of California, according to the article in the student publication, was “wholeheartedly in favor of the move.”
—o—
Among the headlines of recent collegiate exchanges we particularly noticed the following:
“Kidnaping, Head Shaving Deliberate, Say Abductors” and “Kidnaping General Institute Problem.” from The Tech (Massachusetts Institute of Technology).
—o—
“Statistics Prove Girls Go To College To Get Husbands.” from The Daily Northwestern (Northwestern Univ.).
—o—
“Cramming Sends Book Circulation To All-Time High. Increased Sedative Sales Reported By Cafes That Cater . To Students.” from The Daily Kansan (Univ, of Kansas).
—o—
“College Glee Club To Air Tonsils Tuesday.” from St. John’s Collegian.
—o—	'
With the Junior Prom inaugurating social festivities at Notre Dame for the current semester we offer for comparison (and in a tone of consolation if you insist) to those students plan
ning on attending the affair two regulations that were imposed upon the fair sex who attended dances at Auburn University recently. (1) All visiting young ladies will sign in at their respective quarters with the representative of The Dean of Women within 30 minutes after the close of the dance each night. (2) Hours for signing in for the three night, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday respectively are 10 p.m., 10 p.m., and 9 p.m.
PICTURE OF A MAN KEEPING APPOINTMENT IN CHICAGO ON TIME!
Why is the man smiling? Surely, dear students, you recognize the old South Shore Line “dependability” grin! He has arrived in Chicago safely and on time for an important appointment.
SOUTH SHORE LINE OPERATES RIGHT TO THE MINUTE!
No other’ method of transportation between South Bend and Chicago combines speed and comfort with such assuring dependability. You’re always on time when you ride the South Shore electric trains and the cost is low, too.
Two
The Scholastic
CALENDAR
Friday, February 14
Rev. Robert Lord, S.J., final lecture on “The Saints,” at 8:00 p.m. “Scholastic of the Air” from campus radio studio over WSBT 3:15. Scholastic staff meeting, editorial staff 6:30, general staff 7:00 p.m. Basketball, Notre Dame vs. New York University in New York. Fencing, Notre Dame vs. Ohio State in the Gymnasium.
Saturday, February 15
Track meet, Notre Dame vs. Marquette at 2:30 in the Gymnasium. Fencing, Notre Dame vs. Chicago, Gymnasium. Movie, Washington Hall at 6:45 and 8:15 p.m.
Sunday, February 16
Student Masses Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 o’clock.
Monday, February 17
Broadcast from campus station over WSBT and WIND, 7:00, Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C. Reader’s Spotlight radio program from campus station over WSBT, 4:30 p.m. “The Story of Ecclesiastical Music” by Rev. James W. Connerton, C.S.C., WSBT, 7:30.
Tuesday, February 18
Notre Dame vs. St. Viator debate, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m. Speech Department broadcast from campus station over WSBT, 4:30 p.m. Meeting Campus Radio Group, Engineering Building, 8:00 p.m.
Wednesday, February 19
Radio program from campus station over WSBT, 4:30, Joe Boland.
Thursday, February 20
Broadcast from campus station over WSBT, 4:30 p.m.
ANNUALS ❖ BOOKLETS
PRINTED OR ENGRAVED
INVITATIONS DANCE PROGRAMS STATIONERY ANNOUNCEMENTS
REQUEST NUMBER
•	To acquire a gay, easy feeling of nonchalance, it is necessary to know that you are well turned out . . .
•	Before your next formal, call on the Arrow dealer and request an Arrow. dress shirt, collar, tie, and handkerchief, and be assured of authentic correct style to the last detail.
•	See the new Vendome Dress Shirt, $3
ARROW AAA
Send Notre Dame Home . .
SCHOLASTIC and SCRIP
for the remainder of the year
$1.50
V
McCLAVE PRINTING CO.
GRAPHIC ARTS CRAFTSMEN 4-7361	435 E. LASALLE. SOUTH BEND
See Publications Office -	- Main Building
February 14, 1936
Three
INDOOR TRACK SEASON OPENS AT NOTRE DAME
Coach John P. Nicholson's trackmen will open their home indoor season tomorrow afternoon in the local fieldhouse against Marquette. Coach Nicholson is now serving his ninth year as track mentor of the Irish forces.
George Beyer Meagher of De Pue, Illinois, a senior in the College of Science, is the Captain of the 1936 team.
At the right is a view of the vast throng that witnessed the Notre Dame 48 to 47 win over Marquette last year.
The action photograph at the left shows Bob Bernard winning the 440 yard run against the Hilltoppers.
Four
The Scholastic
i
The Notre Dame Scholastic
[Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing! at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.J
Volume LXIX
February 14, 1936
No. 15
FIEWEGER TO DELIVER WASHINGTON ORATION
Fr. Lord To Conclude
Lecture Series Tonight
By John Hurley
The Rev. Robert Lord, famed historian and author, will conclude his series of lectures tonight at eight o’clock in the auditorium of the Law building. His topic will be “The Saints.” In this lecture Father Lord will treat especially Charles Borromeo, Francis De Sales, Peter Claver, Vincent De Paul, Theresa, and John of the Cross.
Father Lord spoke Sunday evening on the “Beginnings of the Reform Movement.” In this lecture he briefly spoke of the corruption in the Catholic church during the sixteenth century. He went on to point out how at the very moment the Church needed reform there appeared men and agencies to undertake it.
Spoke On Council of Trent
Tuesday and Wednesday evenings Father Lord had for his topic, “The Council of Trent.” He spoke in some detail about the council itself, its composition and the grave problems that confronted it. .
“The Council of Trent,” he said, “was a point of crisis in the history of the Church. If the council could have been influenced,” he continued, “by the strong political pressure of the monarchs of the time or by the pressure of the dissenting Protestant bodies, the Church would, in all probability, not be in existence today.”
He went on to point out that the kings . wanted political concessions, and the. Protestants wanted the Church to give up some of the most important of her doctrines.
Continuing, he said, “Comromise was therefore impossible. It turned out tp be a glorious vindication of the .authority of the Pope.” . Father Lord’s topic Thursday-evening was “The New Religious- Orders.” In this lecture he. discussed the various religious orders that had their origin during the reform movement, mentioning, in particular, the Jesuits. He spoke of the admirable character of the men who belonged to these orders, and the great part they played in reforming the Church. He
February 14, 1936
SENIORS TO PRESENT FLAG TO UNIVERSITY IN TRADITIONAL WASHINGTON DAY CELEBRATION
CLASS ORATOR
William H. Fieweger
“. . . on this hallowed ground. .
REV. DUFF TO LECTURE
The Reverend Edward Duff, head of the Chaplains’ Division of the United States Navy, will give a lecture on the “Unknown Soldier,” to the student body on Tuesday evening, February 18.
Father Duff recently completed a tour of the leading naval stations where his lectures were warmly received and his popularity as a speakei-strengthened. His long experience as a service chaplain makes Father Duff a most capable man to speak on the subject selected.
NOTICE
The Commerce Forum will hold a social meeting in Carroll Recreation Hall at 7:45 p.m., Wednesday, Feb. 19.
went on to tell of their struggles for existence, and the sacrifices they made for their faith. He praised especially .the character and genius of St. Francis Xavier.
Father Lord, educated at Harvard and Northwestern universities, became a Catholic while teaching at Harvard. Becoming certain that the Catholic Church was the only true one he gave--up his position, and later became a priest. Today he is acclaimed as one of .America’s leading Catholic historians,- and several of his books are considered as authoritative in the field of history. •
By Lindsay Phoebus
William H. Fieweger, of Menasha, Wis., a senior in the College of Commerce will deliver the oration in connection with the annual Washington Day exercises in Washington hall next Friday, Feb. 22, as part of the presentation ceremonies for the traditional Senior class gift of a flag to the University.
Howard C. Cusack, president of the Senior class has appointed Charles J. Boyle, of Duluth, Minn., a senior in the College of Arts and Letters to the general chairmanship of the cere1 monies.
The graduating class of ’36 will march from the Main building to Washington hall, for the presentation, and will be dressed in academic cap’s and gowns. Details of arrangements will be in the hands of Wilbert j. Higgins, chairman of the cap and gown committee.
Class of ’97 Started Tradition
Other members of the committee appointed to make arrangements for the presentation have been announced as follows: John J. DeGarmo, of Niles, Ohio, and James C. O’Keefe, of Chicago, both students in the College of Arts and Letters; and William M. O’Connor, of Webster Groves, Mo., a student in the College of Commerce.
This custom of presenting a flag came into existence through the efforts of the Rev. Martin Regan, C.S.C., prefect of discipline at the University for more than 25 years. In 1896 Sam Murdock, who had been president of the graduating class ten years before that time, gave Father Regan a flag pole as a gift. This was set up south of the Post Office. When, later on, the pole was destroyed in a gale, it was replaced by a new one which stands in the present location.
At the suggestion of Father Regan, the senior class of ’97, considerably smaller in number than any of those now .-graduated from the University, started the. Washington’s Day tra-
(Continued on Page 6)
•	Five
ANNOUNCE COMMITTEMEN FOR PROM;
TICKETS TO INFORMAL WILL COST $4.50
Casasanta Announces Cast For “Tune In
Tea Dance Is On Saturday
Tickets for the Junior Prom will go on sale Monday and Tuesday afternoons, Feb. 17 and 18, it was announced this week by Chairman Harry Baldwin. The price has been set at $7.00 for both the Prom and Tea Dance, with tickets being sold separately at $4.50 for the Prom and $2.50 for the Saturday affair.
Committee arrangements for the Tea Dance are not complete, Chairman Baldwin announced. F. Steve Finan was being mentioned for chairmanship of the affair but his appointment was not definite. James O’Hara will be in charge of the ticket committee, while John Maloney will handle arrangements.
The Tea dance will be held at the Oliver Hotel, Saturday, Feb. 22, where dancing will be in progress from four until seven to the music of Al Stewart and his orchestra.
Net Game On Program
Special seating arrangements have been made for the Prom-goers at the Pittsburgh - Notre Dame basketball game Saturday night. Tickets for the game may be had by presenting athletic books and tea dance tickets at the athletic office in the Main building.
The office of Prefect of Discipline has announced that the usual disciplinary regulations will be in effect for the week-end of the Prom. Cars which are registered with the Prefect of Discipline may be used for the week-end.
The following is a complete list of the committees:
General Chairman, Harry A. Baldwin; executive chairman, Joseph C. McNally; music, James Bacon; tickets, Bernard Neizer; publicity, Robert Grogan; reception, Lawrence O’Donnell; invitations, Thomas Hayes; decorations, Gene Ling; floor, Lawrence Danbom; entertainment, Bernard Megin; favors, Edward Lynaugh; patrons, James Waldron.
STUDENTS HONORED
Fred S. McNeill,, senior in the school of architecture, and James D. Murphy, junior in the same department, received first mention, second highest possible award, from the New York Beaux Aits Institute.
“An=:Assyrian Temple” was McNeills work, while Murphy was honored for his “Cabin for a TransPacific Plane.” John W. Hackner also received honorable mention.
S i x
"TUNE IN"
Irwin L. Goldman
The Funny Fellow goes dramatic.
METROPOLITAN CLUB
Attempts to reorganize the defunct Met Club assumed a brighter aspect with the collection, at the last meeting held Tuesday evening, Feb. 11, of a substantial sum to meet the club’s debts.
The next meeting, for those interested in the reorganization, is scheduled for Monday, Feb. 10, at 6:30 p.m., in the Library basement.
COLLEGE AVIATION
(By Associated Collegiate Press)
There is a distinct possibility of a government subsidy for college aviation, in the opinion of W. D. Stroh-meier, Amherst senior who made a request appearance before the House Committee on Military Affairs recently.
According to information Stroh-meier received from Rep. John J. McSwain (Dem. S.C.), the committee is considering a bill to authorize the appropriation of federal funds for the encouragement of college flying, and provide 'for the formation of a junior air reserve corps made up of college fliers.
Strohmeier said he did not believe the bill intended anything resembling a regimented military organization.
WASHINGTON DAY
(Continued from Page 5) dition of buying and giving a large American flag to the University. "
No Senior class poet will present the usual ode to Washington this year. Up to the present, Boyle has not announced the time at which the exercises -will be held, nor what formalities, if any will be followed, regarding the class’s procedure to Washington Hall.	•
Casting of the Department of Music show, “Tune In,” was completed this week. Professor Joseph Casasanta, director, announced the assignment of principal parts after extensive try-outs. John Ryan, glee club soloist for four years, will play the part of Jerry Kennedy, lead in the play. Francis Schaeffer, Lindsay Phoebus, and Mark Finocchiaro also have leading roles.
James Manion will portray the role of Mr. Kroggins, sponsor of the commercial program around which the plot revolves. Dynamo Dave has been assigned to Robert Heywood, Irwin Goldman of University Theatre and Scholastic fame, will portray the role of J. Bottomley Binks, the announcer of the radio station.
Butler Has Part
In the part of Bob, the engineer, will be seen Al Butler. Blustering Joe Brown, owner of the station, will be portrayed by Ralph M. Cardinal, who scored a hit last year as Uncle Horace in “Take Your Medicine” at St. Mary’s. Producer Phipps will be impersonated by Tom Adam son. Chauncey Rooney, a “natural,” will be the comedian, Archibald Throckmorton.
The dance choruses to be employed in connection with several of the numbers, are under the direction of Walter Nienaber, assisted by Tom McCarthy and Jack McKendy.
Rehearsal will be held as usual tomorrow afternoon at 12:30 o’clock in music hall.
FOLEY TO GIVE TALK
The Notre Dame Group of the American Society for Metals will meet in the Engineering Building tonight to hear Francis B. Foley deliver an address on “Steel Alloys for High Temperature Service.” Mr. Foley has had long experience in the field of metallic and mechanical engineering, having been connected with various concerns and the government since 1905.
’	NOTICE!
Dr. Leo Kuntz, head of the Department of Secondary Education, reports the recent loss of a valuable blue silk scarf on the campus. He requests that the finder of the article return it to him in his office.
Twenty out of 57 universities and colleges recently questioned reports that they maintain motion picture service for about 5,000 other schools.
The Scholastic
Meyer Discusses A.A.A. / At Wrangler Gathering
Charles F. Meyers, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, gave a comprehensive discussion of the majority and minority opinion concerning the “A-A-A,” at the regular meeting of the Wranglers, last Tuesday evening, Feb. 11.
Eugene F. Malloy, president of the Wranglers, introduced Meyers as the speaker of the evening. The pivot on which Meyers based his discussion was the same as that on which the majority and minority conflict about the “A.A.A.” was based: “That a levy, unquestionably within the taxing power of Congress, may be treated as invalid, because it is a step in a plan to regulate agricultural production, and is thus a forbidden infringemen of state power.”
After an elaboration on this general introduction, Meyers summarized the minority case, pointing out the following facts: first, that Congress, through the Interstate Commerce Commission, has set aside intra-state railroad rates, and also, that it has made and destroyed industries by tariff. Finally he showed that these are said to be incidents of the commerce power and the power to levy duties on imports. The speaker declared that results become lawful when they are incidents of these powers, but unlawful when incident to the similarly granted power to tax and spend.
Following this, Meyer spoke of the minority’s statement which pointed out the absurd consequences which would follow the decision, and also of the fact that there was no coercion in the “Triple A.”
PROFESSOR COX SPEAKS
Correct pronunciation as an index of culture was emphasized by Professor Ronald Cox, of the University department of speech, in a talk given at the Rose Marie tea room Monday night to the members of the lay faculty club of the College of Arts and Letters.
Mr. Cox pointed out that .the English language has developed in separate channels. We are using an alphabet which is the same as in the time of Chaucer, but pronunciations which are several centuries removed.
Recent developments in the study of correct pronunciation have been toward the perfection of mechanical devices for the recording of various pronunciations in current use throughout the world. Professor Cox pointed out that further development of this research would eliminate the evil of arbitrary dictionary pronunciations which in the past have been based largely on popular usage in one particular section of a country.
February’ I 4, 1936
DEBATERS TO ENGAGE ST. VIATOR IN FIRST ENCOUNTER OF SEASON
Debater. . .
John Heywood
He’ll test St. Viator.
STAFF APPOINTMENTS
Five changes in the staff of The Scholastic were made this week by Editor John Moran when three new men were given staff appointments and two writers were promoted to editorial posts.
John A. Gillespie, junior from Westfield, New Jersey has been appointed feature editor. Gillespie has been writing feature material in the news section of The Scholastic throughout the year.
Eugene Vaslett, from Brooklyn, New York, a sophomore, has been elevated to the position of assistant sports editor. Vaslett was appointed to the Sports staff last year and has been handling major assignments this year.
John A. Torribio has been added to the staff and will write feature material. Torribio is a senior in the College of Arts and Letters and comes from Trinidad, Colorado.
Two names were added to the Art staff during the week when Editor Moran appointed Francis Kroeger, a sophomore from South Bend, Ind., and Daniel Sherrod, of Robinson, Illinois, a senior to assist Art Editor William Ellis.
Thirty-one candidates answered the call for candidates to try out for Scholastic staff positions Tuesday night. Twenty candidates applied for posts on the News Staff and eleven for the Sports department. Each candidate was given a test assignment and further appointments to the staff will be made within the next few weeks.
Changes in the staff were made with the approval of the Faculty Board.of Publications and are in accordance with the practice of enlarging the group at the start of the second semester each year.
Will Enter Two Tournaments
By Louis Da Pra
The University’s debate squad, coached by Professor William J. Coyne of the Speech department, will inaugurate the current oratorical season against St. Viator College, of Bourbonnais, Illinois, in a no-decision debate, Tuesday afternoon, February 18, in the auditorium of the Engineering Building.
Coach Coyne as yet has not officially named the University’s representatives in the season’s opener, but it is understood that the two men selected will be named from the following groups: John Heywood, Robert Burke, John Marbach. Burke and Marbach. are newcomers to the squad. Notre Dame will be seeking its 122nd intercollegiate debate victory since 1899.
Will Meet Pennsylvania
The question to be discussed is: “Resolved, that Congress should have power to override by a two-thirds majority vote decisions of the Supreme Court declaring laws passed by Congress unconstitutional.”
Next Thursday afternoon, February 20, the veterans, Robert Schmezle and Richard Meier, will represent the University in the intersectional debate against the University of Pennsylvania.
Pennsylvania will be represented by Seymour S. Kety, captain of the debate council, Phi Beta Kappa, Delta Sigma Rho, and Delta Phi Alpha from Philadelphia, and Mark T. Deibler, Jr., Phi Beta Kappa, and Tau Mu Epsilon from Glenside, Pennsylvania.
Tourney at North Manchester
On Friday, February 21, Coach Coyne will take the entire A and B squad to North Manchester, Indiana, to participate in the seventh annual Manchester debate tourney. In past years, Notre Dame has been highly successful in this tournament, and Professor Coyne is hopeful that the tourney will give him an indication of the strength of this year’s squad.
The following two weeks will be utilized in strenuous preparations for the Delta Sigma Rho debate tourney at the University of Iowa, at Iowa City, March 6-7.
Seven
Living Wage Legislation
Stressed By Fr. Bolger
Legislative action to establish a mandatory minimum wage law as a "protection of the fundamental right to decent livelihood” was advocated
Rev. William A. Bolger, C.S.C. “The Constitution should be amended”
by Rev. William A. Bolger, C.S.C., head of the economics department of the University, in a radio address over Station WGN, in Chicago, on Tuesday, Feb. 11.
Father Bolger pointed out that low wages will eventually break down the people’s faith in America as a land of liberty and opportunity. When industrial workers are in continuously poor economic circumstances bolshevist propaganda and agitation thrives.
The Constitution of the United States does not provide a protection for the worker in his right to livelihood, Father Bolger pointed out. He said:
"Alone among the states of the world, the American constitutional system is the only one that has not the legal authority to perform a primary function for which governments exist among men—the protection of the fundamental right to decent livelihood—which to the ordinary man means a living wage. The obvious conclusion is that the Constitution of the United States ought to be amended immediately in order to give to the national Congress and to the legislature of the states the right to protect fundamental economic liberty by. outlawing the starvation wage for millions of our citizens.”
The speaker pointed out that all investigations into the conditions of American labor have established the fact that large numbers are not paid a living wage. .He showed that especially among women wage earners, it is conservatively estimated that more than half receive wages insufficient to supply the necessitiesof life. ‘
Father Bolger has been an active member of the Catholic Conference on Industrial Problems and the Catholic Association for International Peace in addition to active work in the field of economics which has brought him national recognition.
Eight .
John William Walker, ex-Uome head and Scholastic man. . . . Although deep in literary fields he intends to compete with Commerce men in search for a business career . . . Also headed Year Book in high school back in Keokuk, Iowa, “where the tall corn grows.”
-Takes all his courses in English, but’’finds more enjoyment in good old Sorin hall exercises. . . Will wrestle any man who has the nerve to visit over at 111 Sorin. . . . His friendly punches are often too sincere. . .
His last year’s Dome carried a picture of every man and event on the campus. . . Another indication of his tenacity. . .
Used to take on Tancredi and Connor over in Badin’s famous fourth floor. . . Believes their bout this year will be a toss-up. . . When sick he relies on a nurse called ‘Tommy’. . . Blond and very considerate. . . Relies on her while well too. . . especially for mail. . . . Bothers roomie Walt Ruffer with songs and poems. . . . Loves to disagree with famous men in history and on the campus. . .
Although a hard man to get acquainted with, once you know him his handshake makes you wonder at' his 145 pounds. . . A strange combination : wrestler, English major, and although he has journalistic leanings, he will go into business.	•
A. B. DeGree is the name of a Williston, N. D. man.
King’s College, London, University, has just founde.d the only completely autonomous school of journalism in England.
New Broadcast Schedule Set For Campus Station
Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., fac
ulty director of the local radio station
has announced that the new series of Notre Dame programs will go on the
air for the first time next week. The series will begin with programs representing a few of the many departments o f the university and will be gradu-
Rev. j. w. Connerton, c.s.c. ally expanded
to include
presentations, from almost every one of these departments.
Adds Diversity
The increase in broadcasting time makes possible the presentation of program of a diversity heretofore impossible. The afternoon program may be heard at 3:15 and 4:30 and the evening progorams at 7:30 and 9:15. There will be an announcement giving the titles and the time at which these various programs may be heard.
Next Monday afternoon at 4:30 the new “Reader’s Spotlight” series will get under way with a paper by James J. McGinity on some interesting facts in the life and work of John Keats. The Monday evening program will inaugurate the series entitled “The Story of Ecclesiastical Music” by Rev. James W.- Connerton, C.S.C. Father Connerton will use the Moreau Seminary Choir to illustrate some of his lectures.
Prof. Moran To Speak
Tuesday will bring to the microphone the program “The Speech We Use,” to be presented at’4:30 in the afternoon. Professor Francis Moran will open the series with a talk on “Word Collecting.”
The Law School program will be heard on Wednesday evening and that of the Physical Education department on Thursday afternoon. “Science At Work,” a popular presentation of science, will occupy the Friday evening period.
Last Monday night’s Faculty radio lecture featured Professor James A. Reyniers who spoke on the work of the biologist.; On Thursday afternoon of this week Paul Locher, junior in Arts and Letters,, gave a piano recital from the local studio.
The number of unemployed in the 16-24 age’ group has doubled since 1930.	.
The Scholastic
White, Randall Address
Academy of Science
William White, senior pre-med, spoke on “The Adrenal Glands and Their Secretions,” at the regular biweekly meeting of the Academy of Science on Tuesday evening, Feb. 11, in Science Hall. "White’s interesting paper was well received and elicited many questions from the members.
The second paper, “Medicine from Superstition to Science,” was given by Emery Randall. The author traced, step by step, the develoment of medicine from primitive man to modern times.
The critics of the evening were Francis Crowley and Christopher Landry. The Rev. Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., brought out several interesting points in conjunction with the second paper.
ECONOMICS EXAM
The comprehensive examination for seniors with a major in Economics who are to be graduated in June and juniors who have pre-registered in the combination A.B.-LL.B. course with Economics as their major will be held on Thursday, April 2, 1936. The matter to be covered in this examination will include Distributive Justice and the fundamental principles and problems of economics. Consult some member of the department if you are in doubt about your eligibility to take the examination.
SYRACUSE WOMEN PREFER SCHOLARS TO ATHLETES
The result of a recent sports questionnaire on the campus of Syracuse University revealed that as far as the co-eds of that school were concerned the fellow whose vest was adorned with a glittering Phi Beta Kappa key was better prospective husband material than the chap who sported an athletic letter on a Varsity sweater. The ballots, while-by no means unanimous, were quite definitely on the side of the key. One. girl who favored the Phi Betta Kappa student explained her choice on' tlie ground that “according to statistics athletes die young.” A varsity football player was preferred by another co-ed “because the older a Phi Beta Kappa gets chronologically, the younger Ihe gets mentally.”
At the same institution 351 seniors expressed themselves as being in favor of a course in marriage being added to the curriculum. There were only 29 votes objecting to the establishment of such a course.
ART EXHIBITION IN LIBRARY WILL BE ON DISPLAY TILL FEB. 24
The exhibition of paintings by outstanding artists, which opened in the library, will continue until Feb. 24.
When interviewed regarding the Isochromatic Art Exhibition which is now on display, Professor Emil Jacques, of the Department of Arts, explained that the exhibition was in reality an experiment to determine the quality of the color materials used. The research department of M. Grumbacher & Co., color manufacturers of New York City, supplied some of the outstanding artists of the country with canvasses and colors with which they were to paint pictures, using a certain range of colors.
Pkof. Emil Jaques Discusses Art Exhibit.
The paintings were then collected," and are now on tour throughout the country. At certain times during the coming years the paintings will be checked for any color fading or change that may result as they age.
In commenting on the pictures displayed, Prof. Jacques stressed the fact that in judging any picture one should consider the way it is done, and not so much the. subject matter. “Art is not a question of imitating Nature,” he,said,-“for if it was,-photography would be much superior. Most people look for detail in a picture. They judge a.painting upon its resemblance to nature, they fail to consider its oragnization or the extent to which it arouses the imagination.”
Prof. Jacques expressed the hope that it will be possible to bring many-other such art exhibits to the University.
Six Marine Scholarships Available For Students
Six Marine Corps Reserve Platoon Leader’s scholarships, covering two periods of annual training of six weeks each, during the summers following the sophomore and junior years, are available to sophomores at the University according to notifications received from the United States Marine Corps recently.
A recruiting officer will arrive at the University in the near future to interview applicants. Three qualifications requisite for admittance into the Platoon Leaders Class are: good moral standing, qualities of leadership, and proficiency in studies.
Faculty Approval
Students interested in applying for the Notre Dame quota are to present themselves to the rector of their halls. The scholarships have been approved by the office of Rev. Francis Boland, C.S.C., and bulletins giving detailed instructions for applications will be posted on campus boards.
Similar scholarship are being offered to 450 sophomores in colleges and universities throughout the country. The Platoon Leaders Class is. a training camp for outstanding students in preparation for a commission as a second lieutenant in the Marine Corps Reserve.
Students living east of the Mississippi river will be trained at the Marine Barracks, Quantico, Va. Those students living west of the Mississippi river will be trained either at Quantico or at San Diego, Calif.
Those enlisting in the Marine Corps Reserve will be promoted to a rank of private first class, with a pay of 330 a month during the training period, board, room, clothing, medical aid, and are entitled to all benefits prescribed by law for all civil employes of the United States.
Commissions Granted
The student will receive upon completion of the two periods of training and upon completion of his university studies a commission as second lieutenant in the Marine Corps Reserve with a pay of §125 per month plus allowances totalling S58 a month for quarters and subsistence.
Students are provided transportation from their homes to the training quarters and return.
While in training, the member of the class will receive week-ends upon request, be able to receive visitors, can amuse himself at movies, tennis, handball, riding, golfing, and swimming,-and can participate in organized athletics which are a part of the daily routine.
February 14, 1936
Nine
FLEET FOOTED FROSH FLASH FINE FORM;
Two Candidates Selected
FLAT-FOOTS FOILED IN FLIGHT TO FILMS
By Vincentian Society
J. Albert Torribio
By
A sneaking figure hunches along the wall of the West Dining Hall and edges toward the door. A murmured “Haaaay” grows to a pitched boo. The whole hall takes up the cry and the figure dodges through the door like a frightened rabbit.
This intrepid individual pioneers
regularly in the Saturday night rushes for our entertainment hall. The rabble takes up the pursuit, slightly delayed by the dessert. Only the strong survive the grueling quartermile over wire fences and shrubbery —the weaklings slip and slide in the snow; low hanging trees take their toll of the novices as muttered oaths escape the lips of falling victims.
“Please. . . please, save me a seat,” soulfully, almost tearfully, cries the miserable weakling with a final gasp.
“I’ll try . . . first row. . . balcony,” staccatos the strong one conserving his strength for the final test. . . the stairs.
These formidable objects prove too much for some, and again the number of competitors is thinned. A handful make the second flight and sigh at the realization of just a few more steps.
The pioneer dining hall runner has by this time commandeered a whole row. His hat holds one seat, his overcoat three more, his book and light sweater a pair, and a muffler lies carelessly across the back of another. In the midst of this strewn clothing sits our hero nonchalantly holding what’s left.
The “friends” roar down the aisle shouting, “How many ya got.” The “friend’s” friend, hobbles down the aisle and takes a small section for his own under “squatter rights.”
The first row intellectuals are now-settled—but there’s one seat left. Our hero gazes casually over the field as the later arrivals prance into the less favored seats. Suddenly, he waves, and jumps up and down.	,
“Hey, Bill!” This bellow is followed
by hand-waving and finger signs. The pioneer shakes his head at the two fingers held up by “Bill” and offers one in return. In the meantime the din has growm to an uproar. Over the sound system a band is trying valiantly to entertain the mob. A popular tune strikes a responsive cord, feet tap, fingers snap and the roar becomes partially organized.
“Sport-page, sport-page, -who has the sport-page,” appears to lead in pre- show popularity. Sheet’s are divided up and those in the next rowlean over and read along with the holder.
Father Farley gazes over the crowd and spies two cringing figures on the fringe. Almost the size of our smallest freshmen, they, nevertheless, are ejected—they have a guilty look. They are ushered to the door amidst cheers and boos. Tw’o supercilious seniors stroll down the aisles and slide into the seats. Father shifts his activities to the other side of the hall—the crowd looks around for something else entertaining.
Inevitably a middle row is cleared
for the arriving profs. The disgruntled dispossessed upbraid the leader w"ho self-defensively explains that they never used that row before. A search is made for another camping ground. One deserter takes the leftover seat held by our hero, who now leans back and sighs contentedly— his work is completed.
The show" starts. “Lights! Lights!” howls the populace. “Quiet,” reechoes (Continued on Page 11)
The St. Vincent de Paul Society announced two candidates for membership at its regular weekly meeting, Tuesday evening, Feb. 11.
The candidates are Richard J. Baker, a senior in the College of Commerce, and Thomas A. McGettrick, a junior in the College of Commerce. Membership in the organization is preceded by a period of active participation in the welfare work of the group during a period of four weeks. The purpose of this action is to allow" the prospective member to try this type of social action, for his own satisfaction, before formally requesting admittance.
At the meeting, the members of the local St. Matthew"’s parish conference of the St. Vincent de Paul society attended as guests of the campus group. The St. Matthew"’s conference is composed of young men w"hose ages range from 18 up.
The Society wishes to acknowledge publicly the receipt of $10, forwarded by the prefect of religion from a friend of the University.
GIFT TO UNIVERSITY
A new" set of Catholic Encyclopedia, donated to the University by Joseph N. Gore, Jr., of Rochester, New York, has been added to the library. The gift was mailed to the University by Mr. Gore, early in the month.
DID YOU KNOW?
Master of 53 tongues, Prof. Watson Kirk Connel of Wesley College, Winnipeg, says Basque is the most difficult language in the world.
Students at Martha Berry College in Georgia may dance only waltzes and quadrilles, have dates of only an hour and a half duration on Sunday may not have radios in their rooms nor enter into competitive athletics with other colleges.
A permanent national youth program to replace NYA is provided for in a bill now before Congress.
Ten
The Scholastic
Knights of Columbus
Discuss Catholic Press
Informal discussion of Catholic periodicals, led by Rev. Cornelius Hooy-boer, C.S.C., featured the Knights of Columbus meeting last Monday night.
Father Hooyboer sketched briefly the problems confronting the Catholic press and highlighted his comments with personal experiences.
After a short business session the program was supplemented by a program arranged by Lecturer Edward McNally, including a skit presented by St. Mary’s students.
Announcement was made of the selection of March 1, as the date for conferring of third degree initiation. Two classes will be installed in the first degree before that time. It is expected that a large class of candidates will be inducted into the order.
Chancellor Art Cronin and August “Sunny” Church announced that the bowling and ping-pong leagues are in full swing. The bowling tournament is being conducted on Tuesday nights at the Jefferson Plaza alleys, while the ping-pong tourney is in the council lounge room.
WASHINGTON HALL
(Continued from Page 10)
through the hall. Shouts of glee greet the Popeye short. “Aw, I saw it!” grumbles the picture addict. Cynically, he ventures the news-reel will be all of a month old. He becomes sarcastic when the feature is announced and says somethting about seeing it home last summer. “Lousy,” he replies to the “How-was-its.” Throughout the entire show he endeavors to foretell events and “shh’s” don’t check his homely comments.
Cities are mentioned. Boo’s greet them. Cheers drown out the boos. Notre Dame appears in a news-reel— all cheer.
Through it all a small group strives to enjoy the picture. At its conclusion the spectators have another fight on their hands—how to get out! The second show boys, fortified by meals taken at ease and digested at nothing more strenuous than pool, have the best of it. No, the spectators’ superior numbers shoves them back. Shove, and be shoved.
Outside, more “how-was-its,” fill the air, to be greeted likewise with “lousy’s.” This doesn’t deter the 8:15 bunch, but serves as an added incentive. A more dignified rush ensues. Our seat-saving hero is taken to the “Rec” hall and feted royally. The less hardy spectators amble over to the cafeteria, or to the quiet of their rooms. Next show: Saturday evening, 7:45, Washington Hall — “reserve your seats now.”
THE WEEK
By Andrew D. Hufnagel
We wonder -what’s wrong that our professors haven’t gotten around yet to announce the marks we earned on last semester’s examinations. It may be the fact that they hate to give us what we really “earned” that’s been making them take so long in grading the papers. Don’t be so squeamish, pro
fessors! We can take it. We were looking forward to staying here next semester anyway. Sure, we wanted to see with our own eyes whether or not this year’s football team will measure up to the one Notre Dame had last season.
•
That lecture of Dr. Haley’s on “Glands and Personality” certainly was very interesting and informative. Above all, it confirmed our long standing suspicions about the wag whose only end in life seems to be that of wasting space on the other side of this page. We had analyzed his strange personality long ago, but we didn’t realize that lack of glands was the explanation of his condition.
•
Contrary to general opinion, the biggest feature of our current basketball season has been as we see it, not the record established by the team. Oh, sure, Notre Dame has a pretty fair ball club. As a matter of fact, we might go so far as to say that she has a mighty fine group of bas-keteers. No one can ever accuse us of making an understatement. Still we believe that the outstanding event of the season has been the metamorphosis of the University band from a plain military song playing unit into a genunine swing orchestra. If Joe’s boys continue in that fashion, Benny Goodman and Jimmy Dorsey are going to experience some unwelcome competition. How about playing at the Senior Ball, Joe?
•
It's all very well for a person to swing right into the spirit of the season by observing the traditional custom of sending valentines on February fourteenth. Certainly we’ll admit that the sentiment which inspires such a practice is a very fine and commendable one. But, after all, there’s such a thing as going too far, you know. For instance, we can’t understand Skipper Costa’s efforts to be
different by making his own valentine out of a large piece of wraping paper and a can of lacquer. Silly, we think. And, after all, what will Marjorie say?
•
The roommate’s been complaining about that cigarette vending machine which stands at the top of the basement stairs in Walsh Hall. Every time he’s confronted by the robot vendor, he gets so frightened that he almost falls down the stairs into the “rec” room, and, unless Tom Treacy or some other responsible party takes the mirror off the front of the contraption, my “stooge” threatens to commit sabotage. He just won’t take our advice to keep his eyes closed when he approaches the top of those steps. It only goes to show that there’s no sense in trying to reason with an irresponsible individual.
•
This semester Mr. Frederick is paying the penalty that ultimately must he exacted of all popular instructors. He’s no longer able to sit down in the classroom. So large has the enrollment become in one of his courses, that he has found it necessary to give up his seat to a student. There’s one teacher who’ll have to be one his toes until June.
•
We feel that it’s necessary to supplement with a few remarks of our own last week’s editorial on smoking at basketball games. First of all, we’d like to remind those in control that if the basketball season were moved up so that it occupied the period covered by Lent, there would be hardly any smoking evil to contend
with. Still there’s no possible chance of effecting that remarkably sensible plan any more this year; so the next best thing is for us fellows to just stop smoking at the games. Not that the players themselves ever cared whether we smoked or not. In fact, when the going gets a little tough, they probably get great satisfaction out of inhaling a little free smoke to calm their nerves. Mass inhaling and exhaling of nicotine at the games, however, appears to have had its most pernicious effect on Adolph who does not seem to be throwing those apples with his old time accuracy.
February 14, 1936
Eleven
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
CAFSMOKE
A sequel has arisen to the story “LAYDEN’S SHOES.” Said brogans received* a five ply coating of paint a la rainbow style by the St. Mary’s Art department and are now on display at that 'place de resistance’ across the way. . . . Extra! extra! MAURICE QUINN of Walsh became a bit too reminiscent the other day and gave away an old high school story. Quinn confessed that he refused to kiss the female playing opposite him in a Shakespearean. production. . . . BOB
“For the last time—No! you
can’t go to the Prom.”
RILEY, Chern. Engineer from Badin, narrowly escaped being caught by. a professor when he .attempted to brew tea in a laboratory! . . Last Sunday three of St. Mary’s undergraduates took a street car downtown and then changed to a car out to the college instead of treking the half mile through the cold. . .
Morrissey’s JOHN CLEARY has become so well-liked by ‘her’ folks that he now has three invitations for Sunday meals in South Bend... BUD SHERWOOD, Badinite, has attained what is the ambition of most N. D. boys—hearty welcome from a Riverside Drive address, (not that Drive in N. Y.). . . HUFNAGEL’S curly hair has at last steered him into trouble for someone changed his name from Andy to Audrey. . . Appropriately enough a boy scout named JACK ARMSTRONG took over the mayor
ship of South Bend last Monday for that day. . .
Who’s that fellow over there with his hat pulled way down and his coat collar turned way up? Oh! that’s Col. Bob Burke of Kentucky. He doesn’t seem able to forget that 41-20 score. Brooklyn’s own Romeo, JIMMY O’DONNELL, who abides in Alumni, has completed negotiations with his
t
i
Julie(t) to have her come out for the Prom—much to the discomfiture of one of South Bend’s better blonde lassies. . . It was reunion night for JOE FOX of Howard at the St. Mary’s Prom the other night. At least 4,352 of his old flames appeared at the dance. . .
Look alikes — TOM TREACY and JOHNNY MOIR; and, MIKE O’CONNOR and PAUL NOWAK. . . Who was that junior over in Alumni who left Washington Hall last Saturday evening under the impression that it was Alexander Woolcott instead of Henry Wilcoxin playing the male lead in “The Crusades”?. . . . The eighth wonder of the World is the senior who got a last semester schedule to his liking._ And so off to read our thousands of Valentines. . . .
—THE FUNNY FELLOWS.
This Week’s Fable
Once upon a time there was a sophomore who received his railroad fare to come home for the Christmas vacation but he sent it back because he preferred to stay in South Bend for the holidays.
You’ve heard of the guy who thought Alma Mammy was a Southern negro college?
Ode to Punishment
Young girls, old girls, Bashful girls, coquettes,
Dumb girls, smart girls, Blondes and brunettes,
Tall girls, short girls, Slender girls and stout,
None of them can take it— But they can dish it out.
Don’t overlook the literary freshman who wanted to purchase a poet’s license.
. How To Act Like Upperclassmen
(For Freshmen and some others we know.)
Take cab out to school. Argue with cabby about fare. Shake hands with everyone you see (whether you know them or not) and talk thus:
“’Lo, Tom, d’j’ave a nice week-end?”
“’Lo, Bill. Yeah, pretty good. No sleep though.”
“Goin’ to the Junior Prom?”
“Yeah, if the old man comes through with a check. You goin’?”
“Yeah. What hotel’ll you be at?”
“The Brake. My name’ll be Smith. What’ll your’s be?”
“Jones—Bill Jones. Can’t afford to pay for a room.”
“Me either. Well, be seein’ ya.”
“S’long.”
Then proceed to your room (after forgetting to pay the cab fare unless you have borrowed from Bill, or Jim or Pete.) and write a letter to “your dear father” requesting money for the Junior prom to cover week-end, hotel expenses and incidentals. Don’t neglect to add, “all ready to put the nose to the grindstone.”
JACK AND JILL
Went up the hill, And over the hill, and And up and over, The next hill
And many hills thereafter because, Jack and Jill were cross-country men.
Twelve
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gas Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 421 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C................Faculty	Adviser
JOHN S. MORAN............................Editor-in-Chief
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST  ___________________Managing-Editor
Departmental Editors
Andrew D. Hufnagei The Week
Irwin L. Goldman--------------------------In the Juggler Vein
Nevis Staff
Paul Foley-------------------------------------News Editor
Robert L. Grogan---------------------Assistant Nevis Editor
John A. Gillespie------------------------------Feature Editor
Clifford F. Brown_________________________Anthony O’Boyle
Lindsay Phoeb'us__________________________Gregory Byrnes
Harold A. Williams John Hurley
Louis Da Pra_____.________________________Albert Torribio
Sports Staff
Cyril F. Stroker__._________________________Co-Sports Editor
James A. Waldron.___________________________Co-Sports Editor
Eugene Vaslett-------------------------Assistant Sports Editor
John Cackley---------------------------James M. McMullen
Allen Bride--------------------------------------Arch Gott
Michael Crowe
Art Staff
William V. Ellis_________________________________Art Editor
Francis Kroeger-----------------------------Daniel Sherrod
William R. Dooley, ’26____________________________Business Manager
placed on honesty, integrity, and other virtues, the character of our first president is worthy of a little serious consideration.
CAMPUS DANCE PRICES, II
The reduction in this year’s Prom price, however slight, is a step in the right directionj namely, a more reasonable campus dance price level. As The Scholastic has advocated in the past, the class formals should be placed within the reach of the great majority of undergraduates, and not be limited to those who would go even though the prices remain excessive.
A still further reduction in the cost of bids could easily be effected by doing away with the custom of giving Favors at certain dances. This practice is unnecessary, and furthermore, unwise, since the absence of favors would hardly be noticed. Their elimination would make a noticeable difference in the price of the individual ticket.
The Scholastic hopes that the commendable move made by the present Junior class will not be limited to the Prom alone. There is little defense for the practice of letting dance prices remain as high as they have been in the past simply because it is traditional to demand a certain price for Sophomore- Cotillion or Senior Ball tickets.
Member Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest
February 14, 1936
THE SIGNIFICANCE OF THE FLAG PRESENTATION Next Saturday morning the class of 1936 will, in observance of a long standing tradition, present an American flag to the University. On Commencement Sunday, this flag will be blessed and will become the official flag of the University for the ensuing year.
The significance behind this annual ceremony is worthy of note. The actual presentation of the flag signifies the patriotism of Notre Dame men, while the blessing represents the emphasis placed on the spiritual side of the Notre Dame education. Together, these two symbolize, the foremost aim of Notre Dame—to produce Catholic gentlemen who are good citizens.	s j
That this ceremony should be held’ on Washington’s birthday is indeed significant. Through the years the character of our first president has remained a •pattern for the youth of America. Today, the principles*, presented in his farewell address are still sound despite , the vast changes which the years have wrought in our social and political life. Washington typifies the great American who after innumerable hardships and difficulties, finally triumphed in his great task. To the seniors who will soon face a world where the emphasis is not always
February 14, 1936
THE CATHOLIC PRESS
One item unnoticed by many undergraduate readers of Colliers, The Saturday Evening Post, etc., is that Catholic Press Month is being celebrated during February.
The significance of this occasion will probably be lost on the majority of Catholic college students. With them, Catholic publications are not as avidly read as are the daily papers, nor as systematically digested as are the popular weekly periodicals. This is unfortunate, for it is from the university class that the Catholic press should ultimately draw its most vigorous readers, writers, and thinkers.
This indifference on the part of the college group may be partially explained by the fact that the Catholic press, in the popular mind, is still thought to be filled with sermons and dogmatic teachings. It is encouraging to note, however, that The Catholic Worker and several publications of this type have recently been widely read and circulated on the campus. This proves that the college undergraduate is interested in the Catholic attitude on events of the times. Undoubtedly Catholic publications will receive more support on the campus when the student body realizes that, far from containing little more than social news and other trivia, the Catholic press is presenting some of the best that is being thought and spoken regarding the problems of the day.
Thirteen
ATHLETICS
IRISH TRACKMEN MEET MARQUETTE TOMORROW
HILLTOPPERS SEEK REVENGE FOR LAST YEAR'S 48-47 LOSS AS LOCAL SEASON OPENS
MAHONEY AND JOHNSON. IRISH HURDLERS EXPECTED TO EXCEL
By Cy Stroker
When Coach John Nicholson’s proteges defeated the Chicago track team last Friday in spite of the establishment of a world’s record, they set the pace for a successful season. That pace will receive one of its most
Charles “Bucky” Jordan
Bucking against stiff competition.
gruelling tests to-morrow when the Irish tracksters meet the Marquette team in the Notre Dame gymnasium. Marquette, always one of Notre Dame’s toughest track opponents, is determined to retaliate for the one-point victory of Notre Dame last year.
Marquette comes to Notre Dame with the odds with them. Four veterans, who placed first in their respective events in the meet last year, top the Marquette roster. They are Captain Calvin Beckett, who will be the chief opponent of Joe McGrath in the half mile; Carl Sterbenk in the mile; Jessel ill the quarter; and Phillips in the 60 yard dash. In the pole vault, LeGrand, who tied for second place last year, will again compete in that event. Glenn Elliott will be on hand to perform with the shot put for the Hilltoppers.
Notre Dame is also relying on, its veterans to make the most of the
points for the Irish in the meets. Catain George Meagher appears to be the best bet in the broad jump. John Francis, who was out of school last year, but who came back in fine shape in the fall by winning most of the points for the cross country team, will be Notre Dame’s hope in the mile. Big Don Elser, potential Olympic decathalon entry, will try to better his record in the shot put and may participate in other events as well. The Irish long suit this season seems to be in the distance events, for several veterans of both indoor track and cross country are on call for Nick. They include Leo McFarlane, Arch Gott, and Francis. Frawley and Boyle are the chief Irish threats in the sprints. Bernard in the 440, and McCarthy and Gibbs in the pole vault, complete the list.
Mike Layden. Will Be Absent
Two losses which will count heavily against Notre Dame in this meet, those of Vince Murphy and Mike Layden. It was Murphy’s spectacular high jumping that brougnt many points for the Irish last year, and in his place are men who have not had the experience that counts so much. Mike Layden’s injury keeps him out of the hurdles events in which he was expected to garner many points. Nicholson has several promising sophomores in reserve, but it is doubtful whether he will use them in such a difficult meet as tomorrow’s.
Don Elser
Oupointed Chicago's Berwanger.
Maroon Runner Sets Record As Irish Win Track Meet
By Gene Vaslett
The trackmen of Notre Dame inaugurated their 1936 indoor season last Friday night with a 63-41 victory over the track and field forces of the University of Chicago, at Chicago, in a meet that produced a new world’s record in the quarter mile of 49 seconds flat for the distance.
The crowd of some 400 people turned out to watch the duel of two Olympic decathalon aspirants, Elser and Berwanger, but a sophomore,
Paul Rubly
They call him Rubinoff.
running his first intercollegiate race eclipsed the performances of these two football players when he outstripped the , quarter mile field and turned in a new world’s record. Bob Ellinwood, a transfer from Purdue to Chicago, was the sensation who finished twelve yards ahead of the 440 field and rendered Alex Wilson’s old indoor record of :49.3 seconds for the distance null and void. Ellinwood also ran the anchor leg on the winning mile relay and made up a thirten yard deficit in the first one hundred yards and went ahead to win easily from Bob Bernard.
The duel between Elser and Berwanger that was heralded as being the first comparison of the chances of these two athletes who will attempt to win places on the Olympic team in the decatholon event ended with Elser gamering the highest number* of points, 10, to Berwanger’s 8. Big (Continued on Page 22)
F o u r t e.e n
The Scholastic
Kentucky Overwhelmed
By Irish Net Forces
KEOGANITES INVADE GOTHAM FOR MUCH HERALDED CONFLICT WITH N.Y.U.
Notre Dame’s stream - lined cagesquad exhibited the most aggressive brand of basketball that has been witnessed in the local fieldhouse, last Monday night, when they overwhelmed a fighting Kentucky five, 41 to 20, before 5,500 spectators.
Led by Johnny Moir and lanky Paul Nowak, who scored 28 points between them, the Irish completely dominated activities throughout the entire game. It was only during the last 20 minutes of the second half, when Coach Keogan began to insert the “shock troops” that saved the affair from being rout.
Johnny Ford, who chalked up one of the most brilliant performances of his career, was continually harassing the opposition by his uncanny ability to outguess the Wheats’ guards and stealing the pill at opportune moments.
Mon* and Nowak tossed in field goals before the contest was scarcely two minutes under way. Ireland, Wade, and Ford started to ring the hoop consistently, on both long and short shots, to give the Irish a 28-7 advantage at intermission.
Red Hagen, who flashed for the Colonels at a terminal position last fall on the gridiron, garnered six double deckers to lead his team in the percentages. With the exception of Hagen, Notre Dame succeeded in holding the Wildcats to two baskets.
The game marked the ninth consecutive win for Coach George Keo-gan’s men, and the sixteenth triumph in .eighteen starts. Purdue, unbeaten co-leader of the Big Ten, has been the only aggregation this winter to upset the Gold and Blue in their victory march.
The Kentuckians, tutored by Adolph Rupp, have succeeded in annexing four southeastern conferences championships, but this achievement apparently had no effect upon the Irish.
Moir, with 17 markers against the Wildcats, has moved his total for the year to 188. and is within 24 points of smashing the Notre Dame all-time scoring record of 212 held by Ed “Moose” Krause. .
Notre Dame (41) B	F P	Kentucky (20) B F P
Moir, f 	 7	3 1	Walker, f .... 0 10
Ford, f 	 2	1 0	Carlisle, f .... 0 0 0
Hopkins, f 	 1	0 1	Hagan, f	 6 0 1
Crowe, f 	 0	0 0	Bliss, I 	 0 0 0
Nowak, c 	 5	1 3	Lewis, c 	 111
Peters, c	 0	1 0	Anderson, g 0 1 2
Ireland, g	1	0 2	Donohue, g .. 1 0 1
Wade, g 	 0	3 3	Goforth, g .... 0 14
Wukovits, g .... 0	0 1		 __ —.
Jordan, g 	 0	0 0	8 4 9
Sweeney, g .... 0	0 0	
16	9 11	
HIGH POINT MAN
John Moir
CONTRIBUTOR WRITES POEM ON IRISH-VIOLET
NET CLASH
Bill O’Toole of Syracuse, N. Y. has contributed another poem to The Scholastic worth printing. This one has to do with the N. Y. U. game tonight. It follows:
CHAMPIONS BATTLE
Out beyond the last outpost
Where the icy torrents flow
And the North Wind’s screaming ghost
Bends the treetops tar below— One lone trapper, plodding on.
While the gales fresh troubles brew. Mumbles in a voice, far gone,
“Notre Dame—take N. Y. U1”
Rushing through the starless night. Roaring ’round the snowswept bend.
Ninety-Seven hoves in sight—
Ironhorse near its journey’s end.
In the cab a greasy form
To his fireman drops a clue, .
“Once again I’d face this storm—
If the lads take N. Y. U.
Mother, putting son to bed, (Now a man of summers four)
Asks him if his prayers are said— Reassured, she shuts the door.
Then across the darkened room, "One more prayer, dear God. to You—”
As his wraiths of heroes loom. “Notre Dame—beat N. Y. U. (Continued on Page 17)
20,000 Fans To Witness Tilt
By Mike Crowe
Basketball fans from all sections of the country are eyeing the game to be played in Madison Square Garden tonight between Coach George Keogan’s rapidly improving Notre Dame five and Coach Howard Cann’s New York University quintet. Incidentally, the playing court in Madison Square Garden is smaller than the regulation size. This unusual advantage has aided N.Y.U. in their home basketball games.
Ned Irish, the man who conceived the brilliant idea of staging double attractions in the Garden, reported the game as a complete sell-out three weeks before game time. Coach Cann’s teams have been beaten but three times in the last two years. In this season’s- play, the Violets have whipped such formidable opopnents as Purdue, Kentucky, .North Carolina State, California, and many crack eastern combinations. Purdue lost to the Violets, 43-41. Kentucky, North Carolina State and California’s Golden Bears were all soundly trounced by the Cannmen. Only Captain Gross is missing from the team that last season defeated the Irish, 25-18, in a tightly played game. The winner of last year’s contest was determined in the closing three minutes. Though Gross has departed, indications point toward the New Yorkers being stronger than last year’s great quintet.
“King Kong” Klein, is the N.Y.U. star, and highly regarded as a defense man. Besides his defensive duties, he is a valuable cog in the team’s offense. Witty, another guards has been playing outstanding ball all year for the Violets. He is an offensive threat every minute of the game. Witty is one of the Johnny Wooden type. He breaks fast when the opportunity comes and seldom does he fail to capitalize on scoring chances. The other men are brilliant performers, and always beat’ as much attention as the three players mentioned.
Fearing overconfidence after the brilliant victoi-y over Kentucky Coach Keogan has put his squad through a stronger routine in practicing for the N.Y.U. encounter.
Coach Keogan has told his men that to gain this desirable win it is going to require fight from every member of the team, every minute of the ball game. Reaching a peak in the Kentucky game, the Irish are capable of setting back the Violets, and they intend to come home with a victory.
. Fifteen
February 14, 19 3 6'
INTRODUCING
Lightweight Champ Will Defend Crown
A note in the Scholastic office told us to get a story on George Meagher, captain of the track team. After writing this column for four months we are still taking orders from the managing editor. Imagine that? Over we went to Walsh Hall, to find the captain of track, not because of the note, but because we wanted to anyway. Accosting a stranger who later turned out to be the managing editor himself, we inquired as to the whereabouts of George Meagher, pronounc
ing it like the word that means scarce.
“Who?” who’d the stranger.
“Meagher, Meagher, the captain of track.”
“Oh. You mean Maher,” replied the informer, in the condescending manner that seniors reserve for those who don’t have to worry about getting a job for another year. “Eight over there.” Going right over there we met George Meagher who was more willing to talk about boats than about himself.
This year’s captain of track and star broad jumper on the team is a pleasant and quiet fellow who was born in Depue, Illinois 22 years ago. While attending the high school there, George played on the football team for three years as quarterback and was a member of the track team for that length of time also. Coming to Notre Dame in 1932 he reported for freshman football practice, but found the'competition a little too tough.
In track he was more successful, both in the broad jump and in the hurdles. He has competed in every meet since his sophomore year and has made these two events point get-
By Cy Stroker
ters in Coach Nicholson’s campaign for bigger and bettei' victories. For the last two summers he has travelled to California with Don Elser to compete in the National Intercollegiate meets there. His distances in these two meets were 24 feet, one-half inch and 24 feet 1% inches respectively. His record distance to date is 24 feet, nine inches, which is jumping in any man’s track meet.
Off the cinders, George is a senior in the Science school where he is
studying pre-med. He has been accepted and will study medicine in Illinois Medical school next fall. Upon his graduation from that school he intends to practice—you guessed it again McGutsky—medicine. Plans to work on a European bound boat during the coming summer. Claims to be Bill Ellis’ only close competitor in the go-to-the-show contest. Looks forward to the day when people will call him Dr. Meager—er, Maher.
OHIO STATE'S STATESMEN
Following a thorough investigation, Conference officials announced they were satisfied that the Ohio governor was merely joking when he said, last October that 15 Ohio State football players were on the state payroll and insinuated that athletic prowess won them their jobs.
The players obtained the jobs on their own initiative and through the help of personal friends, the report , stated, were paid at the same rate as non-athletes, and did not hold' more jobs in proportion.
By James A. Waldron
———-----OXING has taken on
new life as some forty students began training this week for the Bengal Show. Undei’ the watchful eye of Frank Shiavone, former University champion, the aspiring fighters have been working out regularly all this week. Athletic Director Elmer Layden is. equipping the Boxing Room with all necessary paraphernalia for the several weeks of conditioning. Those who desire to enter the bouts and have not begun training, should get out today in order to take advantage of the instruction and equipment at the disposal of all candidates. The Scholastic again wishes to bring out the fact that entrance in the show is not necessary to attend the boxing classes.
Down in the town of Wichita Falls, Texas, the townspeople raise theii;. heads in pride when anyone mentions Notre Dame, for a native son is the lightweight champion of the University. As a boy, Tommy “Tex” Durkin used to spar around with the other members of his gang, but he never learned any of the fundamentals of boxing.
Joining "the boxing classes at Notre Dame under direction of Max Marek, Tex was an eager and able student. In ' the Bengal bouts of his first year, he fought his way to the finals where he was beaten by Bud Marcy, former Golden Gloves champion. He entered the Bosts again last year and once more faced Marcy in the finals.
Entering the. ring as a decided under-dog, Tex fought the greatest battle of his brief ring career. The crowd started to' yell with the bell, and never let up in its thunderous approval as the two fast, clever boys threw punches the whole first round. As the second round was about half over, a right hand punch crashed against Marcy’s eye spiffing the skin apart. With blood gushing from the cut, the game Marcy tried to continue, but referee, Packey McFarlane, refused to allow the bout to go any further and declared Durkin the winner by a technical knock-out.
Tex says he has no ambition to extend his boxing career after leaving Notre Dame, but merely wants to be able to handle himself. For a real “fighting Irishman” we give you the pride of Wichita Falls, Tommy “Tex” Durkin.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
Notre Dame Fencers Remain Undefeated
Lovers of the clashing foils and sabers will have the opportunity to get a glimpse of the 1936 edition of the Notre Dame fencing team to-night at 7:30, when the strong Ohio State team is met. The Irish foilsmen are pointing for their third victory of the year, and hope to open the home season with a victory.	.
The second meet of the week end will be held in the equipment room of the Notre Dame fieldhouse at 3 P.M., on Saturday when the Irish swordsmen cross blades with the Chicago fencers. The representatives of the University of Chicago are considered one of the strongest teams in the middle west, and coach de Landero’s boys will have to be on their toes during all stages of the match if they hope to keep their slate clean.
There will also be a meet between the two Big Ten representatives, Ohio State and Chicago, in the Notre Dame gymnasium Saturday morning at 9 A.M. This will be the busiest week end of the fencing season and the opportunity will be afforded all those interested in fencing to witness three of the outstanding teams in the midwest in action.
Last Saturday the Notre Dame fencing team set back the Michigan State outfit by the identical score which they defeated the Purdue aggregation the previous week, 11 to 6. Co-Captains Kehoe and Carlos de Landero showed the best form for the Irish.	.
Hopkins Praised
Page Johnny Ford and Marty Peters! The Syracuse Daily Orange carried a story after the Notre Dame-Syracuse basketball game which dealt with an interview with Johnny Hopkins, whom the Orange called Notre Dame’s captain. The article commended Johnny for the fine manner in which he led his men.
CONTRIBUTOR'S POEM (Continued from Page 15)
California backs Purdue
And Kentucky joins the cause. Victims of the Purple crew
And Manhattan’s dizzy laws;	.
Harvard, Syracuse and Penn,
Pittsburgh, Yale and L, I. U„ All together dip their pen,
“Notre Dame—beat N. Y. U.!”
From the southern, sunswept links And the bluebirds’ roundelay ’ -i
To the star that never sinks	- ?
On the Road to Mandalay—	.
Echoes of the years that passed -
Now must seek another pew	•
For the universal blast—	-f.
“Notre Dame—beat N, Y. U.I”
—Bill “O’Toole.
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By Joe Prendergast
ASKETBALL is the talk of the Big Town tonight. The Irish of Notre Dame are in Gotham for another weekend of sport, and two things are assured when this is the case. One is a thrilling madfest of sport and the other is a packed house.
Basketbail, the game invented by Dr. James Naismith, at Springfield College, Massachusetts, 34 years ago, has turned from one of the weakest money-making ducklings in the sports family to a hooping Carnerafull of dough. The Broadway sports promoters are hopping on the bandwagon
and seeking to line up the choicest of collegiate contests for their particular auditoriums. Dr. Naismith traces his idea of the game of basketball to the old “Duck on the Rock” game played by children. He thought that it would be fun to try to put the rock inside if the tin, instead of trying to knock it off the rock and there lies the start of the hoop game.
Twenty thousand excited fans will jam the Garden tonight to see two of the greatest teams in the country in conflict, Notre Dame and New York University. The New York Violets have yet to be beaten on the Madison Square Garden floor for a period of two years. They have lost three games in two
years, one each to Yale, Georgetown, and Temple, and all the losses have been suffered away from the Garden’s shrunken court. Of the team that dropped only one game all last season, Lenny Maidman and Willie Rubenstein, crack shots, and Milt Shulman, one of the best of all college guards, are back in harness. Swede Terjesen and King Kong Klein, alternate centers are both back this year, the former at the jump position and the latter at guard. The freshman squad of a year ago had a number of scintillating performers. Witty
and Tarlow have seen plenty of service this season amongst the present sophomores who are working hard for Jake Cann’s quintet.
The task of guarding John Moir will fall to King Kong Klein. This gentleman who played tackle on the football team is large, fast, and aggressive. It was he, along with his grid as well as net teammate, Perry Geffen, who was mixed up in that embroglio with the Fordham line in that hard-played football encounter. He will have his hands full but they are plenty large as it is—so the rest remains to be seen.
Coach George Keogan is expected to start the same five that came through so gloriously against Illinois and Kentucky. Ireland and Wade at guards, Nowak at center, and Moir and Ford at forwards, will line up for the opening whistle. It looks like a close rough contest with plenty of fouls both ways, but as long as there is a ball and hoop in sight we pick George Keogan’s lads to Cann the Yio^ts.
SLIVERS FROM THE BLEACHERS	.
ThevNotre Dame B-team basketball will play St. Joseph college of Rensselaer, Ind., tomorrow night away from home . . . The seating capacity of the Yankee Stadium has been enlarged so that 100,000 fans may now witness the Notre Dame vs. Army game . . . Clem Crpt^e, former Irish star athlete and now coach of the net game at Xavier gollegg at Cincinnati sent along N? the report to George Keogan that N.Y.U. was aiLpyer-rated ball club. He said were iust a &°°d college team. It sounds enc^'praging'-f ' . Jack Robinson TV* bowled a 236 game last fall and immediately -jyas offered a berth on the Bendix .	bowling team . . . No. official word has been^sent put, as yet, relative to the
i	proposed southern trip of the baseball teain this spring. TJie schedule i§ all
■•arranged so that.if the official o.k. is put on it, everything will be in res^ine^.
5. . The Notre Dame/fencers haven’t’lqst a matph^in two^years, yet it is not
(Continued on Page 19>	•	\
February I 4, 1936
Seventeen
The History of Boxing at Notre Dame
Knute Rockne, Instigator of Movement Which Resulted In Organization of First Boxing Team Here in 1923
BY AL BRIDE
Interest in the art of fisticuffs is being revived on the campus with the coming of the annual Scholastic Bengal Bouts. Once a year those interested in pugilism are afforded the opportunity to give and take with other two-fisted students while the less ambitious crowd around the ring eager to enjoy a toe to toe slugging match in which the seed for blooming cauliflower ears is planted. Coupled with this interest in boxing is curiosity regarding the lack of a Notre Dame boxing team to represent the Irish in intercollegiate boxing circles. A glimpse into the history of boxing at the University shows that there were dual matches with other colleges.
In 1923 Knute Rockne instigated a movement which resulted in the organization of Notre Dame’s first boxing team. Provisions were made for those interested in boxing, matches held, and a four man team was picked to compete in the Central States A.A.U. tournament in Gary. In this first venture against outside opposition the Irish leather slingers were highly successful. Dan McGowan punched his way to the finals and brought home the Central States flyweight championship and became the first Irish titleholder. Rip Miller, one of the famous seven mules, took time out from his football duties to
THE SQUAD OF BENGAL BOXERS OF 1934 .
which put on some great battles in the SCHOLASTIC annual boxing show.
capture second place in the heavyweight division, while Charles Springer took third place in a field of experienced light - heavyweights. So great was the success of these four pioneers that they were sent to take part in the annual tournament in Chicago.
In the following year, 1924, the art of self defense received greater emphasis. A seven man team led by Danny McGowan journeyed to Indianapolis and captured third place. In the same year a dual match, the first venture into intercollegiate box-
ing, was held with Iowa State. Handicapped by the lack of a coach, the team dropped this match to the better conditioned and more experienced leather pushers from the corn growing state.
The University Board of Athletics gave official recognition to the efforts of the 1934 team by awarding minor monograms to those men who had won first place in the meets.
In 1925 the boxing season was about as short as the previous one, but the policy of competing in sectional tournaments was eliminated, and only dual matches with other colleges were engaged in. First, the Irish pugilists traveled to Annapolis to trade haymakers with the future sailors. The tars laid down such a barrage of leather covered fists that the Irish were completely submerged, but the Middies, who won the national boxing championship, proclaimed the Notre Dame squad as the best encountered.
The second and last team to be met by the Irish was Iowa State. The boys from Aems repeated by again trouncing the Irish team.
The 1926 season was marked by the most ambitious schedule ever carded for the would-be Dempseys and Tunneys of Notre Dame. Six opponents were engaged, including Iowa State, Kansas State, Navy, Penn State, Virginia, and St. Xavier. Again the Irish boxers were without the benefits of a coach and proper equipment, and were supervised by the captain, Charlie Springer, who acted as coach.
Each of the six teams were met, and in each case the Notre Dame boys were on the short end of the
score or the long end of the referee’s count. The first match with Kansas State proved to be a close one, the Irish taking three of the seven bouts. Iowa State again turned out to be a jinx as they easily captured their third consecutive victory. The up-and-coming ensigns from the United States Naval Academy journeyed to Notre Dame to again smother the Irish. Interest in . this meet was so great that 2,500 spectators witnessed' the match. Charlie Springer then took his hapless prize fighters on a week’s tour in which three matches were dropped. The Nittany Lions of Penn State were the first to be visited, and
(Continued on Page 22)
Eig hteen
The Scholastic
McMullen Picks Discovery To Win Santa Anita Race
By Jim McMullen
Out in far away California, the
royal family of horsedom are get-
ting together for
Santa Anita’s big show, the one hundred and ten thousand dollars handicap. And followers of sport the country over, are beginning to wonder if, after all, basketball, hockey, and the
Jiji McMullen	™nter .Olympics,
are so important, ■when the likes of the mighty Discovery are scheduled to romp.
The newspapers have set the race down as a two horse show. They picture the famous Cavalcade, and Alfred Gwynn Vanderbilt’s Discovery, in a neck and neck drive down the California stretch, far ahead of the other high monied thoroughbreds entered. It’s a beautiful picture, but isn’t it a little dangerous for the reputations of the artists of the press, to forget the possibilities of such as, Time Supply, Top Row, Good Harvest, Head Play and Ladysman, all classed as among the mighty apple eaters?
SPLINTERS . . . Continued from Page 17
a recognized minor sport . . . When the referees come out on the floor at Missouri University to officiate a basketball game the band strikes up the tune, “The Three Blind Mice.” Coach George Edwards, of the Missouri net combine, recently called a meeting of all student organizations to discuss the elimination of the raspberry from future games . . . Max Marek, last year’s winner of the heavyweight crown in The Scholastic’s Bengal Bouts, is accorded tenth ranking heavyweight berth in the country according to a news release from New York . . . Joe Hoctor, promising left halfback, came back to school at the semester and was welcomed by all concerned . . . Coach Rupp of Kentucky wanted to wager George Keogan §50 (not §100) that the Irish would beat N.Y.U. . . . When a basketball fan recently asked George Keogan what he would tell a guard who was to guard Moir he laughed and said he really didn’t know, for it would be of no avail.
only if, Discovery comes up unfit the 22nd—if not, well, all hail the King!
W’hile we are on the subject of horses. What about the Kentucky Derby? We can give you a list of possibilities, and let you pin the tail on the donkey. As two year olds, the following were prominent; Tintagel, Grand Slam, Coldstream, Brevity, Hollywood, Crossbow II, Bradley’s Bien Joli, and Red Rain. Will one of these hold up May 2? Or will one drop from the clouds? Those that are sure they know, can be recommended for four walls and a barred -window, Bradley backers included.
QUICK PICK-UP FOR
RETIRED EYES
Want to give your eyesa lift? Use Murine. Soothing, refreshing to hot, tired, reddened eyes. Great for eyes irritated by read-ing, dust, wind, smoke, or light glare. Use it daily.
EYES
Cavalcade Chief Threat
Horsemen agree, however, that a thoroughly fit Discovery, carrying the top assigned weight, 130 pounds, should have little difficulty in defeating this field, and that includes the Chocolate Warrior, Cavalcade. Vanderbilt’s horse, after being downed six times by Cavalcade as a three year old, came on last season to rank the undisputed handicap champion of 1935, and apparently one of the greatest nags since Man O’ War. Outside of two warmup sprints in early June, his only defeats came in late August and October, when a very tired horse was forced to carry 138 or 139 pounds. Who can beat him?
Cavalcade might, if laying out a year, and still ailing hoofs, were not too much of a handicap. Top Row beat the great horse twice, with the kind aid of the weight handicappers who gave him a huge advantage. In the Santa Anita, Top Row will carry 116 pounds. Time Supply . has a chance with 114 pounds; but Head Play and Ladysman must be rated as merely returned cripples. Azucar, winner of the $100,000 race last year, and an entry this year, was defeated by Discovery in July by. 20 lengths. Good Harvest, another Vanderbilt oat -burner, demands consideration if, and
February 14, 1936
Nineteen
SORIN, WALSH AND ALUMNI SHOW CLASS IN INTERHALL LEAGUE OPENERS
ON DOWN THE LINE
Alumni’s Lightweights Win
Interhall Basketball Results February 9, 1936
Heavyweights: Off-Campus; Freshman (Won by forfeit).
Dillon 29; Brownson 37.
Carroll 12; St. Ed’s 23.
Morrissey 11; Sorin 36.
Lyons 18; Alumni 23.
Howard 17; Walsh 19.
Lightweights: Off-Campus; Freshman (Won by forfeit).
Dillon 14; Brownson 17.
St. Ed’s 10; Carroll 17.
Sorin 4; Morrissey 13.
Howard 13; Walsh 20.
Lyons 16; Alumni 38.
* .
By Arch Gott
Last Sunday, February 9, was featured by the opening of the 1936 official interhall basketball season. Both light and heavyweight divisions swung into action and the result was a session of fast and furious basketball. All games were played as scheduled with the exception of the encounters
Joseph Nigro .
Fifteen points for Walsh Hall.
slated between Freshman and Off-Campus. Owing to sub-zero temperatures and the remains of a raging blizzard, the Villagers were unable to get a sufficient number of men together to carry out the game.	J
The outstanding performer ,-of the. day proved to be George-'Wentworth^ who is wearing the Sorin Tcolors this'"-' year. George sprinted through and around a bewildered Morrissey team to score 18 points, and with the added assistance of Joe Waldron, the Sorin Tigers swept to their initial victory of the campaign. In thedieavyweight division the closest game was that played between Howard and Walsh, the latter winning 19-17,, chiefly because of the individual brilliance of Nigro who dropped in 15 points. “Champion weight-lifter” Saffa was
the spark plug of the losers’ attack.
Bill Foley provided onlookers with some expert floorwork as he led Alumni to a hard-fought win over a sturdy gang from Lyons. For a short time it seemed as if the boys from near the archway were going to put one over on their gold-coast rivals because of the antics of Cudmore who turned in a swell game for the Lyonites. Brownson and Dillon indulged in a free-for-all contest with Dillon leading at the half by a 14-8 count. However the dormitory lads took the situation in hand and turned
the tables the second half to score a 37-29 victory. Smith of Brownson was the ace in the hole, popping in seven buckets in the last quarter, to spell victory for his mates.	•
Morrissey ran away with the Sorin ponies 13-4 and showed undeniable championship caliber during the slaughter. Moller of Morrissey paced his team both offensively and defensively, and showed no respect for his senior' brethren. Daley did his best to keep up the spirit of the Sorin Tigers, but he was not able to cope with the smooth-passing Morrissey crowd.
Alumni lights won in a romp over a weak Lyons team by piling up the highest score of the day in both divisions, 38-16. Bob Cronin was indeed
tops for Alumni, driving in time and time.: again to flash into position foi' some great shot. Cronin, with the able assistance of Bill Kennedy and Bill Selig, should make Alumni the favorite to cop the lightweight title. McNeils was the brightest light in the Lyons attack, but the outcome was not long in doubt once Cronin and Company got started. In the Walsh win over the Howard ponies, Casper proved to be the fair-haired boy for the victors, while Rich led the losers.
The next round of games will be played Sunday, and after the games have been played some indication will be given as .to the standings of the teams. '' .
Schedule—Sunday, February 16
Group II—9:00, Sorin vs. Howard; Walsh vs. Morrissey; 10:40; Corby vs. Lyons; Alumni—Bye.
Group I — 1:30, Freshman vs. Brownson; 2:20, Dillon vs. Off-Campus; 3:10, Badin vs. St. Ed’s; Carroll —Bye.
SPORT SHORT
Notre Dame will be playing for the second straignt year against N. Y. U. wheri they meet in the Garden tonight.
By James A. Waldron
DID YOU KNOW:
BOB KESSLER, PURDUE’s great player and high scorer, committed only four personal fouls in nine games, proving you don’t have to be rough to be good—With the cancellation of the MARCH 20 date at the MADISON SQUARE GARDEN for boxing, NED IRISH is trying to get the OLYMPIC BASKETBALL COMMITTEE to run its district or interdistrict finals there at that time— Contrary to former opinion METROPOLITAN basketball is rougher than that played elsewhere this year. In the six INTRA-CITY games played there, an average of 29 fouls per game have been called. In the seven INTERSECTIONAL meetings on MADISON SQUARE GARDEN’S court the total is 166, an average of less than 24. Of that number, only 70 have been committed by visiting play- ‘ ers, including penalties for blocks which are regarded as legal in their om sections — WALTER RIPLEY, one of the pitchers on the BOSTON RED’ SOX, lived up to his namesake in compiling a rare baseball record. He batted a cold .000 and fielded .000. His pitching record was won 0, lost 0.—The world ski-jumping record, 301 feet, is held by BIRGER RUUD of JUGOSLAVIA. He established it last MARCH in JUGOSLAVIA. On the same day he jumped 346 feet, but fell, and his jump did not count.
A QUESTION OF AMATEURISM:
Several ITALIAN bob-sledders entered in the winter OLYMPICS have been disqualified on grounds of professionalism. Some of the ITA.LIAN teams had planned to use internationally-famed automobile drivers a s steersmen, but they have been declared ineligible by the GERMAN OLYMPICS COMMITTEE.
BOXING OLD-AGE PENSIONS.
GERMAN boxing official withhold 10 percent of all purses for deposit in a fund from which fighters in need may draw after they quit the ring. The management says most boxers don’t have a dime when they are through with the ring, and they compel all graduating amateurs to. agree to the 10 percent deduction before licensing them as professionals.
DAVEY'S JOKE OFF
Chicago—(acp)—Gov. Martin L. Davey’s football joke has been officially recognized as such by the Western Conference, and is no longer regarded as a serious charge against Ohio State gridsters.
Twenty
The Scholastic
Jr
FIRST—ripened in the sunshine... and picked leaf by leaf from the right part of the stalk when fully ripe.
6?
Hogsheads of leaf tobacco "ageing" for two years in storage warehouses.
Type of barn used for "fluecuring" leaf tobacco.
:© 1936.
Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
THEN—each day’s picking cured right by the farmer... at the right time and in the right way... no "splotching” or brittleness, but every leaf of good color and flavor.

FINALLY-—bought in the open market... re-dried for storage... then packed in wooden hogsheads to age and mellow for two years or more until free from harshness and bitterness.
That’s -what ive mean by mild, ripe tobacco. And that’s the kind of tobacco we use to give Chesterfields their milder, better taste.
Picking leaf tobacco in the "Bright" tobacco fields of Virginia and the Carolinas.

.. for mildness
.. for better taste
February 14, 1936
Twenty-one
HISTORY OF BOXING (Continued from Page IS)
set the Irish back by a score of 6 to 1. Next the Cavaliers of Virginia stored their southern hospitality in the padded gloves, and warmly welcomed the Notre Dame representatives. In the final stop at Cincinnati the aggressive St. Xavierans allowed the Irish only two decisions in seven bouts.
The peak year in the history of boxing at Notre Dame was 1927. The University officials recognized the need for a coach and supplied one in the person of Tommy Mills. Evidently Mills knew the tricks of the boxing game, as he turned out the most successful team the University has ever known. Under his tutorship the squad achieved that finesse and keen edge that is so necessary for success in the ring.
In that year St. Xavier was defeated twice, and the fighters from Kansas State were also downed, as were the representatives of the University of Syracuse. The only defeat was suffered at the fists of the Penn State battlers who were out to avenge a severe drubbing the Notre Dame football team had administered in the fall of 1926. Vengeance was not complete, as in one of the best battles of the evening Jack McGrath of Notre Dame battered Mahoney of Penn State unconscious.
From that time until the present boxing at Notre Dame has been confined solely to the annual Bengal
bouts. There was a brief spurt two years ago when Max Marek, holder of a decision over the sensational Joe Louis, led a team of Notre Dame boxers to the Chicago Golden Gloves tournament. The prominent members of the squad being Marek, Bud Marcy, and Bart McKernan. If Notre Dame again decides to enter the field of intercollegiate boxing it will have as a background a tradition, brief as it has been, that can stand beside the time worn and venerable traditions that are so reverently held by the University below the Golden Dome.
CHICAGO TRACK MEET (Continued from Page 14)
Don took a first in his specialty, the shot put, tied for first with Gordon of Chicago in the high jump, and took a third in the low hurdles. Berwanger trailed Elser in the shot put, and registered a first in the broad jump, upsetting the favorite, Captain George Meagher of Notre Dame, who registered a third place in his event.
Notre Dame took seven first places and tied for an eighth. The two mile trio of McFarlane, Gott, and McKenna, and the three Irish pole vaulters, Langton, McCarthy, and Gibbs, shut out all Chicago competition and made clean sweeps in both events.
Several of the Notre Dame stars showed that they have not as yet reached the proper condition required for intensive competition, but that is to be expected in the initial meet of
the season. A few more weeks of practice and competition will probably find Captain Meagher consistently winning the broad jump, Irish sprinters turning in faster times, and Don Elser hurling the shot well over fifty feet. This is an Olympic year, and the men will outdo themselves in further competition in efforts to win places on the United States track and field team that will compete in Berlin this coming summer.
The summary:
MILE RUN—Won by Francis. N.D.; Webster. Chicago, second; McKenna, N.D., third. Time, 4 :33.5.
GO-YARD DASH—Won by Jordan, N.D.; Clifford, N.D., second : Krause, Chicago, third. Time, :6.3.
440-YARD RUN—Won by Ellinwood. Chicago ; Halcrow, Chicago, second ; Bernard, N.D., third. Time :49 (new world’s indoor record.)
70-YARD HIGH HURDLES—Won by Beal, Chicago: Mahoney, N.D., second; Johnson, N.D., third. Time. :09.
TWO MILE RUN—Won by McFarlane, N.D.; Gott. N.D., • second ; McKenna. N.D.. third. Time, 9:52.5.
880-YARD RUN—Won by McGrath, N.D.: Tipshus. Chicago, second; Cavanaugh, N.D.. tihrd. Time, 2:01.1.
70-YARD LOW HURDLES—Won by Mahoney, N.D.: Beal, Chicago, second; Elser, N.D., third. Time, :08.
POLE VAULT—Tied for first, Langton and McCarthy, N.D.; Gibbs, N.D., third. Height 12 feet 6 inches.
SHOT PUT—Won by Elser, N.D.; Berwanger, Chicago, second: Levicki, N.D. third. Distance 48 feet 1% inches.
HIGH JUMP—Won by Gordon, Chicago, and Elser, N.D., tied for first. Height 5 feet 10 inches; Beal. Chicago, and Kobak, Chicago, tied for third. Height 5 ft. 8 in.
BROAD JUMP—Won by Berwanger, Chicago. Distance 22 feet 7 inches; Boyle. N.D., second, 22 feet 6?£ inches; Meagher, N. D.. 22 feet 2^ inches.
MILE RELAY—Won by Chicago (Halcrow, Wasem, Webster and Ellinwood). Time, 3:28.9.
PARSONS OF NOTRE DAME LEADING THE FIELD
Twenty-two	The Scholastic
eo A
extra
THURSDAY
Millions Acclaim
A Light Smoke
YPt.XlIII... NO.28973

OF RICH, RIPE-BODIED TOBACCO
Luckies Are Less Acid
Excess of Acidity of Other Popular Brands OverluckyStrike Cigarettes
Recent Chemical Tests Show* That Other Popular Brands Have an Excess of Acidity Over Lucky Strike of Front 53% to 100%
§
rzzzzzs
B
*Reanlts Verified by Independent Chemical Laboratories and Research Groups
8 .... 3 (AlANCE
STR I KE
I BRAND D
e chief contribntions of the ent of The American
SEVEN GREAT STEPS TO A LIGHT SMOKE
L Center Jeeves of choicest tobacco plants.
2.	Proper Aging.
3.	ScieatiSeBleaiing^^DorethenJOOdilfennt typcsoffine tobacxxtsin every Lncky blend.
'e Towed"—to drive out certain acids dehydes.
Control dorta< mangfartora Uniformity.


e

MR. PAUL BYRNE, LIBRARY,
NOTRE DAME, IND.
HALF E HALF MAKES
DHE SWELL SMDKE!
Not a bit of bite in the tobacco or the Telescope Tin, which gets smaller and smaller as you use-up the tobacco. No bitten lingers as you reach for a load, even the last one.
Copyright 1936, The American Tobacco Company
Get chummy with your pipe. Pack it with Half & Half. Cool as a girl’s: "I’m dated for Sunday.” Sweet as her smile: "But I’ll break it for you!” Fragrant, full-bodied tobacco that won’t bite the tongue—in a tin that won’t bite the fingers. Made by our exclusive modern process including patent No. 1,770,920. Smells good. Makes your pipe welcome anywhere. Tastes good. Your password to pleasure!