tu: noix DM
SCHOLASTIC
uumu cwus nous rwzre
bi
IN THIS ISSUE
9
inaugural Mass Starts Enrollment Uc
Student Trip Plans Summer Deaths Band. Glee Club Star
©
T>iin Kesions <actaincv '	I
Fencing Recognita
Fail Golf lournament
Football Prevue

The Week Splinters from Press Bo> College Parade Man About the Campus
SEPTEMBER 25, 1936
Reverend John F. O'Hara, C S. C.
"To labor and to pray . .

With the Pen That Students
Rate Highest
BY ACTUAL VOTE
Invented by a College Professor to Bring Yon Higher Grades
A college professor noticed that poor grades are often due not to brains running low but to pens running dry!
So he worked out an utterly different and basically better pen principle —and Geo. S. Parker engineered it to perfection.
Thus came the revolutionary Parker sacless Vacumatic that has superseded every old-style pen—both sac-type and sacless.
Recently the student editors of 30 college papers asked 4,699 of their readers, "Which make of pen do you own? Which pen do you prefer?’’
To both questions more students answered "Parker,” than any other two makes of pens COMBINED!
One reason is that the Vacumatic ink supply is EVER-VISIBLE, the ENTIRE length of the barreL It isn’t merely last-drop visibility— doesn’t merely show when your pen is empty. It shows days ahead WHEN IT’S RUNNING LOW, so it can’t run dry against your will.
The Vacumatic’s working parts are sealed, in the top WHERE INK CAN NEVER TOUCH THEM— can never decompose them. That’s why this miracle pen is GUARANTEED mechanically perfect.
And the Parker Vacumatic has no rubber ink sac or lever filler—hence
EUARRMTEEO MECHAMICAUY PERFECT
Junior, $5;	Pencils, $2.50,
Over-Size, $10	$3.50 and $5
has room for 102% more ink without increase in size!
Its luminous, laminated Pearl style has won every pen Beauty Contest by 2 to 1. Go and see it today at any food store selling pens. The Parker *en Co., Janesville, Wis.
To Make Any Pen Clean Itself
Try this utterly different writing ink— Parker Quink an ink that dissolves deposits left in pens by ordinary inks. Quint cleanses a pen as it writes—a Parker or any other pen. Ends pen-clogging.Get Quint at any . store selling ink, 15c and 25c.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103. Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 70
September 25, 1936.
No. I
NINETY-FOURTH SCHOLASTIC YEAR OPENS . WITH TRADITIONAL SOLEMN HIGH
VOTIVE MASS AND SERMON
FACULTY AT SERVICES
By Harold A. Williams
To the pealing tones of the giant six-ton bell the freshman class filed into Sacred Heart Church Sunday at nine o’clock to mark the official opening of the 94th scholastic year of the University.
The solemn Votive Mass in honor of the Holy Ghost was celebrated by the Reverend J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice-president of the University. He was assisted by the Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies, as deacon; the Rev. Charles Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, as sub-deacon; and the Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the College of Science, as master of ceremonies. The sermon, which was also given at the other students Masses, was delivered by the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University.
Father O’Hara opened his sermon with the words, “We are here this morning to ask the blessing of God on a new scholastic year.” His opening remarks showed how we thank God for His blessing, particularly the grace of a Catholic education; and ask Him for graces we need for our state in life. “Rightly we ask God’s help in our studies and in all our works, and we renew our resolve to put this year to good account—to work and to pray—laborare et orare.’
“If you were to. tell me individually why each one of you came to Notre Dame there would be a great variety of stories. One answer to this question is correct, is true of all of you, whether or not you realize it. It was the grace of God that you chose Notre Dame and were accepted here.”
He explained that many would not fully know what that meant and then went on to say, “But you can and should know something of this special grace you are enjoying at this
(Continued on Page 10)
Eli M. Abraham Add “Deputy” to His Titles
KNIGHTS HOLD FIRST SESSION OF YEAR
Wielding the gavel for the first time Wednesday night, Grand Knight Thomas Foy started the Knights of Columbus council off for the year.
Foy announced that two official positions filled at last spring’s election are now open because the officers failed to return to school. Carmi Belmont, who was elected deputy grand knight, is not back and a new assistant will be elected at the next regular meeting. The office of inside guard, which James Dubbs was supposed to fill, is also vacant and will be filled at the same time.
Formal installation of the officers will be postponed until the vacancies have been filled. Eli Abrahams, financial secretary of the local council was given the position of district deputy for northern Indiana during the summer and will probably assist at the installation.
Lecturer Robert L. Grogan outlined the skeleton of a plan for entertainment during the year. According to the system all available council talent will first be used, then campus sources will be tapped, and finally off-campus performers will attend the meetings.
FROSH LEARN CHEERS AT YEAR'S FIRST CONVOCATION
' •
The freshmen of the University gathered together at a convocation last Friday evening in Washington Hall, where they learned more about the spirit, traditions, songs, yells, and regulations of Notre Dame.
Philip Bondi, as president of the S.A.C., was master of ceremonies. Elmer Layden, director of athletics, related a few anecdotes on football. Following this, Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, extended a hearty welcome to the class of ’40.
The “pep meeting” section of the convocation was directed by Joe Cas-asanta, who led the assembly in songs, and by Walt Nienaber, who drilled them in Notre Dame yells and cheers.
At the close, Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, acquainted the new students with the framework of the rules and regulations of the University.
Vincentians Plan
Year's Work
•
A program of work for the year by the St. Vincent de Paul Society is being formulated now and will begin immediately after the last week of Mission, President Joseph Drolla announced this week. The first meeting is set for Sunday, October 4.
“Last year we received fine response to all of our pleas for charity work,” President Drolla said, “we hope this year will see even more activity. The need is great, an organization of our type never finds the end of its job. We have many plans for the year and will begin earnest work immediately after the Mission.”
The local St. Vincent de Paul group is working with South Bend charitable organizations and received much favorable comment last year.
Storage contracts for the summer, special bus rates, old clothes drives and other features were used last year to swell the funds for charitable purposes.
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, SEPTEMBER 25, 1936.
FORTY NEW MEMBERS NAMED TO FACULTY FOR ENLARGED DEPARTMENTS;
NEW COURSES ADDED
THREE PRIESTS RETURN
•
With this year’s enrollment reaching approximately 3,000, 25 professors and 15 graduate assistant instructors have been added to the
Rev. Charles Miltner, C.S.C. Returns from Europe
faculty in addition to many new courses and the enlargement of several departments.
Vienna, Austria, the British Isles, and various American universities have been drawn upon to supply talent for the enlarged faculty staff.
Courses in radio script writing, playwriting, and aeronautical engineering have been added, while the departments of metallurgy and physics have been enlarged.
After a sabbatical year of study and research at the University of Louvain in Belgium, Dr. Charles Miltner, C.S.C., returns to his position as dean of the College of Arts and Letters. Dr. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., who also studied at Louvain will serve as associate professor of philosophy. Dr. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., who for the past several years has been head of the English department, will devote his time to radio and writing and will be succeeded by Dr. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., who recently returned from studies at Oxford University, England.
Dr. Arthur Haas, formerly of the University of Vienna, Austria, internationally known lecturer and author of standard texts in the field of theoretical physics, has been added to
the staff of the department of physics. During the past year Dr. Haas was guest professor at Bowdoin College, Brunswick, Maine.
Professor John Allen MacLean who comes to Notre Dame from the University of North Carolina has been added to the staff of aeronautical engineering. Additional courses in the department of metallurgy, including special courses in aeronautical metallurgy, have necessitated an addition to this staff. Dr. Carl F. Floe, of the State College of Washington and formerly of Massachusetts Institute of Technology, will fill this post. Extra equipment in metallurgy has been supplied during the summer months.
Dr. Kenneth N. Campbell, formerly of Chicago University, research worker at the University of Illinois and instructor at Pennsylvania State College, has been added to the chemistry staff. Additional instructors to the chemistry and chemical engineering staff include six former Notre Dame graduates: Arthur A. Baum, Edward A. Bried, Marcellus J. Geerts, Alfred J. Kolka, James F. McKenna, and Frederick C. Weber, also Patrick A. McCusker, who for the past six years has been professor of chemistry at St. Edward’s University, Texas, Charles J. O’Boyle of St. Joseph’s College, Philadelphia, and Robert J. Thomas, of Lowell Textile Institute, Massachusetts.
New courses in radio script writing have been added to the curriculum under the direction of Mr. Richard T. Sullivan, Notre Dame, ’31, who has done considerable literary and radio writing during the past five years.
Professor Arnold Lunn and Edward I. Watkin, noted English authors and apologists, have come from England as part of the staff of Notre Dame’s new department of graduate apologetics for the training of Catholic lay writers. After a year’s study in Italy, Professor John P. Turley has returned to the campus to resume his teaching in the department of • classics. Professor Willis D. Nutting, of the College of St. Teresa, Winona, Minn., has been added to the department of history. Prof. Daniel Pedtke, also of St. Teresa’s College will serve as instructor of music.
Six members of the Congregation of. Holy Cross have been assigned as new instructors in religion: Rev. Joseph J. Corcoran, C.S.C., Rev. Thomas P. Jones, C.S.C., Rev. Edgar J. Misch, C.S.C., Rev. Joseph S. McGrath, C.S.C., Rev. John M. DuPuis, C.S.C., and Rev. Paul E. Fryberger, C.S.C.
(Continued on Page 23)
PRIESTS, STUDENTS, AND ALUMNI LOST BY DEATH
Ten Summer deaths cut into the ranks of professors, alumni, and friends of the University this year. Four priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross, two seminarians, one honorary alumnus, and one of the oldest members of the alumni passed away during vacation period.
Probably most shocking because of its suddenness and his renown, was the death of Rev. Julius A. Nieuw-land, C.S.C., head of the Department of Organic Chemistry and word famous as a scientist. Father Nieuw-land’s death came from a heart attack suffered while he was in Washington, D. C., a few weeks after school closed.
The passing of the Reverend Julius Nieuwland, C.S.C., removes one of Notre Dame’s finest sons. One of
Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C. R. J. P.
the greatest of modern scientists in the field of organic chemistry and an international authority on acetylene. Father Nieuwland was also among the nation’s most foremost botanists.
Father Nieuwland was made a Doctor of Philosophy by the. Catholic University in 1904, and a Doctor of Science by Notre Dame in 1911. He was also a member of both the British and American Chemical Societies, of the Deutsche Chemische Gesselschaft, and of the American Society for the Advancement of Science, and past president of the Indiana Academy of Science. He was the recipient of the Morehead Medal, given by the International Acetylene Association, the Nichols Medal by the American Chemical Society, and the Mendel Medal for the advancement of science.
(Continued on Page 10)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, SEPTEMBER 25, 1936.
ASSISTANT SCHOLASTIC EDITORS NAMED; LOUIS DA PRA TO HEAD NEWS STAFF,
ENROLLMENT HITS HIGHEST MARK
GENE VASLETT HANDLES SPORTS
IN YEARS
9
HURLEY IS FEATURE EDITOR
o
Featured by several changes in mechanical and editorial make-up The Scholastic begins the seventieth year of its existence with this issue.
Six appointments were made this week to the various editorial and feature positions on the staff. All the posts will be filled by experienced staff members who worked on last year’s publication.
John A. Gillespie, Senior journalist from Westfield, New Jersey, will conduct “The Week.” Gillespie last year worked as Feature Editor and was responsible for the revival of this type of writing on the campus. He will present a weekly review of feature chatter and views of campus life and happenings.
Louis DaPra, a Junior in the College of Arts and Letters, frpm East Chicago, Indiana, has been made News Editor. DaPra has been a staff member for two years, covering some
Louis Da Pra
No news is bad news
of the more important stories last year. DaPra will be assisted by Harold A. Williams, from Baltimore, Maryland, also a Junior in Arts and Letters. Last year Williams was one of the top ranking- reporters and covered many important assignments.
Eugene Vaslett, a Junior in the College of Arts and Letters, from Brooklyn, New York, was graduated to the position of Sports Editor. Vaslett has covered campus athletics for two years and for part of last year served as assistant Sports Editor. He will be assisted by Michael Crowe, also a Junior, from Lafayette, Indiana. Crowe reported sports for The Scholastic during his freshman and sophomore years.
Francis Kroeger, a Junior in Arts and Letters, majoring in Fine Arts,
has been made Art Editor for the year. Kroeger last year assisted William Ellis and drew many of the line drawings featured in “Man About the Campus” and “Introduc-
Gene Vaslett He’s your Introducer
ing.” He designed the cover plate featured on this issue. Kroeger lives at 417 N. Williams street, South Bend, Indiana.
John Hurley, a Senior journalist, will be Feature Editor. He is from Rushville, New York, and has worked on The Scholastic for the past year and a half. Several of last year’s features were done by him.
Anthony F. O’Boyle, who succeeded Robert L. Grogan as conductor of “College Parade,” will continue with this feature. Grogan will handle the weekly broadcast of campus news known as “Scholastic of the Air.” Both are Seniors and veteran members of the news staff.
Father Tabb Memorial Completed
A fitting commemoration to the memory of Father John Bannister Tabb, famous priest-poet of Virginia, was completed on August 8, 1936, at The Forest, Amelia County, Virginia, birthplace of Father Tabb. The monument was erected solely by contributions received from scholars, clergymen, professors, and admirers of Father Tabb’s works, throughout the country.
The movement was first given impetus by Professor John M. Cooney, head of the Department of Journalism at the University of Notre Dame. Largely through his efforts the Father Tabb Memorial Association was formed. The first contribution to the Memorial Fund was made by the Notre Dame Press Club.	|
New faces have never been more numerous nor more noticeable than they are this year. Although official figures are not yet available it is certain that there are over 1300 new students in attendance. The addition of these Freshman and transfer students makes this year’s enrollment one of the largest in the history of the University.
Some 3,000 students are now in attendance. This figure includes not only the 2,400 lay students living on the campus but also the students of the religious community, the -villagers, and also a large number of Freshman who at present are boarding in South Bend. This latter group is made up of those who registered after all the available accommodations on the campus had been filled. It is the intention of the University to move these men back on campus just as soon as accommodations can be arranged. This group which now numbers about 125 would have been much larger had not the office closed the list in mid-August. Over 300 other applications were received but were rejected simply because of lack of facilities.
The crowded conditions of this year are illustrated by the fact that some •50 freshmen are living in the old infirmary building. Cavanaugh Hall, the new freshman residence, was filled theoretically before the cornerstone was laid. Every other hall on the campus is likewise filled to capacity. It would seem that despite the extensive building program of the past five years Notre Dame cannot begin to accommodate all who seek her blessings.
The fund increased with amazing rapidity enabling the actual erection to begin in early August. The site for the monument was donated by Amelia County. The planning of the memorial and the supervision of its erection was carried on by Professor Francis W. Kervick, head of the Architectural Department of the University of Notre Dame.
The monument, a rectangular block of Vermont Marble supported by a brick foundation, measures fifteen feet in length and six feet in height. Directly in the center of the monument, a square block of marble bears the following inscription: “The Forest, Birthplace of John Bannister Tabb, Patriot, Poet, Priest.”
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, SEPTEMBER 25, 1936.
ARMY GAME MAY BE SELECTED FOR
STUDENT TRIP
•
The historic Notre Dame - Armygame at New York, always a colorful and dramatic spectacle, looms strongly as the choice for the annual student football trip this year. Philip Bondi, president of the S.A.C., an-
Philip R. Bondi
Hopes to march on Army nounced that the tentative choice of the council has narrowed down to either the Army game on Nov. 14, or the Pitt game. on Oct. 24. The final decision, however, was left to the student body through a canvass of the halls made Wednesday night.
Roughly speaking, the railroad and game tickets for the Army game will run between §25 and §30. If this game is chosen, the train will probably leave here Friday, and be back in time for classes Monday.
For the Pitt game, the railroad and game tickets, it is roughly estimated, will cost somewhere from §12 to §18. For this trip the train will probably leave on Friday, and be back in time for Mass on Sunday morning.
Another question put before the student body in the canvass was: “Do you favor more than three pep meetings this Fall?”
At the first official meeting of the S.A.C. last Tuesday, Bill Foley was appointed to act as chairman for the reorganization of the Met Club. Martin Burns was selected to arrange the pep meetings, and Art Hoffman was given the task of organizing this year’s Presidents’ Council.
Before school opened officially, the S.A.C. functioned by maintaining information booths at the New York Central and the South Shore Line stations, and at the Post Office and the Administration Building on the campus.	,
Football dances are included among the many activities planned for this Fall.
Carnegie Tech Tickets
Student tickets for the Carnegie Tech game may be procured at the ticket office on the first floor of the Main Building upon presentation of A.A. books at the following times:
Seniors: Monday, from 1 to 5 o’clock p.m.
Juniors: Tuesday, from 1 to 5 o’clock p.m.
Sophomores: Wednesday, from 1 to 5 o’clock p.m.
Freshmen: Thursday, from 1 to 5 o’clock p.m.
Each student may receive his own ticket only.
Interview New-Comers During Radio Hour
•
As a fitting beginning for what promises to be a momentous year in campus radio activity there was broadcast from the campus on Registration Day a program of unusual interest. Jim Britt, whose “Man on the Street” feature is one of the most popular of South Bend programs, interviewed many representative students regarding their impressions upon returning to Notre Dame.
Although the Radio Group will not begin organized activity until October, Thursday evening of next week will feature a program of unusual current interest when Norbert Aleksis interviews Sebastian Bonet, a student living in Barcelona, Spain and who has just returned from that war-torn country. In this interview Mr. Bonet will give the radio audience a first hand impression of the dramatic events of the revolution in his home city. This program will be heard at 7:30 next Thursday evening.
There is every indication that this coming schoolyear will be replete with activity for the Radio Group. During the summer a great deal of new equipment was installed in the studio in the Engineering building. This new equipment includes a ribbon microphone of the latest design, a complete new control panel, and a talk-back circuit that will enable the director to instruct his cast without having to leave the control booth. Although the plans for the new year are not yet definite it is known that the time allotted to the University programs will be as great or greater than last year. All the worthwhile features of last year will be retained and many new ones added.
CASASANTA COUNTS NAMES IN RECORD TURNOUT
•
One hundred and ten enterprising musicians answered Professor Joseph Casasanta’s call for band candidates Monday afternoon in the music rooms of Washington Hall. The first day was spent in recording the names of the candidates and the instruments which they play. Professor Casasanta extends his invitation to all others on the campus who wish to try out for the band, and emphasizes that the
Robert V. Truesdale He’ll siving the band
lack of an instrument should not prevent anyone from reporting.
Despite the loss of 35 men through graduation, Professor Casasanta feels confident that this group can be wielded into harmonious organization. Practice will be held each afternoon at 4:15 in the music rooms of Washington Hall.
Robert V. Truesdale, president; Glen Porter, vice-president; John McNeal, business manager; Raymond Marre, junior officer; Frank Schaefer, librarian, are the officers who will aid Casasanta in developing the 1936 band.
One hundred and twenty-five candidates, a record number, attended the first rehearsal of the University Glee Club Monday. This entire group will receive musical training and the most promising 40 will make up the traveling personnel. Practice will be held each day at 12:30 in the Music Building.
Thomas E. Cassidy will act as president of this year’s Glee Club. He will be assisted by Vice-president Frank Barbush, Business Manager John McNeal, and Emil J. Peter, assistant business manager.
No definite plans for trips by either the band or Glee Club have as yet been formulated. It is expected, however, that attractive trips for both will be arranged.
Any candidates for drum major should report to Professor Casasanta . as soon as possible in his office on the third floor of the Music Building.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, SEPTEMBER'25, 1936.
7
TALL TRUNKS. TAN TRUNKS, TOUGH TRUNKS, TELL TRUE TALES OF TALL TRAVELS
Steamer trunks, wardrobe trunks, new trunks, old trunks, and indescribable trunks have all found their way to Notre Dame. This year more than five hundred of them form a skyline outside of the Express Office. In 1933, according to Mr. Kale, acting as the campus express agent, there were only about 400 trunks handled. In that year there weren’t as many nice new shining trunks to be seen as there are this year. But things were different then.
The big, yellow trucks that hauled other trunks from the station carried more than 300 this year. They showed an increase over the past few years because there were fewer students “thumbing” their way to the University this year, and many more were riding trains. In fact, they were so crowded on the trains that some few fellows had to stand up all night, and pace the aisles for relaxation.
Some of the students disembarking from the trains had not received the room assignments, and were at a loss as to where to have their “wardrobes” sent. The majority of that group left their trunks in the station.
As usual, various and sundry small trucks, made-over kiddy-cars and the like whirled bouncing trunks here
BOOKMEN MEET
Officers of the Bookmen, the university’s literary club, were formally inducted Wednesday evening at a meeting called at the new home of Professor T. Bowyer Campbell, moderator, in South Bend.
Robert McGrath, Arts 3, president; Thomas O’Brien, Commerce 4, vicepresident; William Robinson, Arts 3, librarian were the men installed.
Appointment of Hal Williams, Arts 3 and assistant news editor of the Scholastic, as chairman of the membership committee was announced. Applicants for membership are asked by McGrath to arrange interviews with Williams in Room 6 Lyons Hall.
A consideration of contemporary American literature, the selection of books for the Bookmen library, and a discussion of future plans occupied the attention of the members.
Sociologists Speak
This summer was not all play for several members of the Department of Sociology who attended or lectured at meetings in various parts of the United States.
Raymond A. Hoyer, professor of social work, lectured at the ten-day institutes conducted by the Boy Lead-
and there about the campus. Cars moved cautiously along with all sorts of luggage perilously clinging to trunk racks projecting from behind. When big white warehouse trucks swayed dizzily around curves, trunks could be heard groaning in the boxlike portion.
The glittering brass-rimmed trunks began to pour on the campus about a week before school officially opened, and from the unspoiled condition of the trunks, it was not hard to guess to whom they belonged. Later in the week about 50 or 60 trunks came in almost simultaneously, and shortly afterwards; the footballers. Their trunks were well-used, and tagged-up, somewhat like the sign boards previous to the annual circus. The one thing in common with all these trunks was their destination.
Now, as school is a little better than a week old, those ghost-like figures behind each hall have disappeared from the sun’s abuse, and the dampness of the night air. The faint screechings of a trunk scraping along some corridor have slowly died away for another year, and a few remaining scars are all that is left to remind us of the labor of dragging a trunk down to the new room.
ership division of the Knights of Columbus at Cliff Haven, N. Y., St. Paul, Minn., and at the University.
Attending the annual meeting of the American Prison Association held in Chicago, September 13 to 16, were Dr. Patrick H. Weeks and Professor Francis T. Flynn, director of the graduate curriculum in social work.
Kyser To Salute Notre Dame
•
Kay Kysei* and his nationally-known dance orchestra will salute Notre Dame Saturday, October 10th at 9:30 p. m., Central Standard Time, over the Columbia network on a hook-up which will include over 56 stations stretching from coast to coast.
The program, one of a series of 13 sponsored by the Elgin Watch Company, will include the “Victory March,” which will be sung by the orchestra’s glee club, and one other Notre Dame song.
Ed Thorgerson, sports commentator for Fox Movietone, will interview a leading football coach on the program, a policy to be followed on subsequent broadcasts, each of which will be dedicated to a well-known university. The series will begin on Saturday, October 3rd.
CALENDAR
Friday, September 25
Scholastic Staff meeting, Editorial staff 6:30 p.m., general staff 7:00 p. m.
Saturday, September 26
Freshman Mission, Sacred Heart Church, 6:30 a.m., Mass and instruction; Football, Varsity vs. Freshmen, Stadium, 2:30 p.m.; Movie, “Rose Maine,” Washington Hall, first show 6:45 p.m.	•
Sunday, September 27
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m., Football game, “B” team vs. Niagara U. at Niagara; Knights of Columbus officers meeting, K. of C. chambers, Walsh Hall; Upperclass Mission, Sacred Heart Church, Benediction and sermon, 7:30 p.m.
Monday, September 28
Upperclass Mission, Sacred Heart Church, morning and evening services, 6:30 a.m. and 7:30 p.m.; Glee Club practice, Washington Hall, 12:30 p.m.
Tuesday, September 29
Upperclass Mission.
Wednesday, September 30
Upperclass Mission. Kentucky Club meeting.
Thursday, October 1
Upperclass Mission. Glee Club practice, Washington Hall, 12:30 p.m.
N. D. 3RD IN NATIONAL COLLEGIATE GOLF
Playing against the best collegiate golfers in the country, the Notre Dame golf team placed third in the National Intercollegiate Golf Tournament. The tourney was held at the North Shore Country Club in Chicago. Captain Win Day, Bill Taylor, Pat Malloy, and Captain-elect Lou Fehlig all qualified. Of the four, Malloy advanced the farthest. Pat reached the third round.
Bill Taylor, who has since transferred to Georgetown, competed in the National Open, although he failed to qualify.
In the National Amateur, Bill Castleman, Win Day, and former Captain Johnny Banks all qualified. The fact that all three were defeated in the first round is nothing of which to be ashamed. Father Holderith should receive great consolation from the fact that few, if any, teams or clubs in the country can claim the honor of having three of its members, past or present, qualify in the National Amateur.
8	THE NOTRE
DAME SCHOLASTIC, SEPTEMBER 25, 1936.
ARNOLD LUNN TALKS TO START ON
OCTOBER 8
•
Arnold Lunn, world famous Catholic convert and author, will open a series of six lectures in Washington Hall, on Thursday evening, Oct. 8, when he will speak on “Physical Research in England and Some of My Experiences with Conan Doyle.” Here from England to teach Apologetics, Mr. Lunn will remain at Notre Dame for the first semester of this year.
Father Carey, who is now completing the concert and lecture program for the first semester, announced recently that besides Mr. Lunn the program for the semester will contain such speakers as Msgr. Fulton Sheen, Doctor Haas, and Father James Gillis, editor of the Catholic World. For musical entertainment a symphony is to be booked for Nov. 4 in the gymnasium.
On the movie schedule are: “Rose Marie,” to be shown in Washington Hall on Sept. 26, and “Magnificent Obsession,” booked for Oct. 3.
For the reassurance of “worried” fans who missed seeing him at the first picture, it was announced that the almost traditional “Popeye” reels will be run again this year except when the feature pictures are more than two hours in length.
Among the other movies to come here during the Fall term are “San Francisco,” “Showboat,” “Green Pastures,” and “Early to Bed.”
Commerce Club Starts On Year's Work
Last evening at the first executive session of the Commerce Forum, attended by the officers and the board of directors, a new constitution was drawn up which will be formally presented to the S.A.C. for immediate ratification.
President Al Smith, Commerce 4, instituted a huge membership drive. Membership in the organization, the social club for Commerce men, has ■ been limited to Commerce students with a qualitative average of 82 and above.
In addition to adopting a new pin, plans were elaborated for the forthcoming annual commodity brands survey, now an established Notre Dame institution. Smith declared that the Forum will present an extensive speakers’ program as well as conducting tours throughout industrial organizations in South Bend and environs.
Blond hair reflects the spotlight of this week’s “Man About Campus” in the person of Paul F. Barker, senior manager of football.
“P. B.” as he is affectionately known to the hundred-odd managers directly under his command hails from Rochester, N. Y., where, rumor has it, he is in demand as a local beauty contest judge.
New ideas come easy to his fertile brain even to his inventing a new kind of pop corn. He calls it Cosmopolitan pop corn, and the secret lies in the way you salt and butter it.
He once promised and then failed to deliver tickets for every game during the football season in return, for a ride from Niles to Notre Dame to make an 11:15. So forgetful that he once donned his roommate’s clothes and almost went to his classes.
Every manager pulls one boner during his undergraduate days which sticks with him. Paul’s happened one afternoon during scrimmage in his sophomore year. He was acting as head linesman and called the right guard off side only to have Joe Boland turn around with fire in his eyes and yell, “The right guard pulled out!”
Paul is the first Engineering student ever to be a senior manager. His major is in M.E., and he will graduate with honors in June. He is a full-fledged machinist, having spent his summers working for his certificates.
Campus does not hold all of his interests. He is also a “Man About Town” with a pretty St. Mary’s day student luring him away from 101 Sorin.
“P. B.’s” hobbies are driving motorcycles and outboard motors, working out math problems, and keeping a diary.
Notre Dame Farewell!
Vale ad Dominem Nostram de Indiana
Fare thee well O Dome set golden By the plains whence men of olden Left thee like the young men leaving Now with love and sudden grieving. Notre Dame the beautiful, the wonderful!
By your sons be never reckoned Unto any other second. -Them in turn let nothing sever - From your pride and love for- ever. Notre Dame the beautiful, the wonderful I
From the day the Freshman landeth Where thy golden beauty standeth High above the morning campus, Stars of thine have come to lamp us Till Commencement bids us going Gather harvest from oui’ sowing. One by one the. eager classes Rise from work and play and Masses— Athletes, scholars, strong and clever Rise and march away for ever.
Notre Dame the beautiful, the wonderful I
When the summer heat is simmering. In the lake thy shadow's glimmering Till the sudden winter blizzard Seals thee white as though a wizard Cast a wand o’er Indiana Making stoiin thy snowy banner. Notre Dame the beautiful,, the wonderful!
Birds throughout the clinging summer Fill thy woods with fife and drummer. Every corner feeds a robin Live the lakes with bluegills bobbing.
. Everywhere old trees and faces Crowd the long familiar places. Notre Dame the beautiful, the wonderful 1
AH the men who knew thy grotto Guard through life thy sacred motto. Lift the night away from morrow Unto all in toil and sorrow.
They are thine and thine for ever Who’ forget thy beauty never!
When their lives are in the twilight Shed thy glory in their eyelight.
Let them glimpse thy golden phantom Let them hear thy victory’s anthem— Let them join the Notre Dame legion In thine, everlasting region!
Notre Dame the beautiful, the wonderful!
Shane Leslie, August 10, 1936
4 i
i
J *
1
I
I
s 2
3
Kentuckians Plan
First Session
•
Colonel Emil. J. Peter announced this week that the Kentucky Club will inaugurate the year’s activity at a meeting to be held next Wednesday night.
William Barnett, who was killed during the Summer, was elected Lieutenant Colonel of the club last spring. Peter was undecided .this week what procedure would be followed in filling the vacancy.
The Kentucky Club is one of the oldest geographical clubs on the cam--pus and last year was one of the most active.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, SEPTEMBER 25, 1936.
9
CAMPUS GROWS 4S
NEW BUILDINGS
APE OPENED
During the past year there has been an extensive building program in progress on campus. The first of the buildings erected was Cavanaugh Hall. This new building houses freshman residents and cares for 196 students.
Built as a memorial to the late Rev. John W. Cavanaugh, C S.C., former president of the University, the new hall will be formally dedicated some time this month.
In furthering this program, construction of a $300,000 biology building has been started. The design of the building is radically new inasmuch as it will be built on a flexible unit plan, so that departments and laboratories may be enlarged or diminished in size without structural changes.
Biology Building Cornerstone
Cornerstones of the new structure were laid last June 6, in connection with annual Class Day exercises, with the Hon. Francis P. Garvin, founder of the Chemical Foundation, presiding.
The original designs for the building were prepared under the direction of the Rev. Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Science, and Professor A. J. Reyniers.
The landscaping scheme, was designed by Rev. J. J. Reddington, C.S.C., and has lent new grace to the old campus. New lawns were sodded to cover over barren places on the campus, and young trees were transplanted to take the place of the old trees on the new quadrangle which were much too large and out of proportion.
Planting of shrubbery has also beautified the many intersections in the cement walks that lead to all the buildings on the new quadrangle, and even greater beauty has been added to Dillon, Alumni, Engineering and Law buildings by the shrubbery which surrounds them. The entrance to the campus has been greatly improved by the addition of the flower bed and the cement drive.
This program is far from being finished, as is shown by the many projects now under construction, which will also enhance the beauty ’ and charm of Notre Dame.
THE WEEK By John A. Gillespie
Tyros
Since we are untried in the intricacies of column-writing, we feel that we have much in common with the horde of first-year men that is swarming over this bit of Indiana sveldt. Like the freshmen, we must prove ourselves, and, like the freshmen, we don’t know precisely where to start. The analogy is apparent: we must pass the test of the caustic comments of well-meaning mockers. It’s a question of personality adjustment (Sociology; MWF, 2:15) or keeping the chin tucked well behind the shoulder.
-I-	-1-	•!-
Top of the Week
From no less a personage than the senior class president comes a large slice of whimsy. The information men on the campus were asked many absurd questions ,but Parker Sullivan, functioning near the lower entrance to the Main Building last week, wins the bunting. With no warning a yearling demanded “How often does a guy have to shave around here?” His best Kentucky courtesy in evidence, friend Parker refused to commit himself. How would you answer that query? You’ve shuddered at men who shave once every full moon, whether or not they need it, and you’ve marveled at smooth-cheeked razor devotees. And now a word or three to the puzzled frosh: Lord love you, son, one doesn’t ask about those things. One just shaves or doesn’t shave and relies on the indisputable tenet that Notre Dame stands for personal expression —within reason.
- * * *
Education En Masse
Advertising classes seem to have a magnetism. One session in the library basement drew a gate of an even hundred. Father Lahey will regret his popularity. By the time he finishes his roll call, his time will be appreciably cut. He will need an amplifier to reach the ears of those in the back rows. There’s enough material for several football teams, with a dozen scalpers left over. Yes, we’re in the class; our official designation is X-49. Atlantic City may have its buttonmakers’ conventions, but if you want to see a real crowd, drop into the north basement of the Library at 10:00, mwf. A lovely group!
* * *
Dilemma
The authorities have made life, trying for seniors because of the changes in residence halls since last year. No longer can the potential graduates of
’37 stride past Dillon with a feeling of unquestionable superiority, because the Dillonites are not freshmen, but juniors. There may be superiority, but it’s rather a touchy subject. And Alumni, so long a home for juniors, now is a senior salon, not to be sniffed at, because the boys in there knew us when. Cavanaugh hall, in all its elegance, has the seniors scared. What to do?
' * * *
Medicine Men
Another metamorphosis with possible repercussions is the changing of the old infirmary into living quarters. No longer are there breakfasts served in bed; no longer do solicitous sisters take temperatures. We haven’t been inside since the change, and we are wondering about the old medical books and magazines in the waiting room that served as light reading. Are they still there? Nothing seems safe in this frenzied renovation. Next thing we know, they’ll be holding trotting races in the dried up swimming pool.
* * *
Aggressiveness
In the face of the confusion and fluster of the past ten days, the poise and courage of one freshman is refreshing—in fact, it’s crushing. This unabashed person confronted an S. A. C. man on the first day of registration laden with traveling impedimenta. He dropped the burden and led off with “Well, here I am—what do I do now?” It wouldn’t have been so unusual had he spoken in a scared whisper, supposedly typical of the uninitiated. But the way he said it was a challenge. No disciplinary action has been taken, but his number is up, definitely.
■ * * *
Oddities
On all bulletin boards are signs asking that “perspective” candidates for the varsity baseball team turn out for a game. We hope Jake Klein wasn’t besieged by misguided art students. And another thing! What is the English department coming to, that their students, turned into team managers, can do no better than that? Also the bulletin offering a dresser, for sale — and from Walsh Hall. “Lack of space makes us sacrifice’ this wonderful bargain.” .
If you are the risible type, you can make life on the campus one loud laugh. In Carroll Rec is a sign reading “Welcome, men of ’40!” So they are setting age limits on us now? Walter B. Pitkin made the age of 40 famous, but we’ll bet he never expected this free publicity. ’Tain’t right.
10	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, SEPTEMBER 25, 1936.
'Scholastic' Try-outs Set For Monday
• ■
Freshmen and Sophomores desiring a place on The Scholastic news staff are asked to report to the editorial offices located in the Ave Maria building, Monday night, September 28, at 7:30 p. m.
There are five or six vacancies to be filled in the news staff only. Students wishing a place on the sports staff are to apply later.
Death Hits University
(Continued from Page 4.)
Funeral sendees for Father Nieuw-land were held on June 13th from the Sacred Heart Church on the University campus. Notables of the world of science, the lay faculty of the University, and numerous friends attended the services. Father Nieuw-land was buried in the community cemetery on the campus where he had spent the greater part of his fifty-eight years.
The Reverend Joseph J. Boyle, C.S.C., President of the University of Portland in Oregon, died early in July. Father Boyle was the director of several recent students’ missions which traditionally open the scholastic year at Notre Dame. Father • Boyle at one time was the Superior of the Holy Cross Mission Band.
The Reverend Moses McGarry, C.S.C., who at the time of his death was the oldest priest in the Congregation of Holy Cross, likewise died in July.
The Reverend Angus MacDonald, C.S.C., a missionary priest and an instructor at St. Edward’s University in Texas, also passed away this summer.
Mr. G. K. Chesterton, LL.D., ’30, honorary alumnus of the University, a famed Catholic apologist and an internationally known man of letters, died during the vacation period. Mr. Chesterton was to have returned to the campus this year for a series of lectures.
Mr. F. J. Weisenberger, grandfather of Arch Gott, died early in June. Mr. Weisenberger was a student at the University from 1873 to 1876 and was one of Notre .Dame’s oldest alumni.
Messrs. Alfred Schreiber and Frank ■ Rdzok, two Holy Cross seminarians, were drowned while at camp this summer.
From the student body proper there was lost the following Notre Dame men:
William H. Barnett, a member of this year’s Senior class. Bill, who was a Varsity cheerleader for three years, died at home.
Henry Curtin, a member of the Junior class, died of a septic throat infection.
COLLEGE PARADE
By Anthony F. O'Boyle
Freshman initiation practices and fraternal “Hell Weeks” will experience a terrific barrage of printers’ ink from crusading college editors leveled in their direction this year if the spirit of the editorials in initial exchanges is a reliable criterion. One of the most drastic steps of such abolishment was recently taken by Lehigh University when it acted to eliminate “Hell Week” on its campus by the simple procedure of publishing the names of the fraternities which continue it.
A course decidedly different and unique in the history of American education makes its appearance this year in the curriculum of Indiana University. For the first time students on this continent can take a complete course in professional police training. The course will be offered on the customary basis of requisites for the A.B. degree in Arts and Sciences. A few divisions of the course that are particularly outstanding are conduct and ethics of law enforcement officials, technical instruction in all manner of firearms and traffic problems.
Collegiana Panorama:
The class of 1940 of California already finds itself in debt to the extent of $100. Decorating, and in the process of so doing, damaging a University flagpole is the reason for the early deficit in the class treasury. What price exuberance!!! ...
One of the coeds at the University of Oklahoma stated that she needed work because the drought had hurt her father’s barbering trade — and she landed the job........Last year there were at various times and for various reason the grand total of 75 beauty queens chosen at Kansas University. This year only nine will be selected. . . Kansas City “fire eaters” will take a four day course in fire fighting late next month at the University of Kansas. Exhaustive tests will be given different types of construction material as well as drills in the more common rudiments of the craft.
Army’s class of ’37 had Fort Benning with its 97,000 odd acres to play in for part of the summer. . . . We don’t vouch for its authenticity but the Los Angeles Junior Collegian maintains that Northwestern University students must hand in their pictures with their themes in order that the professor will know whose paper he is grading. . . For 42 years Baker University has tried to obtain faculty permission for student dances. Finally the battle was won but the , first dance had to be cancelled because of lack of interest.
Dome Issues Call
For Staff Men
•
There will be a meeting of the Dome staff on Monday, Sept. 28 in the Scholastic office at 6:30, and all members, as well as those who wish to obtain a post on this staff, are urged to attend this meeting. New . men are needed to replace those who were graduated last June.
Tom Radigan, editor, has completed the skeleton outline of the 1936 book and it appears that this Dome will compare favorably with those of the past.
Mass Opens School
(Continued from Page 3)
moment and you should take it on faith that it is a grace, that it has compelling duties for you to perform, and that God will demand of you a full account of the opportunity that is yours at Notre Dame.”
To show the blessedness of our present state, Father O’Hara painted a picture of the world twenty-five years ago; its prosy and sedate atmosphere; the few automobiles and fewer airplanes; the leisurely pace of business; and the lack of large scale production. He traced the history briefly down through the war and the post war period when “People sought forgetfulness in nervous, exciting entertainment; and the art of restful relaxation, which is the background of progress in spiritual culture, was lost to a great portion of the world’s population.”
He went on to show the world we were born in—dictatorship in industries and nations, the weakening of ideals, the degeneration of public morals, the increase of juvenile crime, growing disrespect for parent and authority.
“From this background, my dear young man, you can begin to understand why I say that your coming to Notre Dame is a special grace of God. Here you can find, in teaching and in practice, that peace which the world cannot give. That may sound vague to you now, for here you live far removed from the ugly conflicts of life. But talk to the alumni, read their letters that daily pass over our desks here at Notre Dame, and take it on faith from them that the only safeguard you have for serenity in the future, for the peace of your soul, lies in a practical appreciation of what Notre Dame has to teach you of the way that leads to God: And learn from them also that your will be the responsibility, when you come to take your place in the world, to teach others, that no man can love his neighbor as he should unless he .first loves God.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, SEPTEMBER 25, 1936.
11
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
CAF SMOKE...
Another year and another Caf Smoke. We are firm believers in the old saying that a little nonsense now and then—about once a week—is good for the wisest of men, and that includes you too, BILL McNALLY.
Remember you’se guys and you’se guys (that last you’se guys refers to the Freshmen) that the Smokiest time is just before the dawn. The writers of Caf Smoke intend to make their town quarters in the most populated spots wherever they may be, not of course forgetting Walgreen’s.
The dance which is to be held Fri-
Oooh! a big surprise—a big surprise, one of our popular juniors when asked to use the word “court” in a law class replied that it could be used as a verb—WHO—well we won’t give you away this time, FOX.
CHARLEY “ACE” ROGGEN-STEIN is not wearing a wound stripe but he should he; he lost a decision to a broken spring during the summer. For a time his white linen suit looked like the "Red Badge of Courage,” but with true Long Island fortitude he makes light of the in
pitching a tepee in Sorin and seems to be holed in for the winter. It is expected that Lee will guide the Detroit Club through troubled waters again this year.
DELANCEY DAVIS and GEORGE FEELEY, Salesmen Extraordinary, came back with more Little Gem Soap than they started out with. The slickers were going to peddle this marvelous Indian concoction to the natives of Pennsylvania, but someone forgot to tell the natives about it. The first day’s receipts were 13 cents, a suspender button and one Elks tooth. DAVIS is taking Accounting and looks for a big summer.
day night, across the way, is causing ADOLPH KAMM (Butch) no end of worry for he has searched in vain for a size 17 shirt, I mean bib, and without it he cannot make his debut —we suggest that he try the South Bend Saddle and Harness shop. Then BOB SECO, of Sorin, is lamenting to everyone how his radio tube, (she works for the R;C.A. in Joisey) has deserted him; she hasn’t written him for two days. That barber shop trio, on the first floor at Alumni, is causing the new students plenty of grief with its yodeling; let’s start the new year right and learn some new numbers, boys.
jury. “GEE CH” PURYEAR, the scourge of Arkansas, is back on the campus after traveling for his Dad’s wholesale grocery house. He covered lower Missouri like the morning dew. “Geech” developed into something of a horse trader selling flour.
ED “SCOOP” FISHER is gracing the city room of one of the local newspapers again this year. Ed seems to be a charter member of the Sorin Front Porch club, but he takes time out of an evening to cover South Bend happenings for the pink sheet.
Cornerstone Note: LEE MOORMAN is back with us. Lee is again
“PINKY” CARROLL is flopping again! He wandered into a second floor room in Walsh, looked a little vague about everything, muttered something about the old postofiiee and then decided he wasn’t on the first floor after-all. Add Song Title: “When Your Hair has Turned to Pink Skull.”
Blood-curdling tales of bayonet and grape are resounding in the dim corners of Morrissey sub since OTTO SCHERER, first class buck private, sir, returned from the Reserve Officer’s shindig put on by the Marines —he’s got a picture, too. .. .
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, SEPTEMBER 25, 1936.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 421 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C............Faculty	Adviser
PAUL FOLEY........................  Editor-in-Chief
CYRIL F. STROKER—................... Managing	Editor
Departmental Editors
John A. Gillespie__________________________The Week
Anthony F. O’Boyle College Parade
John Hurley_____________________________Feature Editor
Robert L. Grogan“Scholastic of the Air”
News Staff
Louis DaPra________________________________News Editor
Harold A. Williams__________________Assistant News Editor
Michael Mongoven Frank Reilly
Graham Starr__________________________Gregory Byrnes
Richard Riley_________________________Robert McClain
Sports Staff
Eugene Vaslett_____________________________Sports Editor
Andrew M. Crowe_____________________Assistant Sports Editor
John Cackley__________________________Mark Mitchell
Allan Bride_________________________Nicholas Lamberto
Frederick Digby_______________________John Clifford
Charles Callahan William A. Donnelly
Arch Gott___________________________James A. Waldron
Art Staff
Francis Kroeger____________________________Art Editor
DaNiel Sherrod_____________________________Gene Ling
William R. Dooley, '26________________Business Manager
Member Catholic School Press Association and Member of Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Vol. 70	September 25, 1936	No. I
THREE SCORE AND TEN . . .
FOR THE seventieth time the editotrial baton of The
Notre Dame Scholastic has been passed to a new series of runners. We take up the race with a long tradition, of service behind us, fortified only in the hope that we may be able to gain something from the past, add a small something to the present, and leave a respectable record of our year for the future.
The Scholastic has gone through many changes in its long history. These changes were necessary, these very changes created the subtle character of the publication. Trying to look backward at the aims of the first editor is difficult, but somehow we imagine his aims were not so very different from our own—to try diligently to capture in some way the spirit of Notre Dame and Notre Dame men and imprison it in a weekly cage of type for the world to see.	(
The spirit of Notre Dame has not changed materially since 1842, but the expression of that spirit has constantly shifted with the world around us. Any medium attempting to capture that spirit must of necessity change its method of expression, change its cloak in an effort to keep step with the institution it represents.
Just as the campus has changed, just as old buildings have fallen for newer ones—so we feel The Scholastic must in some way shift with the scenes.
Internally we have never changed. Scholastic writing today, or next week, is just as truly Notre Dame writing
as was the first essay penned in 1867. This quality peculiar to our own school could not be lost, it is part . of the life, part of every man who tries to write of Notre Dame—he could as well discard his right hand as try to discard this phantom writing spirit that will appear in Notre Dame publications.
This year we have made some material alterations. Our cover design is new, our type faces are new, some of our headline styles have been altered slightly—but the sum of what they say remains pretty much the same.
This year, for the first time in many years, The Scholastic will revive an old tradition by printing student literary efforts in other fields. We believe the student body can and does produce essays, poetry and other literary works certainly qualified for the light of publication. We sincerely invite each and every student to submit work of any type, at any time. We will give our strictest attention to any contributions and -will try to provide a medium for good, not ponderous, readable, not arty, work. Every piece which cannot be used will be returned with our reasons to the writer—we hope Notre Dame men from freshmen to graduate students will welcome this opportunity to have their own work published.
As in the past we shall strive to give complete news coverage of the campus. We invite all clubs, societies, groups and organizations to submit news items of their doings. We open our columns to any news of Notre Dame.
This year’s staff is proud of its duty. We are called upon to chronicle a year in Notre Dame’s history which .will undoubtedly see unprecedented progress. We shall strive always to be faithful chroniclers, worthy in some measure of the task we have been given.—P.F.
R. I. P.
ONE OF Notre Dame’s most gifted sons was erased from the rolls of living alumni this summer with the death of Rev. Julius Nieuwland, C.S.C.
For years Father Nieuwland’s name has been known wherever men of science gather. In all the tongues of the globe his famous works are recognized. Father Nieuwland brought untold prestige to the University with his discoveries, he brought untold blessings too in the simple virtues of a priestly life. His was something of a paradoxical existence. He performed test tube miracles, his wizardry in the laboratory was world famous, his discoveries effected the lives of millions of people—and yet he was forever the earnest searcher, the scholarly priest, the pupil rather than the teacher.
For years he peered into the mysteries of acetylene gas with an intensity blotting out thought of rest. For years he flogged his mind and energies into ignoring sagging health, weariness, any of the difficulties that beset him.
Students have seen his light burning high in the Chemistry Building when all else on the campus was black and silent with sleep. And yet for the same students he was saying an early. Mass every morning in the old Infirmary.
It is hard to gauge the loss of such a man. The world loses a recognized genius and the scientific laboratories pause a moment to regret his passing. What benefits the world loses it will never know, what secrets he carried to his grave, what plans died with him no one will ever realize. But in one sense Notre Dame can feel her loss more clearly. As a University we lost a remarkable scholar, as students we lost a devoted teacher, as men we lost a warm friend and as Catholics we lost a remarkably pious and noble priest..
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, SEPTEMBER 25, 1936.
13
That Was Funny...
George Wood’s house was halfway up Audley Street, in the shadiest part of the block. Tom was glad of that, — glad because of the shade, glad because of the two large maple trees out in front. The sun had been a warm yellow this morning, but it was a hot orange now, too hot for playing tag or throwing a rubber ball around. But up at George’s you could sit on the porch and play “Old Maid” with George and his sisters, and maybe even have lemonade to drink if Mrs. Wood was not too busy to make it. Or you could lie in the green shadow of the maples, or roll over and over down the steep lawn to the sidewalk. That was fun; the lawn was abrupt, like two rounded steps, so you tumbled down halfway, rolled slowly, then tumbled down again to the walk. If George had his bike out, and if there wasn’t a car in sight, you could ride down, with your foot pressed hard on the coaster-brake, jouncing over the “steps”, bouncing off the curb, and sliding across the street. Every time you hit the hard rock-and-tar road you thought both rims were going to split, but they didn’t. George’s mother always used to say that George should take better care of his things; no wonder he was always wanting something new. But George said it was only a second-hand bike anyway, and he had enough money saved up for another if anything ever happened to this one. He seemed disappointed that nothing ever did happen.
Tom came to a corner, looked right and left, and ran across. George lived three houses up, past the new red apartment - house, where the bright white sidewalk ended and the trees began. Someone in a white shirt with the sleeves rolled up was sitting out in front, at the bottom of the stone steps. It looked too big for George. It might be brother Al, who went to St. John’s College, had lots of pimples — which everyone thought was too bad, he was such a good - looking boy otherwise — and used to call on that pretty Baker girl down on Church Street. Or it might be brother Louis, who was very grown-up — he was twenty-five,
George said — and worked in a big office some place in the city; but he wouldn’t be home so early in the afternoon, especially after having Labor Day off already this week.
It was brother Frank. He was sorry, but George hadn’t come home from school yet. You might wait around a few minutes; he was sure to be along soon. Tom had forgotten about that, — about the parochial school kids getting out at four instead of at three, because they had an extra class in religion. George went to the parochial school, and he always wore blue serge suits and white shirts, and his sisters wore blue skirts. You didn’t see why they couldn’t wear- what they wanted — brown or gray for a change, like yourself — but if you didn’t wear blue you couldn’t go to the parochial school. Mother thought you should go to the parochial school too, but you liked it where you were. You had nice teachers like Miss Clark and Miss Murphy and Mrs. Walker, and you didn’t have to stay in school till four o’clock — unless you were bad. But you weren’t bad often. George’s teachers all had funny names — Sister Nicedas, and Sister Serena, and Sister Stella Frances — she was a tough one, George said — and Sister Benigna. You knew Sister Benigna, She taught on Saturday mornings when you went to Instructions with the other public school children. She was very nice, — but so was Mrs. Walker; she was lively and had a snappy yellow car that she sometimes drove the kids home in. But with Sister ----- well, she was just kind
and nice.
Tom sat on the cool stone steps in the shade of the maples and waited.
A small squirrel skeetered softly across the street toward him and scampered up the nearest tree. Its claws picked and scratched at the bark, getting higher and higher, as it kept- out of sight on the other side of the tree. It- curled suddenly over the lowest crotch, then hurried on up. A great limb led it out toward another maple that half-shaded the Woods’ lawn. The squirrel crept on up, where the branch gradually slimmed out.
Things were shivering and shaking up there—up in the shadows of the tree; twigs came twirling downward; scratched bark and bits of leaf dusted down upon you. Tom stood up to watch. The squirrel slipped, caught,
By Andrew Wilson
slipped and dangled from the brittle branch. It swung gently, then hung like a dead thing. Little forefeet were stretched out stiffly with black claws showing. His head was bent up; its tail curled down. Its eyes were wide, dark, intense. It stared down into your face, stiff and silent, waiting.
There was a wavering, muscles strained too long, too tautly, loosened. The squirrel fell flat, legs stiffened for the shock upon the ground. It landed dully, crushingly, and lay there, gray as lead. Frank stooped quickly to pick it up. There was a blur of movement and Frank slung it away from him with a curse. Blood slewed from his fingertip. He clutched his finger, then rushed up into the house.
The flung squirrel brushed across the sidewalk flat on its belly. Its eyes. Its head strained forward, and its forefeet struggled up. Its tail and hindfeet dragged behind. The squirrel rustled slowly through fallen leaves and up among the stalks of a high hedge. It squirmed around a root and lay facing the road, its head up, its forefeet together, its hindfeet out in back.
Tom crouched down and peered at it. Its eyes were brown, with dark pupils. Little muscles in its eyelids flickered. Tom reached out to touch the soft fur, then drew back. It was shorter and darker than the fur in Mother’s squirrel coat. But Mother’s coat wasn’t made from ordinary street squirrels. You guessed ordinary squirrels, even fifty of them— which were about enough to make a coat — wouldn’t cost three hundred dollars, like Mother’s coat did. Mother said it was wearing out, because it was always shedding long gray hairs just like a cat.
The squirrel’s eyelids had stopped twitching. Tom leaned forward, remembered the blood running from Frank’s finger, and picked up a long stick. Carefully he pushed it against the animal’s side. Then he touched the comer of its eye. It lay stiff, motionless; head up, forepaws together.
Tom brushed the soft side with his hand. The fur flowed under his fingers and ebbed back into place. Tom felt suddenly very sorry. He clutched a mass of fallen leaves and spread them over the stiff little body, kept spreading them till the gray fur no longer showed.
14	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, SEPTEMBER 25, 1936.
ATHLETICS
LAYDEN PROMISES AN INTERESTING SEASON BUT FEARS LACK OF EXPERIENCE
JOHN LAUTAR SUCCEEDS SMITH
By Gene Vaslett
Head Coach Elmer Layden dropped the mourning robes concerning his football team this week and in an exclusive interview with The Scho-. lastic asserted that the team will make it interesting for the best of
Coach Elmer Layden Starts to lose weight
them. That declaration, coming from Mr. Layden, is a virtual acknowledgement from him that once again Notre Dame will have a good team, but, there are quite a few “if’s” attached to the statement.
Among the “ifs” is the matter of experience. Mr. Layden declared that the boys have had very little experience, most of the regulars coming up being Juniors who have seen service on the “B” squad of last year. The only way to acquire this experience is to participate in the games themselves and with Carnegie Tech coming first on the list the footballers will get plenty of it. The head coach went on to say that his men will make mistakes, the question is, how many mistakes will they make? If to many of them are made it will be a rather dismal afternoon for the Irish and all their supporters.
(Continued on Page 21)
1936 Football Schedule
Oct. 3—Carnegie Tech at N. D. Oct. 10---Washington U. at N. D. Oct. 17—Wisconsin at N. D.
Oct. 24—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh Oct. 31---Ohio State at N. D.
Nov. 7----Navy at Baltimore
Nov. 14—Army at New York Nov. 21—Northwestern at N. D. Dec.	5—So. Cal. at Los Angeles
Irish Gain Support From Western College
Seattle College of Seattle, Washington has been in the collegiate field four years. The school has no football team of any kind but the students have the football spirit. The Scholastic recently received a letter from the sports editor of the Seattle College newspaper, one E. L. “Doc” Sweitzer, III, informing us that Seattle College has adopted Notre Dame for their football school and would we keep them informed of the progress of the team.
Last week Coach Elmer Layden sent “Doc” a signed article concerning the situation of Notre Dame football this year. Since then articles have gone to Seattle regularly keeping “Doc” Sweitzer III well informed.
In his letter to The Scholastic “Doc” expressed the hope that some day Seattle and Notre Dame may meet on the grid-iron. If the football teams turned out by Seattle in any way approximate the enthusiasm of its student body, Notre Dame will certainly play Seattle in what may possibly at some time be a great intersectional game.
Some 2000 miles away in the Pacific Northwest this small college every Saturday will be rooting Notre Dame teams on to victory and this added support small as it may seem to some will certainly be appreciated by the members of the football team.
X-Country Team Out For Coming Year;
Fencing Raised
•
By Mark Mitchell
The Faculty Board in control of athletics has decided that henceforth the University of Notre Dame shall not be represented by a cross-country team. That the harriers were definitely out of a job this fall was disclosed last week by Elmer F. Layden, Director of Athletics. The decision was reached last June in a meeting of the Board which at the same time decreed that fencing should be recognized as a minor sport. There has been much agitation for the past year or so in favor of this move because of the excellent record of the Notre Dame swordsmen who have been undefeated in two years.
Naturally this decision may be expected to have some effect on the 1937 edition of Coach John P. Nicholson’s track team. However, there will be fall track practice held as usual. Nick says, “We were hit hard by graduation, and we probably won’t be as good as last year, but we’ll lick a few of ’em.” And those who have been around here a few days know that if he can find anybody capable of lasting more than one lap, we will “lick a few of ’em.”
Altogether eight of the most consistent point-winners of last year’s team were lost via the diploma route. Elser, Captain Meagher, McGrath, Bernard, Rubly, McFarlane, Frawley, and Michuta who, together, accounted • for about half the team’s points in last year’s meets, will all be missing from the squad this year. The loss of Elser in the weight events and low hurdles will be sorely felt. The big Hoosier, while he failed to make the Olympic team in the decathlon, made a brilliant showing in the hurdles of the National Collegiates held in Chicago last summer. In this meet he . ran second to Jesse Owens, and was timed in :23.3, six-tenths of a second faster than any Notre Dame man had ever run the 220 yard low hurdles before. Bernard, holder of the Car-tier field record for the quarter mile, and his running mate, Rubly, will leave a gap hard to fill. McGrath who in his senior year developed into a first class half-miler, left a spot for which no successor is yet in sight.
(Continued on Page 21)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, SEPTEMBER 25, 1936.
15
VARSITY FACES FROSH IN PRE-SEASON TEST HERE TOMORROW
ANNUAL FALL GOLF TOURNAMENT
ATTRACTS 150 OF SCHOOL'S GOLFERS
By John Cackley
Notre Dame’s varsity grid squad will unofficially launch its 1936 campaign, against Jake Kline’s freshman team tomorrow afternoon at 2 o’clock in the local stadium.
The game, always an annual feature between Layden’s regulars and
Coach Jake Kline He welcomes some Freshmen
the frosh should provide the Irish mentor an opportunity of observing his first string men under fire. With three weeks of practice having been completed the varsity should be well prepared to give the yearlings an extremely busy session in the art of blocking, tackling, and running.
Coach Layden, having lost 17 veteran monogram wearers last June, has been doing some extensive experimenting in the hope of finding a winning combination. Although no line-up could as yet be considered authentic, nevertheless Joe O’Neil and Joe Zwers are slated for the terminal posts. They will be capably reinforced by Chuck Sweeney, Skoglund and Jerry Clifford.
Steinkemper, Kopczak, Cronin, Le-vicki and Beinor will doubtless see plenty of action at the tackle positions. Captain Johnny Lautar and Joe Kuharich are the apparent choice for the guard berths, while Martin, Marshall, Race, Zenner, and Schrader will follow closely behind. The center post will be well fortified with Mun-dee, McCarty, Fogel and Winsouer.
Puplis, O’Reilly, Megin, Bruno, Reutz, and Crowe are scheduled for the quarterback jobs. Vic Wojcihov-ski, Wilke, Jack McCarthy, Gleason, Borowski, Snell, Horan and Nickel appear the probable selections for the various halfbacks. The fullback spot will be handled by Danbom, Tonelli, Miller and Binkowski.
Jake Kline has approximately 75 former high school and prep stars that will seek to score a win over Layden’s 1936 array.
LAYDEN SEEKS TALENT AMONG HOPEFULS IN GRID DRILL
By Al Bride
Under the direction of head coach Elmer Layden Notre Dame’s varsity football squad is rapidly rounding into shape for the opener against the Carnegie Tech gridders on Oct. 3. The beginning of the scholastic year necessitated the welcome singe daily practice sessions.
For the past week Layden and his aides have been stressing fundamentals in drilling the squad of a hundred-odd hopefuls. Blocking and tackling have played a major part in the daily drills and will continue to do so until perfection is reached.
One of the chief problems facing the Irish coach is that of finding a kicker and all-around player to replace Shakespeare, a sure blocker to fill the shoes of Fromhart, and a pass receiver that can snare ’em like Millner. The veteran linesman of two seasons, Kopczak, who did considerable for Harrison Tech in Chicago promises to develop into a dependable booter. Andy Puplis and Joe O’Neill have also been getting off long boots.
The daily blocking drills have brought to light several blockers to help Puplis, Wojcihovski, Danbom, and company. Arboit, the captainelect of the baseball team, is one of the newcomers who is expected to see action this year in the backfield.
Line Develops Slowly
Line coach Joe Boland has had the line candidates hard at work pushing the charging dummy up and down Cartier field in an effort to get the front liners in condition. The center position is the puzzler of this years’ team, and the starting position will be determined by the work in the next week.
In the recent passing drills the Irish seem to have difficulty in completing and breaking up passes. Layden has had the boys working on this phase, and it is- expected that the aerial attack will be functioning smoothly as the sason gets under way.
MAIHLES, DONOVAN, SHEEHAN LEAD DRIVE ON VACATED THRONE
By John F. Clifford
As the first round of the Annual 72-hole University Individual Golf Championship got under way September 19th and 20 on the University Course, about 75 Notre Dame golf enthusiasts drove, chipped and putted toward the school championship. At the completion of the tournament on Sunday, September 27th, the winner will have his name inscribed on the seventh green of the William J. Burke Memorial Plaque now hanging in the Library. The runner-up will receive a medal.
Because of the graduation of Winfield Day, captain of last year’s team who for four successive years monopolized the championship berth, student interest has been the keenest in several years. Al Mailhes, a junior, has set a torrid pace with a magnificent 145 for his first 36. His morning round score of 74 was completely shattered in the afternoon by a sub-par 71. Bud Donovan and Tom Sheehan are close on his heels, turning in cards of 148 each. Gene Milbourne with a 150, and Lou Fehlig and Charlie Bennett with 151 each are also in the running.
Father George Holderith, faculty adviser for the golf team says that this tournament “serves a two-fold purpose in that it determines the individual champ of the University and gives a good indication of the golfing ability for the following spring. The spring golf team is formed on the basis of these fall scores.
Win Day won the tournament last fall with a 296 for his 72 holes, and there is every indication to believe that whoever wins this year will have to shoot under 300. The following are the best cards turned in thus	far:
A.	Mailhes ______________74-71,	145
B.	Donovan ..............74-74,	148
T. Sheehan---------------75-73,	148
G. Milbourne 	 L. Fehlig			74-76, 150 	74-77, 151
C. Bennett 			79-72, 151
W. Castleman			76-76, 152
G. Nolan, Jr. 			77-78, 155
L. Martz 			.77-79, 156
Lesselyong 			78-78, 156
W. Shaller 			79-78, 157
J. Marbach			79-80, 156
H. Baldwin			78-81, 159
H. Wilson			80-79, 159
G. Leonard 			77-82, 159
W .Hagen, Jr.			80-80, 160
(Continued on	■ Page 19)
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, SEPTEMBER 25, 1936.
INTRODUCING
Things have been moving pretty fast for Johnny Lautar during the past week since he was unexpectedly chosen to captain the 1936 Irish grid edition following Bill Smith’s resignation. But things have moved pretty
fast for the boy from Moundsville, West Virginia, ever since he started playing football, which wasn’t so long ago. Lautar didn’t take up the game until he was within one year of coming to Notre Dame, and probably was inspired to do this by the fact that everybody who comes to Notre Dame, according to the outside world, has to play football or be nothing in this school.
So Johnny went out for football in his senior year on a team that had no enviable reputation for the sport. He was made substitute tackle and played through the season. It was disastrous from the point of view of games won and lost, the team winning only four and losing four* games, but Johnny profited. He gained the attention of the football followers of the team and took the advice of a few of them! and came to Notre Dame, a school that had heard of Moundsville, West Virginia many times before.
Moundsville had sent a number of great football players to the school, as had a town across the. river, Youngstown, Ohio. These two towns are sort of a twin-city affair, and the combination of them had , sent such Irish stars as Pomparis, Sheeketski, John Niemiec, Bud Bonar, Wally Fromhart and others. When Lautar came to Notre Dame he had quite a reputation to uphold, and this fellow who had played but one year of football upheld that reputation and added some more weight to it. In his freshman year he won his numerals, and in his sophomore year he was one of very few second-year men to win a monogram, last year he played regularly at the guard position on that
spectacular team. This year Johnny is set for the regular left guard position and last Saturday brought him the added honor of leading his teammates of 1936.
Lautar holds a peculiar place on this campus. He is one of the few engineering students on the football team. This is a decided handicap, as the engineers have many more classes than the students of any other college of the University, but Johnny has more than succeeded at both football and engineering. His scholastic average is up near 90, and he will graduate with honors. Here is a fine combination of athletic and scholastic ability.
This summer, as in past summers, he worked for an engineering company, and actually plans to continue in the engineering field after he graduates.
In the Army game last year Johnny was the famous twelfth man on the field at the start of the second half. Coming out of the locker room he accidentally bumped his head on a low rafter and momentarily knocked himself out. When he came to he ran out on the field thinking he was still going to play but another' man had taken his place, unknown to Johnny, and it was several minutes before Lautor would be removed from the field. He still maintains it was a misunderstanding.
They called him “Baby Face” at the beginning of his sophomore year, but at the close of that season it was changed to “the Baby-Faced Killer,”
and the boy from Moundsville has lived up to it ever since.
He’s the new captain of Notre Dame’s football team, and he has promise of being up there with the best of the other great Notre Dame captains of past years. Johnny is popular and well liked by all members of the team, and everybody was satisfied at the new choice.
Variety of Occupations Keep Gridders Busy During Summer
•
By Charles Callahan
From life guard to farmer, and from camp counselor to grave digger, range the summer jobs of Notre Dame football men.
Former Captain Bill Smith drove a truck in and around his native Hackettstown, New Jersey in a vain attempt to get himself in such condition as to receive the medico’s O.K. He was not the only truck driver, however, as Bill “Butch” Bruno was employed similarly—transporting ■ newspapers here and there in Asbury Park, New Jersey.
Getting away from the ‘skeeter’ state, we travel south to West Virginia where Captain Johnny Lautar spent his vacation working for an engineering company. It’s no wonder that Johnny is an honor student in the engineering school since he gets all this practical knowledge during the summer months . Before leaving West Virginia we must mention that Vic Wojcihovski worked in a chemical plant in Charleston.
Also employed as an engineer was big Bill Stienkemper. His official title was Assistant Civil Engineer and he worked on a railroad bridge construction. Construction and labor gangs also claimed the services of Harry Marr in Boston, Len Skoglund in Chicago, and Pat McCarty in Toledo.
“Chuck” Sweeney and Gene Ely both kept in trim through ground jobs. However, one worked below the earth and the other above. Sweeney was employed in a tunnel, while Ely did his bit to keep the tall corn and other farm products growing out Nebraska way.
Chicago was the haven of not a few Lay denites. Johnny Fogel kept things shipshape at the Carnegie-Ulinois Steel Mill. Andy Puplis practiced calling signals while working for the city sanitary department. Joe “Red” Gleason was a tank-keeper. The real white collar man of the whole group was Steve Miller, who worked in the State Attorney’s office. Completing the list of N. D. footballers working in the Windy City, we come to Frank Kopczak who received his weekly pay check from the International Harvester Company.
The International Harvester’s evidently have a liking for Notre Dame men because in their Rock Island, Illinois branch they gave employment to Larry Danbom.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, SEPTEMBER 25, 1936.
17
ON DOWN THE UNE
By Mike Crowe
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA and NOTRE DAME have met eight times on the gridiron and have grossed $2,050,485. This is a rate of approximately seventy thousand dollars per touchdown.
NOTRE DAME’S athletic director, ELMER, LAYDEN, was tops as a high school track man. He won six firsts and three seconds in the state high school meet during his junior year. IOWA is no slouch either when it comes to producing great track athletes.
BILL SMITH, the fighting Irishman who resigned the NOTRE DAME football captaincy last week, played with ST. BENEDICT’S HIGH SCHOOL in Newark, New Jersey, before coming to NOTRE DAME. Bill commuted between HACKETTSTOWN, his home town, and NEWARK daily. A motorcycle provided his transportation.
In his drive to the U. S. amateur golf championship JOHNNY FISCHER defeated EDDIE MEISTER, Cleveland, 6 and 5; CARLIN SHORT, Akron, 5 and 4; CHICK EVANS, Chicago, 3 and 2; WILLIAM BREAULT, Detroit, 3 and 2; GUS MORELAND, Peoria, BL, 1 up; RUSSELL MARTIN, Chicago, 6 and 4; JOHNNY GOODMAN, Omaha, 2 and 1; and JACK McLEAN, Scotland, 1 up, thirty-seven holes.
During his arduous major league career, LOU GEHRIG has smashed eighteen home runs with the bases filled.
LEROY HAINES, promising negro heavyweight, has been defeated by AL ETTORE three times.
VAN LINGLE MUNGO while striking out ten Giant batters Saturday, September 19, lost the decision to CARL HUBBELL, 19 to. 1. Incidentally, it was KING CARL’S fifteenth consecutive victory. In another game this, summer, the Brooklyn speed ball king fanned fourteen Boston Bees batters but lost 4 to 1.
SUSQUEHANNA UNIVERSITY again has a football team. Fourteen lettermen quit for a time because they thought that football interfered with their work at a nearby epileptic colony.	.
If PAUL WANER keeps up his stickwork, he is sure to win the batting crown of the national league for the third time. ,
BOB SWISHER, Northwestern’s veteran halfback who was counted on to be one of the nation’s ranking stars this fall, has been declared ineligible. It will be remembered that Swisher ran 57 yards through the (Continued on Page 23)
BILL SMITH RESIGNS TEAM CAPTAINCY BECAUSE OF INABILITY TO PLAY
Irish Nine Ends Year With Two Victories And One Loss
•
By Bill Donnelly
Notre Dame’s 1936 baseball team finished an unusually successful season by revenging themselves against Wisconsin in a 13-8 power battle, by dropping a 10 to 5 game to Iowa after they had spotted the Big Ten Champs five runs in the first and by squeezing through the 6-4 finale with Michigan State. The 16 won and 8 lost percentage of .842 was the best since an .863 in 1910, and the fact that the team’s schedule was so much more difficult than that of the 1910 team makes its success even more satisfying.
Captain-elect Ennio Arboit starred against Wisconsin. He pitched very effectively allowing only nine hits and striking out 11 batters, he batted quite as capably, getting to base five times out of five on two singles, two triples, and a fielder’s choice. Wisconsin shot the works in the first three innings with six of their nine hits and six of their eight runs. Notre Dame also scored six runs in the first three innings, but added one in the fourth and iced the game with, four in the sixth. Everyone on the team connected for at least one of the seventeen safe slams. Fromhart, Borowski, and Wentworth hit doubles, Arboit banged out his two triples, Ponzevic cracked one, and Borowski hammered a homer.
The Iowa game was a little different. Clausen of Iowa hit a home run with two on base and then , the Hawkeyes’ capitalized on two Irish errors for two more runs before the first inning finally passed. Themes calmed down a bit allowing only four more hits and striking out six men before he was sent to the showers by four singles in the sixth. Blackman, the Hawkeye pitcher, fanned eleven bat- -ters and distributed the eight. Notre Dame hits so democratically that no man got more than one. Andy Pilney whiffed twice, but his home run with two on in the seventh was the only extra-base hit the Irish got.
It was Arboit again who pitched the Notre Dame victory over Michigan State. After the game had been stopped twice because of rain, the Irish slugged across three runs in the eighth to come from behind and win the season’s final, 6-4.
HAD FINE RECORD
By John F. Clifford
Coincidental with the announcements throughout the country that the Notre Dame football team would this year play its longest and most strenuous season since his appointment as Head Coach and Director of Athletics, Elmer F. Layden made
Bill Smith Won’t be a figurehead
public the resignation of William Robert Smith, of Hackettstown, New Jersey, as captain of the 1936 edition of the Notre Dame football annals. Bill’s resignation came after Dr. J. J. McMeel examined him and found him physically unfit for football, since a severe blow might have serious effects. In the summer of 1935 Bill underwent an operation for the removal of gallstones, and in February of last year he again went under the knife at Mayo Brothers’ Hospital in Rochester, Minn.
St. Benedict’s Prep of Newark first furnished Bill with the rudiment? of football. He won the captaincy and All-State honors for two successive years at that institution. Weighing but 163 pounds, Bill made football history at St. Benedict’s, the school that produced for Notre Dame such stars as Hugh Devore, co-cap-tain of the 1933 team, and Johnny Hopkins, a member of the 1935-1936 basketball squad. '
Bill heeded the advice of Father John Conners to enter Notre Dame and enrolled in the fall of 1932. He put in .his apprenticeship on the freshman squad, and also spent his sophomore year in acquiring ’that much needed experience to be of value later on. But in 1934 Bill determined to live up to. the immortal words of Longfellow, “The Smith a mighty man is he.” Under the watchful eye of Line Coach Joe Boland Bill developed into the ideal “watchcharm guard”—small and fast.
At this point in his career Bill (Continued on Page 22)
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, SEPTEMBER 25, 1936.
Splinters From The Press Box
By Cy Stroker
'B' Team Plays Niagara In Season's Opener This Sunday
This column is now running “under new management.” We hope that it will be conducted as well as it was in the last three years by Jim Kearns, Ed Van Huisseling, and Joe Prendergast respectively. Prendergast, incidentally, is the same person to whom DeLancey Davis and his merry men, in the “Scooplastic” section of the Dome last year, referred as Joseph Blundergast. Do you get it? Prendergast, Blundergast. Clever, what?
The first topic of discussion is football, and Notre Dame football can well be discussed long and loudly this year. The usual difficult Irish schedule, the loss of so many experienced players through graduation, and the numerous changes that have been going on over at Cartier field, pave the way for a great deal of conjecture as to Notre Dame’s possible position in the football scene this year. As tilings stand at the present time, most writers seem to think that Minnesota, Ohio State, and Nebraska will monopolize the Mid-Western football limelight, while Notre Dame will be lucky if it gets as many victories as it does defeats.
That, too, is approximately the expressed opinion of Mr. Layden who should know. We venture to say, however, that the Irish team this year will continue in its former status under which it gained national prominence as being, not an invincible machine, but a team that was always dramatic, always spectacular, and one that left not a moment of certainty in the minds of the spectators as to the outcome of a game until after the game was finished. And it is more than likely that when the season is over the team will have a record behind it that will compare favorably with teams that appear to be worldbeaters at the beginning of the year.
True, the schedule is a hard one to beat. Carnegie Tech, with a fresh and experienced team is not the set-up that it was last yar; Wisconsin seems to have perked up, in spirit at least, under the guidance of Harry Stuhldreher; Pittsburgh, stronger than ever, looms as Notre Dame’s most powerful opponent; and then, of course, there’s Ohio State actually drooling over its collective chin at the prospect of a chance to avenge that defeat. True,- also, is the fact that Notre Dame has lost great deal of material.
But the Notre Dame schedule was tough last year too. It’s always tough. And men like O’Neill and Zwers, Lautar and Steinkemper, Wilke, Danbom, Miller, Wojcihowski and Ruetz are hard to beat. And remember, too, what happened at Columbus last year although the odds were two to one against Notre Dame, and although at a dinner the night before while Coach Schmidt expanded visibly amid the tumultuous' applause of the Ohio taxpayers, Elmer Layden wept bitter tears into his salad as he conceded that Notre Dame didn’t have a Chinaman’s chance.
Each year this column takes on some of the proportions of a fortune teller and tries to predict the outcome and the scores of some of the major collegiate football games played each week. Last year All-American center, Jack Robinson, did the predicting. Starting next week, at a great deal of additional expense and infinite trouble we have secured the services of last year’s quarterback, Wally Fromhart, (who is every bit as good as one All-American quarterback we can think of off-hand) will perform this function for the enjoyment and delight of you and you and you. But remember: only one reading to a customer.
We stayed around for Summer school last summer just to see if it ever gets warm in Indiana. (Well, that was one reason anyway.) Sports, like other activities, go into a decline in the Summer at Notre Dame. However, golf, tennis, and swimming flourished throughout the session. The sports highlight of the Summer Session was a golf tournament which was participated in by both students and religious. The first flight of the tourney was won by the Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., who, it is quite apparent, can play the game as well as coach it. The runner-up was Frank Lesselyong who shoots in the middle seventies and who should be good material for the varsity golf team next spring.
Mr. Shane Leslie taught several classes during the Summer, and was to be seen walking around the campus wearing an enormous straw hat, to the infinite (Continued on Page 20)	"
Notre Dame’s reserve football squad, commonly known as the “B” team, opens its season on Sunday, September 27, at Niagara Falls when it plays Niagara University’s football team. The series with Niagara going into its third year, has been the opening tilt for the Irish “B” team.
Sophomores and Juniors who are not playing on the regular varsity will make this trip, the first of a tentative four-game schedule thus far arranged for the reserves. Later on m the season, in all probability, more teams will be added to the schedule.
Irish Team Is Favorite
The Niagara game has always seen interesting football played. For the past two years the Irish reserves have triumphed, and in these contests many a potential varsity great has been uncovered. The Falls team plays good Class B football and has always had good seasons, playing such teams as St. Bonaventure, Manhattan and others. This year’s game will give “B” Coach Bill Cerney a lineup of just what he has to offer Elmer Layden in the way of varsity players that may shine in varsity games later in the season. That is why “B” games are of such interest, anything may happen in them and anyone may step out of them a potential football great.
Twenty-two men will make the trip, they follow. Left ends, Hickey and Nardone; left tackles, Cusick and Kerwin; left guards, Paul Smith and R. Sullivan; centers, Rogenski and Thiesen; right guards, Fox and Gennedy; right tackles, Young and Horan; right ends, Brown and Hag-gar; quarterbacks, McArdle and Vettle; left halfbacks, Nickel and Snell; right halfbacks, Morrison and Schwartz; fullbacks, DiMatteo and Tonelli.
"B" Team Schedule
Sept. 27—Niagara U. at Niagara Falls
Oct. 17—Illinois paign
Nov. 7—Purdue Dame
Nov. 14—Illinois Dame
“B” at Cham-
“B” at Notre
“B” at Notre
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, SEPTEMBER 25, 1936.
19
Grid Practice Begins For Freshman Squad With Large Roster
•
By Nick Lamberto
Two hundred green-shirted hopefuls reported last Thursday to Coach Clarence “Jake” Kline and his assistants in the initial Freshman practice of the year. Late-comers and stragglers should swell this number considerably before the season ends. As it is the large number has just about exhausted the supply of Freshman equipment.
Coach Kline is ably assisted by three players from last year’s Varsity, All-American Halfback Bill Shakespeare, Quarterback Wally Fromhart, and Center Hank Pojman. These three were all members of the All-Star team which played the Detroit Lions, national pro champs, at Soldiers Field on Sept. 2 and held them to a 7 to 7 tie. This together with their three years of varsity experience should well qualify them to give instruction in their respective positions.
The first -workouts were devoted primarily to setting up exercises. The purpose of this is to get the men into condition before any hard contact work is undertaken. Coach Kline said that practice the first week would consist of fundamentals and calisthenics. This will not only get the players into condition but will also enable him and his assistants to get acquainted with the personnel of his squad. He viewed Saturday’s Freshman-Varsity with pessimism, stating that ten days hardly gave him time to get a “line on the boys” and have a presentable team on the field.
After Saturday’s game the Freshman squad will learn Carnegie Tech plays and use them in scrimmages with the Varsity next week. Each succeeding week -will see them using the plays of the opponent to be met by the Varsity on the following Saturday. The Varsity and “B” team make the life of the Freshman football player seem like a series of scrimmages, but in reality they are giving him the practice and polish so necessary for his future success.
Golf Tournament
(Continued from Page 15)		
J. Corcoran 			.82-79,	161
J. Stubb 			80-81,	161
M. Leahey 			..81-81,	162
J. Tiernan 				83-81,	164
C. Gallagher			85-80,	165
D. Allan ......:			88-82,	170
L. Read 			82-90,	172
M.. Quinn 			87-87,	174
Discontinued X-Country Team Has Interesting Past Ranging Over a Period of 28 Years;
Bert Maris Was First Coach
The 1935 cross-country season closed with the Notre Dame harriers carrying on to a second place in the Central Intercollegiate meet behind the great National Championship Michigan State team. Cross-country had advanced with leaps and bounds from its former place of obscurity many years before.
Way back in 1907, Bert Maris, a former Michigan athlete, was signed as the Notre Dame track coach. He was a firm believer in cross-country running in the fall as an excellent conditioner for his distance men so he tried to organize a club here. Excellent response greeted his announcement, and a squad of fifteen was soon running from four to six miles every afternoon. A monogram, consisting of three C’s and an arrow, was offered to further stimulate interest. After a strenuous period of daily practice, an intra-team meet was held on Thanksgiving Day, and cross-country had started in earnest at Notre Dame. Members of that first team were Captain Moriarty, Roach, Shea, Parish, O’Brien, Cripe, Scholl, Fuchs, Lynch, and Roth. With the distance set at nearly five miles, Roach raced to victory in a hairline finish in the time of 28:40. It appears that Captain Moriarty was in the infirmary at the time and was unable to participate.
Squad Grew Fast
The next year, in 1908, Maris again started up his club, and this time there was a much better* selection for the squad. Among them -were Dana, one of the best milers in the middle west, Scholl, Brady, and Foley. On November* 21st the first intercollegiate meet was held here with Michigan “Aggies,” De Pauw, and Notre Dame as the entrants. The 5% mile course extended north from Car-tier field in the shape of a rectangle; the finish was made in front of the bleachers on Cartier. Tillison of Michigan “Aggies” was winner by scant margin over Fred Steers of Notre Dame. Steers is at present a well-known Chicago attorney, and was a member of the American Olympic Committee which made the trip over to Berlin this summer. Coach Maris seemed very much satisfied with the results of this first meet and proudly pointed to the fact that all the runners from Notre Dame had finished the race.
The Wisconsin coach conceived the idea of a meet between leading
schools of the middle west in 1910 to be held at Madison. Notre Dame was invited to participate and The Scholastic began to take notice with the comment: “There is no greater test of nerve and staying power than a grinding run over miles of rough country, but when men are animated by that spirit of determination that has carried Notre Dame men to victory in every form of competition, they can be counted on to make a good showing.” Notre Dame made a satisfactory if not spectacular showing in the meet the following week more firmly establishing the sport in the athletic program of the University.
Rockne Approved Sports
After Knute Rockne became track coach, he, too, fostered cross-country, seeing how necessary it was to the success of his track team. In 1916 Rockne had a squad of twenty men, but only intra-squad meets were held that year. For a long period there was a dearth of good distance runners at Notre Dame and the cross-country team suffered as a consequence. The Notre Dame Dome of 1923 bemoaned the poor situation of the long-winded boys and advised the alumni to report any promising high school men. As an answer to the Dome the Hillbilly boys went out in the following ' season and romped off with the Indiana State championship at Purdue. * Under Coach Eddie Meehan the Irish went through an undefeated season that year as they trimmed Michigan and Wabash as well.
In 1926 the Notre Dame runners were climaxing a successful season by their participation in the Central Conference meet at Michigan State. But misery overtook the team because two of the Irish runners lost their way on the course and were forced to run an extra half mile to return to the poorly marked route. This mistake gave the Irish only third place. The following year Coach John Nicholson was given the coaching reins which he has capably held ever since. 1928 saw “Nick” produce a brilliant team that achieved an outstanding goal—this was the first Notre Dame team that ever beat an Illinois team in any track event. The meet was won for the Irish, 27-28, when Joe Quigley stumbled over the finish line in twelfth place to conclude a thrill-packed race.
1929 will always be remembered by Coach Nicholson and his team as (Continued on Page 22)
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, SEPTEMBER 25, 1936.
FENCING TEAM GAINS RECOGNITION AS MINOR SPORTS TEAM
UNDEFEATED IN TWO YEARS
•
By Mark J. Mitchell
Climaxing an agitation which has been under way for the past two years, the Faculty Board in control of athletics decided in a meeting held immediately after the close of school last June that fencing should be of-
Coach Pedro de Landero I am not a pessimist.” ficially added to the minor sports calendar in place of cross-country.
Duelling a schedule of nine meets which was just as “suicidal” in its class as that of the football teams, the Notre Dame fencing squad has not been defeated in two years. The opposition has been the finest in the Middle West, and Coach Pedro de-Landero’s men proved their outstanding ability last year by winning first honors in two major tournaments, that of the Illinois Fencers’ League, and one held by the Amateur Fencers’ Leagueof America. In the former McAuliffe and Seco tied for first in the epee event, McAuliffe winning in the fence-off. In the latter which was designated as the regional trials for the Olympic team, Co-captains Carlos deLandero and Kevin Kehoe also tied for first place, this in sabre competition. Kehoe went to the finals in New York where he was eliminated.
deLandero Satisfied
When questioned concerning his reaction ot the well-deserved recognition, Mr. deLandero said: “Of course everyone is aware that the boys deserved some reward for their work. And I think that when they worked so hard without any thought of reward, they will surely work harder with such an incentive. Our schedule this year will include most of the teams we have met before. The competition will be of the first class. But I am not a pessimist, and, though we were severely crippled by gradua
tion, we will do our best to remain undefeated.”
*
In recognizing fencing as an official minor sport the Faculty Board decreed that the action should be retroactive, in other words that those who had earned monograms on last year’s team would be awarded them. These included Co-captains Carlos deLandero and Kevin Kehoe, as well as Telmo deLandero, Jack McAuliffe and Bob Seco. The requirements laid down by the Board for the award of a fencing monogram are that a man must have competed in at least three meets, and won at least five bouts.
Fencers Meet Old Foes
In meeting the same opponents they faced last year the swordsmen will be encountering several bitter enemies who this year will be even more bitter than before. Ohio State, which has lost three meets in succession to Notre Dame, will naturally be pointing for the Irish this year. Chicago, too, whose Big Ten Conference championship was marred by a defeat at the hands of deLandero’s men will be out to win. Others will have the same attitude, so that it will take a great deal of hard work in addition to a fighting spirit for the Notre Dame fencing squad to maintain their unsullied record.
New Material For Team
Coach deLandero indicated that he will build this year’s team mainly around the three returning lettermen, McAuliffe, Seco, and Telmo deLandero, all seniors. There are several juniors who have had a taste of intercollegiate competition, and a number of promising sophomores. Practice will start early in October, and Prof. deLandero expresses the hope that the turnout will prove even better than last year when about 80 candidates presented themselves.
Splinters From The Press Box
(Continued from Page 18) astonishment of the nuns who were attending classes here. Mr. Leslie also wore the hat while swimming in the lake, and the sight of a large hat floating around the lake created a picture so surprising and bizarre that the Brother who acts as game-keeper on the campus restrained himself only with the greatest difficulty from getting out his trusty shot-gun and taking a few pot shots at it. Mr. Leslie’s wearing of his hat while swimming was looked upon in some quarters as an out-and-out attempt to steal the show. The result was that the Rev. John Reynolds, C.S.C., soon appeared at the lake wearing a Panama hat but the smaller hat was no match for Mr. Leslie’s head covering. We leave you for a week, then, with this picture of Summer Sports at Notre Dame: Mr. Leslie floating triumphantly around the lake under his straw hat, and Father Reynolds retiring to St. Edward’s hall in deepest dudgeon.
P.S.. It does get warm in Indiana.
Tracksters Starred In Closing Meets
•
By Fred Digby
The Notre Dame track thinlies closed their 1936 cinder campaign with a team triumph in the Indiana State Meet and fine individual performances in the C.I.C. Outdoor Meet at Milwaukee and the N.C.C.A. Meet in Chicago.
In the state meet the cindermen narrowly nosed out the University of Indiana by three points. The Irish garnered six first places and finished with a total of 67 points, besting Indiana’s 64. The weight men -made a clean sweep in.the shot put with Michuta, Levicki, Elser, and Lill finishing in the order named. Elser skimmed over the low hurdles in 23.7 seconds to take first place. Notre Dame finished one-two in the 440 with Parsons just a step ahead of Bernard. Captain Meagher in the broad jump, Gibbs in the pole vault, and McGrath in the 880 accounted for the remaining first places.
Indiana Wins C.I.C.
Indiana took the team honors in the C.I.C. Meet with 45 points while Notre Dame nosed out Marquette for fourth place with 26 6-7 points. Elser again took first place in the low hurdles and copped the shot put honors with a heave of 48 feet, 3-8 inch. The team of Jordan, Boyle, Clifford, and Frawley won the 880 yard relay in 1:28.5.
Don Elser climaxed his season of fine hurdling in the N.C.A.A. meet when he came second to Jesse Owens in a 23.1 seconds race. Three official watches caught Elser in 23.3 seconds. This is a new Notre Dame low hurdle record. Joe McGrath ran fourth in the 800 meter race which Beetham of Ohio State won in 1:53, and Elser added the only other Notre Dame points with a fifth place in the shot put.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, SEPTEMBER 25, 1936.
21
Football Prospects
(Continued, from Page 14)
Carnegie Tech is admittedly a good team this year and with Judge Steffen back in the role of coach Layden expects his boys to have a tough time of it.
Emphasis this year is being put on the reserve power of the team. A collection of such men as Shakespeare, Pilney, and Millner will not be found on the team this year or in a few years to come so Layden is laying the emphasis on numerical strength rather than individual ability.
The finest part of this years team is its great spirit and Coach Layden is counting on to carry the team over many rough spots and hard breaks that he is anticipating this year. A fine asset such as that will do much to tide the team over in the harder part of this year’s, difficult schedule. Spirit will be needed when Pitt, Ohio State, Navy, Army, Northwestern and Southern California come rolling along one after the other to face the Irish team.
As far as Coach Layden is concerned every position on the team is wide open. New men have been advancing daily to threaten the small hold some of the more seasoned men have on the positions. There is a great battle going on for the center and quarterback positions. Fogel, Mundee, Winsouer and McCarty are waging a four way contest for the
pivot position and no one has a secure hold on the position. Ruetz, converted guard, Andy Puplis, Bill Bruno and “Bunny” Megin are the men fighting for the signal calling assignment. Ruetz is doing very well, according to the head coach, and Puplis, Bruno and Megin are all quarterbacks who have seen action before on Notre Dame teams. Which of these men will get the call is still in doubt and probably no one but Layden knows who will start against Gamegie.
Commenting on the resignation of Bill Smith as captain of the team Layden declared it was the greatest self sacrificing gesture that he has ever seen. This would have been the second year in a row that Notre Dame football teams would not have had a playing captain. Last year the death of Joseph Sullivan, captainelect, prevented a playing captain and this year Smith’s incapacity to play would have, to put it in Bill’s words, “given Notre Dame a figurehead captain.” John Lautar’s appointment as captain was met with approval from all sides.
X-Country Dropped
(Continued from Page 14)
Of the sophomores this year, three are worthy of note. Bill Faymon-ville in the weights, and Steve Szu-manchowski and Joe Rice in the distances gained themselves enviable reputations for their freshman work.
It is hoped that they will be of some aid in supplementing the returning Juniors and Seniors, and patching some of the holes left by the retiring men. The relay team of sprinters which won the quarter and half mile events in the Drake relays last year remains intact with the exception of Jack Frawley. Nick is also counting on an excellent four mile team which would probably include McKenna. Francis, Rice, -and Szumanchowski.
The schedule as yet is only tentative because the Big Ten meeting in December decides the open dates of Conference teams. However, it is thought that with one or two exceptions the lineup should rather closely resemble last year’s.
Summer Activities
(Continued from Page 14)
Over in Detroit, Art Cronin, as a coal salesman, saw to it that the natives of the motor city made ample preparation for the winter months.
If you’re interested in some of the benefits of the New Deal, go to see Bob Wilke who was a W.P.A. foreman when he wasn’t playing golf.
Among those holding down more interesting jobs were Joe O’Neil, who was a camp counselor up in Keene, New Hampshire; Bunny Megin, who was a playground instructor in his native Concord, Mass.; and John “Red” Darcy, who watched the bangtails run while he worked at the Suffolk Downs race track in Boston.
THE 1935 CROSS-COUNTRY TEAM
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, SEPTEMBER 25, 1936.
X-Country Discontinued
(Continued from Page 19)
the year when they journeyed to Indiana for a dual meet. The first two miles of the course were on fairly passable cowpaths, but suddenly the Irish harriers found themselves faced by 1% miles of Alp-like cliffs. The boys gamely struggled through to the finish, but it was a weary crowd that
Was My Face
RED/
“. . . . and that South Shore electric train just crept up on me and passed me by------and me with eight cylinders and super high test gas! So when we got to Chicago I says, ‘I guess I’ll go via South Shore Line next time.’ Now I’m sticking that extra money in my pocket.”
came back to school the next day. Incidentally another course that has caused the Irish many nightmares is the Schenley Park “mountain-and-valley” layout at Pittsburgh. From 1926 to 1929 Notre Dame had some of its greatest track men many of whom were cross-country runners. “Scrapiron” Young, now athletic trainer, was one of the best along with Gene Howery, Eddie King, and Alex Wilson, a star of the Olympics of 1932.
Nicholson likes to think of his 1932 team as the “gamest bunch of youngsters I ever coached.” Although they had an unsuccessful season in the won and loss column they were the true Irish type team that fights all the way to the last ditch. During 1934 the team was beset by inexperience, but in 1935 much improvement was noticed as the squad waded through one of the longest crosscountry schedules in the history of
Established 30 Years
OPTOMETRISTS
222 ^2 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
REASONABLE
DEPENDABLE PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR
OWN LABORATORY.
the school. Before the Irish onslaught fell Pittsburgh and Wisconsin ; the boys took seconds in the Central Intercollegiate meet and the Loyola Invitational Event, they won the Chicago C.Y.O. meet, and they lost to Illinois and Michigan State. Much of the success of the last three years has been the result of some fine efforts by such men as Leo McFarlane, the tiny Joe Young, and Clyde Roberts, one of Notre Dame’s top half milers.
As a minor spoilt cross-country has enjoyed a distinct success in its 29 years at Notre Dame. All of the distance stars of the Irish have put in their long hours of steady grinding out the miles on the cinder paths circling the lakes and they have all improved by their participation in this gruelling sport.

Smith Resigns
(Continued from Page 17) acquired the monicker of “Clipper III,” Maurice Smith now at Villanova, and John P. Smith now at Duquesne, being his illustrious predecessors and namesakes. He was first string right guard in 1934, teaming up with Rocky Schiralli. With all the potentialities of a great running guard Bill’s chances for national football honors seemed imminent for the following season.
But his sudden illness and subsequent operations terminated a ca-reei* that undoubtedly would have been epochal in the history of Notre Dame football. Bill’s decision that a football team needs an active, playing captain, and so resigning his position, the most coveted in American football, in favor of Johnnie Lautar’s election, has won him the admiration of all Notre Dame’s football followers.
Bill has one consolation in that James “Pepper” Martin, his roommate, will probably cany on at right guard this year.
GLASSES Properly FITTED

DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BERRY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
’ A .. .228 South Michigan St.
South Bend, Ind. '
TENNIS TEAM LOSES FINAL MATCH
•
After doing so well in the state tournament last Spring, the Notre Dame tennis team underwent a relapse and lost the final match of the season to Michigan State, 8-1. Bill Fallon scored the lone N. D. victory.
Joe McNulty, of Tulsa, Oklahoma, was elected captain for the coming year. McNulty is the Indiana State singles champion.
The returning veterans,- besides McNulty, are: Fallon, Kilrain, Feeley and Waldron.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, SEPTEMBER 2-5, 1936.
23
Faculty Appointments
(Continued from Page 4)
Other appointments include Rev. George F. Brown, C.S.C., German; Rev. T. Francis Butler, C.S.C., history; Rev. Edward L. Heston, C.S.C., and Rev. Bernard L. McAvoy, philosophy; Rev. J. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., mathematics; Rev. James E. Kline, C.S.C., astronomy; Rev. Joseph Luttman, C.S.C., and Rev. John A. Molter, C.S.C., biology.
As graduate assistants, Arthur J. Gartland joins the staff in economics; Victor G. Reiling, physics; Phillip A. Walker, physical education. Rev. Stanislaus Lisewski, C.S.C., after a two year’s study in Poland, will occupy the newly established chair of Polish language and classics. Professor Edmund A. Smith joints the College of Commerce, teaching marketing.
Professor William W. Turner, who for the past 15 years has served as instructor in drawing at Central High School, South Bend, has been added to the staff of the department of architecture. Mr. Turner was graduated from Notre Dame in 1916, did graduate work at Catholic University and the University of Pennsylvania and studied in France before coming to South Bend to teach. He has written several standard texts on mechanical and architectural drawing.
On Down The Line
(Continued from Page 17) whole Minnesota team in a game last season.
A PERSIAN youth, OMAR FAREED, is being groomed to step into JAY BERWANGER’S shoes at the Midway this year.
In 1913 when the late KNUTE ROCKNE and GUS DORAIS passed a highly favored ARMY team into defeat, the attendance was 2,500. Over 100,000 saw the two teams play at Soldiers Field in Chicago in 1930.
TIPPY DYE, Ohio State star, in practice sessions, has been returning punts with his old-time skill.
64,417 people saw the GIANTS and CARDS play on September 13. 10,000 were turned away from the gate.
The KODAK PARK team of Rochester, New York, won the men’s softball championship of the U. S. They defeated the WEAVER-WALLS of Cleveland in the title contest, 2 to 0. The women champs are from Cleveland. They defeated a Chicago entry, 16 to 12, for the title.
PURDUE’S late halfback, TOM McGANNON, was a Catholic boy. CARL DAHLBECK was also fatally injured in the shower room blast
which took the lives of these two great stars.
The YANKEES have but one reserve infielder for the approaching WORLD SERIES. DON HEFFNER passed out of the picture when he went home for an appendicitis operation. JACK SALTZGAVER is the lone reserve.
ANDY URAM and TUFFY THOMPSON are waging a terrific battle for the starting left handback post on BERNIE BIERMAN’S Minnesota team.
JOE KOPCHA, former guard for the CHICAGO BEARS football team, will play with the DETROIT LIONS this year.
DICK HEEKIN’S position in OHIO STATE’S backfield will be taken over by BILL BOOTH this fall.
There seems to be some kind of jinx hovering over NORTHWESTERN’S right halfbacks. No less than four have been incapacitated by injuries and ineligibility. At the present, FRANK KAUFMAN, a pitcher on the baseball team, is considered the leading candidate for the job.
JOHN O’BRIEN, NOTRE DAME’S end coach, once lowered the world’s record in the 60-yard low hurdles. His time was 7.5. About three or foui' hours later his new mark was
‘Hang it all, Pater, they can't be that good at lOi." “Wilcox, my son, Twenty Grand would be good at 20fl"
=
Copr. 1936 The Axton-Fisher Tobacco Co., Inr. L WE CERTIFY that we have inspect-^B edtheTurkish and DomesticTobaccos ^B blended in TWENTY GRAND cigarettes W and find them as fine in smoking quails ity as those used in cigarettes costing r as much as 50% more.
^igna9 Seii, Putt & Rusby hie.
(In collaboration with tobacco expert)
erased by LEE SENTMAN of ILLINOIS who ran the distance in 7.4 seconds.
GET YOUR
COLLEGE RING
Bearing Official Seal
Certified §2.00 Value only
25c
with the purchase of a bottle of
Parker QllZ/X^
at 15c—Total 40c... YOU SAVE $1.75
This amazing offer is made solely to introduce Parker Qufn^—the miracle ink that cleans your pen as it writes, and dries ON PAPER 31% faster than pen-dogging inks.
Get Qumfe today from any store selling ink. Tear off the box-top and on the back write the FULL NAME of your school or college, ring
SIZE, and style wanted (man’s or woman’s), and your name and address. Mail box-top with 25 cents in coin to The Parker PenCo.,Dept.737, Janesville, Wis. Don’t delay. This offer ends Dec. 31, 1936, if supply lasts. ■
Made by Liggett & Myers Tobacco Company—and you can depend on a Liggett & Myers product