CALENDAR
Friday, May 15
. The 34th annual competition for the Breen Medal for oratory, Washington hall, 8:00 p.m.; Golf, varsity vs. Ohio State on the Burke Memorial course; Tennis, varsity vs. Chicago at Notre Dame.
Saturday, May 16
K. of C. picnic, Indian Lake, Mich.; Movie, Washington hall, 6:45 and 8:40 pan.; Track, varsity vs. Navy at Annapolis; Baseball, varsity vs. Ohio State (2), Cartier Field; Tennis, varsity vs. Ohio State at Notre Dame.
Sunday, May 17
Student Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m. in Sacred Heart Church; K. of C. initiations, Jefferson Plaza, South Bend, 2:00 p.m.
i Monday, May 18
K. of C. elections, K. of C. chambers, Walsh hall, 1:30 to 7:00 p.m.; K. of C. meeting, Walsh hall, 7:45 p.m.; Golf, varsity vs. Michigan State on the Notre Dame course; Lecture by Dr. Heinrich Schumacher, D.D., Ph.D., Washington Hall 8:00 p.m. “Romance of the Origin of Scripture.”
. Tuesday, May 19
Lecture by Dr. Schumacher, “The Divine Romance of their Transmission,” Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.; Campus radio programs from local studio over WSBT.
Wednesday, May 20
Baseball, varsity vs. Purdue at Lafayette; “The Divine Romance of Their Messages,” lecture in Washington Hall by Dr. Schumacher at 8:00 p.m.
Thursday, May 21
Golf, varsity vs. Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh.

QUIZZICAL QUIZZES
From the Indiana Daily Student: A journalism instructor at the University of Texas recently asked the following questions in an exam:
1.	What kind of an umbrella does Mr. Morgan Callaway carry on a rainy day?
2.	What is a goat that is eight years old?
3.	If a young boy kills his mother and father and eats them, what is he?
Correct answers: 1. A wet umbrella; 2. Going into nine years; 3. An orphan. '
—o—
With the finals but a few weeks away the following verse is appropriate:
“Final’s, finqls everywhere With drops and drops of ink, But never a prof, who’ll leave the room And allow a guy to think.”
Chicago Phoenix.
May 15. 193 6
FITTING
AND
PROPER

We’ve been studying anatomy again and ARCHER is the result — a revolutionary design in shirts exclusive with Arrow. Tailored to flatter broad shoulders, tapered to the waist; and most important— bilateral seams deftly curved in to conform to the declivity in the arch of the back, then distended over the seat and curved in again. No blousing in front — no creeping up in back. In white and fancy patterns. Sanforized-Shrunk. $2.50
ABROW.H'%1
MAX ADLER
Big Store on the Corner”
Has all the latest Arrow things in a wide variety of styles and colors.
Three
THE LOG CHAPEL—Cradle of Notre Dame
The Notre Dame Scholastic
(Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing*! at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 191&J
Volume LXIX
May 15, 1936
No. 25
STAUNTON, LOCHER, GAIREY ARE HONORED
Dr. Schumacher To Speak On Romance of Scripture
Dr. Heinrich Schumacher, D.D., Ph.D., former professor of Sacred History at Catholic University, will deliver a series of three lectures in the auditorium of the Law building, beginning on May 18.
“The Divine Romance of Sacred Scriptures” will be the general subject of Father Schumacher’s talks, although, in addition, he .will cite proofs of the authenticity of the biblical record.
Titles of the individual addresses, together with the dates on which they will be given, follow: Monday, May 18, “The Romance of Their Origin.” This talk will deal with the Divine Inspiration of the Bible. Tuesday, May 19, “The Divine Romance of their Transmission,” dealing with the authenticity of the textual history. Wednesday, May 20, “The Divine Romance of Their Message,” dealing with the great historical, religious, ethical truths of the Scriptures.
Dr. Schumacher’s background is proof of his ability to speak with authority on scriptural matters. Beginning in 1903 he spent several years in Freiburg, Germany, studying records of the New Testament. In 1907 he was professor in the Episcopal Institute at Spire. In 1912 he became vice-rector of the Institute Santa Maria Del ’Anima, Rome. In 1913 he accepted the position of professor of New Testament Scriptures at Catholic University. One of his more noted works is The Handbook of Scripture Study, which is regarded as a standard in this field.
PATRICIANS
The Patricians observed their last weekly meeting of the year Wednesday night at a dinner in the Rose Marie Tea Room in South Bend. The principal paper was delivered by John A. Torribio, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters.
At a meeting held a week ago last Wednesday, Joseph A. Nigro, Arts and Letters junior, and John C. Marbach, a junior in the same college, read papers.
May 15, 19 3.6
CLASS VALEDICTORIAN, ORATOR, AND POET ARE SELECTED FROM GRADUATING HONOR MEN
Class Orator
John J. Locher
To speak for the Seniors.
CHICAGO CLUB
Piling up a huge majority after vigorous campaigning, John E. “Chick” Maloney, and his ticket defeated William Quirk and his slate for the governing posts of the Chicago club for next year.
Maloney was elected president, Andy Puplis vice-president, Joseph “Babe” Kelly secretary, and Richard Carroll treasurer.
The only office lost by the Maloney contingent was that of treasurer where their candidate was nosed out by the victorious Carroll.
Maloney succeeds Luke Tiernan at the head of the Chicago group, which during this year has been one of the most active and successful of the city organizations.
MUSIC CLUB
In keeping with its policy of stimulating interest in good music on the campus, the Music Arts Club has sponsored two musical programs in the past two months.
On the evening of March 27, Mrs. Marjorie Galloway, who studied in Paris and Chicago, gave a piano recital in the campus radio studio. Mrs.
Seminarian Is The Class Poet
By Lindsay Phoebus
Henry A. Staunton, a senior in the College of Science, from South Bend, has been chosen to deliver the Valedictory at the ninety-second annual Commencement Exercises on Sunday, June 7. John J. Locher, of Monticello, Iowa, has been chosen Class Orator, and John W. Gairey, C.S.C., of Jersey City, N. J., a student in Moreau Seminary and the College of Arts and Letters, will be Class Poet.
Staunton, second highest ranking student in the class to be graduated, has an average of 94 per-cent. He is completing his pre-medical studies in the Department of Biology.
Locher is a member of the Wranglers, University forensic society, and has been an active member of the varsity debating team for the past two years. He will be graduated from the College of Law. Locher is in the competition this year for the Breen Oratorical Medal.	.
Mr. Gairey has contributed verse to Scrip, campus literary quarterly, being particularly remembered for “Emily Dickinson” which appeared in the January issue of this year.
Commencement exercises will open for Seniors on June 5, at 12:45 o’clock, when the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, will address the Class of ’36 privately in Washington Hall. Dr. William J. Mayo will close the graduation functions on Sunday, June 7, with the last words of his Commencement address. His talk will follow the conferring of degrees on the 466 Seniors at 4 o’clock, in the University gymnasium.
Galloway is a music teacher in South Bend. ’	.
Hugo Melchione and Arthur Davidson, both members of the club, presented a piano recital in Washington Hall on April 30. The concert, which was well done, was attended by a group of about 500.
Five
DOME ON PRESS, DAVIS ANNOUNCES;
TO BE DISTRIBUTED MAY 25 AND 26
Players Will Give Comedy on Commencement Program
Book is Thirtieth of Series
With 350 pages of pictures, description, and satire, the 1936 Dome will make its appearance on the campus on Monday, May 25, it was announced this week by Editor Delancey Davis.
This year’s book is the 30th presen-
Editor Delancey Davis Didn’t satirize himself.
tation of the annual which has chronicled the years at Notre Dame since 1906.
Divided into three sections, this year’s Dome, treats of Fall, Winter and Spring activities on the campus. Each section is set off with color plates.
Students, faculty, campus characters and customs are made the targets for 18 pages of cartoons, caricatures, and cleverly written satire.
This year’s book is bound in richly tooled dark blue fabric, highlighted with a gold seal of the University, and the gold dome.
Sports are well covered with action pictures of all the main events of the year, written reviews of the contests, and individual pictures of the athletes. James Waldron is sports editor of the annual.
Individual pictures of the graduates and this year’s juniors make up the body of the first portion of the book, along with group pictures of the undergraduate classes. Campus clubs, organizations, and activities are also photographed.
Distribution of the Dome will probably be made through the University express office on Monday, May 25, and Tuesday, May 26. Individual cards will be distributed to all students, on and off campus, who are entitled to a copy. Each card will contain the
Six
Publications Dinner
Nearly 100 campus journalists will gather in the Lay Faculty Dining hall, Monday evening, May 25 for the annual Publications banquet. This event, which is the culmination of the year’s work in the publications field, is the only formal gathering for the staffs of the different periodicals during the year.
The program, which is not yet complete, will feature talks by several prominent members of the faculty" who are actively interested in campus journalism. It is also probable that the formal announcement of the new editors of The Scholastic, Dome, and Scrip will be made at the banquet. ■
New Reporters Named
Two freshmen and one junior were added this week to The Scholastic news staff as reporters. Michael Mongoven, freshman in the College of Commerce, from Chicago, Ill.; Graham Starr, of Concordia, Kans., a freshman in the College of Science, and Fobert McClain, junior journalist from Peru, Ind., have been added to the reportorial staff.
Additional new names on the News staff will probably be announced in the last issue of the year to appear May 29.
Sports Men Appointed
Seven new sports writers have been added to the Sports staff by co-editors Cy Stroker and Jim Waldron. The new men are: Fred Digby of New Orleans, La.; Mark Mitchell of Chicago, Ill.; William A. Donnelly of Queens Village, N.Y.; Nicholas Lam-berto of Remsen, la; Charles Callahan of Lexington, Mass.; John Clifford of New Haven, Conn.
The candidates were selected from approximately 50 who tried out for staff positions.
day and hours within which the individual student may call for his book. Students are reminded that no. one whose account is not settled in. the secretary’s office is entitled to a Dome and that each student will receive only his own volume.
To insure speedy and efficient distribution, the students are asked by Managing Editor George Feeley to adhere strictly to the regulations printed on the cards.
By John Hurley
“Friday The Thirteenth” has been selected as this year’s Commencement play to be given by the University Theatre, Professor Albert Doyle, director of the theatre, announced Wednesday. The tentative date for the play, winch has been approved by the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, has been set for Friday evening, June 5.
“Friday the Thirteenth,” which was written by Carl Webster Pierce, is the story of three young men who are haunted by bad luck. They de-
Prof. Albert Doyle
Friday the 13th on Friday the 5th.
cide to band together for the purpose of breaking every known jinx and superstition. The resulting situations are the source of the play’s high comedy.
One of the jinxed youths is in love with a girl who, he believes, loves somebody else. The manner in which this misunderstanding is untangled adds much to the rollicking humor of Pierce’s light comedy. Though this girl role is an important part of the play, the cast is entirely male.
First tryouts for parts in the play were held last night under the supervision of Professor Doyle. Those who did not report for the initial call and who would like to participate in the play should see Professor Doyle immediately.
The musical show, “Tune In,” which had been planned for sometime this month, has been cancelled because of the lack of a suitable orchestra and the short time left for rehearsals.
ENGINEERS' CLUB
Thomas Patrick Carney, of DuBois, Pa., was elected this week to succeed John Loritsch as president of the Engineers’ Club for next year. Carney is studying electrical engineering.
Fergus Kelly was named vice-president, Louis Purcell will act as secretary, and Ed Flanagan was elected treasurer. George Schlaudecker will complete the list of officers, filling the position of junior secretary.
The Scholastic
Five Orators In Finals
For Breen Speech Medal
REARDON AND M’DERMOTT ELECTED TO JUNIOR AND SOPHOMORE PRESIDENCIES
Five students, including one seminarian, who have successfully passed the preliminary rounds, will deliver their original orations tonight at 8:00 p. m. in Washington hall in the 34th annual competition for the Breen medal for oratory, the most coveted award for campus forensic activity.
From a field of 22 entrants, John Locher, senior lawyer from Monticello, Iowa; David Flynn, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters from Geneva, Hl.; . Bernard McCaffery, C.S.C.; William Fieweger, a senior in the College of Commerce from Menasha, Wis.; and John Schemmer, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters from Colby, Wis. qualified for the finals in a series of three preliminary trials held in the auditorium of the Law Building Monday and Tuesday of this week.
Schmelzle Ineligible
Professor William J. Coyne, who is conducting the contest, stated that Robert Schmelzle, veteran varsity de-batei' from Freeport, Hl. and winner of the 1935 Breen medal, was not eligible for this year’s finals since no student, according to the rules of the contest, may win the medal more than once.
Founded by the Hon. William Patrick Breen, LL.D., ’77, of Fort Wayne, Ind., the medal has been presented for excellence in oratory each year since 1902. Mr. Breen, a generous benefactor of the University, died several years ago.
Large Audience Expected
One of the University’s outstanding spring events, the 1936 competition for the gold emblem, promises to bring forth a capacity audience since the caliber of the finalists and their orations is of a high standard.
Those students who participated in the preliminary trials were: John Donnelly, William P. Kiely, William P. McVay, Thomas Mulligan, Joseph Pawlowski, and John A. Scott.
Also competing were Patrick Bannon, John J. Kohn, William Page, Thomas Proctor, Francis Parks, John McGee, Michael Clonse, Robert Heywood, Richard Meier, Matt Merkle, George D. Morris, and Charles P. Osbourn.
A 25-year study of the black widow spider has been completed by University of California entomologists.
Alleging that the Fraternity didn’t buy the number of pins it contracted for, a jewelry company is suing Sigma Alpha Mu for $11,000.
'May 15, 193 6
Donor of Medal
Hon. Wm. P. Breen, LL.D., ’77 His name lives for medalists.
MISSISSIPPI - LOUISIANA CLUB
Election of officers for the coming year took place at a meeting of the Mississippi-Louisiana Club in Carroll Rec Hall last Monday night. Francis J. DroIIa of New Orleans, a sophomore in the College of Commerce, is the club’s new president. Pierre R. de la Vergne, also of New Orleans, and a sophomore in the same college, was elected vice-president. The offices of secretary - treasurer, and of sergeant-at-arms will be filled, respectively, by Rodney Kissinger and John C. Drolla. Kissinger and Drolla both have their homes in New ‘ Orleans, and both are Commerce freshmen.
GLEE CLUB
The University Glee Club gave two concerts during the month of April off the campus. On April 22, the singing unit performed at St. Matthew’s parish house in South Bend under the sponsorship of Catholic Central High School. Previously, the singers gave a concert at Niles high school on April 6. This performance was sponsored by the Parent-Teachers association of Niles.
Finals Were Held on May 7
Scott Reardon, of Sioux FaHs, S.D., defeated Clark Reynolds of Millburn, N. J., for the presidency of the class of 1938 by a majority of 270 to 22-5, and Joe McDermott, of Chicago, won the sophomore presidency, at the election held in the basement of the dining hall, on Thursday, May 7.
Edmond Haggar, of Dallas, Texas, running on the Reardon ticket, poHed 249 votes against 236 to beat Nevin McCormick for the vice-presidency. In the race for the office of secretary, Maurice Kennedy, of Ogden, Utah, also on the Reardon ticket, defeated his opponent, Frank.Crowley, by polling 280 ballots against 203.
Macaluso Beats McCarthy
The Reardon party, whose campaign was conducted by John O’Connor, was not successful in filling aH offices, since Charles Macaluso, of Cleveland Heights, Ohio, on the Reynolds ticket, edged out Pat McCarthy for treasurer by a vote of 250 to 228.
In the election of two-year S.A.C. members, one candidate from each party was victorious. John Wilson, of Lakewood, Ohio, placed first with 254 votes to his credit, and John Kelly, of Portland, Maine, was reelected by 229 supporters. The defeated candidates, Tom Gorman, and Bill Taylor, stacked up 210 and 208 ballots, respectively. John Fox, of Buffalo, N. Y., won over Ray Fiedler 270 to 208 in the contest for one-year S.A.C. member.
McDermott Takes Presidency
In the sophomore elections, Joseph McDermott, defeated Edward Farrell 267 to 223, was the only one on his ticket to win in the finals, as “Chick” Rausch, of Los Angeles, had automatically been elected in the primaries by a two-thirds majority. On the other offices, the Farrell ticket was triumphant. Frank Kelly, of Jacksonville, Fla., was elected vice-president with 273 “x” marks after his name, as against 209 for Tom Reardon. Paul Donovan, of Elmira, N. Y., ran up 307 votes against 174 for Ed Fanning, to win the office of secretary. Joe O’Brien, of Brooklyn, N. Y., defeated Herb Fairall 280 to 199, was elected sophomore S.A.C. member.
The election, held from 9 a.m. until 5:30 p.m., was under the direction of Ed Donoghue, S.A.C. election chairman.
Seven
Smith To Head Forum;
Plan Banquet on May 21
Albert Joseph Smith, a Junior in the College of Commerce from Evanston, Ill., was elected president of the Commerce Forum at that organization’s final meeting of the year held Thursday evening, May 8, in room 209 of the Commerce building. Smith succeds Robert W. Cavanaugh in the presidential chair.	•
Other officials elected were Joseph Roman of Chicago, Ill., vice-president; Charles Brosius of Lime Kiln, Md., secretary; and Clark Reynolds of Milburn, N. J., treasurer. Ned Joyce was elected chairman of the board of directors of the organization.
Induction at Banquet
Senior members of the board chosen were Edward Goldsmith, Joseph Crotty, and James Murphy, and Juniors members were Walt Duncan, Jack Zerbst, and Frank Bright.
Robert Cavanaugh, the present head of the club, announced that the officers will be inducted at the annual banquet of the Commerce Forum, which is to be held Thursday, May 21, and is tentatively scheduled for the Morningside Hotel in South Bend.
The principal speaker at this affair will be James E. McCarthy, dean of the College of Commerce, and it is also hoped that a well-known local industrialist will appear.
Cavanaugh reviewed the successful year’s work of the Forum at the meeting and among other things stated that the annual questionnaire and survey of the group was a complete success.
KEENEN TO HEAD SERVERS' CLUB
George Keenen of Bayonne, New Jersey, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, was elected president of the Servers’ Club for next year. He succeeds Edward Owens, who has held the position during the current year. Other officers elected were John Joyce, vice-president and chairman of the executive committee; and Ted Fredericks was elected secretary. James Foley and George Haithcock were elected to the executive committee.
The meeting adjourned after an introduction of the new officers and the announcement made of the banquet to be held in the Faculty Dining room before the close of the schoolyear.
Down with the tall, dark aind handsome male, say University of Kentucky girls. They’d rather be amused by the “comic type.”
Dr. James A. Naismith, 74-year-old inventor of basketball, played the game only twice in his life.
Eight
August Joseph Church started out to be a politician, but reformed. . . . Held a high office in freshman class. . . . Now belongs to almost all the clubs for which he is eligible for membership . . . Monogram Club, Jersey Club, Italian Club, Knights of Columbus, and a few minor ones. . . .
Is the only Monogram man who is truly a man about campus. . . . Will graduate cum laude but continually
worries about failing . . . Bothers roomie Hopkins with his rendition of operas . . . He taught Johnny how to take a bath in Walsh’s spacious wash bowls . . . They still speak to each other after three years together. . . .
In the summer months he takes care of little children while their mothers go shopping . . . When he finishes he will help his father peddle fruit in the best grocery store in North Plainfield, N. J. . . .
He receives letters from a Dotty at home . . . After Senior Ball he sorrowfully complained that he didn’t know. St. Mary’s was such a nice place . . . And he found it out only in time for the Ball! . . . Spent Easter around U. of Illinois and came back with a dreamy look in his eyes . . . While living in Badin last year he got in Fr. Carey’s good graces so he could attend St. Mary’s plays with him. . . .
“Sunny,” as he is known by everybody, would pass for anything but a football player . . . Some of his opponents last fall will remember him for a long time ... So will our own Bill Gillespie whom he tagged “The Great Lover.” ...
The University of Detroit plans to dedicate a campus tree to the memory of Joyce Kilmer, war-time poet.
Knights of Columbus Hold Annual Picnic Tomorrow
Closing a year of activity under the direction of Grand Knight John Coyne, the Knights of Columbus will hold their annual Council picnic tomorrow afternoon, initiation degrees will be conferred on 35 candidates Sunday, and officers will be elected for next year on Monday afternoon.
Tomorrow’s picnic- will be held at Indian Lake, scene of last year’s outing. Busses will leave the campus starting at 11:00 a. m. and will continue as long as necessary. Luncheon and dinnei' will be served the members at the lake, and busses will make the return trip shortly after dinner.
Second Initiation of Semester
Sunday’s initiation will be the second of this semester and will be held at the Jefferson Plaza in South Bend. Candidates are to report at the campus rooms Sunday morning.
Election of officers will be held in the club rooms on Monday afternoon. The polls will be open from noon until seven o’clock in the evening.
“It is the hope of the retiring officers,” Eli Abraham, financial secretary, said this week, “that the members of the order will keep their responsibility in mind when choosing officers for next year. It is the business of every man in the council and everyone should take his ballot as a personal responsibility.”
This week’s program of activity brings the year to a close except for the last meeting of the year which will be held shortly after the election of the new officers. Those elected will be formally installed at the beginning of next year.
ST. VINCENT DE PAUL
Furniture storage for the summer months will be handled this year through the campus chapter of the St. Vincent de Paul Society, it was announced this week. All proceeds from the concession will be used to further the charitable work of the organization.
Members of the Society will canvass all freshmen, sophomore, and junidi' halls during the week of May 24. Orders will be taken for either the National Storage Company, or the Woolworth Company, both South Bend concerns being authorized to handle campus business.
Cast-off clothing will again be collected by the Vincentians for distribution to the many needy persons whom the Society aids. Anyone having old clothes to dispose of will receive prompt attention by dropping a post card to the Society’s office, 10 Lyons hall.
The Scholastic
Professor Froning Traces The Nature of Chemistry
Club Elections
Two Hundred Fifty Couples Attend the 1936 Senior Ball
The relation of chemistry to medicine was traced by Professor Henry B. Froning last Tuesday during a lecture in the auditorium of the Engineering Building.
Prof. Henry Froning
“We have scratched the surface...”
The nature of chemistry is so deep that the great people of the past and present have but scratched the surface of this vast field, Professor Froning said. Chemistry, along with physics, is deeper than the senses of man can comprehend.
Starting with the ancient scientists, Prof. Froning showed that the first motive of chemistry was for medicine. These first chemists made their medicines by chemical formula. They were interested in chemistry because it was a source of medicine. After dwelling for a time upon the achievements of the ancients he went through a long list of famous men who were connected to medicine because of this knowledge of chemistry. Among these famous names was that of Pasteur, whose vaccine discoveries were made after many years of diligent experiments.
Continuing, he said that all modern drugs have been discovered since 1890 and that the people of this day are still dependent upon nature for many of their drugs as for example, quinine and morphine.
As for the curing of diseases chemistry is forging ahead with great rapidity. Tuberculosis and cancer are two diseases which the modern scientists are trying to exterminate.
Prof. Froning went on to show how modern chemistry is related to manufacturing and the achievement of many industries. He told of many instances where modern chemistry is reducing the loss of material by making synthetic products out of the waste and how it is bringing new and useful commodities into existence.
Nine New .York Catholic colleges are conducting a series of symposia on the problems of collegiate communism and atheism.
KENTUCKY CLUB
Emil J. Peter, of Louisville, was elected Colonel of the Kentucky club when the Southern organization bal-lotted last week. The Kentuckians, one of the oldest state clubs on the campus, revived traditional titles for their newly-elected officers. Howard Bartnett was named lieutenant - colonel, William Werner, revenue officer, and John Elder, watcher of the stillhouse.
Walter Clemens, who organized the Kentucky club in 1913 and served as its first colonel, was present at the election meeting and suggested the return of the older titles as being representative of Kentucky traditions.
Dr. John Cooney, head of the Department of Journalism, spoke at the session. He told of his early life in Kentucky and of historic incidents in the growth of the south.
NEW JERSEY CLUB
In the quietest balloting on record, with no political fireworks, the New-Jersey Club last week elected Joseph P. Quinn, of Newton, N. J., president for next year. Joseph Moore was named vice-president, William Costello, treasurer, and Leonard Habig, secretary. The entire slate was unopposed.
President - elect Quinn announced that plans are being made for a summer dance to be held sometime in the latter part of June. The last campus activity will be a banquet tendered by the club members to this year’s graduates.
ITALIAN CLUB
Joseph Mangelli, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters from Bayonne, N. J., was elected president of the Italian club at that organization’s final meeting of the year. He succeeded Pat Disenzo.
The other officers elected were Amerigo di Brienza, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, vice-president; Harold Rizzi, a freshman in the College of Arts and Letters, secretary, and Julius L. Nardone, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, treasurer.
Upon installation in office, President Mangelli announced that next year the club will present several all-Italian sound talking pictures on the campus. Since the showing of “Campo di Maggio,” which depicted the life of Napoleon from his escape from Elba to his exile on St. Helena, received a tremendous amount of approval both from students and members of the faculty.
By Louis Da Pra
Tom Bott
More than 250 Seniors, representative of every College of the University, and their guests from every section of the country swayed to the music of Freddy Martin and his Columbia broadcasting orchestra at the Senior "Ball, Friday night at the Palais Royale.
Potted palms, ferns, and snap dragons, banked around the band-stand, formed an artistic background
for Maestro Martin’s noted orchestra, enhanced by the smooth baritone crooning of Pianist Elmer Feldkamp. Tom Bott, Howard’s well-known pianist-composer and writer of the Senior Ball song entitled, “I Wonder,” featured the affair with vocal renditions of his song, which Freddy Martin and his orchestra played several times during the evening. Bott received an enthusiastic response.
Chairman William J. Schmuhl, a senior in the College of Commerce, escorted Miss Margaret Keck of Blytheville, Ark., and Class President Howard C. Cusack, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, escorted Miss Grayce Breslin of Lyndhurst, N. J., and St. Mary’s College, the guests of honor.
The guests of the Seniors received as favors beautiful gold pendants with the official Notre Dame seal inscribed on them, as well as souvenir copies of the Scholastic’s special Senior Ball number.
Robert T. Burke, jr., a senior in the College of Arts and Letters and chairpian of the Tea Dance, declared that the tea dance, held at the exclusive Chain-o’-Lakes Country Club, Saturday afternoon, May 9,. was a complete success. Myron Walz and his dinner ensemble, a favorite among Middle West country' clubs, played for the dancers.
Most of the guests strolled about the shady grounds of the country club, while others witnessed the triangular track meet in which Notre Dame, Ohio State, and Michigan State participated.
The last social affair of the weekend was the supper dance, held in the mezzanine of the Oliver hotel, where several hundred guests were served a special full course dinner. The Monogram Club quartet sang and played, led by Bill Shakespeare.
At 9:00 a.m. last Sunday morning, the Seniors and their guests attended Mass in Sacred Heart Church — a real Notre Dame touch at the end of a perfect week-end.
May 15, 1936
Nine

oirc - UJJ1CN
By John
Since modern music seems to be centered on the interpretation and appreciation of swing music, perhaps it would be a smart move to repeat the definitions of the term “swing,” as they were given by men who should know.
Benny Goodman calls it “collective improvisation, rhythmically integrated.” His drummer, Gene Krupa, says “It’s complete and inspired freedom of rhythmic interpretation.” A leading tenor sax man, Coleman Hawkins, thinks of swing as “rhythmical elaboration on the current mode.” So there you are. But where are you?
Contrary to popular belief, swing is not a modern device. It has existed, in one form or another, since 1916. Carl Cons, co-editor of the musician’s magazine, Down Beat, partially clears up the term with this couplet:
“No kind of music is Swing, But you can ‘swing’ music.”
For those who like Duke Ellington, let it be known that he has succeeded Benny Goodman at the Congress in Chicago. Benny is on tour, and as he passed through South Bend May 3, he left word that he will spend the summer on the West Coast, in the Cocoanut Grove, in Los Angeles. Beginning October, he will play for New Yorkers, at the Hotel Pennsylvania.
The Victor people have nothing to be ashamed of in their latest releases. They still have most of the best artists, and they have a variety of records' that is sure to please the most particular fan.
All the records below are Victor.
Is It True What They Say
About-Dixie? ..........Rudy Vallee
The Moment I Saw You......Ray Noble
In the combination of an English and a Yankee band, the Americans break the tape. Vallee’s contribution is a surprisingly lively record, but his singing almost ruins it. The mixture of a natural New England twang and an attempted Southern drawl is sad. Whenever Rudy stops drawling, which is too seldom, the band sounds good. Less singing by Rudy and more work by the orchestra would have made a better disc.
Sorry, but there is little to recommend Noble’s effort. All the phras-. ings are obvious, and the melody is one of those dull conglomerations of a dozen old hits. Al Bowlly does his best in the vocal, but he hasn’t a chance. You’ll have to be an avid Noble fan to stand such punishment.
Gillespie
It is the only poor recording we have heard by his English band.
Moanin’ Minnie^ My First Thrill}
Jack Hilton
Minnie’s moaning is not fast, but very impressive. The vocalist, Pat Sibley, who sounds like Ethel Merman, is supported by an enthusiastic male chorus. Europe gave ■ us the record. The presence of a fine sax bit rounds it out.
Turning to the reverse side, we find a fox trot with an appealing melody. Having less to work bn, the band doesn’t quite equal the performance on “Moanin’ Minnie.” An unidentified vocalist lacks distinction. Contrary to Noble’s two bands, Hylton’s Drake Hotel group sounds better than the English entry.
You Started Me Dreaming'^ Dorsey Robins and Roses	}
Tommy’s band has been busy recording lately, and the results justify the work. Given a sweet tune, such
as “You Started Me Dreaming,” they ask for no more. As might be expected, Tommy’s trombone shines, but everything is restrained. The singer, Joe Djxon, can’t miss with a perfect accompaniment.
Goodman is imitated closely by Dorsey- but the aping is so clever here that nobody will inind. Close your eyes at the introduction, and you’ll swear it’s “The King of Swing.” To further the resemblance, the saxophone section rolls and rides a la Goodman. Edythe Wright will blush ’ prettily, when she hears the compliments on her singing “Robins and
Prekowitz Defeats Koehler For Villagers' Presidency
Ted Prekowitz beat Harry Koehler
for the presidency of the Notre Dame ' Villagers by a majority of only one vote at the club’s election held Friday night, May 8, in Carroll Rec. John Farabaugh is the retiring president.
The returns.for all offices indicated a close race throughout the entire election, as every victorious candidate won by a/small margin of only two or three votes.
Jim Beaudway, defeating Jim La-. hey, was elected vice-president, and Charles Lemons, by beating Jack Scott, was chosen for the office of secretary. Both victors were on the Koehler ticket. In the race for treasurer, Bill Rieke, of the Prekowitz ticket, edged out Jack Moulder. On the opposing ticket, Jim Gorrell won over Eddie Minczeski to become sergeant-at-arms. - Previously, Jerry Claeys, of the Villagers, was elected S.A.C. member by the off campus students.
The campaigning on both sides was vigorous, as evidenced by the close balloting. Especially novel was the campaign card of the Prekowitz ticket. On the front was attached a cigarette, with the words, “Have a smoke on us.” On the inside a short list of the qualifications of each candidate was given,, and on the back were listed several, “planks” making up the party platform.
The Villagers’ annual dinner dance will be held at the Hotel Whitcomb, St. Joseph, Michigan, on the evening of Saturday, June 6, it was announced recently. The band is to be selected later.
Roses” is definitely on the recommended list.
Christopher Columbus\ ^en G00dman Get Happy	J
Chris Columbus is the theme song of Fletcher Henderson, who writes most of Goodman’s arrangements. Benny’s wax impression of the number is the best we’ve heard. It’s a natural for him — plenty of chances for his three trumpets, collectively and individually. Benny plays his clarinet against an effective background of muted trumpets. Then come the saxes for their short but sweet work.
Here’s a honey. You’d expect a letdown after Columbus, but if anything, “Get Happy” is better. The ' tune, though old, is very good because Harold Arlen wrote it. Trombones get most of the spotlights, Benny plays a low-pitched, brilliantly fast clarinet solo. Jessey Stacy’s piano tinkles more swing. Listen for the bell effect Goodman gets on the last chorus.
T e n
The Scholastic
Justice Aided By Press
Asserts James Kilgallen
Complete press coverage of famous and dramatic trials does not tend to “hippodrome” the courtroom proceedings, but is one of the surest guarantees that the rights of the defendant will be protected.
This was the message delivered by James L. Kilgallen, star reporter for International News Service, in a speech in Washington Hall last night. He spoke under the auspices of the Department of Journalism, and earlier in the evening was the dinner guest of Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., University president.
Citing the Hauptmann case as an example, Kilgallen, who has covered nearly every important trial in the last ten years, asserted that the judge, the lawyers and the police—not the press—were responsible for the congested condition of the courtrooms.
“Conditions in the courtroom during the Hauptmann trial were a disgrace,” Kilgallen said. “The place was packed to suffocation each day, with be-jewelled women in mink coats and celebrities from Broadway and 'Hollywood. They blocked the aisles, sat on window ledges, hampered the working press and made a spectacle out of the trial.”
Kilgallen revealed that attorneys for both sides issued subpoenas in wholesale lots for friends whom they listed as witnesses but who were never called, and had no intention of testifying.
Believes Hauptmann Guilty
He also described the electrocution of Hauptmann which he witnessed. He pictured Hauptmann as a sad, wistful man attempting to force a smile to his lips as he entered the death chamber and went to his doom without-uttering a word.
Kilgallen stated that he believed Hauptmann guilty. He pointed out the strength of the evidence against the defendant, especially his possession of $14,600 of the .Lindbergh ransom.
Other famous stories he has covered were also mentioned by the speaker, such as the pursuit of Samuel Insull,. former Chicago utilities magnate, to Greece and Turkey. Kil- -gallen returned with Insull to the United States when he was extradited.
Headline personalities such as John D. Rockefeller, Henry Ford, Al Smith, Al Capone, Jack Dempsey, the late Thomas A. Edison, Hugo Eckener, and others, were mentioned in the talk.
Kilgallen concluded by advocating more freedom for the press in the coverage of trials. He advocated the use of moving picture records of all trials, pointing out that they would
(Continued on Page 22)
M ay I 5, I 93 6
By Andrew D. Hufnagel
Every May brings with her the revival of what we think is Notre Dame’s most beautiful tradition—the students’ practice of singing at the grotto in the evening. The setting, with its leafy canopy of tree boughs overhanging the rocky cave, its natural carpet of yielding grass sweeping to the lake’s edge, and the singing of the birds, is enough to make this tradition more attractive than any other. What makes it really beautiful, however, are the wholesome ideals behind it, its simple informality, and the genuine, unsolicited support of it by the students. So important has its observance become for the participants that not even last Sunday’s thunder shower was able to drive them away until the ceremony was completely finished.
e
The Senior Ball was the source of
more worry and trouble than the final
examinations will probably ever be. Even so, the pleasure of dancing with a lovely girl in one’s arms in time with the rhythms of an excellent orchestra, the en-j oyment o f seeing one’s friends at their gayest, and the satisfaction of having provided one’s
companion with an enjoyable time, more than paid for the inconvenience of a week’s preparation for the affair. And don’t let anyone persuade you that it wasn’t the finest ball in years. When, before this, did the seniors ever have such a “hot” time that the Palais Royale threatened to go up in flames as it actually did last Friday?

Practical minded authorities have decided that the once white porches of Science Hall, Corby, Sorin, Badin, and the Main Building must forever more be painted brown. The new color will not show the dirt as soon as did the old, and the former is more in harmony with the complexion of the structures. Even architects and artists have declared themselves in favor of the brown, since white made the porches stand out so boldly that
an observer was more apt to see them rather than the buildings themselves. Still, we prefer the white which provided some fairly adequate contrast to the dingy and faded bricks. If the porches can’t be white, they ought at least to be painted a more pleasing color than a dead chocolate brown.
®
Despite the disastrous results of making a misquote in last week’s column, we venture the following quotation :
To err is human. . .
So said Pope in his “Essay on Criticism.” And we offer that bit of wisdom as an excuse for our mistake in crediting Shakespeare instead of Milton with the authorship of
Come and trip it as ye go On the light fantastic toe
And the one who reminded us of our error was—no not an English major or a professor, but a lowly commerce man, Joe Brandurich.
9
During the last two weeks everyone of us has been visited by two or three men who slam the door open without knocking, rush into the room, and attack the windows. All obstacles in their way are violently, though deftly, swept aside. These uninvited guests pull the desk away from the wall, send books tumbling to the floor and knock lamps banging against the locker. Whether or not an object prevents them from getting at the windows, it is always treated in the same fashion. After the visitors leave, no pictures are left hanging on the walls, no piece of furniture is without a thick layer of dust, and no carpet remains right side up — but those windows are certainly left bright and shiny as a result of receiving their bi-annual bath.
Far back in Notre Dame’s past, racing shells used to sweep up and down a long stretch of water that his since been divided into the St. Joseph’s and St. Mary’s Lakes. But not for many decades, as far as we know, has any craft other than row boats floated on those two bodies of water. Now, however, a noisy motor boat- has dared to invade their gentle reaches, and its staccato put-put-put-put has become a constant torment to students who have to study in the afternoon. The engineers, of course, must complete their experiments on outboard motors, but why don’t they use the St. Joe River instead of our lakes as a laboratory ?
Eleven
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
CAFSMOKE
The Ball is over but the monotony of rumors lingers on. . . . BONET not only enjoyed the ball but also everybody’s date. Two’s a pleasure but three’s a crowd, Sabby. . . It’s a long way to June, but JOE CORCORAN, the genial Tm Tops,’ guy from Badin knows that his logic mark is 8 and his golf score is twice that amount. . .
CHICK GALLAGHER, ’38, is go-iing home in style, Studebaker truck, golf sticks, trunk, a jug of wine, a loaf of bread and 16 loafers who claim to be pals. . . Dear CHARLEY CLARK, always remember that all’s
“Well, I’m glad I took that course in Practical Advertising.”
fair in love, war and platonic friendships especially when one party is a school teacher with a nice Chevrolet . . . JOE KUHARICK, the footballer, was in more or less of a daze the other day and mistook an acknowledgement of a sympathy card for a wedding announcement. . .
PAUL ‘I Stand Alone,’ ANDERSON, speaks more these days about Dorothy, it used to be Willa. . . TOM KING, a Detroiter, flew home during the week-end after everyone had thought Grand Slam had taken him to the cleaners. . .
The consensus of opinion is that the Senior Ball was scrumptious— even to MILLER MALLETT’S mon
ocle. . . Badin Hall has gone musical of late; the German band is conducive to more beer and their porch glee club is conducive to less sleep. . . Don’t .miss listening to the WSBT Notre Dame interhall amateur contests. You’ve never heard better, Gong-adin. Nothing daunts a politician. JAMES BLUNT, whose forces were edged out the last Ides of March had his finger in the recent Boston elections. . . PETE GAY, the Soph Lothario, is still trying to figure out how the United States government runs, “First time I’ve heard that the government had receipts,” says Pete. . .
After the Senior class voted thumbs down on corsages up pops LEE MOORMAN and buys one for his date—and Lee’s ticket chairman.
The Ball week-end did more good for WIMPY GILSTON than for anybody else. Wimpy now goes after his pre-med work like a dog after a bone —maybe love does help a man to meet the innumerable obstacles of this cruel, crude world. . . . “SHADOW” RICH claims his formal collar isn’t fit for wear because of the heat at the Ball. Was it the heat or the girl?
MARK FINNOCHIARO’S ball date said she was “terribly sorry but she couldn’t attend the tea dance with him because she had a date with a
Alas!
She wanted to go to the prom, She wanted to go to the ball, She wanted to wear my pin, But wait! That isn’t all.
After I gave her everything— I queried—do you love me?
I even had the ring—but She went and married my roomie!
A hymn is a fellow who continually sings about the girl with whom he goes steady. -
After The Ball
The Senior Ball is over.
The officers are through.
The girls have gone home, Nothing’s left to do.
But Juniors, please take heed— Next year it’s up to you!
“She’s my steady,” is an expression denoting the fact that nobody else will go out with her.
Ode
Once when I was a freshman,
I thought the Seniors were men— But now that I’m a Senior—
I wish I were a frosh again!
“There ain’t no buts about it,” exclaimed the freshman politician as he stooped to pick up an undernourished cigarette.
A valedictorian is the fellow who worked hard for four years and then has to make a speech praising his fellow classmates who seldom did any work.
A sheepskin forever reminds the old grad of the years he wasted.
Remember years ago when the college grad got a job as soon as he left school? Well,-forget it!
The most important thing in a young-man's life is his girl—BUT the , most important thing in his girl’s life is some other fellow.
Culver kernel; just forsaking one nut for another. (Catch on?........ JIM DUTTON’S girl was the last to come and the first to go in his party. Reckon Sis had another date—eh what Jimmy?. . . Next issue being the last don’t laugh if we take down our hair and become sentimental. . .
—The Funny Fellows.
Twelve
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times durins the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts tn editor, 421 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C_________________Faculty Adviser
JOHN S. MORAN______________________________Editor-in-Chief
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST______________________Managing-Editor
Departmental Editors
Andrew D. Hufnagei_______________________________The
Irwin L. Goldman---------------------------In the Juggler Vein
Netos Staff
Paul Foley_______________________________________Netos Editor
Robert L. Grogan___________________________Assistant Netos Editor
John A. Gillespie-----------------------------Feature Editor
Clifford F. Brown__________________________Anthony O’Boyle
Lindsay Phoebus Gregory Byrnes
Harold A. Williams John Hurley
Louis Da Pra-------------------------------Albert Torribio
Sports Staff
Cyril F. Stroker___________________________Co-Sports Editor
James A. Waldron Co-Sports Editor
Eugene Vaslett------------------------.Assistant Sports Editor
John Cackley--------------------------James M. McMullen
Allan Bride--------------------------------------Arch Gott
Michael Crowe
Art Staff
William V. Ellis_________________________________Art Editor
Francis Kroeger----------------------------Daniel Sherrod
William R. Dooley, '26___________________________Business Manager
Member Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest
May 15, 1936
WHERE CREDIT IS DUE
OUTSTANDING among the large number of clubs on the campus is one group which does more than hold an occasional dance, smoker, or social gathering. We refer to the Saint Vincent de Paul Society which is one of the most active, as well as one of the most commendable organizations at Notre Dame.
Throughout the year this group has done valuable social work among the poor and needy in South Bend and the immediate vicinity. A familiar figure in each hall is the Vincentian member going from door to door collecting old clothes for the poor families in town. In addition, the Society has raised funds by running a bus agency, by taking over the storage concession for downtown warehouses, and by other methods. Certainly work of this nature is not easy, and the members deserve special consideration for their unselfish efforts.
Speaking of the accomplishments of the Society in South Bend, a local paper editorially commended the group for relieving the distress of the poor in this vicinity. The editorial, entitled “The Gifts of Service,” said in part:
“With the formation of the St. Vincent de Paul Service Bureau, another splendid welfare agency which has been doing a monumental work of charity in South
May 15, 19 3 6
Bend for almost forty years, has affiliated itself with the local Community Fund. This organization, founded over a century ago in Paris by Frederic Ozanam, has ever cherished the ideal of a personal service rendered the poor and needy together with material relief. Heretofore, it has existed in this city in connection with the various Catholic parishes in which its councils were established. Under the new plan these councils will be unified, a central office will be maintained and its program will form a part of the general plan of relief in accordance with the Community Fund method of cooperation.
“Although denominational, the St. Vincent de Paul Society draws no line of race or creed in the service it gives. Its sole thought is for the poor regardless of their religious affiliation, and under the new plan of operation it has adopted here in South Bend, its work will be extended and made more efficacious.”
A WHOLEHEARTED RESPONSE
The almost complete absence of corsages at the Senior Ball proved conclusively that the great majority of undergraduates will accede to a sensible request. The Scholastic, which had no personal interest in the campaign to abolish corsages, other than that of championing what was obviously the wishes of the majority, was gratified at the wholehearted response to the request of Class President Howard Cusack, and to its own appeal. It proved unmistakably, that the elimination of corsages was welcomed by the great majority who attended the Ball.
The few who disregarded the wishes of the class did so for a variety of reasons. Some, undoubtedly, felt it was the correct thing to do. Others sent corsages out of sheer perversity—a chance to look “smart” at the expense of their classmates.
The Scholastic hopes that the excellent start made this year toward the abolition of corsages will bear fruit next year. The reasoning behind this ban has been discussed in these pages several times before. As long as circumstances make it necessary to maintain campus dance prices at the present high level, the elimination of corsages should be encouraged as a practical method of reducing the cost of attending such affairs—J. S. M.
The editorial board of The Scholastic regrets the current impressions created by the editorial of the May 8th issue, “Life Begins In 1940.”
Further information and details gathered since the last issue have shown that the.fencing team has received just consideration from the Athletic Board and is traveling the self-same road to recognition as have the other minor sports athletic teams.
We, the editorial board, are pleased to present this information to clear up any wrong impressions the article may have created.—J. P.P.
Thirteen
ATHLETICS
SEVEN RECORDS BROKEN IN TRIANGULAR MEET
NOTRE DAME TEAM WINS BY CLOSE MARGIN OVER OHICTSTATE; SWAMP MICHIGAN STATE
OWENS, BERNARD, AND IRISH RELAY TEAM TAKE HONORS IN TRIANGULAR MEET
By John Cackley
Coach John P. Nicholson’s undefeated track team scored a brilliant victory, last Saturday, on Cartier Field, when they nosed out Ohio State, 71% to 70%, for first place, and outclassed Michigan State by 50 points, in a record-breaking triangular meet.
The Bucks, led by Jesse Owens, sensational Negro runner, succeeded in smashing five field marks, while the Irish came through to establish new figures in the 440-yard dash and one-mile relay.
Owens ran the.lOO-yard sprint in 9.5 seconds, lowering the previous performance of 9.6, made by Jim Wassons in 1912. The percentage of 21 seconds flat set by Aiderman of Michigan State, in 1927, fell by the board as the colored boy turned in a 20.5 exhibition for the 220-yard dash.
Atlhough Captain George Meagher climaxed his final appearance on the local course with a leap of 24 feet 8% inches in the broad jump, it was soon shattered by Owens as he "flew through the air” for 24 feet 10% inches.
Bill Walker, the Scarlet’s high jumper, bettered Vince Murphy’s former feat of 6 feet 5 % inches in that event, as he soared over the bar at 6 feet 7% inches. His attempt for - the world’s record of 6 feet 9 inches,
James Parsons
His Greatest Squad
Coach John P. Nicholson
fell short in three tries alloted to him.
Beetham, Ohio State’s outstanding candidate for the Olympic half-mile, breasted the tape ahead of Joe McGrath to cop the 880 in 1:54.2, The pace set by Alex Wilson, Notre Dame’s contribution to the 1932 international games, of 1:54.6 was equalled by McGrath. Bob Bernard blazed up the track to annex the quarter-mile in 48.8, clipping three-tenths of a second from the old mark. The Irish relay quartet, composed of Sheehan, McGrath, Parsons, and Bernard, broke the 1930 record as they checked in at 3.20.8.
Don Elser, “Chick” Levicki, and Lill placed first, second, and third, respectively, in the shot-put. Bucky Jordan captured the runner-up posi-- (Continued on Page 20)
Notre Dame Golfers
Defeat Purdue, Wisconsin
On this coming Wednesday the William J. Burke golf course will be the scene of an exhibition match between Lawson Little and Jimmy Thompson paired against two members of Notre Dame golfers. Little, former well-known amateur and holder of the more important British and American golfing titles, just recently turned professional, and is on his first tour. Thompson, considered as the longest hitter in the game showed here last year with Olin Dutra and gave a fine performance.
- Irish 14, Purdue 4
Notre Dame experienced little difficulty in defeating Purdue, 14 to 4, on the William J. Burke Memorial course the past Saturday. Although the Irish suffered a reversal of form last week, against Louisiana Tech, they were nevertheless in complete command during the Boilermaker match.
The visitors succeeded in winning but one doubles match, when Smith and Brewer downed Malloy and Lang, 2-1. In the other foursome, Wilke and Castleman came through to annex a decision over Wavis and Dobel-dower, 2% to %. Captain Win Day had a comparatively easy time in beating Smith, 3-0, in the singles. Wilke won over David, 3 to 0, while Bill Taylor nosed out Brewer, 2-1. . Castleman copped his match from Dobeldower, 2% to %. Wilke was low medalist with a 72, two under par.
On last Tuesday the Notre Dame golf team defeated the University of Wisconsin golfers at Madison, by the score of 12 to 9. Captain Win Day by winning the last four holes in Ins afternoon singles match through the aid of three birdies and one par assured the Irish-of the win. Pat Malloy, Jr., shot a 70, one under par, in the morning doubles round to show the best card of the day. Incidentally this was the second best round a collegiate golfer had ever shot on the Badger layout.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
Klinemen Turn Back Northwestern's Wildcats
OHIO STATE PLAYS HERE TOMORROW PURDUE, NEXT OPPONENT OF KLINEMEN
The Notre Dame basebailers, after suffering their initial setback of the season from Wisconsin, quickly returned to winning ways again by
pounding out
a
Clarence Kline the highlight of
10-2 decision over the Northwestern Wildcats. Behind the .steady hurling of Goncher, and the heavy fitting of Went-
"*worth, P i 1 n e y, and Borowski the Klinemen had little difficulty i n annexing their eighth victory.
From the viewpoint of the Irish the game was the
brilliant performance of Goncher. Although this victory is the third rung up by the unperturbed appearing sophomore, it was his first starting assignment. His previous victories were gained when the batters drove in winning runs while he was appearing in the role of a relief pitcher. Goncher, in allowing only eight hits and two runs, struck out seven and displayed the ability to tighten up with men on bases. This performance rates the second year flinger a start
ing position on a pitching staff pre-season dope had listed as weak spot of the team.
that the
Irish Commit No Errors
The combined offerings of two Wildcat pitchers were favorably received by the Irish stickers, 17 hits being collected. Wentworth, Pilney, Borowski, and even the pitcher, Goncher, garnered three bingles apiece while Scafati picked up two, one being a triple.
Afield the . Irish were flawless, taking everything that came their way without a slip-up. Wentworth handled three chaances cleanly and Goncher had five assists to his credit.
The box scores:
Notre Dame (10)
Ab R H P A Reagan,2b 6 1110 Went’th.ss 5 13 13 From’rt,3b 6 1111 Pilney,If 6 13 2 1 Gaul, c 5 0 18 0 Velch’k.cf 3 10 3 0 Boro’ski.rf 5 2 3 1 0 Scafati, lb 5 2 210 0
Goneher.p 5 13 0 5
• 46 10 17 27 10
Northwestern (2) Ab R H P A Merril,ss 3 13 2 1 H’sh’r.lb 4 0 0 9 0 R’berg.rf 4 1110 Mack, cf 4	0	1	4	0
Way, If 3	0	1	2	0
Walsh, c 4	0	0	5	1
Sh’n’n,3b 3	0	2	1	4
Char’r,2b 2	0	0	2	0
P’z’la,2b 1	0	0	0	1
Skid’re.p 2	0	0	0	1
Kimb’l.p 1	0.	0	0	1
Stromne 10	0	10
Ohio State and Chicago
To Meet Irish Netters
The Notre Dame tennis team will meet two very definite tests of its ability this week-end when it faces the University of Chicago squad this • afternoon and the Ohio State netmen tomorrow afternoon on the Irish courts. These two teams are considered to be almost top-ranking among Big Ten outfits this year, being surpassed only by the crack Northwestern players. Coach de Landero’s men will have a busy time trying to add these two opponents to their list of conquered.
Some idea of the strength of the two teams can be gathered from their present records. Chicago ranks in the upper bracket of Big Ten teams by reason of a tie match played with Northwestern. The score of that match was 3 to 3. Bickel, pace setter for the Windy City team beat Northwestern’s Don Leavens, fourth ranking tennis junior in the country. The Maroons also down Western State 6 to 0. This same Western State team beat the Irish earlier in the season by a score of 6 to 1, and seemed at the time to be almost unbeatable. This gives some idea of Chicago’s strength and it will require the best that is in the Irish to smother the fire of the Maroons.
The exact strength of the Ohio State team is not known but since Scarlet is always well represented by its athletic teams, it is reasonable to suppose that they will present a very capable tennis combine. Last year the advance reports on their teams were also very meager and this fact encouraged the Irish to overconfidence. The score of the match showed that the Redmen are not to be taken lightly. It was 8 to 0.
Led by Captain Joe Waldron, the Irish troupe will attempt to turn what promises to be a very difficult weekend into another stepping stone to a successful season. The recent clement weather has done much to the form of the tennis team by permitting it to get in some much needed practice. It is hoped by the followers of de Landero’s men that the effect will be shown by decisive defeats of two menaces to Notre Dame’s tennis health.
32 2 8 27 9
Two-base hits—Rotherberg, Way, Merril; Three-base hits — Merril, Scafati, Goncher; Struck out—by Kimball 1, by Skidmore 4, by Goncher 7: Base on balls—Kimball 2, Goncher 1; Double plays—Goncher to Scafati to Gaul; Passed ball—Walsh ; Interference—Walsh.
'Tippy' Dye in State Lineup
By Arch Gott
No one can ever accuse the Scarlet Scourge of Ohio State of having a faint heart. After sending up their track team to take a licking last Saturday they come right back here tomorrow with their baseball team and high hopes of slowing down this swift moving Notre Dame baseball team •which has been causing so much grief to opponents this spring. A previous-
Wally Fromhart Faces Buckeyes Again.
ly scheduled game with the Buckeyes was postponed because of inclement weather.
Followers of Notre Dame baseball will readily remember the opening tilt of the 1935 season with Ohio State. On April 12 the two teams met in a whirling snowstorm which grew wilder as the game went on. What was worse, the game went ten innings before Andy Pilney finally connected with one for a home run to bring home a 4-3 victory. “Tippy” Dye, Ohio State’s diminutive star, came through with two doubles in the game. Dye is holding down the shortstop position this season just to keep in shape after his long sessions of football and basketball. ,
Jake Kline’s team is in the midst of the most successful season in the annals of Notre Dame baseball and at this time it appears as if the whole squad is in better shape than at any other time during the season. Owing to a wealth of warm, sunny weather the pitchers have been able to bear down without fear of pulling a muscle. Thernes, Arboit, Rydell, Goncher, and Kopczak have all been hurling good ball games during the past month. The hitting department of the team has come through in many tight places with some timely blows such as Andy Pilney’s smashing homer in the ninth with two men on which won
(Continued on Page 21)
May 15. 193 6
Fifteen
INTRODUCING
Kentucky Netters Beat Notre Dame by 7-2 Count
As time tolls the collegiate year to a close, we introduce that undergraduate paragon—the athlete and scholar in tennis—Captain Joe Waldron.
It’s not often that an athletic career is moulded while the subject is still a wee toddler, but Joe was ordained to be a tennis player long before the neighbors’ children had even heard of the game. His father, an observant man, saw that Joe would
. he smaller than his brothers. One evening he brought home a tennis racquet and said: “Son, when you get a bit older you’ll be too light to play games with the bigger boys without getting hurt, so I suggest you learn to play tennis.”
Joe took the racquet, which dwarfed him in size, and began batting balls against the garage wall. As soon as he grew tall enough to see across the net, he spent most of his days on the court where the constant practice against the wall was reflected in the machine-like volleys he made. As the years rolled along, he played a little baseball and- basketball, but his best effort was at tennis. The
records show he did quite well, acquiring the midget and junior titles of Iris home city, Trenton, N. J.
The brisk blare of athletic tantara dimmed his father’s sound advice in high school^ and Joe felt that he was sturdy enough to play all-around athletics with the bigger boys. Since that decision, he has had more ankle sprains than a tennis ball has bounces.
A 200-pound tackle jarred loose a few stray vertebrae and ended his career as a promising high school quarterback, and weak ankles slowed his basketball play. But he did become a crack baseball and tennis player.
In the spring of 1933, Joe began his athletic career at Notre Dame by earning a berth on the frosh baseball team as a left-fielder, more by the dexterity of his fly-catching than the potency of his bat. In his sophomore year, he discovered there were outfielders who could catch flies and also hit and that baseball and tennis prac-(Continued on Page 22)	’•
score of 7-2.
Geokge Cannon
Last Wednesday afternoon on a windswept court the Notre Dame tennis team was defeated by a strong contingent from Kentucky by the though a bright sun was shining, there was a stiff breeze sweeping across the playing surface that played havoc with plenty of the shots. Most of the boys on both teams were hampered by an overdose of clothing.
Capt. Joe Wald
ron of Notre Dame had the most success against the Colonels; he won his singles match easily from Moore, 6-2, 6-0. This was especially notable inasmuch as Moore is the Kentucky captain and one of the country’s leading amateurs. Although he is handicapped by a crippled arm, Bill Fallon of the Irish put up a gallant fight in the singles but he was finally trimmed 7-5, 10-8. The best match of the afternoon was between Cannon of Notre Dame and Montgomery of Kentucky—the visitor being forced to go three sets until he managed to nose out the Irish star.
In the doubles Joe Waldron and Joe McNulty paired to score the only Notre Dame victory in this class. George Feeley and Jim Waldron in the last match of the day nearly upset the Colonels but a last minute splurge put the Kentucky boys in the lead and they won in three sets.
Tennis Summary:
Singles: Montgomery (K) beat Cannon (N.D.)—6-2, 4-6, 6-2; Tulloch (K) beat Fallon (N.D.)—7-5, 10-8; Evans (K) beat McNulty (N.D.)—6-1, 6-2; Stahr (K) beat Prendergast (N.D.)—6-2, 6-1; Randall (K) beat Kilrain (N.D.)—8-6, 6-4; Joe Waldron (N.D.) beat Moore (K)— 6-2, 6-0.'
Doubles: Joe Waldron - McNulty (N.D.) beat Stahr-Moore (K)—8-6, 4-6, 6-3; Fallon-Prendergast (N.D.) lost to Evans-Tulloch (K)—6-3, 6-4; Jim Waldron-Feeley (N.D.) lost to Randall-Montgomery (K)—7-5, 3-6, 9-7.
Sixteen
Baseball Team to Encounter Indiana and Western State
NAVY TRACKMEN ARE HOST TO NICHOLSON’S VICTORIOUS IRISH TRACK FORCES AT ANNAPOLIS
The Klinemen of Notre Dame riding high through one of the most successful seasons in years journey to Bloomington next Thursday to engage the equally successful Indiana University nine. On the following Saturday, the 23rd, the basebailers will turn northward to Kalamazoo and there meet the Kazoos of Western State.
The Hoosiers are one of the fore-
Frank Kopczak A Promising Pitcher.
most contenders for t he Big Ten crown this year and paced by Bill Baise, their ace slugger, they hope to turn back the Irish tide that has been stopped but once since the baseball season opened.
At the latest reports, Baise was hitting the ball at a .538 clip, pacing the Big Ten, and it looks as though this hitting Hoosier will more than endanger the local nine’s record. In a game early in the season he got four for four, among the hits a triple and a homer. The Messrs. Themes, Arboit and Kopczak will have trouble with him.
Western State Is Strong
Getting past the Indianans only means added troubles for the Irish. Western State will confront them the following Saturday. The Kazoo’s are burning under that close defeat handed them by the local nine last Wednesday. The teachers still think they should have won that game, the majority of runs scored against them being unearned.
Western State possesses one of the better ball nines of the smaller colleges of the middle west,. and they hope to redeem themselves and also raise their prestige by handing Notre Dame a defeat. But the Irish should win this game. Scafati, Pilney, Vel-chek and Wentworth are all batting in the high averages, and such an array of hitters make any team exceptionally strong and especially so when they have pitchers like Themes, Rydell, Arboit and Kopczak to support their hits; •	•
M:ay I 5,. 19 3 6 -
The Naval Academy will play host to John Nicholson and his track charges tomorrow afternoon at Annapolis when the two schools clash in a dual meet. The Middies have a great reputation of being fine hosts to any visiting athletic team but they always like to spoil the visitors stay by defeating them before the Annapolis assemblage and tomorrow they will try to do the same thing to the Irish forces. But the majority of track experts figure that any team that can defeat Ohio State and Michigan State in one afternoon can take care of the Navy track team as well.
The Academy team this year is exceptionally good. They have not been defeated in any dual meet competition as yet and they list as their victims such teams as Princeton, North Carolina, Duke, and Virginia, a pretty fair list of victories for any track team.
Navy Has Fast Sprinters ■
As in other years the Navy’s strength lies in the sprints and the mile. Jack Dalton, the son of the famous Dalton of Navy athletic fame who also was a former schoolmate of Coach Nicholson, is the Navy’s pride in the sprints and has been turning in exceptional times in the dasahes. His duel with Frawley and Boyle is being looked forward to by the Navy fans and they think that their boy can turn baack these sprinters from Notre Dame. However that remains to be seen.
The Middies are conceded the edge in the mile by virtue of having a 4:28 man in that event who has yet to be beaten in dual meet competition and hopes to defeat Francis and Mc-. Kenna tomorrow afternoon. According to Nick the Annapolis boys also have a good hurdler and an exceptional pole vaulter who should tally points on the Navy side of the ledger.
Nick Guards Against Slump
Otherwise the meet looks all Notre Dame with Meagher, Elser and company generally conceded several first places. Notre Dame supporters now judge their team to be one of the best east of the Rockies, because any team that can defeat an array of stars like Ohio State possesses is generally looked upon as being far above the ordinary run of track teams. The only thing Nick is worried about is the possibility of a serious letdown after such a great performance of last Saturday. Barring any such letdown the Irish team should defeat the Navy tomorrow at Annapolis. .
• MARQUETTE TRACK
Coach John Nicholson and his troupe of top-ranking track stars will meet Marquette on Cartier Field a week from tomorrow. Marquette, always a strong opponent of the Irish thinlies, looms as the most formidable contestant for the honor of beating the team that beat Owens and Co.
Bucky Jordan
One of Nick’s sprinters. ■
This will be the second meet of the year between the two teams, as the Irish have already beaten the Hilltoppers in an indoor meet at the Field House by an eight point margin. It was only the efforts of the mile relay team that snatched the meet from Marquette at the last moment.
McGrath Meets Beckett
That relay team, which has done so much for Notre Dame so far this year in the way of winning points and which established a new record on Cartier Field last Saturday, will again .be one of the mainstays of the local team. One of the highlights of the meet will be the duel between Notre Dame’s Joe McGrath and Capt. Cal Beckett, Marquette’s star half miler.
In the quarter mile Bob Bernard will strive to beat his rival of long standing, O’Shea of Marquette. The shot put will be in the able hands of Don Elser, Levicki, and Lill, which group will undoubtedly take the first three places in the event. But just as the Irish are clearly superior in the shot put, so Marquette is “tops” as far as the high jump is concerned. In the indoor meet Cuff, Servis, and Mierzwa took the first three places and will probably do so again.
Jordan, Boyle, and Frawley will greet the Marquette sprinters headed by Paul Phillips. In the long dis-taance events, the Irish seem to have the upper hand with the combination of Francis, McKenna, McFarlane, and Gott.
Seventeen
Elser and Meagher Try For Coming Olympics
Meagher Faces Owens and Peacock in the Broadjumps; Morris and Coffman Form the Competition for Elser in the Decathalon
1936 brings around another Olympic year, and with it conies the usual amount of pre-Olympic conjecturing as to who in these United States ivill win the honor of representing his country in the world-famous games that are to held in Berlin this coming summer. In all portions of the country people are discussing the possibilities of their favorite athletes’ chances in competing in the XI Modern Olympiad.
Right here at Notre Dame there has been some private “doping” upon the chances of Irish track and field stars who hope to win places on the United States Olympic team. Every
Don Elser and Torrence at 1935 National Intercollegiate track meet in Los Angeles.
Olympic year some Notre Dame athlete has been outstanding enough to merit national consideration in the formation of the team that will compete against all other nations in the world-wide spectacle. In 1932 it was Alex Wilson, who, although a Canadian, was a son of Notre Dame and one of its greatest trackmen. Wilson made the Canadian Olympic team, ran in the 400 and 800 meters, and placed in both. He tood third in the 400 meters trailing Bill Carr and Ben Eastman of the U. S. in that never-to-be-forgotten race that saw a new world’s record established. In the 800 meters Alex took second, just a yard behind Hampson of England in another race that set a new world’s record. It was Wilson who pushed Hampson to the new record that has since been broken by the lanky Ben Eastman of California. This year, Olympic year, brings forth two great Notre Dame track and field stars who are given more than an even chance of making the Olympic squad. They Eighteen
By Gene Vaslett
are Don Elser, one of the greatest all-around athletes that ever attended Notre Dame, and George Meagher, captain of this year’s track team and a broad jumper of nationally-recognized ability.
Big Don will try to make the team by means of the decathlon, the ten-event spectacle that is the highlight of every Olympic meet. He is widely known as a shot-putter, but his all-around ability makes him exceptional material for the decathalon. His path to the Olympic games will not be easy, and he knows it. There are four men who have defeated him in decathalon competition thus far this year. It all happened in one meet, the Kansas Relays, the only time Don competed in the decathalon. George Morris of Denver won it and also bettered Jim Bausch’s record that he established in the 1932 Olympic games. Coffman, a member of the 1932 Olympic decathalon team, was second, and Jay Berwanger, Chicago’s great athlete, was fourth; Don scored a fifth. But Don’s records in the ten events that comprise the decathalon schedule are better than average, and if the Kansas Relays are considered as an “off” day for Elser he can be considered one of the most outstanding possibilities for the decathalon.
His records show that Don would have stood an excellent chance of vanning the 1932 Olympic decathalon when compared with Jim Bausch’s world-breaking exhibition at Los Angeles four years ago. - Starting with
George Meagher
the 100 meter dash: Elser has run the 100 yard dash in 9.9 seconds, which in a conservative estimate is equivalent to' 10.8 in the Olympic event. Jim Bausch’s time was 11.7 seconds in that event, the winner, Jarvinen of Finland, ran it in 11.1 seconds. From this it can be seen that Elser is a standout in the dash event. In the broad jump, which was won in 1932 by W. Charles of the U.S.A, with a leap of 23 feet, 9 inches Elser doesn’t look so good. Bausch’s jump was 22 feet 9 % inches, while the best Elser has ever done is 21 feet 4 cleared 5 feet 10 inches, and is aiming at an even six foot jump. Bausch’s best was 5 feet 7 inches for a fifth place, the winner jumping 6 feet 1 inch.
Dox -Elscr
In the 400 meters Elser has no record for that, but he has run the 440 yard run in 52 seconds flat as compared to the Olympic champion’s 5 4.2 second performance in 1932. Likewise the Notre Dame star
has not run the 110 meter high hurdles, another Olympic event, but in the indoor season he ran the 60 yard highs in 8 seconds and his followers think he can do an even 16 seconds in the 110 meters distance. However, Don is aiming at 15.5 for the distance, and if he reaches that he will better Bausch’s exhibition by seventenths of a second and would be con
ceded the winner of that event.
The next event on the Olympic schedule would be the shot put. Nothing . need se said of his prowess in that. Last year in the Pitt dual meet he hurled the 16 pound ball 51 feet 6 inches; Bausch won the ’32 shot put event with a put of 50 feet 3 % inches, and Elser is conceded a first in that event. The high jump records show that the Notre Dame star has good chance of tallying some points in that.
Then comes the discus throw. In 1934 at Purdue Elser threw the discus 134 feet, the best in his collegiate career. Bausch threw it for 146 feet to win that event, but Elser would have been able to gain a third in the discus in ’32, and that means more
. (Continued on Page 21)
. The Scholastic
ON DOWN THE LINE
MICHIGAN STATE TO MEET IRISH GOLFERS HERE,- PLAY PANTHERS AT PITTSBURGH
By James A. Waldron
DID YOU KNOW:
GREGORY MANGIN sometimes bi’eaks the strings of a tennis racquet on the first stroke? He uses the tightest strung racquet in tennis.— BILL TERRY, pilot of the NEW YORK GIANTS, hit the longest ball ever walloped at FORBES FIELD in PITTSBURGH next to one hit by the great GEORGE HERMAN (“BABE RUTH) ?—RICK FERRELL, the peppery backstop of the BOSTON RED SOX, can’t understand all the fuss over the four-year record of DIZZY DEAN since he entered the MAJOR LEAGUE? The DIZZY ONE has won ninety-six games and lost fifty-two, but RICK points out that his brother WES won ninety-one games and lost only forty-eight over the same period of years.—The INTERCOLLEGIATE ASSOCIATION OF AMATEUR ATHLETES of AMERICA have gone back to our own linear measurements for track and field events? The AMATEUR ATHLETIC UNION may stick to the confusing metric system for the national championship meets, but otherwise we will again deal in inches, feet, yards and miles.—When PAUL GIBSON of HARRISVILLE, PENNSYLVANIA, and SIMON “CY” FELSER of PITTSBURGH were chosen co-captain of the 1936-37 CARNEGIE TECH basketball squad, it marked the second time the TARTANS have ever had co-captains in basketball.—Enlisting the services of KAREL KOZELUH from across the seas to instruct the AMERICAN DAVIS CUP team has brought forth much criticism from tennis followers in this country? The experts insist that KOZELUH’S record is opposed to the building of an overwhelming volleying attack, which they say is the only way to defeat the AUSTRALIAN DAVIC CUP PLAYERS. The CZECH, rated the greatest professional in his day, is limited to drives the length of the court which is a style best suited for players like JACK CRAWFORD, VIVIAN McGRATH and ADRIAN QUIST to defeat. — According to pitcher GUY BUSH of the Pirates, the biggest thrill he got in baseball occurred in the world series of 1929 between the CUBS and the ATHLETICS? With the score one to nothing in favor of Philadelphia in the sixth inning of the third game of the series, JIMMY DYKES was on third base with two outs and GEORGE EASNSHAW at bat with the cout two and two. With the windup, DYKES dug for home and made it safely but BUSH’S pitch was called a strike and the side retired.
May 15. 193 6
Western State Game
With Ennio Arboit pulling a Tommy Bridges act, Notre Dame’s baseball team edged out the Western State diamond nine on Cartier field Wednesday, 9 to 8. Arboit replaced Rydell in the ninth inning with nobody out and Western State runners occupying second and third. The first man to face Arboit went down swinging. A squeeze play was then tried but the hitter missed in his attempted bunt and Gaul tagged Secory out at home plate. Neuman advanced to third on the play. The game ended when Arboit fanned Brooks for the final out. The excellent relief pitching of the sophomore star capped a day’s performance packed with thrills. ’
Weather Slows Up Game
Cold weather and a strong wind played havoc with the players of both teams, both in the field and at bat. The stinging cold handicapped the infielders and the puzzling wind made fly balls difficult to judge. However, with all the wild playing, both teams turned in some spectacular fielding plays during the course of the game.
Matt Themes, who pitched a brilliant game for the Irish against Chicago last week, was knocked off the rubber in the third inning. Lefty Rydell relieved Themes and pitched superb ball until the Western State sluggers started solving his slow, tantalizing delivery in the ninth session. Rydell received credit for the victory. Abbott went all the way for the visitors and in doing so hurled a good game. His support was not up to par, his teammates committing nine errors, or he might have earned a better fate.
In this game as in many others this year, Notre Dame’s ability to bunch hits has meant victory for them. Western State outhit the Irish, 12 to 8. The deciding factor of the game was the superior fielding of Coach Kline’s men. The errors committed by the visitors led to their downfall.
West. State (8) R H E-
Hibbard, If	3 2 0
Wernert, 2b	0 12
Secory, cf	110
Neuman, 3b	0	0	1
Abel, c	2	3	1
Brooks, rf	10 0
Mershon, lb	0	2	1
Vanderberg, ss 1	1	4
Abbott, p	0	2	0
Totals ______8	12	9
Notre Dame (9) RHE
Reagan, 2b 111
Wentworth,ss Oil
Fromhart. 3b 1 1 0
Pilney, If 0 2 0
Gaul, c 0 0 1
Velcheck. cf 2 1 0
Borowski, rf 2 0 0
Scafati, lb 3 11
Thernes. p 0 0 0
Rydell, p 0 10
Arboit, p 0 0 0
Totals _____9	8 4
Pittsburgh Has New Coach
• By Mike Crowe
Next week the Notre Dame golf team will be confronted with the task of outshooting two of the strongest opponents on the Irish schedule. Michigan State’s array of link artists will perform here on the University golf course Tuesday, and Thursday Father Holderith’s men will be in Pittsburgh trying to extend Notre Dame’s string of victories over Pittsburgh teams.
Herman Green
Western Pennsylvania junior champ.
Father Holderith, the man behind the successful Notre Dame golf.teams of the past four years, is planning on trying an experiment against the swingers from Michigan State. When asked who would likely compete against Michigan State, he replied, “I am planning on using my sophomore golfers against them. If things go bad for us in the morning matches, the veterans will see action in the afternoon.” From these statements it can be seen that Notre Dame’s golfers are of equal ability.
Michigan State, famous for its strong cross country teams, is represented this year by a better than the average college golf team. To defeat them, the Irish will have to be at top form.
As in all athletic contests between Notre Dame and Pittsburgh, both teams have pointed for and are keyed for their meeting next Thursday. Father Holderith’s men are anxious to turn back the Panthers, -and Art Snyder’s Pitt crew would like nothing better than a victory over the Irish.
This is Art Synder’s first year as coach’ of the Pittsburgh golf team. He is a professional from the Alcoma course in Pitsburgh. Though such golfers as Wolff, McKees, Mathews
(Continued on Page 20)
Nineteen
IRISH BASEBALL TEAM DEFEATS LOUISIANA TECH
BY 3 TO I SCORE IN A HARD FOUGHT GAME
By Al Bride
The tanned athletes of Louisiana, playing in the scorching element of their own southland, could not solve the puzzling slants of Ennio Arboit and were defeated by the Irish 3-1. The second game of the two game series scheduled to be played Tuesday was rained out, and the Tech base-ballers left without having a chance
George Wentworth Handy with, the bat.
to avenge the defeat of the day before.
The game was marked by the five-hit hurling of the sophomore twirler, Arboit, the hitting of Scafati, and the brilliant fielding of the Notre Dame outfielders. The most outstanding play of the afternoon occurred late in the game when Taylor, Tech’s fleet outfielder, made a spectacular running catch of Arboit’s line drive.
The Irish collected 11 hits off the hurling of Pittard, and except for two occasions were unable to bunch them for counters. Scafati ran off with hitting honors for the day by making three singles out of four trips to the plate. Velcheck and Pilney each gathered two bingles apiece for the Irish while Thigpen was the only southerner to connect for more than one hit.
MICHIGAN STATE TENNIS MATCH IN 1935
Twenty r
The Irish outer gardeners saved Arboit from several embarrassing moments by pulling down balls that seemed to be sure hits. Velcheck especially performed brilliantly by making two circus catches. He came in fast to take what looked like a sure Texas leaguer in back of second base, somersaulting after making the catch and later in the fifth raced back to snare a liner from the bat of Mitchell.
The Irish counted first on a single by Pilney, a sacrifice by Captain Gaul which advanced Andy to second. He advanced to third on Velcheck’s single to 1'ight and scored on Borowski’s long fly to Thigpen in left.
The next score came in the fifth when Reagan’s hot grounder went through Mitchell in center and before the ball could be recovered Reagan had crossed the plate.
Each team picked up a run in the sixth. Thigpen opened the inning with a long triple to center and scored when Arboit thought he was going to steal home and threw the ball in the dirt. Notre Dame came back and picked up a run on Velcheck’s double, a sacrifice by Borowski, and Scafati’s second single of the afternoon.
The box score:
Notre Dame (3) Ab R H PA
Reagan,2b 4 110 3 Went’th.ss	4	0	12	2
Fromh’t,3b 4 0 112 Pilney, If	3	1	2 1	0
Gaul, c	3	0	0 3	2
Velch’k.cf	4	12 3	0
Boro’ski.rf	3	0	12	0
Scafati.lb	4	0	314	0
Arboit, p	4	0	0 1	5
Dou. Poly. (1) Ab R H P A
M’ch’l.cf	4	0	0 3	0
T’pen.lb	4	12 5	0
P’key,2b	4	0	0 2	1
Taylor.rf	4	0	12	0
Gres’n.ss	4	0	0 2	1
Ad’ns,3b	3	0	0 0	2
S’led’d.lf 30130
Hewitt,c	3	0	17	0
Pittard.p	3	0	0 0	1
32 1 5 24 5
33 3 11 27 14
Runs batted in—Borowski. Scafati. Errors— Mitchell, Wentworth, Scafati. Two base hits— Fromhart, Velcheck. Three base hits—Thigpen. Sacrifice hits—Gaul, Borowski. Left on bases —Louisiana-Polytech 4; Notre Dame.9. Struck out—by Arboit 2. by Pittard. 7. Base on balls —off Pittard 1. Wild pitch—Arboit. Umpires— DeRose and Daly Time—1:50.
TRIANGULAR MEET
(Continued from Page 14)
tion in the ' 100-yard dash, while Eddie Boyle finished next to Owens in . the 220-yard run. Although the Irish thinlies accounted for* only four firsts, they nevertheless made up the difference by getting the second, third, and fourth places in the various events.
McFarlane made a wonderful showing in the gruelling two-mile race, as he was barely pushed out by Boss for the No. 2 position, after rallying during the final hundred yards.
George Meagher stepped over the 120-yard high hurdles in 15.3 followed closely by Seitz of Ohio State. Pettigrew forged in front of Levicki to win the javelin throw at 177 feet, 8 inches.
The meet marked the last time that Captain Meagher, Don Elser, Bob Bernard, Joe McGrath, Leo McFarlane, and Paul Krause will compete under the Irish colors on Cartier field.
PITT GOLF MEET
(Continued from Page 19)
and Gamble have departed from the Pitt ranks, their places are being capably filled by Pat Symonds, Frank Souchak,. John Wasco, Sam Musico and Bob Mease. Symonds is the Panther number one man. He is a long hitter and the possessor of a well-rounded short game as well. Souchak, Jock Sutherland’s great end of this year’s football team, holds second position because of his long drives. Coach Snyder says Souchak is the longest driver he has ever seen, including Jimmy Thompson reputed to be the. longest driver among the pros. Should our footballer, Bob Wilke, meet. Souchak, we can visualize a great battle. The other three Panthers have been holding their own
(Continued on Page 22)
NATIONAL STORAGE WAREHOUSE COMPANY
ABSOLUTELY FIREPROOF
We specialize in the storage of student furniture.
PACKING SHIPPING
402 South Carroll Street Phone 4-3741
CAMPUS AGENT Society of St. Vincent de Paul 10 Lyons Hall Society Members WILL CANVASS HALLS for orders during week of May 24th. Commissions to charity.
. T h e S c h o I as t i c
OLYMPIC CANDIDATES (Continued^from Page 18)
points in the complicated decathalon scoring system. <
The last three, events, the pole vault, javelin, and 1,500 meters constitute Elser’s weakest events. . He has scaled 10 feet in the pole vault as compared to Bausch’s 13 foot leap to win that event. Elser’s weight is a serious handicap in this event, but if he is able to raise himself to 11 feet before the Olympic trials are run off he stands more than a fair chance of scoring a few more much-needed points. Lately Don has been concentrating on. the javelin throw in an attempt to reach at least 170 feet, but he is having some trouble in reaching that distance. According to reports the big boy has plenty of strength to throw it but lacks the proper form that makes a good javelin thrower. In the 1500 meter event he is aiming at five minutes flat for the distance. Elser is capable of this although his weight will offer another handicap in this event. ' However, not many decathalon men can run the event in much less than five minutes, and if Don can get down to that time he will do well in regard to point scores. In ’32 Bausch could do only 5 minutes 17 seconds for the run which was next to the slowest time for the event.
In this brief comparison of Elser and Bausch the element of physical
endurance has not been taken into consideration. Bausch competed in the ten events in two days; Elser has turned in his exhibitions at different times during his three years, of varsity competition, but it is the opinion of Coach Nicholson that Don has enough staying power to turn in as comparatively good records in actual decathalon competition. However, the whole story of Elser’s ability to stay will come out in the regional tryouts to be held in Chicago on June 19-21.
Turning from a good big man to a good little man we find George Meagher, Notre Dame’s pride in the broad jump. George has some mighty serious competition to go up against. At present there are two men in the country who have bested 25 feet, excluding Eulace Peacock who probably will not compete in the broad jump because of a bad leg that has hindered him this year. The two men are Jesse Owens of Ohio State, and “Ole” Olsen, formerly of Southern California and now competing for the Olympic Club of San Francisco. There are about a dozen men in the country who have done 24 feet 6 inches in that event but Meagher has leaped 24 feet 9 inches this year and looks pretty likely for an Olympic berth. In outdoor competition he has been beaten twice, once by Owens, and once by King of Maryville Teachers who leaped 24 feet 10 inches to better Meagher’s leap of 24 foot 9 inches. The Notre Dame captain is conceded a more than average chance of winning a place on the
United States’ team, and if he does it will be another feather in the cap of Notre Dame and John Nicholson.
Other possible prospects on this year’s track team are Bob Bernard, who runs faster every time he puts on a pair of track shoes, and by virtue of his 48.8 quarter of last week, is placed in the top’ rank of quarter milers of this country, and possibly little Joe McGrath, a great competitive runner, who goes fastest when the going is toughest.
BASEBALL
(Continued from Page 15)
the Illinois game for Notre Dame 5-4. For fielding prowess, the startling catch of Velcheck in last Monday’s Louisiana Tech game will serve as a brilliant example. Taking a flying leap in the air after the elusive ball, “Velch” tumbled to the ground and rolled along but with the ball tightly clutched in his gloved hand.
Wednesday afternoon the Irish team will journey to Purdue University where they will take on the Boilermakers for the second time this season. The former game played between the two schools took on a farcical aspect when six hits and six errors produced 11 runs for Notre Dame in a terrific fifth inning. Notre Dame outlasted Purdue in this marathon, 18 runs to a mere 15. ’Tis said that they had to replace the home plate at Cartier Field — the old one was all worn out after that game.
MICHIGAN STATE - NOTRE DAME BASEBALL GAME—1935
May 15, 1936
Twenty-one
KILGALLEN SPEECH (Continued from Page 11)
be far more accurate for use by appeals court than the dry transcript of the testimony.
“The movie record would show the inflection of the voices of witnesses, the judge, the lawyers — or anyone else who popped into the case.”
Kilgallen left here for the east where he will cover the Democratic and Republican national conventions this summer.
PICTURE OF A MAN
KEEPING APPOINTMENT IN CHICAGO ON TIME!
Why is the man smiling? Surely, dear students, you recognize the old South Shore Line “dependability” grin! He has arrived in Chicago safely and on time for an important appointment.
SOUTH SHORE LINE OPERATES RIGHT TO THE MINUTE!
No other method of transportation between South Bend and Chicago combines speed and comfort with such assuring dependability. You’re always on time when you ride the South Shore electric trains and the cost is low, too.

Twenty-two
National Response Felt
In Taab Memorial Drive
Replies from fourteen states have been received by “The Forest” Memorial Association which has been organized on the campus for the purpose of erecting a monument to John Banister Tabb, famous priest-poet.
Among the replies are letters from members of the Notre Dame faculty, from the Governor of Virginia, members of the hierarchy, the Hon. Gordon Battle, of New York, Doctor Cornelius Weygandt of the University of Pennsylvania, and Dr. Daniel - Sargent of Harvard.
Dr. John A. Cooney, head of the Department of Journalism, who is president of the Association, said this week that response to the movement has been very gratifying and membership is still open to anyone who will communicate with Professor Francis Kervick, secretary, at Notre Dame.
WOODWORTH’S
Storage and Transfer
MOVING PACKING SHIPPING STORING
Fireproof Warehouse
Phone 4-1135
409-11 S. St. Joseph Street
CAMPUS AGENT
Society of St. Vincent de Paul
10 Lyons Hall
Society Members WILL CANVASS HALLS for orders during week of May 24th. Commissions to charity.
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
INTRODUCING
(Continued from Page 16)
tice conflicted. After more deliberation, he decided his chances were more favorable at tennis and withdrew from baseball. He alternated between the first two singles berth in his sophomore and junior years and now, as captain and No. 1 man, is meeting the toughest of the opposition.
During the recent interhall basketball season, he played a forward berth on the championship Sorin Hall team without incurring serious injury. Previously, he played four games for the Sorin interhall football team but Scrap Iron Young, the trainer, called a halt to the proceedings when he discovered his adhesive tape and bandage was disappearing at an alarming rate and that Joe was taped like Raineses’ mummy before each game.
This, then, is a brief sketch of Joe Waldron, the athlete. Space does not permit the exposition of his political, social, financial and academic achievements. He was defeated by a slim margin last year for the senior class presidency and, while an effortless athlete despite his frailties, has by dint of persistent and constant effort acquired an honor average for four years that hovers within fractions of the ninety percent mark.
Hard luck in athletics still closely pursues Joe. The story goes that shortly before the tennis season was opened Joe was in the boxing room doing some limbering-up exercises. A Bengal Boxing aspirant looking for a likely target, asked him to spar a bit. Joe consented, and the error was nearly fatal. He caught more punches in two minutes than Mickey Cochrane does baseballs in an entire season, and his fn'ends confess he has seemed a bit dizzy since. They say his geography is so bad he can’t differentiate between Flint, Mich., and Pittsburgh.
GOLF STORY (Continued from Page 20)
against Panther opponents this season which is some feat when you consider the Pittsburgh schedule. Pittsburgh has met such teams as Carnegie Tech, Pennsylvania, Georgetown, W. & J., Cornell, Penn State, Geneva, and Western Reserve. They have engaged in fifteen matches during this season’s competition.
Notre Dame’s starters against Pittsburgh are doubtful. However, it’s most certain that Captain Win Day and Bill Taylor will see action. The other members of the team will be determined from the form they display in practice sessions and competitive matches this week. Pat Malloy, Lou Fehlig and Herman Green are other veterans who more than likely will be called on for duty.
The Scholastic
Interhall Radio Contest
Arouses Much Comment
Although the preliminary programs are still being heard, campus radio fans are speculating about the probable winner in the new Interhall Radio Talent Contest. Last week Freshman ,Dillon, Alumni, Badin, Morrissey, and Lyons Halls were heard in shows that left no doubt in the minds of listeners as to the quality of the talent available. Last Wednesday night the Walsh Hall and Off-Campus groups each presented 15 minute programs.
Tonight at 7:00 o’clock Howard and Carroll Halls will vie for honors. Next Wednesday evening will bring before the microphone the entertainers of Corby and Sorin. The preliminaries will be concluded the following night, next Thursday, when Brownson and St. Edward’s will take the spotlight. The date for the finals one- hour program during which the four best halls will be presented has not yet been set.
The management of Station WSBT-WFAM of the South Bend Tribune reports that audience ballots, which are to count 40 per cent in the judging, are beginnnig to come in already even before the end of the preliminaries.
The general response of the listening public in the South Bend area has been entirely favorable. Such an array of talent as has been heard during the preliminaries augurs well for the programs that are to originate from the campus studios next year.
"SCRIP" TO APPEAR
Scrip, under the direction of Editor Maurice Tombragel, will make its fourth and last appearance of of the year next Friday, May 22.
Essays, short stories and verse from student contributors will make up the bulk of the edition. One of the features of the last volume will
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. E. C. BERRY
Optometrist* and Mfg. Optician* 228 S. Michigan St.
South Band, Indiana
be a satire on Good-bye Mr. Chips, James Hilton’s sensationally popular novelette.
Dante’s philosophy will be treated by Thomas Graves, a graduate student in philosophy. Grave’s article is written in an interestingly popular style to appeal to general readers as well as philosophical students.
Joseph O’Brien contributes the leading short story, built around the experiences of a novice boxer entering the ring for his first professional fight.
Sketches by Freshmen, popular contributions in the earlier issues, will again be included. Another group of student essays will be published under a general title, covering a wide range of subjects. These to be pub lished were selected for their freshness and colorful style.
SWEET AS HONEY
THE ONE AND ONLY
YELLO BOLE
Starts Sweet Smokes Sweet Stays Sweet
NOTHING ELSE HAS ns FLAVOR A/so Imperial Yelia Boh $1.50
uzexl with REAL HONEY .
Established 30 Years
OPTOMETRISTS
222 H South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
Have the prescription of your glasses filed with us. It will serve in an emergency.
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
Air-conditioning for your feet
These new white ventilated shoes are cooler than going’ barefoot-and a great deal smarter. They had quite a play in the South last winter; now they’re coming North in a big way. You’ll find all the new trends here—slight slenderizing of toes, revival of the wing-tip, interesting treatments of white, buck, reverse-calf.
High time to lay a foundation for your summer wardrobe. Douglas gives you authenticity in every line and stitch, and All - Leather Construction, at $3.95, $4.95, $5.50. Pay your taste the compliment of paying us a visit. Three - dimensional fitting.
W.L DOUGLAS STORE IN SOUTH BEND 210 South Michigan Street
(Open Saturday Evenings)
Victor C. Astone, N. D. Representative
'DouqdaA QShttb 1876—Sixty Years of Progress—1936
May 15, 1936
Twenty-three
THS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY -LEOONIER LIBRARY-
NOTRE DAME, LOCAL
© 1936, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.