
Bruno's 
Pizza 
ONE 18-INCH PIZZA WITH 3 TOPPINGS FOR $12.00 EVERY i;>AY 
119 U.S. 31 (just north of campus) Open for carryout, delivery & dine-in 11 :00 to 1 :30 Lunch 
4:00 to 10:00 Sunday to Thursday . 4:00 to 11 :00 Friday and Saturday· 
.. 273-3890 
"All Homemade -100% Real Cheese'' We offer FREE DELIVERY to Notre Dame's and . Saint Mary's campuses. 
So, you want to know who the Gipper is? Come-work for Scholastic. Learn all our secrets. 

MAGAZ~NlE 
is now hiring: 
Business/ Advertising Manager ·Distribution Manager 
Call 1-5029 or stop by the Scholastic office in the basement of South Dining Hall for more information. 


M A G A z I N E 



Meteor Shower fD 
Notre Dame's hottest campus band has taken Acoustic Cafe by storm, and it looks like an early favorite at Nazz. The only question that remains to be asked is, "Do so many of them have to graduate this May?" by Kara Zuaro 
Greener Pastures 
After three years with only a nine-hole golf course, Demers will finally have another place to take their game. Construction is nearly complete on the Warren Course, an 18-hole champion­ship course opening on the north side of campus this September. 
by Kerry Rowe 


Access: Musicland fi 
With the rising cost of CDs and the falling costs of computers, MP3s are sweeping the dorm-party scene. In some rooms, MP3s have even replaced stereos. Scholastic examines the development and long-term viability of the trend. 
by Heather Hogan 

· Keyed In by Jim Pastore 7 Sweating It byJacklyn Kiefer 9 What's Walsh Hall Good For, Anyway? 
by Bettina Jerome 11 Kick Off Your Shoes photos by Mike McNary 14 Dear Dan, The Red Sox Need This Guy 
by Phil Sicuso . 20 Rowing Forward by Leah Ashe 22 Humor Artists Get Smurfed by Kara Zuaro 26 
Departments 
From the Editor 2 Letters to the Editor 3 ND Notebook· 5 Campus Watch 19 Splinters from the Pressbox 24 Out of Bounds 25 Week in Distortion 29 Comic Strip 29 On Other Campuses 30 Calendar 31 Final Word 32 


~ 
0 
l­
o 
w w 
I 
I­
~ 
0 
~ 
LL 




Name that 
Tune 
he Association. Blood, Sweat and
T
Tears. The Hollies. If these names 
mean nothing to you, it means you're probably a lot more normal than I am. They'rejustafewofthe '60sand '70sbands whose music I was raised on. 
My father loves these bands, and ever since I can remember he would dance around the house, belting out the lyrics to his favor­ite tunes. Of course, he never remembered more than a line or two ofeach song, but he and I would sing those lines over and over. 
But what I love most about the times Dad sings these old songs is that it gets him talking about the band he and his friends formed when they graduated high school. There were five members, and for the sum­merthey were together they were the closest offriends. When wevisitDad'sfamily, they still talk about those glory days of his band, and how he used to practice out in the garage, and how people would come and watch even the informal rehearsals because they were so good. 
Growing up, I thought being in a band was an essential element of life. Then I realized that my hideous voice was accom­panied by an only slightly-less-hideous lack ofrhythm. My childhood dreams ofbeing in a band went unrealized, but they remain on my "Things to do in a future life" list. 
But for four performers (and an agent) in a band called the Meteors, that dream came true. For this young band, the excitement that my father always related to me is just beginning. I just hope that when they relate the glamor of their band era in years to come, they'll remember that girl who came to their concerts, always sat in the back, and tapped her foot out of rhythm. 
Kara Zuaro discovered the Meteors early in their rise to fame, and her conviction that she was on to something led to our cover story on page 16. Don't miss your chance to find out about the thrills -and the deep, dark secrets -of this band. 
While you' re at it, check out Kerry Rowe's piece on the new golfcourse so you can start planning your best shot (page 12). And before you load up your MP3 files for your next party, you'll want to read Heather Hogan's analysis of their legality on page 27. 
Pats on the Back 
ast weekend, Scholastic Magazine was 
honored by the Indiana Collegiate Press 
Association with awards in several cat­egories of the magazine competition. Con­gratulations to our graduating staff mem­bers who were recognized: Gordie Bell, Paul Bohensky, Allison Fashek, Joe Gallagher, Jake Mooney and Jeff Spoonhower. We appreciate the hard work. 
L




~t:J-
Editm in chief ~ 

34 Years Ago: 
The Cost of Higher Education 
The April 9, 1965, issue ofScholastic reports on the growing cost of tuition at Notre Dame: 
Once again tution has been raised, according to University officials. Undergraduates will pay $1500 per year beginning in September, an increase of$50 per semester; students ofthe Law School will now pay $1200, a $200 raise. Father Hesburgh announced that the increase is to alleviate "continually rising educational costs," thus dispelling the current rumor that it is due to arecent law suit. 
Thirty-four years later, an encounter 
with  Joe  Moore,  and  nothing .has  
changed.  
-JP  



2 
SCHOLASTIC APRIL 15, 1999 
MAGAZINE 

Imust. protest with the utmost around, some of which may eat vim and vigor Eric Yuva's re­you. cent characterization ofmy cam­Now, being a writer and edi­paign. Though I shall in no way tor myself, I know how person­insinuate that the good Mr. ally embarrassing it must be for Yuva' s observations arise out of both poor Mr. Yuva and his edi­the fact that my "mere nine per­tors to be caught flat-footed on a cent of the vote" amounted to a matter of such importance to larger chunk than the various campus politics. I have com­candidates of his native Zahm posed a draft for the correction combined, I do take issue with that you will~ certainly want to one sentence that I find particu­run before hordes of angry larly troubling: "Luke White, grammaticians tear you limb editor of Right Reason, took on from limb in Bacchanalian the task ofbrainwashing the stu­frenzy: "Luke White, editor of dent body with his usual array of Right Reason, took on the task closed-minded and sarcastic ofbrainwashing the student body humor." with his usual array of closed­I have searched my heart in minded and sarcastic dwarves this for the past few days, and I named Frederick." come again and again to the same I think that the improvement unalterable conclusion: The both in grammatical and factual word "array" cannot be used in · accuracy speaks for itself, and I conjunctionwith asingularnoun trust that you will consider this like "humor." as you review your many op­It simply cannot be done. tions for expressing contrition. Show me an -array of· humor, separated by however many su­Luke White percilious adjectives in between, Junior, Dillon Hall and I shall show you a very odd Luke, Thanks for your letter, linguistic universe indeed, one though we can't seem tofind the that probabiy has various other word grammatician in the dic­unpleasant things roaming tionary. -Ed. 
While reading the February 18th issue of Scholastic, I came across an inter­esting ad for your magazine. Apparently, it was an advertisement designed to get stu­dents to submit articles and ideas for future publication dates. As part of the advertise­ment, you compared two -former Scholastic covers, "Wannabes"and"ZooSto­ries," and asked, "How many differences can you find between these two covers?" I can't speak for everyone on the cover ofthe Febru­ary issue, but I think I may have noticed one difference between the two covers -back hair. 
Micah D. Murphy Student Body President Junior, Keough Hall 


APRIL 15, 1999 

Join the staff of 

SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 


SCHOLASTIC 
3 
MAGAZINE 




,, 
j• 
i; jl I-
z 
LU
I!
,, 
~
" 
n 
LU!!1, V)
r
1· I­L 
I ~ 
t: i' LU 
!: > 
I: 0
1, 
I 
11 <( 
!,, 
i'
I 
l 
il 
i:
,. 
New college gi:ads wanted for 
upward career 


move. 

Save$4QO.

Intrepid Caravan 
Drive a great vehicle. Intangible benefits. 
Right now, recent college graduates get $400 offevery new Dodge.* Combine that with other current offers on some ofthese models, and you could save even more. Ask a salesperson for details. 

IUTue New Dodge 

See The Friendly Dodge Dealer Near You 
*Ask for eligibility requirements. Not available with certain other offers. 
4 
SCHOLASTIC APRIL 1, 1999 
MAGAZINE 
STEPPIN' IT UP 


First Class 
New group steps onto campus 
n the beginning, it was a group of friends who wanted to dance. Now, five months after their debut at Black Images, 
the First Class Steppers are making their presence known as the newest dance group at Notre Dame. "It just started offwith me and a couple buddies," says president and co­found er Michael Brown. "We put to­gether a routine and just had fun with it." 
The club, which was officially recognized , . by ~e u~i~ersity this r,··:~,.­sprmg, ongmally con-fu · i/
I-'ii 
sisted of ~ix memb~rs ~r--,f -two girls and four :5E<t',· guys. After their de-~l / but at Black Images, ~ ·' · 
u. 
the group gained mo-u. mentum and fans with performances . at li: ~coustic Cafe, Latin 8 Expressions · and 12 women's basketball 01l: games. They will also be performing at AnTostal on April 21 at 
4:30 at Fieldhouse Mall. 
African-American step provi4es the groundwork for the club's dance routines. "Step is an African-American tradition," Brown explains. "It's a kind of modem dance similar to stomp, which uses brooms and pots and pans." Brown adds that the 
First Class Steppers hope to work chairs and canes into future routines. The group performs to a wider range of 
music, from hip-hop to '70smusic. "Mostly we use R&B or hip-hop," Brown says. "Itdepends on the group. It's what­everwefeel comfortable with at the time." Despite the group's roots in African-Ameri­can dance, Firs( Class Steppers is open to all students, both at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. The club recently held tryouts and has increased its number to 17 mem­bers -10 guys and . seven girls.. "We're a diverse group," Brown says. In_ addition to dancing, the First Class Steppers have made community .service part oftheir mis­sion. They plan to host a step workshop in the fall for youth in the commu­
nity to expose elementary school children to 
this form of dance. "Step is something that a lot of people herehaven't seen before,"Brown says. "The First Class Steppers are adding something to Notre Dame, making this great place even greater." 
-Kathleen Corte 


Q.&A. 


10uestions with 


Iris Outlaw 

Making it safe for diversity 

More than 1,000 students at Notre Dame are ofnon-white descent, and the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs is there to provide for these students' needs. The di­rector of QMSA, who works tirelessly to further diversity and eq1:.1ality on the Notre Dame campus, is Iris Outlaw. 
What is your background? 
I received my undergraduate degree from the University of Indiana-Bloomington, and a Masters degree in science administration from Notre Dame. 
What experiences helped shape your ca­reer path? 
When I was at Indiana, there was a KKK marchinMartinsville. Theywerenotallowed, as a group, on campus, but their presence was felt throughout the university. The most frus­trating thing was that the administration really did not take much of a stance. But that expe­rience was truly frightening. What brought you to Notre Dame? My husband has been working here for 15 years, that was probably tlie first attraction. I am also interested in working with and help­ing the youth. How do you feel that your organization has progressed in your time here? Ourstaff has increased incredibly. This office was started·in 1978, and until I became direc­tor in 1991, the only staff position available was director. The increase in the amount of staff has helped us reach the minority students · better. What are the major goals of OMSA for the near future? Well, we need more space! ... We have been trying to implement diversity training in all residence halls. We are also hoping for other departments to bring inmore scholars ofcolor. 
con.tinued on next page-. 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

Ii; Z \' j 
oJI 



ZiI Oj 
-Im ·,·.­
0, 
QI 0 
i\ 


0 ~ 0 
co 
LLl 
l­
o 
z 
0 
z 
Q&A 
continued from, previous page 
What do you see as some impediments to your organization? 
I think that the state of society as a whole has made things very challenging. We are seeking to have people understand why they need diversity in their lives. 
Do you see a lack of cultural awareness on this campus? 
I think there is a lack of cultural and social awareness here. It is difficult for people to understand why African-Americans, Latinos and Native Americans have chosen to keep their ethnicity, because of the large impor­tance it plays in their lives. 
What steps do you feel need to be made to reach equality? 
I think that it is important that more faculty of color be hired, because it plays such an impor­tant role in the lives ofminority students. The alumni have been very helpful in helping to set up networks for the students ... in setting up programs for employment and internships to help students after they graduate. 
What award or recognition has given you the most sense of accomplishment? 
I think that any award that addresses the service I have helped provide. It is truly a great feeling to do your job, and know that your colleagues feel that you are doing it well. 
What is your favorite part of your job? 
I think that simply being able to help students and try to make diversity and cultural aware­ness known as the vital and important issues that they are, that is the favorite part ofmy job. 
-John Crisham 
. . .· ' ·. . ··•· ... ········.. 
., 
.· 1· neVI'" oµ •Dmis-.F~,m~hfae'#,, '. ;nfect1,g'the """"". and·tleitro0Iliii[fi#lri.·. irigdati,iape/tlieflana suici~!\1cC"'ryy• 
. . . this mes~age has peimeatedmuc!J. of • within>Concemedwith''wagingwar'' again~t ·
·. 
STILL STUDS? 




Living Legends 

Men ofStan/ord Hall adopt the Griffin as new mascot 
Stanford Hall recently changed .its mascot name from the Stanford "Studs" to the Stanford "Griffins." With the••~,J 
idea from the current hall rector, Fr. Tom Gaughan, CSC, the Stanfordresi­deµts voted, and on a unanimous de­cision, changed their mascot name. 
Fr. Robert Griffin, CSC, lived at Stanford Hall for more than 30 years. He was most notably known for his column in The Observer, which was en­titled "Letters to a Lonely God," and usu­ally consisted of a discussion of moral and life issues. He was also known for creat­ing Darby's Place, which used to be in the basement ofLaFortune. Darby's served as a late-night establishment where students could take a break from studying and get something to eat or drink. On Saturday mornings, Griffin had his own radio show where he read comic strips to children over the air. Then, every Saturday evening, Griffin was known for having Ur­chins Mass in the Stanford Hall chapel for children. He was also nationally syndicated for other Catholic newspapers in the dio­ceses. 

·•. ·.•.. ·.• .. A1nertc:an:soc;iety.Howevei; d11ring i ··•a fish to Notre,Daine._earlier,.this/4.p1il, . Ge11t!ral Barry.IvlcCaffn;x; 4y:ect9rof the, White House Offic~ cif NationaFDrug ·. 
addicts; NlcCaffrey.. advi~e,s·that C()ll~ctiye· 
•.. society'shoulclseektoprovidefo~g~terrntreat~· ...... 
rnenJoptiC>nirath~r tfo1n aI.ier1atiqr1: .· .• .... ·.•... ·. ·•. Atthe core.of the N atfo11alDrug Control . 
·. ·-control Policy, sought t9 .dispel Whathe . ~trategyis at~rge~edfocus_on preye~tatiyt . considers to bethe notion of this foyth.·, ,· rneasuresconcemingAmericafa)'outh.The... . . . Whil~.he affirms thatillegald~~g~s;· is-a ·• ~e~er~l notes that if·~tyoi!rig pers,on c.a11.. 
..• ·.. Problem; M:cCaffrey attempts, ..•as hehqpes\Op-iake. it,tocqll~ge.with m:iniinal exposureJo 
"I think changing the mascot to honor Fr. Griffin is a great idea and the right thing to do," says Stanford junior Justin Dunn. "He has done a lot for our dorm and. for the school." 
Sophomore Paul Dougherty adds, "A grif­fin is much cooler than a stud anyway. I think any bull would have a hard time over­coming a mythical winged beast." 
.-Anthony Macalusco 


. '. Ifo\\:.eyer{tlit}dw.cos,! a11d'.~yailal1jlity. ·· · •ofdrµgscajider-ail.peopl_e in coUege ~ven •. . ifthey r,e1nain 9111g~freeuP!Pthatp()iJ:t, 
··.... ac;cordingtq·M§Faffrey; ~·M~rijuanause .:i a11dalcohol corisumptibn posethe,rnost .•• .· :seriousproblehl.•[011 c:~Ilege c;mnpuses],'' •....... 
• McCaffrey says.-:qf an the pfciblerri~. . plaguii1gcoll~g~carnpuse{today,indud~ 
estimatesJhat90% can .be attributed ·to • alcqhoFconsurnption. . '. ···•••·..·.· '?•·•···· , • \ ,.• \ > \ N.onetl)eless, ·ivlcCaffrey emphasizes . exposureto ''eng~ging ari,d llllrtudng ac.­tivities>,.during the critical period ofde-:. 

0velopment to ctirb"n1epo~sibilitf offate'i-' ~gabuse:Heplac~§t~~fiurdeno{pre-\· verition; .thin; -On. tne· derg;y;>pareiits, 
·Cb~ches. a11d,tfafhers·· 19.ptit .•• fortha. tfo­
oftlers v,,ill, to characteriz~ th~ p~oblern in a . ·. drugs;·.· then .the' probab~Hty .ofdev~loping ..• • herent, clear and believable message op-. Slightly different light. He,seesJhe,.drug .• signififantsubstanceabtisejs dralllatic_aiiy, pqs.ing:dr@use.i:. .. ..·..... ·. ...... . . < ; . problem in A)nerica as.more of a cancer; ' lowered.' .· .. . . . . . . . . . . ~Eden Essex 
6 
SCHOLASTIC APRIL 1, 1999 
MAGAZINE 
.•.. 
• It is the night before a big engineering assignment is due, and a lot of people are using Workshop, a program for de­
bugging code for a C++ class and the same program you need. You sit in the computer lab and stare in dismay at the message on your screen when you attempt to start the program. You enter the open command again and receive the same message. "The limit of licenses has been reached on this computer," reads the message. "If the problem contin­ues, please contact the OIT help desk for more information." Finally, after another series of failed attempts, the application launches, and you can begin the long night of programming ahead. 
Unfortunatelyformany Notre Dame com­puter users, similar situations often occur when students are unable to access the soft­ware they need in order to complete a class assignment. 
The problem arises when the amount of users attempting to access a software pro­gram exceeds the number of licenses that Notre Dame's Office oflnformation Tech­nologies (01'.f) has purchased for that appli­cation. fu order to control costs, the OIT purchases a variety oflicenses. The type of license purchased depends largely on esti­mates ofhow many users will need to access the program at any one time. For the most popular software applications, including programs like Microsoft Word and Eudora Pro, the OIT obtains what vendors term an "enterprise-wide" or "site-wide" license. This type of license supports a virtually unlimited number of users who can access the software simultaneously. fu addition to granting access to the software on campus, an enterprise or site-wide license typically allows network users to copy the software for use on their home computers as well. 
Notre Dame computer cluster can obtain documentation from the OIT and legally make one copy of certain programs with a site license in order to transfer the software to their home systems. This arrangement offers a number of advantages for Notre Dame faculty, staff and students, such as the ability to check e-mail from a remote loca­tion u.sing a copy of Eudora. 
Tim Crouch, manager oflnteractive Ser­vices at the OIT, notes that this arrangement benefits software manufacturers as well. "Basically, it's to their benefit to get college students hooked on a product. It has a big impact on the corporate side," Crouch says. "If all the people coming out of college are using it, the businesses have to buy it." 
The problem with site-wide licensing lies in its high cost relative to other types of licensing agreements. "We negotiate acer­tain price based on an estimated number of users," Crouch says. In one case, the OIT recently purchased a site-wide license for Norton 2000, a Y2K debugging program. "Our Norton 2000 license is based on a little over 7,000 users," Crouch says. This number, however, does not mean that only 7,000 users can access the software at any one time. "That number is for pricing," Crouch explains. The actual number of users will almost certainly differ from a precise 7,000 people. 
Since the number of users determines the price of the lice_nse, the. OIT will often purchase a limited amount of licenses for less popular software applications in order to control costs. "We have literally hun­dreds of applications," Crouch says. After the OIT purchases a specific amount of licenses, they install the software on cam­pus computers butlimitthenumberofpeople that can access the· application at any one time. "In general,. we can basically install 
•
•
•
•
•
• 
• 

•.• • • • • .• • • • • • • • I 
HANDS ON. The OIT owns licenses for hundreds of pieces 
of software for Windows, UNIX and 
Mac platforms. 
SCHOLASTIC 
7 
MAGAZINE 

•
•
• 
·• ~ Fighting ~ Pirates 
•
•





: I • 
n this arena of rapid information ex­
• 
change, opportunities exist to make easy 

• 
money by ignoring copyright laws and


•
• 
pirating software programs. AtNotreDame, 

• 
however, the OIT is taking steps to prevent


•
• 
such violations from occurring. 

• 
The OIT plays a particularly important role 


•

LET ME IN. When using university-owned programs, students are at the mercy of key _• in protecting Notre Dame from lawsuits be-servers, which limit the number of users based on the number of software licenses Notre 
• cause, under existing laws, a court may hold a 


Dame has. 


to run them simultaneously," Crouch says. 
The OIT makes use of a key server in order to control access to the software pro­grams. "This is an actual server on a Mac;•· Crouch explains. "When you run an appli­cation . . . the application queries the key server and asks permission to run." The key

i 
servertracks the number ofusers and deter­

Ii 
mines whether orhot the maximum number of users has been reached. If it has, the server denies access to the program and displays a message indicating that no more licenses are available for that program. 
While the OITusually obtains a suffi,cient number of licenses to satisfy user needs, people attempting to access certain pro­grams have experienced problems. Profes­
• • • • tions of each computer. This will allow the 

•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••rr 1 ·th ti 
,l . 
sor Daniel Myers makes use of a statistics program, StataQuest, inhis sociology class. Because the program only has 10 licenses available on the network, the 40 students enrolled in his course must purchase the software individually and run it from their own computer. "What's on the network isn't satisfactory for the class, so the_ stu­dents have to pay more money," Myers says. "It's not that expensive, so it's. not the endofthe world. Itwouldbeniceformeand for my students ifthey couldjustuse the one on the network.'' 


Andrea Wald, a junior in Myers' class, notes that the lack of licenses creates a hassle for students. "It'd be more conve­nient [to have it on the network],'' she says. In addition to the hassle and expense of buying additional software, students face an 
SCHOLASTIC
8 
MAGAZINE 
: university responsible for copyright viola­access problem with their upcoming final • tions even if the university does not actively project. "We can use Stata Quest 4.0 for our : engageinpirating software. Simply byfailing homework, but for our project we're sup-• to maintain proper controls over the software posed to use Stata Quest 5, which there are : on its network, a university may expose itself only 10 licenses for," Wald explains. Stu-• tocostlycourtbattles.Becauseofthisdanger, _ dents will have to consider this potential : the OIT carefully tracks the amount of users · access problem and schedule a longer • accessingcertainsoftwareprogramstoensure amount of time to finish the project. : that the university does not violate any copy-
Inorderto eliminate technological bottle-• right laws. "We are extremely proactive on necks, the OIT sometimes uses the key : this," explains Dan Brewer, lead retail con­server in a third type of licensing agree-• sultant at the OIT. ment. Under this arrangement, the OITpur-: To track software usage, the OIT plans to chases a certain number-of licenses from a • .finish installation ofa new tracking program vendor, but allows unlimited use of the !by the end of this semester. The program, product. With the key server, the OIT can • known as Systems Management Server, will track how frequently users access the soft-: : allow the OIT to '_'sniff out" all computers ware and adjust the number of licenses • attached to the Notre Dame network and de­
: termine the hardware and software configura­
• • • 0 to more accurate y morutor e so tware 
•on the network and correct possible problem accordingly. "We might negotiate to ·buy : situations. 200 licenses and then key the application to • Ultimately,however,theburdenrestslargely track usage," Crouch explains. "If we're : with the Notre Daine faculty, staff and stu­getting near the limit or suddenly there's a • dents to respect copyright laws. Under the spike in usage, we'll go back to the vendor : newCampusSoftwareProgram, NotreDame 
and say, 'We need to purchase X more • faculty,staffandstudentscanleasethousands licenses."' In the same way, if usage drops : of dollars ofsoft'w~e for a nominal fee. "For off, the OIT can scale back the number of • one year, you have a CD, and then in theory licenses and save money. : you come back to renew the lease each year," 
Although. problems do occur and users · • explains Tim Crouch, the manager oflnterac­sometimesfind themselvesunableto access --• tive Services at the OIT. Because each CD software applications, the OIT monitors us-: requires a signed agreement, the OIT has the age closely and attempts to eliminate recur~ • ability to track the software by reviewing ring license shortages quickly. "We've !purchase orders. Essentially, however, the adopted the attitude that we're here to serve • program places the responsibility to respect the Notre Dame community," Crouch says. : copyright laws with the user. "You pay the "Ifpeople are receiving denials regularly, I • tease and you're expected to pay another $10 want to stop that from happening-a zero-: to renew the le~e," explains Crouch. "It's an tolerance policy." Cl • honor code.'~ -Jim Pastore
• •• • APRIL 15, 1999 
•
• 


~WQ8fing ft 
Notte Dame takeg the lead among univergifieg in monitoring ifg manufactutetg,, uge ofgweatghopg 

BY JACKLYN KIEFER 


tudents, tourists and alumni all-see the tags: "Officially Licensed Prod­uct of the University ofNotre Dame," but few of them think about how these products are made. Recently there has been a campus-wide uproar over the possible involvement of the university's manufac­turers in sweatshops, resulting in ·Father Malloy's initiation of a campus task force and investigation ofthe issue. As part ofthe investigation, the university has hired an independent accounting firm, Price­waterhouse Coopers, to monitor a random sampling offacilities. Notre Dame has also joined the Fair Labor Association (FLA) 
code has become the model for other insti­tutions developing their own codes. It has recently been revised to prevent Notre Dame from purchasing products that were made under sweatshop conditions; violations of the code can result in the termination of contracts with licensees. 
Pricewaterhouse will enforce the code through its monitoring of manufacturers' facilities. Pricewaterhouse also does moni­toring for Disney, Nike and Reebok. This monitoring is no easy task, considering that the university has approximately 230 lic­ensees _and that each licensee may have multiple manufacturing sites. Notre Dame is the first university"to implement its own monitoring system. 
is to certify facilities around the world as "no-sweat facilities." Another positive fea­ture of this project is that once a factory is certified, it must submit to inspections peri­odically. This project is still in the develop­mental stages, but Hoye says, "As the pilot project ~atures and grows, we intend to continue to monitor and assess its progress." 
Most recently, Fr. Malloy has created a campus task force consisting of experts in a variety of fields ranging from theology t'o law. The student body is also represented by Micah Murphy, the student body president and Marybeth Graham, the graduate student union president. Champion and Adidas also have representatives on the task force. Bill Hoye, associate vice president and counsel 

" Motta D11me hll§ t11kan II la11dat§hip to/a 11mong collage§ 11nd univat§itia§ n11fio1111/ly in thi§ lltall not only by an11cting the fit§t collagi11ta coda, but 11/§0 by continuing to put§ua new 11nd cra11fiva wily§ to anh11nca ·enforcement of the coda.• 8ill lloya 
and is participating in the American Ap­parel Manufacturers Association pilot project. 
Bill Hoye, Notre Dame's spokesperson on the anti-sweatshop initiative, believes that Notre Dame is the only university par­ticipating in both the FLA and the pilot project. He also says it was the first college or university to adopt a Code ofConduct for its licensees. 
Recently the PSA held a teach-in on the sweatshop issue. Hoye spoke at the teach­in, saying, "Notre Dame has taken a leader­ship role among colleges and universities nationally in this area-not only by enact­ing the first collegiate code, but also by continuing to pursue new and creative ways to enhance enforcement of our code." This 
APRIL 15, 1999 

Notre Dame has also recently become a charter university member of the FLA, a monitoring extension of the Apparel Indus­try Partnership. The FLA has agreed to allow a university seat on its board. Univer­sity members will benefit from the association's independent monitoring sys­tem and will receive recognition when_they are in compliance: Approximately 26 col­leges and universities besides Notre Dame have joined the FLA, They include Harvard, Princeton, Yale, Dartmouth, Brown and Duke. 
Joining the American Apparel Manufac­turers Association (AAMA) pilot project is another step the university has made to curtail the use of sweatshops in the manu­facturing of its products. The project's goal in the office of general counsel chairs the force. Hoye says the task force will examine three major issues at the center ofthe sweat 0 shop issue: the living wage, public disclo­sure and collective bargaining. These are not the only issues that will be discussed, but they are the primary focuses. 
The first topic, the living wage, will prob­ably be the most complicated and difficult problem to resolve. Often, the living wage is defined as a wage sufficient to meet the needs ofa workerand possibly that worker's family, but international law does not have a specific and universally accepted defini­tion for living wage. There is no set amount for living wage, either, as it is different for each country oft~e world. For example, the living wage for China is $0.87 an hour while 
SCHOLASTIC 
9 
MAGAZINE 

the living wage for Haiti is $0.58 an hour. These discrepancies cause problems when organizations try to establish a living wage. Notre Dame's code requires its manufactur­ers to comply with a living wage, but most others' codes do not require it. However, research is being done by both the Univer­sity of Wisconsin and the U.S. Department of Labor on living wage, and the results are expected in the next six months. Hoye says that reference to this research should pro­vide "excellent guidance to our task force on this issue." Once the living wage is established, it will become much easier for the university to enforce its Code of Con­ductinvolving overseas manufacturing sites. 
Another hot topic is that ofpublic disclo­sure of manufacturing sites. Those who advocate disclosure assert that it will pres­sure licensees to comply with the codes of conduct by the threat ofpublic inspections. These inspections could be conducted by students, advocacy groups or.members of the public. Others, however, state that mak­ing thisinformation public would have little effect and would only replicate what is being established by the FLA. Another con­cern about public disclosure deals with the· safety of people who travel to the sites and demand access. Manufacturers are not re­quired by law to allow public entrance. 
Hoye says, "Currently, Notre Dame does not have in its possession the location ofthe factories where our licensed products are manufactured." However, the first steps have change in the cur­rent Notre Dame code regarding this matter. 
In addition, the task force will be asked to review the current Code of Conduct and to de­cide if it should be amended or left in its current state. Hoye says that he has no specific viewpoints as chair­person of the task force. He wants to go into the first meeting with an open mind, willing to cooperate, and he hopes that the rest ofthe task force will enter with the same open-mindedness. 

There is signifi­cant controversy among the Notre Dame community >­regarding the com-~ position of the task ~ force. Students at ~ ,.;if:, 
. ::; ·•. ·.. theProgressiveStu-CHECK THE LABEL. Notre.Dame has hired a private company to dent Alliance's make sure that no labor laws are being violated in production of teach-in said that apparel that bears its logo. 


been taken to obtain this information. The hiring of Pricewaterhouse Coopers will fa­cilitate a compilation of the sites where Notre Dame licensed products are made. Obviously, this information is necessary before any inspections can occur, so it is a top priority. 
The question of the right to organize is also a big issue. Notre Dame's current Code of Conduct does not require this right in the countries where its products are made. How­ever, Duke University does require it, as does the Apparel Industry Partnership (AIP). The task force will deliberate the merits ofrequir­ing this in Notre Dame's code as well. A problem arises in countries such as China where unionization is prohibited. In these countries, the AIP code states that licensees must take all actions to conform as fully as they can to the codes. Hoye says that it is quite possible that the task force will recommend a 
10 SCHOLASTIC 

MAGAZINE 
they believed there should be representa­tives from the International Student Union and possibly a representative from human rights organizations on the task force. They also voiced the opinion that the Adidas and Championrepresentatives would be biased on certain issues. One student suggested that perhaps these representatives should be used as informational reservoirs but not be permit­ted to vote on important issues. Hoye says that when the task force members meet for the first time they will discuss these concerns and possibly appoint new members. However, he adds that heis "very excited about the quality ofthe task force Fr. Malloy has appointed, and about the diverse range of knowledge exper­tise and experience the members of the task force will bring to this project." 
Both Murphy and Graham believe they can adequately express the views of the undergraduate and graduate student bodies. 
Most of the people speaking at the teach-in expressed approval of the task force's com­position. 
"The breadth of expertise on the task force is indicative of the complexity and diversity of the issues it will address," says Hoye. He hopes that as the task force re­views other codes and programs it will find new and innovative ways to enforce the anti-sweatshop initiative. Through the FLA, AAMC pilot project, Pricewaterhouse Coo­pers and especially the task force, Notre Dame hopes to continue to lead the way in anti-sweatshop initiatives. In the conclu­sion of his speech at the teach-in, Hoye stated, "Of course, no code of conduct or monitoring plan, however well crafted, will ever be a panacea, .. but we can and will do an even better job ofenforcing our code and monitoring compliance with it as a result of the efforts of the task force." D 
APRIL 15, 1999 

improve campus social space 
observes Olejnik. "My solution: gut out the tained perhaps by giving him an honoraryBY BETTINA JEROME interior of Walsh, and put in a disco/dance degree, would give the bar this come-in-sit­
0 ut with the old, and in with the place that would double as a restaurant. down-and-do-nothing feel that many stu­new. That seems to be the During the day and evenings from Sunday dents dream about. It would also clearly establishment's mantra lately. to Wednesday, it could serve food like a benefit the university by bringing in tourists 
And as far as wacky ideas for new social normal restaurant, but on Thursday, Friday during the non-football season. space go, the spirit of renewal seems to be and Saturday nights, it turns into the place to The Cheers plan has not yet been brought spreading to the students as well. be: an awesome dance club that is open until formally before the senate; however, the 
Our Lady gave us Reckers, where nightly­6:00 in the morning!" Walsh plan was proposed as a formal reso­exiled masses flock in search of space to be Walsh Hall offers a central location that lution at a March 31 senate meeting. The social, but one can't help wondering: would ·Reckers and the bookstore don't have, and "Resolution Calling for the Gutting ofWalsh "Cheers" icon and former Notre Dame stu­most other senators' ideas stress the impor­Hall and Turning it into Another Student dent George Wendt really want to go there? tance of· a central location for a possible Center" was presented on the grounds that 
Probably not, especially if he lived on center of student life. . there isn't enough fun social space on cam­North Quad. Others would choose not to evict the pus, and that the little that does exist is not 
Recently, a group ofsenators shared their residents of Walsh, but would instead opt centrally located. dreams about what Our Lady could do to for new construction. The resolution called for the dance club create a place where everybody truly knows "I ask that the university build an exact on the top floor, a food court on the main your name, and none of the people calling replica of the bar from. you by that name would be your dorm Cheers in the middle of security guard. South Quad," says Brian 
"It all started when some female friends O'Donoghue, senator and I were trying to decide where to go from Keough Hall. around two o'clock," explains sophomore "Where everybody knows Drew Olejnik, Knott Hall's former senator my name and they're al­and current president-elect. "Reckers was ways glad I came." just too far away." Such a venue would 
Many North Quad residents are quick to generate avery different point out that Reckers is not exactly conve­atmosphere than 'Club nient, even less so when it's 2:00 a.m. and Walsh.' It would appeal feels like it's two degrees out. They further to a more laid-back cli­note that the phrase "Hammes Notre Dame entele, including alumni Bookstore On the Campus" doesn't seem as and almost-alumni who true as it used to be. might prefer to sit and absorb their sur­was rejected," said Susan Gloss, senator from , Now, we have the glistening new Eck roundings instead of dancing till dawn. Pasquerilla West. "Itwasacrazyproposal, but Center, the Saint Peter's Basilica of book­O'Donoghue explains that a Notre Dame there was a little bit oftruth in it. I just hope that stores, and soon we '11 bid a fond farewell to Cheers would also afford more opportunity they will really work on the problem of the that centerpiece ofcampus, the "old" book­for promoting the campus. "I think that our lack of social space in the future." store. Some suggest that the old bookstore alumnus George Wendt, although he never For now, George Wendt will have to wait, isn't the only building that needs to go. graduated, would be happy for a small fee to and the current residents of Walsh Hall can 
"Some girls that lhave talked to in Walsh come and live in this bar to give it just the . sieep snugly in their beds, even if for just a have noted that it is not a great dorm," right atmosphere." Wendt's presence, ob-bit longer. D 
APRIL 15, 1999 SCHOLASTIC 
11 
MAGAZINE 





reener astures 


Questions abound as the university prepares to open a bigger, better 
golfcourse 
BY KERRY ROWE· 


ostcampus construction projects happen right under our noses. New dorms spring up right around classroom buildings, the construc­tion. of Main Building influences daily life for many Lewis Chicks, and many NBC viewers got to watch the renovations of Galvin, which is right next to the football stadium. 
However, even if you frequent the north side of campus, the location of the newest campus addi~ion -a championship golf course -may not have caught your atten­tio~. If you look past Stepan Center; to the intersection of Douglas and Juniper, you can see one comer of it. The golf course is bordered to the south by Douglas, to the east by Ironwood and to the west by Juniper. It is within walking distance, although many McGlinn golfers may disagree. The 18~ hole,'par-71 course will have a total of6,987 yards and a driving range. And, serving the -­needs of the golfers before and after their rounds, there will be a 6,000 square­footclubhouse that has the capacity for 80 people to enjoy a leisurely lunch be­fore returning to the greens. 
Although the bulk of the construction has been com­pleted, the new golf course is not scheduled to open un­

involves landscaping, including the 
overseeding ofthe course. During this pro­
cess, the course, which already has grass on 
it, will be seeded again so that the greens 
will be more lush than a normal lawn. "Alot 
ofthe definition ofthe course still has to be 
putin," says Brian Godfrey, director ofboth 
the current and future golfcourses. He men­
tioned projects such as planting trees, rede­
fining creeks and adding bunkers -jobs 
that in themselves can take several months. 
Students, faculty and the public will have 
access to the Warren Course when it opens. 
Although the prices have not yet been set, 
the directors are currently looking at the 
same type of pricirig policy in use on the 
current golf course, _Burke Memorial. · (At Burke Memo­rial, students receive a 50 percent dis­count off general admission while faculty and staff 

save 40 percent.) In this way, they hope to retain the student sector ofthe golfing popu­lation. The new golf course will also serve as the home field ofthe men's and women's varsity golf teams. Not only will they prac­tice and host matches there, but they will also have a special are_a of the course re­served for varsity practices. 
The golf teams are excited about their new home field. Tom Hanlon, assistant coach for both teams, says that having the new course will definitely be an advantage to the teams, which currently practice at Blackthome GolfCourse near the airport. The Warren course, which provides the same level ofdifficulty as Blackthome, will 
til September of this year, LONG BALL.-The Warren Course will offer 18 holes of championship golf. With water hazards in~luding two contingent on the weathe·r. lakes and a stream, the course is sure to be more challenging then the old course on the southwest corner of campus.
Most of the remaining work 

12 SCHOLASTIC APRIL 15, 1999 
MAGAZINE 


have the added benefit of being close to campus. 
Hanlon is happy that there will be spe­cial areas reserved at the Warren course for the teams so that they can spend as much time as needed to prepare for matches. Sophomore golf team member Patrick Schaffler agrees. He says, "It's an improvement over Blackthorne, which is a really hard course. The Notre Dame course is also going to be tough, but the holes are more fair." 
Schaffler says that that the team will be 
APRIL 15, 1999 
I 

OUT OF THE ROUGH. Soon students will have a new course professional enough for the most serious players, yet still affordable for the masses. 
r 
~ 

able to receive more help because the range for the team is right outside the coach's office. He thinks that this course is a great addition to the golf program, both to help the current team and also in recruiting. He believes that having a championship golf course near campus will be a big help in getting more golfers to come to Notre Dame. As for the current team, Schaffler says that this course is likely to "create more of a team unity." 
For those who do not feel like· donning hiking gear for the long trek over to the Warren course, the old Burke Memorial course will remain open. It will be used for such things as league play and physical education classes; and it will also continue to be open to students and the general pub­lic. 
There are advantages and disadvantages to each course. The main flaws of the old course are that it only has nine holes, and it is aging. The obvious advantage is its prox­imity to student dorms and its accessibility to students. However, the golfers who are more passionate about their sport will likely set out for the Warren course, even though it may be more expensive. Nicole Prospal, a Walsh Hall junior who is an avid golfer, says that even though the new course is much farther away than the old one, the new course is worth the length of the journey. She feels that the Warren course is "defi­nitely a good thing. The old golf course is getting very run down." 
"The old golf course is not very profes­sional," says Prospal. _"[The new course] will be better for the golf team and those students who actively pursue the sport." Of course, there are many golfers who play merely for leisure, whos_e needs are better served by the old golf course. The new golf course will give golfers the opportunity to become more active in the sport or to con­tinue playing at their current recreational level. 

Some question whether the new golf course reflects consideration ofpublic needs over student ones. Prospal, for one, doubts that the Warren course was created prima­rily for students. She believes it was built "primarily for the community, with latter thought to the students and alumni." Prospal cites the fact that the Warren course is actually quite a distance from campus, and the fact that it will be difficult to carry golf clubs all the way over to it. In spite of this, · she still plans on being there when it opens, clubs in tow. 
The accessibility of the course does seem to pose a problem to many students. And there is the fear that the new course could charge a higher rate that would prohibit students from being able to enjoy golf as a leisure sport. Of course, there is little doubt that it will be highly benefi­cial to the golf teams. When the course opens this September, students, alumni and community members alike will be able to come together in a challenging new setting t<:, do one thing that unites so 

many people: play golf.  0  
SCHOLASTIC  13  
MAGAZINE  


After months ofhibernation, students once again swarm the quads ofNotre Dame. That's right, 
. ' .
zt s tzme to ... 

Kie 

··ur S oes 
14 SCHOLASTIC 

MAGAZINE 
Photos by Mike McNary 

Among the many signs of spring are the outdoor couches. How could anyone expect the "couch boys" of Zahm Hall to handle school on a day like this? 
~ 
-~---------­



>­
0::: 
0 
1­
(/) 0::: 
w 
> 
0 
u 

Me 

Cast your vote for "Mis­terMeteor''onthe band's very own webpage: 
http://www.nd.edu/ ~bhipp/meteors.html 

Upcoming shows: 
PE Inferno at Stone­henge: tonight 
7:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. 
Nazz at Senior Bar: Friday, April 16 
7:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m. 
AnTostal outside of Reckers: Thursday, April 22 
5:30 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. 
·All Photos by Ben ·. Wojcikiewicz 
The Meteors have soared into the campus pop scene, with a unique sound that puts them in a galaxy of their own. Some other teenage heartthrob boy bands, such as the Backstreet Boys, 'N Sync and 98°, currently dominate the airwaves of U93, but the Meteors aren 'tjealous ofsuch commer­cial success. "We're not about the money," explains Matt "Of­ficer" Kloser, the Meteors' A &R man. "We're about the art, the music and, most of all, we're about the fans." The Meteors frequently play Thursday nights at Acoustic Cafe, and their fan base expands with each per­formance. Lead-vocalist Eric Robben, also known as"Hoey," explains what a great feeling he gets when fans approach him after a show: "Every once in a while people notice us and say something nice. That rules." Keyboardist and percussion controllerAndy"Ski"Ankowski adds, "The second best thing is . when people look at you and start laughing." "Well, people laughed at me before I was in the band," Hoey says. "But it was sort of an angry laughter before." "Right," Ski agrees. "Now it's more gentle and soothing." The Meteors refer to themselves as "grizzled vet­erans of the scene," but they're more commonly known as "the most crush-worthy band on campus," and these trading cards are proof of that claim. The only question is: Who's your favorite meteor? · Is it the irresistibly.charming Brian Hipp, whose vocal sty lings provide the band with their cosmic sound? Just remember, Hipp is off the market.,.. he proposed to his fiancee in Paris, under the· Eiffel Tower. What a studmuffin! Maybe you're more into the adorably pensive Ski, whose game show prowess earned him a spot on Wheel offorturie last spring.This English and Film, Television and Theatre major is destined for great things. When he's not behind the keyboards, which 
Zuaro 

the Meteors affectionately refer to as the_"Megavox," he enjoys making films. If you saw his work in this year's Student Film Festival, you'd have to agree­there's definitely a creative mind behind that Megavox! 
Or is sensitive, cuddly and dreamy Hoey the Me­teor who lights your fire? Maybe the way he shim­mies and shakes as he sings really turns you on. 
. fans, you'd better 
get started ifyou'relooking to work your way into Hoey's heart-come this fall, he's off to law school in St. Louis .. 
Or do the V anillil. Icey ·hand gestures of foxy guitarist Josh Gerloff really make your heart melt? Mr.Gerloffmayseeintobetheband's"straightman" on stage, but he is a bit more ofa wildman thailhe may seem. Hoey is quick to remµid us, "He actually has eight body piercings, all ofwhich are invisible to the human eye." 
Orperhaps you keep loo~gpast the band because you just can'_t escape the allure of that debonair Officer, but remember -you won't catch this cutie without his mirrored shades and cell phone, so you might have to work a little harder to get his attention. 
Still having trouble choosing your favorite Me­teor? Then check out the Essential Facts on the backs of these ea~y cut-out trading cards to make your decision. _ . 
·ND's most exciting new campus band 
16 SCHOLASTIC -. . APRIL 15, 1999 
MAGAZINE • · . . · 



TIP THE 0 I P P . OIPPER. l@ND.EDU 



C~JI\P{(s 

(.'tie.Y.­
<1.-··


. . .' : ·_.-. ''...; : .,. . ' 
\· ..
'\.< . _-. ~ .:·-· ~ ..··. :_··. ·· .. ;,// 




fl?a,ci 
With tears in his Irish eyes, the Gipp brings you the sad news that the column in the next Scholastic will be his last. Because of that, the Gipp is making one last impassioned plea for tips. He remembers how upset a few party poopers got last time he filled half his col­umn with an angry tirade, and he would hate to have to do that kind of thing again. So send in your tips, accolades, condemna­tions, love letters and anything else you think the whole campus might like to know about, and help make this particular Gipp' s farewell column one that we can all cherish for years to come. 
Two in Extra Large, Please 
When the Gipp hangs a framed copy of his final col­~ umn on his wall, ~e'U save a spac 
· next to it for th original version of the shirt from the Knott/ Walsh combined formal. The. shirts had a picture of a male athlete and a female cheer­leader, supposedly represent­ing the populations of the two 
· dorms. 

The problem is that a bunch of Walsh residents didn't like being represented by the strik­ingly large-chested pompom shaker. The design had to be sent back for the girl in the drawing to get a breast reduction, so that the Wild Women 
APRIL 15, 1999 
' 
could wear them without feeling wildly embarrassed. 
The Gipp feels their pain. Besides, a little truth in advertising is probably a good thing. The Gipp hopes that this -and the fact that, coincidentally, Stanford is going to stop calling its residents "Studs" -will set a precedent for other changes. Maybe now the basketball team can stop using the word "varsity." 
Wasn't There Quite a Bit of Overlap? 
The Gipp couldn't help but chuckle to himself when he heard that Outreach ND, the unofficial campus gay and lesbian group, was asked to reschedule its formal, held at an off-campus venue, after the Glee ~ Club asked to 
~ use the space ~~ on the same ....~ night. 
The building's management claimed 
that it was because the Glee Club has more members, and not because of some aversion to a room full of same-sex couples in tuxedos. Because after all, if that was the reason, would the Glee Club really be the best group to schedule as a replacement? 


This Is My Body 
It just wouldn't be right to let a column go by without another story about public nu­dity, and besides, the Gipp has to reward anyone who, like one tipper, e-mailed him at 5:12 on the morning of Good Friday. 

The guy couldn'_t wait until daybreak to relate the tale of his trip to do laundry in Badin at 4:00 a.m. He figured he'd be alone in the darkened laundry room, but was sur­prised to hear strange noises coming from behind the washing machines as he took his clothes out of the dryer. 
Sure enough, it was people having sex. They didn't seem to notice him, so he went about his business and slipped out of the room. The tipper notes that the couple is probably due for a bit of penance for their unorthodox celebration ofthe holy day. The Gipp has to agree, and thinks that while they're saying all those Hail Marys, they should slip in a prayer fora bed, a room with a lock and a sense of shame like that of everyone else around here. 

Oh, Okay. Just One More. 

Everyone except this next guy, that is. Sorin Hall notes report that one resident was in the infirmary for several days getting over a very personal affliction he picked up through some less-than-sanitary indulgences in South Bend. 
Between being fed penicillin or having ointment applied, orwhateverthey give you for that kind ofthing, he quickly discovered that his hospital bed afforded him a perfect view ofLewis Hall and, more significantly, any unsuspecting Lewis residents who left their shades open. 
Unfortunately for him, a nurse took away the binoculars he had his roommate smuggle in, but the Gipp is sure that by now the guy is hard at work contracting another disease that will get him back near that same win­dow. 
That's it for another column, folks.. The Gipp wants to wrap this one up by sending out congratulations to the winner ofa contest in Knott Hall to see who could bench press a 225-pound barbell the most times. All ofthe participants should be especially excited that, according to one of the Gipp's infamous anonymous sources, the winner's total was higher than the totals ofmany players on the football team. Wow. The Gipp is starting to wonder ifthat team is good at anything besides lowering expec­tations. Oh, and the Gipp also wants to point out that any rumors claiming that Outreach ND beat the Glee Club in the same contest are 
completely unsubstantiated.  0  
SCHOLASTIC  19  
MAGAZINE  



Dear Dan, · · 
•.THEREoSox NEED TH1s Guv 

A loyal Sox fan sells Brant Ust to the team 
BY PHIL SicusoIneed to write a letter to Boston Red Sox General Manager Dan Duquette about Brant U st. No diehard Red Sox fan could ever forgive himself if he allowed Notre Dame's junior shortstop to be overlooked by Boston on Major League Baseball's draft day. No doubt Ust would be an easy sell to any Big League franchise, but what could I say to make sure the Sox try to get him before some other club gobbles him up? I could probably start off by reminding them that in 1996 the Yankees tried to steal him right out of Washington's Eastlake High School ­taking him in the 11th round ofthe draft, and that luckily he decided to come to Notre Dame instead. Or maybe I could mention how in his first year he led all Big East freshmen in batting (.372), home runs (11), RBIs (54) and runs scored (66), while start­ing all 60 games and being only the third Irish player in history named to Baseball America's first team Freshman All-America squad. Surely we can't let the Yankees get this guy, Dan. Isn 'tRoger Clemens enough? When Ust first arrived on campus, head baseball coach Paul Mainieri already knew he had something special. "Brant came here as an outstanding baseball player," remem­bers Mainieri, "and in the last three years he has undergone a tremendous maturing. He's taking pride in every aspect ofhis game, and that's what you need to do to get ready for the pros." Did you hear that, Dan? He's a well­rounded ball player. Can you see him spinning double plays with Nomar Garciaparra yet? How about if I men­tioned that in his college career, Brant has had extensive experience at three infield positions: second base, short­stop and third base. Going into last 
20 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
weekend's series with Pittsburgh, Ust led the team in assists with 82, and had accumu­lated a .917 fielding percentage in his 121 season chances from shortstop. Better yet, defense isn't even considered his strong point-it's his bat. 
After 30 games, Ust led the Irish in six offensive catego­ries: runs scored (32), hits (45), RBIs (39), homeruns (14), total bases (96) and walks (18). In three other categories Ust trails only senior Jeff Wagner, who has missed much of the season due to a foot injury. In these categories -batting av­erage, slugging percent­age and on-base per­centage -Brant stood at .398, .850 and .481 respectively (again, after30games).Fol­lowing Sunday's victory over Pitts­burgh, Ust's ca­reer average in Big East regular season games is 


~1i1~1 
an amazing .429, .••·
~ 
~-_i,, 
(
just short of the ',, 
record (.432) set If" ,'., by Marteese 
"'' "l!-i 
Robinson 
really allowed me to improve my 
overall approach to the game ofbaseball." -Brant Ust 

(Seton Hall, 1985-1987). Much ofUst's hitting prowess can be attributed to his wrist strength and good hand-eye coordination, but his power is simply extraordinary for a 
middle infielder. Ust entered the '99 season with 29 career homeruns and currently stands at 43, just five behind Wagner, Notre 
Dame's all-time leader. Give Brant another year and he might shatter that record. Still, when asked about his home-run prowess, ·Ust claims not to think much about hitting the long ball, and says he is un­
aware of where he stands in terms ofthe Notre Dame or Big East record books. 
Pay attention, Dan, this is a kid who puts up numbers comparable to Mo Vaughn's during his days at Seton Hall, but doesn't feelthe need to swing for the fences every time he's up to bat 
(nor does he weigh 300 pounds). 
"Brant has been our big bopper this season," says Mainieri, re­calling Ust's recent homerun surge. "He really carried the team on his shoulders while Wagner was out." Such per­formances make Ust a serious contender for this season's player of the year award. He · closed out last season by joining Mo Vaughn ('88) and UConn's Ja­son Grabowski ('96) as the third sophomore ever to be named Big East player of the year. In addition, Base­ball America and the American Base­ball Coaches Association voted Ust a third-team All-America player at 
APRIL 15, 1999 
the end of his sophomore cam­paign. 
Ust cites the importance his fam­ily places on a good undergraduate degree and his desire to enjoy the college experience as reasons for attending Notre Dame, and at­tributes much of his improvement as a ballplayer to his decision not to enter the professional ranks right out of high school. "College ball has really allowed me to improve my overall approach to the game of baseball," says Ust. "Things like getting ready to play a game, deal­ing with failures and learning to live with the ups and downs of a long season." 
And Dan -there's more. 
College baseball has also opened the door to some memorable sum­mertime experiences for Ust. In the summerof '97, both U st and Wagner helped lead the Harwich Mariners of the wooden-bat Cape Cod League to a first-place finish. Keep in mind that this is the same league that helped produce such Major League superstars as Frank Thomas, Albert Belle, Mo Vaughn and JeffBagwell. Though hitting with wooden bats was a challenge for Ust, he credits the Cape League as being the place where he learned the most about keeping an even keel during the inevitable highs and lows that ev­ery ballplayer has to experience. 
The summer of '98 saw Ust cho­sen as the only player from a midwestern or northeastern school to play on the USA baseball team. Team USA went on. to compile a 32-10 record, including an eighth­place finish in the World Champi­

onship competition held in Palermo, Sicily. Ust was the USA's third leading hitter, batting .378 (34 for 90) with guide," he recalls. important decision this summer: stay at Notre 20 RBIs, 10 doubles, three triples and 10 Coming into the '99 season; Ust was Dame for his final season of eligibility, or walks. "That was an experience that I'll listed as the nation's #38 college prospect go to the pros and begin working his way up• never forget," Ust says about Team USA. by Baseball America. "Brant will be drafted through the minor leagues. "It was great to have the opportunity to pretty high this year," predicts Mainieri, At this point, U st chooses not to speculate reJJresent my country, playing the game that and though pro ball will no doubt be a about his future. Right now, his priority is I love, and to compete against some of the tremendous challenge, he is confident that winning baseball games at Notre Dame. He best players in the world." Brant also re­Ust's talent and work ethic will make him a plans on playing out the rest of the season members how interested the other members success at the next level. before he starts thinking about next year. of his team were in the Fighting Irish. "The Ifall this isn'tenough to convince the Red Though Brant will be sorely missed if he guys were all intrigued with Notre Dame. Sox that they need Brant Ust in their orga­decides to leave Notre Dame a year early, They were always asking me questions about nization, then maybe they don't deserve the prospect of him going deep at Fenway football weekends and the campus and things him.at all. No matter which team is lucky Park is almost too much for this Red Sox fan like that. At times I felt like a traveling tour enough to get him, Ust will be facing an to let slip away. D 
APRIL 15, 1999 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 



i 
ii 
'; 
'I 
I I 
I! 
! i 
I. 
I 


Once a club sport, women's crew is now 
BY LEAH ASHE 

ractice like a champion today 
-Be a champion in May." 
For the 62 athletes on the women's crew team, these words are not merely a slogan or a catchy takeoff on the Notre Dame tradition. Rather, the saying that adorns several signs in the locker room reflects the new attitude that surrounds the program as it shifts from a club to a varsity sport this year. 

In its first varsity season at Notre Dame, women's crew has begun to make the tran­sition with a more intense practice sched­ule, a new emphasis on weight training and high performance expectations. The "Prac­tice like a champion" sign hangs in the doorway of the team locker room, located, with all the rest of the varsity programs, in the Joyce Center. The blue lockers -each proudly bearing a magnetic strip with a member's last name-are reminders ofthe benefits that. accompany the team's new varsity status. Perhaps it's tangible perks like these that constitute the most glaring difference from the team's previous sea­sons as a club sport. 
With little university support, previous years' crews funded a large portion oftheir own operating budget, paying high dues to meet the costs of race entries, equipment, coaches and training trips. They practiced and raced in older, heavier boats wearing clothing they purchased for themselves. They found their own coaches -often just a graduate student who had rowing experi­ence -and practiced whenever coaches and athletes could find a time they were both available. 
Now, as the beneficiary of Athletic De-. partment funding, women's crew has six new boats, as well as Notre Dame practice and racing gear aviµlable for its use. The university provides for most ofthe training, race entry and travel expenses, easing a 
22 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 


making waves as a varsity sport 
major burden previously laid on the rowers. Under the guidance ofNotre Dame strength and conditioning advisors, the team has been able to add weight training to its prac­tice regimen -an element that has made a big difference in the team's caliber. 
"Everyone is a lot stronger now that we've started weight training, and that's helped us pull harder in the boats," says Ginny Wilbert, a senior on the team. 
Varsity status has also enabled the hiring ofa top-notch, three-member coaching staff. Head Coach Martin Stone is a 1989 gradu­ate of Santa Rosa College, where he was named Most Valuable Oarsman three times. Prior to coming to Notre Dame, he coached at the U.S. Naval Academy, leading that team to a Division II national championship in 1994. Joining Stone is Assistant/Novice Coach Kerry O'Keefe, a four-year rower and captain of the Ohio State University Crew Club and former assistant coach at perennial powerhouses Ohio State and Yale 
-University. Kevin Luecke, a former light­weight rower and coxswain at Northwest­ern University, rounds out the coaching staff. While the differences in the administra­tion and organization ofthe club and varsity programs have been significant, the vast improvement in the quality of the team has been nothing less than remarkable. Thanks to a more intense practice routine, the addi­tion of strength training and the leadership ofprofessional coaches, women's crew has begun to make an impression in its first year of varsity competition. The fall rowing season features longer­distance "head" races -the "cross-coun­try" of crew seasons, if you will. Races are typically about four or five kilometers in distance and last between 14 and 18 min­utes. This fall, the Lightweight Eight earned a first-place finish at the Head of the Rock as well as a second-place finish at the Head of 
the Eagle, while the First Varsity Eight finished first at the Head of the Eagle. The First and Second Nov­ice Eights each fin­ished fourth .in their races at the Head of the Elk. 
During the win­ter months, the crew team trains indoors on the row­ing machines lo­cated in Loftus Athletic Center. In February, ·rowers participated in the Indiana Indoor Championships, a . 2,000-meter indi­


vidual-based race against other schools on the rowing ma­chines. Senior Katie Fox finished second in the Varsity Open Weight category with a time of7 minutes and 16 seconds. In novice competition, freshman Michelle Olsgard finished first in the Open Weight category with a time of7:22, while freshman Erin Dowd won the Lightweight division, finish­ing in 7:47. 
This spring, the crews will compete in "sprints"-2,000-meter races which nor­mally take between six and eight minutes. After spending their spring breaks training in Oak Ridge, Tenn., the crews finished well in their first race of the season. In the spring break race, both the first and second novice boats won their divisions, beating a traditionally strong Wisconsin program, The Varsity Four placed second, and the First, Second and Lightweight Varsity Eights fin­ished third. On March 27, the first Novice Eight again placed first in its race, beating teams from Michigan State and Creighton 
APRIL 15, 1999 


University. The Varsity Lightweight Eight also captured a first place finish. 
On April 17, the team will continue its season, traveling to Columbus, Ohio, to face Ohio State and Michigan. The next weekend it will travel to Washington, D.C., to c_ompete against Navy, M.I.T. and a host of Big East schools. 

The Midwest Championships in Madi­son, Wis., follows on May 1 and 2. Notre -­Dame will face a substantial challenge as a first-year varsity program competing against· a number of strong programs. The Univer­sity of Wisconsin traditionally fields the best teams in the midwest, while Michigan, Michigan State and Ohio State also have very good crews this year, according to Stone. When the team travels to the East Coast, it will compete against teams like Syracuse, Rutgers, Georgetown, Navy and 
M.I.T., all of whose programs have been 
established for several decades. Even with such experienced competition, 
APRIL 15, 1999 
Notre Dame women's crew has its sight set on excellence. Stone has made representing the University ofNotre Dame a top priority for his team. "First and foremost, I want our team to be good ambassadors for the univer­sity. We can't always control how we race, but we do have control over how we present ourselves," he said. 
Stone also wants to be sure that Notre Dame is ahead of other first-year programs in its racing, and, of course, he'd like to knock off a few of the established teams as well. Looking at the Midwestern Champi­onships as the race that matters most, women's crew has some high expectations for themselves. Stone says he would like the varsity crews to finish within the top six teams at Midwestems, and he expects the Lightweights and Novice crews to finish within the top three in their divisions. 
"In rowing, the novice squad is like a dexelopmental squad for the varsity pro­gram. Since there is not much high school rowing, we rely on last year's novices to come in and make a direct impact each year on the varsity team," he explained. In fact, the majority of the rowing team will prob­ably always be made of people who never 

rowed before coming to Notre Dame. "Most 
of the individuals on our team come to Notre Dame because they want to come to Notre Dame. They join the rowing team because it is a chance for kids who were good athletes inhigh school to represent the university in athletics." While anyone has a chance to make the team, Stone says that he often sees former distance runners, swim­
mers, and basketball and volleyball players 
making the transition to rowing. 
In its inaugural year, women's crew has taken its first steps toward building a suc­cessful program. When its golden oars hit the water at the Midwestern Champion­ships in May, Notre Dame.will have its best indication yet of how its newest varsity athletes stand among champions. D 
SCHOLASTIC 23 
MAGAZINE 




SPLINTERS 
FROM THE PRESSBOX 
Edited by Christopher Hamilton 
Men's Tennis • 1999 Record 13-7 
Streaking: Senior captain Brian Patterson has claimed victory in 11 straight singles matches. Prime Time Performer: Junior RyanSachire, who is 19-3 in dual matches this year, solidified his No. 2 ranking with a 6­2, 6-1 win over Ball State's Juan Fernandez last weekend. Did You Know? On April 5th, the Irish rallied fro~ a 3-0 deficit to upend Purdue 4-3. · On the Horizon: With the regular season complete, the Irish travel to Miami, Fla., for the Big East Championships next Thursday. 
Baseball • 1999 Record 25-8 Streaking: After getting off to a slow start, the Irish have won 21 of their last 23 contests. 
Prime Time Performer: Last Sunday, Alec Porzel hit a homerun in the bottom of the ninth to catapult Notre Dame over Pittsburgh, 9-8. Did You Know? The Irish tallied their 11th comeback victory of the season with their 9-8 win over the Panthers. On the Horizon: Notre Dame plays host to Valparaiso today at 5:05 pm. 
Women's Tennis• 1999 Record 18-6 Streaking: 15th-ranked Notre Dame has won its last six matches. Prime Time Performer: Senior Marisa Velasco bested 38th­ranked Carolijn van Rossum 6-2, 6-3, to guide the Irish to a 5-4 victory over William & Mary last weekend. Did You Know? Notre Dame ends the regular _season home schedule with a 10-1 ledger. On the Horizon: The Irish travel to Indiana today for a 3 
p.m. match-up with the Hoosiers. 


Irish Eyes On 

·Softball • 1999 Record 27-15 
Streaking: Notre Dame is a perfect 6-0 in conference play. Prime Time Performer: Pitchers Jennifer Sharron and Angela Bessolo both notched shutout victories during the doubleheader versus Villanova lai;t Monday. Did You Know? Kris McCleary and Melanie Alkire hit back­
. to-back homeruns for the second time this season in Notre Dame's 4-0 triumph over Villanova. _ On the.Horizon: The Irish host Boston College this Saturday in a doubleheader that begins at 11 :00 a.m. 
IirLou We.Trust> ,,,;:,, • _ .., -... 
}'.'Biggest problem? Well,thitt'-s difficult..We'v~_ge>t so_in,~ny problemst~an1fe~eifsay· grace'over:theni ali:·Offeiisive lin~. :·. 
;·pin*iijgbick:s; recefrers; qu~terb~c;ks, \\'_oµlcl,be'if gpC>d.:p1ac¢tostart~.we COllld not get o4_,boardNoah'5./\rk_r!g'1tilov/; ·, ­
--hecaui;e _we do not have two.ofailything;''. _-. ·<<. ·:\:'' < >< , ... . . . .. .. . . 
<~ replied $_outh C:tz,,oltiza _h~ad iq~~hliiu Holti; :whe1{qsk<!d w.~at,asp~cts ofhis (Janiecock team neeµecfthi mosi he_lp, 

't~Sfu::~Iitif1~~~·f:~t!l;~~i:~i~:~d:~2:i~itz}Jt~\tiit~f
-, kimckµlg th~ Mets e>tit of theE~st' stop spot. The Mets'do not' regain first place iiith~fr'divi~1ori untilearly ju~e; tjghfafte_tthef ~We¢p, :: ..' Wo~~ri 's µacross~. has orie Qfits in..p_si suc~essful h9ine ·weeken'ds' sine:~' its,firstyiar of:cprilpeti.tidri • tlitelyeiii-i ~go: In th~irJi.fst,, _.· 

.:. . .. ~. 

24 SCHOLASTIC . APRIL 15, 1999 
MAGAZINE 


m 
z 
--i 
m 
:;;;o 
z. 
~ 
m 
z 
--i 
APRIL 15, 1999 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 




Humor Artists GetSmurfed 
As Hesburgh auditorium morphs into the Smu1fVillage, 
look out for Gargamel 
An eerie a cappella rendition of the. Smurfs' theme song will rise in the darkness, only to be interrupted by a bone-chilling scream. The lights will reveal a stage crowded with horrified Humor Art­ists, all covered in blue, thanks to some poster paint left over from football season. What happens next is anybody's guess. On Friday, April 23, at 7:00 p.m., the campus comedy troupe, the Humor Artists, will take over the Hes burgh Library audito­rium to perform an improvisational murder mystery entitled "Papa Smurf Wore Red." According to King of HA!, Andrew McDonnell, "It's the most fun you'll ever have at the library, unless you're streaking with a pizza in your hand. And it's free." The performance includes and modifies all the old favor­
ite Smurfs, along 

" It' S frightening as. hell if nobody laughs.
with a few new Smurfy creations. Jokey is a bad 

Lord help u.s all:' 
comic, Hefty is on steroids, Brainy plays the 


-Andrew 
detective, and Vanity is, ac­


McDonnell

cording to HA! Treasurer Mike Boreale, "the best beauti­cian in all ofSmurf Village." Kevin Lavelle, who is to play Grandpa Smurf, describes his character as "senile and a little crazy and vulgar." Smurfling Sasette will be portrayed as a feminist, while Smurfette will be work­ing the streets of Smurf City. Newly in-· vented Smurfs will include Mama, Prophet, King and Capitalist. Clockwork will be re-· named "Microsmurf '98." · 
All that's left ofPapa Smurf is his charred remains, which is the cause.of all the com­motion. As it turns out, none of the other Smurfs liked him anyway.. King Smurf 
26 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

summed it up in a rehearsal when he re­marked, in his stuffy British accent, "Papa was a blue turd." 
Since "Papa Smurf Wore Red" is an improv show, much rehearsaltime is spent focusing on character development. Sce­narios, such as an interview and a dinner scene, are set up beforehand, but the charac­ters are the key to the action and dialogue transpires on stage the night of the show. 
Ofcourse, the spontaneity ofimprov does have its drawbacks. Anything could happen in the final performance, so one of the challenges the Humor Artists face is to refrain from laughing at unrehearsed mo­ments. Former HA! president Denis Hurley says, "You can't be like, 'Ha ha, that's funny.' You've got to stay in character." 
society of men under red father and it's totally misogynist," explains Hurley. "The one female character was created by Gargamel and was brunette and evil until Papa Smurf made her good and Aryan with his magic potion." 
Will this intriguing theory be proven dur­ing the performance-of "Papa Smurf Wore Red"? Will Smurfette ever settle down? Will Grandpa Smurf ever eat enough prunes to cure his irregularity? The only way to find out is to go to the show. Audience partici­pate is essential for this performance. "We lose the audience, we lose ourselves," wailed Jokey during a recent rehearsal. 
And to this King Smurf sardonically re­plied, "But Jokey, we've already been can­celed." 0 
And since there isn't a script, improv actors have little to rely on ifthe audi­ence isn't responding. "It's frightening as hell if nobody laughs,"says Mc­Donnell. "Lord help us all." 
The Humor Artists hope this upcoming per­formance will address the issues of gender politics and communism within the Smurf Village, "It's a 


1 

J ,r~ ""~ r ~ ,-r ~ 
Whether they' re legal or not, MP3 s are making a big impact on the music scene 
BY HEATHER HOGANDozens ofcouples fill the dance floor as the crooning of The Backstreet Boys fills the stale humid air. A few girls exit the dance floor in search ofthe DJ to request Will Smith's "Miami" for the third time.· Before the DJ can be found, "Zoot Suit Riot" blares through the speak­ers, and the dance floor becomes a mess of arms and legs flying in the air as girls are twirled and thrown by their partners. Sur­prisingly, the DJ still has not been found, nor has his stereo equipment. Where is the music coming from? Following the cords from the ·1arge speakers in the back of the room, a computer downloaded with enough MP3s to last tJ;ie entire night is hard at work. With the way new music trends and styles change today, it is no wonder th~t millions of dollars are spent on cassette tapes and compact discs each day. Itis also no surprise that people of all generations and social classes are looking for new ways to acquire more music without the added cost. MP3s, files· which can store compressed versions ofnearly any song on computers, have solved this ·dilemma for many people, allowing them to access the latest music hits through 


_____.,,.., .. '•'· .. ' ' ' ' -~, 
------------~----­

..~ ~ Q) ,_.,,.,.:~r--·· ·_::;;:··ti<".· .< ::::•: .-. . . · . -~, 
{::~~-c •.. 1: -': to• ...."•.. • ..... _,;,,, ,· · ~;~; 
t .: ·l~ . . . . -.--· . . .,-­~~tl.L.;.J:ili;JLt'z'l..~SJ:J.lil~" 
little loss ofquality. The sound quality ofan MP3 is very similar to that of a CD. A CD­ROM holds 200 songs, the equivalent of 20 compact discs. 
MP3s have been available on the Internet for about four years now, but the software needed to play them has just become avail­able offofthe Internet in the last two years. For an individual to play·an MP3, one must first download a player to the computer's hard drive. WinAmp is the most common player for PCs, while MacAmp is the most popular for Macintoshes. There are a num­ber of choices of players, and many MP3 sites provide direct access to players on their pages. MediaPlay and RealPlayer are two common players offered through MP3 list sites. Once a player is installed, one needs only to choose and download the songs from the hundred of MP3 lists avail­able to web surfers. Loading the song into the player is the final step before the party can begin. This will only work in computers with sound cards and speakers. 
With steps so simple and such easy ac­cess, the popularity ofMP3s is no mystery. Literally thousands ofCDs are available.on the Internet free ofcharge. With the help of encoders and rippers, it is possible to down-one of many MP3 sites, devotes a small portion oftheir page to explaining the preiper uses of this phenomenon. MP3s are legal if they are used for educational use, primarily for the study ofmusic, and for personal use such as listening or playing on a separate player. All other uses of MP3s are illegal, such as encoding MP3s from CD and trad­ing them without permission from the copy­right holder, distributing MP3 songs for commercial use and playing them foralarge group of people for formal occasions. Like all issues of the law, there are several rela­tive terms used regarding this acceptable use policy. What one person may deem "personal use" may not be so to another, or to a court oflaw for that matter. What makes an occasion formal? If 200 of your closest friends "just happen" to· show up around 

9:00 after you have just downloaded 80 MP3s to your hard drive, does that consti­. ttite a party? As far as the law is concerned, MP3s are legal as long as the song's copy­right holder has granted permission for the song to be used as an MP3. It is also legal to make copies of the available CDs for per­sonal use. The law only prohibits selling · them to other individuals and flagrantly making profit from another person's work 
without permission. 
While Notre Dame would never support 

any illegal activity, downloading MP3s is 
acceptable in the clusters on campus. Laura 
Gekeler, Information Technology Archi­
tect for OIT, states that the acceptable use 
policy "does not specifically mention MP3 
or any other media." She adds, "The clusters 
are a public computing space. As such, 
anything an individual user copies to the 
· hard drive will be deleted. It is possible to download or copy MP3s, wave files, movie files and so forth." OIT does have policies regarding good customer service, so if down­loading interferes with other students' work 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

-----~-------~­
m 
z 
m 
iC 
z. 
~ 
m 
z 

the Internet for free; While MP3s are de­
signed to promote musical artists and their 

work while reaching a larger percentage of· 
the population, it is not impossible to ac-­
quire an entire CD of new music from an 
artist at no charge from one ofthese sites. 
MP3 is a file format for audio files that actually compresses a music file to make it smaller on a computer. One megabyte usu­ally stores one minute ofmusic, and there is 
APRIL 15, 1999 


=IBill JKuiller 
load those dusty CDs on the back of the bookshelf into MP3s. It is even possible to create your own variety disc ofyour favorite songs by burning a CD. · 
Italmost seems too good to be true. There 

· is, however, one major flaw with MP3s, and that is legality. Although the line between legal and illegal is fuzzy regarding this subject, there are a number of known uses for MP3s that are illegal. Multi Audio, only 
--~~~ ­


(such as taking too much space or time), changes will need to be made. "Campus clusters' main purpose is to support Notre Dame's educational mission," adds Gekeler. 
The Recording Industry Association of America has taken steps in the past year to prevent the abuse of MP3s. The RIAA has already used court action to stop three MP3 sites from posting songs on their sites that they did not have copyright permission to post. While no one wants to see MP3s discontinued, there is talk of changing the format ofMP3s, including no longer allow­ing access to complete songs, only 30 to 45 seconds of play time. This would limit the use of MP3s to the original purpose they were created for -enticing the audience. 
MP3s have been a huge hit on the social scene at Notre Dame as well. 
Tapping into the Network Neighborhood on any PC connected to Ethernet, one can find a list of shared files from other Notre Dame students on the system. It is possible to look up a friend, click on his or her MP3 file, and find hundreds of songs loaded on his or her computer. Through this method, one can choose to play a selected song from his or her computer or download the song to one's own computer and play it from there. The latter method is suggested because play­ing MP3s from another person's computer can slow it down, and ifenough people start playing songs from the same computer at one time, the computer could crash. To guard against this, Stacie Rupiper, a junior in Howard Hall, sug­
There is no problem 
with making your mu­sic selections available to other users. It only affects your computer when they decide to use your computer to play it rather than downloading the song to their own com­puter." 
Otheruses ofMP3s have also occurred on campus, although they in place of a DJ at their "White Wedding" SYR in February was far more cost-effi­cient than hiring a DJ for the night. The Hall Council opted to spend more money on decorations, food and a karaoke machine for the evening of nuptials. DJ equipment was rented with the idea that another student would perform as DJ; however, lacking CDs, it was clear other alternatives needed to be considered. According to 1998-1999 Keough Hall President and current Student Body President Micah Murphy, "The music for the dance ran smoothly. MP3s of­


" (N1P3s)
fered a good selec­
•
tion ofmusic for the 

the use of a stereo in 
evening and were 

quick to load and n1y room." 
play. The only is­sue to resolve was 


-Patrick Schlehuber 
the legality of the event." 
Bill Kuder, a junior in Zahm Hall, has been hosting parties in his room with the use ofMP3s all year. Taking care not to damage his computer, he has it set up so that the computer is in one room, and the speakers are stretched into the "party room." While it has never been uncommon to walk into a dorm party and find the computer covered in garbage bags to save it from beer, party planning has now gone to a new level. Kuder has had such success with MP3s that he confidently claims, "I will never buy a CD again." 
use of a stereo in my room. I can get what­ever song I want to hear off of the Internet and listen to it whenever I want." This is a convenience many students ha\;e found as a means ofspace management in dorm rooms and in adding variety to music collections. 
How will MP3s affect the demand for DJs in the future? Considering the fact that MP3s played in this manner are illegal, DJs may still be nee_ded when the millenium finally hits. However, the way DJs conduct their business may be changing. If a DJ were to invest in MP3s, storage space and time between songs would be minimal. Also, the 
amount ofequipment needed 

gests "placing a pass­
for a gig would be signifi­word on shared fold­cantly reduced. While com­ers to prevent un­puters used to catalog music wanted users from ac­have become standard equip­cessing your song list ment for many DJs, playing and playing them off MP3s at large social func­of your computer. 
-;:===============~. tions is not going to be openly 
By clicking •Accept• you agree to the teO!.S or the Mac?imp unsupported public :beta previev. otated bolov. 
• 'lhi:1 is an tnlSUPPOR'IED beta version. It -.ems that 9sott i:, unable to provide technical support tor the application. Don't e-aail us the J::>ug reports, suggestions, and so on. 'l.bere is MacM.p Forwa section ot our vebsite tor that (see the included bookm.arks). 
¦ Thi:; is a BETA version or the sottnre. It aeans that 
~~~~~~~~;;~::rtva~sr~~1:t1~~eYou .. 
should underStan4 that you are proceeding at your OIIJ1 
README. When MacAmp and WinAmp are installed, they warn the user about 
haven't been as legal. 

legal and illegal uses of MP3s. The software to play MP3s, however, is freely Keough Hall recently· available. 
found that using MP3s 
28 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

Jake Trigo, a junior in O'Neill, has simi­lar feelings regarding MP3s. "I don't buy as many CDs as I once did several years ago," he says. 
How have MP3s affected record sales among the artists? While there has been no significant loss of sales in records, it is obvious that fewer people are buying ready­made CDs when they can be made from one's own computer of the same quality. Patrick Schlehuber, a senior in Zahm Hall, claims that MP3s "have replaced the 

have replaced 
admitted to unless it some­how becomes legal. 
MP3 sites have opened up a world of opportunity for both artists and audiences. While MP3s were origin~lly 
created to stir up more inter-e~t among a larger audience and promote the work of art­ists, many. other uses have been found for them. Though legality may always be an issue surrounding the use of MP3s, they are something that will be around for a long, long time in some shape or form. D 
APRIL 15, 1999 



Life is a Highway 
Divine inspiration fiom the true artists ofour time 
BY MARK STYCZYNSKI piphanies are great. Really, they are.
E
Just look back at history and you see 

that many great things happened be­cause oftimely epiphanies: Paul's epiphany helped spur the growth of Christianity; Newton's apple led to the ultimate form of torture, college-level physics as we know it today; and Jack Tripper's realization that it all really was just a misunderstand­ing brought an end to the tension and suspense of almost any Three's Company episode. 
Oddly enough, though, my most recent epiphany did not occur like most great ones. To begin with, it wasn't in the bathroom stall, which was very bizarre. Instead, it struck me while I was sitting at my com­puter. I was fooling around with my MP3s -er, I mean, doing my work -when something dawned on me. · 
No, not that the university might be moni­toring all of our actions on the Internet with a diabolical master plan of someday send­ing e-mail to certain (probably almost all) males telling them that if they don't stop looking at pornography, they will be brought before ResLife. 

No, not that this year's graduating class is getting the short end of the stick in terms of commencement speakers. I mean, how can she compete with the executive assistant of the public relations liaison ofthe assistant to the 10th most powerful man in Indiana? 
No, those were all past epiphanies, scrawled on the walls of the stalls. This was a truly powerful revelation. I had uncovered the ultimate philosophy and the answers to all of the unanswerable questions of civili­zation. I had discovered that the secrets of life are all kept in one holy place: early '90s music. 
I'm serious. (OK, maybe not really seri­ous, but go with it.) If you look at the lyrics of those great times, you can see so many allegorical and symbolic references that explain life. I know of one song that com­pletely tells life's secrets: Tom Cochrane's "Life is a Highway." Look at the beauty of its words: 
Life is a highway. 
Those are truly powerful words. One can almost feel the allegorical undertones drip­ping off of it like grease from South Dining Hall's onion rings. Life at Notre Dame really is a highway. 
Start off by taking a look at yourself. You're the driver of your own car, able to steer wherever you want, but you just have to face the consequences (e.g. by calling a friend to tow· you home when you put too much "gas" in your car at Casino Night). 
There are real-life analogues of the other drivers on the road, like those drivers who are always driving right up your tailpipe and get you so mad that you just hit the brakes so that they go flying up your ... trunk. 

But there are other deep songs, too. You must know this one: 
Jee, ice baby. VANILLA. Ice, ice baby. 

Now, that's deep. How does that one wise man know the deepest, most personal feel­ings of so many people? He knows how it feels to be so cold and alone -like ice ­and yet still as fragile and scared as a baby. He knows how it is to be so plain, so vanilla, in a world of Rocky Road and mint choco­late chip. The juxtaposition of those emo­tions, in such smooth and common syntax -well, it's just breathtaking. 
Finally, I would like to present to you the most prophetic statement ever uttered by a group offine young musicians. I can'timag­ine a single phrase that more aptly sums up all of the strife, all of the pressure, all of the things that give us a life worth living. They might have been new kids on the philo­sophical block at the time, but their words still hold true today: 
Oh-oh 0-0-0. The right stuff 

In the words of a famous philosopher: "'Nuff said." 
Wow. Who knew that Tom Cochrane and New Kids on the Block were such geniuses? Their aura of brilliance is unbelievable. They speak to the hearts and minds of all people, young and old. There are so many great philosophical songs from the early '90s that it is a shame I have to limit my ramblings to just these fabulous artists. 
Does anybody like the Proclaimers? D 

~ 
m 
m 
7\ 
z 
0 
(/) 
-I 
0 
;:;o 
-I 
0 
z 

APRIL 15, 1999 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

l. 
(/) 
Ll.J 
(/) 
i :::) 
' a.. I~ 
Ii <{u I!
'!. ~ 
Ll.J 
I 
0 ~ 
z 
0 



Beetle Mania 
After the University of Maine hoclcey team wontheNCAA championship, a large victory bonfire began: on the campus's mall. By the end of the night, it became a pseudo-hen on earth as signs, tires, bottles, screens, benches and even chalkboards were thrown into the flames. At one point, a student drove a snowmobile (Maine's equivalent ofthe stolen goif cart) through the towering inferno. 
Things got out of hand, though, when students started to turn over freshman Rachael Dunton's Volkswagen. She attacked the.administration, especially campus police who had merely watched as the car was upended, stating that more could have been done to avoid the riots. · . 
Fortunately, Notre Damehasman~gedtoavoid this type of trouble. DuringthePSA's recent te~ch-into promote aware­
·. ness ofsweatshop conditions, they looked for a Volkswagon to torch in protest of the child labor used in making the ·seatbelts. · All they could find in D6 were Ford Explorers, Jeep Cherokees and aLexus. · 

A Cornhusker's Terror 
The University ofNebraska College ofLaw is keeping third-year student, Thayne Glenn, from entering its law program. The reason? 
His hair. 

Glenn was denied access in January because of the length of his hair. Supposedly, one _of the college's professors said: "He kinda looked like one of them Nelson boys that used to be on the MTV. I trust none of them longhairs as far as I can throw them into the moving teeth of a combine." 
UN has a policy restricting entrance to some of its colleges if prospectives don't meet certain requirements, including the length of their hair. 
Good rule-'-maybe for 1955. Come on, Nebraska, catch up with the rest of the world. The Beatles have come and gone and come back. Long hair is in. Sorry to say it, but Nebraskan buzz-cuts shouting 'Tm in a militia!" are out. It seems to us here at OOC if the school is looking for something to get uptight about it, start with the first name Thayne. He sounds like a Nordic god of wheat or something. 

Strange Encounters 
Berkeley students having trouble on the dating scene can now go to class to find that special someone; Jim Wolfe, a psychotherapist, has created a 10-week program where eight men and eight women meet to talk about relationships and even go out on "encounters" or quasi-dates. Wolfe adds a date safety rule, though: No members of the group are to have any sexual contact, including kissing, during the program. In order to improve gender relations here at ND, faculty have been working on a similar classroom relationship setting called, "Don't Ever Have Sex, Don't Ever Have Fun" and a class, geared toward males, called "Girls? Shouldn't You Wait a While Before Thinking About Girls?'' In case you are wondering, this class cross-references to every major on campus. 
30 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 


Phatty Education 
Last Saturday marked the 27th Annual Hash Bash at the University of Michigan where nearly 5,000 students protested hemp's illegal status. Students smoked pot and protested out on the main quad, but mostly smoked pot. 
But wait, that's not all ­straight from the "Oh my God, I thought those guys were dead" celebrity scene: Tommy Chong ofthe dated and not-really-funny-un­less-you-are-stoned Cheech =~.,,.-~, and Chong comedy duo ar­rived on the scene. He im­parted such intellectual mind benders as "I'm so stoned I don't know what to say" and "If the important people were stoned, there'd be less violence in the world." 
Yeah, that's what America needs, Clinton smoking reefers while he's on the phone in the Oval Office. But apparently, Chang's comments were so poignant that he was given an honorary degree by the school later that day. 
Another great reason for ND to join the Big Ten. Just like the Wolverines, we have out-of-work entertainers (Phil Donahue) promoting hopeless causes (non-discrimination clause). 


by Jesse Kent 
APRIL 15, 1999 


•Baseball: ~lbs, Bostol)..College, 12:00 PM, . 
Eck Basebill Stadium/,,--~ ·\ · 
. :; ; . / .' \, :.. 
•Lacrosse: ND women!vs. Yale,) 1:00. PM, .. 
. l i. \ \.· / ,· . : 
Moose Krause'Field ·-.. •.. ·' / · · . 
. . I ' ,, . . •• 

· •Softball dou9Ie1he~der:·Nffvsi D!=)Paul, . 2:00 PM, Ivy Field i, ', ) J . >NoWsH6W1NG' 
. I t C ·•. ,• ' • 
•Evening Vesper~ Coi:1<;eft;·ND ,Glee Club, 8 



·Apfjl·:''f6/ApriL27.•. ·· 
PM, Basilica ofihe Sacreo"Heart 

SUNDAY tZ7~~~f~r~i~_;P~k·we~t·••-·•· · 
APRIL 15, 1999 

1\11 sho\vs'in ~tereo :·' < · · 
alyze'This · · · 1:00 4:00 7:00 9:15· oi1g's Fii'stM6vie 1:15 3:00 4:50 .. · .. Goodbye Lover : 1:30 ·4:15 .· 7:05 ·. 9:30 · 
TrneCriiries> , :6:45 9:20 . . 
~,>~···n... iv···.e.···..r···s.·•.·.ity.· P.·,.~kE·~.····t ·.·
277 .7336 • ; . , . ' •
C ' •

r 
•Shows in Stereo· .• ·>..·. ...·.•. ·..... . 

Life.··..., ·. ·· 1:15. 2:00. 3:4s•·4:3o · ·6:15 i:ob ·.:s:45_ 9:30
) u:1s · i: •.··,..· ·.·. 1:30 3:35 5:35 .7:35, . 

9:35 . . NevetBeen Kissed ..l:00 3:15 5:30'7:45 · 
..i:... '\.. . . · 9:50 •, .· , ·. ",,;,, ):45 4:15: 7:10 9:20 :

·•::••11:20'>::/:,,,: " · 10 Things I HateAbciut 1'6tL . . . . ·. . ... ·. . .. ·.. ·i;;. {:..,, __1:=sf4:00:'i:05 .. :9:15_.. ·_ 
.. ws~fti,Yio:OOPA1sli61vnfri,'&f
:.};; .'.: <~ ..:::::•: -:. :.~.--.;:~ ~ ~·-: ..,-· :>· ~ 

,< :/</?:Movies··· 14>: ­0 tit:~if5s1e;eo . ':: '.O:_,:· . : .>' . 
Jlaoy Geiliiis~~-... . .~:~.o ,..4:55 -, · 
SMM •. ·. . .. NS 10:30· ' •· 
Go. . ,.... : ·"· ,::, . / 2.05 '4.45 ,7.30 10.00 . 
ThiKitiga£irt '·•· :•·: ,.-,1·,ao ,·-3:30/s:4or·•·.•·.•· ·. ::••• 
The Matrix* .. ~-.?.."i:is · 2:qo -~'.i:is s:oo· 
. : . .·. . :. . 7:10:' 8:05 '10:16' .......... 

.~~~.•-~1r~}~~~ft/··<t)ll}~;·'.c{}i:::. ;~~i1J~5·i~.. 
~viii Dragonii*' :_ . · : .f:is'. -.3:25 .'· 5:35,' .7:40 · 
. . . . . '. :. : 955 . ·. . · .·.:: ..· :,,,:;;':\,/. ,•.. •• ..... /:; ,.... / }:::;,;: *Stadittm:Seatit;gAvaila,ble '. . . : . 
'> ' ••• -. ••, • • -• 


.?'.;}\:~./
.',\\)··.:t??(~ ,,~___, <:~\(/:_.,...-,,­
,.c -~--,/~.; 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 



Li 
!I 
11 
I, 
l L I I i 
j 
I 
I 


You Remember • • • 
If you're just a few weeks from graduation, the outside world -people you pass, squirrels, the wind in the trees -is moving in slow motion. It's as if some sappy tune like Louis Armstrong's "What a Wonderful World" has become the soundtrack to your life, and the world is giving you time to log the moments in your memory. It knows you don't have long to soak this stuff up. Now and then you remember the other moments when the world slowed down. You remember the sight ofyour feet, walking from class to class to study session during some frantic,focused finals week. That was the only thing you saw that week outside ofthe inside ofa book. You remember a few weeks before that when you 
had time to pause be­

You remember being dorky, tween classes. You 
knelt down on the

dirty and drunk, because it's 
quad and tried to coax 

the _last time you'll be able to a squirrel nearer. You 
once knelt still

without losing Y<?Ur job. 
enough for long 
Pat Downes is a senior history major and the former editor in chiefofthis magazine. He was nominated for the Pulitzer Prize in 1972. He finished second only to Hal Weinstein ofthe Bee Lick (Ky.) Star-Ledger. 
32 SCHOlASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

enough that one of those fat fellas came within three feet of you. 
You remember the restlessness of the spring day when they turned Stonehenge back on. The wind was warm,. the water was cool and you couldn't force yourself into the library, despite the 10-page paper that was due the following Tuesday. 
You remember the flashlight-wielding campus cop who chased you out of Stonehenge at 3 a.m. 
You remember the most euphoric and then devas­tating moment of your football-loving life. Down 29-16 to Ohio State with three-and-a-half minutes left in the game, Autry Denson had just returned a punt for a touchdown. Momentum was on our side. Notre Dame was going to win that game.· Notre Dame was going to win the national championship. You collapsed_ onto your friends and neighbors in a big heap of flesh and splintery seats. Then you just collapsed. The touchdown had been called back. Holding. 
You remember a slightly less thrilling sensation from the day before the game. It was the heavy-
by W. Patrick Downes 

headed feeling oftrying to appear wide awake in econ class, despite the drool on your T-shirt and the crust on your eyelids.You recall the frustrated prof empha­sizing (yelling) his point and a dozen heads bobbing up and down like a roomful of baseball bobble head dolls. 
You remember the urge to smash one of your roommates' alarm clocks with a four iron. 
And then you remember surveying them in their sleep, thankful you had such good friends to worry about you and keep you· out of trouble. Or to get you into trouble if you needed it. 
You remember being dorky, dirty and drunk, be­cause it's the last time you'll be able to without losing your job. 
You don't remember your 21st birthday. 
You do remember JPW, though. You had a ton of fun with mom and dad, and you realized that, yes, they were your parents ----,-older, wiser and more mature than you -but for the first time, they were almost your peers. It was a strange feeling, and not entirely a good one. 
You remember that pure midnight kiss by Saint Mary's Lake that lasted three minutes, seemed to last 30 and felt blessed -. not just sanctioned or ap­proved, but blessed -by the woman who gives her name to the clear night-black lake you were standing beside. You might have even fallen in love at Notre Dame. 
You certainly fell in love with Notre Dame. With the slate-gray skies that frame the Dome in the fall and spring and the puffy white skies that cloud it in the winter. With the mother duck who raised her ducklings in the library reflecting pool. With the teachers who wanted you to do well and the room­mates who helped you to live well. With the Grotto ... 
This place is not perfect. It's not very diverse or open-minded. It's also not willing to confront its own faults, and some of the folks who run the place are doing their best to keep it that way. But you know you couldn't have found a better place to come to school. To learn. To grow. You became an adult here, in this beautiful place among these beautiful people. 
And you' 11 never forget it. D 
APRll 15, 1999 







Prepay,. Yes. Overpay,. No! 
As low as 21': per minute. 

Now you can get lower prepay rates than ever before. 
Because with Omnipoint's Prepay. the larger the coupon amount, the more you save: $25 = 85 minutes, $50 = 175 minutes, $100 =400 minutes and $200 =950 minutes. With the $200 coupon, you'll pay only 21 ¢ a minute. 
You can use your minutes to call anywhere in the U.S., Canada, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. 
You'll get a brand new Ericsson 638 digital phone for just $49. Plus free features like voice mail, caller ID and call waiting. 
All you need is a $50 coupon to start. Activate by May 1st to get these rates, which are good through December 31st. 
As always, there are no monthly fees, no credit checks, no long distance charges and no contracts to sign. Nothing at all to come between you and your Omnipoint digital phone. 



