-the only leading King-Size cigarette made an exclusively different way to avoid the main cause of irritation!
NOW! PHILIP MORRIS is available in the new KING-SIZE and the famous Regular Size.
Remember, you’ll feel better when you change to PHILIP MORRIS. In case after case, coughs due to smoking disappear ... parched throat clears up . . . that stale, “smoked-out” feeling vanishes.
■Jake qour choice
but mate ijwrcto
IWMOWK
Yes, KING-SIZE er REGULAR
WILL FEEL BETTER smoking PHILIP MORRIS ^PHILIP MORRIS
Collegians Head-Over-Heels About Comfortable Arrow Shorts
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. JJN3. Bldg.
SHOES NEED FIXING?
Why Go Downtown?
•	BETTER SERVICE
•	BETTER WORK
•	LOWER COST
PAUL'S SHOE SHOP
Behind Main Bldg.
DRRWTURB0W
\0PT0METRIST
—OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated
“Bring In The Pieces”
— EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel	4-5777
“Any way you look at it, Arrow shorts are tops for comfort,” collegians say. Special tailoring features (such as no chafing center seam) assure free and easy comfort in any position. Wide selection of styles, fabrics and colors now available at all Arrow dealers.
»»----------------------->.
— SHIRTS • TIES • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS > SPORTS SHIRTS —
For Men Women Children
Make GILBERTS your ARROW headquarters
Paul Whalen, Mgr.
209 W. COLFAX AVENUE
FRANKIE LANE mode the Song famous but GOOD FOOD made us famous for our Italian dishes.
Spaghetti Chicken
Ravioli
--*—
□WOKS
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET
4	Open evenings until 9 o’clock
"4
| Feb. 27, 1953
The new tradition at Notre Dame is . . .
RESTAURANT 610 NORTH MICHIGAN 3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
YOU CAN RIDE
TO TOWN FOR
as low as 13c in an
Indiana Cab
New flat rate—65c
from Circle to Michigan and Colfax. (Up to five per cab)
Ca i 3-9333
INDIANA CAB CO.
Do you think you have no talent for dancing___that good times and popularity can’t be yours? Well, here’s good news for you. Whether you’re a timid beginner or just an old-fashioned dancer, here’s your chance to find out that you can be a sought-after partner and have more fun without risking a single penny.
You see, the Arthur Murray Way of learning to dance is different, better dhan any other, because you not only learn all the latest steps but develop your
ARTHUR MURRAY School of Dancing
120 E. WAYNE Call 2-3339 for Appointment
TYPING CLASSES For Notre Dame Students 12 weeks
Mon. - Thurs. Eve. 7:10 to 9:10
First session March 2
Special rates
So. Bend College of Commerce 212 S. St. Joseph St. Telephone 3-3191
dormant personality while you’re learning.
This you do at our Student Parties, a very important part of your course. At these parties you meet new people, dance with all types of dancers, get the feeling of being out in public. Even timid people become confident and their true, attractive personality comes out at these parties.
So don’t wait. Come in now and have your FREE lesson. Get started on a new life of more good times and popularity than you’ve ever had before.
Copt. 1952—Arthur Murray, Inc.
Tribute to Father Ward
Editor:
No doubt much has already been said in your columns of the death of Father Leo Ward, but he was no doubt deserving of .it and more.
I was a student of Father Ward when he had his first stroke, in the Spring of 1948. Coincidentally, we were working on a term paper project at the time, and the model outline he presented to us was for a paper concerning the statement: “Laughter died with Thomas More.” Father Ward loved St. Thomas More — a man of gentility, learning, wisdom, and wit, and a great Christian, too, called to the joy of martyrdom. At that point, without ceasing to laugh, Father Ward began his Way of the Cross.
St. Thomas More and Cardinal Newman both continue to remind me of Father Ward, and vice-versa. He was for us a wonderful example of the Christian humanist and the Christian gentleman, who, with the associates of the Department of English, quickly leavened the crude, vulgar, and ignorant several who chose to do major work under his direction.
Moreover, he established those conditions in his department which made it relatively easy for students to go beyond the letter to the spirit of literature. The Philosophy of Literature, begun under his supervision, is still, with only a few changes from the original plan, far and away ahead of most of the ostensibly revolutionary Great Books and General Programs in universities about the country. And the department’s organ, first Scrip, then Juggler, has under Father Ward’s indirect guidance continued its distinguished tradition among college journals. In fact, the caliber of its creative work is perhaps unequaled among undergraduate publications.
For this I and many others are grateful, as it can be said that even in this world he multiplied his talents a hundred fold.
William H. Slav.ick St. Bernard Abbey, Cullman, Ala.
■
“Kig-Kams" or “Wig-Wams"—Who Cares?
Editor:
Mort Luby complains in “The Week” of a copy-reader having deciphered “wig-wams” as “kig-kams” in the description of the pegged pants of the (Continued on page 32)
The Scholastic
By Mort Luby
Whether through rain, Or whether through snow, When I gotta go, I gotta go.
To which we say, Amen.
■
Bottom of the Week ... so did the apples.
Top of the Week
During the course of the basketball season, the price of concession stand apples got smaller. . . .
■
About 900 seniors marched into Washington Hall last Saturday, sat down, and looked perplexedly at one another. They knew that somewhere, under that grandiose sweep of black togas and mortar boards, were the schoolboys of Notre Dame. But with the tassels dangling down in front of their more or less clean-shaven faces, the seniors seemed to suddenly grow a sort of ultra-scholarly serious look about them. Nobody had time to get nostalgic about it, for the Washington Day exercises ran their course in record-setting time.
A few minutes later, the seniors managed to lose their somberness, as they returned their caps and gowns into the Washington Hall rec (pool) room. In a life or death struggle to turn in their equipment before the next South Shore left, they turned the place into a screaming melee, where caps and gowns flew as thick as dirty looks on a blind date. And after it was over, nobody, especially the harassed little man who was trying to collect the caps and gowns, had any doubt that a lot of the seniors were just schoolboys after all.
■
An Unsung Hero
It is the fitting duty of the Scholastic’s sport staff to issue the laurels for our basketball team and coach at the termination of the season. But the Week, whose business is not sports, chooses to pay tribute at this time to the unsung hero of the basketball season.
After a few home games we began to get used to the energetic young man, presentably attired in a presentable sport coat, who cranked up the side backboards before every home game. No mean job this, as it required exactly 124turns (by actual, but unconfirmed count) of the crank to raise each bucket clear of the court. After lifting the first bucket, the little man would stand there, flushed and halfexhausted, with his cranking arm swollen to the bursting point. Then gritting his strong, white teeth, he would walk across the court and crank up the othei' bucket; only to return a semi-stretcher
case, his pretty sport coat bathed in perspiration. Occasionally his great performance would raise a small cheer from the crowd.
Father Lange hopes this young man, whoever he may be, will report to the weight-lifting emporium (in back of the Main Building) with his over-developed arm for a try at the military press.
■
And in the Balcony
Much has been written and said about the behavior of local inhabitants during . Washington Hall movies. Occasionally we found the quality of the films worthy of the hooting, screaming, and general mirth-making emitted by local theatre lovers.
But last week the English Department presented Great Expectations, a movie from the book of Charles Dickens, who they tell us, was a pretty fair writer and storyteller. The kiddies in Washington Hall reacted, perhaps from force of habit, precisely in the same manner as when they enjoy Washington Hall’s usual run of well-aged corn. The biggest ruckus occurred when Jean Simmons presents a very pretty, and unquestionably 13-year-old cheek to Pip and queries: “Would you like to kiss me?”
After witnessing the uproar created by this, you would think that the script was the work of Mickey Spillaine, rather than Charles Dickens.
■
If You Like Noise
Next week Mr. Spike Jones and several musicians of undisputed talent will appear in the Drill Hall. Music lovers (those people who listen to WNDU in the afternoon, and go to Concert and Lecture Series affairs) are expected to flock to the Drill Hall in great droves for the exhibition.
Here they will observe some city slicks, decked out in vibrant, stunning (a term employed by ladies’ fashion magazines) and highly sensitive fog-horns, washboards, police whistles, and cow bells; these people fashion all sorts of austere numbers, such as Chloe, the swamp song.
Louis Armstrong’s new recording of this classic may overshadow the Jones’ rendering. But we’ll never forget Spike’s injections of poesy between the original lyrics of the song:
“Through the smoke and flame (goes the lyrics) I got to go where you are . . .” To which Spike adds . . .
You Don't Have
to be a Beater to be Eager or
Should virtue
be its own reward?
Once there was a Junior who was. by nature, a Grasshopper, rather than an Ant. He devoted most of his time and en-
ergies to Social Pursuits, with correspondingly little emphasis on the Curriculum in the Catalogue. Consequently, while he was Right Up There socially, he had academically just about reached the Point of No Return.
Topping it off was an Ultimatum from the Male Parent, warning that on his next arrival home, he had better be accompanied either by a List of Passing Grades or a Social Security Card. All Our Boy could see ahead was a lifetime at Hard Labor, unless Something Drastic happened.
So he made it happen. Invested heavily in benzedrine and black coffee and lined up three super-skull Tutors. Night and day he Sweated It Out. Made it. too! Wound up. if not with Flying Colors, at least with Respectable Grades. First thing he did. naturally, was to call Western Union and flash the Joyous Tidings homeward by telegram. Then he sat back and waited for the Reaction.
It came an hour later. A Telegraphic Money Order for $500. plus a message that read: “Delighted at your confounding the Prophets, including myself. Hope you will join me on two-month European trip, expenses paid, starting June 20th.” Signed. POP.
Moral? When you’ve got good news to impart, strike while the Item is Hot—by Telegram! It adds weight, as well as wings, to Your Words. In any kind of Communique, from Date Talk to Dream Talk to Job Talk, you’ll get farther, faster, when you use the Yellow Blank. Just call Western Union.
105 N. Main St.
Telephone
3-6101
39 So. LaSalle Street, Chicago, IB. smmis! um inn mmti Students ate want to tam a canwrissian aaMt *> HUMS* STSTOI on Hit tangos, contact aa.
Feb. 27, 1953
r
' '	: . - L nr O ■
JAZZ ■ DIXIELAND ■ POPULAR CLASSICAL • BLUES
O>: A.'.' T'f'i
Mall umwiur* in the Country 1 re.- ( atah’UK
412 So. Mich. South Bend, Ind.
FEBRUARY 27
AVON (through March 3)—In City Beneath the Sea two he-men set out to explore the sunken town of Port Royal. At least that part’s interesting.
COLFAX (through March 3)—Dean Martin owes his popularity—in the movie, at least—to Jerry Lewis, The Stooge (A-l), but it takes him several reels to admit it.
PALACE (through March 5)—Pete Lawford “gets innocently caught in the toils of an alien espionage plot” in Rogue's March (A-l), but it has its good moments. Co-pic has an interesting title: I Don’t Care Girl (B).
PALAIS RO YALE (tonight only)—Sugar Ray Robinson’s ring foes may find it hard to believe, but the former middleweight champ is a pretty personable fellow in his new profession as a song-and-dance man. The “cabaret-style” show and dance will run from 9 to 1.
STATE (two more days)—Wear yore blue jeans to this un, by cracky. Jamboree and Country Fair.
FEBRUARY 28
WASHINGTON HALL (1:30, 3:30, 6:40, 8:40)—Martin & Lewis again, this time as a couple of parabloopers in Jumping Jacks.
MARCH 1
GRANADA (four days)—Captive Women (B) is a sort of science fiction without science. It’s all about cave men in Manhattan in 3000 A.D. The notorious Belle Starr probably wouldn’t recognize herself, played by Jane Russell, in Montana Belle (B).
MARCH 2
WASHINGTON HALL (8 p.m.)—The Concert & Lecture Series presents the Juilliard String Quartet in a return engagement.
FIELDHOUSE (8 p.m.)—Marty O’Connor gets the testimonial, the Polio Foundation gets the cash, and the fans get a barrel of laughs when the ND’s 1953-54 varsity hoopsters take on seniors Lewinski, Gibbons, Condon, and a few ringers from the grid squad. To add to the confusion, there will be an abbreviated between-halves melee between a conglomeration of Irish coaches and a motley assortment of South Bend sportswriters and announcers.
. MARCH 4
AVON (through March 10)—Try as they might, the movie masterminds weren’t able to alter Walter Scott too much, so Ivanhoe (A-l) comes off as good robust entertainment.
COLFAX (at least one week)—The Jazz Singer (A-l) has been remade again to keep up with the latest styles. Danny Thomas can’t sing like Jolson, but he’s got a better line of gags. Net result is a fairly decent movie.
STATE (two days)—What could sound more vicious and intriguing than Massacre in the Orient and Criminals of the Underworld?
MARCH 5
WASHINGTON HALL (8:30)—Opening night for Vile Bodies, by Evelyn Waugh ala Walsh and Tumpane. Tickets for the University Theater play are 50 cents to the troops, 75 cents to the underprivileged public.
GRANADA (three days)—If it’s variety you want, you can’t miss with this double bill: Battles of Chief Pontiac and Bela Lugosi Meets a Brooklyn Gorilla.
Want to travel and study abroad?
Take a university-sponsored tour via TWA this summer and earn full college credit while you travel
Visit the countries ot your choice . . . study from 2 to 6 weeks at a foreign university. You can do both on one trip when you arrange a university-sponsored tour via TWA. Itineraries include countries in Europe, the Middle East, Asia and Africa. Special study tours available. Low all-inclusive prices with TWA’s economical Sky Tourist service.
For information, write: John H. Furbay, Ph. D., Director, Air World Tours, Dept. CN, 80 East 42nd St., New York 17, N. Y. Be sure to mention countries you wish to visit.
n»nf trotio muhu
/^ADVENTURESS
(all-expenie incL tteamer) Bicycle, Faitboot, Ski, Motor, Rail. Other tours to Latin America, West, Orient and Around the World.
EUROPE—60 Day f47S
STUDY ^Special Groups
France, Germany, Spain, Scandi-navla-ART, DANCE, MUSIC. Study - Tours? Yes! College credit available on most, but still a wonderful experience in an atmosphere of camaraderie. Mexico —45 Days $350.
^TRAVEL
informally, off the beaten track, with SITA. Congenial groups with SeoJtfbr*') similar interests. 150 col-SpmSLnJi l«es represented on 1952 -------------'tours.
Your Travel Agent or StedraK laftmetiuMl
Travel AnecistiM
545 nm	MEW TW17* MU 2-C544
The Scholastic
Vol. 94 February 27, 1953 No. 16
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3. 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor ROBERT G. FINNEY
Associate Editors DONALD J. CARBONE THOMAS E. FOOTE
PATRICK C. CARRICO ................News
FRED C. ECKART .....Assitant News LAWRENCE J. BREHL ....Assistant News ROBERT E. HAINE .........Features
JOHN F. SAND ....................Sports
WILLIAM F. NOONAN ....Ass’t. Sports THOMAS C. MURPHY ............Advertising WILLIAM KERWIN ..............Circulation
JOHN P. DEFANT ....Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Tom Bosse. Dick Callaghan, Jerry Campbell, Irv Carrig, Doug Cole, Paul Fullmer, James Gallagher, Tom Hartzell, Jim Mason, Bill Moore, Henry O’Bryan. Peter Sturtebant, Mike Ward.
SPORTS STAFF: Erwin Alfonsus. Warren Ashbaugh, Tom Caplet, John Cywiniski, Bob Ettle-brick, Bob Frolicher, Jack Healy, Jack Kirby, Bob O’Malley, Tom Welly.
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Bill DeCrick, Bob Fowler, Bob Huddleston, Mort Luby, Barry Reece, Bob Swanson, Dana Weithers.
PHOTOGRAPHY COORDINATOR: Dick Hairsine. FEATURES: Dan Boland, Frank Goerg, Mike Long. Matt Maliason, John Slavick.
ADVERTISING ASSISTANT: Jerry Baier. CIRCULATION: Don Doland.
Valedictory to Buses
Are you tired of reading about buses in this column? Probably no more than we are tired of writing about them. Just let us review events in the pseudoconflict of the last month and then we’ll leave the Northern Indiana Transit Co. for posterity. Let future students worry about it when the fare jumps to a quarter, which, at the present rate of increase, shouldn’t be many years hence. To summarize:
1.	) When the fare hike was announced it seemed that united student action could result in lower rates or other methods of transportation. Accordingly, an editorial in the Jan. 16 issue dealt with possibilities of such action.
2)	At the beginning of the new semester, it was found that the Student Senate was way ahead of us. The Indiana Cab Co. had been contacted, had promised to introduce the flat rate of 65 cents per load from the campus to downtown South Bend, and was agreeable to setting up a cab stand at the circle. This was accomplished entirely by the Senate.
3)	University authorities looked with disfavor on the proposed cab stand, and also on any official, organized boycott of the NIT.
4)	Mr. John T. Martin, president of the NIT, appeared before the Senate and positively dismissed the possibility of lower fares.
5)	As is always the case over a long period of inaction, enthusiasm declined, and the initially empty buses started filling up. Cabs, with no regular stand available, have .not usually ventured campusward unless called. The Senate adopted a “watch and wait” policy. It is difficult to argue for principle on a cold night at a windswept bus stop.
The result, then, seems to be a return to the time-honored, idolized status quo and another illustration of the maxim that if something is left alone long enough it will wear itself out.
And that is the three-oh mark for buses in this magazine.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame, Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: Al DeCrane is shown delivering the principal address during the Washington Day ceremonies in- Washington Hall. The assembled Seniors heard DeCrane call for the emphasis of the individual in these days of massed living. The text of the speech begins on page 18.
—Photo by Ed Turner.
Basketball Takes Its Place
Different people around the country have been heard to express confusion and amazement when told that Notre Dame is as good in academic, musical, and forensic endeavors as it is in football. Undoubtedly these misinformed indi-viduals are now more confused than ever, for the Irish have been recognized by the NCAA as one of the top basketball teams in the country.
It was announced this week that Notre Dame has accepted a bid to the NCAA tourney, a well deserved tribute to a fighting team. Starting the season as a fairly inexperienced crew, the eagers improved steadily. Their spark provided some memorable moments, notably, the last-second victory over Indiana and the overtime win over NYU, both by one point. Not even one small apology has to be put forth for this year’s basketeers.
Neither must apologies be made for this year’s schedule, which included Indiana, Kansas State, Holy Cross, St. Louis, and DePaul, among others. The eagers earned their right to a tournament bid.
Coach Johnny Jordan, of course, is in line for a bow, too. In his first season last year, Jordan experienced much more than his share of tough luck, mainly ineligibilities and injuries, and still came up with a 16-10 record. This year his team remained intact, and the record speaks for itself.
Congratulations are in order for Johnny Jordan and his basketball Irish. And we’ll add to this our thanks for another talking point against the football fanatics.
Feb. 27, 1953
7
McDonnell
AIRCRAFT CORPORATION
Graduate Plan
For
MASTER OF SCIENCE
And.
DOCTOR OF SCIENCE DEGREES
PURPOSE
To assist outstanding BS graduates in obtaining their Master of Science and Doctor of Science Degrees while employed in industry and making a significant contribution to national defense work.
ELIGIBILITY
June 1953 graduates receiving BS Degrees in the following fields:
Aeronautical Engineering Civil Engineering Electrical Engineering Electronic Engineering Mechanical Engineering o	o
Physics
Those chosen to participate in this Plan will be from the upper portion of their graduating class and will have evidenced unusual technical ability. They must also have evidenced imaginative ability and possess personality traits enabling them to work well with others.
CITIZENSHIP
Applicants must be United States citizens who can be cleared for “Secret.”
PARTICIPATING UNIVERSITY
Washington University in St. Louis will participate in this program and candidates for Master of Science and Doctor of Science Degrees must meet entrance requirements for advanced students at this university.
PROGRAM
Under this Graduate Plan the candidate will work full time at McDonnell Aircraft Corporation until September 1953. From September 1953 to June J 954 candidates will work at M.A.C. from 28
to 36 hours per week, attending Washington University on an individually arranged schedule. A Master of Science Degree should be obtained within a maximum of two calendar years. Under this arrangement it will be possible for a candidate to earn approximately 85% of a normal year’s salary and to attend the university during regular semesters while working toward his advanced degree.
COMPENSATION
Compensation will be commensurate with the individual’s ability and experience. Compensation growth will be on the same basis as the full time members of the engineering staff. In addition, the candidate will be eligible for all other lienefits accruing to full time employees.
TUITION
Tuition covering the required number of units necessary to obtain an advanced degree will be paid by McDonnell Aircraft Corporation.
SELECTION OF CANDIDATES
Candidates will be selected by officials of McDonnell Aircraft Corporation and Washington University.
DATES FOR APPLYING
June 1953 graduates should make informal applications prior to March 15, J 953. McDonnell Aircraft Corporation will then forward formal applications which should be returned by April 15, 1953, accompanied by up to date grade transcripts. All replies will receive full consideration and selections will be made during the month of May, 1953.
ADDRESS CORRESPONDENCE TO Technical Placement Supervisor McDonnell Aircraft Corporation Post Office Box 516	St. Louis 3, Missouri
8
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Irish Five Enter First NCAA Tourney
Seniors Select Ray Anthony as Ball Maestro;
Ducat Sales in Dining, Residence Halls Mar. 18
A certain “Young Man With the Horn,” Ray Anthony by name, will bring his orchestra and vocalists to the Notre Dame Drill Hall May 8 to serenade some 600 couples at the 1953 Senioi’ Ball.
Tickets for the Ball will go on sale March 18 and 19 during the noon and supper hours in three locations: Dillon, Walsh, and the Dining Hall lobby. Bids are $9 per couple.
At $3 a couple, seniors may also buy ducats for the Senior Ball Communion Breakfast May 10 at the Morris Inn. Hotel reservations will be taken at the time of ticket sales.
The Ball is open to all seniors (June, August, or January ’54 graduates), grad students and law students.
Vocalists with the 17-piece Anthony band will be Tommy Mercer, Jo Ann Greer, and the Skyliners quintet. The outfit’s comic is trombonist Kenny Trimble. For instrumental solos there will be the tenor sax of Buddy Wise and the prominent trumpet of leader Anthony.
Rated as America’s top band in dance spots, radio, television, motion pictures, and records, the Anthony aggregation places emphasis on versatility. Numbers are carefully balanced between jazz, swing, novelties, and ballads—with due respect to the slow and sweet stylings favored by the prom set. But “bop,” says Anthony, is taboo.
Records have been one of Anthony’s biggest fortes. His Capitol recordings are played over the airwaves more than the combined total of any three other bands. With this in mind, the nation’s disc-jockeys have named his crew the number one dance band in platterdom.
Ray started on the band circuit while still in high school, playing with Al Donahue, Jimmy Dorsey, and Glenn Miller by the time he reached 18. He was a featured trumpet soloist with Miller till 1942, when he quit to enlist in the Navy.
After the war, he formed his own
band and—thanks to his pact with Capitol in 1950—soon hit the top of the record stack. Several of his platters have passed the half-million mark in sales.
While in service, Anthony led a “morale division” troupe on a tour of Pacific bases.
Anthony’s best-selling discs have been his instrumentals Mr. Anthony’s Boogie, Tenderly, Nevertheless, Sentimmal Me, Darktoivn Strutter’s Ball, I Wonder What Became of Sally, Count Evert) Star, and Mr. Anthony’s Blues. The variety of these numbers alone attests to his wide range of offerings.
Arthur Murray has called Ray the leading exponent of the fox-trot.
His bop-less music seems to have boosted his popularity with collegians, for the band averages 100 major prom dates a year.
Only 29, Ray is a dead ringer for Cary Grant, or at least the Cary Grant of ten years ago.
Anthony is married to Dee Keating, a former vocalist with his band.
RAY ANTHONY
To Highlight Gala Weekend
Jordanmen to Play In Regionals March 9
•
Elated over their bid to the NCAA Tournament, Notre Dame’s jubilant eagers and an even more jubilant coach eagerly prepare for the first postseason tourney ever accepted by an Irish quintet. As a rule tournaments of this kind are usually classified as taboo, but since Notre Dame is a member of the NCAA, it can officially participate in the tourney.
Besides the Irish, seven other leading teams have accepted bids, with 15 yet to be named in a field that will include a total of 23—the largest number ever selected by the NCAA.
Mainly because of the large number of tourney entrants, confusion is presently prevailing in the probable pairings of the teams. The first round though is definitely set for March 9, with the site of each contest left up to the discretion of the NCAA. The quarterfinals of the tourney will definitely be played in four particular locations; Chicago, Ill; Raleigh, N. C.; Manhattan, Kansas; and Corvallis, Oregon. The semi-finals and finals are set for Kansas City, Mo., on March 1718.
The case of where the Irish will play on March 9 is just as questionable as who they’ll play. According to Coach Johnny Jordan, the most likely spot would be Chicago, and the most likely school an eastern one, possibly Navy, Fordham or Eastern Kentucky. A first round contest with DePaul is unlikely due to the fact that the two teams have met twice already, and a third might lack the right tournament appeal. Another possible site for the contest might be Cincinnati Gardens, with Miami of Ohio, likely winner of the midAmerican Conference, as their opponent.
If the Irish get by whoever they’re supposed to play on March 9, they win advance to the quarterfinals on March
(Continued on page 25)
Feb. 27, 1953
9
Former Ring Champion Sugar Ray Robinson Will Make Appearance at Palais Tomorrow
Former ring champion Sugar Ray Robinson, now acclaimed as a star in the entertainment world, will appear in person in his new profession tomorrow at the Palais Royale from 9 p. m. to 1 a. m. for a one-night stand.
Dancing and singing by Sugar Ray will be the main feature of the show, which will be presented cabaret style. He will also emcee the rest of the stage revue.
Robinson was the holder of one championship crown, and former possessor of another when he retired from boxing last year. At the time of his retirement, Sugar Ray was the World’s Middleweight Champion. This title he originally won from Jake LaMotta in a bout which has been acclaimed as “one of the greatest title fights of the 20th century.”
He later dropped his crown to Randy Turpin of England, but toppled Turpin in a rematch to regain the crown.
Earlier in his ring career, Robinson reigned over the welterweight division, a spot from which he had ousted Tommy Bell. After defeating Bell, Sugar Ray went undefeated in the welterweight class, finally moving into the middleweight ranks when it got tough making the weight qualifications.
Fast and light on his feet on the canvas, Ray decided that those same feet might be the source of a new profession after his retirement. He tried them on the “boards,” as the theater stage term goes, and since last fall has been touring the country dancing, reciting, singing, and acting.
Besides his stage appearances, Ray has been a guest on the Ed Sullivan “Toast of the Town,” Jackie Gleason, and Kate Smith television shows.
Columnists haven’t been tight with their praise for Robinson’s newly-directed talents. Walter Winchell said: “Sugar Ray is a definite sock at the French Casino. Real big time stuff. He’s the champ, that’s all.”
Echoing Winchell’s opinions, other critics only phrased them differently. They even compared him to the great Bill Robinson, one of the stage’s old-timers in the dancing field. A Boston paper stated: “He’s as glamorous as Lena Horn . . . brightest star ... in a decade.”
Expressing a woman’s viewpoint, Dorothy Kilgallen said that Sugar Ray has found a place in the theatrical profession, that he is *. . . Charming when
he dances . . . Engaging when he sings.”
Using fistic parlance others refer to him as a knockout, and “a wallop of an attraction.”
SUGAR RAY ROBINSON
From the Ring to the Royale
AB Sophs to Receive Advice On Major Subjects March 23
Second-semester Arts and Letters sophomores will be given a hand March 23 in choosing their major subject for next semester.
At 7:30 that evening, Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., will lead a discussion in the Law Auditorium. It will center around two major points: the place of the major relationship to the whole of liberal education, and secondly, to help the student make a wise choice of his major.
The discussion is being held before Easter vacation to enable the students to talk “major” with their parents, and with the advice from the meeting in mind, they should, it is hoped, be able to act wisely on April 10 when pre-regis-tration with the Dean takes place.
Second-semester sophs in Arts and Letters are “not only asked to attend, but are required to do so.”
A major part of the program will be given over to a question-and-answer period. The first part will cover' the various fields of liberal arts, in which several instructors will carry the discussion.
ND Hosts First NIT Debate March 20-21
Arrangements are quickly reaching completion for the first University of Notre Dame National Invitational Debate Tournament to be held here March 20-21.
In charge of this nation-wide meet are Debate Coach Leonard Sommer and Al DeCrane, president of the Debate Society. Topic for the two-day session of arguing is Resolvedzthat the Congress of the United States Enact a Compulsory Fair Employment Practices Law.
FEPC was selected by a nation-wide board as the topic of debate for this school year. It was chosen because it has been tossed in the “hopper” each year by Congress, hence its timely importance. The bill has always been blocked in the Senate after being introduced as part of former President Truman’s civil rights program. Fair employment commissions have worked out well in 11 states, none of which are in the south.
Debaters do not argue whether or not Congress will pass a FEPC law but rather if Congress should do so.
Participating will be between 20 and 24 schools, each being represented by a two-man team and a coach, who will also act as a judge. Pete Loedding and Tom James are now at work registering the teams that will compete. Chuck Doherty has handled correspondence.
There will be six preliminary rounds preceding the semi-final and final sessions on March 21. Each debater will talk 10 minutes with the affirmative and negative speakers alternating. Rebuttals of five minutes each will follow in reverse negative-affirmative order. Tabulating the scores pronounced by the judges will be the job of Jerry Meyer.
Luncheon arrangements are in the charge of Don Dowden while Carl Gunderson supervises room details. Tom Godfrey heads the publicity end.
STUDENT LOAN FUND
A Student Loan Fund, employing funds of the University, is being handled by the Student Senate.
Undergraduate students may apply for loans at the Senate -office, 122 Main Building. Office hours: Tuesday, Thursday, Friday from 3:30 to 5:30 p.m.
Small loans are no longer made by the Business Office. All such loans are to be made from the new Student Senate Loan Fund.
10
The Scholastic
MASS SCHEDULE
Monday, March 2—Monday oF the Second Week of Lent.
Tuesday, March 3—Tuesday of the Second Week of Lent.
Wednesday, March 4—Wednesday of the Second Week of Lent; Feast of St. Casimir, Confessor.
Thursday, March 5—Thursday of the Second Week of Lent.
Friday, March 6—Friday of the Second Week of Lent; Feast of Sts. Perpetua and Felicitas, Martyrs.
Saturday, March 7—Saturday of the Second Week of Lent; Feast of St. Thomas Aquinas, Confessor, Doctor of The Church, Patron of Schools.
Campus Archives Receive Belongings of Late Bishop
Notre Dame’s archives recently received six trunk-loads of the personal papers and belongings of the late Most Rev. Philip R. McDevitt, Bishop of Harrisburg, Pa., from 1916 to 1935.
The material, which was donated to the archives by Miss Mary R. McDevitt and the late Helen C. McDevitt, does not contain the official papers of Bishop McDevitt’s episcopate, but includes his diaries and correspondence prior to his consecration. Also included ai-e papers related to his work as Episcopal Chairman of the Catholic Press Department of the National Catholic Welfare Conference.
A portrait of Bishop McDevitt as a young priest, painted by Thomas Eakins, an American artist, was presented to the University by the donors along with a bronze statuette of the Bishop by sculptoi- Samuel Murray. Before his death Bishop McDevitt presented to the University archives a collection of letters dealing with the persecution of the Church in Mexico.
Bishop McDevitt was consecrated Bishop of Harrisburg in 1916 after serving as superintendent of schools in the Ai'chdiocese of Philadelphia from 1899 to 1916. He was the founder and director of the first free diocesan Catholic high school for girls in the United States. Bishop McDevitt became a member of the administrative committee of the NCWC and Episcopal Chairman of the Catholic Press Department in 1918. In 1935 he was named an assistant at the pontifical throne. He died on Nov. 11, 1935.
Feb. 27, 1953
Annual Marriage Institute Begins Tuesday; Dr. Kane, Fr. Schlitzer Open First Session
The fifth annual Marriage Institute will get underway Tuesday night with Dr. John J. Kane and Rev. Albert L. Schlitzer, C.S.C., highlighting the initial session at 7:30 p. m. in the Engineering Auditorium.
Originally scheduled to appear at the third session, Tuesday night’s speakers were moved up to the first session to replace Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh., C.S.C., who will be unable to attend. Father Hesburgh will deliver his topic “Courtship and Engagement,” at the third session, March 10.
Dr. Kane’s topic of discussion will be “The Family as the Basis of Social Living.” Dr. Kane, who received his Ph.D. in sociology at the University of Pennsylvania, is the Assistant Dean of the College of Arts and Letters at Notre Dame, and a member of the Department of Sociology.
A recent text by Dr. Kane, Marriage and the Family, is currently being used in the Department of Sociology, and at several other leading universities. Dr. Kane has done much work in marriage
REV. ALBERT L. SCHLITZER, C.S.C. "Increasing the Life of Grace"
counseling in Summer school courses for priests here at the University.
Second speaker of the evening, Father Schlitzer, will have as his topic “Marriage as a Means of Strengthening and Increasing the Life of Grace.” Father Schlitzer has taught elective courses on marriage in the Department of Religion, and is the authoi* of a text on Sacramental Life now used by juniors in religion classes.
Father Schlitzer received his doctorate in theology from the Georgian University in Rome. His dissertation was on the Sacrament of Matrimony. He is currently active in the Cana movement in South Bend.
The second of the semi-weekly sessions set for Thursday night, will feature Prof. John H. Sheehan and Rev. Francis D. Nealy, O.P.
Professor Sheehan, head of the Department of Economics, will speak on “Economic Matters Before and After Marriage.” He obtained his A.B. degree and his M.A. degree at the University of Wisconsin. Professor Sheehan is a contributor to America, The Review of Social Economy, and was national president of the Catholic Economic Association.
Father Nealy’s subject is “Marriage Legislation and the Ritual of the Church.” A native Canadian, Father Nealy is a member of the Department of Religion here. He received his bachelor’s degree at St. Mary’s College, Halifax, Nova Scotia, and his M.A. and Ph.D. at Notre Dame.
Father Nealy joined the Dominicans in 1932, and was ordained in 1939. Before coming to Notre Dame, he taught at Providence College in Rhode Island, and was a chaplain in the infantry in World War II.
Introduced in 1949 to help prepare future husbands for their prospective responsibilities, the Marriage Institute will offer eight sessions, and will run till March 26. Other than seniors and graduate students, only married students will be allowed at the sessions.
The talks will be given in informal “town hall” style with the speakers seated before microphones. The proposed 90 minute sessions will also incorporate question-and-answer periods following the talks. Questions from the floor will be answered by the speakers.
Tickets for the entire series, which went on sale Wednesday, may be purchased at the evening meal tonight in the Dining Hall. Thereafter, tickets may be obtained before each session in the Engineering Auditorium. All sessions will begin at 7:30 p. m.
WANTED
Ten pounds of grease for a grease pit.
Contact Joe Hubner, property manager. Vile Bodfes.
11
AB Dean Organizes Student Advisory Board; Studies, Facilities Main Discussion Topics
By DICK HAIRSINE
How can students acquire more vitally the values of liberal education? How can the new physical setup that is in the final stages of completion be used to the greatest advantage?
These are two big questions facing * Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Arts and Letters. A liberal Arts Advisory Group, composed of 22 students from the various colleges of the University, has been organized to work along with the Dean and members of the faculty to inquire into these questions.
Sixteen of the members are from the College of Arts and Letters. There are two representatives from each of the Colleges of Engineering, Science, and Commerce.
The first session of the group was an informal coffee and conference session in the Rockne Memorial Lounge. The group concluded that there were three basic problems to be discussed. The problem of more coherent studies was found to be the outstanding topic of discussion. The other topics taken into consideration were an intelligent use of the new Liberal and Fine Arts Building, and better relations between faculty and students.
FATHER CHARLES SHEEDY AND THE AB STUDENT ADVISORY BOARD
A Medium of Expression for Students
At its second meeting the group decided that if they were to solve the problems which were discussed at the previous meeting they would have to attempt a formulation of the objective of the Catholic university to guide them in making suggestions which would be useful to Father Sheedy. The conclusion drawn was that the formulation of the Christian intelligence before all else was the objective of the University.
The third meeting was a discussion of the relation between philosophy and theology in the College. It was also suggested at this assembly that small groups be set up to study particular phases of the problems, while a co-ordinating committee would relate the findings to the overall picture.
At the fourth meeting each member was asked to present a concrete suggestion to aid in the solution of problems.
“The liberal college should always be the central core of the University, and administration, dean, and faculty are working to assure that central and inspiring role. Responsible student opinion is of the highest value,” said Father Sheedy.
The method of using a student advisory board was chosen because this system has worked well in the Colleges of
Commerce and Engineering in the past. It is hoped that this organization, like its prototypes in the other colleges, will become a permanent organization to act as a medium of expression for students in the College of Arts and Letters.
Members of the board are students who have distinguished themselves academically and proven themselves leaders in extracurricular activities.
Tom Field, AB senator, is general chairman of the group; Al DeCrane is serving as discussion leader, and John Burns is filling the position of recording secretary. Other members are: Ernie Bartell, Dave Broughton, Dave Burrell, John Elson, Paul Zalecki, Yates Hafner, Francis Hennigan, Lou Cavanaugh, Joe Imbriaco, John Houck, Hugh Braun, Ed Manier, Art Lewis, Gene Gorski, Milt Fisk, Ed Connors, Bob Howard, and Leo Cahalan and Fran Meaney.
New Residence Plan Loses in Senate Fight
BY VAL CHUN—Senate Publicity
A two-hour debate on the Senate floor last Monday night ended with the adoption of Sen. Kerwin Fulton’s proposal for reverting back to the all-classes-in-separate-halls residence hall system.
The Administration had asked the Senate for proposals for the hall system, thus making possible student voice in this major policy making issue. The plan drawn up by the Senate committee headed by Tom Field (AB) embodied primarily the following: that current sophomores and juniors be allowed to retain their present rooms if desired and that juniors, sophomores and freshmen will register in all halls except those designated for freshmen use according to academic seniority as done in previous years.
A third plan by Walt Werner (Sorin), which in effect was a compromise proposal, was defeated.
The adopted proposal which will be presented to the Administration is as such: Halls will be set aside for each class and students registering according to academic seniority will be limited to halls designated for their classes.
Tux Rental
The Blue Circle, as recommended by the Senate, will launch a study of possibilities for lower-than prevailingrates tux rental.
Mardi Gras
A complete report of the Mardi Gras weekend will be presented to the Senate
12
The Scholastic
by Chairman Brian Kelly at the next meeting.
Appointments
Lester Zaczek’s appointment to the business managership of the Senate’s Student Musical was approved.
Rick Hicks (Lyons) : assistant to Jim Hutchinson in administering the Loan Fund.
Juilliard String Group Appears Here Tonight
Hailed by music critics as “one of America’s greatest contributions to quartet history,” the renowned Juilliard String Quartet will appear at Washington Hall Monday night at 8:15. The presentation is being sponsored by the Concert and Lecture Series Board.
The Quartet, from the Juilliard School of Music, New York City, has appeared at Notre Dame a number of times in recent years. The fact that Notre Dame early recognized their talent and sponsored performances at the University has been a prime incentive for the Quartet’s sporadic encores here.
Familiar faces to many on campus, Monday night’s musicians are the original members of the group which appeared initially at the University. They are: Robert Mann and Robert Koff, violinists; Raphael Hillyer, viola; and Arthur Winograd, cello. The group records exclusively for Columbia Records, Inc.
Included in Monday night’s program are several new numbers. The program follows:
Quartet in B flat major, Opus 76, No.
4, Sunrise ....................Haydn
Allegro con spirito
Ada gio
Menuetto. Allegro
Allegro, mo non troppo
Quartet in E flat,
Opus 12..................Mendelssohn
Adagio non troppo—Allegro non tardante
Canzonetta—Allegretto
Andante espressivo
Molto allegro vivace
INTERMISSION
Quartet in A minor,
Opus 132 ................  Beethoven
Assai Sostenuto—Allegro
Allegro, ma non tanto
Molto adagio—Andante
Alla Marcia, assai vivace
Allegro appassionato
The sponsoring organization is a new student-faculty group which has as its aim the selection of high-class campus entertainment. Strictly confining itself to student entertainment, the advisory committee does not present educational lectures, which are handled by the various departments, though both groups cooperate to avoid conflicts.
Spike Jones and Company Depreciate Mask In Wacky *53 Revue in Drill Hall Next Friday
America’s top man in the field of wacky novelty tunes, Spike Joes, will bring his new Musical Depreciation Revue of 1953 to the Drill Hall next Friday for a one-night stand.
Spike, his City Slickers, and the rest of the company will take the stage at 8:30 p. m.
All seats for the depreciation of music are reserved. Prices, including tax, are $3.60, $2.40, and $1.80.
Tickets may be purchased at Ford Hopkins Drug Store and the Palais Royale. For mail order tickets, write to Spike Jones, 107 W. Colfax Ave., South
SPIKE JONES and HELEN GRAYCO
Music Lovers, Beware
Bend. Enclose a self-addressed envelope.
Just 10 years ago Spike and his crew got together and started cutting some wacky platters, the first being “Red Wing,” “Behind Those Swinging Doors,” and “Der Fuehrer’s Face.” This wartime tune slamming Der Fuehrer brought the group to early fame.
During the war, Spike’s group was the first to go overseas to entertain the troops.
Records, radio, movies, and television have all presented the “unusual makers of unusual music” to the public. The Musical Depreciation Revues, which began several years ago, have toured the United States and Canada a few times.
Helen Grayco, the torchy singer of the show, is Mrs. Spike in private life. Formerly a vocalist with Stan Kenton’s
aggregation she adds a necessary contrasting touch of glamour to the Revue.
The “Two Front Teeth” man, George Rock, is another one of the talented cast. He’s featured on some of Spike’s top discs, including “Do Ya Wanna Buy a Bunny?” and “My Daddy is a General to Me.” He could have been an ideal man for “Down in Old Kentucky,” since his great-great-granduncle was Daniel Boone.
Two hundred pounds plus Laverne Pearson is the gal who hits the operatic notes for Spike in the Revue. Somehow or other she got tagged with the nickname “Cherub.”
Another topliner with the show is the dancer voted “Miss Bombshell of the U. S. Troops” by the boys in Korea, Ruth Foster. She won that title when playing there with her husband, Peter James, another performer in the Revue.
Others in the cast are Bernie Jones, who was “Ole Swenson” on Red Skelton’s show; clarinetist Bill Depew, who formerly played with Benny Goodman and Bob Crosby; and the tiniest City Slicker, Frankie Little, who is a Ringling Brothers Circus alumnus. Spike’s story about hiring Frankie is that he almost stepped on little Little on a Chicago street corner, then had the little man run across the stage during one of his shows as a gag—it took, so he hired Tiny Frankie.
The whole gang, using all their odd whistles, sirens, and other contraptions, plus gags and juggling acts will be at the Drill Hall.
—Larry Brehl
International Relations Panel Planned by Poli Sci, NFCCS
Tentative plans are being formulated for an International Relations Conference to be held at Notre Dame in the latter part of March.
The Conference, under the joint sponsorship of the Academy of Political Science and the NFCCS, will be designed to promote a better understanding of Intei-national Relations.
Invitations are being extended to eight or ten Catholic colleges in the Ohio* Indiana, Michigan and Illinois area.
The committee in charge of plans has been picked from the Academy of Political Science and consists of: Paul Braunlich, Donald Greiwe, Tim Kett, Joe Ridge, Phil Walker, Joe Clark, and Robert Hayduk.
Feb. 27, 1953
VL
Manager Fred Govern masterminds the proceedings at the downtown Aquinas Book Shop.
The Sign of a Saint
TEXT BY V. ROGER FERNANDES PHOTOS BY BOB HUDDLESTON
It’s a small but distinctive sign. On it is pictured a clean-shaven half-bald monk with a volume in his hands open to the Latin word “Veritas’’ . . . Truth. Below the sign is a book shop, equally small, with Truth as its purpose.
The reference is to the Aquinas Book Shop, Inc. It is and has been for the past eleven years “. . . a center of Catholic intellectual and apostolic life in this area,” to use the words of one of its founders and advisors, Father Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., of Notre Dame.
Like many worthwhile projects, its beginnings were small and humble. It all started as an idea in tne minds of a group of Catholic women of South Bend in the Spring of 1942 — housewives and career women who were interested in doing their part in the cause of Catholic Action.
A Need For A Book Shop
They recognized the growing need for Catholic literature and a place where you could obtain it conveniently and
cheaply in the South Bend area. Father Putz and others became interested in the ladies’ project and by the fallowing November the organization had acquired a small store at 110 Last La Salle.
The first books to stock its shelves were a loan. Mr. John Tully, Notre Dame, ’ll, one of the Univeisity’s Trustees and the founder of the Thomas More Book Store of Chicago, sent that first lot of books to Aquinas on consignment. And Father Putz can proudly recall that “all those books were paid for and not one sent back.”
A Continual Growth
During the eleven years of its existence Aquinas has had its share of troubles and problems. But it has never stopped growing and increasing the services it offers. A lot of the credit for this should go to the volunteers who serve the shop as Patrons.
A Patron is anyone who contributes
financially or through outstanding service to the work of this non-profit corporation. Once a year the Patrons elect a Board of Directors and an Executive Committee to direct the running of Aquinas.
For many years the Book Shop was operated principally by volunteers but it now has a permanent full-time manager, Mr. Fred Govern. Mr. Govern, who taught freshman speech at Notre Dame for the past six years, was appointed to the position last Jan. 2.
The library expanded materially with the annexing of space adjoining it, thus providing for the Book Shop, and another room for the Library, where meet' ings are held.
Meeting Rooms, Too
And it is in this Library and meeting rooms that a large proportion of the store’s apostolic work takes place. In it are held all manner of activities
Books, paintings and assistant Lee Pacholke.
. . . from classes for the laity in Theology to author parties. Just recently the Dominican Fathers concluded a weekly series of lectures on Theology for the Laity that began last November.
At present an Inquiry Forum, conducted by Rev. John O’Brien is being held every Thursday at 8:00 p. m. for potential converts and for Catholics wishing to learn more about their religion.
At present the Aquinas Lenten Lectures are scheduled for each Sunday evening at 8:15. The next one, this March 1, will feature Mr. Otto Bird, Ph.D., on “The Christian and the Art of Reading.”
14
The Scholastic
the Aquinas Board of
City Parishes
Aiding
name it bear
from as far away as Benton Har-Michigan, and Plymouth, Indiana, Aquinas Library and Book Shop honor to the great Saint whose
and bor, the does
pected, store’s
Daily gious South Dame
A Well-Stocked
According to
once served on Directors.
they form the heart of the business.
As Father Putz sees it, Aquinas should mean not only a place where you can pick up a volume on St. Thomas or a
Thus through books and lectures, classes and movements, as a center’ and rallying point for Catholics of the area
Bend, St. can meet.”
Shop
Mr. Govern, the new
Missal but also “. . . a reli-and intellectual center where
Marv's and Notre
►
A Notre Dame student browses through an agglomeration of religious cards, pictures, and a well-stocked display of pamphlets.
Many Projects Started
Other activities of interest to various groups include Story Hours for primary aged children, reviews of current books presented the last Tuesday of each month in the library, and the services of a Speaker’s Bureau to local parish societies. Book exhibits are also frequently sent to the last mentioned groups. At present the Aquinas Lectures are scheduled
And from this same room such important Catholic Action projects as the Legion of Mary, the Y.C.W., and the Christian Family Movement have sprouted. Author parties, which are teas for local authors, offer writers an opportunity to present their latest books, are held there, too. •
These affairs have honored such area writers as Notre Dame’s Professor Richard Sullivan, the late Father Leo Ward, Mary Perkins (Mrs. John Julian Ryan), Mrs. Louise Hasley, and Father Putz. Only a few weeks ago the authoress of the day was Miss Marion McCandless, who wrote Family Portraits, a history of our sister school across the Dixie.

“. . . A Religious Center.”
And it is the young ladies of St. Mary’s and the men of Notre Dame who make up a big percentage of Aquinas’ customers. ‘They help to keep the book store alive,” says Mr. Govern.
Its services aren't for Catholics exclusively. The Book Shop functions ns a Catholic Information center much like the one you may have read about in Dale Francis’ arbclc, ‘Catholicism Comes to Carolina,” in the Jan. 16 issue of the Scholastic. In fact, Francis
manager, the Shop is open to all, Catholics and non-Catholics, to buy or just to browse around and visit. “Notre Dame students are especially welcome,” the former ND prof will tell you with a smile. “For now it’s a case of the student always being right when he comes in as a customer.”
On hand, Mr. Govern and Aquinas have not only books but religious articles (pictures, medals, rosaries, statues, holy and liturgical cards), and tables of pamphlets on almost every conceivable religious, moral, and ethical subject.
Where once the Book Shop felt lucky to get its first lot of books on consign-
rnent it now does business “during the course of the year with close to one hundred publishing houses,” Mr. Govern can claim after a quick check of his files. Among them are such well-known firms as Sheed and Ward, Newman Press, Bruce Publishing Company, Lohmann of St. Paul, Minnesota, and Fides of Chicago.
Aquinas lists its selection of books under seven main headings, Mariology, Marriage, St. Thomas Aquinas, Biography, Philosophy, Literature and Poetry, and Children’s. As could be ex-
The Book Shop not only sells these books over its counters but also helps the different parishes to spread the reading of Catholic literature. Aquinas loans batches of books for parish “Book Fairs” where the books are displayed and often sold. A parish often borrows as many as 200 to 300 books at a time.




Feb. 27, 1953
15
University Theatre Prepares For American
Premiere of 'Vile Bodies' at Washington Hall
Next week in Washington Hall, March 5-8, the premiere American performance of “Vile Bodies” will be presented by the University Theatre. Adapted from a novel by Evelyn Waugh, the play has been written by Rev. Father Walsh, S.J., director of the Marquette University Theater and Mr. John Tumpane, director of the Notre Dame University Theater, who is also directing the play.
An ultra-modern satire on London party life, the play is a fast moving English comedy complete with all the wit for which Evelyn Waugh is so ■famous.
The plot centers about the desire of the characters to attend a party which would be called by all the most unusual. An outstanding’ attempt to put on such a party is made by Archie Schwert, a Texan who found a London home. This party is attended, via dirigible, by the famous bachelor author, Adam Fenwick-Symes, whose chance acquaintance with one major leads to the purchase of a local lottery.
Aftei' a long period of absence, the major and author once more meet, this time upon a battlefield, where the major submits his winnings. Never at a loss in producing the essentials of a party, even in surroundings such as the battlefield, they offer a toast to the
Jimmy Dorsey Plays
Trombone artist Jimmy Dorsey will highlight this year’s Junior Prom on April 24, co-chairmen Phil Bolin and Mike Moran announced today.
The Rockne Memorial, perennial site of the Juniors’ number-one social event, will be transformed into a starlit, summer garden to coincide with the chosen theme — “Lamplighter’s Serenade.”
Dorsey and his musical troupe will furnish the music from 9:30 until 1:30. Car permissions for the weekend, and 2:30 Prom-night residence permissions have been granted.
A limited number of 550 ducats— priced at $8 per, including bids and favors—will go on sale Monday and Tuesday, March 16 and 17.
No reservations will be accepted, with ticket sales placed on a first-come, first-served basis.
r
Feature attraction in store for the Junior week-enders this year will be a dinner dance on Saturday evening at
happy ending amid staccato sounds of battle.
Mr. Michael Casey, in charge of the scenery, has succeeded in capturing the mood of the play by designing sets on a suitable colorful and ultra-modern basis.
All of the sets will be painted in bright colors, and the designs are based to a certain extent upon the musical comedy technique of quick shifts. The mechanical elements necessary for shifting and stability, such as supports and flylines, will’ be completely visible as parts of the sets. The sets themselves will be suggestive of the various localities in the play, but not actual representations.
All of the sets will be operated according to the drop-technique, but are not cloth drops as such, being of transparent construction. They will be hung inside a black background which will provide a striking contrast to the multicolors.
There will be nine separate scenes in the play, ranging in setting from a bar to a battlefield, and from a Dover customs shed to a dirigible.
Tickets, priced at 75c for adults and 50c for students, have been on sale since Monday in the Dining Hall lobby.
For Juniors April 24
the South Bend Country Club. Admission will be limited to approximately 125 couples.
General arrangements co-chairmen Bill Guilfoyle and Joe Springer have also announced that the annual Junior Communion Breakfast will be held in the Morris Inn after a group Mass in Sacred Heart Church Sunday morning. The breakfast will be limited to 90 couples.
Fifty guestrooms have been reserved for the weekend at the Morris Inn, and additional accommodations will be available in the downtown hotels, and in private homes. ‘
Other arrangement-committee heads are: business, Gene Howley; tickets, Jack Rosshirt; decorations, John Reidy; refreshments, Mike Scanlon; hotel and blind date arrangements, Bill Woodward; entertainment, Jack Ryan; publicity, Jack Sand; and the Communion Breakfast, Ron Mazzoli.
COL. MELIE J. COUTLEE
Brings AF Selection Team Here
Air Force to Discuss Training Setup Here
An Aviation Cadet Selection Team from the Flying Training Air Force will be at the Dining Hall Monday through Saturday to provide interested students with the latest information on the Air Force’s Air Cadet Procurement plan.
The five-man team, headed by Major J. E. Allison of Craig Air Force Base, Alabama, is not only qualified to recruit for the training program, but also to make available as much information as possible to students who will soon complete their education, and are interested in flying commissions with the Air Force.
For these interested students, the team offers qualification for entry into the training program, and a by-passing of the usual red tape involved.
Students at Notre Dame will, if qualified by Major Allison, be sent to Chanute Air Force Base, Illinois, for testing and final qualification. If finally qualified, these students will receive a certificate of qualification entitling them to enlist in the two-year training program at any time they desire.
As the program is comparatively new, very little is known about it by most students, and the Selection team will have all the latest information on the developments of the program, such as easiei' physical requirements, deferment, and additional training.
The two-year enlistment would be taken up with a year of training with pay, and completion of training offers a commission as Second Lieutenant, with an annual salary of $5,300 a year. Information folders and fact sheets can be obtained from the interviewing officers in the lobby of the Dining Hall next week..
16
The Scholastic
The Battle in Bengal by Bryan Coughlin
Ever wonder why the Bengal bouts are held?
The answer is thousands of miles from the Notre Dame Fieldhouse. It concerns a poor people in a country infested with famine, sickness, and poverty. But even more, it concerns the Holy Cross Congregation, which, for a hundred years, has carried out a mission that now derives some of its support from the annual Bengal Bouts held here at Notre Dame.
A Gradual Growth
The success of that small mission in Bengal, East Pakistan, has been great. Despite numerous difficulties and discouraging setbacks, the first tiny band of three Priests, three Brothers, and three Sisters, has grown to a group of over 190 religious. There are now three dioceses in Pakistan, two of them raised to metropolitan status, and a fourth to be erected soon. The recent appointment of an Apostolic Delegate to Pakistan shows the growing importance of that field in the Church.
Conditions in Bengal do not make mission work easy. Its total population is about nine times that of Michigan—31 million Moslems and 11 million Hindus crowded into an area almost as large as Michigan. Three languages are spok-• en, Bengali, Garo, and English, but a fourth, Urdu, is now being taught in the schools, and it is thought that it will soon be second to Bengali. And
Scene in a Garo village in the mountains of Pakistan 150 miles from Dacca.
the country has but two cities, Dacca and Mymensingh.
. . . Rice Fields and Jungles"
The bulk of the work of the Holy Cross Fathers is done in Dacca and the Garo-land, the hill country about 150 miles from Dacca. The rest of the country is composed of rivers, rice fields, and jungles. The people are the poorest imaginable. Periodic famines, sickness, poverty, and death are the lot of these millions.
The misery of the people is enough to show why such help as that given each year by the Bengal Bouts is needed so acutely. But that isn’t all that is needed. Out of a population of 42 million, only about 40,000 are Catholic. Money is needed to send and support more priests and other religious in the field.
The salaries of catechists (Laymen well-versed in the truths of the Faith who precede the priests into the villages, instructing the people before the missionary arrives to baptize, confess, say Mass and otherwise see to the spiritual needs of the people) must be paid, hospitals and schools must be supported, facilities for the training of native priests and religious must be developed, and a myriad of other projects must be continued or inaugurated. There is more than ample need for the help furnished by such projects as the Ben-
Fr. McMahon with two Bengali boys.
gal Bouts, and the personal contributions of many Catholics.
The Bengal Bouts support, or more properly, help support such projects as the 24 established mission stations in the country, with their numerous outstations. There are also three hospitals, 14 dispensaries, two foundling homes, five orphanages, 99 primary schools, seven middle schools for boys and girls, five high schools, two colleges, eleven hostels, two publications, a home for the aged, the preparatory seminary and the Convent of Perpetual Adoration. But there’s still a job to be done. Evidence of the prevailing conditions in Bengal is ample. Many students will remember popular Father Albert Croce, C.S.C., who was at Notre Dame for many years. Father Croce departed for Bengal not many months ago, and recently wrote about Dacca, the city in which he is stationed while teaching at St. Gregory’s College.
Message from Bengal
Said Father Croce: “The people here throw everything out the windows (there is no such thing as a glass window) right on to the street. As I walk to Perpetual Adoration Convent every morning to celebrate Mass, I have to pick my way among the debris—dead chickens, goats' heads, rotten vegetables, feathers, and human refuse. The main street is only 20 feet wide, with no sidewalks, but with narrow gutters on each side, down which flows the filth of the whole city. A person with a weaker stomach than mine might have difficulty, but I’m used to it now.”
Father Croce went on. “One of the greatest things the Holy Cross Fathers are doing here is in the line of education. Almost all the Moslem leaders beg (Continued on page 24)
Feb. 27, 1953
17
1 ►
4
WcMiitUftoti 2bay AadteM
Zhe Individual and the Masses
By Alfred C. DeCrane
18
The Scholastic

Father Joyce, honored guests, fellow seniors of the Class of 1953, and Friends:
Tradition is a dynamic and influential force in the life of any people. Not only that type of tradition which prompts us to gather in ceremonies such as these to honor national heroes, but also that larger body of feeling which fashions the environment and mores of a nation. However, custom, like all powerful forces, can be dangerous, and must be carefully controlled. T. S. Eliot has pointed out “. . . if the only form of tradition, of handing down, consisted in following the ways of the immediate
generation before us in a blind or timid adherence to its successes, ‘tradition’ should positively be discouraged.”
And so this morning, during a ceremony which carries with it one hundred and four years of tradition, it is well to pause, to reflect, to investigate our own state, to consider the possibility of our “blind or timid adherence” to the past.
The history of the United States has .been .a narrative of change, expansion and . amalgamation. At the beginning of that^history, George Washington provided his immense strength of leader
ship, his powerful personal influence. But we are too much accustomed to thinking of Washington — as Samuel E. Morison, the Harvard historian has properly pointed out—“only as a child or a general or an old, old man; priggish hero of the cherry-tree episode, commander-in-chief, or the Father of his country, writing a farewell address.”
As a result we fail to realize that he was not “a solemn old bore.” We fail to realize that he was once, like ourselves, “a young man, with all the bright hopes and black despairs to which young men are subject,” a young man strug-

gling with difficulties akin to our own. The fact is, however, that our difficulties are made even more acute, as Professor Morison recognizes, by the mechanization of a mass age. The truth is that we have to try to discern and to deal with these problems, employing something at least of the young Washington’s “wisdom, poise, and serenity.”
Our country has been called the melting pot of the world, and the mass media of communication have retold far too often how millions have journeyed here to become assimilated—to become Americans.
We have seen the expansion of industry and the development of “the great American fortune,” under a system of “rugged individualism”; we have seen such a system give way to unionism and benefits for- the many. Much of this action and development—the building of the American tradition—has been good. However, much of it has contributed to what Ortega y Gasset has termed “the revolt of the masses.”	.
Just what is this revolt? How has it come about? What are its consequences? And how does it affect us gathered here in our academic robes?
The stage for the action of the revolt of the masses has been prepared by three forces: liberal democracy, scientific experiment, and industrialism, and the last two might simply be phrased technicism. With these factors at work, the early part of this century became a leveling period—a leveling of great fortunes, of the cultures between the social classes, and of the sexes. Difference became frowned upon, and more and more we came to shroud ourselves in a false stereotype of democracy.
The "Mass” Arrives
When there evolved a greater interest in social benefit and “rugged individualism” fell into disrepute, it carried with it the words “person” and “individual.” We came to look upon their significance as evil and undemocratic. And it was just such action which brought the “mass.” Not the mass in the Marxian sense, mind you, but the mass which Ortega y Gasset has defined as “. . . all that which sets no value on itself—good or evil—based on specific grounds, but feels itself ‘just like everybody’, and nevertheless is not concerned about it; is, in fact, quite happy to feel itself as one with everybody else.”
There have been myriad factors which have contributed to the rise of the mass: Our entire technical age—that standardization which the industrial system has developed. Mass advertising which has sold the same product to millions by convincing them that they must not be excluded and must have this or that, because everybody else has it. The
mass production of homes which has thrown many into exact duplication of their neighbors’ homes, and of all the homes on the next six or seven streets. The mass consumption of passive recreation. All these factors, coupled with decline of Christian consciousness the secularized classification of all life into utilitarian and hedonistic categories, have helped develop the mass.
A Stereotyped People
The culmination of this standardization has been the production of a stereotyped people who feel that to be different is to be indecent, and who attempt to crush or ridicule all that is different and excellent, individual and select. Anybody who is not like every-
AL DE CRANE
“. . . With a Purpose of Existence”
body, who does not think like everybody, runs the risk of being eliminated (or, at the very least, dismissed as eccentric) .
And it is ciear, of course, that this ev ryb> .dy is not everybody. Everybody w.-._ >rmally the complex unity of the ilicloS and the divergent specialized minorities. Nowadays, everybody is the mass alone. Here we have the formidable fact ;.f our time, described without any of the concealment of the brutality of its features.
The Personal "I”
However, I do not feel that we may stand today and condemn the Western industrial system, with all its standardization, as the sole cause of our plight. I do not feel that any system is entirely at fault; I do feel, however, that those who allow themselves to become involved in the easy and molded method of standardization are equally to blame. Introspection will prove that we have
allowed ourselves to rocket along the “lines of least resistance.”
We see that in a whirling and journalized society which is based on the five journalistic questions of who? what?" when? where? how? we have been more than disposed to pass through experience: without asking the more important question of why?—with all its Christian ramifications. And it is precisely this-last question which must become indigenous to our composition—not that we become skeptics, but that we become thinking, vibrant Christian individuals —Christian individuals with a true intellectual curiosity and an interest in. the development of ourselves—the personal “I”.
The answer to the problem is not a. quantitative increase in education as we have it today: “that is to say more education given to more people for longer and longer periods.” Indeed, an extension of such education only contributes to the massing of men -without augmenting the glorification of the individual soul.
In high-speed modern education we have difficulty doing more than simply-instructing our new mass in the techniques of the society in which they find themselves, giving them formulae based on tradition, but in no manner- equipping them to solve the problems which, they are sure to face.
“A Definite Purpose in Life”
We here, however, have been more fortunate. We have not been educated in a system which has prepared us to meet only the technical problems of a mass world—we have been instructed in the dignity of the human person, a. creation of God. We know that man is capable of living like an animal—or even more truly, like a thing—but we also know that he is not a thing; we feel that to live like one is a dereliction of duty. We know that we are creatures of an Almighty God with a definite purpose in life, and that we cannot, because of our dignity as rational creatures, allow ourselves to be ingurgitated by the mass. Nor may we completely flee from this mass.
Emmanuel Monier tells us that “personal life begins with the ability to break contact with the environment, to recollect oneself, to reflect, in order to re-constitute and re-unite oneself on one’s own centre.” But then he agrees with. Toynbee and speaks of the return—the withdrawal for the purpose of personal enlightenment and the return for the purpose of enlightenment of fellow men.
It is hardly sufficient to become humanistic! We are Christians with a purpose of existence. It is the contemplation of this purpose with its relation (Continued on page 30)
Feb. 27, 1953
19
Prof. Fischer to Discuss Future Effects of TV On Journalism at Rensselaer Press Meeting
Prof. Edward A. Fischer of the Department of Journalism will deliver the main address at a press workshop at St. Joseph’s College, Rensselaer, Ind., tomorrow and Sunday. He will speak on “The New Journalism,” considering chiefly the future effects of television on journalism.
Professor Fischer is an alumnus of St. Joseph’s College, where he was also Director of Publicity prior to joining the faculty here.
Five members of the Scholastic staff will also attend the conference, which is sponsored by the NFCCS Fort Wayne Region Press Commission. The Commission is centered at St. Joseph’s College.
Representing Notre Dame will be Don Carbone, associate editor of the Scholastic; Pat Carrico, news editor; Larry Brehl, assistant news editor; Jack Sand, sports editor; and Bill Noonan, assistant sports editor. Their trip will be financed by the University NFCCS Council.
Opening at 1:30 p. m. tomorrow with
“Breakfast? I'm waiting for lunch!"
Professor Fischer’s address, the conference will close Sunday at noon. Following the one hour initial session, three topics will be considered in panel discussions during the afternoon. Two different panels will consider the same topic at the same time. The different opinions expressed will be reported immediately prior to the conference’s closing on Sunday.
The purpose of' the conference is to discuss and attempt to settle various problems of campus newspapers.
Various subjects to be considered by the panel groups are the scope of editorials, the means of gathering all campus news, advertising effectiveness, and continuity of staffs each year.
The Notre Dame group will conduct one of the panels, the topic being “How to Cover the Campus Completely.” Don Carbone will give a 10-minute talk on the subject, and Pat Carrico will act as discussion leader.
At the closing session Sunday morning, following the fourth discussion, the
panel summaries will be given.
Besides the Notre Dame and St. Joseph College delegates, there will be representatives from St. Mary’s of Notre Dame; Aquinas College, Grand Rapids, Mich; Marian College, Indianapolis; Nazareth College, Kalamazoo, Mich; St. Francis College, Fort Wayne; and St. Mary’s of the Woods, Terre Haute.
Fr. Carey Clarifies Campus Lenten Rules
Further clarification of the Lenten regulations of fast and abstinence, as they pertain to Notre Dame, was included in a recent statement issued by Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C., Prefect of Religion.
According to the laws of fast, everyone between the ages of 21 and 59 inclusive are allowed only one full meal a day during the weekdays of Lent. Due to the problem of large scale meal preparation for a group of those both over and under the age of 21, the Bishop of Fort Wayne grants a dispensation from the general law of fasting and abstaining for Notre Dame students, faculty members, employees, and others whenever they eat their meals on campus. Visitors to the University campus are also included in this dispensation, and the bounds of the campus are defined so as to include Vetville.
Father Carey stressed the fact that this dispensation is local and not a personal dispensation for students. The special privileges are restricted to the campus and do not apply to students living on campus who go into town to eat. An on-campus boarder eating in South Bend is bound by the laws of the diocese. The diocese permits one full meal each day, either dinner or supper. Hence, meat may be eaten once a day at the noon or evening meal, in South Bend.
Off-campus students are granted the same Lenten privileges enjoyed by students living on campus. Therefore, the same dispensation governing campus boarders is applicable to off-campus boarders, regardless of where they eat their meals, and regardless of age.
In regard to the laws of abstinence, which apply to everyone over seven years of age, Father Carey pointed out that abstinence forbids the eating between meals. Therefore, when in South Bend only liquids are allowed for campus students in excess of the normal three meals.
Father Carey made known that a Retreat for graduate students will be the only Lenten Retreat. The fifth week-end in Lent has been set aside for this Retreat, while further plans are yet to be released.
20
The Scholastic
“SCHOLASTIC” WRITERS
Students interested in writing news for the Scholastic may apply at the regular news meetings, every Wednesday night at 7 p.m., in the northeast corner, basement of Farley Hall.
Experience in news writing or publications work required.
—Pat Carrico, News Ed.
Fr. Coogan Discusses Criminology Tonight
The first in a new series of lectures sponsored by the Department of Sociology will be given by Eev. John E. Coogan, S.J., tonight at 8 o’clock in the Law Auditorium. The topic of his talk will be “Crime and Individual Responsibility.”
The department has arranged a schedule of evening lectures to be given in the Law Auditorium, and other day lectures which will be conducted in some of the larger class rooms of the Main Building. The latter, described as “Sociology Periods,” will be confined to a single class period of 50 minutes. They will be arranged at different hours so that students may adjust them to free periods on class schedules.
Father Coogan has long maintained that American criminologists have ignored the important places of religion and free will in their treatment of a crime problem. Two articles of his on this topic in recent issues of Federal Probation have aroused nation-wide interest and prompted several prominent sociologists to defend their positions.
The Sociology Period Series will be started by Dr. E. K. Francis of the local Sociology Department. He will deliver an address on the McCarran Immigration Act at 10:30 a. m. next Friday in Room 222 of the Main Building. Any student who is free at that hour is invited to attend. A brief discussion period will follow the lecture.
Announce Essay Competition
Competition for the Dockweiler Medal has been announced by the Notre Dame Department of Philosophy. The medal is an annual award to the senior- in the College of Arts & Letters who submits the best essay on some philosophical subject.
Essays should be turned in at the Office of the Department of Philosophy, 214 Main Building, by March 30, 1953. There are no limitations on length nor subject material of the essay and the winner will be announced on April 22.
David L. Cole Principal Speaker at Regional Labor-Management Arbitration Talks Today
Approximately 500 businessmen and spokesmen of the nation’s economic ranks are gathered on the campus today for one of the largest Labor-Management Relations Arbitration Conferences on record.
David L. Cole, director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, is principal speaker.
Cole, who has served on several presidential boards investigating major disputes in the railroad, steel, and bituminous coal industries, will speak on “The Role of Government in Industrial Disputes.”
The regional Conference is sponsored jointly by the Department of Economics and the College of Law in cooperation
REV. MARK J. FITZGERALD, C.S.C.
Directs Labor-Management Conference
with The American Arbitration Association. More than 400 advance registrations were received, making it necessary to transfer conference sessions from the Law Auditorium to the Engineering Auditorium, according to the Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., conference chairman.
The Conference luncheon- was held at the Morris Inn. Those attending the session were welcomed to the campus by the Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the University.
Other speakers include J. Noble Braden, executive vice-president of The American Arbitration Association, keynote speaker at the Conference; Hon. Curtis G. Shake, former Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Indiana, speak
ing on “The Law and Arbitration”; and Joseph S. Murphy, of the Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States, discussing “Arbitration Procedures and Techniques.” Presiding at the various sessions are John H. Sheehan, head of Notre Dame’s Department of Economics; Joseph O’Meara, Jr., dean of the College of Law; and John J. Broderick, assistant Dean of Law.
Peter M. Kelliher, moderator of a panel discussion of “The Arbitration of Grievances,” is a Chicago arbitrator. Participating in the .discussion were: Harry Abrahams, Chicago arbitrator; Lee M. Burkey, Asher, Gubbins and Segall, Chicago; L. A. Combs, director of Industrial Relations, Container Corporation of America, Chicago; Arthur Donovan, Kahn, Dees, Donovan and Kahn, Evansville, Ind.; S. G. Gregory, director of industrial relations, Borg-Warner Corp., Muncie, Ind.; Orval J. Kincaid, district director, United Steelworkers of America, CIO, Gary, Ind.; and James McDonald, head business representative, Intei-national Association of Machinists, AFL, Chicago.
A practice arbitration hearing of an actual industrial dispute is a highlight of the conference’s afternoon agenda. Three arbitrators including John Day Larkin, Chicago, Robert C. Egry, South Bend, and Bert L. Luskin, Chicago, are hearing evidence and witnesses supporting both the positions of labor and management before withdrawing to formulate their decision.
Participating in the mock hearing are Frank J. Gillespie, secretary-treasurer, Dairy Employees No. 754, AFL, Chicago; Raymond Shetterly, International Representative, United Autoworkers, CIO, Indianapolis; Nicholas C. Vrataric, regional director, United Paperworkers, CIO, South Bend; George P. Ryan, of Ross, McCoro, Ice and Miller, Indianapolis; R. B. Young, Continental Foundry and Machinery Co., East Chicago, Ind.; and E. R. Willemin, Bendix Aviation Corp., South Bend. .
While the arbitrators are preparing-their decision, the members of the audience are also voting. The consensus of the audience is compared with the arbitrators’ decision in a critique of the practice hearing led by: Leland Beard, vice-president, Federation of Glassworkers, CIO, Columbus, Ohio; L. H. Doidge, president, Oilworkers Union 210, CIO, Hammond, Ind.; Emmett Ferguson of Ferguson and Keating, Lafayette, Ind.; and John J. Ryan of Pierce Governor Co., Inc., Anderson, Ind.
Feb. 27, 1953
21
WIBB Mike Chatter
“Hear him there—the ZULU WARRIOR
Local Cinema Makes Good . . .
About mid-afternoon some nine days ago we wandered into the Washington Hall movie palace prepared to endure the jibes and jests of the popcorn set. The only explanation we can give for such a devil-may-care sortie into noman’s land was a poster promising a story called Great Expectations by one Charles Dickens, an author of some note. However, there were no jibes and jests.
Maybe the lack of one of those innocuous Saturday cartoons, or the quarter admission charge which confronted the little folk caused the obvious shortage of the usual clever and eagerly shared remarks of the seasoned balcony critics. Yet, we feel there may be a reason for this in the movie itself.
Surely no cne who viewed the English deuaituient presentation of Great Expectaciors can feel that the usual Washington Hall fare measures up to it. Even though last Saturday’s O. Henry’s Full House was an honest attempt to present a worthwhile Hollywood production, it received its share of pointed comment.. We can see two possible reasons for the interrupting shouts: first of all, good as the film was, 0. Henry is not Dickens; secondly, shouting at Saturday movies is a reflex acquired by the Notre Dame student after years of sitting through bush productions. If the Brother who tries to keep order at the poor man’s Colfax would like to make his job easier, he ought to slip the word to the movie selection board that just because a film has music and technicolor, it isn’t necessarily good. We believe that there is a direct mathematical proportion between the quality of the picture and the crescendo of the catcalls. •
No one can say that it’s impossible to find movies worthy of presentation. If the taste of the committee that chooses these films is slipping, we suggest that they hire advisers from local campus clubs. It sterns of late that the presentations of the Chicago and Met. clubs have far excelled the usual fare of Washington Hall. Stop and compare for a moment, Meet John Doe, The Snake Pit, and Great Expectations with Wait Till the Sun Shines Nellie. Now some die-hard Hall fans will shout The Man in the White Suit defiantly at us,
but its appearance was not only an exception to the rule, but for some reason a closely guarded secret. World in His Arms was announced, if you’ll remember.
If the English department and campus clubs can find and show good movies, we certainly feel that 'Washington Hall could try it. We wish they’d stop working on the theory, “If it’s technicolor, it’s bound to be good.”
Boulder and Boulder, Colder and Colder . . .
For those stout hearted fellows who have braved the rigors of an Indiana winter rather than pay the offensive prices of the NIT, we impart, free of charge, a money saving tip. Dean Martin is a singer, Jerry Lewis is a comedian. Saturday’s bill includes Dean Martin and Jerry Lewis at the local cinema in Jumping Jacks, and Dean Martin and Jerry Lewis in The Stooge at the Colfax. Same antics, different titles; free vs. 70c.
Finally ... a few orchids . . .
Every so often the Granada theater adopts the role of the experimental theater for South Bend. Not long ago it presented The Thief, a dialogueless movie, and last Saturday night we were fortunate enough to wander in on a twin bill which included The Four Poster. This was a screen adaptation of Jand Hertog’s current stage success of the same name. It featured only cwo actors, Rex Harrison and Lilli Palmer, and was set in a single room. The time sequence between scenes was given a particularly novel and effective touch by the Hollywood producers. They employed cartoon-type, two dimensional line drawings, reminiscent of the Gerald Me Boing-Boing and Mr. Magoo cartoons which have been so popular. These animated interludes served the dual purpose of the scene changers and were effective in relieving the tension of but two actors in a single setting. Unfortunately, The Fozir Poster has left Test Town while The Stooge lingers on.
Jack Dilenschneider Gerry Voit
•	Jack Werner
Hear him now—the ZULU Chief."
“Step right up, folks, and meet the one, the only, genuine ZULU WARRIOR ! Direct from starring engagements in the diamond mines of deepest, darkest Africa and the famous Shrunken Head Theater on the tip of the Cape of Good Hope, to the microphones of WNDU comes the most fabulous personality in ages 1!! Hurry! Hurry! Hurry! See the fierce ZULU WARRIOR tear apart your favorite artists. He hunts the heads of the great and the small right before your very ears! Hurry! Hurry! Hurry! The ZULU WARRIOR is here for only a limited engagement—only until May 17! Hear him now at 5:15 at 640 kc on WNDU. Hurry! Hurry! Hurry!
Yes, this semester WNDU has inaugurated its own course in musical depreciation.
We found the Zulu Warrior, the man who is afraid of no one, hiding in the depths of Dillon Hall. We put him on the air at 5:30 a couple of weeks ago, from which spot he has been adding to his collection of shrunken heads. He did so well at it from that spot that we thought he might find a happier hunt-
ing ground at 5:15. So last Monday, our favorite savage took his blow gun and loincloth over to the pre-dinner spot.
Besides his haunts in Dillon and the labs of the pre-med department, we’ve been able to convince the Warrior that some excellent specimens can be found at some of the various campus gatherings. He came out to try it at the Mardi Gras and found so many excellent heads that he tells me that he’ll be at the rest of the big occasions. Look for him. You can’t miss the guy.
—Bryan Coughlin
h i k
22
The Scholastic
Srad S^otes
The highlight of last week’s foreign student reception was a very interesting and informative lecture by Dr. Waldemar Gurian on “New Trends in Soviet Foreign Policy,” which was followed by a lively discussion. Graduate students from St. Mary’s acted as hostesses, ably assisted by Joe Graham, our roving philosopher from Canada.
The Lenten season is one in which we can at least endeavor to live a little nearer to the examples Christ showed us. With these thoughts in mind a retreat is being planned, we were informed by President Lou Glun-i. Let us hope the Graduate School will be able to be proud of itself by turning out en masse for this worthy occasion. Full details will be made available .in our next column.
In the past, attendance at the Graduate Student Association meetings fluctuated somewhat drastically. Apparently the impetus needed to draw a crowd is an attractive and controversial topic for the featured speakers. If this be true, then the forthcoming meeting — planned for early March — should be as packed as Sweeney’s on St. Patrick’s Day (The beverage won’t be green, however.) All guns must be checked at the door and a representative of the Bengal Bouts will be present to sign up any who failed to come to an agreeable solution on the intellectual level.
Last week we hailed the new administration, but today we shall follow the example observed in Washington where the incoming Republicans had tears in their eyes while they enumerated the virtues of their predecessors. Thanks for a swell job fellows; the Association is your baby and we shall try to do as good a job as you d’d. With growing impatience we are waiting for the first edition of ex-President Leo St. Pierre’s memoirs •. . .
In conclusion: we would like to inform you about our change of policy in writing this column. We decided to run it as a serial in the future. This way if the type-setter runs out of space he may add a “to be continued” instead of just leaving out a part of the last paragraph as happened last week. But it isn’t really too bad, he could have cut us off in the middle of a sent. . . .
To be continued ....
Boh Wray
Ivan de Huszovsky
Sequel . . .
Pandemonium reigned at Erton Emad on a September day some time from now when the incoming girls discovered that a boy was enrolled as a member of the freshman class.
But the man of the hour, Reginald Phisbee, took it all in stride. Ever since he could remember, he had always got what he wanted and his enrollment at Erton Emad was just the latest in his string of triumphs.
It seems that Reggie’s favorite sport was tiddlywinks. And though tiddlywinks was considered a girl’s game, it never bothered him when the fellows called him a sissy. For Reggie was a brilliant player, and it gave him a kind of secret thrill to beat the girls at their own game.
Astonishment and Ire
Reggie was an outstanding student as well as an athlete, and it was largely agreed that he could write his own ticket when it came to selecting a college. Still, he caused many a raised eyebrow when he announced he would attend Erton Emad the following fall and try out for the tiddlywinks team. The reason for the astonishment was apparent. For Reggie, despite his eccentricities, was a male and Erton Emad was reserved exclusively for females.
Officials at Erton Emad were quick to point this out to Reggie after he had sent in his letter of application. They advised him to apply for admission to St. Syram’s instead. But this curt reply only seiwed to enrage the Phisbees.
(Continued on page 33)
Feb. 27, 1953
Medical School Entrance Exam Set
All premedical students planning to enter a medical school in the Fall of 1954 must take the Medical College Admission Test which will be administered May 9 by the Department of Testing and Guidance.
Application blanks and bulletins of information may be obtained in the office of the Dean of the College of Science, Room 248, Nieuwland Science Hall. They must be on file in Princeton, N. J., on or before April 25.
Cleveland Club Selects New Officials
Cleveland Clubbers elected a new panel of officers recently. The new president is Jack Coyne, a freshman in the College of Law. The other officials are: Vice-President Jim Liberatore, Arts and Letters junior; Don McLaughlin, a junior AB student, treasurer; Bill Woodward, secretary, a junior in the College of Engineering; and freshman law student Jack Mooney, public relations manager.
"My deferment was coming along fine till I hit Qualitative Analysis."
Dr. DeKoninck Gives Philosophy Talk
Last Wednesday night Dr. Charles DeKoninck, dean of the faculty of philosophy at Laval University, Quebec, Canada, delivered a lecture on “The Teaching of Philosophy and Theology in a Lay Liberal College” in the Faculty Lounge.
DeKoninck’s appearance at Notre Dame was sponsored by the Committee on Self-Study.
Pianist Mather Gives Recital
Carl Mather, faculty member of the Department of Music, presented a piano recital at St. Joseph’s College, Rensa-leer, Ind., Wednesday evening. The program included works by Beethoven, Schubert, Liszt, and Chopin.
Mr. Mather plans to give a recital on campus in March. This presentation will feature some of the last sonatas by Beethoven.
A concert tour has been arranged for him in Omaha and Sydney, Neb., in May. Four appearances are already scheduled.
Bengal
(Continued from page 17) to have their children in our schools. St. Gregory High School has an enrollment of over 1,000, and could easily double that if we had the room. We hope that by teaching them (the Moslems) the profane subjects, we can illuminate the subjects with slants of morality that are Christian, for we can never teach Christianity openly in the schools where we have Moslems in attendance.”
A Growing Attendance
Even though the Holy Cross Fathers are trying to take care of Christians in the schools first, so many Moslems are seeking the benefits of the Christian education system that over fifty percent of the enrollment of all of the schools is Moslem. The new College of St. Gregory is an example of how hungry the people are for education. In its first year it had “21 brave students,” in its second year, 54, and now, in its third year, over 160. Next year, when the new science department opens, they expect over 300.
The school, according to Father Croce, is crowded beyond any desirable condition. Students who can stay at the school sleep six to a room. The priests who-teach at the College sleep in very crowded quarters across from the school. They are so crowded that one priest lives in the College itself, while Father Croce and another priest live at the Provincial’s house. One of the priests who lives in the regular quarters sleeps in a make-shift room on the roof of the building.
Many Needs and Problems
There are other problems. Late last year one of the largest boarding schools burned to the ground. (The students there were too poor to be expected to rebuild it.) St. Gregory High School and College need additions. Hospitals, schools, leper colonies, and many other things are needed. There are small fees charged in the high schools and Colleges, but they are not even adequate to keep up the priests and nuns who teach there, much less pay for the upkeep of the buildings, and for the hired professors. All this and much more must be done.
All this is the reason for twenty-two years of Bengal Bouts. If you attend this year’s Bouts, you will be giving a small word of encouragement to the priests who have a difficult job in a strange country.
24
The! Scholastic
Indiana Hosts ND Thinclads Tonight
NCAA Tourney
(Continued from page 9)
13-14 in Chicago Stadium. At this juncture the Irish will either draw Indiana, the Big Ten Champ, or possibly Penn, current leaders in the Ivy League. An Indiana-Notre Dame tilt would cause almost as much excitement as the finals, since the Hoosiers haven’t forgotten the 71-70 defeat they suffered at the hands of the Jordanmen.
Besides the entries already mentioned are Seattle and Idaho State, both of whom will fight it out on March 9. The eventual winner will take on Washington, possessor of the Pacific Coast title. Other possibilities in the western section are Brigham Young or Utah State from the Skyline Conference; and Pacific independent, Santa Clara.
In the east, No. Carolina St. or No. Carolina will represent the Southern Conference, while LSU has sewed up the Southeastern title and a tourney bid. From the New England district will in all probability come Holy Cross, while the Mid-American Conference in Ohio might produce Miami the current pacesetter.
Moving into the Southwest, it looks (Continued on page 29)
CAPT. LEWINSKI, COACH JORDAN NCAA Bid, Fitting Tribute
Harrington, Springer Look to Hoosier Meet After Record-Breaking Fieldhouse Display
Indiana’s Hoosiers play host to the invading Irish tonight as Coach Alex Wilson’s thinclads shoot the works in an attempt to comeback from last Friday’s beating at the hands of Michigan.
The Hoosiers are placing a well-regarded 23 man squad against Notre Dame which includes sixteen lettermen. The Indiana team is somewhat of an unknown quality though, since they just recently opened their season against Missouri’s Tigers at Columbia. However, their main strength seems to rest in the 440 and 880 yard middle distances together with the mile and two-mile run.
Mal Edwards and Bob Richards lead the field in the 440, while teammates, Jack Hagan, Stu Templeton, and John La Brush form a strong trio in the 880. Hagan also doubles as a miler with Jim Lambert and Fred Van Eck.
Indiana’s main hopes in their other forte, the two-mile, include George Bran-am, Lowell Zellers, and Jack Wellman.
The remaining Hoosier entries are: 60 yards; Fred Watson, Ken Gibson, Bob Williamson; Mile Relay; Edwards, Richard, Greg Lawson, Mike Cusick; High Hurdles; John Bartkiewicz; Low Hurdles; Williamson, Bartkiewicz; Shot Put; Bill Bergmann, John Peterson; Pole Vault; Jerry Clark, Jud Pratt; Broad Jump; Pratt, Stan Loos, Bob Jackson; High Jump; Jim Harper.
Last Friday Notre Dame’s track team met their match against a powerful Michigan squad as they dropped a 7826 decision. Coach Wilson figured the Wolverines for a tough opponent and was left with little doubt that they were good since the Ann Arbor school came up with nine firsts in twelve events.
However, in the other three events Notre Dame aces Harvey Newquist and Jim Harrington accounted for three of the five new meet records. Newquist especially was outstanding as he edged out Michigan’s star hurdler, Van Bruner, in both the 60 yard highs and 60 yard lows. Both of these resulted in meet records and the Irish runners
SPRINGER (L), HARRINGTON
14 Ft. Cleared—What About 15
06:9 clocking for the lows was merely one tenth of a second off the world record.
Harrington Vaults To New Record
Harrington, who has been a real solid performer in the pole vault, provided another of the meet records and a first for the Irish by clearing 14 feet, one half inch. Notre Dame’s Joe Springer copped second place behind Harrington with a 13 foot vault.
The rest of the meet was all Michigan as the Wolverines swept four and set two. new marks. In the shot put Fritz Nilsson rewrote the books with a 52% -inch throw. The Michigan mile relay quartet was responsible for a new record on a time of 3:20.3, breaking the old mark of 3:21.
George Lynch equaled Newquist’s double-win while leading the Wolverines to victories in the mile and two-mile. In both of these he tied for first, with John Ross in the mile, then with Bob Hale and John Moule in the two^mile.
Miler Jack Alexander was good for
Feb. 27, 1953
25
CAPT. ED POWELL
Follows Newquist in Hurdles
third in that event while teammate Tony Genovese finished up the Notre Dame scoring for the night with a fine performance in the broad jump. Genovese hurtled 21 and a half feet as he finished second and missed a- first by nine inches.
Hall Basketball Race Tight; Teams Vie For Tourney Slot
With the annual intermural basketball tournament just around the corner, the afternoon and evening leagues are nearing the climax of a successful season. The winners in each of the various brackets of both leagues will advance to the tourney which will determine the ’52-’53 campus champion.
The standings are so close that Ernie Szekely, who is in charge of the tournament, feels that the representatives will not be determined until the final games of the season. Opening round games are scheduled for the beginning of next week. Thus far the Walsh, Badin and Dillon teams are the leaders in the night-time sessions while the New England Club, Law Club, the Air Cadets, West Virginia and Howard Hall pace the afternoon league. On the basis of league games, stiff competition and close contests should feature this year’s championship run.
Results: Evening League — Walsh, 55, Nebraska 27; Zahm, 40, Rock River, 25; Dillon, 43, Akron, 35; Anthracite, 32, Kansas City, 21; Zahm, 36, Accounting, 20; Badin, 54, Rock River, 21. Afternoon League — Air Cadets, 28, Law, 24; Cavanaugh, 35, New Jersey, 24; Howard, 43, Erie, 14; Buffalo, 27, Pittsburgh, 24; Italians, 31, Toledo, 28; Milwaukee, 40, Breen Phillips, 28; West Virginia, 40, Kentucky, 24; Law, 27, Indianapolis, 24; New Jersey, 33, K of C, 19; and New England, 26, Cavanaugh, 24.
Fencers Win Again; Face Badgers, Iowa
Notre Dame’s highly successful 1953 fencing team has added another victim to its list of vanquished opponents. Last Saturday afternoon, the Irish fencers remained undefeated, chalking up victory number eight over Indiana, 18-9. The eighth victory this season gives the Irish fencers a skein of twelve straight dueling wins over a period of two seasons.
In winning each of the three divisions, the Irish duelers encountered difficulties. The epee match was won by a slim 5-4 margin; the foil, 6-3 and the sabre, 7-2.
Another feature of the meet added to the hardships of the afternoon. The electrical apparatus used in recording touches in the epee broke down. The majority of the epee was judged by the officials just by observing the touches by sight. This is very difficult, for epee is an extremely fast moving event in which the whole body is the target, and the touches are very hard to see.
Five ND fencers won two events apiece. Jerry Brainerd and Dick Hull were double winners in the foil, Tom Dorwin won two in the sabre; Rod Duff and Bill Lesso took two in the epee. With six meets remaining the individual won and lost records for the team in eight meets are: Foil—Mooney, 17-4; Brainerd, 14-7; Hull, 14-9; Beeler, 4-2; Waters, 1-0; Sabre: Hurley, 14-4; Fin-
Badin Mermen Win Hall Swimming Meet
Badin Hall splashed their way to first place last week in the first Interhall swimming meet. Lyons Hall was their next closest rival. The Badin mermen captured first in five of the eight races. All totaled, 69 swimmers from five halls participated in the contest.
The Badinites swam their way to winning honors in the 200 yd. backstroke, 200 yd. sweat shirt, 200 yd. butt relay, and 400 yd. obstacle relay. In the 200 yd. relays and sweat shirt race each team sent eight men into the pool, each swimming 25 yds. In the obstacle relay each man went a distance of 50 yds. They also grabbed off second in the 200 yd. relay and 200 yd. breast. Farley was the only other team to cop more than one first, taking both the 200 yd. relay and 200 yd. breast. Lyons took the other first in the 150 yd. medley.
On the basis of 12 points for first, 10 for second, 8 for third, 6 for fourth, and 4 for fifth, Badin amassed a total of 86 points, while second-place Lyons piled up 72. Farley, Morrissey and Howard followed in order, scoring 66, 64, and 24 points respectively.
ney, 16-3; Mandolini, 13-5; Mulrooney, 5-3; Cazeau, 4-2; Dorwin, 2-1; Epee: McGinn, 15-4; Duff, 14-5; McBride, 10-9; Lesso, 5-4; Malfa, 1-3.
Next Saturday the Irish fencers will travel to Iowa foi’ a triangular meet. Coach Brian Duff said Wisconsin has a top-notch team. The Badgers, who have copped four out of their first five matches, are led by Walt Ebling. He won 14 of his first 15 bouts in foils.
If Notre Dame can beat Wisconsin, the Irish will be in a position to become Midwest Champions.
CAPT. JOHN MOONEY
Outstanding In The Foil
The Badin mermen were led by: Larry Kalfelz, Lee Bazany, Ray Tierney, Jack Dwyer, Harry Shay, and Bill Fagan. Others included on the team roster were Paul Kelley, Dick Tierney, Al Kohana-wich, Ed Rodgers, Dan Caferelli, Lou Emerich, Gene Sullivan, Don McLaughlin and Norb Weinberg. Each member of the winning team received a medal.
The second interhall swimming meet of the semester -will be held next Thursday night, March 5, in the “Rock” pool. The contest consists of seven races and a diving exhibition. Thirty-nine medals will be awarded to the individual winners.
A medley of 150 yds. will open the • races with each of the three-man team entered swimming 50 yds., one breast, one back and one crawl. This will be followed by the 200 yd. and 50 yd. free style. All competition for the diving will be held on the low board. Four of the dives are required, two are optional. The 100 yd. free style, 50 yd. back, 50 yd. breast and 200 yd. relay, each team entering four men in the relays, round out the races for honors.—Bob Frolicher
26
The Scholastic
ND Billiard Team Plays In Telephonic Tourney
Thursday evening at Washington Hall, Notre Dame’s billiard team goes into action in the annual Intercollegiate Telephonic Billiard Tournament. The tourney has one of the most unusual setups in college sports.
Some years ago, Charles C. Peterson, who has done much to stimulate interest in college billiards, originated a tournament in which colleges could compete against each other. The impossibility of intercollegiate play with all the contestants gathered together at one time was immediately apparent. Mr. Peterson figured out a way in which colleges could compete against each other and still stay home.
For convenience in reporting, all entrant colleges are divided into groups composed of a maximum of nine schools in each. They all begin play at the same time in that group and half-way during the match and again at the end, telephone reports are made to and from the Billiard Congress headquarters in Chicago. At the time these reports are made, all colleges in that group are on the wire with the Billiard Congress so that in addition to giving the score for each college as it is called, the rest of the colleges can hear and note the progress ' of their opponents in that group.
From this type tournament, the National Collegiate Championship team will be crowned.
Thursday’s match will be the pocket billiard competition. Notre Dame will also compete in the three-cushion tournament on March’ 18. The pocket tournament will be of ten inning duration; the three cushion, 15 innings. There
must be three players on each tourney team as well as alternates, each team must also have a referee and a scorekeeper, usually selected by the pool room manager.
In pockets, the maximum individual total points is 100, ten per inning. In three cushion, the maximum total is 150. Thus, the highest possible team score is 300 for the pockets and 450 for three-cushion.
Tom Krug, the ND pool hall manager, will act as referee for Notre Dame and supervise the action; Ronnie Pratt will be ballracker or scorekeeper. The three men competing in the pocket tournament for the Irish are John Fish, Norm Donato and Bob Rigby. Fish has been competing for two years now; he’s the captain. Tom Melton, Bill Scott and Gerry Turley are the alternates.
In the March 18 three-cushion competition Tracey Gately (capt.), Charlie Weber and Chuck Kintz will represent the Irish with Norm Donato, Jerry Campbell and John Sullivan as the alternates.
Thursday’s match will begin at 7 p. m.
Quarter-Finals Cut Handball Field Down to Four Players
This afternoon marks the close of the quarter-finals of the annual singles handball tournament. From an entry list of 74 the competition has narrowed the field down to but eight players. After this afternoon’s round there will be only four survivors to emerge into the semi-finals. These semi-final matches must be played by March 2 and the two winners will compete in the finals for
(Continued on page 32)
Toledo Keeps Kegler Lead; Pitt, St. Louis Tied in Gold
Toledo in the Blue league; Pittsburgh and St. Louis in the Gold league ride the roost of the Kampus Kegler standings this week as forfeits marred last Sunday’s competition. .
The Toledo rollers, paced by Jack Jasinski’s 497 series, took four points from Grand Rapids Sunday to up their league leading total to 38, seven points bettei- than second place Cleveland’s 31. Toledo has a sensational 28 won, two lost record. Cleveland, with a 23 and seven mark, swept four points from the Metropolitan club. John Reidy led the winners with a 492 string.
The Italian and Buifalo clubs are dead-locked for third place in the Blue league with 29 .points each. Buffalo rolls Toledo this Sunday in what should be one of the year’s top matches.
The standings in the Gold league are about as close as possible. Pittsburgh and St. Louis are tied for- first with 31 points, followed by the Aesculipians with 29 and the Erie club with 28.
Pittsburgh upped their record to 24 and six last Sunday by taking four points from the Knights of Columbus. St. Louis meanwhile gained four points by virtue of a forfeit win over the Accounting club. Red Hoeynck of St. Louis blasted the wood for a 530 series. St. Louis has now won 23 and dropped seven.
Bowling will start- at 1:30 as usual this Sunday.
The annual Notre Dame Doubles Tournament starts March 2 and continues till March 21. There will be bowling every Tuesday, Thursday and Friday during this period.
GOOTCH” REBOUNDS
“GOOTCH” HOOKS . .
Now You See Him, Now You Don’t, Against Rough Marquette Outfit
Feb. 27, 1953
27

By Jack Sand
NCAA Celebration
February 25, 1953: On this memorable date the University of Notre Dame celebrated its first NCAA tournament selection by dedicating the Stephens-Bertrand-Rosenthal-Lewinski fund for the construction of a new record book. On this date also, astronomers the world over were amazed at the sudden change in the temperature. They couldn’t imagine how the hottest night of the year could come right in the middle of winter.
Actually the general consensus of those who saw the 93-67 recordbreaking performance Wednesday evening, were of the opinion that a Notre Dame team never looked better. DePaul coach Ray Meyer will verify that statement. Thirty points in one quarter is enough for any team, but 56 at halftime is just too much. The St. Louis game of ’50 and the Kentucky contest of ’49 were lukewarm compared to this one. Irish mentor Johnny Jordan could easily have left his regulars in to hit the 100 point mark, but instead the good-natured Irishman played his reserves the entire fourth quarter. For awhile it looked as if the old record of 91 points, established against Loras College in 1944 would stand, but a driving layup by John Reynolds took care of that with only a minute or so left in the game.
The victory, by the way, was the 88th for the Irish on the Fieldhouse hardwood since 1942. Over- that same stretch of 11 years Notre Dame has lost only ten home games.
Notre Dame’s “Big Four” finished perhaps, as one of the greatest quartets of pointgetters in the annals of Irish cage history. Dick Rosenthal topped the four with 338 points, while Capt. “Gootch” Lewinski netted 318. Joe Bertrand just missed the 300 circle with 299 markers, and Junior Stephens came through with 288.
Marty O’Connor Benefit Polio Game
This Monday evening at 8:00 in the Fieldhouse, the 1953 seniors will take on next year’s varsity in a benefit polio game for Marty O’Connor, with the proceeds going to the National Polio Foundation. During a brief halftime intermission the Coaches and the Experts will put on an exhibition that as an attraction by itself should be worth the General Admission price of one buck to see. (Student rates are 50 cents, while reserved seats are a dollar-fifty.)
According to Sports Publicist Charlie Callahan, who off-the-record should play with the experts, but won’t, because he wants to be on “Moose” Krause’s side, both games should afford a maximum amount of interest. The main card will pit the graduating seniors led by Capt. “Gootch” Lewinski, Jim Gibbons, Jerry McClosky and Ed Condon against all the undergraduate members of this year’s basketball team, plus a certain number of freshmen as selected by Coach Johnny Jordan.
The seniors on the other hand will be bolstered by five graduating footballers and Johnny Lattner, all of whom can handle a basketball. They will be led by Capt. Jack Alessandrini, game captain, Dave Flood, Bob O’Neil, Virgil Bardash and Ed Buszkiewicz.
Heading the coaches’ lineup will be Athletic Director Ed “Moose” Krause, better known as “Big Bevo.” Krause between 1931-34 became Notre Dame’s only three-time All-American basketball winner. Following Krause will definitely be football coaches Johnny Druze, Bill Early, Bob McBride, Joe McArdle and Wally Ziemba, with the possibility of Frank Leahy seeing a little action.
Among the experts will be coach Joe Boland, WSBT; Joe Doyle, Sports Editor of the South Bend Tribune; Frank Crosier, WHOT, and Vince Doyle, WJVA.
The game will be sponsored by the ND Monogram Cub of which O’Connor is a member.
Rosenthal Holds Lead In ND Scoring Race
A 22-point splurge against Northwestern enabled Dick Rosenthal to increase his once dwindling margin over Norb Lewinski in the race for Notre Dame’s scoring honors. Up to the DePaul game last Wednesday, Rosenthal had tallied 323 points to captain Lewinski’s 304. “Gootch,” playing only half the NU contest, hit for 12 markers, his lowest total in quite awhile.
Behind the two 6’5” hoopsters come the remainder of the “big four,” Joe Bertrand and Jack Stephens. Bertrand scored 277 points for the first 20 games; Stephens, 265. Next in line comes Bill Sullivan with exactly 100 points. Jimmy Gibbons, out of action in the last four-games, has tallied 65 points.
The same order prevails in points per games average. Rosenthal has 16.1; Lewinski, 15.2; Bertrand, 13.8 and Stephens, 13.2.
Among the regulars, Bertrand has the top field goal percentage, making 106 baskets in 254 attempts for .417. Lewinski has made 122 of 351 for .347; Stephens, 84 of 244 for .344 and Rosenthal 127 of 405 for a .313 percentage. Bill Sullivan has a .422 mark made on 38 of 90; Gibbons has connected on 19 of 64 tries for a .298 average.
Rosenthal returns to the top-spot in the matter of foul shooting among-the big four. All in all the averages from the 17-foot line leave quite a bit to be desired. Rosenthal has made 69 of 109 for a .533 average. Next is Bertrand with .590 attained by hitting on 65 for 110. Stephens has 97 for 167 and a .580 average; Lewinski, 60 for 116, a .517 average. Jim Gibbons has made 27 in 40 attempts for .643 and Bill Sullivan 24 of 40 for .600.	—Bill Noonan
!
t
f
1
I
i1
JOE BERTRAND Top Field Goal Percentage
i v
28
The Scholastic
Bengal Competition Looms Strong in Heavies With 147-Lb. Class Drawing Most Contestants
BY BRYAN COUGHLIN
Boxing fans on the campus will be glad to hear that the entrants in this year’s Bengal Bouts are concentrated in the top five weight classes, giving them a lot more bouts than have been seen in the past couple of years. The present line up is subject to change when the boxers finally weigh in on the first day of the fights, but right now, the 147 pound class is the strongest with fifteen men vieing for that crown, while only two are signed up for the crown one step below that, the 135-pound class.
Top interest is the heavy-weight division with seven men signed up, and the light heavies, numbering ten. But none will overlook the 147-pound division with Vic Roblez already down to that weight, and Alex McAngus now trying to train down to that limit. Bob Bickert, a winner last year, is vieing with ten others for the 167-pound trophy, and eleven men will be fighting at the 157 limit. Only six men think they can get down to 127 pounds.
:	Jarvis, Cook Top Heavyweights
;	The two finalists in the Novice
.	Tournament seem to be the best bets at
■	this stage of training in the heavy-
i	weight division. They are, of course,
J	Ed Cook and Gideon Jarvis who gave,
•	perhaps, the best showing in the whole
i	tournament. Both have shown up very
j	well so far in training, and may meet
'	again on March 17. Trying to stop them
•	are Jim Walsh, Frank Lalli, John Happ,
*	John Massa and P. Klebba.
<	Three favorites are beginning to shape
! up in the light-heavies, Tom Murray, !	Lee Getschow, and Ed Sarna. Also try-
I	ing in this class is Alex McAngus’
i brother, Milton, who fought in that division in the recent Novice Tourney. Opposing these are Bill Glass, Hugh Vergasa, Dan Healy, G. O’Hara, G. Mernin, and J. Patz.
The big threat in the 167-pound clashes will be Bickert, who already has one Bengal Bout Trophy in his case. Trying to stop Bob are Jim Curtin, Bill Lederer, Jim Rauh, John Pat Purcell, Don Bergman (an old-timer in the Bengals), Jim Finnegan, John Tobin, Chuck Wears, Jose Alexander, and Pat Cannon.
An equal number of contestants would like to bring home the bacon in the 157-pound bouts, but the competition is a little closer there. Three fav
orites are beginning to emerge in the persons of John Egan, a sophomore seen in last year’s Bengals; Joe Bel-fiore, another sophomore who has had a year of Bengal experience and a year fighting in the CYO bouts before coming to Notre Dame; and John Mulvaney, a junior who first took up boxing during last year’s Bengals. Trying to out-box these men are Dick Lofgren, John McGraw, Frank Gerlitz, Michel Domoreville, John Mooney, Joe Muldrou, and Bill Guilfoile.
Roblez May Meet McAngus
Some of the best fighters in the tournament are fighting for the 147-pound crown. Along with Roblez and McAngus,
CURTIN, NAPOLITANO, MERNIN Heavyweights Ready For Action
about whom nothing more need be said, another man drawing a lot of optimistic comment is coming up in this division. He is Andy Corrao, a.junior from Milwaukee, Wisconsin, whose only previous experience was the Novice Tournament in which he showed a lot of promise while winning the 145-pound championship. A lot of familial* faces are competing in this chapter, including Boris Mehoff, Dick Haefele (who made the finals of the Novice Bouts), Floyd Boerbon (winner of the 140-pound crown in the Novice Tourney), Sal Profaci, Tom McCabe, Larry O’Mara, Jont Tyson, Jim Reno, A. Freda, P. Sigona, and a lad named Gonzales. Boris Mehoff won the 155-pound division of the No
vice competition over Jack Mooney who is fighting for the 157-pound crown in the Bengals. They showed up as two of the better fighters of the Novice Tourney.
Only two contestants thought they could get down to the 135 limit. Pat Drew, a veteran of three years in the Bengals and last year’s boxing club, is the obvious choice over John Lucey.
127-Lb. Division a Tossup
Not much weight but a surprising amount of quality will be the feature of the 127-pound clashes. It is hard to pick favorites in this division, but of the six, three bear close watching, and the other three have good chances. Richard “Spider” McVeigh, who hails from Fairbanks, Alaska, and the veteran of one year in the Bengals, besides taking the 132-pound trophy in the Novice Tourney, along with Brendan Cryan, a senior with two year’s Bengal experience, and Tom Magill, a sophomore with one yeai* in the Bengals to his credit, are the favorites in this division. Facing them will be Fernando Nunez of Durango, Mexico, who faced McVeigh in the finals of the Novice bouts, Dan Buczynski, and George Kluegel.
The entire lineup, promises to afford five nights of the best boxing that has been seen in the famous Bengal Bouts in many seasons. Not only the finals and semi-finals will afford the fans some interesting boxing, but the three nights of preliminaries may show some of the best fights of the whole tourney.
NCAA Tourney
(Continued from page 25) as if Kansas will represent the Big Seven, while Oklahoma A&M is a sure bet from the Missouri Valley. Questionable entrants from the Southwestern conference are either Baylor or Texas, while Arizona or New Mexico A&M will automatically qualify from the Border States. Oklahoma City is a possible independent entrant from that same area.
It seems a fitting tribute to Johnny Jordan’s Fighting Irish eagers to get a crack at the grand-daddy of all tourney’s since they possess the finest ND record (17-4), since the 1946-47 season when Moose Krause coached his squad to a 20-4 mark. Notre Dame has always played a tough schedule, but this year’s lineup of top ranked teams, has more than earned this season’s Irish gang the distinct honor of being the first blue and gold outfit to represent the University in the NCAA tournament—or for that matter any basketball tournament.—Jack Sand.
Feb. 27, 1953
29
University of Oslo Offers Summer School Scholarships
Scholar-ships will be available for study at the University of Oslo Summer School for American students and Institute for English-speaking teachers, it has been announced.
The Oslo scholarship committee has opened competition for a limited number of partial and full scholarships in the Summer School and Institute. A full scholarship — worth $225 — covers board, room, tuition and excursion fees. A partial scholarship, worth $110 will cover tuition and student fees.
Applicants for the Summer School at the University of Oslo must have completed at least their freshman year at an accredited college or university. The Institute for English-speaking teachers will be a special feature of the 1953 session, which is held from June 27 to Aug. 8, 1953.
Designation of scholarships will be made on the basis of financial need, provided the student can meet the application requirements. Further information can be obtained at the Department of Guidance in the Main Building.
DeCrane Address
(Continued from page 19) to reality which develops our rationality—our animality will always see that it has a sufficiency. We may not allow ourselves to become signed with the stamp of mental stagnation upon the completion of the college curriculum. We must continue to judge for ourselves, refuse stereotyped explanations, be curious of intellect, and as Christians judge all in the light of “. . . the still point of the turning world . . . where past and present are gathered,” the Incarnation.
A Return To Spiritual Life
However, we must remember to return to society for the second phase, the influence. And we must remember that the return is to be as a Christian Person. We must not develop intellectual schizophrenia and allow our mental and spiritual life to become separated so that faith becomes withdrawn from the world—or equally as useless and purposeless, we cannot afford to become escapists who carry out a deliberate flight from the world in an attempt for spiritual security.
We must continue to ask the question “why?” and to think for ourselves. We must make great demands on ourselves, condemn what we find in our minds without previous effort, and only accept as worthy of ourselves what is still far above us, and what requires a further effort in order to be reached. It is then that we become excellent men. And it
is excellent men we are to become.
In this ambition we can, as young citizens, be sustained by the thought— happily reiterated by the American historian Morison—that the most widely esteemed of our national heroes, Washington, in his young manhood, “apprehended the great truth that man can only be free through mastery of himself.” For at the age of twenty he saw his duty clearly and he put it first. Thus he became the “liberated, successful, and serene man,” the excellent man to the stature of whom each of us should aspire.
Chicago Clubbers to Choose New Officers in April Election
Chicago Club officers will lay final plans for the Spring elections for the 1953-54 schoolyear at the next regul-larly scheduled meeting.
Although plans for the April elections are merely in the embryonic stage, they contain the usual flamboyant campaigning and lusty battling.
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
SHEEDY was all wet. All the flappers ducked when they spied him. The wave in his hair disappeared. Then he floated a loan of 29f for some Wildroot Cream-Oil, America’s favorite hair tonic. Con-
tains soothing Lanolin. Non-alcholic. Relieves annoying dryness. Removes loose, ugly dandruff. Grooms the hair. Helps you pass the Finger-Nail Test. Now he’s back on the ball, a flippant lover who flappergasts all the girls with his good looking hair. So waddle you waiting floe? Get in the swim with Wildroot CreamOil. Buy it at any toilet goods counter, and ask for it at your barber’s.Remember, you mustache fur Wildroot Cream-Oil.Then the girls will put their seal of approval on you.
R
uoo«> fm un tUilviiMWH
10CUUN0
of 131 So. Harris Hill Rd., Williamsville, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc~ Buffalo 11, N. Y.
President Joe Pagliari and his fellow officers, along with the advisory council, will bow out in mid-April, allowing the newly elected men to conduct the last two meetings of the semester.
Over 500 memberships are now held in the Chicago Club, which qualifies the Windy City crew as the leader in the campus club race by virtue of their various activities and numerous constituents.
On the Spring docket are tentative plans for a brace of dances—one at Easter and the other at the conclusion of test week. The softball tournament, an annual affair with the Hank Sauer • fans, is also being organized to round out the program for the months to come.
Both the Thanksgiving and Christmas dances realized a profit. This has been used, however, to pay past debts to the alumni and help defray the expenses of the sporadically presented movies.
Since each of these productions presents an outlay of $20, the club has accepted memberships from interested out-of-towners.
30
The Scholastic
Placement Nenas
Next week, 16 companies will send representatives to the Notre Dame campus, to interview graduating seniors for jobs.
Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday a representative of E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. will interview B.S. and M.S. civil, electrical, chemical, and mechanical engineers, chemists, physicists, and metallurgists.
The Shell Oil Co. represeentative will interview B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. physical chemists, chemical engineers, and mechanical engineers for manufacturing and research on Monday and Tuesday.
B.S. and M.S. chemists and chemical engineers can also talk to a man from the National Carbon Co. on Monday.
On Tuesday, Penn Controls, Inc., will be looking for B.S. mechanical and electrical engineers to enter their training program, and the W. T. Grant Co. will be looking for AB and commerce graduates interested in employment in the retail field. The Upjohn Co. is in need of Ph.D. physical chemists, physicists, and accounting majors. They are also interested in junior chemical engineering students for summer work.
Wednesday the Studebaker Corp., will interview AB and commerce graduates for Sales Trainees and commerce graduates for Business Management Trainees. The latter are concerned in the field with accounting and financial problems of dealers. They also need mechanical engineers and accounting majors for direct assignment.
Also on Wednesday the Bendix Radio Division of the Bendix Aviation Corp., will interview physicists, and mechanical and electrical engineers on all degree levels for research, production, creative engineering, and technical writing.
On Wednesday and Thursday the McDonnell Aircraft Corp., will be shopping for M.S. and B.S. civil, aeronautical, electrical, and mechanical engineers, and physicists.
Sherwin-Williams Co., wants B.S. and M.S. chemists and chemical engineers for various positions in plants throughout the country. Their interviews will be held on Thursday.
Accounting majors will be interviewed by the International Harvester Co., on Friday; Touche, Nivien, Bailey & Smart on Thursday; and by Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co., on Friday. The lattei- two firms are certified public accountants.	.
On Friday the three firms, Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., Bauer and Black,
Attention, Seniors
In conjunction with the Senior Ball weekend, the Scholastic plans to publish a special Senior issue on May 8, the day of the Ball. We wish to include in this issue a page entitled “What Seniors Think,” and in gathering information for this article we ask your cooperation.
The following list of questions has been compiled for that purpose. Please read over the questions carefully and seriously, and give your answers to a Scholastic reporter who will visit you during the month of March.
The questions:
1.	Why did you choose Notre Dame?
2.	What have you liked best about Notre Dame?
3.	What have you liked least about Notre Dame?
4.	Do you think the importance of football is over-emphasized here?
5.	Have you definitely decided the type of work to which you would like to devote your life?
6.	Have you changed your mind about your- future profession since you have been here?
7.	What is the most memorable event of your years here?
8.	Which year has been most difficult study-wise?
9.	What is the best book you have read in the last four years?
10.	What is the best movie you have seen in the last four years?
11.	What is the best football game you have seen in the last four years? . -me
12.	Are you engaged or definitely “engaged to be engaged?”
13.	When you entered Notre Dame did you expect the United States to be at war with Russia before you graduated?
14.	When you entered, did you expect U. S. troops to be fighting anywhere (e.g., Korea) before you graduated?
15.	Do you think a war with Russia is inevitable?
16.	Do you favor universal military training?
17.	Has the work of the United Nations justified its existence?
18.	How many years do you expect to have to spend in service?
19.	If you have to enter the armed forces, which service would you prefer? 20. Do you consider yourself a Republican, a Democrat, or an independent?
21.	Do you plan to take an active part in politics?
22.	Do you intend to take an active interest in the Alumni Association?
The Scholastic hopes to obtain the opinions of at least half the graduating class for this poll. If you are not contacted and wish to reply, please write out brief answers (or one word, where possible) and send them to the Scholastic, Box 185, Notre Dame, Ind., or drop them off in 245 Dillon, whichever is more convenient.
This entire project depends upon you, so we will appreciate any help you can give us.—Editor
and Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing Co., will interview B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. chemists and chemical engineers. The latter firm will also be looking for AB and commerce graduates for sales positions.
Rome Inquiry Board Seeks Validity of Bro. Andre Miracle
Church officials in Rome recently began investigation of a miracle attributed to Brother Andre, C.S.C., founder of St. Joseph’s Oratory, Montreal, Canada. Final judgment may aid in bringing beatification to the saintly Brother.
Acting for the Montreal Tribunal, the Chancery of the Rome diocese will conduct the investigation. The miracle was the curing of a nun’s knee infection in 1937—the day after Brother Andre’s death.
If the investigation proves the validity of the miracle, it will move the process of apostolic elevation closer. Vatican officials hope to begin the process of beatification before 1953 ends.
Andre House, located at Notre Dame, was named in honor of the Brother. Religious of the Holy Cross order study and receive training there.
Feb. 27, 1953
31
Cushing Slated toTalk At Summer Institute
The Most Reverend Richard J. Cushing, Archbishop of Boston, will deliver the keynote address at the Seventh Annual Convocation of the Vocation Institute to be held at the University of Notre Dame July 23-26, it was announced today by Rev. John H. Wilson, C.S.C., Director of the Institute.
Archbishop Cushing’s efforts in fostering religious vocations for both the home front and foreign missions have made him a leader in this important movement within the Church. He has encouraged the establishment of many religious bouses in the Boston archdiocese and has written and spoken frequently on the need for vocations and the methods of discovering and guiding them.
Two hundred priests, religious, and laymen engaged in religious vocational work are expected to attend the Convocation. Their number will be swelled by summer school students at the University and St. Mary’s College.
Papers and talks outlining ways and means of vocation promotion which have ■proven successful in diocese and religious communities throughout the nation will be delivered. There will be special sessions for priests, Brothers and Sisters with a question period and informal discussion following eacb talk.
The 1953 Vocation Institute will follow the pattern set in previous years and open with a Holy Hour in Sacred Heart Church on the campus Thursday evening, July 23.
ENGINEERS, SCIENCE MAJORS
A representative of the Du Pont
Company will be on this campus
March 2, 3, and 4 to interview Bachelor and Master degree candidates majoring in Chemistry	Electrical Engineering
Chemical Engineering	Mechanical Engineering
Metallurgical Engineering
Contact your placement office for an interview appointment
DUPONT
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING . . . THROUGH CHEMISTRY
Dean O'Meara to Address Chicago Law Alumni Monday
Joseph O’Meara, Jr., Dean of the Notre Dame College of Law, will speak at a luncheon meeting for the Notre Dame Lawyers of the Chicago area in the University Club in Chicago at 12 noon Monday.
O’Meara’s speech will mark the second in a series of such appearances which the Law School Dean is making throughout the Midwest in an effort to better acquaint lawyer-alumni groups with the aims and functions of the Law School.
The Honorable Sherwood Dixon, former lieutenant-governor of Illinois, will present O’Meara. Rev. Edumund Joyce, C.S.C., Executive Vice-President of the University, will represent the University; and Joseph F. Deeb of Grand Rapids, Mich., president of the Law Association, will represent the Association.
Michigan State Downs Irish Thinlies; Rice's Mark Broken
Jim Kepford, Michigan State, broke a meet record set by Greg Rice, in 1939, as he won the mile run by three yards over* his teammate Rod Barr, in a dual track meet here Tuesday between the Spartans and Notre Dame. Kepford’s time was 4:18. Rice’s former mark was 4:19.5. The Spartans were easy victors in the meet, taking nine of the 12 events and piling up a total of 68 1/3 points to 35 2/3 for the Irish.
In the only other meet record, Jim
Harrington and Joe Springer, Notre Dame, tied at 13 feet nine inches in the pole vault. Both Irish vaulters just missed clearing 14 feet one inch.
Jim Vrooman scored in two events for the Spartans with a third in the shot put and a tie for first at 6 feet 3/4 inch in the high jump with teammate Ray McKay. Jack Cunningham, Notre Dame, was first in the shot with a toss of 45 feet 9 7/8 inches.
Jim Pitcavage, Joe Puccinelli and Dave Foy finished one-two-three for Notre Dame in the 60-yard dash with the former being timed in :06.5 seconds.
Louis Varga, Michigan State, won the 440 in :51.3 seconds, and Henry Gillis, of the Spartans, took the 60-yard high hurdles in :07.5 seconds. Gillis became a double winner when he also took the 60-lows in :07.1.
The Spartans swept the two-mile with John Walter finishing first in the good time of 9:26.6 and being followed by Lyle Garbe and Jerry Zerbe.
Handball
(Continued from page 27) the championship. The two semi-final losers will play off for third place.
Sixteen players forged their way into the fourth round of play to determine the quarter-finalists. These sixteen and their pairings were: Joe Durkin, Off-Campus, vs. Angelo Turco, Off-Campus; Ed Schwartz, Cavanaugh, vs. Jim Luot-to, Howard; Jim Buckley, Walsh, vs. John Stoddard, Dillon; Gerry Smith, Walsh, vs. Joe Battaglia, Farley; Chuck Burns, Howard, vs. Bill Ahern, Walsh; Richard Schmitt, Cavanaugh, vs. Dick Reynolds, Off-Campus; Lou Kraft, Dillon, vs. Jim Cavanaugh, B-P; and topseeded Don Turk, Walsh, vs. Alvin Don-ius, Fisher.
As this issue went to press, the complete list of quarter-finalists was not known, but Luotto, Smith, and Ahern had already gained the “Big Eight.”
Letters	j
(Continued from page 4)	;
jazz	addict “resembling a pair	of in-	j
verted wig-wams.”
Not being a columnist, a jazz-addict or a copy-reader, I speak objectively when I protest Mort’s complaint. The language of jazz addicts is treated with utmost courtesy when the said . copy-reader thus lightly lays the flat of ‘ his hand upon the mouthings of any or ’ all patrons of Joe Jasinski’s jazz concert.	1
Could a mis-quotation be a misfit in J the substitute for language used by the “boop-a-doopers!”
No, Mort, the copy-reader cannot be tagged	with	having	“done ’em wrong.”	:
Charles Murphy	j
Farley	Hall	s
The Scholastic
32
The Other Side
(Continued from page 23) Old Plutonius Phisbee, Reggie’s father, it so happened, was one of the wealthiest and most influential men in the universe, owner of the huge uranium works on Satellite No. 7 of Jupiter. He declared that no one had ever prevented a member of the illustrious Phisbee family from getting what he wanted and that, by George, they weren’t going to start now.
Three Big Reasons
So Plutonius quickly charged the officials of Erton Emad with practicing unfair discrimination and threatened to take up the matter immediately in the Supreme Court. Secondly, he threatened to cancel his donation of $10,000,000 to Erton Emad for the construction of the Phisbee Tiddlywinks Coliseum. Third, he threatened to leave the earth and transfer all his holdings and finances to some other planet if all else failed. It was this last step that did the trick. Erton Emad was compelled to admit Reggie in the interests of preserving the national economy.
So it was that Erton Emad came to be co-ed. Other fathers pointed out that if Erton Emad could accept Reggie Phisbee, then they could accept their sons too. And so they came. In time, Erton Emad and St. Syram’s merged completely. By now the two schools had grown to such an extent that they formed virtually one campus anyway, and it was more efficient to have just one administration rather than two.
The Big Discovery
These events, however, had repercussions more far-reaching than anyone could conceive of at the time. For one thing, Reginald Phisbee had not only shattered an educational system. He shattered an athletic and a social one as well. He was not only good enough to make the tiddlywinks team at Erton Emad but was so good that he received the Heiswoman Award as the outstanding player of the year. Thus, it was discovered that men could play tiddlywinks as well as women and perhaps even better for that matter.
This discovery added considerable impetus to a philosophy that was just getting its roots implanted in society at that time—the philosophy of masculism. If men were just as effective as women in fields of feminine endeavor, there was no reason why men should not invade these fields. This theory came to be put into effect so widely that the saying “It’s a woman’s world” soon became obsolete.
Women looked on in alarm and disgust. If men were going to become more
feminine, why shouldn’t women become more masculine? Thus began the battle of the sexes which lasted ’ for several years until it reached the point where men began using lipstick and wearing dresses while women sported crew cuts and puffed on cigars. Civil war appeared imminent with the universe divided into two hostile camps: men and women.
. . . And That's All, Kids
It was then that old Plutonius Phisbee experienced his great re-awakening. Now President of the Confederation of the Universe, he decided that something
The Automatic Control Industry . . .
offers unusual opportunities for interesting work and advancement to Electrical and Mechanical Engineering graduates.
SALES ENGINEERING DESIGN ENGINEERING PRODUCTION ENGINEERING
PENN CONTROLS, Inc., a leader in this expanding industry, offers intensive training in Air Conditioning, Heating, Refrigeration, and Appliance control practice; leading to assignments in Sales, Development and Production Engineering.
You are invited to meet with the PENN representative.
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS March 3
Penn Controls, inc.
GOSHEN, INDIANA
drastic must be done to preserve the old order of things.
It was evident to old Plutonius that men and women would have to be completely re-educated to learn their real places in life. They must be taught to complement each other rather than compete against each other. To secure these aims, the House of Planets and the Sun-ate quickly pushed through a bill outlawing co-educational colleges and designating certain colleges for men and others for women.
And so Erton Emad and St. Syram’s were back in character. The noble experiment had failed.	—Tom Foote
Feb. 27, 1953
By Paul Zalecki
After the recent announcement at the Mardi Gras that over $100,000 is going to be put into the Old Science Building —made vacant by the bigger and better Nieuwland Hall of Science—to reconvert it into a student center, it will be interesting to see what revamping will take place. The architecture student who •drew the winning plan must have had quite an imagination to come up with a’ remodeling idea sumptuous enough to house a dance floor for class affairs.
This dance area should take up the "biggest amount of space in the building, but there also will be five meeting rooms and various offices for the vicepresident in charge of student affairs, the senate, the graduate school, the Blue Circle, the NFCCS, the YCS, and the manager of the building.
There also will be a lounge area, a photographer’s dark room, a bookstore, a newspaper stand, and a coffee bar. The building of course will have television, records, ping pong, billiard tables, a film projector, and a piano. Even so big an outlay as $100,000 will not be able to supply bowling alleys, but it should do something to the presently ■unimpressive science building.
What these students wanted to do was obtain a large house on the cab route to own and to turn it into a general off-campus student center—a place for students to get together and enjoy some refreshments when away from the books for a couple of hours.
Their plans called for a grille and a dance floor in the basement. The first floor would be taken up with a rec room offering pool, ping pong, shuffleboard, and card tables. Upstairs there would be smaller rooms for club gatherings or for any other group of students who wanted to have a little party. The third floor would provide the quarters for the caretaker.
All this plan amounts to is a decent place where the students can spend an evening and enjoy some juke box music and dancing, some good company, and some refreshments. It would not be operated to make money, just to meet expenses.
The cost of such a project would be fairly high, probably approaching the latest figures being thrown around for the reconversion of the science building. But if an original $20,000 project could be parlayed into $100,000 outlay,
perhaps there is some hope for doubling the investment and building a Notre Dame student inn off campus.
Student Support
Of course the first thing to do would be to find out what the students think of this plan. To be successful or worthwhile, it definitely would need their support. It would be quite ridiculous to go ahead with the idea if the students did not care for it or if they felt that the expenses were not worth it. The fact that it was pushed by some students last year—by some of the Pittsburgh Club at any rate—would, seem to offer some favorable evidence that such an off-campus center might be well received.
There naturally are some difficulties which would have to be overcome to make this idea workable and practical: the house would need a convenient location which could compete with such places as Joer’s; it would have to be a respectable looking place where students could take a date; it would need money so that it could get started.
Most important of all, someone would have to sponsor the project and keep it going. Unlike the reconversion of the science building, this idea did not originate with the administration, which is in a much better position to carry through an undertaking of this sort.
All in all, it is a fairly simple idea. If it has the necessary student support —that is the important thing—it would be worth promoting.
$100,000 and $40,000
Come to think of it, $100,000 does not sound like so much when it takes $40,-O00 to erect a bus shelter. It ought to be •quite the building, and it seems like there should be some healthy competition for the job of caretaker. Seriously though, it would be convenient if the shelter had a phone, so that the students could call a cab and take advantage of the new 65 cent rates.
But with all these plans for expanding facilities on campus, we sometimes ■overlook the fact that the troops once in a while like to get away from it all and spend some time off campus. Unfortunately it does not take too long to figure out that the things for an ND student to do in town definitely are limited. Movies probably form the most steady bill of fare for students during their brief visits to the fair city to the south.
Last year the Pittsburgh Club for a time tried to do something to remedy this state of affairs, and they came up with a good idea. Now with all these funds being allocated for a bus shelter and an activities building, it might be worthwhile to say a few words about the Pittsburgh plan.
MEN OF ’S3
Career Opportunities with National Carbon Company—
America’s foremost manufacturer of dry cells and flashlights, carbon and graphite electrodes and anodes, impervious graphite, brushes for motors and generators, arc carbons and a wide variety of other industrial carbon products.
National Carbon Company offers positions with progress potentials to the following B.S. and M.S. graduates:
CHEMISTS • PHYSICISTS * ENGINEERS Ceramic * Chemical * Civil * Electrical Industrial * Mechanical * Metallurgical
Interesting, rewarding careers in research, process and product development, quality control, production and methods engineering, machine development, plant engineering, and sales. A National Carbon representative will be on campus.
MARCH 2ND
Make a date now. Contact your placement director
NATIONAL CARBON COMPANY
A Division of
Union Carbine and Carbon Corporation
Products: “Eveready” Flashlights, “Eveready” Dry Batteries, “Prestone” Anti-freeze, “Trek” Anti-freeze, “Acheson” and “National” Electric Furnace Electrodes, “Karbate” Impervious Graphite, “National” Carbon Brushes, “National” Projector Carbons and a wide variety of “National” Industrial Carbon and Graphite Products for all Industry.
34
The Scholastic
ENGINEERS, MATHEMATICIANS \	0^ m PHYSICISTS
\ YOU HAVE
A DATE
TODAY
Bell Aircraft representatives will be here to discuss with you the engineering opportunities in all fields now available with this leading pioneer in the challenging fields of GUIDED MISSILES, SUPER-
SONIC AIRCRAFT, ROCKET MOTORS and AIRBORNE ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT. Long range diversified programs make these openings more appealing than ever before. Don’t miss this opportunity
PHONE
Wm. R. Dooley 275
KthTG-SIZE
CONTAINS TOBACCOS OF BETTER QUALITY AND HIGHER PRICE THAN ANY OTHER KING-SIZE CIGARETTE
r 22 years recommend
you
millions
see him
on TV';
c°lumn.

is Best
for YOU'
c,9arette I be
can speak
cause ifs *l_	.
one l i s the °nly ne i smoke. I’ y ^esferfielj fo and I '
ve smoked
°nd^ *i>^
-And First to Present this Scientific Evidence on Effects of Smoking
A MEDICAL SPECIALIST is making regular bi-monthly examinations of a group of people from various walks of life. 45 percent of this group have smoked Chesterfield for an average of over ten years.
After eight months, the medical specialist reports that he observed —
no adverse effects on the nose, throat and sinuses of the group from smoking Chesterfield.
CHESTERFIELD—FIRST and only premium quality cigarette available in both regular and king-size.
UGGETT & MYtnS TOBACCO CO
UGGETT4 MY£B$ TOBACCO CO.
0
I
I t
Buy CH ESTE RFI ELD_M/ofr Milder
Copyright 1955, Liggett & Myers Tomcco Co.