THE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
VOL. 79	SEPTEMBER 24, 1943	NO. 11

9aau&
Midshipmen Graduate
Trainee wins Vaudeville
Church Concert Sunday
Engineers1 Ball
Inter-hall Football Starts
Irish play Pitt tomorrow
Through these arches pass the best Midshipmen in the nation.

The Week
HE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
BY BILL TALBOT AND JIM CUNNINGHAM
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1S67
TOP OF THE WEEK:
The Fighting Irish.
SPRING WILL BE SO SAD
It’s goodbye to baseball now, and to all the memorable times it brought, such as the playing of the “Strip Polka” over the public address system at the end of the Great Lakes game. The song wasn’t out of place, though. After all, when you get married, they play a wedding march, and when you die they play a funeral march. So when you finish a ball game and take to the showers, there’s nothing like an appropriate song.
At any rate, football brings even brighter memories. Like the famous sign out in front of Alumni last year:
Be it known by these here presents that we, the undersigned,
don’t give a (censored) for the whole
STATE OF MICHIGAN
—Alumni Hall
But obviously the Wolverines thought even less of Indiana; at least that’s what they told us, in so many words and by so many points. Any day now we may expect “Bearskin” to stick his big neck out and say things that make it necessary for him to remain anonymous. But, then, the South Bend Trib has to get copy somewhere to fill up that big sports page.
Nevertheless, the football season is here; and you can take our remarks in two ways, Mr. Shaughnessy: ready or not, here we come.
DEAR MURPH
This here’s a response to your epistle of a couple fortnights ago. Really ain’t much new, you know. Still getting plenty of substantial food. You get three full meals a day in you and you just want to run over to that obstacle course right away, how energizing is it. Like them there beans we had tonight—why, there was vitamins floating all around in them; you could actually see them wiggle. Boy, there’s nothing like. All that food—kinda gives you-. that muscularity that goes with the feeling of regularity.
2
Gee, I sort of had everything wrong. Like when I went and dropped a hint to the Chief about being under-nourishable. Then with a lot of that there syllogism stuff he started exposturelating about my waist-line getting tapered down and me getting in shape and everything being all right. I’m kinda glad he illuminated me, because at this rate I can expect to get into my size 32 blue jumper in another pair of weeks. I really like eating the stuff over there, but I wish I’d get paid for it like that fellow did last year. It’s necessitating that I like the meals, because I don’t want to be a hypocrite when I say grace.
We’re going to have a regular real-life dance here on October 16. I don’t know much about it. Gonna have some celebrities too; guys like Eddie Howard. But everybody is keeping it a secret from me as to precisely whose band is going to play. But I’m going even if I have to push a St. Mary’s girl to it. (Can’t you see all the work I’m in for?) Well, I gotta go, Murph. Left my watch to be cleaned and pressed the other day, and I’d better go get it.
Hope this reaches you all right. All I do is write “Free” twice on the envelop and it gets to you air-mail. I’m just smart, that’s all.
Intelligently yourn,
Augustus Gump . (age 18)
(Writ by hand.)
SOMETHING SHOULD BE DONE ABOUT
Profs who spring a new text every semester. . . Another musical show (what say Mr. Birder?). . . . Cheerleaders for home games. . . The gob in Alumni .whose mail total is 125 from the same girl. . . Sanitary conditions in the “Fuddle.” . . . the following sign:
Students Wanted:
Defense plants—70c an hour
Air Corps Unloading—65c an hour N.D. Laundry—50c an hour.
❖
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK:
Away from home.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
F. J. Pequigney, Editor
Robert O’Toole........Managing	Editor
Bill Carey..............Sports	Editor
Dick Ames.............Campus	Editor
James Schaeffer.........Admin.	Editor
John Mattmiller...........Circulation
Charles Renaud_____Staff Photographer REV. C. M. Carey___Faculty Advisor
Features
The Week........ (Wm. Talbot and (James Cunningham
Pressbox Splinters....Bill Waddington v „	(J. A. Flanagan, H. D. Hart, J.
Schwendeman, J. E. Taylor
N.R.O.T.C.____H. Gilligan, J. D. Usina Marines ______Lou	Riepenhoff
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published thirty times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, 305 Sorin Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p. m.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 79
SEPTEMBER 24, 1943
NO. 11
1147 Midshipmen Commissioned
Rear Admiral Jacobs Addresses Class
1,147 midshipmen of the United States Naval Reserve School of Notre Dame were commissioned ensigns at graduating exercises Wednesday. The new officers, wearing the dress blue with the gold stripe and star of the “line officers,” made a very impressive picture as they sat in the large Drill Hall.
The address to the graduates was given by Rear Admiral Randall Jacobs, Naval Chief of Personnel, who was introduced by Captain H. P. Burnett, Commanding Officer of the midshipmen school. Diplomas and Commissions were presented by Captain Emanuel A. Lof-quist, Chief of Staff, Ninth Naval District.
Both Admiral Jacobs and Captain Burnett had words of encouragement for the graduates. Both, too, praised the University. Without Notre Dame it would have been impossible to train you men, said the Admiral. Captain Burnett thanked the school for its material and spiritual help. He also thanked the South Bend service center for its aid in maintaining the morale of the trainees.
Rear Admiral Jacobs said that their commissions give the graduates rank, authority, and duty; that they become an immediate part of the vast and increasing Navy. He outlined three qualifications as requisite in naval officers: Initiative, self-control, and maintenance of manner. “Be able to give an order courteously and forcefully,” he said, “and be able to take an order courteously. Make it a personal duty to see that the order is carried out to the best of your ability.” He extended to the men best wishes for a successful riaval career.
Admiral Jacobs declared, “The news from the battle fronts of the world continues to prove the superiority of fighting men nurtured and trained in free countries.”
“Too often, however,” he continued,
“people on the home fronts misinterpret favorable reports from the war zone and settle back into a state of complacency with the idea that their services are no longer essential to the war effort. Let me emphasize that this war is by no means over or will it be this year or next.”
Captain H. P. Burnett
“The Allied forces have given a splendid account of themselves thus far but the greatest sacrifices are yet to be made; the fiercest battles are yet to be fought. Not until every man, woman, and child in America realizes this and gives his best every hour in every day can we hope to achieve the final victory which must come if civilization is to survive.”
Special awards for outstanding records donated by the school and faculty and the citizens of South Bend were presented by Captain Burnett. Recipients included: George M. Angle, Rochester, N. Y., the University of Notre Dame Award for Highest Honors; Floyd E. Swagerty, Stockton, Calif., outstanding leadership; Benjamin L. Smith, Jr., Greenboro, N. C., honors in navigation; Robert J. Lavidge, LaGrange, Ill., honors in seamanship; Sidney Friedman, Wyandotte, Mich., honors in ordnance; Harold C. Passer, Faribault, Minn., honors in damage control; Franklyn L. Tinker, Battle Creek, Mich., greatest contribution to morale; and letters of commendation to Francis L. Dalte of Belle
vue, Ky.; Galeri H. Frantz, N. Manchester, Indiana; and Richard G. Prosch, Berwyn, Ill.
The regimental staff of the class included: F. E. Swagerty, commander; B. L. Smith, Jr., sub-commander; W. W. Huffman, adjutant; and F. D. Winder, athletic officer; H. N. Duda, welfare and recreation officer; and D. H. Schock, regimental bugler.
This class of 1,147 boosts to 3,600 the number of officers to be commissioned at the Notre Dame Midshipmen School.
South Bend was the scene of many marriages immediately after the graduation exercises. Twenty-six ensigns hurried to South Bend churches after the ceremony. Several were married here on the campus. The total marriages for the class amounted to 152.
The program for the exercises follows: National Anthem: Midshipmen’s Orchestra.
Invocation: Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., President, University of Notre Dame.
Introduction of Speaker: Captain H. P. Burnett, U. S. Navy, Commanding Officer.
Address to Graduates: Rear Admiral Randall Jacobs, U. S. Navy, the Chief of Naval Personnel.
Presentation of Awards.
Presentation of Diplomas and Commissions: Capt. Emmanuel A. Lofquist, U. S. Navy, Chief of Staff, Ninth Naval District.	B'-
Administration of Oath of Office.
Benediction: Rev. Robert M. Selle, St. Paul’s Memorial Methodist Church.
“Anchors Aweigh”: Midshipmen’s Orchestra.
“Star - Spangled Banner”: Midshipmen’s Orchestra.
3
Campus News
Vaudeville Crowd Overflows Washington Hall; Michigan Trainee Wins First Prize
BY AL LESMEZ
A capacity crowd, which included some 200 girls from St. Mary’s, jammed Washington Hall 45 minutes before curtain time, to enjoy a fast-moving annual Knights of Columbus Vaudeville Show, last Friday evening. The crowd was so large that many were content merely to stand in the rear, even to utilize the aisles.
Acting as Master of Ceremonies was Marine Dave Curtin. He did a good job of keeping the show in a humorous vein. At times his patter lagged because of its abundance, yet he managed to knit together an evening of hilarity, and amply repaid an audience that had learned to expect real entertainment wherever Dave was involved.
Johnny Boyle and his “Victory-Cavaliers” supplied the musical background and were at their best. Several new selections were featured in a manner that made the crowd applaud time and time again. That the band has an abundance of talent was manifested by the several solo features during the evening. One Marine, though exceptionally talented, provoked laughter which was not at all friendly, as he continually sought to garner attention. Thanks to the good manners and merry mood of the audience, no violence was perpetrated upon him, even though his conduct was manifestly out of order, and detracted to no small degree from the general excellence of his fellow players.
The acts, 13 in number, had a definite tinge of both the amateur and the professional. No encores were permitted because of the time element involved; yet all performers received generous applause from the crowd which rewarded them for their bravery, if not their ability. Mr. Gene Pechulis sang well. Ed Dunnigan was masterful at the trumpet. Paul O’Connell had Fred Allen, Socrates Mulligan, Frank Leahy, Jimmy Durante and President Boosevelt realistically present in his clever interpretations. Brock Lynch brought his tap dancing to a new height in his exhibition of various Manhattan Moods. There was about him the atmosphere of the finished
artist, regardless of the tastes of the judges who failed to award him a prize, Dick Walker’s novel interpretations on the harmonica were well received. Tom Butler and his drums brought forth the greatest applause from the crowd, and ultimately won second prize. It belonged
Smironiotis, the Winnah!
to Ted Smironiotis to bewitch the audience with his uncanny baton twirling and to take first prize. A combination act of accordion and skates handled by Vic Kulbitski and Larry Lynch won third place. Elmer Benedict and his magic feats somehow escaped the attention of the judges, who had a difficult time in choosing the ultimate winners.
Several other features of the evening were of the corn and rhubarb variety. The quartet maintained a perfect average by remaining off-key throughout their selections. A skit, “Superman” was flat, crude, a trifle coarse, thoroughly out of place in the show, and not at all in keeping with the talent manifested in the other acts. Promoters of the show later regretted that the act had been permitted to go on. A number of novelty
gags were utilized by Mr. Curtin in his never-ending ways of keeping the audience in a continuous fit of laughter.
Editor’s Note: The SCHOLASTIC thoroughly deplores the conditions which prevailed at the K. of C. Vaztdeville Show, last Friday evening in Washington Hall. Through unauthorized publicity, the show was opened to the public, with the result that there was not adequate seating space left for students, and their guests from St. Mary's, thus spoiling what would otherwise have been a pleasant evening.
The Vaudeville Show is of campus origin, and intended for campus consumption primarily; and those responsible for the unauthorized publicity acted in violation of express orders handed down by the Disciplinary Office, and generously disregarded the best interests of the student body for whom the show was intended. The SCHOLASTIC believes that the public should be barred from all similar affairs until the student body has been seated.
G. E. House of Magic
Amazes Large Audience
Last Friday evening the General Electric Company exhibited its House of Magic in the Navy Drill Hall. The show has toured the country for ten years under the direction of Mr. C. Edward Gluesing and has been as great a success as it was when it first appeared in the 1933 Chicago’s “Century of Progress.”
Mr. Gluesing emphasized the fact that the methods by which the various experiments were attained are purely through scientific research. Although it seems almost unbelievable that the spokes of a gear moving at a rate of 14,000 revolutions per minute could actually be seen as if stopped, this was veritably brought about by means of the newly discovered stnoboscopic light.
Another very interesting experiment which was demonstrated was the starting and stopping of a small electric train by means of the demonstrator’s voice: “Go ahead! Stop! Now Back Up!”—and the train obeys.
The audience seemed amazed by the various uses and boundless possibilities of electricity, and applauded enthusiastically when the exhibition was brought to a close.
The demonstration showed that great things have been accomplished in the field of electricity and that further developments can be expected in the future.
4
Laundry Over-Burdened, Under-Manned;
Makes Valiant Effort to Maintain Standards
BY BOB REYNOLDS
After talking for a few minutes to Mr. Gerald M. Hoar, manager of St. Michael’s laundry and dry cleaning plant, one begins to wonder how he can keep going at all. Mr. Hoar, a Notre Dame graduate of the Class of 1921, has had extensive experience in his field. For a year and a half he was superintendent of the American Institute of Laundries in Joliet, Ill. The problems he faces now require all this “know-how.”
The laundry, opened in 1934 to serve 3,000, was filled to capacity the first year. At the end of last semester, already overtaxed, it was turning out clean socks and shirts for 3,300. Then came July 1, and the job began to look impossible. In addition to the 4,000 service men stationed here the wash of 500 religious and 700 civilian students must be done. Between the laundry and the dry cleaning plant, everything is washed for the trainee except his shoes. Naturally, inspections mean that the service man must always be spick and span. Hence they are given first preference in point of time. The pile of wash now contains 5,200 bundles. And that’s a lot of dirty clothes.
But there is still more. Linens for the 5,000 beds on the campus are part of the laundry’s task. Towels and athletic equipment for the Rockne Memorial Building and the Athletic Association are sent to St. Michael’s. This equipment is limited and requires a rapid turnover.
The dry cleaning plant is also doing a huge volume of business. Beginning at 7:00 a.m., the “day” for the personnel there often lasts until 10:00 p.m. The whites of the graduating Midshipmen are keeping the plant extra busy at the present time.
Add to all these troubles the employment situation, and the limited equipment with which he has to work, and you begin to get some idea of Mr. Hoar’s nightmare. In the last war, laundries were listed by the government as one of the five most essential industries. Consequently, employment was not the puzzle it is today, when no such decision has • been made by the authorities. In an industrial area like South Bend, the laundry - cannot compete with the higher wage scale paid by the war plants, The result, as in so many other so-called “non essential” industries, is an acute shortage of employees. About 22 patriotic civilian students have volunteered
to help. They work four hours a day, and are paid on a cash basis.
Even with the laundry operating from 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. the task is tremendous. The highest standards are nevertheless maintained in both plants. Equipment and chemicals nationally recognized in the industry are used. It may interest the Science men to know that an apparently unscientific process like washing clothes is chemically controlled throughout. Not the least important of the various operations involved is the softening of all water used. About
Struggling Through
100,000 gallons of lake water undergo softening treatment daily.
So if you have to wear that T-shirt or jumper an extra day or two, remember that everything is being done to clean your clothes as soon as possible.
Two Centenaries Noted in American Midland Naturalist
Two important centenaries are commemorated in the special number of the American Midland Naturalist just released from the University of Notre Dame press.
Occasion for the Centennial issue is the close of the Centenary year of the University of Notre Dame and the 100th anniversary of the birth of the late Dr. Edward Lee Greene, pioneer American botanist and first American historian of botany, who is buried in the Community cemetery on the Notre Dame campus. The issue is fittingly dedicated to the University for its continued support and to Dr. Greene whose herbarium and library were presented by him to Notre Dame.
It was this colorful scientist who suggested to the late Rev. Julius A. Nieuw-land, C.S.C., himself a distinguished botanist and chemist, that a scientific journal might be published at Notre Dame. As a result the American Midland Naturalist was founded by Father Nieuw-land in 1909. Since Father Nieuwland’s death in 1936, the publication has enjoyed the editorship of Dr. Theodor Just, head of the department of biology at the University. Dr. Just has enlisted an editorial staff of distinguished scientists representing the special fields covered by the periodical: Dr. Edward A. Chapin, U. S. National Museum, Washington, D. C., entomology; Dr. Carroll Lane Fenton, West Liberty, la., invertebrate paleontology; Dr. John H. Hoskins, U. of Cincinnati, paleobotany; Dr. Remington Kellogg, U. S. National Museum, mammalogy; Dr. Jean M. Linsdale, Hastings Reservation, Monterey, Calif., ornithology; Prof. George W. Martin, U. of Iowa, mycology; Curator Karl P. Schmidt, Field Museum, Chicago, ichthyology and herpetology; and Prof. Harley J. Van Cleave, U. of Hlinois, invertebrate zoology.
All of the above, with the exception of the U. S. National Museum representatives who were out of the country during the preparation of the issue, are represented with outstanding articles in this 272-page issue with its 15 contributions. Also represented are other prominent figures in the fields of botany and biology, including the members of Notre Dame departments.
The great contributions of Dr. Greene to American botany, the richness of this herbarium and library now at Notre Dame, the subsequent impetus to the same science contributed by Dr. Nieuw-land and the significant contributions contained in the 30 volumes of the American Midland Naturalist, combine to make this doubly valuable commemorative- issue outstanding. The present national scope and prestige of the magazine and its editors insure continuation of the scientific tradition at Notre Dame, begun in its earliest years. Dr. Greene was awarded an honorary LL.D.’in 1895 and had retired to teach and organize his collection and library at Notre Dame when he died in 1915 to close a long and colorful career.	“
The personal side of Dr. Greene's life is a romance of American pioneering in itself, and work is being done to collect and correlate the correspondence of this eminent scientist,- who had been a drum- -mer boy in the Civil War, an Episcopal minister in Denver and California, and a botanist among hostile Indians who spared his life because they called him a “medicine man.”
5
THE FIGHTING IRISH AT THE FRONTS
By Jim Schaeffer
The mounting toll of war has been forcibly brought home to Notre Dame by the sacrifices made by its sons. Sixty-one have now given their lives with the report of the death of Corp. George R. Jackman, ex ’42. Corp Jackman died of infantile paralysis in North Africa after a short illness.
Corp. Jackman attended Notre Dame in 1938-39. He enlisted in the Army Air Corps technical service in January, 1942. After receiving his technical training at Biloxi, Miss, and at the Curtis-Wright Factory in New Jersey, he was sent overseas in February of this year.
Not only are Notre Dame men doing fighting, but some of the alumni are also in important commands and executive positions. Brig. Gen. Francis P. Mulcahy, ’14, holds an important position in training our fliers. Gen. Mulcahy, one of America’s most illustrious flying fighters, served in the First World War. Enlisting as a buck private in the Ma-■rines he was a first lieutenant by the end of the war and had won the Distinguished Service Medal.
He decided to stay in the Marines after the war and rose to a colonelcy. Gen. Mulcahy was a member of a United States Observation tour which visited such vital spots as Hawaii, Wake Island, India, and Egypt in 1941.
Responsible for much of the successful work on the now-completed Alaska Highway was Brig. Gen. James A; O’Connor, who attended Notre Dame in 1902-03 before going on to West Point. General O’Connor has had extensive engineering experience in the army, directing such varied projects as all the tunnelling in • Corregidor and the present water supply -system of Washington.
In command of the portion of the U.
S. fleet cooperating with the British Home Fleet for the protection of Allied shipping is Rear Admiral Robert Giffin, an Annapolis graduate who attended Notre Dame. In connection with his command, Admiral Giffin was host to King George VI of England when that monarch was on an inspection tour of the convoy forces.
During World War I he won the Navy Cross while in command of the U. S. destroyer Trippe on convoy duty. In 1927 he was commended for distinguished service when he was in command of the U. S. S. Sacramento on duty with the Asiatic Fleet. For the following two years he was in command of the destroyer division of the fleet. Athletic director at the Naval Academy from 1934 to 1937, Admiral Giffin was promoted to that rank in 1940.
NROTC Plans Ball
Plans for the NROTC Navy Ball on Friday night October 1st are being completed by Cadet Lieutenant Frank Crowley, general chairman for the weekend, and his fellow committeemen.
The Weekend will include the Georgia Tech game, the victory dance following the game, and will be concluded with a tea dance Sunday afternoon.
Teddy Powell and his famous orchestra have been engaged for the Prom, according to Dick Pedrotty, chairman of musical arrangements.	,
General Chairman Crowley said full details will be available for publication by the end of the week.
Marching Band Prepares for Football Season
The popular university marching band will number a hundred men this season, director H. Lee Hope announced last week. -Last year the band won much acclaim for its tricky formations, which were fifty-five
in number, and there will be more and better ones to come when the home football season gets under way next week.. , . Jim Kress, a marine trainee, will again lead the band on the field as. drum major this season, and he has been directing the group in its marching sessions during the last week.
The vari-colored uniforms of the servicemen and the civilians who make up the band was somewhat of a problem, btu Mr. Hope plans to use the contrasting uniforms to good effect. _
"Irish Pennant" Sponsors Beauty Contest
The IRISH PENNANT is sponsoring a picture contest for the NROTC. Each man is to turn in the picture of the girl he left behind and the editors will judge the pictures in a preliminary judging and the final selection will rest with our Commanding Officer, Captain H. P. Burnett, USN.
The Captain’s final choice will be the “cover girl” on the next edition of the IRISH PENNANT, and the first four runner-ups will be photographed within the PENNANT.
Calendar for Next Semester;
Short Vacation in October
Civilian students are given a full nine days between the last day of final exams to registration for next semester, according to the latest, version of the official University Calendar which has just been released.
Service trainees, however, are required to register Nov. 1 and 2. This allows them only four days between semesters . and rumors are thick as to what the service men will be allowed to do with this short recess, if anything at all.
Classes will begin at 8:00 on Monday morning, Nov. 8. Wednesday of that same week is the. latest date for change of courses, while Saturday, Nov. 13, is the deadline for stragglers registering.
It was noted that there has been no provision made in the calendar for any time at Thanksgiving; on Thanksgiving Day itself there will be classes as usual. Someone; broke down, however, to the extent of allowing a holiday on Christmas.
Shortly after Christmas, Jan. 4, will be the midsemester “pinkies.” The week from Feb. 21 to 25 is the occasion for finals. On Sunday, Feb. 27, will occur the conferring of degrees.
Fr. Cunningham Speaks
Rev. William T. Cunningham, C.S.C., professor of education at the University, spoke on “Science in Liberal Education” at the general session, 19th meeting of the Chicago Catholic Science Teacher’s Association, held last Saturday at St. Mary’s High School in Chicago.
Brother Reginald Juszczak, C.S.C., instructor in mathematics at Notre Dame, served as chairman of the mathematics section of the convention. Teachers from various midwestern schools attended the. meeting. .
6
Engineers Shape Ball Plans;
St. Mary's May Attend
By Paul Smith
The Plans for the Engineers’ Ball to be held on the eve of the Georgia Tech game, have been thoroughly completed.
Ticket Chairman
J Ray Smith, emphasized the fact, since the sales are limited, those who plan to go to this gala affair should get their tickets immediately at 233 Sorin Hall. It is of utmost importance that those wishing to attend the football game bring their athletic exchange ticket with them when they come to make the purchase.
The list of patrons and patronesses, composed principally of the various department-heads of the College of Engineering and their wives, is as follows: Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C., Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Schubmehl, dean of the College of Engineering; Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Northcott, head, department of electrical engineering; Mr. and Mrs. Walter Shilts, head, department of civil engineering; Mr. and Mrs. Ronald E. Rich, head, department of chemical engineering; Mr. and Mrs. Arthur S. Coffinberry, department of metallurgy; Mr. and Mrs. George Rohrbach, acting head, department of mechanical engineering; and Mr. Edward Kavanaugh, department of aeronautical engineering.
One of the attractions which will add zest to the big week-end is the fact that the authorities at St. Mary’s have given their approval for the girls to attend.
Arrangement chairman, Earl Englert, and publicity chairman, Bob Kohl, have struck upon various novel ideas for the decorations which will adorn the Progress Club.	.
Plans are now being completed for the use of a special section in the Sacred Heart Church at the 9 o’clock Mass on Sunday for the benefit of those participating in the week-end festivities.
Ames Discusses Education At Bookmen Meeting
The problems of higher education in this country were discussed by the Bookmen at a meeting held Tuesday night in the Law Building.
A paper outlining the Chicago plan of Robert Hutchins, president of the University of Chicago, was read by Dick Ames, who also pointed out some criti-. cisms of the plan made by other educators. The discussion gradually evolved into a difference of opinion concerning
the real purpose of education. One viewpoint was that the primary function of higher learning was to develop the minds of the students, another was that education, and in particular Catholic education, should have the instilling of truth as its chief aim.
The Bookmen will meet next on Tuesday evening, Oct. 5, in the home of Prof. T. Bowyer Campbell, faculty moderator of the group.
A drive for applicants desiring to join the Bookmen is being planned for some time in the near future. Further details will be announced after the next meeting. Those interested should contact active Bookmen as soon as the details are released, as membership will be limited.
Campus Opinion Confident of Win Over Pitt! Poll Shows
By Al Lesmez
According o the popular opinion on campus, Leahy’s “T” should not encounter too much trouble against Clark Shaughnessy’s version in tomorrow’s game.; The only point of debate seems to be just how thoroughly the Irish will beat the Pitt Panthers.
Midshipman John F. Kane, Jr., Philadelphia, Pa.: “We’ll win by three touchdowns because we have too much material for inexperienced Pitt.”
Sophomore Paul W. Smith, Memphis, Tenn.: “Notre Dame has a great team this year and I don’t believe they will be stopped by Mr. Clark Shaughnessy’s Panthers. Bertelli, plus “T,” plus a big powerful line, w’ill spell doom for the Irish opponents. The-final score should be 14-0.”
Ravmond Loy, V-12, Downers Grove, Ill.: “I think Notre Dame has the better team. They should come out on the long end of a 20-0 score.”
Marine Larry Lynch, Kansas City, Mo.: “If Notre Dame doesn’t win by a couple of T.D.’s, I’ll buy a sailor a beer.”
Freshman Jimmy Bucci, Pittsburgh, Pa.: “N. D. . should run wild against Shaughnessy’s Panthers. The material at Pitt is very good, but our team will stop all their attacks. The score should be 20-6.”	_
Senior Dick Borgess, Toledo, Ohio: “With Clark Shaughnessy at the helm, anything can happen, but even the greatest coach can’t mold a winner, without material. Just off-hand, I’d say the score will be a 21-0 win for the Irish.”
: ,A1 Wrape. ROTC, Little Rock, Ark.: “If Pitt is like they were last year, they will be easily beaten However, they have a new coach and may show up like Maryland did last year.” .
Junior David Wood, North Franklin, Conn.: “With Pitt now under the wing of Clark Shaughnessy, I think they will give us plenty of fight, matching “T” for “T” with us. They have plenty of reserves but lack good first-stringers. In short Pitt will fall prey to an overwhelming Irish ground and aerial attack to the tune of 20-6.”
Marine Anthony G. Bilotti, So. Ozone Park, N. Y.: “With our fine backs and experienced line against Pittsburgh’s young team, we can’t lose. The score will be 27-6.”
Sophomore Bob Gludowatz, Detroit, Mich.: “I think we’ll take them. We’ve got just as good a team this year as we had last year, and we would have beaten them then. My guess on the score is Notre Dame 34, Pitt 0.”
Norbert A. Nefiinger, NROTC, Hampden, Mass.: “N. D. will take it easily by three touchdowns. What Pitt has this year couldn’t compare with Notre Dame.”
Glee Club Presents
Second Concert Sunday
Ever since their first concert on the steps of the main building some time ago, the members of the Glee Club, under the direction of Dean D. H. Pedtke of the music department, have been preparing for a sacred concert to be given this Sunday afternoon at four o’clock in Sacred Heart Church.
Among the numbers the men will sing are: O Jesu Christe, Hallelujah, Amen, Ave Maria, and The Spacious Firmament. Gene Pechulis of Baltimore, Maryland, will offer a baritone solo, Panis Angelicas.
Dean Pedtke will play a number of organ selections, of which Toccata and Fugue, by Bach, and Fanfare D’Organ, by Shelley, are a few.
All on campus are invited to attend, and an invitation has been extended to the students of St. Mary’s to hear this second concert of the present semester".
Boston Club to Show Films
The Boston Club of Notre Dame will sponsor football movies to be shown in the Engineering auditorium, Tuesday evening, Sept. 28 at 7:35 pun. It is expected that the film will be “Football Highlights of 1941,” the celluloid record of Notre Dame’s first undefeated season in a decade. The new time was decided upon to make it easier for N.R.O.T.C., Navy and Marine trainees to attend.
There will be a business meeting following the program. All members of the Boston Club are requested to stay for a few minutes to discuss the future activ-itties of the organization.
7
Irish Open Season Against Pitt Tomorrow; Shaughnessy's Panthers Are a Mystery Team
BY BILL CAREY
Sports Editor, Notre Dame "Scholastic"
Tomorrow afternoon the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame open the new foothall campaign at the Pitt stadium when they train their gun sights on the hide of a ressurrected Pittsburgh Panther. Coach Frank Leahy’s lads, their offensive daggers knifing out from a shiny, razorsharp "T" formation—1943 model—will face a club coached by the foremost exponent of this basic style of play, Clark Shaughnessy.
The Notre Dame-Pittsburgh rivalry is one of the strongest and deepest in the annals of modern football. Inaugurated during the student days of Knute Rockne, the series was brought back to life by the immortal Rock in 1930. Thus was Notre Dame introduced to its roughest, toughest football opponent of the thirties. In this period the Panthers ripped some of Notre Dame’s best elevens to shreds five times. Even such Notre Dame all - Americans as Krause, Fromhart, Elser, Millner, Shakespeare, Sweeney, Simonich, Puplis, Beinor and Brown were unable to stand up against the back breaking play of Pittsburgh’s Ormiston, Hartwig, Weinstock, Daniell, Glassford Matisi, Souchak, Daddio and Goldberg.
The record books today read five for Notre Dame, five for Pitt and one tie. A winner tomorrow will shatter the deadlock. When the teams break from their huddles for the kickoff they will be putting flesh and blood into a traditional rivalry that has lain dormant too long on the printed page. It will finally be settled where it should be—on a hundred yards of green sod.
“The cheering thousands . . . .
If the Panthers should tramp down the player’s ramp at game time wearing black masks and enveloping black capes the fans shouldn’t be surprised in the least. To date Clark Shaughnessy has veiled his team from publicity of any kind. Not a single press release—not even a squad roster—has emanated from the Gothic spire of Oakland’s Cathedral of Learning. A week ago Sunday, the Smoky City Sun-Telegraph scored a creditable newspaper scoop when one of its spies reported a probable staring lineup and turned in pictures of four grid-ders.
All pre-game write-ups—even in the home town papers—are strictly Notre Dame, for they admit they know nothing of the Panther club. Clark Shaughnessy either is shielding a campful of budding Marshall Goldbergs and Tony Matisis and hopes to surprise an unsuspecting Notre Dame—or he is hiding the appalling weakness of his team. The answer will not be known till game time.
Logically we should presuppose that Shaughnessy is covering up strength with which he hopes to startle the Irish. He is one of America’s outstanding professors of pigskinology, and a foremost advocate of Avide-open, hokus-pocus football. Any Shaughnessy coached eleven has a multi pronged attack. • .
Buried in the de-emphasis of Chicago University’s scholastic exercise program, Shag built character aplenty. Here, however, after a long huddle with George Halas he emerged with a spectacular brand of wizardry called the “T” forma-
”—And when those Irisi b
tion which he introduced in collegiate i games the previous year, and developed it into an undefeated and untied Pacific Coast, Rose Bowl and National Champion. Such standouts as Albert, Standlee and Kmetovich grew out of the so-so material that had fumbled blindly around a season before.	;
-	I
The uncertain status of football on the ;
coast caused the Miracle Man to move 1 . his pointer and blackboard east, to Mary- '
land, in the fall of ’42, where he guided < the “Terrapins” to their most successful * season in five years.	:
• |
Pittsburgh, in the meantime, accus- y tomed to the big time football of Pop [
Pitt-Notre Dame Record
Year	Notre Dame	Pittsburgh	1 I
1909	6	0	
1911	0	0	
1912	3	0	'I
1930	35	19	r
■ 1931 :	25	12	
1932 ;	0	' 12	
1933	0	14	
1934;	0	19	
1935	9	' - 6	
1936	0	26	g
1937	6	.	21	g
	84	129	
8
n backs go marching by"
i Warner and Jock Sutherland, was chafing under the lusterless losses of the ill-fated Bowser regime. To sharpen the claws of the then fangless Panthers, the powers that be wooed Shaughnessy from Maryland to the land of blast furnaces and coke ovens.
; Pitt football received the needed shot I
: in the arm — it was on the road back < to accustomed glory Panther partisans \ knew in the days of the eminent doctor— | Jock Sutherland. Last June an enthus-* iastic crowd, approximating 200 answered ’ the call for “summer practice.” Included •| in the group were 25 veterans expected y to backbone the club this fall. In center (Continued on page 13)
j Probable Lineups
Notre Dame	Pittsburgh
s
ij	Limont_____L.E. Pierre
i	White _________  L.T_______ Ebert
i’	Filley (Capt.) ..L.G---- Mattio’i
j Coleman ___________ C.Fisher
f	Signaigo________R.G----- Femiello
\	Czarobski _____R.T------ Rosepink
,	Yonakor _______R.E.______ Maloney
:	Bertelli ______Q.B________ Plazak
1	Lujack ________L.H------- Knisley
K	Rykovich ______R.H-------- Chelko
j	Mello _ _______F.B______Abromitis
• • ' . '	Time: 2:00 (EWT). -
I	Place: Pittsburgh ' Stadium
J Probable attendance—60.000.
J ■ Officials: . Referee—R. W( Huegel (Marquette).
£ Umpire^-David E.'Reese (Denison). Field Judge
| —Russel Rupp (Lebanon Valley). Head Lines-man—Paul Goebel (Michigan).
g •	.	'	'	'	-
I -	-
r
Pittsburgh to Send Young Inexperienced Team Against Irish; but Look for Victory
BY ELAINE KAHN
Sports Editor of the “Pitt News"
X, denoting the unknown, may well be considered the symbol for Pitt’s second wartime football team. One of the schools the Navy forgot and the Army did not, Pitt has had to garner its footballers from the ranks of the 17 year old incoming freshmen and the few 4F’s still left on campus. Only one member of the probable starting lineup, guard Francis Mattioli, was a regular on last year’s team.
But there has been enough magic in the “T” formation and its master, Clark Shaughnessy, to bring more than 100 boys out for football since the call was first issued June 28. At present there are some 65 players working out every day. The team has adapted itself well to the alphabet formation, a formation which is particularly advantageous this year since it makes possible the use of lighter men. The “T” puts the emphasis on speed and deception rather than on concentrated power.
However, the 1943 Panthers figure to be little more than what was known in former years as a good freshman squad. Many of the boys who will see action in the Notre Dame game will have had only 21 days of practice preceding it. But the spirit of the team has been remarkable and a far cry from the dispirited, discouraged footballers that have taken the. field for Pitt in recent years.
Evidence of the fine team spirit is shown by the willingness of the boys to sacrifice personal ambitions for the good of the team. Thus, when Coach Shaughnessy suggested to quarterback Ralph Hammond that he might be used to
greater advantage as a center, and suggested to center Marty Rosepink that he would be of much more use to the team as a tackle, the boys willingly agreed to make the change if “it’s for the good of the team.” As quarterback and center the boys stood only to be fourth or fifth stringers. Playing the new positions they have excellent chances of making the first team.
Likely to see action against Notre Dame are ends Tay Malarkey and Joe Pierre. Malarkey, who will be playing for the first time, co-captained the basketball team last year and led the city in scoring. Pierre had some experience on the ’42 team. But they are going to encounter some competition from Jim Maloney and Paul Massey. Massey entered Pitt just three weeks ago.
A tackle for the Panthers will be AI Marrangoni and Milton Ebert. Ebert is a 230 pounder from Erie, Pa. He hits hard and ought to make plenty of trouble for opposing teams. Francis Mattioli, and Gary Feniello, freshman prospect from Connellsville, will team up as guards. Don Fisher, a member of last season’s freshman squad, will be at center.
The backfield will probably be composed of Cy Plazak, 17 year old sophomore, at. quarterback, Bill “Abie” Abromitis at fullback, with Frank Knisely and Angelo Carlaccini filling the halfback slots. Abromitis has a good replacement in John Itzel, a transfer student from Georgetown University.
(Continued on page 11)
Pressbox Splinters
"Doc" Handy Preparing Cross - Country Team
By Joe Fahey
BY BILL WADDINGTON
Last week we picked up the sport sheet and read: Purdue beats Great Lakes in a power display; Marquette tears Wisconsin to shreds; Michigan trounces Camp Grant; Illinois takes it on the chin from the Seahawks; Northwestern regulars stomp reserves. All future opponents, we looked at these showings as indications of the type of competi-
Bill Waddington tion Notre Dame will m e e t. Wisconsin is probably worse than advance press notices. Notre Dame shouldn’t have any trouble with Harry Stuhldreher’s lads. Turning over to the Great Lakes contest, we noticed that Elmer Burnham’s large Boilermaker turnout netted him something worth while, and that “the Lakes” are by no means the club of last season.
This ought to be our season for breaking that tie with Lt. Tony Hinkle’s tars. Next, we saw the weakness of Illinois, an early season prediction by most scribes. But they did score 18 points. Are they going to improve much? We concluded negatively on that question and figured for at least a third win here. Simultaneously we delved into the Seahawk deal and found that the power was on the bench when kickoff time rolled around. But then the ex-pros came in and knocked the lid off Ray Eliot’s club. We decided not to underestimate this strength even though they should have won by more than ten points. We did concede the Fighting Irish a little lead however. That’s number four.
We pointed to a triumph over the Northwestern Cats in a close one. Then, saddened by the sight of a 26 with an adjacent 0, we squirmed in our seat, trying to recover from the ill effects of the Michigan - Camp Grant score. And to think that we gave 2-1 to a . Michigan rooter four weeks ago. Fritz Crisler has emerged with a wagon load of potent trainees and a super-deluxe outfit. To save ourself some embarrassment, we figure that Notre Dame will still be at full strength Oct. 9, and give plenty of fight.	.
Besides this, we foresaw the Georgia
Tech, Army, and Navy contest as something just a little removed from common football realm and put into the superperfect class of competition. Yes, we further determined not to be a wise guy and openly pick the conquerors in this set of get-togethers. It’ll be satisfying enough to dig deep and grab a $3.30 on the mid-stripe, even if it comes via the airlanes.
Battle of Wits
In a recent scrimmage between the varsity reserves and the NROTC team, one of the spectatorial critics observed that Frank “F.M.” Cronan was substituted for Hank DiGirolamo. Quoth he, “Look, a brain’s going in for a brain?”
A year ago tonight, the boys were shoving off for Madison and their opener with the Badgers. Do you remember how it snowed as everybody went to see them off at the circle? Three weeks later, we went to the Seahawk game in shirtsleeves. Yes, this is still unpredictable Indiana. It’s doubtful if Lloyds of London would want to gamble on this clime.
Predictions for Tomorrow:	.
Notre Dame over Pittsburgh.
Navy over North Carolina Pre-Flight.
Northwestern over Indiana.
Great Lakes over Iowa.
Minnesota over Missouri.
Purdue over Marquette.
Camp Grant over Wisconsin.
Georgia Tech over North Carolina.
S. M. U. over North Texas.
U. S. C. over U. C. L. A;
Ohio State over Iowa Pre-Flight.
Tennis Teams Battle to Reach Tournament Finals
The semi-finals are underway in the Interhall tennis tournament. Alumni and Dillon face each other across the nets
. to decide the champion in League -I.
. In League II," Walsh is deadlocked with Zahm—two victories apiece. At present the-Faculty, squad is awaiting the result of this playoff to oppose the victor. for the League title. •	.
The winners of both leagues will meet . in the finals to determine the campus
. Interhall tennis champions.
Alvin “Doc” Handy’s cross-country candidates are busy striving to earn a varsity berth on the team. With but two .	lettermen left from
rCCX\	last	fall, most of
\	the	positions are
j Q	w^e	°Pen- There are
approximately 12
VJ y ./	boys	practicing on
the cinder tracks, ^3^ and eight of these *	are servicemen, in'	eluding four trans-,
fers. The best known is Earl Mitchell, former Indiana ace, who is working out by himself to keep in condition. He hopes to be on. call at the start of the heavy schedule being planned. Lettermen returning are Bill Martin, Walt Brehmer, and Al Lesmez, who won his numerals as a freshman. Other Notre Dame men answering the call were Purcell, Kiley, Schwinn, Mistretta, and Knickerbocker. Transfers, besides Mitchell, are DeWolfe from Ames College, Iowa; Strochiem, from Idaho IL; and Donlon, of St. Benedict’s of Kansas.
One of the highlights of the crosscountry season will be the annual interhall cross-country run. Usually this race is limited to freshmen but this year it will be open to all those attending the school with the exception of the Midshipmen. “Doc” is hoping for and expects a large turnout for the event. All entries should be filed with Bill Gates, the track manager, before the race which will take place at 10:30 Sunday morning, on either Oct. 3, or October 10. The course will be around St. Joseph’s and St. Mary’s lakes and then back across the campus to the finish line.
Fifteen medals will be awarded as prizes. The first five to break the tape will receive gold medals, the second five, silver, and the third five, bronze. Students are urged to participate in this event which is destined to produce the campus champion. The student body will be informed when a definite starting date has been decided upon.
NROTC Team Takes Shape;
Hampered by Many Injuries
Plagued by injuries, the Naval ROTO football squad has been intensifying its drills in preparation for the opening game against Bunker Hill Naval Air Station, Friday night, Oct. 8 at Kokomo, Indiana. .
10
INTRODUCING
By Al Lesmez
Back in 1940 Cathedral High, in Springfield, Mass., had a graduate who was very popular. He excelled in hockey, baseball and football: the Stanley Cup Champion Boston Bruins wanted him; the St. Louis Cardinals and Detroit Tigers wanted him; several southern,
Angelo Bertelli
most midwestern, and every eastern college wanted him.
If he had been willing to pass up a college career at Notre Dame, he might now be playing pro hockey or baseball. He was regarded as one of the best prep school players in New England on the steel blades.
Frank Leahy, then with Boston College, sent his right hand man, Ed McKeever, to persuade him to pick B.C. as his alma mater, but Milt Piepul, then the captain of the Notre Dame squad, convinced him that he should attend no other school but N. D. So, when McKeever came to see him, he wasn’t even listening; he had made up his mind to come to South Bend.
Bert is of Italian ancestry, but is fair enough to be taken for Norwegian. He’s a light-haired, blue-eyed, slender six-foot one inch passing ace. His uncanny skill as a passer and his flawless ball handling in the key spot of the “T” make him Notre Dame’s most valuable player.
In his first four games for N. D., the Springfield Rifle completed 28 out of 41 passes for a total of 393 yards. From this headline opening, Bert has pitched the Irish to numerous victories. The long arm striking out of a big “48” jersey has always spelled danger to opposing teams. Always a marked man, Bert has yet to perform short of sensa
tionally. He led N. D. to an unbeaten season in 1941.
Bertelli was bom in Springfield, Mass., on June 19, 1921. One of his earliest hobbies was going to the movies. “I’m a bug on that, I guess, and I’d never miss a picture with Jimmy Cagney or Joan Leslie in it. Those two are-my favorites.”
Besides the movies, Bert’s hobby is collecting good books. His favorite book is, “All’s Quiet on the Western Front.” Another favorite interest is a girl waiting for him back East, where he intends to settle down after the war and become a family man. He looks forward to playing a few years of pro football, then to coaching, but not until after the war. Meanwhile, he prepares for his career in the Marines. He leaves for Parris Island in November, and thus ’will not be here for the full season.
“Our team will be just as good this year as it was last,” says Angelo, “but Pittsburgh is lots tougher than the average fan thinks. Shaughnessy will give our “T” a good test tomorrow, and you can bet that it will be a contest.”
Bert says that being in the Marines has not affected his playing except that he does hot have as much time for practice, and that his season will, be cut in half. His biggest thrill was playing in front of some 80,000 fans in Yankee Stadium with many friends and home town folks in the stands. Then, too, last year he threw two touchdown passes, one for 35 yards and the other for 70, against Southern Cal. to beat them 13-0 in front of 90,000 fans.
Angelo Bertelli is a model Notre Dame athlete—modest, capable, unassuming. He is a football player of whom Notre Dame can well be proud.
Dillonites Walk Away With Softball Title
The Interhall Softball championship was decided Tuesday afternoon, October 21st, at the field by the Biology building. The Navy men from Dillon had a slugfest, beating the Marines from Zahm, 11-1. The game, however, is under protest due to a peculiar- development. The umpire called time when a football rolled onto the field. The batter swung at the pitched ball and hit a homerun. Mr. John Scannell, Director of Interhall Athletics, is to decide on the question.
The Navy team was composed of Curran, catcher; Bonicelli, pitcher; Meagher, first; Zimmerman, second; Stumpf, short; Sullivan, third; Sturm, left; Faught, center; Wukovits, right; and Enright, shoi-t center.
Netmen Beat Midshipmen to End Undefeated Season
The Notre Dame varsity net squad rolled over the campus Midshipmen Sunday, six to one.. The Ensigns, since
commissioned, were completely swamped, except for one singles match they managed to salvage.
Charley Samson, Notre Dame’s number one man, defeated the Middy’s ace, Bynum, 6-4 and 6-2. Bob Faught whistled his serves past Martin to outpoint him, 6-2, 6-1. Ed Caparo, who filled the varsity’s number three slot, beat Hill in the first set 6-4, and then after a tough battle finally pulled out the second set and match, 7-5. Jim Griffin then completely overwhelmed his opponent, Pettibone, 6-0, 6-0. The Midshipman was no match for Jim’s powerful service and steady backhand. To destroy Notre Dame’s hope of a complete rout, Tom Herbert was defeated by Daley, 6-3, 6-3. Tom put up a hard fight but bowed in close sets.
In the doubles matches Notre Dame twosomes trounced the Middy duos in both matches. Charley Samson and Bob Faught teamed to force Bynum and Martin to bow 6-3, 6-3. Jim Griffin and Tom Herbert won the second match with Hill and Pettibone, 6-3, 7-5.
This match with the N. D. Midship-men ended the season for the Notre Dame varsity tennis team. Under the able guidance of Coach Walter Langford the Irish ended up the short season undefeated.
PANTHERS YOUNG BUT TOUGH (Continued from page 9)
Pitt is not worrying too much about making reservations to Pasadena, hut on the other hand, the current Panthers are not going to lie down and play dead at the sound and sight of Notre Dame. Clark Shaughnessy has made it quite clear to all that “We- are not out to monkey with Notre Dame. We are out to beat them.”
And personally, I think it is going to be a very interesting afternoon.
Over 250 Men Turn Out for Interhall Football
The response to the call for the Interhall Football League was encouraging. The turnout for the first assembly held Monday afternoon, September 20th, on Brownson Field, was estimated at least 250, and more are expected to report. The hopeful players met their new coaches and spent the time in signing names and starting experience.
The Navy men from Alumni have as their head coach, Chief Specialist Barba, who played at Arnold College. He is being assisted by Chief Specialist Blem-ken, who lettered at Purdue.
Chief Specialist Spann wiil lead the Marines of Cavanaugh with Platoon Sergeant Tarro as his second in command. Chief Spann has had years of coaching experience at South West Tech in Oklahoma, and Sergeant Tarro has played semi-pro ball.
The civilians, banded under the name of Sorin, will operate under the guiding hand of Chief Specialist Ijamo, who played under Alonzo Stagg at College of Pacific. He is aided by Chief Specialist Horan, who had semi-pro experience and got as far as the farm teams of the Detroit Lions.
Chief Specialist Gallagher, aided by Chief Specialist Hutmick, will be the man of ideas for Dillon Hall. Chief Gallagher played for Central Michigan and Chief Hutnick was with Pennsylvania Teachers.
The R.O.T.C. in Walsh have Chief Specialist Glover as head Coach and Chief Specialist Jivelikian as assistant. Chief Glover was a Tulane immortal and a successful high school mentor. He was a prep school teammate of Marchy Schwartz. Chief Jivelikian was a stalwart for Boston College’s “Eagles” under Coach Gil Dobie.
The khaki clad men of Zalmi will be tutored by Chief Specialist Robertson, the Southern Cal All-American of a few years back. Marine Sergeant King, who played for another of our rivals, Georgia Tech, will work with Robertson in the effort to whip the boys into shape. ;
As yet it is too early to see how the teams shape up. Scrimmages will probably start this Saturday and Sunday to help the coaches sift material and find the boys they want.
According to Mr. John A. Scannell, Director of Interhall Athletics, the schedule will be a round robin among the six teams in the league. The first games will be on October 3rd. The usual tradition of starting bn Founders Day, the 13th of October, will not be completely disregarded for there will be several contests on that day. The schedule must be completed by October 24th because of the semester break. .
... in peace and war
This emblem is familiar throughout the nation as the symbol of a well-trained team, integrated for service in peace or war—The Bell Telephone System.
1.	American Telephone & Telegraph Co. coordinates all Bell System activities.
2.	Twenty-one Associated Companies provide telephone service in their own territories.
3.	The Long Lines Department of A. T. & T. handles long distance and overseas calls.
4.	Bell Telephone Laboratories canies on scientific research and development.	.
5.	Western Electric Co. is the manufacturing, purchasing and distributing unit.
The benefits of the nation-wide service provided by these companies are never so clear as in time of war.
12
IRISH OPEN SEASON (Continued from page 9)
Larry Braner, ends Walter Cummins and Billy Kyle, and halfbacks Angelo Car-laccini and Cy Plazak, Shaughnessy had five better than average college ball players. A sturdy nucleus around which to build a creditable club. Other promising linemen led by tackle John Baker and End Norbert Gestner were wingmen Frank Janoskey, Mike Sotack and Joe Brady; tackles Bill Wachter and Bruce
Allen; guards Roger Garris, John Lu-kowski, Frank Matriali, George Yakos, Gordon Llewellyn and Jim Mariades and centers, Loren Braner, Jim Clowes and Frank Novak.
In addition to Plazak and Carlaccini, slippery Joe Kielb, Matt Gebel, 195 pounds of fullbacking TNT, Frank Knisley, promising soph and Lou Chelko, who was regular end last year, were all promising ball toters. From the looks of this summer abundancy of grid wise op
erators the experts figured Shaughnessy to field a snarling feline this fall instead of the docile pussy to which Oakland fans have become accustomed.
Makeup of present squad uncertain
Today, however, three months later, before the opening game with Notre Dame, everyone professes ignorance as to just what Pittsburgh has in the way of football material. It is known that several of those boys expected back have left for the service, and must be forgot-
"SEARCH ME, PAT. PENS AND REPAIR
'JEEPERS, DAD! I’M
PARTS ARE SCARCE WHY DIDN’T YOU
WRITING UNCLE SAM'S
PROTECT IT WITH PARKER QUINK? IT
HANDSOMEST FLYER AND
HAS SOLV-X IN IT!”
MY PEN CONKS OUT.
THINK IT-CAN BE
FIXED?"

Don’t expect to replace your pen if it fails now! Production of all pens— especially of first-choice brands —has been sharply reduced by Government order. Repair parts, too, are scarce!
Why not let Parker Quink provide the "ounce of prevention”? This ink alone has the magic ingredient, solv-x.
SOLV-X
1. Protects rubber...lengthens the life of sac or diaphragm.
2. Dissolves sediment and gum left by other inks.. Cleans your pen as it writes.
3. Prevents clogging of feed.
4. Safeguards base metal parts...
Solv-x roots out the causes of most pen failures. It fights off the metal corrosion and . rubber rot always caused by highly acid ink. It ends clogging and gumming.. .cleans your pen as it writes!
For steel pens, too, Quink is ideal. The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wisconsin, and Toronto, Canada.
FOR —MAIL "Micro-film Black.” Parker Qtiink in "Micro-film Black" photographs perfectly! It is jet-black—ideal for every use. Qtiink comes in 7 permanent colors: Micro-film Black, Blue-Black, Royal Bine, Green, Violet, Brown, Red. 2 washable colors: Black, Blue. Family size, 25$. Other sizes, 15$ and up.
MAKE YOUR DOLLARS FIGHT—BUY WAR BONDS NOW!

PARKER QuoirA;
THE ONLY INK CONTAINING SOLV-X
5. Assures quick starting and even flow at all times.
Copr. 1943 by ■ The Parker Pen Company
13
ten. However there were many deferred engineers and army rejectees also numbered in the group. Whether they returned to school is the question. An Army Air Corps School, at present Pitt has 3,000 trainees, none of whom are eligible for intercollegiate competition. This checks off the possibility of their having outstanding service transfers in the lineup.
The tentative starters given to the press included few familiar names save for Rosepink, Plazak, Mattioli, Carla-ccini and Knisley. The others, Pierre, Ebert, Fisher, Femiello, Maloney and Abromitis have been heralded as green freshmen, ignorant in the ways of football under the big tent. Could it be possible that Shaughnessy is holding many of his key men on the bench until needed? We suspect that many familiar names will clatter from the Panther locker room in new Red and White jerseys, though unheralded in pre-game publicity. It has been rumored that several standouts from non football playing schools have flocked
Divvy’s Handy
SPANISH-ENGLISH and
ENGLISH-SPANISH DICTIONARY
By J. Douglas, Ph.D. and A. Lomo, Ph.D.
The most - complete, reliable and up-to-date pocket Dictionary, listing all Spanish and English words in current use — over 60,000 — including many of the latest technical, scientific and military terms. Also contains Elements of Grammar, full list of irregular Verbs, .Cities with their populations. Colored Maps, etc. Indispensable to students, translators, business men, etc. 536 pages, 3% x 6%, flexible leatherette binding. Postpaid 52.00; with Indexes $2.50. On sale at leading bookstores.
D. C DIVRY, Inc., Publishers 240 W. 23rd St., New York
Campus Centenary Publications
Notre Dame—100 Years $4.00 Collected Poems of
Charles L. O’Donnell $2.50
. . . at the Bookstore
to the Oakland tower of learning. The first glimpse at the program roster will indeed be revealing—if they print programs.
Irish Ready, Lujack to Start
Coach Frank Leahy has prepped his Irish squad to meet whatever they are faced by—expected or otherwise. An epidemic of minor injuries swept the squad last week but a strong starting lineup should answer the whistle at the stadium. Notre Dame will rely on the ball handling magic of Bertelli, Mello, Lujack and Rykovich. Bertelli in late practice sessions has been pitching the oval in mid-season form—a healthy sign indeed. Sophomore John Lujack, a native Pennsylvanian from Connellsville, has won the starting left halfback assignment, and will flank Jim Mello at fullback and Jules Rykovich at right half. Creighton Miller, speed merchant and open field whirlwind, will see much action. Up front Paul Limont, Jim White, Pat Filley, Herb Coleman, Joe Signaigo, Ziggy Czarobski and either John Yonakor or Jack Zilly will present a fast hard hitting front line.
Not First Meeting with ”T"
This is not the first combat between the Leahy “T” and the Shaughnessy “T.” Last fall the Stanford Indians, under Notre Damer Marchy Schwartz, still using Shag’s plays, fell victims to the aerial skill of Angelo Bertelli. The Palo Alto natives, however, for the most part froze our ground attack. What a mystery Pitt team will do against us is purely a matter of conjecture.
In any pre-game discussion the coaching wizardry of Shaughnessy must be given prime consideration. He once lifted a Stanford eleven from complete collapse to a national championship. Perhaps at Pitt he has another world beater. Who knows? We don’t.
SERVICE MEN
You are always
at the Navy Canteen
Make your Canteen your Club
Regulation Haberdashery Candy Cigarettes Coca-Cola Gum Cigars
Four Civilian Golfers Sweep N. D. Open Championships
By Al Bisbee
The 72nd hole of the University Open Championship Golf Tournament found Mel Wilke of Sorin Hall, with a score of 305, the proud possessor of the William J. Burke Memorial Golf Trophy. His ownership is merely temporary, however, for the handsome statue with Mel’s name engraved on it will rest among Notre Dame’s other trophies of athletic • endeavor in the Rockne Memorial. Wilke, a senior in metallurgical engineering, has been elected captain of the 1944 golf team, and will hold this post next spring/ when the divot-diggers resume their , activities on the fairways.
Besides the trophy, Mel will have his
Zero Deck of the Dining Hall
14
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL. SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. . . TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS $1.00.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE
at
South Bend's Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
name engraved on the large topographical map in the golf shop in the Rockne Memorial Building. The name of each season’s tournament winner is engraved on the plaque at the hole corresponding to the current year. This idea was begun in 1930, so Mel’s name will grace the 14th hole of the plaque.
The golf tournament is an annual contest open to all students, and consists of 72 holes of medal (stroke) play. The event usually draws about 35 entries, but this year, presumably due to the rigid military program, there were but nine contestants, of which only four finished the tournament. The matches were played off on Saturday and Sunday afternoons, when the weather was favorable.
Bob Terry and John Damrich, freshmen from Brownson Hall, tied for a close second behind Wilke with a total of 309 strokes apiece. Their deadlock will be broken with an 18-hole medal playoff this week-end, the winner taking second place. This runner-up receives the same type of trophy, except for size, as the winner.
Linksman Jim Clynes, sophomore civilian living in St. Ed’s, tallied 318 strokes to nab 4th place, and will receive a medal from the University together with the third place winner.
Others who started the tournament, but for various reasons did not finish were Jim Gallagher, Navy Commerce Junior, a letterman from the team; and Dick Duffy, freshman civilian. Dick Sidel, a Navy V-12 sophomore engineer, and Jim Besenfelder, another monogram winner and a sophomore in Commerce, were also unable to complete the tournament. Joe LaFortune, geology major in his sophomore year likewise dropped out before the final round.
All entrants except the two freshmen were members of the varsity golf team. These two newcomers will no doubt be regulars next spring. Fr. George Holder-ith, University golf coach, is pleased with the results of the tournament, for it enabled him to evaluate possible material for next year’s squad. This tour of the links closed the official golf season for the year; the course, however, will, remain open until November.
The box score of the finalists, with a
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mig. Opticians
228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
71 par for each 18-hole round, were as follows:	.							
Wilke	37	37	74	Damrich 38		39	.77
	38	35	73		41	38	75
	38	38	76		37	38	75
	44	38	82		39	39	78
Terry	40	37	77	Clynes	.44	38	82
	38	35	73		42	37	79
	40	40	80		39	39	78
	42	37	79		40	39 .	79
Phone 3-1254
Notre Dame
HUDDLE
GYM SHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. “T” SHIRTS GYM PANTS SUPPORTERS SOFT DRINKS CIGARETTES CANDY
TOBACCO PIPES
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, DJJ.S. CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, DJJ.S.
623-629 Sherland Bldg.
South Bend, Ind_
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
. Registered Podiatrist
FOOT AILMENTS 406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2574-
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY . X-Rays and Consultation
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws .
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bldg.. South Bend. Indi.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS 503 Sherland Building
South Bend. Indiana-.
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building
L. E. Fisher, M.D. . M. J. Thornton, MJD^ .
15
"Up Periscope”.. "Stand By to Surface.” A long range U. S. submarine comes up out of the sea. ..on go the blowers... out come the cigarettes. Flash of white packages in the sunlight.. .familiar white CHESTERFIELDS
ITS CHESTERFIEL
FOR MILDNESS AND TASTE
. . . and when it’s a smoke YOU want • • . try Chesterfield. They’re made for YOUR pleasure. Here you get the world’s best cigarette tobaccos, the right blend skillfully rolled into the clean white cigarette that really Satisfies.
Copyright 1943, Liggett & Myeis Tobacco Co.
YOU CAN’T BUY A