CONFERENCE IN THE CLOUDS
Among the undergraduates on any college campus, you’ll find
the talk reaching up to the clouds. And once in a while — in a class-	' I
room, around a studv table, or even in a bull session — a really big	r
idea is born.
Big ideas come. too. from the men and women in laboratories.	:
business offices, shops. But often these professionals are exploring a path first glimpsed in college.	V
How do we know? Because of the manv college people who have come into the Bell Svstem, where big ideas and a lot of dreams	.
have taken their place in progress. I he human voice, carried along a wire, first across a town, then a state, a nation, and now the world.
Music and pictures and things happening delivered into cities and	<
hamlets all across the land by radio and television networks.
. - *
Were alwavs looking for the men and women who get big ideas — whether they’re about people, or machines, or ways of doing things. It’s the onlv way the Bell System can keep on giving this	।
country the best telephone sendee in the world.	•>
B E L L T E L E P A D N E SYSTEM	'
‘ >
The Scholastic
■MMiaaiHaSanMaMSlSSwiEiffiEaaSB
Sportsmanship Again
Editor:
In our recent game with Loyola of Chicago, certain conditions arose which I believe should be publicly considered as to their possible bearing on our i reputation as good sportsmen.
, The uncalled for and uncontrolled i	abuse	heaped upon the officials at that
;	game	was	unjust, and to the general
=	public,	it	would single us out as a
■	bunch	of	rowdies and rather* poor
;	sports.
:	I sincerely believe that it is a case
, of “the tail wagging the dog,” and if the few who persist in this form of en-< joyment would perhaps stop to realize >	the harm they are doing to the school
;	as a whole, they might think twice
f before doing so again.
I would like to remind the under. classmen in particular that their high school days are behind them and that “ booing is out of place at ND events. Above all, our opponent should receive every consideration we give our own men when they stand at the foul line.
If each one of us reminds the fellow who becomes boisterous that we prefer a reputation as great sports, we can - easily overcome this condition which is being broadcast over the Liberty network of radio stations. Let’s correct it before we hit such places as the Chicago Stadium.
Yours for all-around sportsmanship, J. F. McGlinn
-	Head Cheerleader
253 Sorin
Editor:
I am a very ardent Notre Dame fan and follow all Notre Dame sports, but I have one complaint to make on the subject of sportsmanship of the Notre Dame student body. I think the student body of Notre Dame could certainly show more sportsmanship to their opposing team and to the officials.
Just for example, I am listening to the basketball game between Notre - Dame and Loyola. I have never heard so much booing in all my life as the student body is doing. I realize that young boys and young men like to yell and whoop things up while engaging in sports but I think it reflects very badly on the school when the student body boos the referee and the officials.
I also attend several football games each year of Notre Dame and I have heard people at the stadium mention the fact that the students at Notre (Continued on Page 32)
popular oxford button-down
ABBOTT
»»------------->►
SHIRTS • TIES • SPORTS SHIRTS • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS
Make GILBERTS your ARROW headquarters
GILBERT'S
‘	813 - 817 MICHIGAN STREET
UNIV. CF
JAN 11 1952
Open evenings until 9 o'clock
3
PERIODICALS DEPT.
Jan, 11, 1952
HOW MANY TIMES A DAY
DO YOU INHALE?
[SO?] [ioo?] [200?]
IF YOU’RE AN AVERAGE SMOKER THE RIGHT ANSWER IS OVER 200!
Yes, 200 times every day your nose and throat are exposed to irritation...
200 GOOD REASONS WHY YOU’RE BETTER OFF SMOKING ► Philip Morris!
		
7 PROVED definitely milder . . .
O PROVED definitely less irritating than
F	any other leading brand . . .
PROVED by outstanding nose and throat specialists.
YES, you’ll be glad tomorrow .. . you smoked PHILIP MORRIS today!
g as PHILIP MORRIS
The Scholastic
Top of the Week
Semester holidays in two more weeks.
Return of the Natives
The troops have been back at the front over a week now after a restful (in our case, not so restful) two weeks at home. Many returned bronzed by the Florida sun, completely refortified with vitamin A, others returned lame from holiday skiing accidents, and still others trekked back to count their remaining days of bachelorhood, having arranged to relinquish that lofty status via a band on some doll’s third-finger-left.
We know of one astute gentleman who so chose to leave the ranks of the misogynists and gave his spouse-to-be a rock the size of a jockey’s fist, thus committing himself for the remainder of the year to a stern and rigid budget which will allow him one pack of cigarettes a week, one movie a month (at
afternoon prices) and a wee nip on Saturday night. Oh well, only 51 more payments to go, Dad.
The Hall Lives On
A major holocaust was averted last Saturday eve when Washington Hall’s feature presentation of the week, A Song to Remember, played against a background of shooting sparks and flames, which, for a moment, threatened the existence of that hallowed ark of cinematic culture.
The usually blase patrons of the Hall lived up to their reputation and not one man lost his composure as they all sat, bemused smiles on their faces, viewing what they no doubt hoped was history in the making.
History remained unfulfilled, however, as the delighted critics were ordered to file out and the small blaze was cruelly checked.
As one wag put it, “That’s the best thing I’ve seen in there in three years.”
Which Way to Moot Court?
There’s a story making the rounds of the local barristers which we thought we might steal, being long on
By Jack Hynes
space and short on ideas this week. It seems that the gate broke down between heaven and hell. St. Peter looked over the damage and yelled to the devil, “Hey, Satan, it’s your turn to fix the gate.”
“Can’t do it,” replied the man from down under. “My men are too busy to fix any gate.”
“Okay then,” rasped St. Peter, “I'll have to sue you for breaking the terms of our contract.”
“Yeah?” retorted the devil, “where are you going to find a lawyer?”
There will be a slight pause now, while my editor groans and looks around for another columnist.
Clowns Incorporated *
With just about one more home game to be played in the Fieldhouse this basketball season, we have been asked to point a reprimanding finger
BRING A FRIEND
:South Bend’s largest studios!1
Corner Michigan and Monroe
... and take advantage of our special low
DIAL 7-1517 For FREE Analysis Lesson
Who gets the dates? Who has all the fun? It’s the GOOD DANCERS . . . naturally! Why wait when you can learn to be a smooth dancer at our low 2 for 1 rates . . . just bring a friend and start today!
to the large segment of unsportsmanlike juveniles whose braying and handclapping while an opponent is making a free throw shows anything but the better side of the much-vaunted Notre Dame spirit.	■
This is probably the same crew whose flannelmouthing brought discredit on the school during the SMU game of the past football season. Their actions during home basketball games have caused many a quizzical look and remark from reporters, broadcasters, and visitors to the Fieldhouse.
Let’s try to remember that we’re supposed to be big boys now, and that there are courtesies to be observed in sports as in everyday life.
Bottom of the Week
Easter holidays in fourteen more weeks.
NEXT ISSUE FEB. 8
During the coming exam period and the between-semesters vacation, the SCHOLASTIC will not be published. The next issue will appear Feb. 8.
The news and sports staffs will meet Wednesday, Jan. 30, at the usual time and place.
Jan, 11, 1952
5
Calendar
JANUARY 11
AVON (now playing to Jan. 15)—Love Nest (Legion of Decency rating A-2) is a fairly amusing comedy revolving around the problems of a young couple, June Haver and William Lundigan, to make a financial success of their investment in a New York apartment house and at the same time stay happily married. There are a few side issues, such as Marilyn Monroe, and in the end the couple make a real success of their business venture but they don’t do quite as well with the film.
PALACE (through Jan. 17)—Man in the Saddle (A-l) has as its man in the saddle the most man-in-the-saddle man of them all —Randolph Scott—in case you can’t guess, a rootin’ tootin’ shootin’ western with all kinds of slam bang action and fast gunplay and stuff. Also right over might. Supporting the man in the saddle are Ellen Drew, Joan Leslie and Alexander (he plays the'bad man) Knox. Co-feature is a thing called Purple Heart Diary (A-l) with Frances Langford and Judd Holdren.
JANUARY 12
WASHINGTON HALL—If there is sound, there will be Go for Broke with Van Johnson.
JANUARY 13	'
COLFAX (through Jan. 19)—Detective Story (A-2) is not a “nice” story. As a matter of fact, it is pretty sordid at times and no sacrifice of realism is made in presenting the men of the 21st Manhattan precinct plying their trade. The movie is, on the whole, a superb piece of film production as it records the hour by hour operation of a police station. Kirk Douglas is the hard-boiled detective, Eleanor Parker is the bright newcomer and William Bendix is cast as another detective in a supporting role.
GRANADA (through Jan. 19)—Probably the best comedy in town this week is Callaway Went Thataivay (A-2) with Fred Mac-Murray, Dorothy McGuire and Howard Keel. It’s a takeoff on television westerns and all the old time cowboys making a comeback on the new medium. There’s not much of a plot but the dialogue has a lot of laughs and the westerns really take a ribbing. Calling Bulldog Drummond (N-2) is the co-feature.
JANUARY 16
AVON (through Jan. 22)—Reunion in Reno is another good comedy to hit town this week. This one’s about a young girl (child star Gigi Perreau) who goes to Reno to divorce her parents on the grounds of “incompatibility.” What happens after that makes a refreshing family comedy, which has Mark Stevens and Peggy Dow handling the leads.
JANUARY 17
CAMPUS (through Jan. 24)—Semester examinations in all courses.
JANUARY 19
WASHINGTON HALL—Father's Little Dividend with Spencer Tracy and Elizabeth Taylor.	,
JANUARY 26
WASHINGTON HALL—Night Into Morning.
‘ JANUARY 31
CAMPUS—First day of second semester. Classes resume.
HOME IS WHERE THE BUCK IS
OR
Who Did You Soy Is a Boy's Best Friend?
Once there was a sophomore whose father had a bad habit of saying “No”. Vehemently. Particularly about money. Ask him the Big Question and his jowls would turn a
fetching shade of vermilion
So Junior, his need needled by three day* of living on Pup-O-Nip (liver-flavor) sandwiches, cast abont for a New Approach. Found it, too. Right at the Western Union office. He just sat down and worked out a wire to Negative Polarity Pappy. A brisk little wheeze ... to wit: “Must have twenty dollars immediately. Urgent. Please flash by telegraphic money order.” Results? Our sophomore was caressing the cash within two hours.
What’s Junior’s major? Psychology, of course.
It’s darned good psychology to wire home at other times than just when you. need help and comfort. For holiday greetings—Mother’s Day—good news abou* grades—things that would make Home Happier. Try it next time. Just head for your local Western Union office.
Fish, Steaks, Chops and Chicken
At Prices You Will Appreciate
Our Specialty
% Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
$1.20
JOE NABICHVS RESTAURANT
"Chicken in the Rough”
213 N. Main	Open Sunday
4
d
4
-I
6
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
4^7/ forials^
yL - Vol. 93 January 11, 1952 No. 14
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867 --------------------------------------------- Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of
4- postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
if
Editor JOHN J. POWERS
Associate Editor . JOHN F. MEANEY
Managing Editor ROBERT G. FINNEY
DONALD J. CARBONE.................News
PATRICK CARRICO..........Assistant News RICHARD P. CODY..........Features
JACK R. VARLEY..................Sports
WILLIAM J. LONDO________Assistant Sports WILLIAM H. FRASER_______Photography LEON GARDNER____________Librarian
C. B. FARMER.........Campus Circulation RONALD E. ZIER.......Advertising
WILLIAM KERWIN.............Circulation
JOHN P. DEFANT........Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Student Council's Folly
The Student Council, in one of its more important actions of the year, has planned to appropriate a considerable sum of money, approximately $300, for the purpose of redecorating their office in the Main Building.
We are glad to see that our representatives for the government of student affairs are in such a state of solvency that they can afford this relatively large expenditure. Things were not always in such a wealthy state. The weekly treasurer’s report at times has shown a balance of only $100. Last fall the price of the Saturday-night dances was raised from $1.50 to $2.00, because of the tensions placed on the purse-strings by the weekly affairs. And to move closer to the present, we quote from the official minutes of the Student Council meeting of Dec. 5, 1951: “Even with stringent precautions, the Engineers’ Ball for 1951 lost $114.12. Next year’s Council should closely consider this dance before approval, as this is the second consecutive year it has lost money, it was advised.”
It is hoped that if the Council books are filled with healthy black, ink, as this latest move would indicate, action will be taken in the near future to reduce the dance price to the old $1.50 fee, as the reason for the raise seems to have ceased to exist. It is also hoped that our representatives will see their way clear to continue underwriting dances and other student activities, without so much concern for possible loss involved.
It is finally hoped that if financial conditions do not seem to warrant action toward these and other similar things, that the Council will reconsider the large outlay for dressing up their office. We’re sure that newly-painted walls will be very helpful to the Student Council in promoting our welfare and serving our interests, but a saving of fifty cents a -week, for example, would be more greatly appreciated by the regulars at the Saturday night Palais sessions.
COVER: In line with the feature policy this year of showing the Notre Dame man in action, Scholastic offers a peek at one of the dauntless lads getting ready for exams. If you liked the ND man downtown without funds, at St. Mary’s, doing his Christmas shopping, etc., perhaps you’ll get a kick out of the feature beginning on page 17 of this issue entitled “Week of Woe.” Actually, the title of this week’s piece could very well be “How Not to Prepare for Exams.” As such the article isn’t exactly the typical Notre Dame man, but rather an attempt to show some of the pitfalls that beset the “crammer.” Our thanks to Senior Tom (Peaches) Foley who appears on the cover in a typical pose. He had the time to pose because he’s ready for his own exams.
—Photo by Al Muth
The "Maroon" Is at It Again
A few months ago we criticized the Chicago University Maroon for trying to start a rebellion on their campus when their editor was ousted for Red leanings after he toured behind the Curtain as a guest of the Russians. The Maroon went back to press shortly after with a new editor and everything seemed to have been worked out.
But the prodigal has returned home since then and got into print in the Maroon with a series of articles on life behind the Iron Curtain. The pieces are the usual whitewash of Soviet Russia dished out by Americans who return from Soviet-sponsored “tours” of Russia and her satellites.
In the Dec. 7 edition, he tells of the vast amount of money spent for cultural purposes and for the amusement and happiness of the workers. He decides that Russia couldn’t have much left over for armament. He tells us later of how the workers can sound off against their masters whenever they please. Frankly, we don’t believe him.	,
It’s a shame all this was printed. It indicates the Soviet Union is still dishing out the same old stuff and it indicates some Americans are still falling for it. If the Maroon wants to demonstrate freedom of the press, we wish they’d choose a worthier cause.
Jan, 11, 1952
7
HUGHES COOPERATIVE PLAN for
MASTER of SCIENCE DEGREES
PURPOSE
To assist outstanding BS graduates in obtaining their Master of Science Degrees while employed in industry and making a significant contribution to important military work.
ELIGIBILITY
June 1952 graduates receiving BS Degrees in the following fields:
Electrical Engineering Electronic Engineering Physics
Mechanical Engineering Aeronautical Engineering
Those chosen to participate in this plan will be from the upper portion of their graduating classes or will have evidenced unusual technical ability. They must also have evidenced imaginative ability* and possess personality traits enabling them to work well with others.
CITIZENSHIP
Applicants must be United States citizens who can be cleared for "Secret,” due to their work at Hughes Research and Development Laboratories being of a classified nature.
PARTICIPATING UNIVERSITIES The University of California at Los Angeles and the University of Southern California will participate in this program, and candidates for Master of Science Degrees must meet entrance requirements for advanced study at these schools.
PROGRAM
Under this Cooperative Plan, starting June 1952, the following schedule of employment at Hughes is arranged:
Full time—from June 1952 to Sept. 1952 Half time—from Sept. 1952tojune 1953 Full time—from June 1953 to Sept. 1953 Half time—from Sept. 1953 to June 1954 Under this arrangement it is possible for a recipient to receive % th of a normal year’s salary each year and to attend
a university half time during regular sessions working on his Master’s Degree.
SALARIES
Salaries will be commensurate with the individual’s ability and experience and reflect the average in the electronics industry. Salary growth will be on the same basis as full-time members of the engineering staff. In addition, the individuals will be eligible for health, accident, and life insurance benefits, as well as other benefits accruing to fulltime members.
TRAVEL AND MOVING EXPENSES For those residing outside of the Southern California area, actual travel and moving expenses will be allowed up to 10% of the full starting annual salary.
TUITION
Tuition at either UCLA or USC, covering the required number of units necessary to obtain a Master’s Degree, will be paid by Hughes Research and Development Laboratories.
NUMBER OF AWARDS
Approximately one hundred Cooperative Awards shall be made each year, if sufficient qualified candidates present themselves.
SELECTION OF CANDIDATES Candidates will be selected by a committee of representation composed of two each from the University of California at Los Angeles, the University of Southern California,and the Hughes Research and Development Laboratories.
DATES FOR APPLYING
Informal applications should be mailed prior to January 30, 1952. The Laboratories will then forward formal applications, which should be returned, accompanied by up-to-date grade transcripts, by February 15,1952. Selections will be made during the month of March.
ADDRESS CORRESPONDENCE TO Hughes Research and Development Laboratories Engineering Personnel Department Culver City, California
The Scholastic
& jSih o II cast tie
VOLUME 93, NUMBER 14
Cadets, Middies Meet In Midlir Tonight
MISS MARGE VOLZ
Queens, One for Mid . . .
University Will Award 100 Degrees to Grads In Washington Hall Commencement Jan. 26
An even 100 undergraduate and graduate students at the University of Notre Dame will receive’degrees at the January Exercises of the 107th Annual Commencement Jan. 26 in Washington Hall.
Prof. John J. Sheehan, head of the Department of Economics, will deliver the convocation address at the ceremonies.
Prof. Sheehan, department head since 1942, has served as an arbiter in labor-management disputes since the middle of World War II. He is past president of the Catholic Economic Association.
President to Celebrate Mass
The program for the Convocation will open Saturday morning, Jan. 26, with a Solemn High Baccalaureate Mass to be celebrated by the Bev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame. The Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., head of the Depart-
MISS CATHERINE REYNOLDS . . . And One for Air
ment of Religion, will deliver the baccalaureate sermon at the Mass.
Also included on the program will be a reception by members of the Notre Dame administration for members of the graduating class, their parents and guests, to be held Saturday afternoon in the Faculty Lounge, Main Building, from 4:30 to 5:30 p.m., followed by the Commencement Exercises in Washington Hall at 8 p.m.
No Caps and Gowns
Caps and gowns will not be worn. The procession will go from the Main Building to Sacred Heart Church for the Mass in the morning, and from the Students’ Recreation Room into Washington Hall for the Commencement Exercises in the evening.
A copy of “Instructions to Candidates for Degrees,” to be distributed to all graduates, will announce the time and place of assembly for the various exercises.
JANUARY II, 1952
Military Ball Captures Spotlight at Drill Hall
By MIKE DUCEY
Art-minded decorators for this evening’s Mid-Air Ball have taken over the ND midshipmen’s workshop. Today the future officers drilled in an atmosphere fit more for the music of Gene Hull than for the rhythm of marching feet.
As were this morning’s drillers, tonight’s couples will be confronted by a large globe of the world surmounted by a speeding F-86 Sabre jet. The guns used in training the midshipmen in the way to handle naval artillery will be walled off by curtains, and under their muzzles will be the cloak room.
The otherwise barren walls and rifle racks will be covered by panels of light blue silk, bearing various symbols representing the different branches of the service. The raised bandstand will be the same color as the wall-panels and will bear a four-foot National Emblem. To its right and left will be the AROTC shield and the fouled anchor of the NROTC.
The band will play from 9 till 1 from a simulated bandshell for the couples dancing on a canopied dance floor.
Pair of Queens
“Local talent” will supply the two queens for the evening’s activities. Catherine Reynolds from across the Dixie and Marge Volz from South Bend will reign over the uniformed gallants and their dates. As is the custom the Queens are the dates of the co-chairmen, Sommers Brown and Cliff Hoenie, respectively.
Practically all the military of Notre Dame will be in attendance at this first jointly-presented Military Ball. The faculties of the Air Force and Navy (Continued on Page 12)
Jan, 11, 1952
9
Bartholomew Sets Tuesday as Last Chance To Save Spot on Jan. 24-30 Tour of Mink City
The annual between-semesters trip to Washington, D. C., sponsored by the Department of Political Science, is only a week and a half away. The tour is open to all students.
The trip is scheduled to last foi* seven days, all expenses included in the S115 cost. The students will leave the campus on Jan. 24 and return to ND on the morning of Jan. 30. The round trip will be made on the B. & 0. “Columbian,” from LaPaz, Ind.
Dr. Paul Bartholomew requests that all students who intend to participate in the tour make reservations with him before Jan. 1-5, although reservations will be accepted after that date. Early reservations will facilitate the work and last-minute arrangements often necessary. Dr. Bartholomew’s office is located on the second floor of the Social Science Building.
While in the capital the tourists will participate in the full schedule arranged by Dr. Bartholomew. This includes tours of the Bureau of Engraving; of the FBI, where they will meet J. Edgar Hoover; of the Capitol, Supreme Court, Library of Congress, National Gallery of Art, Smithsonian Museum, Folger Library, and the Pentagon Building.
Tour Sights Outside Capital
They have been invited to attend a State Department briefing session; to dine and spend the evening at the home of Walter Trohan, a Notre Dame graduate and the chief representative of the Chicago Tribune in Washington; and to be guests at a reception given by the Indian embassy.
Trips cutside of Washington have been planned to take in a steamship cruise down Chesapeake Bay and sightseeing in Jamestown, Yorktown, and Williamsburg. George Washington’s famous plantation, Mount Vernon, will be visited by the touring ND men.
Notwithstanding the many famous and important places to be visited, a general tour of the city of Washington is the focal point of the trip, so it has been scheduled for the only Sunday that the students will spend in that city.
Meals will be eaten in famous restaurants, and the students will have accommodations in a well-rated hotel. All transportation will be provided by chartered busses.
Dr. Bartholomew conducts this tour so that participating students may see
some of the internal workings of the United States government, as well as view the physical and scenic points of interest in and around the nation’s capital.
DR. PAUL BARTHOLOMEW
To See the Workings of Government
Return to Class Card Mode of Registration
A new wrinkle in registration procedure will be unfolded by University officials in the forthcoming class registration period.
Registration foi* classes at the University for the second semester* of the 1951-52 school year will take place on Tuesday, Jan. 29, and Wednesday, Jan. 30. No student will be permitted to register in courses at the University after the final day of registration, Jan. 30.
Monday, Feb. 4, has been set as the last day for essential class changes.
Registration will be carried out in the Navy Drill Hall and the procedure will follow the pattern of the past, with the following important exception.
After the student has filled out his census card, in the usual manner, he will pick up an envelope containing his various certificates which he will exchange for his dining hall card, laundry card, etc.
Gets Deck of IBM Cards
Instead of receiving a printed schedule of his classes in this envelope as in the past, he will receive his tuition
certificate, which he must exchange for an envelope of IBM class cards, one card for each course. These envelopes may be picked up at the tables designated for each college.
The student should check for conflicts of hours and then write his name on each class card. These cards are not interchangeable and must not be misplaced or lost since they are each an individual record, the only duplicate copy being in the office of the dean of the college.
The proper IBM card must be presented to the teacher of the course for the student to be admitted to his class. To change a class or section of a class for any reason, the student must return the class card to his dean to receive another.
Each class card will include the course number, department, hours and days of the class, the building, and room number* to which the class has been assigned. A code of abbreviations will be printed on the envelope in which the student receives his class cards. The envelope should not be discarded until all the cards have been presented.
■v. J
Wandering Warblers Wend Way West
The globe-trotting Notre Dame Glee Club will make its first major tour of the nation this year when it journeys to California during the between-semesters vacation. Concerts in Arizona, California, Missouri, and Texas are under the auspices of the Notre Dame Alumni Clubs in those states.
The tour, which will cover approximately 6,000 miles between Jan. 24 and Feb. 3, will include concerts at the famous Kiel Auditorium in St. Louis Jan. 25; San Francisco Jan. 28; Stockton, Calif. Jan. 29; Phoenix, Ariz. Jan. 31, and El Paso, Texas Feb. 1.
Approximately 36 men, under the direction of Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, will make the trip. Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C., Vice-President in Charge of Student Affairs, will accompany the Glee Club on the concert tour.
The Glee Club tour will be the sec-» ond appearance of the University group on the West Coast. The singers last appeared in Sacramento in 1928.
To date, the Glee Club has made three minor tours, two to Chicago and one to Hammond. Besides this coming tour, the Club is planning a tour to New York at Easter. This year’s journey to California will be a near duplicate of last year’s trip to Florida.
The entire company will travel by rail.
The Scholastic
10
1
No+re Dame to Host Law Reviews Confab
Progress and Enrollment of Graduate School Boosted in Fr. Cavanaugh's Six Years Here "
The University of Notre Dame and the Notre Dame Lawyer will be hosts to the second National Convention of Law Reviews here Feb. 13, 14, and 15. This University has been the National Headquarters for the Conference for the past two years. Lazuyez' Editor, Robert Stewart, is the ex-officio national chairman.
Over sixty editors of this country’s leading law reviews have been invited to the convention, as have the deans of the law schools. Many other editorial staff members and legal educators are also expected.
The conference will be devoted to three days of seminars on principal topics of legal writing and general problems of publishing law reviews.
Three addresses will also be presented by prominent members of the bench, bar, and legal education. These will deal with the opportunities for law reviews to aid the practicing lawyer, to aid in legal education, and to act as a “molder” of the law.
The conference will be concluded with a dinner and the principal address. All speakers to be announced in the next issue of the Scholastic'.
The first conference was held in 1949 at Chicago where it was organized by the Illinois Lazu Reviezv of Northwestern Law School.
The overall purpose is to stimulate constructive development of law reviews and to aid in the solutions of the common problems of law reviews, by dissemination of ideas and the development of the individual through collective effort.
With the national headquarters here since then, the Notre Dame Lazvyer has acted as a centralizing agency for all information concerning law reviews, disseminating all ideas of general interest and mutual benefit to all. It has planned this meeting under the direction of Editor Stewart and Law Senior Dick Cullen.
Mass Schedule
Monday, Jan. 14 — Feast of St. Hilary.
Tuesday, Jan. 15—Feast of St. Paul.
Wednesday, Jan. 16 — Feast of St. Marcellus.
Thursday, Jan. 17 — Feast of St. Anthony.
Friday, Jan. 18—Feast of St. Peter’s Chair at Rome.
Saturday, Jan. 19 — Saturday of Our Lady.
This is ‘the third in a seznes of mozith-ly articles ozi the accomplishments during the administration of the Rev. John J. Cavaziaugh, C.S.C., president of the Uziiversity of Notre Dame, zvho cnr-rently is izi his final yeaz- of office.
Rev. John J. Cavananugh, C.S.C., who will retire next summer as president of Notre Dame, can look back on the tremendous development and expansion of the University’s Graduate School as one of the' highlights of his six-year administration as the 15th president of the University.
During World War II scientific research at Notre Dame had increased to
REV. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C.
Research to an All-Time High
a new all-time high, due primarily to governmental and industrial contracts. At the outset of Father Cavanaugh’s administration, however, the problem was one of the converting to peace-time research, and of obtaining the support of government and industry in fundamental scientific research.
When Father Cavanaugh assumed the presidency of Notre Dame, only a few more than 100 students were enrolled in the University Graduate School. Very little financial assistance to such students, in the form of fellowships or research or teaching assistantships, was available.
Today’s figures reveal that during the past school year the University brought in better than three-quarters of a million dollars under contracts, grants and fellowships from governmental agencies, Foundations and industry.
The University’s graduate student
enrollment quadrupled during Father Cavanaugh’s tenure of office, reaching an all-time high of 450 graduate students during the 1950-51 school year. During the current school year, more than half of the graduate students hold graduate appointments of one' kind or another, totalling nearly $300,000 per school year.
S/50,000 in Various Subsidies
Today, the Notre Dame Graduate School comprises four divisions — Arts and Letters, Science, Social Science and Engineering. These four divisions include 22 departments, of which 12 offer the doctorate degree.
Two internationally-known Institutes have been cultivated and developed during the past six years. The Mediaeval Institute was established in 1946 as a center for research in the life and culture of the Middle Ages, and in 1950 institute status was given LOBUND (Laboratories of Bacteriology, University of Notre Dame), an institute for research in the life sciences, in which germ-free animals are reared and used in seeking the solution of biological and medical problems.
LOBUND Inaugurated
As a result of the vastly-increased scientific research at Notre Dame, a new Germ-Free Laboratory in LOBUND and a new Science Building to provide more' adequate laboratory and classroom space were the first buildings started when Father Cavanaugh instituted a building program during his administration.
In addition to the Science Building, being constructed through the generosity of Notre Dame alumni and nonalumni friends throughout the United States, other structures under construction include the E. M. Morris Inn, the I. A. O’Shaughnessy Liberal and Fine Arts Building, and the Fred J. and Sally Fisher student residence hall.
The University of Notre Dame Foundation, because of this rapid physical expansion of the University under Father Cavanaugh, has launched a “Father Cavanaugh Testimonial Fund,” with a goal of $3,000,000 by July of 1952.
The fund, designed as a tribute to Father Cavanaugh, will be used, through the improvement and expansion of campus utilities systems, to carry forward and complete the building projects inaugurated during Father Cavanaugh’s administration.
Jan, 11, 1952
11
Mid-Air Ball
(Continued from Page 9) groups will break out their bow ties to attend the formal affair.
Father Leahy has cooperated to make the evening long as well as enjoyable by granting car permissions and 2 o’clock leaves for all. Those taking cars are reminded, however, that autos must be registered with the Prefect of Discipline.
As usual, there will be special transportation to St. Mary’s.
Corsages are taboo. The committee has, however, provided bids and programs, especially for the benefit of the girls.
At last report Wednesday, just over 250 tickets had been sold.
So, for one night at least the Drill Hall will take on an aura of soft lights and sweet music to accommodate the semester’s final social affair.
Qualified Candidates Sought For FBI Special Agent Posts
The' Federal Bureau of Investigation is now accepting applications for the positions of Special Agent and Special Agent (Accountant) from qualified candidates who possess an LL.B, degree from resident accredited schools. For an indefinite period, applications will also be accepted for Special Agent Employee from men who possess a four year degree from accredited colleges.
Applicants must be 25 years of age, over 5’7” in height, and male citizens of the U. S. Application forms and further information may be secured from the FBI Field Office, P.O. Box 1615. Indianapolis, Ind.
Frosh Announce Final Plans For Trip to Kentucky Game
The Freshman trip to the Notre Dame-Kentucky game in the Chicago Stadium Feb. 2 will definitely take place, class officers decided at a meeting this week.
Tickets are priced at $5, which includes transportation, and must be procured from the Freshman hall presidents by Jan. 23.
The Frosh will leave the campus Saturday, Feb. 2, at 1:30 p.m. and return Sunday morning at 8.
Another item taken up at the officers’ meeting was the setting of May 2 as the date for the annual Freshman Frolic. Co-chairmen will be James Barry and Joseph O’Donnell. Further information on the dance will be announced later.
12
Scientists Use Black Magic on Feb. 15 Ball
With the Palais Royale under the spell of “Black Magic,” students of the College of Science will conjure up the second annual Science Ball Feb. 15. The dance will begin at 9 p.m. and last until 1 a.m.
The affair will be semi-formal, and no flowers will be allowed. Admission will be $3.60 per couple. Tickets may be had after the start of the second semester from salesmen in the halls and in the Dining Hall lobby.
Ted Gallagan and his orchestra will lend their mellow tones to the “enchanting” atmosphere. A female vocalist will augment the offerings of the 11 music-makers.
The committee in charge of the ar-
‘DRS.’ SANTORO AND IONATA
Magic and Enchantment " '
rangements for the dance includes: Fred lonata and Bill Santoro, co-chairmen; Bob Visintine, publicity; John Flynn, date bureau; Terry Kiely, special arrangements; and John Cronan, ticket manager.
No decorations chairman has been appointed as yet, but, according to lonata, decorations will probably be entrusted to a chemistry major.
For the needier Science men, dates will be supplied from St. Mary’s College and the Holy Cross Nurses’ Home.
As a special attraction during the festivities, the committee is planning a dance contest for those faculty members and their wives who will be present. The students will have the pleasure of judging the choregraphical skill of their professors.
All dancegoers will receive 2 o’clock and car permissions.
Debate Team 'Hits the Road' For Month of Tough Activity
Brandishing a sharp sword of doubleedged talent, Debate Team Coach Len Sommer will send Notre Dame arguers to various localities of the debate circuit i in preparation for a feverish month of oratorical activities which includes over 50 encounters.
To date, a record of 35 wins, 19 losses and five non-decisions has been compiled by the underclassmen alone, but the coming month will be a trying one i in which Sommer will also be required to employ his best material in the ranks of the upperclassmen.
The John Hopkins Invitational Tournament in Baltimore, Feb. 1, will be the first stop on the journey, while eight Freshmen will be sent to compete in * the Purdue Novice Tournament Feb. 2.
Boston University will play host to the Irish debaters Feb. 15 and 16, a tournament in which Notre Dame' has reached the finals four years in a row, carrying away two first-place honors.
The Azalea Festival of Springfield College, Mobile, Ala., to be held Feb.' 21; it will be the last of the more important debates on the schedule.
Commenting on the strength of his team, Coach Sommer* has indicated that he is particularly well stocked with Freshmen prospects. He names Charles Doherty as the most promising underclassman at present. Doherty has re-cently been promoted to a berth on the varsity team.
Other Freshmen who will be called upon to carry a heavy part of the load are: Carl Gunderson, James Cantril and Richard Galehouse'.
Kane Replaces Fr. Murray As Sociology Society Head
Dr. John Kane of the Department of Sociology at Notre Dame was elected president of the American Catholic Sociology Society at its 13th annual convocation, held in Washington, D. C., Dec. 28-30. Rev. Raymond Murray, C.S.C., head of the Department of Sociology at Notre Dame, is a former president of the society.
Mr. • Charles O’Reilly delivered a paper on “Dating and Courtship Customs among Catholic College Students,” prepared in collaboration with Mr. Russell Barta. Both men are doctoral candidates in sociology at Notre Dame.
Dr. Kane was chairman of a panel discussion on the Family and Rev. Charles McCarragher, C.S.C., headed a panel on Parish Society at the convocation before an attendance of 400 members of the society.
The Scholastic
KENTUCKY GAME TICKETS
One thousand seats have been reserved for Notre Dame students for the double-header basketball game between Notre Dame and Kentucky, DePaul and Cincinnati at Chicago Stadium Saturday night, Feb. 2.	’
A special Notre Dame student ticket is available at the Ticket Office, Breen-Phillips Hall, priced at $1.00, including tax. Students must present their ID cards when purchasing, and the ID card must ALSO BE PRESENTED IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE STUDENT TICKET FOR ADMISSION AT CHICAGO STADIUM. These tickets are for personal use and only one per student may be purchased. Once sold, student tickets will not be refunded or exchanged, and will not be available at Chicago Stadium.
The Notre Dame student sections are located in the Mezzanine, affording a fine view of the floor, and arc normally priced at $2.50.
Students planning to make the trip with groups such as the Senior Class, Central Illinois Club, etc., should purchase their tickets from officers of those groups.
Student ticket sale will close Jan. 25; or when the supply is exhausted, whichever occurs first.
. —TICKET COMMITTEE
Art Lassuy Sweeps Vetville Mayoral Race;
Community Chooses Councilmen in 5 Wards
By LARRY BREHL
Two hundred nine Vetville husbands and wives tromped to the polls last Sunday to elect Art Lassuy as mayor for the second semester of the present academic year.
The Vetville Rec Hall was the scene of the elections where votes for the community’s councilmen were also cast. Lassuy won the mayoral race with a 127-vote majority, while his opponents, Maynard Bissonnette and William Danner, received 52 and 30 votes respectively. A former councilman, Art succeeds the retiring mayor, Ed Reardon.
The new councilmen for the six wards in the community, with the exception of Ward 2, are William Hawley, Ted Soblierski, John Emery, Leo Petelle, and Russel Barta. The second ward has not elected a councilman yet.
Lassuy, a native of East Moline, Ill., received a bachelor of science degree from St. Ambrose College, majoring in biology and minoring in education. During the intermittent years before coming to Notre Dame, he spent eight years in the U. S. Navy and taught for three years at East Moline high school.
Working for Master’s Degree
Two years ago Art entered ND, taking up work on his master’s degree in
Correctional Administration, which is concerned with parole and probation work in the penal system. Lately he had been working' with juveniles in South Bend. Art has also followed his teaching career, being an instructor in the biological sciences, across the Dixie at St. Mary’s College.
Art and his wife, Mary Ann, have three daughters: Mary Patricia, Margaret Ann, and Suzanne Elizabeth. Mrs. Lassuy is a former student at St. Mary’s College.
Art and his three opponents were the three top nominees on the primary ballots which were distributed two weeks prior to the election. Therefore they automatically became candidates for mayor. Usually the councilmen are elected several weeks before the mayor, but due to Christmas vacation, the elections were combined.
The biggest known activity planned by Vetville for the second semester will be participation in the Mardi Gras festivities by maintaining a bakery sale booth. Other projects now’ going on will be continued, such as the instruction classes, discussion club, and ladies’ bridge club.
Some of the usual things done in the community will be featured again this semester, such as paper drives, pot luck supper, spring cleanup drives,, and men’s smoker.
MAYOR AND FAMILY	MAYOR AND COUNCIL
First a Victory Smile, Then a Meeting With New Aidermen
]an, 11, 1952
13
Female Counterpart of Glee Club Shapes Up As Office Workers Form 'Secretarial Choir'
By AL SUWALSKY
Every Thursday evening about 5 o’clock the casual passer-by will probably hear feminine voices coming from Washington Hall. The University Secretarial Choir has been organized recently under the direction of Cliff Cail-louet and the sponsorship of Dr. Daniel Pedtke.
The secretaries and stenographers employed by the University are forsaking their typewriters to form, for the first time, a girls’ choral group on the campus.
The purpose of this group is to promote the social and educational aspects of music, as • well as to offer opportunity for gaining musical experience. A further purpose is to provide a much needed local organization for girls employed at the University.
Coming here from Lafayette, La., Director Caillouet entered Notre Dame to complete work toward his master’s degree in musical education. Formerly he headed the music department of Franklin High school in Franklin, La., and studied at Louisiana State University, Sam Huston State Teachers’ College, and at the Christenson Choral School and the Fred Waring Schools in Pennsylvania.
The girls are in hopes of having 30 or 35 voices to present accomplished renditions of operatic, classical, semi-classical and popular selections, such as a modern women’s choral arrangement of Debussey’s Clair de Lune, Strauss’ Tales from the Vienna Woods, My Hero from the Chocolate Soldier, Lift Thine Eyes from the Trio in Men-delsson’s Elijah, and also a choice of secular music in a Spring concert.
Mr. Caillouet has expressed the hope that the group will be able to appear publicly in a few months. For those who desire to take part, musical training and knowledge is not of first and foremost importance. Only a sincere desire to sing and be part of a live, happy choir- is necessary, he said.
Each Thursday evening at five the Choir meets in the Music Hall to rehearse. Committees have been tentatively chosen; the presiding officers will be selected in the very near future.
Jan. 21 is the latest date for entry. Anyone interested may either call Gilda Caterino (extension 414) or drop around to see her in the registrar’s office in the Main Building. Girls may also join by being present at rehearsal on Thursday.
ND Renamed as Test Center For Law Admissions Exam
Edward R. Quinn, Head of the Department of Guidance, has announced that Notre Dame has again been designated - as a testing center for the nationwide administrations of the Law School Admission test Feb. 23 and April 26, 1952.
Application blanks and a bulletin of information describing registration procedures and containing sample test questions may be obtained from the Department of Guidance, Room 4 Main Building, or directly from the Law School Admission Test, Educational Testing Service, P. 0. Box 592, Princeton, N. J.
Applications must be mailed so as to be received at the Princeton office not later than ten days prior to the testing date chosen.
Scores on the Law School Admission Test are used by many law schools throughout the U. S. along with. previous scholastic record and other evidences of suitable personal characteristics, as a basis for admission of applicants.
yCS Accepts Reservations For Retreat at Gethsemani
Applications are now being accepted for the annual between-semesters retreat at the famous Trappist monastery at Gethsemani, Ky. Only 37 students can be accommodated and sev-

41
fl
“How do I go about joining the Wranglers?”
eral of the spots have already been filled. Because of this, YCS officers ask that anyone who is interested sign up soon in Room 3 Law Building.
This year those who make the retreat will leave Friday morning, Jan. 25, at 8 o’clock and return sometime Tuesday evening. They will be at Oui-Lady of Gethsemani Monastery Jan. 26, 27, and 28. During that time they will follow the Trappist rule of life, praying and meditating much of the time. They will also have conferences with their retreat master, a Trappist monk, and tour the monastery grounds. Their big test will come at the early hour of 5 in the morning, when everyone will rise for the day’s work.
Washington Hall 'Holocaust' Fails to Halt Saturday Films
When a small fire damaged equipment in Washington Hall last Saturday . night, anxious speculation developed among the students over the continuance of the weekly movies.
- However, the show will go on, in ~ the famous theatrical tradition, reports the Students Affairs office.
- The fire broke out during the climax
4
14
The Scholastic
of the early-evening showing of last week’s movie, A Song to Remember. A faint odor of smoke was noticed by students, then the sound went off, though the picture continued on the screen. Soon the picture stopped and the hall lights went on, to be followed almost immediately by a small burst of flame behind the screen.
Several students and priests moved it into the center of the stage, where it could do no harm. Meanwhile the audience calmly left the hall.
The blaze broke out in the speaker behind the screen, apparently due to overheating. No extensive damage was done, though the speaker will probably have to be replaced.
'Stay Tuned for Addleman' Set for Early May Opening
Bill Hank, a sophomore who has been behind the scenes in University Theatex* productions for the past two years and who has worked in summer stock, was chosen as general manager of the student musical at the Student Council meeting Monday. His duties will include ticket sales and promotion and publicity.
The Musical comedy, Stay Tuned for Addleman, is tentatively scheduled for the first week in May. Book is by. Chaz Schubert, Jack Hines, and Jerry Costello; music and lyrics are by Costello.
Tryouts for singing leads will be held Monday at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. There will be two female and one male leads open. It will be necessary to start immediately on these roles.
The tryouts for the other roles will take place latex* in the semester. These non-singing parts do not require as much practice, and the dates fox* theix* auditions will be announced in the future.
Llorens, Szczesniak Speak On 'Democratic Education'
The University’s Department of History held anothex* in its series of monthly discussions last Wednesday night with “Democratic education challenges an old order” as the theme. The two speakers were Prof. James A. Llorens and Prof. Boleslaw Szczesniak.
Professox* Llorens spoke on “Educational Ideals and the Generation of ’98 in Spain,” while Professox* Szczesniak’s talk was entitled “Populax* Education and Central European Peasant Cui-, ture.” Prof. William O. Shanahan presided.
Jan, 11, 1952
Gala Mardi Gras Plans Include Masquerade, Minsfrel Shew, Dancing, Carnival and Raffle
By TOM GODFREY
A masquerade ball, a minstrel show, a suppex* dance, and a mammoth carnival and raffle — all these will highlight Notre Dame’s 1952 Mardi Gras. The committee, headed by Bill Toohey, has scheduled the biggest Mardi Gras week evex* with a three-day carnival and festivities extending from Friday evening, Feb. 22, all the way to the big drawing, Tuesday, Feb. 26.
The carnival has been lengthened this yeax* to include Saturday night as well as Monday and Tuesday. The big prize, a 1952 Buick Riviera, will be drawn on Tuesday evening with the seller of the winning ticket getting a Nash Ramblex*. The other two dx*aw-ings, fox* a TV set and a radio-phonograph, will probably be held on the first two nights of the carnival in the Navy Drill Hall. .•
Last night, Booth Managex* Brian Kelly held a meeting with the club presidents to explain the arrangement for this year’s gala affair. The committee is looking fox* new ideas for booths; the clubs that come up with the best will receive space. As in the past, paper money, exchangeable at the door, will be used by the carnivalgoers.
The fun and frolic will commence
“This YOUR soap, chum?”
Friday with a Masquerade Ball at the Indiana Club, fox* which the committee has tentatively arranged 2 a.m. and cax* permissions. Everyone who attends will dress up in a costume of some kind and compete for the prizes fox* the best attire.
Washington Hall will become the centex* of attention on Sunday afternoon and evening for an old-time Minstrel Show. The schedule, still indefinite, calls fox* student participation in three pexformances patterned after the old-time shows of the South. Jim Powers heads a committee to make arrangements fox* the show and, if possible, cast students for parts.
Saturday afternoon will bring with it a Suppex* Dance at Erskine Country Club, running from about 3 to 7. Tickets will be limited for this affair, which will consist of a buffet supper, preceded by music and dancing.
In charge of the carnival part of the Mardi Gras is Chairman Ed Raque. Assisting him are Tom Morsch, supply manager, Dick Waif gram, business manager, and Brian Kelly, booth manager. The layout men are architect Jinx Ingram and art director Bob O’Neil. George Sweet, Senior class president, is head of the Masquerade Ball committee.
15
Hash Flood Engulfs Farley as Pipe Bursts; Students Save Hard-Hit Publications Office
By DON CARBONE
Scholastic nearly became a mariner’s magazine Monday when a flash flood inundated the Publications Office in the Farley Hall basement. Also hit by the minor deluge were the first and second floors in the northwest corner of the building.
A water pipe burst on the second floor at approximately 7 p.m. Monday, sending gallons of water into several rooms on each of the three floors. Hardest hit was the basement Publications Office, where the depth rose to an estimated one-half inch.
Hurried calls by Scholastic staffmen brought aid from a plumber and directions from the University Fire Department. The water was finally shut off and the leak later repaired, but student volunteers labored nearly two hours to remove the water from the floors.
Damage was most severe in the Publications Office', where stacks of books piled high on stockroom shelves and floors were soaked by water cascading down from overhead pipes. According to Publications Director John Defant, damage to texts, periodicals, and other books amounted to an estimated $3,000.
Quick action by the Scholastic staff
and several Freshmen saved most of the books, and brought the basement flood under control in a short time.
Elsewhere, comparatively little damage resulted. Several rugs and a few personal effects were soaked in the students’ and prefects’ rooms, but prompt attention by the Farley men prevented any extensive destruction.
Trouble was first detected in the basement offices by the three Scholastic men then on duty. Shortly after reporter Larry Brehl had heard a faint trickle from a far corner of one of the stockrooms, the pipe' burst.
Immediately, Sports Editor Jack Varley, Brehl, and this reporter, called for aid, began moving the books and built dams of water-logged books, boxes, and mail sacks to check the flood from invading other rooms.
As the water spread, several students arrived to lend aid. Spirit of camera-derie was high as they joined the staff members in forming “chain gangs” to remove the books.
Broom Brigade to the Rescue
Armed with brooms, a half-dozen rescue workers swept the half-inch of
MOPS, PAILS, AND WRINGERS WERE IN VOGUE Buckets Upstairs, Brooms in Basement
water through an outside door. They wielded their brooms for almost an hour, 1 in near-perfect cadence, to the rhythm of Old Man River, Hovj Dry I am, and cries of “Stroke! Stroke! Stroke!”
Meanwhile, mops, pails, and wringers * | were in vogue upstairs as Freshmen ' sopped up the water — shallower than	j
in the basement — from their rooms	’J
and the corridors.
Soon after the pipe first broke, the assistant prefect’s room on the first 1 floor took on the appearance of a turkish bath. Water, roaring down over -heat pipes, filled the room with steam.
For some time after the flow in the pipes had been shut off, water continued to drip down through the basement ceiling.
By 8:30 p.m. the Scholastic staff resumed work on today’s issue, although several puddles remained in the editorial room.	*
Order was more fully restored by Publications employees Tuesday morning, but by the end of the week things . were still somewhat “snafu.”
Peter Reilly, ND Lay Trustee, * Dies in Indianapolis Hospital
Mr. Peter C. Reilly, 82, lay trustee	i
of the University of Notre Dame, died	1
recently of a heart ailment and uremic condition in St. Vincent’s hospital.
His benefactions to the University "* included a $1,000,000 gift, bequested in . October, 1945. The grant was the largest single gift in the University’s history up until that time.
Mr. Reilly received an honorary de- ■ gree of doctor of laws from the University in 1939 in light of his various contributions to the fields of chemistry and industrial development.
He was founder and president of the Reilly Tar & Chemical company, one of the nation’s three largest producers of -coal tar products.
ND Philosophy Prof Writes Lead in International Journal
“Literature and Ideas” by A. Rob- . ert Caponigri, associate professor of philosophy at Notre ’ Dame, was the lead article in the October 1951 issue of the Giomale di Metafisica, an inter- r national journal published by the Higher Institute of Philosophy at the University of Genoa and circulated throughout Europe and the Americas.
The article, published in both Italian ♦ and English, is an extended treatment of the philosophical problems of artistic expression. It	indicates	a basic fresh	'
approach to the	question	of	the ration-	-•
ality of art.	|
The	Scholastic	£
jf
16
Week of Woe
Photos by AL MUTH
desk when your folks came out
for
again. Curse that 11:00 class!
Saturday
during the day, anyhow.
Hmmf, he’s not in.
<3
Jan, 11, 1952
Just Sam.
long. Just
Thanks a
On he having
It always seems to happen you’re feeling at peace with the Some sceptics down the hall seem to know that Illinois was
when world, didn’t going
we go. as well, do with
O.K., here It’s just
hi, Sam. I was just wondering if I could borrow your family book for a
you see that lousy exam schedule?” he cries. “I gotta stay ’til the last day
while. Naw, it won’t be want to brush up a little, lot, pal!”
See, that wasn’t so bad.
like him. Good old Considerate Must be here someplace. “Oh,
but patronizing, excited about What’s it this
to be around. What ,did that rat do with it? Probably hid it someplace.
continues, mumbling about Tuesday, Thursday, and
Let’s see, now, what did he that book? It doesn’t seem
The guy is always something or other, time, Arnold? “Did


. u.4*
rese
to take the national championship in basketball, and you’ve just spent the last half hour proving conclusively that they can’t'miss. Now you’re back in your room and can it be? That comfortable chair is empty for the first time today. You sit down, pull out that fresh pack of Chesterfields that you found in your roommate’s drawer, and reach for the Post you saw lying on someone’s bed as you passed his open door. Yes, life is good.
When Agitated Arnold next door busts in and starts to chatter away you’re hard pressed to feel anything
classes ever since he can remember, but you aren’t listening any more. Of course you never do, but this time it’s different. Exams? Did he say something about exams? You shiver involuntarily, and there’s kind of a roaring noise in your ears. Exams? Oh, no!
This is the dangerous moment. The thing for you to remember above all is, “Don’t panic.” Sit right back down in that chair. Let’s look at this thing calmly and collectedly. Remembei: they can’t lick us, kid. First of all, what do we need? A textbook, of course. Now, stay logical. Where do we get one? How about that guy who lent you some books to put on your
that football game? Sure, he’s a dam nice guy. But look, don’t be apologetic when you ask him. You’re not a pool* relation. Be assertive. “Say, remember that Family text I borrowed a while back? You don’t mind if I borrow it again. Aw, thanks a lot.” What can he say except “yes”? He studies
Now if we
hot the the
and knocked down the coffee pot, plate, end table, and tore up half rug? “Hi, Bill, glad you’re not in (Continued on Page 22)
can just we’re in his-name,




dig up a notebook somewhere, business. How about what’s-that quiet bird down the
hall? He must have reams of notes. Hmm, he isn’t in either. Probably at the library. “Say, any of you guys
happen to have could use for a “Who’s the spy? girl. He’s too
some Family notes I
get her. his gal. today . .
Well,
Steve Yeah,
while?” Naw, I obvious.
Canyon I saw
Ah, success, think it’s the But Steve’ll always gets Mickey Finn
we sure managed to kill a
couple hours nicely there. Lights going out in a minute. Maybe we can scrounge up an extension cord. Willie’s got one. Remember when some j'oker pulled the cord from outside his room,
Heaven never seems to smile on the Crammer when he finally gets down to it. (ABOVE) It is always his extension cord that’s too short. It is always he who has to study —by candlelight. It is always he who falls asleep over his books. His college outline book is always sold. (BELOW) But finally he starts. Or does he? Will he pass? Will he flunk? Will he enlist? Tune in next semester and find out.
the
£ Much of the credit for scientific research at Notre Dame is due graduate students holding fellowships in both the Departi	ment of Metallurgy and the Department of Chemistry. Among the problems investigated by Metallurgical fellows (oppo'	site page) are the reactions of metals and alloys to temperature, and properties of the rarer minerals. Holders of fellow-
£ ships in Chemistry (above, below) face equally interesting and vital challenges, such as the Rh blood factor, radiation, i and cancer prevention.
Pure science, on the other hand, in-
search carried on at Notre Dame is
velop, Julius Since Notre
research into discover their relationships no particular
Science came to Notre Dame ’way back in the 1920’s, when Du Pont arrived on this campus with 28 chemists and its vast financial resources to de-
out their unnoticed assignments. This work includes research in both applied and pure science.
volves basic fundamental the nature of things, to makeup, functions, and with other things, with
under the guidance of Father Nieuwland, synthetic rubber, then science has moved into Dame in a big way, and ap-
science is a practical search a particular material or developed in a specific way, will fit immediately into an engineering, oi’ medical

Bright Young Men
Text by RUDY UNGER
Photos by TOM FLECK
parently, to stay.
Following Du Pont’s footsteps in ever increasing numbers have come other industries, the government, and private research organizations, until today Notre Dame finds itself grasping to obtain suitable research space in which its scientists can work out the many elusive and difficult problems nature has set before them.
For as the University eagerly anticipates the opening of the new Science Building, over fifty research fellows — working in overcrowded and often outmoded quarters, particularly in Chemistry and Physics, have been carrying
Applied in which method is so that it industrial, technique.
thought of applying them. Once the nature of something is understood, applied science will look for possible ways in which it can be used, perhaps for processing steel, building a road, or curing cancer.
A great deal of the Engineering re
the hands Metallurgy
of the research fellows under the direction
in in of
Ettore Peretti. Professor Peretti’s fellows are fortunate in that they have what are possibly the finest scientific facilities on campus.
Supodh Das Gupta, one of these fellows, came from Calcutta, India, to study under a grant given by the Union Carbon and Carbide Co.
As we are all too aware at present, low, sub-zero temperatures cause peculiar things to happen to cars, busses, and other steel machinery, which hamper their functioning. Das Gupta has for his task to study and find out exactly what happens to steels and alloys in frigid weather, to determine the exact manner in which they are changed, so they no longer function.
His work is pure science, in a field where almost nothing is known of the workings of metals, and it is Union’s
hope that he can begin laying groundwork of knowledge useful (Continued on Page -24)

a to
Student Scholarships, Graduate Placements Offer Many Opportunities for ND Students
Numerous opportunities in the forms of student aid scholarships and graduate student placements are open to the Notre Dame student in various fields, including Marketing, Federal Service, Engineering, Journalism, and Aeronautical Research.
Growing interest on the part of both graduate and under-graduate students at accredited schools and colleges all over the United States and Canada is being shown in the Third Annual Uhlmann Awards Student Contest for 1952.
Three years ago, Mr. Richard Uhlmann, then President of the Chicago Board of Trade, initiated this contest to develop and stimulate among college students a broader interest in the marketing problems of the grain business.
Participation in the competition is open to any student, graduate or undergraduate, of any and all educational institutions in this country and Canada. Such participation consists of the preparation and submittal of original manuscripts which deal with an analysis of some germane aspect of the grain business with particular respect to its marketing phases.
These papers must be in the office of the Public Relations Department, Chicago Board of Trade, Room 666, not later than noon on May 1, 1952.
Seniors interested in Federal Service as a career will be able to take a U.S. Civil Service examination for the position of Junior Professional Assistant within the next few months. It is from this register that Federal agencies select prospective administrative personnel. The starting grade for successful applicants is §3410 per year with periodic pay increases of §125 annually up to a maximum of $4160.
Those interested in learning about possible openings in that agency may secure information from R. A. Hoyer, manager of the South Bend Social Security Field office in Room 209, Post Office Building.
The Civil Service Commission has announced an examination for filling cartographer and cartographic aid positions at salaries ranging from $2000 to $7600 per year, and for cartographic draftsman positions paying up to $3825 per year.
The positions are located in Washington, D. C.» and vicinity. A few field-service-at-large positions will also
be filled.
Full information and application forms may be secured at most firstand second-class post offices, from Civil Service regional offices, or direct from the U. S. Civil Service Commission, Washington 25, D. C-
Dean Donald K. Davis has announced the fourth annual nationwide competition for Regional Financial Aid Awards of the Harvard Business School. Of the 132 awards to be made this year, 110 will be made in the eight regions of the United States, and 22 will be reserved for outstanding students from foreign countries.
Admission to the Harvard school is open to any man who shows promise of developing business leadership. Awards under the Regional Financial Aid Program for 1952-53 provide a maximum of $2600 for a married student, the amount being adjusted to individual need. Similar aid will be available for the second year of study to those whose work has been satisfactory.
Candidates may apply either from the region in which they are-attending college or where they reside. The deadline for applications to the Committee on Student Financial Aid at the Harvard Business school is May 1, 1952. Requests for further, information and for application blanks should be addressed to the Director of Student Financial Aid, Harvard Business School, Boston 63, Mass.
The National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics has announced two nationwide examinations for appointment to the positions of Aeronautical Research Intern, and Aeronautical Research Scientist, with salaries of $3410 and a maximum of $10,800 per year, respectively.
The Intern position is open to research-minded graduating students with training in physics, chemistry, electronics, or metallurgy, while that of Research Scientist offers opportunities to those students with degrees in physical science or engineering.
Applicants must have reached their 18th birthday but must not have passed their 35th birthday on the date of filing application. Applications may be obtained at any U. S. Civil Service Regional Office and must be submitted to the Board of U. S. Civil Service Examiners, NACA Aeronautical Laboratory, Langley Field, Va.
’Week of Woe'
(Continued from Page 19)
sack. How about letting me borrow your extension cord for a while? Yeah, you know how it is. I’m the type that just hates to stop in the middle of a chapter. Get it done, I always say. Gee, thanks.” Nice guy, that Willie. Well, now we just connect the old cord up to the old socket out in the hall and — Wouldn’t you know it? It doesn’t reach. What do I do now, pull the desk out? Aah, that’s too much like work. I’ll just borrow a candle.
Comes the Dawn
“Say, Bill — oh, did I wake you up? I’m sorry, but that extension doesn’t reach, so I thought I’d borrow your candle. Well, for Pete’s sake, you couldn’t have been sleeping very long. It’s only half past. Never mind, I’ll get it myself.” I don’t know about that Bill. He’d better learn to control his temper if he plans to stick around this place much longer. Easy there, boy. You’ve got work to do. Let’s see, now. Candle lit, cigarettes handy, book, notes. So here we go. Mmm, this looks important. “ ‘Types of family are the patriarchal, matriarchal, democratic, matricentric, patrilocal, matrilocal, patrilineal, matrilineal’ . . . awful lot of different families . . . ‘patriarchal, matriarchal . . . ’”
By Candle Light
The next thing you know it’s morning. Your book is still opened at page 27, your back hurts, your mouth tastes like you’ve been smoking fly paper, and the cause is beginning to appear rather hopeless. But off we go to the * Library, for you can still knock dead that outside reading. Don’t worry about it, boy, everyone knows that this . is just a formality. And it only takes two men, a dolly, and 20 minutes of •*-strenuous exertion to get the book out of the stacks before you come to re- 1"* alize that perhaps there’s a bit more to this outside reading business than you were led to believe. But courage, lad, there’s always the book store and the College Outline Series. “Pardon me? Another shipment of outline books in a week? No, ma’am, I don’t think << Hydraulics for Firemen is quite what I want.”
Why not admit it, pal. You’re a dead duck, a gone goose, through, washed up, out to lunch. But you’ll k get by somehow. You always have. If not, there’s one last ray of sun- * shine. > And that sage old piece of ad- j vice never served anyone in better stead: “The Navy Needs Men.”	.
22
The Scholastic
'■ I
Tours of 6 Countries Offered By Student Trip Program
Four tours of Europe, visiting six countries, will comprise the joint 1952 Student Tour Program of the National Newman Club Federation and the National Federation of Catholic College Students.
A special six-day Student Tour of Canada in August, preceding the Pax Romana Congress, has also been scheduled by the two collegiate groups. The Congress will run from Aug. 26 to Sept. 1, in Montreal, Toronto, and Campus.
The travelers will visit Ireland, England, France, Italy, Switzerland and Spain, affording them an opportunity to see Europe’s historic landmarks and religious sites. American ExpressCatholic Travel League has been appointed to handle all travel arrangements.
Tour itineraries include visits to the world-famous Shrines of the Miraculous Medal in Paris, Our Lady of Lourdes, and St. Francis of Assisi. For students visiting Rome, an audience with the Holy Father is planned.
ND Alumni Will Install New Directors at Jan. 25 Meeting
Five new directors of the University of Notre Dame Alumni Association will be installed at a meeting of the Board of Directors of the Association to be held Jan. 25-27 at Notre Dame.
New directors, elected by alumni of the University of Notre Dame for three-year terms, are: James G. Mc-Golderick, New York City attorney, president of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of New York City; J. Ralph Coryn, Moline, Ill., business executive, past president of the Notre Dame Club of the Tri-Cities; John W. Courtney, Dearborn, Mich., field engineer, president of the Notre Dame Club of Dearborn; and Galvin Hudson, Memphis, Tenn., industrialist, Notre Dame Foundation governor for Tennessee.
In addition to the regularly-elected three-year officers, Lester W. Foley, Foley, Ala., lumberman, was elected to fill a one-year term vacancy on the board.
The Notre Dame Alumni Board of Directors will elect national officers at the January meeting on the campus. The meeting also will feature a testimonial dinner given by the Board for Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, in recognition of the outstanding progress made by the Alumni Association during the years of his presidency. Father Cavanaugh will retire as Notre Dame president next summer.
Bengal Bout Program to Tell News of Former ND Boxers
Paul Rupp, 1952 Bengal Bout promoter, has announced that this year’s program for the bouts will be enlarged with information about former Bengal Bouters. Rupp requests that any former* bouters send their names and addresses, together with news of their? present doings, to Bengal Bouts, P. 0. Box 442. This is necessary for the information in the programs.
Rupp has also sent out letters to the various campus organizations requesting their generosity in contributing to awards and helping defray the costs of equipment.
The weekly boxing smokers are being continued. They will be replaced in February by a Novice Boxing Tournament for first-year men entering the Bengals. At present over 60 men are working out. Anyone who wishes to begin training now for the bouts is urged to see Mr. Dominic Napolitano as soon as possible.
Bill Hank Elected Business Manager of Student Musical
Voting on a majority basis, the Student Council elected Sophomore Bill Hank as general business manager of the forthcoming student musical. A unanimous selection on the first ballot at Monday night’s meeting won for Hank ovei* candidates Ed Vasta, Len Simons, and John Moran.
The failure of several campus organizations to register with the Council was then discussed, and it was voted that the A.I.Ch.E. pay the imposed five dollar fine. The fine was suspended for the Sailing Club, which was named as an athletic, rather than an extra-curricular club.
Secretary Tom Reedy next displayed, the plans drawn up by student architects for the revamped Student Council office, and announced that these designs will be on display this week in the office.
A report from the Social Committee set aside April 25 for the Junior Prom, and May 2 for the annual Freshman frolic.—Pete Connolly
Noonan Puts Final Touches On St. Mary's Transmitter
WND’s plans to broadcast to the St. Mary’s campus should become a reality over the between-semesters holiday, according to technical engineer Jim Noonan, who is in charge of constructing the remote transmitter.
Noonan has announced to the station authorities that his work on the St. Mary’s transmitter, which has taken up a good part of the first semester, is almost completed, and that the unit should be ready for installation over the holidays — in time to be put into use early next semester.
The student voice leaves the airwaves tonight to give the staff a chance to prepare for next week’s examination period. Broadcasting operations for the spring semester are scheduled to get underway the first day of registration, Jan. 28.
Othei* changes are in the offing at WND in the coming semester. Program Director Tom Knott is in the process of revamping the entire program schedule. “It will definitely include a half-hour of classical music during the evening hours, the ‘Press Room’ show will probably be shifted to a later hour, and several new programs including an ‘Announcer Audition’ show are being planned,” Knott stated.
Jan, 11, 1952
23
Bright Young Men
(Continued from Page 21) other scientists. Knowledge, for example, of how to treat and design alloys for machines to stand up in sub-zero weather.
Aluminum comes under the scrutiny of another fellow, Carl Julien of Portland, Oregon. By use of X-ray Diffraction techniques, Julien is turning new aluminum into a work-hardened state, identical to metal that has been used for a long period. By studying the strained, stretched metal, to what extent it has retained its original qualities, and how it reacted under stress. Julien hopes to give Engineers knowledge by which they can process aluminum to hold up better and retain its value longer.
Air Corps Studies
Two other Metallurgists, Clifford Scott Barker and William Fretague, have just completed a study for the Air Force on the ‘‘Phase Relationships in the Binary System of Titanium and Iron.’’ That high-sounding stickler means only this: the Air Material Command at Wright-Patterson Field in Dayton, Ohio, where research in jet plane design and structure is done, wishes to find out more about the value of an alloy of titanium and iron.
Barker and Fretague were asked to investigate the properties of titanium and to determine which alloy of it with iron would be most useable in manufacturing on a large scale, commercial basis.
Titanium studies hold a particular significance in that the metal may someday become one of the world’s most useful — perhaps a substitute for iron. It is lighter than iron, very durable, has high strength, does not corrode easily, and can be found in great quantities. •
As Das Gupta was interested in metals and alloys at low temperatures, another fellow, Dilip K. Das, is concerned with alloys at high temperatures. Das, a graduate of the famous Montana School of Mines, from which also came his chief, Professor Peretti, has been engaged by the National Advisory Council for Aeronautics to look into alloys of cobalt, iron, chromium and molybdenum and how they tend to mix at temperatures of three and four thousand degrees.
Such research will have great value in improving industrial techniques of high-temperature processing of alloy steels, many of which are used in tank armor and armor piercing shells, as well as in industrial machinery.
Leaving the Engineering Department and moving into the University’s chem
ical research division, we come to one of the school’s most widely respected departments, particularly by scientfiic, industrial and business groups.
One of the most readily discernible reasons is Dr. Charles C. Price, the Department’s head and pace setter. Dr. Price, a man young in years but unusually wise in chemical know-how, is responsible for much of the department’s great progress in recent years. At present he has working under his leadership 34 research fellows in pure and applied research, in every field from the Rh blood factor and acetylene to tropical diseases.
To catch a sample of this research into the unknown we might begin with the work of Giancarlo Berti, who holds a degree with honors in Chemistry from the University of Pisa in Italy.
The Rh blood factor is Berti’s research problem. Each year many infants die at birth or soon after because of the presence in theii- blood of antibodies, inherited from their parents, which kill their blood cells. To find a cure for this killer, Berti has begun a search into the lipid constituents of human blood. For these are the fatty substances in blood often thought to contain something which neutralizes and renders harmless the Rh factor in human blood.
Separation and Precipitation
So Berti has set out, under the sponsorship of Eli Lilly Co. of Indianapolis, to separate these fatty materials out of the blood by the use of alcohol, and precipitate them into pure compounds to be analyzed for Rh antibodies. Berti is also seeking to discover the best separating process, to obtain purer and purer compounds of lipids.
Another fellow, Lloyd Kupecki, has taken on a much more explosive job working with acetylene compounds. Acetylene, one of the most basic and unstable chemical compound factors, has been a traditional field of study at Notre Dame, Father Nieuwland having devoted a lifetime of research to it. The General Aniline and Film Corporation has given Kupecki a grant to study in detail a compound of Acetylene and Formaldehyde called Butanediol.
Observing the reactions and changes of this compound under varied conditions has a great value in the field of fundamental research to many scientists and also may some day be of great value in the processing of photographic film.
Two young scientists by the name of Samuel and Weiner are working in a field where Notre Dame has come to be recognized as one of the foremost research universities — radiation chem
istry. Samuel, a veteran of the Israeli army, and Weiner, who hails from England’s famed Cambridge University, are working from two different approaches on a matter which will come to have greater and greater- importance for mankind: the study of the effect of radioactive materials on chemical compounds, on men, animals, and organic matter.
The Practical Side
Weiner, sponsored by Sinclair Refining Co., is approaching the problem from the practical side, using the University’s new million-volt cyclotron and other equipment to observe the disintegration and reactions occurring in chemical compounds exposed to high energy radiation.
Samuel, sponsored by the Atomic Energy Commission, is working in the field of pure science and employs slide rule, pencil and paper, and electric calculating machines in trying to discover the principles of the theoretical effects of radiation on various chemical compounds. Samuel’s findings should guide Weiner in his actual experiments. At present they are concentrating on a study of the effects on pure compounds, from which they hope to work into more complex ones.
And while Samuel and Weiner are working against a potential enemy to man, three other young researchers, working under the guidance of Dr. Kenneth Campbell, are engaged in scientific struggle against medicine’s most elusive foe, cancer.
Richard Boyle, Bruce McGowan and Joseph McGrath, working under the grants of the National Cancer Institute, Miles Laboratory, and the American Cancer Society respectively, have as their goal the difficult task of synthesizing those few compounds which show an anti-effect on cancer cells without harming normal human tissue.
The difference between cancerous and healthy cells is minute, and how one differs from the other has long baffled scientists; consequently, finding chemical compounds which seemingly would distinguish between the two, killing one and not injuring the other, is obviously even more difficult.
Each of these men’s work is purely chemical. After they have synthesized their new compounds they send them out to the various cancer institutions where they can be clinically tested.
This is but a synopsis of the work of a handful of the many research scientists at Notre Dame who carry out their part of the scientific investigation. Soon those half-hundred scientists may be joined by many more fellows and backed by many more organizations in their search.
24
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports J
Hoopsters Face Marquette Tomorrow
Irish Meet Northwestern, Spartans Again; Tangle With Canisius, Pitt and Kentucky Cats
By BILL NOONAN
For the past few weeks, Notre Dame’s basketball forces have been having a rather rough time of it. The first game during the Christmas vacation, the Irish continued to look sharp as they bounced Penn 83-78, but in the Hoosier- Classic, Indiana handed Coach Jordan’s team its initial setback 67-54. ND came back against Purdue 64-50, but played their worst game against Michigan State in suffering the first loss of an Irish team at home since Iowa turned the trick back in 1949. Last Saturday, the Irish, paced by Dick Rosenthal and Leroy Leslie, played a good game but fell before the deadly eye of Louisville’s Bobby
Lochmueller, 65-59. Now the eagers hit the road in hopes of regaining their winning form. Six away engagements will be played between last Tuesday’s Butler contest and the next home game with Marquette, Feb. 7.
Marquette in Milwaukee
The Marquette Hilltoppers will also be the first road opponent tomorrow night in the Milwaukee Arena. Coach Fred (Tex) Winter, in his first season as the Marquette cage mentor, is building for the future and has plenty of height and balance to start his campaign. The Hilltoppers, who have a tendency to be erratic have arranged
a rugged 23-game schedule. So far, in 12 contests, the Milwaukee club has copped five, the most notable triumphs coming over Detroit and Wisconsin. The Badgers also hold a nod over them along with Michigan State, Louisville, Purdue and Loyola of Chicago. Against these same outfits, the Irish have chalked a 3-2 record.
The 1951-52 varsity has nine freshmen, including Rube Shulz, 6’6” All-American high school product from Watertown, Wisconsin. Grant Wilt-berger is the team’s big gun. The 6’7” center was Marquette’s leading scorer last year with 282 points. He is joined by his 6’6” brother, Russ Wittberger, a frosh, who starts at-forward. Veteran Pete Basarick, soph Ralph Wilson and freshmen Charlie Dunn and Bob Walczak are other first line performers. Last year, the Hilltops split with the Irish in two meetings, winning at home and losing at the ND fieldhouse.
LESLIE, BERTRAND, LEWINSKI, STRASSER AND SHINE
Hit the road in hope of regaining their winning form
Jan, 11, 1952
25
HERM HEDDERICK
Last year's number two scorer
house. This will be no simple task since the present MSC cage squad is a solid aggregation that swept by seven straight foes including Notre Dame, before dropping a 61-60 decision to powerful Iowa last Saturday in a Big Ten curtain raiser. Under the very able tutoring of one of basketball’s top coaches, Pete Newall, the Spartans loom as a real Big Ten power.
Pacing the Green and White’s attack are All-American gridder Bob Carey, and set-shot artist Gordon Stauffer. These two garnered 16 and 15 points respectively in the Jan. 2 victory over the Irish. Other mainstays are forward Bill Bower and 6’2” freshman, Keith Stackhouse. Sonny Means, 5’11” guard, holds down the remaining berth. Rickey Ayala, one of big-time basketball’s smallest men at 5’5”, Hugh MacMasters and Leif Carlson will also see considerable action.
State does not possess the tremendous height of other top-notchers with only two of their operatives scaling over the six-four mark, but what they lack in height, the Spartans make up in speed and over-all team balance.
BOB CAREY
Pacing the attack
A


4
On Jan. 15, Johnny Jordan’s quintet will travel to Lansing, Michigan, with revenge in mind. It was just last week that Michigan State whipped the Irish, 66-52; on the Fieldhouse hardwood where Notre Dame is usually invincible. Notre Dame is now looking to reverse the form by besting the Spartans in the latter’s own Jenison field-
PETE BASARICH
Among first line performers
Griffins Might Be Tough '
After nine days of idleness due to exams, Canisius College will play host to the Irish in the Buffalo Auditorium.
BASKETBALL SCHEDULE
Jan. 12—Marquette at Milwaukee 15—Michigan State at Lansing 26—Canisius at Buffalo 28—Pitt at Pittsburgh
Feb. 2—Kentucky at Chicago Stadium 4—Northwestern at Evanston 7—Marquette at Notre Dante
Last year, Coach Joe Niland’s club won, 60-53. This season, the Griffins have blown hot and cold as the present 4-5 record indicates. High scoring Don Hartnett has graduated but the Jesuit school still has plenty of height and punch. Number two scorer last year, Herm Hedderick, is the key man. Standing 6’5”, he teams with sophomore Dick Vann at the forward slots. Randy Sharp, 6’9” center, can be dangerous if his hook-shot is working. The guard position is questionable with soph Jim Young, junior Tony Gregory, and senior Don Foreman vying for the starting roles. Bob Stroetzel and freshman Jim O’Brien are capable reserves.
The Irish opposition on Jan. 28 will be the Pitt Panthers in the “Smokey City.” Pitt’s season thus far has only been a mediocre one. Di
rected by their colorful coach, Doc Carlson, the Panthers went to the finals of the Steel Bowl classic before losing to arch rival Penn State. The team is paced by Tom Burch, a sophomore and Pete Zernich.
On Feb. 2, Notre Dame invades Chicago Stadium for their rendezvous with

FRANK RAMSEY
Part of a powerful combination
The Scholastic
%

26
the vaunted Kentucky Wildcats. Despite the fact that Adolph Rupp’s charges have dropped two contests this season, Kentucky still rates near the top of the nation’s heap. Minnesota, in a startling upset and the power-laden Saint Louis Billikens have taken “Kain-tuck’s” measure so far this season. The latter defeat came in the Sugar Bowl Tournament by one point. It was the third straight loss at the hands of the Bills in three years competition in this classic.
Loss of Spivey Will Hurt
The loss of skyscraping All-American Bill Spivey definitely hurt the bluegrass boys, but his replacement, 6’4” Cliff Hagen has taken up much of the slack. Just last week, he tallied 37 points in his team’s 116-58 slaughter of Mississippi. Such well-known names as sharp-shooting Bobby Watson, Shelby Linville, Lucian Whitaker and Frank Ramsey are still around to give any club in the country a battle. Lou Tsioropolis at 6’5”, Bill Evans and Gayle Rose are all constant threats when they’re in there. Any team that tops Kentucky will have to be at its best, and that is just what Johnny Jordan hopes his team will be that night in Chicago.
Another set of Wildcats provide the opposition for the Fighting Irish two days later in Evanston. Northwestern, defeated in the ND fieldhouse Dec. 11, 65-54, will be looking to turn the tables on their own floor. NU has been erratic so far, but if Larry Delle-field is hitting and Frank Petrancek’s bucket shots are true, it will prove an interesting evening. Frank Ermann, Don Blaha, and Johnny Biever, who round out the starting quintet, will also have to be reckoned with by Jordan’s young Irish quintet.
.732 rating. Right behind him ned is guard Jim Gibbons with
DOMINIC NAPOLITANO boxing matches with other'schools
INTERHALL BASKETBALL
Ernie Szekely announced that the interhall basketball, which he directs, will get into full swing with the start of the Spring semester. The many cage teams will be organized into new leagues on the basis of their showing in the previous scrimmage tilts and begin their quest for the championship.	'
Mr. Szekely urges the players of the various teams to keep an eye on the bulletin board in the Rock for the new schedules between semesters so that they will be able to start play immediately with the resumption of school.
Splinters famtiffiressbox'
By Jack Varley
Leslie Leads Scoring Parade
After ten games; the basketball scoring race is getting pretty tight. Senior forward Leroy Leslie has taken over the lead with 144 points for a 14.4 average while center Dick Rosenthal has crept up and tied forward Joe Bertrand for the second place spot with 132 points and a 13.2 average.
As far as accuracy is concerned, center Norb Lewinski leads the pack from the floor with a .509 average. He has deposited 28' field goals in 55 attempts. Leslie has been the deadliest from the 17-foot line, making 30 out of 41 for a as far as percentage is concei .667 on the basis of two out of three. Ranking third in percentage rating for charity points is Rosenthal with 20 for 33 and a .606 average.
New Marks Might Be Set
Leslie, by the way, is well on his way to break three Notre Dame basketball marks. He has started every game since he became eligible for varsity competition in his sophomore year and now has a total of 58 starts under his belt. With sixteen games still remianing, he could very easily outdo former All-American Leo Barnhorst’s record of 72 consecutive games.
The senior forward also has a very good chance of breaking All-American Kevin O’Shea’s three-season scoring mark of 855. 2 So far Leslie has garnered 750 and needs to average a little less than eight points per game to annex the three-year- record. He may also walk off with the single season scoring mark, also held by O’Shea by virtue of 358 points.* With a 13.5 average for the remaining 16 games Leslie will more than break the old mark. This year he is averaging 14.4 and last year hampered by an injured ankle he turned in a respectable 13.2 per game.
Bengal Bouters to Hold Matches
The Bengal Bouters Club under the direction of Dominic “Nappy” Napolitano has received permission from the University to hold two boxing matches with other schools. This might be the first step in the formation of a Notre Dame boxing team on varsity level. It’s a good move. People responsible are to be congratulated.
At the present time the two schools haven’t been decided upon, but they will probably be Indiana and Purdue. According to Nappy, competition in these matches will not be limited to one man in each weight class, but all who demonstrate satisfactory skill will get a chance.
This, coupled ivith the Bengal Bouters planned novice boxing tournament, should insure a good deal of boxing interest on campus.
Jan, 11, 1952
27
Engineers Dominate Kampus Kegler Play
By JACK SAND
As a result of last Sunday’s bowling matches, the St. Louis Club was dropped from the top rung of the Gold loop by the Mechanical Engineers who moved into the select spot vacated by the Saints along with Detroit who also swept four points from the Youngstown Club.
In winning all three games, the amazing Engineers behind Bob Rich’s 474 pinfall are perhaps one of the most surprising clubs in the league this season. But it is not surprising to see last year’s victors, the Detroiters, up there with them. The motor city lads seem to have recovered from a slow start, and with such top-flight keglers as Jerry Ledwidge, Dick Ryal, and Jim Shannon, they are again looking forward to copping the crown.
Against Youngstown last week, Ledwidge continued to blast the maples with a 551 series, and easily retained his league leading average which has increased to 175. Equally effective was Ryal, whose 521 set and 214 high, aided his team in picking up four points, and placed him second among the circuit’s top bowlers.
Running a close second to Detroit and the ASME is the Italian Club, which racked up four points over the NROTC to move up into the second slot with a 15-6 record, and a total of 20 points. Lou Garippo’s 500 series paced the winners in their clean sweep over the Navy.
Taking a nose-dive along with the St. Louis Club was the AIEE, which dropped three out of four to the fastmoving Erie Club. All three of these teams are locked in a flatfooted tie for third place with 19 points apiece. Displaying some red-hot bowling as shown by their 2785 total series which now places them second in that department, the Erie lads, despite Joe Scherer’s 550 series for the Engineers, were led by Hank Crowley and Bob Ross with 518 and 505 respectively.
Civil Engineers Increase Lead
Over in the Blue League it was the Civil Engineers increasing their lead over the Pittsburgh Club who were drubbed three games by the now second-place Irish Club. Also gaining three wins and four points and a tie for the runner-up spot was the Buffalo Club, which easily rapped Toledo. Taking over third place as Pitt slipped from second to fourth was Kansas
28
City, which picked up four points by outrolling the New England Club in three matches.
The loop leading “Civies” now have a total of 25 points, four ahead of their nearest rivals. Last Sunday, Bob Craven’s 496 three-game set aided the Engineers in their victory over the Generation Club.
Once again it was George Klee pacing the Buffalo boys with a 511 pinfall and high game of 211. J. O’Brien rolled a 493 series to help Klee and his mates in their four-game sweep over Toledo.
High man for the Irishmen was Bob Klein, whose 460 helped add three points to their total of 21, while George Andrisevic’s 502 series topped in Kansas City’s triumph over the New Englanders.
Wrestling Club Looks For New Mat Talent
Wrestling has taken over as the number one interhall activity with the newly organized Notre Dame Wrestling Club giving the sport a tremendous shot in the arm.
In the coming weeks the Club will have matches with the University of Chicago, Toledo, Wheaton College, and Bowling Green. A scheduled match with Purdue was postponed just before the holidays because of a heavy snowfall which made traveling impossible, but another is scheduled with the Boilermakers in the near future.
Mr. Thomas Fallon, the faculty advisor of the wrestlers, still is looking for talent, and anyone who is interested is invited to try his hand at the mat sport. Daily workouts are held in the Light Apparatus Room of the Rockne Memorial from 3:30 to 5:00.
Even.if your previous experience in wrestling has been confined to tussles with the next dooi* neighbor’s son there might be a place for you on the squad. The more experienced grapplers on the Club will teach the beginners the rudiments of the sport.
Just before the start of the Christmas vacation the interhall wrestling championships were decided, and it is the finalists of these matches that will form the backbone of the Club.
Results of the championship matches follow:
128 lbs.—Frank Cunningham won by a fall over John Woeppel in 1:48.
135 lbs.—Dick Anton won by a fall over Pat Ross in 5:05.
140 lbs.—Charles Paquette decisioned Frank Cunningham, 3-0.
145 lbs.—Carl Carlsson decisioned John Wenning, 5-1.
155 lbs.—Alfred Piccini won by a fall over Richard Walsh in 1:59.
160 lbs.—Dick Baute won by a fall over Ignatius Moriarty in 4:35.
165 lbs.—Dick Stanley won by a fall over Joseph Bandiera in 3:48.
175 lbs.—Edward Sama won by a fall over Thomas Hamlin in 3:57.
Heavyweight—Arthur Nowack decisioned Fred Bellissimo, 4-3.
—Roger Fernandes
Prospective Pugilists Plan To Stage Boxing Tournament
A University Novice Boxing Tournament, open only to those students who have competed in less than two bouts, will be held in the boxing room of the fieldhouse from Feb. 4 to 8, it was announced today by the Bengal Bout-ers Club.
Competition will be held in the following weight classes: 125, 130, 135, 145, 155, 165, 175, and heavyweight. Trophies will be awarded to the champions of each class, and an award will be presented to each runner-up also.
Training for the Novice Tournament and the Bengals is being held daily at 3:30 p.m. in the boxing room of the fieldhouse with Dominic J. Napolitano of the physical education staff directing. Those who wish to enter the tourney may see Mr. Napolitano there. Students who have had no previous boxing experience but who are interested in learning the art of self-defense are especially invited to enter the tourney.
The tournament will be conducted by the Bengal Bouters Club, under, the direction of Mr. Napolitano. The officials for the tournament — judges, referees, etc. — will be students who have participated in previous Bengal Bouts. The promoter is Bernard Baute.
A charge of 15 cents for the semifinals on Feb. 4, and 25 cents for the finals on Feb. 8 will be made to cover the cost of the trophies. Tickets will be sold in the lobby of the dining hall. Admission to the preliminaries will be free.
Handball Experts Will Give Demonstration Here Today
A handball exhibition, with the nation’s top handball performers present, will be given this afternoon in the Rockne Memorial Gym at 3:00 p.m. it was announced by Athletic Director Ed “Moose” Krause. The exhibition is being put on by the U. S. Handball Association.
Four handball experts will vie among
The Scholastic
themselves showing the way the game should be played and adding some of the ‘extra’ that has made each a champion. Kenny Schneider, 1950 national champion, will oppose Gus Lewis, the ’49 crown winner in the first exhibition. The 1950 national doubles champs, Frank Boyle and Bill Baier, will split long enough to tangle in a singles match, before taking on the singles champions in a doubles affair.
John Shannon, a senior, will uphold the Notre Dame end of things and face one of the four in another exhibition. In all, three singles matches and one doubles match are lined up, but there will be ample time for anyone wishing to challenge the ‘experts.’
The U. S. Handball Association was formed in 1951 under the direction of Robert Kendler, now president, who is sponsoring the current tour.
Unity Octave Prayers For Converts to Faith
The Chair of Unity Octave for the conversion of others to the faith will be observed at Notre Dame. The prayers of the Octave begin next Friday on the feast of St. Peter’s Chair and end on Jan. 25, the feast of the Conversion of St. Paul.
The Chair of Unity Octave is an eight-day period of prayer for the conversion of all peoples to Christ. It began in 1908 under the leadership of Father Paul James Francis, S.A., noted American convert, then an Episcopal clergyman, who founded the Society of the Atonement at Graymoor, N. Y. In 1909 Father Paul and his community entered the Catholic Church.
At Notre Dame the names of persons for whom we wish the grace of faith are placed on the altar, recommending them in this way to the prayers of the students who make the Octave and bringing them to the attention of the priest who celebrates eight masses for Church Unity.
The daily intentions for the Chair of Unity Octave are as follows:
January 18—The return of all the' “other sheep” to the one fold of St. Peter, the one shepherd.
January 19—The return of all Oriental Separatists to communion with the Apostolic See.
January 20—The' submission of Anglicans to the authority of the Vicar of Christ.
January 21—That the Lutherans and all other Protestants of continental
Europe may find their way back to the Holy Church.
January 22—That the Christians in America may become one in communion with the Chair of St. Peter.
January 23—The return to the' sacraments of lapsed Catholics.
January 24—The Conversion of the Jews.
January 25—The missionary conquest of' the world for Christ.
Boxes will be provided at the pamphlet racks in Dillon, Howard and Cavanaugh Halls for depositing the names of those persons for whom students beg from God the gift of faith.
Institute Gives Grants For Study in France
Opportunities for American college students to spend a year in France have been announced by the Institute of International Education. Approximately 80 grants in all are open for study or teaching in France next year.
Forty of the grants are for young Americans interested in teaching conversational English for one year in a French school. These “assistants d' anglais,” in general, live at the lycees or ecoles normales d’institeurs to which they are assigned, teaching about 12 hours a week. Given by the French government, the grants provide from 22,000 to 27,000 francs a month during the academic year.
To be eligible for an assistantship, American applicants must be unmarried, have a good knowledge of French, and by this summer have a bachelor’s degree from an American college.
The French government also is offer
RETAILING needs coHege-trained young people like YOU
as FUTURE EXECUTIVES
Retailing is a dynamic profession. It offers as many career possibilities as there are personal aptitudes: interesting positions in merchandising, advertising, fashion, management, personnel, or teaching. One-year graduate program leading to Master’s degree combines practical instruction, market contacts, and supervised work experience—with pay—in top New York stores. Program for Bachelor’s degree candidates and non-degree students also.
REQUEST BULLETIN C-52
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY School of Retailing
100 Washington Square	New York 1, N. Y.
ing approximately 35 fellowships to Americans for graduate study in France. The fellowships, open to students in all fields of study, provide tuition and 20,000 francs a month. Eligibility requirements are the same as for the assistantships.
Four- special scholarships for the study of art and music in Paris are also offered through the Institute by the Woolley Foundation. Each scholarship provides a grant of SI,000, and carries the provision that the student will live at the Foundation des Etats-Unis of the Cite Universitaire.
Eligibility requirements include graduation from an American college oi’ professional school, good knowledge of French, and capacity' for independent study in music or art.
Completed applications must be filed by Feb. 15. Inquiries should be made to the U. S. Student Program, Institute of International Education, 2 West 45th Street, New York 19, New York.
A number of travel grants from the U. S. government, to cover transportation costs will be open under the Fulbright Act for recipients of these grants.
GAME BROADCAST
The only, local radio coverage of tomorrow evening’s Notre Dame-Marquette basketball game from Milwaukee’s Municipal Arena is scheduled to take the air tomorrow over WND with Jim Gannon and Bob Dougherty at the microphone. Broadcast time for the exclusive local coverage is set for 8:30 p.m. under the sponsorship of the Student Council.
Jan, 11, 1952
29
AQUINAS Library and Bookstore
Next to the grace of God a taste for good reading is one of the greatest gifts we can possess.
IIO EAST LaSALLE
REPAIR ... IT!
Reweaving
COMPLETELY E' IMINATES
MOTH HOLES—BURNS TEARS—DAMAGES
Snits-Coats-Dresses-Skirts Trousers-Linens-Knitted Garment*
Rubin Cleaners
217 E. Jefferson On the Bus Line
(----------EUROPE-^
60--------^500
(inch steamer) Bicycle, Motor, Faitboat, Rail, Self-drive, Family living and Study Tours offered by America's largest organization for educational travel. Scholarships available.
Ji	See More—Spend Less
Our 19th Year
See your beat repment-ff	ot>t>e or write to:
erVOtMTS MrynMATKMML
>11	TWAVB. ASSOCIATION
----545 FIFTH AVE., NEW YOK 17«MU 7-MM
COLLEGE DADADE
The world’s meanest man: He was deaf and never told his barbe'r.
It was baking day and the new maid and her mistress were having a very busy time.
“Mary,” said the mistress, “go and see if that large plum cake in the oven is baked yet. Stick a knife in it and see-if it comes out clean.”
In a few minutes Mary returned.
“The knife came out wonderful clean, Ma’am,” she said beaming, “so I’ve stuck all the other dirty knive's in too.”
If there’s a coal shortage this winter, use coke. It won’t give much heat, but remember, you get two cents back on every bottle.
“Who commands in your house?”
“We share the management. My wife bosses the servants and the children. I attend to the goldfish.”
Drunkard: “Aw, lemme alone. Nobody cares if I drink myself to death.”
Host: “I do. You’re using my liquor.”
Speaking of sad cases, how about the English professor who received a theme with no punctuation marks, and died trying to hold his breath until the last page.
A young reporter, asked to cut his verbose stories shorter, wrote, on the following day, as follows:
“James C. Humphries looked up the shaft at the Union Hotel this morning to see if the elevator was on its way down. It was. Aged 24.”
“Confound you,” roared the colonel, “Why can’t you be more careful?”
“What do you mean, sir?” faltered the Army clerk.
“Why, instead of addressing this letter to the Intelligence Office you have addressed it to the Intelligent Officer. You ought to know that there’s no such person in the Army.”
Visitor: “What a sweet and innocent looking face your little girl has!”
Mother: “I hadn’t noticed it. Mary, what have you been up to now?”
“When I was shipwrecked in South America,” said the captain, “I came across a tribe, of wild women who had no tongues.”
“Oh, Captain,” thrilled a young girl in the audience, “how could they talk?”
“They couldn’t,” snapped the old salt. “That’s what made them wild.”
“I thought you said you had a good record. I find now that you were sentenced to three terms of imprisonment!”
“Yes, and each time I got six months off for good behavior.”
A -—
Mrs. Scarponi (standing in swimming pool up to her neck) : My goodness, Tony, where’sa da baby?
Mr. Scarponi (beside her) : He’s all right. I gotta him by da hand.
Explanation from the math department:
A circle has no corners.
An oval has no corners, too.
But not nearly so no corners as a circle has.
“Why did you take up the piano?”
“My glass of beer kept sliding off the violin.”
Cannibal King: “What am I having for lunch?”
Cook: “Two old maids.”
Cannibal King: “Ugh! Leftovers again.”
Tarheels Beat Moot Champs; New Crop Enters Semifinals
Moot Court has completed its quarterfinal round and the eight winners are preparing new briefs for the semifinals to be held in March. Winners are Richard Murphy, William Roche, John Burke, Robert Berry, David Thornton, Orlando Prosperi, Ralph Schulz, and William Daner.
Assisting as one of the three judges for each court were four local attorneys: Richard C. Kaczmarek, J. J. Hemphling, Clifford J. Potts, and Warren McGill.
At the same time- E. Milton Farley and Joseph Spaulding, Law School seniors and Notre Dame’s champion team of the seventh judicial circuit, competed in the national finals in New York City. They fell, however, in a first round loss to the University of North Carolina team.
The Scholastic
£
l
5 5
/ J
30
Capsule Comer
56 LAW GRADS PASS BAR EXAM
Graduates of the June 1951 class from the Notre Dame College of Law have set a remarkable record in various state bar examinations, reports Law Dean Clarence Manion. Of 67 graduates reporting, 56 have been admitted to the practice of law. Eighteen have not yet reported.
FR. LAUCK NAMED TO AUDUBONS
Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., professor of sculpture in the Department of Fine Arts, has been elected to membership in the Audubon Artists, leading American group of contemporary artists with national ranking for their work. Father Lauck is the first priest to be accorded the honor of society membership.
HASLEY HEADS WRITERS’ CONFAB
Prof. Louis L. Hasley of the Department of English has been named Director of the Notre Dame Writers’ Conference, held annually on the University campus.
Professor Hasley succeeds Prof. Thomas E. Cassidy, who has resigned to assume special work with the State Department. The conference, which annually attracts aspiring writers from all over the United States, will be held June 23-28.
HOLD STURZO SYMPOSIUM HERE
A symposium in honor of the 80th birthday of Don Luigi Sturzo, leading Italian exponent of Christian Democracy, will be held Feb. 20 in the Notre , Dame Graduate School.
Various lectures will treat of the facets of Sturzo’s thoughts, principally his sociological, his political and Church-State theories, and his conception of internationalism.
I
DEAN DESIGNS SHIP PROPELLOR
A new-type propellor designed by Dean Karl E. Schoenherr of the College of Engineering is being used to propel the world’s largest ocean tanker.
The propellor for the new tanker Atlantic Seaman was chosen from competitive designs submitted by various marine engineers. Final tests showed Dean Schoenherr’s design to be the most efficient to date.
KANE FINISHES FAMILY TEXT
A new college text on the family has just been completed by Dr. John J. Kane, assistant professor of sociology, and will be published in May by William Sloane Associates. Written from a Catholic angle, the book combines contemporary sociological knowledge and theory on the family with expression of a religious view.
MILLER PERMITTED BEFORE S.C. BAR
Don Miller, one of Notre Dame’s “Four Horsemen” of gridiron fame and now district attorney in Cleveland, has been admitted to practice before the bar of the U. S. Supreme Court.
AD CLASS TAKES A TRIP
General Outdoor Advertising, Inc., one of the country’s largest billboard companies was the scene of a field trip by members of the Outdoor Advertising class this week.
Twenty-eight Commerce upperclassmen and Instructor Ronald O’Neill toured the company’s Chicago plant offices.
BRIDGE TOURNEY OPEN TO ND
Notre Dame is one of the more than 300 colleges invited to compete in the 1952 National Intercollegiate Bridge Tournament.
Only undergraduates are eligible to play in the duplicate contract bridge event for the title and trophy. A preliminary round will be played by mail in February, and the 16 highest-ranking pairs will meet for the face-to-face finals in Chicago April 18 and 19, with expenses paid by the committee.
ENGINEER TURNS INVENTOR
A first-year mechanical engineering
use the New
MICROTOMIC
—the Absolutely Uniform DRAWING PENCIL
•Absolute uniformity means drawings without "weak spots"—clean, legible detail. Famous for smooth, long-wearing leads. Easily distin-
David Kempler
FAY’S
Quality Jewelers
Welcomes Notre Dame students to come in and visit with us.
We carry a large showing of fine
Watches and Jewelry_
We maintain a complete
Watch and Jewelry Repair Service.
111 South Michigan Street
SUNNY ITALY
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
“Rosie’s.” Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles
Jan, 11, 1952
31
student at Notre Dame, Cecil Pond, 27, has recently invented and marketed a hand-sized plastic gadget for tabulating scores. Intended principally for cribbage players, it is suitable for many other games, as well.
Called Scoredial, the counter consists of a four-inch calibrated dial and an invisible ratchet. As the dial is moved a certain number of notches (for points scored), a hand registers the cumulative total.
The gadget is sold at §2 a pair by Ecco, Inc., of South Bend.
‘SUN-HERALD’ NOW ‘NEW YORK BANNER’
Remember the short-lived Catholic daily, the Sun-Herald? Since it folded last April, the paper has been moved from Kansas City, renamed the New } ork Banner, and issued monthly.
When sufficient subscriptions are received, the Banner will become a 16-page, Monday-through-Friday tabloid newspaper. At present it consists mostly of feature material.
ANOTHER CHANCE FOR X-RAYS
Anyone who failed to have a chest x-ray made here last Fall will be able to do so Jan. 21 through Jan. 25, when the mobile unit will be stationed at the Tuberculosis League Bldg., 319 S. Main St. in South Bend. Technicians will be on duty from 3 to 9 p.m. on the 21st, and from 8:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. and 2 to 5 p.m. for the balance of the week. The charge for the x-ray will be 25 cents.
LANDGRAF ADDRESSES METALLURGISTS
Frederick K. Landgraf, Jr., research metallurgist for C. A. Zapffe and Associates, Baltimore, Md., addressed the January meeting of the American Society for Metals Wednesday night in the Engineering Building. He spoke on “Fractography,” covering the history of fracture study and new phenomena found on the insides of metals and other crystals. The technical session of the meeting was preceded by a dinner in the University Dining Hall.
Letters
(Continued from Page 3)
Dame do not show very good sportsmanship.
Do not get me wrong. I do not include the players who are playing in basketball or football but I mean the students who are spectators.
When I went to school we were taught not to boo and that it was very
32
poor sportsmanship to do so and I don’t think it has changed.
Name Withheld
South Bend
Editor:
I had occasion to witness the basketball game played in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse between the University of Notre Dame and my Alma Mater, Loyola University. . .
... I have long been one of Notre Dame’s staunchest “subway alumni” but I must confess that when I came away from South Bend the term “Notre Dame man” had acquired a rather hollow meaning for me. The un-sportsmanlike conduct of the students both shocked and irked me. Even high school students have' the courtesy to maintain silence when an opposing player1 is at the free-throw line.
The jibes and cat-calls were directed at one Loyola player in particular, Nick Kladis, a non-Catholic. I shudder with shame to think of the impressions
-----------------------------------------------------
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
NONs of the girls were wild about this Wildcat. His hair looked like something the cat dragged in! "I’m feline mighty low,” he told his Paw. "Every Tomcat, Dick and Harry on campuss has dates but me!” "Yes, Siam aware of that, son. You need Wildroot
Cream-Oil hair tonic. All the cats are using it because it’s nonalcoholic. Contains soothing Lanolin. Relieves annoying dryness. Removes loose, ugly dandruff. Help you puss—I mean pass the Finger-Nail Test.” So Paul got Wildroot Cream-Oil, and now he’s the most popular Persian at school, Purr-haps it’s what you need! Take some small change out of your kitty and pussy-foot it to the nearest drug or toilet goods counter for a bottle or tube of Wildroot Cream-Oil. And ask fur professional applications at your favorite barbershop. Hurry—meow is the time!
* of 131 So. Harris Hill Rd., Williamsville, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
oocafrwMa
of Catholic “gentlemen” he carried away with him. . . . The Notre Dame boys whom I observed that evening were certainly no credit to Our Lady.
I have not written this in a poison pen vein but merely as an honest criticism of what to me is a glaring fault in the' education of young Catholic men, the furure pillars of the Catholic laity in America.	Paul J. Breen
Loyola, ’48 Chicago, Ill.
From the tone of all the above letters it appears pretty obvious that some of the ND rooters did a fine job of wrecking everybody’s good name. We submit that perhaps the fine line between enthusiasm and poor sportsmanship is beyond the sensibilities of some of the lads around here. It might be a good thing to start following the cheerleaders and do our demonstrating in a manner which better fits Catholics who supposedly are of college level. —Editor.
The Scholastic
Open New Speakers Bureau To Instruct Students Here
In conjunction with the Department of Speech, the NFCCS at Notre Dame has instituted a Speakers Bureau on campus, with Peace Oratorical Contest Winner Joe Conwell as organizing chairman.
An initial meeting of the Bureau will be held at 7:30 p.m., Monday in Room 327 Main Building. Membership is open to all students.
The Bureau will function as a speech workshop and a booking agency. Students will be trained in such fields of public speaking as oratory and extemporaneous, dramatic, and humorous declamation. Members will be given opportunities to appear before select audiences.
Since the Speakers Bureau will be affiliated with the national NFCCS Forensics Commission, and will be the backbone of the regional Forensics Committee seated at Notre Dame, Conwell believes that there will be “a strong possibility” for regional and perhaps national speech tournaments with other schools in the Federation.
Mr. William Eisen, head of the Department of Speech, will be faculty adviser to the Bureau.
Fishing Instructions on Tap For ND's Spring Contestants
Preparations for the Spring Fishing Contest, under the promotion of Rev. George Baldwin, C.S.C., are already underway. Free fishing instructions for all Notre Dame students have been arranged under the sponsorship of the Student Council and the auspices of Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C.
The instructions are to be given sometime during February or March in the Drill Hall preparatory to the annual contest which begins with the spring thaw and lasts until June.
Steve Barany, well known fly casting expert, will demonstrate the propel1 use of the fly rod. Barney Van Lue of the South Bend Bait Co., conductor of the National Casting Tournament and various sports shows, will give instructions on the use of the casting rod.
In last year’s contest, prize winning bass weighed from three to five pounds. Prizes included glass fishing rods, casting reels, and various other fishermen’s accessories. St. Joseph’s Lake has been stocked with 2500 “keepers.”
Father Baldwin advises all fishing fans to round up their rods and reels in time for the free instructions.
Schedule of Semester Examinations
Taught	Examined	Date
8	Mon.......... 8	Fri.............Jan.	18
9	Mon.......... 8	Mon.............Jan.	21
10	Mon......... 8	Tues...........Jan.	22
11	Mon......... 8	Wed............Jan.	23
12	Mon......... 1	Fri............Jan.	18
1	Mon.......... 3	Fri.............Jan.	18
2	Mon........... 8	Thurs...........Jan.	24
3	Mon........... 8	Sat.............Jan.	19
8	Tues.........10	Fri.............Jan.	18
9	Tues.........10 Mon..............Jan.	21
10	Tues.........10	Thurs..........Jan.	24
11	Tues.........10	Wed............Jan.	23
12	Tues......... 1	Mon............Jan.	21
ITues............ 3	Mon..........Jan.	21
2	Tues..........10	Tues............Jan.	22
3	Tues.......... 3	Wed.............Jan.	23
Departmental Examinations
Religion 31............ 7:45	ThursJan. 17
Religion 23............ 7:45	Fri.... Jan. 18
History 11, 12, 21, 22.10:00	Sat....Jan. 19
Civil Engineering 21,23, 47...............10:00	Sat.....Jan. 19
CHOICE of the HOUSE OF FINE CUSTOM MADE SUITS and COATS
Your choice of the house of fine suits and coats in worsteds, flannels, tweeds and unfinished worsteds.
Formerly $65.00 — Now $47.50
Formerly $75.00 — Now $57.50
Formerly $85.00 — Now $67.50
All coats made by the makers of Mt. Rock coats. All suits made to our high standard of workmanship.
Also a quantity of suits and coats at half price.
25% discount on over 500 patterns from our custom tailored department from $75.00 to $135.00.
Parker-Winterrowd, Inc.
115^-11714 N. Main Street (Upstairs)
Open Monday evenings till 8:30
Chemistry 23L, 25L, 27L, 33L_______________ 1:00 Sat__Jan. 19
Civil Engineering 34,35, 83...		1:00 Sat	Jan. 19
Zoology 15		1:00 Sat.....Jan. 19
Math. 11,17,18,	
21, 23,25..:		3:00 Sat.....Jan. 19
Civil Engineering 32,45...	3:00 Sat	Jan. 19
All Physics Classes		1:00 Sun....Jan. 20
Political Science 32		1:00 Sun....Jan. 20
Spanish, French, and	
German 5, 6,11,12		3:00 Sun—Jan. 20
Civil Engineering 37,41...	3:00 Sun...Jan. 20
Engineering Mechanics	
31,31a		7:45 Mon. Jan. 21
Engineering Mechanics	
26, 33, 33a		1:00 Tues.. Jan. 22
Civil Engineering 43		1:00 Tues.. Jan. 22
All Naval Science, Air	
Science & Military' Sci..	3:00 Tues. Jan. 22
Philosophy 45 (Bus.	
Ethics) 		7:45 Tues..Jan. 22
Electric Engineering	
37, 32,41		1:00 Wed... Jan. 23
Jan, 11, 1952
33
Ihe 13 ack IPa^c
---------------------- By Bill Riley
It is customary, in fact, well-nigh mandatory among the tormented group of column-writers (a society just about as far-flung, and somewhat less discriminating in membership than the U. S. Army) to write, for their first column of the Newest Year, either a series of a) resolutions, b) predictions, or 3) summations of the past year.
But, when your prose does not meet the public eye until Jan. 11, much of the savour and pungency of such a course has vanished. In the first place, the resolutions are all broken. The predictions are already wrong (“Eisenhower definitely will not run for President and if he does, it will be on the Democratic ticket”; “Notre Dame will regain national rating by beating Michigan State and Louisville”); and the events of the past year were so much like those of 1950 and probably 1952, that to summarize them is somewhat similar to publishing a review of a movie to be shown in Washington Hall. There lacks the element of novelty.
And there is something about the period between Christmas vacation and semester examinations that causes a quiet desperation to creep over the campus, which by the Thursday that classes end is almost as deep as the omnipresent snow. (Did you know, by the way, that there has already been more snow in this area than is normal for the entire winter?)
YOU Think the Snow's Bad?
I checked with one of the men who are most directly concerned with the snow not too long ago, and the result was something like this:
He was standing, in the middle of the walk outside Walsh Hall, eyeing with quiet contempt, a drift of snow that blocked the walk.
As I stood there, watching him, he set his shovel up right, and looked at me, over the stubby black pipe which jutted from his mouth.
“Pretty tough, this snow, eh?” I said. “Mmmmm.”
“Tougher than the leaf-raking?” “Mmmm-hmmm.” (affirmative) “Grass, too?”
“Yep.”
“Don’t you get sort of tired shoveling this stuff?”
“Well, in a way. No snow, though,
no work. No work, no money. It ain’t too bad.”
“What’s the worst part of it?”
“The shovelin’.” He spat. “The chippin’, it’s hard, but not so bad. You get a sort of satisfied feelin’ when you chipped awhile. The snow plow’s best. Keep your feet warm. I oughta be on the plow. Him (he gestured with his pipe to where the plow was whirling the snow off the walk into the pile alongside). He oughta be here.” He shrugged, grabbed the shovel and started up again.
“Well,” I said, “I’ll see you.”
“Mmmm.”
Incidentally, if prophecies are accurate, look for the beginning of famine in the near future. In the past week we have had the fire and the flood. And there are those who say that the seven lean years began with the Purdue (football) game in 1950.
No Enlistment Craze
One of the most striking differences (not that it pertains to anything else in this column, but then, what does) between this year’s post-Christmas return to campus and last year’s is the marked lack of military panic. If my memory serves me well, just about everybody last year was either enlisting or trying to enlist, and ROTC boys were charging five bucks an hour for telling just how it was “in the service.”
In 1952, everybody has got an angle, almost, and those that haven’t are 4-F. Over Christmas I met a young man who was thinking of making a career’ of the Army, but not for the usual reasons. It seems that when he got drafted, he was sent to a camp that was located about 30 miles from the nearest town. There was no transportation. While everybody else sat around and uh-griped, he bought two or three old buses and started his own bus line. He’s netting a couple of hundred a week, and is thinking of requesting a discharge on the basis that he is sole owner and operator of an essential communications business.
But lest you become too sanguine, let me tell you the tale of another young man who was riding back to Notre Dame from his home in the Southwest. He was sitting in the club
car when two M.P.’s came striding , down the aisle, apparently looking for deserters and such. The student got , up and started back to his coach. Un- | fortunately for him, he was wearing army shoes. They nailed him. The	$
only thing that he had on him to prove	■
his identity and student status was an 1 I.D. card. He flashed it.	<,
“Well,” said the burlier of the two, “Notre Dame, huh? Me too. Class of ’49.” He was a Pfc. And an English	!
major, probably.	j
__	-.1
Placement News	|
On Monday, Jan. 14, the Northern	J
Indiana Public Service Co. (Gas and	'
Electric Utility Co.) will interview	,
electrical, mechanical, chemical, and civil engineers.	,
Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co. will interview mechanical, chemical, elec- । trical, aeronautical, and civil engineers Jan. 14 and 15. r
Also on these same days, U. S. Steel
Co. will conduct interviews for a train- 4 ing program based on accounting, making eligible anyone who has had basic accounting. The steel firm will hold a group meeting in the Audio-Visual center Monday at 4:15 p.m.
Nationally Advertised
WATCHES
DIAMONDS GIFTS
REPAIRING
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
General Dentistry
Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building
South Bend By appointment Ph. 4-5661
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY — WATCHES
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St	J. M. S. Bld?.
34
The Scholastic
Ch« E’s at Du Pont
[ FIRST OF A SERIES ]
$
THE DE PONT
DIGEST
Entertaining, informative — Listen to "Cavalcade of America,” Tuesday Nights, NBC Coast to Coast
CHEMICAL engineers supervise preparation of larger-than-laboratory batches of chemicals in Du Pont's Special Service Laboratory.
New products mean new opportunities for chemical engineers
^7
CHECKING a multi-stage carbon-monoxide compressor used in semi-works operations: R. L. Stearns, B.S.Ch.E.. Yale ’49; and H. Peterson, B.S.Ch.E., Northeastern University ’42.
Jan, 11, 1952
STUDYING "Teflon” tetrafluoroethylene resin insulating material with special apparatus: K. F. Richards, B.S.Ch.E., Cornell ’48; and E. K. Holden, M.S.Ch.E., Delaware ’48.


To you as a student chemical engineer, what does this statement bring to mind:
Nearly two-thirds of Du Pont’s current sales are in products entirely or virtually unknown in 1930.
Likely it suggests years of solving intriguing engineering problems, the designing of unique equipment, the carrying out of reactions under extraordinary conditions.
But it should also suggest the opportunities that will come to chemical engineers in the future. For at Du Pont, new and better products are continually being developed. From today's extended program of fundamental research you can expect more neoprenes, more nylons, more plastics like "Teflon” tetrafluoroethylene resin.
As these products come out of the laboratory, they will bring with them a succession of interesting and challenging problems for the chemical engineer. Problems that will arise out of their very newness.
For instance, take nylon, the first
wholly synthetic organic fiber. In working out techniques for its commercial manufacture, there wras practically nothing to go on. The compounds of which it was made, hexamethylenediamine and adipic acid, were essentially laboratory chemicals. Processes had to be devised to make them from cheap raw materials—benzene, hydrogen, air and ammonia. Large-scale preparation of nylon salt from amine and acid required going beyond the classical unit operations.
Here for the first time it was proposed to extrude a fiber with extreme accuracy from a melted polymer at 290°C. At this temperature the polymer decomposes slowly. It had to be melted, pumped at 5000 p.s.i. pressure through microscopic holes and cooled in a hurry. Otherwise the fiber would emerge discolored.
The Du Pont chemical and mechanical engineers and other men and women who worked with them ran into one difficulty after another. More than once they thought that the
CHARGING experimental polymers to spinning machine: O. C. Wetmore, Ph.D.Phys.Ch.,Neto York U.’44; D. A. Smith. B.S.M.E.. Purdue ’40;and C. O. King. Sc. D.Ch. E., Michigan ’43.
project would have to be abandoned.
However, it is basic in Du Pont people’s philosophy not only to take on difficult pioneering problems, but to see them through. With nylon, this persistence paid off handsomely.
Is this the kind of problem you'd like to attack, the kind of people you’d like to work with?
NEXT MONTH — Opportunities for chemical engineers in research and development will be discussed in the second article in this series. Watch for it!

’EG. U.S.P*T.OFF.
BETTER THINGS .FOR BETTER LIVING . . . THROUGH CHEMISTRY


Ui VISION UNIVERSITY L13RARY NOTRE DAME IRD
All
OVER AMERtCA^S^JlCERS ARE CHANGING TO
CHtSTERHEl> 1
3
CAFE CONTINENTAL
AT THE
DEAN MARTIN and JERRY LEWIS buy ’em by the carton"
Seerfhem shirring in "SAILORS,E WARE" A Hal Wa^^rgdiiciion, ParamS^
:Ti & Mvus Tobacco Co.
CIGGCTTa MYcas TOBACCO CO
I certify that Chesterfield is our largest selling cigarette by 3 to 1
,	MANAGER

because of,
O MILDNESS-plus
No Unpleasant After-taste
* FROM THE REPORT OF A WELL-KNOWN RESEARCH ORGANIZATION
... AND ONLY CHESTERFIELD HAS IT I