Ik* fafa	;
SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 81, No. 4
April 7, 1944
10 Cents
• Bengal Bouts Wednesday
9 Student Council Meets
• Engineers Plan Dance
^he c^fotre Qiame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
EDITORIAL
THE STAFF
DAVE CONDON, Editor-in-Chief
RALPH ABELL	EDWARD MADDEN
Associate Editor, Marines	Associate Editor, Navy
HAROLD BERLINER, Associate Editor, Civilian
EDITORIAL STAFF
AL LESMEZ	-
BILL WADDINGTON -DICK MURPHY -BOB O'TOOLE	-
COLUMNISTS
LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY -LIEUT. (J.G.) J. J. COLLINS JIM CASEY -	-
JIM REGAN -BILL CARNAHAN	-
ROBERT RIORDAN JIM FENNELLY	-
- Observations
Know Your Navy . The Green Banner - Introducing The College Parade Man About the Campus Pressbox Splinters
THOMAS PAYNE
ARTHUR WAGNER
NEWS STAFF
STEVE LOYACANO BILL THOMPSON
Managing Editor
Sports Editor
- Circulation
Promotion
JOHN KNUDSON BOB STEVENSON
PHOTOGRAPHY
AL SHAEFER CHARLES RENAUD JOE HALLER
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY. C.S.C. - Faculty Advisor
THE BENGAL BOUTS
This week,'the Scholastic raises its humble voice in behalf of others. Once a year, we undertake a project designed to bring help to some deserving cause at hand, believing, as we do, that our readers share a common fraternity with us in our effort of charity. To realize this object, the Scholastic presents the Fighting Irish in the celebrated Bengal Bouts, and asks its readers to support the project by their attendance. If that is impossible, there is the gracious alternative of participation by contribution.
And where will the proceeds go? To charities — the most prominent of which will be the local Service Men’s Center. You, above all others, know how much 2 nd how well the Center is serving the uniformed men on the campus. The Bengal Bouts provide the opportunity and the occasion to show our appreciation of the Center’s hospitality.
But don’t look upon the Bengal Bouts merely as a charity drive. The Bengals are a show — a very good show comprising the best boxing talent on campus — plus a band and other entertainment, all designed to give you a very interesting and enjoyable evening. Furthermore, the Scholastic, realizing the limited finances of men in uniform, has assigned special prices of admission, thus making it possible for all to attend.
Your interest and support are earnestly solicited.
V-12 ESPRIT DE CORPS
Staid, stiff-necked organizations, like the stuffy people they mimic, are seldom successful in carrying out their missions. A sense of humor, which is the essence of real, enjoyable life, is necessary for an organization’s success as well as for an individual’s success; for an organization is only a group of people much like you and your friends, or, as in the case of V-12, is you and your friends.
One manifestation of a virile sense of humor is a person’s ability to laugh at himself or an organization’s ability to laugh at themselves. So it is with the Notre Dame V-12 unit. Trainees laugh as heartily as anyone when V-12 is defined as “Victory in twelve years, or we fight!” Service stars are
.	(Continued on page 13)
| The SCHOLASTIC Announces:	|
I	The Advance Campus Ticket Sale for	I
I	THE BENGAL BOUTS {Finals Onlyl	I
I'	• April 21, 8:00 p. m.	I
I n-------------■—n	...	. .	i
| SPECIAL RATE To civilian students, and to all in uniform who purchase tickets from cam- | pus agents and hall representatives prior to date of Finals.	g
Otherwise — All general Admission tickets purchased at the Box | Office — $1.00.	I
1	(All tickets for the Prelims and the Semi-Finals may be purchased at reduced rates only at the	g
?	Box Office on the nights of those contests.)	a
2	'
(General Admission) 50 cents .
(Tax included)
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 81	APRIL 7, 1944	NO. 4
Council Shrouds Meeting With Secrecy
Masked behind the secrecy of the Rockne Memorial lounge, the first meeting of the newly formed civilian student council was held Monday evening with the drafting of a constitution and election of officers occupying the main bit of discussion.
The meeting found the council minus representation by the Knights of Colum-bu's, long time promoters of such undertakings as dances and the past War Charities carnival, and sale of War Bonds, or the Off-campus students, the Wranglers, and the Scholastic.
Read Constitution
The constitution read for final approval and change was written by two members of the. Catholic Action Society. The constitution will be submitted to the prefect of discipline for approval.
Original writers of the constitution were Chuck Russ and George Haley, members of the CAS, a Scholastic source revealed late Monday evening.
A break-down of the representation of the meeting reveals that at least four members of the Bookmen are members of the organization, under one guise or the other, while the Catholic Action Society has two members enrolled on the council. One of the CAS students, who . is also a Bookman and a member of the Law club, is Harold Berliner, Scholastic editor, who represents Sorin Hall. Bob Reynolds represents the CAS officially. A Scholastic reporter at the meeting was hard pressed to find a Notre Dame monogram winner among the attendance.
Mumane Prexy
Joe Murnane, senior from Sorin Hall, was elected president of the organization. He represents and is president of the Commerce Forum, one of the strongest campus organizations.
The constitution, as written, a council representative explained, is drawn mainly from past constitutions of Notre Dame student councils and embodies virtually the same privileges of former years.
(Continued on page 4)
Tom Bremer Heads Bengal Ticket Committee
Tom Bremer, Cleveland, Ohio, law student, was, today, named ticket captain for the “Bengal Bouts,” the University Boxing Championships, to be held April 21, in the fieldhouse at the University. This is the annual charity show sponsored by the Scholastic.
Bremer announced this evening that tickets for the finals will go on sale early next week. Tickets for the preliminaries and the semi-finals will be sold at the box office only on the nights of -those fights, next Tuesday and Friday evenings.	!
It is the Finals scheduled for April 21, in which Bremer is interested primarily, and for which he plans a campus-wide sale. Bremer announced that every hall will have a ticket man who will canvass the various rooms during the next ten days. Names and room numbers of these individuals will be posted on the hall bulletin boards. Off-campus men will find tickets on sale at the Huddle, Cafeteria, Book Store and Publications Office. In downtown South Bend, tickets will be placed on sale at a number of business firms. Posters in show-windows will indicate such places.
Special prices have been arranged by Scholastic officials for all service men and students, provided tickets are bought in advance of April 21, the date of the finals. While ringside tickets will be priced at $1.50 for all who purchase them at any time, general admission tickets, priced at $1.00, may be purchased in advance from hall canvassers for fifty cents. At the box office on the night of the finals, the price will return to the original $1.00. This concession is made in favor of students and service men only, and does not apply to the public. Scholastic officials who sponsor this annual charity show feel that students on campus and military men deserve this special consideration, and that they will welcome the bargain rates.
Students and service men will also en
joy similar financial privileges at the prelims—on April 12, and at the semifinals—on April 14. Tickets for these events will be sold at the box office only, on these two dates.
Bookmen Add Nine New
Members, Prexy Soys
Nine new members have been added to the Bookmen club here on the campus, F. J. Pequigney, senior in the College of Arts and Letters, announced today. Pequigney, who is’ president, listed the new members as Robert Morrissey, Rob-ert Riordan, Frederick Gushurst, Harold Berliner, Frank Fitzgibbons, William O’Connell, and privates Philip Reither, Daryl McKinney, and Robert Snyder, of the United States marine corps reserve.
Vice-president of the club is Richard J. Ames. T. Bowyer Campbell of the University faculty is moderator. Incomplete plans call for the meeting to be held downtown Monday night to be a banquet affair, and plans are being made to have a prominent faculty member address the club.
Lady In The Dark
Saturday night’s movie in the Navy. Drill Hall will be the technicolor “Lady in the Dark,” with Ginger Rogers, Ray Milland, and Warner Baxter.
The movie begins at 2000. ’
❖ GOOD FRIDAY CLASSES ♦ ❖ ------------------ ♦
$ According to an announcement ♦ $ from the Office of the Director of ♦
Studies, there will be no classes on ♦
Good Friday afternoon at 2:15 or 3:15. ♦ ’ . -$ All other classes will be held as usu- ♦
al. There will be the regular sched- ♦ ♦ ule of classes on Saturday morning^.+
and on the Monday following Easter.’♦
»
SERVICEMEN'S CENTER TO SHARE IN BENGAL BOXING TOURNEY RECEIPTS
NROTC Names Caron as Battalion Commander
The battalion organization for the
Naval R.O.T.C. unit stationed on the
Proceeds from the University Boxing Championships will go mainly to the South Bend Servicemen’s Center. Because of the tremendous amount of work that the staff of the center has been doing to' make life at Notre Dame a happier one for the men in uniform, it has been announced that the bulk of the proceeds will be used for furthering this good work.
The Servicemen’s Center, staffed by volunteer workers and supported by the War Chest, is independent of the USO. Starting out in a small store on LaSalle street when the midshipmen first came to the campus in the spring of 1942, the Center expanded greatly when the V-12 trainees went into uniform last July, now occupying the old Palais Royale ballroom on Colfax avenue.
Aids Sick Bay
Numerous services rendered the men in uniform were mentioned in earlier issues of the Scholastic, but one deserving mention is the interest of the Center in the navy personnel in the sick-bay. Newspapers, food and cookies are sent regularly to the infirmary, and
❖ BEG YOUR PARDON ❖
■»!* The SCHOLASTIC regrets that its ❖ reference to the dome as "the gilded *3* affair atop the Main Building," (Mar. ❖ 24 issue), and that the picture of the ❖
❖ snowman (Mar. 31 issue) offended
& the religious sensibilities of some •J* readers.	❖
❖ In the former instance, no refer- ❖ ❖ ence was made to the statue atop ❖ ❖ the dome. In the latter instance, the ❖ ❖ utterly ridiculous implications of the ❖ group bowing before the snowman ❖ -❖ were so charged with a spirit of fun
❖ as to be considered by the Editors-to ❖ ❖ give the picture a levity past all ❖ ❖ offense. That these items annoyed ❖ ❖ some readers is, therefore, a source ❖ . ❖ of deep regret, because no veiled ♦?* ❖ scurrilities were intended.	❖
❖ The SCHOLASTIC thinks it well to ❖ ❖ warn readers, however, against giv- *2* ❖ ing such news reporting an interpre- *2* ❖ tation that has in no manner found ❖ ❖ its way into the minds of the Editors. ❖ ❖ Only the obvious and the literal ♦J’ should be credited to the SCHOLAS- •••
❖ TIC; that is the only consideration ❖ ❖ the editors ask—and possibly all they ❖ ❖ merit.	❖
the thought and preparation on the part of those responsible has been appreciated greatly by those who have been laid up for any length of time. And this work will get aid through the proceeds of the coming boxing tournament.
Trainees at the University will be given an opportunity to show their appreciation for the good work done by the Center when the ring lights up and the boys go into action in the 13th annual Championship Bouts.
Band Announces Concert
By STEPHEN LOYACANO
The University band will make its first public appearance of this semester on April 11 in Washington hall. Under the direction of H. Lee Hope, the band has succeeded in mastering very difficult and intricate symphonic selections of the classics.
Such masterpieces as Tschaikowsky’s beautiful “Sleeping Beauty Waltz” and Conrad’s long-loved “Midnight in Paris” will long be remembered and cherished' by the audiences who hear them.
Other selections on the program will include: the “Porgy and Bess Selection” by famed George Gershwin; “Lustspiel Overture” by Kiler Bela; Bach’s “Charle. and Fugue in G Minor” and a host of other world renowned compositions accompanied by a hand-picked selection of stirring marches.
For a night of insured enjoyment, it’s the Notre Dame band concert. The place .... Washington hall; the date.... April 11; the time.... 8 o’clock.
Commerce Forum Meets
A regular meeting of the Commerce Forum was held Tuesday, April 4, in the lounge of the Rockne memorial. Pvt. P. J. Wilson U.S.M.C.R., addressed the . Forum on “Why Does America Tolerate Legislation for a Lawer Standard of Living?”
In his talk, Pvt. Wilson gave his rea- . son for free trade. It was his opinion that tariff legislation lowers ..the standard of living both at home and with , our trading nations. He stressed the problems of changing a country with tariff barriers to one with free trade. -
Professor Wesley C. Bender, head of the Business Administration school, participated in the discussion that followed. The regular business of the forum was then taken up by President Murnane.	.
campus has been put into effect with John B. Caron named as battalion commander.
One hundred and- fifty-two men com' prise the Naval Reserve Officers Training' Corps at present. Forty-five are new men being transferred from Notre Dame and other college V-12 programs. At the conclusion of last semester some eighty men of the Notre Dame N.R.O. T.C. were commissioned as Ensigns in the Naval Reserve to form the first graduating class of the unit.
The announcement of the battalion set-up came as a result of scholastic standing of the men as well as their naval aptitude mark. The scholastic mark was based solely upon the Naval Science and Tactics grade earned during the past semester.
In addition to Battalion Commander Caron, other members of the battalion staff are: G. J. O’Brien, battalion subcommander; J. A. Lauck, battalion adjutant; F. J. Gilligan, commissary and supply; D. A. O’Donnell, battalion chief petty officer; J. A. Hasten, bugler. .
Company organization is listed as follows:
FIRST COMPANY
W. R. Wrape, company commander; V. J. Hecht, first platoon leader; H. F. Frailey, second platoon; J. A. Kramer, company chief petty officer.
SECOND COMPANY
R. J. Leite, company commander; W. H. Klem, first platoon; J. E. Cassidy, second platoon; W. F. Grant, company chief petty officer.
THIRD COMPANY
W. W. Moore, company commander; J. P. Fisher, first platoon; J. J. Elliot, second' platoon; J. R. Clary, company chief petty officer.
. Members of the color guard are H. J. Pisanko, H. J. Gilligan, A. A. Wade and W. J, Flach.
COUNCIL MEETS
.. (Continued from page 3)
First meeting of the organization was held shortly after the deadline for filing names of candidates and it was pointed out that this showed the council was interested in “action plus.” It was also indicated that the council was going to bring pressure on representatives to keep up scholastic standards when a C.A.S. member was observed last week checking up on the scholastic qualification of proposed members.
4.
Engineers Ball May 5th; Indiana Club is Chosen for Annual Semi-Formal Dance
By PAUL W. SMITH
It has been said that in the spring a young man’s fancy turns to thoughts of those beautiful moonlight evenings spent with the One and Only. . . . Dancing till late hours, grabbing that midnight snack which means so much . . . and all these things add up to only one thing on the Notre Dame campus, and that, the coming of the “Engineers’ Ball.”
At the present time, the plans are only premature, but it has been confirmed that the dance will definitely take place at the Indiana Club on May 5.
These social functions sponsored by the Engineers have always been well received by the student body, but it is well known that there are many students who have never attended a class dance. Don’t let this be the case here, because a dance like this happens only once in a lifetime.
To encourage some of the backward boys, if there are such at Notre Dame, Father Burke, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, has granted late permissions and the use of cars for all ball-goers.
Ray Smith, a man with past experience, is general chairman. He has as his aides: George Charters, publicity; Bill Hendricks, decorations; Robert Dunn, tickets; Matt Bajorek, transportation; John McKenna, patrons and patronesses; and Dick Murphy, chairman of the music committee.
Due to wartime conditions the dress will be semi-formal, and since class dances have been abandoned by the University, the “Engineers’ Ball” will probably be the only dance of the semester open to the entire student body.
The band has not yet been announced, but with Dick Murphy the music chairman, you can well expect a prominent orchestra.
Arrangements are now being made ' for St. Mary’s to attend, and from past experience, freshmen are encouraged to get their dates early.
> H. Lee Hope, director of the Unis’ versity band, has announced that !♦ positions for saxophone and clarinet Yp>iayers are still open in the band. > Applicants should report to Mr. Hope
in the band room in the Music hall at > 6 p.m. on any day of the week ex-k.cept Saturday or Sunday.
Lieut. Phil Narmore is Assigned to Notre Dame
By BOB WATSON
Lieutenant Phil Narmore, DE-V(S), U.S.N.R., has arrived on this station from the bureau of naval personnel to assist this unit in an advisory capacity; to help locate and clear up any difficulties the administration may encounter. He is at this station on temporary duty; his permanent duty is executive officer to the assistant training officer for Navy . V-12 Program in the bureau of naval personnel. At the bureau he acts as liaison officer between the bureau and the engineering schools.
After thirteen years in the army reserve, Lieutenant Narmore resigned his commission in 1938 to accept a commission in the naval reserve. At that time he was given an engineering commission, but subsequently changed his designation to deck-engineering.
Lieutenant Narmore holds Bachelor and Master degrees received in 1925 at Georgia Tech, and a Ph.D. degree received in 1938 at the University of Michigan. At Georgia Tech he was assistant to the Dean and a professor of Engineering Mechanics until March 1943.	.
In . May of 1943, after graduation from an indoctrination course at the midshipman school, Columbia University, he was assigned to active duty in the Bureau of Naval Personnel.
Engineers1 Measure
The College of Engineering has added some new equipment to its ever-growing stock. Among the new instruments are mirror-smooth Gauge Blocks which are guaranteed to .00004 of an inch in accuracy. Each is stamped as to its size. Used with the Blocks is a machine known as a Comparator, which gives relative measurements for the maximum and minimum of parts. For example, if we wish to measure a machine part, we would select the Gauge block whose measurement equals that part we have made. Both are placed under the Comparator and the difference between the Gauge block and oiir work is given in .001 of an inch. Also, there is a Shadow Graph which projects a shadow of ah object in sizes 10, 31%, and'62% the original. These new machines will do much to improve the efficiency of the machine shop.
War Claims Additional
Men of Notre Dame
Word of confirmation concerning the death of Lieut. Donald McNally, of Chicago, who had been reported missing in action since Nov. 15, 1943, has been received at the University here. At the
qq-X- (The deaths of Lieut. McNally and Aviation Cadet Thomas J.
McQuaid brings to 89 the number of Notre Dame men who have perished in the cause of God, cozmtry, and Notre Dame.) ‘ ' same time word was received of the death of Aviation Cadet Thomas. J. McQuaid, who was killed in a plane crash near San Antonio, Texas, recently.
Cadet McQuaid, member of the class of 1947, was a native of Rochester, N. Y. The accident occurred at Hondo army field, Texas, where he had been sent following earlier training at Ellington and Harlington fields, Texas.
Lieut. McNally was killed on a mission over France.
V-l 2 Executive Group
Begins Reorganization
V-12 students of last semester will recall that an Executive Committee of Trainees was chosen to aid in planning social functions and recreation for the Navy ,md Marine detachments stationed here. Seaman John Toole was instrumental in getting such an organization started, and it appears that his idea had merit, for the Committee will again operate this term.
A number of trainees interested in reorganizing the committee met last Friday night and chose seven men to serve as committee members. Five of these are Navy men: Ed Brown, Bill Byington, Bob Fanning, Dave Schneider, and “Casey” Snyder. Marine representatives are: Bruce Sumner and Tom Young. In addition to these men, several others will be chosen at a later date to work out plans for the V-12 Ball.
A suggestion already under consideration is the possibility of setting aside an entire week-end for the V-12 Ball, holding the dance Friday night, a roast Saturday afternoon, and a tea-dance Sunday. This will probably take place during the third week of May.
♦J> ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖ ❖	BULLETIN a *
❖ Washington—A new naval district ♦ •2* was created last Tuesday, Secretary ♦ ❖ of the Navy Frank Knox, announced. ♦ ❖ The new district comprises Alaska * ❖ and the Aleutian Islands.	♦
❖❖❖
5
BY H. LE BIEN and P. AMUNDSEN
INTRODUCING.__(Danzig Cobbwhistle)
A dirty civvy shirt, ubangi lips and lenseless glasses; that’s Danzig Cobbwhistle, a 4-F transfei- from V-12. This popular four-year senior resides in 365 Dillon, where he has become the celebrated third-sub petty officer in charge of the fourth squad, second class, of Company K. The first of a family of 52, this myopic charactei- hails from Five States Tech, where he completed his pre-engineering. In high school he ran the quarter mile in 3:15.26. After this torrid run, he was acclaimed by many of the local sports scribes as being one of the most promising, up-and-coming young runners in the county (Muddy-sludge, R. I.).
Despite his 4' 3" stature he still turns in a neat run when he so desires. As “Doc” Bandy said the other day: “A few more years of seasoning, and that boy might develop into something!” We all wish him the best of luck.
Danzig’s favorite hobby, next to pouring wet cement down other peoples’ radiators, is making mud tracks in Badin Bog. Says he: “I walk out into a nice clear muddy space, then backtrack in my own foot prints. This makes people think somebody disappeared into air where the tracks leave off.” His favorite athlete is a Chief, and his favorite orchestra is the South Bend Philharmonic. He especially enjoys hearing this august body perform O’Leary’s concerto for Glockenspiel and Tonette, with Keo B. Lunkle taking the rides on the Tonette. “Can that boy ride the tonette, or can he ride the tonnete?” enthusiastically raves Danzig. (We can safely assume he can’t).
The biggest moment in his life was the time he raced to a breath-taking third place in a three-man challenge race in the 5:15 Phy Ed hand walking class. As our hero says: “I just don’t know what it was, but that hand walking did something to me!”
(It was very tiresome, in fact nigh on impossible to hold a note book in one hand, write with the other, and stand on our hands at the same time; we leave cur blood for brains, friend, till next time.)
WE DISAGREE
The other Saturday night a representative of this column attended, thoroughly enjoyed along with the majority
of those present (apparently an individual didn’t) and was completely entertained by a motion picture: “Jane Eyre.” We have no pretension, here, of being a great and decisive judge of movies. In fact we just sort of go to relax and be entertained. But, not so a certain reviewer who filled half a page of this magazine with negative venom, which, incidentally, makes even the mighty Orson seem mild, concerning what we consider one of the finest motion pictures currently running.
We liked “Jane Eyre.” In fact we thought it was wonderful. The photography was excellent, and properly sombre for the story it was recapturing on film. Apparently the reviewer would have one of the most dramatic stories ever written filled with sunshine and light; Otto Shander: Big, sad, innocent, un-. fathomable brown eyes . . . and the girl next door . . . aeronautical engineer, bright - speaking characters shouting
BUT CHIEF - I KNOW THAT IT'S AFTER TAPS - BUT I JUST
GOT TO GET SOME WATER
their lines of pathos with ail the artistry of a Walt Disney short; and a portrayal of a truly terrible man, Edward Rochester, by someone who could speak clear English, say Bill Friday, for example.
PINPOINT POISONALITIES
Cliff Garey: Interstate operator . . . milking cows . . . farm girls . . . Pearl Harbor . . . California.
THE PERISCOPE
Bill Martin: Muscles . . . Body no. 1 . . . pre-med . . . swell guy . . . Detroit.
William Segar: The comeback kid . . .
V-5. . . . “Have ya heard the one about.” . . . Lafayette.
Phil Miler: Basketball wizard . . . in-compatibiilty with Physics I . . . good Commerce man . . . Kewanee (He says it’s in the U.S.).
(Continued on page 15)
!
I
K
Critic Calls Bogart Pic Year's Best-Told Story
If you like action shots on an old tramp freighter carrying a cargo of desperate criminals to the war zone, you’ll like “Passage to Marseilles.” You may find the depths of the French penal colony uncomfortable and notice that you are wondering more about the actual conditions that exist in such places than you are paying attention to the story, but when you find yourself aboard the chugging Ville de Nancy you will forget about comfortable situations and bury - any of your former notions about social problems.
You meet five men. They are serving time at the penal colony. You don’t seem to know much about these men, nor why they are in this place; you don’t care. But you do want to see them escape. Now if you’re a stickler for sensibly worked-out escapes in all films about escapes, you’re due for a disappointment. The prisoners just don’t escape; they paddle out of the prison in a canoe. You are relieved to be out of the manhole of reeking stench and are ready to take anything after your visit.
What is hard to swallow is the attitude of these convicts. They had been sent to the penal colony in exile by the French government. They were outcasts of French society. Yet when the opportunity for escape came and was realized, their only desire was to return to their country and fight for its freedom. In real life it is inconceivable that such men would act thus patriotically toward a government which had, rightfully or no, exiled them for life. Without discussing psychologically the criminal mind, it is safe to assume that the attitude of the convicts in “Passage” is no more than a Hollywood “how-nice-if-it-would-be” idea. .	■
The acting is good, though it is amusing to think that about the only actor Hollywood has to do the bad-man roles is Humphrey Bogart. He may not be overworked, but sure must be sick of the hanging-cigarette, grimy-lip act. He is not in what might be called a major role. He is the leader of the criminals, each of whom does well with Humphrey shading him most of the time. If for no other reason than seeing them grouped to, gether, you’ll enjoy Greenstreet, Dentine, Tobias, Lorre and Bains.
An interesting feature of the film, directly reminiscent of “Casablanca,” was the use of a haunting melody at varied intervals. Max Steiner did the music and it certainly was a credit to him. Listen for it.
In the picture you see a group of men, who as a group, reflect a still larger
group in their homeland — the real French patriots. And, nicely enough, the picture hasn’t bothered to give all the actors names. They are seen more as representatives than actual men. It was not the five criminals struggling, but the whole body of the Free French. The film had a message of faith and hope to deliver and because it was the faith and hope of an element little known to us in America, it touched and inspired.
“Passage” is a good story, well told. The camera has used the “flashback” technique in turning back the years. When you see the picture, relax. Sit back and imagine an old friend telling you the story. You are in a darkened room, sitting before a fire, sipping a cool glass of Sherry. Your imagined warmth will heighten your enjoyment of one of the best-told stories of the year.
—Seaman George Nesbit
❖ CIVILIANS AND SERVICEMEN— ❖ ❖	ATTENTION!	❖
❖ Contrary to popular opinion, life— ❖ ❖ even Navy life—consists of more than & applied mathematics and physics.
❖ These applications, it is true, form a ❖ material civilization, but such a civ- ❖ ilization, lacking the culture obtained ❖ through the fine arts, is an empty *»• structure that cannot last.	❖
❖ Consequently, the Navy and Uni- ❖ versity officials urge the readers of ❖ ❖ the SCHOLASTIC to avail themselves *!♦ of the cultural opportunities con- & & tained in the following “preview"
that has been prepared by Rev. J. W. ❖ Connerton, C.S.C., chairman of the ❖ ❖ Program Committee.	❖
"Claudio Arrau—Chilean pianist— ❖ and certainly one of the world's best ❖ —as guest artist with the South Bend ❖ ❖ Symphony Orchestra. Monday, April ❖ ❖ 24th—Navy Drill Hall—8:15 pan. *£• ❖ "Bishop Yu Pin"—native Chinese •> ❖ bishop with a lecture: "China's Cru-•I’ cial Role in the World Today." Sun-❖ day, April 30, Washington Hall— ❖ ❖ 8:00 p.m.	❖
❖ Vivian Della Chiesa—Soprano of ❖ ❖ Metropolitan Opera Company and ❖ radio favorite—in Concert. Monday, ❖ May 1 at Navy Drill Hall—8:15 p.m. ❖
One more musical event for a date ❖ near the middle of April is being ar- ❖ ranged. Announcements will come ❖ ❖ later.	❖
All students, civilian and service- ❖ men, are "again" cordially invited to ❖ *** attend these programs. Further pub- ❖ *•« licity will be given in the SCHOLAS- ❖ TIC, the bulletin boards in the halls, ❖ and on the outside bulletin board on ❖ the west entrance of Washington ❖ Hall.	❖
«£♦	4^	«$»
Cleveland Meeting Hears N. D. Chemistry Papers
Six papers by faculty members of the University were given at the 107th convention of the American Chemical society which closes today in Cleveland, O.
Faculty and graduate students, including K. N. Campbell, B. K. Campbell, J. R. Corrigan, R. S. Towne, D. G. Leis, Brother Columba Curran, C.S.C., Sister M. Carmellette Seiffert, P. A. McCusker, J. R. Costello, Rev. J. S. McGrath; and Rev. C. G. Stack, prepared the papers which dealt with research in the University’s department of chemistry.
Officially representing the University at the meeting were Lawrence Baldinger, dean of the College of Science; Andrew-Boyle, head of the department of chemistry, and George Hennion, director of chemical research.
At the same time Dr. Boyle and James E. Armstrong, alumni secretary, were in Cleveland Sunday attending the annual Rockne Memorial mass and communion breakfast of the Notre Dame club of Cleveland.
The Cleveland club also entertained the Notre Dame chemists who went to the city for the A.C.S. meeting. Among the guests expected were two honorary alumni of Notre Dame, William S. Cal-cott, of the du Pont laboratories, and P. C. Reilly, of Indianapolis. .
Father O'Brien Praised
Antonio Santacruz, a distinguished scholar of Mexico and an outstanding Catholic in the lay apostolate, has acclaimed Rev. John A. O’Brien’s recent book, Discovering Mexico as the finest publication about Mexican culture and life that has appeared in recent years. Father O’Brien is a member of the faculty at Notre Dame in the department of religion.
Father O’Brien’s authentic presentation will do much to strengthen the Good ‘ Neighbor policy because it presents the truth about Mexico. Mr. Santacruz further states: “Discovering Mexico is the book that comes nearest to mirroring Mexican reality to the people of the United States. Its author has caught the true spirit of the Mexican people and has beautifully interpreted the picturesque folk ways, the social and economic problems as well as the spiritual life of the Mexican people, often misunderstood north of the Rio Grande.”
In his book, which is about 125 pages in length and was published by Our Sunday Visitor, Father O’Brien gives a discerning treatment of the Synarchist movement which has been such a topic of interest among Catholics in this country. Father O’Brien studied this movement at first hand.
7
Pros Want Bertelli As First Choice for Team
By DAVE CONDON
"Scholastic" Editor
Pros Eye the Expert (Bertelli)
Ted Celling, owner of the Boston franchise in the National Football league, finally came around to agreeing what the most of us have known for a long day when he came out last Tuesday and said: "Bertelli is the best T-formation quarterback I ever have seen.”
If noteworthy for nothing else, Collins’ statement is laudable for its brevity. It. is about the shortest, most concise compliment that The Arm has ever received, but it still gets to the point.
The point Mt. Collins was attempting to establish is that all club owners in the National Football league had given him first choice in the player draft and that his mind was made up to lay a claim on Mr. Angelo Bertelli, Notre Dame’s passing ace of three years who currently is with the marines.
“My football team will play the T-formation and Bertelli is the best T-formation quarterback I have ever seen, and besides that, he is from the Boston area,” was Collins’ entire quote.
Bert, however, did not immediately comment on the situation although it was pointed out that The Arm has one
more year of college competition left, should he desire to return to school following the war, and The Arm has been the first to say that should the game against the Nips not last too long, he will be back on the campus to obtain that degree. This, the fact that Bertelli would return to do one more season with the Irish, would cause no hard feelings anywhere along the line—unless you exclude Fritz Crisler, who admits that he not only saw enough of Bertelli, but— well, look at the scoreboard. And then, the only other disappointed one would be Mr. Collins, who at .this instant is hard pressed to find a football team to fill his recently acquired Fenway park.
Father Holderith Sends
Out Call for Golfers
’ By BILL WADDINGTON “Scholastic" Sports Editor
With the advent of good weather, Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., coach of the Golf team, has expressed the desire to open the William J. Burke Memorial golf course as soon as possible. In past years, the course hasn’t been hampered with adverse climate this late, and the link-men have had an opportunity to get in the swing of things by the end of March. The Easter bunny may deliver some good weather this week-end instead of Easter eggs thus enhancing the chances of a commencing date.
Fr. Holderith will be relying on two returning men, Mel Wilke, who will be captain this year, and Jim Bessenfelder. /■Iso on the squad last year were Jim Clynes and Jim Seidel who will be called upon to manifest their ability where the Fighting Irish are called upon to produce. Hopes are being held for three freshmen golfers who have come to Notre Dame with a little advance information concerning their talents, Bob Terry, Bob Pearse, and Jack Fitzpatrick.
Player Call
All those interested in trying out for the golf team are urged to report to Fr. Holderith in the golf shop in the rear of Rockne Memorial next Tuesday, April . 11, right after the noon meal.
The golf schedule has been submitted to the athletic board for approval and vzerd concerning its sanction is expected late this week. At present, the bill calls for six matches plus the National Collegiate tournament which is in an undetermined state at this time.
The schedule follows:
April 22—Purdue at Lafayette
May 6—Triangular (Northwestern and Michigan) ' Here
May 13—Detroit at Detroit
May 13—Culver- vs. Freshmen here May 20—Minnesota at Minneapolis Michigan State—date and place to be arranged.
Bengal Boxers Work Out
Under Eyes of Experts
By HANK SLAMIN
"Scholastic" Sports Writer
In the boxing room of the old fieldhouse among the punching bags and the smack of leather-shrouded fists, Sergeant Joe Santos and Chief Bob “Robbie” Robertson hold sway every afternoon tutoring their many pugilistic charges for the Bengal Bouts, the University Boxing championships.
Both the sergeant and the chief are modest fellows, too modest perhaps, and it is with great reluctance that they’ll say anything about themselves, they would rather praise the boxers whom they are exposing to able fisticuff maneuvers.
Robbie stations himself by the heavy punching bags, not parting with any of his own energy, but showing a boy how to throw his left and where to hold his right. Ask Robbie about himself and that’s where you wind-up, your interview with him has terminated. Not be-z ing able to hide his All-American football rating at Southern California in ’42, he veils his boxing endeavors with a minimum of conversation. But as rumor has it, Robbie knows how to throw a bit of leather around, his talent speaks for itself where a little ring experience is concerned.
Little Joe
Robertson says he is just Joe Santos’ assistant and Joe’s the man to see about the fight game. Sergeant Santos was equally hard to crack, but a New England accent will always soften him up. An easterner, with a nameless eastern accent, is a wise man inside the square circle.
East coast fight fans recall a welterweight, stocky-build, with quite a victory string by the name of Billy Marshall. About two years ago, Billy Marshall joined the United States Marine Corps after four years in the professional fight field with countless victories to his credit as tallied against a meager four defeats. Only one' loss a year is quite an impressive average.
This same Billy Marshall came to Notre Dame last July with the marine unit as Sergeant Joseph Santos, the masked-marvel typically having been re-. moved and the true moniker affixed thereof. Sergeant Santos likes the crop of boxers lined up for this year’s show and. is particularly pleased with the novices who started from^ scratch but now are rounding into topnotchers ready for the tournament. Regardless of the • final results, the instruction in the fundamentals is all wrapped up in a couple of guys named Robertson and Santos.
8
ifafaoducii'Uf . . .	1
BY JIM REGAN	j
With mounting interest in the Bengal bouts the Scholastic is introducing this week a few of last year’s finalists who will compete again this year.
FRANK DEBITETTO
One of the favorites to win the 135 pound class this year is Frank Debitet-to, Navy V-12 trainee from Brooklyn, N. Y. . . . Frank is heavily regarded because of the fine showing he made last year in capturing the 127 pound division. . . . With a little added weight, Frank is expected to put up a real fight for. another title. . . .
Frank entered Notre Dame in the fall of 1942 as a civilian student in the College of Commerce. . . . When he was accepted by the Navy he was assigned here as V-12er, and he is now in the first semester of his junior year. . . . He was graduated from Abraham Lincoln High School, Brooklyn, where he participated in track and baseball. . . . He was also one of the outstanding members of the Abe Lincoln Athletic Club. ...
In his freshman year here he tried out for the quarter mile on the track team but due to his heavy academic schedule he no longer is competing. . . . He entered the handball tournament last semester and surprised his buddy, George Terlep, as well as everybody else, when he captured the event. . . . His brother John, of the class of ’41, was also a Bengal boxer, and although he reached the finals, was unable to capture a championship. . . .
Frank’s favorite athletes are Greg Rice and Ollie Hunter, both former outstanding trackmen at Notre Dame. . . . In baseball the Yankees are his choice — don’t get excited, Brooklynites — I mean in the American League. ... It goes without saying that the team in every Brooklyn heart is the Dodgers. . . .
He has a varied list of hobbies and activities including dancing, singing, drinking cokes, meeting people and sleeping till 6:30 in the morning. . . . At the dinner table he really digs in when he has a nice juicy steak and ravioli. . . .
After the war Frank plans to become a real estate agent. . . . All we can say is that all prospective buyers of the Brooklyn Bridge better look out when Frank’s around. . . .
MIKE CUTT
Runner up in last year’s 175 pound division, Mike Cutt, N.R.O.T.C. of Tonawanda, N. Y., is hoping to garner first place laurels this year in the same event.
Mike entered Notre Dame as a civilian student upon graduation from Kibler High School in September 1942, and he is now in his fifth semester here in the College of Arts and Letters. ... In high school he took part in football, swimming and track. Also at Kibler he had varied interests, being a class officer two years, member of the Science club, Monogram club, and Boxing club. At the Irish institution he has limited himself to freshman track, and the Bengal bouts of last year. . . . The remainder of his time is well-spent “hitting the books,” plus sleeping and social activities. . . .
Among his best ways to put .in leave is down at the USO — he says that it helps make the leave seem longer. . . . His favorite pastime is reading — it used .to be reading short stories until his English teacher started assigning the class to read them — now it’s reading’ the novel. . . . His best-liked meal must include steak — but he will settle for roast beef for the duration. . . .
Mike’s favorite class is sociology —
Have a Coca-Cola=Kia Ora
(GOOD LUCK)
/ a
P'.'
w.
te. in
...or sealing friendships in New Zealand
Kia ora, says the New Zealander to wish you well. Have a “Coke” is the way the Yank says it and he’s made a friend. It says Welcome neighbor from Auckland to Albuquerque. ’Round the globe, Coca-Cola stands for the pause that refreshes,—has become the high-sign between friendly-minded people. So, of course, Coca-Cola belongs in your icebox at home.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
It’snatural for popular names to acquire friendly abbreviations. That’s why you hear Coca-Cola called “Coke”,

• the global highTTgK

11
Pros Want Bertelli As First Choice for Team
By DAVE CONDON
"Scholastic” Editor
Pros Eye the Expert (Bertelli)
Ted Collins, owner of the Boston franchise in the National Football league, finally came around to agreeing what the most of us have known for a long day when he came out last Tuesday and said: “Bertelli is the best T-formation quarterback I ever have seen.”
If noteworthy for nothing else, Collins’ statement is laudable for its brevity. It' is about the shortest, most concise compliment that The Arm has ever received, but it still gets to the point. _
The point Mr. Collins was attempting to establish is that all club owners in the National Football league had given him first choice in the player draft and that his mind was made up to lay a claim on Mr. Angelo Bertelli, Notre Dame’s passing ace of three years who . currently is with the marines. . *	/ ‘
“My football, team , will .play, the" T-. formation and. Bertelli is the best T-formation _quarterback I. have ever -seen, 1 and besides that, he is from the Boston area,” was Collins’ entire quote. ’	.
Bert, however, -, did not ^immediately comment.. on the situation although - it was pointed out that The Arm has one
8	‘	J	’
more year of college competition left, should he desire to return to school following the war, and The Arm has been the first to say that should the game against the Nips not last too long, he will be back on the campus to obtain that degree. This, the fact that Bertelli would return to do one more season with the Irish, would cause no hard feelings anywhere along the line—unless you exclude Fritz Crisler, who admits that he not only saw enough of Bertelli, but— well, look at the scoreboard. And then, the only other disappointed one would be Mr. Collins, who at this instant is hard pressed to find a football team to fill his recently acquired Fenway park.
Father Holderith Sends
Out Call for Golfers
By BILL WADDINGTON
"Scholastic" Sports Editor
With the advent of good weather, Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., coach of the Golf team, has expressed the desire to open the William J. Burke Memorial golf course as soon as possible. In past years, the course hasn’t been hampered with adverse climate this late, and the linkmen have had an opportunity to get in the swing of things by the end of March. The Easter bunny may deliver some good weather this week-end instead of Easter eggs thus enhancing the chances of a commencing date.
Fr. Holderith will be relying on two returning men, Mel Wilke, who will be captain this year, and Jim Bessenfelder. /-Iso on the squad last year were Jim Clynes and Jim Seidel who will be called upon to manifest their ability where the Fighting Irish are called upon to produce. Hopes are being held for three freshmen golfers who have come to Notre Dame with a little advance information concerning their talents, Bob Terry, Bob Pearse, and Jack Fitzpatrick.
. Player Call
All those interested in trying out for the golf team are urged to report to Fr. Holderith in the golf shop in: the rear of Rockne Memorial next Tuesday, April 11, right after the noon meal. .
The golf schedule.has been submitted, to the athletic board for approval and word concerning its sanction is expected late this week.-.At present, the bill:calls* for six matches plus the National Coi-: legiate, tournament which is in an undetermined state at this . time. .
The schedule. follows: . - :	-
April 22—Purdue at .Lafayette .• '. --..ty' May 6—Triangular. (Northwestern and Michigan) "
: 1Here	" . ; .
May 13—Detroit’ at Detroit -	- , -_i. p.-‘. -
May 13—Culver vs.' Freshmen here ‘	‘' >
May 20—Minnesota at Minneapolis .
. Michigan - State—date and place-to be .arranged.'■
Bengal Boxers Work Out
Under Eyes of Experts
By HANK SLAMIN , "Scholastic" Sports Writer
In the boxing room of the old fieldhouse among the punching bags and the smack of leather-shrouded fists, Sergeant Joe Santos and Chief Bob “Robbie” Rob. ertson hold sway every afternoon tutoring their many pugilistic charges for the Bengal Bouts, the University Boxing championships.
Both the sergeant and the chief are modest fellows, too modest perhaps, and it. is with great reluctance that they’ll say anything about themselves, they would rather praise the boxers whom they are exposing to able fisticuff ma. neuvers.
Robbie stations himself by the heavy punching bags, not parting with any of his own energy, but showing a boy how to throw his left and where to hold his right. Ask Robbie about himself and that’s where you wind-up, your interview with him has terminated. Not being able to hide his All-American football rating at Southern California in ’42, he veils his boxing endeavors with a minimum of conversation. But as rumor has it, Robbie knows how to throw a bit of leather around, his talent speaks for itself where a little ring experience is concerned. .
Little Joe
Robertson says he is just Joe Santos’ assistant and Joe’s the man to see about the fight game. Sergeant Santos was equally hard to crack, but a New England accent will always soften him up. An easterner, with a nameless eastern accent, is a wise man inside the square circle.
. East coast fight fans recall a welterweight, stocky-build, with quite a victory string by the-name of Billy Marshall. About two years ago, Billy Marshall joined the United States Marine Corps . after four- years in the professional fight field with countless victories to his credit as tallied against a meager four defeats. Only one loss a year is quite an impressive. average.	.
. This . same . Billy Marshall came to . - Notre Dame last July with the marine . unit as Sergeant Joseph.. Santos, the masked-marvel typically haying been removed and the- true moniker affixed
'.'thereof.; Sergeant , Santos likes the crop * .-of boxers lined, up-for this, year’s show and is particularly pleased .with the novices who. started from scratch but - ; now-are rounding into topnotchers ready . for the tournament. Regardless of the \ . . final results, .the. instruction in the fun: damentals is all wrapped up in a couple f of guys named Robertson and Santos.
> Entire Campus Represented in Bengal Bouts;
i Contestants Nearing Peak of Training
The forthcoming Bengal Bouts has attracted the attention of a well represented cross-section of the campus body. Each group is out to win pugilistic fame for itself, and it looks like it’s going to be a tough fame to acquire.
The NROTC’s Mike Cutt, runner-up in the 175 pound division of last year’s Bengal Bouts is back again doing some light leather-pushing while undergoing more intensive conditioning drills to get his physical being in shape for the campus tourney. Mike will again tip the scales at the 175 mark and along with Leo Ouilette, a newcomer to the pugilistic ranks from Berln, N. EL, constitute-the Naval ROTC’s bid for campus boxing superiority. Both lads have been making nightly trots around the twin lakes in an effort to get their wind and legs in lasting condition. Cutt is a product of Tonawanda, N. Y. where he was a foremost attribute of the fisticuff game while attending Kibler high.
Bill Roemer, a middleweight who has seen action in former Golden Gloves tourneys, is another aspirant for the ring limelight when the all important University championships are staged in their preliminary capacity next week.
Several Marines are out to uphold the tradition of the Corps. They have been working under the direction of Sgt. Joe Santos, who was somewhat of a boxer in his own right before enlisting in the corps. None of the Leathernecks have had any previous experience in the ring.
The biggest Marine in the tourney is Dale Venning, at least from the standpoint of size. Dale tips the scales at 202 pounds and stands six-one. He is in more for the experience than anything else since he wants to be in shape when he leaves for Parris Island “or possibly San Diego” in July.
Robert “Red” Blair is another Marine who is out for the bouts. He plans to fight in the 155 weight group. He gives as his reason for entering the squared circle the tradition of his father who was a pugilist at one time. From him Red obtained the desire to fight and this is his first opportunity to climb through the ropes.	.	-
In the 165 group the Marines will be represented by Dick Uphoff. He is out to gain experience and get, in shape. Harold Van Asselt is in the 190 class and . Pete Wallace, is boxing in the. 150. pound division.	.	...
One of the favorites in the tournament was Lou Twardzik who previously at-, tended Notre Dame and had experience in the bouts. He was forced to withdraw.
as the result of a knee injury sustained while working out in preparation for his competition in the matches.
Also in the 160 division is Bob Tracy. Bob has had no experience in the ring as this is his first try at the “game.”
In even larger numbers than the Fighting Marines come the V-12 Navy men, the entries, in all classes total approximately 30 men. Some of them have been boxing with the fleet; some are novices in the ring. But all have been working out daily under the supervision of instructors.
Among those who stand ovt prominently in the daily drills is Jim Masterson, formerly of the fleet, who boxes even better than he sings. Dick Stasiewicz, who recently won a wrestling crown, has now turned his attention to fisticuffs, and will be heard of very likely. McIntyre is reported to be good and fast. Green, Kon-tras and Harrington are. rounding into shape, while Doody is centering his attention on the fact that he must lose weight in order to make his class. Frank Amato appears as a hard worker. John Murphy, veteran Bengal fighter, will again startle the crowd with his slashing fists.	.
Among the group will be several football men who may possibly find the ring somewhat more hazardous than the gridiron. Gerry Ford hopes to survive the treacherous prelims. Frank Roberts will undoubtedly see the finals, as will. Jim Leahy who is small, fast, and clever.
Others prominent in workouts to date are: Bob Tracey, Jim Meadows, Cotton and Smith.
And so.the stage is set; it promises to be the “fightingest” tournament the boys have seen. Preliminaries will be held on Wednesday, April 12.
Indiana Weather Keeps
Baseball Squad Indoors
By JOE MUHNANE "Scholastic" Baseball Writer
“.... the worst baseball weather Notre Dame has witnessed in years. The boys are itching to get outside and show their ability under game conditions,” mumbled . Coach Jake Kline.'With the exception of one day, every practice has been held inside. Old Man Weather has even forced the team, despite pressing time elements,; to hold batting rehearsals within the portals of the fieldhouse.	,
It made a queer sight to see grounders ' bound as high. as the arched rafters - as a result of the; hard-packed mud -floor and smash hits bounce off .balcony seats
back into the infield. Despite these difficulties, the team is gradually taking shape. Ken Manarik has shown plenty of fieldind ability at the hot corner and his potency-with the club shows great promise. Dependable Tom Sheehan has scin- ; tillated at the catcher’s spot, both in hitting and as a defensive backstop.
Klein Doing Well
Hudson Heeley is capably developing as a .^conscientious substitute at the receiver’s spot. Walloping Bob Klein is up to his usual par in pounding the pellet . as well as afield at the shortstop spot. The second sack is still wide-open although Dick Blabreiz has an edge in the fielding department over veteran Tom . Carlin.	.
First base is being contested between Carl Marshall and Phil Reither. Marshall excells on the dirt corner but Reither has proved a powerful hitter. Both of these positions will be determined by the reactions of the men under actual game conditions.
In the garden, Coach Kline can alternate a left-handed batting combination consisting of Len Scarpelli, Jack Mayo and Frank Gilhooley when right-handed, -flingers are toeing the mound. When a southpaw takes to the rubber, there is Jim Flanagan, Joe La John and Whit- . tingham to contend with as right-handed swingers. Mayo and Scarpelli, returning . diamond men of a past season, will be hard to dislodge from two of the outfield ' posts.
Schedule Announced
The first two games will be with an aggressive, experienced Indiana aggregation on Saturday, April 15, in a "double-header at Bloomington. “Lefty” Spence, who last year. held a strong Great Lakes contingent to three hits, will -be scheduled, to tantalize the Irish battery of hitters.
The remaining games have been sched-. uled tentatively:	s .
April. 21-22—Wisconsin at. Madison'	‘
April 28-29—Michigan at Ann. Arbor -	'	.-	,
May 6—Purdue at Lafayette May 7—Freeman Field (site in question) ' ’ May 12-13—Western Michigan here	' -	.
May 14—Bunker Hill Naval Station there ■ . .V May 20—Iowa Pre-Flight at Iowa City (two) .	~
May 27—Western Michigan at Kalamazoo (two) -June -2-3—Michigan at Notre Dame . - -	~
June 4—Freeman Field here	’	" ' ;
June 10—Northwestern at Evanston (two) ■ r '	•
June 11—Great Lakes at-Great Lakes - .' ‘	■/ ■. •/S ’,
. June 17—Purdue here	-
June 18—Great Lakes here	;C;-
Hear Prof in Lecture /
Au appreciative audience gathered..	.
at the Aquinas Library and Book. Shop, ; East La Salle avenue, in South Bend,. ; J last Tuesday night to hear another in f a series of lectures by Francis J. O’Mal- : =
, ley, associate professor of English- Prof. O?Malley spoke on “Problems of the ’ Modern Catholic Novelist.” .	;. __	, 5. F
PteAAhnaSpJ&tieAA
By JIM FENNELLY	:
Spring in the air. . . . Romance and things . . . and the Bengal bouts. . . -Each year at this time every Notre Dame man becomes a potential world’s champion, bull sessions are full of "right crosses,” “left hooks,” “counter punches” — a surprising number of men start taking daily laps around St. Joseph’s lake, and the old gym resounds with the thud of the punching bag. . . . Plenty of talent around too. . . . Jack McGrath, transfer student from Loyola University of Chicago, promises to give Bob Lee plenty of trouble in the 145 lb. class. . . . Though his regular class is 135 lbs., Jack would rather enter the heavier division than have to train down to 135 and possibly overdo it. . . . He was Wisconsin 126 lb. Golden Glove champion for two years, 1940-41, and then fought for Loyola Academy where he piled up an enviable record, winning 26 fights and not dropping a single encounter. . . . He reigned as 135 lb. champion for two years, 1942-43, in the city of Chicago Loyola bouts, meeting all comers. . . . Jack Allen, civilian pre-med student, was quarter-finalist in the 1941 Golden Gloves, and only a wrist injury kept him from making a better showing. ... In the Purdue Relays the little noticed performance of Bob “Ace” Purcell is worthy of mention. . . . Running third on the mile relay team, Ace turned in a :49.8 quarter in his turn with the baton, coming up from sixth place to only a step behind the second place runner. . . . This was his fastest time for the quarter and, incidentally, the fastest time turned in all season by any Notre Dame trackman. ... A big Blow to the “Utes” of Utah University for their 54-36 wn over the “Redmen” of St. John’s University last week in New York’s Madison Square Garden. . . . After having dropped only three games all season, and those to the Harlem Globe Trotters, one of the top ranking professional ball clubs in the world, they were eliminated'. from the National Invitation tournament in their first game against Kentucky University. . . . They then found an opening in the N.C.A.A. tournament, . the winner of which was to play the In- ; vitational Champion for a mythical National championship. . .. . Their “rags to riches”- story is now court history, of -how:,they beat Dartmouth University, ' 42-40, in the N.C.A.A. finals, and then. • successfully corralled the “Redmen,” the winner of the Invitation Tournament. . . \ Earl Walsh, who succeeded-Jim.
-10	~ ■ . ' .	- .	. . ■ .
Crowley as head coach of football at Fordham University, and held that position until wartime restrictions forced the school to drop the sport, has been appointed football mentor at Mt. Carmel High School of Chicago. . . . Walsh is a former Irish athlete who played under the late Knute Rockne in 1920-21, winning monograms both seasons. . . • Herb Coleman, first string center on last season’s football squad, visited the campus last week. . . . Herb, who recently was rejected by the naval air corps, intends to return to school next semester. . . . His understudy on the same team, Frank Szymanski, who is now in Naval Pilot training, has moved to Nevada U-for advanced training. . . . The annual grid game between Northwestern University and Ohio State will not be played this fall for the first time in 16 years to allow both schools to schedule Great Lakes. . . . Their first contest was played in 1913. . . . Charley “Butch” Kelley, electrical engineer of the class of ’43, who was inducted into the navy after graduation, won the heavyweight wrestling championship of Camp Hill, Farragut, Idaho. . . . Charley is the brother of Joe Kelley, junior resident of St. Ed’s hall. . . . According to Fritz Crisler of Michigan, the Wolverines will have to play two schedules this coming fall. . . . One team will play throughout spring training and up until Oct. 28, when most of them will be transferred.
. . . The incoming boys will then take over and finish the schedule. ...	,
The Great Lakes Naval Training Station opens its baseball season, April 23, against the University of Michigan. . . .. Si Johnson, veteran member of the Philadelphia Phillies, is expected to be in the “Lakes” lineup. ... Lt. (j.g.) “Ike” Kepford, who saw plenty of action against the Blue and Gold while playing football for Northwestern University, is still throwing blocks,. but this time in a more deadly game, which is being played in the South Pacific. He is ' the current leading ace in that area, being credited with 16 planes. . . . An . army plan of international service, games to heal the scars of war is underway. ... These postwar Olympics .are to start on the spot, as scon as the war is over, and a careful list of all track champions is being kept. . . ; The list includes:.Barney Ewell, Penn State and Eulice Peacock, Temple; Hurdles: Thomas Todd, Virginia; 440 yd.-, dash: Charles Beetham, Ohio State; Mile: -■ Leslie MacMitchell and .Frank .Dixon, ' New York.University; Half mile;: Joe ; - Nowicki, Fordham; Two miler , Greg 5 Rice and Ollie Hunter, Notre. Dame; Pole. vault: Cornelius Warmerdam, San . Jose State College; Broad Jump: Ewell, Peacock and Ed Gordan, Iowa; Weights:
Al Blozis, Georgetown. All these men will be eligible for the competition. . . . Gil Dodds, • Bible packing miler from Boston, was voted the outstanding athlete of the indoor season by the New York City Track Writers Association. ... At their recent annual meeting, the National Basketball Committee on rules made some important changes, chief among which was one designed to keep very tall players from having too much advantage over their smaller opponents. ... It stated in effect that defensive players were prohibited from touching the ball once it started its downward flight in a shot for the goal. . . . Other changes of importance (1) raising from four to five the number of personal fouls a player may commit before being disqualified from the game. (2) Permitting the players unlimited re-entrance into the game, instead of just the two formerly allowed. (3) Permitting officials to suspend play immediately in case of an injury to a player. ... Steve Juzwik has been assigned to Northwestern University as a chief specialist in charge of boxing. ...
❖ MEET THE CHIEF ❖
By SEAMAN TOM PAYNE
Chief Specialists, (A), George Wilson. Norris, Navy Athletic Instructor at Notre Dame, started his career at Grinnell, Iowa, on November- 11, 1914. Chief Norris attended Grinnell High School and graduated in 1933. While in high school, he was captain of the football squad and member of the basketball and baseball teams. He received his letter in all three sports. In 1933-34 Chief Norris went to Iowa University football team. He excelled in passing - while on the football squad. After two years at Iowa University, the Chief was awarded a. scholarship to Parsons College; at Fairfield, Iowa, where he graduated in '1937. Due to his performance in football at Parsons College, he was named the All - Conference halfback. The Chief received his letter in football at Parsons College. .
For the next five years the Chief was ; active : in coaching athletics, having piloted teams in football, basketball and . baseball. His last position as coach was held at Cedar Falls, Iowa, High School. After his coaching experience, Chief Norris did" advanced work toward the . attainment of a Master’s Degree in Vocational Education at Colorado State . College, Fort Collins, Colo. Prior to his • . ■ (Continued on page 13)	. .
...	?
BY JIM REGAN	!
With mounting interest in the Bengal bouts the Scholastic is introducing this week a few of last year’s finalists who will compete again this year.
FRANK DEBITETTO
One of the favorites to win the 135 pound class this year is Frank Debitet-to, Navy V-12 trainee from Brooklyn, N. Y. . . -. Frank is heavily regarded because of the fine showing he made last year in capturing the 127 pound division. . . . With a little added weight, Frank is expected to put up a real fight for another title. . . .
Frank entered Notre Dame in the fall of 1942 as a civilian student in the College of Commerce. . . . When he was accepted by the Navy he was assigned here as V-12er, and he is now in the first semester of his junior year. . . . He was graduated from Abraham Lincoln High School, Brooklyn, where he participated in track and baseball. . . . He was also one of the outstanding members of the Abe Lincoln Athletic Club. . . .
In his freshman year here he tried out for the quarter mile on the track team but due to his heavy academic schedule he no longer is competing. . . . He entered the handball tournament last semester and surprised his buddy, George Terlep, as well as everybody else, when he captured the event. . . . His brother John, of the class of ’41, was also a Bengal boxer, and although he reached the finals, was unable to capture a championship. . . 1
Frank’s favorite athletes, are Greg Bice and Ollie Hunter, both former outstanding trackmen at Notre Dame. . . . In baseball the Yankees are his choice — don’t get excited, Brooklynites — I mean in the American League. ... It goes without saying that the team in every Brooklyn heart is the Dodgers. . . .
He has a varied list of hobbies and activities including dancing, singing, drinking cokes, meeting people and sleeping till 6:30 in the morning. . . . At the dinner table he really digs in when he has a nice juicy steak and ravioli. . . .
After the war Frank plans to become a real estate agent. . . . All we can say is that all prospective buyers of the Brooklyn Bridge better look out when Frank’s around. . . .
MIKE CUTT
Runner up in last year’s 175 pound division, Mike-Cutt, N.R.O.T.C. of Tonawanda, N. Y., is hoping to garner first place laurels this year in the same event.
Mike entered Notre Dame as a civilian student upon graduation from Kibler High School in September 1942, and he is now in his fifth semester here in the College of Arts and Letters. ... In high school he took part in football, swimming and track. Also at Kibler he had varied interests, being a class officer two years, member of the Science club, Monogram club, and Boxing club. At the Irish institution he has limited himself to freshman track, and the Bengal bouts of last year. . . . The remainder of his time is well-spent “hitting the books,” plus sleeping and social activities. . . .
Among his best ways to put in leave is down at the USO — he says that it helps make the leave seem longer. . . . His favoi-ite pastime is reading — it used to be reading short stories until his English teacher started assigning the class to read them — now it’s reading the novel. ... His best-liked meal must include steak — but he will settle for roast beef for the duration. . . .
Mike’s favorite class is sociology —
Have a Coca-Cola=Kia Ora
(GOOD LUCK)
,.. or sealing friendships in New Zealand
Kia ora, says the New Zealander to wish you well. Have a "Coke" is the way the Yank says it and he’s made a friend. It says Welcome neighbor from Auckland to Albuquerque. 'Round the globe, Coca-Cola stands for the pause that refreshes,— has become the high-sign between friendly-minded people. So, of course, Coca-Cola belongs in your icebox at home.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
It’snaturalforpopular names to acquire friendly abbreviations. That’s why you hear Coca-Cola called “Coke”,
•the global
11
at least it is so far. . . . His favorite orchestra is Tommy Dorsey’s, while “Bert” Bertelli of Notre Dame fame via West Springfield, Mass., is his best-liked athlete. . . . After the war Mike hopes to become a lawyer. .'. . He should be able to do pretty well where courtroom tactics are concerned in view of his capable pugilistic manuevers. . . .
JOHN MURPHY
John Murphy, who substituted in last year’s finals of the Bengal Bouts, hopes really to gain the finals and the championship this year in the 145 pound class. . . . “Murph” is a V-12 student from Mt. Clemens, Mich., where he played baseball and fcotball at St. Mary’s High School before enrolling here in the fall of ’42. . . .
Jack is a pre-med student and he hopes to become a doctor in a small town. He also hopes first to gain invaluable experience with the Navy Medical Corps. . . .
Murph has an unusual hobby and gets a particular delight in dissecting cats. . . . He also likes trying to understand people when he first meets them. . . . Murph is another boy who really goes for a big steak dinner — (who doesn’t nowadays) — he likes his smothered in mushrooms. . . .
John has a brother who was the second best guard (that’s what he told John) on the 1939 St. Mary’s football team. . . . John admires Bob Dove over all other athletes, for, as John says, “he has a smile for everybody. . . .”
Murph gained two fine distinctions while in high school — one was being elected president of his senior class —-the other was being the only male violinist in an orchestra with seven little girls. ... (I bet he was the envy of all the rest of the boys in the school.)
Armstrong Busy With
Plans for Universal Nite
Plans for the annual observance of Universal Notre Dame night, to be held this year on April 17, are progressing rapidly, it was announced today by James E. Armstrong, executive secretary of the National Alumni Association. Indications are that this year’s gatherings will exceed in enthusiasm and plans those of other years in spite of war time -conditions. Many of the Notre Dame men overseas have indicated that they will make every attempt to get together for the evening, their military assignments permitting.	;	.
First started in 1924, these annual occasions have progressed to the.point, where Notre Dame men all over the world gather together to pay tribute to their alma mater. This year New York . City has been designated as the key city and an impressive ceremony will take
place there. Other groups planning large meetings are those of the St. Joseph Valley club in South Bend; and Chicago, Detroit, Philadelphia, and Cleveland alumni clubs.
If Can Happen Here!
Two more members of the Notre Dame faculty have recently entered the armed forces of the United States.	’
Prof. Guy McMichael, jr., of the College of Commerce, instructor in all sections of business law, has accepted a commission as lieutenant (jg) in the naval reserve and last week Edward Tomcik, instructor in the strength and materials laboratory, left for the army. Tomcik graduated from Notre Dame in June, 1941. He received his M.A. degree in August, 1942.—Charles F. Russ, jr.
“Turn up shirt collars before washing them ...”
This fella has the right idea—it’s just his technique that’s a little sour. Shirt collars will last much longer if they are turned up before being sent to the laundry, for then the crease around the top doesn’t get such heavy rubbing and consequently lasts longer before fraying.	.
Another fine point to remember—when you need new shirts, whether military or civilian, buy Arrow. They live up to their fine reputation for lasting wear and perfect fit. Don’t forget the Sanforized label, which guarantees fabric shrinkage less than 1%.
SHIRTS ‘TIES • HANDKERCHIEFS • UNDERWEAR • SPORT SHIRTS ★ BUY war bonds and stamps -fc
I	-	I
Specializing in the ex- । amination of the eyes. (
I
I
Dr. E. J. Cain	'
OPTOMETRIST	’
I
•	I
.	I
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair | service in our own laboratory. (
I
212 S. Michigan St. j
Phone 4-8251	(
‘	I
12
MEET THE CHIEF (Continued from page 10) entrance in the Armed Forces, he was head of the Industrial Arts Department and Supervisor of the National Defense Class at Fairfield, Iowa.
November 2, 1942, was the day the Chief enlisted in the Navy. For his first assignment he was sent to the Naval Training Station, Norfolk, Va., where he took Physical Instructor training. After his training at Norfolk, he was hastily embarked to the Naval Air Station, Jacksonville, Fla. From there he was transferred to the Naval Air Gunnery School at Yellowater, Fla., and he was put in charge of the entire swimming program there. Then followed a refresher course in Physical Training at Bainbridge, Md., in June, 1943, prior to his entry as Physical Instructor in the newly inaugurated V-12 Program. Coming to the University of Notre Dame in the latter part of June, 1943, the Chief remained for four months, until he was transferred for temporary duty in October to Norfolk, Va., in connection with the Pre-Midshipman School there. While Chief Norris was stationed at Norfolk, his commission as Ensign, D-V(S), came through, but since the Chief had filed a previous request for a commission as an Athletic Officer he declined the commission.
Since coming to Notre Dame in January, 1944, the Chief has been active in the Physical Education Department, having instructed athletes in its various forms.
Chief Norris was married May 22, 1938, to a co-ed from his Alma Mater, Parsons College. They have a son, Richard Lloyd, age 4.
EDITORIAL
(Continued from page 2) put up when roommates are transferred to V-6. These and infinite other little things go together to produce an esprit de corps that is necessary for the V-12’s success.
Some people may think that this attitude of enthusiasm and devotion has not been reached. It has, however; for screened behind a trainee’s levity is a mellow feeling toward the other fellows with whom classes, bull-sessions, “spreads,” and .drills are shared. The jolly “slap on the back” attitude is a good front for hard work and disappointments. The trainee’s sense of humor — raucous and ribald at times — still pays homage to the ideals of America and the needs of war, a country and a war in which there is a place for everyone.—Edivard H. Madden.
"Community” public telephones—some even in outside booth locations—are serving residents in war-born neighborhoods.
Many such telephones handle several hundred calls every month. It’s a way more persons can use the available facilities, limited now by wartime material shortages.
The nation-wide resources ,of the Bell System are enlisted in maintaining dependable communication services—vital in war, essential in peace.
War calls keep Long Distance lines busy ... That’s why your call may be delayed.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
13
THE EASTER PARADE
From Utah State’s mighty publication, Student Life, comes the following bit of news: Richard Romney, director of athletics at the Aggie school, has signed coach Fi'ank Leahy as director of the 18th annual summer school for coaches. It will be conducted on the Logan campus June 5 to 9, inclusive. During the past 17 years Romney has brought such sports luminaries as Knute Rockne, Pop Warner, Benny Bierman and many others.
IN YOUR EASTER BONNET..........
Moe, they tell me, was slightly under the influence and was bothering the bookies at the track trying to get bets on "Dead End.” The first bookie told him that the odds against "Dead End” were 10-1, but that he would take the bet. The gent placed $100 and went looking for another bookie. The same procedure was followed four times, with each bookie giving the gent the laugh and explaining that “Dead End” didn’t stand a chance. Moe went to the fifth bookie, asked the odds on “Dead End,” and said, “Give me a • hundred bucks worth.”
“Look, fellow, ‘Dead End’ hasn’t got a chance. But, I’m going to take your money just to teach you a lesson.”
The gent placed the bet and upped the ante to $500.
“Now,” said the bookie, “just to show you that ‘Dead End’ hasn’t a chance, I’m going to tell you that I own ‘Dead End.’ ”
“It’s going to be a slow race, then,” said the gent. “I own the other four in the field.”	.
WITH ALL THE FRILLS UPON IT....
From Akron University there are-reports of a new detective agency on the campus. This unique service has the title of Pollitanchykabicows and Smith. Here is one of the many services rendered by the agency, according to their stu- . dent publication:	;
Case No. 300001: X, whose grandmother was found with a hatchet buried in her back, entreated: “Poll—(too darn long) and Smith, ‘What can I do?’ ” “Rinse off the blood in cold water; polish
14
it with a chamois cloth and your hatchet will be as good as new,” was the answer.—Scene shifts. . . .
ON THE AVENUE....
“Lonely Marines, Attracted by Look Magazine Story Wish To Strike Up Correspondence,” reads a caption from a recent copy of The Indiana Daily Student. The following letter was received at the Dean of Women’s office:
“To three girls at Indiana U.: Looking through Look magazine the other day we came across an article on Indiana University and seeing that it was co-ed we decided to write in order to strike up a familiar acquaintance with three of you girls. We’re three “lonely” marines at Jacksonville N.A.S., and we sure would appreciate some mail from you. Our names are: Ed Kenedy, Angelo Petrillo and James Shearin, and we’re all from New York City. Hoping to hear’ from you soon. Three lonely marines waiting to hear from the girls of their dreams, Ed, Jim, Andy.” Just in case any other lonely little girl reads this, here’s the address: U.S.M.C.; Class R34, Tr. Sq. 1, Bks. 58; Marine Aviation Detach., N.A.T.T.C., Jacksonville, Fla.
THE PHOTOGRAPHERS WILL SNAP US
A recent survey of rejected draftees discloses that: the highest incidence of bad teeth occurs in New England, heart trouble in the Northwest, goiters in the Great Lakes’ area, blindness in Texas, mental disorders in Maine, Virginia, the Carolinas, Tennessee and Mississippi; alcoholism and drug addiction in the Gulf states and the Southeast; deafness in the Northwest and New England; lower weights on east and west coasts.
I COULD WRITE A SONNET
It seems that the cafeteria at Northwestern University is rather crowded. The Daily Northwestern reports the students eat so close together that they very often eat out of each other’s plate. It is further stated that the early comers eat and then settle down to games of . bridge on the cafeteria tables, while others stand outside and eat plaster off the walls. It was discovered that one rather thin-looking fellow had been standing in line five days.
Glasses Correctly Fitted
Est.
1900
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mig. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
Eh
..S
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE
at
South Bend’s Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of
Desirable Gifts
on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
0.
...'B
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Blds.
South Bend, Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building
Phone 8-2674
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
. GENERAL DENTISTRY X-Rays and Consultation
. Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws
Tel. -4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bldg., South Bend, Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254	-	South Bend, Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
'	’ 826 Sherland Building .
L. E. Fisher, M.D.	M. J. Thornton, M.D.
I
"	THE PERISCOPE
, (Continued from page 6)
DINNER FOR NONE
It seems there was a dinner party scheduled for a week ago Saturday. (At least that is what the noon muster sheet said). Now it also seems that four Mai rines reported at 13C0 on this fateful day and gleefully tripped to the appointed place, where they were sadly informed the dinner was scheduled for Sunday. These short-sighted fellows refused to go to the dinner Sunday, so poor James Beeson had to go alone. To make the affair complete, Mr. Beeson was in such a hurry to satisfy his enormous appetite, that he failed to procure ' the proper address; he went to 526 S. Phillipa St., instead of 536, where the feast was being served. Too bad, so sad, no chow.
BENGAL BOUTS *
All Seamen who can possibly make it - should attend the coming Bengal Bouts. The furious action alone should pack the show, but with some of our own boys in there throwing leather for the Navy, the place should really be a sailor’s holiday. Two Navy champs from last year’s spectacle are back again: Bobby Lse and Frank Debitteto._
To the lonely four of our brothers in green who are upholding all of that mighty breeze emitting from Cavanaugh and Zahm these past semesters, we give our sincere wish for good luck.
But no matter who comes out still standing, whether Navy, Marine, or even a civilian, you can bet your last pay check-the guy went through plenty of trouble to win. It’s going to be rough and exciting all the way; the preliminaries start the 11th. See you there!
SNOWMAN *
We don’t know the persons responsible for the construction of the snowmen, but they did a “Hollywood Job.” (Stupendous, colossal, magical, tragical). But, in the words of a prominent individual: “When I first saw them, I could not figure out whether it represented an ex V-5, a Chief, a naval officer, or Marshall Stalin.”
UNQUOTABLE QUOTES
Ever hear of the salty sailor who filled the gym with water when the coach told him he could be a sub?
Or, perhaps, the Marine who thought a mushroom was a place to neck.
Or maybe the Chief, who put crackers in his shoes to feed his pigeons so they wouldn’t bother his corns . . . speaking of corns reminds us where we came in; don’t forget the Bouts.
HOLD THAT HAIRLINEI1
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. . . TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS Sl.OO.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP

M M M M
M M M H M M M M M M
M
H M M
8 K
H
M M a
..B
APPROPRIATE GIFTS
for all occasions
BLOCK BROS.
CORNER MICHIGAN Ims WASHINGTON
JOSIE and JIM'S
fUNNY ITALY
NOTHING CAN TAKE ITS
SUNNY ITALY 601 N. NILES PHONE 3-0678
A TRADITION AT NOTRE
CALL
PLACE
DAME
SERVICE MEN: Make This Your First Stop on That Night Off!
From Down-Town South Bend to Down-Town Chicago
There is -always a South Shore train to or from Chicago. Hourly service each way. For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
5OU[hnsehoRE
M M M M M
M M M M M M M M M
M
M M
M
M
M
15
•jp32Srf«'fa4£(JSr
CHESTERFIELD
NOT A SLOGAN -BUT A FACT


' WHEN THEY GET CHESTERFIELDS
On fighting fronts the world around and'from smokers all over America you hear... Chesterfields are Milder, they sure Taste Better. Yes, join the big swing to Chesterfield and make the most of your Smoking Pleasure.
Its Chesterfield’s Right Combination of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos that makes the difference.
MORE
Copyright 1944, Liggett & Myees Tobacco Co.