FINE EASTER GIFTS FROM THE CAMPUS
®bree ^ook£>
o
HOLDING UP THE HILLS—the Biography of an Iowa Town— Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C. This fine book has been widely reviewed and acclaimed.
LESSONS IN LIBERTY—A Study of God in Government—Dr. Clarence Manion. Truly a timely addition to any library.
THUNDER FROM THE LEFT—A scholarly study of Marxism— Rev. Dr. John A. O'Brien. Just off the press and bound to appeal to the intelligent Americans who are interested in knowing what is going on around them.
Also—Subscription to SCHOLASTIC and SCRIP„..$3.00 per yr. 26 issues of SCHOLASTIC and the four issues of the literary quarterly, SCRIP.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
COLLEGE PARADE
======= RAYMOND J. KELLY ==
Social Action
In many of our Catholic schools much is said about the working man, his problems and their solution. All aspects of the present set-up under which our working-men live is surveyed, discussed reviewed, and, usually, forgotten. An ethics or distributive justice professor may filibuster, year after year, about the conditions at the Ford plant, for instance, but as long as the students know that the poor devil who sweeps out the class room after the professor has left receives about half the wage of the average Ford employee no one can be excited. The startling facts in the professorial notebook are treated contemptuously. Most students feel that they are mere straw men set up to justify wasting the time spent in such classes.
A group of domestic science students at Mundelein College in Chicago, however, are trying to do something constructively for the low-income worker. Rather than spending time talking about conditions over which they have no control, they are attempting to set out a program by which the man with a small income can give his family the most benefits possible. These girls have outlined budgets for various low-income groups. They have arranged menus which will give the worker and his family the most for their food-dollar. Plans for low-cost homes have been drawn up and the best financing schemes have been set forth. What is more, all this material is made available to the people who can use it for articles, giving the details of these budgets. Menus and other plans have already appeared in the Howard News and other neighborhood newspapers.
National defense training
Daddy Warbucks is building airplanes; Joe Palooka has enlisted; we all need draft cards to get beer. The entire nation is defense minded. Even Harvard is doing its bit, reports the Crimson. A group of what Damon Runyon call “Harvards” have begun to prepare for the coming conflict by developing their marksmanship. Right now they are concentrating on water-guns but the Yard police as well as casual passers-by can bear testimony to the unerring accuracy of a snappy, new six-shot squirt-gun in the hands of a Harvard soph.
Vahines
The latest issue of Ka Leo a Hawaii tells of the beauty contests that are held at the University of Hawaii. These contests are unique in that the promoters, realizing that each race has its own conception of beauty and among the mixed groups in the school it would be impossible to pick one girl who would appeal to everyone’s taste, gives five first prizes. One is awarded to a Chinese girl; one to a Jap, a Korean and a Caucasian, and one, to what they term a “cosmopolitan beauty.”
❖
From St. Louis U.
In the same issue of the University News that gives a fine blow to Notre Dame’s Catholic Action group, appeared the announcement of the publication of a new magazine. It is put out by the students of Spanish and bears the title ‘“La Amapola,” which means “the poppy” if you haven’t been listening to the radio lately. The faculty member who is the power behind the paper insists that “Amapola” or “poppy” is a good name for, as he expressed it, “eet ees read.”
April in Badin bog
Dark facts
The publishers of the Interracial Re-vieiv send a news sheet around the country every month or so. The February issue contained an interesting article by a Catholic Negro, Theophilus Lewis, the dramatic critic for the Review. He pointed out the surprising fact that, though the Negro is naturally religious and is associated in the popular mind with religious movements, actually, almost eight of the 13,000,000 American Negroes do not profess any religion.	.
Scandal and corruption
The Wisconsin Daily Cardinal has been filled with stories about election scandals and the activities of the committee that is probing the unsavory mess. It is the law at Wisconsin that no candidate for any campus office shall spend any money on a campaign. In a recent student board election, some unknown parties tacked up placards urging the election of certain candidates. As McCarty, Concannon, Coleman and the others in the crowd of senior class candidates know, or will find out shortly, placards cost “plenty dinero” as we used to say in freshman Spanish. So, the election board has impounded the ballot boxes and won’t count the votes until the culprits have been punished or thoroughly whitewashed.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE WEEK
' ii—	■ a By GEORGE MILES-"-	J
Whistlers have always held a distinctive place among our list of aversions, and this past week has done nothing to change our feelings. With those fellows who do their song-making in private, and with those who maintain a certain degree of casualness we have no serious complaint, but for that class who are vigorous and completely preoccupied in their whistling, and for those who, during recent days, have been making the welkin ring with martial tunes, we have only contempt and condemnation. As far as we are concerned, they may take their place alongside female bowlers in a region farthest from our utopia.
*
A friend of ours took himself to the Naval group who were accepting applicants for a special air corps training, last week and asked for a physical examination. After he had applied the first few tests, the doctor wrapped up his tools and dismissed the fellow. “Don’t let the draft worry you,” he said, “you’re not even fit to carry a rifle.” Our friend is unable to make up his mind whether to be glad that he will escape the draft, or worried because of his unhealthy condition.
*
Not long ago, we paid a visit to the University art gallaries and overheard these words spoken by the student guide and some Sunday visitors who were examining the tapestries. “Who’s that at the top of the rug?” “St. Januarius.” “Who?” St. Januarius.” “Oh.”
*
At a time when the campus is torn between the pleas of the interventionists and the warnings of the isolationists, when it becomes difficult for a person to go about his usual affairs without having to state his creed and run for shelter, at a time when most men seem to have abandoned calm and intelligent ways, and chaos seems close at hand, we are pleased, we are overjoyed at the return, on the part of some people, to culture as a redemptive means. And with happy heart we shout “Hail to you, William Schwenck Gilbert, and to you, Arthur Seymour Sullivan.”
*
Whatever one may think of the House of Hospitality which has been established in South Bend by several students of the University, one surely cannot complain that the house is unclean. One of the first pieces of equipment that the workers requisitioned was a thing called a de-louser. And they intend to use it.
*
Last week, cards, notifying the seniors of their final class standing were sent out from the office of the Director of Studies. It occurred to us that here was an opportunity ignored or unsuspected by the officials for doing something nice for some of the young men of the University. Why couldn’t the Director of Studies arrange to announce to each student his class position by a personal, unique message? One fellow, for instance, might be informed via an anonymous telephone call; another might find his number painted on his wall (in red or black, depending on its value) when he awoke some morning; still another might learn his standing from the pre-arranged figures in noodle soup. There are difficulties, of course. Just imagine trying to put 574 candles on a layer cake.
*
Of all the bachelor theses being produced at this time, the most romantic, and the one with the nicest sounding name is that being completed by two medical students. It’s title is something like this: “The Effect of Strychnine on the Contractile Vacuole Pulsation of the Paramecium Caudatum.” The biggest job has been to locate enough paramecium who are willing to eat strychnine. There are not many.
*
We offer this next report with humility and a shame for our own ignorance. A three year old daughter of one of the University professors approached him recently and made a confession. “Daddy,” she said, “I don’t like Pushkin.” Pushkin, we might add, is not a cat; nor is it the little boy next door.
*
Now would be the right time to have a black eye. That is, if anyone would want to have a black eye. There are so many pink-eye victims, and so many fellows wearing dark glasses, that a black eye would pass as unnoticed as an architecture student.
NEW DEAL IN NEWS By Fitzpatrick & Maguire
New York, N. Y., April 2—When asked in an interview here today what he thought of the modern trends in journalism, Jeremiah “Baldy” O’Roark, famous blind baseball umpire, replied, “I really don’t think my opinion will be worth much. Since becoming blind I have been unable to read, so all I know is what I smell in the New Deal in News and that’s not sweet.”
South Bend, Ind., March 31—Young Tom Pilgrim, Hollis, N. Y., inventor and widely known physicist, successfully tested his new vest pocket parachute here today by jumping from D. G. Sullivan’s second hand Spitfire at 16,000 feet. The parachute, which is made from two bedsheets (N.D. ’38 models), will allow a man to descend from any altitude in only a fraction of the time consumed by all present types.
Off the Coast of Norway, April 1— (Special from Frederic B. Slurp, Sleepy Eye correspondent of the London Times.) I picked up the trail of Joe the Sandwich Man yesterday 300 miles north of Ireland. He had been forced to bring his cake of ice into the British Naval base at Scappa Flow for extensive repairs after last week’s storm and while there he had two gas tanks installed. At present he is selling gas to German submarines and destroyers in the North Sea. He is able to undersell the German government because he pays no defense tax.
Notre Dame, Ind., April 2—Samuel Nield, captain of the Notre Dame golf team, after playing his first 18 holes of the season today expressed confidence that he will be in shape when the season rolls around. In an interview he said, “The 61 I shot today should not be considered a fair test of my skill since I only used two clubs and the greens are still rough.”
Notre Dame, Dining Hall, April 3— Joe Daly, Notre Dame freshman who lost a tooth last Monday eating a steak here, got the tooth back this morning in a meat ball The tooth was only slightly worn.
The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as aecond-claas matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Volume 74
APRIL 4, 1941
Number 21
'The Gondoliers" Met Enthusiastically By Large Notre Dame Theatre Audience
Robert Bischoff Featured in Operetta
After two nights of reproducing a part of 18th century Italy on the Washington Hall stage, a fine cast of Venetian characters known as the Notre Dame Savoyards will again don powdered wigs and gondolier costumes this evening. At 8:15 o’clock, Professor Cecil Birder’s cast and chorus of 35 members conclude the local three-night presentation of the Gilbert and Sullivan’s light opera, “The Gondoliers,” the first theatre performance of this type given at the University in over five years.
The motive behind the decision of the University Theatre group to stage an operetta has been to determine whether there exists in the student body a desire to see and hear musical drama. As Director Birder observed: “It is a stepping stone which may easily lead to higher things, and yet which makes the stepping a pleasant process both from a dramatic and a musical standpoint.”
Playing the important roles of the gondoliers in tonight’s production are Robert Bischoff and Anthony Donadio, expertly supported by veterans of Washington Hall drama, Jack White, James Inwood, James F. Purcell, William Madden, John Drayna, Jerome Heinlen, and Henry Kane.
Briefly related, the story behind “The Gondoliers” is concerned with the carefree lives of a pair of Venetian gondoliers, and their surprised reaction when told that one of them may be the missing king of Barataria. It is intended to be a satire on the European monarchies of the 18th century, cleverly interwoven with some of Sir Arthur Sullivan’s most tuneful music. The gondoliers, who are simple souls at heart, but who are equipped with practiced eyes for the ladies, are taken from their canal taxis at the end of the first act and transplanted to the splendor of the Baratar-ian court. The lucky pair gets into some romantic and amusing situations during the period in which one of them is sup
posed to be proved the rightful heir to the throne. What little plot exists in the operetta is climaxed in typical Holly-w’oodish Gilbert and Sullivan manner.
Signorine of Venice and the court of Baratdria who figure prominently in the lives of the Venetian boatmen are played by six women from South Bend, most of whom prove their versatility by portraying more than one part. Joan Birder, Agnes Haney, Jean Campbell, Jean Chambers, Mary Frances Kabel, and Catherine Landon are the very fine feminine lead players and vocalists in “The Gondoliers.”
Providing the orchestral background for all lyrics in the operetta is a group of about 35 musicians recruited from the ranks of the Notre Dame symphony; a c chorus of 15 men forms the background to the lead vocal parts. The entire production, from the “pit” band to the lead players on stage, is directed and controlled throughout by Mr. Birder — a total of over 70 participants under his baton.—John Casey
Confraternity Chairmen — Tom Carty, Ellen Graham, Robert Nenno, Laura Froniny, Walter Brennan, Kay Kroth, Louis Kurtz, and Justine Apfeld
St. Mary's is Scene of Third Confraternity
Last year over 200 Notre Dame men walked the “short-mile” to St. Mary’s College to participate in the Conference of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine. They went with motives both social and spiritual, but all left with some of the spirit of the Confraternity. Principal means for exchange of ideas were the student discussion groups. Some of these groups were big successes, but others failed for lack of organization.
The third annual- college - sponsored Conference of the Confraternity will be held at St. Mary’s on April 25, 26, and 27. There will be an abundance of leaders for this year’s ' discussion groups. For the past four Sundays a number of-Notre Dame fellows and St. Mary’s girls have been meeting in practice discussion groups at St. Mary’s in preparation for taking the lead in groups at the Confraternity. Varied subjects have been used in practice sessions: the first was appropriately, “How to Discuss,” and last Sunday a pamphlet entitled, “What Is Decent Literature?” was analyzed. Notre Dame chairman for the discussion groups is Walter Brennan; Miss Laura Froning is acting in the same capacity at St. Mary’s.
While the discussion group is striving
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
to provide leaders, other committees are hard at work, too. Miss Justine Apfeld, St. Mary’s chairman of the program, has released a tentative program for the meet. Many events have been crammed into the three-day span of the Confraternity to take up the time and interest of the delegates.
Displays, registration, and a discussion club explanation will start the gathering on the afternoon of Friday the 25th. That night at 7:15 one of the “revisors” of the New Testament is scheduled to speak on “The How and Why of the Revision of the New Testament.” Then come three student reports, and finally Father Collins, national director of the Confraternity, has been asked to give a 15-minute talk. Rev. Joseph Hennes, diocesan director of the Confraternity in the diocese of Fort
HOLY WEEK SERVICES
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, 1941
By order of the Provincial. Rev. Leo Gorman, master of ceremonies.
PALM SUNDAY — Students’ Solemn Mass — 8:00 a.m. Rev. J. H. O’Donnell, celebrant; Rev. J. J. Cavanaugh, deacon; Rev. J. L. Carrico, subdeacon.
PASSION —- Rev. Thomas Kelly (Chronista) ; Rev. Henry Bolger (Christus) ; Rev. James Leahy, (Petrus) ; Seminary Choir (Turba).
WEDNESDAY TENEBRAE — 7:30 p.m. LAMENTATIONS -— 1. Chorus; 2. Rev. Joseph Maguire; 3. Rev. Edward Keller; LESSONS — 4. Rev. Matthew Coyle; 5. Rev. Cornelius Laskowski; 6. Rev. John J. Burke; 7. Rev. John O’Neil: 8. Rev. Richard Grimm; 9. Rev. Provincial.
HOLY THURSDAY, Solemn Mass —■ 7:00 a.m. — Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, celebrant; Rev. Kerndt M. Healy, deacon; Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, subdeacon.
MANDATUM — 2:00 p.m. (Ministers same as for Solemn Mass.)
TENEBRAE — 7:30 p.m.; LAMENTATIONS — 1. Chorus; 2. Rev. Paul Beichner; 3. Rev. Thomas Brennan. LESSONS — 4. Rev. Robert King; 5. Rev. Richard Sullivan; 6. Rev. Mark Fitzgerald; 7. Rev. William Craddick: 8. Rev. Charles Mahoney; 9. Rev. Provincial.
GOOD FRIDAY, Solemn Mass of the Presanctified — 8:00 a.m. — Rev. Michael Mathis, celebrant ; Rev. George Marr, deacon; Rev. Henry Glueckert, subdeacon.
PASSION — Rev. Bernard Mullahy (Chronis-. ta) ; Rev. James Trahey (Christus) ; Rev. Charles Carey (Petrus) ; Seminary Choir (Turba).
CHAPTER—2:00 p.m.; STATIONS—3:00 p.m.
TENEBRAE — 7:30 p.m., LAMENTATIONS . — 1.' Chorus; 2. Rev. George Baxter; 3. Rev. John Gallagher. LESSONS — 4. Rev. John Dupuis : 5. Rev. Joseph Fiedler; 6. Rev. John Lynch; 7. Rev. Joseph Kehoe; 8. Rev. John Biger; 9. Rev. Provincial.
HOLY SATURDAY: Services begin at 6:00 a.m. — Mass at 7:30 a.m. — Rev. Philip Moore, celebrant ; Rev. Howard Kenna, deacon; Rev. Richard Murphy, subdeacon; Faschale Praeconium: Exul-tet — Rev. John Gallagher; Prophecies by Seminarians of Moreau Seminary.
Wayne, will be honorary chairman of this session; Miss Justine Apfeld will be chairman. Then, of course, later that night comes the Notre Dame K. of C. Ball.
Saturday morning opens with a Missa Recitata Mass with registration for late • delegates immediately afterward. After tliis demonstration, religion classes for public school children in grades and high school will be conducted by collegestudent teachers.—Robert LeMense
Schoolmen to Present
Philosophy Disputation
For the past five years the Schoolmen, campus undergraduate philosophical society, have been holding an annual pub
Joseph Callahan
lie philosophical disputation. Last year’s formal theme dealt with the freedom of the human will.
The Sixth An-n u a 1 Disputation will be presented in Washington hall at 8 p.m. on Thursday, April 24. The formal theme will
be: “Thomistic Personalism is True Internationalism.” John McCauley, Thomas McGee, Cyril Garvey, George Meltzer, Donald Tiedemann, and Thomas Hirsch-auer will defend the thesis. Four papers will be assigned among these six men; the assignments will be withheld until later so that each man will make a complete study of the entire thesis.
The first paper will be entitled, “What Thomistic Personalism Is Not.” This paper will have three divisions; political, religious, and philosophical. A prominent man will be taken from each field to exemplify non-Thomistic Personalism. The second paper will tell, “What Thomistic Personalism Is.” This paper will show how Thomistic philosophy cannot be divided — its unity will be stressed. The third paper will be concerned with, “What True Internationalism Is Not.” This paper will deal with various political system, totalitarianism, communism, and bourgeois individualism, showing how these systems borrow from false philosophies and thereby fail to recognize the value of the person or human dignity. The fourth paper, of course, will deal with, “What True Internationalism Is.” This will be affected by a synthesis of Thomism as applied to True Internationalism. Joseph Callahan, president of the Schoolmen, will be chairman of the disputation.
Another event on the Schoolmen’s
schedule is a round table discussion with some students from the University of Indiana. This discussion will take place the same week as the disputation. The students will discuss the text from Aristotle’s Politics.—Robert LeMense
McMahon Defends Aid-Britain Policy as Best
This afternoon at 4:15 in the Engineering building auditorium, before an audience of student engineers and guests, Dr. Francis E. McMahon, professor of philosophy, declared that American foreign policy “has crystallized today into a determined effort to give all possible help to those nations struggling against the Axis power... We are not realistic unless we admit this to be the present policy. . . .
“Is this the right policy for America officially to adopt at this time?” Dr. McMahon asked. “I believe it is. My reasons for so believing are as follows: 1) The present war is not merely a war for markets and territories, but it is primarily a war between two concepts of life. The one concept of life is based upon law, justice, and human dignity; the other concept of life is based upon arbitrary will, violence, and human slavery.
“2) The scope of this war is necessarily world-wide. The dictators have promised to try to destroy all the democracies. They are well aware that the world is now too small to exist halfslave and half free, and that one system must perish. They are already active beyond the borders of Europe and Africa with their fifth-colmnists, and await the day that they will be free to turn with full attention their covetous eyes towards the richest spoils on earth — the lands of the Western Hemisphere.
“3) Between the United States and Nazi nihilism now stands one last remaining bulwark — Great Britain and the British Empire. So long as Britain stands we are in no danger from serious attack by the Axis forces. If Britain falls and the Empire disintegrates the United States will have to confront alone these powers of evil.
“49 The choice confronting the United States today is not the simple one of war or peace. The choice is whether we are willing to give the last ounce of our surplus strength in assisting those free men who now stand in the front line of our common struggle, or whether we are going to let these heroic people be destroyed and face the menace alone. It seems that America has now definitely made the former choice. That we have so chosen makes me proud to be an American.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	7
Cahill, Layden's Secretary Promoted to New Post
Robert M. Cahill, ’34, secretary seven years to Elmer Layden, became assistant business manager of athletics, effective April 1, the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, announced this week. In his statement, Father O’Donnell said: “In recognition of several years of service to the University, Mr. Cahill has been appointed assistant manager of athletics, succeeding Herbert E. Jones.” Jones succeeds
Robert M. Cahill
J.	Arthur Haley, now head of the University public relations committee.
Before enrolling at Notre Dame in 1930, Cahill was secretary to registrars of the 1928-30 era, the Rev. William A. Carey, C.S.C., and the Rev. William Molony, C.S.C., and the Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., then editor of the Ave Maria. In his final semester, he joined Layden. In his new position Cahill directs the sale of tickets to all athletic events.
While secretary to Mr. Layden, Cahill handled between 40,000 and 50,000 letters, including one from a priest in Tanganyika, British East Africa. That priest listened to games by short wave radio at 2 a.m. Cahill recalled that after the sensational 18-13 victory over Ohio State in 1935, correspondence hit an all-time high. Four or five extra secretaries worked day and night for ten days to handle the major share of letters.
Coach Layden’s correspondence extended to such points as Cuba, Puerto
Rico, Canada, Mexico, Australia and East Africa. He received but one letter written in a foreign language, that, fortunately in Spanish, a subject Cahill had studied in his commerce course. The young secretary replied in Spanish. Layden answered every query and letter which contained a return address.
Many unusual requests flooded the athletic director’s office for such objects as buttons, pencil stubs, and similar items used by Mr. Layden. The Irish coach was also on the receiving end of various oddities, including a shillalah from an Irish association at Pittsburgh, rabbits feet, not to mention innumerable diagrammed “sure-fire” football plays.
Cahill, former assistant editor of the Juggler, humor publication, was business manager of the Glee Club, hopes to follow in the successful footsteps of his predecessor, Mr. Jones.—Bill Scanlan
Philadelphia Symphony
Plays on Campus May 2
The Rev. James W. Connerton, C.S.C., registrar, released the following schedule for Notre Dame’s “Music Week,” which will be held from April 27 to May 2.
Sunday, April 27 — Notre Dame Concert Band.
Monday, April 28—Rose Bampton will sing with the South Bend Symphony Orchestra.
Tuesday, April 29 — Notre Dame Glee Club and Symphony Orchestra.
Wednesday, April 30 — Augustana College Choir (65 mixed voices).
Friday, May 2 — Philadelphia Symphony Orchestra.
One of the outstanding attractions of the week is the featured soloist, Rose Bampton. Miss Bampton has heretofore been a Metropolitan and Chicago opera star.—James P. O’Laughlin
Villagers to Cavort At Dance on April 14
Notre Dame Villagers are completing plans for their annual dance on Easter Monday, April 14. Charles Rogers and his orchestra will play from 9:30 p.m. to 12:30 a.m. in Erskine club house, South Bend.	.
General chairman for the sport dance is John Wishing. Assisting him are: Bob Russell, Bill Strycker, and Don Hoover, tickets; Henry Corttz, music; Frank Sellers, arrangements; George Stratigos and Dick Kilmer, decorations; and Bob Uhl, publicity.
Seniors Pick Jurgens
To Play at Ball, May 2
Dick Jurgens and his famous orchestra will play for the Notre Dame senior ball on May 2, it was announced today by senior ball general chairman Larry McLaughlin. Jurgens’ band, one of the country’s leading exponents of “danceable” music, placed third in the 1940 national popularity poll conducted by Radio Mirror magazine, and is known from coast to coast for its smooth arrangements and hit novelty numbers.
Playing at present at the Trianon ballroom in Chicago, Jurgens and his band have appeared at such exclusive spots as the Palomar in Los Angeles; the Casino on Catalina Island; the Peabody Hotel in Memphis; the Chase Hotel in St. Louis; the Drake Hotel in Chicago; and many others.
Among the “Hit Parade” tunes originating with Jurgens’ orchestra are “Careless,” “My Last Good-bye,” “If I Knew Then,” “It’s a Hundred to One,” and several more.
Featured in the band are vocalist Harry Cool and instrumentalists Buddy Moreno and Lou Quadling, each a master at his own specialty.
Dick hails from Sacramento, Cal.,
Dick Jurgens
where he organized his band ... an auto accident put an and end to his trumpet playing for a year ... he played end for the Sacramento Junior College football team . . . likes tennis . . . made his own recording machine, worth §2,700 . . . plans some day to do sound recording research ... is handsome, young and unmarried . . . Walter Winchell paid him the tribute, “New Yorchids to Dick Jurgens and his grand band.”
—Dan Broderick
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
By Russell L. Harris
Once upon a time, and it was a long time ago (21 years at least) the tiny red clay town of Topeka. Kansas, was blessed with a little bundle of bones and red hair which was named Thomas Francis Stevens. The long years hung heavily, dust storms and repeal came and left Kansas high and dry, cracker-boxes and checker games multiplied and increased on the growing corners of Topeka. And little Tom grew too, glowing reddishly to the amazement of the good nuns of Topeka’s parochial school.
Then suddenly Thomas Francis Steens was a man, a Notre Dame man at that. Following in the footsteps of his father, W. A. Stevens ’04, young Tom quickly established himself as a true Notre Dame man. With an eye to business administrative possibilities rapidly developing in Topeka (Kansas), young Tom enthusiastically enrolled in the College of Commerce. He has devoted much of his time, truly, to the technical angles of commercial problems, and he is now confident that his training has prepared him for a bigger and better pool than Topeka; and so, business men on the Loop had best beware!
Having been acquainted in his Topeka days with the gruesome doings of a local mortuary, young Tom came to Notre Dame well skilled in many things that young morticians are well skilled in. And since he has been here, “The Red Head” has undertaken many things! But indeed!
Of Tom’s numerous noteworthy hobbies, his ability at imitation is probably the best known and approved of among we who know him. At the slightest provocation, he can give the most realistic vocal mimic of any number of people, from a delegate to a convention of Bigger and Better Business Administrators to your favorite rector. In days that are now past, it was often said that Elmer Layden was getting to sound more and more like Tom Stevens everyday — our .Tom was that adept at the Davenport dialect! During these trembling days, Tom is brushing up on his “take-off” of that sinister man in “High Sierra”; and anyone who hears Tom’s metallic “... an’ duh guy fell over... dead!- See whatta mean!” may well shrink in fear of the
harsh-lipped reality of The Bogart-man Himself.
One of the greatest thrills he has ever had, Tom will tell you, was that of registering for the Selective Service Act. He just knows he was born with a Manual of Aimis in one hand and a horse-shoe of luck in the other. Tom became a man, government property, on Oct. 16, 1940, his 21st birthday! ’
Besides other things, “The Red Head” is ever an outstanding representative of that elite campus-minded group living in the exclusive southwest wing of Alumni hall. There Thomas F. Stevens, Mansion 338, is known as a studious student, a connoisseur of lovely ladies and sweet swing, a man of many midnights_____and now, as the true man-about-campus.
Knights of Columbus To Honor Father Foik
The Notre Dame council of the Knights of Columbus owes much of its present success to the Rev. Paul Foik, C.S.C., who died on March 1. Twenty-five years ago, from 1916 to 1926, he was the very active chaplain of the Notre Dame council, and did much to promote the growth of the infant council.
After leaving Notre Dame in 1926, Father Foik continued his Knights of Columbus activities in Texas, serving as chairman of the Knights of Columbus Texas Historical Commission. But even during his stay in Texas, he never transferred his membership from the Notre Dame council, and always spent part of his summer vacation on the campus with old friends.
A special K. of C.-sponsored mass will
“Casey’s” Dance will feature Charlie Agnew.
be celebrated for Father Foik on Sunday, and all Knights and their friends are urged to attend. The mass is to be heud in Alumni hall chapel at 8:00 a.m. Following this, members will attend a breakfast in the west dining hall, at which the Rev. John O’Brien will be principal speaker.
Knights Will Frolic at
Spring Formal, April 25
Last “open-to-all-students” dance of the year will be the Knights of Columbus Formal to be held on Friday, April 25, at the Palais Royale. The danceable music of Charlie Agnew will furnish the tempo for the evening. Admission for the dance is $3.00 per couple; tickets are on sale at the K. of C. clubrooms in the basement of Walsh hall.
Decorations for the affair will follow a red, white, and blue, patriotic motiff. Other unusual features are being planned and will be announced later. For those whose problem is getting a date for the dance, a dating bureau has been set up in the Walsh basement by K. of C. members.
The only qualifying note to the “open to all” phrase is that freshmen may attend only at the invitation of some freshman member of the Knights.
Committee heads for the dance are: Music, Jim Fayette; Tickets, Dick Walters; Reservations, Bob Sass; Decorations, Mike Hines; Programs, Harry Gottron; Publicity, Howard Korth; Reception, Tom Carroll; Arrangements, Steve Graliker; Patrons, Ed Roney; and Invitations, Ray Dubriske.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
9
Bishop O'Hara, as Prefect of Religion, Wrote First Religious Bulletin in 1921
It was a bright fall day during Mission Week in 1921. But for the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., then the prefect of religion, there was a dark cloud, for he was thinking of ways to call students’ attention to certain irregularities he had noticed the previous few days.
The first copy of the Religious Bulletin was the result. A few copies were printed and placed in prominent places around the campus. More irregularities brought out a second issue the next day, and each day that week. Then it stopped. Students immediately clamored for more.
That was the beginning of the daily Religious Bulletin. For the first several years only about a dozen copies were printed, and these were posted on campus bulletin boards. In 1929, about 300 were printed — 20 for the bulletin boards, and the rest for priests and professors to use in classroom work.
In 1930 came mimeographed copies and the delivery of a copy to each student individually; and during the following year alumni were given the opportunity to receive the Bulletin delivered free to their homes.
Today, there are 13,000 copies mimeographed daily for the students and the mailing list. It is mailed to about 100 non-Catholics, to 60 seminaries, where parts are mimeographed again and distributed to the seminarians; to about 700 Catholic high schools, to many Newman Clubs at various state universities, and to several foreign universities. Parts are being reprinted in Chinese, and in Spanish at various points in South America and the Philippines. West Point and the Naval Academy are also on the mailing list.
During its 20 years of existence, the Bulletin has had only four editors — Bishop O’Hara, the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., the Rev. Frank Gartland, C.S.C., and its present editor, the Rev. John P. Lynch, C.S.C. Practically every issue now is the work of Father Lynch, though he welcomes helpful voluntary contributions.
Each day’s mail is heavy and varied, and requests are numerous; one letter included the request from an army chaplain for the Bulletin and added that “Notre Dame seldom lost to the Army, but we have gained in our precious chaplain, Bishop O’Hara.” An alumnus wanted a list of books and pamphlets to answer “a man he met on the train.”
Another was asking for ways to convert his non-Catholic girl.
There was a letter from a co-ed in a state college in Texas, telling how she gets the Bulletin indirectly from someone who writes letters to her on the back, and how the Bulletin interested her non-Catholic friends. Then there was a request for Father Lynch to settle all the world’s problems “on the enclosed postcard.” Finally, there was a letter from a man who understood that medical schools bought bodies for experiments, and wanted Notre Dame’s highest terms and prices for his.
At the present time there are 20 students mailing out Bulletins and other students serving as secretaries, artists, stencilers, etc. It is supported by contributions which cover the mailing costs. The University bears the cost of printing, student mailing, and a certain deficit, caused when subscribers do not make a contribution except one of prayers which, Father Lynch says, “are just as necessary as money.” Arrangements are now being made by many campus clubs, including the Saint Vincent de Paul Society, to send the Bulletin to all Army and Navy chaplains.—John Aselage
Press Club Features
Daly, Smith at Dinner
Featuring two outstanding newspaper men as principal speakers, the Notre Dame Press Club under the direction of Dr. John M. Cooney, head of the journalism department, successfully held its annual dinner last night.
Thomas A. Daly of Philadelphia, veteran newspaper columnist and humorist, shared speaking honors with Charles A. Smith, ace European correspondent, just returned to the United States from London.
Ray Pinelli, Notre Dame baseball star and member of the graduating class in journalism, spoke as the representative of the club. Frank McDonough, club president, greeted the guests.
Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., served as toastmaster at the banquet.
In 1830 the Rev. Stephen Badin, first priest ordained in the United States, purchased the nucleus of the • present University campus and built a log chapel for the benefit of the Catholic farmers and trappers in northern Indiana.
Prominent Physicist to
Speak Here Wednesday
Dr. H. H. Lester, senior physicist. Watertown Arsenal, Watertown, Mass., will be the guest speaker at the April meeting of the Notre Dame chapter of the American Society for Metals. The
Dr. H. H. Lester, physicist
meeting will be held at 6:45 p.m. Wednesday, April 9, in the University dining hall.
The speaker is a graduate of the University of Minnesota, the University of Washington, and Princeton University. He has taught physics at the University of Washington, Princeton University, and the Case School of Applied Science. During the first World War he was engaged in research work at the Puget Sound Navy Yard. Later he was physicist with Westinghouse Lamp Company.
Dr. Lester will discuss the function and methods of use of radio-graphy in inspection. The address will be illustrated.
The May meeting of the chapter will be held May 14. Dr. L. R. van Wert, of the Leeds & Northrup Company. Philadelphia, Penn., will be the featured speaker at this gathering.
The University church, dedicated to the Sacred Heart, is true 15th century French Gothic, with a large crypt, numerous chapels, a set of chimes, and a six-ton bell.
10	THE
' Debaters Turn South
For Easter Vacation
Easter vacation last year found the varsity debate squad touring the East. While other Notre Dame men were receiving a sure cure for homesickness — vacation at home — the debaters were exhibiting their forensic talents in various Eastern colleges and univeristies.
During Easter vacation the debaters will have an opportunity to develop a Southern accent. On April 11 the affirm-
Debater John O’Laughlin
ative team is scheduled to meet the University of Alabama at Tuscaloosa; on April 14, the negative team will meet Georgia Tech and the affirmative takes on Emory University at Atlanta, Ga.; on April 15 at Athens, Ga., the negative team will vie with the University of Georgia; and the final debate will see the negative team against Xavier University at Cincinnati, Ohio, on April 17.
Milt Williams and John O’Loughlin comprise the affirmative team; William Meier and Thomas Grady make up the negative. The national intercollegiate question: “Resolved, that the nations of the Western Hemisphere should form a permanent union,” will be used in all the debates except the one with Georgia Tech. The question, “Resolved, that the federal government shall have the power to force compulsory arbitration in all labor disputes,” is for Tech debate.
Sickness caught up with the squad at the University of Wisconsin tournament, at Madison, last Friday and Saturday. Tom Grady, second negative speaker, contracted the measles before his first debate. Thomas McGee, “B” squad debater, was sent for and arrived in time to participate in two debates. In one the Albion affirmative team was defeated and the other was lost to the University of Wisconsin affirmative. The Notre Dame affirmative team posted a .333 average, vanquishing Marquette but bowing to Dartmouth and Wayne.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Dr. Kerwin Advises American Catholics To Abandon Isolation, Help Britain
On Monday night in Washington hall Dr. Jerome Kerwin of the department of political science of Chicago University spoke on “The Catholic Stake in Democracy.” The address developed the role which American Catholics should pay in the current crisis and in the future, after the European war is over.
Dr. Kerwin began by listing the hardships which nations at war are forced to endure, and the special kind of hardship which non-combatants undergo. At the same time he called dangerous the policy of representing opinion about the war as dogma. During the Middle Ages, he said, people considered a war either just or unjust, and as in the war today was never an occasion when one side had all the justice and the other side all the injustice. We must seek out that side which has a predominance of justice and support its cause.
Then the two sides fighting in Europe today were contrasted by Dr. Kerwin. Hitler, the avowed enemy of democracy and America, the man who must continue to conquer in order to protect his old conquests. And opposed to Hitler England’s side —with all its faults — but which recognized the rights of men and is friendly to America.
“Our stake in the present conflict is tremendous for we are not only Catholics, but we are also Americans. We must decide our policies,” said Dr. Ker-
America's Role to End War Madness—Fr. O'Brien
“America’s role is to end the war madness of Europe,” said the Rev. John A. O’Brien as he addressed the Propeller Club at its monthly meeting last week in the Commerce Building.
Father O’Brien, during his entire address, stressed the futility of America’s entering the European conflict. “Our first duty is toward the 40,000,000 Americans, ill-clad, ill-housed, and ill-fed” rather than toward ‘a generous burst of idealistic generosity” aimed at annihilating everything unidealistic in the whole world. He cited as an example the plight of the sharecroppers in various sections of the country.
Speaking of American national defense, Father O’Brien quoted a French soldier who said to him, “A 3,000-mile moat is worth a hundred Maginot Lines.” He continued that America with “the greatest technological development in the world, with friendly nations to the south, and with her natural advantages”
win, “taking into consideration the interests of the United States alone. We must not act and think as hyphenatedAmericans.”
Dr. Kerwin blames our isolationism since the first World War and our high tariffs for our failure to make the world safe for democracy. We were sincere, he said, but we were wrong.
Although no one agrees with those who would have us enter the war, the simple resolution to keep us out is not enough. Because the decision of war or peace for us will not be made in this country but in Berlin, Dr. Kerwin asserted. Those who advocate a peace treaty now do not realize that Munich was just that and failed miserably.
Dr. Kerwin admitted that misrule by Britain has been the case in Ireland, India and elsewhere. But he pointed out that “wherever a people of one culture attempt to govern people of another, there is bound to be some misrule. But as Americans we must decide the victory of which belligerent is best for America — not for India, Ireland or Germany— but for America alone. And I am convinced that a British victory is best for us.”
The lecture was concluded with the warning that we must organize for peace with others, because “isolationism has failed.” Otherwise, said Dr. Kerwin, we must continually organize for war.
will never need to fear an invasion.
Father O’Brien pointed out that since Nov. 4 no high ranking administration spokesman has used the phrase, “short of war.” Before that Roosevelt and Will-kie had indulged in an oratorical contest to keep this nation out of war. Father O’Brien then reminded his audience that a man’s office doesn’t exempt him from the moral law.
Stressing the fact that he favored “aid consistent with reasonable security,” Father O’Brien decried the “political chicanery” of the blank check policy for “tanks, guns, ships and men,” adding that the British Administration, “out of deference to that American way of hating to part with their sons” had deferred her call for American manpower. He said that charity begins at home.
Concluding his talk, Father O’Brien exhorted the American people to heed Pope Pius XII’s statement, “War solves nothing!”—Tom Trueman
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
11
Michigan Taught, Then Defeated N. D.
8-0 in First Football Game in 1887
OUR DAILY BREAD
Wednesday morning was a free period for Notre Dame students in 1887. Usually they slept in, studied, or took a walk. On Nov. 23, they went to the senior playground instead. There they found the white-clad Michigan football team, champions of the West, teaching Notre Dame how to play. For a halfhour Michigan men instructed Notre Dame men. Then they played the game which was first in the history of Notre Dame, first in a long series of defeats at the hands of Michigan.
Among the crowd of students cheering “Rah, rah, Nostra Domina” was a Scholastic reporter who observed for posterity that “on account of time, only a part of one inning was played, and resulted in a score of 8 to 0 in favor of the visitors.”
After the game the winners were fed, packed into carriages and transported to the Niles station. As they left, Notre Dame men cheered them, wished some day they, too, might be champions of the West.
With such a beginning the Scholastic was optimistic and “hoped that the coming years will witness a series of these contests.” Not so sanguine was one . member of the faculty who wrote that Notre Dame had “ample room for extended walks and for all manly sports, including, alas! the redoubtable game of football.”
So good was the Michigan instruction that Notre Dame entered a three-year, eight-game winning streak, whipping such teams as Northwestern, South Bend high school, Kalamazoo, Albion and Hillsdale. But the instruction was not so good that it would defeat Michigan. Twice more the Ann Arbor men came to South Bend and twice more the Notre Dame team was defeated. For a while after that, Michigan did not appear on the schedule, and it was then that the first winning streak was accomplished.
In the 21 years from the start of football at Notre Dame until 1909, Michigan and Notre Dame met eight times and on each occasion it was Michigan that was victorious. Finally, after 21 years of effort, pupil defeated master. Notre Dame won 11 to 3. They were champions of the West. “Rah, rah, Nostra Domina,” the students cheered.
Football players were not the only persons to come to Notre Dame. In the autumn of 1886 members of the Catholic Total Abstinence Union of America held their annual convention in the halls of Notre Dame. Seated there in solemn convocation they praised heartily the work of the local chapter, commented with admiration on the advertisement that ran continually in South Bend papers: “I hereby give notice that I will prosecute to the utmost extension of the law, regardless of cost, all persons guilty of selling or giving liquor to the students of this institution, or furnishing it to them in any way.” It was signed by the president of Notre Dame.
About this time Sacred Heart church was dedicated. Filled with the art work of Gregori, a 300-year-old altar, and the largest bell in America, it was said to be the most beautiful church in the interior and in the entire country second only to the cathedral of New York City.
Beside the church, Notre Dame could boast possession of the oldest painting in America, one of the largest magnets in the state, a collection of sacred vessels from Pius IX, Napoleon III, and the Marquis de Maulevrier, and the honor of being the first college in the United States to be lighted with electricity. Bowdoin came in a poor second, six years later.
To look over the famous institution came Chief Justice Chase, James G. Blaine, campaigning against Cleveland for the presidency, Carl Schurz, fiery German democrat and reformer, and the orator, Daniel Doughtery.
In this same period the school started passing out the Laetare Medal, distinguished award to the Catholic judged outstanding in a particular year. Included in the list of recipients are poets, soldiers, historians, scientists, architects, authors. In 1894, Augustine Daly, a theatrical manager, slipped in.
To celebrate the opening of Washington, hall, a Greek play “Oedipus Tyran-nus” was performed. A South Bend paper commented that the audience enjoyed it very much even though they could not understand it, and that it was the first play in Greek ever presented west of the Allegheny mountains.
—Don Heltzel
LITURGY
“Let them say so that have been redeemed by the Lord” (Psalm 106,1).... The eloquence of example is more persuasive than profound or lofty words.... The Church invites her children in Holy Week to walk anew the stepping stones of Christianity.... One’s presence at the ceremonies of the week, and not at places of entertainment, fulfills the Psalmist’s word.
A fine old custom is to wear a bit of the blessed palm on Sunday.... Its suggestion of “Hosannas” carries forward to the cries of “Crucify Him” and the sting of scourges.... It does emphatically say, “this man also was with him” (Luke 22,56).... The others may think of him too.	.
Processions to the Holy ‘ Places was the earliest observance of Holy Week.... The Roman Liturgy made these the basis for its present usage.__Hence also the custom of visiting the Repository in different churches, or several visits to one’s own.... “Should you not watch one hour with me” was the Master’s reproach to his sleeping disciples in the Garden of Olives.
Friday, so happily called Good, is inseparable from Holy Thursday.... They are parts of one.... The Offering in the Cenacle was consummated on Calvary. ... “And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all things to myself” (John 12,32).... The one ray in a darksome world.	•
The fruit of the tree of knowledge is death.... The fruit of the Tree of the Cross is life.... Satan conquered by the wood, by the wood also was he vanquished. ... A Breviary hymn for Pas* siontide more fully expands this thought * from the Preface of the Cross.... A translation of this hymn appears elsewhere (page 22) and takes the place of the usual Calendar of Feasts.
The ceremonies of Saturday represent different periods in the development of the Liturgy.... The blessing of the new fire, the grains of incense, the paschal candle and the font symbolizes the fruits of the Redemption.... The Mass itself was formerly the dawn Mass of Easter Day.
Turn to page 22
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
WILLIAM C. McGOWAN. Editor-in-Chief
JOHN W. PATTERSON. Jr.. Managing Editor
JAMES NEWLAND. Promotion
WILLIAM SCANLAN.
News Editor .
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. The SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to The Editor, 213 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms. Ave Maria Building;
Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.: General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
Eastertide
Very soon every church bell will ring out the happy tidings that Christ is risen again. Yet for half of the world Christ will lie buried forever under a rubble heap of scoffing and denial. The world sneers at the idea of a man rising from the dead and ascending into heaven. How could a man conquer gravity? Why the earth would never let him go! And that is true. The world would never let Him go because the world does not want Him to rise above its head, above the level of sheer reason. It wants Him buried forever because it wants to look down upon rather than to look up to Him!
Rationalism is like a guilty person who keeps his eyes cast down to earth. The things of time and slime are its interest. It has reduced the eternity of God to the short span of 33 deluded years. It sees man in the contemptuous light of a bit of mechanized slime. Sex is but a mode of self-expression; conscience is briefly summed up as a reflex action. Truth is in constant flux because brain convolutions change!
No matter how chaotic our times are, they are reasonable because they logically come out of an attitude that localizes its thinking not in the head but in the urge of sin. Accept the thesis that private judgment is the ultimate point of moral reference, that dogmas are but the hackneyed sentences from the phrasebook of religious superstition, that the opportuneness of a crisis is the immediate gauge for ethics, then no matter how maladjusted the conclusion is to life, it is logical. If in the final retrospect man is
JOHN DINGES, Sports Editor
GEORGE MILES.
Literary Editor
WILLIAM BAADER.
Art Editor
THOMAS F. CARTY Photo Editor
but a scuttle of ashes why should he worry about controlling his passions? If there is no Easter, why should a man be expected to carry a cross?
Today seriously thinking minds are worried about the prevalent loss of faith. The sectarian churches which have helped to some degree to keep intact the essential values of religion have faltered before the pressure of cynicism. Only the Catholic Church remains strong in its traditional fidelities because it is hewn out of the granite compound of reason and of faith. It is not reason alone but faith flowering out of reason that saves the world. Christ revealed Himself first to Magdalen because her logic was love. He will appear now not to those skilled in science but only to those who are expert in the higher science of the heart.
The apostles because they lost faith when they lost Christ cast their eyes down to earth and their outlook became colored with its darkness. Thomas became the first of the hesitant empiricists. He wanted to experiment, to subject God to the sense of touch. And ever since the world has been requiring God to creep like a microbe within the test tube of its experience.
What the world needs is not more reason but more faith, the sort of faith that will lift the world’s eyes from the ground; for faith is the lifting of one’s eyes from the things one can see to the things one cannot see and yet can believe in.	'
History has a way of repeating itself. The crosses evident again although now it is a curious device, its arms hooked
with hate. And the spear again comes from the expert manufacturing of Rome. The Christ is the same although His Body has multiplied infinitely. There yet remains the resurrection. We only pray that the world will ring like a bell announcing Him risen again and over the humbled head of reason.
Letter from New Orleans
[The folloiving letter ivas sent to the Scholastic by the Rev. Thomas W. Fitzpatrick, C.S.C., of Sacred Heart Church in New Orleans.]
I want to take this opportunity to thank you and all members of The Scholastic for all that you and they did to make the Bengal Bouts of 1941 the success they were. Every missioner in Bengal... all Notre Dame men ... join with me in this thanks.
The material aid that comes from the Bouts and from the yearly generosity of Notre Dame men means much to the missioners of Holy Cross. But the thought that Notre Dame men of today are mindful of the Notre Dame men of yesterday who are working for souls in Bengal means ever so much more. You know what you think of your school; how you value everything that it has, offers and is. That valuation, enhanced by years of being away from its actual presence and all that that • means, is made a living thing to the missioners by the Bengal Bouts. Every help that comes from Notre Dame to them makes them more and more proud of their school and the enviable record that it holds today among the Catholic Universities of the world.
I would that I could personally thank each individual participant in the Bouts ... but that is an impossibility. Too, I feel sure that they are aware that oftentimes unspoken gratitude is deeper founded than a casual word of thanks. The deep gratitude that will find expression in prayers of thanks to the Friend of Notre Dame for the spirit of Notre Dame men in regard to the mission is that of your missioners, Notre Dame men in Bengal, India.
“The Scholastic” will not be published next week, but will appear again on Friday, April 18.
‘‘Scrip,” campus literary quarterly, is scheduled to issue its fourth number of the schoolyear on May 2.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
COLD SHOULDER
JOHN PATTERSON
“What’s the matter, honey?”
“Nothing.”
“Oh, for God’s sake, there must be something. You aren’t acting like this for no reason at all.”
“Maybe I just don’t feel like letting you kiss me. You haven’t said a word all night, so I guessed you weren’t having a good time. I certainly wouldn’t want to be the cause of anything like that.”
“But you’re acting so funny. Every time I tried to start a conversation, you did your best to shut me up. You just sat there, and grunted.”
“Why I don’t know what you mean. You don’t seem to be saying anything that I could possibly continue a conversation about. Of course, I know that I’m not nearly as smart as you. Maybe it would be better if you took me home and found someone who could understand your intellectual talk.”
“Now I suppose you’ll tell me I said you were dumb.”
“Well, you hinted as much when you said I was shutting you up by being quiet. Why didn’t you just say, ‘Oh, you’re too ignorant to know what I’m talking about’?”
“Why should I say a thing like that when I wasn’t even thinking it? Oh, let’s forget it for a few minutes. Have a cigarette?”
“No thanks. I don’t care for one right now, thank you.”
“Like to drive to a drug store and drink a coke? We could come right back here. Then maybe you’d be in a better humor. Or maybe you’d like to go and get a hot dog down on Station street, huh?”
“Oh, no thanks. That would be too much trouble. I really don’t want anything at all now. Thank you just the same.”
“For the Lord’s sake, quit being so formal, and stop thanking me. This is
no stiff shirt coming out party.”
“Well, of course, I thought it was polite to thank a person. I suppose, though, that it isn’t being done or you wouldn’t swear at me simply because I thanked you.”
“Who swore at you?”
“You did!”
“You’re crazy.”
‘ Oh, now I’m crazy. Well, Marge Knowles isn’t crazy. Why don’t you go back to her? I know you don’t think she’s crazy. Do you? You don’t act like you do, at least.”
“Aw, why do you have to bring her up? That was over a year ago. I was just a kid then. You know I love you. Don’t look at the past; look at the present.”
“Well, you were over to see her two nights ago, weren’t you? And when you saw her at the party you acted like she was a long lost sweetheart — which she probably is to you.”
“Well, when I came to the party you were the first person I spoke to. I made a big fuss over you so everybody would know you were my girl, and what an enthusiastic reception I got! You rattled off a simple, sweet, unconcerned ‘hello’ like I was the rubbish man coming to get the old newspapers. Marge was at least decent. I couldn’t very well snub her or kick her teeth out. Why should I act childish? When you’re young and silly, then you can be embarrassed ' at meeting a girl you once knew, and get away with it. No one notices it then. But not me! What did you expect me to do? I couldn’t just tell her to go to hell.”
“I don’t see why not. You don’t seem to give a second thought to swearing at me.”
“Oh, please! I wish you’d stop acting like this. I’ve been worrying about you all day. I couldn’t study, or eat, or anything.”
“Why, gracious me! I don’t want to feel that I’m hindering you in your work.
If you think that I’m the kind of a girl who tries to go around ruining...”
“I didn’t say anthing of the kind. Will you kindly stop putting words in my mouth! I simply said that it worries me when you act like this.”
“Act like what?”
“Oh, for God’s sake! You know what I mean. I ask you what’s wrong when you won’t let me kiss you. And you say “nothing.” Now something must be wrong. You’ve never acted this badly before.”
“Well, one reason might be that you took me home terribly early last Saturday. It’s not the getting in early; it’s the fact that you. acted like you were in a desperate hurry to get rid of me.”
“I only did that because your mother asked me to. Do you want me to get thrown out of your house on my ear? We can’t go with each other if we don’t pay any attention to your parents. They’ll never let us get married if they think I’m some night-owl or something. That’s my reason. Are you satisfied? You don’t look it. Of course, if you’re tired of me, that’s different....”
“I didn’t say I was, did I?”
“No, but I would gather as much. Gosh, when someone so beautiful gets so temperamental, it drives me crazy.”
“Which one of your beautiful girls are you referring to now?”
“Oh, Lord! You, of course. You’re beautiful! You’re the most beautiful girl in the world! And I love you more than anybody or anything in the whole, wide world! Do you believe me now?”
“Well, I’m not so sure, but... I guess I believe you. But I do wish you wouldn’t pay so much attention to other girls.”
“Aw, I don’t care for anyone else; you believe me. . . . Don’t you?”
“Mmm, hmm.”
“Mmmmm!” *
Notre Dame Sports
Purdue, Back From Southern Jaunt, Host to Irish Nine in Lidlifter
Pitching Staff Problem Worries Kline
The 1941 edition of the Fighting Irish baseball team trots out on the diamond next Thursday to unveil its talents against Purdue’s Boilermakers at Lafayette.
Purdue, having the advantage of several weeks training in the sun of Florida, is rated as one of the teams to beat in the Big Ten pennant drive this spring. Although losing the first game of the season to Auburn by a one-sided score of 13-1, the boys from Lafayette came back the following day to nose out the Southerners, 2-1.
Coach Jake Kline indicated that his boys will be out this year to seek revenge for the two heartbreakers lost to the Boilermakers last year. Pitchers Ellis and Hunthausen lost the decisions last year. 2-1 and 3-2, after pitching superb ball.
Most positions on the squad are still wide open, but Coach Kline pointed out that Bernie Crimmins has the inside track on the catching duties. At present, however, Bernie is battling for a position on the football squad.
Veteran Subby Nowicki only seasoned pitcher returning from last year’s squad, will probably draw the starting assignment against Purdue. Sophomores Fisher and Metzger will divide the reserve work and undoubtedly will share duties in the Chicago game on April 15.
Chuck Farrell, the regular first baseman of last year’s team, appears to have the edge at the initial station provided he can shake off effects of his recent shoulder injury.
At the keystone station, George So-bek, regular performer for the Kline-men last year, is being hard pressed for his position by Don McGuire and Fred Gore. Sobek will probably get the nod over his teammates in the Purdue opener.
Joe Campagna, sophomore sensation, is giving veteran Chuck Crimmins a run for his money at the short field position,
with Crimmins holding a slight advantage over Joe at present.
Ray Pinelli, the power-hitter of the infield, continues to hold down the hot corner, with Jack Clifford running.
The outfield presents a real problem to Coach Kline. Spring football drills have claimed three of his potential regular performers and the Irish mentor points out that the outer gardens will be somewhat weakened as a result. Captain Andy Chlebek, Jack Warner and Tom Callahan who were being counted on for outfield duty are currently giving their time to spring football and will not be able to give full attention to baseball until after the close of gridiron drills. Don Hengel is also an outstanding candidate for regular duty.
Folowing the opener with Purdue, the Notre Dame nine journeys to Chicago for a game with the Maroons on April 15. Last year’s record with Chicago shows a clean sweep of the two-game series.
Freshman baseball, which has been held up due to inclement weather, will probably get under way shortly after
SCHOLASTIC SOFTBALL TOURNEY
The “Scholastic” announces its Second Annual Softball Tournament which is open to all campus clubs and miscellaneous organizations.
RULES: 1. A team roster is limited to 15 men. 2. No man may play for more than one team. 3. Teams must be ready to play at time signified in schedule announcements.
Submit entries to Tom Powers, 115 St. Edward’s Hall. Applications must list the names of all players, a name for the team (e.g., La Raza Club, Brownson Bashfuls, etc.)
Deadline for Entries is Monday, April 21.
the Easter holidays. A definite call will -be issued at that time.
A complete schedule follows:	F
April 10—Purdue at Lafayette	...
15—Chicago at Chicago
IS—Iowa at Iowa City	7*
19—Iowa at Iowa City	?<.
22—Michigan at Ann Arbor	¥•
23—Western State at Kalamazoo
26—Western State at Notre Dame s May 2—Northwestern at Notre Dame	;
3—Northwestern at Evanston
6—Purdue at Notre Dame	!
7—Michigan State at Notre Dame	7
10—Michigan State at East Lansing	-i
17—Navy at Notre Dame	:
20—Michigan at Notre Dame
23—Ohio State at Notre Dame	;
24—Ohio State at Notre Dame	jf
30—California at Notre Dame	\
31—California at Notre Dame	>
—Ray Donovan x
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
15
Trackmen Make Ready For Outdoor Season
The Notre Dame track squad dedicated its 1940 outdoor season to the late coach, John P. Nicholson, who died suddenly on April 2 of last year. United States Olympic hurdler in 1912 and head track coach at Notre Dame since 1928, Nicholson, familiarly known about the campus as “Nick,” was beloved by students and faculty alike, not only for his genial manner but more particularly for his fine Christian patience and humility. His death was a great loss to Notre
George Schiewe
Dame and to the entire sporting world.
Although not yet officially started, the outdoor season has shown promise of being a real tribute to “Nick.” Coach Bill Mahoney is giving the team a hard workout, one that will last through the Easter vacation, in preparation for the strenuous competition to come.
Bob Saggau, who has been on the injured list for the last few weeks, will be on hand again for the start of the outdoor season. Saggau pulled a muscle in his leg before the first indoor meet and then injured it again about a month later. But, according to Coach Mahoney, with proper care and a little caution, Bob will be back in harness again in time for the Drake relays, the first competition of the new season.
Unfortunately, the team this year is very short on good freshmen material, particularly in the field events — javelin, shot put, pole vault, etc. However, the men that are out are hard workers and a few are especially noteworthy. Ed Dunham, half-miler, is, in the opinion of Coach Mahoney, “one of the finest prospects ever to attend the University.” Austin Jones, quarter-miler, and Rollie Hogue, hurdler and broad jumper, also rank high in Mahoney’s opinion. All freshmen will be given a chance to prove their worth in the freshman telegraphic meet to be held soon after the opening of the new season.—John J. Fallon
Splinters From the Press Box ■	JAMES NEWLAND—
Notre Dame, with its entirely revamped athletic personnel, owns possibly the youngest coaching staff in the nation. . . . Frank Leahy, athletic director, heads the list at 32. . . . Assistant football coaches Johnny Druze, Ed McKeever, and Joe McArdle are all eligible for Selective Service. They will still be eligible five years hence. . . . Track coach Bill Mahoney, and ' assistant basketball coach, Ray Meyer, were students three years ago. . . . They are both in their twenties.
The Scholastic, one year ago today: “John P. Nicholson, University track coach since 1927, was buried this morning from Sacred Heart Church. He died of a heart attack Tuesday evening shortly after he had addressed a group of boys at the South Bend Y.M.C.A. He was 50 years old.”
Comes April and the rains . . . and opening of the major league campaign. . . . Hank Greenberg, between the devil and the deep blue sea. ... If he is not accepted into Selective Service he will, nevertheless, get the razzberries in some major league park. ... If he misses fly balls in the Detroit Tiger outfield, fans will call him “Flat-feet” Hank. ... If he catches them, fans will say he should not have been deferred.
Coach George Keogan still rates his all-time Notre Dame basketball team as .follows: Forwards — John Nyikos, Johnny Moir, Ed Riska, Frank Crowe, and Johnny Ford. Centers — Ed Krause, Paul Nowak, Joe Voegele. Guards — Lou Conroy, Ed Smith, George Ireland, Tom Wukovits, Earl Brown, “Red” Donovan. Coach Keogan comments: “Besides these, I could name at least 20 more good boys.”
The track team opens its 1941 outdoor campaign in a quadrangular meet at Indiana University, Bloomington, Ind. . . . Michigan, Illinois, and Indiana will furnish formidable opposition. . . . The Notre Dame baseball team will make seven trips this season, opening against Purdue at Lafayette, April 10. . . . Familiar faces missing on this year’s nine are Chet Sullivan, Rex Ellis, Red Ober-bruner, Norv Hunthausen, Hymie Crane and Roy Pinelli. . . . Bill Fay, captain of Notre Dame’s tennis forces last year, and former editor of “The Scholastic,” is working on Arch Ward’s “Chicago Tribune’s” sports staff. ... Not so very
far away is James S. Kearns, one of the top sports writers on “The Chicago Daily News.” . . . He, too, was editor of “The Scholastic” ... in 1934.
Track coach Bill Mahoney’s dash men will be trying to break a long-standing Notre Dame outdoor record in the 100-yard specialty when competition gets under way in the near future. ... It is held by four different individuals. . . . In 1912, a trackster named Wasson ran 100 yards in :09.6. . . . Jack Elder tied this mark in 1929, McCormick in 1931, and Johnny Clifford was clocked in :09.6 in 1937 and in 1938. . . .
Besides his brilliant records established since his graduation from Notre Dame, Greg Rice holds more local track records than any one person. . . . Indoors the “little bugger” holds top honors in the 1,500-meter run, the one-mile run, the 3,000-meter run and the two-mile run. . . . Outdoors, Greg is champion in the one-and-one-half-mile run, the one-mile run, the two-mile run, and the 5,000-meter run. ...
Of all Notre Dame track records established thus far in only one instance does an indoor event outshine the outdoor. . . . This event is the high jump. . . . The indoor record, established by Murphy, in 1935, is 6' 714". •. • The outdoor record, held by Ted Leonas and es-.tablished in 1939, stands at 6' G1,?". . . . Speaking of Notre Dame track records, the broad jump record set by George Meagher in 1935 is one of the few individual records that has not been broken within the last six years. . . . His best outdoor jump was 24' 9 % "... . Indoors Meagher threw himself 23' 7%". . . . His outdoor mark has not been touched, let alone broken. . . . Another longstanding individual record was established by a man named Wilson in 1932. . . . He ran the 440-yd. dash in 48.1.
Personal Opinion. ... It will be the New York Yankees and the St. Louis Cardinals in the World Series next October. . . . Indiana University will cop the Big Ten basketball title next winter. ... The Chicago Cubs, Wilson or no Wilson, will not finish higher than fourth place in the National League race, and the White Sox will be lucky to see the first division. ... Before this baseball season is half over, the New York Yankees will be sorry they let Monte Pearson go to the Reds.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING
... By AL DEL ZOPPO -■
If you can get close enough to the football players practicing on Cartier field these days, you might notice Andrew Chlebeck taking time off from his football duties to watch those long flyballs that Jake Kline’s boys are smashing into the deepest corners of the outfield. Coach Leahy hasn’t been giving his players any spare time to sky-gaze during practice sessions, but he is a bit tolerant with Andy because he knows that Chlebeck is this year’s baseball captain, and that Andy is anxious to be taking cuts at the ball with the rest of his teammates.
Andy Chlebeck came to Notre Dame from St. Thomas Military Academy in St. Paul, Minn., where he was rated as the best athlete ever to graduate from that institution. At St. Thomas, Andy competed in every varsity sport — football, baseball, basketball, track, golf — and captained the baseball team in his junior and senioi- years. But it was football that brought Andy to Notre Dame. His father, always a Notre Dame rooter, could hardly wait for Andy to graduate from prep school, so anxious was he to ship him off to South Bend to plav football.
However, Andy didn’t make the headlines by his play on the football field last year. He did attract plenty of attention in June, nevertheless, when,
after playing his first sea-
son with the baseball team, he was elected to the captaincy. Andy says that he had no real intention of playing b.aseball when he came here. “But when Elmer Layden posted a notice that footballers would not have to report for spring football practice if they made the baseball squad, I decided to take a try at college baseball,” says Andy.
Jake Kline took a liking to Andy’s long distance clouting before the baseball season opened, and he placed the Minnesotan in center-field. For a soph
omore, Chlebeck had a good record last year, batting close to .300 and playing fine defensive ball in the outfield. Except for a six game hitless streak in the middle of the schedule Andy might have finished with a .400 average. For when Coach Kline, seeking to pull Andy out of his slump, shifted him from sixth spot to lead-off man in the batting order, Andy regained his hitting confidence and belted the ball at a- .500 clip for
the remainder of the season. Andy is hoping now that Jake will assign him the number one position in the batting order this year so that he can start from where he left off last season.
The only objection that Chlebeck has to playing college baseball is that it prevents him from joining the Easter family re-unions held at his home. “I’ve got eight brothers and six sisters,” said Andy, “and together with mother and dad we have some grand get-togethers during the big holidays.”
N. D. Athletics Net Irish $211,915 in 1940-41 y
Notre Dame’s net athletic revenues, T made public for the first time last week in a precedent-breaking move, will ap-proximate $211,915.45 for the 1940-41 ' schoolyear.
The figure was announced by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University and chairman of the faculty board in control of athletics, in connection with his mid-year report to the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., .. president, in an effort to dispel the popular notion that Notre Dame makes “a million dollars a year” on the gridiron.
The estimated net available to the general fund of the University is based on gross football receipts of $524,483.75 and budgeted expenses of approximately $312,568.30 for the conduct of the athletic program for the schoolyear ending in June. There will be additional income ; of $40,000 to $50,000 from other sports < not included in this figure. Football supports basketball, track, baseball, cross-country, golf, tennis, and fencing. Bas- £ ketball is nearly self-supporting.	?;
“I believe the publication of these figures will correct the impression that » Notre Dame makes millions out of football,” said Father Cavanaugh. “The fig- ' ,1 ure is not out of proportion to our in- G come from all sources, representing but ; 15 percent of all income available to the general fund.	>
“Even so, Notre Dame is not a wealthy ’ school, financially speaking, as universi- % ties go, and the opportunity for pro- T? posed laboratories, for research, for the £ development of the graduate school, for ; scholarships to brilliant but needy stu-dents, and for other purposes make our ? athletic revenues appear insufficient. f?
“The cun-ent athletic revenue is typi-cal of the past 15 years. Athletic profits,” ’ he continued, “represent only about half iy of the $7,000,000 spent for additions to and improvements in the physical plant of the school. They would not even pay ft the cost of maintaining our present J plant. They would meet less than half of our faculty payroll. They would cover W? only about 90 percent of the aid re- M-} ceived by students in the form of em- K-ployment and scholarships. As in most other major schools, our tuition rates are such that a student pays only two-thirds of what it actually costs to edu- Mil cate him.”
Father Cavanaugh pointed out that^^j the Notre Dame endowment is comnar-8fe atively small. “Actually our total endow-SIB ment is less than $2,000,000. As of 1940^0?-there were 134 colleges and universitie^^p.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
in the United States with endowments i of more than §2,000,000.	|
“We have made great progress over the years, but there is still much to be done. We need additional housing facilities to handle adequately our self-imposed limit of 3,000 students. Our need for academic buildings is even greater.”
Gridders Show Promise
In Early Scrimmages
Before the admiring glances of some 300 hardy football fans who braved chilling winds to witness the spectacle, Coach Frank Leahy unveiled the 1941 model of the Fight Irish gridiron machine for the first time, since he took office March 10. The squad’s first two-hour scrimmage last Saturday proved to be somewhat of eye-opener for Coach Leahy and his aides.
Showing an excellent brand of offensive football they hit pay-dirt no fewer than 11 times throughout the course of the afternoon. Mastering the intricate “T” formation, and new plays involving a shifting line, the Irish showed plenty of. power on straight bucks, end runs, and off-tackle plays for a team that has had little more than a week of outdoor contact work.
Though each player came in for his share of constructive criticism from the coaches throughout the bruising contests, the greatest interest was centered on Coach Leahy’s latest experimentations, which have Joe Prokop, a converted right-half operating at fullback, and the 235 pound Wally Ziemba shifting from tackle to center. In each case the experiment proved a success, for Prokop, who hits the line with devastating power, utilizes his speed and agility in the manner of a halfback; once past the line of scrimmage, he showed he could produce by reeling off four touchdowns in Saturday’s battle.
Other developments in Saturday’s skirmishing showed that Coach Leahy’s search for a passer must still continue unless “Dippy” Evans slows down on his [ fire-ball which his teammates find too ; hot to handle. The coaches hope to cor- | rect the “Dipper’s” fault by next fall to capitalize on the triple-threat ability that the former Riley High star possesses. Bob Hargrave’s blocking and team leadership, Steve Juzwik’s fine running, and the all-around play of linemen, Capt. Paul Lillis, Jim Brutz, and Ray Ebli.
“There isn’t much to tell,” said Coach Leahy, when asked what he thought of his team’s prospects for the coming year, “we haven’t been working with the boys long enough to really know where we stand. They’re a swell bunch of fellows to work with, and thus far have shown
a fine spirit plus a willingness to work. Naturally it will take time to work in a new system, but if the present cooperation continues, we should be pretty well set by the end of spring practice. Lack of capable frosh material is the one snag we have struck to date, for this means
All the Spring fabrics. . . all the new Spring colors. . . and the same excellent tailoring and styles that ADLER - ROCHESTER has always turned out.
You know when you buy ADLER - ROCHESTER clothes that your suit or coat will be a perfect combination of FIT, FABRIC and FASHION.
Visit our upstairs shop—I 151/9 N. Main Street
PARKER-WINTERROWD
Or see our campus representatives
JOHN SIEVERT 234 Alumni
CAFT. MILT “MOOSE” PIEPUL
137 Walsh Hall
JOHN RYAN
337 Walsh
gM-iomow’

Improve Your HAT-I-TUDEt with a New LEE Water-Bloc
THE UNIVERSITY-GAB «5-oo
LEE HATS 358 Fifth Avenue, New York
J|*REG. U.S. PATENT OFF.
a depletion of a reserve strength we cannot afford to be without. The only prediction I can venture at this time is that we’ll have a hard-fighting team out there next fall, and one that will be truly worthy of wearing the colors of Notre Dame.”—Jim Clemens
Look for the Lee Hat signs
If hats could talk, The University-Gab could boast, “It takes three times as long to make me—I’m a Lee Water-Bloc and I have a gabardine band and binding to match —ahem—all for five bucks!”
LEE also makes:
Aetna, “The Insured Hat,” $3.50.
i? * i ¥
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
K.	C. Bowlers Win: Campus Tournament a Possibility
Even before the Campus Winter Bowling tournament, which he had sponsored and in which he was still competing, had come to an end last week, Cy Tlusty once more gathered together his K. of C. bowling mates, sallied up to Michigan City and downed the local K. of C. bowling unit 2586-2564. His teammates were Tex Crowley, Jim Fayette, Tom Fourmy and Leo Maloney. The Notre Dame vs. Michigan City K. of C. bowling battles will be resumed Sunday in the La Salle alleys in South Bend. Matches are being sought with other teams but as yet nothing definite has been decided. New Albany will probably be scheduled.
Now that the smoke has cleared from the Campus Winter Bowling tournament, which closed 14 weeks of competition last week, the following debris can be examined: The Dillon team that beat out Sorin and Walsh in the home stretch was Bud Gans, Dick D’Alton, Fred Meyers, Vic Guylassey and Joe Vollmer winning 30 games and losing 12. Walsh hall led in the team averages and once accomplished the amazing feat of bowling a 961 game or an average of 192 pins per man. Highest single game was bowled by Tex Crowley of Walsh—a neat 251. Leo Maloney of “Joe’s Jitters” led the individual averages over the grind maintaining a 172. Joe Vollmer of Dillon, who had been leading until the last week of competition, dropped into second slot with a 170.
The previously publicized Spring Bowling tournament, to be open to all students, is still under consideration, and Cy Tlusty is only waiting for some show of enthusiasm from campus bowlers before it becomes definite. If you want it, speak up. The tournaments are held in the K. of C. alleys in Walsh basement and in such Spring tournaments of the past the University has paid the student bowling fees and donated prizes — cups, to first and second place winners and medals to the third in events, both the singles and doubles.
—Mark G. McGrath
Harris Sets All-Time
Irish Fencing Record
A new all-time season’s scoring record for Notre Dame fencers was set last week by senior foil and epee man, Russ Harris, who scored 39 points this year to nose out Kevin' Kehoe of the 1936 undefeated team who had tallied 38% points.
Harris entered the Washington U. meet at Notre Dame last Thursday with I a total of 35 points. He fought two epee
bouts, losing one to Washington’s ‘one-man gang,” George Curtis. All three of his foil bouts were Harris victories, including one over Curtis to avenge the epee loss. These four wins gave him the slim margin sufficient to set the new record. Notre Dame won the meet 13 to 4.
Five Notre Dame fencers entered the National Intercollegiate meet at Ohio State last Saturday. Sabermen Mike Humperies and Herb Melton were eliminated in the first round as was Jim Corbett in epee and Harris in the foil. Capt. Jack Gaither, foil, went to the second round. Washington U.’s Curtis went to the finals in foil and saber.
Northwestern University won the Yale trophy, highest award of the tournament, for its aggregate team record. Highest honor in foil also went to the Wildcat fencers.
Tom Tearney, junior in saber and epee, and Flynn in foil and saber, have advanced to the finals in the Indiana State tournament to be held at Indianapolis tomorrow.
CAMPUS FAVORITES...
WB
BE A REAL EASTER HONEY
SADDLES
Take these gifts home with you!
DRESS MOCS
KINNEY’S
134 S. MICHIGAN
29 years in South Bend
GOLD STRIPE HOSE . . . . sheer flattery for her Easter costume ..........$1.00 pair
PERFUMES by Arden, Ritz, Rubinstein, other favorites.
$1.00 up
NOVELTY JEWELRY... clever compliments for her suit or coat ...............   $1.00
SMART BAGS. . . Antique calfs, shining patents!
$2.00, $3.00, $5.00
PASTEL GLOVES... in soft, smooth fabrics. . . Several lengths___________$1.00 pair
ARROW TIES... . for Dad. Numerous gay new patterns for spring! .............$1.00
111 North Michigan
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19
Father Joseph Barry
Becomes Army Chaplain
The Rev. Joseph Barry, C.S.C., assistant pastor of St. Joseph’s church, South Bend, will leave for active duty as an army chaplain tomorrow. His first assignment will be With the 45th division now at Camp Barkely, Abilene, Texas.
Father Barry is well known in South Bend and vicinity, having been active in parish and social work since his ordination in 1933. He was graduated from Notre Dame in 1929, and was first stationed at the Church of Christ the King, north of South Bend on Dixie Highway. Subsequently, he spent a year, 1934-35, as assistant pastor at St. Joseph’s church. In 1935-36 he directed CYO activities in St. Joseph’s county. In 1936 he returned to St. Joseph’s church, as assistant to Rev. Wendell P. Corcoran, C.S.C.
Movie for Tomorrow
is "you'll Find Out"
From the somber thoroughness of a “March of Time” the scene in Washington hall tomorrow night will change to one of frivolous spiritualism amid the madcap adventures of Kay Kyser and the boys in RKO’s “You’ll Find Out,” with Jennie Simms and Helen Parrish.
DR. HARRY BOYD-SNEE EYE, EAR, NOSE, THROAT
PHONE 3-139S	J. M. S. BUILDING
MAX ADLER
“ON THE CORNER” Michigan at Washington
College men prefer ARROWS, if for no other reason than downright good looks. Arrow Shirts cost no more. Come in tomorrow
' for your Arrow selections.
ft's Adler’s for Arrows!
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
434 ASSOCIATES BLDG.	PHONE 3-2S74
DR. H. R. FRASER REGISTERED PODIATRIST SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 4*8989	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
OFFICE 4-5661	RESIDENCE 3-4080
DR. R. F. LUCAS
DENTISTRY—X-RAYS
702 J. M. S. BLDG.	SOUTH BEND. IND.
Arrow Shoreham $3
Extra-Particular Activities
FOR skilful maneuvering on and off the dance floor, there’s a simple prescription: Wear an Arrow dress shirt.
The Udo for tails is smoothly tailored and has a
narrow bosom which is moored firmly in place with suspender loops. $3.
Equally smart for tux or summer formal is the Shoreham, which is the turn-down collar-attached shirt with semi-soft pleated bosom. $3. Both are authentically styled to fit you smartly and comfortably.
Formal Arrow Dress ties $1. Collars 35c. Handkerchiefs 25c. Put your best front forward . . . Go Arrow!
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
803 SHERLAND BUILDING PHONE 3-1284	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
ARROW SHIRTS
20
THE
N O.T RE DAME SCHOLASTIC
N. D. Glee Club Sings Musical Poem Sunday
The Notre Dame Glee Club will present Song of the Free, a music-poem, on Sunday evening at 8:15 in Washington hall. The performance will be under the direction of Director Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the music department, who has arranged the musical score which makes use of solo voices and octets. in addition to the Glee Club. Iten-sive variety in tonal and modal quality and range has been achieved by Mr. Pedtke.
In addition to the ode, Song of the Free, which was composed by Felix Pog-liano and John White, senior English majors, the Glee Club will sing “Deep River,” “I Got Plenty of Nuthin’,” “I Hear a Rhapsody,” and “I Am An American.”
The presentation has been staged by Thomas Tearney, junior* English major, who has used his three years’ experience with the Cablecourt Players of Chicago to good advantage. In the dramatic role of the evening will be John White, who reads the poem.
This performance will serve as a preview to the Glee Club’s Easter tour, and is intended as the first of a series to be held annually at Notre Dame.
—Dan Broderick
A Variety of Pipes=-A Variety of Prices—
TAKE YOUR CHOICE
Drink
Dr. Grabow ..............$1.50
Yello-Bole Regular________1.00
Yello-Bole Imperial...... 1.50
Kaywoodie Drinkless _____ 3.50
Kaywoodie Carburetor_____ 4.00
Kaywoodie Super-Gran______ 5.00
Hollyclourt _____________ 3.50
Sasieni  5.00
Comoy ___________________ 5.00
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY 825 SHERLAND BUILDING	DR. LANDIS H. WIRT ORTHODONTIST
L. E. FISHER,	M. J, THORNTON. M. D.	M. D.	314 J. M. S. BUILDING	TELEPHONE 4-360'-
	
TELEPHONE 3-4269	Phone	Residence 3-2805	4-1544
ROSE DENTAL GROUP Leonard A. Rose. d. d.s. Cyril F. Rose, d.d.s. Peter J. Rose. d.d.s. 623-629 SHERLAND BLDG.	SOUTH BEND	DR. ARTHUR C. EVERLY FOOT AILMENTS X-Ray Examination hours by	609 J. M.S. Bldg. APPOINTMENT	SOUTH BEND, IND.
1
When you lift on of Coca-Cola to
ice-cold bottle your lips, you
can taste its quality and feel its refreshment. Thirst asks nothing more. So when you pause throughout the day, make it the pause that refreshes wit.h ice-cold Coca-Cola.
After a stiff bout ...pause and
Delicious and / Refreshing /A
YOU TASTE ITS QUALITY
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by
COCA - COLA BOTTLING CO. of South Bend, 1107 Beyer Avenue
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
MUSIC
By John W. Larson
All intelligent criticism grants that art is both human and personal, that its aim is to concretise through the medium of the artist some truth or ideal which is essentally universal. The admission of the national element in art has been so violently attacked that a few words in its defense are not improper.
The differences by which national temperaments are set apart are so obvious that their assertion is scarcely to be emphasized. Europe is divided by her frontier lines (uncertain as they are presently), setting up more than mere geographical boundaries. There are, of course, racial inter-mixtures, but these rarely interfere with the fact of national distinction. If a poet speaks his own age, or if he speaks the world, he also speaks his own country. He makes, moreover, a stronger appeal to his compatriots than do poets of a neighboring country be
Solve Your Shoe Problem
- DOUGLAS
The Eton
Custom and Normal-Tred series $7.00
Best dressed college men answer the shoe problem this way. They choose W. L. Douglas Shoes, America’s leading shoe values. You’ll like the new, handsome Spring styles now here .. .Snappy blacks ... Mellow tans. Many feature Brogandi, tough, strong goatskin with grain texture, soft and pliable as kidskin. All made the famous Douglas way, "Donn - To-The-Wood — Up-To-The-Arch” for perfect fit.
Q^oiujlai Shod
210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
Open Saturday Evenings
SMART NEW SPRING STYLES IN LADY DOUGLAS, $3.85 and $4.95
AMERICA’S BEST KNOWN SHOES
cause the foreign point of view always demands a close study before it can be grasped and accepted. The rule, I think, is true of painting, too. It is possibly more difficult (and dangerous) to attempt national distinctions in this art than in poetry. Nevertheless the distinctions exist.
Some will grant nationalism in the representative arts, but, they say, this is not to infer that the same holds good of music. Painting and poetry are relatively particular and material, they picture the actual; but music is chiefly the expression of abstract, universal forms. So, the composer is much above the limitations of nationalism. The answer to this may be that music idealizes emotion, and if the emotional temper differs in individual countries, the music must differ also. The universal factor is primary, but there are numerous ways of attaining it. The manner in which each nation attains it will rest upon its predilections and character. If the music of a country be genuine and living, it will always
+ SMART STVLE + LONG WEAR
necessarily voice some aspect of national temperament. It will employ expressions of feeling which are in some fashion peculiar to the country out of which it has come.
The simplest national idiom is the folk song, precisely the music which has given foundation to the greatest inspirations and craftsmanship of the composer. If the composer of genius writes without affectation, he w-ill sing his own heart and mind. Inevitably this will compel him to an expression of his native land.
79 TRAINS DAILY TO CHICAGO
•	No guesswork,. just remember this easy schedule: the first two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning with the third, at 7:30 A. M., and until 9:30 P. M., there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11 P. M. and 12 Midnight.
•	Ticket office: 301 N. Michigan Street. Phone 3-3111.
TO CHICAGO
SOUTH BEND
22
THE
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
(Continued from Page 11)
Pange Lingua
A Hymn for Passiontide
Sing loud the conflict, 0 my tongue, The victory that repaired our loss; Exalt the triumph of thy son To the bright trophy of the Cross; Tell how the Lord laid down His life To conquer in the glorious strife.
* * *
Our pitying Maker saw the waste Caused by our ancient father’s fall, Through the forbidden fruit, whose taste Had made him Satan’s helpless thrall; God then decreed the tree should save Him whom the tree had made a slave.
* * *
Such was the deep and needful scheme That rescued man from death’s strong toils,
A plan devised by love supreme To rend asunder Satan’s coils;
That where the foe had dealt the wound, There might the healing balm be found.
* * *
Soon as the destined season came, The Father’s sole-begotten Son, Creator of this mighty frame, Was sent commissioned from his throne; Made flesh within the Virgin’s womb, He came to free us from our doom.
* * *
Behold, within the manger lying, And wrapped in meanest swadding-clothes,
The heavenly Babe all feebly crying. Acquainted even now with woes;
See, how the Virgin-mother sweet Doth fondly bind his hands and feet.
* * *
Glory and honour still be done To Him who reigns o’er all most high; Alike to Father and to Son And Holy Ghost eternally;
To whom alone be power and praise Through an eternity of days.
These verses form the Matins hymn for Passiontide. They are from a long hymn in honor of the Holy Cross written by Venantius Fortunatus, a Latin poet (530-609), who later became Bishop of Poitiers. .This translation by J. T. Aylward. O.P., is from Annus Sanctus, a compilation of Breviary and Missal hymns arranged by Orby Shipley (London, 1884). Numerous other translations testify to the literary excellence of the hymn and its skillful exposition of doctrinal truths.
Elect Fr. Cunningham To Educational Group
For the ninth straight year the Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., director of faculty, has been elected to an executive position in the North Central Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools. For the next year he will serve as a member of the commission on insti
>3
I’
£
Talk about a swell treat... just sink yew teeth into smooth DOUBUWNT GUM v tor real chewing satisfaction Yes, tor real v	. delicious
just sink your fae* ety.smooth,Wl DOUBLEMINT • r Chewing of refreshing	sports,
DOUBUMM dailyaddshin informal get-toge	'	sweeten
your breath, too nnu
W T^S^veryday. enjoy delicious du



^3
tutions of higher education.
He was elected to the position Saturday at the 46th annual meeting of the - association in Chicago. More than 3,000 delegates from 20 north central states attended the meeting to make it the largest in the association’s history. The association, founded in 1895, has a membership of 296 colleges and 2,995 secondary schools.




THE
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
Follow the Crowd
TO
Cyr's Barber Shop
SOUTH BEND'S ALL SANITARY BARBER SHOP
Across from the Court House 100 S. Main Street
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor to ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St Phone 4-8251
ATTENTION STUDENTS!
ADMISSION ) 25c SKATING > , CHECKING J Always
Al Wish's
Playland Roller Rink
Make money on parties here.
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE. O.D.
W. G. BOGARDUS, O.D.
E. C. BERRY. O.D.
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Drive Safely and Save a Life
THE MUSIC BOX
By Felix Pogliano
Top honors this week go to Les Brown and his orchestra for “Beau Night in Hotchkiss Corners” and “Celery Stalks at Midnight.” Both are very danceable tunes, the former played in medium slow drag with growl trombone, the latter jumping at a little faster pace. Doris Day does a swell job vocalizing both sides. (Okeh)
Artie Shaw comes up with two fullbodied arrangements: “I Cover the Waterfront” and “Marinela.” These pieces were made to order for Shaw’s big orchestra and his treatment of them is very good, with the rhumba perhaps the better of the two. (Victor)
“Walking by the River” and “Acci-dent’ly on Purpose” and “Boogie Man” and “The Man Won’t Talk” are Johnny Long’s latest Decca recordings — all good. Perhaps the best vocal in the lot is Helen Young’s in “Accident’ly,” which is still a fine tune. You’ve heard Long play “Boogie Man” on the air; his wax treatment is just as good, with Paul Harmon on the lyrics.
Teddy Powell and his orchestra show great versatility in their latest Bluebird recording, “Straight Eight Boogie” and “Talking to the Wind.” The boogie side is the best since Will Bradley’s “Beat Me Daddy” and “Scrub Me Mama.” It has drive, good solos, and is nicely arranged. The backup, with Ruth Gaylor singing, is a sweet fox trot in keeping with the title.
Benny Goodman continues turning out those big-sounding records. This time it’s “Lazy River” and “Oh! Look at Me Now.” The tune made famous by Tommy Dorsey is given an extra push here, with Helen Forrest on the vocal and Cootie Williams’ trumpet for variety. Helen also sings the flipover in great style. Two very fine jobs. (Columbia) *
That man who plays the piano with two fingers, Lionel Hampton, gets together with his sextette and “Bouncing at the Beacon” and “Fiddle Dee Dee” is the result. The first is the better of the two tunes; a boogie-woogie number done with precision and finish. (Victor)
Jan Savitt and his orchestra are back in that famous groove after a long absence. They have recorded “Green Goon Jive” and “Les Preludes” in the manner that made them famous. It’s good to hear them back on wax — don’t miss it. (Decca)

Stars of the Opera
In New Vocal Albums
LILY PONS in “Classic Airs”—includes “Zemire et Azor.” “The Echo Song.” "Allesandro,” “Se Tu M’Ami,” “Contest Between Phoebus and Pan.”_____§3.50
KIRSTEN FLAGSTAD and LAURITZ MELCHIOR—‘“Parsifal.” duet from Act II, Wagner. Victor Symphony conducted by Edwin McArthur _____1___________$4.50
Brand New Release. . .
. Cornelia Otis Skinner and Otis Skinner in scenes from Shakespeare’s Plays including Murder Scene from “Macbeth”—Wooing Scene from “The Taming of the Shrew”—Potion Speech from “Romeo and Juliet”—Portia’s Mercy Speech from “Merchant of Venice”—Seven Ages of Man from “As You Like It”—Marc Antony’s Oration from "Julius Caesar”$3.50
A First Recording by the Inidanapolis Symphony Orchestra—conducted by Fabian Sevitsky: “Russian and Ludmilla—Overture” (Glinka) and “Dubinushka” (Rim-sky-Karsakow)_______________________$1.00
Jussi Bjoerling—tenor with orchestra conducted by Nils Grevillius: “Stabat Mater—Cujus Animam” (Rossini) Sung in Latin; “Requiem — Ingemisco” (Verdi) Sung in Latin.$1.00
Popular Victor Records 50c
“Everything Happens to Me” and “Whatcha Know Joe;”.— Tommy Dorsey and his orchestra.
“A Media Luz—Intermezzo”—Enric Ma-driguera and his orchestra.
“It’s a Horse and a Saddle For Me” and “Montague the Terrific”—Sammy Kaye and his orchestra.
Bluebird — 35c
“The Wise Old Owl” and “Two Hearts that Pass in the Night”—Teddy Powell and his orchestra.
“Ida. Sweet as Apple Cider” and “It’s Always You"—Glenn Miller and his orchestra.
Larry Clinton’s New Theme Number— “Isn’t if Time to Fall in Love" and on the other side “Blind Date”—Clinton Bluebird Band------------------------------35c
Largest Record Dept, in Michiana 9 Listening Booths Electric Victrolas Well-informed Clerks
OPEN TUES.. THURS^ SAT. EVENINGS
RODinS
/ J 2 wtr*	4	.
the book that gives you the facts
about tobacco and tells you why
its Chesterfield
for a Cooler, Milder, Better Smoke
A. short while ago we published
TOBACCOLAND, U.S. A., the only complete picture story of the growing, curing and processing of fine tobaccos, from seed-bed to cigarette. So great was the demand for this book from smokers everywhere that another million copies are now coming off the press. TOBACCOLAND gives real information and is yours for the asking.
The more you know about how cigarettes are made the more you’ll enjoy Chesterfield . . . the cigarette that Satisfies.
MORE SMOKERS ASK FOR
CHESTERFIELDS EVERY DAY
YOU GO
Copyright 1941, Liggett & Myebs Tobacco Co.
Reading his copy is RAY MILLAND, now star-
ring in Paramount spicture. I WANTED WINGS.
For your FREE copy write to
CHESTERFIELD, P. O. Box 21, New York City.
FOR THIS
FREE BOOK
