Look for this smart new package!
Light up this great new, all-new king size cigarette. Cavalier’s new blend gives you great taste . . . rich, natural flavor that flows to you so
R. J. Reniolda Tobacco Co.» Whutun-Salm, N. C.
easily through the cooling extra length of Cavalier’s top-crop tobaccos. And—the smoke feels good to you, so smooth, so easy-going! It
feels as good as it tastes! Win this new, true smoking enjoyment for yourself with the all-new king size Cavaliers. Do it today!
•all a coed needs to know about car repairs
WHEN Mother was a coed, she didn’t drive much. But when she did, a man usually went along. The man was an indispensable accessory—to fix the car when it got balky.
If today’s coed takes a man along, it’s strictly for company. Fixing her make-up in the rear-view mirror is the only kind of "car repair” she needs to know.
From the beginning, auto makers have aimed for a virtually trouble-proof car. They’ve spent millions to get cars that way. It helps explain why so many cars today use Timken® tapered roller bearings to overcome friction in vital moving parts — in wheels, in pinions, in steering gears. Every American car but one uses Timken bearings to keep them on the go with minimum maintenance.
Keeping cars rolling along smoothly is just one example of how the Timken Company keeps America on the goby working hand-in-hand with all industry. By pioneering improvements in machines and machinery. By increasing
speed and precision, decreasing wear and maintenance.
The pioneering spirit has helped make us the world’s largest manufacturer of tapered roller bearings and removable rock bits, and a leading producer of fine alloy steel.
Because the best place to keep going—and keep going up —is with a company that’s on the go, you may be interested in what lies ahead for promising college graduates at the Timken Company. For details, write for our booklet "This Is Timken”. The Timken Roller Bearing Company, Canton 6. Ohio.
TIMKEN
TRADE-MARK REG. Ua S. PAT. OFF.
TAPERED ROLLER BEARINGS
9	Timken bearings keep America on the GO... and
you keep going up when you go with the Timken Company
May 18, 1956	3

NO CARRYING CHARGE
GILBERTS JUNIOR EXECUTIVE CHARGE ACCOUNT IS FOR NOTRE DAME MEN, TOO
HERE’S a charge account originally designed for our South Bend Store, to help junior executives, young doctors, lawyers and business men build up a wardrobe on a budget. With the opening of the Campus Shop, we offered it to Notre Dame men, too. It’s easy to use . . . simply get what you need now and say, “Charge it to my Junior Executive Charge Account.” Pay nothing until August, when you pay one-third of the amount you have charged. Pay another third in September and the remaining third in October. Try it now. . . . There’s no interest or carrying charge, of course.
On the Campus—Notre Dame
The Scholastic
by William M. Malloy

the unusual case of the last z$cholastic/
The last issue of the ’55-’5G Scholastic comes out with (in the words of Bernard Hollowood) many bangs and whimpers.
It was a very hot night when John ^dams, that noble beast and insensitive butcher of words, our editor, called me to his office. I knocked on his door, and walked in.
“Hi, Chief, what’s up?” I always call him chief.
“Listen, stupid,” he always calls me listen, “when you gon’ write something funny? Now you listen me, you got one more column so you write a real gasser or you don’ get a Scholastic Apr mug like I promised. I hav nuf I a your dirty lousey dirt an I don’ wan no more dirt. See?”
(Then I tried to explain again that I don’t know how to be funny and that originally my manuscripts last year were for the Back Page but they got mixed up and that what I had written had been absolutely serious but everyone thought they were a scream and everything. This made John so mad that I noticed that he was absent-mindedly butting his .cigarette on Paul La-®eniere’s forehead. (Paul, as you know, has been suffering from the illusion that he is a grease-pencil ever since he cor-| rected my first column. He’s usually . veiy normal but when he sees me he | instinctively starts writing with his knee.)
John had been sitting in an office swivel chair, for John loves to lean back with his feet on the desk. Finally he could not take it anymore and he sprang to his feet a good three-quarters of a ^:ond ahead of the spring’s reaction of 1 returning the chair to its normal posi-1 tion. Exactly three-quarters of a second ■ later the chair, as if in outraged revolt I May 18, 1956
to so sudden a departure, charged back to its upright position smacking John on the derriere. Totally unprepared for this he lost all composure and balance and was thrust forward on the desk where he stuck his thumb in a bottle of India ink. Now it just so happened that our feature editor, James O’Brien, had just finished setting a beautiful sketch of the Library on the desk, and lo, much India ink was splattered upon it. This made Jim very disturbed indeed and he proceeded to club John with a handy “T” square to express chastisement. Meanwhile the signs of equal disturbance in Paul LaFreniere became a definite manifestation as he slammed the desk drawer very hard on Adams’ hand overlapping the edge of the desk while chuckling good-naturedly.
At this point Dick Navin, a veiy good sport and naturally inclined to the underdog, charged upon the scene to help Adams; but Dick, who is not exactly a study in coordination was unable to think quickly enough in the short time he allowed himself, and meaning to attack both O’Brien and LaFreniere he did not understand that he must do so one at a time. Passing between them on his inertia he succeeded only in sticking his elbow in Adams’ eye. That was the limit; Adams had had enough. And although O’Brien was still beating him with his “T” square 'he misunderstood the intention of Navin and in an effort to remove the painful elbow he swung wildly with his good hand, the one not caught in the drawer. Unfortunately there was still a bottle of India ink on his thumb. But Fortune, not herself unaware of Justice, had it that the swing of Adams was just as wild as it was deadly and it flew in a harmless arch over Navin’s head. Centrifugal force
proved too much for the already slipping bottle and it went sailing across the room over in the midst of those working on the Dome.
It will be admitted by even the most conservative that having a bottle of ink thrown at you is at the least unpleasant. Add to this the fact that the weather is unbearable, that you are a literary and therefore neurotic person, that you are working with an almost unreasonable deadline, that you are working on the yearbook and it offers practically no thanks from anyone, and that the bottle of ink comes from the Scholastic, an institution of bitter rivalry and you have justifiable data for revenge.
Regardless of the ethics involved revenge was on the mind of all Domers and as a unit they arose and counterattacked. This new development caused the Scholasticks to forget their individual grievances and face the menace with typical Scholastic courage. Sports Editor Joe Norton, caught the most advanced Domer with a typewriter and- a half a column of Time Out. O’Brien switched from “T” square to printer’s ink which definitely slowed the opponents’ attack.
First round, Scholastic. They lead 2-0.
At this time I complete the strange case of the last Scholastic and the existence of Entree with a request to all Notre Dame students: Ask any man living in the basement of Sorin what Miss Jo Ann Akalaitis of St. Mary’s of the Woods was doing with a bucket of varnish and a paint brush a little over two weeks ago.
Editor’s Note: And so ends the journalistic career of William M. Malloy, not witK a bang, not with a whimper, but with a soft splashing sound.
5
Who Came First?
Editor:
In the April 27 issue of the Scholastic is printed a statement which I believe was written without adequate research on the subject, because it has no foundation in fact. The news item entitled, “Seniors Receive Engineer of Year Awards,” states that James Massey is the first engineer in the history of Notre Dame to achieve the honor of being valedictorian of his class.
Without any desire or intention of detracting in the least degree from the honor due Mr. Massey and, I pray, without any sense of personal vainglory, but to uphold the honor of the Class of 1914 and to keep the record straight, I call your attention to the fact that the University records will show that I had the exceedingly great honor to be valedictorian of my class when I received the degree of Electrical Engineer. Whether or not I was the first engineering graduate so honored, I know not, and neither do I know whether there were any other engineering graduates since 1914 who received the same high honor.
May I take this opportunity to congratulate Mr. Massey on his accomplishment and to wish him and the other “Engineers of the Year” success and happiness in their professional careers.
Joseph M. Walsh 143-29 Barclay Ave. Flushing 55, N. Y.
INVENTORY
JUGGLER ■ Coming May 24 your chance to judge NOTRE DAME'S •witness to the Catholic College Intellect ■ in the Bookstore and Cafeteria
Entree _______________________    5
Repercussion .............     ...6
View ____________________      ...7
Campus Scene......................9
Folio .........................  15
At a Glance____________________  20
Showcase .................      .22
Irish Scene _________________ ...25
Time Out_______________________  28
Back Page ___________________  ..34
SUMMER SCHOOL STUDENTS— Cool, comfortable rooms especially furnished for students. Convenient and reasonable. Phone: CE 3-4703.
Order a full year’s subscription to the SCHOLASTIC for your parents and friends. Only $4.00.
Attention 1956 Graduates
Keep in touch with your friends and the news of the Notre Dame campus with a subscription to the SCHOLASTIC ... at a special rate for 1956 graduates for the 1956-57 school year. Take advantage of this opportunity to receive campus news all next year wherever you are.
Special Price <3.00
Send your name, home address and remittance to
The Notre Dame SCHOLASTIC Notre Dame, Indiana
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 97 May 18, 1956 No. 24 a
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of 5ostage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized une 23, 1918.
JOHN ADAMS Editor
PAUL LaFRENIERE Associate Editor
CHARLES McKENDRICK ....News Editor
ED JOYCE .......................Copy	Editor I
BOB KAUFMAN____________Production Manager ’
DAVE KUBAL ...................Assistant	News
DAVE THOMPSON ................Assistant	Ne^
james McDonald .........Assistant News j JIM STEINTRAGER ...___________Assistant	News j
JIM O’BRIEN ..................Feature	Editor
JOHN GUEGUEN ....Feature Co-ordinator RICHARD NAVIN .....................Art	Editor
HARRY CONLON ............Business Manager NORB RADZIWON Circulation Manager JIM FITZGERALD...........Photo Co-ordinator JOE NORTON ..............  Sports	Edito^
JOHN GLAVIN ................ Assistant	SpoW	I
RAY LESCHER .................Assistant	Sports
NEWS STAFF: Joe Accardo, Frank Biedka, R. Lee Brand, Jim Carroll, George Clements, Thomas Clifton, Andrew Connelly, Jim Dulan, John Has-ley, Joe HeimoskL Greg Kilduff, Jim Lenox, Jim Loeffler, Harry McKee, John McMahon, Joe Mo-carski, Dave Noland, Bob Plante, Terry Plunkett. Marsh Pidgeon, Joe Schaefer, Mike Schofield, David Schwartz, Louis Stettler, Bob Vondrasek, Ray Walsh. SPORT STAFF: John Barthel, Andrew Camazola., Patrick DeFoe, Robert Early, James Goethals, John Grady, Russell Hopkins, James Langford, James Merz, Robert Parnell, Edward Rohrbach, James Short, Carl Skiff.
BUSINESS STAFF: Bob Parker and Loran Shefj®
Member of Catholic School Press Association,. Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during .the 1 school year, except during vacation and examina- I tion periods at the University of Notre Dame. Ad- il dress all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre I Dame, Indiana.	I
SUBSCRIPTIONS: $4.00 per year. Single copies 25c.
ON THE COVER Photographer Ste^ Fox catches Senior Bill Brisick in a prV file typifying the determined confidence of the June graduate in the future.
The Scholastic
6

satisfaction
psalm
OLORD, thou hast been a refuge for us from generation to generation.
Before the mountains were brought forth and the earth and the world 'were born, and from everlasting to everlasting thou art, O God.
Bid men return to dust, and say: "Return ye, children of men.”
For a thousand years in thy sight are as yesterday, which has passed away, and as a watch in the night.
Thou tearest them away: they become like a morning ^fream, like grass that shoots up.
In the morning it flourishes and is green, in the evening it is mowed and withers away.
In truth we are consumed by thy wrath, and troubled by thine indignation.
Thou hast set our iniquities before thine eyes, our secret < sins in the light of thy countenance.
For all our days have passed away in thy anger; we have ended our years like a sigh.
- The sum of our years is seventy, and, if we are strong, • eighty;
' And most of them are toil and emptiness: for they •swiftly pass, and we fly away.
_ ' Who has weighed the power of thy anger, and thine indignation as due fear of thee demands?
. Teach us to number our days, that we might arrive at wisdom of heart.
Return, O Lord,—how long?—and be kind to thy r servants.
Fill us speedily with thy mercy, that we may rejoice and be glad all our days.
| > Gladden us for the days when thou hast afflicted us, _for the years in which we have seen evils.
Let thy work appear unto thy servants, and thy glory ' ^.unto their children.
0 And may the kindness of the Lord our God be upon us, _l-,and prosper thou the work of our hands for us, and give ...success to the work of our hands.
This writing marks the end of our association with the Scholastic. It all began during the winter of 1952-53 when we responded to a Scholastic appeal for news reporters. We took that first assignment (of covering the Placement Bureau) in dead earnest, though we subsequently discovered that this was the lowest of the low beats on the news staff. There were other rather distasteful beats, too, and we’ve done a lot of jobs in connection with the magazine that are something less than desirable.
But we’d do it all again. We’ve put in a lot of hours on the Scholastic, and there are many things that we’ve had to give up in the process. There’s compensation for these relatively small sacrifices though.
We’ve learned to work with a number of fellows possessing various abilities and temperaments. We’ve rubbed each other the wrong way on several occasions, disagreeing over this or that journalistic nicety. In the heat of meeting deadlines we’ve been snappy and curt and demanding. But the satisfaction derived from getting out an issue everv week has carried us over the rough spots.
A weekly magazine teaches responsibility too. It has to come out on time and such things as tests, assigned papers and other classwork must be subordinated. Even with the best planned schedule, a late story or format change canupset the works.
In expressing our ideas and opinions we’ve been called on to defend them. We admit we’ve made mistakes. We’ve had people tell us about these mistakes, too, and show us where we’ve been in the wrong. For this we are grateful, even though as proud and omniscient collegians, we may have exhibited no appreciation at the time. We feel we’ve profited by these errors.
At the printer’s we’ve learned the rudiments of that age-old trade. We’ve learned that it’s quite a jump from the type-written copy to the printed page. We’ve become accustomed to distinguishing a good layout from a bad one.
There have been pleasant surprises and deep disappointments in this work. Week after week we’ve tried to come up with new ideas and improvements and changes in the magazine. Some concepts that were planned well in advance and painstakingly developed have been complete flops. Other last-minute angles, necessitated by deadline pressures, have proved amazingly effective.
All this adds up to experience and training that just isn’t available within the confines of a classroom. It’s something above and beyond the usual educational process. It’s challenging, demanding, interesting; most of all it’s rewarding and satisfying.
We consider our connection with the Scholastic to be an integral part of the years we’ve spent here at the University. Yes, we’d do it again if we had the opportunity.
—P. L.
y May 18, 1956
7
FILTER TIpTAREYION
Gives you move to enjoy
Full King Size
Full Measure
Tareyton’s Quality Tobacco
Tareyton’s Real Filtration
PUFF
PRODUCT Of
©
; /•
T CO.
FILTER TIP
TAWON

All the pleasure comes thru

SIZE
8
The Scholastic
Seem
.SENIORS REVIVE OLD ROME FOR FESTIVE BALL TONIGHT
Elgart's Orchestra to Provide Music in Drill Hall; Dinner Dance, Breakfast to Complete Weekend
Six hundred and eighty men of the Class of ’56 and their dates will dance to the music of Les Elgart’s Orchestra amid a “Feste Romana” setting at the annual Senior Ball tonight in the Navy Drill Hall from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. Ball-
Sena+e Elects Officers For 1956-57 Session
Jerry Murphy, junior political science major from Peoria, Ill., was’ elected vice-president of the Student Senate at the weekly meeting of the Senate last Monday night.
Other officers elected to assist Presi-^dent Pat Logan include Jerry Brady, AB sophomore from Idaho Falls, Idaho; secretary; and Harry Wasoff, commerce sophomore from Dallas, Tex., treasurer.
Murphy, who by his election will become chairman of the Hall Presidents’ Council, has had three years experience in the Senate. He served during the past year in the position of treasurer.
Brady was president of the sophomore class this year and Wasoff was a sena-
•tor from Lyons Hall.
The officers will assume their new duties immediately. They were elected by members of the new senate, which includes next year’s class officers, college senators and stay senators.
Murphy, in assuming his post as head of the Presidents’ Council, said that his main object would be to cultivate the ■ great possibilities of the group in ; furthering development of student government at Notre Dame.
A (Murphy added: “The Hall Presidents’ ^Council represents the grass roots of ” student activity and I feel that it can be of remarkable service to the senate and the students it serves.”
goers must arrive before 11 p.m. and may not leave before 1 a.m.
Miss Patricia Petry, a St. Mary’s College junior from Champaign, Ill., the date of Jim Kramer, general chairman, will reign as queen of the Ball. She will be crowned at intermission by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University.
Car permissions for the seniors will extend over the whole week-end, from noon today until noon Sunday.
Favors will be presented to the seniors’ dates. Corsages are optional. The Ball committee announced that tables will be set up outside to provide an outdoor terrace, weather permitting.
Tomorrow evening, 90 couples will attend a dinner-dance in the Gold Room of the Oliver Hotel. Dinner will be served at 7:30 p.m. with dancing from 8:30 to 11:30 p.m. Ed Pistey’s combo will provide the music for the occasion.
Elgart -will play in the Drill Hall tomorrow night also. “Sophisticated Swing-time” is the theme for this affair which will have the ball decorations as a background. Tickets are $3 for the dance which will last from 8:30 until 11:30 p.m.
Sunday morning, following the 8 a.m. Mass in Sacred Heart Church, a Communion breakfast in the East Dining Hall will bring the weekend’s activities to an end. Bill Markley and his breakfast committee expect 270 couples to attend. Father Hesburgh will be the featured speaker with other administration officials attending as guests.
Besides Kramer and Markley, other chairmen for the weekend are: Chuck Vandegrift, tickets; Jim Mehary, refreshments ; Dave Friske, physical facilities; Joe Weibel, publicity; Jack Fieh-rer, entertainment; Pete Cannon, reservations; Walt Peeney, business manager; Mike Kiley, dinner-dance; and Jay Madigan, decorations.
MISS PATRICIA PETRY
Reigns in ‘old Roma’ tonight.
Schedule Announced For Commencement
Commencement exercises for the seniors will begin with the annual Class Day on June 2.
Class Day will officially open at 8:30 a.m. when the seniors will assemble by colleges and march down the steps of the Main Building to Sacred Heart Church for “The Last Visit.”
Then the procession will continue to the Drill Hall where the graduates and their immediate relatives will witness the awarding of medals and prizes to the outstanding members of the class and the commissioning of ROTC and Marine trainees by Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice president of the University.
Bill Warren, class president, will give the introductory address - followed by Gerald Massey’s class oration. James Massey will then present the valedictory address.
Sunday, a Solemn Pontifical Mass will be held at 9 a.m. in the Stadium. Immediately following the Mass, the Most Rev. Thomas K. Gorman, Bishop of the Dallas-Ft. Worth diocese, will deliver the baccalaureate sermon.
The graduation exercises will take place at 1:10 p. m. in the Stadium. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, will confer 1060 professional and undergraduate degrees plus nine honorary degrees. Adm. Ar-leigh A. Burke, chief of naval operations, will give the commencement address.
May 18, 1956
9
SKETCH OF PROPOSED RESIDENCE HALLS Buildings set for 1958 completion.
Construction to Begin in July on New Halls; Completion of Buildings Set for Spring of 1958
The University will build a dining hall and two student residence halls in a S4 million construction program scheduled to begin this summer, it was announced here today by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University. The new buildings will make it possible for virtually all of Notre Dame’s undergraduate students to live and eat on the campus, he said.
Although most of the buildings erected at Notre Dame in recent years have been provided by benefactors, construction of the new dining and residence facilities is being financed by borrowing funds from the University endowment, Father Hesburgh disclosed. This method of financing appeared necessary, he explained, if Notre Dame is to continue its tradition of having all its undergraduate students live on the campus “where they can share fully in the University’s academic, spiritual and social life.”
Designed by Ellerbe and Company of St. Paul, Minn., the new dining hall will
Sarphie Chosen Prefect In Third Order Election
Claude Sarphie, sophomore from Hattiesburg, Miss., was elected prefect of Notre Dame’s Third Order of St. Francis at a recent meeting.
Other officers for the coming year include: Michael Crowe, of Kansas City, Mo., master of novices; Raymond Desutter, of Attica, Ind., vice prefect; Joseph McMahon, of Westerly, R. I., treasurer.
Sarphie announced that the campus unit will be host to the order’s National Youth Congress to be held August 13 to 16. An estimated 1,200 members are expected to attend. Theme of the meeting will be “Restoring All Things in Christ.”
10
accommodate between 1,500 and 2,000 students while the two residence halls will house a total of 600 students. Both will be of contemporary design and constructed of buff brick with limestone trim. They will be situated in the northeast section of the campus in the area generally known as the freshman quadrangle. Father Hesburgh indicated that construction contracts will be awarded in the near future. Ground will be broken by mid-summer and the buildings should be ready for occupancy in the spring of 1958, he said.
The new dining hall will be a one-story structure with dimensions of approximately 332 by 143 feet. Situated adjacent to Juniper Road facing west, the building will have three principal entrances into a lobby or foyer. Opening off the lobby will be six dining rooms serving meals cafeteria-style. Four of these dining rooms will be convertible into one large dining room with a capacity of a thousand persons. The kitchen will be in the center-rear portion of the building with equal access to all dining rooms. The building will have
NEW DINING HALL FOR EAST END RESIDENTS
Air-conditioned building to accommodate 1,500 diners.
a full basement with large areas for* the storage and deep-freezing of food. The entire building will be air-conditioned. Notre Dame’s other dining hall, which will continue to serve about two-thirds of the student body, was erected in 1927.
The two residence halls, which will be Notre Dame’s sixteenth and seventeenth student housing units, will ac^) commodate a total of 600 students in 300 double rooms. Although they will be administered separately, they will be joined by a central foyer or lobby. Students in the two halls will share a chapel whose entrance will be in the foyer. The four-story buildings will be 374 feet in overall length at their longest point and 193 feet deep. They will
be situated adjacent to the Studen^ i Infirmary and will face east towarc™ I the new dining hall.	,
Outdoor Novena to Open Sunday at Fatima Shrine
The annual outdoor novena at the shrine of Our Lady of Fatima •will have I its solemn opening on Sunday afternoon at 3 p.m. On weekdays the services will be held at 8 p.m. The Rev. Richarc^J ' Kennedy, C.S.C., will preach the novena.
As in the past students are invited to attend all the exercises of the novena. A special night will be assigned to each hall when the students from that hall will be asked to go as a pilgrimage ; group and to participate in the religious ■ procession during the recitation of the 1 rosary. The pilgrimage groups are J asked to meet behind the statue.
FINIAN’S RAINBOW
The University Theater will present "Finian’s Rainbow” for graduates and their guests on June 2. Two performances, a matinee at 2 p.m. and an evening performance at 8 p.m., will be presented.
The Scholastic
*McCartan Named Faculty Advisor of WSND; Station to Air FM Broadcast Through Exams
Pat McCartan, station manager of WSND for the past year, has been named faculty moderator for the student radio station for the 1956-57 school term, jit was announced during the past week T)y the Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of student affairs.
McCartan, a senior political science major from Youngstown, 0., will enter the Notre Dame College of Law in September and is designated a non-teaching fellow in conjunction with his duties as station moderator.
McCartan replaces Jerome Fallon, of xhe department of speech, who has been serving as WSND faculty moderator.
Grad Student Dance Slated for Tomorrow
The Spring social calendar will welcome a new addition tomorrow evening ^vhen the Graduate Student Association inaugurates its annual informal dinnerdance at the Morris Inn.
Postponing exams and seminars temporarily, some 40 grad students and their dates will be served a ham dinner at 7:30 p.m. in the Inn’s first-floor parlors before adjourning to the Mahogany Room downstairs to dance from 9 until 11:30 p.m. to the music of Bob Shilt’s orchestra.
A The grads will also enjoy the facili-^ties of the Inn’s Golf Lounge.
Co-chairmen for the dinner-dance are
Fallon is taking a leave of absence from the University to complete graduate work at the University of Michigan.
Fred Corkill, who succeeded McCartan as station manager, announced that WSND has joined the National Association of College Broadcasters, discontinuing membership in the Intercollegiate Broadcasting System. College Radio Corporation has been appointed national advertising representative for the Notre Dame station.
Music Till Midnight
Corkill also announced that the station will conclude regular programming at midnight Saturday, May 19, but will provide FM music daily from Sunday, May 20 through Wednesday, May 30. The station will sign on with music at 9:30 a.m. and sign off at midnight during that period.
WSND will return to the air for the 1956-57 broadcast year at noon, Sept. 17, Corkill said.
The new station manager stated that sales figures through April show that WSND has already surpassed its sales total for the 1954-55 broadcast year, which had been a record.
Corkill cited the recent remote coverage of the Jackie Burke-Jimmy Demaret golf exhibition as an outstanding “first” among WSND’s accomplishments for the year. Bill Chesson, sports director for the station, was in charge of the project which included use of handi-talkie radios loaned by the Indiana National Guard.
Corkill also cited other accomplish
ments of the past year including: installation of a second broadcast studio with its own console and turntables, installa-ation of an FM receiver which relays music during the morning hours and has increased WSND’s average air time to almost 14 hours a day, installation of a new transmission system to be functioning in September, and introduction of new programming, including a campus quiz show and several elaborate production shows.
ASCE Group Wins Award For Top Chapter in Region
In an announcement made at their annual banquet, the Notre Dame student chapter of the American Society of Civil Engineers was named the top student ' chapter in the north central region by the professional society in New York.
This number one rating was attained for the chapter’s activity during the 1955 calendar year. In winning the honor, the ASCE group was selected over similar units on 28 college campuses from Minnesota to Arkansas, and from Indiana to Kansas. This region is one of five in the country, and in ratings compiled on a regional basis, the chapter ranked in the top 15 for national honors.
The success of the local organization was brought about through the work of Faculty Advisor James A. McCarthy and President John Massman, a senior from Kansas City, Mo. The quality of speakers invited to Notre Dame and the varied activities sponsored by the chapter were cited by the national society in their award.
Bob Hochman, GSA president and Ph.D. candidate in metallurgy, and Don Carbone, political science major in the American studies program and GSA publicity chairman.
Hochman’s date will be Miss Ann Barnes, a St. Mary’s junior from South Bend, while Carbone will escort Miss Mary Agnes McHugh, a high school ^teacher from Grand Rapids, Mich.
9 Special guests at the evening’s festivities will include Rev. Theodore M. Hes-burgh, C.S.C., and Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., representing the University.
For Sunday afternoon, a “stag-or-j drag” picnic, open to all graduate stu-। dents, has been planned.
Assisting the co-chairmen with ticket sales for the dinner-dance have been I Gene Ashby, Tom Wark, Bill Sullivan, I Ed Cahill, Roger Hipskind, Bernard McManus, Ed Rhomberg, and Phil Gleason. A The graduate dinner-dance is expected ^to become a permanent fixture among i the activities of the Graduate Student I Association.
I May 18, 1956
MISS ANN BARNES, MISS MARY AGNES McHUGH Grad students’ queens.
11
Campus Clubs Elect Officers for Next Year; Social Activities Planned for Summer Season
Bud Freidhiem, newly elected president of the Chicago Club, announced that the club would sponsor a dance the first week of the summer vacation at the Merchants and Manufacturers Club of the Merchandise Mart. Tentative date for the dance has been set as June 1. The bids will cost $3.50 on campus and $4 in Chicago.
In addition to Freidhiem, the other officers elected were Bill Kigali, vicepresident; Dan Lamont, secretary, and David Mann, treasurer.
Elected to the club’s executive committee were George Groble, Frank Hennessy, Burt Reynolds, Jack Sullivan, Jim Chrisman, and Joe Manzo.
The club sponsored two banquets recently. At the bowling banquet last (Monday night, 15 trophies were awarded for performance in the past winter’s bowling league. At the annual senior banquet on May 14, five gold calendar watches were given to the senior football players from the Chicago area. Jerry Sweeny, outgoing club president, was also given a clock radio.
In another club election, Ed Keenan was elected president of the Met Club. The election was held May 6 in the basement of the Dining Hall. Other officers elected were Jim Cummings, vice-president; Joe Derrico, secretary; and John McFadden, treasurer.
Terry Conway was elected president of the Cleveland Club at a recent meeting. Other officers chosen included Bob Miller, vice-president; Bill Sheehan, secretary; and Jerry Hahn, treasurer.
The newly elected officers will take
charge immediately and continue in their positions next year.
Conway announced that plans are underway for a June picnic and a summer dance to be held in August. Conway also reported that the Akron Club has joined the Cleveland organization and that henceforth they will be one club.
Mike Howard, president of the Irish Club, announced recently that Fuller McBride, a pre-med junior from Waupun, Wis., was elected president of the club for the next year.
At the same time he announced that Pete Keyes, AB junior from Baldwin, N. Y., was elected vice-president; Tom O’Haire, science sophomore from Elgin, Ill., secretary; and Mike Glynn, AB junior from Westfield, N. J., treasurer.
BRIDGE TITLE TO PANGBORN
Pangborn Hall won the interhall bridge tournament which was played last Sunday in the Student Center. Sorin Hall finished second in the field of seven teams.
For winning this tournament, Pangborn Hall was awarded points in the competition for the President's cup.
Playing on the Pangborn Hall team were: Ron Herman, Bill Braun, John Kuhn, and John Seidensticker. Jack Casey, Tom Walsh, Pat Bradford, and Tom Betterton represented Sorin.
Band to Close Season® With Parade, Concert
The Marching Band will conclude its activities tomorrow in the Armed Forces Day parade in downtown South Bend. This parade will mark the band’s eighteenth public appearance of the school year. It has appeared befor^ over one-half million people.	"
The Concert Band, under the direction of Mr. Robert O’Brien, will give a commencement concert in the Drill Hall the evening of June 1. Included in the program will be a series of light classics, marches, and popular- tunes.
During the academic exercises, the Concert Band will play at the senior Class Day exercises in the Drill Hall, and at the Baccalaureate and Com^ mencement exercises in the Stadium. The band will give a lawn concert in front of the Main Building on the evening of June 2.
The annual banquet, for the University bands, will be held May 31. George Murray, band president, will preside over the banquet. The principal speakerwill be Mr. Forrest McAllister, editor of the School Musician magazine. Approximately 40 bandsmen will receive^ awards at this banquet.
Drum (Major Dick Kopituk and his committee are currently working out next year’s football shows. All bandsmen will return to the campus a week early in the fall to begin workouts and fundamentals for the football season.
The third annual band camp of the National Catholic Bandmasters Association will be held on the campus in August. This camp is held for higl^ school musicians with the University’s® bands acting as host. Mr. O’Brien is the current president of the NCBA.
VETVILLE COUNCIL GATHERS around Mayor Frank Harrison (center) as he explains policies of his administration. The recently inaugurated segment of the council sits on Harrison’s right.
University Announces Student Appointments
The University recently announced several student appointments for next year. Tom Shehan was announced as the student insurance representative for the Continental Casualty Co. of Chicago^ while Pat Conway was named student loan administrator.
Shehan is a junior philosophy major from Baltimore, Md. He will take over the post now held by Jerry Hornback. Conway, junior finance major from Rochester, Minn., will take over from Walt Peeney.
The Student Senate recently appointed Bob Dunseath, junior PFA from Indianapolis, Ind., as Student Center manager for next year. Two sophomores.^ Dave IMcMahon of Sayville, N. Y., and™ Bob Duffy of Floral Park, N. Y., will act as Dunseath’s assistants.
12
The Scholastic
I
^lext Year’s Officers Elected by Glee Club
! Ron Francis, junior journalism major from Toledo, 0., was named president of the Glee Club in the recent elections.
Pete Scheuermann, junior architect ^rom Westfield, N. J., was elected vice Opresident, while Jim Feeney, a sophomore in journalism from Janesville, Wis., was elected secretary. Dave Mc-, Mahon, a sophomore in AB from Sayville, N. Y., was elected treasurer.
Regarding next year’s Glee Club, Francis said: “I -will try to continue to further the prestige of the Glee Club as । a representative body of the University I and as a competent musical organization. | A “I have confidence that next year will I oe a good one for us because the grad' uating seniors will be replaced by some very able underclassmen. We have two returning vocal soloists — Tenor Bob i Ogburn, and Baritone Rudy Pruden. I Pianist Ed Neylon and Jack Guinn, a music major who has done some assist, ant directing, will also be back.” i The Glee Club will close its season I with a graduation concert on the evening 1 Apf June 2 in the Drill Hall. The mood । c)f the first half of the concert will be | of a formal vein, with the Glee Club | dressed in tails to present religious and I serious numbers.
I The second half of the program will I be more informal, with the members of ! the Glee Club dressed in blazers, pre-। senting a humorous sketch of life here I at Notre Dame.
I Jim Cremins will portray the central I figure in this musical sketch which will | wgive the graduates’ parents a glance into I their sons’ attitudes toward college and । his experiences of each school year.
I ND-Pitt Game Chosen I For Fall Student Trip
If The 1956 Student Trip will journey | to Pittsburgh for the Notre Dame-Pitt , game on Nov. 10, it was announced this past week. The trip will begin on Friday afternoon and will end on Sunday ' evening.
» A dance is being planned in conjunc-Ition with the Pittsburgh Club of Notre Dame. A blind date bureau will be set up with several of the Pittsburgh Catholic girls’ schools. The dance is scheduled for Saturday evening. On Sunday afternoon there will be a sightseeing tour of Pittsburgh.
Approximately 400 students are expected to make the trip. The chairman As Emmett 'Malloy. He will be assisted i	Ijy Bert Millen, transportation; Walt
j Hurrman, accommodations; Joe Bride, ■ social; and Walt Smithe, publicity.
I May 18, 1956
Kopp Outlines 1956-57 Blue Circle Program; Concert, Lecture Series Committee Formed
Gene Kopp, recently elected chairman of the Blue Circle honor society for the 1956-57 school year, has outlined a program for the coming year which stresses “expansion.”
Commenting on future plans, Kopp states that: “The Circle wants to expand its activities next year, to improve upon those which it has traditionally organized, and to function in the fullest sense of the word, in an advisory capacity to, and as a component of, student government at the University of Notre Dame.”
Already a new committee has been formed. This is the Concert and Lec-
JOHNSON, KOPP, SHEHAN
Blue Circle's Top Men. I
ture Series committee, whose purpose will be to vigorously promote the Concert and Lecture Series of the University. The committee will work with Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vicepresident of Student Affairs, to try and bring better presentations to the campus. The quantity of performances may be limited in order to improve their quality. Attempts will be made to bring “name” entertainers here if possible, and to get that type of entertainment that the students want.
The Student Advisory committee is already working with Mr. William Burke, the student adviser, to get advisers for the incoming AB and Commerce freshmen. The colleges of Engineering and Science conduct their own advisory programs. The AB and Commerce colleges have no effective advisory programs until junior year, when each department takes care of its own majors.
Those who are to assist the new freshmen will be chosen by the committee from a list of names submitted by the respective college senators. The purpose of the program is to assign a personal adviser to each freshman. These men will be upperclassmen, not necessarily on the dean’s list, who will attempt to answer all questions that the new student might have on any social, academic, or spiritual activities.
Tony Yurchak, a pre-med junior from Wheeling, W. Va., is chairman of the Freshmen Orientation Committee, which is planning a full program of religious, academic, and social orientation for the new students this fall. The Circle comes back a week early to conduct this program. Various departments of the University have already been contacted by the committee to give lectures about their respective functions. Plans are being made for further meetings with girls’ schools to arrange socials for the freshmen.
The Pep Rally committee is in the process of obtaining appropriate speakers and material for the fall football games. The Student Trip committee is mapping plans for the student body trip, also in the fall.
Kopp expressed a great amount of optimism for next year because of: “The fine job which the officers and members of the Circle did this year in leaving a strong framework on which to build; the two outstanding men, Tom Shehan and Art Johnson, who have been elected with me; and the outstanding caliber of new members admitted this year.” Kopp emphasized that: “The tone of next year’s Circle will be one of action, efficiency, and success.”
The Circle functions traditionally as a service component of student government in serving the students, student government, and administration by carrying out those activities which it is asked to handle, and initiating further projects to better student life at Notre Dame.
Villagers Elect New Officers
Officers for next year’s Villagers Club were elected recently. John McMeel was named president; Jim Walden, vicepresident; Jim Artz, secretary; and Ken Robison, treasurer.
Those elected to serve on the board were Joe Boland, Stark Sanders, Earl Briesch, Joe Jeziorski, Tom Haley, and Jim Jones.
13
Logan Elected Pro Tem Regional Chairman As NSA Holds Spring Convention at Oberlin
Pat Logan, new student body president, was elected pro-tem chairman of the Ohio-Indiana region of the National Student Association at the regional spring convention held at Oberlin College, last weekend.
The NSA is a confederation of college student bodies represented through their student governments. Over 300 colleges and universities in the United States belong to NSA, representing some 600,000 students.
NSA is designed to promote students’ interests and welfare throughout the United States. The Association was founded in 1946. Among its aims are to stimulate and improve democratic student governments, develop better educational standards, promote international understanding, and to foster the recognition of the rights and responsibilities of the student.
NSA provides a voice for students on both the national and international levels. It facilitates the exchange of ideas, operations, and programs through meetings, clinics and workshops, and periodicals and special publications. Specific information on problems and ideas in student government is supplied through the Student Government Information Service. NSA also plans and promotes intercollegiate projects such as student discount service, foreign student programs, and the travel program which
Cunningham Group to Give Dance Performance Tonight
The Merce Cunningham Dancers, accompanied by pianists David Tudor and John Cage, ■will give a performance in Washington Hall tonight at 8:15 p.m. Tickets will be on sale at the box office until curtain time.
All seats are reserved with prices set at $1.50 and $1 for visitors and $.75 and $1 for students, faculty, and university staff.
Included in the repertoire of dances are: Root of an Unfocus, Amores, Two-Step, College, Suite by Chance, Solo Suite in Space and Time, Septet, Banjo and Untitled Solo, Fragments, Minutiae, and the most recent work of the group, Springweather and People.
During the past year the dancers have performed before audiences in New York and in several cities on the West Coast. They have travelled to Asia where shows were presented in Ceylon, India, Indonesia, and Japan, and are currently on a concert tour across the United States.
This will be the last presentation of the Concert and Lecture Series.
prorides low-cost educationally oriented trips to foreign countries.
Six national officers, elected annually at the national congress held during the summer, administrate the Association. The president is responsible for the overall operation and he works from the national office in Philadelphia. The national affairs vice-president assists the president and area vice-presidents, and is responsible for the administration of the national program. There are four area vice-presidents in NSA and these are the international affairs, student affairs, educational, and student government vice-presidents.
The regional organizations of NSA are largely autonomous, haring individual constitutions, eexcutive officers, and programs. Ohio-Indiana is one of 19 such regions which are determined on a geographical basis.
(Continued on page 32)
MISS CAROL MALOY ‘Swingtime’ sweetheart.
Elgart Band to Play For Saturday Dance
More than 700 couples will dance to the music of Les Elgart and his orchestra tomorrow night from 8 to 11:30 in the Navy Drill Hall. The “Sophisticated Swing-time” is sponsored by the Student Senate.
Tickets for the dance may be obtained from Al Mooney in 235 Pangbom and Bert de Nourie in 245 Badin. They will also be sold at the door for $3.
Miss Carol Maloy, a former student at Sweet Briar College in Virginia, date of Chairman Jack Casey, will reign as queen of the dance.
Inter-mission entertainment for the aw 1 fair will be provided by the Notre Danie Glee Club. Entertainment chairman Dan Bergen announced that the Glee Club will feature its program -with a musical summary of the events throughout the school year.
In addition the Glee Club’s Octette will be co-featured during the inter-mission program.
The Student Senate sponsored dancW is an experiment because it brings a 1 “big-name” band here for a Saturday | night dance. Plans for future dances and entertainment will hinge on the sue-cess of the Elgart dance.	j
Chainnan Casey stated, “If the Elgart 1 dance is a success, there is a strong pos- | sibility that well known bands will be obtained for some of the Victory dances j as well as for other Saturday nigl^ ! dances this next school year.”
Besides Casey and Bergen, other com- | mittee chairmen working on the affair ! are Greg Devers and John Kiefer, hotels; I Bert de Nourie and Al Mooney, tickets; Ed Sullivan, refreshments; and Gep Durenberger, publicity.	!
O'Brien Named Headg Of Wranglers Group ,
Tom O’Brien, a junior philosophy * major from Green Bay, Wis., was elected president of the Wranglers last week. ■ Bernard Troy, C.S.C., a Moreau semin- ■ arian, was elected secretary.	;
The semi-annual Wranglers’ banquet 1 will be held Monday evening at the Hoff- ; man Hotel. Prof. Frank J. O’Malley, moderator, will deliver a paper at thA banquet. All new members will be officially incorporated into the group at this time.
The Wranglers, oldest continuously active organization at Notre Dame, is designed to capitalize on one of the major advantages of a university, the presence of serious students. The members form a community of students who believe in the merit of exchanging and sharing thought, and of discovering and learning in common.
This group meets weekly throughouw the school year. At each meeting one of the members reads an original paper i composed on some aspect of a general topic selected for the year, after which , the paper and the questions raised by it are discussed by all members. This year, the topic has been “The Catholic Mind,” and the papers presented have dealt with Catholic college education, the thought of Josef Pieper, Dante’s political theory, the Catholic businessman, a novel by Graham Greene, Cardi^ | nal Suhard’s view of the situation of ’ the Church, and Catholic art, among others.
T4
The Scholastic
^olio
the SCHOLASTIC year a capsule view
by ED JOYCE, COPY EDITOR in collaboration with JIM O’BRIEN, FEATURE EDITOR
£	SEPTEMBER
rleadline:
I ND BEGINS 114th year; enrollment tops 5400—University dedicates §250,000 Bookstore today—Gridders gird for SMU — Engineers Ball opens social season—Eddy and Debby pack WNDU-TV opener—Scholastic begins 89th year of publication.
(Scene:
Mike Millrace, freshman, eases his fuming feet and cranes to see the end of the apparently motionless line terminating at the mysterious dark doorway 1 of the Drill Hall. Ages later, at last within, he discovers that he has failed to bring a pen, and his envelope informs him with glaring letters to “See Your ;	Dean.” He plunges into the mob
1	around the “Commerce” sign strung on
a wire across the improvised registration office.
^Mood:
. . . hot and dzisty . . . arms aching from the suitcases carried for miles . . . first look at the new room, or the nezv roommate . . . half-tense reunion with the old friend . . . how are zue going to arrange all this stuff? . . . Dining I! Hall smell . . . neiv rector . . . Did yozi 1 see the cover on the first Scholastic? | What are those gziys trying to prove? ... I	team looked good	over SMU . . . Miami
|	coming up ... .	those gziys have been
•'	building zip foz-	this game for three
years . . . classes .	. . first quiz . . . $6.50
foz- that book? Oh brothez- . . .
OCTOBER
Headline:
Badin barbers clip again in new SHOP — CULLITON COMMANDS COMMERCE college—Troops turn to TV for Miami victory—Senior trip marches on East Lansing—Sophs waltz at Cotillion— Irish erase Boilermaker black mark— Middies here for Homecoming.
V Scene:
Paul ‘Shag, senior, just back from NROTC cruise, dons ciwie duds and
heads for Badin for the season’s first clip job—“Take a number, then take a chair, then take a nap.” Crewcut a dollar fifty? Trimmed, Paul strides to new Gilbert’s on the campus for that Ivy Look, then across the Dixie for a “new look.” Successful search completed, Paul and his date take in a Victory dance, but not in high fashion. He has to save his dough for the senior trip.
East Lansing demands Irish stew, gets the reverse. Green-derbied Paul and 200 of his classmates don’t immediately succumb. A few “Shake Down the Thunders,” then a few thunders and shakes. Gloom descends upon Paul when the Irish feel the might of Spartan armor, but cheers with his fellows at the lockerroom door for the team. Then the long ride home, with repercussions to follow.
Mood:
. . . dampened azitziznn . . . raincoats azid flying leaves . . . weekend visitors . . . “read to page 102, Evidence of Our Faith” . . . rector means bzisiness . . . only tzvo morning checks made . . . zvhere’s my Time? . . . hall elections . . . profs getting to know names . . . that’s bad . . . try studying? . . . not
yet . . . zvhat to do . . . Colfax and the Avon trail . . . zvhy, Frankie, what a lovely place . . . zve really mashed the Navy despite the zveather . . . hozc long before vacation? . . . better make train reservations nozv . . . midterms in tzvo zveeks . .. the sneak? .. . I’ll think about it . . . let’s go . . .
NOVEMBER
Headline:
Commerce men trot at Ticker Tape Ball — Mestrovic sculpture highlights Festival of the Arts—Religious Survey published—Name 37 to Who’s Who in American Colleges— Six Seniors make final home appearance against Iowa — Pangborn Hall dedicated.
Scene:
“Skipper” Stevens, junior Sorinite, Commerce, sometimes accused of being “gung ho,” waits somewhat nervously in the carefully tidy room for the folks and Sharon to arrive for the big game with Iowa. He leaps to answer the phone, not having answered it once during the last month. Everyone arrives prepared for the cold damp weather, and Skipper doesn’t know quite what to
May IS, 1956
say to Sharon in front of his folks. His tensions relax at the victory dance. It feels good to he driving the family car again (illegally) even if he does have to be in at 12:30 p.m. Later in the week, he gets a little vicarious pleasure as the guys ask him, “Who was that babe?” etc.
Mood:
. . . grey November . . . get out the heavy coat . . . keep out the rain coat . . . bright leaves and sunshine . . . once in a while . . . hit the books for midterms . . . root for the ball team . . . Frank Sheed lectures are really tremendous . . . why can’t all teachers be like that . . . Entree is really out of it .. . this Malloy is nuts . . .
DECEMBER
Headline:
Football Review recaps Irish season— NS A controversy—Should ND belong? — Frank Sheed, apologisttheologian packs Washington Hall— Don Sniegowski wins coveted Rhodes
Scholarship—Cagers launch season— Blue Circle sponsors parties for UNDERPRIVILEGED — CONWAY WINS Studebaker at Gilbert’s — Caroling PARTIES SERENADE SOUTH BEND.
Scene:
Ed Janne, Freshman, Chemistry major, Wheeler, S. D., pulls down the dusty, long-unused suitcase, discovers in it, the sport shirt he had been searching for and two pairs of dirty sox. He sorts his clothes, and stares in dismay at the pile of books he is taking, thinking of the weight. “Got to study,” he resolves, and squeezes the overloaded bag together, having forgotten to put in a white shirt. Mood:
. . .vacation . . . vacation . . . vacation . . . last quiz, last date, last class . . . “Sit in on my 9:30 for me, will you?” . . . jammed bus, cold wait in the wind hardly noticed . • . stiff from five (or 25) hours on the train . . . home!
JANUARY
Headline:
AB Ball launches ’56 social season —Irish repeat Sugar Bowl cage championship—Matthew’s Back Page blast STIRS ENGINEERS AND OTHERS—ARCHITECTS READY THESIS PROJECTS—EXAMS CHALLENGE STUDENT COMPLACENCE—Na-VIN’S COVERS CONTINUE TO CREATE CONTROVERSY—New semester begins January 30.
Scene:
Harold Hynes, freshman, Arts and Letters, listens with careful attention, thinking of what the prof is saying, painfully aware that he has not done so all semester and that he needs an 80% in the final to pass. The prof, a familiar stranger to Hal, suggests that the ideas in the outside reading for that day are vital to the understanding of this period of history. He proceeds to discuss them; the words are meaningless to Hal, who of course, has not read
the assignments for weeks back. He turns the heavily-doodled pages of his sparse notes, and the first wave of panic sweeps every thought from his mind. The feeling recurs frequently in the next two weeks.
Michael J. Edwards, AB class of ’55, Instructor in the English department, surveys the bent heads of his class, not hearing the scratching pens laboring over a class assignment, wondering if he has succeeded in teaching them anything. Two or three seem to get the idea all the time, the rest miss the point so often, make the same mistakes, look blank or bored no matter how hard he tries to reach them. He fights off the discouragement which arises so strongly now and then, and wonders what kind of a test he can give that will really measure and evaluate the students.
Mood:
. . . hit the books . . . got to do a little
work . . . can’t catch the sneak at the Avon . . . What’s on . . . Well . . . have ' to get back in time to do a little ■ . . study out in the hall . . . marks don’t mean anything anyway . . . better not flunk this one . . . too close to the line . . . lousy schedule . . . can’t get home for a few days . . . snow and slush ...	1
dear John letter after the long talks of a the vacation past . . . South Bend weath^ I er is the worst . . . even if you live i^ p Michigan City . . . roommate plays the radio too loud to study . . . never noticed 1 what a thoughtless bum he was ... I tests . . . tense feeling . . . sweaty palms . . . the GRADE . . . made!
FEBRUARY	£
Headline:	• *
Mardi Gras Ball launches four day festival — Lent starts early — Delegates for Mock Convention chosen a£ INTEREST MOUNTS—SENIORS NAME Le i May Patriot of the Year — Father ‘
Hesburgh opens Marriage Institute—• Druze takes head coach post at Marquette—Bengal Bouters prepare to • slug it out—Seniors swarm to Place-
26
The Scholastic

•nt Bureau—Junior parents sample ND LIFE.
Scene:
James Michaelson, senior, electrical engineer, mounts the steps to the first floor of the Main Building and turns toward the turmoil behind the frosted doors of the Placement Bureau, nervous before his first interview, but buoyed «' i the ads, rumors and the actual de-and for those of his profession. Remembering the fundamental rules for making a good impression, Jim steps into the office, shakes hands firmly and the interview is underway, and the usual get-acquainted remarks put him at ease. The cliched questions bring the same tired answers. Then the big one—salary. A graphic chart shows starting rates and increases; both comment, then • uncomfortable silence. The final word has been said. “Any questions, Mr. Michaelson? You’ll hear from us by telegram within the next few days.” Mood:
. . . static February, cold, damp and grey . . . the campus life takes on a more somber note as the purple of Lent dominates the liturgy . . . Washington Hall flic breaks the monotony? . . . maybe a call home, just to let the folks that the pocketbook is almost dry . . . just like the throat . . . beer . . . what a sacrifice . . . the middle of March, when will it arrive . . . with vacation? ...
MARCH
Headline:
“Caine Mutiny Court Martial” OPENS—ND DEBATERS HOST TO NATIONAL tourney—Irish end tough cage schedule—Logan wins student body presi-mncy—LaFortunes donate $125,000 tor Center completion—Easter Vacation begins.
Scene:
Pat Silver, sophomore, engineering, dean’s list, pushes his slide rule wearily back on the desk, stretches, listens to the rise and fall of the bull session across the hall, hesitates, turns back to desk and pulls another book from the orderly row in front of him, the habit of study winning the hourly struggle ^B'ith eye-strain and human nature. W1 = D(MV), etc. His roommate, Rich Evardson, AB, prospective journalism major in the room across the hall, is defending the proposition, “animals have intelligence” against various theological, philosophical, and experimental objections of the half-angry group gesturing around the room.
Mood:	.
. . . piety touched with anticipation . . . up early to hit the rail . . . the •Grotto and the Friday night novena . . . can’t help thinking of that vacation, though . . . Florida and sunshine . • • mids . . .can’t get another pinkie . . .
APRIL
Headline:
Engineers open house for inspection—Convention goes all the way for Adlai—Juniors dance; Marterie PLAYS — CORKILL TO MANAGE WSND — Spring Festival plans announced — Irish nine opens season — Banquet trail begins—Logan outlines program of practical benefits in coming administration — Students support ND Foundation 98% — Massey, Carroll, Gill, Mason, Krembs receive “Engineer of Year” awards.
Scene:
Gene Marano, junior, General Program, sits on the limb of a tree overhanging St. Mary’s lake, watching the open-jacketed students stride along the road to the Grotto in the red-golden light, smelling the new grass and listening to the quiet lap of water. Sometimes he thinks, but mostly he sits, drinking in the scene. A stir of pity moves him as he realizes that so many are Oblivious to the glories of the quiet scene around him, hurrying to and from unimportant places, minds bent in dullard concentration on some petty detail of an insignificant structure, while life is all around them, ignored and lost, then past.
Henry Allison, sophomore, pre-med,
member of Rocky Valley Club, and in. the process of attending the Rocky Valley Club banquet, tips his chair back' against the wall behind him, not trying to listen to the words of the speaker pushing faintly through the heavy drifting cloud of smoke. He is full, warm, comfortable and grins aimlessly at his table partner as he reaches for his glass of beer amid the clutter of the table.
Mood:
. . . got to cream the mid-terms . . . 85 and get out of finals . . . sneaker at the Colfax . . . get in shape . . . run around the lake . . . get out the golf clubs • . . order your prom tux now . . . books uncracked for a week . . . stop the Stevenson bloc . . . comprehensives and ivhat a lousy board I got . . . got to get started on that thesis . . . crack of the bat . . . if you, don’t like the weather in South Bend, wait a minute; if ll change . . .
MAY
Headline:
Freshman Frolic features “Carousel” with Belloc—Finian’s Rainbow opens in University Theater’s season CLOSE — SMASH HIT — CHIEF JUSTICE Kearney inaugurates new President Logan — McKendrick, Bennett, to head Scholastic, Dome, respectively— (Continued on page 31)
17
May 18, 1956
by DAVE NOLAN
Farewell to college joys; we sail at break of day ...” glooms the Navy man, doffing his bermudas and donning dungarees. Though there has not been an excess of literature favoring military regimen to even the local discipline, the prospective draftee need not clutch excessively at the prospect, for college life and military life are similar in many ways. This may come as a surprise to those of you facing the draft.
College has its entrance exams, freshman orientation, required courses, major sequence, and extra curricular activities. Military has these same things, only under different names. A trip to the induction center and to 5th Army Headquarters in Chicago showed how true this is.
You have an “entrance exam” in college. In the Army it takes the form of mental and physical examinations at the induction center. First you take the Armed Forces Qualification test to determine your ability to think clearly. It is a 50 minute, 100 multiple-choice test of the “square peg and round hole” type.
Next your physical condition is checked. Everything from weight and height to heart and hearing is looked into. If you “lived it up” the night before there’s a place to lie down and relax before having your blood pressure taken. Even an interview with a psychiatrist is part of the physical.
Correcting the mental test takes place while you’re being checked physically. The test grades fall into four categories. Those landing in the lowest are not accepted for service. It can be added that it’s pretty hard to land in the lowest category. When finally accepted you will be “sworn in” right at the induction center. An enlistee takes an oath when entering the Army, but a draftee only has to step forward when his name is called. Should you not step forward —you are turned over to the Federal Bureau of Investigation!
Processing is the Army’s name for freshman orientation. After induction you spend about six days at a reception center where you receive military clothing and equipment, everything from uniforms to underwear and shoes to mess kits. Here too you will get the notorious round of shots and also advice on personal matters, money, marital troubles, next of kin, etc.
u. s. a
(unde sam’s college)
More mental tests are taken. These are called the Anny Classification Battery and are more specific than the one taken at the induction center. They are tests for such things as verbal, arithmetical and reasoning powers and clerical and mechanical aptitudes. These tests, combined with interviews, are later used to place you in the different branches of the service. You also absorb information about first-aid, personal hygiene, and military customs. You’re being prepared for the start of the transition from civilian to military man.
In the Army you have to take required courses. The eight weeks of basic training are used for this purpose.
It is a time of learning fundamental military duties, responsibilities and discipline in order to act as part of a team. You’ll be introduced to such things as tactical training, signal communication, intelligence training and maintenance and field-firing of weapons.
As a draftee you’ll have little or no choice of a “major sequence.” You’ll be assigned to a particular unit fortraining in that unit; such as quartermaster corps, artillery, or infantry. An enlistee, because of his longer service, can be assigned to a specialized training school. There are many of these schools, a few are Supply, Communication, Engineering and Construction, Mapping and Reproduction, Finance, and Personnel and Administration.
One important “extra-curricular” activity in the Army is the continuation of your education. You can select from more than 5,000 civilian college courses through USAFI, the United States Armed Forces Institute. This is a per
manent educational organization of A Department of Defense and more than 100,000 Army personnel are enrolled in its program. To take these courses you only have to pay the USAFI entrance fee of $2 and the cost of the text books. The Armed Forces pay all lesson costs.
If there is a chance for you to attend night classes near youi- station the Army will pay 75 per cent of the tuition, w to a maximum of §7.50 for each creoH hour you take.
Even if you are overseas you can still benefit from courses sponsored by American colleges. The Caribbean area is served by Louisiana State University, Europe by the University of Maryland, the Pacific by the University of California, central Pacific islands by the University of Hawaii and Alaska by the University of Alaska. If you take the^ courses you can be sure of receiving credits from the sponsoring schools.
The courses given by the Armed Forces do not guarantee any credit for
your work, any school school.
You can
Acceptance of this work by is up to the policy of that
enjoy as good or better rec
reational activities in the Army as you i can in civilian life. Whether beginner- I or experienced athlete, you can partic^ pate in individual and group sports geared to your ability. Everything from baseball to squash and football to skeet-shooting is possible.
You can go to a library for reading, to a service club for off-duty lounging, to a movie for entertainment, and even J to a “packaged show” where you can i get everything from an amateur show to a Broadway musical.	i
Your chaplains here on campus hav^ 5 a saying that goes: “If you have trouble* ! come in and tell me about them; if not, f come in and tell me how you do it.” I This applies just as well in military life where recognition of the value of spiritual and moral help is of prime importance. Chaplains have been an official part of the Armed Forces since 1775.
In service more than any other place you will have to rely on your chaplain as a counselor. You won’t have your parents, teachers, or parish pi-iest to help you. The chaplain helps not onl^ in religious problems, but in anything that may be bothering you—everything from marriage to money.
It’s fairly easy to slip through college without really “putting out.” The same is true of Army life. Whether you want to admit it or not you can get a lot of good out of your military period. Everything depends on your attitude. College deferment or no college deferment, someday you’ll probably find yourself in a uniform. So you might as welW / look upon it as part of your education^ ' a.nd get as much value out of it as you । can.	■
18
The Scholastic
I
Center Manager Mike Wade converses . . .
While anonymous couple contemplates infinity.
ballplayers9 'ball*
FOR the second year in a row, the Student Senate sponsored Monogram Ball had been moved to the spring schedule, for the sake of the weather, and the benefit of the participating socialites. For one of the few such days within memory, the weather beed not foul.
The Monogram Clubbers, running the Ball, took over the Student Center, transformed to dance hall by the music £ of Eddy Pistey and his Lettermen, for the benefit of the many athletically inclined locals and others, for three mad hours of spring.
Additional inducement for attendance was the door prize of a football to be raffled off in the coztrse of the evening’s festivities. The Monogram Club introduced its new officers and provided other entertainment, including skits, probably of the favorite, well-worn variety.
The success of the evening was almost a- guaranteed beforehand by the record of the Monogram Club, one of the most interesting and entertaining groups on campus.
Mutual fascination.
May 18, 1956
19
Ai a Qlatice
AVON
Gaby (through Monday); A-2. Bearing the “adult entertainment” label, this love story tells how a young ballerina (Leslie Caron) falls in love with a soldier (John Kerr), who immediately goes to war. The night before he goes, she spurns him, he is reported killed in action and she, with heavy heart, tries to ease her guilty conscience by enjoying a series of promiscuous and ludicrous affairs with other young servicemen. The catch comes when Kerr returns, very much, aliye, and claims her love. She tells him the whole story. This is a heavy, slow-moving, and sickeningly romantic production. True love finally emerges and the story ends on a happy note.
COLFAX
Jubal (all week); A-2. This must be Open Week on “adult entertainment.” Jubal is a western concoction that got an overdose of sex. This element forms the leading part of the movie, despite the usual characteristics of the Western executed in its best tradition. Ernest Borgnine, aided by an audience pleasing role, is winning in his first screen activity since Marty. His over-sexed wife spends the film running after Glenn Ford and Rod Steiger. In the end, half the stars are annihilated and the audience is full of sadism, sex, and shooting. In this sure-fire box-office magnet, Ford is strong and sensitively flexible, and young Rod Steiger steals all scenes, in a brilliant execution of a brutish, repulsive role.
GRANADA
If recent plans are fulfilled in time, The Searchers (review below) will start Friday. If not, Alexander the Great will continue for a few days. Alexander1 is the Macedonian who conquered Greece and Persia many centuries" ago. His story, his wars, and his loves are shown in this “spectacle” film, which was rather a disappointment to the South Bend box-office.
The Searchers (all week). Absolutely the best show in town. The Searchers is hailed as “the consummation of all the top westerners of previous years: Covered Wagon, Stagecoach, and Shane.” It is the greatest western ever made. (So they say.) Directed by the masters, John Ford, it stars John Wayne and Jeffrey Hunter, as they search six years for two young white girls abducted by marauding Com-manches. The tremendous climax to the story cannot be told in words; they cannot do it justice. It must be seen. The story is straight and often violent (scalping of a white man by an Indian) and so eat lightly before watching the picture if you own a queazy stomach. The weaving of humor, comment on sequences, and armed conflict is a master job of cinema needlework in itself. This is a picture that should be viewed at all costs.
PALACE
Maverick Queen (through Saturday). Starring the queen of the screen, Barbara Stanwyck, in an unfamiliar western role handled with intimate familiarity, this pic handles hoodlums, love, and saloon scenes with adroitness.
Steel Jungle (same bill). A-2. Tough-guy Perry Lopez is handed the mantle of James Cagney, E. G. Robinson and George Raft in his first lead. Although he doesn’t fill their shoes to the toe, he is impressive as he gets worse treatment from fellow prisoners than a freshman football player receives from the N.D. varsity in scrimmage. The human handball ran the gamut of prison life, and his efforts to get out of prison to be with his pregnant wife rate him a promising “potential” tag.
On The Threshold of Space (Sunday through Thursday). Another “z-a-a-a-p-p, you’re liquidated” science fiction attempt. Replete with rocket ships, space suits, and ray guns, this one stars John Hodiak and Janet Leith.
20
The River Changes (co-bill). This® f is another bit of anti-communist propa- ' ganda, but in this case the acting and , plot echo simplicity and truth and the viewer sincerely becomes appreciative of the rights of freedom of mind, body, I and heart.	I
RIVER PARK	J
Song of the South (through Satur- | day); A-l. The Negro who plays Uncle® 4 Remus turns in a tremendous acting	,1
job, grasping all the realities of adult	11
life and applying them to childish set-	1
tings by means of his fanciful tales of	g
Brethren Bear, Rabbit, and Fox.	1
Anything Goes (Sunday through Wed- 1 nesday). The cast is a marquee mouth- I ful: Der Bingle, the mule’s sidekick L Donald O’Connor, versatile Mitzi Gaynor, and that enticing mademoiselle Jeanmaire, plus Harris. The plot is nothing, but that doesn’t matter as this happy spectacle introduces a whole brace of fresh new songs.
Desert Sands (co-bill), A-2. In coloi* starring Ralph Meeker and Maria English.
Thirty Seconds Over Tokyo (Thursday on). Starring Spencer Tracy, a good war reissue which should draw well. Also, Stranger on Horseback.
STATE

Invasion of the Body Snatchers (through Saturday); A-l. Starring Dana Wynter in the female lead, this is billed as one of the better sciencefiction movies. Confidentially, it reeks. Same fantastic plot, same stale, stodgy, overly-dramatic effects: a real farce.
Indestructible Man (co-feature); B. These Hollywood producers must be at — the end of their ropes when they have w to resort to this stuff to amuse the American public.
Kettles in the Ozarks (Sunday through Tuesday), A-l. A typical Ma and Pa Kettle picture, the eighth of the series, but with one thing missing: Pa. Percy Kilbride’s absence undoubtedly hampers the picture and the public will show its distaste.
Seven Angry Men is also being shown.
Three Stripes in the Sun (Wednesday and Thursday); A-l. A very good pic ® starring Phil Carey and soft-spoken, gravel-throated Aldo Ray. His magnetic personality does much for this movie.
Teenage Crime Wave (co-feature); B. Tommy Cook stars as a tough young punk and Mollie McCart as his hard-as-nails girl friend. Theii’ escapades, capers, and ruthless activities brand- this picture another Blackboard Jungle. As usual, an innocent girl is drawn into the mess and the tire-screeching, leather-jacket wearing, pocket-knife wielding expose wheels on its delinquent way.
—Reviews by Terry Plunkett
The Scholastic
jy JIM O’BRIEN
ime of year has rolled around when editors and like that start getting sentimental, wishing their successors bon voyage, and similar sentiments. Naturally, I can only do the same, plus all the available luck around, as I am painfully aware of how much this commodity figured in our own past efforts.
Unfortunately, here in the twilight of our young careers, we have a rather ^painful manifestation of a lack of interest which is so deadly to a publication. I was talking to Editor Charlie McKendrick the other night, and he revealed much concern over the fact that so few manuscripts had been turned in by way of application for the future Back Page and (yet to be named) humor column.
There is not the slightest doubt in my mind that the campus abounds in poten-Atial wits and thinkers. Many (if my ^observations at frequent bull sessions are any indication) believe themselves endowed with the necessary intellectual attributes to a high degree.
But where are these witty and brilliant gentlemen? Are they so modest that they blush with shame at the prospect of being immortalized in printer’s ink? Are they so slothful that the thought of writing a column every week ^brings on a physical collapse. Do they Wfear that their ideas will be contaminated by contact with the vulgar minds of the many? If so, I must grant that all these fears are not unfounded.
But then if they were most bitterly realized, I suggest that they are scant deterrent in light of the many and various benefits granted to the gentlemen of the press; power and prestige, fame and acclaim, and the right to use the huge mass of journalistic clinches so cherished by the movies and TV; e.g.,
“Flash!”, “Stop the Presses!”, “Copy Boy”, “hello?”, etc.
Last but not least, association with publication, this publication, permits nnd demands association with the editors and staff of the publication; a strange and savage breed of men, muttering
parting shots
ancient invocations as they hack at their typewriters amid the mounds of balled-up rejects. Many of these creatures came as ordinary mortals to the publications office, there to be transferred by the dusty, smoke-filled air into their present picturesque condition.
Others came bearing gifts, as it were, of their own peculiar mental abbera-tions, quirks and twists, to further rarify the schizophrenic atmosphere.
And here I must pause to speak with reverence—the nostalgia deep within me twisting like a Berber’s knife—of two like these who have overshadowed my own career and left their scars upon my deepest psyche. Not only will this short eulogy serve to illustrate my point, but I can get rid of a couple of pictures which have been cluttering the desk for some time.
First, of my patron, Editor-in-Chief John Adams, the motivating force, the guiding spirit, the evil genius of the Scholastic for this year, without whose helpful suggestions, “yammering,” comm e n t s, invective, and stubborn opposition to my creating efforts. I would not be writing this column today.
The creative soul of Mr. Adams, senior Journalist from Elmhurst, Illinois, has blossomed in the rather exceptional achievement which the 1955-56 Scholastic has truly proved to be. I predict that the real value of this year’s effort will be demonstrated in following years as the foundations laid determine the solidity and value of the structure erected upon it.
The job of Editor is incredibly complex. The requirements in knowledge of theoretical journalism are vast and diverse, if the Editor wishes to make changes in the form and content of a magazine to the extent which has been done this year. Human relations, with staff, with reporters and contributors, with the administration and with readers, is a problem that has left many a strong man with shaky fingers and grey locks. Couple with these, the thousand small but vital problems which arise each week, and the various obligations, social and otherwise, which are not di
rectly connected with publication, and you have a truly formidable task.
So in my humble fashion, I can only grant the highest kudos to John Adams, affectionately known to various as “the largest inland sperm whale in captivity.” Needless to say, he did not achieve this accomplishment unaided. There was the staff.
Lode-star, mainstay, backbone, pivot point; these are the adjectives which might rather loosely be applied to Associate Editor Paul La Freniere.
M _	A great bear, prowl-
HMk .	ing out of the wilds
of Marquette, Up'	per Michigan, to
| terrify his golfing opponents and amaze the incredulous Professors of
-	Accounting who
were privileged to watch him perform, Paul has distinguished himself in many fields, but we need not go into that here. Sufficeth it to mention that he was Secretary-Treasurer for the Blue Circle during the past year.
At. the office, Paul is known as the IBM machine (with apologies to the’ IBM company). He claims never to have made a mistake. Each week, various disorderly rags of copy (notably that of Wm. M. Malloy) are fed into the machine; pour out shortly after, studded with cryptic symbols; transformed to legible, printable Englishese. To say that this is a stellar achievement is to say almost nothing. The dog-like affection witnessable in the eyes of the Editor-in-Chief is testimony enough to the value of Mr. La Freniere’s contributions. In view of his efforts and also in view of the fact that Paul is soon to be married, I can only say, “Thanks”.
Of the minor editors and the major efforts, only a word. We ignore the younger members of the staff, who will have ample time to prove themselves next year under the tutelage of M. McKendrick.
Ed Joyce, roly-poly and responsible Copy Editor and collaborator with the writer on the massive effort appearing previous to this page, hails from Elgin, Illinois, as does his present biographer. The above-mentioned Jim O’Brien, Feature Editor, through modesty and the slenderness of his accomplishments, refrains from further comment. Save to recognize the efforts of his Featurer Coordinator, Jack Gueguen, who shares the heavy burden of responsibility for the Feature section of this year, by returning to Lexington, Mo.
What happens to outmoded editors? Do they clutter up the dark corners of ’ the publications offices in years to come? I certainly don’t know; I stay away from places like that. And Sorin brags about its rats. Ha!
May 18, 1956
21
by MORT KEILTY
The lizard startled him, running across his boot that way; He stood and watched it slither under a jagged rock and found himself wondering whether it was cool beneath that particular rock. Probably was.
“I’d give my soul for a spot of shade” he thought as he wiped the sweat from his forehead. He sucked the back of his hand for the moisture on it. The still air was unbearably hot, and he was thirsty. There was only a little water left in the beaded canteen swinging from the brass ring on the burro’s pack. No need to waste that now. If he could last this night without it the little bit left would keep him going the next day.
The man looked back at the burro now. He’d been holding her tether in his calloused right hand, but that hand began to bother him now as it always did when he thought about it, and he switched the leather thong to his left hand. She was old and her dirty gray hide was blotched and bare in spots, but she was a good animal. He’d felt sorry for her the day the blacksmith had led her to the back of the shop to shoot her, and although he’d not been able to afford it, he bought her for three dollars. She’d proved a good bargain, hardworking and patient, and now he felt sorry for her again.
“She must be as thirsty as me” he thought.
The sun poured its piercing rays down as molten iron is poured from a dipbucket. The glare hurt his eyes; he felt as though a screen was being pressed against the 'back of his eyeballs, and he pressed his fingertips against his eyelids to mb out this feeling. When he reopened his eyes only waves of heat broken by an occasional mesquite bush greeted his vision. He kept walking— walking because there was no place to rest, no place to find shade.
The day wore on; the passage of time seemed an eternity to the thirsty, tired man. His tongue was dry and sore, his lips cracked. He stumbled along now with his eyes closed for a short while.
desert irony
He had to close his eyes! The glare of the sand and the sun made them throb with incessant pain.
Raising a hand to his stubbled jaw, he thought, “I must look like a damn cactus.” He pondered this statement a moment, wondering what had prompted him to think about his appearance alone out in the desert.
“Funny I should think about my beard way out here by myself” he thought to himself. “Well, it’s for doggone sure I can’t shave. That would take water, and I ain’t got hardly a drop. Oh, God! I’m So thirsty I could die!” He sighed deeply. It was an ironic sigh. Ironic because it was lost in the vastness of the desert.
The man walked on, pausing only once to remove his heavy boots and rest his sore, tired feet. Doggedly, he pushed on toward civilization, and every mile made the desire for the small amount of water in the canteen grow until finally he Could stand it no more. He had to drink it—drink it all!
He stumbled eagerly to the burro, tore the canteen from its clasp, and drained the beaded container greedily. He sucked on the canteen even after the last drop of wetness had passed into his dry throat. Then he removed the empty con
tainer from his lips and stood for while staring at it unbelievingly. The burro glanced sideways at him. In his semi-crazed condition -he interpreted her glance as a pleading gesture. In answer to the gaze of the faithful animal he threw the canteen and hit her in the neck.
He sank to the ground then, not sobbing, but dismayed. Dismayed at his^ own stupidity and lack of self-controlW He sat there in the sand for a long while. As the sun began to set, he found a large mesquite bush and stretched out beneath it. Exhausted by the day’s long journey, he quickly lapsed into a deep sleep.
It was dark and cool now as the burro brayed again. Her constant braying woke the man, and he threw a stone in the direction of the sound. He laid dowiA again, and, after thinking emptily of his -situation for a while, fell asleep again.
The sun rose brightly over the tan-nish-whiteness of the desert. Under one of this desert’s mesquite bushes were a pair of faded black cord trousers tucked into two brown 'heavy boots—a strange, silent sprout for a desert plant!
Even when the sun had reached a position directly overhead the two limb A beneath the cloth and leather had not moved. And fifty yards away, beneath a small rise, an old blotched gray burro drank contentedly from a small pool of water formed by a rock spring.
WSND INTERVIEWS
Interviews for positions on the staff of radio station WSND for next year will be conducted Sunday night at 7:30 in the station studios.
Positions are open in the following departments: record library, announcing and disc jockey, news, sports, script writing, commercial writing, production engineers and technical engineers.
22
The Scholastic
by BILL HAWKESWORTH
spring interlude
Cramming for Exams?

A friend told me this story the other day. It occurred, he said, at a university which is famous for strict rules and rule abiding rectors.
It was one of those warm spring nights which sometimes creep in between the Midwestern winter snow and summer rain.
Lights had been out in the freshman Mormitory for over an hour. Two students lay restlessly in their bunks unable to sleep as the heavy humidity clung to them like glue.
One of the students was describing his job as a lifeguard during the previous summer. Then 'suddenly he was seized by a desire to go swimming. They hashed the idea over and soon the thought became an obsession.
. Dan jumped from his bed, eased open Ihe door, and treaded down the hall to the rector’s room where a tiny shaft of light stretched out across the dark cor-
They swam to a raft anchored part way out on the lake and rested for a while. They talked in low muted voices and then decided to race back to the shore.
Mike, while changing strokes, was the one who looked up and saw the outline of a dark figure standing on the dock. He partly submerged his roommate while frantically grabbing him and gaspingly pointed to the dock. They turned and swam back toward the raft with powerful terror spurred strokes. Then both of them heard the loud roar, “Hey you guys!”
Mike reached the raft first and sputtered back to his companion, “We’re doomed, our clothes with our laundry numbers, are on the dock.”
Then the intruder was shouting again.
But this time they recognized their rector’s voice, “Hey you guys, wait for me.”
Fight “Book Fatigue” Safely
Your doctor will tell you—a NoDoz Awakener is safe as an average cup of hot, hlack coffee. Take a NoDoz Awakener when you cram for that exam ... or when mid-afternoon brings on those “3 o’clock cobwebs.” You’ll find NoDoz gives you a lift without a letdown... helps you snap back to normal and fight fatigue safely!
15 tablets
98‘
large economy size (for Greek Row and Dorms} 60 tablets—
ridor.
A rap on the door invoked a friendly greeting to enter.
The rector, a priest, looked up from the book he was reading and queried, “What’s up Dan?”
“Father, I know this probably sounds ridiculous, but Mike and I were wondering . . and he asked if he and his roommate could get out of the hall for a swim in a nearby lake. The priest thought for a minute and then to the astonishment of his visitor he consented to this unusual request.
Dan hurried back to the room to inform his roommate of their success.
They literally threw on wrinkled clothes and in no time at all were back at the rector’s room. He let them out of the hall after warning of the consequences if they were caught. He told Whem all three of their necks would be in nooses if anyone discovered them.
The two students disappeared in the shadows of the hall and ran quickly to i the lake which was smooth as glass in I the moonlight.
They sat on the dock and smoked. It was a strange feeling out there at that time of night. Through the trees on the South they glimpsed some of the campus which had a weird dreary appearance. They sat there talking and finally finishing the cigarettes, stripped and dove in. At first the water was shockingly cold but after a few minutes it felt perfect.
ARE YOU INSTEP?
asks ANNE FRANCIS co-starred in MGM's
‘FORBIDDEN PLANET" in Cinemascope and^Color
The girl in your life, like Anne, dresses properly for each occasion. And she expects you to be in step, too, with shoes like:	x *
City Club style T771 City Club style84462 City Club style846M for leisure "off for dess and bust- when you're a hours”	ness	"dressed-up knight"
Choose your 3-pair shoe wardrobe from these and hundreds of other smart City Chib styles at your dealer's, from $8.95 to $18.95. Also ask to'see Wesboro shoes for young men, from $7.95 to $9.95.
(My dub
by Peters • distinctive shoes for men
as advertised in ESQUIRE
May 18, 1956
23
Storage for Winter Garments
only $2.95
—PLUS CLEANING CHARGES
For all you can store in our special box
*!♦ IcnV
II ISu I necessary to ship your winter garments home and then back to school again in the fall. You can store them in RUBIN CLEANERS SAFE, INSURED STORAGE VAULT. . . . Your clothes will be cleaned and HUNG in our storage vault. They will be ready when you want them. And you don’t pay until you pick them up. . . . The $2.95 pays for storage and insurance up to $150.00 in valuations. Excess values are 2% of additional amount. Arrangements can be made to have this storage picked* up on campus.
CALL CE 4-3188
OR
STOP IN FOR MORE INFORMATION AND FURTHER DETAILS AT
Rubin Cleaners
217 E. JEFFERSON
CORNER LINCOLN WAY EAST ON THE BUS LINE
iw UBtiRY ui INK SUSP
We Sell Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
Order a full year’s subscription to the SCHOLASTIC for your parents and friends.
Only $4.00
Prof. Niemeyer Labeled * 'Warmonger1 by Soviets
Dr. Gerhart Niemeyer, of the University’s political science department, was recently attacked by Pravda, the most important official paper of the Soviet Union.
Niemeyer, former planning advisor for both the United Nations and thW State Department, was called a “warmonger” in the May 5 issue of Pravda. because of an article he wrote in the February issue of U. S. News and World Report.
In his article, Niemeyer warned that Americans should not trust Russia’s new “smiling diplomacy.” Pravda accused Niemeyer of opposing the improvement of Soviet-American relationship. A
Niemeyer, in his article, pointed out; that the new Russian policy is only a change of tactics and not a change of heart. He wrote that there was no reason for the U. S. to believe that the Soviets have changed their purpose. The new tactics seem only to be an attempt to lure the U. S. into a false sense of security. He pointed out how the Soviets would then be able to take over new / territories through infiltration and othe^ ; apparently non-aggressive methods. 1

Geographic Groups Select New Officers for Next Year
Several geographic clubs recently elected officers for the 1956-57 school year.
Thomas Grimmer, a Commerce junior, was elected president of the Fort Wayna Club. Thomas Paliganoff, a PFA jun* ior, was chosen vice president. Tom Clusserath, an AB sophomore, was elected secretary, and Ed Benseman, a Commerce freshman, was chosen treasurer.
Dave Thompson, an AB junior, was elected president of the Kansas City Club. Sam Nigro, a Science sophomore, was chosen vice president. Bob Massman, a Commerce sophomore, was elected secretary and Terry Hartigan, an Engineering freshman, was chosen treasure^
Bob Kuhn, a Commerce junior, was elected president of the California Club. Ed Shipstad, a Commerce junior, was elected vice president of the southern California section, and Pierce Brothers, a Commerce sophomore, was chosen vicepresident for the northern California section. Mike Gallagher, an Engineering sophomore, was elected secretary. Dan Cullen, a Commerce freshman, was elected treasurer. Bob Cushing, a Commerce sophomore, was chosen corre fl spending secretary, and Joe Halisky, an AB sophomore, was elected secretary-at-arms.
The Scholastic
24
Scute
IRISH THINCLADS SEEK WIN AT MILWAUKEE
(victorious Trackmen Face Warriors Tomorrow Four Irish Stars to Compete in NCAA Meet
by JIM
MERZ
The Irish trackmen notched another impressive win in their successful sean last Saturday, as they swamped H Pittsburgh, 82%-48%. Tomorrow they 1 face Marquette at Milwaukee in a meet 1 which should not pose too many problems for the high-flying Irish. Coach Alex Wilson feels that the Irish should find little trouble in this last dual meet
of the year, after easily beating Warriors earlier in the season.
On Saturday, June 9, the Ii'ish turn to Milwaukee to take part in
the
re-the
Central Collegiate Conference. Since this CCC meet is open to any team, it is too early for Coach Wilson to indicate his opposition. For many strong clubs, this ■will be the last trial before the Olympic tryouts, indicating the competition will be stiff.
The Irish will lead with three aces, Bernie Allard in the high jump, Bill Squires running the mile, and Aubrey Lewis in the 220. Joe Foreman, another ^pp-notch man in the 220, will run with W-ewis, while Dale Vandenburg and Dick DiCamillo will handle the half-mile and two-mile chores. In the field events, the
BILL SQUIRES N.C.A.A. bound.
shot-putter’s circle will feature Byron Beams, and Mike Kaufman will toss the discus. Once again Jack Cote will broadjump and pole vault. In the tricky hop, step, and jump event, Tom Sanfacon will bid for the Irish. Notre Dame will also field squads for the quarter-mile and mile relays.
NCAA Meet
One week later, on June 16, the Irish will fly to the West Coast for their last effort of the year, the NCAA meet. For Bernie Allard and Bill Squires, this meet will close four years of collegiate stardom. The sophomores Lewis and Foreman, will respectively compete in the 440 hurdles and 200 meter events.
This meet should indicate whether Notre Dame will have anyone wearing Uncle Sam’s spangles in Australia next fall. Foreman will undoubtedly make the trip but he will be representing Canada. Lewis will make his bid in the 440 high hurdles and if he fails he will most likely attempt the gruelling decathlon.
In last Saturday’s 82%-48% triumph over Pittsburgh, Lewis and Allard paced
the Irish with 31 points between them. Allard garnered first place in the high-jump, javelin, and high hurdles. Although Lewis did not take any first place points, he finished second in five events, and third once. In his last home appearance, Pittsburgh’s ace, Arnie Sowell, romped home first in the mile and 880, and anchored the relay team to victory. Other1 winners for the Irish included Byron Beams, Jack Cote, Joe Foreman, and Dick DiCamillo. Mike Kaufman heaved the discus 150 feet to set a new meet record.
Wednesday on Cartier Field Notre Dame shook off the cold and the rain to grab eight firsts and 124% points to beat Indiana for the first time in six years in the Indiana State Meet. Indiana was second with 90 points out of a field of eight.
Aubrey Lewis, first in the 220 hurdles and 100-yard dash, Bill Squires, first in the one and two miles, Joe Foreman, and Bernie Allard were top point getters.
JOE GRACE
Under par against.Hawkeyes.
Linksmen Fall to Iowa; Bradley U. Next Foe
Last Friday afternoon the University of Iowa golf team avenged last years loss to the Irish golfers by defeating the linksmen, 14%-12%. The defeat was the second in eight matches foi* the Irish, and the first since their loss to Purdue on the 21st of April.
In the best ball competition Captain Leo Matt and Joe Mulflur defeated Ju-dish and Showers. Joe Grace and Tom Garside tied Hayes and Marshall, and sophs Charles Thum and Lloyd Syron were outplayed by Klontz and Filtis. The overall scoring was 4% points for each team.	.
The singles matches proved to be the deciding factor. Grace shot a four under pai- 68 to take all three points from Marshall, while Syron’s 72 was two strokes better than the 74 turned in by Filtis, giving Syron 2% of the three counters. Thum took two points when he turned back Klontz, 74-76. Seniors Matt and Mulflur lost all three points to Showers and Judish, going down 72-77 and 82-85 respectively. In the other match Garside managed to salvage half a point when he lost to Hayes, 79-80.
Tomorrow afternoon the linksmen will host Bradley on the Burke course in the hopes of avenging a 7%-19% setback suffered last year. This year’s compe-
May 18, 1956
25
tition should he much easier for the charges of Father Holderith since Bradley lost their entire starting team of ’55 through graduation. It will be a 36 hole match and the last one at home for the Irish.
Monday afternoon will find the golf-era in East Lansing to take on Michigan State in their final match of the season. The Spartans boast a powerhouse, going with the same team they finished with last season. Last year State defeated the Irish 15%-20%.
Thurn Beats Campbell
Last Monday Notre Dame hosted a quadrangular meet with Purdue, Wisconsin, and Detroit. The Irish walloped the Titans 30%-5% but were stopped by Purdue 25-11 and by Wisconsin 20-16.
Charlie Thum of Notre Dame was medalist with 72-70 for 142, one stroke better than little Joe Campbell of Purdue. Joe Grace posted the fifth best score for the day with 72-76—148. He is now averaging about 74.5 for 180 holes. Thum has a 74.2 average ovei* the same distance.
The golfers now boast a seven won four lost record.
Sailors End Regular Season; Seek Midwest Title in June
Ron Meissner contributed 43 of Notre Dame’s 77 points as the Irish Sailing Team wound up its regular season at Detroit last weekend. Michigan tied the local lads and Ohio State finished only one point off the pace. The Irish whipped such teams as Detroit, Wayne, Michigan State, Cincinnati, and Marquette. Ray Nelson, Bernardo Gaillet, Tim Rice, and Pete Raffetto helped Meissner close the season most successfully.
Next on tap for the classy Irishmen are the Midwest Collegiate Championships at Purdue on the 19th and 20th of June. The winner* and the runnerup in this meet will be entitled to enter the National Championships at Detroit the following week. The two top squads from the East, Midwest, and the West will meet for the title.
Considering their past record, Notre Dame has an excellent chance to qualify for the National meet. The toughest competition figures to come from Ohio State and Michigan. Other teams that have submitted entries are Wayne, Ohio Wesleyan, Washington of St. Louis, Wisconsin and Purdue.
Notre Dame has beaten or tied every team which it will ran up against at the Purdue meet. Bernie D’Almeida, Ron Meissner, Tim Rice, Ray Nelson, and Lou Morgan will be the Notre Dame skippers.
26
Varsity Offense Hammers Old Timers, 42-32;* Morse Scores Twice to Spearhead Attack
Fifteen thousand fans sat through the sticky heat last Saturday and watched the 1956 Notre Dame Varsity swamp the Old Timers 42-32 in the Stadium. The game was marked throughout by the strong offenses of both sides, but the defense was generally ragged and left much to be desired.
Captain Jimmy Morse, witnessing his first flip of the coin, won the toss and the Varsity received the opening kickoff. They promptly began a 72-yard drive that ended eight plays later in the Old Timers’ end zone. Paul Hornung and Morse sparked the drive with a pair of 20-yard gallops. Hornung booted the extra point and it looked like a runaway for the young Irish.
After the kickoff Don Schaefer, the Old Timer quarterback; flipped a pass that was intercepted by Morse and the Varsity had another drive underway. This time, however, the defense stiffened and the second threat was halted on the Graduates’ eleven.
The Old Timers started to move with about six minutes left in the first period. Schaefer led the squad to their own 48 and then gave the ball to Dick Hendricks, a reserve back from last year’s team, and he scampered 52 yards for the score. Schaefer added the point and the game was deadlocked at seven all.
The Varsity couldn’t get started on the next series and were forced to punt. Larry Cooke had two successful kicks called back before his third attempt was blocked. Schaefer promptly capitalized
OLD TIMERS’ FITZGERALD HEADS FOR OPEN SPACES Graduating seniors make it tough on new Irish.
on the situation by firing a touchdown pass to sophomore Frank Reynolds, the । play covering 21 yards. Schaefer again added the point.
The Varsity still couldn’t get unde^ way again as Hornung fumbled an™ John McMullan recovered. The Old Timers started on the 31 and marched easily for another* marker, Hendricks climaxing the drive with a three yard smash over tackle. The key play in the drive was a 14-yard pass from Schaefer j to Gene Kapish. Schaefer this time missed the conversion, and the score stood at 20 to 7.
Hornung Sparks Drive
Hornung pulled his charges out of their slump in the second quarter with some fine passing. He flipped to Dick Prendergast for 19 and to Morse for 16 to provide the big 'blows and the spark to get the ball rolling. He then finished the drive sneaking over from the two, and adding the extra point. This drive went 63 yards in 14 plays narrowing the score to 20-14.	A
Next it was the Old Timers’ turn to get into trouble as Schaefer was smothered in the end zone for a safety by the whole right side of the Green line as he was attempting to pass.
Cooke directed the next drive which ' went 41 yards, Bobby Ward going over for* the score. Key play in this sequence ; was an eleven yard sweep by John Me-Donnell on fourth down to keep the Varsity hopes alive. As the half closecL : the Varsity led 22-20.	V |
The Scholastic

YEARLING ROYER GRABS ONE
Nice catch.
The Greens came back in the third j quarter with two more TD’s while the Graduates were shut out. Hornung and . Morse led the first march which went 49 | yards before the fleet halfback earned I over fr°m the one.
V The second score in the period came on a twelve yard pass from Cooke to Dick Royer. Royer started the drive by recovering a fumble by Dick Fitzgerald. i At the end of three quarters the Varsity was way out in front 35-20.
The Varsity added its last touchdown in the last quarter on a brilliant 44-yard run by fullback Chuck Lima. Ward kicked the point and the Varsity had its 42 points.
A The final two tallies by the Old Timers came when Don Costa intercepted Mike Dugan’s pass and hustled 52 yards into the end zone, and Fitzgerald took a lateral from Tom Carey and went 25 yards for the score.
The rushing was very effective for the Varsity as they racked up 413 yards on the ground. Morse picked up 104 of these yards in eleven tries and Chuck Lima netted 68 in five attempts.
The defense was something of a different story. In amassing their 32 joints the Old Timers hammered out 155 yards on the ground and 100 more through the air. Brennan commented after the game, “Defense was very weak as can naturally be seen by the fact that 32 points were scored against us. Before the SMU opener next year we are going to need a great deal of defensive work.”
Brennan used 15 second year men on the 36 man Varsity squad. Sophomores Frank Geremia and Bob Wetoska started in the line at left tackle and right end, ^jbspectively, while Ron Toth worked as the number one fullback in place of the injured Dean Studer, and Jim Just ran at left half.
May 18, 1956
27
The school year of 1955-56, which seems to have just begun last Saturday against Southern Methodist, is on its way out and in fact will be gone in less than the short space of two weeks. It’s been a full year however, both on the academic side and the sports side too, which is an integral portion of the Notre Dame education. The boys returned from their summer respite with the usual enthusiasm for the opening football season, and Terry Brennan and his charging charges didn’t let them down at all in providing the excitement for the fall weekends. Starting the season with a comparatively green team and some actually unknown and unproved qualities, the Fighting Irish held their own against the country’s best and finished up with a respectable 8-2 record.
Although they absorbed a legitimate licking at Michigan State and fell victim to the Southern California earthquake, the Irish turned back such powerhouses as Miami, Navy, and Iowa to surprise more than a few and dispel any doubts about the quality of Terry Brennan’s brand of football. So the first of the year-end orchids goes to Coach Brennan and his staff, and to all the gridiron gladiators of 1955 for a job well done.
Football, however, is not by a long shot the only important sport here on the campus, and the plaudits must not be reserved for it alone. Among the most deserving in this regard is the wrestling team, the infant of the varsity sports. Having worked out as a club for several seasons, the wrestlers were granted varsity status this year. Under Coach Tom Fallon they went through a regular schedule and came out better than even. This, for a first season effort, deserves a lot of credit, especially in view of the fact that most of the team members are underclassmen.
Fencers Set New Record
Next on the list is Coach Walter Langford’s fencing team which ran up a new season record of 17 and 2. The swordsmen swept through 15 matches of their season before running up against Illinois and Wisconsin and losing a heartbreaker. A sixteenth win would have added a new undefeated mark to the fencers’ record and it made the loss that much tougher. But it takes nothing away from Coach Langford and his boys and they are to be congratulated for their success.
The Bengal Bouts were among the best in their history this year and not only the champions but all the fighters in the tournament deserve a hand for contributing to the success of this help for the missions. Nappy Napolitano, who has devoted himself to the Bouts every year, was given a token of appreciation by the fighters that was significant of the praise he deserves for his efforts.
Clubs Do All Right, Too
Not only the varsity teams, but the minor sport squads of sailing and swimming must also be included for their share of credit. While still operating under club status, the sailors and swimmers competed on whatever schedule they could arrange and performed capably in doing so. The success of the wrestling squad this season should be added incentive for them to continue their efforts and prove that they are deserving of varsity status.
Even though the basketball team was weak this season, Coach Jordan and his boys cannot be counted out of the credits entirely. They tried all the way and came close to securing that intangible that would have made them a winner.
The spring sports are still underway at this point and all the teams are holding their own. Coach Wilson’s trackmen have shown up very well and the baseball squad seems to be coming into its own after a shaky start. Likewise, the tennis and golf teams are making their marks.
Before we know it the Notre Dame sports picture will be over for another year. And we’ll have nothing to do but follow those lousy Cubs for the rest of the summer.—J. N.
BUJNOWSKI AND KOHORST Battery mates big guns for Klinemen.
Improved Klinemen at Great Lakes Tomorrow G
Great Lakes, who fell twice to Notre Dame’s baseball nine without putting up too much of a struggle last spring, will be pitted against the Irish tomorrow afternoon at Great Lakes. Next Monday, Michigan State, presently hovering at the .500 mark, will be at home to face the Irish. Chuck Symeon, with a 1-2 record to date, is scheduled to hurl against Great Lakes. The next day, o^ Tuesday, Western Michigan, a 7-2 vici tim of N.D. already this year, will be at Notre Dame ready for action. To close out the ’56 campaign Great Lakes will be guests of the Klinemen on June 2 in a contest that will fit in with the Commencement program. Undoubtedly, the Irish’s number one hurler, Tom Buj-nowski, will get the nod in at least two of the last three games. The pint-sized righthander has a 4-2 record.
Purdue Blasted	a
Irish baseball mentor Jake Kline met with Purdue coach Paul Hoffman at the end of 6% innings and the game between Notre Dame and the Boilermakers was called to a merciful conclusion by mutual consent with N.D. holding a 15* 0 advantage. The lambasting took place-; May 8, on Cartier Field and was the fourth straight victory for the Irish and marked their sixth victory in 11 contests.
It all started quite harmlessly, re£ minding of the tight struggle in whid| Purdue edged Notre Dame 4-3 earlie? this season, but when the third inning was over, the Irish were quite invulf
The Scholastic
28
nerable with a 12-0 lead, all tallied in the third frame. The Irish sent 15 men to the plate in the big inning which was only concluded when Dan Nespo, who had already singled, failed to touch home plate.
While the Irish batsmen were busy, Bujnowski capably held Purdue’s offense in check with a neat two-hit effort. It [pas his fourth win in six starts and he was backed up with solid fielding support.
. Notre Dame was to play Northwestern in Evanston on May 9 but the game was cancelled after a morning-long rain.
With the season drawing to a close, rightfielder Jim Cusack continues to pace the Irish batsmen with a torrid .333 average. Cusack has hit safely 16 times OBi 48 at-bats and has driven in 9 runs. | Catcher Elmer Kohorst with a .319 g average leads the team in RBI’s with I 12. Second baseman Ed Hurley ranks | third in batting -with a .313 average, I while Irish Captain Dan Nespo, with 12 i3 hits in 40 trips to the plate, is sporting an even .300 average. Shortstop Jim Carideo rounds out the top Irish batters with a respectable .293 average and nine runs batted in.
I Netters Wind Up Season Sunday Against Hawkeyes
Last Friday, the Notre Dame tennis team dropped two matches at Kalama-200, Mich. In the morning, the Irish were thumped 7-1 by Western Michigan, and 5-1 in the afternoon by Kalamazoo.
A match with the University of Chi-kigo scheduled for last Tuesday was cancelled because of rain.
On Sunday afternoon, the locals will close out their season when they entertain Iowa. To date, Notre Dame’s record is seven wins, seven losses and one tie. Sunday should give Coach Samson’s squad a chance to go over the .500 mark for the year.
Won Last Year
Notre Dame defeated Iowa last year fty the score of 8-1. This year, the Hawkeyes were beaten by Western Michigan 8-1, the same margin the Irish lost by last weekend.
- The Notre Dame team was weakened on Friday due to the loss of Chuck Van-oncini. Vanoncini, number two singles man, was ill for both matches and as a result both the singles and number one doubles team suffered.
Irish captain Harry Smith accounted for Notre Dame’s only two victories. £e defeated Western’s Charlie Donnely, 6-2 and 6-4, then beat Dieknann of Kalamazoo by the identical score of 6-2, 6-4. Rain caused shortening of both matches.
The secret—they’re SYNCHRO-DYNED!
They’re called the sweetest playing clubs in the book, and for good reason. Spalding’s exclusive SYNCHRO-DYNED® club process, a scientifically exact system of weight coordination, gives each club in the set the identical swing and “contact feel” to help groove your swing.
And this new Bobby Jones set is as handsome as they come. The irons feature an exclusive tough alloy steel with a glistening high-polish finish that lasts season after season.
If you’re interested in whittling strokes off your game (and who isn’t?) see and swing the 1956 Bobby Jones SYNCHRO-DYNED clubs at your Spalding dealer’s.
Play Spalding Clubs and Balls—golfs most winning combination.
for the very finest STEAKS and CHOPS
EDDIE'S STEAK HOUSE
602 S. WALNUT
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. JJW.S. Bldg.
For Your “Crew Cut” hni'kut HAIR TRAINER
WITH LANOLIN
If you have stubborn hair to comb, KRU-KUT will keep it in place. At Drug Stores and Barber Shops.
May 18, 1956
29
Friendship Photos
Silk Finish Photo* 2’4x354 in. 20 photos from your picture, or 25 photos from your negative. Minimum order $1.00
4c„ vfli
WALLET PHOTOS, Box 470, Fostoria, Ohio
Sunny Italy Cafe A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food
601 North Niles Avenue
Crown Seven Winners । In Interhall Softball !
Interhall softball completed league action last week. A single elimination playoff began last Wednesday to determine the campus champion. The seven winners playing in the tournament include Walsh, Dillon (White), Dilloi^ (Green), Alumni, Rochester, Toledo an" Buffalo.
In the Hall Division Dillon (White) pulled out a 5-2 win over Badin to climax a perfect season and give them the crown in the Red league. It was Norm Keying, Dillon’s hard throwing mound I ace, who picked up the decision in the 1 final league game. Badin was runnerup ; in the league with a three won, two lost { record.	i
Walsh coasted to an easy title in the ' Gold league as they posted a four won, none lost season mark. Their toughest competition came from Dillon (Black) I who boasted another speed ball pitcher | in Art Kiddoo.
Alumni and Breen-Phillips went into their final game undefeated with the winner to emerge Blue league champ. Jerry Ryan, Alumni’s manager and four ; time all-campus selection in football® took control of the game and promptly batted his team to a 9-2 win and the ' league title.	>
In the Green league Dillon (Green) . and Vetville each had two vans against ' no losses going into the final game. DilIon used Ralph Schiller on the mound and he paced himself well in stopping ’ the Vets 8-4. Vetville then dropped into a tie with every other team in the league ■ for second, third and fourth spots. jQ •
In the Club Leagues, Rochester won the Red division. The boys from New York tied in regular season play with the Phy. Ed. Majors with a 4-1 record. Rochester lost to the Geology Club and handed the Phy. Ed. Club their only ■ defeat. Last Sunday, in the playoff for a the crown, Rochester won a slugfest, [1 19-11. During the season, it was the ■ combined pitching of Jerry Curran and i|] Clyde Brennan along with Brennan’s Ig bat that sparked the winners. 0 < I
In the Blue division, Toledo, Detroit 9 and the Press Club tied for the title. |j In a playoff, Toledo edged the Press I Club behind the pitching of Dick Torda. fl Pitcher Ray Lescher, the mainstay of I the mound staff for the Press Club, lost I a heartbreaker.	i	■
» I
On Monday, Toledo topped Detroit ■ 5-3 for the crown and a berth in the I playoffs.	|	'n
There was also a tie in the Gold divi- J sion. Both Buffalo and Capital District | had a single loss to mar their records^ ■ In the playoff, Buffalo came out on top, 5-4.	j
The Scholastic |
30
OFFICIAL
Class Rings
University of Notre Dame
Manufactured exclusively by the L. G. Balfour Co.
the Authentic mark of a
Notre Dame Alumnus
available only at the
Notre Dame Bookstore
The Scholastic Year
(Continued from page 17)
ROTC STEPS OUT IN ANNUAL PRESIDENT’S review—Burke, Demaret in golf exhibition — Massey, Meagher, Rogers win Danforth fellowships—Philosophy Prof. O’Grady dies.
Scene:
Jim Smith, senior, AB, minor editor, pushes into the din and litter of the Publication Office, half-realizing that this is the last time, only half-glad. He is greeted by the glare of unshielded bulbs, grunts and remarks from the more punctual and menial amateur journalists. He deposits the pile of copy and pictures on the floor, walks over to the desk littered with unread exchange publications, and hunts through for the recent mail; comes up with month-old letters. The news editor, “How many pages can you take?” and the editor, “listen Jimmer, you don’t have a column . . .” consult briefly with him. Then he turns to the blank dummy and the pile of copy and pictures, and vainly seeks a clear, flat surface other than the floor on which to work.
Mood:
. . . hot muggy tveather . . . and rain . . . golf tourney and tennis court . . . bermuda shorts . . . and rain . . . date for the Prom, the Ball, the Frolic . . . miniature time . . . job time . . . trip to Europe time . . . slough off time . . . summer time. Senior suddenly realizing that this is the “last” time for all these things . . . frosh checking on the new room for next year . . . sophs resolving to study for those finals . . . start tomorrow for sure . . . spratul on the grass without a thought or a care . . . down for a beer . . . finals right around the. corner . . . life right around the corner
JUNE
Headline:
University grants 1060 degrees June 3—Jim Massey valedictorian.
Scene:
Edward Conlan, (almost) B.S., sits sweltering in his suit and cap and gown, a hundred thoughts racing through his head; memories and plans and impressions, the desire not to look gang ho, the pride in his mother’s eyes, and far away the words of the speaker. “Commencement speakers have a tough time,” he thinks to himself, and tries to listen for a minute. Too many things to think of, and too darn hot. “What the heck did we have to wear a suit for, anyw’ay.”
Mood:
. . . Pomp and Circumstance . . . tassel on the right . . . and all the other graduation-time cliches ... why list them here?
University of Notre Dame BLAZERS
• Lightweight Wool
• Custom Tailored
• Full Range of Sizes
Just the thing to wear at your Dances and Parties
Notre Dame Bookstore
May 18, 1956
51
TRAVELING DURING VACA TION? Head for these
HILTON & STATLER HOTELS
Offering
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES IN NEW YORK
WASHINGTON-BOSTON BUFFALO-HARTFORD •
HOTEL NEW YORKER NEW YORK
1	in a room $5.50 a night
2	in a room $4.50 a night
3	in a room $3.50 a night
4	in a room $3.00 a night
STATLER HOTELS IN NEW YORK • BUFFALO WASHINGTON • BOSTON AND HARTFORD 1 in a room $6.50 a night 2 in a room $5.50 a night 3 in a room $4.50 a night 4 in a room $4.00 a night
NSA Convention
(Continued from page 14)
Among the regional officers during the past year were Pete Sturtevant, the regional international affairs vice-president, and Tom Shehan, regional educational affairs vice-president, both of Notre Dame. Permanent regional officers for next year will be elected at the National Congress which will be held during August this summer.
Besides the election of Logan as protein chairman, various commission meetings discussed some of the aspects which NSA covers at the convention held this past week-end. There was a student body presidents conference, discussion of leadership development programs, the honor system, student press and student government relationship, and international student problems.
Harvey Minton of Ohio State University, the present regional chairman, also held a special NSA co-ordinators conference at which he discussed the role of NSA on the campus, suggestions for next year’s program, regional projects, and various other problems with the campus co-'ordinators. Pete Sturtevant also held a general conference briefing representatives on the national congress to be held this summer.
Representing Notre Dame at the convention were Logan, Sturtevant, Dave Baker, Jim Steintrager, and Tony Yurchak who is the campus co-ordinator for NSA. Representing other Catholic colleges at the convention were Ann Hopkins of Ursuline and Janet O’Connell and Mary McGahey of St. Marys.
WALDORF-ASTORIA and THE PLAZA, NEW YORK 1 in a room $8.00 a night 2 in a room $6.50 a night 3 in a room $5.50 a night
FOR RESERVATIONS write direct to Student Relations Representative at the hotel of your choice.
For faculty or group rates in any of these hotels, write Miss Anne Hillman, Student Relations Director, Eastern Division Hilton Hotels, Hotel Statler, New York City.
Brademas Speaks at Banquet
John Brademas, Democratic nominee for Congress from Indiana’s Third district, was the featured speaker Wednesday night at a dinner sponsored by the “Students for Stevenson” committee at Nabicht Bros. Restaurant.
Brademas discussed the progress of the campaign to nominate the former Illinois governor, and presented an analysis of Stevenson’s stand on vital issues of the campaign.
The committee, comprised of a group of students on the campus who are interested in and working for the nomination and election of Stevenson, sponsored Ilie dinner as a part of their campaign program.
Conrad N. Hilton, President
LIBRARY BOOKS
All library books borrowed by students are to be returned by Monday, May 21. Books may be renewed if they are needed for further use.
Everybody’s Talking About “The Big House” by Bill Bellis ... and “The Violinist” by Bill Malloy ... in the
Spring JUGGLER
on sale now
Cafeteria-Bookstore
Study in Europe
Two Semesters of Study and
Travel Through 8 Countries . . . $1780
For those American students who aspire to a broader education through foreign study and travel, the Institute of European Studies dedicates its program.
Students live in Austrian homes and attend the English taught courses offered by the University of Vienna.
Price covers: round trip ocean passage. Room and board in Vienna, and while travelling. Travel costs. Tuition and registration fees at the University of Vienna for two semesters.
Travel through: Holland, Belgium, France, Italy, Germany, Spain, Morocco and Austria.
Sailing date: September 8, 1956. SS Zuider-kruis, from New York.
APPLICATION DEADLINE: June 15, 1956
For free brochure explaining this program, send this coupon to:
The Institute of European Studies 7325 South Maryland Avenue Chicago 19, Illinois
’ name
address
city
school
The Scholastic
32
^Maddux to Supervise 1957 Senior Ball Plans
Bill Maddux has been appointed the general chainnan of the 1957 Senior | Ball, according to a recent announcement by George Strake, president of Rnext year’s Senior Class. Don Flock was > selected to head the decorations commit-| tee.
| Thirty-seven men applied for various appointments for the next school year.
d Strake and the other class officers, Don I Barr, Pat Williamson, and Jack Casey, j selected the students for the different | committee heads.
| Other appointments announced by L Strake to head phases of the senior proPgram of activities for next year are: ; Mark Maley, senioi- trip; John Cusack, j Washington Day exercises; Ed Fechtel i and Jerry Hilton, general chairman and I technical chairman of the movie commit-• tee; and Dave Lake and Joe Sullivan, co, chairmen of the religious committee.
Fechtel and Hilton will have charge of the filming of all the Senior Class activities throughout the year. As many faces as possible will be included in the P pictures of the various events.
Lake and Sullivan will take charge of spiritual bouquets for deceased parents, first Saturdays, the monthly rosary at the Grotto, and a reception for the off-campus and Senior Class chaplains at the beginning of the school year.
Maley is making arrangements for the annual senior trip next fall. Three weeks ago, a poll was taken in which the present juniors voted two to one in k favor of the Navy game at Baltimore ^on Nov. 3. If ticket sales are great enough, the trip will be made to Baltimore instead of Iowa or Pittsburgh.
All chairmen named will appoint the personnel of the committees they are heading. Strake also announced that the remaining senior ball chairmanships plus the chairmen of the senior retreat, picnic, and banquet committees will be named next fall.
PRESIDENTS DINNER
The Notre Dame Faculty Club will sponsor its annual President’s Dinner for the faculty and their wives on Monday evening, May 21, at 7:30 p.m. in the East Dining Hall. Faculty members may obtain their tickets free of charge by calling at the office of the Dean of their col- . lege. Administrative personnel may secure their tickets in Room 140, P Main Building. A dance will follow in the Student Center.
Girls Walked A Mile From J. Paul Sheedy* Till Wildroot Cream-Oil Gave Him Confidence
"Dune anything tonight honey?” Sheedy asked his little desert flower. "Get lost!” she sheiked, "Your hair’s too shaggy, Sheedy. Confidentially it sphinx!” Well, this was really insultan. So J. Paul got some Wildroot
Cream-Oil. Now he’s the picture of confidence because he knows his hair looks handsome and healthy the way Nature in/e»red . .. neat but not greasy. Take Sheedy’s advice. If you want to be popular, get a bottle or tube of Wildroot Cream-Oil. Nomad-der if your hair is straight or curly, thick or thin, a few drops of Wildroot Cream-Oil every morning will keep you looking your best. You’ll agree Wildroot really keeps Sahara-n place all day long.
* of 131 So. Harris Hill Rd., Williamsville, N. Y. ‘
Wildroot Cream-Oil gives you confidence
Why Not?
Drive a '56 Chrysler or Plymouth home this Summer! Save the cost of freight to your home town.
BUY NOW!
See Jack Moulder, '38
Moulder Motor
215 So. Lafayette, South Bend Chrysler—Plymouth—Imperial
Nationally Advertised
Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE 2-1202 South Bend, Indiana
7
WILDROOT J
CREAMOU I
LANOUN
MUHU OtTMSS tfWYK tOOttOMNOff
^kWTURBOW
\OPTOMETRIST
-- OPTICAL REPAIRS -
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces” — EYES EXAMINED -
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-6777
ROCCO'S
South Bend’s Original House of Pizza
Still the Best—serving Italian and American Dishes
Special Noon Lunches 11 _ 1 ;30
537 N. St. Louis
Open—11 a.m. — 12 Midnight
May 18, 1956
33
Hack Pa^
by Curt Matthews

the return । of the native*
I’ve always felt that the most important thing to remember about history is that it is never written by the people who make it. This is as it should be, I think, since it would be difficult for a Lenin to honestly evaluate the overthrow of the Czar or a Hitler the Second World War. Such people are too personally involved in the situation to present us with anything more substantial than opinion.
And yet, in spite of my premise, I feel at liberty to look back on the four immediately preceding years as I have known them, and to offer what well might be mistaken for historical interpretation. A columnist deals with opinion.
During four years on this campus I believe I’ve witnessed the end of something—the end of a period that, in temper if not in fact, much resembled the period of the 1920’s. There are so many ways the ten years after the Second World War resembled those after the First World War that once acquainted with some knowledge of the ’20’s I couldn’t help noticing comparisons.
To acquaint myself with some of the facts about the ’20’s I turned to a book by Frederick Lewis Allen entitled Only Yesterday and described by the publisher as “An Informal History of the Nineteen Twenties.” In his book Allen rambles through, the whole area of flappers, raccoon coats and hip-flasks. And, as I rambled with him I thought to myself that the same sort of things exist today, only we call them juke box babies, charcoal grays and hip-flasks.
Both periods had one ingredient that help make them the way they were— namely, a good deal that was rash, bizarre, daring and often illegitimate. Both periods followed a war. And aftei-a war people begin to take inventory, they become restless, skeptical and of-
34
ten impatient with the traditional way of doing things; they demand answers to a lot of questions that people for a long time refused to ask. Nowhere was this restlessness more evident than on the college campus. It was filled with many earnest, sincere and industrious people who showed a readiness to do something, anything, to improve themselves and their world.
As a result of this upheaval an attitude of skepticism lingered on the campus for some time after its originators had left. When I was a freshman the influence of the upheaval could still be seen and good, sound, sensible results were beginning to take shape. Now, as a senior, I think I’ve witnessed the last vestiges of the adjustment-making. The restlessness is gone, inventory has been taken and the new stock has arrived.
Already it’s possible to notice a change in the basic attitude of the average college student. Foui- years ago many were here because of the unstableness of the draft or because they felt somebody owed them something.
Today the attitude is more one of genuine desire for education. I may be entirely mistaken, but I think it’s possible to detect a certain amount of seriousness in the class of 1959 that didn’t exist in the class of ’56—at least not at the beginning. During my stay on the campus I’ve seen the return of the native, the student, the serious-minded, eager, innocent, and strangely curious being who actually seeks much of his knowledge simply for the sake of knowledge.
One of the most obvious evidences to my mind that the native has returned to this campus at least is the difference in attitude toward the disciplinary system. Whether there actually is a difference or not is hard to tell but at least I think there is less of the vehement oppo-
sition than when I was a freshman.	•
There seems to be a general acceptance	I
of the system for what it is: a responsi- I bility. I’ve heard less and less that old argument about-the disciplinary system L being some sort of obstacle to maturity. ft
Another evidence that the native has y returned is that it’s becoming increasing-$ ly more difficult to find what people used | to call “the party school”. The hard- t drinking, fast-living set—-older, more Ji nervous—has been gone for some time and the examples they set are no longer i]| remembered or followed. Lectures are	,
better attended, libraries are used more,	।
and exam week is again a time of study. .'
Like the twenties, the period after the , Second World War was a period of some -f cynicism—especially on the college cam- * pus. Satire was in style with Philip ‘ \ Wylie and Bob and Ray serving as the , H. L. Mencken’s of their day. Humor ■ magazines on almost every campus । poked fun at anything that was considered an “institution”. But, I think, this attitude is dying and being replaced by a new sense of optimism.
And so, I’ve compared my four years ; | on the campus with that of the twenties | and contrasted it with that just begin- 1 ning, the late fifties. I leave the validity A Hi i of these comparisons to the reader. Ik— (I do feel though that many who leave the ' campus now have about the same ( thoughts as a young man named Amory in F. Scott Fitzgerald’s book of youth d in the twenties, This Side of Paradise: ;
And he could not tell why the struggle was worthwhile, why he had determined ; I to use to the utmost himself and his - $ heritage from the personalities he had ' . passed ...
He stretched out his arms to the taline, radiant sky.	*
“I know myself," he cried, “but that |
is all."	|
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS
COME BACK TO SCHOOL NEXT SEMESTER
WITH EMPTY SUITCASES'
We hope that the Campus Shop has served you well this year! Our plans for next semester are for an even finer and more complete selection. We believe we now know better what you want than we did when we first started out last September. So, come back to school next semester with empty bags . . . select a Notre Dame man’s wardrobe at the Notre Dame man’s store. Thank you for your past patronage ... it has helped us to plan a future Campus Shop that will be one of the best University Stores in America!
On the Campus—Notre Dame

•■■J
EFFECTIVE FILTRATION
oi to io® ., tho So Quick on the ----------------DRAW
I
1.	SUPERIOR TASTE. L&M is good to your taste — its superior tobaccos, rich yet light and mild, are especially selected for filter smoking. For the flavor you want, here’s the filter you need.


2.	SUPERIOR FILTER. The flavor comes clean! Only L&M has the Miracle Tip—pure white inside, pure white outside, as a filter should be for cleaner, better smoking. L&M is quick on the draw, actually, improves your enjoyment.
rs-
LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.
KING SIZE


America's Best Filter Cigarette
© Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
