Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER i, 1883.	2§p. i£~
The Banquet, of the Princes.
A Greeting of Congratulation to Very Rev. Father Edward Sorin, C. S. C., and His Beloved Minims.
BY ELEANOR C. DONNELLY.
I.
Spake the namesake of King Edward, With smile both grave and sweet:
“ When a hundred little princes In these classic courts shall meet;
When a hundred little nobles
Yon Palace shall make bright,— We will spread for them a banquet That shall every heart delight!”
11.
Lb! within his chamber sitting, At twilight,—thro’ the hall, He hears young footsteps flitting,— . He hears young voices call;
A knock, .... then rings a challenge From out that bee-hive’s hum,
“ O dearest Father General!
The fairy prince hath come!”
in.
Around his chair they cluster.
Like bees around a flower, Bright eyes reflect the lustre Of sunshine after shower;
We grant you, ne’er such doings Were seen before or since,
For Edward Sorin Ewing Is the dear one-hundreth Prince!
iv.
Go, speed the royal banquet, And Love shall fix the date,—
The forty-first recurrence Of our Father’s happy fite;
That.long-gone day of promise, When he entered, grave and calm.
The old primeval forest,— Our present Notre Dame!
v.
’Twas on St. Catharine’s vigil. The patroness sublime
Of Christian schools and scholars, . (A rarely-fitting time!)— .
That brave heroic Sorin
First trod yon woodland moss, And, by the lake side, planted
The standard-of the Cross!
VI.
Forget it not, dear Princes,
—Before this College-home
Could rear from out the forest
Its Virgin-guarded dome,— Unnumbered hours of labor,
Of thought, of earnest prayer, Have turned to purest silver
Our Father’s flowing.hair!
VII.
O Minims! lift your banner. Shake forth its royal tints, (And while young Indiana
Salutes Ohio’s prince,)— .
Rang out your toast of triumph
To Notre Dame’s great priest: “God bless thee, Father General!
The hero of our feast!”
Tn the Shade.
There is something charming in the ven’- appearance of a retired nook where only a straggling ray of sunlight makes a momentary pause, and then hastens away as if in sorrow for its intrusion. Here and there, we come upon these sheltered spots redolent of pure and natural sweetness, and fresh with a bloom which the cool air allows us to enjoy. The salt breeze of the sea-shore, and the soft breath of the wind, as it comes to us when filtered through its rustling strainer of leaves, add so much to the quiet ease of such places that one is loath to emerge into the warmer atmosphere around. There are. just such places, too, in life—places where the weary pause and snatch a moment’s rest; places where the idle, sleep away the bright and beautiful hours of hope and strength; places where children, frolic in their mirth, and the old and thoughtful come to meditate and muse. There seems to be a wonderful similarity between -nature in its weird, untrained state, and nature as it appears in man under the control of reason; and, no doubt, the bent of the latter has been, to a great extent, determined by the adaptability of the former for certain postures which harmonize well in the vast
194	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
picture of which the one forms the necessary scene, the other, the accidental, vet all-important, character.
The shady side of life is a broad expanse which includes all kinds and classes of "mankind, arid brings them all together in a beautiful union contrusting strangely with the hurrying, changing mass which sways the business centre of the world. Man, says the philosopher, is time exemplified— time with its changes pictured in every phase of activity and ease. How beautifully, indeed, has the Master Painter caught the expression of His iriodel in the portrayal of the scene! How truly is it said that a single person contains in himself the epitome of all that is base and glorious in the history of time! Soaring high above the things of earth by virtue of his soul, creeping—because of corporal weakness—in the dust from which his body took shape and form, he constitutes a span uniting earth and heaven, as time seems to bridge the intervening space betweeri nothingness and eternity. Since man is, therefore, the exponent of time as God is that of eternity, every phase in which. we may learn his characterizin’g traits should lead us to a more accurate "and familiar knowledge of that path over which humanity is travelling in its restless, surging course. Not light and darkness, but sunlight, and shadow, are the key-notes by which we must judge the sounds which issue from the busy throat of daytime. The quiet harmony of the shad}* side is that which strikes us with the most exquisite sense, of delicacy; and to that we turn when mental weariness brings on distaste of the sharp, and often discordant, sounds of the sunny, fluttering side of life.
The shady-side is not entirely the cherisher of idleness; but there the tired victim of labor finds repose—and this is not idleness but a necessary interlude during which -preparation is being made for succeeding acts. There, in the stillness of the “brooding shade,” the mind foresees the coming struggle of thirid and rnatter ’against the changes of fortune. There, events, as yet scarce stirring in the mighty woirib of tifne, are 'made the invisible objects o’f the human intellect; and men go forth from their retirement strengthened, revived arid clothed in the armor of former vigor and
■r ' f /	» «• . .	• ’ • .	^3
hope renewed. Triumphs are not found, blit made; glory must be earned,riot Bought. As the greenest grass grows from the best-tended and the richest soil, so the greatest success springs from Cultivated minds and well-matured plans'.
Retirement from the bustle and activity of the world has assisted gre’afly in the development arid progress of every Branch of 'learning.,/Meri of great.intellect have been, and are,‘engaged in pursuits little congenial to the advancement of the entire, human family, arid immediately berieficial only ‘ib their individual selves. . AVealth accuthu-lated 'and wealth accumulating dribs up the fountains of pure thought, and'saps ffofn nature every feeling ’that a common lot deiriarids. , Society,'it is jirue,. requires (this ^distribution d^ into all kifids and classes of. labor; buPtliei’e 'is rib riece’s-sity of forced application to any 'particular branch
of industry, nor would the general improvement of life "mind in hiiy mariner inferferb with the thorough ^'ndw^ of akpecialty; ft would rather be 6sf sdriie assistance, since such a course removes many prejudices, and broadens the mental scope by cutting away and filling in. An occasional retreat into the shade would, then, return not only an advantage in personal interest, but also an insight info matters extrinsic to their im-
o	,
mediate profit—a knowledge of meh sublime in their poverty and suffering, and of slaves abject in their weak submission to vice and misery. This wduld Be to flierri a new study, a hew field of thought, from which they might learn man as “ god and worth.”	-
Poets arid philosophers have thrown around the shady side of life a halo which envelops it in almost sacred lustre. The fires which burned within poetic souls were' trained and nourished in the solitude of self and in seclusion from the world; and there the dying embers of those fires were first pictured on the -written page. Hope dying out revived; glory fading was renewed. Mercy solemnized its victory over hate; -pity pleaded in the hearts of men. Love tuned its lyre at the purling spring of youth; joy bloomed anew and shed its fragrance everywhere. Philosophic thought has worked its wonders. It has added link upon link, until the growing chain has bound our reason to truth and justice. Dim, visionary feelings that seemed abstruse and chimerical have o
assumed tangible shape and form, and yielded up the ghost before the searching glance of philosophy. Old and dying views give birth, to new and well-sustained opinions; arid crooked 'paths are straightened, till the mind perceives'the Divine breath of God, imprisoned in the human body. ’
Retirement rriearis a different thing to the votaries of fashion,—infants of nature drawing from their great mother’s breast only poisoned honey. They do not enjoy seclusion from active life, but abuse it, as bibbers abuse wine, by making it the path to excessive gayety arid overdone pleasure. They have no deterrriined object bn which to rest their nomadic thoughts, and from flower to flower they go, as restless as the wind, as careless as the breeze. Here we ’find the great objection to retirement. Social standing of a high order is the fruitful mother of too manjr daintyfminds—minds that fain would enjoy the fruits which ripen in their view, but will not climb to pluck them from the branch. So the dream,goes on, never changing in its useless nature, only adopting new forms and still more phantastic. images. This is the shady side, but. the shady side heated by artificial fire which ■ ejects the. calm of; nature, and sets in motion the feverish play of art. ■.	/.
Yet, still, we love the shady nooks that nestle here and there amidst the heat and bustle of activity and- strife. Still do poets sing, and from their cool retreats send forth the voice of harmony. Still the pondering mine!, like sbmb ihighty pendulum, waves boldly tb ’ahd'frb,!how touching earth, then swinging ’with :its 'grasping 'weight far into eternity. Note up^mffote of narnfohy/gleam upon
THE NO THE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	195
gleam of mental light come straying to each soli-itary -self. Brayer upon prayer the wonders of the . ■universal world -'reveal, , till, resting .in our shady nook, the-glorious anthem of created, yet harmonious, unity breathes to our souls the secrets of divine love and the mystic beauty of divine-precision.
Claude.
Lays of the Dissecting Room.
No. in.
The Nervous System.
Air :—Blue Bell of Scotland. *
1.
Oh where, and oh where is your Nervous System gone?
And oh where, and oh where is your Nervous System gone?
Oh! it’s gone to smash completely, and my Reason’s fled her' throne.
And it’s oh! in my heart, that I’d let my books alone!
11.
Oh how, and oh how did you get so awful bad ?
And oh how! and oh how did you get so shocking bad!
Oh! ’twas Logic, Mathematics and ^Esthetics that I had, And it’s oh! in my heart, that I’d stayed at home with dad! in.
Suppose, and suppose your disorder canit be cured?
.And suppose, and suppose your disorder can’t be cured? Oh! I’d buy some shot and powder and getiny life insured, And I’d blow out my‘brains when the payment was secured.
Justin Thyme.
* A grinding organ, where this can be afforded, will be found the best instrumental accompaniment‘to this lay.
Historical Authority of the New Testament.*
Infidels and some modern critics of the atheistical school, in their vain endeavors against Christianity, have at last agreed that the only possible wav of eradicating that hated institution is to sue-cessfully assail the authority of its written law—the New Testament.
A very brilliant writer of our day, Matthew Arnold, in his well-known work entitled “ Literature and Dogma” asserts-most-boldly1 that the Christian Church must soon -find some new basis on which to rest her-claims; and he-goes onto say,the assumptions which theologians demand -as self-evident are not to -be-granted by the intelligent people-of the present age. Thinking'minds will not accept the-New Testament as an authority simply because their forefathers happened‘to believe in-it; they go farther back and seek, an authority for this presumed authority, andthis, he says, they can never ■ obtain. His statements are substantially the old and worn-out objection brought against ’the Church, and technically cailed'the “ vicious circle”;That is,
♦ Address delivered -before' the j Archconfr'aternity, Sunday/ Nov. ;i8,ibyljbtix A. ^McIntyre,'L’84.
• -theologians prove the Church from the Bible and the Bible from the Church;
The Church compels no man to accept as self-evident’the authority of the New Testament; on the contrary, she wishes all to investigate person -I ally—knowing well no investigation will ever change a truth. Look at her philosophy, and ;find the concise, rigid and unerring rules of criticism laid down as plain as day I These rules were made for every book, and the New Testament is no exception. Now, is it very probable that.the Church, j dreading the microscopic eye of criticism, would ! adopt a philosophical system, which on its development would inevitably undermine her foundation and speedily crush her out?
As a matter-of-fact, but few that deny the authority of the New Testament have ever given one hour’s studv in examining its claims; and to most it appears of small importance whether this book is authoritative or not. All-their critical knowledge amounts to a few cullings, here and there,from some country newspaper or magazine. The peculiarly -characteristic feature of this our nineteenth century is that every one with the slightest smatteringof an education pretends to know all sciences, human and divine. Men without the faintest idea of the meaning of evolution will discuss that theory with an ardor equal to that of philosophers. Even the ver-: iest school-boy will make assertions which would have made Aristotle, with all his philosophical erudition, swallow his categories, and slink away abashed to some desert isle.
Before entering on the argumentative part of • this essay, it is but right to make a :few remarks on the general character of the book under con-sideration.
j If there is a book which every family should ; keep at home and read, it certainly is the New ; Testament. .How’ simple, how beautiful, how ! grand, even sublime, are many of the passages in i which it abounds! There is not a generous man • living who dares attack a single doctrine which Jesus Christ taught His Apostles, and His sublime words referring to the duties of man to man, summed up in that grand precept—Love ye one another. Study His life and observe the example of • perseverance, fortitude, love and obedience which no man but He could have shown. Rousseau,-the :great French infidel, dwelling on the life of Jesus, was so filled with admiration, that, in speaking.of His death, he declared “ Socrates died like a man, Jesus Christ like a God.”
Indeed, as a mere.literary work the New Testament is a masterpiece; many are fond of.calling it a.poem. That its passages are frequently poetical it were useless to deny, since they speak <of and record the amiable life and wonderful deeds of the.Hero of heroes—Jesus Christ, Son of the Living God. "	’
To prove the authority of the New Testament/it is necessary to proceed with method and submit it to the same critical tests that we would the'historical' works of:any writer; foninstance, Carlyle, Gibbon ‘ Tacitus, or Livy. Dissect -it with those calm and .<impartial rules of criticism which .-are jthe weryres- ■
196	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
sence, as it were, of a reliable book, and use prodigally those high perceptive powers of our intellect.
The authority of the hooks of the New Testament depends on their genuineness, integrity and veracity; or, in other words, whether they are authentic, have not been altered and contain the truth. Our reason for declaring them genuine is clear; Jews and pagans, as well as heretics and Catholics, always regarded them to be the work of those whose names they bear. This is verified by referring to the writings of-every ancient ecclesiastical author, and the tradition can be traced through every age and in every country to the present day. St. Justin tells us that the Four Gospels were read in the churches throughout the whole Christian world. Tertullian and Origen—those voluminous writers who understood thoroughly the history of their own and former ages—agree intimately with the testimony of Justin. St. Irenasus, disciple of St. Polycarp who was a pupil of St. John, sums up the tradition of time, and it is precisely ours of the nineteenth century. Moreover, he states definitely where and when and by whom the Gospels -and Acts were written. Even the early heretics believed in and bore testimony to them, and each one strove to ground his false doctrines on them. It is true that writers of' the first century do not mention the Gospels explicitly, but in their writings appear numerous quotations which were undeniably taken from the Gospels. St. John’s Gospel was not written until the close of the first century. From these testimonies, and the fact that the Gospels were read in all churches during the second century and believed to have been the productions of those whose names they bear, we must grant their genuineness; indeed, w hat better proofs could be adduced to show that Macaulay wrote a history of England, or Carlyle a history of the French Revolution? We must rely on testimony, and testimony rejected in one case cannot be taken' as a proof in another.
Forgery was impossible; if there were any, it must have taken place either while the Apostles were living or shortly after their death. In either case, forgery was impossible; as the Apostles while • living would have protested against the fraud, and their disciples who survived them would have denounced such an imposition. Several Apocryphal gospels were in circulation for a short time, but they were soon exposed and destroyed. Heretics were refuted in the early ages of the Church by authority of the New Testament, and they would -have denied this had they been able to do so.s The Jews never denied the authenticity of the New Testament, but merely attributed the miracles to magical art and the unlawful use of Jehovah’s name. Hierocles, Celsus, Porphyrins and Julian -the apostate—all bitter and sworn enemies of Christendom, and men who would "have hesitated at nothing to extirpate the Church—knew how absurd it would have been to deny the authenticity of-the New Testament, and were ,obliged to content themselves, in, finding contradictions in the "Gospels. The reputed .Armean gospel which modern critics put -forward as the origin of our Four
Gospels was unknown in the second, third or fourth centuries, and exists, if al all, as a proof of their dishonesty and the facility which some critics have in acquiring pseudo-ancient manuscripts.
The integrity of the New Testament is proved by comparing it with the most ancient Syriac and Italic versions. A close comparison shows that no substantial change has ever taken place. The Church has always regarded these books, of the New Testament as sacred and containing the word of God, and consequently would allow no alteration in them; besides, they were so well known that any change, either by omission or addition, would easily have been detected. “ Bishop Spiridon, as Sozomene remarks, openly rebuked a fellow bishop who in quoting' a text substituted a word having the same meaning but which appeared more elegant.” St. Jerome, an eminent classical scholar, being persuaded to make a Latin translation of the Bible, made a very trifling and unimportant change in the text of Jonas, which caused such a great disturbance among the Greeks that he was obliged immediately to correct himself.
Indeed, nearly every passage in the New Testament has been, some time or other, quoted by the early ecclesiastical writers, and from these alone we could prove no substantial change has ever taken place.
The veracity of the New Testament may be proved beyond' all doubt, if any reliance can be placed in human testimony. We must admit it for the same reasons that we admit there “was an American Revolution with its attendant events as related in history.
In the New Testament are recorded events of great national importance; facts which involve well-known characters; facts which occurred in presence of thousands, not in some obscure out-of-the-way town, or on the stage of a rustic theatre, but in open air, before all kinds of.people, and in large and intelligent cities. The Apostles could not, had they wished, have deceived the people by misrepresenting or exaggerating the events, since the people saw them with their own eyes, many of whom were still living when the Gospels'were in large circulation. If these deeds related by the Apostles were untrue, the Apostles would have been seized and crucified for perverting the history of a nation so jealous in its national pride. On the contrary, many Jews embraced’ Christianity, gave up all worldly possessions, followed the precepts* of the Gospels, and even suffered death in consequence.
Some infidels do not reject Gospel facts as long as they are not miracles; but, as was said before, Jews and pagans admit the miracles, attributing them to magic. Josephus, the Jewish historian, bears testimony to Christ’s miracles, death, ami resurrection; but his testimony has been rejected, on no grounds whatsoever, by a few modern critics. • .Josephus, though an enemy of Christians, could not help mentioning Christ and His .miracles, as they constituted events which were too important even to be omittedjby a prejudiced historian; he mentions also St. John the Baptist and’James the Less.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The passage relating to Jesus is in perfect agreement to the context, and Eusebius used it against the Jews, who were so confounded with it that subsequently they have left it out. Some there are ! who try to explain on natural grounds the miracles, j but all their attempts are very gossamer or ex- j tremelv absurd. As to those who regard the i Apostles as imposters and deceivers of the people, j their assertions emanate from thoughtlessness. J What imposters could have invented a code of • morals admired ’ by the greatest minds in all ages, and have established a religion which has braved the storms of nineteen hundred years, and now numbers among its adherents 350,000,000 people, including the most enlightened nations of the earth r
From these proofs, the authority of the New Testament appears evident; and, in conclusion, we might remark that it was belief in the authority of the New Testament which accounts for the boasted civilization of all its modern assailants.
I Art, Music, and Literature.
—A delegation of Galician nobles are going to Rome to present to the Pope Matejko’s painting, “ Sobieski before Vienna.” .
—At Knowslcy are the two manuscript volumes of note paper on which, with hardly a correction, the late Lord Derby wrote his translation of Homer.
—General Fairchild procured, during his residence in Spain, a fine portrait of De Soto, discoverer of the Mississippi River, which he has presented to the State Historical Society of Wisconsin.
—The Abbd Liszt is on the point of publishing a great work on the technique of the pianoforte. •It is to be in three volumes, and it is said that it represents the work of many years of the great virtuoso's life.
—Honor to whom honor is due. The late Hugh Hastings, of the Commercial Advertiser. New York, had for pall-bearers a President of the United States, two statesmen, four millionaires and a newspaper publisher.
—Sir Arthur Sullivan, the composer of “Pinafore,” is said to have finished a serious grand opera, whose heroine .will be no less a personage than Mary, Queen of. Scots. The work is to be produced with an Italian test, probably next season at Covent Garden.
• —“The infidels’ organs the 7'rut/iseeker. claims to have among its subscribers all the J ustices of the Supreme Court, except J udge Strong.”	’	• -
We believe the 7ruthseeker is a liar.' If the report be true the Justices are in a sad plight, groping for truth where it is not to be found.
■ —The American journalist says that the first newsboy who ever sold a, copy of the Sun in the - streets of New York became famous and rich. He was then ten years old, and from Cork, Ireland. His name was Bernard Flaherty, but he was afterwards known as Barney Williams, the comedian.
—Trollope received $240 for his first production and $35,000 for one of his last. Capt. Marryat received $100,000 for one of his works, and Lord Lytton $150,000 for the copyright of the cheap edition of his works by Messrs. Routledge & Sons, in addition to the large amount paid at the time of their publication, while it is well known that Messrs. Longman paid Lord Beaconsfield $50,-000 for “ Endymion.”
—Mr. H. Saro, the leader of the German band which participated in Gilmore’s great Peace Jubilee in Boston, and later made a tour of the United States, has just published a work on scoring for military music which, according to German critics, fills a long-felt want, as it has special reference to the use of lately-invented and perfected wind instruments which have thus far been ignored bv com-posers, with the exception of Wagner.
—An interesting art treasure recently received at the museum at Washington, and already placed on view, is a piece of mosaic floor from the temple of Astarte, which was erected at Carthage bv the Romans in the first century, B. C. This was on exhibition at the Centennial, and was presented to the museum by Sir Richard Wood, the British Consul at Tunis, who saved it from the ruins. • It is of a very unique design, representing a lion attacking a horse. The figures are life-size.
Books and. Periodicals.
Martin Luther. By Rev. Henry A. Brann, D. D., Author of “Age of Unreason,” etc. New York: The Catholic Publication Society Co., 9 Barclay St This is a clear, concise and masterly exposition of the life, character .and work of Luther, and' should be extensively read. The titles of some of the chapters will indicate the nature of the baok. -They treat of “Printing and the Universities before Luther”; “The Condition of Europe when Luther Revolted”; “Some of the Causes of the Success of His Revolt “ Some of Luther’s Prejudices—His Intolerance, His Hatred of Chastity”; “Some of the Historical and Moral Consequences of Luther’s Revolt”: “Some of Luther’s Opinions on Matters of Doctrine”; “ Luther’s Fur-ther History and His Character.”
—The December 57. Nicholas opens with an Indian legend, in verse, by John G_. Whittier, followed with stories by Julian Hawthorne and Lousia M. Alcott. Captain Mayne Reid’s new ' and exciting serial, “ The Land of Fire,” is also begun. It is the last work of the veteran story-teller, whose death followed so suddenly'the completion of this manuscript. There is a great deal besides, forming altogether arousing Christmas number of over a hundred pages of splendid stories, instructive sketches, beautiful pictures and poems, and fun for everybody, good measure pressed. down. and funning over into the numbers to follow,—enough to give the whole volume a holiday flavor, and still have something left for another year.
THE HOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
; generous as well as interesting. It oners parts or three serial stories—namely, the much-discussed “Bread-Winners”: George W. Cable’s new romance, “Dr. Seviers,” which was begun in the November number: and the first pan. of Robert Grants storv of New A ork life, “An Average Man? which will run through six numbers.
Poems are contributed by Mrs. S. if. B. Piau and Andrew B. Saxton: and in “ Bric-a-Bracy" by J. A. Macon and John A Fraser. Jr., besides a “ Poem in Prose” translated from Tourgudnefll
—-The opening article—on “Hendrik Conscience”—in the Catholic World for December is from the pen of Rev. Camillus P. Maes, and is a very interesting sketch of the life and works of the distinguished Flemish writer. Arthur H. Cullen contributes the second and concluding part of his instructive treatise on “ Infallibility and Private Judgment.” Rev. John R. Slattery has a very entertaining paper on “ Benjamine Barnecker, the Negro Astronomer.” “ A Poet of the : Reformalion,’” by R. M. Johnston, is a sketch of the great poet Goethe who is presented in a light very different from that in which many hold him. The writer concludes his paper with these words:
“Herev.as indeed :x giant - a giant, huwever, not ailer tiie sort of Christopher, the bold ferryman, sure reliance of timid travellers in stormy weather. To bear the disguised Infant amid swollen waters was not after his liking. He was rather a Goliath of Gath, ‘a man of war from his youth/that defied the armies led by the Most High, not j foreseeing the fall to which he was doomed. The men and women of his generation lauded him for his strength and audacity, and there be many yet—though constantly growing fewer—-who, charmed by the witchery of his words, .are led into places which all benignant spirits would warn i them to avoid. Than G<ethe never has lived a man who j employed his gifts les» faithfully for the ends lor which ; they were bestowed.'’
“Ireland Under Elizabeth” is an able historical article by S. Hubert Burke. Rev. Walter Elliot, in a paper entitled “ Dynamic Sociology,” reviews the work of Lester A. Ward on the same subject, and refutes its agnostic teachings. The other articles are: “ English Catholics and Public Life,” by Orby Shipley; “The Four Sons of Jael,” a story, by Rev. John Talbot Smith; and the continuation of the story of “ Armine,” by Christian Reid. Published by the Catholic Publication Society Co., 9 Barclay St., New York.
—A portrait of Peter Cooper, engraved on wood by Thomas Johnson from a photograph taken a few months before his death, is the frontispiece .of the December number of the Century. Mrs. Susan N. Carter, who is at the head of the Woman’s Art School of the Cooper Institute, contributes an anecdotal paper which throws much light on Mr. Cooper’s ideas and his generous aims in promoting the education of young women for skilled occupations. Other biographical papers in the same number are Miss Anna Bicknell’s character sketch of “The Pretenders to the Throne of France,” illustrated by' portraits; and Mrs. Schuyler van Rensselaer’s critical essay on “George Fuller,” with engravings of three of his best pictures. There is an instructive paper byr Dr. Charles Waldstein on “The Frieze of the Parthenon,” with special reference to a recent discovery' by himself in connection with the Athene. H. H. closes her scries of picturesque articles on Southern California with a very entertaining and profusely illustrated paper on Los Angelos entitled “Echoes from the City of the Angels.” Tn fiction the. December Century is uncommonly
College Gossip.
—The Princeton 7'iger has again come to life , and Is out hunting for gunners.
—A Veterinary School has been opened at the University of Pennsylvania. For the treatment of “ponies” perhaps?
—The University of Berlin advertises for persons to translate scientific works into modern Greek, Roumanian, and Servian. ■
—The Trustees of Columbia College have placed $5,000 at the disposal of the Library Committee to defray expenses for the remainder of the year.
—Phillips Exeter Academy is said to have a student who boards himself for fourteen cents a day. We wonder how much of a shadow he will cast at the end of the year?
— Columbia College is to have its Library illuminated by the electric light. $7,000 have been appropriated, and the Edison incandescent system has been decided upon.	•
—Byz a recent decision of the trustees, graduates from any other college with an equivalent to the curriculum at Columbia are permitted to become candidates for the degree, of Master of Arts.
—The papers say that Lafayette has a college cornet band. It is about, time for it. Notre Dame has had one year after year for more than a quarter of a century at least—perhaps much longer.
—One of the rules of the board of school inspectors of Joliet is: “That no teacher will be allowed to accept a present by7 donations and contributions of the pupils of any7 of the public schools.”
—At the University of St. Petersburg, 500 students have matriculated this fall, making the total in attendance 2,300. In consequence of the disturbances of last year nearly 300 young men were expelled.— University Press.	•
—A bill recently7 passed the New Hampshire Legislature granting $5,000 a year to Dartmouth for the aid of indigent students. It is the first time in a hundred years that the college has received money7 from the State.—Ex.
—At a debate on the question “ That a system of phonetic spelling should be adopted by7 Englishspeaking people,” at Cornell University, the President decided for the affirmative. / The debaters on the winning side had an easy7 job.
—The rage for Greek plays has not yet exhausted itself; A company of Cambridge undergraduates is going to perform “The Birds” of
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
S99
Aristophanes toward the end of this term. New music and scenery arc to be prepared for the performance.
—The CornelP.Daily Suh says the experiment of self-support in connection with the' required work of a college course has been tried at different times in various forms, and except in a few rare cases has been attended by uniformly unsatisfactory results.
—Prince Napoleon’s eldest son has been for some time a pupil at Cheltenham College, in England. His studies have, however, been suddenly cut short, as he has just been summoned back to France in consequence of his having been drawn in the conscription.
—St.. John’s College, Fordham, N. Y., opened its doors a week or two ago, to a pleasant gathering of about one hundred of its old graduates, who assemb/ed at the invitation of the President and Faculty, extended through the Alumni Association. .y-A reception was first held, after which the guests were escorted through the buildings on a tour of examination and approval, which in its turn was duly followed by a most elaborate dinner.
—The Council of University College, Toronto has decided against co-education. So savs The Chronicle.. Why don’t the women of Canada set to work with a determined will and jjet a Univer-sity of their own? They can do it, and it would be much better than making useless efforts to push themselves in among men who cannot appreciate them, and who are often not fit company for them. Besides, education for women must differ in many respects fro’m that suitable for men. Women have as good a right as men to a University education.
—In a lecture on “ Literature on Science ” delivered lately in Brooklyn, N. Y., Mr. Matthew Arnold warmly defended the study of Greek, and deprecated the present leaning toward the substitution of Belles-Lettres for science. He said :
- I	’	.*	-	‘
“The study of Greek, against which the present outcry seems most strongly directed, affords symmetry of thought and idea. I think the lovers of Greek literature have nothing to fear; the tinie is coming when women will know Greek as did Lady Jane Grey, and when your girls will be studying it in your schools of learning in the far West. It should be remembered that the glorious beauty of the Parthenon at Athens was not made up of a statue here or a portico there. It was a‘ grand symmetrical whole, perfect in every detail. I know not how it is in America, but in England, the one thing lacking in our architecture is symmetry. We have grand things in detail and isolated, but the whole is inharmonious. The time will come when the cultivation of Greek literature may impart such symmetry to our ideas as will make us ashamed of such a street as' the Strand."
Exchanges.
—The editors of The Argonaut, show good judgment by aiming at a high literary taste— something that, strange to say, most college papers seem to, Ipse sight of altogether, alleging in excuse that essays, or articles purely literary, are not
appreciated by student readers. So much the worse for the student readers, if it be true—but is it true? We hope it is not.
—For some time past it was rumored in the college papers that the Harvard Lampoon had collapsed for want of support, but this must have been a libel; here we have the veritable Lampoon itself, not much like a ghost either, but rosy and rubicund, arrayed in all its crimson glory. Lamfy’ seems to have been off" among the spirits—on a “bust” with a number of the Y. M. ,C. A., which may account for the rumors of its premature death; but Lampv didn’t die; he still sticks to his colors, and starts work with “ATemperance Lecture for Freshman.” The lecture is very good, capitally illustrated, and all that, but we fear Campy’s piping to mischief will get him into trouble with the Y. M. C. A. To represent a member of that honored fraternity with a safety valve in the top of his hat, playing fiddle with his umbrella on an empty bottle labelled “Old Bourbon,” and dancing to his .own music, will hardly be taken with a good grace. Tam-py is handsome but naughty: Lampy is witty but mischievous. Lampy should let the spirits alone, or he may become elevated himself some dav.
—The Vanderbilt Observer has an excellent article on the study of the classics and another on the advantages of the phonetic method of spelling. The Observer says truly that “an enormous amount of time, money and labor is expended, and, shall we say, wasted in attempting to learn, teach, and correct this monstrous thing called spelling, and in writing and printing according to established method. And all to no good. There are but few comparatively, who ever learn to spell with ease and correctness, and these few go through life with a dictionary at their side. Spelling jolts the cradle of the infant, awes the way of the adult, and throws the last dirt upon the coffin of the dead.” In an article on the “ advancement ? of the present age—an age claiming superior enlightenment, “ far outshining any other period in the world’s history,”—the writer is forced to admit that in many respects we are fast degrading. “ One of the many steps of our downward road is the lack of truth to be found in the world. It is . {YtlsoJ alarming to note how often, and under how many circumstances, the divine injunction is broken. Social relations have now arrived at such a pass that one man will scarcely trust another in the slightest degree. It is found that no reliance can be put in the words of the working men, in the tales of the merchant, in the medicines of the doctors, in the articles of the secular papers, in political matters.” Why, they need not go much farther to cover the whole ground of social and business life! Where, then, is the « advancement,” we ask ? Are we not deceiving ourselves, and. trying to deceive others, by mere wordy glorification of an age whose lechery and corruption, and sham, and dudeism, deserves the mosfscathing
- criticism ? A thing cannot be and not be- at the same time, friend Observer, ■
200
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
wwow.
i
---------------------------------- -	. I
Notre Dame. December 1, 1883.	•
I _ ...---------------------------- ----।
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre j Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE I DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Seven- ■ teenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a ; candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends J that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.	!
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains: , J
_ »
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art. Musical. Lit- i - erary and Scientific Gossip of the day.	.
Editorials on questions of the day. as-well as on subject* j connected with the University of Notre Dame.	j
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the sue- j cess of former students.	J
All the weekly local news of the University, including ' the names of those who have distinguished themselves : during the week by their excellence in class, and by their ! general good conduct.	j
Students should take it: parents should take it: and. । above all.	i
Old Students should take it.	!
t
Trrms, Si.^o	po.r Annum.	Postfaid.	;
Address EDITOR	NOTRE DAME	SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Our Staff.
T. Ewing Steele, ’84. Jno. A. McIntyre, ’84. James A. Solon, ’84.
C. F. Porter, ’85.
W. H. Bailey, ’84. Elmer A. Otis, ’84. C. A. Tinley, ’84.
Bishop Dwenger's Lecture.
On Sunday afternoon, as previously announced, s Right Rev. Bishop Dwenger, of Fort Wayne, op- J ened the course by an admirable Lecture on “ The Spanish Inquisition.” The lecture was delivered in the Academy of Music, at 2 o’clock, before a large audience; besides the Faculty, the students, and the Community, many persons from the neighborhood and from South Bend were present. Perhaps the best testimony that could be given of the value of the lecture and its able delivery was the rapt attention which it commanded for the space of nearly two hours, from the large audience. Bishop Dwenger is by excellence a public speaker, and the fund of historical information imparted in his lecture could not fail of being appreciated, especially by the students. The. following imperfect synopsis may give our readers some idea of what was said.
The Spanish Inquisition is a thing that is often spoken of, but in reality it is a thing that is very little understood. Existing in a Catholic country, it is .taken for granted that it was first instituted by the-?Church and that the Church controlled it, blit nothing could be farther from the truth. The Church had always opposed it, and the Pope
had given his sanction to its establishment oniv on condition that a council of appeal from its decisions should be appointed and that no enormities should be committed—all which, and much more, was promised, but was not fulfilled. What the Pope wanted was the Ecclesiastical Inquisition, which had long existed without abuse, and his sanction to the Spanish Inquisition was obtained by fraud and misrepresentation.
Since the time of the Spanish Armada until the present day, no subject had attracted so much attention, but those who take most pleasure in commenting upon it carefully ignore the fact that the civil rulers were responsible for the most objectionable features attaching to the name. It -was not the lecturer’s intention to defend the .Spanish Inquisition, to which he was opposed, as were the Pope and the Church at the time of its existence, but to place it in its true light, to do it justice, to place the odium where it belonged, and to examine the false charges that were made against it.
The lectin er gave a clear and graphic description of the state of Europe, and especially of Spain, at the time of the establishment of the Inquisition, showing clearly that the measuresand laws of those times could not be judged by the standards of to-day. Heresy in all the countries of Europe, excepting Rome itself, was frequently punished with death, because the heretics of those days sought the ruin of social order and the overthrow of the Govern- . ment. Tne Manicheans and their successors the Albigenses were guilty of the greatest enormities, morally and politically, as is conceded by Protestants like Mosheim and Southey. The Albigenses were an infamous sect, guilty o’f the most atrocious crimes against both the moral and civil law, and their punishment was rather political than religious. Simon de Montfort is inveighed against in no measured terms, but de Montfort was a guardian of public peace and order, at a time when it required an army to maintain it.
Spain, at the time of the establishment of .the Inquisition, was at open war with the Moors while inwardly threatened by the Moriscoes and Maran-nas, or apparently converted Jews, who formed a very large portion of the population and enjoyed honors, wealth and opulence. From 711 ’till the conquest of Granada, in 1492, there was a deadlv conflict for- the mastery between the Spaniards and the Moors, and in the time of Ferdinand and Isabella it was a well-known fact that the Marannas, or baptized Jews, were secretly in league with the Saracens, hoping by their aid to establish a Jewish kingdom in Spain." Outwardly Christians, thev were secretly traitors. They had become rich and powerful, embracing a large portion of the nobility and even, it is said, of the clergy. So hated and dreaded were the}' that even a Bishop was accused at Rome of’being secretly a Jew. The Cortes and the people clamored for strict measures against them, and finally Isabella, who was most averse to the proposition, agreed to the establishment of a court to secure the public welfare against these secret enemies. That court was the Spanish Inquisition.	.	.
i	•
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
2OT
The writers on the Inquisition, and especially i Llorente, were reviewed at great length, much to ! the detriment of the authority of the latter, whose , statements are often nothing more than gross mis- ! representations, and sometimes contradictory in, ■ themselves. Llorente was an apostate priest and I a traitor to his country as well as his religion. He > wrote in France, whither he had fled from justice, i He hated the Pope as the devil hates the cross, I and spared no pains to misrepresent and calumniate , both the Church and the Papacy. From this man ! Prescott takes his authority and writes, in a manner I which indicates great prejudice against the Papacy, • but the statements of Ranke, Guizot, Limborch and j other eminent Protestant writers on the Inquisition, clearly prove that the Spanish Inquisition was entirely a state aflair, and, on many points, al- ; together opposed to the views of the Church. | All its judges, ecclesiastical as well as lay, were ! appointed by the sovereign, and held office sub- i ject to his good pleasure. All the fines which j it levied anti property which it confiscated reverted to the profit of the crown. Llorente himself confesses that the Pope was always opposed to the Inquisition. Ranke and Guizot sav the same thing. Leopold Ranke, a Protestant writer of tin- • doubted authority, states that “ the Pope had an i interest in thwarting it; and he did so. and as often I as he could.” The reason is obvious. The Inqui- i
sition had too much power placed in its hands, and it often abused this power, notwithstanding the protests of the Pope. It was a tool of the sovereign; in it the king had at his disposal a tribunal from which neither nobleman nor ecclesiastic could claim immunity, and its high-handed measures were a cause of continual trouble between the Vatican and the Spanish Government.
As to the charge of atrocious cruelty so frequently brought against the Inquisition, the lecturer, while admitting that there were manv instances of rigor, which it was not his intention to palliate or excuse, yet maintained that its sentences were perhaps characterized by less severity than those of any other tribunal of equal jurisdiction in Europe.
. The Spanish Inquisition as a State Court had far greater power than all other State courts combined. It had jurisdiction in morals when certain forms of immorality—especially vices to which the Moriscoes were peculiarly subject—were punished with death, not only in Spain, but also in other Christian countries. It had exclusive jurisdiction over the nobility and the clergy, and over all its own servants and officials, who numbered more than 25,000. It had jurisdiction over all impostors who pretended to be priests, over people who pretended to sanctity and whose lives belied their pretensions; it had jurisdiction over forgers of public documents and over the prisons; it had jurisdiction over all questions concerning church property, and in all cases of usury; it had jurisdiction in all cases of sorcery and witchcraft,—and we all know that during the lamentable craze which prevailed all over Europe in the 17th century witchcraft was punished with death in most places, even in England and our own
1 i
I
I
i
colonies. Its jurisdiction was thus shown to be unequalled bv that of any other tribunal or court that Europe or the world has ever known. The total number of its victims during its existence of more than 330 years is estimated by. its bitterest enemv, Llorente, at 30,000. The lecturer made clear, bv irrefutable evidence, that this estimate was too large by at least one-half, and then produced verv interesting statistics to show that far greater atrocities have been committed amongst nations loudest in their denunciations of the cruelty of the Inquisition. In England, for instance, whose population was . not one-third that of Spain and its dependencies, 3,000 persons had been executed for witchcraft alone during two rears of the reign of the Long-Parliament; and the number of persons put to death during the 16th and 17th centuries in England and Scotland, for sorcery alone, was shown to be far greater than that of the victims of the Inquisition during the four centuries of its existence.
In the light of these facts, the acts of the Inquisition, bad as they sometimes were, when we consider the troubled state of Spain, where a war of races had been waging for centuries, will not appear nearly so bad as they are represented. When the record of its doings is impartially examined, we find that the number of its victims dwindles down to a comparatively very small number.
The Inquisition, which could exist only under a despotic system, was instituted for the purpose of centralizing power, and to it chiefly were to be attributed the abrogation of the fueros and the subversion of the constitutional rights of the Spanish people.
In conclusion, the Rt. Rev. lecturer again emphatically repudiated the claim so often ignorantly made that the Inquisition is to be considered as an ecclesiastical tribunal organized to prevent the exercise of the right of liberty of conscience; and expressed the hope that the day would ultimately come when encroachments of the civil power on the domain of consc:encc would be impossible, whether such power be wielded by a Torquemada. a Henrv VIII, or a Bismarck.
The Minims’ Jubilee.
The extraordinary prosperity of Notre Dame during the past few years has been the subject of universal remark. It would seem as though the destruction of the old college buildings and the erection of the new had marked an epoch in the history of our Alma Mater, in which she has risen from her ashes more youthful and vigorous than ever before, and now, as she advances in the fulfilment of her mission, is constantly gathering under her care an ever-increasing number of children. Indeed, the large number of students in attendance—while a subject of congratulation to the administration of the College—is a most conclusive proof of the popularity of the Institution and the high appreciation by an enlightened public of its educational advantages..	-
202
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Our little friends of the Minims have by no means been behindhand in sharing in this rapid development. Their “College,'’ or rather “Palace,” now contains more than i oo “ princes,” as they arc called; and hence the reason of the grand celebration of last Saturday. For, a promise had been made last year by their venerable patron, Very Rev. Father General, that when the number of his Minims should reach one hundred, a feast would be prepared which would far outshine all other celebrations in splendor and magnificence. When, about a month ago, the magic number had been reached, no time was lost in informing Father General of the fact. The day was appointed, and preparations at once commenced for its fitting celebration. The day chosen was the 24th of Nov., the anniversary of Father Sorin’s first arrival at Notre Dame—a fact which gave additional pleasure to the festival.
THE CELEBRATION
began in the afternoon at 2 o’clock with an entertainment, in the Academy of Music, made complimentary to Father General. A large audience assembled to do honor to the occasion and to greet the youthful performers. The exercises were opened promptly at the hour named and the programme, as published in our last number, was fully and perfectly carried out.. A beautifully-expressed address in poetry to Father General was well- read bv Master B. B. Lindsey, who in behalf of his youthful companions congratulated their beloved patron upon the recurrence of this happy anniversary and the long-desiied centennial number of his “ princes.”	•
Two plays were presented: “The Minims of Notre Dame,” a short sketch descriptive of Minim, life here, and “ The New Arts,” a drama in three acts, written for the students by the venerable Superior-General, and designed to inculcate lessons of urbanity and refinement of manners. The characters were taken as indicated in the programme of last week and were acted with surprising art and perfection. Too much praise cannot be given to all who took the various parts. Their lines were perfectly committed and read in a’manner to reflect the greatest credit upon themselves and their instructors. And we must say that in this respect the Minims gave a striking example—which we hope will not be without its effect—to their older brethren of the Juniors and Seniors.	•
Where all did so well it is difficult to particularize. However, we cannot refrain from mention-.ins- Master B. Lindsev, whose ease of manner, clear intonation of voice and gracefulness of gesture marked him as the star of the evening. Great praise is also due to Masters . R. A. Morrison, Ryan J. Devereux, R. V. Papin, F. I. Qtis, J. Wright, and W. McPhee, who distinguished themselves in the enacting of the roles assigned them. During the performance the Minims’ Orphepnics —a vocal organization—gave some fine choruses, in which the solos were taken with pleasing effect by Masters. J- McGrath and F. T. Garrity." Two beautiful tableaux were presented; which we find
; it impossible to fittingly describe. They were , given with all the attention to light and shade, ; position and . costume that could be desired and ; were received with great applause. Mrs. Antoine.
Maguire, of Chicago, whom it was our pleasure to notice on a former occasion, kindly consented to grace the occasion and lend her magnificent voice to add to the pleasing features of the entertainment. Needless to sav, her choice mor-
: ceaux enraptured. her auditors.
. On the whole, the exhibition-was in every way > successful, and while affording the greatest pleasure to the large and critical audience, it displayed to advantage the great talents existing among the lit-
! tie “princes,” and the painstaking care and instruction to which they are subject.
On the conclusion of the performance, Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger arose, and in a few well-chosen words expressed his pleasure at what he had witnessed, and complimented Very Rev. Father General upon the happy anniversary.	‘
Tt was now 4 o’clock, the hour set for the grand
PARISIAN BANQUET.
The “princes” and their invited friends repaired to the large dining-hall, where a bounteous repast •
i had been spread. Owing to mismanagement, some -t defects existed at the outset, but in a short time
these were remedied, and all proceeded smoothly. When due justice had been done the good things, Prof. Hoy ne arose and delivered an address appropriate to the occasion. He spoke substantially as follows:	.
Those who devote themselves to the education of the young render an incalculable service to society and the State. They hold an important place in shaping the forces of civilization and national independence. Were you to take the names of teacher* from the lists of persons most renowned in religion, philosophy, philology, science and history from the beginning of time to our own day, you would create an irreparable void; and the obscurity of-night would cover civilization almost to the verge of the present. Teachers hold an honorable rank in the march of the world’s progress and enlightenment. The ora-’ tor, the statesman, and the editor, seek respectively to influence men for some special purpose, and not always do they succeed in doing so. But the teacher is sure of. the success of his labor, for he works upon the plastic minds of the young; and his instruction tends to no special end, but serves to form the whole character. Webster.eloquently says:
“If we work upon marble, it will perish; if we work upon brass, time will efface it; if we rear temples, they will	-
crumble into dust. But if we work upon_immortal minds. , if.we imbue them with principles, with the just fear of God and love of bur fellow-men, we engrave on those tablets
something which will brighten to' all eternity.” ,	I
Filled with the inspiration of that sentiment, we ma\ to-	I
day, with , peculiar appropriateness, felicitate the Founder	;
of this flourishing Institution! Grbwned'with the halo of	1
time, bearing the evidence of 70 years of service to his Maker and fellow-men, enriched with experiences that . reach far-into the past, blending living testimony of the
generation gone by with all the‘wonders and activities of	j
the present, he is here to-day to greet andmingle with the youngest of the students—the Minipis. : The education of the young, to which he uni eservedly dedicated himself so
many years ago, still closely engages his attention. Be-	.
tween, the Minims and him all recognize the existence of a	;
tie of peculiar tenderness. By them he is loved even as a	!
father, and to them a father could not be kinder or more	!
indulgent. In this little realm the paternal form ofgovern-	j
ment is, most popular, and there is no tendency to conspir-	’
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,

acy-or rebellion among the Father General’s “Princes.” It is-perhaps known to all, and therefore superfluous to say. that several weeks ago the Father General stated that, when the number of his little friends here should reach 100, he would celebrate that signal; evidence of the growth and prosperity of this department by giving a Parisian dinner: and I feel sure all will concur in saying that he has munificently fulfilled his promise. I have often wondered why so many people annually turn their backs upon, the grand mountains, widespreading plains, pathless forests, great lakes and rivers, and sublime and diversified scenery of our own incomparable country and make regular trips to Europe; but henceforth I need only think of the dinners they get in Paris, and their preference will be easy of explanation.
And now a word of thanks to the Minims. It is certainly no exaggeration to say that they deserve praise for these interesting and pleasing exercises—exercises that I venture to say all will agree with me in pronouncing highly creditable to the participants and the good Sisters who instruct them. Everything bears witness to the scrupulous care exercised even as to details in the matter of instructing them. And this is eminently proper. Here the foundations of their lives are laid. If these be safe, the future shall be secure. If thev be defective in anv particular, the whole future shall be uncertain. Strength cannot be a conspicuous element of the’ superstructure. Let the foundations be properly laid, and upon them may be built a manhood that shall comprise all the practical virtues of a good life. As a rule, the start gives earnest of the career. As a man begins life, sb is he reasonable expected to continue it.
No matter how young a person is, he may be sure that his character is undergoing formation day by day. and .so continues until he enters into the monotonous round of the world’s activities. Then it is practically formed, and thereafter it is difficult indeed to change it. The sum of a person’s habits determines his character. Habit is often called “second nature,” and there is a large element of truth in the trite remark. As Brougham says:
“ I trust everything, under God, to habit, on which, in all ages, the law-giver as well as the schoolmaster, has mainly placed his reliance: habit, which makes everything easy, and casts the difficulties upon the deviation from a wonted course.”
In view of this testimony, my young friends, I cannot be too urgent in advising you to cultivate good habits.. If yo.u have a. bad habit, drop it as you would fire; for if you do not, it will burn into your lives and wither the brightest prospects. Acquire'a taste for study. Cultivate a disposition to think. Reach out from the things you know to the things they suggest. Look upon indolence with dread. Utilize to good purpose all your time. Tn this regard hearken to, the words of Gladstone:
“ Believe me when I tell you that thrift of time will repay you in after life with a usury of profit beyond your most sanguine dreams, and that the waste of time will make you dwindle, alike in intellectual and moral stature, beyond your darkest reckoning.”
Patient and intelligently directed work will enable you to accomplish almost any object or realize any practicable aim. Buffon says: “ Genius is only a protracted patience.” When health and youth are behind work and patience, success should be certain. Bulwer makes Richelieu say, “ In the lexicon which Fate reserves for a bright manhood there is no such word as fail.” And now permit me, in closing, to hope that Fate has not reserved that sad, harsh, withering word—the word “ fail ’’—for the future of any of you.
Prof. Hoyne’s speech was received with great enthusiasm. All then adjourned to the parlors, where the guests were received by Very Rev. Father Sorin and Rev. President Walsh. After an hour’s social converse, the company broke up, and the day was over. Altogether, it was an event which will be long remembered, not only by the young “ princes,” who were the immediate occasion of the festivities, but by all the students of Notre Dame; for, the one thought uppermost in the
| minds of all no doubt found expression in some I such language as this: “ Our Alina Mater?s. day ; now presents a cloudless sky, and everything indi* cates that the full sunshine of prosperity will be ‘ slow to fade away.” So may it be!
i	De Quadam Re.
\	“ Blind and naked ignorance
;	Delivers brawling judgments unabashed
;	On all things, all dav long.”
i	.	—Tennyson.
i 1 was somewhat surprised and still more amused J by a verv readable-^—though rather-unintelligible— | article in last week’s Scholastic under the pecu-■ liar caption of “In Re—De Omni Re,” etc. So | far as I am able to guess, it was a pseudo attempt I at a critique on some articles previously contributed | by myself to the Scholastic over the signature of j “ Moore A Non.”
; The writer—whoever he (or possibly she) may ~be—seems to have had the one laudable purpose of filling a column and a half of the Scholastic. It has, moreover, been suggested to me that the author (or authoress) endeavored towards the close to be sarcastic; if so, his failure was so pitiful that I hesitate to charge him vyith the attempt.
But now to the gist of the article.
From a person who proclaims himself “The Superficial,” any remarks, on the subject of superficiality arc, in the nature of things, worthless; and his confused talk concerning Ohio politics and Methodist Camp-meetings go to show that his pseudonym is.fairly representative of the writer. Though I am entirely at sea as to the identity of my critic f who has a charming fashion of straightway •weakening every statement he may make), I am willing to wager my last summer’s hat that he never in all his innocent days attended a campmeeting. He is, by the way, at perfect liberty to ridicule my much-abused Muse; any person absurd enough to perpetrate College poetry deserves all he may receive.
In closing, ! will respectfully suggest that while all advice should be kindly received, still, the author’s choice of a subject for a book or a paper is peculiarly his own concern.
'	T. E. S.
Personal.
— Ballard Smith, ’65, is now Managing Editor of the New Tork Herald.	-
-—A. and C. Van Mourick, of ’79, formerly of Detroit, are employees in a railroad office, Kansas City.
—Mr. Otto Eigholz (C’om’l), of ’79, paid a flying visit to see the new Notre Dame. He is doing an extensive business in Kansas City.	\
—A welcome'visitor to the College during the-past week was Rev. P. J. Hurth, C. S. C., President of St. Joseph’s College, Cincinnati. We
X
2oa	THE HOTEL DAME SCHOLASTIC,
<
were glad to learn from Father Hurth that his college is in a flourishing condition, as it deserves to be under its efficient management.
—Among the numerous visitors in attendance upon the Minims’ celebration of last Saturday, we noticed the following: Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger, Ft. Wayne, Ind.: Rev. A. B. Oechtering, Mishawaka, Ind.: Rev. P. J. Hurth, C. S. C., Cincinnati, Ohio; Ex-Vice-President Schuvler Colfax and wife, Mr. and Mrs. C. Studebaker, Mr. and Mrs. J. M. Studebaker, Mr. J. F. Studebaker, the Misses Studebaker and Miss Smitz, Mr. and Mrs. A. Co-quillard, Prof, and Mrs. T. E. Howard, Mr. and Mrs. L. G. Tong, Mr. William Miller and Miss Miller, Mr. and Mrs. Fasset, Mr. J. B. Stoll, (of . the South Bend Times'), Mr. and Mrs. Zahnle, Dr. J. Cassidy, and Miss Milburn, South Bend, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. Hopkins, Denver, Col.; Mrs. Clearv. Mrs. and Miss McVeigh, Covington, Kv.: Judge West, Cinthcana, Ind.; Mrs. O’Kane, Cincinnati, Ohio; Mrs. Brown, St. Paul, Minn.; Mrs. Lindsey, Denver, Col.; Col. F. H. Keefe, Mr. J. L. Cummings, Mr. E. Thomas, Mr. Quill, Mrs. Schoneman. Mrs. A. Maguire, Miss Lilian Benner, Miss Adams, Mrs. P. L. Garrity, Mrs. A. Mullen, Mrs. Jas. Mullen, Mr. and Mrs. Bird, Chicago. Ill.: Mr. Edward Smith. Circleville, Ohio; Mr. and Mrs. Curtis, Adrian, Mich.; Mrs. Steele and Miss Wells, Lancaster, Ohio: Mr. McGuire. Clinton, Iowa; Mr. and Mrs. McNally and daughter, Ft. Wayne, Ind.; Miss Gregori, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame, Ind.; Mr. Dennis, New York Citv, N. Y.: and Mr. AV. Carr, Indianapolis. Ind. "	.	'
-- - ♦ ... _
'	Local Items.
—Delphos!
—The Juniors have a new football.
—“Those finger-bowls were just too awfullv-awf ul 1 ”
—The astronomers took .a view of Saturn last Tuesday evening.
—“Mr. B—, won’t you please give me the end of your necktie?”
—Essays on various metals are coming into fashion in some Western schools.
—Operations on Science Hall are still being continued in spite of cold weather.
—“ Gentlemen, what do you do with the ends of your neckties?” Crazy quilts, oh!
—Among numerous other rarities at the Parisian dinnei* were oysters in the shell, from Baltimore.
—The ushers deserve great credit for the manner in which they performed their duties last Saturday.
—The event of the coming month will be a recherche reception by the Crescent -Club of the Class of ’84.	•	.
. —A new hard-wood floor has been laid in the Gymnasium, which makes it an excellent place for calisthenic exercises.
1	—Lost.—A gold ring. The finder will be suit-
1	o	o
! ably rewarded bv returning the same to T. Me-
! Gill, Junior department.
i —The next Thesis before St. Thomas’ Acad! cmy will be defended by its Vice-President, Mr.
: W. II. Bailey, of the Class of ’84.	.	।
; —The.statue in the Juniors’ studv-hall has been	*
• decorated with a beautiful wreath of wax flowers.
1 the gift of J. Hagerty, of St. Louis, Mo.
—On last Thursday, Thanksgiving Day, Solemn High Mass was sung bv Rev. President Walsh, assisted bv Rev. Vice-President Toohey as deacon, and Rev. N. Stoffel as subdeacon. .
—The main pipes in the lower corridor have	;
been covered with rubber belting. This new improvement holds out a rather dismal prospect to the regular “steam-pipe upholders” during the coming winter.	,
—The Juniors enjoyed a very pleasant time in their reception.-rooms, last Saturday evening. Dane-ing, singing, etc., comprised the amusements, after which refreshments were served. A large number of visitors were present. The music furnished by Elbel’s Orchestra was excellent.
—The St. Cecilians return an unanimous vote of	|
thanks to Rev. President Walsh, and also to Bros. Lawrence, Leander, Simon, and Prof. Stace, for favors received in connection with their late entertainment. The Euglossians also return thanks to Bros. Emannuel and Paul for kind favors.
—Messrs. Kolars and Johnston were on hand	1
with their note-books and attempted to capture the	!
flying words in Bishop Dwenger’s Lecture on Sunday last. We have not heard with what success. The Bishop Idst no time, and it would prob-ablj* require an expert in stenography to take the Lecture in full.
—Last Wednesday, Very Rev. Father General sent word to the Junior studv-hall that he wished to see the two best Juniors in his room. The Prefect in charge sent Masters J. Hagerty and G. Schaefer. The Rev. Father presented them with a valuable picture. Of course the whole Junior . department feel very grateful for the gift.
—Thanksgiving Dav was celebrated with all befitting solemnity. At dinner the gay and festive . turkev graced the table, but the “grace” was speedily obliterated. After dinner the patriotic hearts of the members of the Band were moved, and thev came forth from their retirement and enlivened everybody with their soul-stirring melodies. In the .evening a musicale was given by the Crescent Club, and—everyone..went to bed happy.
—Mr.-Aaron Jones, President of the Northern Indiana Agricultural. Society, sent out last week the medals and prizes won by the students at the Annual Fair, held in South Bend a few weeks ago. Mr. John J. Bannigan, of the Senior department, received a handsome gold medal for the first prize in the bicycle race; C. Delaplane a silver medal of the same pattern, for the second prize. On a bar from which the medal is suspended is engraved the name of the winner, and on the medal itself the object for which it was given. Mr. J. . w«
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Riley received $10 as a prize for the burro race. The President of the Society and the Committee on prizes have acted very handsomely and deserve the gratitude of the students.
—The 11 th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was held Nov. iSth. A well-written criticism was read by AV. Schott, after which the Moot Court, commenced some time ago, closed. The prisoner, Mr. Eb. Longin-culus from Tomkinsville, was found guilty by the jury. The lawyers for the state were, D. Taylor, W. Mug, and F. Hagenbarth. Those for the defense were, F. Dexter, G. Shaefer, and C. Porter. H. Foote was prosecuting attorney; \V. J. Schott, clerk of the Court; J. McDonnell, U. S. Marshall; J. Monschein foreman of the Jury. The trial created a great deal of interest as well as amusement. Public readers for this week arc, W. Mahon, J. Courtney. T. Cassilly, J. Fendrich, E. Wile, J. McDonnell, J. Divine, J. Stubbs, J. Smith, W. Holbrook.
—The N. D. U. C. B., under the direction of Prof. D. Paul, is in as flourishing a condition as can be expected at this time of the year. There are those in the Band who wish to make it successful and who understand their instruments, but the need at present is more practice. Tf the boys will have more frequent rehearsals, we may expect some excellent music. The members are as follows: Prof. D. Paul, Director; John G. Guthrie, Leader; J. A. Ancheta, 1st Cornet; F. A. Quinn, Solo bl Cornet; Harry R. Whitman, 1st
Cornet J. E. Donahue, 2d b^ Cornet; Jno. T. Spangler, 3d b^ Cornet; Rev. J. Toohey, C. S. C., Solo Alto Horn; J. A. McIntyre, 1st Alto Horn; F. A. Wheatley, 2d Alto Horn; A. P. Coll, Bari- J tone; J. T. Carroll, b^ Bass;- F. P. Devoto, Tuba; • D. C. Saviers. Piccalo; T. Kavanaugh, Clarinet; M.Sykes, Tenor Drum; C. A. Tinley, Bass Drum; C. M.Murdock, Cymbals.’
—During Very Rev. Father General’s visit to France in the fall of ’79, shortly after the disastrous burning of the University, a French lady of distinction, and a warm admirer of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, desirous of assisting in raising the University from its ruins, presented him with a most beautiful painting of our Saviour, scourged, bleeding, and crowned with thorns. This picture is by one of the old Masters, and, as a real work of art, has elicited the highest encomi-' urns from all who have seen it. It was the lady’s request when presenting it, that it should never leave Father ■ General’s possession for less than twenty thousand francs, which sum was to be for the financial assistance of the University of Notre Dame. Father General has lately presented this picture to the Senior department, and by so doing has merited the most grateful remembrance and sincere gratitude of the Seniors of ’83 and ’84.
—Among the many letters received by Father General in connection with the celebration of last Saturday the following gave him the greatest pleasure. The writer is now entering upon his ' fourth year of life:	-.
Very Rev. Father Generat. :—My mother thinks that
I am too little to be a Prince in your Palace this winter, so I am going to stay with her at St. Mary’s. But I intend to be big enough to come and make the 200th Prince and then, I am sure, Very Rev. Father General, you will invite ; the Rt. Rev.-Bishop and all our dear parents and all those i ladies and gentlemen to come to a bi-centennial dinner. I and you will have it in a grand new refectory built on pur-[ pose for the Princes. When I come. Fil bring three more with me—my three little cousins Charley and John, and Blaine Ewing from Washington. This is the first letter I ever wrote. One of my cousins held my hand.
Your Prince in -petto,
Sherman Steele.
Lancaster, Ohio.
Roll of Honor. .
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Anchondo, Ancheta, Aguilera, Burns, Brosseau, Barron, Buchanan, Becerra, Bailey, J. Burke, V. Burke, F. Burke, Browne, Combe, Coll, Carbajal, Callan, Cartier, Jno. Cusack, Jos. Cusack, Crawford, Creel, Celia, Conway, A. Coghlin, Callaghan, Connell, Delgado, De Groot, De Wolf, Dolan, Delaney. Eisenhauer, Ewing, Fishel, Farrell, Gooley, Gonser. Gandrup, Goulding. Gonzalez, Geiser, Gutierrez, Gray. J. Gallagher. Hyde. Howard. Hopkins,. Hellebush, Handy, Jno. Heffernan. Jones, Kavanaugh, Kerndt, Kimmel, Kleiber, Larkin, Long, McErlaine, Ma-| hon, McKinnery. Mathers. Marques, Mittendorfi McIntyre. T. McNamara, J. McNamara. Neeson, Ed. O’Brien. Ott, O’Connell, G. O’Brien. O’Kane. O’Dea, O’Rourke. Orchard, Otis, H. Paschel, C. Paschel, Pour. Quinlan, Rudge, Ryan, Rogers. Reach, Steis, Scholfield, Spencer.. Steele. Saviers, Solon, E. Smith, G- Smith. Tinley, F. Uranga. J. Uranga, Whalen. Warren. Wheatlev. Zahnle.
JVX1OR DEPARTMEXT..
Masters Akins, Arnold, Anchondo, Arkins, Berthelet,* Borgschulze, Baur. Barclay. Benner. Breen, Curtis. Caveroc, Cleary, Clarke. Costigan. C. Combe. F. Combe, Devereux, J. Devine. Dorenberg, Dexter, Eisenhauer, Fehr, Fendrich, Fierro, H. Foote, Finckh, Garrity, Gerlach, Gimbel, Grothaus, Grunsfeld, Hagenbarth, Halligan, Hues-tis, E. Howard, W. Henry, Houlihan, Hopkins, Houck, Holman, Hagerty, Jensch. P. Johnson, J. Kelly, M. Kelly, Letcher, G. Lewis, Loescher, Lake, Mulkern, Monschein, Mullane, Miller, Meyer, Mason, J. McGordon, Moye, McDonnell, Marcott, C. Metz. Mug, S. O’Brien, P. O’Donnell. C. Porter, Pohl. Perley, Quill. Rogers, Regan. Reynolds, Rhodus, Ryan, Shea, Sedberry, Schmauss, L. Scheuerfnan, M. Scheuerman, Schott, Schaefer. Stumer, J. Smith, C. Stubbs, Saunders. Talbot, D. Taylor, Trepanier, Uranga, H. Warner, Wile, Wagoner, Wabraushek, Weber, Weiler, Wright, Williamson. Hilliard. Coleman, Tewksbury, G. Tarrant, Cartier.
'	MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Amoretti, Ackerman, Boos, Crotty, Cummings, Delaplane, W. Devine. Dungan, Fitzgerald, Fulwiler, Garrity. Lewis, B. Lindsey, Maguire, McVeigh, Meehan, A. Nester, F. Otis, O'Connor, R. Papin, Paden, V. Papin, Quill, Stange. Stewart, Thomas, Uranga.	.
* Omitted bv mistake last week.
For the Dome.
Mrs. James O’Kane, Cincinnati, Ohio............$10.00
Geo. Baurman, Louisville, Ky.................   10.00
Mrs. Wm. Devine, Chicago........................ 5-°°
THE HOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Saint JFlary's Academy,
One Milc^West of Notre Dame University.
—The competitors for the Juniors’ Badge of Honor were: Misses I. Allen, M. Allen, Bailey, Barth, Cummings, Chaves, Dillon, Dodge, C. Du-cey, Eldred, Fehr, H., E. and S. Jackson, Keyes, Murphy, McEwen, Metz, Papin, Roddin, Regan, Richmond, A. Shephard, Schmidt, Scott, Stumer,
■ when the players feel that appreciation meets their interpretation of the beautiful conceptions evolved from master minds in music’s true domain.
As we have no programme, we cannot name the numbers, but must be’content, much to our regret, to mention a ’few. The opening symphony in G Major was 'recognized at once to be Haydn’s. The adagio cantabile flowed smoothly and tran-quilly, giving the key-note, as it were, to the character of the coming entertainment, viz., the expression of -music’s soul, rendered in purest, velvety tones throughout. The 'first few bars alone were sufficient to prove -the capabilities of the Philharmonic Club. Relieved ffiy a short allegro assai, the andante was truly a “ Surprise,” in which every instrument had a share—child-like in its simple motif; grotesque even, at times, in its tieatment; still one felt the Master was there withal.
Mr. Schenk’s violoncello solo, accompanied by the Club, was charming; the even quality of tone, up to the highest sound, was a marvel; and none
| will ever forget the last, long-drawn diminuendo. A reiterated encore brought to light a more brilliant style of execution, which exhibited to great advan-
• 'tage the technical skill of the performers.
! Mrs. Wells P. Tanner sang the exquisite aria, i “Queen of the Night,” from Mozart’s “Magic j Flute.” Our vocalists admired her ease in taking I staccato passages and skips, just to the point of in-| tonation. Her high notes arc of such flute-like qual- . i itv and so similar to the accompanying flute, that at times it was difficult to distinguish between-the voice and the instrument. She gracefully acknowledged an encore by singing “Annie Laurie”; showing her real artistic taste by giving it in all its simple, natural pathos, to her own piano accompaniment. A short -pizzicato then brightened a few moments, after which Mr. Arnold rendered his violin solo. “ Fairy Dance.” This morceau \x-xs new to those present, and in it Mr. Arnold proved himself the virtuoso. Difficulties vanished under his artist hand. We cannot describe the various phases of skill, inasmuch as they seemed to be enveloped in a gauzy veil of pure melody, through which they twinkled like stars under light, fleecy clouds. The orchestral accompaniment here had free scope,shading and surrounding the lovely tonepicture with softest hues; the concluding strain appeared to re-echo from space, as we held our breath to catch the receding sounds, so pure, yet dreamy, in their exit. Among so many gems of art we must not pass the elegant flute solo played by Mr. Weiner. The theme was a simple legato, but soon became hidden in a maze of tasteful jioriture, peculiar to artistic flute playing. It is no small praise
! to say that Mr. Weiner excelled himself in this pretty offering, and we would like to say more, but there were other-music treasures to be expressed in music’s own language which words arq inadequate to reach. Of such were Robert Schumann’s little scenes, “ The Poet Speaks,” “ Frightening,” and “‘Evening Song.” Of these, we>daie •noFspeak; -for‘there was-music’s^oww.tongue.
. The short hour spent with -Haydn, rMozaft, Schumann-and Schubert "closed with Beethoven’s
—The Minims of St. Mary’s had the honor of being present at the grand Parisian Dinner, on the 24th. Marie S. Lindsey read a letter of congratulation to Very Rev. Father General in behalf of her little companions. The little “Princesses” were as happy, as happy could be, and feel more grateful to their venerable host than they have it . in their power to express.
—On Sunday, at 7 o’clock p. m., the Rt. Rev. Bishop of Fort Wayne repeated the lecture on the “ Spanish Inquisition,” given by His Lordship at the University a few hours previous. The breathless attention throughout speaks volumes in favor of the mental capacity of his young auditors. We are deeply grateful for the treat afforded, and hope to see this excellent lecture in print, as it will be useful to all students of history.
—The young ladies enjoyed immunity from class and stud}' on the 23d, as it was the honored, feast of their beloved Prefect of Studies. Many lovely floral offerings were made, Holy Communion was received, and Masses were offered for her intention. The grand concert in anticipation gave i the key-note to one of the brightest days of the j year; “golden hours flew on angel wings,” and ; all were admitted to the tablet -par excellence. ,
— Visitor's to the Academy were: Mrs. A. Cal- ! len, Columbus,'Ohio; Miss L. Lindsey, Fihderlv, j Ohio; Mr. and Mrs. L S. Wilson, South Bend; | Mr. and Mrs. J.:C. Hermann, Des Moines, Iowa; j Mr. Charles Jordon, and Mrs. Anna Wooden Jor- • don (Class ’80), Ottumwa, Iowa; Mrs. Allen, Dwight, Ills.: Mrs. H. A. Vanderhook, Mr. Charles S. Warner, Mrs. George S. Philips, Mr. D. 'Quill,'Col. D. O’Keefe, Mr. J. L. Cummings, Mr. B. F. Arnold, Mrs. B. Shbneman, Chicago, Ill.; Mrs. Schmalz, Rockford, Ills; Dr. R. F. Em-mann, Brooklyn, N. Y.; Mr. Perry Parker, St. Paul, Minn.; Mr. and Mrs. J. L. Bailey, -Denver, Col.; Mr. Thomas M. Morris, Laporte, Ind.; Mr. Tricbti, New Orleans, La.; W. V. Keating, Council Bluffs, Iowa: Miss Neal Benner, Chicago; Mrs. j H. N. Brown, Minn.	1
—On the 23d ult., at 10 o’clock a. m., the New ; York Philharmonic Club presented one of their | choice programmes in the Seniors’ study-hall. ! When it was announced that musicians of such repute were coming, expectations ran high; but they were fully realized. Such a rare combina- ' -tion of talent, in which every-member is master of <his own instrument, is heard'to'the-best advantage
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	207
“Turkish March.” To the Club, we tender our appreciative thanks, and shall never forget their real nut sic.	.
—It is with the deepest pain we learn of the tragic death of Mrs. Eunice Crouch White, of Class ’69, who, with Iler husband, father and guest, was so cruelly assassinated at her home in Jackson, Mich;, on the night of the 21st ult. A letter received from a friend says further:
“ Mrs. White was a convert, and also converted her husband whom she married October 12, 1881. She kept house for her father ever since leaving St. Mary’s. She was born in the house where she was murdered—May 15, 1850. She. was very popular with all classes here, and was a most devoted Christian. The funeral of herself and murdered husband took place to-day (Saturday), at 10 o’clock, at St. Mary’s Church. The edifice was thronged to its utmost—^people were jammed into pews, and down every aisle to the altar-rails, and out in the street. There were 2 hearses,and ^.cortege 1 mile long. Father Malaney sang High Mass with choir, and preached a fine sermon. No such excitement has ever before been known in Jackson.”
When the cheerful, happy face of this beloved post-graduate was seen in our midst but little more than a year ago, bn a visit to her Alma Mater and the scenes of her conversion and baptism, little did we dream that so soon we should be called upon to record her untimely death. Yet sad and heartrending as arc the circumstances connected with her departure from this life, her love for her faith brings to us the assurance that hers, though a sudden, was not an unprovided death. The virtues which adorned her sincere and beautiful character during her school career, and which made her the favorite of her companions and enlisted the affectionate confidence and admiration of her teachers, did not forsake her when she went forth to enter upon the duties of mature life. Her earnest, steadfast piety, her gentle, exalted Christian influence, is most perfectly reflected in the fact that she drew her husband to embrace the faith. When the painful intelligence reached St. Mary’s, Masses, to be offered the following morning, were, secured for the loved departed; and many a Via . Crucis and chaplet, many a Pater and Ave went up from loving-hearts to Heaven in their behalf, and will continue to ascend, that their Entrance into the eternal abode of light may not be delayed.
Reqaiescant in fiace I
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
. SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
ist. Tablet—Misses AsKton, Adderly, A. Allen, Bruhn, Black, A. Babcock, C. Babcock, Billings, Burgher, Call, M. Cummings, Campbell, Carney, Castanedo, Duffield, Dunn, Danforth, Dowling, L. English, B. English, Ewing, Fendrich, Fitzpatrick, Fisk, Fogerty, Gove, Ginz, Gage, Addie Gordon, iMice Gordon, Gavan, Holt, A. Heckard, Helpling, Hunt, Hale, Hart, Horn, Hack, Heneberry, B. Haney, Hetz, B. Johnson, N. Keenan, Keating, Kearney, Kearsey, Kearns, King, L’egnard, Lintner, Leahigh, Mohl, Munger, A. Murphy, M. Murphy, Mooney, McCarthy,
Neu, E. O’Connell, M. Priestman, L. Priestman, R. Platte. Papin, Quill, Ramsey, Reilly, Reynolds, Ryan, Russell, Rorer, C. Rosing, Spotwood, Scully, Stackerl, S. St. Clair, i L. St. Clair, Schmaltz, Sear, Sheridan, L. Sheekey, Steele, ■ Todd, Tynan, Udall, Vandebogart, L. Williams, Wilson, j Week 1 er.
।	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
1 ist Tablet—Misses I. Allen, M. Allen, Best, M. Barry, | Brown, Bailey, Barth, 1. Cummings, Chaves, Campeau, Dillon, A. Duffield, Dodge, M. Ducey, C. Ducey, Dur-lacher, Eldred, A. English, "Fehr, B. Halsey, T. Haney, H. Jackson, E. Jackson, S. Jackson, Keyes, Lord, Lucas, C. Morrison, McEwen, Murphy, Malbceuf^ Moshier, Metz, Naylor, Otis, Papin, C. Richmond, Schmidt, Snowhook, E. Sheekey, Stumer, Scott, Shephard, Turpie, Van Horn, Wolvin.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
ist Tablet—Misses Chapin, Ducej’, English, L. Johns, V. Johns, Lindsey, Murray, G. Papin, Paul, M. Reynolds, A. Schmauss, F. Steele, Van Fleet.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
Advanced Course—Miss Laura Fendrich.
ist Class—Misses M. Beal, J. Reilly.
2D Division—Miss M. Cummings.
2D Class—Misses A. Allen, Gove, Hunt, Neu.
2D Div.—Misses Bruhn, Keenan, Shephard.
3D Class—Misses Ginz, Hale. Classed—Miss Tynan,
2D Div.—Misses M. Adderly, Carney, Dillon, Keating, Mohl, Sheekey, Scully. Todd.	.
4T11 Class—Misses Campbell, Evarts, L. English. K. Fehr, Horn, H. Jackson, Ramsey. Van Hom.
j 2D Div.—Misses A. Babcock, Gavan. Morrison, A.
i Murphy, Sears, Snowhook.
i 5TH Class—Misses Call. Castenado, Duffield, K. Ducey, I Fitzpatrick, Holt, Lucas, Munger, Moshier. Malbceufi M. j Stackerl.
S 2D Div.—Misses Chaves, Dungan, Dunn, Danforth, | Fisk, Hart, Keyes, Quill, Russell, L. St. Clair, Sheridan, ; Williams, Wilson. Wolver.
i 6th Class—Misses Barry, B. English. Fogarty, Alice Gordon, Addie Gordon, Hack, Hetz, Heneberry, Haney,
; E. Jackson, Kearney, Legnard, Lintner, M. Murphv, Otis, ■ M. Priestman, Platte, L. Priestman, Regan, Roddin, Richmond, S. St. Clair. Schmidt, M. Steele.
2D Div.—Misses C. Babcock, Billings, Bailey, Brown, Cummings, A. English, Kearsey, Kearns, McCarthy, M. Mooney, O’Connell, Reynolds, Schmaltz, Sheekey, Stumer, Turpie, Weckler. ’
7T11 Class—Misses I. Allen, Best, Dodge, J. English, Helpling, S. Jackson, King, Leahigh, A. Ryan. Spotwood. Classed—Miss Gage.
Sth Class—Misses L. Johns, McEwen, Scott.
pTH Class—Misses M. Ducey, Metz, Schmauss, Steele.
ioth Class—Misses L. Chapin, M. Lindsey, M. Papin, B. Murray.
*	HARP.
4T11 Class—Miss M. Dillon.
2D Div.—Miss E. Neu.
7TH Class—Misses D. Fitzpatrick, L. Priestman.
GUITAR.
Misses M. Beal, A. English.	.
VIOLIN.
Miss E. Carnev. .
' "	ORGAN.
Miss C. Sheridan.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
ist Class—Miss J. Reilly.
2D Class—Misses Bruhn, Hale.	.
3D Cr.A.ssL-Misses Neu, B. English, Ginz, C. Babcock, M. Tynan, H. Ramsey.
4T11 Class—Misses M. Ducey, C. Ducej’, M. Beal, A. English, H. Jackson, S. St. Clair. Castenado, L. Sheekey, A. Allen. *
5T11 Class—Miss 'Leahigh.	’
General Class—Misses L. St. Clair, A. Russell, Ida Alien, M. Chaves, N. Brown.	.
208
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
NEVIUS & CONKLIN,
ESTABLISHED AND RELIABLE DENTISTS, Cor. Michigan & Washington Sts., South Bexd, Indiana,
employ the latest methods in treating Natural Teeth and Roots. Superior work and reasonable prices. An effective tooth powder prepared by ourselves, and guaranteed to contain nothing injurious to the teeth, is constantly kept in stock. Will visit Notre Dame each Thursday during the School Year.
G. F. NEVIUS.	F. G. CONKLIN, D. D. S.
THE SUN.
NEW YORK. 1884.
About sixty million copies of The Sun have gone out of our establishment during the past twelve months. •
If you were to paste end to end all the columns of all ’ TheSuns printed and sold last year you would get a continuous strip of interesting information, common sense wis- j dom, sound doctrine, and sane wit long enough to reach from i Printing House square to the top of Mount Copernicus in > the moon, then back to Printing House square, and then three-quarters of the way back to the moon again.
But The Sun is written for the inhabitants of the earth; this same strip of intelligence would girdle the globe । twenty-seven or twenty-eight times.	I
If every buyer of a copy of The Sun during the past ; year has spent only one hour over it, and if his wife or his ; grandfather has spent another hour, this newspaper in 1SS3 has afforded the human race thirteen thousand years of steady reading, night and day.
It is only by little calculations like these that you can form any idea of the circulation of the most popular of American newspapers, or of its influence on the opinions •and actions of American men and women.
The Sun is, and will continue to be, a newspaper which tells the truth without fear of consequences, which gets at < the facts no matter how much the process costs, which ' presents the news of all the world without waste of words and in the most readable shape, which is working with all its heart for the cause of honest government, and which therefore believes that the Republican party must go, and
• must go in this coming year of our Lord, 18S4.
If you know The Sun, you like it already, and you will read it with accustomed diligence and profit during what is sure to be the most interesting year in its history. If you do not yet know The Sun. it is high time to get into the sunshine.
TERMS TO MAIL SUBSCRIBERS.
The several edition* of The Sun are sent by mail, postpaid, as follows:
DAILY—50 cents a month. $6 a year; with Sunday , edition,
’SUNDAY—Eight pages. This edition furnishes the current news of the world, special articles of exceptional interest to everybody, and literary reviews of new 1 books of the highest merit, JR* 1 a year.	,
WEEKLY—^1. a year. Eigth.pages of the best matter , of the daily issues; an Agricultural Department of un- , equalled value, special market reports, and literary, ! scientific and domestic intelligence make The Weekly I Sun the newspaper for the farmer’s household. To : clubs of ten with Sio, an extra copy free.
Address	I. W ENGLAND, Publisher, !
The Sun, N. Y. City.	I
A ItNOLD A’ LA ND VOIGT, < E. F Arnold, class of ’78 > Attorneys-at-Law, 470 Louisiana Avenuo, N W., Washington, Df 0. Practice in the District Courts, and Court of Claims, before the Executive Departments and Committees of Congress. Special attention given to Claims of all binds, including Customs, Land Office Cases and to securing Pensions
READY DECEMBER 8TH.
The Scholastic Annual
FOR 1884.
KINTH YEAR
CONTENTS:
Astrological Predictions ; Astronomical Calculations ; Abstinence Days; Beneden. Prof. Van; Burke O. P., The Very Rev. Thomas N. ; Calendars ; Church Days and Cycles of Time ; Dude, The (Poetry) ; Epithalamium (Poetry); Eclipses; Fasting Days; Haydn—The Story of his life; Holidays of Obligation; Introduction; Ireland (Poetry) ; Ingersoll ; Lay of the Cactus, The (Poetry) ; Law; Longfellow (Poetry); Owl, The (Poetry); Rates of Postage; Rainbow (Poetry); Sobieski; Testimony Worth Taking; Unseen Clock, The(Poetrv); Winged Words.
Price. cents. PosiLiig-e ITi'ee.
Address	JOSEPH A. LYONS,
Notre Dame, Ind.
PATENTS
MUNN & CO., of the Scientific American, continue to act :is Solicitors for Patents, Caveats. Trade Marks, Copyrights. for the United States, Canada, England, France. Germany, etc. Hand Book about Patents sent free. Thirty-seven years’ experience.
Patents obtained through MUNN & CO. an* * noticed in the Scientific American, the largest, t est, and most tvh’ely circulated scientific paper. ?3.20ayear. Weekly. Splendid engravings and inter* sting in-'ormation. Specimen copy of the Scientific A mer-jean sent free. Address MUNN & CO.. S. lENTIFIC American O.Bce. S.lBroadwav, New York.
Riclmoiii Straight Cui No. 1
| C1GAKETTES
B are made from the brightest, most delicately ■ flavored and highest cost Gold Leaf grown in B Virginia. This is the Old and OriginalBrand 8 of Straight Cut CiGARETTEs,and was brought I out by us in 1875.
Richmond Gem Curly Cut tobacco.
The Brightest and .Most Delicate Flavored Gold Leaf Grown. This tobacco is delightfully tnild and fragrant. Absolutely without adulteration or drugs, and can be inhaled with entire satisfaction without irritating the lungs.throat or mouth.
II Caution.
I The great popularity of this brand has caused certain parties to place on sale base imitations; the
I public is cautioned I to observe that onr signature appears
I on every package I of Genuine Rich-I mond Straight Cut I Cigarettes.________
Allen & fiintcr. Manofactonrs, Richmond, la.
Also Manufacturers of
OPERA PUFFS. LITTLE BEAUTIES, RICHMOND GEM, Etc., CIGARETTES. RICHMOND STRAIGHT CUT.TURKISH .V PERIQUE MIXTURES. ami OLD RIP LONG CUT TOBACCOS.