The Notre Dame Scholastic
845
NOTES ON LIVING
We have often been asked how one is to reconcile what we have referred to as the things of the spirit, with the - activities of daily life; how one is to fuse the two at one and the same time, to have them both in mind, and have them both undergo a change into greater vividness and intensity, by this very process of holding them both in the same hand at once. Our ' questioners have asked us, in particular, how, say, something read can be coupled with something done or seen in the course of every-day affairs.
' And they have insisted that this coupling be not for a moment but for . many moments.
An American writer once told a story of a sea captain pursuing a great white whale, known as Moby Dick. For the old mariner, the white whale seemed to stand for everything that struck at the spirit of man—evil and pettiness and misunderstanding and hatred. .
The captain finally found the white whale; and it killed him, after a savage fight.	’
The other night we were standing on a street corner, about five-thirty in the “ evening, in a rather large city. Every, one was hurrying to get home from " work, the streets were jammed, cars t roared, whistles shrieked, and the elevated swam noisily through space.
And the city was Moby Dick, stand-। ing over man, leering at him, spouting noise and confusion and fear over his brain, laughing at him, tossing the ship of his life high in the candled air.
And Moby Dick was the spirit of misunderstanding that rose like a sword of flame between a young man r and a young woman standing on the comer. Love was in their hearts but " Moby Dick was swimming into the seas of their lives.
A few human wrecks walked down the street, knocked here and there by the hurrying crowd, their eyes staring into the eyes that are under the earth, a And Moby Dick was the circumstances that had tossed their lives into -♦ an ash box, drowned them in the zvaters of misfortune, pounded them - into quivering masses.
r'-	... Now we see that we have done
more than couple literature to life. But is it an offense to make them one?
-	—M. H. L.
Qniiinmiaium........ .............................
|	” Give	I
I Neri re Dame 5cholas^ i c I
। iJisee-Quasi-Semper-Vic'buru.s-Vive-Quasi-CTas-MorituTus I
i	Founded in 1872	s
|	Murray Hickey Ley..............Editor-in-Chief	s
	Harley L.	McDevitt	Graduate	Manager EDITORIAL STAFF T. Vincent McIntire	Managing	Editor Emil I*. Telfel	Assistant	Managing Editor Joseph B. Reedy	Assistant	Managing Editor ■ J. Archer Hurley	The	Week Walter Langford	The College Parade William Knapp	, Music and Drama Ramon G. Smith	Campus	Clubs Paul J. Hallinan	Features Editor Edward E. Brennan	Script	Editor		
s	James Collins Howard Webster Austin Boyle John Motz		NEWS STAFF John Bergan, News Editor Neil Hurley	Lawrence Dunda	• George Allan	William Karl Richard J. O’Donnell	James Carmody John Pick	Leslie Raddatz James Kearney	=
z	William J. Magarral Harry A. Sylvester.		SPORTS STAFF	’ John A. Kiener, Sports Editor Cleve Carey	F. Granger Weil Jr.	Henry B. Asman	James E. McFeely, Jr.	
5	BUSINESS STAFF Harrington J. Noon	Local	Circulation Manager Chester M. Ashman....Foreign Circulation Manager Frederick N. Davis	Local	Advertising Manager James L. Rizer	Foreign	Advertising Manager James H. Rorke	William Sherman	John B landa Frederick J. Bauer	Frank J. Conboy	Andrew McGuan Merle V. Baldwin	Norman E. Duke			3 X 5 i
j Vol. LXIII	MAY 9, 1930	No. 27
TABLE OF CONTENTS
“Well........”______________________________________________ 846
The Week—J. Archer Hurley-------------------------------.--- 847
Coming Events----------------------------------------------- 848
Results of Class Elections—John Pick------------------------ 850
A Man About the Campus—Paul J. Hallinan--------------------- 852
Editor’s Page 855
Senior Ball Tonight Ends Social Year—T. Vincent McIntire---- 856
Partial List of Ball Guests--------------------:------------ 858
Trackmen Downed by Illinois—Henry B. Asman------------------ 860
Basebailers Split Even—James E. McFeeley-------------------- 860
Interhall Items 869
On Down the Line___________________1------------------------ 872
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office. Main Building-.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25. 1918.
:	The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of	j
:	All Notre Dame Men.	j
...........................................................................
846
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The dawn is a fire in the eastern hills, And the evening black water poured over fire: High noon is a cluster of burning arrows, And midnight a flood of dark light. But a kiss from you, my dear, Well.......let me think........
(But the songs of the birds are studies in silver, And the glory of the gulls trumpets in the air. The moon is a wafer on the lip of the world, And the stars are stones that are dropped through But a kiss from you, my dear, .
Well........I
But why write words when therefore no words, And why try to think when there are no thoughts?
| HE campus has been particularly active this week. Wednesday saw the final appearance of this year’s Juggler. The Commencement number was like all that Johnnie has done this year, highly entertaining.- It has been a great year for the Funny Fellow, and we who have learned to admire his capabilities wish him luck. There have been class elections, club elections, and local primary elections. Politics has, for some unknown reason, pervaded the campus. We are not politicians, and hence we hesitate to predict any results. And besides, there has been so much else to discuss. There was the Knights of Columbus Ball last week which Ed Connors so ably planned. And there was the disturbance at the lake shortly after breakfast one morning last week. Campus sages have forsaken their rooms during the last week, and the front porches have become a forum where everything is debated and nothing settled. And strangely enough local climatic conditions have been left alone. Our only comment, and it is not original with us, is “Assurta vilescunt.”
ANQUETS are a peculiarly American institution. Ice cream came to us from Italy, our dance steps can be traced in a fantastic trail to Borneo, and alcohol long ago made the lone tree of Omar Khayyam seem an impenetrable forest. But nowhere else do we find men addicted to getting together over a meal and exchanging compliments and compromises. This habit, original with the commercial group, has infested our entire society until normal Americans feel that they cannot commence or conclude any cooperative endeavor without a banquet. Few, if any, of the after-dinner speakers at these affairs mean what they say; but if the food has been passable, and some of the jokes still in their teens, the affair is reported by stereotype scribes as having been a success. At the publications banquet last night the boys who will set the dead-lines for next year were announced, the departing editors complimented their respective staffs, and the board confessed that bad though we were, there had been worse. Everyone was relieved to think that the responsibilities of the year were about over, while Sylvester and I recalled other days, and McIntyre wrote a sonnet on his napkin, the first line of which was “Where is the asparagus of yester-year?”
ONIGHT the Senior Class of 1930 null forget its cares. And it. seems quite appropriate that there should be such a night, a night when books are forgotten, when the seriousness of life gives way to the exuberance of youth. The Senior Ball is really something more than a dance. It represents the belief that the social side of university life may be quite well recognized without detriment to the scholastic. A class whose activities have been so varied and so successful, has delegated to Frank Daily the task of making all the necessary arrangements. We have every confidence in the ability of Frank and his assistants, and we feel sure that
the Senior Ball of ’30 will be successful.
J. w.

848
The Notre Dame Scholastic
4------------------------------«
Coming Events
t------------------------------o
FRIDAY, May 9—Scholastic editorial staff meeting, Publications office, Main Building, 7:00 p. m.—Senior Ball, Palais Royale Ballroom, 10:00 p. m. to 2:00 a. m.—Last day for Wrangler applications to be handed in to Edward Phelan, St. Edward’s Hall.
SATURDAY, May 10—Baseball, Notre Dame vs. Iowa, Cartier- Field, 3:00 p. m.—Movies, “Four Feathers,” Washington Hall, 6:40-8:15 p. m.—Track, Michigan State at East Lansing.—Golf, Notre Dame vs. Loyola University, William Burke University golf course.—Tea Dance, Chain-o-Lakes Country Club, 2:00-5:30 p. m.
SUNDAY, May 11—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00; High Mass at 9:00 a. m.—Benediction, 7:30 p. m.—Interhall Indoor-League baseball.—Senior Ball Mass, Morrissey Hall Chapel.—Breakfast for Ball guests, 9:30, Faculty dining room.
MONDAY, May 12—Tennis, Minnesota University at Notre Dame, University courts, 2:30 p. m.—Lay Faculty Dinner Dance.
TUESDAY, May 13—Baseball, Notre Dame vs. Northwestern, Cartier-Field, 3:00 p. m.—Scribblers meeting, Howard Hall “Rec” room, 7:45 p. m.—Wranglers meeting, Walsh Hall Public Speaking room, 7:30 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, May 14—Second Interhall Outdoor Track Meet, Cartier-Field, 3:00 p. m.—Spectators meeting, Journalism room, Library, 7:40 p. m.
THURSDAY, May 15—Central Intercollegiate Tennis Meet, Chicago.
FRIDAY, May 16—Baseball, Notre Dame vs. Illinois at Urbana.—Northern Indiana Oratorical Contest, Washington Hall, 8:00 p. m.—Intercollegiate Tennis Meet, Chicago.
EDITOR VISITS CAMPUS
Michael Williams, editor of Commonweal, national Catholic weekly, was a visitor on the campus last week. While here he conferred with the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University.
WRANGLERS HOLD LAST PUBLIC BANQUET
An open-house banquet, held by the Wranglers Club last Wednesday evening at the Rose-Marie Tea Room, was well attended by all men interested in debating, both varsity and inter-hall. The entire club was present, as well as a goodly assemblage of interested guests of the organization. John Wilson was chairman of the banquet.
President James J. Walsh delivered a very inspiring talk to the men, as toastmaster for the occasion. Other speakers of the evening included each one of the guests, Walter Stanton, Thomas Keegan, and Edward Phelan. The banquet was the last that the club will hold publicly for this year.
Election of officers for next year-will take place shortly, probably within the next two weeks. Also a private banquet, feteing the graduating members, will be held during the last week of the school.
FINAL “SCRIP” OUT MAY 20
For the last time this school year Louis Heitger and his associates have selected from the material contributed the stories, poems, essays, and plays, that are to appear in “Scrip.” The deadline for the last number of the year, which is to be published about the twentieth of May, was yesterday, the eighth of May.
Several poems, short stories, and essays submitted by the students prove that the springtime is not the the lackadaisical period which it is supposed to be. The best poems and short stories entered in the Scribbler Poetry and Short-Story Contests will appear in this number.
The frontispiece has not as yet been chosen. Several have been submitted, and the editors are trying to select the one best suited for their purpose.
“DOME” NOW IN HANDS OF PRINTERS
The Dome for 1930 is now in the hands of the printers, after having been considerably delayed by a disastrous fire in the photographic studios of Russell, in Chicago. Distribution will be made somewhat later than usual on this account, but Harley McDevitt, graduate manager of publications, announces that Domes will be in the hands of the students by May 24 at the latest.
COMMERCE MEN HEAR BANK EXECUTIVE
Mr. H. H. Wall, president of the Foreman State Bank of Chicago gave a very inspiring address to a capacity audience in Washington Hall, Tuesday morning, on the subject of “Success.”
Mr. Wall, one of the leading banking executives in the United States, was introduced by Byron Kanaley, a prominent alumnus of the University. This marked the fifth of a series of lectures given by prominent business executives before the men of the College of Commerce.
MALONEY ELECTED BY ROCHESTER CLUB
Howard Maloney was selected as । president for the coming year by the Rochester Club. Richard Sullivan of Rochester, vice-president; Joe Kear-ney of Batavia, secretary, and Walter
J. Murphy, the Western Union ~~ j “Murph” was elected treasurer. The I Club’s Farewell banquet for depart- i ing seniors will be held soon, prob-ably after the senior examinations.
“ROCK” TO VIEW SCRIM-
MAGE SATURDAY
After all the conflicting reports concerning the return to the campus of Knute Rockne, a very definite one has come from the Athletic Office to the effect that “Rock” will be present at the scrimmage on this Saturday without fail. He is due to arrive in South Bend some time tonight, and is planning to supervise the spring drill for the rest of the session, probably another week.
The final scrimmage of the period will be held on May 17, at which time “Rock” will have an excellent opportunity to size up his squad and determine the strength of next year’s team.
SIR CARL BUSH TO TEACH
AT SUMMER SCHOOL
Among the teachers engaged for the summer school is Sir Carl Bush of the Kansas City Horner Conservatory of Music, who will conduct -a class in harmony and composition. Mr. Bush, because of his international reputation as a musician, has been recently elected an honorary mem- , ber of the American Bandmaster’s I association of. which John Philip .1 Sousa is the only other honorary f member.
The Notre Dame Scholastic	849
Saunders and Cavanaugh Win In Class Elections
The elections held last Monday in the basement of the Main Building were some of the most hotly contested battles on the campus in recent years, especially among the upper classes.
. In a close race, John Saunders won over Ralph Dalton for the seniorpresidency; William Leahy won the office of vice-president from Joe Gavin, while John Boland was successful in his race against Tom Monahan for the secretaryship. Roy Bailie got the office of treasurer when he defeated James O’Brien.
The Junior class elections were closer than usual especially in the victory of Vincent Cavanaugh over . John Litcher for the presidency. Joe Cooke was selected for vice-president over Bart O’Hara. In the race for the office of secretary Francis
MONOGRAM FORMAL ON TUESDAY NIGHT
The ninth annual Formal dance of the Monogram Club will be held in the Progress Club ballroom, South Bend, Tuesday evening from nine till twelve. Music for dancing will be furnished by the “Jugglers,” Brunswick recording ai-tists. Pennants of the athletic rivals of Notre Dame, and gold and blue streamers will form the decorations. The orchestra stand will be resplendant in monogram blankets and gold tapestries.
The committee arranging the dance includes: John J. Quinn, Bernard Conroy, Joseph Abbott, Clarence Donovan, Martin Brill, Joseph Lordi, H. Manfred Vezie, Harry Francis and Jack Cannon.
Mr. and Mrs. Knute K. Rockne, Mr. and Mrs. Hartley Anderson, Mr. and Mrs. John P. Nicholson, Mr. and Mrs. J. Arthur Haley and Mr. George Keo-gan will be the chaperones for the affair.
SENIORS TO GET “DOME” MAY 24
Copies of this year’s Dame will be distributed to members of the SeniorClass on Saturday, May 24, according to Editor-in-Chief Robert Prendergast. „ The book is now at the Peerless Press in South Bend and will go to the binder in Chicago on May 17.
Students who have not already signed for the Dome may place their orders with Mrs. Mary Beyer, secretary of the University, or at the Publications office.
Coogan was successful over Leonard Condon while Vince Whalen won the office of treasurer from McCormick. The Juniors selected John Connolly and Herbert Georgio for two-year S.A.C. representatives; Jerome Reidy is their one-year representative.
In the Sophomore elections, Ed Dailey won the presidency and George Beaudin the vice-presidency. Don Draper was selected secretary, and George Reese treasurer. Maury Lee will be their one-year S.A.C. representative.
In the election for the S.A.C. repre-■ sentatices Edward Madden was selected by the College of Arts and Letters, Frank Esposito by the College of Science, Harold O’Connor by the College of Commerce, and Robert Ruppe by the School of Engineering; Joe Carney will represent the off-campus students.
K.	OF C. DONATES SCHOLARSHIPS
The Supreme Board of the Knights of Columbus has recently provided scholarships in Boy Guidance, according to word received by Professor Raymond Hoyer, head of the Boy Guidance Department. These scholarships provide board, room and tuition for one year at Notre Dame. Since the work is of graduate grade, applicants must possess a bachelor’s degree from a recognized college. Preference will be given to men who have had some practical experience in work with boys.
Seniors interested in securing a scholarship may receive additional information by conferring with Professor Hoyer, Room 229, Main Building.
L.	F. HORAN RECEIVES SOCIOLOGY SCHOLARSHIP
Leonard F. Horan, a Junior in the College of Arts and Letters, recently received word that he has been awarded a Summer Session scholarship at the New York School of Social Work, New York City. Mr. Horan is following the Probation Work program in the Department of Sociology here and received the scholarship because of his record in this department. Along with his classes at the New York school, Mr. Horan will engage in field work in connection with one of the city courts, fulfilling a requirement of the Probation Work program in this way.
McSHANE ELECTED HEAD OF CHICAGO CLUB
The annual election of the officers for the Chicago Club, the largest sectional club on the campus in point of members enrolled, was held on Thursday night, May 1, in the apparatus room of the Gymnasium.	‘
The contest centered about two factions, one headed by Bernie Leahy, of Walsh Hall, and the other by Dick McShane, also of Walsh. The popularity of both candidates made the final choice a matter of conjecture until the last ballot had been counted. Nominations this year were unusual in that they were accompanied by short summaries of the policies and records of the several aspirants to office.
The final counting of the ballots made Dick McShane president, with Edward Ryan as vice-president, Ray Duff as secretary, and Frank Holland as treasurer. Bernie Leahy, Carl Cronin, Bert Maloney, and Harry O’Rourke were the other candidates.
The new administration will take office at the beginning of the term in September, succeeding that headed by William McCarthy. The present set of officers has guided the club through one of its most successful seasons, financially and socially, and the new group has promised to pursue the same course throughout its' regime.
BAND .WILL PLAY IN BLOSSOM PARADE
The University Band, under the direction of Professor Joseph J. Casa-santa, will leave early tomorrow ' morning for St. Joseph, Michigan, where it will take part in the annual blossom time parade in the afternoon. Two chartered buses will transport the full personnel of seventy-five’ pieces.
Last Sunday evening the band gave its annual concert before the students of St. Mary’s College and Academy, in St. Angela’s hall. The program rendered by the band consisted of the same numbers presented in Washington hall earlier in the year.
PRE-REGISTRATION TO CLOSE MAY 20
Pre-registration for all students closes on May 20, according to the Reverend William Molony, C.S.C., registrar of the University. All men planning to return to the University and living off-campus must pay the pre-registration fee of S25.00.
850
The Notre Dame Scholastic
“JOURNEY’S END” TO BE
PLAYED ON CAMPUS
Professor Frank Kelly, head of the Speech Department, and director of the University Theater, announces that the University Players will stage “Journey’s End,” the famous war play by Robert C. Sheriff, in Washington Hall, twice before commencement. This comes as great news to all those interested in drama, for it gives the student players an opportunity to play in something new, and it gives the student audience an opportunity to see what is considered the one great play rising out of the World War. The play at present is in the sixty-third week of its showing in New York, and it has recently appeared in a talkie picture.
Mr. Kelly had some difficulty in obtaining the play for Notre Dame, and recently he made a special trip to New York to obtain first-hand infor-maiton concerning problems of production; hence he announces that the play will be almost identical with the New York version, save for slight minor changes which will cut down the running time.
The cast is nearly complete and will be announced in its entirety in a later issue of the Scholastic. The time of production is also tentative, but it will probably be about the twenty-fifth of this month, with the second showing the Friday night immediately before commencement.
CONNECTICUT VALLEY
CLUB ELECTS HALPIN
The Connecticut Valley Club elected Daniel D. Halpin, president for next year. Ray Connors was elected vice-president, Vincent Turley was elected secretary, and Alfred E. Gall, treasurer. President Toomey, this year’s president, outlined his plans for the summer dance, to be held at the Avon Country Club about June 20, and appointed Sam Vetrano, general chairman, before turning over the chair to Mr. Halpin.
SCHOOL RING SELECTED
The final choice of an official school ring was made this week at a meeting of S. A. C. representatives and faculty board members. The ring, which is to be manufactured by Elliot and Company of Philadelphia, is to be sold through a campus concession for $19, and may supersede the senior pin next year.
LAST “JUGGLER” APPEARS FOR SENIOR BALL
GUESTS
The Funny Fellow ended his year last Wednesday night in a flurry of brilliant gold, and the music of bells tinkling brightly, but with just a touch of sorrow in them. For the last time this year the little company of troupers who make our campus laugh each month, played its part, and bowed in farewell.
It was a fitting last act for a wonderful performance that has dwarfed all previous shows, and that will make all future ones strain to the utmost to be equalled. To the last it was true to its well-earned reputation of making this year a different, unusual, and spectacular one, with a brilliantly shining cover of gold, background for a pair of Seniors “Collegiate to the Last,” with caps and gowns well over-written in the manner of a campus slicker. The cover was the work of Gil Kirwan, together with Lionel Theissen and Joseph A. Moran, the latter a contributor to the issue. A feature of the issue was “The Ball That Jack Made,” a play for the Senioi- Ball, with decorations portraying the actual decorations that will be used in tonight’s Ball, and pictures of the Senior Class president’s guest and the guest of the general chairman of the Ball. Additional pictures of Miss Catherine Moylan, the Jugglers movie star, and the Juggler Girl, are used.
Commencement receives the most important attention in the book, and artists and writers seemed to become especially fresh and spicy in their treatment of a subject which is used so often that it always borders on triteness. The issue, however, is far from being trite, and makes a splendid ending for the year.
The retiring staff members include John L. Nanovic, editor-in-chief, Louis Hasley, Lionel G. Theissen, James J. Walsh, James L. Callahan, Archer Hurley, T. J. Ryan, Gil Kirwan, Bob Rice, Jr., and John Zeedick. The business staff remains as it was this year. Jack Dempsey is the editor-in-chief for next year.
RALEIGH NAMED CLEVELAND CLUB PRESIDENT John Raleigh was selected as president of the Cleveland Club for next year at the annual election held last Wednesday night in the Law Building. Clarence Kozak was named vice-president, Myron Crawford, secretary, and John Collins, treasurer.
SCRIBBLERS ELECT TELFEL PRESIDENT
Emil L. Telfel, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, was elected president of the Scribblers at a meeting held last Tuesday night in the Howard Hall “Rec” room. Telfel is assistant managing editor of the Scholastic and has been a member of the Scribblers for the past year. He succeeds Cyril Mullen, who is graduating in June. Louis A. Brennan, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, and a member of the editorial board of Scrip, was elected secretary-treasurer to succeed Murray Hickey Ley.
Five new members were elected to the club from a list of ten applicants. The new Scribblers are: Richard J. O’Donnell, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters and a member of the Scholastic staff; Frank O’Malley, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters; George M. Spalding, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters; Jack Cooper, and Francis X. Nulty, both sophomores in the College of Arts and Letters.
The next meeting will take place on Tuesday, May 13. The Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, will address the club.
Plans have been nearly completed for a banquet to be held sometime in the near future.
PROF. PETTIT WILL SPEAK IN BOSTON
Maurice L. Pettit, member of the University faculty and field work advisor in probation work, has accepted an invitation extended by Charles L. Chute, general secretary of the National Probation Association, to explain Notre Dame’s plan of training college men for professional probation work at the annual conference of the association in Boston, Mass., June 6 and 7, a plan which owes much of its efficacy to Judge Cyrus E. Pattee, of the St. Joseph County Court.
A---—------------------------
NOTICE!
Applications “for membership into the Wranglers Club must be mailed today to Edward Phelan, St. Edward’s Hall. All applicants must have a scholastic average of 85 per cent and have participated in some forensic activity.
♦----------------------------


The Notre Dame Scholastic
851
Telfel, Hallinan and Dempsey Are New Editors
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS TO HOLD ANNUAL PICNIC
Notre Dame Council, No. 1477, Knights of Columbus will hold its annual picnic next Thursday, May 15, it was announced at the last meeting of the Council by the picnic’s Chairman, Walter Scholand. Plans were made which will not only make the picnic enjoyable but will easily surpass other year’s outings.
All members of the Knights are invited to attend the affair and partake of the elaborate program planned by Grand Knight Chevigny and the picnic’s chairman. There will be no need of financial worry on the part of the members as every thing has been arranged to permit any knight to avail himself of the season’s final gathering. Knights of Columbus, however, not of Notre Dame Council, are asked to show their travelling cards to Grand Knight Chevigny or Walter Scholand, and they will receive tickets upon payment of sev- ' enty-five cents.
The picnic will be held at either Hudson Lake or Christiana Lake, Michigan. Indications point to Hudson Lake as the scene of activities because of its excellent facilities for sports.
Lunch will be served to the picnickers at twelve-thirty, prior to the afternoon’s events. There will be an inviting meal served at six o’clock in the evening which will consist of chicken and the delicacies which go to make a dinner pleasing.
The afternoon will be crowded with events of all sorts. There will be races of all kinds which will allow every member to display his individual ability. An added feature will be the horse and rider contest. The pair winning this event will be awarded Treasurer Kenneally’s Prize which is in itself a novelty never before seen. The afternoon will be closed by a bail-game between the Irish and the Dutch teams of the Council. Attractive prizes have been obtained from several downtown stores and will be pleasing to all those who are victorious in the seven events which will be run off.
In order to know how many lunches and chicken dinners to order, Walter Scholand requests that Knights wishing to attend the picnic give their names to him on or before Monday, May 12.
FATHER MURRAY MAKES ANNOUNCEMENT
Students who have had class instruction on mental disorders are invited to attend a demonstration clinic arranged for Notre Dame students at the Logansport State Hospital, Thursday, May 15. Busses will leave the local post office at 9:20 a. m., returning in all probability at 6:00 p. m. The round trip bus fare will be three dollars, which must be paid to Edward Phelan, 226 St. Edward’s Hall, before Monday night. No private automobile parties will be permitted.
Only those students who have had Sociology 3a will be permitted to make the trip. Cuts will be excused only in the case of students who are majoring in sociology or who have taken a course in clinical psychology. Reverend Raymond Murray, C.S.C.,
Department of Sociology.
ALUMNI CLUB HOLDS
MEETING
The St. Joseph Valley Alumni Association met Monday evening in the Lay Faculty dining hall. Dudley M. Shively, president of the Club, presided at the meeting. The Club adopted a committee report recommending incorporation and change of name to The Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley.
The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, was the principal speaker of the evening. Other speakers were Mr. Frank Hering, prominent alumnus of the University and editor of the Eagles’ Magazine, and Mr. Bernard Voll, former president of the St. Joseph Valley Club.
Music during the evening was furnished by the “Juggler-” orchestra.
NOTICE!
Treasurers of all campus clubs are required by their charters to hand in a report of their finances to be audited by the treasurer of the Student Activities Council, Harold Duke, room, 229, Corby Hall, May 15.
❖---------------------------
Brennan Named Chairman of “Scrip” Board; Father
Carroll Lauds Men
Emil L. Telfel, Paul J. Hallinanj John E. Dempsey and Louis A. Brennan were named last evening as editors of the four University publications for next year. The selection was made by the Board of Publications and announced by the Reverend Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., chairman, at the Publications banquet in the Lay Faculty dining hall.
Telfel, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, named as editor of the Scholastic, comes from Newark, New Jersey. Tuesday evening he was elected president of the Scribblers’ Club for next year. His literary work has been of a high standard during the three years he has spent at Notre Dame; he has proved his capability not only in creative writing, but in administrative work. At present he is managing editor of the Scholastic, and during the past year has conducted the “Man About the Campus” and “A Man You Know” columns, written editorials and handled news stories. He succeeds Murray. Hickey Ley, of Davenport, Iowa, as editor-in-chief of .the Scholastic.
Hallinan, of Painesville, Ohio, a sophomore in Arts and Letters, will be editor-in-chief of the Dome. He is a member of the Dome, Juggler, and Scholastic staffs and has contributed heavily to all three publications. In selecting a sophomore as editor-in-chief of the Dome, the Board is following its policy of recent years in - making that publication a product of the Junior class. Hallinan succeeds Robert Pendergast, of Galesburg, Ill.
Dempsey, next year’s “Funny Fellow,” is a Junior in Arts and Letters and a resident of Oshkosh, Wisconsin. He has been a prominent literary figure since his freshman year, and has written for most of the publications on the campus. This year John contributed much excellent copy to the Juggler. He succeeds John L. Nanovic, of Palmerton, Pennsylvania.
Nearly one hundred members of the staffs attended the banquet and heard the addresses by the Reverend J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., and Dean of Commerce James McCarthy. ’The Reverend Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., acted as toastmaster, and Reverend James Connerton, C.S.C., and Reverend Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., also spoke.
852
The Notre Dame Scholastic
-------------------------------«>
A Man About the Campus
.j.----------------------------$
Like a real student of political science, Ray J. Reardon (Waukegan, III.; Walsh Hall; and four-year man in the combination A.B.-Law course) was nowhere to be found when this department started its Monday evening ramble. He was, true to the watchword of this column, “about the
Raymond J. Reardon
campus.” His room-mate said he was out “politicianing,” or as they call it in this state, campaigning. As an added inducement to get somebody to conduct this' column next year, we propose that the name be changed to “Man-In-His-Room,” or something to designate, in a broad way, that the • gentleman to be interviewed should be a home-loving soul, and not one in the habit of running about the dark paths of campus intrigue after 9 p.m.
But Larry Cronin, his affable roommate, batted very competently for Ray. He told us that “personality,” in a word, was the secret of his partner’s popularity. Given as he is to chewing tobacco, bull-sessions and indoor baseball, Ray has made friends on all sides, and although a comparatively dark horse last May, he won the presidency of the Senior Class—an honor, that you may be sure requires a vote or two, and votes come from men who know you and admire you.
But after nailing down that per-
sonality clause (and we realize that only good men have their personalities talked of in these days of character complexes), this department scratched its ear, and fell into a stalemate (if you play chess) or into an impasse (if you do military manoeu-vers in your spare time). Ray, it seems, never edited the Scholastic, nor collected the dues for a campus club; never sang first bass in the Glee Club, nor played second base on the team; never appeared in a dramatic production, nor rated a dance committee. Yet, paradox of paradoxes, he now has the respect of editors and half-backs, tenors and short stops —he selects the Senioi- Ball Committee. The week he selected this heterogeneous group, he was the official hail-fellow-well-met of this fair campus. Tonight, girls and boys, as you dance to Coon-Sanders’ sweet tunes, give a thought to Ray Reardon. There would have been no Coon-Sanders’ without a Music Committee, no Music Committee without Reardon to select it, and if our Logic is faulty, wait for the Philosophy Number of the Scholastic.
Reardon’s especial field is the “bullsession,” that impromptu, hearty, often intellectual, often absurd, always interesting species of eloquence which is more suited to the den than the drawing room. Any subject-matter, any method of attack—any opponent or colleague—matters little to Ray. He’s a Lawyer in first year law, and we’ve always held that lawyers should receive credit-hours for time spent in such sessions.
Ray plays golf a good share of the time, but he never wears knickers. He also swims, but while swimming never wears—well, a raccoon coat. His friends were so insistent about the swimming that we’re repeating it here. His indoor pitching for Freshman and Sophomore Halls—the early residences of his collegiate career,—seems worthy of mention in this catalog of his virtues. We couldn’t locate any vices—his room- . mate swears that he is never ill-tempered. Their room, to change the subject, is attractively decorated: law
. books, photographs, pennants, and the first good-looking bureau we’ve seen in many a room.
We tried to see this Senior Class president again Tuesday, but he was still campaigning. He had someone button-holed in front of the gym, and a caucus of great importance was going on. We had voted five times already, so we didn’t interfere.
NORTHERN INDIANA ORATORICAL CONTEST TO
BE BEST IN YEARS
Applications are being received daily by the Wranglers Club from high schools in Northern Indiana for competition in the Northern Indiana Oratorical Contest, which is sponsored by the club. Chairman John Houlihan expects the largest crowd in the history of the contest to deliver addresses from the stage of Washington Hall on the evening of May 16.
Only the best schools in this section of the state were sent invitations, which promises an evening replete with splendid speakers. In past years, the Wranglers have uncovered some splendid orators in the high schools of the state and have been able to give them the incentive to better themselves as speakers.
The committee in charge of the event, composed of Chairman John Houlihan, Frank Noll, Neil Hurley, and John Wilson, announces that some of the best of the high school speakers in this part of the state will compete. As accommodations are limited, the number of entrants must be ent down to a minimum, thereby assuring those who attend that only the best will speak.
The speech of the contestants may be upon any subject that they desire, but they are limited to ten minutes. The limit is necessary in order that each man may be given an opportunity to speak.
The matter of the judges has not yet been definitely decided. The committee has several names under advisement and will make the selection within the coming week. Because of the great amount of publicity that the contest is receiving in the papers of the state, the Wranglers desire to have only the best men available judge the affair.
Letters praising the club for its efforts are still being received by the committee from principals of high schools who are sending entrants.
A handsome fifteen inch cup has been selected by the members of the Wranglers for first prize, with gold, silver, and bronze medals to go to the individual winners. No expense has been spared by the club in an effort to promote one of the best contests ever held in this section of Indiana.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
853
Engineering Students Visit Muscle Shoals Plant
A short while ago a party of twelve seniors in the Department of Electrical Engineering left for Sheffield, Alabama, to visit Muscle Shoals, and to inspect the various divisions of that immense power plant. The students were the guests of Mr. John J. Nyhoff, a realtor in Sheffield, and president of the Sheffield-Muscle Shoals Chamber of Commerce. It was owing to his generosity that the trip was possible. It was through him that permission to inspect the plants was obtained from the government. When he learned that it was the custom at Notre Dame for the graduating class in electrical engineering to make a tour of some big electrical project in the country each year, Mr. Nyhoff extended the members of this year’s class an invitation to come to Sheffield as his guests and thereby made possible a trip which, would have otherwise been prohibitively expensive.
The students returned to the University during the Easter recess, and soon after left for their homes. Speaking of the nitrate plants at Muscle Shoals, several members of the party scoffed at the opinions recently advanced that the methods used in these plants are out of date and inefficient. They declared that, in their- opinion, no unprejudiced engineer would declare such an opinion. They stated that although the method used by Plant 1 is not entirely satisfactory, it is not obsolete and can be made to produce nitrogen satisfactorily with- out great expense, and that Plant 2 can take take nitrogen out of the air, which will prove entirely satisfactory.
The students gave particular attention to the War Department activities at Muscle Shoals. These activities include: Nitrate Plant No. 1, a plant for the manufacture of ammonium nitrate by the so-called synthetic process of nitrogen fixation; Nitrate Plant No. 2, a plant for the manufacture of ammonium nitrate by the cynamid process of nitrogen fixation; and Wilson Dam, a dam nine-tenths of a mile wide. The turbines connected with this dam are but slightly utilized at present, although some power is generated and sold to the Alabama Power Company. This company purchases power from the government for* two-fifths of a cent a kilowatt hour, and then it sells power to smaller companies for ten cents a kilowatt hour, truly a fair rate of profit.
The night before the students returned to Notre Dame they were entertained at a dinner dance at the Sheffield Country Club. They have said that their trip was most enjoyable and have expressed their gratitude to Mr. Nyhoff. Robert Holmes, a senior from South Bend who has visited the Muscle Shoals district before, was largely responsible for the arrangements of the trip, and it was at his advice and instigation that plans for the trip were made.
SPECTATORS ELECT MEMBERS ; NAME STEPAN
NEW PRESIDENT
Eight new members were elected into the Spectators last Thursday evening, May 1, according to an announcement made by Louis L. Has-ley, president of the club. The new members were selected from a list of fifteen applicants.
The following are the men who were elected: Emil L. Telfel, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters and assistant managing editor of the Scholastic; Ramon G. Smith, a junior in • the College of Commerce, Campus Club editor of the Scholastic, and president of the Rocky Mountain Club; Austin Boyle, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters and a member of the Scholastic and Juggler staffs; Richard J. O’Donnell, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters and a member of the staff of the Scholastic; William C. Karl, a junior in the College of Engineering and a Scholastic staff member; Daniel Williams, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters; Charles H. Miltner, also a junior in the College of Arts and Letters; and John Pick, a freshman in the College of Arts and Letters and a member of the Scholastic staff.
Alfred C. Stepan of Chicago was elected president for the year 193031 to succeed Louis L. Hasley, who is graduating in June. Stepan is a junior in the College of Arts and Letters and has been a member of the Spectators for the past year. Timothy E. Benitz of South Bend was elected secretary to succeed Murray Hickey Ley.
The new members were received at a meeting held in the Journalism Room of the Library last Wednesday evening.
SPANISH CLUB HOLDS BANQUET
An event outstanding among the Notre Dame activities was the banquet of the Spanish Club at the Rose Marie Tea Room on May 1, 1930. The banquet was well attended by the members of the club. The University’s entire Spanish faculty were guests. The Club was also honored by the presence of the Reverend Charles Miltner, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, the Reverend Emil DeWulf, C.S.C. Director of Studies, and the Reverend Francis Maher, C.S.C., Chaplain of the Club. Other noted guests who attended were Senor Juan Pedevilla of the Studebaker Corporation, Senor Enrique Encisso, representative of the South Bend Lathe Works, and Senor R. Polidura, a world wide traveler, who related to the members his experiences through South America.
At the beginning of the meeting F. J. D’Muhala read the report of the last meeting. Following this Robert Kelly, president of the Club, after a short introductory speech, allowed Frank (Spike) McAdams, the toastmaster, to preside over the meeting.
Father Miltner and Father DeWulf chose at random four students who gave short Spanish talks. Those selected were Mr. E. Rohrbach, Mr. Patrick Hastings, Mr. F. Finnigan, and Mr. Lambert Rinehart. Very enthusiastic speeches were then given by Father Maher and Joseph Martinez.
The banquet was concluded by a very appreciative speech from Professor De Landero of the Spanish Department of the University, who is the sponsor of the. Club.
439 TO RECEIVE DEGREES AT COMMENCEMENT
The largest class in the history of the University -will be graduated at the June Commencement exercises according to recent compilations released.
The Reverend Emiel DeWulf, C.S.C., Director of Studies at the University, released, recently, the names of all Seniors who are expected to graduate next month. According to this list, which Father DeWulf says is as accurate as possible at this early date, the largest group, 178, will be graduated from the College of Arts and Letters. The College of Commerce follows next with 128. Fifty-one will receive degrees from the Department of Engineering; forty-four from the College of Law; and 38 from the College of Science, making a total of 439 graduates.
854
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Now here is a prof with what we call the right idea. While giving an exam in physics recently, a Harvard professor suddenly called time out and marched his victims info an adjoining room, where refreshments in the form of cocoa and cookies awaited them. After their little relaxation they returned to the chamber of horrors and, no doubt, flunked just as gracefully as they would have without the intermission. But that’s not the point. It is the spirit of the act that is to be commended—yes, even recommended. Many another prof would do well to emulate the worthy and humane example set by this member of the Harvard faculty. They might even go further and serve pretzels and beer. Beg pardon, did we say beer? We meant nearbeer, which reminds us of a sign we once saw somewhere. It read like this: “Near-beer sold here; no beer sold near here.” But back to our discussion of refreshments during exams. Such a thing would make the poor devils wrestling with the exam feel a lot more like human beings and less like dumb automatons in the merciless hands of a cold, impersonal master. Moreover, the intermission might well be the occasion for the sudden recollection of considerable knowledge pertaining to the matter at hand, namely, the examination. If the answers to the questions just wouldn’t come spontaneously—well, there’s nothing like a wee bit of prompting, you know.
—o—
While we are talking about professors with novel ideas, here is another one. This one is a psychology prof at Syracuse, and he conceived the idea of bringing to his class on child psychology a huge personal collection of toys. The class responded nobly to this varied assortment of playthings. In a moment toy autos were careening across the lecture room, choo-choo trains were speeding along, and every other sort of toy was pressed into immediate and intensive service. The prof wanted to play too, but there seemed to be no opening for him, or rather, no toys. This situation no doubt brought on extreme mental irritation, and after some time the poor prof could stand it no longer. The result was that he took up his toys and went home, leaving the class toyless and almost heart-broken.
—o—
When the University of Texas recently had a round-up (which is cowboy parlance for homecoming), one sorority outdid all the other groups-on the campus in decorating the place a la ranch. This particular sorority had every little thing looking so ranch-like that one old-timer paused in astonishment and was heard to remark, “Wal, I calculate as how it shore does look like the real dang thing.”
The Nebraska coeds should also be able to derive some satisfaction or at least consolation merely by thinking of the case of their sisters at Michigan State. This respected
institution allows the freshman coeds to make whoopee for exactly forty-five minutes beginning at seven in the evening. The sophomore and junior girls may remain at large until ten o’clock, while the seniors may dissipate until the bewitching hour of eleven “if they feel so inclined,” which seems quite a superfluous addition.
The well known Yankee tendency to tightness—or should ? we be polite and say economy?—is seen in the action of : Princeton athletic oificials whereby all seats in the Princeton stadium were narrowed from 19 to 17% inches in order to create accommodations for about 6000 additional spectators. The Princeton officials declare that the changes in women’s styles and the popularity of reducing fads are ' among the things which have led them to believe that 17%	;
inches is sufficient room for any spectator, masculine or	=
feminine. We admit they are right in regard to the slim- I jims, the beanpoles, the scarecrows, and the like, but we f: wish they had to sit at a game some time and be wedged -j in between two big, fat plutocrats who need about 30 inches each.	f
A group of profs in the English department of the University of Indiana have banded together in what is	C
known as the Ford Club, membership in which is restricted	{
to those who own Fords or have decided Fordish tendencies. y' The chairman is a gentleman who has owned more Fords than any of the others and who in addition has been honorably wounded while at the helm of one of his Lizzies.	£
Well, maybe the commuting members of our English depart-	j?
ment can get together and form the Notre Dame Limited Club, membership to be restricted to those who have lived I through at least a thousand rocky trips on the Notre Dame	f J
Limited (which can never be limited enough until it is	|
thoroughly extinct).	x
At the University of Nebraska they seem to be having quite a little excitement over the proposal of the Student || Council that the coeds be allowed until 12:30 to reach their g respective domiciles. The zero hour is now 12:15 and the suggested extension is opposed by the dean of women (God bless them—the women we mean, not the deans). The sup- Importers of the proposal maintain that it is necessary in order that there might be more time for the getting of ft wraps and the eating of food after dances. But the dean J contends that the men students are pushing the measure for S', other reasons, and, we suppose, that’s a nice way of putting it. Anyway, the Nebraska coeds could be worse off than they now are. It seems that we vaguely remember having heard of some schools that require their students to register with the night clerk on returning, which shall be before midnight.
The Notre Dame Scholastic	855
YOU AND BUSINESS
“Wonder who’ll add up the pies tomorrow?” Such were the last words, spoken as he lay dying, of a young man, who, during the day, was a clerk in a pie factory. They testify to the enormous hold that “the job,” that work or business of any kind, have on men today.
As a college graduate you will, very shortly, go into the world; and, in many cases, into the business world. There you will find many practices that have no conceivable relation to the things you have learned while in college; but above all, you are likely to be struck by the general atmosphere surrounding business, by the manner in which you will be expected to conduct your business life.	'
It is not our purpose, here, to discuss the ethical side of business; what we are concerned with is the problem of a man, fresh from a rather prolonged dwelling with things which, in the main, savour of the mind, adjusting himself to an environment wherein the goal is money and the road business.
But it seems to us that such an environment is quite one-sided; one-sided because of the point implicit in the following sequence of questions and answers.
Q.—What are you going to do when you get out of college (or high school or grade school) ?
A.—Work. Go into business.
Q.—What for?
A.—To make a living.
Q.—What do you mean by “make a living” ?
A.—Get enough money for food and clothes and shelter for myself and for those who depend on me for support.
Q.—But that’s taking care of existence. What about living?
A.—What do you mean?	.	’
And it is precisely here that the college man, (if he has made his that which, during four years, he has paid money for) will supply an answer; and being able to give an answer predicates ability to initiate a practical demonstration of your reply.
Practical demonstration, in this case, means that you, as a college graduate, will really work only in order that you may really live. And, as we have often stated before, the elements of true living are thinking, love of beauty, awareness, and toleration.
There is much talk today of “escape”—escape to the movies, the dance floor, the radio, the bridge table, from the monotony of the daily tasks. The first point here is that if the time spent in escape from work be seen as the only time spent in living, then the forms of retreat listed above are but invalid substitutes for the factors making up true living.
The second point is that life today demands of him who will contribute to its elevation and its meaning, not escape but pursuit. And pursuit consists in suffusing your business activities with the*glow of the four factors of true living; in short, the time on “the job” is spent with the light in mind, the time off, in the light. We must shape all our waking hours into a scheme of living; eight of those hours may be quite far removed from the prime elements of living, and the activities of the other eight may stem directly from them; yet the combination must be made; when it is, you will have not only a personal but an exemplary synthesis. And exemplary things are always contagious!	—M. H. L.
Page S56—The Notre Dame Scholastic
I ^Q)eekSnd Program 1
\ Friday—10:00 until 2:00—Senior = E	Ball, Palais Royale Ballroom. =
= Saturday — 2:30 until 5:30—Tea e E	Dance, Chain-o-Lakes Country E
= Club. — Ball game, Iowa vs. E E	Notre Dame.	=
E Sunday—9:00 a. m.—Mass, Mor- ; =	rissey Hall Chapel.	=
Eb..........................
Event—Senior Ball
Place—Palais Royale
Time—10 until 2 Music—Coon-Sanders Decorations—Different
Tonight, Messrs Reardon and Dailey present for the approval of the Senior class, the paramount of all class dances, the Senior Ball.
Tonight’s activities will be in the nature of a magnificent social gesture. Beginning with the Sophomore cotillion, thence to the Junior prom and lastly to the Ball, the socially inclined student steps gaily along. The cotillion means nothing more than a promise of a pleasant evening; the prom, more in keeping with one’s idea of a class dance, suggests a more impressive event; then the Ball! The last time the class will gather in a single group and share a happy evening!
For one magic evening the Seniors will renounce the mannerisms of the Occident and transport themselves to the quiet, mysterious, land of Confucius. Amid the glamour and color of the Orient they will dance away the fleeting hours, noting with dismay the writing on the wall. Four long years of eager expectancy and four equally short, swift hours in which to enjoy the long looked for event.
The Music
The music for the occasion will be furnished by the famous Cooh-Sanders and their original nighthawks. This organization, which is featured regularly over the air from the Blackhawk restaurant in Chicago, is one of the outstanding dance orchestras in the country. Originally featured as Coon-Sanders and their original Kansas City Nighthawks, they attained great fame in the early days of radio broadcasting. Their programs were so popular that fabulous offers came from all parts of the country for their services. Countless thousands remember the glorious days when they hugged the ear-phones to sit with bated breath over their one-tube sets, and heard Joe Sanders’ cheery voice coming faintly out of the ether, announcing another program by “Joe,
Cooney, and the boys.” They became so popular that the Victor Talking Machine Company bought exclusive rights to their records. For over four years they have been the most reliable sales medium wherever Victor records are sold. Three years ago they played for the ball and
Raymond Reardon
* President of the Senior Class were a decided hit. This year, Pete Wacks determined to achieve perfection in his department by securing their services again.
The outstanding musical feature of the evening will be Coon-Sanders’ own interpretation of Jack Folks’ and Walter Philips’ beautiful ballad, written especially for the ball, “Reminisce.’’
The Decorations
Decorations were left completely in the hands of Jerry Parker. The theme used is something quite foreign to the usual extravagant bid for beauty. Imagine, if you can, a dimly lighted Chinese temple. Draw in your mind’s eye a picture of a lovely Oriental monastery, with the long, draping, streamers of prayer sticks, heavy incense laden air, clashing cymbals sounding in a far-off joss room. Picture the vivid colors, softened by traditional lanterns and sputtering torches, for this is the theme of the elaborate decorations built for the ball.
The whole decorative scheme centers about a huge centerpiece in the ballroom. This immense piece will take the place of the chandelier and will provide the only light in the ballroom. It will con
sist of a six-sided, panelled figure will three suspended and smaller decks. Th' panels will be sateen covered throughout in six brilliant colors. The cole; motif predominating will be Nile green American beauty, orange, lavendar, am yellow. Suspended from the piece wil be genuine fish skin lanterns, Chine, c silk streamers, and metal discs. Tin dimensions are fourteen by eighteen feet The fish skin lanterns will drop from tin first tier, being over three feet ir. diameter. Suspended from abuttment: of the second tier will be plain parchment lanterns. Silk and metal stream;
Miss Gertrude Rigney Guest of Mr. Reardon
ers will fall from the lower tier, the former being in six colors.
Materials for decorations were purchased from Sing Fat’s in San Francisco, the largest Chinese-American importers in the world. Everything used will be genuine Chinese craft.
Auxiliary decorations will include the balcony, which will be covered with wistaria and other Oriental blossoms. The panel decorations along the ceiling will be bright, cloth banners, eighteen feel long, covered with Chinese figures. Fow corner lights, suspended in streamers, will lend a faint glow to the vivid color scheme. The orchestra will play on a stage, entirely flower banked. OveiCthe stage a' huge arch has been built. ^.On either side will stand live trees, specially placed there for the occasion by^Mr Parker and his faithful workers, g
The Notre Dame Scholastic—Page 857
, Contrary to custom, the entire ball-uom will be devoted to dancing. The lounges will be transferred to the lobby and the balcony. Continuing the motif, Mr. Parker has provided for a Chinese lounge in the lobby. The enchanting beauty of the place will be enhanced by a fountain, and by attractive floral displays, with soft, deep chairs and sofas occupying the corners.
Mr. Parker deserves the highest liaise for his untiring work in decorating the ballroom. It has been his .pleasure to decorate for all the class dances. His themes have been used in
Miss- Margaret Storen Guest of Mr. Dailey
ihe sophomore cotillion, the junior prom, and the Loyola hop. His ability as a decorator is well known. To him and his efficient committeemen go the thanks and the praise of the entire Senior class.
Patrons and Patronesses
The following have graciously consented to act as patrons and patronesses :or the Ball: Dean and Mrs. Thomas F. jConop, Dean and Mrs. James E. McCarthy, Professor Charles Phillips, Professor C. Patrick Manion, Mr. Paul Fen-on, and Mr. Paul Byrne.
The guests at the Ball will include diss Gertrude Rigney, of River Forest, llinois, who will accompany Mr. Ray-nond Reardon, president of the Senior lass; Miss Margaret Storen, of Rock-ord, Illinois, who is the guest of Mr. iTancis Dailey, general chairman of the
Ball; Miss Elizabeth McCabe, Iowa University, Iowa City, the guest of Mr. Murray Hickey Ley, editor-in-chief of the Scholastic; Miss Marie Connors, the guest of Mr. Robert Hellrung, president of the S. A. C.; and Miss Lila Fern Hunkins, of Faribault, Minnesota,
Francis Dailey
General Chairman of the Ball who will accompany Mr. John Nanovic, editor of the Juggler.
The Favors
The favors for the Ball will be fountain pen desk sets. The stand is tastefully done in cherry red, with black trimming. The pen is plain black. A plate on the stand, with “Senior Ball, 1930, University of Notre Dame,” completes the description.
The matter of favors was left to T. John Folks, Jr. His choice is the result of judgement of utility and beauty. The programs were selected by Mr. Karl Brennan. They are handsome, metal covered accessories bearing the inscription, “Senior Ball, 1930.”
The Week-end Entertainment
Under the direction of Mr. William Miller, John Golden, and Joseph McCabe, a program of week-end entertainment has been provided for the seniors and their guests. On Saturday afternoon a tea dance will be given at the Chain-o-Lakes Country Club. On Sunday morning, for the convenience of the ball guests, a special mass will be said -at nine o’clock in Morrissey Hall chapel, followed immediately by a special break-
Qiiiiiiniiiiiiiii.....mi it num .........tn.....min nm titmiMiuQ
Senior Ball Song
= Chorus :	£
= Reminisce, I only reminisce,	;
j Sweet thoughts of nights quickly ended; a = Ev’ry kiss enhanc’d my night of bliss, a : With all your charms softly blended. 5 : You were near; I had no fear, x a That love would bring me tears, dear, a = Reminisce; remember only this:	a
a That I am yours for always.	a
p]»niniitH»iittiniinituuiiutKiinuiiniuiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiitni[i] fast in the Faculty dining hall. During the week-end, the University will open its parlors for the convenience of senior.-and their guests.
The Committees
The following are committeemen for the Ball:
Invitations—Thomas Purcell, chairman; Daniel Sullivan, Francis Rause, Jack Siegler, William Sherman.
Programs—Karl Brennan, chairman; Thomas Frost, Edward England, Charles Lennon, Edward Danisch, Charles Gruen-ing, Leo Love.
Music—Peter Wacks, chairman; Robert Dinkle, Hugh Gallagher, P. Maroni, Richard Neison, James McDermott-, Joseph Guadnola.
Tickets—Thomas Medland, chairman; Walsh, Walter Scholand; Sorin, John Houlihan, Cornelius Carey; Corby, Richard McShane, Alfred Shipicasse: Lyons, Edward Franck; Off-Campus, Edward McCremon, Patrick McLaughlin, Thomas Bradley; Badin, Daniel Barton, Gilbert Prendergast.
Publicity—Frank Corbett, chairman; Richard Sullivan, Burl Boykin, Murray Hickey Ley, Joseph Reedy, Hadrian Manski, Chester Ashman, Richard Sloan, Joseph Lordi.
Entertainment — William Miller, chairman; William O’Malley, Charles Schwartz, Raymond Ziliak, John Thomas.
Sunday Morning Service — Thomas Keegan, chairman; Paul App, William Knapp, Vincent McCue, James Mulvaney, Frank Mosher, Paul Erwin, Thomas Callahan, Charles Moore.
Decorations—Jerome Parker, chairman. This committee will be chosen at a later date by the chairman.
Favors—T. J. Folks, chairman; James Helligan, Thomas Kerrigan, Joseph Robinson, Edward Mullville, George Lawler, Victor Martzel, Leonard Nalty, Harry Sylvester.
Tea Dance—John Go’ len and Joseph McCabe, co-chairmen; Warren Fogel, Clarence Donovan, Patrick Goggin, Vernon Slack, Adam Bray, William McCarthy, Raymond Totten, Henry Horka.' Reception — Francis Walker, chairman; Larry Johnston, Jack Cannon, Larry Mullins, George Shay, Anthony Kegowicz.
Hall—Frank McAdams, chairman; John McCarthy, Edward Connors, Thomas Kelly, Thomas Kassis, Richard Dono-hqe, Frank Amato.
Arrangements — Thomas Kenneally, chairman; Daniel Welchons, Robert Weschler, August Bondi, Patrick Hastings, Clarence Kozak, Andrew Aman, Thomas Murphy, William Craddick.
858
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Partial List of Senior Ball Guests
Elizabeth McCabe, Davenport, Iowa Margaret Storen, St. Mary’s College Gertrude Rigney, St. Mary’s College Virginia Wise, Peru, Indiana Alice O’Brien, Madison, Wisconsin Helen Eulitz, South Bend, Indiana Elsie Hemsel, Detroit, Michigan Edna Pergrem, Edwardsville, Illinois Dorothy Bonner, Cleveland, Ohio Lucile Erwin, Madison, Wisconsin Doris Nichols, South Bend, Indiana Mary Bartholomew, South Bend, Ind. Mary Mahoney, Mishawaka, Indiana Catherine Dea, St. Paul, Minn. Louise Baumgart, Danville, Illinois Agnes Carey, Salem, Ohio Agnes Lennon, Joliet, Illinois Alice Mclntee, Mishawaka, Indiana Evelyn Diroll, Mishawaka, Indiana Margaret Miller, Lockport, Illinois Mildred Kozelka, Cleveland, Ohio Ruth Ann Stein, South Bend, Indiana Dorothy Cummings, Chicago, Illinois Katherine Downey, Chicago, Illinois Bernice Kuhn, Mishawaka, Indiana Mary O’Connor, Denver, Colorado Rae Reece, Chicago, Illinois Frances Jordan, Mishawaka, Indiana Mae Lynch, Terre Haute, Indiana Katherine Kelly, Laporte, Indiana Rosina Roessler, South Bend, Indiana Dorothy Davis, South Bend, Indiana Martha Sargent, South Bend, Indiana Gertrude Michaels, South Bend, Ind. Juliana Mockus, Chicago, Illinois June Hoene, St. Mary’s College Margaret Mulligan, St. Marys of W’ds Erma Crane, Midland, Michigan Carmela Cahl, St. Mary’s College Eleanor Jagers, Chicago, Illinois Rose Harvey, South Bend, Indiana Dorothy Sax, South Bend, Indiana Oreana Thomas, Canton, Ohio Isabelle Smith, Cleveland, Ohio Katherine Smith, Berwyn, Illinois Myrtle Johnson, South Bend, Indiana Margaret Aylwars, Chicago, Illinois Julia Chizar, South Bend, Indiana Geraldine Sumption, South Bend, Ind. Rochelle Fox, St. Marys’ of the Woods Bernice Cannon, No. Muskegon, Mich. Emily Reuther, Washington, Mo. Hazel Myhie, Minneapolis, Minnesota Margaret Kenneavy, Chicago, Illinois Mae Dailey, Joliet, Illinois Marcia Musnon, New York City Genevieve O’Neil, South Bend, Ind. Gertrude O’Niel, South Bend, Indiana Helen de Clercq, South Bend, Indiana Mary Burns, St. Mary’s College Louise Poppe, St. Mary’s College Katherine Fitzpatrick, St. Mary’s Col. Frances Slotekar, Eveleth, Minnesota Mary Bess Irwin, Port Huron, Mich. Alice Goggin, Chicago, Illinois Alice McCarrens, St. Mary’s of Woods Margaret Kuhn, Lima, Ohio Eleanor Handtke, Chicago, Illinois Anita Wacks, Binghamton, New York Gertrude Philion, Mishawaka, Indiana Arthura Ebert, St. Mary’s	(
Eleanor Handtke, Chicago, Illinois Josephine Pries, Forest Park, Illinois Julia Jaquith, South Bend, Indiana Lucille Gerber, South Bend, Indiana Caroline Pulaski, South Bend, Ind. Frances Strelkar, Eveleth, Minnesota Elsie Himsel, Detroit, Michigan Marjorie Shinners, St. Mary’s College
Dorothy Smith, Denver, Colorado Virginia Weiss, Mishawaka, Indiana Florence French, Escanaba, Michigan Mary Quill, Chicago, Illinois Mary Hollister, New Rochelle, N. Y. Louise Wessel, Chicago, Illinois Mrs. John Manning, South Bend, Ind. Mrs. Earl D. Barry, Denver, Colo. Margaret McHale, Chicago, Illinois Mary McDonald, Fort Wayne, Ind. Inez Shanahan, Chicago, Illinois Madeleine Carrigan, Rosemont College Frances Murphy, Logansport, Indiana Marian Masterson, Chicago, Illinois Viola Dugan, Buffalo, New York Alice Buskirk, Fort Wayne, Indiana Margaret Gibbard, Evanston, Illinois Mildred Wojtalewicz, Rosary College Betty Reardon, Lemont, Illinois Marian McCarthy, South Bend, Ind. Josephine Humphrey, So. Bend, Ind. Margaret Driscoll, St. Mary’s College Inez McCue, South Bend, Indiana Marian Lees, Cleveland, Ohio Hildene Nelson, Laporte, Indiana Alice Sweitzer, St. Mary’s of Woods Eileen Thomas, South Bend, Indiana Josephine Whalen, St. Mary’s of W’ds Ann Kotholing, Chicago, Illinois Ann Driscoll, Boston, Massachusetts Alice Gallagher, Joliet, Illinois Agnes Walsh, Chicago, Illinois Adeline Victor, Oak Park, Illinois Margaret Jones, Hot Springs, Ark. Dorothy Anderson, Oak Park, Illinois Mary Muessel, South Bend, Indiana Dorothy Walsh, St. Mary’s College Katherine Woolverton, So. Bend, Ind. Hilda Roby, South Bend, Indiana Virginia Gardner, South Bend, Ind. Gertrude Whitinger, South Bend, Ind. Margaret Clynes, Pueblo, Colorado. Lucille Feree, South Bend, Indiana Marie Doarknol, South Bend, Indiana Mimi Farabaugh, South Bend, Ind. Katherine Dittmar, Chicago, Illinois Eleanor Godfrey, Niles, Michigan Anita Boardman, Jackson, Michigan Molly Isgrigg, Santa Monica, Calif. Dorothy Sheehan, Detroit, Michigan Grace Cusack, Oak Park, Illinois Lucille Ferree, South Bend, Indiana Marian Doorneck, South Bend, Ind. Evelyn Weaver, Oil City, Pa.
Mary Bess Irwin, Port Huron, Mich. Lucille Erwin, Madison, Wisconsin Doris Nichols, South Bend, Ind. Martha Wheeler, St. Mary’s College Frances Koose, Bloomington, Illinois Mary Bergan, South Bend, Indiana Billy Long, South Bend, Indiana Eileen Mahoney, St. Mary’s College Virginia Smith, Florence, Florida Helen Ridenour, South Bend, Indiana Dorothy Richardson, South Bend, Ind. Marie O’Connell, Lake Forest, Illinois Catherine Dillon, South Bend, Ind. Catherine Carey, River Forest, III. Mary Stoody, Ottawa, Canada Betty Heirman, Watkins Glenn. N. Y. Catherine Senler, South Bend, Ind. Marjorie Donohue, Michigan City, Ind. Janet Weeks, Chicago, Illinois Katherine Redmond, St. Mary’s Col. Marie Healy, South Bend, Indiana Irene Kolski, South Bend, Indiana Mary A. Parent, Bertrand, Michigan Jane Mix, South Bend, Indiana
Katherine Marwitz, Cleveland, Ohio
Mildred Ternus, Humphrey, Nebraska Isabel Scherer, Davenport, Iowa Marian Carberry, Syracuse, N. Y. Marian Malone, Havana, Cuba Josephine McNabb, South Bend, Ind. Dorothy Cassidy, Louisville, Kentucky Anne Hayes, Butte, Montana Rose Mary Lennon, Joliet, Illinois Ethlyn Miley, Chicago, Illinois Marion Ortseifen, Kenilworth, Illinois Helen Ryan, O’Niel, Nebraska Loretta Cooper, St. Mary’s College Hazel Hannigan, Elmsford, New York Mabel Priddis, Kenosha, Wisconsin Bernice Koverski, Chicago, Illinois Irma Luke, Chicago, Illinois Mary McElligot, Pittsburgh, Pa. Marjorie Tierney, Chicago, Illinois Marjorie Flemming, Chicago, Illinois Gertrude McCarthy, Davenport, Iowa Mary Smyth, Newport, Long Island Lea Bresnehan, Fort Wayne, Indiana Catherine McLaughlin, Altoona, Pa. Margaret Uprichard, Lakewood, Ohio Evelyn Gill, Chicago, Illinois Betty Earsor, Detroit, Michigan Lucille Kirk, Alton, Illinois Carolyn M. Shelton, South Bend, Ind. Anne Schaeffer, South Bend, Indiana Mary Lawrence, Stamford, Conn. Katherine Layden, Villa Rose, Pa. Ruth Helligan, Cambridge, Mass. Josephine Hoerstman, Mishawaka Dorothy Feingold, South Bend, Ind. Grace Love, Gary, Indiana Sally McCaffery, Pittsburgh, Pa. Dorothy Brown, Rosary College Jean Grady, St. Mary’s College Ruth Mersman, Celina, Ohio Jane Wells, Tulsa, Oklahoma Mary Ludgate, Mishawaka, Indiana Lillian Salk, Chicago, Illinois Pauline Christiansen, Mishawaka, Ind. Jane Pidd, Saginaw, Michigan Gertrude Leisch, St. Mary’s College. Florence Langrell, Madison, Wis. Mary Kathryn Kirwan, Waterloo, la. Lucille Gibbon, South Bend, Indiana Helen Hanley, South Bend, Indiana Katherine Linahan, Binghamton, N.Y. Edna Diebold, New Rochelle, N. Y. Anita Wacks, Binghamton, N. Y. Loretta Callahan, Chicago, Illinois Margaret Cannon, Columbus, Ohio Betty Berry, Akron, Ohio
Catherine Hitchman, New York City Mary Walter, Chicago, Illinois Evelyn Breaux, Morgan City, Iowa Erma Crumley, Cincinnati, Ohio Marie Healy, South Bend, Indiana Gertrude Murphy, Petrolia, Pa.
Isabel McCarthy, Davenport, Iowa Dorothy Ward, Aurora, Illinois Katherine Cleary, St. Mary’s College Anne Lackliter, Gary, Indiana Katherine Layden, Erie, Pennsylvania Anna May Weschler, Erie, Pa.
Mary Swords, Nashville, Tennessee Dorothy Dee Denman, Wilmette, Ill. Margaret Nau, Hammond, Indiana Genevieve Grogan, Pittsburgh, Pa. Virginia Page, South Bend, Indiana Cameo Hurlbert, Lima, Ohio Florentine Jensen, Rochester, N. Y. Margaret Jones, Mattoon, Illinois Marie Cooney, South Bend, Indiana Ruth Keegan, Rockford, Illinois Dione Fujague, New Orleans, La. Mary Schoonover, South Bend, Ind.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
859
THE WINK’S ROAMALOGUES
Someone has said that the greatest benefit that any vacation from school can give, is the fact that no one has the opportunity to waste time. The aforementioned someone explained this statement with the statement that there were no classes to go to during a vacation, ergo......Now just what do you suppose that he meant by that.
—o—
And then there’s the one about the Scotchman who refused to buy the Juggler because in addition to twenty-five cents, he has to give all of this patience in order to read it.......but why pick on the poor Scotchman?
—o—
TAKE ME BACK TO MY HILLS
Take me back to my hills and my mountains, To the streams that come hurtling down O'er the cliffs, like the fountains That beautify spots in each town.
I’ve enczzgh of your plains and your prairie,
Your dull expanse of land,
Take me back where each breeze seems to carry The power of some magic hand.
Take me back to my hills and my mountains, Where the trees rise high to God, As they tower above each other And closer to heaven nod.
Take me back to my hills and my mountains, Take me back to God and man, Where you get as near to heaven
% As any mortal can.
—Wazmus.
And here’s the prize contribution so far in our career:
PROGNOSTICATION
My ancient, diseased, decrepit Ford Coated with dust, in hock is stored, By now, exams are o’er, and Spring Has turned by thoughts to the blasted thing.
I’ll grind her valves, pump up her tires, Apply the paint, a la Arthur Shires;
I think a lot of my darned old Ford— That she’ll get me home, I pray the Lord.
Her history goes through a dozen states;
It’s even better supplied zvith dates.
My ancient, diseased, decrepit Ford Might get me home if wills the Lord.
—Smitty XVI.
- We appreciate your attitude Smitty, but we must admit that your poetry is rotten. Now, dear reader, you see how low we go in our contributions, so why not try your hand at it.
Our dear friend Cameo spent the Easter vacation in Chicago and having heard many and varied reports concerning the Chicago Formals, he decided to attend. Even on the job, he managed to get this.shot of the setting before the happy but reserved groups arrived. Note the gaiety which the mere empty room suggests to us. Can’t we just picture the jolly boys and girls rollicking about for a night of fun. An interesting phase of this picture is the clock in the upper left which only exemplifies that these boys and girls from Chicago never forget the proper time to depart for home. What a wonderful thing it will be to look back on this picture in our old age and think of the jolly times we had when we were college boys.
SNIFF! SNIFF!	’
What? You don’t like college boys! Do tell.
Yes, dear child, I knozu, they do become Quite unbearable at times. They sivell Out theiz- chests and bray and call you dumb— Don’t cry; ziever show them such regard.
Here child, use my hanky. Noze—blozc hard!
College znezi are all alike; thezj gripe
And belittle, kick and shzj and fence
With zvords, and serve you nzental tripe—
Szich has been oziz- ozvn experience.
There, there .... I’ll not have yozzz- beazity marred; Dry your tears, nozu; come, zise this—blozv hard!
There’s a dear girl—nozu, once more .... that’s it. Certainly they zuill regret, some day, This great loss of yozir esteezn. I say, I’m a college man—don’t throw a fit—
I am different; I shozzld not be barred ....
Oh, zuell, maybe I’m zurong. Here—blozv hard!
■	—Number 55.
860
The Notre Dame Scholastic
5 PORTS
Trackmen Downed by Illini Runners, 68-58
Illinois Wins Eight Firsts; Wilson and Little Score
Heavily
o
The Illini track men gained the revenge they sought from Notre Dame last Tuesday afternoon, at Champaign, by annexing a close, hard-fought meet by a 68 to 58 count. The result was not decided until the final events of the day’s program. A strong wind blowing across the track put the athletes to a distinct disadvantage but good times were recorded, nevertheless, in most events.
Alex Wilson and Brant Little were high scorers for the Blue and Gold. Alex annexed the 440-yard dash, while Brant took the mile. The two then ran a dead heat in the half-mile to bring their total to nine points apiece.
The Notre Dame sprinters were decidedly off-form Tuesday, and this turned out to be one of the factors which turned the tide in favor of Illinois. Boagni placed third in the century dash, but failed in the 220. McCormick took second in the 220, but got off to a bad start in the 100, and was unplaced. Nichols did not place in either event. Cave won the 100-’ yard, while Useman took the 220.
'An unfortunate accident in the low hurdles robbed Notre Dame of a place, and possibly a victory. Roy Bailie, in coming up fast, lost his stride, tripped over a hurdle and fell. At the time, he seemed to be a sure winner. The event, as well as the high hurdles, was won by the Illini star, Lee Sent-man.
Notre Dame showed very well in the six field events, placing two men in all except the high jump and pole vault. Brill and Hoffman scored firsts, and Johnson tied with McDermott, the Illinois captain, for first in the pole vault.
Gene Howery took thirds in both the mile and the two-mile. Joe Quigley, running the two-mile race for the first time, lost a heart-breaker to McKeever in the final sprint to the tape.
Summary:
100-YARD DASH—Won by Cave (I) ; Useman (I), second; Boagni (ND), third. Time :09.8.
ONE MILE RUN—Won by Little (ND) ; Evans (I). second; Howrey (ND), third. Time 4:24.4.
220-YARD DASH—Won by Useman (I) ; McCormick (ND), second; Cave (IJ, third. Time :22.6.	.
120-YARD HIGH HURDLES — Won by Sentman (I) ; Rodgers (I), second: O’Brien (ND), third. Time :14.6.
440-YARD DASH—Won by Wilson (ND) ; Abbott (ND), second; Kelly (I), third. Time :50.8.
TWO-MILE RUN—Won by Makeever (I) : Quigley (ND), second; Howery (ND), third. Time 10:02.7.
220-YARD LOW HURDLES—Won by Sentman (I) ; Rodgers (I), second; Burkhart (I), third. Time :25.2.
880-YARD RUN—Little (ND) and Wilson (ND), tied for first; Fox (I), third. Time 2:01.3.
POLE VAULT—McDermott (I) and Johnson (ND), tied for first; Harper (I), third. Height, 13 feet.
SHOT PUT—Won by Brill (ND) ; Hoffman (ND), second ; Wineland (I), third. Distance, 42 feet, 7 1-2 inches.
HIGH JUMP—Miller (I), and Carr (I), tied for first; Abernathy (ND), third. Height, 6 feet, 1 inch.
DISCUS THROW—Won by Hoffman (ND) ; Celay (I), second; Schaffer (ND), third. Distance, 131 feet, 7 1-4 inches.
JAVELIN THROW—Won by Chambers (I) : McDonald (ND), second; Cronin (ND), third. Distance, 185 feet, 8 1-2 inches.
BROAD JUMP—Won by Wanger (I) ; McDonald (ND), second; Bailie (ND), third. Distance. 22 feet, 9 1-8 inches.
A----------------------—<
1930 BASEBALL SCHEDULE
April 14—N. D. 12, Armour Tech 4
April 21—N. D. 5-0, Florida 4-1
April 23—N. D. 3, Georgia Tech 1
April 24—N. D. 5, Georgia Tech 3
April 25—Fort Benning 6, N. D. 5
April 26—Fort Benning 9, N. D. 5
April 30—N. D. 5, Wisconsin 3
May 3—Michigan State 3, N. D. 2
May 10—Iowa at Notre Dame
May 13—Northwestern at Notre Dame
'May 16—Illinois at Urbana '
May 17—Northwestern at Evanston
May 20—Bradley at Notre Dame
May 23—Luther at Decorah, Iowa
May 24—Iowa at Iowa City
May 26—Michigan State at N. D.
May 30—Wisconsin at Notre Dame
May 31—Navy at Notre Dame
♦-------------------------------------4-
BASEBALLERS SPLIT EVEN
Lisicki Hurls Superb Six-Hit Victory Over Wisconsin
Sluggers
Breaking even in the two games that were played last week, one a victory over Wisconsin, at Madison, 5-3, and the other a set-back at Michigan State, in East Lansing, 3-2, the Fighting Irish baseballers are now champing at their bits in anticipation of the game against Iowa that will officially open the baseball season on the home _ sod Saturday afternoon at 3:00 p. m.
Lisicki, southpaw twirler, had things his own way in a tight game at Madison and allowed the Badgers only six scattered hits while his mates touched Poser, Wisconsin hurler, for a total of eleven hits. Lisicki was in trouble in the eighth frame and might not have weathered the storm, but for a display of off-color base running by Winer, Badger fly chaser.
Winer had just scored Poser by clouting a double that was misjudged and went for three bases. Matthusen then tapped a roller to O’Keefe, Winer being run down between third and home for the first out. In attempting to make second while the Fighting Irish were busy with Winer, Matthusen was also thrown out. Another run was scored in that inning before Mit-termeyer fouled out to O’Keefe to end the rally.
Notre Dame started out to win in the first round when one run was scored as Moran doubled to left and scored on a single by Feehery. Again in the second the Fighting Irish counted, O’Keefe hitting a terrific bounder to Werner and arriving safely at first. .Palermo was safe on Werner’s error, O’Keefe going to third. Lordi forced Palermo at second, but O’Keefe and Lordi executed a double steal, the former scoring on a poor relay from the keystone sack.
Billy Sullivan opened the fourth
The Notre Dame Scholastic
861
frame with a mighty triple to right, Palermo’s sacrifice fly scoring Sullivan. Singles in order by Lordi, Lisicki, and Francis brought Lordi across the plate, Lisicki being run down between third and home. Feehery connected with one of Poser’s fast ones in the fifth and gave it a lift that went for four bases. Sul-sivan again registered a triple, but died on third base.
The box score:
WISCONSIN B R H
Winer, cf 3 12 M. Lusen. 3b 3 0 1 Som’rfield. If 2 1 0 Ellerman, 2b 3 0 1 Mit’meyer, rf 4 0 0 Lynaugh, c 2 0 0 Schneider, lb 4 0 1 Wemer, ss 2 0 0 Poser, p 3 11 Lusby, If 0 0 0 Griswold, c 2 0 0
Totals 29 3 6
NOTRE DAME B R .H
Francis, If 4 0 2
Askew, 2b 3 0 0
Moran, cf 5 11
Feehery, rf 4 12 Sullivan, lb 4 1 2
O’Keefe. 3b 4 1 2
Palermo, ss 4 0 0
Lordi, c 4 11 Lisicki, p 4 0 1
Post, 2b 10 0
Totals
37 5 11
Score by innings:
Wisconsin .........
Notre Dame ........
RUE
000 001 020—3 6 2
110 210 000—5 11 0
Runs batted in—Feehery 2, Lordi. Lisicki, Ellerman 2. Winer. Two base hits—Moran. Poser, Ellerman. Three base hits—Sullivan 2. Winer. Home runs—Feehery. Stolen bases— Francis. Sacrifice hits—Matthusen. Askew 2, Ellerman. Double plays—O’Keefe to Lordi to O’Keefe to Askew. Strack out—by Lisicki 2. by Poser 4. Bases On balls—off Lisicki 2. oft Poser 1. Hit by pitcher—Sommerfield. Umpires—Schuler and St. John. Time of game— 2:10.
uiuim..........  ml...II ii in.min.umuiii.mi.immim....lit..nun............  mi........  mmimm....mm......miimmmm.
J
Drink
Delicious and Refreshing
There’
Silver Lining
Crantland Rice Famous Sports Champions—Coca-Cola Orchestra '"Wednesday 10:30 to 11 p. m. E. S. T. Coast to Coast NBC Network
i„ Ike paUge
that refreshes
So many unhappy things can happen to increase that old inferiority complex. Deans -and Doctors, Mid-years and Finals, all dedicated to the cause of making life a Burden. Coca-Cola was made for times like these. Here’s a drink that will quickly invest you with some of its life and sparkle. Give you exceeding joy in its tingling, delicious taste. And leave you with that cool after-sense of refreshment in which a righteous megalomania may wax fat and prosper.
The Coca-Cola Company. Atlanta, Ga. .
GW-3
9 Million A Day - it
HAD TO BE GOOD TO GET WHERE IT IS
862
The Notre Dame Scholastic
In a pitcher’s battle between Palt, Notre Dame, and Fisher, Michigan State hurler, Coach George Keogan’s baseballers went down to defeat last Saturday on the short end of a 3-2 score. Lefty Palt limited the opposition to seven hits, but Fisher had him bested in that department as he saw to it that only five hits were registered against his record.
The run which beat Notre Dame came in the fourth inning on a disputed decision on a double play executed by Askew, Palermo, and Sullivan. With Barnard on third and Griffin on first, and one out, Crall rolled to Askew, Notre Dame second baseman. Palermo came across from his post at shortstop, caught the ball and whipped it to Sullivan at first for a double out, but the umpire declared that Palermo passed second base before he caught the ball. In the meantime, Barnard had scurried across the rubber with what proved to be the winning run.
The Michigan State lads scored their other two runs in the second inning on a series of singles and a sacrifice. Notre Dame tallied its two runs on Askew’s walk, Palermo’s triple, and a clean single by Feehery.
The box score:
NOTRE DAME			MICHIGAN	STATE	
	B	n H		B	R H
Francis, cf	4	0 0	Culb’tson, 2b	4	0 0
Askew, 2b	2	1 0	Madonna, ss	4	0 0
Palermo, ss	4	1 1	Gibbs, cf	4	0 2
Feehery, rf	4	0 1	Sachs, If	3	1 0
Sullivan, lb	4	0 0	Barnard, c	3	1 2
Moran, cf	3	0 0	Pevic, 3b	4	1 1
O’Keefe, 3b	4	0 1	Griffin, p	3	0 1
Lordi, c	4	0 2	Crall, lb	3	0 0
Palt, p	4	0 0	Knisel, rf	3	0 1
Totals	33	2 5	Totals	31	3 7
Triples—Palermo, Gibbs. Doubles—Lordi 2, Barnard. Stolen bases—Gibbs, Pevie. Hit by pitched ball—Askew. Time of game—1:40. Officials—Thompson and Hill.
IOWANS PLAY HERE TOMORROW AGAINST
BALL SQUAD
Displaying a brand of clever baseball in their workouts during the last week, the Notre Dame baseballers are “raring to go” against Iowa University in the encounter that will open the season on Cartier Field, Saturday afternoon at 3 p. m. The next game will see Northwestern fly chasers in action against Keogan’s boys on the varsity field next Tues-
With the weather taking a turn for the warmer, the Fighting Irish are expected to open up tomorrow with a
win over the Big Ten competition. Coach George Keogan has not yet announced his choice for mound duty against the Iowa lads tomorrow, but the selection will probably be one of the two southpaws, Lisicki and Post Joe Lordi will catch.
BATTING AVERAGES
	AB	H	Pct.
Romanin, p	2	1	.500
Palermo, ss	28	12	.429
Lisicki, p	5	2	.400
Nolan, If	8	3	.375
Francis, If	19	6	.316
Mahoney, 3b	14	4	.286
Palt, p	11	3	.273
Sullivan, lb	30	8	.267
Askew, 2b	12	3	.250
Mannix, p	4	1	.250
O’Keefe, 2b	30	7	.233
Moran, cf	28	6	.214
Feehery, rf	30	6	.200
Dilley, p	5	1	.200
Lordi, c	27	3	.111
Lomasny, If	1	0	.000
Duffy, 2b	1	0	.000
Totals	255	66	.259
(Including game of May 3rd)

The Notre Dame Scholastic
863
SEVERAL HALLS CLAIM BASEBALL NOT DEAD
Several halls are represented by teams playing hard ball despite the fact that there is no organized league this year. After the twenty-two teams that played last year some of the older “die-hards” have refused to consider baseball as non-existent as an interhall sport.
Morrissey, Sophomore, and Corby have already played several games, including contests with Moreau, Du-Jarie, and various other downtown teams. ________________
SECOND INTERHALL PRELIM WEDNESDAY
The second of the three preliminary interhall track meets will be staged on next Wednesday afternoon at 3 p. m. instead of Tuesday as
originally scheduled. The campus hall championships will be held Sunday afternoon, May 18. A large number of runners is expected to participate in this final track contest of the interhall season.
WINTER GOLF RULE INTERPRETED
The new interpretation of the winter golf rule on the University golf course is as follows: Players may play winter golf, i. e., tee up the ball, on their own fairway only. If the drives . slice off into the adjoining fairway, the ball must be played from its original resting point, and may not be teed up.
GOLFERS MEET LOYOLA HERE TOMORROW
The Notre Dame linksmen will inaugurate the varsity golfing season in a match with the Loyola mashie wielders from Chicago on the William J. Burke University Golf Course here tomorrow. The Notre Dame golfers, Larry Moller, Bill Redmond, Russ and Fran Beaupre, will compose the first team to represent the University over the new golf layout.
Singles in the matches are to be held tomorrow morning and the foursome tilts will take place in the afternoon. These afternoon matches are expected to get under way about 2 p. m., shortly after the interhall, golfers have teed off.
The most popular cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include ALL-BRAN, Pep Bran Flakes, . Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles, and Kellogg's Shredded Whole Wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee—the coffee that lets _	you sleep.

WHY are Kellogg’s Corn Flakes the most popular ready-to-eat cereal in the world? Matchless flavor is the answer!
Just pour milk or cream into a brimming bowl of these crisp and golden flakes tomorrow. An ideal dish to enjoy late at night. Delicious and easy to digest.
Ask your fraternity house steward or your favorite campus restaurant to serve Kellogg’s—the original Corn Flakes.

CORN FLAKES
4
CORN
^es
864	The Notre Dame Scholastic
HELLO MEN!
SMITH’S CAFETERIA
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
THE SOUTH BEND CLEARING HOUSE BANKS
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
Citizens Trust & Savings Bank
The Home of Quality
INVITES THE ACCOUNTS OF NOTRE DAME MEN
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
SMITH'S COFFEE SHOP
West Washington Ave.
JEFFERSON NEAR MICHIGAN
See the whole show
You don’t have to worry about missing any of the show when you attend the theater in Chicago if you take the South Shore Line back to South Bend.
Convenient after-theater service is provided by fast, comfortable trains leaving Randolph St. at 11:15 p. m. and 12:00 midnight, arriving in South Bend at 1:15 a. m. and 2:10 a. m.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
THE N. D. MAN’S FLORIST SHOP
o
WILLIAMS
THE FLORIST
Floivers Telegraphed Anywhere on Short Notice.
219 WEST WASHINGTON AVE.
TELEPHONE 3-5149
The Notre Dame Scholastic
865
UPSTATERS TROUNCE
FROSH, 85-46
An exceptionally strong and evenly-balanced Frosh squad of Michigan State Normal, Ypsilanti, Michigan, handed the Freshman Hall thinlies their first defeat of the outdoor season on Thursday, May 1, at the Michigan city. The Notre Dame men, fresh from their overwhelming victory over Kalamazoo, were taken by surprise by the teachers and succumbed to the tune of 85 to 46.
Ypsilanti scored sweeps in the high hurdles, low hurdles, broad jump, and high jump in addition to firsts in five other events and a triumph in the relay. The Notre Dame freshmen failed to make any sweeps and took only five firsts.
For the second week in succession Chauncey Brantford claimed highpoint honors for Notre Dame. The big weight-man won the shot put and discus throw and took second in the javelin.
Summary:
100-YARD DASH—Won by Feuer (Y) ; Dilling (ND), second; GougK (ND), third. Time :10 2-10.
ONE MILE RUN—Won by Bellman (Y) ; Turchan (Y), second; Hoyt (ND), third. Time 4:51 1-10.
120-YARD HIGH HURDLES — Won by Beatty (Y) ; Wescott (Y), second: Hyatt (Y), third. Time :15 9-10.
220-YARD DASH—Won by Feuer (Y) : Dilling (ND), second; Swan (Y), third. Time :23 4-10.
440-YARD DASH—Won by Kelly (ND) ; Schrichte (ND), second; Staley (Y), third. Time :51 4-10.
TWO MILE RUN—Won by Grimes (ND) ; Bellman (Y), second; Bannon (Y), third. Time 10:17.	-	'
The Best
Dressed
It takes more than a startling array of haberdashery and the impeccable taste of a Beau Brummel to carry
off the proud title of “best dressed man” of the senior class. Don’t forget.that health is a vitally important factor. Shredded Wheat adds that glow of health that makes splendid raiment becoming. Mineral salts and bran to
Man”
promote a good complexion
—carbohydrates and proteins for. energy and freshness—vitamins for pep and vigor. Try a biscuit or two tomorrow morning—delicious with milk or cream, and a few slices of your favorite fruit.
220-YARD LOW HURDLES — Won by Beatty (Y) ; Hyatt (Y), second; Sullivan (Y). third. Time :25 4-10.
880-YARD RUN—Won by Macbeth (ND) ; Petrie (Y), second; Lechone (Y), third. Time 2:05.
POLE VAULT—Won by McKinley (Y) : Malan (ND), second; Thompson (Y), third. Height, 10 feet, 6 inches.
JAVELIN THROW—Won by McKinley (Y) ; Brantford (ND), second ; Watermann (Y), third. Distance, 168 feet.
DISCUS THROW — Won by Brantford Watermann (Y), second: Lejeune (ND), third. Distance, 130 feet, 1 inch.
HIGH JUMP—Won by Riley (Y), Wescott (Y), Thorpe (Y), Hyatt (Y), all tied for first. Height, 5 feet, 4 inches.
SHOT PUT—Won by Brantford (ND) ; Lejeune (ND), second; Thorpe (Y), third. Distance, 41 feet, 6 inches.
BROAD JUMP—Won by Ypsilanti (no Notre Dame man jumping).
880-YARD RELAY — Won by Ypsilanti. Time not recorded.	“
Qllilllllliiimiiiiliimiliiiimiuniiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiaiiiiiaikiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiimiimiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiililiimiiiiiiimiuiiiliiiim Q
♦ I Please Patronize Scholastic Advertisers

866	The Notre Dame Scholastic
Baseball News— For a complete report of all games, at home or abroad, follow the sports section of THE NEWS - TIMES		THE OLIVER BARBER SHOP A. M. MYERS, Prop. COMPLETE, COURTEOUS SERVICE ❖ 205 W. Washington Avenue THE OLIVER HOTEL Phone 3-7171
“It Pays to Play”
The best and most complete stock of Sporting Goods in northern Indiana, at prices that are right.
TENNIS RACQUETS, PRESSES, BALLS, COVERS
We re-string racquets and guarantee all jobs.
GOLF CLUBS, BALLS All the leading makes.
Stop and use our indoor net, and brouse around.
RECREATION EQUIPMENT CO., Inc.
Tl» “RECO” S«e
113 N. Main Street
‘‘It Pays to P lay ’ ’
RE-NU
Shoe Repair and Hat Cleaners 214 North Michigan Street (Next to Granada)
Suits Pressed (while you wait)..$ .40
Cleaned and Pressed........ .75
Shoes Fixed (while you wait) .
Half Soles ....._____,......  1.00
Heels ________________________ .50
Hats Blocked (while you wait) Panama Straw__________________ .75
Sailor Straw ...............   .50
----:------ \
Shoes Shined.......................10
“Modernly Equipped Shoe Shine Parlor’*
“Special Dressing rooms”
The Notre Dame Scholastic
867
SMASH RECORDS AT OHIO STATE RELAYS
An unbroken string of five victories is the record hung up by Notre Dame’s great two-mile relay team this year. Running their best race of the season last Saturday in the Ohio Relays, Captain Joe Abbott, Quigley, Wilson and Little clipped nearly six seconds from the old meet record to win in 7:48 6/10. Coach Nicholson’s great quartet of half-milers now boasts victories over the leading teams from the east to the far west, and their exhibition last week represents one of the fastest races ever run in collegiate competition. Theii- time was four seconds better than that made by Bates College in the Penn Relays when Bates was awarded the championship of the East.
Brant Little returned to his position as lead-off man Saturday, after running anchor at Drake, and gave his captain fifteen yards at the start of the second leg. Joe Abbott ran his usual steady race, picked up about ten more yards, and handed Joe Quigley the baton with the event taking on the aspect of two different races rather than a championship struggle. “Quig” lengthened the lead to forty-five yards and then turned the anchor- job to Alex Wilson, who breasted the tape sixty yards ahead of Ohio State’s half-miler and nearly seventy-five yards in front of Indiana’s anchorman. The four men averaged 1 minute and 57 2/10 seconds for each 880 yards. This race was probably the last for the two-mile team this year. The event is not held in either the State or Central Conference championships.
Roy Bailie came through in brilliant style to take second place in the broad jump. Roy’s best leap was less than six inches short of the winning distance of Utterback, of Pittsburgh, who made 22 feet, 11 1/2 inches.
Lee Sentman, Illinois’ unbeaten hurdle star, had a close call last Saturday and was forced to break the meet record to win the event. Johnny O’Brien led the brilliant field for nearly ninety yards but tipped the ninth hurdle and lost by about eighteen inches. The fact that Rodgers, also of Illinois, crossed the line ahead of Johnny, will give a fair idea of the closeness of the race. Rockaway of Ohio State, and Hatfield of Indiana, finished a poor fourth and fifth respectively.	.
Johnson’s jump of 12 feet, 9 inches was good enough to merit him a tie for fourth place in the pole vault.
ello..
Mother!
She’s remembering you... remember her, by telephone!
JLlS a very personal... very special greeting you’ll be wanting to send Mother on Mother’s Day. Naturally you would like something just a bit different.
Mother would like to hear your voice. Telephone her... wherever she may be.
Though many miles may separate you, and lack of time make a visit home impossible, you can talk to Mother by long distance telephone.
Indiana Bell Telephone Company
Tom Warne won the event with 13 feet, 11 1/3 inches, and McDermott of Illinois took second. Lansrude of Drake, who tied for first in the C. I. C. meet at Notre Dame two months ago, tied Johnson for fourth last week.
Ken Baogni took fifth in the 100-yard dash to be the eighth man out of the ten who made the trip to place in his event. Coach Nicholson took only a small squad to Ohio in order to save his men for the Illinois dual
u
meet Tuesday, but he picked his men carefully and was awarded with an excellent showing.
HERING MEDAL CONTEST HELD
The annual Hering Medal contest for proficiency in the various phases of football, punting, blocking, tackling, and passing was held yesterday afternoon, by the varsity candidates for the team, on the practice field.
868
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Palace
3 Days Commencing SUNDAY
We Are Proud to Present
Esther Ralston
The Golden Girl of the Screen
In Person
An Original Cycle of Song and Dance by and with Bruz Fletcher at the Piano.
Other Big RKO Acts of Vaudeville
-------ON THE SCREEN-------- A Dramatic Tale of Mother Love THREE SISTERS
With LOUISE DRESSER—JUNE COLLYER TOM PATRICOLA
PARAMOUNT-PUBLIX ram
C A n* THROUGH \\\
021X . TUESDAY \\\
WARNER BROS. \V\
HOLD
EVERYTHING	|
A Comedy Riot with	?
JOE E. BROWN	\
WINNIE LIGHTNER	5
SALLY O’NEIL	>
GEORGES CARPENTIER	S
. ABE LYMAN	<
and His Band	?
•	—Added—	$
VITAPHONE SOUND VODVIL	J
PARAMOUNT SOUND NEWS	>
Wednesday thru Friday
TAUGHT SHORT”	I
A Laugh Tonic Prepared by	?
MARIE DRESSIER POLLY MORAN
‘v The Funniest Talkie Ever Made! $
\\	With	S
\x\ Anita Page —Added—	I
VX VITAPHONE VODVIL !
\\\	PARAMOUNT	<
\ \ \	SOUND NEWS |
HOME OF GOOD SOUND
The Notre Dame Scholastic
869
{■JmiiiiiiMiMt'i'miiiiMitittnMiitiiiiiHtitmiHtiBitiimiiiiiMisiiiinmimmtiiiiiiiaitaMmiimiiiiamiiiatMttiitiiiiiiiiMminiitiimii PS
INTERHALL ITEMS
The latest innovation in the interhall playground program is a series of games to decide the University intra-hall champion. This means that soon the real championship of the Main Building will also be settled inas much as the five dormitories, St. Patrick, St. Thomas, St. Joseph, St. Aloysius, and St. Edward are to meet in playground ball contests.
In each of the other halls, the first floor will play the second floor tonight at 6:30 on their respective diamonds. Notices are posted as to the locations. When the individual hall championship team is decided, it will meet the championship teams of the other halls.
The games in the intra-hall program will be played on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday evenings at 6:30.
Interhall golf is coming along in fine style. Jack Cannon’s Sorinites took a trimming from Father O’Malley’s Corbyites last Saturday, 4 to 3.
Walsh, led by Derby, came through with a 7 to 0 win over Lyons. The herults of the other matches last Saturday were as follows:
Howard 6%, Freshman %; St. Edward’s 4, Sophomore 3; Off-Campus 6, Carroll 1; Badin-Morrissey, incomplete.
The interhall golf schedule for tomorrow, May 10, with the starting times, is as follows:
12:45—Walsh vs. Corby,
12:55—Off-Campus vs. Badin,
1:05—St. Edward’s vs. Howard,
1:15—Lyons vs. Morrissey,
1:25—Freshman vs. Sophomore, 1:35—Sorin vs. Carroll.
All of the contests to be played tomorrow will be at match play in foursomes instead of medal play. Individual and best ball play will decide three points in each foursome and the seventh point is to be decided by the best ball of the whole team.
Other students desiring to tee off between 12:45 and 1:35 tomorrow afternoon will kindly use the tenth
tee as their starting point which will enable the hall teams to get off together.
The best score turned in last week by a member of the ball team was a 75 by Joe Switzer of Howard. Joe went out in 40 and played the last nine in one under par for. a pretty 35. Billy Burke, also of Howard, was next in line with an 81.
Individual interhall championship qualifying rounds ended Wednesday night. Play will start Sunday and the list of sixteen qualifiers is now in the starting house. The first and second rounds of eliminations are to be over 18 holes match play. The semifinal and final rounds are to be over the 36-hole route.
All matches of first and second rounds must be completed before Monday, May 19. The semi-finals will be run off that week and the final, to decide the interhall champion of the University, will be held Sunday, May 25.
Numerals won for interhall swimming and track will be mailed to the respective winners if the awards do not arrive on time.

r
INGAGI
MEANING “GORILLA ”
YOU WILL THRILL, TOO —-
The capture of a live gorilla.
Finding of apparently half-ape, halfhuman creature.
. The colony of low grade natives in the heart of the gorilla country who make a practice each year of sacrifice to the apes.
Capture of a 65 foot python, alive.
The elephant charge on the camera man.
The mauling of a camera-man by an enraged lioness.
Leopards killed by natives with spears.
THE MOST THRILLING CAMERA RECORD OF JUNGLE LIFE EVER PRODUCED
870	The Notre Da
e Scholastic
“Love to You Mother Dear"
Remember Mother on Mother's
Day, May /1, with
Artstyle Chocolates
A Gracious Gift and Keepsake Forever qmC
Comer Michigan ‘ and Colfax
For school supplies
and
appropriate reading material
patronize
The Book Shop
119 North Michigan St.
Where Notre Dame Men Meet
GIL-BRO’S
Formerly U. S. Army Store 330 South Michigan
“Always in the Crowd”
Excellent Sandwiches
Hot and Cold Drinks
Hot Chili
Hot Tamale
Ice Cream
Candy
Delicious Malted Milks
KEWPEE HOTEL HAMBURG
327 North Michigan Street
Black or tan new spring Oxfords sizes 5 to 11
MENU
Dress and Golf $2.95~$3.85
TOWERS FISHBRAND SLICKERS Green-Yellow or ■ Black $7.50 values
The Notre Dame Scholastic
871
❖----------------------------❖
Splinters from the Press Box
❖——■— -----------------------$
Several dozen dual meets and the Ohio Relays were run off last Saturday, but they shed little light on which is oi- is not the best track team in the East and Middle West. To date, however, Pennsylvania and Yale seem to be about the best bets to turn back the Far Western invasion early in June. N. Y. U’s team is well-balanced, but lacks enough outstanding performers to garner points in a major meet.
* * *
As is sometimes the case, the great performance of the two-mile relay last Saturday, easily the best relay run this year, failed to gain much recognition. And yet it was the fastest two-mile relay run since the record for the event was shattered some four years ago.

fo11 ^NunnBush
Columbia, undefeated in crew since 1928, lost to Yale last Saturday, which speaks well for the strength of the Dark Blue oarsmen this season. It is unfortunate-that Yale is unable to compete in the Poughkeepsie regatta. The annual Yale-Harvard boat race is held at approximately the same time, and has grown to be such a tradition that it is almost unthinkable to drop it in order that the Blue and the Crimson might compete in the larger race. It is unfortunate because quite often the question on rowing supremacy is debatable, and the best crews do not always meet.
* * *
The United States has made a wise move in filling up its Davis Cup team, which is to play the preliminary matches, with younger players. The members of the Davis Cup team committee realize that Tilden and Hunter are just about through, and that it is best to give the younger players as much seasoning in inter
national competition as is possible. But one cannot help feeling that if and when the United States reaches the challenge round late this summer, the lean, spare figure of Bill the Great, will once more grace a tennis court in France. He is still the old master, and in time of need, he will still be called on, until that day when he will have left only his ability—until the golden cup shall be.drained of wine—until his long, lean frame has left to it only its great skill. ,
iiiiiiiittiiiiniiiiiiiiititiiiiiiiiiiii'tttttiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiniirf.
SAWYER’S
rainwear
Ask your dealer to show you the very latest style in wet-weather garments.
TheSawyer"‘Forain" Zephyr-weight Rain Coat was designed for college men and women.
This new model, style No. 510, is made of bal-looncloth.waterproofed by Sawyer’s famous process and combines greatest strength with zephyr - weight lightness.
This eoat weighs only 20 ounces.
A great garment for summer wear.
H.M. SAWYER & SON
East Cambridge n n Mass.
Fordham Law School
Woolworth Building. New York Co-Educational Case System, Three-Year Course Two Years of College Work Required for Admission Morning, Afternoon and Evening Classes
Write for Catalogue CHARLES P. DAVIS, Registrar Room 2870
KLINGEL’S MEN’S SHOES
112 N. Main St. — Oliver Theatre
Office Phone 2-1067
Dr. Edgar S. Lucas
Dentist
702 J. M. S. Building Opposite Oliver Hotel
SOUTH BEND. IND.

872
The Notre Dame Scholastic
LESS	PER
THAN ■ MJ DAY for almost a Month of Sailing!
Cruise to
ICELAND NORWAY DENMARK
Lands of the Midnight Sun by the
S. S. POLONIA, June 17
Ask for special cruise folder 1-A BALTIC AMERICA LINE 315 So. Dearborn St., Chicago oi- local steamship agents.
THE
ANNUAL
MID WESTERN
UNIVERSITIES
TOURS TO EUROPE
fromMONTREAL AN DAN IA
JUNE20*
ATHENIA
JUNE 27*
59 DAYS
52 DAYS 6S3®2
Send Coupon below for Complete Free Information.
THE AMERICAN EXPRESS CO.
70 E. Randolph St. Chicago, III.
Gentlemen : Please send me, without any obligation on my part, complete details on the Third Annual Midwestern Universities Tours.
Name_____________________
Street ____________________________
City-----------------State________
PLEASE PATRONIZE
SCHOLASTIC ADVERTISERS i
❖----------■-----
I On Down the Line
. . . There are no kicks on the grub in the training camp of the High Point club of the Piedmont league . . . Mrs. E. E. Sensenbach, club prexy, feeds the athletes in her own home . . . “If you don’t get in the thick of this pennant fight you’ll eat in restaurants,” she has warned her men . . . One hundred and forty-six huge reflectors were used in lighting up the Des Moines park last week in the first night baseball contest . . . chickens awakened by the bright lights laid more than their usual share of eggs, our special correspondent reports . . .
—o—
. . . PHAINTING PHIL SCOTT, British heavyweight (among other things), is now operating a beauty parlor in London . . . oh, well, that’s a little better than ditch-digging, anyhow . . . JIM TEN EYCK, crew coach at Syracuse University, is 80 years of age . . . He has been at the university for 27 years . . • Chicago’s Cubs and White Sox have decreed that the “kids” are to have four or more free games each week during the present season . . .
—o—
. . . JACK SHARKEY can thank his buddies in the navy for being one of the world’s leading heavyweight scrappers . . . they practically had to force the husky tar to fight ... A trophy will be presented at the end of the season to the member of the Seattle club who, in the opinion of his teammates, had most inspired them to effort during the Pacific Coast league campaign ... A total of 71 opponents was met by the Davidson College rifle team this spring . . .
—o—
. . . BUDDY DAINTY, Canadian sensation of the winter turf season, may have his off days, but one not so long ago was not one of them . . . Accepting six mounts at St. John’s Park, the little Canadian booted the entire sextet into the money . . . His record consisted of three winners, two seconds and a third . . . and he did not have a mount in the seventh race . . . We are beginning to think that being sports editor after all has its rewards ... A caddy at Westwood Club, Richmond, Va^ answers to the name of Grantland Rice . . . which is but another way of spoiling a perfectly good child ...	,
Technique First—
then np and at 'em!
SMOKING a pipe is like flying an airplane—you really ought to know how, if you’re hoping to enjoy it much.
Pipe technique can be picked up through experience, or it can be learned outright. Master it now, to relish yqur pipes!
Rule One for Pipe-smoking is “Find your tobacco.”
Rule One stops some beginners. They look here. They search there. They, hunt ... we must discard false modesty! Rule One means Edgeworth!
Rule Two is . . but would you learn all the secrets of pipe technique? Then let us send you our Rules for Pipe-smoking—and a free-for-nothing trial packet of genuine old Edgeworth, the tobacco made for pipes. Think of it—rules and Edgeworth, the how and the what of pipe-smoking, all for your 2^ stamp and that coupon
there below.
Edgeworth is a careful blend of good tobaccos —selected especially for pipe-smoking. Its quality andflavornever change. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms — “Ready Rubbed" and “Plug Slice”—15e pocket package to pound humidor tin.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
' LARUS & BRO. CO.	V29 !
I	100 S. 22d St., Richmond,	Va.	•■'.1	|
{	I’ll try your Edgeworth.	And I’ll try	J
।	it in a good pipe.	!
I	|
I	Name_________________________ I
I	Street________________________ >
I	|
*	Town and State____________________ •
J Now let the Edgeworth comet V I

The Notre Dame Scholastic
873
Good Clothes for University Men
Why “pack up” your sheepskin— top coat or overcoat? free!
STORAGE in our moth - proof storage room
Just bring them in and let us put them away until you calljor them.
Quality by Kuppenheimer
Announcing
Neu) Low Prices on
Flying Instruction
Now you need not plug along at the same old job! Reductions in the cost of planes and materials enables us to substantially reduce our flying course. Aviation needs young, healthy, ambitious men. Now you can prepare yourself for a well paying job at a reasonable cost and at the same time receive instructions from Indiana’s leading aviation instructors. Read over the courses below, then call at our office for complete information.	•
1 O-Hour Primary Flying Course $225
Includes ten hours dual instruction in the air. 95% of the men taking this course solo (take off, fly and land plane by themselves) in ten hours. Many of them solo in six or seven hours. Instruction by Homer Stockert, Chief Pilot.
Glider Course	<
$35
Primary Glider course ground school, theory of flight and actual glider flights under the direction of Pilot Glenn Doolittle.
Complete Primary Ground Course $50
This course includes an exhaustive study and practical training in the maintenance and repair of motors and component parts under the supervision of Charles R. Bowers, graduate of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and former Army captain engineer in aeronautics.
Advanced Ground Course $50
Instruments, meterology and aerial navigaiton in all their phases are included in this course which is directed by Fred Swingendorf. Mr. Swingendorf completed a course in aeronautics at New York University.
RAINBOW
Flying Service
Downtown Office: 323 South Main St.
Phone 2-2285
Field Office—Municipal Airport Phone 3-9180—14
CHAS. R. BOWERS, Mgr.
Campus Representative
JOHN F. OLSON, Room 401, Lyons Hall