THE m PONT
DIGEST
THE TECHNICAL MAN IN
z -•■X.'?'W'


Scientists who know both people and processes are needed to keep Du Pont’s 71 plants humming
H. D. Tailman, B. S. in Industrial Administration, Yale ’37, checks on product loading methods in Du Pont’s Belle, West Va., synthetic urea plant.
Keeping production rolling in a modem industrial plant is a job that appeals to mentrainedinmany branches of science and engineering. If you are looking for opportunities in this field, you won’t have to look far at DuPont, where nearly half the entire technical force is assigned to production supervision.
To qualify, a man must have the ability to understand both the mechanical and chemical phases of production. In addition, he should be a good planner and, above all, have a knack for handling people. -
The production supervisor—there are several levels at Du Pont—has

three important areas of responsibility. The first is to the men working for him. He must be able to appraise them skillfully and assign duties accordingly. He must train them not only in the efficient operation of equipment but in safe working practices as well.
A second responsibility is to the customer. He must get the product out on time and provide uniformly high quality at the lowest possible cost. When demand for a product is subject to rapid fluctuations, he must be prepared to make quick readjustments in the scheduling of both manpower and materials.
William Chelgren, B. S. in M. E., Armour Institute of Technology ’38, explains quality control methods to a group of Du Pont production supervisors.
The supervisor’s third responsibility is to the higher management. Here, again, quality and cost are important factors. He is expected to prepare forecasts, to justify unusual expenditures, and to suggest process improvements leading to greater yield and better quality at lower costs.
One of the toughest nuts a production supervisor has to crack is the scheduling of preventive maintenance for minimum interference with production. In some companies where products are turned out in small-unit operations, a program of breakdown maintenance suffices. At Du Pont, however, where large-unit operations are the rule, unscheduled downtime is costly and something to be avoided whenever possible.
Since it makes over 1200 products and product lines, Du Pont can offer to men interested in production supervision opportunities in many types of operations. In the next issue of the Digest, we will describe a specific production operation in one of our 71 plants.
36-PAGE BOOK, “The Du Pont Company and the College Graduate,” de-scribesopportunitiesformenand women with many types of scientific training. For copy, write: 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington, Delaware.
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING
... THROUGH CHEMISTRY
Listen to "Cavalcade of America,” Tuesday Nights on NBC—See It Every Other Wednesday on NBC TV
The Scholastic

MEET YOURSELF
IO YEARS FROM NOW
Ever wonder what you'll be like when the class of ’53 holds its 10th reunion? If you started to work for one of the Bell System telephone companies after graduation, here’s a pretty- good idea.
POSITION IN THE WORLD: On the way up! A Commercial Manager, the company’s representative and spokesman to as many as fifty thousand customers. A Transmission Engineer, helping to provide the telephone needs of an entire state. A Supervisor in the Traffic Department, responsible for the speed and quality of local and long distance service in several cities and for the personnel relations of a large number of employees. In the telephone company, jobs such as these are held by relatively young men and women.
FUTURE: Unlimited! The Bell System continually progresses and expands and its personnel grows with it. In the past 25 years, the number of telephones has almost tripled. In the past 5 years, telephone companies have introduced such things as network television transmission, radiotelephone sendee and dialing of Long Distance calls. And the best is yet to come.
FRAME OF MIND: Confident and proud! You’ll be satisfied because you have a rewarding job... not only in pay and security ... but in service. You’ll be proud of your share in helping provide and develop a telephone sendee vital to the country’s social and economic life.
Like the picture? For further information see your Placement Officer. He will be glad to give you details regarding the opportunities for employment in the Bell System.
SYSTEM
Jan. 16, 1953
Arrow Par Hailed Widespread Favorite On America9s Campuses Popular Soft, Slotted Widespread
Collar Gives Collegians Comfort Plus Smart Appearance
According to style authorities, the college man’s wardrobe is incomplete without several widespread-collared shirts. Most popular of these is Arrow Par—a soft, slotted collar with stays. Available at all Arrow dealers.
ARROW SHIRTS
--
— SHIRTS • TIES • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS —
Mate GILBERT’S
your ARROW headquarters
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o'clock
From Outer Space, Va.
Kind Sirs:
'My name is Reggie Cranch! Now, now —I know that doesn’t strike a ringing bell in your memories so let me help you a bit. I am better known through my affiliation with Randy Cornball of the Space Cadets. I am his co-pilot. Ahh, I knew you’d remember.
Well, anyway, Randy (Jack Hynes) and I are down here at a little camp for boy officers and, although we haven’t been afforded the opportunity by our superiors (i.e., Capt. Altmeter) to go to Luna and rescue Uncle Al, Betty & Co., from the Gazortzmen, we ex-ND’ers have found a way! In the hope that someone has continued forward with our thrilling episodes over WNDU’s ether waves, we believe we can now find out just who Cadet Brockey is or if he’s even entered our story yet by writing immediately . to you for a subscription to the Scholastic.
Now-w—kiddin’ aside, gang, it’s the ole’ Bengal Tiger — Chas. — and we members of the large Notre Dame contingent down here think it’s about time we caught up on the latest in and about the Michiana area.
We’re just embarking on a five-month tour of duty at Camp Barrett for Basic Schooling and I’m hoping for a leave of sufficient length to allow me time to hop out for a visit some weekend.
In my company alone we have Mike Sullivan (Philly), Jerry Schaub (Chicago), Frank Rausch (Atlanta), Wally Sweeny and Pat Neville (Chicago), Bill Gorman (N. Y.), Jim Manning (Brooklyn), Jack Daut and Bob Dolmich, plus others I’m not too familiar with.
I sincerely hope this letter finds all my old pals “doing good work” and that both the Scholastic and WNDU are enjoying successful (and profitable) years.
Best wishes from a slim, ole’ pal,
—“Chas” Schubert
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS Welcome to
128 W. WASHINGTON
The Scholastic
By Mort Luby
Top of the Week
Everybody was excited by the news that there would be five home games next year . . .
■
Homade
The Dining Hall, a local culinary palace dealing in more or less authentic home cooking, added a further touch of homeyness to its menu last week. The utterly rectangular, mass-produced pastry of days gone by was replaced by the old-fashioned round shaped pie—just like mother used to make. Local gourmets claim that the New Look in Dining Hall pastry is considerably more mouth watering. And the recent appearance of a filling of lemon chiffon in the new circular crusts has got these same gourmets in a positive tizzy.
■
The Entrepreneurs
Speculation, the honorable art of mak-
air in exactly 82 years and eight months.
The Juggler also proved, perhaps unconsciously, that hardly anybody but the English majors is doing any writing; besides casual notes to the folks and tear-jerking entreaties to the local draft board. Business administration majors, lay down that Wall Street Journal; engineers, detach yourselves from youi- slide-rules; journalists, detach yourselves from Joer’s . . . and manufacture some hot copy for Editor Elson!
In all good faith, however, we want to politely discourage those people who dispatch the rhetorical masterpieces that appear in this magazine as letters to the editor. Especially the Men of Farley.
World News
It has been said that our Commerce school is getting up in the world. But it seems now that the converse of this
statement is even more evident. The world is getting up in the Commerce school.
Last week, in that building under the model merchant ship, the monstrous globe that graces the lobby got stuck at the very top of its supporting wire. People who had to enter the building edged along the walls as the big sphere dangled dangerously overhead. Five highly-paid union men tip-toed around under the “world” for long hours; wondering just exactly how they were going to get it down. No student engineers were consulted.
■
Test Tremors
The crusty mold has been scraped from textbooks . . . extended excavations are being conducted to locate matchbooks on which those ultra-important notes were scribbled . . . the Badin Hall Bookstore reportedly vended a record quantity of the College Outline Series to freshmen and sophomores who are expecting the worst from the History department (especially those who have formed that curious but common aversion for the Social Science reading room in the library).
■
Bottom of the Week
. . . except the seniors.
ing a fast buck, has a number of practitioners on the ND campus. Although this art is supposedly monopolized by United States senators, an announcement in the South Bend Tribune that the fee for a voyage on an economical NIT bus would be upped three cents has led to the questionable mass purchase of bus tokens by the student body. The strategy, of course, is that when the NIT finally fattens the fare, the tokens will swell in value, somewhat in the order of “Little Wonder” oil well stock.
The people who wept bitter tears when the NIT introduced their two-for-25c tokens last year are wearing crafty, business-wise smiles nowadays as they bartered their quarters for the official NIT “currency.”
■
For Your Idle Hours
Just before Christmas the Juggler, a local literary magazine, hit the Caf cigar counter. For any lonesome quarter you might have left after reading the above blurb you can get five short stories, three essays, seven poems (five domestic, two imported), and four reviews of current books. In this issue the Juggler proves conclusively that county engineers are bully philosophers, that one of our freshmen architects had an unhappy childhood, and that this weary old planet will breathe its last breath of the clean green (chlorophyll, no doubt)
A secure future, exceptional opportunities for advancement, and a-high starting salary await you at Fairchild, if you are one of the men we are looking for. We have openings right now for qualified engineers and designers in all phases of aircraft manufacturing; we need top-notch men to help us in our long-range military program: turning out the famous C-119 Flying Boxcar and other projects for the U. S. Air Force.
Fairchild provides paid vacations and liberal health and life insurance coverage. We work a 5-day, 40-hour week as a base. Premium is paid when longer work week is scheduled.
B EMINE MO MRHME COOHMMIM
I Al RCHILD /hwia/iDu/iMn
HAGERSTOWN, MARYLAND
Jan. 16, 1953
5
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
JANUARY 16
COLFAX (through Jan. 21)—Above and Beyond (A-2) is a tale about a colonel (Robert Taylor) with problems (the A-bomb), secret ones, which he can’t tell his wife (Eleanor Parker), who thinks he should—so . . .
GR' NADA (through Saturday)—Ride the Man Down (A-l) is an innocuous western in Tru(?) color with a big-name cast that doesn’t make much difference. With it is an Italian-made pic with English dialogue, called Flying Squadron.
PALACE (Through Jan. 21)—Here’s a better Western, Hangman’s Knot (A-2), with more blood, less talk, and a more original plot. Randy Scott, as a Confederate soldier, is the hero (if you’re from the South). Rex Harrison and Lili Palmer hold up The Long Dark Hall.
JANUARY 17
WASHINGTON HALL (1:30, 3:25, 6:40, 8:35)— The Girl in White, a far cry from last week’s Encore.
JANUARY 18
AVON (three days)—Something for the Birds. It is.
STATE (two days)—To bolster (?) the morale of the Air RO men: Bombardier and China Sky.
RIVER PARK (three days)—Plymouth Adventure, for those who missed it at Thanksgiving time, and Holiday for Sinners (don’t get excited by the title).
JANUARY 19
FIELDHOUSE (8 p.m.)—The Irish eagers hope to rack up victim number ten in the person of Bradley.
JANUARY 21
AVON (one week)—In The Clown (B) (a tragi-comedy—take your pick) Red Skelton is down to his last can of grease-paint when he makes a comeback on television. He and the movie die in the end.
RIVER PARK (four days)—Anything Can Happen is a really enjoyable comedy about an immigrant (Jose Ferrar) from Georgia (the other one) and his hilarious experiences .in the U. S. Even we liked this one. Co-pic The Well concerns a child ■who falls in one.
JANUARY 22
COLFAX (one week)—Tyrone Power plays The Mississippi Gambler (B) who is quick at cards, dueling, and women, but can’t win Piper Laurie. It has lots of color, action, and cliches, but little originality.
GRANADA (one week)—Now it’s the NRO’s turn to boast. Flattop and Torpedo Alley.
PALACE (one week)—Meet Me at the Fair (A-l), with Dan Dailey and Diana Lynn, spreads itself thin trying to do too much (crooked politics, orphans, welfare work, medicine shows, and songs ranging from Bill Bailey, Won’t You Please Come Home? to the Ave Maria). But it’s different, at least. Something called Three Steps North is also in the bill.
STATE (one day only)—What better way to start off exams than with 25 cartoons.
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
[health I SPOT I ^HOES
For Men Women Children
■ Paul Whalen, Mgr.
209 W. COLFAX AVENUE
tyLatnittao-...
FRANKIE LANE made the Song famous but GOOD FOOD made us famous for our Italian dishes.
Spaghetti	Ravioli
Chicken	Steaks
The new tradition at Notre Dame is . . .
RESTAURANT 610 NORTH MICHIGAN 3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
use the New
MICROTOMIC
—the Absolutely Uniform
DRAWING PENCIL
• Absolute uniformity means drawings without “weak spots"—dean, legible detail. Famous for smooth, long-wearing leads. Easily distinguished by bull’s-eye degree stamping on 3 sides of oendl. At your campus store!	J
EBERHARD FABER
TMM MIU »«. U.S. FAT. O»A
The Scholastic
Vol. 94 January 16, 1953 No. 13
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor
ROBERT G. FINNEY
Associate Editors DONALD J. CARBONE THOMAS E. FOOTE PATRICK C. CARRICO ______....News FRED C. ECKART __________Assistant News LAWRENCE J. BREHL ....Assistant News ROBERT E. HAINE _________Features
JOHN F. SAND.......................Sports
WILLIAM F. NOONAN ....Ass’t, Sports THOMAS C. MURPHY .............Advertising WILLIAM KERWIN ..............Circulation JOHN P. DEFANT ....Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Tom Bennet, Tom Bosse, Bill Burnett, Dick Callaghan, Irv Carrig, Joe Casser-ella, Bill Copeland, Doug Cole, Pat DiPasquali, Frank Donlon, Carroll Dowden, Fred Eckart, Paul Fullmer, James Gallagher, Bob Gorman, Dick Hairsine. Tom Hartzell, Joe Leaser, Karl Martersteck, Bill Moore, Henry O’Bryan, Jim O’Shea, Dick Rupp, Jerry Shea, Dave Schlaak, Ray Schlitzer, Peter Sturtebant, Mike Ward.
SPORTS STAFF: Erwin Alfonsus, Warren Ashbaugh, Lou Bourjaily, Tom Caplet, John Cywin-iski. Bob Ettlebrick, Bob Frolicher, Jack Healy, Jack Kirby, Bob O’Malley, Don Swiegowski, Walt Touhy, Tom Welly. FEATURES: Dan Boland, Frank Goerg, Mike Long, Matt Malison, John Slavick.
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Bill DeCrick, Bob Fowler, Bob Huddleston, Mort Luby, Barry Reece, ADVERTISING ASSISTANT: Jerry Baier.
The Skyward Bus Fares
It is nothing new to say that South Bend is not a college town — that South Bend looks upon Notre Dame students more as tenderfeet at a carnival than welcomed, or at least tolerated, newcomers to the city. We know of one college town in which all movies are free after a football victory, but in South Bend they j'ust double the rates in hotels and restaurants.
The latest maneuvers in the battle of the billfold is the proposed hike in bus fare to 18 cents per ride, or three tokens for $.50, which represents an 80% increase in the space of one year. High school students will ride for a dime, but college students are conspicuously absent in the favored lists.
Even the most casual observer would soon deduce that without the Notre Dame run the Northern Indiana Transit Co. would fold up their buses and follow Omar. Most ND students are completely dependent upon buses for transportation to town, and most students go to town often.
Since the bus company is dependent upon Notre Dame, we would seem to be in a good position to exert a little pressure. Since students are dependent upon the bus company, it would seem that they would want to exert that pressure.
The Student Senate often complains that it does not have the students behind it. Perhaps this is true in the nebulous • field of educating the whole man and student-administration relations. However, this fare increase hits everyone in his most sensitive region — his pocketbook. We believe the Senate would find everyone behind it in an investigation of means of applying pressure. The Senate is supposed to serve the students’ interests, and there are few more paramount, immediate interests than his pocketbook.
There are numerous ways in which the Senate might act. It seems that the time has come when it would be profitable for the University, or the Senate, to buy and operate its own buses. Just the threat of this would have its effect at NIT headquarters. Possibly the cab companies would be willing to arrange for special straight-rate fares downtown early and late evening during the rush hours.
You can’t make us believe that Notre Dame could not influence the NIT if it were done correctly. We’re all for educating the whole man, but there is nothing wrong with a little consideration of the students’ practical, materialistic interests for a change.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Ai-sociated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Nbtre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: The Irish Cagers, after a highly successful road trip, seem to be on their way to one of Notre Dame’s best basketball seasons. Pictured are two of the principal reasons for Irish success, Capt. Norb Lewinski and Dick Rosenthal, in some tense Northwestern game action. For details of the team see page 25.
—Photo courtesy of Tom Messenger
The Work of One Man
On page 17 of this issue you’ll find the story of a man to whom Catholic Action is more than a well-worn catch phrase. Dale Francis was Notre Dame’s director of publications and moderator of the Scholastic and Dome before, moving to North Carolina in 1951 to open his Catholic information center.
The article speaks for itself. It is the story of the progress one man has made in bringing the Catholic faith to a region which is notoriously nonCatholic and even reportedly anti-Catholic. It is the story of the sacrifice of material for spiritual goals, and even a cursory glance at the article will convince the reader that Francis is happy in his chosen work.
Read “Catholicism Comes to Carolina.” We guarantee you’ll get a pleasant and proud feeling from it.
The best of luck to you, Dale Francis, and to everyone with the “guts” to act on your closing sentence: “But here’s not where you’re supposed to store up your treasures anyhow.”
Jan. 16, 1953
f'	Holiday Spirit may be busting out all over, pal, but before you get	\
i, carried away, how about taking a quick look in the lobby mirror.	\
Sharp? Well, a good looking suit, of course, good looking shoes, even	&
I	a flashy pair of cuff links with the big Alpha on them.
• -	.1 A killer.	i
‘	But your cute little friend seems a little less than rapturous, and	|
| f J	the doorman’s eyebrows went up even higher. Even the cab driver’s.
Bad breath? No, pal. You forgot your hat.	J
r i	Sweetness and Light there spent half the afternoon working over	|
f :	each little pink ribbon getting ready for you. It’s hardly a compli-	j
; ;	ment when you show up looking like you stumbled into your clothes	|
I - -	in the dark.	.	|
i ■	i
And here’s the second problem. A bare head is a virus trap. A hat is	|
for protection. It keeps the wind and rain and cold away from the	|
,	place you darned well should protect: your head. It just doesn’t	|
make sense to take chances with your health.	f
Particularly when a hat adds so much to the way you look.
"Wear a Hat-Its as Healthy as Its Handsome!^	|
I®• BYRON :-•	i
rVxV—xW xX	' '	' '	. "'i '	' V W	X V	te
Published bythemakersof America’s FinAstlfats < V\X.W xvX'Xx V1''’' '■
V- r.-XWx-y V 'V' /Vx x- x -	"■ x' - * " ?'Xx ?xx;, v"XV- x-i
Divisions of Bat Corporation of America—Makers of Fine Hatsfor Men and Women
g	The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Mardi Gras Opens With Ball, Feb. 18
Carnival, Jazz Bands, Contest Are Features
Festive and fun-packed, mad, merry and musical—that’s the official prediction for the 1953 Mardi Gras festivities which open Feb. 13 with the annual Mardi Gras Ball. The famous Tommy Dorsey has been engaged to play for the dancers.
Headed by Brian Kelly, carnival chairman, all committees are reporting rapid progress as the gala sojourn nears.
Contest books annually distributed for the event have begun to flow in from the various halls. Returns are also expected from various Alumni groups, large and small, which, together with the other carnival proceeds, will be turned over to Father Hesburgh for the purpose of equipping the new Student Center. Plans for the Mardi Gras Ball and the matinee Jazz Concert, as well as the usual Carnival events are also nearing completion.
The Mardi Gras contest books, distributed before-the Christmas holidays, are now being collected. The individual
TOMMY DORSEY
Merry and Musical . . . ■
hall canvassers began collection last Monday, and will continue to call on the halls each Monday until the Carnival opens, during which week the collections will be made daily.
For those students, especially off-campus scholars, who have yet to draw their contest books, provision has been made to obtain the books in the Dining Hall. Anyone wishing additional contest books may obtain them there also. Books of tickets cost $7.50, but only $5 is required for the return of each which leaves the student a commission—$2.50 worth of cash or contest tickets. Deadline for all ticket returns is Feb. 17, on which night the winners will be announced.
Prizes for the lucky winners include a 1953 Special Custom 4-door Mercury “Monterey” sedan. The student selling the winning ducat will be awarded a Chevrolet convertible. A large-screen TV set and portable Zenith radio will be awarded the runnerup ticket sellers. Sales premiums of $50, $25, and $10 will be awarded to the sales persons who have the highest totals on campus, at St. Mary’s, Vetville, and off-campus.
Opening the festivities will be the annual Mardi Gras Ball with Tommy Dorsey and his orchestra supplying the ’ music for an estimated capacity of 500 couples. Scheduled for the night of Feb. 13, at the Palais Royale, the Ball will embrace the Carnival theme with favors of an appropriate nature available for1 all. Ducats will cost $5 each, with dancing from 9 p. m. until 1 a. m. Residence and car- permissions will be available; the former until 2 a. m. and the latter until Saturday morning only. No corsages will be allowed. Transportation to and from the dance to St. Mary’s will be provided foi’ the unfortunate many without cars.
General chairman for the dance is Gene Howley. His six-man committee will consist of: Ned Griffin, business manager; Al Suwalsky, publicity; John Ryan, entertainment; Ron Mazzoli and Fritz Ganther, decorations; and Dave O’Leary, tickets.
GENE HOWLEY
. . . Festive and Fun-packed
Also highlighting the weekeend will be a Saturday afternoon concert by the finest jazz artists that could be obtained from three of the country’s leading jazz centers—Chicago, Detroit, and Toledo, Originally scheduled for Washington Hall, the afternoon bop-opera is now set for the Palais Royale where the matinee will commence at 1:30 and last until 4. Admission to the concert will be $1, stag or drag.
That night the doors of the Navy Drill hall will swing wide, and the Mardi Gras Carnival will officially get underway assuming a felty, Monte Carlo facade. Dollars for doughnuts—and a student center to shelter them—may be offered at any one of a multitude of booths operated by students of various campus clubs.
The regular Saturday night Senate dance has been moved over to Sunday afternoon to round out the week-end activities.
The carnival will continue Monday night, ending Feb. 17 when the cars (Continued on page 33)
Jan. 16, 1953
REV. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C.
Familiar Face in a New Position
Name Fr. Cavanaugh Founelation Head
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., immediate past-president of Notre Dame, has been appointed director’ of the Notre Dame Foundation, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president, has announced.
The Foundation, fund-raising division of the University, was organized six years ago at the beginning of Father Cavanaugh’s term as president. Until now the office has belonged ex-officio to the president of the University.
Rev. Thomas O’Donnell, C.S.C., former associate editor of the Catholic Boy, will assist Father Cavanaugh in his new position.
Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of public relations, will fill the position of associate editor of the Catholic Boy, the post vacated by Father O’Donnell. Father Murphy has been a University vice-president since 1946.
During his term as president from 1946 to 1952, Father Cavanaugh was a leader in the program to enlarge the University. Outstanding projects begun during this time were: Morris Inn, the Nieuwland Hall of Science, the Fisher Memorial Residence Hall, the Liberal and Fine Arts Building, new laboratories for the LOBUND project, and a utilities enlargement program.
Father Cavanaugh was also instrumental in getting the Air Force and Army ROTC units on campus and in organizing the Greater Notre Dame Campaign. This campaign enlisted the aid of residents of the South Bend-Mishawaka area in providing money for
10
Trippers Depart for Washington, D. C., Jan. 29; Accept Korean, Brazilian Embassy Invitations
Final plans have been completed, and a group of about 30 Notre Dame and St. Mary’s students and personnel will make the between-semesters trip to Washington, D. C. They will embark Jan. 29, and return to the campus on Feb. 4, in time for registration.
Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, of the Department of Political Science, who annually conducts the tour, announced recently that invitations to receptions in the Korean and Brazilian embassies have been accepted, making the tour’s itinerary complete.
After commuting to LaPaz, Ind., by chartered bus, the trippers will board the Baltimore & Ohio “Columbian” for the overnight trip to the Capital. Both dinner and breakfast will be served aboard the streamliner.
Upon arrival in Washington buses will transfer the travelers to the Hotel DuPont Plaza, their headquarters, before they begin the round of activities and tours. That same -day, Jan. 30, the group will observe the procedure followed in producing paper currency and government bonds at the Bureau of Engraving and Printing. After this the Federal Bureau of Investigation headquarters will be inspected. Luncheon in the Supreme Court Restaurant will be followed by tours of the Supreme Court Building, the Capitol Building, the House of Representatives, and the Senate.
That evening the trippers will board an Old Bay Line Steamer for an overnight voyage to Norfolk, Va. The next day will be spent seeing the sights of Jamestown, Yorktown, and restored colonial Williamsburg — all historic cities in Tidewater Virginia. The return trip to Washington will be made from Old Point Comfort on the steamer.
Docking in Washington the next morning, Sunday, Feb. 1, the students will hear Mass at the Franciscan Monastery, and tour the grounds. A short stop will be made at the Shrine of the Immaculate Conception. Proceeding with lecturer’s service, a tour will be made of the embassies and legations area. Rock Creek Park, the National Zoological Gardens, Georgetown, Fort Meyer, Arlington Cemetery and the
the completion of the Science Hall.
Father Hesburgh said that much of the work of the office of vice-president in charge of public relations will be handled by the newly-created office of Foundation director.
Tomb of the Unknown Soldier are also on the sightseeing agenda. Visits will be made in the afternoon to Alexandria, Va., Mount Vernon, and Washington’s Tomb. While returning to the hotel, stops will be made at the Lincoln and Jefferson Memorials. Walter Tro-han, ND grad and Washington representative of the Chicago Tribune, will entertain the travelers Sunday evening.
Swinging into the last two days of their concentrated tour on Feb. 2, the group will view the physical aspect of Washington from the vantage point of the Washington Monument. Plans for the day include visits to Smithsonian Institute, Folger Shakespearean Library, the Library of Congress, Congress, Supreme Court, the Archives Building, and the National Gallery of Art. The original documents of the Constitution, the Declaration of Independence, and Bill of Rights were only recently removed from the Library of Congress ■ to the Archives Building. Both the late afternoon and evening will be open for shopping- and individual sightseeing.
Feb. 3 the group will depart for LaPaz aboard the “Columbian,” but only after a final day sightseeing. Plans call for a visit to the Pentagon Building, attendance at a Congressional Committee hearing, a final visit to Con
gress and the Supreme Court, and attendance at the two embassy receptions.
The next morning, Feb. 4, chartered buses will carry the trippers from LaPaz to the campus.
On all the days for which visits have been planned to the House of Representatives, the Senate, and the Supreme Court, these visits will be made only if the groups are in session.
LOSE SOMETHING?
Besides the Lost and Found Department in the Prefect of Discipline’s Office—232 Main Bldg.—there are particular departments in the Rockne Memorial and in the Dining Hall.
All articles lost in the Rockne may be called for in the Towel Room or in Mr. Scannell's Office. Articles lost in the Dining Hail may be called for in Mr. Ford’s Office, in the basement.
There are a number of valuable articles waiting to be claimed at all of these places.
The Scholastic
Work Begins on April Musical 'Brute Farce'
Preparations for the 1953 Notre Dame student musical Brute Farce have gotten under way, Director Walter* Swift has announced. The musical will be held May 3-7 in Washington Hall, featuring two acts with a total of 15 scenes throughout.
No roles have been cast thus far. Auditions for a cast of approximately 50 will be held the first and second weeks of February. Casting will be open to anyone living within the University area, including St. Mary’s students, employees and professors of the University. Rehearsals will start March 12.
Bob Rossiter has written the script, while the score for the musical has been delegated to Geary Becker. Music will be arranged for the parts after the rolls have been cast. In spite of several applications, no final decision has been made in the selection of an orchestra.
The story takes place at a university somewhere between the Atlantic and Pacific oceans. Four brothers, recently released from a state penitentiary, invade the university and attempt to capture the football team, following the instructions of their mother who is a national syndicate operator. The trials involved as the brothers try to “throw” the all-important football game add to the hilarity of Brute Farce.
Throughout the farce, such celebri-
DuPont Renews Postgrad Chem Fellowship: University Will Select Recipient for 1953-54
Renewal of its grant to the University of Notre Dame of a postgraduate fellowship in chemistry was announced recently by the Du Pont Company.
The award is for the 1953-1954 academic year and is the same as that made to Notre Dame for the current year. It provides §1,500 for an unmarried fellow or §2,100 for a married man, $1,200 for the University to support his work, and payment of tuition and fees.
Du Pont has authorized a fund of about $600,000 to carry on its full program of aid to education in universities and colleges across the country.
This continues a program started by the company in 1918 to encourage students to undertake postgraduate work in chemistry, since expanded to include other fields of science and engineering. It provides support for pre-doctoral training of students and is intended to help
ties as Gen. Douglas MacArthur and Harry Truman will comment on the tragic situation of a kidnapped football team.
Swift has announced that he also is trying to get a tape recording of Tallulah Bankhead’s voice prepared especially for the show. “That should he plenty of entertainment in itself,” Swift added.
maintain the flow of technically trained men and women into teaching and research work at universities and into technical positions in industry and government. The University selects the person who will receive the fellowship and the research work to be undertaken..
Under its full program, the company has renewed 30 post-graduate fellowships in chemistry to as many different universities, 15 fellowships in chemical engineering, five each in physics and mechanical engineering, three in metallurgy, two in biochemistry, and one in biology. It has also continued its grants-in-aid of $15,000 each for fundamental research in chemistry to ten universities and $10,000 each to five universities.
The program was broadened for the 1953-1954 academic year to offer new types of financial aid to universities and colleges as an effort to emphasize and improve the teaching of chemistry. The need for this type of aid became apparent during a survey of nearly a year, which included 49 universities and colleges in addition to many other companies, foundations, and governmental organizations.
One of the new types of aid gives $2,500 to 19 private colleges to aid their teaching of undergraduate chemistry. The other provides postgraduate teaching fellowships in chemistry for 13 universities.
Highlights at Military Ball
Air Force Drill Team Provides Diversion (1.); Cadet Swings Date (r.)
Jan. 16, 1953
11
South Bend Air Waves Recruit WNDU Announcers, Engineers For Station Posts
Marine Corps O.C.C. Sets '53 Training Plan
With the beginning of the next semester, many of the familiar voices and faces around WNDU will be moving into professional radio in South Bend and elsewhere. The largest group of these will be found at WSBT and WSBT-TV here in South Bend, as the local station hires quite a bit of extra help to get their new TV station under way.
Station Manager, Bill Ryan, and Chief Announcer Jim Gannon will start work at WSBT at the beginning of the second semester in February, while Charles Spicka, Charles Step and others have al-
Fi+zsimons' New Book Views British Problems
The problems facing Great Britain following World War II when she was “a power with world interests, but not a world power” are analyzed by Doctor Matthew A. Fitzsimons, associate professor of history at Notre Dame, in his new book, The Foreign Policy of the British Labour Government: 1945-1951, to be published tomorrow by the University of Notre Dame Press.
Foreign Secretary Ernest Bevin soon found that Socialist theory was of little help in facing post-war problems, according to Dr. Fitzsimons. As a result, “the foreign policy of the Labour Government was Churchillian in its major lines,” the author points out. It “sought to protect British world-wide interests by keeping the Soviet Union out of the Mediterranean, by adjusting Britain’s position in the Middle East and Asia and to the anti-imperialist temper of the post-war period.”
The breach between Britain and the United States over China, Britain’s reversals in Iran and Egypt, and her reluctance to become an active partner in European integration are all discussed by Dr. Fitzsimons in this book which is the fifth in a series of international studies sponsored by Notre Dame’s Committee on International Relations. Dr. Fitzsimons’ conclusions are based on research in England during 1950 and 1951 under the Committee’s auspices.
Dr. Fitzsimons, who is a frequent contributor to the Review of Politics, joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1937. He holds undergraduate degrees from Columbia University and Oxford University. He received his Master’s degree from Columbia in 1939 and was awarded a Ph.D. by the University of Chicago in 1947.
ready begun work. As this story goes to press, some of the applications for jobs at WSBT have not been processed as yet, but it is expected that three or four other announcers and engineers from the campus station will be found putting in time at the South Bend station.
Meanwhile, one of WNDU’s programs has been moved completely over to WJVA. The popular Monday night jazz feature, “Story of Storyville,” written, directed and produced by Tom Knott, and narrated by Al Wood, is now appearing on WJVA at 1:00 on Saturday afternoons. The series of scripts being used on WJVA are different than the ones being used on WNDU, but the theme and format, and type of music played, are the same.
Tom Knott and Al Wood are still doing the show on the Polka station. This new series started on January 10, and will run every Saturday until the end of the school year, with possibly some taped shows during the summer.
One of WNDU’s news announcers, John Cox, has accepted a job with WBNS-TV in Columbus, Ohio, as Assistant to the Director of Public Service. His job in this capacity will be to write, produce and direct public service programs (those programs done for such public service agencies as funds, educational institutes and civic organizations). His job in this capacity will also include arranging a certain number of these programs fox- the stations. His previous experience with WBNS-TV came when he worked there as a News Editor during the past summer.
BILL RYAN
Leaves the Amateur Ranks
A majority of the college seniors and graduates who enroll now for the Marine Corps Officer Candidate Course which will be conducted in March, 1953, will receive specialized training, Major A. M. Zimmer, USMC, declared today.
After completing basic officer training, 57 per cent of the graduates of this program will be assigned to specialist schools at Marine Corps Schools, Quantico, Va. The remaining 43 per cent, he stated, will be assigned infantry billets.
“The need for college specialists is greater than ever before due to the present expansion,” he observed. “Such courses as Supply, Engineering, Naval Gunfire, Motoi1 Transport, Communications, Naval Flight Training and others are available.”
Major Zimmer said officer training programs are open to both college graduates and seniors who graduate between now and March 1, 1953. Applicants may be married or single. He advised interested college men to contact him in the Navy Drill Hall or call extension 297 for an interview.
Once selected, an applicant is enlisted in the Marine Corps Reserve and attends a ten-week training course at the Marine Corps Schools, Quantico, Va. (35 miles from Washington, D. C.) Upon successful completion of this course, the candidate becomes a Second Lieutenant and serves for two years on active duty as a commissioned of
ficer.
Application forms for the March class (and the July class, for June graduates), are available at the Navy Drill Hall. He stated it is advisable for prospective candidates to apply as soon as possible.
Ford, Science Foundations Announce Fellowship Grants
Announcement of two fellowships for which Notre Dame students can qualify has come from the Placement office.
The Ford Foundation’s Board on Overseas Training and Research is again offering a number of foreign study and research grants to young men under 35 years of age. This particular fellowship offers study in Asia and the Near and Middle East.
Grants will be awarded to students completing their undergraduate studies, to individuals who are doing or have done graduate work relative to these specific areas and to persons who have had ex-
12
The Scholastic
perience or are now engaged in government, business, or the professions.
A second announcement by the National Science Foundation has stated that 500 Fellows will be selected for awards for the academic year 1953-54. These awards will be made largely to college seniors and other persons seeking master’s oi‘ doctor’s degrees. A limited number will be available for post-doctoral research, however. The fields in which the awards will be made are mathematical, physical, medical, biological and engineering sciences.
Applications for Students wishing to register for these fellowships may be obtained at the Placement Office.
Begin Arrangements For Senior Weekend
Senior Ball Co-Chairman George Higgins and Jim Pfohl have begun arrangements for the “big night” in the social lives of the Class of ’53.
Business Manager Joe Costanzo will handle all finances for the gala May 8 weekend. Bob Schaefer, Ed Graham, and Ralph Argen will be in charge of decorating the Drill Hall; the theme has not yet been definitely chosen. Dick Harvey and Walt Stuhldreher will provide additional entertainment for the Senior weekend.
Hotel reservations will be handled by Clair Trinkley, refreshments by Ed Condon, and tickets by Tom Hamilton. Don Carbone will do the publicizing.
Tickets for the May 8 Senior Ball, including bid and favor, will cost $9, with sales beginning sometime in March. No reservations will be permitted; first come, first serve. However, there will be a limit of 600 tickets.
GEORGE HIGGINS, JIM PFOHL
Planners for “The Big Weekend”
Permanent Residence Plan Passes Senate;
Science Ball Gets Nod; Hunt Missing Statue
Room Option for Upperclassmen
The Student Senate had its first regular meeting since the Christmas vacation, last Monday evening, with a full schedule of business. A plan submitted by Vice-president Floyd Blair foi’ permanent hall - residence for upper classmen received the most attention.
According to the proposed plan, all
The Morris Inn will be host to the Senior Communion Breakfast May 10. There will be a 90-couple limit with tickets costing §3.
The name of the band has not yet been announced, but it is certain that one of the top three in the nation will be on hand to serenade the Seniors, the cochairmen announced.
Fifty guestrooms have been reserved in the Morris Inn, with others available in downtown hotels and private homes.
Basketball and Rifle Meets Head Army ROTC Plans
With the pageantry of their annual review behind them, the Army ROTC unit is now focusing its attention on other activities.
The parade, commemorating the first anniversary of the presentation of the colors to the Notre Dame unit, saw the drill team, band, and marching cadets receive the plaudits of their commander, Colonel Cookson.
Cadet Jack Tokar, chairman of the committee in charge of athletics of the Cadet Club, has announced that the basketball league will commence operations the second week in February on the court of the Navy Drill Hall. Each company and the regimental corps will field a team, and an all-star squad will be selected to represent the University in various inter-service competitions and tournaments.
The Army ROTC rifle team, coached by Sgt. Wagner, is facing three of its severest tests in the next two months. Pennsylvania State, Rice Institute, and Kansas comprise the trio of sharpshooters the Irish must tackle in their next series.
upper classmen would be consulted shortly before registering for their rooms for the following semesters, and would be able to hold their present rooms if they wished. Students who wished to change halls would still be able to do so.
Objections were raised that this system would too strongly favor the Senior class, and discriminate against the sophomores, but the suggestion was countered by the reply that some basis for
giving preference in selecting rooms could be arranged that would recognize both class standing, and academic status. Thus, though seniors might be given some preference, high-average students in all the upper classes would be assured rooms on campus.
Would Generate Spirit: Blair
Generally, the advantages of the proposed change would be better hall spirit, more and closer relationships among the students, and more care of the hall facilities by the students, Blair said. Disadvantages would seem .to be the continuance of having seniors and juniors mixed, and the development of a fraternity oi- clique system. A committee was appointed by President Reedy to study and report on the matter.
The Senate later accepted the resignations of Vice president Floyd Blair, who graduates this February, and Stay Senator Larry Mullins, who will leave Notre Dame to enter the seminary. President Reedy, speaking for the Senate, thanked both men for their many efforts for the school.
The Science Ball, to be held the 6th of February, was underwritten by the Senate for $500, at the secretary’s recommendation, and April 17 was approved as the date for the Freshman Dance.
Dragnet for Father Sorin
The Senate also approved a motion to investigate the possibility of finding Father Sorin, who has been missing from his niche in Sorin Hall since before the Christmas holidays.
Although traditionally a wanderer on the ND campus, Father Sorin’s present disappearance has lasted so long that concern is arising that it may be a permanent one.
The Senate meetings are held on Monday evenings in the Law Building, and are open to all students. The next meeting will be Feb. 9th.
Jan. 16, 1953
BRIG. GEN. HENEBRY One of the Top Ten
Gen. Henebry Merits U. S. Jaycee Citation
Brigadier General John P. Henebry, class of ’40, is one of ten young men in the United States who will be honored tomorrow in Cedar Rapids, la., as the Ten Outstanding Young Men of 1952. The men will be guests at a §15 a plate banquet sponsored by U. S. Junior Chamber of Commerce, which is holding Jaycee Week in the Iowa city.
Ever since 1938 the Jaycees have selected men between the age of 21 and 35 for membership in this select group. Nominees from all spheres of life who have made exceptional contributions to the welfare of their community and nation are reviewed. The ten who have made the most outstanding contribution in his work or profession, and who have promoted the general welfare of the people in the highest manner are chosen.
This year’s selection was made by a board of nationally-known jndges, who also included two-time Olympic Decathlon winner Bob Mathias among the ten.
Henebry, who is now 34, is the president of Skymotive Aviation Management Corporation in Kenilworth, Ill. He organized the enterprise in 1946, and through his administrative ability it has become one of the leaders in the field of sales and servicing of corporation aircraft.
During World War II Henebry flew over 200 combat missions in the Pacific war zone. He received acclaim as one of the most able air officers of the war, with such recognition bringing rapid advancement. He was quickly promoted from 2nd Lieutenant to Colonel, then received the distinction of becoming the
14
University Theatre Undertakes 'Vile Bodies'
Production; Plot Concerns London Party Set
Vile Bodies, an adaptation of the novel by Evelyn Waugh, has been chosen as the third production of the University Theatre season, according to Mr. John D. Tumpane, director. The play is a bright comedy about the young social set in London who travel from one party to another in their seemingly endless search to find some meaning to life.
When the novel appeared shortly
Air Force’s youngest general at the age of 30 in February, 1948.
In 1951 and ’52, Henebry was the Commanding General of the 315th Air Division, which was a combat cargo outfit. As such he was in charge of all air transportation within the Far East Command. From the standpoint of people and tonnage carried, he operated the world’s largest airline.
Henebry, who has been called the “Taxpayer’s General,” early foresaw the potential of the airlift program in the Korean combat. The title was given him for his application of business economics to the problems of military air transportation and his comprehension of air cargo-transport activities.
Present Dr. Ellithorn Paper On Engineering in New York
Dr. Harold E. Ellithorn, associate professor of electrical engineering at Notre Dame, and two of his associates have collaborated on a paper which will be presented during the five-day national convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers beginning Monday in New York City.
The paper, entitled “Characterization of a Non-Linear Inductance by Phase Plane Method,” summarizes research conducted jointly by Dr. Ellithorn, William Shewan, a former graduate student at Notre Dame and now assistant professor of electrical engineering at Valparaiso ‘ University, and Kenneth Kempf, a Notre Dame graduate student. Dr. Ellithorn is director of the research project which is now in its third year and which is sponsored by the Wright Air Development Center, Dayton, Ohio.
While in New York, Dr. Ellithorn will attend a meeting of the national A.I.E.E. Committee on Wire Communications of which he is a member. Dr. Ellithorn and Mr. Kempf also plan to inspect the electrical engineering facilities at the United States Military Academy at West Point.
after Mr. Waugh’s conversion to Catholicism, critics hailed it as one of the funniest novels of the 20th century. Alexander Woolcott called it “a delightful, artistic, satiric dance of death on a sinking ship.”
Mr. Waugh is the authoi’ of A Handful of Dust, Brideshead Revisited, The Loved One, and the current best-seller Men at Arms. His novels have stirred up violent controversy in both Catholic and secular critical circles. Vile Bodies, Tumpane says, is likely to do the same at Notre Dame.
Although none of Mr. Waugh’s novels has ever been adapted for stage or screen, Mr. Tumpane has obtained special permission to do a University production of Vile Bodies.
Mr. Michael Casey, assistant director of the University Theatre, will be the technical director for the production. The play is in nine scenes with nine different sets including a shipdeck, a jail, a grease pit at a motor race, a battlefield, and the observation deck of a dirigible.
Tryouts for the play will be held in Washington Hall at 4 and 7:30 p.m. on Monday and Tuesday. The play calls for a cast of about 40 persons, including such diverse characters as a Jesuit priest, a motor racer, a gossip columnist, and Mrs. Melrose Ape, a female Evangelist and her six “Angels.” Tryouts are open to the entire student body and the secretarial staff. Scripts are available at the Depai-tment of Speech.
Graduating Job Seekers Advised to Register Now
Students who will graduate in June and August and wish employment assistance through the Placement Bureau are urged to register immediately if they have not already done so.
Mr. William R. Dooley, director of Placement, warns seniors not to hold off such registration because of impending Armed Forces service. Employers are interviewing many of the 1953 college graduates for permanent employment two or three years from now.
Placement registration forms are obtainable in the Placement Bureau from 8 a. m. to 12 noon and from 1 to 5 p. m., Monday through Friday. Registration forms should be filed before the end of the present semester, because | employment interviews will begin again | on Feb. 9.	d
S3
The Scholastic
Fr. Woodward Blasts Draft Scare Rumors
“The recent Military High Command’s call for 53,000 men to be inducted into the armed forces during February has led to much ‘scare prophesying’ by the nation’s periodicals,” Rev. Robert Woodward, C.S.C., director of the Office of Military Information, commented recently.
Headlines blared to the world that 19-year-olds are to be drafted in order to fill quotas of the various local Selective Service Boards. The Securities Department has warned that some of the teenagers may be called.
“This would only happen,” Father Woodward added, “if there is a lack of eligible men 20 years of age or over.”
Any need for drafting men under 20 varies with the local boards. The two St. Joseph County Boards have said that in all probability there will be no need to call men from the questionable group in order to fill the January or February quotas. However, all boards have the liberty to do so if necessary.
“As for the frightening rumors floating around campus, there is no need for any student hysteria,” Father Woodward said. He also pointed out that during the 1951-52 school year, only eight Notre Dame men were drafted. So far this year six men have been inducted, which is a small number compared to the 79 others who have left the University for health, disciplinary, or voluntary reasons, while two have died in accidents.
Alumni Board Heads Meet;
Senior Class Officers Feted
Notre Dame’s Morris Inn is the scene of this week’s January meeting of the Board of Directors of the Alumni Association.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, addressed the opening session at a luncheon yesterday. Election of officers for 1953 and committee reports on club activities, executive functions, and preparatory school relations completed the afternoon roster.
Today more reports are to be delivered. The Senior Class officers were the guests of the Board for luncheon, and an Administration dinner is planned for this evening with Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., heading the list of speakers.
A Mass at Alumni Hall for the Board members is scheduled for tomorrow at 8. After breakfast, committee reports will be given and a luncheon at noon will close the session.
ND Songsters Win Moke New Year Debut With Mid-Semester Tour of Sunny South
The ND Glee Club, under the direction of Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, will travel to Florida between semesters to give their first concert of 1953.
Rev. James Norton, C.S.C., will accompany the group as chaplain for the 3,500-mile trip. They will tour parts of both Louisiana and Florida by special bus before returning to South Bend.
The Glee Club will leave South Bend on Thursday, Jan. 29, at 1 p.m. and will arrive at New Orleans on Friday, Jan. 30, at 11 p.m. They will spend the night at the St. Charles Hotel in New Orleans.
The first stop of the toui- will be made at Franklin, La., on Jan. 31. This program will be sponsored by the Knights of Columbus of Franklin. From Franklin they will again travel back to New Orleans to give the second concert.
On the next evening the Glee Club will put on the third show of their tour at Lafayette. Here they will be entertained by the Lafayette Mother’s Club of Our Lady of Fatima Parish.
On Feb. 3, the warblers will again board the buses and travel to Florida, arriving the next morning at Vero Beach. One day will be spent there before travelling to West Palm Beach on Thursday for a day’s vacation. The last of the programs will be held at West Palm Beach sponsored by the Knights of Columbus from that city.
They will then leave the warmth of the south behind when they leave Florida on Saturday morning, Feb. 7, and arrive in South Bend the following night.
DIRECTOR PEDTKE To the Southlands Go the Warblers
Each program will consist of 19 selections starting with the Ave Maria and finishing with the ND Victory March. Besides the regular selections, the show will also feature five solos and a duet. Baritone soloists include: Eugene D. Fanning, President of the Glee Club; Eugene Gorski, Secretary of the Glee Club; and Dan Coleman. The tenor soloist is John Noland and the piano soloist will be Dick Casper.
Gene Fanning will sing Thine Alone written by Romberg; Gene Gorski will sing Vision Fugitive from Herodiade by Massenet; Dan Coleman’s solo will be the Tivo Grenadiers by Schumann and John Noland will sing Kathleen Ma-voumeen.
The duet to be sung by Gene Gorski and John Noland will be Sollenne in Quest ’ora- from Act III of La Forza Del Destino by Verdi. Dick Casper will play three piano solos throughout the group’s tour. The first of his solos will be the Bakoczy March by Liszt.	'
In the forthcoming trip the Glee Club will also present for the first time four-pieces which are different from their regular selections. Besides their usual four-part pieces they are going to present four pieces of eight-part selections. These songs will be sung in four different languages: Latin, Catalonian, English, and German.
California Positions Offered Senior Engineering Grads
Senior civil engineering students who prefer work in California after graduation can qualify through a civil service examination to be given on a nationwide basis Feb. 28. Applications must be in the hands of the California State Personnel Board, Sacramento, by Jan. 31.
Graduates can go to work at once on California’s giant highway program, the board said. Mid-year graduates may apply for temporary appointment and qualify by examination later.
Positions exist in nearly all parts of California. The beginning rank is junior civil engineer, with a starting salary of §341 a month, and a top of §395. Frequent promotional opportunities are available.
The examination will be given at or near all campuses where there are qualified applicants. Descriptive bulletins and applications for the California exam may be obtained from the Placement Office, first floor, Main Building.
Jan. 16, 1953
15
NFCCS Warms Winter With Announcement Of 4 Summer Tours to Europe, 1 to Mexico
Summer tours for 1953 offered by the National Federation of Catholic College Students are “the finest in the entire student travel market,” claims Al Bader, federation travel chairman. At a recent meeting in New York City, Bader made public the program for next summer which includes five low-cost, comprehensive tours of Europe and Mexico.
The European tours are “improved versions of the successful programs of the past three summers, which have carried over 3,000 students and graduates across the Atlantic to instructive and exciting adventures on the Old Continents,” Bader said.
Four tours which range in length from 27 to 49 days compose the new European program. All of the tours feature a proposed audience with Pope Pius XII at Castle Gondolfo and a tour of Vatican City during a four-day stay at Rome. Three of the tours include participation in the Torchlight Procession at the shrine of Our Lady of Lourdes.
Countries to be visited include Ireland, England, France, Italy, Switzerland, Belgium, Luxemburg, Germany, Spain, and Holland. Vacation highlights will be the days spent on the French Riviera and in the Swiss Alps and Lakes District of Northern Italy.
Prices range from §719 on the 27-day tour to §949 on the 49-day trip.
The Mexico trip originates in San Antonio and returns there 33 days later, visiting 20 cities and points of interest, including the shrine of Our Lady of Guadalupe, Mexico City, the capital, the Acapulco, the famous resort city. This tour is priced at §298.
“The fact that we are going to use chartered deluxe motoi- coaches both in Mexico and Europe is the newest feature of our travel program,” Bader stated. “This will eliminate the usual time-consuming, tiring transfers from trains to hotels and will allow the tour members to become better acquainted,” he said, “and will also allow the groups to visit many of the smaller towns which the average traveler never gets the chance to see.”
The NFCCS vice-president said that this would make it possible to arrange a tour which gives each participant “a true knowledge of the people and customs of the countries visited.”
Each group will include an NFCCS chaplain who will say Mass and hear Confessions, and an English-speaking guide who will travel throughout the entire length of the tour.
The first group will leave for Europe June 17, with later departures throughout June, July, and August. Mexico departures begin June 13 and continue every Saturday until the beginning of August.
The Catholic Student Travel Office, 500 Fifth Avenue, New York City, was opened recently to handle all applications and inquiries.
Additional information and applications may also be obtained from the campus travel chairman, Don Carbone, at 126 Alumni.
Round Table Group To Enter Conference
Economic Round Table members of Notre Dame’s International Relations Club will journey to Nazareth College, Nazareth, Mich, for the annual Midwest International Relations Club Conference Fri. and Sat., Feb. 13 and 14.
This year’s schedule includes 6 round table discussions. Jerry Ellsworth, president of Notre Dame club, will speak on the Point 4 Plan. Bob Berner, secretary of the club, will lead the discussion that follows.
The purpose of the conference is to have its 71 affiliated clubs, located in a number of the leading midwestern colleges, get together to discuss foreign affairs. There will be over 100 representatives from the respective colleges, twelve of whom will be from Notre Dame.
The midwestern organization, which is running the conference is only one of 14
JERRY ELLSWORTH
To Discuss Foreign Affairs
sectional groups. Each section has its own individual conference early in the year, and then later on representatives from each section get together for a national conference.
The campus club has 15 members. The officers are: Jerry Ellsworth, president; Bob Berner, secretary; and John Corrigan, treasurer. Faculty moderator is Prof. William H. Downey of the Department of Economics. The club meets weekly at a dinner session when it discusses international and domestic problems.
SMC Sophs Present Snow Frolic Saturday
At the top of St. Mary’s mid-Winter social agenda is tomorrow’s Winter Carnival at St. Mary’s College from 3:30 p.m. until 10:30 p.m. Ice skating, if weather pennits, games, royal coronation ceremony, box lunch, and dance will highlight the afternoon-evening affair sponsored by St. Mary’s Sophomores.
Opening the event will be a period of card playing, or general chit-chat, in Le Mans Hall’s recreation room. Incidentals and all formality may be dispensed with for this initial hour.
Marion Lake—St. Mary’s renowned rink—will be the scene of the Ice Show to be conducted by a chorus of St. Mary’s finest and a group of Notre Dame “Dick Buttons.” There will be audience participation in games that will follow the show.
Immediately succeeding the show the “ice” theme will switch over to a more delectable one—food: box lunches prepared by the girls from across the Dixie.
The main event of the evening will be the coronation ceremony—the crowning of Miss Diane Cross as “Queen of the Winter Carnival.” Miss Cross is general chairman of the carnival.
Following the coronation ceremonies will be a short skit featuring the Cultured Women of the West. The theme of the entertainment will remain secret until curtain time at LeMans’ rectangle.
Following the evening’s entertainment, dancing will commence in the rectangle. Strains of Goodnight, Sweetheart will be heard at 10:30 when the 1953 Winter Carnival comes to a close.
Committees and their heads aiding Miss Cross in her official duties are: entertainment, Miss Mary Jo Bujarski and her co-chairman, Miss Molloy Maloi; foods, Miss Rosemary Virden; bids, Miss Pat Rutledge; ice show, Miss Janet Crowley; arrangements, Miss Gretchin Hartman, and decorations, Miss Florence Singer.
i
16
The Scholastic
1
Catholicism Comes to Carolina
(The following is a reprint of the article “Making Friends for Christ” by Dale Francis which appeared in the Dec. 6, 1952 issue of THE AVE MARIA.)
“I just stopped in to tell you I think Catholicism is as great a danger to this country as Communism,” the young fellow said. He was a visitor to The Sign of the Cross, our Catholic information center in the heart of the least .Catholic major city in the nation, Charlotte, North Carolina.
I didn’t argue with him. We talked for a little while about the Catholic Church and I gave him something to read.
The next morning he was back. “I’ve been thinking it over,” he said. “I’ve decided the Catholic Church is a worse danger than Communism.” We talked again, and again he took away. some pamphlets. He was a traveling man and he’ll not be back in Charlotte for some months but I’m looking forward to another visit when he is back in town. I’m not making any bets that he’ll have changed his mind, though.
The rather impolite visit of this young man would probably have made some of my northern friends nod their heads and say they told me so. They’d said that the southerners weren’t going to like our opening a Catholic information center in the middle of their city.
What these friends wouldn’t know, though, is that the young man .was from Detroit, Michigan. As a matter of fact, I’ve only had two unfriendly visitors since we opened and the other was a traveling evangelist from - Pitts-.1 burgh, Pa. All the impoliteness I’ve met has been imported.
It isn’t because we’ve compromised that we’ve missed opposition. We set oui- store down right next to the largest Baptist church in the entire state. In our advertisements, in our window displays and in our store, we’re openly Catholic, proclaiming the fact that the Catholic Church is the one, true Church.
I’ve heard that there are some Protestants who don’t like us, but they are polite enough not to stop around to tell us. The ones who do drop around are frankly interested in knowing what we believe. *
About a year ago we put a sign in the window that proclaimed very grimly, “You, too, are going to die.” Around it we placed books and pamphlets that told something of the Catholic position on life after death.
An old man came in one day. “Our preacher said we’d just lie around waiting for Judgment Day,” he said. “Now,
I don’t care much for the idea of just lying around. Is that what Catholics teach?” I explained to him something of the Catholic belief and gave him a pamphlet.
“How much is the pamphlet?” he asked. I explained to him that we gave the pamphlets away free.
“No, Sir,” he said. “I want to know what you believe but I don’t want to be beholden to you. You charge me for it.”
So I charged him and he went away with a pamphlet that would tell him something of the Catholic belief on life after death.
Our center is a business—the theory is we’ll eventually make it pay for itself and support us—but some days there isn’t much business. You’d think that would be disheartening, seeing as how our overhead runs us close to $20 a day, but it isn’t. I remember one day when our business was actually less than a dollar- for the entire day and just about the time we were ready to close up a fellow came into the center.
He was distressed and he said that he had come to a place where he had to find something to believe. He’d been
Dale Francis, at the age of 36, has already had a varied and distinguished career. A newspaper reporter at 15 and a Methodist minister at 21, he enlisted as a private the day after Pearl Harbor.
He became a convert to Catholicism while still in service, and after his discharge in 1945 he went to Raleigh to found the Laymen’s Association and the “North Carolina Catholic,” a weekly. There he began the writing that was to earn him a reputation as one of the nation’s outstanding Catholic authors.
Dale Francis enrolled at Notre Dame as a graduate student in 1947, and in 1949 he was appointed Director of Publications. He began the work of unifying the publications system and established the University of Notre Dame Press.
A friendly .person with a consuming interest in all people, he was a familiar figure on campus and won a host of friends at Notre Dame.
He left the University in 1951 to found the Sign of the Cross, the bookstore-information center in Charlotte, N. C., about which he writes in the accompanying article.
in a couple of times before, just to look around. Now he wanted something to read, he wanted something that would tell him about the Church. We were there to give it to him. Chances are he would never have gone to a rectory but he came to us.
After- that it didn’t matter that the day had brought us less than a dollar. It was a good day.
There is almost never a day but what someone who is interested in* the Church comes in to the Sign of the Cross. Not all of them are going to become Catholics but some of them will and all of them are going to carry away a better .idea of the Church.
Sometimes they show a tragic lack of knowledge of the Catholic Church. One day a man came in to talk. His minister had said something that intrigued him. The minister didn’t like the Catholic Church and he said so, but in saying so he called the Catholic Church a Christian church. That surprised this man.
He explained it to me. “I’d always had the idea that Catholics didn’t believe Christ had ever- lived.”	-
Unbelievable? Sure, but it happened. This fellow asked me if we had a-Catholic Bible and I told him that we did and he bought one. He hasn’t been back but he may be some day.
The ministers in the community might be expected to be unfriendly. They haven’t been. We’ve had more than sixty Protestant ministers and one rabbi in and with the exception of the traveling evangelist from Pittsburgh, they’ve all been friendly.
My wife, Barbara, was in the store the day the first Protestant minister stopped by. She talked with him for a long time and he bought several books —we give clergymen of all faiths the same clergy discount we give Catholic . religious. He was back a few weeks later and he kept returning, always taking home more books.
I gave him Apologia Pro Vita Sua for a Christmas gift and he sent back word that he’d not be in again for a long while because he’d gone into an. Anglican monastery to “think things out.” I haven’t heard from him since but a clergyman of his faith was in and I asked about the young fellow. ' The man nodded his head. “Fine young (Continued on page 24)
Jan. 16, 1953
17

for
Modern Science
Some huddle-bound students
emerge from the Science Hall.
research of future scientists.
Modern Home
The Nieuwland Science Hall, erected at a cost of $2,500,000 from funds provided by alumni and friends of Notre Dame, was opened for classes and research last September—20 years after Father Julius Nieuwland sniffed a peculiar odor that led him to the discovery of the key step in making the first successful, general-purpose synthetic rubber.
Father Nieuwland’s discovery began as an investigation of acetylene — a product of the Shawinigan Corporation for which he was a consultant. The most expensive material in their process was mercury, and even slight losses were a serious cost item.
Since copper was in many respects similar to mercury, Father Nieuwland tried to substitute it for mercury. He failed. But when he attempted to isolate any acetaldehyde that might have formed, he noticed a peculiar odor. Unable to recall any odor resembling it, Father Nieuwland concluded that he had discovered a new compound.
After a time, Father Nieuwland managed to obtain reasonable quantities of the new compound. After extensive and tedious investigation, he was led to the conclusion that the compound was divinyl acetylene.
For several years Father Nieuwland kept his discovery to himself, as he was unwilling to publish any data until he could prove the formula of his new compound. When he did, his persistent tracking down of the odor that resulted in his unsuccessful attempt to make acetaldehyde had borne unexpected fruit. This was in 1932.

Shiny new labs are for the
Today, 16 years after Father Nieuw-land’s death, and 20 years after his old, jumbled laboratory — still preserved in its original condition—became the scene for one of the great chemical discoveries of the century, a modern science building stands for the purpose of future research. Appropriately enough, it has been named the Nieuwland Science Hall.
The modern science hall, splendid in every respect (as can be seen on these pages), should be a worthy home for the scientific achievement that characterizes Notre Dame’s contributions to the field of modern science.
The Forgotten Crown
Text by RICHARD GERBRACHT Illustrations by BOB FOWLER
One Spring day in the late 1920’s a dump truck eased to the edge of St. Mary’s lake in the vicinity of the Old College. Unconcerned with the load of ashes in the rear of the truck, the driver nonchalantly sent his cargo splashing to the bottom of the lake. The driver wouldn’t have been so unconcerned had he known that he was dumping the most valuable ash pile in the history of Notre Dame. In it was the crown of the Empress Eugenie, wife of Napoleon III, emperor of France.
The loss of the Eugenie crown was not discovered until years later — much too late to even estimate the tons of trash that have spilled over it since that fatal Spring day in 1920. Through the years the story has been pieced together bit by bit until today, although the episode remains a choice Notre Dame mystery, some authentic light has been cast on the forgotten crown, its origin and history.
Crown Brought From France
The story of the Eugenie crown began as far back as 1866 when Father Corby, the third president of Notre Dame, sent Father Joseph Carrier to France to buy new books and equipment and to order a crown for a statue that would eventually be placed above the golden dome.
Father Carrier returned with 20 boxes of equipment and two crowns. One was a gigantic thing that weighed 52 pounds — this was the one fox' the dome. The other, of normal size, was the Eugenie crown, a gift of the empress to Notre Dame.
The Eugenie crown, according to an early Scholastic, was “a crown of solid gold, studded with precious stones and inlaid with pearls”; no exact value of the crown was given. Later issues attempted to identify the Eugenie crown as the coronation crown; this has been refuted since the Eugenie crown- was a tiara of entirely different description than the later Scholastics offered. And tiaras are dainty and small in comparison with the large, bulky coronation crowns.
It is thought that the missing crown the Spanish countess of Teba, before is the one Eugenie wore when she was her marriage to Napoleon III.
Napoleon and Eugenie had given many valuable gifts to Notre Dame over a period of years. Among them were a large telescope, a gold monstrance, and gold embroidered Mass vestments. It was their hope that Notre Dame would become an outpost of French culture in the new world and the gifts were to help that dream come true.
Eugenie’s Gift Stolen
Soon after their arrival the crowns were put on display in the church. After all the trouble and bother of constructing the large crown, it was found to be unfit for the dome because its metals were perishable. Instead, it was put high above the statue of the Blessed Mother in the very front of the church. The Eugenie crown rested on the head of another statue of the Blessed Virgin that was on a hanging
pedestal in the East wing of the church.
Since most everyone concluded that the statue was a horribly designed thing, it was removed, later appearing behind Moreau Seminary. The Eugenie crown faded to its first period of obscurity.
Obscurity Enshrouds Crown
Years passed. In 1886 thieves broke into the church and stole two crowns. Some Brothers who were engaged in some early morning prayer noticed the absence of the crowns — and the conspicuous presence of a ladder that had been placed against the wall to reach the crowns. A large controversy arose over whether or not it was the Eugenie crown that had been stolen.
The South Bend police, who had been alerted in regard to the theft, found the thieves in possession of the crowns and had quite a tussle with them on South Bend’s old Division Street. The crowns were returned — completely shattered.
In 1886 Scholastic reported that the stolen crowns were of silver; Eugenie’s
1
20
The Scholastic
after more new faces appeared, the crown faded into deeper obscurity— no one gave it a thought.
Crown Becomes Stage Prop
Some years later the younger members of Holy Cross were preparing for the annual Christmas play. In their hunt for suitable props, the seminarians searched the attic and found the crown. They thought that it was made to order; just a cheap imitation that would fit in well. For many years the play was presented annually — and the Eugenie crown was used briefly, then returned to the attic. On one particular Chrstmas the wearer of the crown had an unusually large head; the crown was split to accommodate the wearer. The crown, sadly depleted by now, was later reported to have been used as a prop in Washington Hall and local South Bend plays. But it was always returned to Holy Cross.
The Eugenie crown remained at Holy Cross until it was dropped and shattered after reposing on a peg in the boiler room for several years. The crown, stripped of its beauty and fame, was cast off during one of the housecleanings at Holy Cross. From the ash pile it went to the dump truck, then to the lake.
The University found out the tragedy of the Eugenie crown some years later; the first hint came from Holland in a letter written by an employee of the University.
The incident went like this: One of the University’s employees happened to. find some of the jewels that had fallen from the crown. He picked them up as so many pieces of glass and saved them. Later, when he happened to return to his native land for a vacation, the “pieces of glass” were among some of his souvenirs. Upon his return, his: sister saw the jewels and thought that it would be a fine trick to show them, to her fiance and make him jealous-They looked like diamonds. Fate made the young man a jeweler’s apprentice and the' “pieces of glass” once more appeared as valuable diamonds. When word reached Notre Dame it was too-late. Someone remembered that the old crown had been cast aside.
Never A Reliable Evaluation
There has never been a reliable evaluation of the crown’s value. Remembering “a crown of ' solid gold, studded with precious stones and inlaid with pearls” would seem to make the Eugenie crown a worthy addition to> any collector’s display.
Nor has there ever been any reliable evaluation of the crown’s location, although it is thought to be along the shore of St. Mary’s lake near the Old College, since that area was used to-some extent for dumping purposes during the early days of the University. It’s there in the muck of the lake today — somewhere.
had been of gold. One of the crowns was the large, 52-pound one that had come to Notre Dame with the Eugenie crown. Later restored by a Chicago silversmith, it is now in the sacristy of the church under the care of Brother Boniface. Since the other crown was of silver, it was practically certain that the Eugenie crown was safe. But no one seemed to know where.
Eventually the crown appeared at the laundry; it had been sent there for safe keeping after the theft of the other crowns. No one knows who sent it to the laundry or just how long it remained there.
After an indefinite passage of time it was taken to Holy Cross seminary; someone just dropped in at the laundry and borrowed it for an altar decoration during the nocturnal devotions. As long as there were devotions, there was a place for the crown.
Passing years brought many new faces to Holy Cross, and new customs. Nocturnal devotions ceased and the crown was no longer needed. It was put in the attic for safe keeping. Later,
Jan. 16, 1953
21
Oh Happy Day . . .
Tuesday, January 20, besides having great significance for all Republicans, is also Saint Agnes’ Eve. “The Eve of Saint Agnes,” as all who stayed awake during Sophomore English Literature know, is a special night which gained notoriety through a poem written by John Keats over a hundred and thirty years ago. According to the old wives’ tale popularized in Keats’ verse, if a young lady goes to bed without dinner on Saint Agnes’ Eve she will dream of the man she is to marry.
So, if a girl tells you she dreamed of you on Tuesday night, and if there be any truth in old wives’ tales, you’ve had it, brother.
As an added service to our readers, we shall attempt to determine whether there is a decrease in the number of dinners served at the little college across the way next Tuesday night.
. If these figures do not uncover much superstition at St. Mary’s, they should at least show the number of girls who need supernatural help. At any rate, collecting this data will prove an interesting undertaking. Seriously, though, we do not expect the beauties to succumb to superstition at all.
“Men,” they have been heard to say, “do not interest us one bit.” Those girls are career women, boys.
■
“Wherefore Art Thou . . . ?”
At least one dramatist has become popular around Washington Hall this
year. Three plays by a certain W. Shakespeare have been presented by as many different groups, and each one has been a success.
The latest production,. Romeo and Juliet, came to the old hall by way of Hollywood (that’s in California, you know), and we noticed that it aroused quite a bit of commentary from the student body. One young freshman behind us at the movie summed the whole thing up for his buddy in a rather quaint way. His explanation of the Shakesperian tragedy was, “They got their signals crossed.”
Possibly the most talked about part of the entire show was Hollywood’s means of getting Romeo up and down from the famous balcony. Of course, maybe rope ladders were the rage of the era during which the picture was produced, but their use did smack of the melodramatic to the seasoned critics of Notre Dame.
As far as we are concerned, it was a well spent two bits, a price even the Oliver can’t compete with. We’re usually suspicious of anything Hollywood produces, but must admit that for once they did adhere pretty closely to good Shakesperian tradition.
What we should like to see around here is some more of that Shakesperian tradition in the form of Olivier’s performance of Hamlet, and J. Arthur Rank’s production of Henry Will. Perhaps Professor Rauch of the English Depai’tment, who was instrumental in bringing Romeo and Juliet to campus, will oblige us again in the near future. At any rate it’s something pleasant to look forward to in these days of trial, tribulation and final exams.
■
Shhhhhhh . . .
The silent movie tried to make a comeback last weekend at the Granada, in the form of a dialogueless picture called The Thief. About the only improvement we could see over the pictures of the 20’s was the use of music to set the moods. Telephones rang, cars screeched, and women screamed, but no one uttered a word. The theme was one of conscience and mental turmoil, well acted by Ray Milland and saturated with supra-subtie touches which were novel because they left something to one’s imagination.
What the messages in the cigarette packs said, why the telephone rang only three times, and the appearances of
Rita Gam obviously needed no dialogue to convey their meanings. Nevertheless, by the end of the picture the strain of the pantomime was apparent both on the screen and in the audience.
The comeback of the “silent” film might have been more successful if it had not been teamed with a hilarious French comedy about an innocuous fellow who could walk through walls.
Semester Swan Song . . .
We’re singing the “End of the Semester Blues,” or about what we didn’t get for Christmas. The verses include . . . the new shelter house at the circle (this is only the umpteenth time it has been mentioned, but it’s a good space filler) ... all dances at the Palais Roy-ale (thanks to the floor in the drill hall, we have worn through two pairs of shoes, four pair of socks and one foot) . . . ten p. m. curfew at the Rock on Saturday night (to help keep the kiddies off the street) . . . relaxation of the rule barring St. Mary’s girls from the Notre Dame campus (after all, we’re supposed to be the cream of Catholic youth) . . . Midnight lights on Friday too (everyone has two midnights now) . . . A student-sponsored petition against the increase in bus fare (even now one fare probably pays fuel for the entire trip) . . . shorter lines in the chow hall (less investigation and more action) . . . popcorn in Washington Hall (for the 6:40 “kiddies show”) . . . the return of Father Sorin’s statue to Sorin Hall (it’s a tradition for him to travel, not to reside in some undergrad room) . . and the end of those “sneak” previews at the local movie emporiums (they’re getting more and more sneaky).
Walt Werner Gerry Voit Jack Dilenschneider
OH, L,	ALWAYS SO MEAT AW» TIDY
The Scholastic
22
Mill Mike Chatter
It hardly seems worth while to have gone back on the air. We sign off again tonight at 11:00 p. m. until after the semester break. The staff has to study for finals, just like the rest of us peasants. We’ll be back on the air February 3, though. That is on a Tuesday, the first day of registration for the second semester.
Contrary to what I reported earlier, auditions will not be held in the early part of next semester. It seems that more men turned out for- the auditions we held on December 8 than any of us dared to expect. It took us all day to go through them all, whereas we expected to finish in the morning. Enough of the men who tried out passed to take care of our announcers’ requirements for most of next semester. Ergo, no more auditions until May.
Though we don’t need any more announcers at this time, the sales and writing departments can use some more men. If you didn’t pass the announcers’ auditions, or are waiting for the next ones to be given, the best way to work into the station in the meantime is through one of these departments. Anyone who is interested in radio and would like to get on the WNDU staff in either of these capacities has only to drop in to the studios some afternoon. Points are usually awarded in any announcers’ audition for previous work on the staff, and it could be the difference between passing and failing.
Fran Meaney’s lease on the station is up with the close of this semester. On the first “Obnoxious” program at the beginning of the semester, Tom Knott and Al Wood give away the station to the first person who calls in. The station will be up for grabs again next semester on the first “Obnoxious” show at 7:00 a. m. (yawn) on Sunday, February 8. Be sure to get your reservation in early.
The program schedule, particularly in the evenings, will be entirely revised and simplified next semester. I’ll try to get the complete new schedule published in the first issue of the Scho-latic next semester, if there is room for it.
See you on the air waves the first day back next semester. Good luck to the graduating seniors, on and off WNDU.
—Bryan Coughlin
For Different Traveltalk
For most of us, each vacation begins and ends with a trainride, and on said trainride you invariably meet someone who invariably asks, “Where do you go to school?”
Three years ago, I sat there in gleeful anticipation, ready to pounce upon the question mark with a ringing “Notre Dame!” But since then my “Notre Dame!” has become less and less ringing, and now I noticeably cringe a bit when the question is asked.
The reason? I know that the next question will be: “What kind of a football team are you going to have next year?” It might be prefaced by one of the “Do you play football?” variety, but that one doesn’t really count, because it is always accompanied by a slightly incredulous look.
(They have fooled me sometimes. One time the magic words started a religious argument with a guy who had apparently memorized his version of the Bible. One lady surprised me with “Oh, that’s in Iowa, isn’t it?” and a man asked if Notre Dame wasn’t in North Fork, Ind.
^Suiar«s<w^
I guess I’ll sleep this morning; I’ve got plenty of cuts left.
—cross my heart he did. But they were topped by the person who assured me that she didn’t know anything about Notre Dame but she “had heard of it.”)
The time I dreaded the inevitable question most was going home the weekend following the 1950 Purdue game, the celebrated string-snapper. Thought I was safe when I struck up a conversation with a sailor who had just returned from the Mediterranean. With renewed-confidence I spouted the magic words, but found to my sorrow that the parlay cards reach the Med. The sailor lectured me for twenty minutes, somehow blaming me for all the money he had lost.
So this is my plea to any travelers I might meet. Ask me about the enrollment, whether the - pole vaulters use metal poles these days, or if the physics department is in the market for a used cyclotron, but read the sports pages to find out about the Irish of ’53. I’m tired of answering the same old question.
Besides, I’ve been wrong in my predictions every year since I got here.
—Bob Finney
Jan. 16, 1953
MISS JOYCE NIUES Reign Over . . .
MISS JOAN HEMINGWAY . . . Luna’s Other Side
Lunar Expedition Takes Science Ballgoers
On Jaunt to the Far Side of the Moon Feb. 6
Science men and their companions will depart from the earth world on Feb. 6 as they dance around the Far Side of the Moon at the annual Science Ball. The lunar choreography will take place in transformed Palais Royale Ballroom from 9 to 1 to the musical strains of Tony Papa’s orchestra.
Queens who will reign over the ethereal affair will be Miss Joan Hemingway, a St. Mary’s College student from New Bedford, Mass., and Miss Joyce Nilles of Aurora, Ill., who attends MacMurray College in Jacksonville, Ill. Escorting the queens will be co-chairmen Charles Wolf and Phil Hurd.
In description of the theme, the chairman said, “The moon spins endlessly about the earth. Earthmen see only one side of the moon—only the arid, barren craters, the cold half-glow the telescopes reveal. But there is a side earthmen don’t see—the Far Side of the Moon.”
The motif of the Ball will be a conception of this belief. Bill Eiman and students majoring in chemistry will formulate decorations in keeping with this conception. Rocket ships and robots, stars and planets seen in the distance, and lighting suitable to the far side of the moon are being worked upon.
The committee reports that valiant
attempts are being made to have Randy Cornball of Space Cadet fame make a personal appearance.
Tony Papa is associated with Gen-erl Artists Corporation, and records for Tower Recording Company.
Many of the College of Science faculty have been .invited to attend the dances. One of the primary purposes of the dance is to provide an association of faculty and students in an informal atmosphere.
Assisting co-chairmen Wolf and Hurd are Mike Hussey, 228 Dillon, who handles the blind date bureau; John Sheedy, 226 Alumni, the ticket chairman, and Bill Erman and his decorating squad.
Tickets for the semi-formal, no-corsage affair may be obtained through hall representatives, at the College of Science desk during registration, and in the Dean’s office.
NEXT ISSUE, FEB. 13
Because of approaching examinations and the between-semesters vacation, this issue of the SCHOLASTIC will be the last one of the current semester. The next issue will appear February 13.
Carolina
(Continued from page 17) fellow but he has Roman fever.” I’m praying for the young minister, he’d make a wonderful Catholic priest.
A Presbyterian minister stops by frequently. He belongs in the Church and I tell him so. He says one of the happiest days of his life was the day his son became a Catholic. He sent his children to Catholic schools. Will he become a Catholic? Frankly, I don’t know, but I do know that he comes around often and that he is a good and sincere man.
Other ministers come in, too. We’ve had at least one representative of almost every denomination, including one quiet, little old colored man who told me that he was the founder, bishop and pastor of the First, Holy Apostolic church. He was all three, too, for that was the name of his little side street church.
The pastor of the largest Lutheran church in town liked our religious art and he asked to borrow some of it for a display one Sunday. That day from the pulpit of the Lutheran church the congregation was urged to go to The Sign of the Cross.
While the ministers who visit don’t come in to argue we often have long discussions. It .is amazing to discover how often highly educated clergymen are almost illiterate when it comes to the Catholic Church. Usually they leave with something to read, though, so we hope that illiteracy will be removed.
We’ve had a little contact with folks you could probably call bigots. Paul Blanshard was in the state and I went up to Raleigh to hear him talk and to give a talk at the Catholic school the evening after the afternoon he spoke. Blanshard jumped all over the Church and the Raleigh paper published an almost word for' word account of his attacks. That was good because right near it they published an account of the talk I gave. In my talk I urged that Catholics love even those who speak untruths about them. I said that the best thing a Catholic could do was to be a good Catholic and pray for and love his non-Catholic neighbors. Lots of folks the next day commented on the fact that two meetings were held in town, one in which hatred was the theme and the other in which love was the theme.
The business of offering your neighbor love is the most important one I know for- someone doing what we’re trying to do. The first requisite for anyone starting a Catholic information center seems to me to be that the person love Protestants. If you’re going (Continued on page 32)
24
The Scholastic
Billikin Home Court Perils Irish Five
Jordanmen Impress Hickey Club Always Dangerous in St. Louis; On Recent Road Tour Bradley Braves Invade Fieldhouse Monday
A successful eastern invasion highlighted the performance of Coach Johnny Jordan’s basketeers as they captured five out of six on their recent holiday road trip.
Two nip and tuck thrillers were the order of the day in the East as the Irish edged Holy Cross, 73-71 and decisioned NYU, 78-77 in an overtime battle in New York’s Madison Square Garden.
Clutch Performances Win For ND
The crowd-pleasing Irish were forced to hold off two sizzling rallies on successive nights as they notched victories over the highly rated Crusaders and Violets. Sensational individual performances by Togo Palazzi of Holy Cross and Boris Nachamkin of NYU almost proved too much in both games. Palaz-zi’s 26 points and Nachamkin’s 28 were offset by the balanced scoring and free throw accuracy of Notre Dame. Dick Rosenthal led the scoring as he caged 21 and 19 points respectively against the host Crusaders and Violets. However, it was two “clutch” performances, one by Norb Lewinski, whose two foul shots with seven seconds remaining, provided the margin over Holy Cross and the other by Bill Sullivan who sank eight of nine field goal tries in the New York thriller.
Irish Suffer Only Loss to K-State
Notre Dame started off slowly on the trip but gained steam as they knocked off UCLA, Butler, Northwestern, Holy Cross and NYU, after losing their initial start in the Spartan Classic to Kansas State 80-64. Jack Stephens’ 17 points sparkled in the losing effort. Dick Rosenthal maintains his individual scoring lead as he pumped in 20 in the 68-60 win over UCLA and 18 in the 62-57 Irish victory over Northwestern. Joe Bertrand’s 22 was high in the 63-49 Butler decision.
BY BILL NOONAN
Kiel Auditorium, St. Louis, is the scene tomorrow night as Notre Dame’s sparkling eagers conclude what has been a long, but successful string of road games. For the rest of the season, the Irish play in or near their home territory, seven games being in the Fieldhouse and two in Chicago Stadium.
In the St. Louis Billikens, ND faces a team which is having a somewhat mediocre season, but is always tremendously dangerous on its home floor. Kiel Auditorium has become to St. Louis almost what Kentucky’s home court was to the past great Wildcat fives, or for that matter what the Fieldhouse is to Notre Dame hoop
ND CAGERS EYE ‘BIG ONE’ AT ST. LOUIS TOMORROW (Kneeling) Lewinski, Coach Jordan, Rosenthal; (Standing) Stephens, Gibbons, Bertrand
teams. Last year, ND was crushed, 80-58, by the Billikens in St. Louis.
As for the actual personnel, the 1952-53 Billikens, coached by the great Ed Hickey, do not measure up to previous years. Last season’s entire starting five, including Ray Steiner who racked up 31 points against the Irish, is gone from the team that won 23 and lost eight. The present big gun is Tom Lillis, one of major college basketball’s smallest centers at 6’3”. The slender senior is a clever ball-handler and has a habit of coming through when the chips are down. Six-foot Bob Klostermeyer, a left-hand shooting guard and sophomore Jerry Koch, brother of Bob Koch, one of last year’s
Jan. 16, 1953
25
CAPT. TOM LILLIS
Billikens Prize Package
aces, are other threats. Koch is a 6’4” forward. Dick Boushka, 6’5” holds down the other forward with Pat Partington, a driving 5’10” player at the remaining guard slot.
The Bills copped six out of their first 11 games, four of the wins coming within the friendly confines of Kiel Auditorium. St. Bonaventure and DePaul are among the top victims of St. Louis while previously undefeated Wichita was dumped from the select group by the Billikens just last week. During the vacation, LSU took the Billikens’ Sugar Bowl crown away from them while powerful Washington mastered them twice.
Erratic Bradley Highly Rated
Twe days later, Jan. 19, the Irish are welcomed back to the Fieldhouse as they oppose the Bradley University Braves. The Braves thus far have had an up and down season, winning eight while dropping four an its first 12 contests. Minnesota, Nebraska, UCLA (91-83), and Marquette (88-77) have taken the measure of the Peoria club. DePaul felt the sharp end of the Brave hatchet last week, 91-76. All these 12 games have oddly enough been played at home. Tomorrow, Bradley visits Chicago Stadium to engage Loyola.
Unlike St. Louis, Bradley didn’t lose any key operatives from last year’s “Beardless Braves”—as the team was tabbed by the sportswriters of the Peoria area. Coach Fordy Anderson did a remarkable rebuilding job as the Braves wound up with a 17-12 record.
The attack centers around a 6’1” junior guard named Bob Carney who tallied 373 points last year and so far this season is averaging 18.9 points per game. The other starting guard spot
goes to Captain “Buzz” Ott. Dick Es-terguard, 6’4”, a terrific rebounder and John Riley are the forwards. At the center post will be 6’5” Dick Peterson, a sophomore or Dick Goezler, a 6’4” senior. The latter and Captain Ott are the only fourth year men on the squad.
After . exam week, the Jordanmen journey to Chicago on Jan. 31 to face DePaul’s Blue Demons, a traditional Irish cage foe. In their first 14 games, the Demons, coached by former ND man Ray Meyer, copped ten, the biggest triumph coming over highly-rated LaSalle, 63-61 in New York. Tomorrow night, the Demons meet the Explorers again, this time in Chicago. Manhattan, Oklahoma Aggies, St. Louis, and Bradley have beaten the Chicagoans.
Most of the team’s scoring comes from the guard slots where stocky Jim Lamkin and sharp-shooting Ron Feier-eisel hold forth. Both have around a 17-point average and are especially deadly from the foul line. Bill Schy-man who averages 11 points, is another man to watch, at foi-ward. Russ Johnson operates at the pivot post where he has nicely taken up the slack left by Gene Dycker’s graduation. Frank Blum
CHUCK NOBLE
High Point Man for the Cardinals
is the other forward with Dan Lecos as the first line reserve.
Feb. 4, Butler University comes to South Bend for a return engagement with the Irish. Back on Dec. 27 at the Butler fieldhouse, ND pulled away from the Bulldogs in the last few minutes to win out, 63-49. Butler has a solid aggregation this year despite a not-too-hot 6-4 mark in the first ten games.
CAPT. RON FEIEREISEL
Paces Demon’s well-rounded Attack
Among their victories are three over* Big Ten clubs—Purdue, Ohio State and Michigan while Illinois, Iowa and Northwestern hold decisions over them along with the Irish.
Four veterans return from last year’s Indiana Collegiate Conference champs: forward Keith Greve, center Ray Stewart and guards Don Holloway and Jim Crosley. Harry Porter, Bob Reed, or Norm Ellenberger will get the call at the remaining forward berth.
Louisville Always Tough
The University of Louisville’s Cardinals, a perennial cage power, follow Butler into the ND fieldhouse a week later, Feb. 11. The Kentuckians lost seven of their first nine players from last year’s successful squad; the most serious losses were Bob Brown and Bob Lochmuller. Louisville tipped ND, 65-59 last season at Louisville.
Leading the 1952-53 squad is Chuck Noble, last season’s third man in team - scoring. Noble, thus far this season, averaged 17.4 in his team’s first ten games. Louisville has won nine of its first 12, losing to Manhattan, 65-63; unbeaten Seton Hall, 77-66 and to Eastern Kentucky. Dayton, Temple, Purdue (89-85) and Marquette (78-76) are among those clubs that have lost to the Cards.
Besides Noble, Bill Sullivan has returned to spark the Cardinals with his steady floor play. A newcomer, Vlad Gastevich, however, has been the team’s second most consistent scorer. He is a 6’5” sophomore forward. Corky Cox and Phil Rollins, guards and Al Rus-sak, 6’7” center, are close behind Gastevich in scoring. Chet Beam is also expected to see a lot of action come Feb. 11.
26
The Scholastic
NCAA Applies Clomps to Notre Dame's Bid For Unlimited Televising of Football Games
The main issues decided by the National Collegiate Athletic Association at the close of the NCAA convention last Saturday were concerned chiefly with the problems of television, the bowl games, spring practice, coaches ethics and enforcement. As far as the University of Notre Dame was concerned the only real problem facing them and the entire country was the matter of unlimited telecasting of collegiate football.
Opposing the NCAA policymakers who voted 172 to 13 in favor of the 1952 pattern which saw one game on television each Saturday afternoon, the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., President of this University issued a ten-point plan supporting unrestricted television in the interest of not only Notre Dame but the public as well.
Promotion of Public Interest
The plan presented by Father Hesburgh to the convention revolved primarily around the promotion of greater public interest in both collegiate football and the more important educational institutions of which the teams are but one dramatic aspect. “We believe that the current plans of restrictive television have not been in the public interest,” he said. “On the contrary, they have attempted to dictate what the public can and cannot see, with little regard for what the public would like to see.”
No Selfish Motives
The Rev. Edmund Joyce, C.S.C., Executive Vice-President of Notre Dame asserted that the university had no selfish motives behind its unrestricted TV drive. He called the present NCAA restrictions reactionary and artificial, and pointed out that if the income from television was shared by NCAA members .it violated property rights and was socialistic. “We have been frank in our opposition,” Father Joyce told the convention. “We take this position without rancor and for what we believe is the best interest of college football.” Father Joyce also stated that you cannot legislate people into a stadium.
“Moose” Krause, Notre Dame’s genial Athletic Director, explained that some schools have wealth, some have prestige, some have both. Notre Dame has prestige, but no wealth. We have no backlog of endowments, he said.
“Notre Dame sees no compromise in
this,” Moose says flatly. “We feel television will help football — that it will create greater public interest and a greater value to higher education.
In regard to the proposed football legislation aimed at outlawing the “sucker shift” Coach Frank Leahy said he approved of the rule—but that he would keep on shifting. The coaches’ rules committee of which Leahy is a member offered a change in the false start rule which would make it illegal for an offensive lineman to make another move once he assumed the proper Line position.
Rosenthal Tops ND Scorers With 154; Bertrand Second
Statistics for the first ten games of the season show that forward Dick Rosenthal is leading the Notre Dame scoring parade with 154 points on 62 baskets and 30 free throws. Bunched closely behind the St. Louis junior are forward Joe Bertrand with 143 markers, guard Jack Stephens with 133 points and Captain Gootch Lewinski with 125 points.
Dividing honors for the best shooting percentage on the club are Bertrand and substitute forward Bill Sullivan. Sullivan has hit on 20 of 43 shots for an impressive .465 mark, while Bertrand has connected for a .441 average on 56 baskets in 127 tries.
Team totals for the Irish show the Jordanmen sporting a 69.6 scoring average per game, while the ten opponents averaged 63.2 points per contest.
DICK ROSENTHAL
Notre Dame’s Leading Scorer
Indoor Track Squad Meets Purdue Feb, 7
On Saturday, Feb. 7, the Notre Dame indoor track squad will open its 1953 schedule in the Notre Dame fieldhouse against the Boilermakers of Purdue.
Little is known about the Purdue squad and their potentialities, because it is an early season meet and only actual competition can bring out the true picture. However, Coach Alex Wilson has stated that the Irish have a better than even chance to down the Boilermakers in the home opener.
Alex Wilson, considered Notre Dame’s greatest all-time middle-distance runner, is starting his third year as head coach of his alma mater’s track squad. While at Notre Dame, Wilson was a record holder in both the 440 and the 880. He also competed in the Olympics and in several national events. Wilson returned to Notre Dame after he had been head track coach at Chicago Loyola since 1932.
This season he has a veteran squad on hand with Jim Harrington and Joe Springer, a pair of pole vaulters who constantly clear 13’6”, ready to handle the field events. Harvey Newquist, a hurdler who sprints over 120 highs in 14:3 and was fast enough to finish third in last year’s NCAA meet, will captain the Irish thinclads.
The Purdue meet and the meet against Michigan on Feb. 20 are the only meets in which the outcome seems apparent. As was already stated the Irish are favored against Purdue, but are strong underdogs against Michigan.
ND Grapplers in Initial Test Tomorrow Against Wheaton
The Notre Dame Wrestling Club is hard at work in preparation for their opening match of the season against Wheaton here tomorrow, Jan. 17. A previous contest with Illinois Normal had to be cancelled due to schedule conflicts.
Mr. Thomas Fallon, faculty advisor to the club, is somewhat optimistic about his boys’ chances in the three meets this year. Following the Wheaton fracas the team will meet the University of Chicago here and then travel to Great Lakes for a match with the always-tough sailors. The chances for a reversal of last year’s loss to Wheaton seem good and the team hopes to repeat last season’s win over Chicago. The Great Lakes match without a doubt will be the roughest afternoon of the season and should prove a fitting climax to the year’s competition.
The outstanding performer of the lot (Continued on page 29)
Jan. 16, 1953
JIM GIBBONS Defensive Stalwart
By Jack Sand
Jordan Sights Balance as Biggest Asset
There are undoubtedly many reasons why the Irish dribblers are off to their fastest start since the days of Kevin O’Shea and Leo Barnhorst, but according to Coach Johnny Jordan the primary reason for Notre Dame’s rccket-like rise into the basketball spotlight is the fact that this year’s quintet possesses an overall balance that few teams in the nation can equal. Statistics prove this point.too, since four out of the starting five have netted 125 points or more. The fifth starter for the Irish, Jim Gibbons, is quietly becoming known as the “non-shooting” member of the squad due to the fact that the speedy playmaker has taken only 39 shots in ten games though he has played nearly every minute.
Defensively the Irish are good, says Jordan, even though our opponents have averaged 63.2 points per game. The only opponent to hit 80 points against the Irish this season has been Kansas State, whose 80-64 triumph is the only blemish on the Irish record. The reason we lost to the Wildcats, Jordan said, is one that should be mentioned, since a team that can only hit on 21 per cent of its shots can’t expect to win. K-State, by the way, hit a phenomenal 46 per cent,
taking only 63 shots from the floor. The Wildcats had a slight height advantage on us too, stated Jordan, since their- 14-man squad averaged 6’6”. Despite this, and the Associated Press poll which tabs State as the nation’s best, Jordan selects Indiana and Holy Cross as the toughest opposition so far this season.
Another important point worth mentioning is the fact that four non-‘ starters have contributed clutch performances at one time or another during the season to aid the Irish when the going was the roughest. Against the Hoosiers Dick Wise and John Reynolds canned a couple of two-pointers that eventually meant the ball game. On Notre Dame’s recent eastern swing Ed McGinn provided an important set shot in the closing minutes of the NYU thriller, while against Holy Cross the night before Bill Sullivan came into his own just at the right time as he tallied 16 points. This is actually the true story of the Fighting Irish. Somebody’s always coming through — which is just what Coach Jordan hopes someone will do tomorrow night against a St. Louis outfit that’s practically unbeatable at home. We look for the Irish to win another close one though, maybe by three points this time.
Football and Television must Harmonize	.
Everyone knows that television is here to stay . . . except the NCAA. Some day, sooner or later, football and television will find some way to live together. The case of the diminishing gate receipts will be solved by the revenue drawn through television. It’s our contention that the smaller colleges won’t suffer as much as the NCAA thinks, mainly because the smaller colleges never draw a vast number of fans in the first place. Televising football games will not only increase public interest in the game, but should tend to draw the true sports fan out to see his team play in the flesh. After all, nothing can take the place of the real thing.
Pitt, Toledo in Lead As Bowlers Resume
BY LOU BOURJAILY
After a lapse of three weeks, the Kampus Keglers resumed their usual Sunday afternoon activities at Bowl-Mor Recreation. This concluded the first six weeks of competition with 11 weeks remaining.
Action in the Gold league centered around the Pittsburgh Club, compiling a total of 20 points by taking four* from the Syrian-Lebanese Club. Detroit held down second place by rolling over Erie for a clean sweep, and Art Hanken’s 573 aided St. Louis in tieing Milwaukee for third place.
In the Blue league Toledo took three out of four from Metallurgy to retain first place with a total of 22 points. Cleveland won four from Philadelphia, and the Italian Club won a forfeit to hold a tie for second place. Buffalo dropped into third place.
Lowe Rolls High—254
In the individual high game department “Shorty” Lowe (St. Louis) took the league lead with a sizzling 254. Joe Yazvac (Pittsburgh) dropped .into second place with 225 and Gene Zimp-fer (Buffalo) is in third place with 224.
For- high individual three Bob Rich (Italian) retains first place with 595, Jack Battel (Met) holds down second place with 591, and Lowe (St. Louis) took over third place with 586.
For team high single Buffalo leads with 955, Metallurgy is in second place with 953 along with the Civil Engineers for a tie in this department.
Philadelphia leads the league for-team high three with 2726, followed by the Civil Engineers, 2708, and St. Louis with 2695.
The top ten bowlers among the Keglers are Lou Falvo (Rochester), 179; Battel (Met), 173; Bob Stefko-vich (New Jersey), 172; Paul Pfohl (Chicago), 170; Bob Rich (Italian), 167; Pete Zurlo (Aesculapians), 166; Dick Ryal (Detroit), 165; Art Henken (St. Louis), 163; F. Fisher (Met), 161, and J. Silk (Toledo), 160.
Because of examinations, there will be a lapse of three weeks between Jan. 18 and Feb. 8. This Sunday will be the final week of competition until next semester. At this time the Gold league will commence bowling downstairs, and the Blue, upstairs. Next bowling date: Jan. 18, 1:30 p.m.
28
The Scholastic

Assistant Coach Brian Duff Looks Over Brother Rod, (R) and Dave McBride (L)
MID-SEMESTER CAGE SLATE
Jan. 17 St. Louis at St. Louis Jan. 19 Bradley at Notre Dame Jan. 31 DePaul at Chicago Feb. 4 Butler at Notre Dame Feb. 11 Louisville at NotreDame
Wrestling
(Continued from page 27) is perhaps Dick Anton, a senior and top man in the 137-lb. class. Among the other star performers are: 123-lb. class, sophomore Bob Gordon; 147-lb. class soph Bob Noonan and freshman John Hummer; 157-lb. class, soph Joe Belfiore; 167-lb. class, John Gavin and Bill Stanley; 177-lb. class, junior Ed Sarna; heavyweight (or “dreadnaught”) division, Joe Marquet and Tom Armstrong.
Mr. Fallon emphasized that school support is vital to the success of the team. There is an opportunity to see the wrestlers perform at 2 p. m. tomorrow in the Old Gym.
Irish Fencers Host NU in Season Opener
The Notre Dame fencing team will open its 18th season of competition tomorrow afternoon against Northwestern in the old gym, with the usual 27 matches constituting a dual meet. The team, coached by Mr. Walter Langford, with only five monogram winners returning will be striving to equal last year’s fine record of nine wins against only two defeats.
Three weapons are used in college fencing; the foil, sabre, and the epee. Each team will use three men for each weapon. The Notre Dame men dueling ■with the foil are, team Capt. Jack Mooney, Jerry Brainard, Dick Hull, with Tom Beeler as the alternate. The sabre matches will see Jim Hurley, Tony Mandolini, Jerry Finney and Pat Mulrooney dueling. In epee Rod Duff, John McGinn, Dave McBride, and Dick Smith are slated to compete.
This year’s schedule is difficult, with the perennial Big Ten champs, Illinois, again heading the list of dueling opponents. The schedule:
Jan. 17: Northwestern at ND; Feb. 6: Case at Cleveland; Feb. 7: tri. Ohio State, Buffalo at Columbus; Feb. 13: Michigan State at East Lansing; Feb. 14: tri.' Detroit, Wayne at Detroit; Feb. 21: Indiana at ND; Feb. 28: tri. Iowa, Wisconsin at Iowa City; Mar. 7: tri. Chicago, Kentucky at ND; Mar. 14: Cincinnati at ND; Mar. 21: Illinois at ND; Mar. 27-28: NCAA Championships at U. of Pennsylvania.
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
HIRE'S a sad Lobster tale. Sheedy was really in hot water. His girl kept saying, "The Maine thing I don’t like about you is the way you pot your hair! Haven’t you red about Wildroot CreamBoil Hair Tonic? Non-alcoholic. Relieves annoying dryness.
Removes loose, ugly dandruff. Helps you pass the Finger-Nail Test. Perfect for you ’daws you need Lanolin on that water-soaked hair.” Paul got Wildroot Cream-Oil and now he shore looks slick. In fact, he’s in salad with every girl on campus. So if you're net-tied about your messy hair, butter shell out 29c at any toilet goods counter for a bottle or tube of Wildroot CreamOil, "Your Hair’s Best Friend.” Ask for it at your barber’s, antenna to one you’ll be tickled pink!
* ofl 31 So. Harris Hill Rd., Williamsville. N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
Jan. 16, 1953
29
Aid Trainee Exam Announced For Student Federal Posts
The Civil Service Commission has announced an examination for Student Aid Trainee paying §2,950 and §3,175 a year. Most of the positions are located in various Federal agencies in Washington, D. C-, and vicinity.
The examination is open to college sophomores and juniors majoring in the fields of chemistry, physics, mathematics,
a
metallurgy, meteorology, and various branches of engineering. Appointments will be for employment during school vacation periods or for periods of employment of students in cooperative courses.
Applicants must have completed appropriate college study; a written test will be given. Students who expect to complete the required study by June 30, 1953 may apply. Applications will be accepted until further notice.
Full information regarding the train
ing program and the requirements for applying are available at most first- and second-class post offices, and at the U. S. Civil Service Commission, Washington 25, D. C.
Alumni Association Seeks More Attractive Program
Mr. James E. Armstrong, executive vice-chairman of the Notre Dame Foundation, has announced that the alumni association is taking steps to develop a program that will be of more interest and attractiveness to recent graduates.
Alumni President Harvey Foster will appoint a special committee of alumni who have graduated within the past five years, it was announced. The purpose of this Committee will be to survey recent graduates as to their ideas about the alumni magazine, local clubs, and relations between the association and undergraduates.
Don't start that
bonfire till
Leading manufacturer of Electronic ■	M Digital Computers, Electronic and
■ BC	Electric Business Machines, Time Indi-
* U aw A eating, Recording and Signaling DeTRADE MARK	yices, and Electric Typewriters
OFFERS EXCEPTIONAL OPPORTUNITIES
Permanent positions ... merit advancement accelerated by outstanding training courses and continuous, advanced education programs . . . individualized career development... excellent working conditions, salaries and employee benefits.
If your degree or major is:	Make appointment to see.
Arts • Business • Accounting Science • Engineering	IBM Sales representative
Physics • Mechanical Electrical * Mathematics	IBM Engineering representative
Industrial * Electrical Mechanical	IBM Manufacturing representative
Accounting 'Administration Management	IBM Business Administration -representative
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
Monday, February 9
Call your College Placement Office for appointment
the game is
over
or
That was no crying towel; that was my old school tie!
Once there was a basketball team that was the Hottest Thing in the Conference—until its high-scoring center, a 6%-foot Lump, of dubious intellect, developed a bad attack of the Flunks, and wound up Number 1 on the Ineligible List. This with the team right up against the Crucial Game for the Conference Title.
The first half was Grim. Our boys limped off to the dressing room trailing by 30 points. The Coach had just embarked on a touching Word Picture of himself, his wife and three helpless dependents Starving in the Streets, when in burst the Assistant Manager, trundling an overflowing wheelbarrow. In it were telegrams—hundreds of ’em — from fraternities and sororities, the head of the Student Council, the Dean, the faculty, the janitor, ' from practically Every Student on Campus— all bearing the stirring exhortation “Win this one for Old Blackstrap!”
Was the team Buoyed Up? Oh buoy! Won by 4 points, in overtime. They’re now known around the conference as the Western Union Wonders.
Seriously, there’s nothing like a Telegram to put heart into the guy—or the team—that gets it. Likewise, there’s no nicer way to say "‘Well Done!” In fact, for just about any communique . . . whether it’s a Flash for Cash to the Folks Back Home or Soft Words to a Distant Damsel . . . it’s better to make the pitch via Western Union.
105 N. Main St. Telephone 3-6101
30
The Scholastic
Russian Recitalist Tcherepnin Appears at Washington Hall
Local music-lovers were treated to a special honor on Wednesday night in Washington Hall when famed Russian composer and recitalist Alexander Tcherepnin appeared. Presented as a part of the Concert and Lecture Series program for the year, Tcherepnin delivered a short talk on music as an art, its evolution, social importance and manner in which a composer works.
Following his brief lecture, Tcherepnin played a number of his own compositions, including “Sonatine Romanti-que,” “Bagatelles,” “Arabesques,” Dialog,” “Concert Etude, Op. 52, n. 3,” and “Chanson pour la cherie.”
Winner of the International musical Schott Prize, Alexander Tcherepnin is a native of St. Petersburg, where, at the age of 14, he wrote “Bagatelles,” his first composition and one which he played Wednesday night.
Internationally famous for his many contributions to the field of classical music, Tcherepnin is currently teaching at DePaul’s University School of Music.
Captain McBreen, ND Grad Receives Citation in Korea
Notre Dame graduate Army Chaplain (Captain) James P. McBreen has been awarded the Bronze Star* Medal for meritorius service in Korea, the Army News Center has announced. A
native of Taunton, Mass., Captain McBreen is a 1940 graduate of Notre Dame and Holy Cross College.
Cited for his work from Nov. 29, 1951, to Oct. 5 of this year as a 3rd
Infantry Division Chaplain, he has recently returned to the United States.
Chaplain McBreen entered the Army in May, 1951, and arrived in Korea in November, 1951.	.
TYPEWRITERS FOR RENT
All Makes—Large Selection Students Special Rates
3 Months for $8.75— One Month, $3.50
Rental may be applied on Purchase. Sales Service all Machines Michiana’s Largest Dealer SUPER SALES CO.
Phone: 66328	315 W. Monroe
South Bend, Ind.
Jan. 16, 1953
>31
Carolina
(Continued from page 24) to help them understand us you’ve got to do it because you love them and not just those who are kind to you but those who despise you, too. You’ve even got to love Paul Blanshard.
I talked with Paul Blanshard for about an hour that day. I came away with the conclusion that while he knows very well that he is using half-truths, tricks and even out and out misrepresentations to turn people against the Catholic Church, he is probably sincere in believing the Catholic Church is an “evil” in the world. I came away with a rather firm conviction, too, that .if Paul Blanshard ever starts believing in the Divinity of Christ, he should be able to see that the Catholic Church is what the Catholic Church claims to be.
Oui- talk together was a good and pleasant talk. Among other things he asked me if I thought he was going to hell—don’t get the idea he is worried about his soul, he just wanted me to say something he would think narrowminded. I told him that I didn’t think he was going to hell, I hoped he was going to become a Catholic. He said it was the first time a Catholic had told him that they hoped he’d become a Catholic.
I met and talked with Edwin McNeil Poteat, too. He’s the head of the POAU. Dr. Poteat is the fellow who says the Catholic Church is undemocratic because we never have a chance to vote on our beliefs. The whole .idea of voting on beliefs is absurd to a Catholic but what makes Dr. Poteat’s position more absurd is the fact that he •doesn’t believe in the Virgin Birth. I’d guess that probably 90% of the people in his Baptist congregation in Raleigh helieve in the Virgin Birth. Yet he, their teacher, does not—although, as he explained it, he doesn’t openly teach disbelief. So you have the ironical situation of a Baptist minister who represents a minority group in his own congregation complaining about the dictatorial attitudes of the Catholic Church where there is certainly 100% agreement on the basic points of belief.
But then any story of our work in North Carolina could go on and on. So many interesting people come in. Yesterday I was the godfather for a newspaperman who has been a regular visitor since we opened. He’d been interested in the Church for a long time but it was J. M. O’Neill’s Catholicism and, American Freedom that was the clincher for him. He got it to review for the paper and it answered a lot of questions. Father Cranor Graves, who is the assistant at St. Patrick’s and a convert himself, instructed him.
32
There have been other interesting converts in—Jim Wray was one. Jim was crew coach at Harvard and Cornell for years. He is in his 80’s now and Father Mark at Assumption baptized him just a couple of months ago.
“I could kick myself to think of all the years I’ve missed,” Jim says.
There’s not a day but what someone interesting stops by. Sometimes they come several times before they speak. One man came half a dozen times be-
"A powerful force in these difficult times”
says FRANKLIN D. MURPHY
Chancellor, University of Kansas
"In these days when much is said about ’adult education,’ we too often forget that a great deal of adult education is daily carried on by such instruments of public information as The Reader’s Digest. In my judgment, The Reader’s Digest is one of the powerful and useful forces shaping the thinking of our people in these difficult times.’’
The articles in each issue of The Reader’s Digest cover a broad range of subjects: from travel and politics to science and history, from humor and personal inspiration to headline news. Forty or more articles and a host of short subjects, carefully chosen from hundreds of publications, bring Digest readers more varied and more concentrated information than can be found in any other magazine.
★ ★ ★
In January Reader’s Digest, you’ll be interested in The Way It Is in Korea—James Michener reports the facts of war in Korea today; 24-page book condensation: People of the Deer—Farley Mowat’s experiences in the Arctic with a lost tribe of Eskimos; More Work With Less Fatigue—facts from experts to help you accomplish more, tire yourself less.
The Scholastic
fore he told me he was a fallen away Catholic who regrets falling away. One clergyman whisked through the store two or three times before he stopped to talk and we’re good friends now.
The whole idea of The Sign of the Cross is to have something Catholic right in the middle of the city. Our windows have daily bulletins, news from the NCWC news service. Our reading room has a rental library that is really just the library Barbara and I have accumulated. The books go out often and dozens of Protestants have read something Catholic for the first time from this library. We’re hoping it will grow. Our store has a comprehensive selection of some 4,000 books and our art is good art, the gaudy things we try not to keep.
I’ve been in a lot of different jobs during my life but I don’t believe I’ve ever been ,in one more soul satisfying. A fellow told me that we might have fun but we’d never get rich. I got to thinking about that and I guess from a material standpoint he’s right.
But here’s not where you’re supposed to store up your treasures anyhow.
Work in . . .
California
Seniors in Civil Engineering may apply now.
Attractive, permanent positions in California’s huge highway program. Wide choice of locations. You can qualify NOW, go to work IMMEDIATELY ON GRADUATION. Write TODAY for information and application form.
$341 to Start—Early Raise
STATE PERSONNEL BOARD
1015 L Street, Sacramento 14, California
Mardi Gras
(Continued from page 9) and other prizes will be awarded at the close of the evening.
An additional and unique innovation proposed for the closing night is the appearance of a noted celebrity. Definite plans have not as yet been revealed, but the proposal is being thoroughly considered.
Other committee members besides Kelly, general chairman, and Howley, dance chairman are: Dave McElvain, publicity manager; Jim Noonan, arrangements manager; Dick Rogers, contest manager, and Jim Britt, contest finance manager.
HANDBALL TOURNAMENT
The Annual Interhall Handball Tournament will be held in the Rockne Memorial after the start of second semester. There are no class differences since this is an open tournament. There is however one change from previous tournaments. Instead of the singles and the doubles coinciding, the singles will be run off in February and the doubles will follow in March.
The Physical Education Department hopes that as many as possible participate and make the tourney the success it has been in past years. Students may register in the towel room of the “Rock.” The deadline is January 21.
READY JANUARY 17
The Foreign Policy of the British Labour Government: 1945-1951
by M. A. Fitzsimons
A weakened Britain’s adjustments to the harsh realities of the postwar world, in which she was a power with world interests but no longer a world power, are graphically reported in this delineation of the Labour Party’s foreign policy.
Against this background the volume analyzes the ambiguity in Britain’s espousal of European union, the different American and British policies toward China, and Britain’s successes and failures in coming to terms with Asian nationalism. The Labour Government found Socialist theory of little help in facing postwar international problems. The course that Labour’s Foreign Secretary, Ernest Bevin, eventually followed was one marked out by Winston Churchill, then leader of the Opposition. The result was a continuity of British foreign policy that was far removed from the aims and principles of a “Socialist Foreign Policy.”
The Foreign Policy of the British Labour Government: 1945-51 is the fifth in the series of International Studies sponsored by	£9
Notre Dame’s Committee on International Relations.
On Sale at the Bookstore
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PRESS
Jan. 16, 1953
By Paul Zalecki
Last year in one of my first classes in sociology, my teacher made the comment “twenty-five years ago you could not take a course like this at Notre Dame.” And now it is a required course for Arts and Letters students. It is a curious fact that the curriculum keeps changing like that.
The courses we take now are quite different from the ones students took not too long ago. It is not too difficult to realize why courses in engineering would change fairly frequently. They have to keep abreast of current developments and needs. But in AB the reasons are not always so apparent.
It is of course possible to see some general trends running through educational developments for the past hundred years or so. Classical studies have declined; the elective system has been introduced; professional and technical studies, like engineering and commerce have gained prominence.
Developments in Liberal Arts
These general developments have had their obvious influence at Notre Dame. To mention just the liberal arts program, in 1923 Latin was dropped as a required course. Twenty years earlier 40 hours in Latin had been required. This is a fairly rapid change, but the decline in the classical and theological program had been developing for a long time. Way back in 1864, for instance, Hebrew was made optional, and Christian Archeology was dropped. It is hard to imagine many undergrads today signing up for this last course.
Today we have different ideas about education. Consequently, we have different required courses. In general, the fields of study have been broken down and made more specialized. The relatively recent rise of sociology is an example of this latter trend.
The question is what are all these to do. Such a simple little document as the AB Bulletin contains a few words on each of them. From the study of economics the student is supposed to obtain a knowledge of sound economic principles and wholesome public policies for vital day-to-day affairs. Such study is intended to help prepare the student to take his place as a responsible citizen and a future leader.
Sociology offers the fundamental facts and principles involved in the origin and development of society. The study of sociology supplies common information
needed for intelligent and active citizenship.
Finally, the courses in political science give a comprehensive idea of the nature, organization, and activities of political institutions. The purpose of some of the courses is to supply the common information needed for intelligent citizenship.
Intelligent, Responsible Citizens
If nothing else, today’s AB graduate with a background in economics, sociology, and political science should be an intelligent, responsible citizen. The general theme running through all of these courses seems to be an attempt to give the student the principles and knowledge —the norm of values—needed to understand the contemporary world, to cope with its problems, to live intelligently.
To a large extent, the courses which a liberal arts student takes may do just that. History provides the background of the cultural heritage of western civilization. English, modern languages, philosophy and religion help to fill out the picture of the well-rounded man.
But there is another side to the question. This desire to equip the student to meet the complexities of modern life is quite a noble theme. It implies giving a grasp of truly difficult questions. So it would seem that the courses the AB student takes would be fairly enlightening and advanced. Compared to high school perhaps they are. But it seems rather discouraging at times to be taking mainly introductory courses, survey courses, principles courses. Only the particular field the student majors in seems to offer any kind of advanced study.
This observation is of course an exaggeration, but it brings out the point that history survey courses, principles of economics, introductory sociology, and principles of political science fall short of the goal. They have to be supplemented.
For one thing, all these introductory courses have to begin at the beginning. And the 'beginning of education does not answer the questions a person faces. At best it just gives the problem and a hint of a possible solution. But, with all the specialized fields of study today, it is hardly possible to do more than give the student an introduction into each of them.	.
Surveys, Integrated Study
Perhaps it is due to a realization of this difficulty to advance beyond surveys and to integrate four years of study that there has taken place an attempt to emphasize the classical ideal in education. The purpose of the General Program, for example, is to introduce the student to the cultural heritage of the past.
Through a study of the masterworks of culture the student is supposed to obtain a connected view of the whole of knowledge. Equipped with the liberal arts, the student should be prepared for life as a free man. It implies that a person not only is aware of man’5 achievements, but also that he has acquired a norm of values according to which he can interpret life. He then has an intellectual foundation, as it were, built on rock and not on sand.
This ideal is not peculiar to the General Program. It probably is the fundamental aim of education. The GP just attempts to reach it by a different road than some of the other AB programs. In fact, all the changes in the curriculum in recent years have this general aim in mind.
Though the goal may be definite, the way to attain it apparently is not. Theories and practices in education within a certain degree are the results of trial and error. The program of studies constantly is being changed in one direction or another. It is a small consolation, but perhaps some course which the student does not like now will be dropped in the future and will not plague those who follow him.
The general aim of education remains the same, but particular courses frequently come and go. It might be interesting to speculate what universities will be teaching 25 years from now. Tennis, anyone?
^ADVEMTURE^^
EUROPE—60 Days $47S (all-expense ind. steamer) Bicycle, Faitboot, Ski, Motor, Rail. Other tours to Latin America, West, Orient and Around the World.
STUDY =Special Groups
France, Germany, Spain, Scandinavia-ART, DANCE, MUSIC. Study Tours? Yes! College credit avail* able on most, but still a wonderful experience in an atmosphere of camaraderie. Mexico —45 Days $350.
^TRAVEI,-----------------~
informally, off the beaten track, with SITA. Congenial groups with S See More"1 similar interests. 150 colleges represented on 1952 '---------'tours.
Your Travel Agent or SMwrts latemtieael ______- Travel Amciatiea 545 FIFTH AYL, IKWYMK17 « MU 2-4544
The Scholastic
t
1
Hughes cooperative plan for
r । i । । । i i i i i i i i i i i i i i I I I I I f
I I I I
I I
MASTER | OF |
SCIENCE |
DEGREES I
Purpose TO ASSIST outstanding graduates in obtaining their Master of Science Degrees while employed in industry and making significant contributions to important military work.
Eligibility June 1953 college graduates and members of the armed services being honorably discharged prior to September, 1953, holding degrees in the following fields:
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING PHYSICS MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
Those chosen to participate in this plan will be from the upper portion of their graduating classes and will have evidenced outstanding ability. They must also have displayed some degree of creative ability and possess personality traits enabling them to work well with others.
Citizenship Applicants must be United States citizens, and awards will be contingent upon obtaining appropriate security clearance, as work at the Hughes Research and Development Laboratories may be related to National Defense projects.
Universities Candidates for Master of Science Degrees must meet the entrance requirements for advanced study at the University of California at Los Angeles or the University of Southern California.
Program Under this Cooperative Plan, commencing June 1953, participants will follow this schedule of employment at Hughes: FULL TIME—from June, 1953 to Sept., 1953. HALF TIME-from Sept., 1953 to June, 1954. FULL TIME—from June, 1954 to Sept., 1954. HALF TIME-from Sept., 1954 to June, 1955. Recipients will earn five-eighths of a normal salary each year and attend a
university half time during regular sessions working on their Master’s Degree.
The salary will be commensurate with Salaries the individual’s ability and experience, and will reflect the average in the electronics industry. Salary growth will be on the same basis as for full-time members of the engineering staff. In addition, the individuals will be eligible for health, accident, and life insurance benefits, as well as other benefits accruing to fulltime members.
For those residing outside of the South- Travel and em California area, actual travel and Moving moving expenses will be allowed up to Expenses ten per cent of the full starting annual salary.
Tuition, admission fee, and required Sponsorship books at either the University of California at Los Angeles or the University of Southern California, covering the required number of units necessary to obtain a Master’s Degree, will be provided by Hughes Research and Development Laboratories.
Approximately one hundred Coopera- Number tive Awards are made each year, if suf- of Awards ficient qualified candidates present themselves.
Candidates will be selected by the Com- Selection of mittee for Graduate Study of the Hughes Candidates Research and Development Laboratories.
Application forms should be obtained Application. prior to February 15, 1953. Completed Procedure applications accompanied by up-to-date grade transcripts must be returned not later than February 28, 1953. Selections will be made during the month of March.	.
Address correspondence to
COMMITTEE FOR GRADUATE STUDY
_____------------------------------>
HUGHES
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT LABORATORIES
Culver City, Los Angeles County, California
______________________________________________________________________________________I
Jan. 16, 1953
35 -
THEY SATISFYW
KttfG-SIZE
• V
UGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.
UGGCTT & MYfRS TOBACCO CO
k CONTAINS TOBACCOS OP BETTER QUALITY AND HIGHER PRICE THAN ANY OTHER KING-SIZE CIGARETTE
ASK YOUR DEALER FOR CHESTERFIELD. EITHER WAY YOU LIKE ’EM
"FOR 25 YEARS I've been a steady Chesterfield smoker," says prominent tobacco farmer Pearsall L Rogers. "They buy the world’s best tobaccos and make the world’s best cigarette."

AND NOW- CHESTERFIELD FIRST TO GIVE YOU SCIENTIFIC FACTS IN SUPPORT OF SMOKING
A responsible consulting organization reports a study by a competent medical specialist and staff on the effects of smoking Chesterfields. For six months a group of men and women smoked only Chesterfield—10 to 40 a day—their normal amount. 45 percent of the group have smoked Chesterfields from one to thirty years for an average of ten years each.
At the beginning and end of the six-months, each smoker was given a thorough examination including X-rays, and covering the sinuses, nose, ears and throat. After these examinations, the medical specialist stated... "It is my opinion that the ears, nose, throat and accessory organs of all participating subjects examined by me were not adversely affected in the six-months period by smoking the cigarettes provided."
Remember this report and buy Chesterfields— regular or king-size.
Buy CH ESTE R Fl ELD.//^ Milder
Copyright 1952 iGGE” & MvEIS Toiacco Co.