- Cbe-
Dotre Dame Scholastic
5
j)isceQVASi-scnipeR-vicTv£\^
VIVG-^VASI- CRAS-MORITVRVS’
Vol. XL.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, April 6, 1907.
No. 25.
The Worth of Friendship.
JAMES J. QUINLAN, ’08.
"THE stars give light, and each in its own way
With spark or flame illumes the friendless night, Save when a shadow in its mantle gray, Obstructs awhile the passage of the light
And leaves us dark below. But soon again The sky is clear; and on its face there gleams A light, a joy, which will increase till when,
At morn, ’tis swallowed up in sunrise beams.
' When friends are cold, and dismal clouds are nigh, It seems that life, like night, is sometimes drear, And needs the happy face, the sparkling eye
To cheer the heart and drive away the tear. Each kindly act will thus some soul adorn, Till life’s eclipsed on God’s resplendent morn.
Gebet der Elizabeth.
WILLIAM H. MOLONEY, ’07.
HEN the music of the present day is looked over and tried , upon the piano, its syncopated and catchy movement often * vibrates in unison with some wild barbaric symptom or nervous trait descended from the days when
our forefathers played upon iron shields and armored heads with heavy maces.. There is little complaint against the music of to-day. It serves its purpose. Present, day opera in the domain of music fills the place of the present day novel in the land of literature. The people of our times and country are hard workers, keyed up to a high pitch during business hours and rushed, along at a killing pace. At the end- of the
day’s hard work Shakespeare and the Bible have little or no attraction for them in comparison to the overwhelming curiosity which a late novel exerts over them. And why? Because Shakespeare and the Bible can not dissipate the mind. They require hard thought. To the man coming home at night, tired out physically from' running here and there snatching his dinner where best he can, in as small a space of time, as possible, worn out mentally from the strife and competition of business, a treatise on philosophy or a book requiring deep thought would not be acceptable. But how he would enjoy a light novel!
So it is in music. Heavy music, dull of difficulties to the hearer, set to words freighted with meaning. are not the relish
that a tired person seeks. . A pleasant jingle of words which would not mean anything if he heard them all, light, fancy, tripping cadences that will soothe without disturbing calm of repose, is what the hard worker desires. But in it all, in all the music of to-day, in every opera, and almost in every song we feel there is something lacking. It is true there is brightness and brilliancy and repartee scintillating, in the music, but there is no emotion, no genuine emotion, no earnestness. There is intelligence but no heart, there is mind but no soul. The music is written as a problem is worked.
There is little individual, little human. The musician does .not believe in the truth which he utters. He does not seem earnest. Artistic music is a.“crystallization of the form of thought,’? and there can be no music where there is no thought. Earnestness, whole-heartedness and an individual feeling-of sympathy with the work in hand are. all necessary for a living piece of music.- . Where can a'score be found in which these
422
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
qualities exist? “Gebet der Elizabeth” from Richard Wagner’s Opera, Tannhauser, possesses them in a high degree. There you will find an earnestness so strong as to be almost painful. When Elizabeth sings:
I’ll wrestle with the love I cherish’d Until in death the flame hath perish’d, can there be a doubt about her meaning every word ? Can we believe that the author of that piece did not pour out this strain molten from his heart and that it is other than a crystallization of this molten feeling? Can words like these portray anything but a struggling, troubled spirit:
0 Blessed Virgin, hear my prayer!
Thou star of glory, look on me!
Here in the dust I bend before thee, Now from this earth, oh set me free!
And the music—how wonderful it is! It almost seems to be the modulations of the voice. How it expresses the beseeching' spirit, “Now from this earth oh set me free!J’ Then a longing for the calni of heaven. The peaceful life with the “star-of glory” takes hold upon Elizabeth and grows upon her. She raises her voice in piteous accents and exclaims:
Let me a maiden pure and white, .
- Enter into thy kingdom bright!
and the music expresses the reverent longing of the princess-maid. Then she suddenly thinks of her love for Tannhauser and fiercely cries:
If vain desires and earthly longing, Have turn’d my heart from thee away, The sinful hopes within me thronging Before thy blessed feet I lay.
Elizabeth will sacrifice her vain desire and earthly longing “to be in the kingdom bright.” .But at the very thought of not obtaining her coveted place, she almost shrieks,
I wrestle with the love I cherish’d, but then realizing that she is only a human creature and may not be able to conquer so bravely as she promised she adds, slowly, with fully determined will,
- Until in death its flame hath perish’d.
Then at the thought of Tannhauser not forgiven at .Rome,’ or having died on the journey, she begs of the Blessed Virgin to give her aid:
If of my sin thou wilt not shrive me, Yet in this hour, oh grant thine aid, In this hour, oh grant thine aid!
And what a depth of feeling the music adds to the impassioned words. If this song be not bom of earnestness and genuine sympathy, no song ever ,was. As long as men will seek to fathom one another’s inner feelings and aspirations, as long as mankind will be interested in the human, as long as the strife against the sordid and low shall endure, as long as men aspire for something better and higher and nobler than this earth can give, so long will this song live and be a source of pleasure and a work of art to the .world.
Easter in the Poets.
VARNUM A. PARRISH, ’09.
The Synthesis.
HEN to what end are all earth’s wonders born, If it be true that all earth’s wonders die ?
The wonder of the smile—the little sigh
Of happiness when life is in its morn?
The sheltered gentian and ivy torn
And twined in garlands, as the winds rush by, The pearl-crests on the waves, the silvered sky?
- Ah, to what end the gold glint of the corn ?
For Beauty and New Life; when God arose,
All beauty on the earth was glorified, And ringed to .Him, as man is ringed to wife—
The two in one, so slender lilies close
For His great Law, and crested wavelets hide But not to die, for Beauty means New Life.
—The Sun.
The above production is from the pen of - one of America’s greatest living lyrists. It contains exceptionally beautiful and well-developed thought. In addition to the above, Dr. Egan has written several other poems on Easter. “He Made Us Free,” “At Easter Time,” “After Lent,” ‘.‘The Mother’s” and “Resurrexit Sicut Dixit,” everyone of which displays the poetic genius and spiritual perfection of the man.
Dante Gabriel Rossetti has treated the Paschal feast in his sonnet, “The Passover in the Holy Family.” He describes it as the meeting of “the prefiguring day and day prefigured.” At the'Paschal feast, he says this poor household comprised two kindred
NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC.
423

s ! j

I I
families, — “the slain lamb confronts the Lamb to slay.” In describing the preparations for the feast, Rossetti pictures the Boy’s .fair brow as subduing the shadow of death as He held the bowl of blood from which Zacharias was sprinkling the door posts and lintel. .
In another of Rossetti’s sonnets he relates how Mary Magdalene, while participating in a festal procession, upon seeing Christ withdrew suddenly from the procession and rushed to Him to clasp His blood-stained feet in spite of the futile attempts of her lover, who was following her to turn ’ her back.
“Easter Dawn,” by Coyle, relates in a pretty fashion the story of Maty Magdalene coming to the sepulchre early Easter morn and finding the tomb empty. In “ An Easter Legend” the same author draws a strikingly pretty figure in his first stanza:
A spotless lily of the fields
Is crushed to earth by ruthless feet;
And all its precious fragrance sweet Out on the air it freely yields.
This same author has still another poem on Easter, “Christ is Risen.” Spenser has a sonnet on Easter time. He speaks of Christ’s triumph over death and sin. Then after a petition he closes with the couplet:
' So let us love, dear love, like as we ought!
Love is the Lesson which the Lord us taught. .
Wordsworth also has a sonnet on Easter. It was written in one of the valleys. of Westmoreland, on Easter Sunday. He tells . how the cottage dame “culled the daintiest fleece,” spun and wove it into Easter raiment.	.	•
It is plain to see how poets are moved to write at this particular season. Easter occurs at the time of year that is most conducive to poetic thought. And. not only the material things tend to inspire the poet, but also the things of the soul; . for it would be hard for a true poet to recall to mind the events commemorated at Easter time without being filled with poetic feeling. .
The regeneration of spiritual life is represented by Nature in her exquisite nicety by the regeneration- of material life. The beautification of the, soul of man after its degradation is suggested by the renewal
of earthly beauty after months of winter gloom and darkness. The joy that fills the heart of man because of his redemption is recalled to our minds by the joy of the springtime, which is manifested in all God’s creatures. The new life, the beauty, the joy, of the material suggest the new life, the beauty, the joy of the spiritual. Perhaps all the beauty we see in material things is beauty, is pleasing to our senses, because of the spiritual things with which it associates us. Perhaps we delight in the song of the bird and the beauty of the flower because we see in them the Power and Handicraft of their Creator. The picture of the Madonna appeals to our faculties in so far as it represents purity and mother love. And such is probably the case with all material beauty.
Thus at this particular season all things conspire to bring forth the song of the poet. As the songster is wakened by the glow in the Eastern sky, and leaves his nest to pour forth his harmonious notes unto the world, the poet is roused after a season of gloom by the “Light in the East,” to send his song out to all the Christian world.
Light in the East I—Light in the East! The sun Up-blazes in his splendor from the gloom:
Light in the East!—and all the doubt is past And all earth’s beauty buds—the risen One
Has taken from our race the seal of doom,— Sweet peace has come—and we are free at last!
To the Samothracian Victory.
H. LEDWIDGE.
widespread wings a headless statue stands, Whose arms outstretched implore our tardy aid. In shame she begs for what she once was prayed Who then had place on Jove’s almighty hands. But now her honors, victories and lands The hosts that once for battle were arrayed Alike in one sepulchre have been laid
While she is here in unfamiliar strands,
Departed are thy glories tho’ thy grace
Enchants onr hearts as then in days so hoar
In chains thy beauty led a vanished race, Fair wanderer from Samothrace’s shore
Altho’ thy glory hath not left a trace .	.
Accept our homage as in days of yore. .
424
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Varsity Verse.
BY-GONES.
I knew when a boy
A heart happy, light and free;
Countless pleasure, endless joj’
I knew when a boy.
They’re gone, and pains destrojr
All the happiness and glee
I knew when a boy—
A heart happy, light and free.
0. A. S.
LIMERICK. '
You want to know what a limerick is,
I think you’ll find the scheme in this,
Its subject is light
A joke—one not trite
Some cure for th’ elongated phiz!
G. B.
HEARST’S SOLILOQUY.
Aw what’s the use
They canned me in New York
And now the home of pork ‘
Has turned me loose	-
For Busse’s won
And Dunne
And I. M. 0. and Wm. Randolph Hearst are all undone.
Aw what’s the use	•
I’m licked, my bubble’s pricked	•
And now I almost think
That it would pay to be an honest man.
Why all my life I’ve wallowed in the mire
Of scandal, calumny and lies.
Then shall I rise?
And with my eyes turned toward the skies
Walk on and cleave to justice and to truth—
. Forsooth .	.	.
• You don’t know Hearst.
I wasn’t born that way
I never had. a noble thought
That wasn’t bought
From Brisbane or some other
My life’s been spent in gazing at the earth
The muck-rake leaves no time for higher things
And so I’ll rake away
E’en to the judgment day .
And . when - the trumpet clear :
Calls out Fil • answer here, '	.
' And take my stand . -	. ;	.
My muck-rake < in -my . hand. W. J. D.
A Comparison.
JAMES J. QUINLAN, ’08.
There is no more favorite theme for those who write or talk or preach about life than to make a comparison of its likeness to some phenomenon in nature. Frequently there is art in the simile, but with most of those who thus choose to make a comparison, life is no more than a “passing shadow,” a “bubble on the surface of the sea,” a “blade of grass,” a “ship in the midst of the sea,” or as a “cloud on the horizon.” The earlier poets abound in such comparisons of life to a “pure flame,” a “kind of sleep,” a “dream,” a “dome of many-colored glass.” All these figures are good in their way; but, however, they seem imperfect. To my thinking Mary Pyper expressed a more appropriate comparison when she penned her epitaph:
I came at morn—’twas spring, I smiled, The fields with green were clad;
I walked abroad at noon,—and lo! ’Twas summer,—I was glad;
I sate me down; ’twas autumn eve, And I with sadness wept;
I laid me down at night, and then ’Twas winter,—and I slept.
Though these lines are far from adequate to express the real resemblance in the comparison, they do, however, give a far better meaning than all the preceding ones combined. In this verse the different stages of life have an appropriate comparison with the seasons of the year, but in those other pet expressions there is none. In what way is the life of man like a “passing shadow,” or a “cloud on the horizon;” or what resemblance does the life of a “blade of grass,” or a “ship in the midst of the ocean” bear to human life? Very little and that little is hard to see. You must think a resemblance into the simile or you have no resemblance.. And then the only likeness is in regard to the length of existence. But in comparing life to the seasons of the year we have a happier simile, and its’force is far greater. Who can fail to catch the beauty of" the comparison of spring and youth.
. I came at morn—’twas spring, T smiled, .The fields with green were clad. .
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
In those lines there is a book of poetry J and thoughts which lie deeper than is ! in the power of words to express. And, though we do net express these ideas, everybody knows they are there, and feels also ;	the pleasure	and youth with which they
P	।	animate the	soul. It	is commonplace to
;	;	speak of youth as the	morning and spring. j	time of life.	It is an	old and time-worn
saying, but we like it, because it carries . with it such a store of meaning. It is in the springtime that nature begins its life. It is then that the trees shoot forth their leaves and the fields are robed in green. It is in those happy days that the meadow, mountain, grove and stream sparkle with new life, and the flowers and blossoms give beauty and fragrance to the early morn. It is a joyful time when everything seems to be apparelled in a new celestial light and the life and happiness of the young 1 spirit is sung again and again by the birds • that hop and dance among the trees and i chirp among the flowers. With Wordsworth | I rejoice that—
I There was a time when meadow, grove and stream, The earth and every- common sight,
.	To me did seem
Apparelled in celestial light, The glory and the freshness of a dream. And so too
It is not no'- as it hath been of yore; — Turn wheresoe’r T may, ;	By night or day,
• The things which I have seen I now can see no more.
. And whv is this? -what cause is there for the change in things about us? The . explanation is an easy one. The buds and blossoms of youth have gone, and the growth of the summer’s harvest has set in. The brilliant hopes of our youthful imagina-, tions have vanished as shadows and the stronger and harder forms of real life are around about us. As the comparison says again, .
I	I walked abroad at noon—and lol
’Twas summer,—I was glad.
Yes, I was glad, for summer is a secono springtime, or spring with an intenser and i statelier beauty. It is the glow and flush, j the joy and pride of noble youth, the nearer approach towards a perfect life. It is a ;	time of striving and ambition, a time of
•-	reaching upward and outward to a larger
4^5
life. The comparison is perfect; and just as summer verges into autumn so does the life of man at the apex of activity turn to declining years.	’
“Autumn eve” has its joyous and happy days, but the dominant tone of that season is sorrow and decay. Everything takes on a more forlorn aspect. The trees ate not green as they used to be, and the birds are heard no more in their sweet warbling and lightsome chirping. The flowers which blossomed. in summer and the fields w hich scented of clover, or new-mown hay have felt the touch of autumn’s frost, and perished and withered away.	‘
And in human life the change is very similar. fl'hou^h now and then w e hear a hearty laugh or youthful jest we know that it is the exception. The ring of strong manhood is absent from the voice and the winning smile is missing from the face. The sap of life is departing from the form, and the limbs are weakening for lack of nourishment. “Autumn eve” is chill upon the weakened form and winter’s night is crowding fast upon it. And the transformation goes on until, as winter’s snow, the white hair circles the head; and under cares and troubles, the shoulders and' entire form stoop beneath the chilling blast. Then as the sweet briar bush that budded, blossomed and gave fragrance to each passing breeze drops its leaves and is buried beneath the snow, so life’s blood is chilled, the remaining sparks of life are extinguished ■ and the grey head, crowned with the fulness of life, droops and rests beneath the snows of God’s eternal justice.
The more noiselessly the machine runs the less the wear; the more silently a man works, the less the waste of power.
Love is bold and lightly thrusts ceremony aside. It begets familiarity and will not take the great man seriously. Hence the ablest men thrown habitually into the company of those who love them either sink into indolence or make themselves disagreeable.
The ploughman knows how many acres he shall upturn from dawn to sunset: but the thinker knows not-what a day may birng forth.—Spalding.
NOTRl DAMB SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame Scholastic
Published every Saturday during Term Time at the University of Notre Dame.
I ntered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. Notre Dame, Indiana.
Notre Dame, Indiana, April ,6 1907.
Board of Editors.
EDWARD F.
THOMAS E. BURKE, ’07
WESLEY J. DONAHUE, ’07
WILLIAM A. BOLGER, ’07
ROBERT L. BRACKEN, ’08
PATRICK M. MALLOY, ’07
LEO J. COONTZ, ’07 IGNATIUS E.
■FLYNN, ’07.
LOUIS M. KELLEY, ’07
WM. E. CUNNINGHAM, ’07
FRANCIS T. MAHER, ’08
WILLIAM LENNARTZ, ’08
YARNUM A. PARRISH, ’09
ROBERT A. KASPER, ’07
MCNAMEE, ’09
—This number is dedicated to the Senior Class, because we of the sanctum looking out on the great jollity of Easter week were contaminated a bit by the spirit. Seniors’	From all appearances we
Number.	believe it was the greatest
Senior Day at Notre Dame in some time.
The Senior play was a great success; the Senior prom was just as great. Both compare most favorably with former events of their kind at the University. To cap it all the debating team of Seniors came back with Iowa’s scalp, and this shortly after a Senior had plucked the coveted state contest in oratory. On athletic field too the Senior has done his work and now only remains the Seniors’ Dome. All eyes turn to that and with it collegiate activities will have about come to an end. Soon the Baccalaureate days of June will have come and ’07 will hang its numerals with the others and pass into history. But with the passing may the class not indulge in a bit of modest retrospection and think it has done its share, and go into the world conscious that ’07 was the greatest success in a school where . successes approach the brilliant ?
—Prof. Alden recently advocated in the AW York Evening Post that intercollegiate debating should be abolished/His arguments were that the debating is
“ Unreality ”of unreal, the speakers do College Debating. not talk like legislators . seeking support for their measures, like lawyers before juries, or like anybody else in actual life trying to make a point. However true this charge may be against debating in Eastern colleges, we do not believe it applies -with any large measure of truth to inter-collegiate debating in the West. Professor Winans of Cornell points out that the chief cause of artificiality of college debating is found in the cumbersome “matter and manner” of instructions given to judges. :
This is well illustrated by the argument of one of the most prominent debating leagues of the country. Judges are requested to take into consideration “knowledge of the subject, logical sequence, skill in selecting and presenting evidence, power in rebuttal; in considering form they should regard bearing, quality of voice, correct pronunciation, clear enunciation, ease and appropriateness of gesture, and directness, variety and emphasis in delivery.” Should a judge lay down such rules for a jury to determine which of the opposing la-wyers made his point he would be regarded as absurd.
Similarly we believe it is the business of a debater to make his point, and the business of a judge to decide whether he makes it. Among the best schools that we know this fact is realized: judges devote their attention solely to determine, which side makes its point. As a result our debating is largely, if not wholly; free from the unreality which Prof. Alden so justly censures.
. We clip from the South Bend Tribune:
“The presentation at Notre Dame University. Monday, of Bulwer Lytton’s play, “Richelieu,” by a cast selected almost entirely from the Senior class of the Univerity, received decidedly favorable comment from all who were granted the opportunity Qf witnessing it. The work of the students was of a high dramatic quality and showed excellent preparation;. It was much above the usual amateur production and richly merited the praise which lias been given.”
HOTRE DAME: SCHOLASTIC.
An Historic Landmark.
The Hon. Daniel McDonald of Plymouth, Indiana, has succeeded in carrying through the legislature a bill appropriating $2500 for the rebuilding of the old Indian chapel at Twin Lakes, and the erection of a monument to the memory of Chief Menominee and his Indians. Twin Lakes is situated between Plymouth and Maxinkuckee Lake, on the Vandalia Railroad. It was formerly a mission attended by Priests of the' Holy Cross from Notre Dame University and is thus an interesting landmark in the earlv history of Alma Mater. It recalls those austere pioneer days when the Holy Cross Priest, in addition to his work as a teacher, was called upon to evangelize the Indians, and minister to the scattered whites for one hundred miles in everv direction. The University has taken special interest in this movement, its point of view being admirably expressed in a letter from Colonel Hoynes, to which a wide publicity has been given by the press of the country. We quote his words:
“I am certain, my dear Mr. McDonald, that no address delivered this year in the legislative halls of this or anv other state could surpass yours in absolute unselfishness, chivalric championship of the lowly, beauty of sentiment in revealing the pathetic past to the matter-of-fact present, vigor of thought and luminous statement in presenting the claim of the wronged, and persuasive argument for making amends in some measure by honoring with a suitable monument the memory of the friendless children of forest and prairie—our true Americans. You spoke for a worthy cause, and well and ably you presented it. You showed a heart broad enough to include and tender enough to feel for the lowliest. Nothing was said for selfish effect or to win the support of some alien element for political advancement. You spoke of the past and those who suffered through the cruelties of its transition to the present; but you have awakened in the present a sense of regret at the wrong done and a feeling of shame that the only available means of. repairing . it were so ■ tardy of adoption. What you have done, and the words you have spoken will more
and more impress the public mind and conscience, and to you will justly belong the honor, at an early day, of having on your own initiative accomplished a noble, generous and laudable act in the erection of a suitable monument to perpetuate the memory of the friendless and neglected Indians.”	.
Chief Menominee was the leader of a band of eight hundred nnd fifty-nine Indians at Menominee village on the north bank of the middle Twin Lake. The government had long pressed Chief Nehominee to. give up the enormous stretch of land owned by him, but without success. In September, 1S3S, however, General Tipton made a sudden descent upon the Indians early, in the morning and drove them aw’ay to a reservation west of the Missouri River.1 The treacherous act, rather than the loss of his possessions, wounded Menominee so that he never recovered, and soon after he'died -of a broken heart. Mr. McDonald has made an interesting study of this tragic episode and has prepared the first authentic account of it. He deserves the grateful recognition of . the people of Indiana for; his services to this noble cause, and especially he has earned the gratitude of the University. Our Alma Mater will be represented when the monument is formally dedicated.
The lowa'Notre Dame Debate.
Victory again. Once more the Gold and Blue waves in triumph, and Notre Dame’s long list of victories in debate is still unbroken. Our thirteenth consecutive victory was won on Wednesday night, March 27, when Messrs. Donahue, Bolger and Burke triumphed over the strong team of the University of Iowa. The debate was held at the Coldren Opera House, Iowa City,. Iowa. Owing to the non-appearance of two of the judges the .decision . of necessity was left to Mr. M. P. Rice of Lewiston, HL
At 8:30 the chairman, judge McLean, formally - opened the question under discussion.: Resolved, That the cities of the United States should seek the solution of- the street railway problem in private ownership. He then introduced Mr. Thomas
428
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
E: Burke the first speaker for the affirmative representing Notre DahiC;
Mr. Burke in a clear; forceful manner analyzed the present situation showing why regulation has failed in the past, and why it frequently fails to-day. The last half of his speech was spent in pointing out the dangers of municipal ownership from a political standpoint. This was Mr. Burke’s first year on the team, but his earnest manner, his clear voice and altogether
WESLEY J. DONAHUE, ’07
pleasing delivery made a strong impression on all who heard him.
Mr. R. F. Hannum opened for Iowa. He maintained that any regulation short of municipal ownership must of necessity^ fail, for private ownership of any public utility is theoretically unsound; inasmuch as the antagonism of interest existing between the public service corporation results in and will always result in poor service and high
fares. He argued not for the immediate adoption of municipal ownership, but for municipal ownership ultimately as the result of an evolutionary. process. Mr. Hannum was the leader of the Iowa team, and his earnest^ and; at times, oratorical manner held the audience throughout his speech.
Mr. Donahue spoke next for Notre Dame. In a short rebuttal he showed that while regulation has been a failure in many cases, still the system of regulation advocated by his colleague had been a success wherever tried. He then compared municipal and private management from a business standpoint, showing the unquestioned superiority of private over municipal management. This was Mr. Donahue’s third and last year on a Notre Dame team. As eloquent and fiery as ever, his speech called forth the best efforts of his opponents.
For the negative Mr. W. E. Jones continued. He dwelt further on the antagonism of interest existing between the public service corporation and the public. He then showed the corruption resulting from the struggle of the public service corporations for franchise and other privileges. His speech was well written and delivered.
Then came Mr. William Bolger for the affirmative. In a powerful speech he showed the practicability and success of regulation as exemplified in Massachusetts and the district of Columbia. Mr. Bolger did as he always has done wonderfully, well and v.hen he had finished the half dozen Notre Dame rooters who had journeyed to Iowa City, were smilingly confident.
The constructive argument for Iowa was closed by Mr. F. J. Cunningham. His speech was an attack on regulation. - It was a great effort, and the earnestness with which Mr. Cunningham spoke well merited -the applause which greeted him at the conclusion of his speech.
The rebuttals were excellent. Mr.-Jones maintained that the affirmative’s system of regulation was not practicable. Mr. Burke answered that its practicability was proven by its fifty years of success in Massachusetts and the District of Columbia; he then clearly showed that the American city which has failed so miserably in the managing of lighting plants will make a greater failure of managing street railways.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
429
Air. Cunningham continued for Iowa. He repeated his colleague’s charge that regulation was impracticable and that the affirmative was not clear cut. Mr. Donahue opened his rebuttal by taking up Mr. Cunningham’s words and asking his colleague to give something clear cut and practical, maintaining that the negative had theorized throughout their three whole speeches. He then attacked the second negative speech showing that municipal ownership far from purifying politics had actually corrupted them. Mr. Donahue’s best work was done in rebuttal.
Air. Hannum closed for Iowa. He repeated for a third time the assertion that the plan of regulation advocated by the affirmative was not practicable and clear cut. He then rebutted an attack on Chicago’s municipally owned water works w hich Notre Dame had never made and then attempted to defend the negative against the charge of theorizing.
The debate was closed by Air. Bolger. As in the case of Mr. Donahue it was Mr. Bolger’s third year on a Notre Dame team and his last chance to fight for Notre Dame, and he. did his level best. He first pointed out Mr. Hannum’s misstatement and then tore into Iowa’s, assertion that the. affirmative’s plan was not clear cut and practicable. By the time he had finished Iowa’s last argument had been devoured, and it was
evident to a'll that the Gold and Blue of Notre Dame had triumphed for a second time over the Old Gold of Iowa. Though defeated the Western team put up a game fight, and the Notre Dame boys have nothing but praise for their worthy opponents.
It is to be hoped that another debate or series of debates may be arranged with Iowa, though at present Professor Reno has been unsuccessful in doing so. Right here it may be well to call the attention of ..the student body to the fact that next1 year will be a hard one for N. D. U. in debating. The old men will be gone. This year for the first time since the class of ’04 the team was made up entirely of Seniors: Next * year new men must make up the team. That success will crown their efforts no one doubts, but there must be a ready and loyal response when the call is made for candidates next vear. Let the work be started early,, and under Professor Reno’s careful and excellent coaching we will have another victorious team. Not vet has Notre Dame lowered her colors in debate. May that' long be our boast, o
WILLIAM A. BOLGER, 07.
430	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Seniors’ Day.
Easter Monday broke a bit chilly but as the day went on the sun came out and warmed things up a bit. About ten, from Sorin stole the tasseled ones and from then on the campus and walks were dotted by men who were celebrating Seniors’ Day and who started it by showing visiting friends around.
Ambrose A. O’Connell, History and Economics, President of Senior Class.
“RICHELIEU.”
At 2:30 “Richelieu” was staged before.a packed house. Many plays have been played in Washington Hall but none more successfully than Richelieu. The audience was composed for a great part of visitors from East and West who had come to spend the day. It is quite modest to say that Richelieu was received with hearty applause and those who have seen Notre Dame theatricals are. unanimous in saj ing it was the greatest success yet scored.
Every member of the "cast deserves much credit for the manner in which he performed. Of ^course A. Dwan comes in for first place in Hie list of the notables. His work was masterful. Dwan has been in dramatic circles- at the University for some time but hist appearance Easter Monday was the climax to a brilliant college career in this line. His interpretation of the Cardinal and his rendition of Lytton’s famous lines
were little short-of perfect. While his histrionic ability points to a-great future in professional life should he follow it. His part was heavy and required a good man to do it justice, and Aloysius J. Dwan filled the bill perfectly.	1
Aside from Dwan, probably. Ed Kenny of Pennsylvania, as Joseph, came in for the next greatest plaudits. An extremely difficult part to carry was very well done by an heretofore “dark horse.” Kenny not only gave us a pleasant surprise but made us anxious to see him again.
James Keefe, famous half-mile man, launched into a new. field and his maiden effort puts him up as a worthy man in college theatricals.
R. A. Kasper was quite funny as De Berigen and scored several times.
A. O’Connell as De Mauprat did well and was very strong in parts.
J. Wadden as Louis, O’Flynn as Huguet McElroy as Francois and Kenefick as Orleans, played in good fashion and contributed much to the success attained.
Weist as Julie belongs in line with Dwan and Kenny, a prettier lady ve have never had, and his interpretation of Julie de Mortemar vias exclellent. It goes without saying that Lambert Weist scored' triumphantly Monday. Homer Warren as Marion de Lorme did well, and his work with that
Aloysius A. Dwan, Civil Engineering, Who took the Part of Cardinal Richelieu.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC^
431
of Weist relieved much anxiety concerning the feminine parts of the play.	-
Pages, conspirators, guards and secretaries come in for a share of the general praise. • The Scholastic congratulates the whole caste. It was a good play well placed and reflects much credit on Father Maloney whose untiring coaching was responsible for such happy results.
Persons of the Peay.
Louis XIII., King of France............J. W. Wadden Gaston, Duke of Orleans, Brother to the King
................................M. J. Kenefick
Cardinal Richelieu.......................J-	A. Dwan
Count de Baradas.........................J.	T. Keefe
Chevalier de Mauprat..................A. A. O’Connell
Sieur de Beringen..................:....R. A. Kasper
Clermont..............................k.-F. T. Collier
Joseph, a Capuchin.......................E.	J. Kenny
Francois..............................L. F. McElroy
Huguet................................;.E. F. O’Flynn
Captain of the Guard.....................J.	L. Coontz
First Guard........................:....C. L. Devine
Second Guard..........................D. E. Lannan
Joseph T. Lantry, Civil Engineering, Chairman Alanagement Committee.
First Secretary.....................H.	W. Hilton
Second Secretary................H. W. McAleenan
Third Secretary.......................C. A. Sorg
First Courtier....................R. A. McNally
Second Courtier...................R. R. Ribeyre
Third Courtier......................A. M. Geary
Julie d.e Mortemar....................[. L. Weist
Marion de Lorme....................H. S. Warren
Pages, Conspirators, Gentlemen of the Court.
THE PROM.
The play was over at six o’clock. From then on all was bustle and hurry till nine o’clock -found the campus in front of the' big gvm covered with, carriages. The Seniors’ good luck followed them from Washington Hall to the ball room. The committee-composed of J. Lantry, C. E., A. J. Dwan, C. E., M. J. Kenefick, H. and E., E. J. Kenny, Litt., and R. A. Kasper, H. and E., were first to be congratulated for the appearance of the hall, the neat programs and the excellent music. Fischer’s World’s Fair Orchestra dispensed the music and needless to say rendered the usual satisfaction. The event was a pronounced success and when morning had come every senior man knew that the ’07 prom was a social victory over: predecessors and established a precedent hard to be attained, much less surpassed.- • •	’
The Faculty and lower classmen paid their call and watched the gay scene from the balcony while Seniors, visitors and post
graduates glided in happy jollity below.
The. hall vras artistically decorated, and was the subject of much comment. From the ceiling fell long streamers of heliotrope and green, while cozy corners and walls were covered with pennants of various colleges, and draped.Jn blue and gold. The class flags of former years fell in pretty folds and contrasted effectively with the University’s emblem. An ’07 blazoned with incandescent lights was suspended from the wall at the head of the gymnasium, while at the other end hung a great N. D.
The cozy corners were features and in ’ them, sunk in pillows, dancers whiled away the time between numbers. At the north end of the hall a punch bowl was placed, and gave of its delicious contents to refresh the dancers. The program consisted of 20 dances and 3 extras. At 9:30 the grand March started and was led by President O’Connell and Miss Lucile Baker of St. Mary’s. Seventy couples were in line, and Harry L. Arnold of Elkhart acted as Master of Ceremonies.	.
The patrons and patronesses were Mr. and Mrs. Sherman Steele, Dr. and Mrs.: T. A. Olney, Dr. and Mrs. J. B. Berteling . and Mr. and Mrs. George E. Clarke, all of South Bend. In line were many visitors who came from a great distance to attend the event. Those present were:
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Mr. and Mrs. Sherman Steele, Mr. arid Mrs. George E. Clarke, Dr. and Mrs. J. B. Berteling, Dr..and Mrs. T. L. Olney, Air. and Airs. F. H. Wurzer, South Bend; Aliss Gertrude Heppe, Chatsworth, Ill; Aliss Cleis, South Bend; Aliss AIcCafl'rey, St. Alary’s; Miss Robinson, Miss Harrison,South Bend; Miss Willard, Elkhart, Ind.; Aliss Waldorf, Indianapolis; Aliss Vera Lauring, South Bend; Aliss Buddy, Chicago; Aliss Ranier, Aliss AIcGory, St. Alary’s ; Aliss Ada Lauring, South Bend; Aliss Folej’, St. Mary's; Aliss Lear, New York: Aliss Rhodes, South Bend: Aliss Virginia Smith, Chicago; Aliss Al. Berteling, Aliss B. Dunne, South Bend; Aliss Carroll, Cincinnati; Aliss Gibbons, Chicago; Aliss Cunningham, Belvidere, Ill ; Aliss A'lontgomcry, Aliss AlcCartney, Aliss Turner, Aliss R. Ireland, Aliss R. Mvers, Aliss AL Bellinger. Aliss Burtin, South Bend; Aliss Christener, Alichigan City. Ind.: Aliss E. Eberhart, Chicago; Aliss L. Waldorf, Alendota," Ill.; Aliss C. Eberhart, Chicago; Aliss Becks, Alich. City, Indiana; Aliss Dagnon, Rensselaer, Ind.; Aliss Brown, Niles, Alich.; Aliss B. Stephenson, Aliss . Vaughan, Aliss AL Alurphy, Aliss R. Smith, Aliss Alattis, South Bend; Aliss AL Tangan, Chicago; Aliss Al. Hagerty, St. Alary’s; Aliss R. Adelsberger, Notre Dame; Aliss J. Al cC ar thy Lynn, Alass.; Alisess I. and R. Vangorder, Aliss O'Brien, Aliss Weaver, Aliss Maroney, Aliss A. Wills, Aliss L. Leeper, Aliss A. Leeper, Aliss L Baker, South Beud; Aliss Roy, Mishawaka, Ind. Alessis. A. Kotte, ’06, Cincinnati; A. AfcFarland, '06, Cincinnati; F. Burns, Chicago, Ill.; F. AIcKeever, ’04, Chicago; F. Ohming, and J. Carlson, Alichigan City, Ind.; T. Nicker, AL Clarke, South Bend.
Notes from the Colleges
A bill has been introduced into the Wisconsin legislature to keep badger students out of politics and to do away with student political machines. Our colleges must of a surety be political incubators, when such a drastic step, as this had to be taken, or mayhap it is some member seeking to get in the reform wagon. and not particular about the evil ( ?) needing remedy.
* * *
Already we see that the horsehide is flying on the Eastern college diamonds.
Georgetown took Princeton into camp the other day, by a score of 10 to 2.
* * *
The Syracuse University Stadium which is nearly completed is an immense' structure. It is 670 feet long and 470 feet wide, enclosing as it does a quarter mile track. The seating capacity will be 20,000, and it is so constructed as to afford standing room for as many more. F
Some of the baseball games in the East were as follows:
Cornell 0	Cornell 8	U. of V. 7
N. C. 2	Virginia 7	Columbia 6
o
w * *
Under Count Creighton’s will, Creighton O	7	o
University, conducted by the Jesuits in Omaha, Neb., receives $500,000. $400,000 is to be distributed among other schools.
* *
Yale recently received a gift of $300,000 from J. D. Rockefeller, on the condition that the University raise an aditional $1,300,000. Putting these two amounts together, the Eastern school ought to be able to start all over again with a brand new outfit, o
*
The undergraduate body of Princeton University presented Grover Cleveland with a loving cup on the occasion of his 70th birthday, March IS.
•Sr * *
Negotiations are on for a football game between Stanford University and a South African team. The African eleven are the champions of the British Empire.
4g. 4g.
The Nebraska co-eds are to receive boxing lessons hereafter.
This is beyond our endurance. We have a great deal of patience with this type of womanhood, known as the athletic girl; but then there is a limit to all “easy” things. We will let her play tennis, golf or basketball with us; we will tolerate a Sunday bloomer baseball game with her; we will horseback ride with her, we will indulge in skatmo contests wii-h her; we wall talk politics, drama, presidents, education or what not wuth her, —but we won’t let her slap our faces—nd not for all the brown hair and blue eyes in the whole State of Nebraska. -
' - - * *
On April 26 and 27, Cornell University will celebrate the Centennial of the birth of Ezra Cornell. Elaborate preparations are being made for the event, and. many prominent , alumni'will; take part in the program. Among the speakers will be Hon. Andrew D. White, first President of the University, vjosepff	and David
Starr Jordan, ’72.	P. M. M.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Athletic Notes.
Brownson Campus has been the busiest place in the world this week; Manager Grant and his bunch of ball tossers have arrived from South Bend and are limbering up for the series of practice games with the Varsity, which begin next week. Grant has about twenty men in his squad, and he puts them through fast paces, morning and afternoon, in preparation for the coming games. When South Bend get out on the diamond and Capt. Waldorf and his squad get on the other one, Brownson field looks like a sea of baseball players. The famous “Goat” Anderson who used to furnish all the amusement for the local rooters is not with South Bend this year, but he has an able pupil in a little fellow by the name of Ryan who covers enough ground in the outfield to suit the most exacting fan. South Bend has almost a whole new outfit of men and with the exception of a few of the old-timers, the squad is a green one to the Notre Dame fans.
Capt. Waldorf has divided his squad into two teams and some very interesting games have been played during the past few weeks. With Sheehan gone Curtice and. Cook have heen doing all the catching, and although Curtice does not appear to be the hitter Murray was he looks to have it on the famous red-headed slugger in the catching game, and has been putting up a great game in the practice stunts. Cook is the same good receiver as ever and has also been playing a good, game in the daily exhibitions. “Dreamy” Scanlon has been getting his, so far as work is concerned, and has been on the mound in nearly every game. Dubuc appears to be number one among the new pitchers, he has a world of steam, good control and a good head and will undoubtedly take care of his share of the college games. Captain Waldorf and Perce both seem to have improved over their last years’ form and look to be fit to go in and pitch a full game right now. Kennedy is picking up in his hitting , at a great rate, and if he continues at the present gait the man that crowds him off of first base will have to go some. “Red” Boyle
and Koepping are taking care of second and short in good shape. Boyle has started to. hit and his work the past week is far better than he has done at any time this year. -Brogan is on third—enough said, on the way past wre mention just to tell about it
•that he hit 34-3 and played a wonderful game in the field. McKee has been making-a bid for the outfield, and although he has done nothing wonderful as yet he looks good and in all probability will get a berth in one of the gardens. Bonnan is the only regular outfielder in the squad and can.be counted on to put up the same faultless game as he did last year. Wagner has been alternating from the box to the outfield and is putting up a creditable game. Malloy, Roach, Lennertz, Wood, Dougherty have joined the second team, and unless some of the supposed regulars look very carefully some of these men are liable to break in on them and get away with a position. Dougherty has been out ever since the men started in the Gjm and is putting a good game in centre field and has been hitting the ball well lately.
Last year Capt McNerney and his team had little trouble getting away with the series from South Bend and we are rather expecting Waldorf to repeat the trick again this season. The first games start next week so get busy about the tickets and be on hand to root for the first game. -
* *
Coach. Draper will start the track men again next week. The men have a good rest since the last meet but with two more dual meets before the State meet, Draper has decided to get busy, and the men will report next Monday. Smithson’s leg has recovered . nicely and he will be in shape for the rest of the meets unless he should be so unfortunate as to injure it again.
♦ *
“Jerry” Sheehan broke into fast company for his first game, playing with Sioux City against the White Sox Yannigans. Although “Jer” was not credited with a hit we predict that .it is true that “everything-comes to him who waits.”
R.L.B. ?
434
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
LAW DEPARTMENT.
-	THE PEOPLE V. WHITE.
This case was tried at the last session of the Moot Court. The statement of facts was published in the Scholastic on the 24th of November. The prosecuting attorney, Galitzin A.. Farabaugh, was assisted by Harry Curtis. James V. Cunningham and Michael J. Diskin appeared for the defence. Leroy J. Keach acted as clerk. Judge Hoynes presided. Messrs. Farragher, Arvey, May, Sheehan, O’Brien and Diener comprised the jury. The case is based upon that of Erwin v. State, 29 Ohio St. 186. The judgment in that case was reversed because of error as to the law of self-defence in the instructions of the court to the jury. It seems that the defendant and the deceased, his son-in-law, resided upon lands belonging to the defendant, in different houses, a short distance apart. Between their houses, but not within the curtilage of either, there was a corn crib and shed suitable for the storage of grain and agricultural implements. This building was situated in a field cultivated by the deceased as a cropper, and had been used by him for the storage of grain, as well as by the defendant for the storage of his farming tools. A controversy arose between the parties as to their respective rights of possession. Shortly before the homicide the defendant’s tools had been thrown out, and the doors were locked and chained to prevent their being put back. But this did not prevent the defendant from maintaining what he called his rights, and the doors were forcibly reopened, the chains being broken.
On the day of the homicide the defendant was in the shed, securing his tools, and the deceased was near his own house, when the quarrel was renewed and angry words passed between them. Evidently exasperated, the deceased approached the shed in. a threatening manner, carrying an ax on his shoulder. The defendant warned him not to enter, but if the warning was heard it was not heeded. The deceased advanced to the eave of the shed, possibly, within striking distance of the defendant, when the latter shot him with a pistol, inflicting a wound from which death soon followed.
Testimony was offered on the trial, more or less conflicting, as to previous bitter 'feelings between the.parties; also, as to the threatening attitude of the deceased at the time of the shooting and as to the defendant’s facilities for retreating from the place he occupied, and thus avoiding occasion to take another’s life in self-defense. The jury found a verdict of guilty as charged in the indictment, and judgment was entered upon it. As already stated, however, it was reversed by the supreme court and a new trial granted because of error in the judge's charge to the jury. As tried here, however, on the statement of facts alreadv mentioned, the jury found a verdict, not of murder, but of manslaughter, and fixed the punishment at imprisonment for seven years in the State penitentiary, at Michigan City. No motion was made for a new’ trial, and judgment and sentence were pronounced accordingly.
* * *
For the information of students it may be interesting, as well as instructive, to give the following quotation from the “Memoirs of Henri de Mesmes,” descriptive of a day’s work of a law student at Tolouse in the sixteenth century: “We used to rise from bed at four o’clock, and having prayed to God, w’e wrent at five o’clock to our studies, our big books under our arms, our inkhorns and candles in our hands. We heard all the lectures without intermission till ten o’clock rang; then we dined, after having hastily compared, during a half-hour, our notes of the lectures. After dinner we read, as a recreation, Sophocles, or Aris-, tophanes, or Euripides, and sometimes Demosthenes, Cicero, Virgil, or Horace. At one o’clock to our studies; at five back to our dwellingplace, there to go over and verify passages cited in the lectures until six. Then supper, and after supper wre read Greek or Latin. On Sundays and holydays we went to High Mass and Vespers; the rest of these days for recreation, a little music, and walks.”
* '
The lawmakers in Austria and France are paid $5 a day; in Greece the senators get $100 a month and the deputies $50; in. Germany members of both houses receive about $2.50 a day; in Denmark the mem
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
435
bers of the “ landsthing ” each receives about $3 a clay; in Belgium each member of the chamber of representatives gets $85 a month; in Portugal the peers and commons are paid the same sum, which is about $355 a year; in Spain the members of the cortes are not paid for their services, but enjoy many advantages and immunities; in Switzerland the members of the national council get $2.50 a day, and of council of states, the lower house, $1.50; in Italy the senators and deputies are not paid at all, but are allowed traveling expenses. England is the only country where members of parliament are not only unpaid but have no special rights or privileges. Representatives and Senators in our Congress are evidently the highest paid legislators in the world. They now receive annually for an average of five months’ service a salary of $7500. At first they received $6 for each day’s attendance.. In 1816 the compensation was fixed at $1500 a year. In 1818 it was readjusted, and $8 a. day . was the amount established by law. The increased cost of living consequent upon the war of 1812 was not considered a sufficient reason for a change in the salary to $1500 a year. The prosperous times of half a century ago led in 1856 to an increase of salary to $3000 a year. In 1866 it was raised to $5000. If we include clerk hire, etc., the recent advance brought it up to well-nigh $10,000 yearly. The salaries of Federal officials generally have been increased, and the $25,000 allowed to the President for traveling expenses may fairly be added to his salary, making it now approximately $75,000 a year.
A Page’s Notes
Wednesday’s session was draggy to say the least. A good many Representatives were busy getting over the effects and had little time for anything else. We pushed through some routine business and the new tariff bill bobbed up for a few minutes, but Parrish, the cow-punching statesman from Oklahoma, put a quietus on that. When the bill was read Maher of Indiana started the fireworks with a two-hour speech against the measure; he put up a nifty line of talk, too. Then Parrish offered a free trade amendment. He cut up that bill, filled it in, chucked and padded, twisted and turned it, till it was pretty well banged up. Even its own father would have given it the trot-along in broad daylight, it looked so unlike
its old self. But not satisfied .with that, Parrish landed a knock-out body punch by moving to lay it on the table to be engrossed in its amended form.
About this time the members toward the rear of the chamber got busy with a lot of Congressional Records. Speaker Reno was remarking that the proper place for Representatives to do their research work was in their committee rooms, when Abraham L.Deiner of West Virginia asked the privilege to vacate his seat pro temp on the ground of nervous collapse. He offered expert testimony to prove a slight mental derangement, but it was all to no purpose. The speaker in the face of all the evidence and of a strong protest from certain humanitarian Representatives ruled him down and hurriedly proposed that the House take up the omnibus appropriation bill for the Cull trial.
Right here I want to say something that’s been hanging on my mind for a long time. It’s this, speaker Reno seems to have got the idea into his head that he is the majority in the House and rules accordingly. He makes a pretty good czar, but that sort of animal has got a bounty on its scalp in this country. So Mr. Speaker, beware I
The first item on the omnibus bill calls for an appropriation of $50 for two days’ work of a court stenographer. W’hen reading Clerk Mr. Partland let that loose there was rough house. Everybody wanted the floor at the same time and nobody got it. Finally Zink of Louisiana made his stentorian voice heard and things subsided a bit. Zink usually holds the floor awhile when he once gets up but it’s more on account of his deep, mysterious voice than for any particular merit in what he says. He thought the short-hand bill ought to be sheared. Parrish gave a “them’s my sentiments” sort of talk and Mr. McNamee proposed to give the claiment three denarii instead of fifty. Wood of Indiana, forgetting the courtesy of the house, broke in with, “not on your life: she was pretty!”— and the sergeant-at-arms had to be called upon to restore order. But the House seemed to think like Representative Wood did and they voted the fifty rollers. I’ll wager though, that the brown-eyed lass of the pencil and pad won’t get much more’n enough out of that fifty to buy a good sized oyster loaf and I’ve got a pretty good idea where the rest of the coin’ll go too—but Speaker Reno and Rep. Wood have both handled me pretty white this session, so what’s the use! The others would have done the same thing if they had got the chance.	*
As soon as the stenographer’s bill was railroaded through, Boyle of New York, in the absence of Representative Benz, moved: to adjourn. The motion carried by a narrow" margin after being lost two or three times.;
RulRE DaME SCE/GLASI IC.
Personals.
Local Jtems.
—Benz of Corby went up to Chicago for Easter.
—Callicrate, ’OS, spent Easter at his home in Mishawaka.
—	F. Lanan, B. S. ’07, spent Easter holidays at his home.
—	R. A. Kasper, ’07, spent a part of the week at his home in Evanston, Ill.
—	H. F. Wurzer, Law7 ’98, visited the University Easter and attended the prom.
—Mr. and Mrs. W. Heyl of Pittsburg, spent Easter with their son William.
—Mrs. J. M. Dwan came down from Chicago to enjoy Richelieu and the prom.
—Mr. and Kirs. P. C. Dolan of Pittsfield, Mass, visited their son in Corby, during the week.
—Miss Leonita Waldorf, sister of Rufus, captain of the Varsity7, spent Easter AI onday at the University.
—Miss Josephine McCarthy from Boston, Mass., spent Senior week with her brother Franklin, B. S. ’07. :
—Albert Kotti, C. E. ’06, and A. McFarland H. and E., ’06, were welcome guests during Senior week.
—J. Carlson and F. Ohming from Michigan City Ind, were the guests of Mr. Kenefick, ’07, during the week.
—Francis McKeever, Law *07, came down from Chicago to spend Easter Sunday and enjoy the Senior prom.	.
—Miss Catherine Cunningham of Chicago spent Easter days with her brother James Cunningham, Law, ’07.
—Donahue, ’07, Bolger, ’07, and Burke, ’07, returned Monday from Iowa City, Iowa, after scoring a victory over Iowa State University in debate.	;
—Frank McCoy, student and Corbyite ’02—05, spent a few7 days at the University enjoying Easter festivities. He returned to Milwaukee Wednesday.
—From Chihuahua, Mex., we hear from B. R. Enriquez late of the faculty of Notre Dame in Civil Engineering. He is established in engineering and from the letter is acquiring marked success. The Scholastic tenders its best wishes for more success to this enterprising alumnus of Notre Dame.
—Byrne Daly, 1902—’04, came down to renew acquaintances and spend a few days with friends. Byrne is living in Jackson, Michigan, and from all accounts is doing well. He has recently been made Grand Knight of the K. of C’s. up there. We extend congratulations to him and wish him more success.
—The decorations for the Senior prom ( were the subject of much comment.	I
—The regular meeting of the social science | club will be held to-night at 8 o’clock.	(
—The programs Monday evening were . quite petite and showed the good taste of the committee.
—The passing of Tom Millea from the	,
cab business ushers in the Rupel Bros, who	j
will in future attend to.the Notre Dame > and St. Mary’s business.
Rupel Bros, have succeeded the old time Millea at Notre Dame. They commence with	[
a complete line of new carriages, busses, etc.,	j
and Notre Dame students are promised the	i
- best of service.	|
—	They are still talking about Kenny as	j
“Joseph.” W’hat sparkles these gems give	|
out when the waves have been fathomed	|
and robbed.	;:
—	With the Easter week over and the effects	. |
about gone it is quite in order now to settle | dow7n and prepare for the next important ; i heart event, the exams. Much could be | said but we are only throwing out a warn-	1
ing. Get busy, and comfort yourselves with	I
the thought that after that there is only	j
one more. .	, n
—	In their reading-room on Easter Sunday j j evening the students of Brownson Hall I I enjoyed a very excellent entertainment,	I
rendered by members of the Literary and	|
Debating Society. By the generous aid of I Brothers Alphonsus and Vincent, the Brown- | sonites were given a real treat of music, j I interesting and instructive speeches, which I were filled with wit and humor, and	I
humorous as well as pathetic recitations.	I
The following program was given:	1
Opening address............T-	Sheehan, Chairman	t
“The High Schools of New York State” E. Bonan	|
Recitation............................F. Wood	t
“Mining and Miners of Nevada”.......E.	Carville	I
Recitations.......;............... D.	McDonald
Sol <>—“Holy City”.................  R.	Scanlon
Songs—Quintette—R. Scanlon, ,F. Scanlon, S. Graham,
. 0. Kbepirig, D. Dougherty “Classes and Customs in the South”..V. Hundley Recitation.......................... A.:	HoXvard
“Facts about-Belgium ”  ......-.......P. Depew .
Recitation......................:.  C.	Murphy - ,
Piano Solos.........................A.	Fournier
Recitation.....’...........".........S. Graham	.
Solo—“I Dreamt I Dwelt in Marble Halls”—D. Dougherty Piano. Solo...........    '..........  C.	Shek	,
Thoughts on Refinement of Manners.Bro. Alphonsus
■ The Quintette with their parodies on local -incidents to the tune of 'late popular songs was quite a feature. The speeches and recitations showed that Brownson has, an excellent chance to secure the interhall championships both in the. oratorical and:	f,
elocutionarycontests.	.	J,