Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER n, 1884.	No. 6.
An Affectionate Warning.
“ Soyons poetiques, mes enfants, meme au milieu des ennuis, impitoy-ables de cette vie monotone.”—Mine. de la Rochefoucauld.
Air :—“CallMe Pei Names, Dearest! ”
Keep off the grass, darling, keep off the grass 1
Stray not from orthodox paths as you pass;
Let the bright verdure untrampled remain, Clothing the dry arenaceous plain.
Manifold checks its exuberance srrieve,
Sunburn and frostbite it needs must receive;
Add not your mite* to its woe, then, alas!
Keep off the grass, darling, keep off the grass!
Blacksmiths have aprons to keep off the sparks, Swimmers torpedoes j to keep oft’the sharks;
Parasols keep off the hot solar beams,
Stouter umbrellas the pluvial streams;
People who dwell ’mid malarial ills
Always have something J to keep oft' the chills.
Why not belong to a numerous || class ? -
Keep oft' the grass, darling, keep oft' the grass! §
Justin Thyme.
* Your mite of a foot, darling! Your sweet itty tootsie-wootsie.
f Not as yet, possibly. But this poem is written for posterity, and who knows but in the rapid march of modern improvements some invention of this description may not mitigate the terrors of the vasty deep. P. S.—On second thoughts, perhaps it may be as well to acknowledge, frankly, that the rhyme was the chief, if not the only raison d'etre of this charming little line.
J Quinine, of course. What else would they have?
|| The words “and influential” are omitted by poetical license for the sake of the metre.
§ After this touching appeal, if any heartless wretch should be found on the grass, he must indeed be fit for treasons, stratagems and spoils.
Classics.
Classics, a word derived from the Latin classicus —which signifies of the first rank or order—was the o
appellation given at the revival of letters to those authors who were studied and commented on in universities. When the European intellect had resumed its activity, immediately after the reign of imagination and sentiment in the early part of the Middle Ages, the beautiful and symmetrical relics of ancient literature were then its exclusive
models. The learned neglected the wild legends, lays and songs born of the genius of feudalism, which were the sole delight of contemporaries and successors of Pope Adrian I and Charlemagne, and which dimlv foreshadowed all that is highest and most peculiar in modern thought, and devoted themselves to the study of the more finished productions of Greek inspiration and Latin imitation. By degrees, the epithet “classic” was applied, not only to the literature, but also to the art, civilization, and all the modes of thought and life of the Greeks and Romans. Meantime, modern civilization, with its society, literature, and art, was developing itself on the solid basis of Christian conceptions and sentiments.	■
The distinction between the spirit and form of the modern, and the Greek and Roman literatures produced the long and vivacious contest concerning the comparative merits of the ancient and modern, which has assumed various phases in France, England, Germany and Italy from the fifteenth century to the present time. During the last half century the belligerent parties have been distinguished as the Classicists and Romanticists. The Greeks, who are the type of classicality, have never been surpassed as an artistic people; and, conscious and proud of their own superiority in architecture, sculpture, painting, music, tragedy, oratory, and every department of literature, they called every other nation, with which they came in contact, barbarians. A noble and active race, in a genial climate and a land of varied beauty, their whole civilization was the joyous expression of harmonious faculties. They projected the conception of a beautiful sculpturesque humanity into their religion, and all the forces of nature and of earthly life were deified into clear and fair forms, in the full health of being, and a profound sympathy with the various obj'ects of the world; finding in all preternatural things,—in the nymphs, muses, fates, manes, and furies, and all the minor Olympian gods—only the happy counterparts and associates of man; esteeming gods and men as persons that might struggle with each other, and only the power of a remote, all-encircling fate, which rarely violates the freedom of the world, to be irresistible. Their conceptions in every department of thought were unrivalled in the grace of proportion. They admitted nothing deformed within the circle of their imagination; the gigantic and ill-formed fictions of the Oriental nations were chastened into
i
I
82
. THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
grand and beautiful forms. In poetry and art they attained to internal harmony, though their public life was always distracted, and their philosophy was often but the utmost refinement of sensualism. Yet their conception of philosophy was characteristic; they esteemed it a species of intellectual melody, the internal harmony of thought and mind, the music of the soul.
The Greek authors who revealed this national mental symmetry in literature were not so much the pupils of study and contemplation as of natural and energetic life. The gymnastic contests formed the groundwork of polite education, and from the exhibition of the human body in its finest and fullest development—a consequence of these exercises— the imitative arts, especially sculpture, took their strongest impulse and best lessons. When the study of rhetoric began to be taught it was considered a sort of gymnastic exercise of the mind, and a public festival, at which eloquence was displayed, was instituted. Their popular games became so many theatres for poetry, and many odes and dramas were composed with reference to them. Shortly after, it became a custom for biographers, historians, and poets to recite their best productions at them. Thus Greek literature was a blossom from the active and physical life of the nation. It had the round, definite outlines which belong to the.plastic arts, and a symmetry easy to be apprehended pervaded the whole production. Everything was positive, clear, and finished, as they were in all the hopes and desires of the Greeks. Jupiter shaking Olympus and the whole world by his nod, and then shedding ambrosial fragrance from his hair throughout the circle of the immortal gods, is the type of the natural and brilliant genius of the Greeks. The pages of Homer and of some of the latei- tragic writers are alive with statuesque forms of gods and men. Everything great and beautiful was ennobled by palpable relations with the celestial world. Even the mysterious and rapid.changes of the human heart became dramatic conceptions under the theory of divine intervention. Thus the classical literature is distinguished by declaring the external relations of sentiments and thoughts, rather than their essential qualities, since the Greeks rarely conceived spirit as divorced from matter; by attaining to clear, definite and fixed views, which were possible in the confined thought and brilliant sphere of Hellenic imagination—by arranging these views in such a method that not only the moral and aesthetic sense may feel, but also that the intellect may perceive their unity as a whole throughout the harmonious adjustment of their parts. The laws of this literature were first reduced to a system by Aristotle in his “Poetics.” Among the axioms contained therein, against which writers of the romantic school have ever directed violent attacks, are, that there is nothing beautiful in literature which may not be analyzed by the intellect. Every poem must be contained within prescribed boundaries, so that it may be easy for the mind to embrace it at a glance, and form a single conception or picture of it. The distinction between tragedy and
comedy must be scrupulously observed, and their mixture strictly prohibited; neither admits of union with the other. These are a few of the fundamental rules of classical literature; still, there may be a few exceptions, and in no other literature have . they been carried out as in the Greek. Tragedy must be written in verse, and comedy and tragedy t . each must have the three unities—of action, time -and place. The mind of the Romans was in- -clined to war and state policy, and they borrowed • foi’ the most part their poetry from the Greeks. . With the grave and organizing character which ' > delighted in making laws for the whole world, ; they of themselves could never have originated the imaginary realm which they inherited. Dwell- , • ing almost under the same skv as the Greeks, a • ) little distant in time, and cherishing nearly the same religion, it is but natural that their literature should have many common qualities.
On the revival of literature in modern times, on the contrary, everything had changed—religion, society, and manners. The Greeks developed to unrivalled refinement the purely earthly life of man, for they had but a very dim knowledge of any being or life beyond their own pleasant sky. But in the Christian conception everything finite and mortal was almost wholly lost in the contemplation of infinity, and earthly objects and enjoyments were but the mere shadows of a greater and more glorious life whose reality dawns beyond the grave. The Greeks loved and delighted in the sunny and outward manifestation of nature; but the moderns in her mysterious depths. The ideal of the former was that of a perfectly harmonious human nature, and the latter were conscious of a profound internal discord which renders natural harmony impossible without the power of some supernatural being and with more power than that of the gods of the Greeks. In Greek literature, what is proposed is executed with the utmost perfection; but modern literature vainly strove to give artistic form to that which is infinite. Greek poetry is that of enjoyment, the modern that of desire; the one ideal, the other- mystical. •
While chivalry was the ruling element of society, and the popular mind was occupied with fantastical and traditional songs, fairy lays, and knightly narratives; and while a new style of architecture, not less than new social institutions, showed forth a new posture and tendency of the human spirit, the voice of scholars invoked- the imitation of the ancients, not1 only in literature, but also in history, politics, and morals. Of the many imitations of the ancients by moderns, the most studied and most successful was that made by the French tragedians in the age of Louis XIV. What only acted as an influence on Tasso and Shakespeare was made a law to Racine, Corneille, and Voltaire, and the three unities and the severance of tragedy from comedy was declared inseparable from dramatic excellence. A neoclassicism arose in France, which, in spite of many conflicts, predominated in French literature until the success of the romantic school in the present century. Yet, as imitation usurped the place of inherent truthfulness and or-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
83
;	iginality, art suffered under a sort of an anach-
;	ronism; and the attempt to re-write the Greek
:	drama resulted in a melange of modern sentiments
and manners with classical simplicity and regularity, to the detriment both of the former and latter. After the restoration of Louis XVIII the republican authors were usually classicists, and the royalists romanticists. In 1852, the Abbe Gaume endeavored to prove that the corruption of modern society was due to early study of profane classical authors, and recommended the Fathers of. the Church to be substituted in universities. In Italy, . Dante had been reproached for writing what was called the vulgar tongue, and Petrach had rested his fame, not on his Italian, but on his Latin poems. In England, at a later period, Lord Bacon com! posed his philosophical works in Latin, for he thought it destined to become the universal language. In 1692, Sir William Temple published an essay on ancient and modern literature in which the dispute concerning the classics, then at its height in France, was transferred for a time to England. He commended the comparative merits of the ancients, and was replied to by William Wotten in favor of the moderns. In support of Temple and the ancients, Swift wrote his allegory entitled the “ Battle of the Books.” But the most direct attack on the authority of the classics was made by the romantic school of Germany.
The lessons most strongly conveyed by classical study is to seek simplicity and a harmonious completeness of thought and arrangement, and this lesson is not less valuable, though the moulds of ancient literature may be inadequate to the wider field and finer materials of Christian thought. The influence of the classics at the period of the Renaissance is well explained in Hallam’s “ Literary History of Europe.” Among the most prominent authors who have written in favor of them, are Racine, Boileau, Temple and Henry Hein. Among those who have preferred the moderns are Paolo, Beni, La Motte, Wotten, and the Schlegels. The present literary tendencies of Germany and France, and less of England and America, as judged by their popular novels and poems, are anti-classcial.
The term classical is also applied by usage to :	those authors of all nations who have been perma-
nently admired and esteemed as authorities, and also to the period in which they lived. Thus the Greek classical period extends to 300 B. C., and the most distinguished authors which it includes are Homer, Hesiod, Simonides, Sappho, Pindar, Anachreon, XEschylus, Sophocles, Euripides, Aristophanes, Herodotus, Thucydides, Xenophon, Aristotle, Plato, Socrates, Demosthenes and yEschines. The Latin classical period begins with Plautus, 250 B. C., and ends under the Antonys in the latter part of the second century of the Christian era; its principal writers are Plautus, Terence, Tibullus, Catullus, Virgil, Horace, Ovid, Livy, Lucretius, Juvenal, Sallust, Cicero, Caesar, Quintillian, Seneca and Tacitus. The ages of Pericles and Augustus are called the classical periods of Greece and Rome. Italy had two classical periods: that of Dante and Petrarch, in the beginning of the
14th century, and that of the Renaissance—of Medici, Tasso and Ariosto—a century later. The Spanish classical period was in the early part of the 17th century. The French period was during the reign of Louis XIV. The German embraces the period of Schiller and Goethe, about thebeginning of this century. From the time of Shakespeare to the present, there has been no period in English literature which has been styled by preeminence classical.
X. Y. Z.
Sic Olim: Hodie Sic.
Secum, Dux Superum, quondam graviora putabat: Primus ego, liceat reliquos mea solvere dicta; Illuc adveniant, cunctis medicina parata est. Longius insolitai currunt res trame vetusta, Longius ingenium cruciant et fortia ducunt Hi, ridenda alius:—nullus res ordine volvit.	’
Oh molies animi, sat patrissastis inanes, Sero jubar vobis est ortum, linquite sedes! Lux nova: priscorum ratio malesana novetur, Qui pueris nutrimento tribuere suave Lac; fert nos animus tamen illis illico fortem Suppeditare cibum, gaudenti viribus autem Est modico pasci: rationi convenit illud. Sic etiam tenene mentes leviore putabant Pondere perpendi sensimque extendere molem, Quod minime quadrat natune, destruit acta. Nos juvat ingenuis extemplo tendere sphreram Qua mentes, qua judicium, qua nata facultas Digne exevcentur, reputant sublimia cceli, Ardua pnevertunt, breve, nil obsistere possit. . Ast non sic veteres, non sic ratione fruentes. An candelabro rutilans supponitur unquam Fax, rogo? vel fluvius montes ascendere tentat? An sol exoriens radios sine lumine mittit?
Quid novus ordo parit?—facibus caliginis horror Solvitur extinctis, jestum vis frigoris afFert, Lac pueris retrahit contra validisque ministrat. O res ridiculas 1 agitat se spiritus ardens!
J. Aloaios.
Industry.
By industry is meant an habitual and serious application of mind, as also diligence in any employment, either bodily or mental, joined with a steady and vigorous exercise of the active powers in prosecution of any specific object or end that is honest, reasonable and useful, so that thereby some considerable good may be attained. The duty of labor has been imposed on man ever since his fall, and therefore it is incumbent on each and everyone of us to perform well those works, whatever they may be, that are particular or special to us according to our position in life. It is the industrious man, it is the industrious nation that is pleasing to God. Success in every art and in every station in life, whatever may be the natural talent, is always the reward of industry. The humble peasant with limited education, the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
great monarch with all his wealth, pomp and attendants, the daring man that stands where cannons roar amid the smoke of battle, the student and meek clergyman—all must be zealous, energetic and industrious if they wish to attain any important end.
Industry is a duty required of all, but more especially of youth; for no matter with what abilities we are endowed, they profit us nothing if we want energy in exerting them, and all directions given by teachers will be unavailing if we do not put them into practice. Habits of industry should be practised in youth; for at this time the motives to it are stronger, from ambition, duty, and all the bright prospects which the beginning of life presents. There is nothing more against the true pleasure and enjoyment of life than that of passing our precious time in a state of indolence, as “he who is a stranger to industry may possess, but he cannot enjoy.” The youth of our large cities who, by passing away their time, live in idleness, will at manhood find themselves without education or sufficient knowledge to be employed in any respectable business. When young we may not be fully able to realize the value of time, and how important it is to be serious in whatever we undertake to accomplish; for, surely, if we do not while young make good use of our time, we will repent of it sooner or later. Let us not for a moment imagine that any affluence of fortune or any elevation of rank will exempt us from being industrious; it is the law of our being, of reason, and of. God. Let us remember that the years which pass over our heads leave permanent memorials behind them, and that these memorials are never lost . sight of by Him with whom there is no past or no future; that at the last day they will bear testi. mony either for or against us when called to give a strict account of our lives.
It is, then, our duty as good Christians to be persevering, to be industrious; for an industrious man is not only a credit, but also an ornament to society. Let us follow a man of this stamp for a few moments and see how he acts: he never falters, noi' succumbs to difficulties, but calmly removes them from his path and glides quietly on to the accomplishment of the end in view. Poverty, so discouraging to the idle, proves but an incentive to the industrious. The lack of genius (we mean uncommon intellectual power) serves but to make such men redouble their efforts to supply that which nature, to a certain degree, has denied them. Go where you will, look where you will, you will find that the industrious man is the prominent man. Look but for a moment at the “ Hill of Science,” and you will see its surrounding valleys and vales covered by a multitude of people of all ranks and conditions struggling to its summit, on which is placed the “Temple of Truth,” whose’ majestic pillars cast a shadow of benign influence over the face of the earth, and continually spur on the young, the fair, and the . gay to the acquisition of knowledge. Out of this multitude, a few may be distinguished from the rest by their steady and ever onward course, dili-
gently removing each and every obstacle that may	;
be in their path; climbing the steep and, not un-	j
frequently, rugged ascents; never deviating or stopping to listen to the many evil seducers that | constantly harrass them and endeavor to draw them	?
away from the pursuit of knowledge and truth.	;
But in spite of all this they persevere, and in due £ time arrive at their destination—the summit of the
“ Hill of Science”; and then those who at first de- " rided their slow and toilsome progress are obliged	|
to look up to them in silent admiration and aston-	y
ishment.	?
Those who have accomplished the end proposed | are the industrious and the persevering, who do I not spend their time in idleness or folly, but make | good use of it in accordance with the will of God. I Whereas, on the other hand, those who waste j their time, who are carried about by every breeze, who laugh at their neighbor because of his slow	I
but sure progress in the path of science, who stand	$
to listen to the warbling of pleasure, who, by the	|
force of an eccentric and flighty mind, are forced	|
into devious ways and untried paths, losing ground	|
at every step; those, no matter what their talent	|
may be, no matter what their genius may be, will	f
be outstripped by their industrious companions.	|
Hence it is that even in the lower walks of life we	S
can easily distinguish the man that is industrious	|
from the man that is not. Take, for instance, the	|
industrious farmer: five o’clock in the morning	g
does not find him in the arms of Morpheus, and	|
six is sure to find him at his work, no matter what	|
that work may be. He prospers, and prosperity	|
follows in his train. But, on the othei' hand, the	g
farmer that is not industrious, what does he do?	1
He is a burden to himself. The winds of the hills can carry everything belonging to him to the J farthest ends of the earth and it does not cost him a thought. He rises late in the morning, he goes to fe bed late at night; his dwelling-house and out-	®
houses are a spectacle to the passer-by; his lands	s
are in the same condition, because of his neglect S and slothfulness. .	g
Let those who wish to be enterprising and pros- g perous men learn to be industrious, as industry begets wealth and peace, happiness and contentment, if accomj^anied by virtue. Let them make good use of every moment as it passes, for time is a sacred trust committed to us by God, of which we M are’the depositary. A part of it is allotted for this g world’s concerns and a part for those things per- W taining to the world to come. Let each of these occupy7 that space which properly belongs to it.
Let not hours of recreation and pleasure interfere i B with those in which are discharged the common U duties of life; and let not what may be called	. ||
worldly affairs encroach upon the time due to de-	O
votion. If we delay till to-morrow what ought to O be done to-day, we burden to-morrow with what ||| does not belong to it; we overload the wheels Hi of time and prevent it from carrying us along ||| smoothly. Manhood is not unfrequently disgraced by the consequences of neglected youth. Old age 91 oppressed is bowed down with cares that properly ||| belong to a former period of life; and a premature S
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	85
grave is the natural result of time misspent in our earlier days.	।
The conclusion which from the foregoing may be legitimately drawn is, that if the moral and intellectual training of a youth be neglected, the foundation of his manhood is never built; and, therefore, when he arrives at man’s estate he has nothing to lean upon for support, and consequently will easily fall, either by following his own evil inclinations, or by being a tool in the hands of some crafty individual that very easily accomplishes his ruin. Again, as the employment, no matter what kind it may be, which by the common consent of mankind forms the basis of prosperity is neglected and unperformed by a youth, he must on arriving at manhood strive to make up in some way for these follies, and instead of going on smoothly and calmly, laying up those things which are necessary for the maintenance of old age, he is obliged from necessity to become young again, as it were, and build in some way or other a foundation upon' which he may stand for the remainder of his life. This foundation, of course, is not very solid, and hence it is that so many are badly oft' in their later years, and in place of, as we have already said, being prosperous, they are what we may call the opposite.
Idleness is the root of every evil; it prevents man from developing the natural faculties of the mind, and, therefore, from fulfilling the end for which he was created; it perverts the judgment, and subjects reason to vicious affections; it undermines society itself, and carries anarchy, confusion and poverty into the very heart of that government and country which we, as citizens, are bound not only to uphold but also to assist, as far as lies in our power, in the promotion of its prosperity and welfare, and thereby sustain that cause for which our grandsires fought and bled. This is the duty of every citizen. How far it is faithfully performed can be very easily seen. The intelligence of a people may be said to be the security of a nation, and industry is the security of this intelligence, which may again be termed the bulwark or rampart against which all deficiencies, whatever their nature may be, can have no effect. When the people of a country have sufficient understanding to distinguish truth from falsehood, and to adopt the proper means to the end which they may have in view, sufficient judgment to judge rightly and wisely what they ought to judge; and when they are distinguished for prompt decision of character, invincible determination to adhere to whatever may be right and just, and inflexible resolution in carrying out whatever may be determined upon, either for future contingencies or for the events that have passed or are now transpiring, then the only requisites are industry and perseverance.	C. C.
The first Napoleon had an amazing memory for figures. He remembered the respective produce of all taxes through every year of his administration, and could repeat them even to centimes.
The Inventor of Champagne.
In the August number of Catholic Progress, an excellent article upon the celebrated Benedictine Abbey of Hautvillers, signed with the initials of a well-known Catholic authoress, reminds us of a claim of the good monks to our gratitude, which has been lately much overlookd. cc Our readers,” it says, « will learn with surprise that the first discovery of the far-famed ‘ Champagne Mousseux ’ was due to a moni of Hautvillers—Dom Pdrignon, whose name, well-known to his contemporaries, is now almost forgotten. He embraced the religious life when still very young, and his exemplary con- • duct caused him to be appointed cellarer of the abbey,—an office of no small importance, as one of the chief sources of the revenues of the monastery lay in the cultivation of the vineyards that clothed the neighboring hills. Dom Perignon devoted his attention to this object, and by a judicious mixture of the different kinds of grapes, he produced a wine of rare excellence. So delicate was his taste that, towards the end of his life, being’ afflicted with total blindness, he used to bid his subordinates bring him grapes from the different vineyards belonging to the abbey, and after tasting the fruit, he would say with unerring correctness from which particular vineyard it had been gathered. Before his time, the wine commonly called champagne was not effervescent, and of a dull, gray color; he was the first, by proceedings of which he alone possessed the secret, to make it white, clear, sparkling, and effervescent, without employing any of the deleterious means used by some wine-merchants of our day. Although the name of the humble religious is now forgotten by the world at large, his discovery acquired for him a certain celebrity in his native province, where to this day he is regarded . as the first discoverer of ‘ Le Champagne Mousseux,’ called in the last century 4 Vin de Pdrignon,’ and which Talleyrand pronounced to be CLe win civilisateur 'par excellence? A periodical of 1873 recalls the piquant fact that the world-spread beverage 4 had an abbey for its cradel, a Benedictine for its parent, and entered the world amidst the silence of the cloiste^ Another writer, after giving a rapid sketch of the early history of the wine trade, adds:
“ ‘ Mais, dix siecles plus tard, le moine Perignon Inventait le champagne et lui donnait son nom.’
44 Dom Perignon died in 1715, without having realized the immense commercial importance of his discovery. His epitaph in the abbey church tells us nothing of the invention that made his name fa-mous, but carefully records: 4 His paternal love for the poor.’ He communicated his secret to a lay brother named Philip, who in his turn told it to Brother. AndrS Lemaire, cellarer of the abbey at the time of the great Revolution. As he lay on his death-bed he passed on the secret to Dom Grossart, the last procurator of the monastery, who carried it with him to the grave. Our modern wine-merchants have arrived, by different means, at the same result as that obtained by Dom Perignon,
86
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
but who can tell if in the receipt so unfortunately lost they should not have found valuable hints and suggestions which even modern science might have gratefully welcomed? ”
Art, Music and Literature. ■
—Verdi, now seventy-three years old, has composed one hundred and twenty-five operas.
—Lord Tennyson’s new work is mainly one poem, of the same length as “ Enoch Arden,” with several unpublished lyrics and some short pieces, including the Leopold memoriam.
—King Oscar of Sweden has, in his office as President of the Academy of Music in Stockholm, delivered musical lectures on different occasions. These have now been published in a volume, with the addition of some chorales composed by his Majesty. A German translation of the book is in preparation.
—Miss Eliza Allen Starr, of St. Joseph’s Cottage, Chicago, the renowned Catholic author and writer, lately lectured in St. Joseph’s Academy, St. Paul, Minn. The elite of the city, Catholic and Protestant, was present. The subject of the lecture was “The Art of the Dominicans and Franciscans in the Middle Ages.”
—The recent sale of the Duke of Hamilton’s Library is said to be the largest book sale on record. It continued forty days, and the total amount realized was eight hundred and fifty thousand dollars. The famed Sunderland collection brought but a little more than one-fourth as much, and the Gos-ford collection only forty-five thousand dollars.
—Mr. Julian B. Arnold, son of Edwin Arnold, is now in this country superintending the publication of “ The Arnold Birthday Book,” edited by his sister, and composed of selections from the works *of their illustrious father. Mr. Arnold has transferred to his son his literary rights in the matter used, some of which is new and expressly prepared, and the latter has made arrangements for publication with D. Lothrop & Co.
—The young Englishman IPAlbert, who is only 22 years of age, is said, next td* Rubenstein, to be the best of the present generation of pianists. His technique is reported as being superior to Rubenstein’s, in that it is more sure, while his ability as an interpreter is marvellous. He is also a composer of rare merit, and recently performed one of his own concertos in Berlin with a success that excited awe. The work is one of the most difficult of its class, and ends with a four-part fugue, the subjects of which are treated in a masterly manner.—Fortnightly Index.
—The report of Liszt’s having become blind at Bayreuth is a gobemouche. It is rather hard that a celebrated man cannot complain of his eyes being a little tired after writing one evening without it being telegraphed throughout the civilized world that he has become blind. During the last days of “Parsifal” the great virtuoso seemed to recover some of that old elasticity and verve which
recent indisposition has certainty rather impaired. l\s usual, he was to be seen surrounded by adoring admirers, and giving them proof that his fingers had by no means lost their cunning.
—A letter from Ireland to the Catholic Review states that the societies for the “ Preservation and Promotion of the Irish Language ” and the “ Gaelic Union ” have done a vast amount of good by the publication of cheap elementary books in large circulation, by the extension of its study in the National Schools, and by its adoption in the programme of the Intermediate Education Board and of the Royal University. The Public Departments, as the Poor Law and the Prison Boards, are also beginning to recognize the desirability of securing, as far as possible, the services on their staffs, in Irish-speaking districts, of officers able to speak the vernacular. The Jesuit Fathers in charge of the University College are contributing very generously to the movement; but further efforts in the same patriotic direction could be made by the great College of Mynooth in reference to the education of the priesthood. Associations of laymen are also vigorously stimulating the stud}7 of national history and archaeology.
Scientific Notes.
—The largeststeam engine in the United States is that of the Pilgrim steamboat, the cylinder being i io inches in diameter, with 14 feet stroke. This being a marine engine has no fly wheel. The largest fly wheel in the United States is that of the Corliss engine, exhibited at the Centennial in 1876.—N. Y. Ex.
—The French railway companies are about to adopt an electric gate-opener. A catch connected with an electric magne keeps a gate closed. When a train approaches it closes the circuit, releases the catch, and the gate flies open. The last car on the train, as it passes through, opens the circuit, and the gate is again closed. The same device rings a bell violently on the approach of each train.
—In the stamp bureau of the Post-Office Department at Washington is a little instrument that is used for measuring the thickness of sheets of paper. It is useful in determining the quality of the stock put into envelopes and other stationery by contractors with the Government. The unit of measurement is a sixteenth-thousandth of an inch. While exhibiting it to an inquisitive reporter, the chief of the bureau demonstrated that a hair from his head was about twenty sixteen thousandths of an inch in diameter, and a hair of his mustache was thirty sixteen thousandths of an inch thicker..
—In a lecture before the Society of Arts, London, Prof. Williams said that twenty pounds of cheese contained as much nutritious material as a sheep of sixty pounds, and would give the same value in practical nutriment if it could be as easily digested. The lecturer then demonstrated that the cause of indigestibility in cheese was the loss of its potassium salts in the process of manufacture. Another savant present decided to experiment as
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
to the feasibility of restoring the lost salts and making the article perfectly digestible. He is said to have succeeded so well that the matter will soon be tried on a larger scale. The amount of the bicarbonate of potash restored is 15^ ounces to 1 pound of cheese. The two are simply melted together over a slow fire, with a small quantity of milk.
—At Ilion, N. Y., on Sept. 26, George W. Weaver, the publisher of the Ilion Citizen^ printed the first newspaper in the world, the type of which was entirely composed by a type-setting machine. The entire edition of 5,000 copies was printed by the aid of an electric motor, the same which on March 14 printed Mr. Weaver’s Journal being the first in the known world to accomplish the feat. The machine that set the type was invented by John L. McMillan, of Ilion. His machine avoids all complications in mechanism, and produces a method whereby the letters follow direct and uninterrupted courses in all their movements. Two operators are required, one to manipulate the keyboard, and one to space out, while the distributor requires about one-half the time of an attendant to feed the lines to it. The capacity of the machine is 5,000 ems per hour, and no power other than the fingering of the keyboard is required. The distributor is automatic in its distribution of the letters, and has a capacity equal to the setting machine. The face of the type it not touched in its passage through either machine. Type can be distributed at considerably less than half the cost of hand-labor.
College Gossip.
—There are twenty American girls studying at the University of Zurich.
—The Ohio Wesleyan University at Delaware has just admitted into the school a girl who has come all the way from China to be educated in Ohio.
—King Kalakua has given $10,000 to the College of St. Louis at Honolulu in the Sandwich Islands. The college is under the direction of the Brothers of Mary, whose headquarters are at Dayton, Ohio.
— Reuben E. Springer has made an additional gift of fifteen thousand dollars to the College of Music at Cincinnati. This clears the college of embarrassing debt, and leaves it with property and funds of not less than two hundred thousand dollars, j	—The students of Dartmouth College are about
I to build an observation tower “on the hill” north-| east of the Astronomical Observatory. The design ' is by John Lyman Faxon, architect of “Rollins i Chapel,” and is after the manner of a mediaeval ; fortification town.
—Professor William Wagner has made another addition to his endowment of the “Wagner Free Institute of Science,” in Philadelphia, having given it thirteen new and handsome dwelling-houses valued at one hundred and sixty-five thousand dollars,
making the total value of the endowment more than six hundred thousand dollars.
—The College of Maynooth has recently had a grant of a new set of prizes by which the name of the late Archbishop McHale will become connected in a special manner with the institution. By his will, the late “John of Tuam ” bequeathed to his nephew, the Very Rev. Dr. Thomas McHale, of the Irish College, Paris, the estate of Miltown, County Galway, the judicial rents of which amount to T20& odd fler annum. Dr. McHale has, with great liberality, assigned the estate over to the trustees of the Maynooth College to provide remunerative prizes to students pursuing their studies for the ecclesiastical state.
—The late Senator Anthony, of Providence, bequeathed to the library of Brown University his collection of poetry, believed by Mr. Anthony and others to be the most remarkable extant, with the provision that it be put in a separate alcove bearing an a appropriate inscription translated into Latin. This collection is now in what might be called its third generation. It was begun by the late Judge Albert G. Greene, a Providence collector. His library was sold at his death, and one thousand volumes came into the hands of the. late Caleb Fiske Harris, who had abundant means and the inclination to extend it. With him it reached four thousand volumes. Mr. Anthony bought the poetical and dramatic part of the library and has added to it, not seeking rare authors, but the choicest editions of standard works. Brown University will receive five thousand volumes.^-^owe Journal.
—The London press is just now united in its praise of the remarkable exhibit of the Brothers of the Christian Schools at the Health Exhibition in London. Until the exhibition, probably not above two hundred people in England ever heard of these Brothers, so quietly and unobtrusively had they carried oh their noble work; yet they have established schools all over the world and have just recently celebrated the 200th anniversary of their foundation. Altogether, they have over a thousand houses, twelve thousand teaching Brothers, and half a million pupils. One of their most important schools in England is St. Joseph’s College, Clapham. In France and her colonies they have 953 houses; in this country, 70; in Belgium, 44; in Canada, 26; and the others in Italy, Spain, South America, Turkey, Egypt, Austria, India and China. In France and Belgium, especially, the Brothers have achieved a great reputation as teachers; and in this country and in Canada, and, in fact, throughout the world they have—gained high and secure positions. The Brothers all receive an extremely careful training, and it -is only after a very strict probation that they are allowed to enter the Brotherhood. The distinctive features of their teaching are its practicability and adaptability to circumstances. Their schools are not surpassed by the most advanced real-schulen in Germany, and certainly not equalled, all round, by the most advanced schools in England or the United States.—Ex,
88
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Dame, October 11, 1884.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Eighteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct. ‘	’
' Students should take it,; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
■ Terms, $1.50 for Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
—Another valuable medal to be awarded at the Commencement in June will no doubt engage the attention of our scientists during the year. This medal is to be gained by the student of Physical Science who will show the best practical work in the Laboratory on some subject to be assigned bv Hie Professor. Mr. Ferdinand E. Kuhn, of Nashville, Tenn., a scientific graduate of the Class of ’8s, manifests the interest he takes in his favorite Course, while under the protection of his Alma Mater, by generously presenting this award. .
—To the credit of the students be it said that at Senator Voorhees’s visit all, irrespective of party— and there was no small number of Republicans and People’s Party men among the audience-joined in the cheers given at the close of the Senator’s speech on Sunday last. This is right and proper. Senator Voorhees did not come here to speak of politics; and as a distinguished visitoi, one who had been honored by his fellow-citizens with a seat-in the Supreme Council of the Nation, he deserved the honor lie had received and the cordial reception given him. Notre Dame’s students deported themselves as gentlemen on that occasion, as we hope they always will on similar occasions, . no matter what distinguished man may honor us with a visit. ,
It is high time that our essayists should begin
to think of the English Medal, and set about the work of competing therefor. Intrinsically, it is a prize well worth the struggle; but leaving this consideration aside, the competition has in its favor the fact that, whatever the issue may be, all who take part in the struggle, not only will never regret the time thus spent, but will derive an exceptional benefit from the work in which they engage. We may repeat the conditions: Four essays are rerequired, each of which must be equivalent in length to a three-column article in the Scholastic. The subjects for three of these essays may be chosen by the competitor;. the subject for the fourth and final competition is selected by the Rev. Director of Studies, to whom the essays should be handed in at intervals of not longer than two months.
—The Prefect of Discipline gave some hints about correspondence a few evenings ago that, although addressed to the Juniors, may be applicable in the other departments of the University. He said that if new-comers would write a postscript to their letters, giving the address in full— not only the post-office, but the department of the University to which they had been assigned—the delivery of the letters would be greatly facilitated. Now, instead of a letter being simply and correctly addressed to
Mr. John J. Smith, Notre Dame, (Junior Dep’t.)	Indiana.
it is not infrequently addressed to “ Mr. J. J. Smith, South Bend, Notre Dame University, Indiana, or “ Mr. J. J. Smith, Notre Dame University, South Bend, Ind.,” or “near Sozdh Bend” etc., etc. This round-about method of addressing letters is not only unnecessary, but is also wrong, as it requires that such letters be first sent to South Bend and assorted there, and afterwards remailed from South Bend to the Notre Dame post-office, thus causing unnecessary trouble and delay. The post-office of the University is at Notre Dame, and no further post-office address is necessary. If the Junior, Senior, or Minim'department, as the case may be, is written in the lower left-hand corner of the envelope, the work of delivery will often be expedited.	,
—We learn from the Catholic Mirror that H. V. D. Johns, of the Baltimore bar, recently delivered a eulogium on Francis Scott Key, the author of “ The Star-Spangled Banner,” before the St Vincent’s Lyceum, of Baltimore; and furthermore that an association has been formed in that city to
<0
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	89
erect a monument to Key—the permission of the Mayor and City Council being- granted—in Patterson Park, in the eastern suburb of the city. It is to be regretted that, as Mr. Johns stated in his address, no biography or printed memorial of the .1 author of “The Star-Spangled Banner” is now to ,	be had in the United States—a reproach that, we
hope, will not long exist. With the citizens of Baltimore, especially, it should be a matter of pride that a suitable memorial or biography of the author of our national song should be published; for it was in sight of their city, almost within its precincts, that the bombardment of Fort McHenry took place, during which Key composed his immortal song, a song dear to the heart of every American citizen. A more suitable place than Patterson Park for the proposed monument to Key could not be selected, for there to this day can still be seen a large remnant of the earthworks thrown up to meet the advance of the British army under Gen. Ross. Another relic of one of the most celebrated revolutionary heroes of Maryland, Charles Carroll of Carrollton, is the house in which that illustrious Signer of the Declaration died,—on Lombard street opposite the old Clagett brewery. To the discredit of Baltimore be it said, the old Carroll mansion is now used as a beer saloon. The memory of ,	the great man who within its walls departed this
life should surely have saved the old city residence of Charles Carroll of Carrollton from such an ignoble use. The Mirror would do a good work by calling attention to the matter, and removing - the stigma that must attach to the city through its oversight or its want of patriotism. If other cities that we wot of possessed a house with such hallowed associations, the surrounding buildings would soon be levelled and their site converted into a public park.
—Next Monday—the 13th—will be the patronal festival of the Very Rev. Edward Sorin, SuperiorGeneral of the Congregation of the Holy Cross and Founder of N.otre Dame. It need not be said it is always a great festal day in our “little world ” here. Known familiarly as Founder’s Day, all those exercises that form part and parcel of a true holiday are participated in or witnessed and enjoyed by all here present both great and small. Of course, the immediate occasion of all this rejoicing is the desire to give expression to feelings of respect and veneration for one who, under God, has so efficiently and successfully labored in the cause of Religion and Education in our country.
The history of Notre Dame is the history of
Father General Sorin; it is his life-work, and with it he is completely identified. The high and leading position which Notre Dame occupies among the institutions of our Republic has made her name known throughout the length and breadth of the land. Familiar to thousands is the story of her existence and progress from humble beginnings to the present stately pile of structures, which now provide a home for hundreds of devoted religious and form the centre from which bands go forth each year to spread through the country the mission of, the work of education to which they have devoted their lives,—which provide, too, and particularly, halls of learning 'within which are sheltered and cared for great numbers of youthful aspirants after knowledge. All this is well known and needs not the repetition. But all of us feel that nothing can be too great to do honor to him who ' first laid its foundations, watched over its progress, and, with the blessing.of Heaven, carried to its present high state of development this home of Religion and Science.
We, of the ScripLASTic, tender our congratulations to Father General upon the happy recurrence of his beautiful festival. We congratulate him also upon the health and vigor with which Heaven still blesses him, though the years of his life have been many; and it is our earnest hope —as it is of all at Notre Dame, not only his spiritual children, but all who have come here to profit by the educational and religious advantages which his devotedness, learning and self-sacrifice have inaugurated and perfected—that for many a year yet to come he may continue to enjoy the fulness of. life and strength, and preside over the destinies of our Alma Mater.	-
Exchanges.
—The High-School Index, from Ann Arbor, Mich., has given place to The Index, a weekly of 16 pages, to be devoted to matters of general interest in science, art, education, literature, etc. The new publication is to be, as was its predecessor, under the editorial management of Profs. Winchell, Adams, and Payne, of the University of Michigan, and Prof. Douglas of the University of Wisconsin.
—The Dial for October gives, as usual, several brief but.interesting reviews; the subject of the first, by Horatio N. Powers, being the recently issued “Life and Letters of• Bayard Taylor,”— who once wrote to a friend’: “ I am known to the public.not as a poet, the only title I covet, but as one who succeeded in seeing Europe with little
9°
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
money; and the chief merits accorded to me are not passion and imagination, but strong legs and economical habits.” J. A. Jamison critically reviews Herbert Spencer’s claims as a prophet of society in “The Man Versus the State,” and Paul Shorey the “ Odyssey in Rhythmic English Prose” by Prof. Palmer. Walter Besant’s theory of the “ Art of Fiction ” is descanted upon by Melville B. Anderson. “ A Pioneer Historian ” is the caption of W. H. Smith’s remarks on the Life and Writings of John Filson. The two recent American editions of Swinburne call forth some well-timed and caustic remarks from Wm. Morton Payne. On the anonymous “ Reforms: Their Difficulties and Possibilities,” we have a column from Geo. Batchelor. “Briefs on New Books,” “ Literary Notes and News” will be found interesting by hiblio-phi lists.
—The Catholic Union and Times, of Buffalo, is an excellent, family newspaper. It was in its pages that Rev. Father Lambert’s “ Notes on Ingersoll,” now so famous among Protestants as well as Catholics, first appeared. The “ Notes ” has since run through many editions in book-form from the Union and Times press, and at last accounts has been pirated by a Protestant publishing house in Canada. The first page of the Union and Times, containing all the latest home and foreign news, is a fine specimen of careful editing. The various items on this first page are classified under the headings of “News of the Day,” “Foreign,” “ Catholic Notes,” and “ Briefs,” and it is surprising what an amount of interesting news is condensed into the six columns on this single page. In another part of the paper will be found “ German Notes” gleaned or condensed from various sources.
o	, .
Of the poetry, original and selected, it is unnecessary to speak; the fact that the editor of The Union and Times is himself a poet of no mean order sufficiently guarantees the merit of what appears in his paper from other pens. The credit of The Union and Times is not a little enhanced by its independent course with regard to politics—-a subject on which not a few have gone wild lately, and seem to have lost all discretion and judgment.
— The “Ave Maria” so different from all our other exchanges, is one whose contents, varied and interesting, are always a source of more than ordinary pleasure. Infolded in its handsome blue cover we find poetic gems from pens at home and abroad, miscellaneous articles, serial stories from the very best writers, correspondence, news, literary notes, etc. The weekly bulletin of the Confraternity of Our Lady of Lourdes, too, chronicles very remarkable instances of our Blessed Lady’s intercession in favor of her clients in this country, from the voluntary testimony given by those clients themselves or by their friends. That excellent serial story, “ The Old House at Glenaran,” from the pen of Mrs. Anna H. Dorsey, of Washington, which has proved such a great attraction to the readers of The “Ave Maria ” for months past, has just drawn to a happy conclusion. Mrs. Dorsey— now past her seventieth year, we believe—is probably the oldest living writer of fiction in America,
and her writings are always of the purest and best. There is nothing- mawkish, no mere sentimental twaddle, and yet the writer takes a strong hold of the reader from the beginning; to the end. Plots have long since ceased to be a leading feature in o	o
stories, but Mrs. Dorsey still retains the advantages of the plot, with the superadded graces of those inimitable character sketches that her long experience of human life and human nature enable hei' to draw with such a masterly hand. Auld Nichol, Edna Sinclair, Mrs. Donald Nichol, and the other characters of the “ Old House ” are splendidly drawn, and really depict life in some of the many phases in which it is daily seen by the close observer. The shorter stories in the “Youth’s Department” of The “Ave Maria” happily supply, in a measure, a great want, and one for which few even of the ablest pens can cater. Writing for the young seems to be a special gift, given to few. Taking it as a whole, The “AveMaria” is a model weekly magazine, and moreover is a marvel of cheapness. More than a thousand large and handsomely printed pages of reading-matter are here given for the low price of $2.50 a year. We are glad to learn that the subscription list is large, and rapidly increasing, for The “Ave Maria” is well worthy of the greatest success.
—The college papers have at last begun to come in. They hail from all points of the compass. With very few exceptions, they are more remarkable for quantity than quality, for printorial taste rather than editorial ability—just as might be expected at this time of the year. We know how it is ourselves, and can easily excuse drawbacks on the part of others, but really when one glances over the contents of some of these college papers and sees the many borrowed articles, he cannot help thinking that they—the papers, not the articles— were started out under compulsion, will or no will, because the time for starting had come and not because the papers were ready to start. The habiliments of these college representatives are of all colors, from the brick-red or terra cotta of the Vanderbilt to the grizzly gray or blue granite of the Northzvestern, and the contents are nearly as varied as the covers. Some of the writers in the Oberlin Review and The Northwestern, athirst for blood, have donned their brimstone shirts, put on their war-paint and sallied forth in quest of the much annihilated “ Romish ” Church and her imaginary iniquities, in order to annihilate them again. ’Twere hard to say how many windmills shall be demolished ere the quest is ended, but the butchery of Saxon undefiled and rhetorical rules by some of the doughty warriors is already fearful to contemplate. We shudder at the sight. History must suffer, truth must suffer, at the hands of these knights er-rant of the pen and pencil,—but what boots it! The allotted space must be filled; the “ Home Contest” at Oberlin must be fought, and must be won by hook or by crook, while the Northwestern man drives strange things through the levelled dykes of Holland to seal the fate of William the Silent, who, despite all his protestations, is for the nonce made a renegade Catholic.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
9i
It is a pleasure to turn from such trash as the foregoing to the really excellent articles of the Niagara Index and the Fordham College Monthly. The “ Suggestions on the Study of Modern German Poets ” in the first-mentioned paper, and “The Unity of the Human Race”—a rare biological treat—in the Fordham, are articles whose merit entitles them to a careful perusal, articles such as are not often met with even in the pages of our first-class magazines. The Niagara Index and the Fordham College Monthly undoubtedly take the lead of all our exchanges in ability, and it is to us a matter for honest pride to see our coreligionists so far superior to all their competitors. This fact ill comports with the charge of ignorance so often laid at the door of Catholics.
Personal.
—H. C. Bush (Com’l), ’S3, is engaged in business with his father in Denver.
—M. J. Skilling, M. D., ’70, is located at 1702 Christian Street, Philadelphia, and has a large professional practice.
—Mr. and Mrs. Williamson, of Kansas City, were visiting their son Theodore, of the Junior department, last week.
—Arthur P. Coll spent the vacation at Atlantic City, where he distinguished himself by saving several persons from drowning.
—John PI. Fend rich (Com’l),’84, has entered the mercantile field, and is reaping experience and profit. We wish him a good harvest.
—Daniel G. Taylor (Com’l), ’84, has a fine position in a St. Louis’ firm, and is bound to reach the top of the ladder. Dan. needs no boosting.
—Among the visitors of the past week were the Revs. M. Hodnett and J. Fitzpatrick, of Chicago; and Mt. James Murdock, of Michigan City, Ind.
—Wm. T. Mug (Com’l), ’83, is now in business with his father at the Lafayette Hominy Mills, Lafayette, and is reflecting credit upon his Alma Mater.
—Leon Gibert, ’84, is now living in Paris, where he seems to be happy and prosperous, but he sometimes exclaims, in pensive accents, as he thinks of former days: “Ay de mi!”
—John McDonnell (Com’l),’84, is engaged in business with his father at Des Moines, Iowa. John bids fair to become a successful businessman and a credit to the University from which he went forth.
—We were pleased to meet the Rev. M. F. Campion, ’64, Logansport, Ind.; Rev. J. R. Din-nen, ’64, Crawfordsville, Ind.; and the Rev. J. Bleckmann, ’67, Delphi, Ind. The Rev. gentlemen were present in attendance at the Retreat of the clergy, of the Diocese. They were pleased with the opportunity afforded them of visiting their Alma Mater., where they have many warm friends and well-wishers.	.
—On Tuesday morning, Rev. M. Regan, C. S. C., our esteemed Prefect of Discipline, received the Sacred Order of Subdeaconship at the hands of Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger. The prelate was assisted by a number of the resident and visiting clergy, while a large congregation was formed of Religious and students assembled to witness the solemn and imposing ceremonies. We join with the numerous friends of the Rev. M. Regan in congratulating him upon his reception of the first of the Sacred Orders.
—The following are the names of the clergy of the Diocese in attendance at the Bi-ennial Retreat, which closed last Sunday morning. Among them were a number of old students of Notre Dame; their class-year is given after their names: Rt. Rev. Joseph Dwenger, D. D.; Revs. H. Brammer, J. Becks, J. Bleckmann, ’67; H. A. Boekelmann,J. H. Bathe, Wm. Berg, J. B. Crowley, ’60; M. E. Campion, ’64; P. J. Crossen, D. Duehmig, J. R. Din-nen, ’64; J. Dempsey, F. X. Ege, Joseph Flach, J. Grogan, ’69; C. A. Ganser, J. H. Guendling, A. Heitmann, J. Heuser, D. D.; H. A. Hellhake, B. Hartman, J. Floss, M. Joy, E. Koenig, H. Koehne, B. Kroeger, F. Koerdt, H. F. Kroll, Wm. Kroeger, A. J. Kroeger, F. Lordemann, J. F. Lang, F. G. Lentz, C. Lemper, F. J. Lambert, FI. Meissner, A. Messmann, ’67; J. A. Mark, L. A. Moench, C. Maujay, W. C. Miller, D. J. Mulcahy, J. Nussbaum, A. B. Oechtering, J. H. Oech-tering, M. O’Reilly, ’59; H. M. Plaster, J. H. Quinlan, C. M. Romer, P. F. Roche, Wm. Schmidt, C. N. Stetter, D. D.; A. J. Struder, James Twig, E. P. Walters, B. Wiedau, F. C. Wiechmann, H. T. Wilken, A. Young, M. Zumbulte.
Local Items.
—Winter breezes.
—Euglossians to-night.
—Next Monday is St. Edward’s Day.
—White frost last Thursdav morning.
—The Bulletins were sent off last Thursday.
—Mr. Elmer Otis will act as drill-master of the Sorin Cadets.
—The Orpheonics of ’85 make their debut tonight in a grand chorus, o	o	.
—Who, that heard Senator Voorhees last week, does not agree with him ?
-----Our astrologer’s predictions coincide most beautifully with the present spell of weather.
—Last Tuesday night, Prof. Hoynes addressed the people of South Bend on the political issues of the times.	.
—The Euglossians return thanks to Mf. O’Day for kind services in the preparation of the text of their play.
—Students should patronize home art and beauty by purchasing the photographs of the crews,1 as taken on the. lake last week.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
—The Crescent Club will hold a reunion on the evenins; of Monday next, complimentary to Very Rev. Father General Sorin.
—Now cometh the season when the festive football appeareth to make the athlete glad; it also maketh him to hold his shin and say “ Oh! oh! ”
—The Staff of ’85 have under consideration the subject of acrostics, and it has been resolved to impose a mortal penalty upon all composers of such.
—One of our “dear 'old Professors” remarked the other day that he had a chewer among his classes. Being asked who it was, he replied “ litera-ture^
—A general amenity has been granted the “ Princes ” this week in honor of the festival of their beloved Patron. The names of all appear on the “ Roll of Honor.”
—Among others, the Colorado boys are practising for the 100-yard dash on Field-Day, the 13th inst. A gold medal is the prize to be contested for—best two out of three.
—When our friend John beheld the result of the late beneficial rains, he was inspired and broke forth as follows: “In England every college has its verger, and we have oiir verdure too.” Oh!
—F. McNulty was suddenly called home last Saturday to attend the funeral of an uncle. Many regrets are expressed at his absence, and it is hoped by all that he may be soon among us.
—Two overcoats—belonging to small boys— and a shawl have been found in the parlor and elsewhere, unclaimed. The owners should apply to Bro. Bernard, or at the trunk-room. Some of these articles have been lying around since September, awaiting an owner.
—It seems that the famous sign-board has been doing duty as a “ back-stop,” and no sinister designs were contemplated. We are happy, purely for esthetic reasons, to learn that it will soon be replaced by a new patent wire fixture, which will be at the same time useful and ornamental.
—We have heard it remarked that it would be a blessing to suffering humanity if some one would assassinate and bury those ancient subjects,—“ Our friend John ” and the “ Astrologer.” W e beg leave to state that they are not subjects—they are kings or rulers of some kind, perhaps public opinion.
—The 5th regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was • held on Tuesday,' Oct. 6th. The following were admitted to membership: Master F. Cobbs, B. O’Kane, T. McGuire and F. Rugee; well-written compositions were read by F. Weston and W. Henry; A. McVeigh delivered a declamation.
—-The Ave Maria for next week will contain contributions, in prose and verse, sent from five different countries:—a poem from Portugal, a sketch from the Tyrol, a short story for young folk from England, and two other prose articles from Brazil and the Sandwich Islands—a fairly cosmopolitan number.
—The young ladies of St. Joseph’s Academy,
South Bend, have presented Messrs. Steis and Saviers, captains of the racing boats, with two handsome silk banners. This kind presentation has created such enthusiasm in the crews as to cause all possible efforts to be used in making the race one of the finest and best contested ever witnessed at Notre Dame.
—Mr. Joseph A. Lyons, A. M., of Notre Dame, Ind., has presented our Monthly Library with a complimentary copy of his drama in four acts, “ The Prodigal Law Student,” for male characters only. We have not as yet had the leisure to peruse it, but we think that if any writer is competent to produce a drama which‘would tell on a college stage, it is certainly one who, like Mr. Lyons, has been long and intimately connected with the ways and doings, and likes and dislikes of college students. Mr. Lyons has our sincere thanks for his college drama.—Fordham College Monthly.
—The 1st regular meeting of the Juniors’ branch of the T. A. U. was held Wednesday evening, October 8th._ The following are the officers for this term: Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director; Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., President; F. Hagenbarth, 1st Vice-President; J. Monschein, 2d Vice-President; M. B. Mulkern, Recording Secretary; S. O’Brien, Corresponding Secretary; W. Wabraushek, Treasurer; H. Sedberry, 1st Censor; E. Porter, 2d Censor; ’ G. Myers, Standard-Bearer. The members were favored with a declamation by J. Monschein, after which the meeting adjourned.
—A few days ago, Signor Gregori put the finishing strokes to a magnificent life-sized portrait in oil of our present Holy Father Leo XIII. The picture was painted for the Professor of History, who has placed it at the head of the stair-case leading to “ Bishops’ Hall.” The portrait is certainly the most pleasing likeness of the Holy Father we have had the pleasure of seeing. It is painted with the bold strokes of a master hand, and is so artistically relieved that the figure seems to be living. Prof. Gregori has also finished a portrait of the Most Rev. Archbishop Riordan, of San Francisco, Cal., a former student of the University.
—Two baseball clubs were organized by the Minims on the 4th inst. They are designated the “Whites ” and the “ Blues.” The first nines are as follows:
BLUES. -	WHITES.
G. Landenwich, p. E. Kelly, 1st b. * I. Bunker, 2d b.
M. McCourt, 1. f.
F. Salman, 3d b. A. McVeigh, s. s.
E. Doss, r. f.
J. Boos, c. f.
J. Kelly, c.
F. Kellner, c.
W. McGill, p.
B.	O’Kane, s. s. .
F. Weston, 2d b.
C.	V. Inderrieden, 1st b.
J. Doss, r. f.
J. Piero, 1. f.
J. Grunsfeld, 3d b.
J. Baker, c. f.
—On Monday, the 13th, Feast of St. Edward, solemn High Mass will be celebrated at 8 a. m. by Very Rev. Father General Sorin. At a convenient time after Mass, the members of the Faculty will pay their respects to the Very Rev. Father.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
93
At io, the regatta on St. Joseph’s Lake will take place. This promises to be one of the best contested and most exciting; races we have had. At ____________________ o
ii, the Field-Day Exercises will be opened by the sports in the Minim department. Dinner at 12.30, at which Father General and his Assistants, with other invited guests, will be present. During the afternoon, from 2 until 6, the athletic exercises will be conducted in the Junior and Senior departments.
—The first regular meeting of the Band Association was held Thursday evening, October 2d. A constitution was drawn up and adopted; officers were elected for the ensuing year as follows: Prof. Paul, Director; Rev. J. M. Toohey, President; L. Cavanaugh, Vice-President; C. F. Porter, Recordng Secretary; A. A. Browne, Corresponding Secretary; C. Hausberg, Treasurer. The members are: A. Ancheta, Ejz Cornet; J. Ferguson, E|z Cornet; J. Guthrie, Bj? Solo; J. Donohue, 1st B|z Cornet; J. Spangler, 2d B^ Cornet; Rev.J. M. Toohey, Solo Alto; Rev. A. M. Kirsch, 1st Alto; C. Hausberg, 2d AltoyH. P. Porter, Solo Tenor; C. F. Porter, 1st Tenor; E. Garcia, 2d Tenor; F. Devoto, Baritone; J. Wilson, Tuba; W. Mahon, Cymbals; T. Sykes, Snare Drum; D. Baca, Bfe Bass; W. Loomis, Bass Drum. The Band has had regular rehearsals, and will appear this evening.
—The third of the series of championship games of baseball between the “Star of the East” and the “University” was played on the 5th inst. The “ University ” went first to bat and scored five runs, four of which were unearned. In the third, McGill struck a single, followed by Porter with a two bagger, and Browne a single. This was the best played inning of the game, two earned runs being scored. In the sixth, Devoto struck the sphere for two bases, followed by McNulty with a two bagger. In the fourth McKinnery made a two-base hit, followed with a single by Guthrie; this being the only earned run made by the “ Stars.” The game was called at the close of the seventh inning on account of rain and darkness. The following is the score:
STAR OF THE EAST,		si	>4	q	UNIVERSITY.	1			q
Dolan, 1. f	 V. Burke, 2 b. .	4	0	0	I	Loomis, s. s...	4	I	► 2	0
	4	0	0	4	McNulty, c...	4	I	2	5
Dickerson, 3 b.	4	0	0	0	Hotaling, c. f.	5	I	I	0
Guthrie, c		3	I	2	4	Devoto, 2b...	4	2	2	2
Ryan, p	 C. Kolars, r. f.	3	0	O	2	F. Burke, 1. f..	4	I	I	2
	3	I	I	2	McGill, 3 b...	4	2	I	I
Coghlin, s. s. ..	3	I	I	2	H. Porter, 1 b.	4	I	2	6
F. Combe, 1 b..	3	0	0	6	Pohl, r. f		4	0	0	1
McKinnery, c.f.	3	I	I	0	Browne, p....	4	2	I	2
	—	—	—	—		—	—	—	—
Total		30	4	5	21	Total		37	II	13	21
Innings:—1	2	3	4	5	6	7
Star of the East :—o	2	o	1	1	o	0= 4
University:—5	o	3	1	o	1	1=11
—On last Sunday, the Feast of the Most Holy Rosary, the imposing liturgy of solemn Pontifical Mass was witnessed in the College Church. Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger officiated, assisted by priests of the diocese as follows: Assistant Priest, Rev.
A. B. Oechtering; Deacons of Honor, Revs. E. Koenig and M. O’Reilly; Deacon of the Mass, Rev. J. Bleckmann; Subdeacon, Rev. H. Boeckle-mann; Master of Ceremonies, Rev. J. H. Brammer, Assistant Master of Ceremonies, Rev. J. F. Lang. The grand array of sacred ministers in the sanctuary, and the beautiful ceremonies as they were carried out, must have made a deep impression upon all present. The cantores^ or leaders of the music of the Mass,—strictly Gregorian chant —occupied positions close by the grand organ, and it is said the effect was very fine. After Mass the Bishop preached an eloquent sermon on the devotion commemorated by the Festival of the day, after which he formally opened the regular ecclesiastical synod of the diocese. .
—Senator D. W. Voorhees, of this State, who, we believe, had a son educated here, visited the College on Sunday last, accompanied by Prof. T. E. Flo ward, Mr. Stoll, editor of the South Bend Times, Mr. Knight of the Oliver House, Mr. Wills, the City Treasurer, and Mr. O’Brien and Mr. Gardner of South Bend. -The students, being informed of the arrival of the distinguished visitor, assembled in front of the main building, where President Walsh introduced the Senator, expressing the hope that he would favor them with a short speech. Senator Voorhees did so in a very happy manner. Thanking them for their kind reception, he said it always gave him pleasure to meet young people and talk to them, for on them the country will hereafter rest its hopes. Men come and go like the waves of the sea, and they would one day have to fulfil the duties and assume the responsibilities that now devolve upon their teachers, their parents, and those who now take an active part in the world’s work and in shaping the destinies of the country. Fie congratulated his voting auditors on the splendid opportunities here afforded them, and he felt confident that the education they were receiving would be a great benefit to them in after-life. He was glad to find science and morality here going hand in hand, for knowledge combined with moral integrity is a sure guarantee of success. He spoke especially of the great value of time to the student, as they will learn more fully in after years. The student who makes the best use of his time at college will be the one most likely to succeed in life. It is true, he said, that the smallest part of an education is that which can be obtained within the walls of college, but here the ground work is laid. Education is a life work of o	.	'	'	-
which the college training is but the beginning. Man’s whole life is but the acquisition or perfecting of an education whose rudiments were obtained in college.	-
The distinguished orator spoke in this way for some ten or fifteen minutes, after which he again thanked the students and faculty for their kind reception.
At the close of his remarks, three cheers were moved and heartily given by all, irrespective of party leaning, after which the visitors withdrew. into the College, and the students dispersed towards the Campus.
9+
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—We give herewith the programme of the Entertainment in honor of St. Edward’s Day—the Patronal Festival of Very Rev. Edward Sorin, Superior-General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, and Founder of Notre Dame—to be given under the auspices of the Euglossian Association of the University this (Saturday) evening at seven o’clock:
Programme :	•
PART I.
Music—“Night and Morning”...........F. R. Webb
N. D. U. C. B.	■
Address from the Minims—W. McPhee. L. Scherrer, ..................................Elmo	Barry
Song and Chorus..........................Orpheonics
Address from the Juniors....,...........F.	Hagenbarth
Address from the Seniors.................N. H. Ewing
Overture—“Lustspiel ”.....................Keller Bela
N. D. U. Orchestra.
PART II.
Introductory Address..................D.	C- Saviers
' “UNE CAUSE CELEBRE.”
(A Melodrama in Six Acts, founded on an incident of “The Battle of FontenoyF)
Cast of Characters (Prologue):
Jean Renaud (A Soldier of the French Army), W. Ramsay Lazare (A Camp Follower)..............J.	J Conway
Duc D’Aubreterre (Commander of the King’s Own), ......................................P.	Howard
Dennis O’Rourke (An Irishman in the King’s Service) ......................................F.	H. Dexter
Ferdinand Renaud (Brother to Jean).......J.	Kleiber
Captain (Of the King’s Own)...........J.	W. Breen
Sergeant (Of the King’s Own).............H.	Paschel
Joseph (A Villager of Montague)..........B.	Wiley
Seneschal (Sheriff of the Village)....J.	Hotaling
Pierre (A Villager of Montague)..........C.	Paschel
Little Adrian (Jean Renaud’s Child), Master Joseph Garrity
Villagers, Soldiers, Vivandiers, etc.
(A period of 12 years is supposed to elapse bet-veen the incidents in the Prologue and the Play?)
Cast of Characters in the Play:
Jean Renaud (Condemned to the Galleys for Life) ...................-....................W.	E. Ramsay
Prebendary of the College D’Hyers..........E.	A. Otis
Count De Mornay (Returned from Exile)..J. J. Conway Duc D’Aubreterre (Governor of Provence) — B. Howard Count D’Aubreterre (Brother to Duc)..........H Steis
Dennis O’Rourke (In the Service of the Duc)...F. Dexter Adrian (Adopted Son of Duc D’Aubreterre). ..A. Browne Valentine (Supposed Son of De Mornay).... T. Callaghan Raoul De Langley....................... J-	A. Ancheta
Sergeant of Guard..........................H.	Paschel
Seneschal (Of Village of Montague)......J.	Hotaling
Joseph (Valet to Duc)......................B.	Wiley
Pierre (Valet to Valentine)................C.	Paschel
_ ,	( T. McGill
Gendarmes,	J j. D Reach
Lieutenant of Guard.....................W.	P. Mahon
Garde Royale, 1.........J- Fox, R. Stephens, F. Dory
W. Jess. J. Nester Attendants.........F. Alvarez, F. Baca, J. Welker, J. De
Groot, E. Willard, A. Miller, J. O’Kane, L. Austin, J. Rothert, R. Perley, J. Rahilly, H. Smithe Soldiers, Villagers, Galley Slaves, etc., etc-
Tableaux.
Closing Remarks.....................................
Grand March for Retiring................N.	D. U. C. B.
During the play there will be appropriate music by the Orchestra and Band. Master Oxnard will give a piano solo—Mendelssohn’s “ Midsummer Night’s Dream,” and the University Quartette •will render one of Haydn’s Quatuors.
Boll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Arce, Austin, Ancheta, Alvarez, Ashton, A. Browne, Brooks, A. Barbabosa, J. Barbabosa, Bustillos, Felix Baca, Filadelfo Baca, F. J. Baca, J. Baca, Becerra, Burns, F. Burke, V. Burke, Breen, Callaghan, Conlin, Crilly, Crawford, Casavantes, Creel, F. Combe, Dory, De-' Groot, Donohue, Dwan, Dexter, Dolan, Dickerson, Es-trado, Ewing, Goulding, Gordon, Guthrie, Garcia, Hamlyn, Harless, Halligan, Howard, Hausberg, Johnston, Kleiber, King, Kolars, J. Lechuga, M. Lechuga, McKinnery, McNulty, G. Miller, Maguire, Meyer, McErlaine, McCartney, Marquez, A. Miller, Nester,* Noonan, J. V. O’Donnell, J. P- O’Donnell, Perley, H. Paschel, C. Paschel, Padilla, P. Proudhomme, J. Proudhomme, H. Porter, C. Porter, J. Peifer, P. Peifer, Rothert, J. Ryan, Rivard, Rahilly, J. Smith, Sheridan, Steis, Schaefer, Sanchez, G. Smith, Triplett, Tully, J. Wagoner, W. Williams, F. Wagg-oner, Wiley, C. Williams, A. Williams, Willard, White, Wilson, Warner, Zeitler.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Arts, Arnold, Ackerman, Amoretti, Bearss, Baur, Berthelet, Borgschulze, Congdon, Cummings, Clarke, G..Cartier, Colina, Courtney, E. Dillon, O. Dillon, Dempsey, Dorenberg, Dougherty, Donnellan, Daly, Ewing, Finckh, Fehr, L. Grever, E. Grever, Hoye, Howard, Haring, Hieronimus, Hibbeler, Holman, Houlihan, Hagenbarth,* G. Hasson. Johnson, Kelly, Knisely, Kenny, Leoni, Luther, H. Long, F. Long, Loya, Lewis, G. Moye, Martinez, W. Morrison, R. Morrison, B. Morrison, Monschein, Menig, Myers, Mullane, Macke, J. McGordon, C. McGor-don, Nussbaum, Oxnard, O’Brien, M. O’Kane, Proud-homfne, Regan, Real, Rose, Ratighan, Rebori, Ruffing, Remesh, Reynolds, Rogers, Ruger, Stubbs, Senn, Soden, Smith, Stange, Spencer, Schmauss,* Shaw, L. Sheuerman,* M. Sheuerman, Sedberry, Vandercar, Wabraushek, P. Wagoner,* Willard, Williamson, Flood, Adams, Meehan, Robinson.	.
MINI JI DEPART JIE NT.
Masters J. Addington, H. Addington, Ackerman, Boos, Bunker, Berry, Bull, Barger, Blakeslee, Baker, Crotty, Comins, Cobbs, F. Dunford, _G. Dunford, J. Doss, E. Doss, L. Doss, Day, Ernest, Grunsfeld, Grimes, Henry, Haney, C. Inderrieden, R. Inderrieden, Jones, Johns, J^ Kelly, E. Kelly, Kellner, Landenwich, McPhee, McVeigh, Murphy, Morgan, McGill, C. Mitchell, J. Mitchell, Moncada, McCourt, Mahon, McNulty, McGuire, Mooney, Nusbaum, Noonan, O’Kane, F. Peck, J. Peck, Piel, Paul, Perkins, Piero, Quill, Quinlin, Rugee, Salman, Sweet, Scherrer, Stone, Smith, Shoneman, Weston, Williamson, Zozaya, Mason, T. Falvey, F. Falvey, E. Falvey.
* Omitted last week by mistake.
Class Honors.
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Messrs. Tully, Ruppe, F. Baca, Loomis, Triplett, D. Baca,. White, P. Peifer, Ashton, Sykes, Ferguson, O’Connell, J. P. O’Donnell, Thomas, A. S. Williams, Rivard, McArdle, McMillian, Dwan, Schaefer, Perley, Rui, Felix Baca, Bustillos, J. Lechuga, M. Lechuga, Spangler, Mc-Erlain, McCartney, Waggoner, Harless, De Groot, W. Williams, Zeitler, Jess, Wiley, Miller, Arce, C. Combe, Maguire, P. Proudhomme, Casavantes, Sanchez, Alvarez, Padilla, Becerra, Marquez, E. Dillon, E Proudhomme, L. Martinez, Real, G. Moye, Hoye, Leoni, Butterfield, Nussbaum, Senn, Congdon, W. Morrison, Haring, Vandercarr, Hieronimus, Baur, Finckh, F. Soden, Dougherty, Oxnard, Arts, F- Reilley, W. Willard, Loya, Donnellan, Emmons, W. O’Kane, Reynolds, Fehr, West, Macke, R. Lewis, Kinney, Amoretii, Flood, O. Dillon.
JILNIJI DEPARTJIENT.
Masters J. Addington, Bunker, Berry, Cobbs, McPhee, McVeigh, Grunsfeld, C. Inderrieden, Shoneman, Scherrer, O’Kane, Noonan, McGuire, Murphy, E. Kelly, Crotty, Comins, F. Dunford, Ernest, Jones, Henry, Piero, Mahon-Moncada, C. Mitchell, R. Inderrieden, E. Doss, G. Dun, ford, H. Addington, Paul, J. Peck, Nussbaum, Mooney, McCourt, McGill, J- Mitchell, L. Doss, Stone, E. Falvey.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Saint JFlary's Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—The Roman mosaic cross was won by Nora Quill.
—On the Feast of the Holy Rosary, a number were invested with the five scapulars.
—The politeness badge in the Minim department is worn by Eulalie Chapin.
—The instruction on Monday morning to the Children of Mary was very beautiful. The subject was “The Holy Name of Mary.”
—The literary societies were of more than ordinary interest. A new impetus seems to have been imparted to these very improving weekly gatherings.
—A favored few—the “Princesses ” of St. Mary’s —were admitted on Monday morning to an audience with His Lordship, the Rt. Rev. Bishop of Ft. Wayne. They are greatly obliged for the distinguished favor.
—At the regular reunion in the Junior department, Lily Van Horn read some very amusing “ mixed metaphors,” and Ellen Sheekey a little poem with a very important moral—“ The Way a Thing is Said.”
—On Sunday evening, some very instructive remarks were made by Father General,.suggested by the article in last week’s Scholastic—“ The Love of Praise.” Rev. Father Shortis commended the reading and recitation.
—At the regular Academic reunion, Miss An-gela Donnelly read from The “Ave Mana’1'1 of Oct. 4th the beautiful poem, “A Great King’s Heiress,” by N.J. O’C. F. F.; Miss Barlow very gracefully rendered “ The Contrast,” by Eleanor C. Donnelly.
—The Society of the Holy Rosary was reorganized on Rosary Sunday, and the following officers elected: President, Miss Bruhn; Vice-President, Miss Mary Scully; Secretary, Miss Kearney; Treasurer, Miss S. St. Clair. Rosary tickets were distributed to the members, and the entire Rosary was recited.
—St. Agnes’ Literary Society, in accordance with the vivacious inclinations of its members, was engaged in considering a variety of subjects. Conversations respecting distinguished women of the past formed the principal business of the meeting. The histories and characters of Joan of Arc, Isabella of Spain, and Maria Gtetana Agnesi of Milan, were under consideration.,
—St. Catharine’s Literary Society engaged the attention of its members in the perusal of the life of Adalasia, of Louvain. The quotations of the Misses Fuller, Horn, Angela Donnelly, Trask and O. Griffith were exceptionally pretty. During the last half hour, the society was regaled with
music by the Misses M. Scully, Hale and Murdock, and a recitation by Miss Annie Murphy.
—According to the recommendation of the late Encyclical of His Holiness Pope Leo XIII, devotions to Our Lady of the Rosary are made daily. Since October 1st, when Father Shortis opened the month by giving an explanatory instruction, Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament has been given, and the chaplet has been recited every evening. These devotions are to be continued to the end of the month.
—The reorganization of the “Association of the Sacred Heart of Jesus,” or “ Apostleship of Prayer,” occurred on Sunday. The members approached Holy Communion for the intentions of the Apostleship. The Blessed Sacrament was exposed at the eight o’clock Mass; Benediction being given at five p. m., and the pupils passed the day in the quiet and recollection to be observed upon so im- w portant an occasion as that of Adoration Sunday.
—In St. Teresa’s Literary Society, the quotations with which each member is expected to be furnished were well presented. The palm in this respect was equally due to the Misses Munger, S. St. Clair, and Gove. The response to questions drew forth very excellent descriptions: from Miss Call, of “The Seven Wonders of the World”; from Miss Dunne, of “The Escurial at Rome”; from Miss Munger, “The Wars of America”; from Miss Danforth, “ The Names of the Officers of the Present U. S. Cabinet”; from Miss Barlow, “ An Account of the Origin of Wheaten Bread.” The reading was from classical works, and modern biography.
—From the notes used in St. Agnes’ Literary Society, for the edification of those who are not inclined to be very diligent in their studies or earnest in their devotions, we will quote some facts. The three personages who engaged the attention of the meeting on Tuesday were remarkable for their piety, not only in early youth, but throughout life. The three were occupied at the first dawn of reason, so to speak, with thoughts that were calculated to expand the superior part of the being. There was nothing trifling or weak; no succumb-ing to unregenerate nature in the formation of their characters. The picture of Joan of Arc stands out with a peculiar loveliness of its own— in the history of the early part of the XIVth century—as the shepherdess, only seventeen years of age, who, inspired by Heaven, determines to lead the armies of the French against the English invaders, and not to rest until she sees the throne of the kingdom re-established, and Charles the. Vllth seated once more thereon. The fact that she accomplished this wonderful design is sufficient proof of her noble strength of character.
The history of Isabella of Castile, and the part she played in the grand events which marked the close of the XIVth and the opening of the XVth centuries, must strike every candid reader as the mirror of a soul imbued from the first with deep religious convictions and actuated by the prompting of fixed Christian principles.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
’ The history of Maria Gzetana Agnesi is probably not as universally known as the other two, but is none the less lovely,'and, perhaps, more within the range of emulation. She was born in 1718. At nine vears of age, she had written a Latin discourse deemed worthy of publication; at eleven, she began the study of Greek, and became so proficient that she wrote and spoke the languages with ease. She studied Hebrew afterwards, and mastered almost every modern language. At the age of thirteen she translated the Latin supplements, added by Freinsheimens to the “History of Quintus Curtins,” into Italian, French, German and Greek. .During her fourteenth year she^translated “ The Spiritual Combat” from Italian into Greek. Soon after, she turned her attention to Natural Philosophy and Euclid’s Elements of Geometry. At twenty, she published one hundred and ninety-one theses, maintained in the pres* ence of the most distinguished, persons of Milan.
Soon after she commented on a celebrated work on “ Conic Sections,” and published a work entitled “Analytical Institutions.” This work was translated by an eminent gentleman of Cambridge into English. It was translated into French; and Fontenelle, in the name of the French Academy, proclaimed it the best work yet written on the subject. Pope Benedict XIV named her honorary reader to the University of Bologna, and gave her the Mathematical Chair. From the time of her mother’s death—which happened when she was only eighteen—Marie was the guide and instructress of the large family which was left to her care by this bereavement.
Much could be added, but we forbear, and will only say that after her father’s death she devoted her large fortune to the foundation of a private hospital for the poor, in which she constantly served. Later on, she assumed the charge of a much larger hospital, founded by an Italian prince. She died at the age of eighty-one, persevering to the last in her noble works of charity.
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	-
. Par Excellence—Misses M. Adderly, I. Alcott, J. Barlow, M. Bruhn, L. Blaine, N. Brady, M. Blair, L. Carney, C. Congdon, E. Call, F. Carmien, C. Cox, S. Dunne, N. Donnelly, A. Donnelly, M. Dillon, A. Dwan, B. English, A. English, M. Fuller, D. Fitzpatrick, C.Fehr, J. Foster, G. Faxon, C. Ginz, B. Gove, O. Griffith, C. Griffith, M. Hale, M. Helpling, E. Horn, A. Heckard, B. Heckard, M. Hawkins. L. Hutchinson, N.’Kearns, B. Kearney, M. Kearsey, C. Lang, M. Munger, A. Murphy, J. McHale, T. ‘McSorley, A. McSorley N. Myler, E. O’Connell, E. Pierson, H. Ramsey, D. Reynolds, M. Reinholdt, E. Rose, L. Sheekey, S. St. Clair, - L. St. Clair, A. Shephard, M. Schmidt, K. Smith, M. Shea, M. Scully, C. Scully, A. Schidler, E. Strawn, L. Williams, L. Walsh, A. White, E. Walsh. 2d Tablet—Misses A. Gordon, A. Gordon, G. Leg-nard, E. Taylor.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Brown, Bayer, M. Barry, S. Campeau, M. Ducey, F. Hertzog, T. Haney, A. High, E. Hagan, A. Keyes, M. Mulhall, M. McEwen, M. Murphy, L. Norris, M. Paul, C. Proudhomme, E. Preston, N. Quill, C. Richmond, Regan, Margaret Smith, G. Stadtler, B. Snowhook, N. Sheekey, G. Searls, L. Trask, L. Van Horn. 2d Tablet—Misses M. Allen, M. Cox, A. Malboeuf, M. Smith, H. Stumer. .	•
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses E. Blaine, E. Burtis, E. Chapin, F. Johnson, L. Johns, V. Johns, M. Lindsey, D. Lee, B. Mun ay, F. Spencer, A. Schmaus, S. Van Fleet.
Class Honors.
Graduating Class—Misses Call, Ginz, Gove, Dunne, Sheekey, Ramsey.	-
ist Senior Class—Misses Barlow, Heckard, Carney, Cummins, Danforth, Fitzpatrick, Williams, Munger, L. St. Clair.
2D Sr. Class—Misses C. Griffith, Horn, Kearney, O’Connell, Sheekey, Adderly, Congdon, Dillon, Fuller, O. Griffith, Kearsey, Keyes, C. Scully, Hale, A. Murphy, McHale, A. Donnelly, Myler, N. Donnelly, Legnard, Morrison.
3d Sr. Class—Misses E. Kearns, T. McSorley, B. Snowhook, Trask, Richmond. Taylor, C. Cox, Fehr, Schmidt, Alice Gordon, A. High, L. Walsh, F. Carmien, Faxon, B. Heckard, Eisenstaedt, M. Scully, English, Addie Gordon, Morse, Rose, Regan.
ist Preparatory Class—Misses Blaine, A. McSorley, Stadtler, M. Ducey, Hutchinson, Hertzog, Lauer, Reynolds, K. Smith, M. Smith, Castanedo. M. Cox, S. Campeau, Mulhall, Blair, Margaret Smith.
2D Prep. Class—Misses Quill, Murray, Searls, Shea, Schmaus, Torrent, Hawkins, McEwen, Norris, White, M. Murphy, Strawn. .
Jr. Prep. Class—Misses Lindsey, Hagen, Allen, Paul, Spencer. Burtis.
ist Jr. Class—Misses Johnson, Van Fleet, E. Blaine, Preston, Boyes.'
2D Jr. Class—Misses Lee, V. Johns.
book-keeping.
ist Class—Misses Fitzpatrick, Heckard, O’Connell, Kearney.
2D Class—Misses Legnard, Wolvin, Dillon, Morrison.
3d Class—Misses McHale, O. Griffith, Reynolds, Morse, Dwan, Murdock, M. Scully, Carmien, Torrent, Alice Gordon, Addie Gordon, L. Walsh, Regan, Keyes.
STENOGRAPHY.
Misses Kearsey, Searls, Alcott, Myler, Torrent.
LATIN.	'
Misses L. Blaine, Helpling, Lang, Scully, Trask, Keyes. .	GERMAN.
ist Class—Miss Ginz.
2d Class—Miss Horn.
2D Class, 2d Div.—Misses FeKr, Eisenstaedt.
3D Class—Misses Kearney, Danforth, Tavlor, McHale, C. Cox.	"
4TH Class—Misses Myler, Lang, Dillon, E. Blaine, Schidler, Carmien, N. Donnelly, A. Donnelly.
5th Class—Misses Lee, L. Johns.
FRENCH.
ist Class—Misses Call, Bruhn, L. Sheekey, Castanedo.
2D Class—Misses Barlow, O’Connell; Adderly, C. Griffith, O. Griffith, Morrison.
3D Class—Misses Van Horn, Richmond, Snowhook, Stumer.	.	'	.	•
4.TH Class—Misses McSorley,' Kearns, Kearsey, Cummins, Faxon, Legnard, B. English,-Campeau, Hertzog, Norris, E. Sheekey, M: Schmidt, McEwen..
5th Class—Misses Johnson, Murray, Chapin, Proud-homme. .	•	.	-	.