More people, wSaifag
J
kl o
0
M. J Keynoios loo. Go., W«nsioa-ba,em, A, O. J
PAPA 00
.. •neW
Vaurfiii
RCA Victor
tat t>y
Vaughn once again displays his vocal versatility—backed up by the Moon Maids. You’ll like this record—so lend an ear! Another great record is the one belonging to Camel cigarettes.
More people are smoking Camels than ever before!
Try Camels! Discover for yourself why, with smokers who have tried and compared, Camels are the “choice of experience”!
>5 BUND CICAftETTES



LETTERS
COMIC MAGAZINE DEPT.
Dear Editor:
I am particularly interested in your take-off in the December 19, 1947, issue of the Scholastic on Catholic Comics.
I will clarify any misdirected thinking about my knowledge on this matter, before I start, by telling you I have a brother and a sister, ten and nine, who are rabid comic fiends.
You were quick to classify Catholic Comics with all the horrendous comic magazines in print. You say you checked the cover closely. Surely you didn’t go far beyond, for if you had you would (have found nothing which would have struck you as being fearful, frightful or horrible.
You then asked us to consider what the result would be if every denominational organization in the country tried the same thing. The outcome I am sure
Roller Comics with a photo of somebody rolling on the cover” is certainly very tame compared to most covers I have seen.
You are right that there should be less of these comics selling but don’t be “aghast” at a bettering influence such as that of Catholic Comics. Your article “For Commerce Men Only” clearly showed that you are not a comic mag reader and that you consequently didn’t know what you were talking about.
Mitche’ Lee Hunt. St. Mary’s College, Holy Cross, Indiana.
AFTER THE GAME REFRESH WITH COKE
THE CASE AGAINST STUDENT COUNCIL
Dear Editor:
What’s wrong with the student council? The student body has its well founded opinion. But how does it look to a new Council member.
1.	It lacks a sufficient number of capable, intelligent and energetic members.
2.	It performs without knowledge of parliamentary procedure or business efficiency.
3.	It reflects a spirit of supineness and negligence toward the management of student affairs.
(Continued on Page 30)
CATHOLIC COMICS READERS “Aghast"
would not be half so bad (and I am using the word denominational in its correct meaning) as the result which is existing now from the publications of comic mags, by organizations having nothing in mind other than a money gain.
I think you need not be “aghast at the possibilities of such an epidemic” as your make-believe Protestant Comics. They have been printing pictured Sunday school papers for years with no dire effects.
I think you may be “aghast” at the idea of your Communist Comics because they are published every day under various names so that children can be filled ■'Tjvith everything cheap, tawdry and crim-inal.
May I add that your idea of the “Holy
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND.
© 1948, The Coca-Cola Company
3
<*Pr.l948bj.ThcP„kwPen^^
Parker"51”
Be proud o£ what you write . and the way you write it!
THE GETTYSBURG ADDRESS
•it Just ten stirring sentences in all. But they are an immortal expression of democracy and freedom. Shown here, in Abraham Lincoln’s own handwriting, is part of the manuscript from which he spoke on the afternoon of Nov. 19, 1863. The original, along with more than a hundred documents famous in American history, is on exhibit aboard the “Freedom Train”. This train is now on a nationwide tour. Watch for its arrival in your area!

Pride comes with the possession of a Parker “51”. For this is the world’s most-wanted pen... flawless in its beauty and performance. It writes in a way that does you proud. No urging. No coaxing. The “51” starts instantly. Coasts across the page with clean, easy strokes. Two sizes: regular “51” and new demi-size. Both with choice of custom points. The Parker Pen Co., Janesville, Wis., U.S.A., and Toronto, Can.
TOP OF THE WEEK
Bill Brown, football manager (after the Southern Cal game); “Say, Luje, what’s this big item on your expense account?”
John Lujack: “My hotel bill.”
Bill: “Well, don’t buy any more hotels.”
1580 KILOCYCLES & NO SOAP OPERAS
Nobody was more surprised than Joe Wilcox when he turned on his patched-up Philco last Bingsday (advertisement), hoping to hear the 107817th instalment of “John’s Other Wife,” and, instead, heard nothing but sweet music over SoutS Bend’s new radio station WJVA. To Joe, who always listens to three hours of soap opera in order to raise his blood pressure to 199 before planking his frame on the “Scorner’s Seat,” the new station was a disappointment. But to South Benders and campus cell-dwellers, WJVA was as welcome as a date with Rita Hayworth.
Operated by the St. Joe County Broadcasting Company, WJVA will air music ' w and news daily from 7:15 a.m. to 4:45 p.m. There were other things to cheer about, too. Unlike the froggers who spiel commercials over WHOT and WSBT, the WJVAnnouncers are recognizable as human beings. The new station promises 90 per cent music—long hair, short hair, maybe a few brush cuts. Most important, however, was the news that no Notre Dame Radio Club presentation would be cremated over the local outlet. This should be more sweet music to the ears of Notre Dame men and the citizens of South Bend. With daily music from 7 to 5 (1580 on your dial).
WHICH WAY DOES THE
VICTORY MARCH'?
Notre Dame’s home basketball games have grown terribly skinny. We realize ,».that the Dome needs a shower of gold-leaf, but why drench the student? Our piggy bank can’t be so low that we must play 75 per cent of the schedule on for
eign courts. With most of the home games coming between semesters and over holidays, the real Notre Dame fan has to watch his team play from a frontrow seat at the Colfax (sound effects and cheers courtesy of Pathe News). It might be a good idea for the athletic department to take a look at the University calendar before scheduling next years’ home games.
TWO-FOR-A-QUARTER
Sammy’s nickel might not buy a good, nickel cigar in 1948, but somebody’s quarter is going to buy a new Chrysler Town and Country. If Sammy’s a student, he may get a Plymouth convertible to boot. The only thing that seems to be worrying most Notre Dame students is how they will pack two cars in a one-car garage. I will solve this problem for the winner; just send the winning stub to 304 Alumni.
DID YOU KNOW THAT —
All the hair on your head wouldn’t cover a camel’s back.
St. Mary’s, realizing that this is Leap Year, raised the fences around the campus twelve feet.
It has been proved beyond a shadow of a doubt that Duz will not do everything.
If you were to hold your head under water for fifteen minutes, you would be able to reach the bottom of whatever-you - were - holding - your - head - in without swimming. Try it.
CO-HOP DANCE SATURDAY
A regular Co-Hop dance will be held tomorrow night at the Progress Club with Bud Simpson's orchestra on hand. Students can come stag or with a date. Co-Hop is an organization of South Bend girls offering recreation services especially for students. The organization's new headquarters is located at 325 Lincoln Way West.
by joe Wilco*
While Hollywood, that fount of the modern mores, was engaged in. making something called “Killer- Dill," Thespi Productions, in Italy, was filming “The Barber of Seville,” the complete opera. There are probably not words enough to describe this fine picture. The role of Count Almaviva was sung by Ferruccio Tagliavini, perhaps the best tenor since Caruso. Italo Tajo, the best actor in opera, sang “Don Basilio.” Tito Gobbi was excellent as Figaro; in fact, the entire cast was letter-perfect. The sound was true, and was loud enough so that all the words of the opera were audible. To answer the objections of people like me, there were English titles interpreting the conversation, although the arias were not translated. Deems Taylor appeared on the screen before each act to give a very witty resume of the succeeding act.
I saw the picture in Chicago’s World Playhouse, which specializes in presenting the best foreign films. This is a small theater, and, with closeups on the screen, the opera was more visible to the audience than the conventional stage performance. There were no interruptions while scenes were being shifted, nor was there applause holding up the proceedings. If the picture houses of South Bend (more of which anon) would condescend to bring “The Barber” to South Bend, they would do this burg a very great favor. I am seldom given to overenthusiastic praise, but in this instance I cannot give praise enough. Hollywood, which charges $1.25 for anything better than a chapter of a twelve-chapter serial starring Umpty Ump, should take an object lesson from Thespi, and the World Playhouse. This great picture cost the amazing sum of eight cents. It was worth every bit of $4.
MORE PRAISE. NO LESS
Equally good as “The Barber” was “Great Expectations,” which zoomed through South Bend as though the ghost of Marley were pursuing it. This time, the English and J. Arthur Rank went Hollywood two or three better. But as far as poor old South Bend was concerned, “The Expectations” were about what everybody expected. “Great Expectations” played the Palace theater for three days, then was heard no more. The last time it was to come to South Bend, it was shooed out of the Granada
5
by an extended run of Bob Hope, who, oddly enough, was in the Granada again when it finally got here.
I am not blaming the theater managers of South Bend, who probably have little control over the situation, for the rags and jags presented to local movie goers under the name of motion pictures, hut certainly the blame should lie at the door of someone. “Great Expectations” had the signal honor of sharing the bill with “The Case of the Baby Sitter,” one of the Hollywood productions which proves that all imbeciles are not confined in state institutions. This job was almost laughed off the screen; it was so bad it was almost entertaining. Perhaps it was just on the bill to show “Great Expectations” off to better advantage.
LOST AND FOUND
Found Section: I am now in possession of a scarf which I found under the east bleachers at the Georgetown basketball game. If anyone can identify this scarf as his property, I shall be glad to turn it over to him. Sometimes I can be found in 157 Dillon. Sometimes I cannot. If you cannot find me, it will be your hard luck. I shall then wear the scarf, which looks exceedingly good on me.
W. G. S.
I have discovered the World’s Greatest Scholar. His name is Joseph McCabe, and he works for one E. Haldemann-Julius, a Girard, Kansas, publisher. Mr. McCabe, who boasts of having “escaped” from a monastery where he had been a priest, has written, so he claims, more than any othei- man alive. Among his works are scholarly publications tending to prove that the Encyclopedia Britannica is a tool of the Catholics, together with the University of Chicago. He writes endless series of Haldemann-Julius’ Little Blue Books, which cover everything from paper-bound Hamlets and treatises entitled “Was Harding Murdered?” to, of course, exposes of the nefarious activities of the Catholic Church. McCabe, now a ripe 80, has just embarked on his latest and greatest saga of all. All by his little self, he is writing a 240,000-word encyclopedia. He will cover, Haldemann-Julius prophesies, all fields of knowledge. One may obtain this masterpiece, if my memory does not fail me, for the price of $1; a volume. If you order all four volumes, they are even cheaper. Oh, yes. “The World’s Greatest Scholar” is Haldemann-Julius’ label.
6
SNOW
Everybody came back—the boys from the North were bragging about all the snow that fell back home; the fellows from the South about the sunshine; the Indiana boys claimed that they had more of both. Snow and weather brought the conversation around to the Christmas dances and how the boys fared in carrying that “whiff of Indiana pine” to the ballrooms around the country.
SNOW AGAIN
The eastern snow avalanche put the damper on the New Jersey Club’s plans for a Christmas hassel at the famed Frank Dailey’s Meadowbrook. The joint was inaccessible. Stan Kenton, intended maestro for the affair, just sent a record —“Let it snow, let it snow, let it snow.”
The weather turned the ultra Met Club Dance into a nice family gathering for a few hardy couples hardy enough to ski or snowshoe to the Waldorf. The Starlight Roof shimmered through.
CHICAGO
The boys from the Windy City got their dance off just before the snow and ice began to fall. Dance chairman Joe - Archibald and assistants get credit for the top dance of the year given by the Chicago Club which boasts a long line of “top” dances. The huge Casino Room of the Congress Hotel was filled beyond capacity. The Chicago Club will have to plan on using the Stadium to hold the crowd at the next dance.
BONGO BONGO
The vacationing Irish even whiffed the Capital with a scent of that Indiana pine. The Washington, Maryland, and Virginia Club and Alumni invaded the Congo Room of the Carleton Hotel in Washington, D. C.
Down South in West Virginia, the Ohio Valley Alumni Club of Notre Dame held a semi-formal dance at the Carrol Club in Wheeling. Zn Louisville the Notre Dame Alumni and the Ken
tucky Club held a formal dance in conjunction with the Xavier University Club of Kentucky.
In Youngstown, Ohio, the Youngstown Club danced to the music of Al Russo. Cochairmen Mike Lyden and Jack Mayo did a fine job in handling^ the affair.
THE HERD
The Buffalo Herd converged on the Chinese Room of the Hotel Statler. Band leader Gene Regan served up the musical menu.... In Rochester, the Rochester Club president had basketbailer Billy Hassett as his guest at the club dance in the Sheraton Hotel. ... In Boston, the home of the bean, Art Rubin dished up the music in the Georgian Room for George Sullivan and his Boston Club. . . . The Central New Yorkers held forth in the East Room of the Hotel Syracuse. ... In Philly, the Philadelphia Club members and Alumni took their dates to the Sylvania Hotel where they danced to the music of George Young and the “Harmony Kings.” . . . The Toledo Club did a turnabout and^ held an “Anti-inflation Hard Times Par--* ty” at the “Barn.” . . . Detroiters invaded the Hotel Tuller for their formal dance. The hardier Detroit Club members had a moonlight sleigh ride before returning to school.
The dances are over and everybody is back, but they will be talking about the dances and the weather for the rest of the winter.
BENEFIT DANCE SATURDAY
The Cleveland Club of Notre Dame will hold a benefit dance for European Student Relief from 8:30 till 11:30 Saturday night at the Vetville Rec Hall and 12:30 permissions will be granted to all those attending. Girls from St. Mary's will be given 12:00 permission. Admission at the door is $1.00 per couple. Music will be fur-nished by the Cavaliers.
^The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
tiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiititiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiittiiimiiiiiiitiiiiiittiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiaii
THE STAFF
FRANCIS I. KEENAN, Editor-in-Chief
JOHN A. O'CONNOR Associate	Editor
EDWARD J. SNYDER Associate	Editor
JOSEPH WILCOX Feature	Editor
PETER BROWN Sports	Editor
SHAUN McDERMOTT____________________:________News Editor
ROBERT STOCK Associate News Editor
JAMES FERSTEL  Photographic	Editor
DONALD BIRREN Art	Editor
E. A. CORDESMAN ______,_______________________Art Editor
WILLIAM GORMAN  Librarian ROBERT KOPF ______________Circulation
JOHN CLARK Circulation
JOHN S. BRENNAN Faculty Moderator

Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.

Meet the Editor
“Hap” Cordesman, from Detroit, started to work for the Scholastic back in ’42. At that time he scratched away for
■^“Irish Lore,”
this mag, in addition to being art editor for the Dome and Scrip. Now he’s doing full-time work for the Scholastic.
The 23-year-old vet is a journalism major, but figures on following up his art inclinations at advanced art school come graduation day next August. Fashion designing looks like a fertile field to him. He did such work for a local department store last semester.
Back in ’46 Hap produced, directed and wrote the script for his own radio show, a student production carried over WSBT. Ra-
dio, art, journalism . . . talented, eh?
CALENDAR
■ 1
JANUARY 16
LAW AUDITORIUM, Dr. Stephan Kuttner, of the Catholic University of America will speak in the Law Building, Room 101, at 4:40 p. m. Subject: Theology and the Law in the Doctrine of Penal Imputation.
STATE, Riders of Pasco Basin. Runs the gamut of horse emotions from snickering to outright neighing right there in front of everybody. By all means!
JANUARY 17
NOTRE DAME vs ST. LOUIS, basketball, down there.
WHOT, Metropolitan Opera matinee, Lucia di Lammermoor, featuring in the leading role Ferrucio Tagliavini, sensational Italian tenor. Listen for the celebrated sextet. Should be terrifico!
DANCE, Vetville Rec Hall, sponsored by the energetic Cleveland Club, for Foreign Student Relief. One buck per couple. Gals from the Rock get midnights. ND men get 12:30’s.
JANUARY 18
RIVER PARK, Homestretch. Rich technicolor, sleek horses, gorgeous clothes, Coronation parade, and Maureen O’Hara. How can you beat it? Pretty good entertainment.
GRANADA, Honeymoon, with Shirley Temple. Now little Shirley is cute, but the producer of this can’t be. Franchot Tone tries, but it’s no use.
PALAIS ROYALE, Sonny Dunham, and his orchestra. Dancing till the last bus leaves.
JANUARY 19
Rober E. Lee’s birthday. Let’s give ol’ massah a big “he’s a man,” suh!
JANUARY 20
RIVER PARK, Boomerang, with Dana Andrews. Right in there. Andrews gets better with every picture.
JANUARY 22
COLFAX, My Wild Irish Rose. Shure and the Warner brothers know how to drag the ould cash in over the counter, bejaypers.
JANUARY 23
PALACE, Kiss of Death. Billed as one of the best thrillers of the year. Real hard-boiled. Victor Mature (watch that pronunciation!) gets top honors, but there’s a mean rat in this film who pushes poor old ladies down steep stairs. Ungentle-manly, eh?
JANUARY 24
NOTRE DAME vs NORTHWESTERN, basketball, in Chicago.
RIVER PARK, The Sea Hatch, with Errol Flynn and Claude Rains, and plenty of salty sword play. Second feature, Seven Were Saved. What for? To make this classic, of course.
7
fyuMH ike	.
So You Want Proof?
Elsewhere in this issue Scholastic reports the visit to the campus of Miss Sally Cassidy, who, only two week ago, returned to the United States following an 18-month sojourn in Europe. But Miss Cassidy did not play the role of tourist on the continent. As official representative of American Catholic students in Europe, she' lived the life of the European student; shared the hardships and saw at close range the incredible struggle Europe’s student population is making for the survival of learning.
As Miss Cassidy spoke to a small group here at Notre Dame, Scholastic fervently wished that the entire student body could have listened, too. Could they have but heard her describe the daily struggle for bare subsistence at Nijmegen, Munster, Vienna and Cracow, the preciousness of stubby pencils and scrappy paper, the non-existence so often of such a common tool as a compass (not to speak of the multitude of other instruments and pieces of apparatus so essential to the everyday life of American scientific and engineering students), and withal the intensity of their desire for learning—then Notre Dame’s part in the Foreign Student Relief Campaign would come alive. To really know what one’s dollar can do for brother students whose lives include daily battles with rats, cold, darkness, hunger and disease, one must be able to see these things happening. Miss Cassidy could have portrayed them with vivid clarity, for she experienced them. And in doing so her sensitive eloquence was so molded that all who hear her speak cannot but be deeply moved.
To Scholastic the most impressive revelation of her visit was Miss Cassidy’s story of Europe’s appreciation. Even the receipt, for instance, of three or four sets of engineering drawing tools would cause great joy throughout a whole university. When Miss Cassidy was informed of Notre Dame’s -$35,000 relief quota she was overwhelmed. Yet, overwhelmed in a way, and with a knowledge of what enormous good such a sum can do, that any observer would have immediately wanted to double the quota. Europe needs help desperately, and America has the wherewithal abundantly. Can there be any answer but a whole-hearted yes?
For Ernie — a Strike
Ever since early December, the pin boys at the Bowl Mor Alley have been contemplating a strike, and who blames them? Each Sunday these brave, young fellows must face the devastating fire of the Kampus Keglers, made up of some of the best, and some of the wildest bowlers in the history of the pin game.
Who’s the cause of all this commotion? He’s Ernie Huffman from Pittsburgh and the Smokey City should burst its vest buttons with pride to claim such a worthy son.
Seeing the dull schedule that campus clubs follow during the winter months, Huffman devised a scheme for Kampus . Keglers. His tireless efforts finally met with almost overwhelming approval of the clubs. But Ernie still didn’t stop working when the season was officially opened. Each week he compiles the averages of the top players in both leagues as well as the league standings.
Pin boys to the contrary, Scholastic feels that Pin Mogul Huffman deserves a rousing salute for snapping otherwise dull clods into viscious, cannon-ball marauders. It’s guys like Ernie who retrieve the idea that there’s a spark of fire and initiative left around a place where stone walls have a habit of springing up overnight to enclose such virtues.
8
A Tenderloin Named Stew
Deception is an admirable thing served up with a football offensive. But across the cafeteria counter it’s not so easy to swallow.
Last Tuesday the noon caf menu read, among other delec-tables, “beef tenderloin . . . thirty-five cents.” Sounds good, eh? Naturally the drooling student, fresh from a one-sided encounter with a fang-souled prof, foresees what any average man foresees when promised a hunk of beef tenderloin: a succulent, savory, slab of bone-less beef.
So you load the tray with accessories and supplements: roll and butter, milk, salad, and a pickle to add relish to the meat. Then, on approaching the steam table, you cry out through the fog and confusion for just what the menu listed, “beef tenderloin.”
Surprise! They hand you a dripping plate of stew! Plain old stew, akin to hash, although not masticated as finely. "
Now giving fancy names to artistic dishes is the privilege of great chefs. That doesn’t go here. Slipping a man stew when he is led to believe he is going to get a plank of meat is downright deception. It is faith-shaking.
So let’s call hash and stew and slumgullion and the like by their well-known and proper names. Let’s leave the deception to next fall’s backfield.
What Makes Hoosiers Run?
There’s a satire included in the hit musical Call Me- Mister which burlesques Army red tape. It runs like this: Paul Revere applies for a horse to make his famous ride, but he first must see the sergeant, then the captain, then the major, and finally, after a long wait, the colonel. They approve of his journey if he takes the prescribed training course, and months later as he is about to receive his mount, the British charge triumphantly on stage. Had Paul Revere been applying for that same horse in the state of Indiana, he probably would have been run down by the advent of the horseless carriage before his request was granted and we’re prone to think the accident would have occurred on Homicide Highway.
For well nigh three months, the Scholastic has thumped the tub for adequate safety measures at the crossing. At long last the state of Indiana has come through with half of its promise. Good, old- safety-minded, highway-wise Indiana has erected two “School Zone” signs at the approaches to the crossing, so inconspicuous that a number of drivers who have made a point of looking for the signs have missed them.
The other half of the state’s promise—the erection of floodlights—has yet to come. Perhaps election time is too far off to expect it before winter’s end.	-
There is talk that the University will erect an automatic stoplight. If such talk is more than mere hearsay, there must be a shortage of automatic stoplights.
It is becoming more and more apparent that the only lasting solution to the problem would be the construction of an underpass. Such a set-up was advocated over 15 years ago when Homicide Highway was being paved, but for various sundry reasons, the ball was fumbled.
In the near future Scholastic hopes to present an estimate of the cost of such an underpass. What’s that we hear? An underpass would cost money? Sure it would, but ask the Hailer and Despres families how much they would have-^. paid to have their son and daughter at the Christmas dinner table!

*The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 89, NO. 13	JANUARY 16, 1948	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
Student Relief Drive Hits Homestretch
Duggan io Chairman Mardi Gras Carnival
Dm YOU SAY FOOTBALL BANQUET?
W	By KEN THOREN
Coming down the homestretch with the speed of a Kentucky thoroughbred, the Foreign Student Relief Campaign is fast gaining momentum as it enters its final three weeks. The personal subscription drive, the donations for the Chrysler and the Plymouth, and plans for the gala Mardi Gras Carnival are all high on the Campaign committee’s bulging agenda.
It is hoped that all stray ends of the dollar-a-man drive will be cleared up by today. As of a week ago, Farley Hall was still leading the percentage lists in regard to the number of men who had given their donations.
Jack Murphy, economics senior' and chairman of the automobile drive, reported that 13,000 books had been distri-' buted with roughly 1500 having been re-turned. To emphasize the universal appeal of this campaign, books have been taken to not only every state in the Union, but also to China, Brazil, France, England and Switzerland.
It is requested that all books be turned in as soon as possible on any day in the dining hall between 12-12:30 and 5:30-6:30. This schedule will continue until exam week and will then be resumed the week after the tests. Books must be returned by February 8. There is still an amount available for distribution and they may be obtained in the basement of the dining hall during the above mentioned hours.
A meeting was held last week for all campus club prexies to draw up final plans for the Mardi Gras Carnival. Bill Duggan, commerce junior, is chairman of the supercolossal blow-out which is defiinitely set for February 9 and 10 in the Navy Drill Hall. There will be danc-^ing one end the hall while the remainder of the floor will be occupied by at least 25 booths, sponsored by the
LATE NEWS FLASH..— Pop, dining hall clean-up man and ace SCHOLASTIC correspondent at that hub of activity, reported yesterday that his "beat" was the scene of much activity earlier this week. It is alleged that much meat was in evidence in the East Wing of the dining halls, some of it consumed and the remainder consuming. Heat waves emanating from the closed room carried an aroma of pigskin, this correspondent added.
Scholastic regrets that further details are not available at this time; and feels called upon to explain to its readers that no arrangements were made for SCHOLASTIC representation at this affair, in spite of an earlier understanding with local Public Information authorities (who handled all press arrangements at this banquet) as to Scholastic’s complete equality with all other representatives of the press at all such functions and events.
BARKERS AT WORK DURING 1942 CARNIVAL From shooting galleries to penny pinching
various campus clubs. A few of the tentatively planned booths include a shooting gallery, turtle races, penny pitching, basket shooting, and throwing baseballs.
There will be no admission charge at the door. Only phoney money, which can be procured upon entering, will be honored at the booths. Winners will have their choice between prizes or phoney money, which will be exchanged for the real lettuce on the way out. South Bend merchants have been approached in re
gard to the donation of prizes.
Everyone is invited to participate in the carnival spirit that will dominate throughout the gaily decorated hall. Members of the family, friends, South Benders, and even enemies, as long as they have money, are all cordially asked to attend the two-night spree. It will be. the final gay fling before the solemnity of Lent is ushered in at midnight on the last evening of Notre Dame’s garrish Mardi Gras Carnival.
9
Shore 'N.uff Rebels Sign Orchestra, Combo To Provide Continuous Music for Mardi Gras
Landlords Keep WND $ On Move: Off the Air
From the French Quarter all the way down to the docks in New Orleans there was talk of the forthcoming Mardi Gras.
The same topic had a bevy of Rebel gentlemen busy this week, huddled around a cafeteria corner table safe from the unsightly damn-Yankee weather. After a strictly informal hop last year that packed the Erskine Park Country Club, the lads from below the Mason-Dixon line had high hopes of a bigger crowds along with the problem of finding a bigger hopping spot.
The outcome: a semi-formal Mardi Gras, staged at the Palais Royale, Friday, Feb. 6. The damages: S3 per couple. Bid Chairman Joe Owens is limiting the number of ducats for the affair and still figures to reach his quota well before exams steal the local spotlight. He’s lined up Rebel representatives in every hall to push business and will dispense tickets from 5 to 7 each evening in the cafeteria basement, where ''lub members have been asked to purchase their bids. For added embellishment each bid salesman has been licensed as a blind-date getter.
The directors of the affair, Rebel prexy Coy McGee, and co-chairmen Dick Bevington and Bill Slavick, have- lined up a full evening of entertainment. Bob Ruehle and his Chicago Club Martinique Orchestra, plus a colored combo for the locale, will provide continuous music. A floor show is in the advance stages of preparation and Connecticut Yankee Dan Gentile has been signed to do the MCeeing.
Car privileges and 2 a. m. permissions will be the order of the night. Busses will run between Notre Dame, St. Mary’s,
AVC Chairman Sees Action Soon on Vet Subsistence
According to a recent announcement from the American Veterans Committee, prospects of early Congressional action to increase subsistence allowances for veterans appear bright.
Chat Paterson, national chairman of the AVC, stated that he had been told by House Speaker Martin that action a bill, already approved by the Senate, could be expected early in the present session. Under this bill allowances would be increased $10 for single students and $15 for married vets.
Patterson added that the AVC would press for amendment of the legislation for an increase of $35 for both single and married veterans.
and the Palais before and after the dance.
Committee chairmen are Bevington, decorations; Slavick, publicity; Joe and Paul Owens, bid promotion and finances; Dan Gentile, entertainment; Bill Leonard, floor supervision; McGee, transportation; Greg Despot, dates; Bob McCoy, refreshments; and Red Lucas, cleanup. Ray Hymel and Jerry White, producers of last year’s dance, are serving as advisors.
Russian Bark Worse
Than Bi+e—Gurian
Red Russia’s No. 1 arch-foe on the Notre Dame campus, Dr. Waldemar Gurian unleashed his acid pen a fortnight ago to answer the current $64 international question: How to contain and reduce Soviet power?
In the lead article of the winter issue of the Review of Politics, Dr. Gurian expounded on Russia’s current policy “as a throwback to a narrow and suspicious nationalism; a policy of dividing the world into two camps.”
The average Communist party-man, the doctor wrote, is: semi-literate; a ruthless activist reciting his lessons from the Marxian catechism; able to follow his leaders through myriad contradictions because he is, on the whole, an automaton dehumanized by the materialism of the communist world-view.
On communism and God, he states: “In the perfect society which communism is, creating God is superflous? This is the apex of inhuman secularization. This fearful mechanization of life has pro? duced impressive results' in' the industrialization of Russia and the opening of her resources. But was the price of this in human lives and human values worth it?”
He further reports that the Soviets are lagging in industrial development and technological improvements. Their leaders are aware of this lack. It may induce them to retreat and discontinue present policies which threaten world peace.
His solution: “a wise statesmanship which, disregarding hysterical Russian statements and maneuvers, will firmiy contain and reduce Soviet power.”
In the same issue, widely-quoted, world-wise Dr. Robert Strausz-Hupe calls for a balance of power in Europe and Asia by restoration of local power. He advocated a “Marshall Plan” type program for Asia as a possible solution.
Every corporation in the U. S. has had its share of trials and tribulations. Few, however, have ever experienced the dose of hard times that the neophyte WND radio station has been trying to survive.
Originally the studio was set up in a small portion of the band room in Washington Hall. After several months of arduous work the broadcasting booth was finally completed. Within hours before the station was scheduled to make its debut it was told in no uncertain terms that it would be unable to use those quarters and would have to find space elsewhere.
After frantic pleas for a place in which to start one of the most constructive ventures that has ever been undertaken at Notre Dame, it was finally permitted to use a small space in the radio booth at the stadium. Work was then hastily transferred to that lofty berth. Several members of the radio club literally worked day and night to set up the station in time for its first airing. The details were completed within minutes before it took to the airlanes.
Displaying amazing spirit and courage, WND was able to broadcast its first program and received the general approval of the student body. Then another blow hit its progress. Again it was given its walking papers and told it had to find other quarters.
Frustrations piled upon frustrations floored the station for the count of ten, but still it tenaciously refused to give g up. The Christmas vacation came at an -opportune time in the fight for existence and offered the station a chance to recuperate before meeting the awaiting foes and obstacles.
As yet it has not completely recovered but there does seem to be a faint glow of hope in the future. At time of publication nothing was definite, but authoritative reports said a grant of $1,000 will be given to the struggling station to build a modern studio in the balcony of the Field House.—Ken Thoren
Picture of the Week
Scholastic Photographer Don Spinney-caught this interesting camera study New Year's night as campus trees groaned under a heavy coating of ice. deposited by a typical Indiana sleet storm which raged during the preceding : 24 hours.
10
At Last Indiana Acts! Not Quite All Is Forgiven As Thorson Reports Erection of Warning Signs
By BILL BRADLEY
relief. “If the men here only knew what $35,000 will do for those people,” she said, “and what those people will feel in their hearts for the men of Notre Dame, your drive cannot help but succeed completely.”
The old but vital problem of Homicide Highways came up once again at the new year’s first meeting of the Student Council this week. President Ralph Thorson reported that the state of Indiana had finally begun to consider the welfare of its student citizens: two warning signs have been installed on the approaches to St. Mary’s crossing.
Thorson added, however, that Father Barry, director of student activities, will ask the state to maintain a traffic light and additional signs put up by the University. President Thorson was especially grateful to the Scholastic for its perseverance in keeping the situation before the attention of the school since the accident last fall when a Notre Dame student and a St. Mary’s student were killed while crossing the Dixie.
Among other developments at the meeting was an improvement in conduct. Evidence that the Council had come to realize the practicability in such an organization of a solid background of parliamentary procedure was furnished by Bob Uhl, who suggested that the Council arrange an engagement with a member of the Speech Department for an informal lesson on parliamentary tactics and etiquette. Thorson intends to promote such a meeting in the near future.
Two motions concerning campus clubs were passed at the meeting. Uhl moved that the Council suspend any club which does not satisfactorily comply with its information requirements, and that the Council draft within the next two weeks a charter of recognition for each organization that has fulfilled the requirements.
President Thorson read to the Council a list of suggestions for future projects. The list follows:
1.	To hold reasonably-priced dances open to all students each Saturday night on which a dance would be feasible.
2.	To delegate more authority, duties, etc., to class* officers in an effort to solidify class spirit.
3.	To introduce honorary scholastic fraternities on the campus in an effort to place Notre Dame students ahead of the field.
4.	To form a committee with St. Mary’s to increase the activity between Notre Dame and St. Mary’s.
5.	To place two or three students on the Lecture Series committee so that a definite pre-arranged series of good
quality is assured the students at least a semester in advance.
6.	To stimulate club and hall activities; to form hall councils to aid Student Council representatives.
7.	To form an honorary and active group of club and class presidents to aid in the stimulation of activity.
8.	To inaugurate a spring election for classes, Student Council offices, clubs, etc., to take place on a single day.
At this meeting the Council was also informed that an ice cream machine had already been installed in Cavanaugh Hall for the convenience of the students, and that other ice cream and soft-drink dispensing machines were on the way for the other residence halls on the campus.
Student Relief Exec Praises ND's Drive
Miss Sally Cassidy from New York, an executive member of the World Student Association, a member of executive committees of World Student Relief and the Catholic Pax Romana, and just recently returned from 18 months in Europe, spent Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday at St. Mary’s and Notre Dame addressing groups participating in campaigns to raise relief funds for destitute students in foreign countries.
On Tuesday Miss Cassidy met with the Student Relief Committee at Notre Dame to outline the incredible need for aid that foreign students have. From her experience and first-hand information, she spoke of tragic conditions in universities and schools in Germany, Austria, France, Belgium, and Holland, where students attend classes in bombed-out buildings, eat and sleep in cellars, wait in line for hours to use microscopes and drawing instruments for half an hour at a time. '
A graduate of Manhattanville and now studying for a Ph.D. degree in political science at Fordham University, Miss Cassidy spoke to the committee at length describing the awesome need in Europe and Asia for the necessities of life among students and the necessities in schools for adequate instruction facilities.
She also complimented Notre Dame’s students on their drive to raise the staggering sum of $35,000 for this needed
She continued, “To know the need for foreign relief is tremendously important, in fact it is vital right now. To know that individual contribution to this wonderful program is warmly received and instrumental in the salvation of life and the principles of life is most important also.”
Kuttner Gives Final Series Of Mediaeval Inst. Lectures
Fifth and last in the Mediaeval Institute’s series of public lectures for < this semester was delivered this week by Dr. Stephan Kuttner, professor of canon law of the Catholic University of America. Dr. Kuttner, speaking on the general subject “Problems in the Substance of Mediaeval Law,” gives his final lecture this afternoon at 4:30 in Room 101 of the Law Building.
This is the second series to be delivered by Dr. Kuttner. Other series have been given by Professor Etienne Gilson of the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies, Professor Anton Pegis, president of the Pontifical Institute, and Rev. L. Kennedy, C.S.B. Further public lectures are planned for next semester.
The Mediaeval Institute’s efforts to bring some of the world’s finest mediaeval scholars to Notre Dame have been made possible through the generosity of the Michael P. Grace Fund, adminis- J tered by Thomas E. Murray and Gerard Carrol.
Stage Traditional Banquet For Senior Law Graduates
The Notre Dame Senior Banquet, traditional tribute from underclassmen to graduating law seniors, was held on Wednesday, Jan. 14, in the Oliver Hotel’s Rotary Room. Chief speaker of the evening was M. M. Oshe, vice president of the Chicago Title & Trust Company, who received his LL.B, at Notre Dame.
A reception preceded the banquet and a dance followed. General chairman was Jack Berry; Byron Hayes was in charge of arrangements; and George Bariscillo, chairman of the banquet.
Rolland Smythe, an exchange student at Notre Dame from Oxford University, England, spoke on comparative £J American and English methods of teaching law.
I UNESCO Conference At Mexico City Ratifies 5 Major Proposals of N.D.'s Claude Julien
By TOM MURRAY
Claude Julien, graduate student in political science here at Notre Dame, returned recently from Mexico City where he was one of the key figures at the second annual conference of the United Nations Education, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). He participated as the official representative of the Young Christian Students (YCS) world movement, this being the only international student organization represented as such at the Mexico City conference.
Julien submitted five major proposals | at the conference concerning international life, and every one of the proposals was ratified by the Organization. These proposals, if carried out, seem certain to play no small part in a world of better international understanding.
Upon arrival in Mexico, Julien held an informal discussion with Mr. A. deBlo-ney, head of UNESCO’s department of external relations. Up until this time the general idea was that UNESCO should help the students. But Julien had a different idea: wouldn’t it be better if the students helped UNESCO? He presented his idea for a student advisory committee to deBloney, who warmly agreed. The next step was the submission of a formal proposal at the conference. This accomplished, the plan met with an enthusiastic reception. Thus was formed the Student Advisory Committee, the first and only advisory committee of UNES-
i ; C0-
This illustrious Notre Dame student, who was the only delegate at the conference with any formulated ideas pertaining to youth, had four other proposals ratified. The first of these was in the form of the Charter for the Education of Youths. The purpose of this is to secure equality of rights and access to education for the students of all countries.
Julien realized that if the students of the world were to help UNESCO they must be familiar with the Organization, so he came up with another proposal: a detailed plan for the publicizing of UNESCO in the student press.
He also appreciated that the students themselves can better discover many of their own reeds, so he proposed a program by which the various student movements would discover their needs and study the best means of solving these problems.
The last—and probably the most im
portant—of Julien’s proposals was a detailed eight-point Program to Promote International Understanding Among Students. Briefly, the eight points are these:
1)	Creation by the students of an international study center for students’ problems.
2)	An exchange of students to the Student Advisory Committee.
3)	Establishment of international summer camps for students of the various countries.
CLAUDE JULIEN
Five hits in Eve trips
4)	A program of action by the students to alleviate racial prejudice.
5)	Promotion and development of student international relations clubs.
6)	More universal use of the movies to accurately portray life in the various countries.
7)	A long-range program of special radio broadcasts, in which local student groups would present programs accurately portraying their student life. These programs would then be translated into the various languages on transcriptions, which in turn would be broadcast all over the world.
8)	Collaboration of the students with UNESCO in correcting the text books of
the world to stem the false impressions^ and prejudices which arise therefrom.
Although action on these programs will start this month, the author of them points out that it is too much to hope that they will be carried out in the near future, as the whole of UNESCO must work on the very small budget of $8,000,-000.
When asked by the Scholastic for comment on the conference in general, * Julien remarked that “Jacques Maritain was the most outstanding personage at the conference by far. He was the only one who was applauded regularly throughout the conference. He made seem very foolish the very materialistic orientation of Prof. Huxley, the top man in UNESCO.” Mr. Maritain is chairman of the Committtee on Humanities and Philosophy in UNESCO, besides being the French ambassador to the Vatican.
Blue Circle to Publish Traditions Handbook
The Blue Circle has announced that it will undertake the preparation of a manual covering the traditions and customs of the University. This publication, tentatively titled “Spires,” will combine pictorial as well as written material in an effort to increase student appreciation of the accomplishments of the University during its 105 years.
The “Spires” is intended primarily as a freshman orientation publication. It will be an extension of the Blue Circle’s policy, initiated at registration last fall, to supply an adequate introduction program for first year men. It is their desire to present in a convenient form the story * of the background of tradition which permeates each hall and the noteworthy accomplishments of the men who have contributed to Notre Dame’s history. In the rush of the post war flood of students back to the University many of these customs and traditions have been lost or obscured. Such a manual should, therefore, be of interest and value to upper classmen as well.
“The Spirit of the greater Notre Dame has its roots deep in the past and rightly to know the Notre Dame of today we should know at least the highlights of her history,” stated the Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., in commendation of the Blue Circle for sponsoring the preparation of the “Spires.”
Tentative arrangements will insure completion of printing in order that distribution can be effected during the fall registration of 1948.—Harry Monahan
13
Rev. Gerald B. Phelan Pilots Unique Institution to Place of Distinction in U. S. Education
Mediaeval
Institute
By JIM KENNEDY
COPYING A MANUSCRIPT Investigation and research
CHECKING A RARE DOCUMENT Instruction and training
Before the curbstone historian decides to call it a year and lets the cold hand of Winter seal the covers on the Book of 1947-48, there still remains time to page through his journal of events and chronicle one more claim to fame for the University.
Cheered by thousands, praised by millions, Notre Dame has earned a unique and enviable spot in the realm of sports —and this year has even strengthened its position. Not quite so spectacularly, but certainly more significantly, this same school has merited a coveted and signal place in the domain of higher learning, and education must recognize its contribution. Not only in the physical sciences, but also by the Mediaeval Institute, the one—and only one—in the United States.
To the current, predominantly practical frame of mind found in colleges today, the name may symbolize what Cardinal Newman calls “liberal” knowledge, as contrasted with “useful” knowledge. But quite conversely, its aims are vitally practical, for they are directed toward the discovery of adequate solutions to present day problems of modern industrialism, finance, and commerce; of modern democracy, science, and invention. And for those students who are particularly concerned with these respective fields, as well as the votaries of philosophy, history, and literature, the Mediaeval Institute should be worthy of serious examination.
The Mediaeval Institute is a distinct academic unit within the University established for the intensive study of the thought, history and culture of the Middle Ages. Primarily a research institution, it constitutes a center for historical investigation, specialized research, and advanced instruction and training. Through the efforts of Father Moore, Dean of the Graduate School, with the support of Father John J. Cavanaugh, President of the University, and the cooperation of Father Kenna, Director of Studies, the inaugural lecture of the Mediaeval Institute was delivered in Washington Hall on February 2, 1947 by the
Director of the Institute, Father Gerald B. Phelan.
Eminent, congenial, distinguished -looking Father Phelan can boast with pardonable pride of an excellent staff. _ He himself is an internationally-known author, philosopher, and scholar. Father Phelan has the able assistance of such men of distinction as Messrs. Simon, Chroust, Bennett, and Corbett. In addition to such funds of knowledge, a special lecture series, made possible by the generous $20,000 grant of the Michael P. Grace II Trust, is featuring Dr. Anton C. Pegis, President of the Pontifical Institute, Reverend L. Kennedy, C.S.B., Dr. Stephan Kuttner and M. Etienne Gilson.
The purpose of the Institute is to promote study and research in the civilization of the Middle Ages in order: To acquire exact information about, and appreciation of Mediaeval life, thought and history by every method and device known to modern scholarship; to interpret that tradition of Christian culture to the world of modern scholarship and rethink and reinterpret it for our own day; to train young scholars to carry on	j
in the future the work of their predeces-	'
ors; to edit and publish the manuscript sources of the culture and learning in the Middle Ages; and to produce scientific and historical studies of that culture.
In his inaugural lecture, Father Phelan rendered a very vivid explanation as to why the Middle Ages are deserving of such concentrated study. “An apparent conspiracy of history which has lasted for generations has taught us to regard the Middle Ages as the ‘Dark Ages’ —‘a long night of a thousand years’ wrapped in darkness and brutality. The term ‘mediaeval’ is even yet not infre- I quently used in a disparaging sense. No scholar today, however, would indulge in such sweeping condemnation of a thous- । and years of European history. For they are beginning to realize that those ages, i which everybody once called Dark Ages, <e ) i witnessed .the workings of the vital I forces of Christian civilization that grad-
14
ually leavened the mass of ignorance and ® superstition prevalent among the hordes

of barbarians who overran Europe after the fall of the Roman Empire; they were the ages which transformed fierce and warlike peoples like the Vikings of the North into lovers of order and peace; they fostered the slow but sure development of stable government, wise laws and progressive institutions; they gained recognition for the dignity of labor and honest human toil and richly rewarded competent craftsmanship; they organized education, established schools, founded the first universities and produced great masters and teachers, men of vast and profound learning; they inspired magnificent works of art like the Cathedrals of Europe, the Divine Comedy of Dante and the incomparable melodies of the Gregorian Chant and the music of the Troubadours; in a word, they accumulated the enormous capital of culture and civilization upon which the Western world has evei- since been living. We are the heirs of all that wealth of human values, and it behooves us to learn whereof our heritage consists. We need to become fully aware and conscious of the treasures of thought and the precious principles of practical human and Christian living which our mediaeval past has bequeathed to us.”
All courses of study offered by the Institute are graduate courses. Certain prerequisites in language, history, and philosophy are necessary, but deficiencies may be made up if the student has not done the adequate undergraduate work. For students who have heard the call to scholarship, this work is particularly appropriate, because mediaeval thought and learning is peculiarly a Catholic heritage. To let your- scholarship serve as leaven among your fellowscholars is a high form of Catholic Action, and most important to society, for it is the scholar who moulds the thought and culture of the age. In the short time of its existence, the Institute has received original pieces of manuscripts and sheets of mediaeval music dating back to the ninth century, submitted for deciphering. And, interestingly enough, there have come requests from two Protestant ministers desiring information on the mediaeval theological doctrines. Thus the prestige of this Catholic research center is already being realized.
ABOVE—Prof. Corbett, Father Phelan and Prof. Ladner study passage from mediaeval work. CENTER—Professors Simon, Bennett and Chroust. BELOW—Fathers Garvin, Moore and Phelan examine an original manuscript preparatory to deciphering.
15
Notre Dame's Autograph Collection Swells; Library Gets Valuable Kilmer Manuscripts
It’s just a scrap of old paper. On one side are a husband’s jotted reminders— “copy paper for Aline, 3 yards of white baptiste, 35 or 40 a yard”—but on the other side is a poem scribbled in pencil. It’s a poem that makes it a valuable scrap of paper for it is the original manuscript of Joyce Kilmer’s famed Main Street.
This is one of seven Joyce Kilmei-manuscripts that have just been added to the autograph collection at the University of Notre Dame. They are the gift of Mrs. William Corbett of Chicago, wife of a member of the Notre Dame Board of Lay Trustees.
The manuscripts were purchased through Mary Benjamin, New York dealer in rare manuscripts, from Henry Watts, New York. Mr. Watts, like Kilmer, was a convert to the Church. The manuscripts were given to Watts by Kilmer when they worked together on the editorial staff of the now-defunct Literary Digest.
As in the case of Main Street, the othei- manuscripts are written on scraps of paper. The Thorn was written in pencil on stationery of the Hotel Seville. It was written for the late Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., former president of Notre Dame. Kilmer wrote Grace Before Drinking on a Chemist’s Club memo pad.
“Those Kilmer manuscripts are un
POLAR ROYALTY—CAPEN& CLEMENS WITH CAMERA-MUGGING FRIENDS Even the hamburgers were cold
usual,” according to Paul Byrne, Notre Dame Librarian, “because Kilmer seldom kept his manuscripts. Since his greatest fame came after his death in World War I many of the original manuscripts of his poems were not thought likely to be of any historical value by those who possessed them and they were lost.”
The Kilmer manuscripts will be kept at the Notre Dame Library, which also houses one of the greatest collections of early American manuscripts, maps and state’ papers in existence. The Wightman Memorial Art Gallery, comprising more than 300 paintings by Van Dyke, Murillo, Guido Reni, Veronese, Tintoretto, de Credi, Constable and other masters, occupies part of the Notre Dame Library building. The library also houses two other famous collections— the Zahm Dante Collection and a collection of Irish literature.
Joyce Kilmer was one of the nation’s best known poets in the pre-World War I era. His famed work, Trees, is one of the country’s most remembered poems. Shortly before the war he became a Catholic and enlisted in the army, serving with the famed Fighting 69th. Although older than most of the men he volunteered for the most dangerous assignments and it was on one of these assignments that he was killed.
SKATERS IN ACTION Ankles ached
St. Mary's Snow-Fest Warms N.D. Hearts
Wet derrieres, aching ankles, cold hamburgers and flashy sweaters were the order of the day at St. Mary’s last Saturday when the Sophomore Class sponsored their annual winter romp, sophomorically enough entitled “Polar Playtime.”
Approximately 400 couples started the afternoon off by scraping across the girls’ snow-covered gold fish pond. After everyone had frozen their beaks to icicles they retired to a blazing bonfire. A “hot” supper was served, followed by dancing. A The highlight of the activities was a topnotch floor show. The whole affair was reigned over by the carnival king, John “Ace” Clemens, of Evansville, Ind., and his queen Miss Jody Capen, of Springfield, Ohio.
The show was called “Polar Playtime” and was opened by a St. Mary’s chorus which gave forth with such gems as “Notre Dame is the best in the land. We trained them that way” to melody and “St. Mary’s girls are really true sometimes we think you’ve missed our cue” to much enthusiasm. Songstress Penny George plied her tuneful specialty accompanied by Barney Terstige. ND gave a boogie-woogie and vocal contribution to the evening with Don Welsh and Phil McCartin, both of Morrissey, doing the honors.
The general male opinion was that the affair did much towards erasing tea dance memories and arousing hopes of w
• the future—Dave Schoen & Ken Thoren
• Youth Leader Seeks More Student Power
Beer Truck Saves the Day as 'Great Snow' Fails to Drift Under Eastern Holiday Hops
Students must be allowed to administer their own campus governments, if America is to receive the trained leaders she needs, writes Martin McLaughlin of Portland, Oregon, nationally recognized youth leader, in an article entitled, “The Student and the Administration,” appearing in the January issue of Concord, national student magazine.
Mr. McLaughlin, a graduate student in political science at the Univeristy of Notre Dame, says, “The future of a democratic society such as ours depends to a great extent on the education of its people; unless in the college itself, therefore, where the process of formal education takes place, there is practice for 0 leadership and community living, little hope can be held out for the nation which finds its political leaders, especially in the ranks of college graduates. What fosters the development of the student community, then, promises benefits to the entire social order of this country, and through our leadership, to the world.”
He laments the fact that American educators tend to withhold any real power from the students, by saying, “The rights and responsibilities of administration and faculty are well known and extensively dealt with; but how about the rights and responsibilities of students? Is there not something odd in the disdain of many educators for the student’s opinion? Is it because of his youth or his immaturity that he is patted on the head and told to come back later? And is it not strange that a diploma suddenly alters this situation.”
Mr. McLaughlin examines the reports of several educational conferences and decides that there can be no half-way measures in the delegation of authority to the students’ governing body. He writes, “The crucial point is that whatever the sphere of the student government’s authority, it must be clearly delineated (to minimize possible conflicts) ; and there must be real and total authority within these defined limits (to stimulate initiative and the acceptance of responsibility) .”
In conclusion, Mr. McLaughlin states, “Although from the administration’s point of view, the crucial matter is the actual delegation of a real and total authority within a defined sphere of operation. Granted that the gamble . must be made by the educators, the question still remains—are the students able, are they ready, are they willing to ac-\ cept the responsibility that inevitably ac-* companies the authority for which they clamor?”—Laurence S. Connor
By GREG HALPIN
NEWS ITEM: Back to the comparatively balmy refuge of Indiana, last week came hundreds of eastern' Notre Dame students, survivors of the “Great Storm.” With many of them came harrowing tales of snoiv and ice and unused dance bids to the Waldorf and the Statler as grim souvenirs of the “Blizzard of ’47.”
Friday the 26th was the night and a fatal one at that. The snow had started in the afternoon and was still coming. By this time Joe Met Clubber in Brooklyn had abandoned the car and was wondering if there was a cab driver in New York City mad enough to keep a meter clicking. Joe was in constant telephone communication with The Date who, through the unexplainable pioneering spirit of her parents, lived in the far reaches of Long Island and “wasn’t this just horrible and me with a new dress.” But Joe was calm. After all he had had his arctic training in Indiana, and, if he could suffer a mid-winter walk across campus for what the Dining Hall had to offer, by Leahy, he could get to tho Waldorf!
He had The Date on the phone again, and “Joe, it’s just too awful because I can’t see outside the window and Daddy says the Long Island Railroad isn’t running and I have the new dress and if we can’t get there I’ll just die and, Joe, darling, you’ve just got to do something because it’s terribly awful.” Yes, “Joe darling” had to do something but, veteran though he was, Joe was frankly stumped. Long Island looked as far away as Siberia and just as cold, and it was
MET CLUBBERS WALTZ AT THE WALDORFS STARLIGHT HOOF Sixty-five couple* with wet feet
still snowing. Some happy-lunged announcer on WOR was blaring out about the subways being all tied up and of buses and trolleys getting lost on the long haul down Flatbush Avenue. No cars, no cabs, no trains, no subways or buses or trolleys. Yes, “Joe darling” was stumped for Joe could neither skate nor ski and the prospect of snow shoes held no appeal. It was a grim situation and, at the next council of war held over the receiver, he was low enough to express to The Date some small doubts of their ever hearing Harold Arnold’s music that night. To which sweet date replied with hysteria and “but Joe dear, I’ve just GOT to go. I have a new dress, you know, and I’ve been looking forward to this so much and I’ll just die. Do something Joe. Think of something. Please, Joey—for me, sweets?”
And so Joe found himself twelve miles out on the Island two hours later and he still not knowing what hit him. He had taken one of the few remaining operating subways for a few miles, .hitched a ride on a snow plow another few hundred feet, walked two miles, had found a stalled car which he helped a guy dig out getting a lift for two blocks before it stalled and now he was out on the hoof again—wet, soggy but determined. There was a yelping and howling from beyond the drifts in front of him, and Joe struck out for his first sign of civilization in 50 minutes.
It proved to be his salvation in the form of a Red Cross relief sled and dog
(Continued on Page 29)
17
Unbeaten St. Louis Five Loads Both Barrels For Tussle With Krausemen Tomorrow Night
By DAVE WARNER
1
OVER THE
With a solid week of practice behind therii after taking everything DePaul had to offer and still managing to land on their feet, the Notre Dame basketbailers are en route tc St. Louis. There, tomorrow irght, the Krause Klan takes on the St. Louis University Billi-kens in Keil Auditorium.
For the Irish the attempt will be to notch victory No. 8 in 11 games. But the Billikens, under their new coach, Ed Hickey, will have more to shoot for. As we went to press they were undefeated, having bested, among others, Holy Cross, Georgetown, Minnesota, Baylor, Missouri and Rice. For some inexplicable reason, at least unknown to this department, Hickey, who formerly enjoyed much success as a coach at Creighton out Nebraska way, relieved Flanagan who had guided St. Lou to the Missouri Valley Conference title last season. Ignoring the coaching situation, Notre Dame will have 40 minutes of hard labor trying to throttle 6'8" Ed Macauley who led his conference with close to 450 points last season. Often, opposing teams were forced to put three men on Slender Ed who is generally regarded a red hot candidate for AllAmerican. If Macauley has a fault it
is probably that he is too easy going on a basketball court as was witnessed here last winter. Another who will bear close guarding is 6'3" forward Marty Schatz-man, a great shot. In their six-game series which began in 1937 St. Louis has never conquered Notre Dame at home or abroad.
The one characteristic which stands head and shoulders above all others in trying to get a line on this year’s basketball team is that you cannot figure it out. To opposing coaches and teams Notre Dame, so far, wears the mysterious cloak of Mr. X. Rated by preseason forecasters as high as fourth in the national rankings, Ed Krause’s crew is still far off that pace. But basketball being the uncertain, unpredictable game that it is—who knows?
During the Christmas vacation the boys took to the road and had to press to play .500 ball. In a brief swing through the West, Kev O’Shea had all but iced the game with a free throw against Denver. But with seconds remaining substitute guard Roy Nelson hit his first bucket in 12 tosses. It was enough! Denver 61; Notre Dame 60. The game had its bitter parts aplenty. John
(Continued on Page 27)
The most imposing problem on rhe opening day of the election year of 1948] was not whether Michigan was p.ir-posely or accidentally burying Southern
California under lanche, but rather
that 49-point ava-
il ow could a Notre
3
Dame man to both the
Bowl
Shrine
and
listen
Rose the
game at
the same t i m e. Three of our foot-1 ball players were playing in and making the Shrine ?ame while we had to keep an ear on the Michigans as they seemingly outdid our efforts of Dec. 6.
My scouts report practical methods
Pete Brown
n it 1 101 cag
E Jlic gan goo |st af :Rl aci BCza
and wel
that there were tvo to use—the well-
oiled dial and the two radio system. If you had two radios and Bill Stern was, not expounding too loudly, the latter system was fool-proof. The well-oiled dial
I T
| tear i g-rei i^rer par! ^ean thin igan the righ hum tage
DON'T LET THAT MAN SHOOT!
DePaul's Gordon Gillespie and Whitie Kachan throw up a barricade of arms as Paul Gordon prepares to open fire from close in. At right: Ed Mikan.
18
iOALPOSTS
Over-All Balance May Prove Key to Success As Trackmen Begin Grueling Indoor Season
By JIM HOWARD
.he MS ,ir-
.•a-tre
Ircked perfection, but if you had luck n ith your manipulations, there were the i idrning papers unless you live in Chi-
cago.
Besides the feeding Jlichigan-Notre Dame games proved that the
of fodder to the dispute, the two Pacific Coast has
■good high school football. The sports ! ilst aff of The Scholastic takes one step 1'Black and tips its collective hat to Ziggy igCzarobski, who served as the East’s * Ic^ain, George Connor, John Lujack [and Fritz Crisler’s Wolverines for a job
well, in fact, over-done.
vo ell-’
If
The Wolverines showed what a great team could do to a good team if the great teams’ best machinery was well greased and in operation for a greater part of the 60-minute span. The Army Yearns of 1944-1945 proved the same thing to us. In both the Army and Michigan cases we were in the position where the overpowering actions did not sit right. True it may be a bad practice to
7as J humiliate an opponent, but the advan
usually outweigh the ill-will (Continued on Page 27)
Depth in the distances and middle distances, and over-all balance are the advantages the Irish track team will rely on to carry them through a grueling indoor season and a rugged outdoor schedule this year.
The team lacks an individual performer who is tops in his field, and consequently must develop a well integrated squad to garner the points necessary for victories. A star performer in an event has the power to bind a group together, because he gives the core of strength for the building of the team.
Coach Elvin R. (Doc) Handy believes the team has some weaknesses, notably in the high jump and broad jump, but thinks the general balance is good. The success of the season is questionable according to Coach Handy because of the fact that the team will face a tough schedule of indoor relays almost immediately after the season opens.
In the dashes, Babe Murphy running for the first time since release from service gives promise of turning in some brilliant performances. Other sprinters include Bob Smith, a letterman on last year’s squad, who is best on the longer outdoor distances, and
Jack Gorman, a newcomer who is shaping up well.
Last year’s captain, John Smith, is back and leads the list of hurdlers. If he does not suffer any leg injuries this spring, he may crack some of his own records set last year. Big Bob McDavid, Bill O’Neil, and Frank Entriken fill out what may prove to be one of the Handymen strong spots. O’Neil was captain of the 1944 cinder group, and McDavid is a returning monogram winner from last year.
In the quarter-mile, the Irish boast this year’s captain, Ernie McCullough, Ray Sobota, Steve Provost, Pat Kenny, and Paul Schwetschenau. All except the latter are returning letter men. This imposing array should form another important group, the mile-relay. Last year, these runners hit 3:19 in the Chicago relays, barely missing the mark of the Illinois team led by famed Ray McKinley.
The half-mile is loaded with talent,-headed by Bill Leonard, Gerry Johnson and Larry Keenan. These three are being pressed by Tom Maguire, Joe Mahoney, and Bob Stupay. Coach Handy expects to gather a good two-mile relay squad from this star gathering.
tages
ys-lial
HEY. QUIT GANGING UP YOU GUYS!
John Foley and Kevin O'Shea provide double trouble for Butler's Bill Shepherd, relieving him of the ball. We presume he received a free throw for his efforts.
19
CAPTAIN ERNIE McCULLOUGH No star performer, but . . .
Leonard also leads the list of milers on the basis of the 4:15.7 mile turned in at the Indiana S.ate meet last year. The other milers are John Lyons, one of the best stylists in collegiate competition; Jim Kelly, running his first season since military service, and a member of this year’s crack cross country outfit; Jim Kittell, who is in his first year of collegiate competition and one of the most promising runners on the team; Lou Tracy, a returning monogram winner and a constant scorer; and Merle Fleming, also from this year’s harrier squad.
Red-haired Jim Murphy, the star of the cross country team, and leading two-miler on last spring’s team, is again expected to pace the long distance runners. Corny Styers is in the best condition he has seen since his return and is expected to show consistently among the winners this year. Bob Mitchell and Tracy fill out the two-mile group. Mitchell was on the harrier squad, and Tracy is the iron man of the team inasmuch as he competes in both the mile and two-mile.
JIM MURPHY	BILL LEONARD	JOHN LYONS
... depth in the distances and middle distances
Weak spot of the team is the high jump. Tracy, the versatile, does this too. Tommy Devine is the other Irish hope in this event. Notre Dame seems to be limited to six feet in this field event, and consequently loses valuable points. In the pole vault, Coach Handy has veterans Ray Struble and Jim Miller. Terry Brennan may compete during the indoor schedule. The Irish fare rather well in the pole vault, because they have depth and all three vaulters can top twelve feet six inches.
One of the big weaknesses of last season, the broad jump, may be changed this year. Ray Espenan, one of the ends on this year’s football team, is expected to prove especially strong. He is reported to be capable of doing 23 feet. Jack Hunter of last year’s team is back, and Babe Murphy the sprinter also doubles in this event.
The shot should be one of the Irish strong points with such performers as George Sullivan, John Helwig, Floyd Simmons, and John Johnson. Sullivan missed hitting 50 feet by fractions of inches last year. Helwig was National Interscholastic champion when in high school in California. Simmons was a leading contender last season, hitting 48 feet consistently.
From the sprinters and middle distance men Coach Handy hopes to form top mile and sprint medley relay teams. These relay groups are particularly important during the indoor season, when the team competes in several invitational relays which feature these special events.
The first Notre Dame contest is tentatively set for sometime in January with Missouri, here in the Irish fieldhouse. On February 6, the local thin-clads travel to Michigan State for the annual Michigan Relays.
U Okaites
By JOE CHENEY
I never realized Chatter enjoyed such a wide reading audience until I was bombarded on all sides (and that covers a lot of territory) about my Rose Bowl prediction. Guess it was just another case of wishful thinking.
ZIGGY'S BREAKFAST IN BED
I knocked on Ziggy’s door one chilly morning last week hoping to find the ad-libber up and dressed. As I opened the door there sat Zygmont as big as life enjoying breakfast in bed.	(gj
“One of the boys up the hall brought in this tray of coffee, toast and eggs,” smiled Zig. “Don’t ask me where he got these eggs but they’re not bad. Could use a little salt, though.”
Zig had the Chicago Tribune and the Chicago Sun in front of him. I have always secretly admired people who could read a newspaper" while eating. Co-ordination, dexterity, and automatic digestion are attributes necessary to do both these things at the same time. .
“This set-up gives me an air of being > a man of affairs,” whispered Zig. “But f after last season I gave up my attempt ? to look like a man of affairs. Some mornings I even found it hard to look like a man.”	.
Zig picked up one of the papers but had difficulty turning the pages. “I c^n’t seem to get this newspaper the way I want it. Look at that, now.” I glanced I® up and Ziggy’s pat of butter was stuck firmly against the Oriental Theatre advertisement.
I sat uneasy watching Ziggy reading Hedda Hopper’s Hollywood column. Liz Scott’s name was missing again. He took a bite of toast without giving it a glance. Leaning over to the right so that the light from his Badin Hall window would chase the dark shadows from the page, Ziggy’s red and green striped „ pajama sleeve rested neatly in his egg. -
Getting back to Hedda’s column, Zig’s eyes zig-zagged across the words. His ; right hand glided over his tray search- j ing for his coffee. I watched it coast | over the half slice of toast, around the sunny-side of his eggs, and then, as if a by intuition, directly into the coffee it- i self. The Chicago tackle tossed Hollywood to the floor, the half-eaten egg ’
stuck to the wall, and a brown puddle^. I of coffee quickly vanished into the bot- ■)
tom white sheet.
£
“How will I ever explain this to the l™maid?” he laughed. I crawled out the door on my hands and knees too weak to walk from laughing.
. HOW ABOUT A BOXING TEAM?
Quite a few of last year’s Bengal Bouters have suggested to me that they would be very interested in having a boxing team here at Notre Dame. Mr. Napolitano of the Phy Ed department is qualified to coach and train the fellows interested. Notre Dame has plenty of boxing equipment, rooms to train, material to work with, and competent doctors to keep a close check on the participants.
If the annual Bengal Bouts are any criterion of boxing interest here on the campus, I am sure that a boxing team would receive enormous support from '^the student body and people of South Bend.
ORDER SOME BEDS, MAC
After watching the Notre Dame basketball team run up and down the court with their tongues hanging out, I’ve ■ come to the conclusion that it might be a good idea if Mr. McAllister, superintendent of equipment, added a few beds to his equipment room and had them handy for the players as they left the court.
One thing is certain, if the Notre Dame hoopsters find themselves out of shape, on their home court, what are they going to feel like playing in smoke-filled Madison Square Garden against this year’s strong New York University squad?
Most of the squad are in good shape \ but there are a few who might at least uptake a peak at their physical status. It only takes one man to slow down a smooth-working quintet and ruin the chances of a potentially great Notre Dame team.
IMPROVE BASEBALL FIELD
Most of us can understand why the University cannot at this time build a larger field house to accommodate those fans unfortunate enough not to see the Notre Dame hardwood five in action. But something should be done to improve the baseball facilities on Cartier Field. High schools have better diamonds on which to play their- home games and the bleachers and dugouts are a disgrace to a school as famous as Notre Dame.
If every student attending Notre Dame decided to see the same game, half of them would have to stand up or sit along the foul lines on the ground, couth Bend fans pay their way and expect the comfort of at least a seat.
Seminarians Trap Muskrats; Organize Fur Factory; Sell Pelts for Bengal Missions
Notre Dame’s self-sufficiency program claimed another victim this fall in order to add to its list of services and products which long ago placed the title of “city within a city” among its traditions. Now the unobtrusive muskrats on St. Mary’s lake have inserted themselves into the economic scheme which encompasses Notre Dame and its overseas interests. Previously hailed as being complete from fire department to corner drug store, the University now has added a fur-curing enterprise to its extensive plant.
During the fall, oblivious to the roar of football crowds and pennant hawkers, St. Mary’s lake has been the scene of a grim battle of nature against man. For several months the seminarians at Holy Cross Seminary tracked and trapped the wily muskrat along the lake shores. The seminarians organized their own fur factory at the Seminary and skinned and partially cured the skins.
At this point in his career the muskrat became an economic good and was sold to find his way into milady’s next winter’s coat or jacket. Notre Dame T-shirts, playing cards, compacts and beer steins have appeared to be snapped up by the souvenir-loving public and patriotically inclined frosh. But now the fur markets of the country are to be invaded and the Notre Dame muskrat will challenge the “new look.” Notre Dame has made its contribution to the world of fashion.
The muskrat’s furry endeavors will affect not only the national clothing market, but will produce benefits in the distant arid reaches of riot-ridden Pakistan. All funds received for these pelts were donated by the seminarians to the foreign missions conducted by the Congregation of Holy Cross in Bengal, Pakistan.
It’s a complicated scheme of events that leads a carefree rodent resident of the shores of St. Mary’s lake to give monetary assistance to the hard-working Catholic missionaries. But it is just the type of story which finds its way into the record of the communal life of the religious residents of the Notre Dame campus.
Another thing, the set-up at baseball games is dangerous. On fly balls the first and third basemen often find themselves tumbling over the fans seated on the ground behind first and third. Baseball spikes are sharp and it’s a wonder someone hasn’t been injured. Now’s the time to remedy the situation.
HOLY CROSS TRAPPERS Muskrats and economics
Grunt and Groan Experts To Start Competition Today
Wrestling, a new addition to the everexpanding inter-hall athletics program, got under way in the Rockne Memorial Building.
Mr. Dominic Napolitano of the Physical Education department, who is in charge of the program, has announced that individual entries will be separated into weight divisions. The method of competition to be used has not yet been announced.
Ice Cream (Hard as a Brick) Flows Freely in Far-Off Halls
Men from the mark-land, that frontierterritory that embraces Zahm, Cavanaugh, Farley and Breen-Phillips Halls, no longer have to trudge out in winter’s blasts to satisfy their cravings for ice cream, “the perfect food.” Just this past week ice cream dispensing machines were installed in these halls, relieving resident students of a haul to the Caf fountain or the Huddle.
The machine looks like a blockbuster. All it asks for is two nickels. Once the fat coins are settled in rhe iron craw the contraption starts to hum and snort and ruminate. It spits out a clean white wooden spoon and coughs up a 5-ounce cup of ice cream, frozen harder than a St. Mary’s girl’s heart.
This week the ice cream came in two flavors, half vanilla and half chocolate. Next week it may be tutti-frutti.
In addition to the ice cream machines, drink dispensing devices (rumored to be coke and root beer squirters) will soon be installed to give the far-away boys another break.
21
Italian Club Moves Ahead In Gold League, As Kampus Keglers Roll Into Fourth Week
splinters'
The hickory sticks fell faster than the Indiana temperature at the Bowl Mor alleys last Sunday as 24 campus teams resumed pin-toppling in the Notre Dame bowling league. With joints slightly kinked from too much snow shoveling and excessive scurrying with the hometown sweeties over the Christmas recess, the 120 bowlers present registered low scores and plenty of big excuses.
With the league now in its fourth week, the Italian Club appears to be the classiest outfit in both divisions. The Italian outfit was hotter than a kitchen stove in mid-March as they rolled over the Buffalo Club in a Gold Division tussle. Frank Parise and Gene Angiulli had their guns loaded for bear as well as buffalo as they rolled scores of 198 and 193 to aid in establishing the league’s high game of 902. The victory placed the Italian Club in first place (Gold Division), three points up on the Rochester Club. Rochester sneaked by Youngstown, winning by four pins.
The Blue Division was scrambled more than Ford’s eggs. The ball-’n-chain boys from Vetville, primed by theii* baby rocking chores, managed to stay on top of their league for the fourth straight week, but they had plenty of company knocking on their door. The Chemists and the snow-weary New York Met Club banged out three wins apiece to register joint deeds on the first place property held by the Vetvillers. Jim Vitkuski of the Chemists mixed a little TNT with some perfect atomic fission as he blasted his way to a high three-game average of 168. Mayor Vic Gulyassy, of Vetville, proved to be as tough with a bowling ball in his hand as a politician with a speech in his mouth, rolling his club to two victories.
Bowling “guessperts” predict that the men will be separated from the boys before next semester. Detroit, A.S.M.E.,
BLUE LEAGUE
Team	W	L	Pts
Vetville ............. —.	9	3 12
Chemists ................ 9	3	12
New York Met............. 9	3	12
Aero ________________-.... 7	5	9
Monogram ..............—7	5	9
Milwaukee ................ 6	6	9
Toledo ................... 6	6	8
Columbus ........ -....... 6	6	8
Syrian-Lebanese --------   4	8	6
Pittsburgh ______________  4	8	5
Fox River Valley .......   3	9	4
Texas .................... 2	10	2
and the Villagers look iike che troublemakers in the Gold Division. The Chemists, Aeros, and Monogram Clubs already have their room-rent paid for the first division berths in the Blue bracket.
Sunday’s individual play neoned such names as Tom Simon (209), Lou Janssen (206), and Bob Turner (204); all gunning for Frank Parise’s high-game score of 230, set in the second week’s play.
League standings:
GOLD LEAGUE
Team	W L Pts
Italian ...................     10	2 14
Rochester ................   8	4 11
Inter-American Affairs ....
A.S.M.E....................
Detroit....................
Villagers .................
Boston ....................
Rockford ..................
Buffalo .................. St. Louis .................
Jet Propulsion ............
Youngstown ................
8	4	10
7	5	9
6	6	8
6	6	8
5	7	8
6	6	7
5	7	6
5	7	6
4	8	5
3	9	4
Riflemen Open Fire— Initial Match Jan. 24
Harvard, Yale, Dartmouth, Vanderbilt, Michigan and Minnesota are among opponents to be met by the Naval ROTC rifle and pistol teams at the University of Notre Dame during the 1948 season.
The first match will be fired against the University of Pennsylvania on Jan. 24. Among other opponents to be met by the Notre Dame naval trainees will be Penn State, Brown, California, UCLA, Texas, Colorado, Columbia, Cornell, Illinois, Duke, Georgia Tech, Holy Cross, Idaho, Kansas, Marquette, Mississippi, Michigan, Missouri, Ohio State, Stanford, Southern California, Tufts, Washington and Wisconsin.
All matches on the Notre Dame 43 match rifle schedule and 26 match pistol card will be postal gallery matches; that is, the teams will fire on home ranges and send the targets to the Naval Bureau of Personnel for scoring under supervision of the National Rifle Association. The Notre Dame team is coached by Majoi- B. F. Hillam, USMC, and Gunnery Sergeant James P. Jones, USMC.
A feature of the season will be the Hearst Rifle Matches for NROTC units which will be fired about Feb. 1. Notre Dame finished second in this event in 1946, but was unable to compete in the event last spring because a fire destroyed the local range.
from the Pressbox
By JIM BUTZ
After a very slow start Coach Ed Krause’s eagers have begun to show signs' of life, particularly in their last three home games against Georgetown, Butler, and DePaul. Before those frays the Irish were doped to lose any or all three, but instead they displayed their best form of the season to run their home victory string to 37.
at center is another
Leo Barnhorst has been the most consistent man on the Irish squad. His aggressive play off the boards and ex- v cellent ball handling have been bright spots a 11 season. Paul Gordon has been another steady man in the Notre Dame offense. Not a high scorer, Gordon usually comes through with a long one at a crucial point in the game.
John Foley’s play surprise for Irish
fans. After John Brennan’s injury forced him from the lineup, it looked like a bleak year for the Gold and Blue. However, Foley has been tossing in more than his share of fielders and is proving to be a better ball player than Irish followers suspected. Kevin O’Shea has shown flashes of why he is an All-American, but his knees have kept him from reaching his full effectiveness. O’Shea is the kind of a ball player who looks very good even when he is far off his true form. His superb dribbling, passing and shooting have delighted Notre Dame fans and amazed his opposition.
Lynn Waldorf, California’s football coach, is quoted as saying that Johnny Lujack’s performance in the East-West affair was the greatest individual performance that he had ever witnessed. This seems to tally with Lujack’s statement that he played his best game in that fray. Lu jack played quite a bit in that game, both on offense and defense, and he certainly put on quite a show for West Coast fans.	W
The Connellsville Comet further states
22
that his best football is still ahead of him. At that, he has been improving steadily every year. The difference between the 1946 Lu jack and the 1947 Lu-jack was very great in almost every department. This will be unwelcome news to his future professional opponents.
Congratulations to the band for finally making it to one of the home basketball games. Their presence really adds to the game, and I hope that they continue to show up at the home games in a professional capacity.
K-C Is Team to Beat In Student Cage Loop
With 48 teams already listed, the student basketball leagues swung into action this week with a pre-season warmup session in which all teams participated. The season will start early next semester.
Because of an overflow of teams the club league has been divided into two brackets. In the first section are the Aesculapians, Central Illinois, Toledo, Kentucky, St. Louis, and Knights of Columbus Gold teams while the lower bracket is composed of the Northwestern, New Jersey, West Virginia, Off Campus, Italian and Knights of Columbus Blue teams. Pre-season dope in this league marks the Knights of Columbus aggregations as the teams to beat. Virtually the same squad which captured the title last year is back, including Tom Broden, Bob Luther, Bill Niedhart, Frank Lom-v bardo, Bill Meehan, Tom McLaughlin and-J™ D°nahue- In addition there’s a lib-beral sprinkling of recruits to keep the regulars hopping.
Interest in the open league centers around the teams of Charlie Wolfe and Emil Garofalo who are leading contenders to cop the crown. Garofalo’s team . boasts two of the best shots in student competition in Ed McDade and Captain Garofalo himself. In addition they have Frank Parise, Mike Niland, Bill Sherman and Dan Wolfe. Speed and power are the keynotes of Charlie Wolfe’s team. The speed is furnished by Frank Harrison, Father Davis, “Chubby” Limont and Bill Donavan while Bill Fischer and Marty Wendell will be lurking beneath the backboards or running interference.
Also, plans for the elimination tournament to decide the school champion are moving forward. In the latter part of March the two ranking teams of each ^division will fight it out with the climax '"games to be decided on the field house floor is possible.—Tom McNally
INTRODUCING...
By BOB LEANDER
The ill wind that brought John Brennan a broken arm in the Denver game at holiday time, like all other' ill winds carried with it a measure of good. For the luckless Brennan there was the opportunity to join another member of his clan—though no. relation—Terry, and with him to enjoy the leisurely pace of a convalescent. For John Foley it meant a chance to nail down the pivot post on the Irish varsity, a task for which he had only a year’s apprenticeship.
Shortly before halftime out in Denver when Brennan was struck down, John Foley trotted onto the floor with 26 minutes play and eight points to his season’s credit, representing his accomplishments in the three games played that far. In the second half against the Coloradans he surpassed his point total, pouring in 11 markers whilst the Blue and Gold were absorbing a 61-60 trimming. However, since his insertion as a regular, the Irish have had only one other licking administered them, and that by a red-hot Hoosier five.
In succession he has scored 18 points against Kansas, 13 against Indiana, 9 in the Boilermaker tussle, 22 over Georgetown’s Hoyas, 10 against Butler, and 16 the evening he was pitted against DePaul’s renowned Eddie Mi-kan. All of which is a fairly redoubtable record for a sophomore accountant, whose best effort last season was an explosive 7 points.	•
Last year, his first competition following three years in the Army, John won a monogram, racking up a total of 42 points, five of which he scored consecutively in the NYU battle at Madison Square Garden. These were the points which broke an existing tie and shoved the Irish into a lead they nurtured for the few remaining minutes to squeak by the Violets, 64-61, before 18,000 rabidly partisan fans. This still ranks as John’s greatest collegiate thrill.
Entering Notre Dame in the Fall of ’42, John played on the freshman team for one semester prior to joining the Infantry. Leo Barnhorst, Jim O’Halloran and Jim Stevenson of the present Notre Dame team were also members of that squad. John was assigned to the 386th Regt, of the 97th (Trident) Division and with that outfit covered a good portion of the European front. He saw combat in Germany and Czechoslovakia, finally being redeployed to Honshu,
Japan, for occupation duty, but still no basketball.
Going even further back, the records show that John played high school ball at St. John’s in Worcester, Mass., where he was named- All-New England in ’40, ’41, and ’42. His senior year he cap-
JOHN FOLEY An ill wind blew some good
tained both the eagers and the baseball team. The inclusion of football among his athletic pursuits enabled him to garner nine letters while acquiring his secondary education.
Looking over the current season, up to and including the DePaul scramble, John would venture an opinion that Indiana’s Meyer is the finest center he’s played against this year, at the same time maintaining that no one on the Hoosier harwooders could make a mistake the particular evening they chose to shellack us. It was simply one of those nights; may St. Louis, Northwestern, Kentucky, and Butler—our four next, and perhaps toughest, opponents—fail to enjoy the same good fortune. Given an even break and a reasonable batch of John’s newly developed left and right hand hook shots, the Fighting Irish should steam through the remaining 14 games on the schedule and hang up a record equally as creditable as last year’s 20 wins, 4 losses. It won’t be easy, but you can count on John Foley to be in there trying.
23
"Westward Ho!" Plead California Students As Wayward Bus Takes the Long Way Home
By HARRY MONAHAN
Not since the wartime invasion of mattress-topped jalopies and Okie-loaded flivvers has California seen anything to equal the troupe which slipped into Los Angeles in the too-early hours of December 22. For plummeting the last lap from Las Vegas in a record-breaking six hours over a fog-bound highway with insurance policies clutched in their hot little hands, 20 Irish returned to the Golden State in a chartered bus for the holidays. The wanderings and mishaps of this westward-bound bus make Steinbeck’s miscreant vehicle brother to the N.I.T.’s Rum Village smoke-pots.
Brad Bennett, energetic promoter of this Yule tide excursion, gathered his charges at the Circle on the afternoon of December 19 and adopted the role of father to as nerve-wracking a gang of brats as any distaught parent was ever burdened with. By the time Salt Lake City was being ground under their tires he was in the market for 19 leashes, the short type. Jim Gillis, Bill Monahan and Jim Kelly were particularly adept at disappearing every time the bus coasted to a stop and wouldn’t put in an appearance until Brad had torn out at least one more handful of hair and aged another ten years. The boys who made the trip had only praise for Brad for a job well done and sympathy for having been hit with a job that they wouldn’t have touched with the new longer length 20-foot pole.
Sleeping, as it must to all bus travelers, posed a problem which taxed their collective ingenuities to the extreme. Unless one can fold up like a jackknife or be blessed with a U-shaped backbone, definitely not standard equipment, sleep can become something one only hears about. The most comfortable place on the bus was the large seat across the rear of the bus. This situation nearly broke up several long-standing friendships and was responsible for a miscellaneous collection of bumps and bruises. How Gillis managed to get there first is one thing that kept the crowd puzzled. And Monahan’s “sick” routine is still being questioned, for because of it he was given priority on that favored spot.
The travel time gave the boys an opportunity to practice for what promises to be an outstanding choral group to represent California in next year’s KC show. How so many off-key tenors and
gravel-throated baritones were ever assembled in one group remains one of Santa Fe Trailway’s greatest mysteries. Music lovers in California are looking forward to an evening of competitive singing with the “El Capitan” Choral Society, the “City of Los Angeles” singers, the exclusive “Super Chief” quartet and, of course, our own Busted Bus Boys, which will be presented in Hollywood Bowl this summer. The Bowl is the only place ventilated well enough to handle this monumental musical monstrosity.
The Wayward Irish rambling westward along the northern route watched Burlington, Omaha, Cheyenne and Salt Lake City flash cn the window panorama of the three-day trip. Sunday found the group in Salt Lake City where time out was called to attend Mass. If the bus drivers weren’t furnishing any and all with complete autobiographical sketches they were propounding arguments against changing tires, which ran into three-hour endurance contests between driver and passengers, all of this in those early hours of the morning normally dedicated to sleep.
Only one other major stop was made just short of the western goal. That was in Las Vegas’ roulette and card emporiums. At this point in the trip, libw-ever, the Irish were reduced to playing the penny slot machines. Lacking a slide rule they were forced to forego any attempts to break the house and to get back on the bus for the home stretch.
As the unshaven sleepy crew neared home, the Los Angeles smog rolled out to the greet them. But while the East shovelled record snows, the Californians were caught in a heat wave. Beach time was in order and produced the tans now evident on campus. Survivors of the jaunt met in the Ambassador's swank
STUDENT RELIEF CAMPAIGN
The Foreign Student Relief Committee requests that all the stubs of donation books already disposed of be turned in to Committee representatives, together with donations, in the basement of the dining halls any day between 11:30-1:00 and 5:30-7:00.
Additional books may.be obtained at this time.
Coconut Grove for a dinner dance and the music of Freddy Martin on the 26th. 4 This merrymaking, however, was cut short and on January third the vacationers once more stepped aboard their gas-gulping chariot to return to South Bend.
Las Vegas coffers snatched any loose change remaining from the Christmas rush as the Notre Dame-bound revelers retraced their steps. Blowouts and fallen electric poles and wires added to the excitement on this return trip. In Iowa all hands staged an impromptu abandon ship drill when a falling wire hit the bus. But the final mishap was a blowout only 27 miles from South Bend. The distraught Brad Bennett was forced to hitch-hike from the scene of the blowout to secure a tow truck and return to the rescue of his noisy charges.
The tr.p ended just whe e it began, £ at the Circle, in the pre-dawn hours of January 6. Icy blasts ripping across the campus was the greeting received by these returnees from the sunny shores of Southern California. But they were able to absorb enough of the sunshine vitamin to see them through until the summer furloughs are granted. Like the Notre Dame-Michigan debate, the California heat wave and the New York snows will provide fuel for bull sessions well into next semester.
Seniors Plan Party For January Grads
On January 21, members of the Class of ’48 will gather at a buffet supper to honor the members of the Class who will graduate at the end of this semester. The committee has prepared a program of entertainment to make this party, the last which the January graduate will attend as students, a memorable event.
Committeemen Dave Murphy, Tom Ferriter and Dick Burns have signed vocalist Penny George to warble for the assembled seniors. St. Mary’s boogy-woogy pianist, Barney Terstigge will also be on hand to add more melody to the evening’s schedule. The committee is scouting the eligible campus material for a master of ceremonies to furnish the postprandial chatter. Prizes will be offered as an inducement for those who attend the supper to provide the material for an impromptu variety show.
The Christmas vacation deterred the planning so that the place of this event and the charge are as yet undecided. Announcement by hall bulletin board notices and handbills will advise the se- j niors on the complete final details. ‘ r
—Harry Monahan
24
e Successful Beginning Spurs ND Foundation
The University of Notre Dame Foundation, now almost completely organized, finds 1948 its first full year of operation. Originated early in 1947, it was unable to begin working until the middle of that year, but since that time it has been remarkably organized all over the United States and the unofficial goal of $500,000 has been surpassed.
This auspicious beginning is greatly due to Mr. Harry Hogan, president of the Alumni Association and chairman of the Foundation, who originated the organization.
Tribute has been paid him in that he has been unanimously re-elected by the Alumni Board in order to carry on his , untiring work in behalf of the Founda-® tion for another year.
In 1948, the Foundation hopes to increase the amount of the endowment fund considerably, perhaps by 100 per cent if possible. In this manner, a future endownrent fund will be created for the University which will compare favorably with other outstanding schools in this country.
In an article in the Notre Dame Alumnus, Mr. E. M. Morris, ’06, president of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees, shows Harvard to have an endowment of $160,000,000. Yale has $123,000,000, and Chicago $71,000,000, to name but a few. Mr. Morris says “I personally would like to see the fund grow to $25,000,000 or • $30,000,000, the income of which might approach $1,000,000 a year,” in speaking of the investment of Notre Dame’s endowment fund. The Lay Trustees became so interested in the work of the Foun-dation that they formed a finance com-® mittee through which they make investments for the University on all funds received by he Foundation.
Mr. Morris also noted that the average student pays only about 60 per cent of his way through college, therefore necessitating an annual endowment of some sort merely to keep out of debt, much less expand. It is this goal, then, that the Notre Dame Foundation is working to surpass so that Notre Dame will truly be the greatest University in 'all senses of the word.
—John E. Armstrong
PHOTO CREDITS
Cover and Mediaeval Institute pictures by Paul Jackson. Easketball action, McGees and Ripley by Jim Ferstel. Polar Royalty by John McCormick. Ice Skatin? scene by Gene Reynolds. Catholic Comics courtesy of the DOME.
Football Issue Sells Out Fast; Sports Scribes Sing Praises
Football season’s demise has not stopped rabid rooters from writing for copies of the 1947 Scholastic Football Issue.
A trickle of orders continues to flow in despite the announcement that the issue was sold out the first day. Well over a 1,300 orders have been returned with a “so sorry” note. Even a noted author and football critic had to twist a staff member’s arm to get a copy, when he . found his order sent back.
Meanwhile, the nation’s sports writers have been loud in their acclamation of the issue. One (Bill Corum, N. Y. Joiirnal-Anterican) went so far as to question the “National Champions” banner across the cover. Said Corum: “It would have been a mite more modest of the editors to put a question mark after that statement.”
What Mr. Corum forgot is that by the publishing date of the grid issue the Associated Press Poll had removed what-evei- question mark might have been placed there, Rose Bowl, and subsequent polls to the contrary.
Other sports writers across the country added their praises, including South Bend’s own Jim Costin, who was kind enough to estimate the potential sale of the Football Issue as 1,000,000, “if placed on the nation’s newsstands.” Other such estimates ranged from 75,000 to 1,000,000; and more than a few characterized this issue as “the finest of the type I’ve ever seen.”
Interior Dept. Announces Job Openings for Engineers
Do you want a job by a dam site? The Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior has announced a schedule of Civil Service examinations for engineers needed to work on some 37 dam projects, either already under construction or authorized. Annual salaries in the positions open range from $2600 to $4900. Slide rule operators and electron jockeys who are interested should complete Form 57 and forward it to the Chief, Personnel Field Office, Bureau of Reclamation, Denver Federal Center, Denver, Colorado.
The Bureau also announced the details of a trainee program through which undergraduate engineer students can secure engineering positions during the summer months. This program has as its object the eventual appointment of such trainees in the Bureau’s professional engineer ranks upon graduation. Irish engineer hopefuls interested should make application to the Denver Personnel Office, being careful to mark the form for the engineer-trainee program.
VA Gives OK to Aid For Foreign Schooling
A recent Veterans Administration ruling held that payment of education and training benefits under the G-I Bill may be made to student-veterans regardless of any grants made them under the Fulbright Act since the funds used to administer the Fulbright Act by the Department of State were not secured from United States Government appropriations.
As a result, World War II veterans qualifying for foreign study under both laws may receive benefits allowed them under the Fulbright Act as supplemental to the benefits provided them by the G-I Bill, VA said.
Under the Servicemen’s Readjustment Act (G-I Bill), World War II veterans may study in a VA approved foreign educational institution under the same picvisions that apply to study in a college or university in the United States.
A A will pay customar/ tuition charges and fees, provide the books and equipment needed to complete the course satisfactorily, and pay the regular monthly subsistence allowance. The veterans must arrange for their own passports, visas, transportation overseas, and admission to the institution they select.
The Fulbright Act provides for grants in aid to American students for study abroad or to foreign students for study in this country. It authorizes the Department of State to enter into agreements ■with foreign governments to use foreign currencies and credits, acquired through the sale of surplus property abroad, to defray the costs of the program.
Financial aid may be provided for United States citizens studying in schools of foreign countries in which credit is acquired. This assistance may include payment with foreign currencies for transportations, tuition, maintenance and other expenses incidental to scholastic activity. Citizens of participating foreign countries may receive travel grants to the United States for study.
The Fulbright Act also provides that veterans of World War I and II be given preference by the 10-man Board of Foreign Scholarships which awards the study grants.
It is hoped that a limited number of grants will be made under the Fulbright Act for the academic year 1948-49.
ATTENTION. SCHOLASTIC MEN
The SCHOLASTIC staff picture for the 1948 Dome will be taken Jan. 19. 1948. at the Rockne Memorial foyer, at 5:15 p. m. Please come dressed in coat and tie.
25
NOTRE DAME NAMES MAKE NEWS
Call Me Missus
“In the spring a young man’s fancy lightly turns to thoughts of love,” according to Tennyson, but apparently such is not necessarily the case here on the campus of Notre Dame, for during the recent Christmas vacation period an amazing number of students became either engaged or married to bear witness to the fact that love is prevalent here all the year round.
Engaged to tousle-haired, congenial BERNIE ELL, man-about-the-cafeteria, Miss Betsy Ernst, petite Wilkes-Barre brownette, late of the University of Pennsylvania. ’Tis rumored that wedding bells will chime in late summer. . . .
Married to HUGH ROACH, freshman lawyer, Mary Schoops, Dec. 27, in Grand Rapids, Mich. . . .
Married to COY McGEE, Notre Dame’s diminutive left-halfback from Longview, Texas, Miss Eulalia Jane Borkowski. Dec. 30, in St. Adalbert’s rectory, South Bend. The fleet-footed Irish backfield star is a junior in the School of Engineering. . . .
Engaged to Scholastic feature writer GREG HALPIN, of Brooklyn, N. Y., Miss Pegge Fohner, from Baltimore. No date has been set for the marriage yet. . . .
Married to Chemistry major ROBERT NINNEMAN, of Morrissey Hall and Tomah, Wis., Miss Terese Dwyer, Dec. 27, in Sparta, Wis.
MR. AND MBS. McGEE A wife
MAID OF COTTON A queen
Crime & Correspondence
BIPIN PATEL, a young Indian student in the Commerce school at the University of Notre Dame, may have had a pleasant holiday season, but it would have been considered more enjoyable, no doubt, had he not encountered calamity in the form of two larceny-minded hitch-hikers while returning to the campus last week from Los Angeles, Calif. Bipin, who is the grandson of India’s secretary of the interior, unsuspectingly gave the two young thugs a lift near Amarillo, Texas. His kindness reaped only ingratitude of the worst sort for they overpowered him, bound him, and robbed him of his car, $60, two expensive cameras, and all his extra clothes. ...	•
From a truly Irish supporter, both in name and nationality,—Christopher McHale, of 96 St. Lawrence Road, Dublin, Ireland,—head football coach, FRANK LEAHY, received a letter not long ago. Chris, it seems, had tuned in to the broadcast of the Fighting Irish victory over Army last November and was so favorably impressed by the exploits of Notre Dame’s Irishmen that he wrote to
Mr. Leahy telling him so, while enclosing the account of the game from an Irish newspaper. A student of the Catholic University of Dublin, Chris also asks that some of the students here at Notre Dame would correspond with him. He feels that our two institutions have a lot in common and that letters between students of them would prove both interesting and benefiical. Why not take him up on it? . . .
Something for the Boys
Named Queen of the Rebel Club’s Mar- , di Gras: the 1947 Maid of Cotton, Miss ® Hilma Seay (rhymes with wheee) beauteous brunette from Memphis, Tenn. A senior at Southwestern College, Miss Seay was selected by the National Cotton Council of America last January as their emissary of good will to the fashion centers of the world. Her date for the forthcoming hop: WILLOUGHBY MARSHALL, graduate student from Apapa-chicola, Fla. . . .
For the Georgetown basketball game last week a familiar figure returned again to the Notre Dame campus. He was portly, affable Coach ELMER RIPLEY, capable mentor of the Hoya eagers and the former coach of the Fighting Irish basketeeis during the years of 1945-46. With Coach Ripley as the mainstays of his capital city sharpshooters were two more ex-Fighting Irishmen, RAY CORLEY and TOM O’KEEFE, J both of whom played for “Rip” during his tenure at Notre Dame.	'
RIPLEY AND KRAUSE A visit
26
• Ve+villagers Ratify City's Constitution
The Vetville Gazette in a recent issue, announced that the vote held prior to the Christmas vacation, had given the married vet’s community a new constitution by an overwhelming majority.
Of the total population of 234 voters, 190 cast ballots. In a straightforward referendum decision, only six were against the adoption of the constitution which had been presented to them by Mayor Vic Gulyassy in early December, and voted on shortly afterwards. The three-article paper contains definite rulings and procedure to be followed by future Vetville councils, but allows for amendment under a two-thirds majority. a In its commentary on the new statutes, the Vetville Gazette, printed weekly by the ‘villagers’ under the editorial care of Chuck Golden, refers for the first time to ‘Greater Vetville.’ As in accordance with the constitution, every veteran and wife in Vetville will be able to vote in all matters, and elections for councilmen will take place in May and December. Vetvillians consider this move a direct step towards becoming the ‘ideal residential community.’—Dave Yerex
—■ - « «
Professor Requests Criticisms of Tutors
Howard Wilson, professor of economics at Loyola University, Chicago, has sent out an appeal to college students to evaluate their present and former college professors.
Since the enrollment of most colleges is heavily weighted with ex G. I.’s and older students there is a need for a reevaluation of college teachers according to the new standard.
Mr. Wilson believes that the teachers and professors wish to conduct their classes so that they meet with the approval of the students. He believes that such an atmosphere will promote education.
He has requested that his students, and other college students throughout the country write him a letter listing their complaints and criticisms, and the points that they admire most in their present or past professors.
After he has what he believes to be a representative sampling he will make his findings available to educators throughout the country.
The topic of the letter should be “What Is the Good College Teacher?”. Letters should be addressed to him at Loyola University, 820 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago 11, Illinois.
Unbeaten St. Louis
(Continued from page 19)
Brennan fractured his arm 30 seconds before the end of the first half. And the bass drum player and Denver cheering section stole much of the yellow spotlight jeering our boys every time they went to the foul line.
Three nights later the club outlasted Phog Allen’s Kansas at Lawrence, 5149. Foley, replacing the ailing Brennan who is out for the season, hit the cords for 18.
In a holiday tournament down at Indianapolis Notre Dame ran into a critter named Don Ritter and ran afoul of Indiana, 72-46. It was one of those nightmarish court performances where nothing worked. The next night Purdue was headed for victory. With a minute to go jet-propelled Goonen came bounding down the back court looking like Armed. He stopped abruptly near midcourt, let one fly. Swish! 40-40. Then Scooter O’Halloran wrapped it up with a long one-hander.
Just before classes resumed a tired, dejected Georgetown group which had just dropped six on the road trudged wearily into the fieldhouse. Though Ray Corley and .Tommy O’Keefe kept the Hoyas in the game most of the way, Notre Dame was just too much. This game was the Irish’s first good performance, as a unit, of the season. Everybody was on. Two nights later the mythical state title was thrown into a snarl when Butler was bewildered by another great team performance, 71-47.
In a game where tension always mounts high the Blue Demons of DePaul were downed 52-46. The victory ran the home court streak to 37 and gave Notre Dame a 6-4 edge in the series between the two schools.
In its last three games the squad has played more like a unit than ever before. And it paid dividends. The individual scoring illustrates this point. Foley leads with 108 points. Behind him are O’Shea and Barnhorst tied with 107 and O’Halloran with 69.
Over the Goalposts
(Continued from page 19)
caused. We are sitting in the middle of that glass house and in a bad position to pitch curves at the Michigans. Remember that the overwhelming defeat of Tulane regained the first national position for us after it had been lost through the dismal display at Evanston. Michigan like every one else knew that the straightest line between themselves and superior rating in the nation was
the thorough defeat of Southern California. The Michigans followed that straight line and gained their objective.
Even though there is a practical defense of Michigan,, we Notre Dame men know that George Connor and his boys could dump the Wolverines “any time, any place, anywhere.” Michigan has a tricky offense with three, four or five men handling the ball on one play. Against Notre Dame they would try one of those plays and discover that the third man to handle the ball was a Notre Dame lineman.
However, as long as the argument can not be settled on a football field, Notre Dame men might as well have some good points for their coke bars disputes. We have looked over most of the points by consensus best for Notre Dame and present them to you. They are as follows :
1.	Michigan using their first string for 57 out of 60 minutes could only score 11 more points than Notre Dame who had third and fourth stringers playing the fourth quarter.
2.	Michigan was still passing in the fourth quarter when they had a 42-point lead. Notre Dame did not throw a pass in the second half.
3.	At the same time that Michigan was beating Southern California at Pasadena, John Lu jack, on a wet field in San Francisco, was showing what could have happened if Notre Dame had used a passing attack.
BX to Give Sellers First Shot at Book Purchases
The student book exchange in the Main Building will initiate a new priority system this month in order to offer better service to those students who make full use of the B-X facilities.
Students turning in their old books before the first class day of the new semester will be issued a red B-X PRIORITY CARD. Only students with priority cards will be allowed to purchase books on the first two days of the new semester. After the first two class days, any student will be sold used books. A minimum of three books must be turned in to obtain the red card.
This system is put into effect to encourage students both to turn in their old books and to purchase needed used books from the exchange. The true purpose of the exchange is to serve students who wish both to buy and sell.
The B-X will be open all day beginning about January 28.
.	—Jim Cunningham
27
PHIUP MORRIS

PHILIP MORRIS is so much better to smoke!
r
*
PHILIP MORRIS offers the smoker an extra benefit found in no other cigarette. For Philip Morris is the ONE, the ONLY cigarette recognized by leading nose and throat specialists as definitely less irritating.
Remember: Less irritation means more smoking enjoyment for you.
Yes! If every smoker knew what' Philip Morris smokers know, they’d all change to PHILIP MORRIS.
TRY A PACK... TODAY
28
• RAP Reflects Student Pulse on Comedians
Students were watching with interest this week the attempt of the NFCCS’s Radio Acceptance Poll to tone down some of radio’s more offensive comedy shows.
Barely two months old, the RAP poll has already attracted nationwide notice and a full-sized collection of bouquets and bricks, including a violent attack by syndicated columnist Henry McLemore in the South Bend Tribune.
The poll is directed by the Press Commission of National Federation of Catholic College Students, which has its headquarters at St. Joseph’s College in downstate Collegeville, Indiana. Charging that “Many off-color remarks, doublemeaning jokes, and suggestive situations are broadcast to millions of people weekly,” NFCCS declares that programs not in good taste should “feel the full weight of Catholic judgment and be publicized accordingly.”
RAP calls the attention of the public, the radio networks, advertisers, and radio personalities to the degree to which the public accepts radio’s programs. From there on, RAP expects the network bosses to decide for themselves whether the offending shows get the washrag or the ax. So far, judging by the amount of space the poll has rated in newspaper- stories and columns (like McLemore’s), all concerned have at least been made aware of RAP’s principles, policies, likes, and dislikes.
Concentrating on comedy programs, main offenders on the networks, the poll has consistently rated Fibber McGee and Molly as top comedians, as far as de" cency is concerned, while administering most of its knocks to struggling, stumbling newcomers Jim Backus and Jacx Paar, and old, wornout Bob Hope. Among others near the top is Henry Morgan, the campus favorite.
Voting in the poll are about 1200 students in dozens of colleges, both Catholic and otherwise. Results are figured on a point basis, with most of the programs in the 74-25, “acceptable” class. As yet no program has fallen below the “barely acceptable” stage.
Notre Dame’s part in RAP has been confined to only such scattered students who care to submit ballots on their own. The local council of the NFCCS decided earlier in the semester to stay out of the poll, feeling that RAP’s justification was debatable.
Students, critics, and columnists will continue to debate, but meanwhile radio must be wondering whether RAP, right or wrong, is not a sign that the listeners are getting sore.—Bob Stock.
Holiday Hops
(Continued from Page 17)
team headed for his date’s neighborhood with ear muffs for the local fire department. Joey hopped aboard and the trusty dogs soon had him in front of The Date’s house three hours late and soaked through—but happy and determined. He rang the beil and SHE answered. She was so happy to see him because she had been worried and she was glad he wi-.s safe, but “Joe, you’re three hours late and I’ve been waiting all night, sitting here in my new dress—do you like it?— and you didn’t even send any flowers.”
Joe and date got to the Waldorf. They got a brewery truck (up front with the driver). He was philosophical about the storm and lucky for them he was. Said philosopher-driver: “The way I figure it, storm or no storm, the beer must get through.”
It was 1 a. m. when Joe and date and new dress (slightly stained with beer) arrived at the elegance of the Starlight Roof. The dance was almost over, but Joe didn’t care. He was happy and determined. He looked around. There were 65 other happy, determined couples, 65 out of 250 scheduled to come.
Some of them were in police stations ’ in New Jersey thawing out over- radiators and coffee after having been picked out of snow drifts. Some were sitting in LIRR or N. Y. Central commuters trains trying to figure how a 35-minute trip could take 6 hours and still not get to its destination. Some were sitting home having no determination but dry feet and a lot of sense. But 65 couples were - here, and, if you counted the bored waiters lined up around the walls, you had your 250 couples, so why not be happy?
Joe’s date turned to him happy and determined and said she was so happy to be there because “if we hadn’t come, Joe, I would have been so disappointed and, even if there are beer stains on my new dress, I’m wearing it at the Waldorf and you were wonderful about the whole thing.” But Joe couldn’t hear. He had collapsed half way through and was being carried away by four bored waiters. The house doctor called it over-exposure.
And, as it was in New York, so it was' in Boston, with only the statistics changed and 20 couples dancing numbly over the waxed floors at the Statler. And as these gallant warriors of the Great White Way and hardy pioneers of Beantown returned to mid-western warmth and Notre Dame exams, there were persistent rumors among their ranks that there would be formed clubs within clubs with the simple title of: "The Happy and Determined Men of Boston and New York vVho Made Their Christmas Dances Despite the Great Snow of ’47.”
Speech Dept. Slates Oratorical Contests
So the family doesn’t believe you’re a great orator? So your girl friend doesn’t call you William Jennings Bryan? Here’s a solution to your troubles.
The Department of Speech announced this week that three prizes await embryo orators in the coming semester, namely: the Breen Medal for Oratory, the Freshman Medal for Oratory, and the Cavanaugh-Goodrich prize. For those interested here are the details:
The Breen Medal is awarded to any undergraduate who excels in oratory. The speaker can pick any subject and should limit it to approximately 800 words. Preliminaries will be held in Room 327, Main Building, by Mr. William Eisen and the finals are slated for Washington Hall, March 15, at 8 p. m.
The Freshman Medal goes to the first-year man who can deliver the best four-minute address on any subject. Prelims will be held in Room 327, April 5 at 4:30 p. m. with Mr. Frederic Govern in charge, and the finals April 12, at 8 p. m. in Washington Hall.
The Cavanaugh-Goodrich contest is open to all undergraduates. The subject matter must deal with the fundamentals of American government and stress the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution. The time limit: no less than 10 or more than 12 minutes. No more than 75 per cent of the speech may be quoted from the documents. Three prizes are offered: $100, $35, and $15. The preliminaries will be held May 3, at 4:30, in Room 327 under’ the direction of Mr. Frank Kelly. Finals will come May 10, at 8 p. m. in Washington Hall.
Semi-Annual Refresher Talks Held for Neophyte Lawyers
The Notre Dame Law Club’s semiannual refresher courses for law freshmen was held this week and will continue into next. Law freshmen, proverbially at sea in the strange environment - of the law, were first assisted on to dry land last spring when the law club gave the initial refreshers. Two seniors prepare reviews of each course, which are given at two-hour evening sessions in all freshman subjects.
Seniors participation in this year’s refreshers included Charles W. Cavanaugh, Donald Hummer, William H. Prekowitz, John Buczkowski, Al Spahn, Larry Turner, James D. Sullivan, Martin Rock, Burton M. Apker, Thomas Broden, William Pelling, and George Bariscillo.
29
Music » Books » Rddio
GODFREY'S BULL SESSIONS...
“I think Arthur Godfrey smells,” says Tom Jackson, dean of Sorin Hall’s second floor radio listeners. “He sounds like a cow mooing to be milked; he’s nothing but a poor man’s Jimmy Durante.”
But all N.D. men don’t feel as Tom does; you might even say he’s in the minority. When fellows break from their 9 a.m. classes, most of them are headed for their radios and Arthur’s program. They like his casual style, his laugh that gurgles along with corny gags and adlibs, his commercial “ribbing” of the product that traditionally sponsors the Scholastic’s rear cover; they like Arthur’s program even though it’s number one with the housewife, too.
As a rule Notre Dame men revolt against the American housewife’s favorite airings. They feel something repulsive in serials and quiz shows; their muscles tighten at the sound of an organ and the voice of an announcer taking them into his confidence to tell them that “this is the drama of how an Esquire reader faces Life” ; they cringe at the hysterical, female brand of laughter that results from the embarrassing questions of some silly quiz master.
But Godfrey is different: his program is like tuning in on a bull session; he talks about everything and anything and is usually funny in doing it. He jokes •with his letter-writing, public, talks back at the studio audience and razzes program personnel. Fellows could listen to that kind of “breeze” all day; they don’t have to think hard, and they still get their “kicks.”
But, besides being a glorified bulldispatcher, Godfrey seems to be a capable organizer. He freshens his morning program with a nifty gang of recruits from his night-time, Talent Scout show, and he always manages to dig up a catchy novelty number when things begin to drag ( his “Too Fat Polka” is the latest rage of the campus).
Some fellows don’t like Godfrey though; like Tom Jackson, they think he smells. But they’re entitled to their opinion—right or wrong. For the last five years Jackson has been picking the Cincinnati Reds to win the National League pennant.
HOGAN'S UGLY MONSTER...
Following Godfrey, Monday through Friday, on WSBT, is a 15-minute show featuring Harlan Hogan and his piano. Hogan has a sharp, jolly style. Until recently he played straight through the program without interruption; this made for an entertaining way to waste the last 15 minutes before getting ready for an 11 a.m. class.
But recently an ugly monster began raising its head between Hogan’s ditties; the commercial began wagging its long, pointed tongue. No, it wasn’t the short, tolerable type that came interrupting Harlan’s fancy fingerings, but the hungry type. Like a Michigan football coach who can never be satisfied, it began eating away tune time, devouring chunks of joy.
And Harlan’s “commercial” monster isn’t a soft spoken thing either; it shouts out at you; it tries to high pressure you. When it yells DUZ-Z-Z in its screechy voice, you can feel DUZZ-Z-Z squirm up youi- back and down again; and, if you go out and buy Oxydol after hearing “Oh-h-h, that Oxydol sparkle,” well, brother, there are institutions for people like you.
Phil Kelly, of Syracuse, has this to say about what is rapidly becoming Hogan’s Soap Symphony: “That’s the trouble nowadays with a short program like his. If it’s any good, they plug it up; if it isn’t, nobody gives a hoot anyway.”—Bill Lyman
Women Hear La Raza Club Members Speak on Mexico
Four members of the La Raza Club again did their bit to promote better inter-American understanding last week when they presented “Mexico the Marvelous,” a panel discussion supplemented with Kodachrome slides, before the South Bend chapter of the American Association of University Women, Graduate Group.
Tom Murray, chairman of the panel, talked on the Inter-American Highway and Mexico City, Rogelio Castiello spoke on Guadalajara and environs, Alberto Garcia told about the ancient Mayan remains, and Jaime Pinto gave an account of bullfighting.
LETTERS ,
(Continued from Page 3)
4.	It has neglected to comply with the preamble of the constitution, which states its purpose for existence; in fact it is doubted whether any members of the Council are familiar with the constitution as evidenced by the compliance with it, e.g. it is understood they have still to meet with administration officials to discuss their problems and objectives (Sec. 2, Art. VII).
5.	It is ignorant of most of its duties and responsibilities and indolent and remiss toward the remainder.
6.	It falters woefully in a shroud of inexperience.
7.	It has accomplished little since the beginning of the semester except what , was previously facilitated for it—vic-tory dances, elections, football films.
8.	It is understood to have begun a program for its year’s objectives in October, but lately it has resulted in nothing but plans without execution.
9.	It has degenerated itself—by inactivity—into a farcical Monday night bridge club meeting—much talk, little action.
10.	It suffers from lack of adequate knowledge, drive, resourcefulness, organization and follow through on the part of its leaders, though this may be due to the unfortunate change in midsemester.
What to do?
1.	It is hyper-sensitive to the students’ implacable criticism of its usefulness and impotency but it could balance this with a constructive worthwhile and well executed semester or year’s program.
2.	It should build a cooperative and confident spirit between itself, the student body and administration by proposing intelligent, workable activities and a judicious and timely execution.
4.	It should learn its duties, follow the constitution, and seek to attain its proper goal.
5.	With a new semester approaching it should resolve better service to the student body by concrete, energetic, and practical objectives, exerting its own initiativeness, ability and vigor to extirpate the insignificance of the past . months.
As Shakespeare wrote, “Waste no vain words on the consumed time, but take the instant by the forward top.” nr.
(Name Withheld) (Continued on Page 33)
30
More than
meets the eye
One look and you’d say that a great deal of work lies ahead before this new telephone central office is completed. That’s true. But already, much of the job is done!
For months telephone men have been hard at work—in offices and in the field. One group has carefully studied business and population trends and has forecast the telephone needs of the community for years to come. Another has determined the amount and types of equipment that will best meet these needs. Still others have found ways to make this new equipment a part of our world-wide communications network.
At our Western Electric plants the telephone equipment—the switchboards, frames and switcl ng mechanisms, the cable, wire and relays—uas been scheduled and is already being manufactured.
All this ai d more before the ground was broken!
The telephone business is a constantly expanding business in which thousands of college men are finding interesting and re-wardingcareers.There’safuturein telephony.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
31
Rubber accelerators lead the way to new agricultural fungicides
Vulcanization accelerators for rubber and agricultural fungicides would seem to have little in common. But the wide variety of interests of men in the Du Pont organization sometimes result in outstanding developments from such apparently unrelated products.
A rubber chemist suggested to a plant pathologist that derivatives of dithio-carbamic acid, NH2-C(S)SH, parent substance of a well-known group of rubberaccelerators, be tested as insecticides. His suggestion was based on the possibility that sulfur combined in this form might be more effective than free sulfur, a recognized insecticide.
Entomologists and plant pathologists investigated the fungicidal as well as the insecticidal properties of this group. One of the first compounds tested, sodium dimethyldithiocarbamate, (CH3)2N-C(S)SNa, even in dilutions of 1:30,000, was found to be a powerful fungicide, but somewhat injurious to plant life.
This led to a systematic program of research including other metallic salts, the ethyl, propyl, butyl, phenyl, and other aryl derivatives of the dithiocarbamates and thiuram mono- and disulfides, and the related compounds
Field testing of promising fungicides, including “Parzate” formulations, for control of tomato late blight.
made from ethylenediamine and morpholine. In this phase of the work, organic chemists played an important role by suggesting various derivatives and preparing them for tests. Later, in cases where proper dispersion and adherence of the compounds to plants were important, the skill of physical chemists was called upon.
In general, the compounds of greater chemical stability were found to be less effective. Fungicidal efficiency diminished with increase in size of alkyl radical, and as aryl radicals were substituted for alkyl. Thus the unusual situation developed that with the exception of the bisethylene (dithiocarbamates), the first and simplest products tested, the methyl derivatives, proved to be the best fungicides.
Iron and zinc dimethyldithiocarbamates, (CH3)2NC(S)-S-M-S-(S)CN (CH3)2, are now sold as "Fermate” fungicide and "Zerlate” fungicide respectively, for control of fungous diseases of many fruit and vegetable crops, tobacco, flowers and other ornamentals. Zinc ethylenebis (dithiocarbamate), Zn (-SC (S) NHCH2CH2NH (S) CS-), marketed as "Parzate” fungicide, has specific action in the control of late
B. L. Richards, Jr. Ph.D., Cornell ’44, and A. H. Goddin, M.S., University of West Virginia *32, test efficiency of "Parzate” fungicide in control of tomato late blight and bean rust. Equipment is specially designed laboratory spray chamber.
blight on potatoes and tomatoes. Tetramethylthiuram disulfide, (CH3)2NC (S)-S-S-C(S)N(CH3)2, is used in two compositions, as "Arasan” disinfectant for seeds and "Tersan” fungicide for turf diseases.
Overall, the derivatives of these groups of compounds proved to be outstanding as fungicides, rather than as insecticides. Although a marked degree of specificity for different pests was characteristic of the members of this series, it is interesting to note that all three were highly effective. This work offers still another example of how the breadth of interest in a company like Du Pont can lead to worthwhile developments.
Questions College Men ask about working with Du Pont
What are the opportunities for research men?
Men qualified for fundamental or applied research are offered unusual opportunities in facilities and funds. Investigations in the fields of organic, inorganic and physical chemistry, biology, parasitology, plant pathology and engineering suggest the wide range of activities. Write for booklet, "The Du Pont Company and the College Graduate,” 2521-A Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, Delaware.
RES. U.S. PAT. OFF-
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ...THROUGH CHEMISTRY
More facts about Du Pont — Listen to "Cavalcade of America,” Mondays, 7 P.M., CST on NBC
32
Letters
(Continued from page 30)
IRATE OPERA-GOERS' LEAGUE
Dear Editor:
On December 5, Mr. Joe Wilcox penned a notable piece in his column, “The Scorner’s Seat,” concerning opera, and he gave his opinion of the much disputed subject of Opera in Its Original Language vs. Opera in English. In the Scholastic issue of December 19, you printed a very interesting letter from a Mr. Jim Carberry. ... I thoroughly agree with Mr. Carberry. I am one opera fan who is definitely against opera in English. I, too, have heard Col. McCormick’s Saturday evening, so-called “operas,” and to me, the Colonel is committing a brutal crime each week that he produces grand opera in English. If {^anyone who doesn’t like opera, would like to hear it ruined, then he should listen to Col. McCormick’s program, because it certainly is ruined, after he gets through presenting it in a horrible English translation. Of course, Mr. Wilcox probably would thoroughly enjoy these broadcasts. . . .
A really true grand opera fan would never even consider the question of having opera ruined by translating it into English, because a true opera lover knows his opera, knows what the opera is about, and doesn’t have to have it in English to understand it. I have heard a great many people say that they would like opera if it were presented in English, and the only people who say that are the ones who don’t understand the opera in question. They don’t know the story of it, the plot or the action, and .they don’t want to take the time to find "out, so they say that they would like it if it was sung in English so that they would know what it was all about without having to take the time and trouble to get a good opera book, and spend a little time reading up on the operas so that they could know everything about them, and could really enjoy the immense beauty of the real opera. Probably if they heard it in English, they would say that they understood it but that they didn’t think that the music was a bit pretty. And, it wouldn’t be, and after all, that is half of opera, the music. And, the language in which the opera was originally written in, was what gave the beauty to the famous arias. ... I say that if Mr. Wilcox wants English arias, let him listen to the operettas of Victor Herbert, Rudolph Friml, Gershwin and Romberg, as Mr. Carberry says, or else let Mr. Wilcox send jfiway for the opera librettos from the Metropolitan Opera Association, which gives the complete opera in its original
language as well as with an English translation. And, Mr. Carberry, if you happen to see this, did you get a chance to go to Mr. Wilcox’s room, and hear that rendition of “La Donna e Mobile,” in Italian? If so, how was it?
(Miss) Joyce A. Kitts,
P. 0. Box 2826, Denver, Colo.
One thing Scholastic is certain—its ‘Scorner’ zvould not like Col. McCormick’s operas for he likes nothing kin to said gentleman.—Editor.
GENTLEMEN???
Dear Editor:
Can this be the Notre Dame we are so proud of?
Twelve nuns remained standing during the entire two and a half hour performance of the Saturday movie, while a capacity crowd of healthy, young fellow students remained seated. Perhaps they were all to enwrapt with the picture to yield to a common courtesy, or better to a necessary Catholic act of respect. Did no one in authority see this act of disrespect?
If the good Sisters are to; be invited, they should have reserved seats— usually never more than 15 are there; and above all the audience should behave as Catholic gentlemen in respect for these Sisters who have devoted themselves to God. Reemmber, this movie is about the only entertainment they have, whereas we can go downtown any time.
I believe an apology is due.
Francis G. Consler. 341 Howard Hall.
HOMICIDE HIGHWAY SUGGESTION
Dear Editor::
Congratulations on your continued agitation over the crossing on Homicide Highway.
There is a watchman continuously on duty at St. Mary’s entrance. Given a red flag, flare, or lantern, he could easily and safely escort students across the highway. Students crossing in either direction could always call on him for help. It is even conceivable that he could be appointed a deputy sheriff, even if in a restricted capacity.
Why not ask the Mother Superior as well as our authorities about this?
Robert J. Brzezinski. 45 Sorin Hall.
THE CASE FOR M.C. BRADY
Dear Editor:
Another pseudo-liberal, another professional tolerationist rears his head to
declaim wildly about racial prejudice: I am referring to the letter in your Christmas issue written by Mr. Redman of the deep South. . . .
Mr. Brady, the M.C., so sneeringly belittled in Mr. Redmann’s epistle, declines to answer it, ignoring the Heatings of the sheep who have nothing better to do than expound their own “Christian Charity” in your columns, and remaining clear of these asinine debates so often appearing there. I would
LOST January 6th, 1948—10-inch Dietzgen Slide Rule in black leather case. Name W. W. Smith carved under slide and in case. Return to W. W. Smith, Architecture Bldg. Reward.
ENGINEERS WANTED
Bachelors Degree. Large College Offers $3,000. Approximate half time teaching-studying. Masters to $3,500.
South Western College needs Engineers Teaching — research — opportunity do grad work. Associate Professor $4,500 — Assistant Professor $4,000.
Vacancies Other Fields
Give phone, photo, qualifications
Cline Teachers Agcy.
East Lansing, Michigan
33
prefer to do the same, and will do so after this letter, but first, I want to explain a few things on behalf of my friend, Mr. Brady.
Mr. Brady is on the opposite side of the political fence from me—he is as liberal as any can be without actually espousing Communism. He would be the last person in the world to join a lynch mob or any other racial hate group. Using the words K.K.K. to describe him is stupid. . . .
People like Mr. Redmann do the cause of racial amity much more harm than good. By pouncing upon inconsequential idiomatic idiosyncracies with all the fervor of their misplaced zeal, they prevent any wounds in the conflict from healing. Let me ask you, Mr. Redmann, if your sensibilities are offended at the labeling of cowards as “yellow”? Perhaps that connotes prejudice against the Chinese or Japanese. Take up your cudgels, Mr. Redmann. Have you heard the expression, “your father’s mustache”? We must hate all mustachioed fathers. There are other examples of common English idiom that might be taken as prejudice, many of them—if you are out hunting trouble. Scarcely a word can be said that can not be taken in at least two different ways—if you want to do it. But if you are that sensitive, Mr. Redmann, you are in for a rough life, very rough. . . .
James E. Hannon.
1127% Notre Dame Ave.
THANKS FOR THE MEMORY
Dear Editor:
We wish to take this opportunity to thank your publication for making it possible for our service guests to read your magazine each month through your complimentary service.
With USO closing officially the end of the year we wanted you to know of our appreciation.
Margarette S. Miller.
Staff Aide, U.S.O., Portsmouth, Va.
ATTENTION N. Y. VETS
Veterans from the State of New York may obtain information about New York's Bonus for World War II Veterans at the office of the Assistant Director of Studies.
COLLEGE PARADE-
By JOHN ARMSTRONG and JIM O’RIELEY
Holiday accomplishments by students at Indiana U. were typical of those of most students—"Well, anyway, they were almost typical. A poll conducted by The Indiana Daily Student reports such vacation activities as these:
Pat Romine, sophomore—■
“Two broken ribs and a good time.” .
Gayne McLaughlin, sophomore— “I just caught up on my sleep.” John Lee Franklin, freshman— “I got my wart removed. I also missed my dentist appointment.”
POLITICIANS. WHEELS, B.M.O.C.'S. ETC., ATTENTION!!
The latest political innovation on the campus of Washington University in St. Louis is lipstick art! In the recent elections for class officers, one of the more vigorous groups, calling themselves the Big Ten party, painted large 10’s on their foreheads in lipstick and paraded, a hundred strong, around the campus.
FLUSHED BY THE POINTER
Conductor on the subway to tramp spitting on the floor: “Say, bud, can’t you see that sign?”
Tramp: “Sure I can. It says ‘Fine for Spitting’.”
Prof: “What is geometry?”
Student: “The little acorn grew and grew and one day woke up and ’said, ‘Gee-om-etry’!”
MOIDER DA BUM
“On Saturday last the soccer team went down to Chirnside to play the local team. When they arrived the ground was fairly soft, but there was a little snow in parts. Both teams were keen to play but it was the referee who forbade the game to go on. We take a dim view of this move.—The Student, Edinburgh U., Scotland.
Also from The Student comes this line:
“Verily there is a certain type of graduate whom thy servant is constrained to ask: ‘Does thy Alma Mater know thou art out’?”
“I guess I’ve lost another pupil,” said the professor as his glass eye rolled down the sink.—Tri-State Tri-Angle
The Mt. St. Mary’s Mountain Echo— “By Mountaineers, For Mountaineers”— describes a dance held there recently in
very unpretentious terms. The boys on the second floor of one of their halls are known as the Slobbovians (upper) and, since they sponsored the dance, the queen was given the somewhat dubious title of Queen of Upper Slobbovia. The girls must have fallen for the Slobbovians though, because they later wrote the boys a very polite thank-you note.
From Mercyhurst College comes the following, and it’s a female institution, too.
“Where have you been?”
“In the hospital getting censored.” “Censored?”
“Yes. I had several important parts cut out.”
plus
“How do you play hookey from Correspondence School?”
“Oh, I send them an empty envelope.” and
Prayer of an unselfish girl:
“Dear Lord, I ask nothing for myself! Just send mother a nice son-in-law.”
To further trespass upon the dignity of these young women, we give you a group of lines whose first and third lines end in rhyming words; it seems to be an introduction to a column entitled “Did You Know” without a question mark.
Mirror, mirror, on the wall,	t
We’ve come to tell you
Who’s on the ball;
With their talents and wits
They’ve come to be known as Mercyhurst kids!
One of their quotations ought to be adopted by several female actresses we know of, when a request for a pin-up picture is received. It runs:
“The best part of beauty is that which no picture can express.”
MASS FOR THE INJURED
- A Mass for the speedy recovery of Gene Moore, head of the Graduate Student Association, and Joe O'Hara, who were injured in an automobile accident during the Christmas holidays, will be offered at 9 a. m. Sunday, in Dillon Hall Chapel. Father Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., Dean of the Graduate School, will celebrate the Mass.
34
V
with the Aviation Cadets

"I guess it began when I was just a kid, making non-stop flights around the diningroom table. Later on, the town got an airport. I got to know every plane, right down to the smallest bolts and screws.
"During the war I took off with the Aviation Cadets. The folks were all for it. They figured—correctly—that it was the best way to get me into the air where I belonged.
"I made it all right. Trained in the best planes the Air Force has, and now I’m heading for transition work in jets. The pay? Now that I’m a pilot, §336 a month, plus §500 for each year of active duty. And there’s plenty of room for promotions.
"But that’s not the real point. Some men belong in the air. They were born wanting wings—with the action, the pride, the freedom that go with them. There’s no better way to have all that, along with the world’s finest flying training, than to join the Aviation Cadets. And the future—in civilian aviation or iri the Air Force—is as wide open' as the horizon. If you want the fast-moving life, why not drop around to the Recruiting Station in your community or the nearest Air Force installation.”
U. S. Army and U. S. Air Force Recniitmg Service

WIN YOUR WINGS
Copyright 1948, Liggett & Mnu Tobacco Co.