This book is not to be taken from the Library
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
15 CTS. A COPY $2.60 THE YEAR
JANUARY 19 Nineteen Thirty-four
HEAVY food frequently makes sluggish thinkers. So take the advice of veteran students and eat Kellogg’s Rice Krispies — the delicious rice cereal that satis* fies hunger without “bogging” you down.
Those crisp, crunchy bubbles are fine at any meal. The way they crackle in milk or cream always appeals to the appetite. Nourishing and easy to digest. Extra good with canned fruit or honey.
Ask for Kellogg’s Rice Krispies at your campus restaurant, fraternity house or eating club. Don’t forget to enjoy a bowlful after a long study session at night. You’ll sleep better. Made by Kellogg in Battle Creek.
The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the diningrooms of American colleges, eating-clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include Kellogg*s Com Flakes, All-Bban, PEP, Wheat Krumbles, and Kellogg’s whole wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee—real coffee—97% caffeine free.
Listen!—
getluuifuf
THE SCHOLASTIC is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1865
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3,1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
James S. Kearns.......................Jlditor-in-Chief
Mitchell C. Tackley.....................Managing	Editor
Associate Editors	Netvs Staff
JOHN D. PORTERFIELD------------------EDWARD J. O’BRIEN EDWARD F. MANSFIELD_____________________________News Editor
RICHARD B. TOBIN-----------------------JOHN E. CONLEY THOMAS G. PROCTOR-------------------------Assistant News Editor
Departmental Editors	Joseph a. bucci______________________Assistant News Editor
THOMAS J. STRITCH------------------------------The Week	ROY O. SCHOLZ________________________ROBERT F. ERVIN
JAMES T. FITZPATRICK.----------------------College Parade MICHAEL F. WIEDL______________________JOHN W. WALKER
RICHARD P. PREZEBEL.-------------------------Staff Artist	WILLIAM A. KENNEDY._____________________PAUL J. DOYLE
Sports Staff	george p. leyes----------------------louis r. hruby
EDWARD J. VAN HUISSELING---J
NICHOLAS J. CONNOR____________HOWARD T. WALDRON	Business Management
CYRIL F. STROKER	JOHN F. STOECKLEY-------------------Graduate Manager
Volume LXVII
January 19, 1934
No. 14
FATHER HUDSON
A great Notre Dame man died last week. The Reverend Daniel E. Hudson, C.S.C., LL.D., for 55 years the editor of the Ave Maria, passed away at the age of 84. Father Hudson had been at Notre Dame while many generations of students came and went. He attended the University and in 1870 joined the Congregation of Holy Cross. He was ordained to the priesthood in June, 1875, and joined the faculty of rhe University that year as a member of the teaching staff of the English department.
But it was not merely his long association with the institution that made him such an outstanding example of the ideal Notre Dame man. During the term of his editorship, the Ave Maria grew from a small periodical to a position of eminence in the Catholic press world, a weekly with an international circulation of more than 30,000. It has been said of him that no other Catholic editor was so frequently quoted. It has been said too that no other man in America has ever done so much to spread devotion to Our Lady.
It is because of that latter fact, his unfaltering industry and zeal and devotion in Our Lady's cause, that he was outstanding as a Notre Dame man. For that is the essence of being a Notre Dame man. The attendance of more than a thousand students at Father Hudson’s funeral was a worthy gesture of recognition on the part of one generation to a leader of many generations whose patron is the same, and whose ambition should be the same.
THE TESTIMONIAL BANQUET
For five hours and fifteen minutes last Monday evening and night the 1933 Notre Dame football team was feted at the annual St. Joseph Valley Alumni testimonial banquet. The affair was evidently a success: there was much enthusiasm, the food was praised, and seventeen speakers addressed the gathering.
Without malice of any kind, and speaking with full knowledge of being an outsider, The Scholastic would
make only one suggestion in regard to this fine annual tribute to Notre Dame’s grid teams: the program might well be shortened a bit, and statements regarding the offici d position of the University on matters acaripmir and athletic might best be left to University officials for accurate expression.
COOPERATION WITH THE “DOME”
Editor Louis Hruby of the 1934 Dome is at present encountering a handicap that was known to each of his more recent predecessors. A small group of seniors have, through thoughtlessness and carelessness, neglected to appear for sittings at the Dome studios. If it could be accurately deduced from this indifference that the individuals in question are equally indifferent as to whether or not their pictures appear in the yearbook, Hruby’s problem would be simple: he could go ahead with his makeup without waiting for the stragglers. ’
But that has not worked out in past years. Regularly, with the appearance of the Dome late in the spring, a terrific shout of protest goes up from seniors whose pictures have been omitted. Right now is the time to take care that the picture will appear. Before anything else, the photographer must get at least half a chance to train his camera on you.
MORE ON THE GYMNASIUM SMOKERS
The Scholastic was sincerely gratified at the Butler basketball game alst week to note that the violations of the No Smoking rule were far less numerous than at the previous home game. But the practice had not entirely disappeared. The improvement in the student sections was perhaps a bit greater than in the other portions of the stands, but some smoking continued in all parts of the crowd. Possibly an announcement by the cheerleader, given audibly through a megaphone just before the opening tip-off, and again at the half if conditions warrant, would complete the elimination of the evil.
January 19, 19 34
One
THE WEEK
Plans For Junior Prom Completed
By Thomas J. Stritch
Father Hudson
Now Father Hudson is gone, and with him much that helped make Notre Dame what it is. It has long been oui' personal conviction, much belabored in controversy, that Father Hudson through the agency of the Ave Maria brought more students to Notre Dame than the football team ever did: he certainly carried the fame of Notre Dame farther. We can remember, in the days of our extreme youth, the Ave Maria turned down on the table with the legend on the back “Kindly address mail enquiries to The Rev. Daniel E. Hudson, C.S.C., Notre Dame, Ind.” That was before we ever dreamed of attaching ourselves to this place. We never forgot the name — there’s a good swing to it, you will observe.
Of late years much legend has grown around his name. Let us announce, once and for all, that he had seen most of the new buildings; that he had not been confined to his room for twenty-five years; and that up to a comparatively recent time he had retained full possession of his faculties. It was only a few years ago that he retired to the Community House from the Presbytery.
Twenty-five years ago he was truly a great figure, well-known and wellloved the country over. During the last few years he was comparatively obscure. And the curious thing is that, in Father Hudson’s case, this is not at all a melancholy reflection.
Chapeaux
Heaven forbid that we should try to stimulate a reform in anything. The mattei’ which we shall refer to, without a trace of warmth, is not properly speaking a reform: it is, rather, part of an attitude which is annoying to a great many people. Not a few have spoken to us concerning it, and we are airing their views (as well as our own) to pick up the polemic style again.
It is the wearing of hats in the cafeteria that we prod at. That particular pose in which the faithful slump down in their chairs and push their hats back on their heads when about to speak of their last night’s adventures — so reminiscent of the cracker-box speakers of country stores — is not, at best, academic. Some people even go so far as to say that it is unmannerly. Time was when Father Hugh O’Donnell, and more latterly, Father Farley, used to barge through daily knocking hats off. But the custom has declined;
T ivo
and hats are now worn in the best circles.
We suggest a sort of fez fraternity for the boys who feel that a hat is absolutely indispensable. Get a standard headgear, suitably inscribed, for wear indoors. It will be both attractive and useful, and give an aura of mystery as well.
To Arms
The annual midwinter open is well under way in Lyons Hall. For some reason of other, the disciplinary reactionaries always gather there, and along about this time of year give full vent to their feelings in an orgy of disorders. We used to think, when we were sophomores, that all this disease of sophomoritis stuff was all wet; but now, after four years of observation we are convinced that there’s something in sophomores that will out. Everything went as it should in Lyons: there were the usual paper festoons, the usual fire-crackers, the usual campus, and this time an unusual vigilance committee, determined to set sophomore feet once more in the paths of rectitude. Well, they’ll find out: you can’t do anything about the Lyon disease. Nature will take its course.
Personal
To Kay, New Rochelle: The goldfish is singular, lives alone in his bachelor bowl. We are pleased to announce that he, Huxley, weathered the holidays in great style, and is now butting his head against the bowl with healthful regularity. Ad multos annos.
Charity, boy!
The baby who does “What’s Up?” for the Juggler is at it again. Not content with destroying at least one beautiful romance by pegging names in the thing, and having ruined the Travertine Room as a Wednesday hangout for the impecunious, he has, for his latest coup, besieged the Chinese of the South Bend Inn, and starved them into submission. The Orientals never had a chance. Now the Inn is under new management, and is to be Occidental in character and manners, we understand. Heaven knows how much “What’s Up?” got for putting the deal over.
Oh, the Juggler is all veiy well, but those poor Chinese — strangers in a strange land, braving the winds of an alien winter — our heart goes out to them. .
Mickey Isley and his ten piece or--chestra from Gary, Indiana, will play for the Junior dinner dance Saturday evening, February 10, from 7:30 to 12:00 on the mezzanine floor of the Oliver Hotel in South Bend announced William Miller, General Chairman of the 1934 Junior Prom. Isley’s band has played at the Union hops at Purdue University, Hudson Lake, and many inter-fraternity affairs in the mid-west.
Dinner will be served at 7:30. This will be followed by dancing until 12 o’clock. The University has granted 12:30 permissions to those attending this dance.
Marohn Writes Prom Song
Edward Cullen and William Gui-mont, co-chairmen of the dinner dance have made arrangements with the Oliver Hotel authorities to have the Blue, the Gold, Rotary room, and the entire mezzanine floor for the dance. The assessment for the dinner dance is $3.50.
As was announced in last week’s Scholastic, Ted Weems has been selected to play for the Junior Prom, Friday night, Feb. 9, in the Palais Royale Ballroom, from 9:00 until 1:30. For this night 2:30 permissions have been granted the Juniors.
The Prom song—“My Prom Memories,” the music and words written by James Marohn—is to be sung by John Ryan, Glee Club soloist, and accompanied by the Weems’ orchestra. Photostatic copies of the Prom song are to be issued to the guests at the door of the Palais.
The ticket sale opens Monday, January 22, under the chairmanship of William Cole. Sale of the Prom tickets will be in charge of the following men in the Junior halls: Alumni hall, William Cole; Badin hall, Raymond Margarett; and Howard hall, Robert Henneberger.
Tax, $5.00
Invitations this year are to be given with the purchase of the ticket. This eliminates the twofold committee and is an accommodation to Prom goers. The price of Prom tickets— $5.00.
Tickets for the Junior dinner dance go on sale on Monday, January 22, also. They may be obtained from the following men: Alumni hall, William Guimont; Badin hall, Edward Simpson; and Howard hall, Edward Cullen.
Plans for the decorating of the Ballroom and other final arrangements will be completed within the coming week.
The Scholastic
Calendar
Great Crowd at Funeral Pays Final Tribute to Father Hudson, C.S.C.
Friday, January 19
Knights of Columbus Ball, Palais Royale, 9:00 p.m.
Saturday, January 20
Movie, “Charlie Chan’s Greatest Case,” with Warner Oland, cartoon, “Beneath Our Feet,” newsreel, Washington hall, 6:35, 8:15 p.m.
Sunday, January 21
Masses, Sacred Heart church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m.; Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, for upperclassmen, 7:00 p.m., for freshmen and students in Lyons and St. Edward’s halls, 7:30 p.m.
Monday, January 22
Collegians rehearsal, 6:30 p.m., Music hall; Lecture, Vilhjalmur Stef-ansson, arctic explorer, 8:00 p.m., Washington hall. .
Tuesday, January 23
Symphony orchestra practice, 6:30 p.m., Music hall; Educational Seminar, 6:30 p.m., Law Building.
Wednesday, January 2^.
Collegians rehearsal, 6:30 p.m., Music hall.
Thursday, January 25
Lecture, Dr. William Beebe, scientist, explorer, Washington hall, 8 p.m.
Friday, January 26
Semester examinations begin, 8:00 a.m.
A. B. College Has New Course In Bible Study
An additional elective for juniors and seniors was announced this week by the College of Arts and Letters. The course is called “The Bible—Old Testament,” and is taught by the Rev. William Cunningham, C.S.C., at 11 o’clock on Mondays and Wednesdays, with two semester hours credit.
The announcement of the details of the course is as follows:
Work of Course
“Units: 1 — Introduction; inspiration, the canons, senses of scripture and rules of interpretation; 2—Christ in Type and Figure, the Historical Books; 3—Christ, the Word, Didactic Books; 4—Christ in Phophecy, Pho-phetical Books.
“The work of the course will be the reading of the entire Old Testament by the stint method (1086). The lectures in class will be definitely aimed at helping the student to understand and interpret the text in terms of Christian dispensation.”
Symphony---
One of the largest and most enthusiastic audiences that ever attended a Notre Dame symphony orchestra concert applauded each rendition at the first annual performance held last evening in Washington Hall. The program containing selections from such masters as L. von Beethoven, P. Tschaikowsky, and F. Mendelssohn was one of the best selected and most popular ever given by the orchestra. Prof. Richard Seidel’s readings of these selections speak well of him as a symphony director.
The dramatic overture “Martha” by F. von Flotow opened the program and was followed by the Lar-ghetto of the second symphony of L. von Beethoven • which was well performed and appreciated by the audience. The “Grand Parade,” an excerpt from the “Masquerade suite” by Lacome, closed the first part of the program.
The suite, “Ballet of the Flowers” by H. Hadley was the first to be played on the second part of the program. Peter Tschaikowsky’s Sleeping Beauty waltz was probably the best received number of the evening. This was followed by the familiar “March from the Priests from Athalia” by F. Mendelssohn.
The Notre Dame symphony orchestra, now in the third year of its existence, was formed by Professor Richard Seidel around the string ensemble which previous to the formation of the symphony supplied the campus with the music of the masters. At present the orchestra has thirty members. Anyone interested in joining the organization may do so by reporting at the next rehearsal, which will be announced in The Scholastic.
CONTENTS
Editorials ...................  1
The Week ...................... 2
Junior Prom ................... 2
Father Hudson.................. 3
K. of C. Formal................ 4
Football Banquet............... 5
News of the Week............... 7
Man About Campus .............. 8
Voice of Campus ............... 9
College Parade ................ 10
Butler Game.................... 11
Interhall ..................... 13
Introducing ................... 14
Splinters ..................... 15
On Down the Line............... 16
DIED JANUARY 12TH
A great crowd of students, members, of the clergy, friends and relatives attended the solemn funeral mass Monday morning in Sacred Heart church to pay tribute to the Reverend Daniel E. Hudson, C.S.C.,
Rev. Daniel E. Hudson, C.S.C.
R. I. r.
LL.D., former editor of the Ave Maria, who died last Friday morning; January 12, of old age.
The Most Reverend John F. Noll, D.D., bishop of Fort Wayne, Ind., was the celebrant of the pontifical requiem mass. The Reverend Thomas Burke, C.S.C., served as deacon; the Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., Ph.D., dean of the college of arts and letters, subdeacon; and the Reverend Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the college of science, master of ceremonies. Assisting Bishop Noll as deacon of honor were the Rev: John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, and the Reverend Eugene Burke, C.S.C., who succeeded the late Father Hudson as editor of the Ave Maria.
Students at Funeral
Among the visiting members of the clergy who were present at the last rites for the revered priest were the Most Reverend Francis J. McDevitt, bishop of Harisburg, Pa.; Msgr. Thomas V. Shannon, of Chicago, and Msgr. Jansen, of Whiting, Ind. No eulogy was delivered during the funeral mass. Ten and eleven o’clock classes were dismissed Monday morning to enable students to attend the funeral services in Sacred Heart church and the burial ceremony in the Community cemetery.
Father Hudson was born December 18, 1849, in Nahant, Mass. He atended Holy Cross College, Worcester, Mass., and the University of Notre Dame. In 1870 he joined the Congregation of Holy Cross; March
(Continued on Page 10)
J a n u a r y 19, 19 3
Thr e e
250 Couples Expected At K. C. Ball Tonight
Two hundred and fifty couples will dance to the music of Henry Busse and his orchestra at the Knights of Columbus ball at the Palais Royale Ballroom tonight. The dance will begin at 9 o’clock and will continue until 12:30.
This year’s affair is under the supervision of Grand Knight Lawrence Sexton and general chairman Frank Honerkamp. The dance is open to all students and the ticket sale will not close until tonight, immediately prior to the dance.
Novel Favors
Decorations, for the affair will be carried out in simple lines. Favors, blue and gold, with a dance couple silhouette, will be distributed to the guests. The guests, coming from various sections of the country, represent the largest group to attend any Notre Dame non-class dance in some time.
Assisting Honerkamp and Sexton are Al Phaneuf, Howard Flannery, James Lannon, Andrew Maffei, James Sullivan, George Wenz, Art Klefaker, John Clark, Art Korzeneski, Michael Coyle and William Brooks.
Patrons and patronesses who will attend are Dean and Mrs. Thomas Konop, Dean and Mrs. James McCarthy, Prof, and Mrs. Louis Buckley, Mr. and Mrs. Raymond Hoyer, Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Jones, Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Bocskei, Mr. and Mrs. Leo Kuntz, Mr. and Mrs. George Paff, Prof, and Mrs. David Campbell, Mr. and Mrs. Eugene Connolly, and Mr. and Mrs. Frank W. Lloyd.
University Receives Set Of Copies Of All Foster Songs
The University has been presented a set of copies of first editions of all the known songs of Stephen C. Foster by Josiah K. Lilly, president of the Eli Lilly and Co., internationally known manufacturers of pharmaceuticals and biologicals.
The set of songs contains such favorites as “Old Black Joe,” “My Old Kentucky Home,” and “Away Down the Swanee River.” The set is enclosed in a specially built indestructible steel cabinet weighing 43 pounds. The set contains copies of 200 first editions on sheet music and adaptations and arrangements of 119 more.
The set was received here through the Department of Pharmacy and has been turned oyer to the Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C., to be placed in the music library of the University.
Four
International Relations Club Elects New Officers
The International Relations club, recently reorganized under the supervision of Professor James E. Far-rel of the Department of History, elected new officers Wednesday, January 17.
All the officers are students in the College of Arts and Letters. John J. O'Connor, III; senior economics major, was the unanimous choice for president. Edward F. Mansfield, senior journalism major, was elected vice - president. The secretaryship went to Frank L. Linton, senior economics major, while John L. Glanz-ner, junior history major, was elected librarian.
European Affairs Reviewed
The Wednesday night program included a resume of present day affairs in Europe, a review of Calvin B. Hoover’s “Germany Enters the Third Reich” by Frank Linton, followed by an open forum discussion.
Professor Farrell touched upon domestic conditions and international relations in Europe at present, considering in particular the German and Italian dictatorships.
In his review of Calvin Hoover’s book, Linton presented a comprehensive picture of the politico-economic conditions among Germany’s Junker, peasant, industrial and middle classes since the last war. The meteoric rise to prominence of Adolf Hitler, preceded by the alternate rise and fall of Von Schleicher, Bruning, and Von Papen came as a climax to ten years of stubborn, independent waiting, Linton brought out.
Hitler Discussed
Turning to recent trends and changes in Germany, Linton sketched the advances made under the Hitler regime, especially economically. Hitler’s political strength, the weaknesses and faults in his administration, and the present status of the war debt question in Germany were all reviewed by the speaker.
The next meeting is scheduled for February 7, 6:30 p. m., in the north basement of the Library. All students interested are requested to be present.
“Notre Dame Men” Out
The Alumni Association this week issued a booklet entitled Notre Dame Men. This interesting pamphlet gives a kaleidoscopic picture of Notre Dame; its history, activities and achievements, in 47 pages. It will be available to all boys and prospective students who desire a clearer picture of Notre Dame and its educational facilities. The booklet was published under the direction of James E. Armstrong, Alumni Secretary.
‘Scrip’ to Honor Late
Professor Phillips
A fitting tribute to the memory and ideals of that constant friend and adviser, Professor Charles Phillips, will be made by the second issue of Scrip. It is to be known as the “Phillips Memorial Number,” and the entire contents will assume the form of a commemoration. Editor Paul McManus has suspended all previous plans for the issue in order to devote the complete publication, both in form and tenor of the articles, to Professor Phillips.
Appreciations By Friends
The contributions, in the main, will be impressions and appreciations expressed by close friends of the deceased. Faculty members, and students of both the past and the present will join in paying this great tribute to a great man. It is further hopen that Mr. Phillips’ many friends who are scattered throughout the world will unite with the faculty and studdent-body of Notre Dame to make this a tribute suitable to his splendid character.
Because of the delay occasioned by these plans, the “Phillips Memorial Number” of Scrip cannot be promised before, at the earliest, Feb. 9. Editor McManus has made arrangements to offer this issue of Scrip, at a nominal price, to the numerous interested friends outside of the University. Students will receive the publication in place of The Scholastic that week.
Glee Club Quartet Invited To Sing At K. of C. Dinner
Four members of the Notre Dame Glee Club, forming a university quartet, have been invited to sing tomorrow night at the Knights of Columbus testimonial dinner at the Palmer House, Chicago. The dinner is to be given in honor-of Mr. T. W. Flynn, past master of fourth degree.
Old Varsity Quartet
The students in the quartet are Justin Tompkins, Thomas Flynn, David Ryan, and William Fromm. Tompkins, Flynn, and Fromm sang with the Varsity quartet last summer during the glee club tour. They also took part in the Linnet show, “Thanks For the Blow” staged before the holidays. James Marohn will accompany them on the piano.
“Love Songs of the Nile,” “Baby, Won’t You Please Come Home,” “Dinah,” “The Old Songs,” are some of the numbers that the quartet wiM sing. The singers have been trained by Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, director of the Glee Club.
The Scholastic
Stefansson To Talk Here Monday Night
Overflow Crowd Throngs Annual Testimonial Banquet To Gridders
' Twenty years of exploration. That’s the record of Vilhjahnur Stefansson, Arctic authority, who is to speak in Washington Hall, Jan. 22 at 8:00 p. m. From 1904 until 1924, he was continually on the go, spending most of his time in the far North, learning the truth about the section, and •exploding many of the commonly accepted myths of the land of the Eskimos.
Stefansson is distinctly a lecturer of the new type. He pays no attention to the fireworks of forensic oratory, but instead speaks in a quiet conversational tone, which wins his audience at once and holds them throughout the address. He immediately delves into his subject, the Arctic. For his audience at least, it is a new Arctic; not a bleak, frozen waste, not a land of perpetual snow and ice, not a land that “God forgot,” but a land with habitable climate which must eventually be civilized and blessed with the life more abundant.
The high esteem with which his fellow adventurers hold Stefansson is fully illustrated in the following quotation from Carl Akely, famous African big game hunter, “I have often said that of the men of the present generation to be remembered, Stefansson will be one of the six to head the list.”
Winter “Santa Maria” Issue Distributed Wednesday Night
The winter number of the Santa Maria, edited by Walter Kennedy, was distributed among the members of the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus Wednesday evening of this week.
The issue features notes on the annual K. of C. Formal which is being held tonight at the Palais Royale, South Bend. A frontispiece of the three guests of the editor, Chairman Honerkamp, and Grand Knight Sexton, respectively is the contents of the first page of the issue.
Professor Charles Phillips is honored by the Santa Maria with an editorial and news story reprinted from The Scholastic. A column on third degree initiations and a bureau of exchange are also included in the paper.
Nearly a page is devoted to athletics by Ray Martin and to a column, “G. K.’s Chair” written by Grand Knight Sexton. The final page of the Santa Maria is an entreaty to Grand Knights to subscribe to enable the publication to become self-supporting.
J a n ua ry 19, 19 3 4
Sea Life----
William Beebe, known for his extensive studies of life under the sea, will visit Notre Dame next Thursday, Jan. 25, to deliver a lecture in Washington Hall. His topic will be “Four Hundred Fathoms Down.”
The lecture will be augmented and illustrated by motion pictures of life activity photographed in deep waters, animated cartoons of sea life, and an array of colored slides. This program as offered by Mr. Beebe promises to be one of the most interesting on the Washington Hall lecture card for this year.
Hayes Heard on “Education” At Regular Wrangler Meet
John Hayes, senior member, addressed twelve Wranglers on several phases of the problem “Education,” at the regular meeting Tuesday evening in the Law Building.
Hayes began his talk by pointing out that education is and should be a pertinent question to college students now and in after-college years. “Education is the basis of our democracy,” he said, “and the purpose of our system of mass education is to teach people the ideas of democracy.” The speaker then demonstrated by means of charts the differences between the old and new German educational systems and the modern American system. “The question revolves around these points,” he said, “whether we shall have an educational, system devised for group solidarity or a system for individuality.” Hayes explained that in Germany the government determines the plan of education with the aim of securing both leaders and followers. Education of the masses is not practiced.	'
In conclusion the speaker asked the members to express themselves on this question, because there will undoubtedly be changes in the American system of education, changes much more revolutionary than those of the past twenty-five years. The Wranglers then took up the problem and discussed it thoroughly. Hayes’ topic proved to be so interesting and instructive that opinions were expressed to the effect that the same problem be treated again at a later date.
Plans for the annual banquet were discussed in detail.
WELCOME COACH LAYDEN
By Thomas G. Proctor
The 1933 football team has been honored, and a new coach has been welcomed at Notre Dame. Both functions were combined in the highly successful 14th annual testimonial dinner for the Notre Dame eleven, sponsored by the St. Joseph Valley Alumni Club and given Monday evening, Jan. 15, in the west dining hall.
An over-capacity crowd of 1,500 jammed the banquet hall to pay tribute to the team and to Elmer Layden, newly selected athletic director and head football coach here, and to hear the splendid speaking program headed by the Honorable Paul V. McNutt, governor of Indiana. Extra features included sound pictures, band and glee club offerings, and the usual witticisms of “Sleepy Jim” Crowley, toastmaster, who played so important a part in the celebration last year.
Butler Opens Program
Following the dinner, sound pictures were flashed on a large screen, one showing the Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, at the presentation of the 1929 Laetare Medal to Alfred E. Smith, the others bringing back to life the heroes and great events of Notre Dame football history from Rockne, master coach down to the present day.
Paul M. Butler, president of the St. Joe Valley Club, opened the program with a tribute to the great crowd assembled “to honor the team, to welcome Elmer, and to commemorate the 90th Anniversary, of the granting of Notre Dame’s charter.
When Crowley had taken over the reins of toastmaster, the Hon. W. Riley Hinkle, mayor of South Bend, Noble Kizer, and “Bill” Cunningham of the Boston Post, opened the speaking program. Cunningham drew applause with his statement, “I loved Notre Dame in victory; but she was glorious in defeat.”
Crowley Toastmaster ’
Toastmaster Crowley introduced the following guests: the Right Rev. John F. Noll, Bishop of Fort Wayne; the Rt. Rev. Msgr. Frank Jansen, Frank Mayr, Al Feeney, Warren Brown, Arch Ward, George Keogan, John Nicholson, Bill Box, Jr., Dick Miller, J. Arthur Haley, Jack Ledden, Byron V. Kanaley, Miles W. O’Brien, Frank E. Hering, and others.
Don Miller, “Horseman,” and the (Continued on Page 14)
Fiv e
Discuss Field Trips At St. Vincent Meet
K. of C. News
First 1934 ‘Alumnus’ Has Many Features
In the basement of Walsh Hall Wednesday night, January 17, the St. Vincent de Paul Society held their first meeting since the holidays. Reverend John Kelly, C.S.C., Frank Mc-Grahen, and Gerard Mergardt were the presiding officers of the evening. Reverend George O’Connor, C.S.C., was the speaker of the meeting.
In preparation for their field trips, Father O’Connor gave a talk on the conditions existing in the places and situations which they would visit. The members were urged to ask questions to stimulate a real interest in the families upon which they were calling. From the examples of the fun and enjoyment he had received, Father O’Connor pointed out that their work would be accompanied with entertainment.
Magazine -Drive Successful
A plan has been worked out whereby members of the social welfare organization will visit every day with Father O’Connor, the Colored Missions of South Bend, different men making the rounds every day.
Mr. McGrahen announced that 437 pieces of literature were collected from the student body; practically the same number being distributed among the patients at Healthwin, and the hospitals in South Bend. Extreme gratitude was expressed for the coopei-ation of the students and the work of collection. Some 50 pairs of shoes, along with 20 suits, and other pieces of clothing were collected and distributed before the holidays.
Meeting On Wednesday
At this meeting an exact statement could not be made as to the amount of profits received from the show, “Thanks For The Blow,” since the bills have not yet been completely cleared up. Approximately, 200 dollars was cleared, Father Kelly estimated. However, the exact amount in the treasury is 228 dollars. The next meeting of the club will be in Walsh Hall at 6:45 on Wednesday evening, January 24.
“Dome” Work Continues
This week the Dome has been taking group pictures of the various campus clubs. They will continue to do this through Tuesday. So far the only clubs taken have been those with campus activities only. The pictures of the city clubs will be taken after the semester examinations. Notices will be posted and cards sent to the presidents of the clubs.
Six
By Ray Martin
Tickets for the Knights of Columbus Formal, to be held tonight at the Palais Royale, will be sold at 310 Alumni Hall today until 6:00 p. m.
The council bowling league, seriously under way only two nights, shows how much the trip to Milwaukee is bearing on the minds of the bowlers. Everyone is working with a tremendous zeal, and scores that were talked of with pride before Christmas rate no better than the middle places now. Those who did not score well either of the last two nights should not become discouraged, however, as streaks occur in bowling as in golf or tennis or any other really competitive sport.- Inasmuch as most of the bowlers get no practice between bowling nights, each trip to South Bend is highly speculative as to outcome. A man high up may fall into a disturbing run of low scores, and the men who feel they are almost out of it may find latent skill which will advance them high in the standings. For this reason, if for no other, do not permit yourselves to become so discouraged as to drop bowling. The benefits, whether you have realized their existence or not, are legion.
Basketball Encouraging
The reports on the basketball team to date are very encouraging. Coach Eddie Alberts, while somewhat reticent on the subject, is optimistic enough to say that, regardless of wins or losses, the council team will provide disturbing opposition for all the teams on the schedule. With two classy veterans, Sexton and Sullivan, around which to build his team, his sanguine attitude is thought to be one of those things so prevalent in the nature of an athletic coach. The mentor should be able to develop an effective aggregation from the material he has reporting, if the antics of some of the men in the council chambers can be used to prove anything.
As all the members of the council are awaiting the appearance of the team, everyone is asked to cooperate.
Military Club To Meet
Major Bondy of the regular army will be the principal speaker at the next meeting of the Military club, soon after the completion of semester examinations.
The group picture for the Dome will be taken within the next ten days. The exact date will be announced later.
The January number of the Notre Dame Alumnus appeared on the campus Thursday. The issue contains in part the funeral sermon for Charles Phillips which was preached by the Rev. J. P. Carroll, C.S.C., and the full address of Father O’Hara, which was given at the Annual Convention of the National Collegiate Athletic Association. Father O’Hara analyzed athletic abuses and described the academic chaos resulting from the World War.
“More Golden Fleece With Our Sheepskins” is the title of a very well written article by James Armstrong, presented before the Lay Faculty Club of the College of Arts and Letters. Mr. Armstrong discusses the problem of the University in continuing its influence and educational relations upon its students in after years. He suggests the plan of a digest or review prepared by the faculty of the University, of the various fields which the five colleges embrace, and their subordinate, departmental interests.
Gives Student Activities
The editorial column, “Comment,” is devoted to an announcement concerning the improving condition of Father O’Donnell, president of the University, and an obituary on the late Professor Phillips reprinted from the Religious Bulletin.
The regular features of the Alumnus are continued in the issue. Jim Kearns is the author of the campus page in which a detailed account of the outstanding activities of the student body is. given. Joe Petritz’ page on athletics contains a description of the varsity basketball season this year.
Another article concerning the success of Notre Dame coaches appears in the publication. The article is an answer to the various newspaper comment recently in condemnation of the Notre Dame system of football.
The Alumnus appears this month in 32 pages. Other than the special features, the issue carries the columns devoted to the activities and whereabouts of the alumni in order of their class dates.
Scholastic Staff Notice
There will be no meeting of the staff of The Scholastic tonight. The next meeting will be held Thursday evening, Feb. 1.
All staff members are urged to call immediately at the Publications Office, Main Building, for cards authorizing them to have pictures taken for the activities section of the Dome.
The Scholastic
Junior Prom To Be Next ‘Juggler’ Theme
Editor Degnan promises to grace the week-end of the junior class dance with the Prom number of the Juggler in order that the guests may return home with a humorous souvenir of the occasion.
In this particular issue the staff has achieved that atmosphere of “sa-voir faire,” a result of priceless experiences, which serves to convert the ordinary to the ultra.
Chief among the masterpieces to be unleashed upon the public is Harry Burchell’s “No Match” in which he resorts to a Hemingway type of treatment. Again Paul McManus drops his role of editor for the moment to don the cloak of book reviewer. His subject is The Bend, a new magazine devoted to local interests, which can be used for everything from a telephone directory to a blind date exchange.
Editor Stoops
All the columns are done well, especially “Caf Smoke” and “Rhythm Beat.” Both writers seem to have garnered a wealth of material during the recent recess from scholastic activities. Even the editor stoops to reveal a latent talen" of satirical ability in a stinging tribute to “Nice Brown Eyes.”
The popularity of the Juggler is not confined to the campus but has even spread to the staid back bay region of the east. Bill Cunningham, sports editor of the Boston Post and guest speaker at the annual football banquet, in a pre-holiday issue of that paper devoted the space normally occupied by two columns to a commendation of the adequate handling of the local football situation as treated in the last number. Thus it seems that Notre Dame may be rightly proud of her humor magazine.
In conclusion it might be mentioned that everyone will appreciate the pictorial section in this issue whether they attend the Prom or not.
Sympathy
The Scholastic joins the University and the men of Walsh Hall in extending deep sympathy to Fathers Leo and Alan Heiser whose mother passed away this week. Father Leo Heiser is rector of Walsh Hall and Father Alan Heiser a prefect.
German Club Notice
The German Club will discontinue the weekly meetings in Carroll Hall recreation until after examinations. When they are over, Mr. Wack, Associate professor of German and adviser of the Club, will announce the next session of the members.
News of the Week
By George Leyes
A religious controversy in Germany and a scandal in the French government are the cause of such indignation that the political set-ups of both countries are in danger.
Protestant and Catholic bishops are uniting in defending the Church from Nazi attempts to paganize it. The Protestant bishops have refused to recognize Bishop Ludwig Muller, appointee of Hitler, as the head of the United Protestant Church, and refuse to substitute the pagan Wotanism for the “Jewish” Old Testament. Catholic bishops are waging a successful fight against the sterilization of Catholics. In this government here sagacity seems to be at a premium, the Church is the only force which seems strong enough to curb Hitler’s regime.
High government officials in France are linked in a swindle put over by Alexandre Stavisky, a second Krueger, who sold to insurance companies §30,000,000 of worthless bonds in his Bayonne Credit Municipal, a national pawnshop with government backing, the original of which was founded by King Louis XVI. The mysterious shooting of Stavisky in a hotel room was pronounced to be “suicide” by the authorities but the Opposition press declared that the police had shot Stavisky to prevent any more disclosures. The scandal threatens not only to upset the present Cabinet but also to lead to • a Fascist majority in the Chamber.
Money is still the topic of conversation in Washington. Because of the many complexities of this problem, just when we shall return to the gold standard is yet a matter of conjecture. It seems certain, however, that a new and modernized system of gold standard will be worked out which will eliminate the weaknesses that the old gold standard unworkable in a period of crisis.
This week the president decided to take over all the gold held by the Federal Reserve system, and is beginning a war on all hoarders having §100 or less in gold or yellow backs. It appears that under Roosevelt’s new money policy the sight of the yellow metal, at least in the form of money, will be only a memory as will be safely locked up in the government vaults.
Father Farley Back
Reverend John Farley, C.S.C., rector of Sorin Hall, returned to Sorin on Wednesday after an absence of about three weeks spent in St. Joseph’s hospital and the University infirmary.
Debate Squad Plans Four 1934 Contests
“A lot more are to follow” is the theme of the fourteen men comprising Notre Dame’s Varsity debate squad as they prepare for the second contest of the 1934 schedule. William Kirby and Robert Schmelzle launched the 'new season “via-air” last Saturday afternoon, meeting Chicago Law College in a non-decision radio contest over WJJD, Chicago, on the question, “Resolved, that the president’s powers should be increased as a settled policy.”
Radio Debate With Kent
Coach W» J. Coyne says that the debate here on Feb. 10, with New York University and the radio debate over WLS, Chicago, on Feb. 13 with Kent Law’ College, are fairly certain. Two debates, negative and affirmative, hhve been definitely scheduled with Northwestern “B” teams on the afternoon and evening of Feb. 22.
Men to argue for the university in these debates have not been chosen, though it is probable that Justin Han-nen, William Miller and Richard Meier will defend the negative side in one of the Northw’estern contests. Up to this point all of Notre Dame’s debates have been on the affirmative side of the presidential powers questions.
Cracow Club Honors Late Prof. Phillips at Meeting
Monday evening, Jan. 15, the Cracow Club held a memorial meeting in remembrance of the late Professor Charles Phillips. Tribute notices of papers from all parts of the country w’ere read and discussed. Of special interest was part of an editorial appearing in a local newspaper. It concerned itself with the book, The Neu-Poland, written by Professor Phillips, and contained some complimentary and worthwhile statements about it.
The latter part of the meeting was devoted to items of important business. The subject of membership in the Catholic action club was discussed as was also the rise of the 8-year-old pianist, Ruth Schlencyzyski, child prodigy of Poland. The founding of a professorship at Northwestern University for the purpose of teaching the customs and traditions of the Polish people was highly commended.
It was decided that the club should invite a prominent speaker from Chicago to speak here during the latter part of February, however, details were left for later arrangement.
At the next meeting scheduled for Feb. 5, important committees are to be announced and all members are requested to be present.
January 19, 19 3
Seven
Engineers Hear Talk On Power Rectifiers
Roman Money System Is Topic of Patricians
On Monday evening, Jan. 15, the Notre Dame Branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers held its first meeting of 1934 in Cushing Hall of Engineering, Chairman “Billie” Fromm officiating.
The principal speaker was Mr. O. K. Marti, Engineer-in-chief in charge of rectifiers and railways of the Allis-Chalmers Mfg. Co., Milwaukee. Mr. Marti, who received his education in Europe and who for many years was chief engineer of the American Brown & Boveri Co., delivered a lecture entitled “Mercury Arc Power Rectifiers” in a most interesting and delightful manner. His delineation and illumniation of the intricate process of power rectification was generally deemed by his audience to be one of the most instructive and intriguing talks presented before the group this year.
Steel-Tank Rectifier
As an introduction to the main body of his speech, Mr. Marti discussed the many obstacles in the way of the development of the steel-tank power rectifier: the difficulty in securing the necessary vacuum in a large steel tank (a vacuum of one tenthousandth of an inch of mercury!), the difficulty in causing the mercury arc to jump from one anode to another, and others of a like nature.
The speaker then gave a detailed explanation of the working of the steel-tank rectifier, discussing the use of an ignition anode to initiate the action of the arc, the use of a rotary pump and a mercury pump to maintain the proper degree of vacuum in the tank, and the function of anode shields in preventing “arching-back.” He went on to explain a recent development in rectifier work, grid control, which utilizes a grid similar to that used in an ordinary radio tube and can be used to maintain the output voltage at an almost absolutely constant value. He remarked that this system is an integral part of the equipment of the 500,000-watt radio station in Mexico City.
Mercury Arc Rectifier
In closing, Mr. Marti told his listeners that the applications of mercury arc rectifiers are practically unlimited. “In fact,” said he, “the only thing we can’t do with them is generate voltage.”
Other speakers on the program included Cyrus Foote, a senior, who spoke briefly on recent developments in vacuum tubes; and Bill Wolfe, also a senior, who presented a paper entitled “Modern Treatment of Broadcasting Acoustics.”
Eight
'about the camPus
John (Red) Tobin, present Fire Chief of Sorin, is that well stacked gentleman with the professorial glasses and the somewhat a g-gressive hibernian jaw. A comfortable looking polo coat (Malcolm Campbell style) houses the solid Mr. Tobin on most occasions,
though at times he may be seen braving the blasts in his Monogram sweater. The sweater is the result of two seasons of hard, well played football. Doubtless you heard Ted Husing spray wild and florid adjectives on him at the Army game.
Fire Guard; Lady Guide
Among the more interesting notes which appeared in early releases of the sheet this year, was one which had to do with the summer occupations of various lads. After Tobin’s name, curiously enough, were the descriptive words: “Laborer—World’s Fair.” To the number of Chicago lads who happened in and out of the General Motors Building at the Fair, this seemed accurate indeed. For the Tobin they saw was strolling leisurely about, waiting for fire to disturb the building, and meanwhile guiding confused ladies this way and that.
Tobin has been lost since the Monogram Initiations. His “stooge” Fred Solari is now well out of grasp and poor Tobin has no one to wake him up and bring in the breakfast. He now feels that he’s pretty much a regular inhabitant of the hall, but that it was the life while it lasted.
Jerks Sodas Too
This has been a quiet year for Tobe, though he usually manages to enjoy himself. There was a time when his enthusiasm led him to spend an evening dishing out sodas from behind the counter at Hook’s — just for the fun of it. Perhaps the Janesville influence is the fence.
Tobin is popular with the various types who happen to know him—and the types are quite numerous. He lives across from the good Father Farley in Sorin. The one condemning feature is that he comes down the hall now and then to see Kearns. Otherwise, there’s not even a whim-pei- of complaint.
' At the first meeting of the Patrician’s Club of Notre Dame, for the year 1934, Monday evening, Jan. 15, Louis Grosso presented a paper entitled “The Monetary History of Rome.” In tracing the history of Roman coinage Grosso said, “Together, the examples of the Greek Republics and the writings of Plato and other philosophers had taught the Romans the advantage of a limited and exclusive system of money issued by the state and having little or no worth other than what is derived from its usefulness and efficiency in measuring the value of commodities and services. As felted paper was unknown, the symbols of this system could most conveniently be made of copper.	.
Means Suggested
Therefore, the means necessary to maintain and to secure such a money were for the state to monopolize the copper mines; restrict the commerce in copper; strike copper coins of high artistic merit; stamp the coins with the mark of the state; render them sole legal tender for the payment of domestic contracts, taxes, fines, and debts; limit their inmission until their value (from universal demand for and their comparative scarcity) rose to more than that of the metal of which they were composed, and main tains such restriction and over-valuation as the permanent policy of the state. Similar to modern government procedure a supply of gold and silver, coined and uncoined, could be kept in the treasury for foreign trade or commerce.”
James Corrigan will read a paper entitled ‘Journalistic Life of Rome’ at the next meeting of the club on Feb. 5.
The club voted to change the hour of its meetings from 7 o’clock in the evening to 4:30 in the afternoon of every other Monday of the month.
Linnets Turn Over $250 To St. Vincent Society
The proceeds of the Linnet’s “Thanks for the Blow” totaled $450. The organization presented $250 of this amount to the St. Vincent de Paul Society. The remainder was used by the club to cover expenses and to maintain a treasury. It was estimated that 2,500 persons attended the performances.
Plans are how being made for another presentation to be given some time next spring in Washington Hall.
The Scholastic
‘Dome’ Photo Contest Announced by Editor
The Snapshot contest of the 1934 Dome opens today. The contest is open to anyone who wishes to compete for the three prizes offered. The first prize will be one 1934 Dome and $2.50 in cash; second prize, one 1934 Dome and $1.50 in cash; the third prize, one 1934 Dome and $1.00 in cash. William G. Burkhardt, managing editor of the Dome, and John F. Stoeckley, Giaduate Manager of Publications, will be the judges. The contest closes March 1. The photos should be submitted to Burkhardt at 156 Alumni.
Pictures which portray anything that deals with student life are acceptable. Preference will be given to campus events, student activities, humorous, and scenic photos. It is not necessary that the pictures be taken during the time limit of the contest but merely that they be turned in during that time.
The following are the rules of the contest:
I.	Any type camera may be used.
2.	The pictures must be clear; subject matter well defined.
3.	Prints must be in good condition.
4.	Negatives although they are not required should be available if needed.
5.	Photos should be left at 156 Alumni. They may also be mailed.
6.	Name and address of contestant, description of photo (names of subjects desired, but not necessary) must be written on the back of each photo with a soft pencil.
7.	No photos can be returned.
8.	Contest begins imemdiately and closes March 1.
Father O’Hara Leaves For East on Speaking Tour
i
J ii ii
The Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., left Tuesday, January 16, for the east, where he is to fill three speaking engagements. His first is at Waterbury, Conn., at a Catholic Action banquet, where he will speak on “Catholic Action.” James Crowley, Fordham’s head football coach, will be on the program with Father O’Hara.
The Notre Dame club of Providence, R. I., will hear Father O’Hara speak at a dinner Friday night, and the following noon he will attend a luncheon of the Notre Dame club of Boston, in Boston, Mass.
Notice
The Scholastic will not appear next week or on Feb. 2, because of the press of semester examinations and second semester registration. The next issue will appear Feb. 9.
January 19, 193 £
Voice of the Campus
AU letters to The Scholastic should be addressed to the editor-in-chief, 119 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame. Full name must be signed. Only initials will be used.
“CAF” GAPERS
Dear Editor:
May I suggest to the editor of The Scholastic that a platform be adopted whereby a fund can be established for the construction of an elevated passageway in the cafeteria so that students may pass from one door to another, look around to see who is still eating in the “caf,” and proceed on his way.
It seems quite unnecessary to say that it is very disturbing to those who eat in the cafeteria to have a group of freshmen or sophomores, and sometimes even seniors, bump our elbows, gape over our shoulders to see if our menu is correct, or blow cigarette and pipe fumes into our food.
Of course, we could change our meal hour, but somehow we have acquired the habit of eating at 12 and 6, and would appreciate some cooperation from outsiders.
Sincerely,
J. T. and D. L.
NO TIME TO WASTE
Dear Editor:
It seems to me time that the students complained of the system of seating for the basketball games in the gym. Why should a student be forced to arrive there one hour before the game if he wishes a seat?
Time is more precious to me than that. I can think of many more things to do during an hour than to wait for a game to begin, although I thoroughly enjoy basketball. It is my opinion that the student section should be kept open until 7:45 at least.
Sincerely,
F. T. .C.
Diving Lessons To Be Given By Father Sigmar, Ed Butler
A notice to all students interested in the art of diving is given by the Rev. J. P. Sigmar and Edward J. Butler, Jr., senior Commerce student.
Regular diving classes will be taught Monday and Wednesday evenings at 7:30 in the So. Bend Nata-torium on West Washington avenue with a minimum charge for entrance into the pool.
Engineers Will Hold Formal On April 13
At the first Engineers club meeting of 1934, Wednesday, January 17, the committees for the Engineers Ball to be held April 13 were announced by President Bob Fitzsimon. Frank Shapiro, a senior in chemical engineering, was appointed general chairman.
The various committee appointments as announced by President Fitzsimon are as follows:
Committee
Publicity—Henry Schaeffer, chairman, Mitchell Saleh, A. Barlow; Arrangements—Edward Hallauer, chairman, Carlos de Landero, Al Vitter; Tickets—Al Heigel, chariman, Clarence Pickard, J. A. Loritsch, William, Lafferty; Music—Julian Quinn, chairman, Norbert Toussaint, Edward Kenefake; Patrons—Grenville King, chairman, Robert Hughes, F. Joyce; Reception—Norbert Schenkel, chairman,Thomas Hines, J. Barry; Program—Paul Martersteck and Robert Wielek, co-chairmen, John Caresio, James McKenna; Decorations—Edward J. Fitzmaurice, chairman, James Reville, Enrique Creel.
The speaker of the evening, Mr. L. S. Marsh, manager of the department of inspection and metallurgy of the Inland Steem company, of Chicago, described the processes of steel manufatcuring, beginning with the ore treatment and proceeding through step by step to the finished product. Lantern slides and motion pictures were shown of blast furnace operations, and the operation of rolling mills, including the bar and strip divisions.	■
The speaker was accompanied by Mr. A. C. Roeth, vice-president of-the Inland Steel company.
South Bend Editor Talks ' To Junior Journalists
Francis T. Ahearn, ’27, a graduate of the school of Journalism and at present news editor of the South Bend News-Times, addressed the juniors in Journalism here yesterday morning at 9 o’clock.
The speaker stressed the important part played in newspaper work by such general subjects as Sociology, Economics, Finance, Politics, and History. A knowledge of the basis of these subjects has proven extremely valuable to reporters recently because of the recent trend of events.
In conclusion Ahearn emphasized the importance of individual style to the journalist, for the newspaper man is paid in ratio to the originality he employs in developing a story.
Nine
f i
Forty Men Enrolled For New Action Club
College Parade
Discuss Post Mortems At Science Academy
The formation of the Catholic Action Club at Notre Dame under the direction of Rev. William A. Bolger, C.S.C., is now well under way. About 40 men have already been enrolled as members. The first meeting of the club will be held after the semester examinations. The time and place of this meeting will be announced in the Religious Bulletin. It is to be held for the purpose of arranging a schedule of topics for discussion in later meetings and of deciding on the time and place of the meetings.
The program for these meetings will follow a regular plan. During the first half-hour of the meeting Father Bolger will sum up the principles that are involved in the subject for discussion. For perhaps a half an hour after that appointed members will speak on the subject. Following that the meeting will be thrown open to all the members for a free discussion of the subject. Father Bolger intends to pay attention in these speeches and discussions to delivery and form of discussion as well as to the subject matter. Thus the Club will serve to improve public speaking.
FATHER HUDSON
(Continued from Page 3)
2, 1871, he received his habit, later being professed on March 18, 1872. After his ordination on June 4, 1875, he joined the faculty at Notre Dame. That same year he became editor of the Ave Maria, a position he held until 1930, when he was forced by poor health to turn the editorship over to the Reverend Eugene Burke, C.S.C., who is still editor.
Besides his editorship of the Ave Maria, Father- Hudson occasionally contributed to secular and religious publications, and edited and published a number of Catholic books. He was a close friend of Longfellow.
Father Hudson lived a secluded life at Notre Dame, seldom leaving the campus. During his editorship, the Ave Maria came to be known all over America and in many foreign countries.
In the Religious Bulletin of January 12, Father OHara said, “His little magazine went everywhere, and it was quoted more widely than perhaps any other Catholic magazine in the English language. More- distinguished pilgrims have come here to pay the tribute of their presence to Father Hudson than have ever come simply to see Notre Dame. . . He was the most priestly priest that Notre Dame has ever known. His saintliness had a bright radiating quality; to look at him inspired one to love virtue. . . ”
- By James T. Fitzpatrick
Notre Dame will come back next fall under a new leader. But what about Duquesne? At present, more than rightly, that old Alma Mater is singing the praises of her famous coach as he prepares to leave for Notre Dame. More so, she is singing the song which not many months back was on the lips of every songster . . . “Say it isn’t so.” For although she was elated and overjoyed at the news that Elmer was being promoted to the most coveted position in the football world, yet after momentary reflect she asked herself, who will take his place? And seeing that the replacement of such a great coach would be a task, naturally she began to pray and hope that it was only a dream. She had come to love Elmer and like a loving- mother had waxed sorrowful at the prospect of losing her only son. He had lived and grown with her and supported her in all her endeavors. In defeat he had consoled her, and through victory he had brought her glory, fame and recognition. She had hoped to become another Notre Dame under her leadership—a great institution of learning as well as a breeder of great football men.
What greater glory could have come to you, Elmer, after having placed Duquesne in the national spotlight, than to have received the positions of head coach and director of athletics at your Alma Mater.
Good luck to you and “Auf Wieder-schen,” until we meet again on Nov. 3, 1934, when Notre Dame meets Pitt.—Duquesne Duke.
At least one .institution on the west coast bears no animosity towards Notre Dame. From the San Quentin Sports-News a columnist named “Chuck,” has this to say to his fellow convicts: “It certainly looks as though the NOTRE DAME football alumni were forging to the top lately in the matter of coaching positions. Latest reports show that Jackson L. Cannell, coach of DARTMOUTH, has handed in his resignation and that Harry Stuhldreher, a former member of the famous “Four Horsemen,” is touted for the position. Stuhldreher at the present is catching VILLANOVA and has built up an enviable record to date. At the same time word trickles to the far west that Larry Mullins, star fullback of Rockne’s last team, has turned in one of the best records of the year. In his second season as coach of ST. BENEDICT’S eleven at Atchison, Kans., Mullins’ team has won fourteen out of seventeen games played.”
By Richard B. Tobin
Francis Schleuter and Vittorio G. Arcadi, juniors in the College of Science, presented papers at the regular meeting of the Notre Dame Academy of Science meeting held Monday evening in Science Hall.
Schleuter’s paper was on “A Brief and Simple Discourse on PostMortem Examinations.” “A postmortem examination is the systematic exposure and critical examination of the cadaver with the object of determining the cause of death or of .studying morbid conditions in any one of their aspects,” the speaker stated.	•
Post-mortem Purposes Stated
The history of the post-mortem examinations extends as far back as the time of Herophilus, an anatomist of Alexandria who lived around 300 B.C. whose writings are the first known on this subject.
A report of an autopsy contained in the log of Cartier’s second voyage provides an interesting • account of the investigations along this line carried on at that time.
“Briefly,” the speaker stated, “the purposes of a post-mortem examination may be given in outline form as follows:
1.	To. determine the cause, manner and contributing factors of death.
2.	To continue the clinical study of the case.
3.	To investigate chemical and physiological problems and bacteriologic and pathologic conditions.
4.	To make anatomic investigations.
The arrangement for and the performance of the post-mortem itself as well as the technique usually employed by the operator was explainel in detail.
In answer to the usual objections made by the ordinary layman against investigations of this kind, the speaker stated “It is significant to note that the better- hospitals are rated upon the number of posts performed by their staffs. But probably the most conclusive argument that can be offered in encouragement of post mortem examinations is the fact that practically every major advancement in pathology has been made possible through this medium, and after all, is not the ultimate purpose of medical science the total elimination of disease from the earth?”
“Animal Surgery” was the subject of Arcadia’s talk. It was a discussion of various operative procedures which may be carried on by students interested in comparative anatomical studies.
T en
The Scholastic
ATHLETICS
Thinlies Work Hard;
Murphy Alters Style
Cagers Set New Mark for Straight
Victories As Butler Falls, 37 to 17
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
Things are running smoothly, everyone is happy, and all is well in Nick’s dream world because this year Notre Dame is'to have a good track team. Coach John P. Nicholson is more or less persistent in this statement and when the Irish mentor is in this frame of mind it’s time to
Vince Murphy He hopes to go higher.
copy it down in your little red notebook. It’s a sure sign that the New Deal is here, for Nick’s spells of optimism are by no means as regular as the rise and fall of the sun.
Outstanding among the otherwise drab happenings in the fieldhouse this week was the change that has come over Vince Murphy. This rangy high jumper- has been forced to adopt a new style mainly because of danger of the reappearance of an old injury. The old method used by ’ Murphy put great strain on a weak ankle and with every jump this member proved an increasing burden.
The new style has not handicapped Vince to any noticeable extent. Earlier in the week he cleared the crossbar at six feet three inches with not too much effort. If he can reach the heights he did last year the Irish troupe can count on five points practically every time he leaves ground.
Sprints and headaches — they’re still synonymous to Nick. The galloping specters that he had hoped would drop out of the clear blue haven’t found their way to Nick’s haven as yet and it appears that this January 19, 19 3 4
C. C. N.Y.---
Provided a satisfactory date can be arranged, Notre Dame will meet City College of New York in a charity basketball game at the Madison Square Garden sometime this winter. The Irish, as the outstanding team in the Middle West, were invited to play by the New York World-Telegram. Coach George Keogan accepted the invitation for the University.
One of the best basketball teams in the East is annually produced by City College. Last year they won 13 of the 14 games and were generally regarded as the strongest team in the Eastern sector. C. C. N. Y. is coached by Nat Holman formerly of the New York Celtics.
department will be the weakest on the squad.
The middle distances, the quarter and half mile runs, will afford more than consolation with La Frambois, Rubly, Bernard, McGrath, Bowdren, Shields, Troy, Ducassa, and Roberts composing a heady group of runners. Eddie King, Jake Bowers, and Moran are returning for the mile event, while Captain Joe Young, the lightest' Notre Dame monogram man in history at 124 pounds, Norman Duke, and Leo McFarlane are excellent timber for the longer grind of two miles.
Prospects in the pole vault are only fair. The three returning vaulters, Jack “Lee” Edwards, Beanie Cavendar, and Howard, should show the benefit of a year’s competition. Edwards was the leader of the pack last year, attaining the height of 12 feet, 6 inches.
When Eddie Gough walked out via graduation George Maher walked in to take his place as the leading broad jumper. Maher is a sophomore and although he is new to collegiate competition, he promises to be a point getter.
The hurdles will be a bright spot this year. Jimmy Fagan is returning for liis third year of competition. He will be aided considerably by Link, Layden, Sullivan, and Elser. Nick has been working on the elongated Link since early in the winter and promises that he will be a sensation regardless of the fact that he is new to hurdle competition.
KRAUSE PACES IRISH
By John D. Carbine
By virtue of their 37-17 victory over Butler in the Notre Dame field house last Saturday night, the Irish basketball team ran their string of victories to 22 straight and thus set a new Notre Dame record for consecutive triumphs. The old mark of 21 straight had been set by the team of 1909 and had stood untied for 25 years.
In defeating the Butler quintet, the Notre Dame team played their best basketball of the season. During the first five minutes of the game, the Keoganites gave one of the greatest offensive exhibitions ever seen here. While Krause accounted for most of the points with hook shots from his pivot position, the passing of the entire team in working the ball into Moose was well timed and accurate.
Butler Sinks Five Goals
The Irish defense was almost impenetrable. Whereas Marquette and Purdue were able to get through the Notre Dame defense but were forced to hurry their shot once they were within striking distance of the basket, the Butler team was unable to make any offensive progress through the defense of the Keoganites. Tony Hinkle’s men were able to score only five field goals, and two of these were registered on long shots from the center of the floor.
It would be almost impossible to pick out any one Irish player and say that he was the star of the game. Captain Krause collected four field goals and two free throws to lead the scoring with 10 points. George Ireland scored nine points in addition to playing a great game at guard. Johnnie Jordan was the key man in the Irish attack and although he scored only one basket himself, his passing contributed to most of the other scores. Joe Voegele helped himself to seven points and was as quick as a hawk in recovering free balls for the Keoganites. Leo Crowe played a fine defensive game and was largely instrumental in keeping the Butler score down.
Notre Dame ran up a 12-3 lead before Butler wras able to show any (Continued on Pasre 14)
'	Eleven
23rd Consecutive Victory Is Goal Of Irish In Pitt Contest Saturday
Hoopsters Face Four Midwestern Quints
HUGHES LEADS PANTHERS
By Howard T. Waldron
Just about a year ago tomorrow night, an exhausted Notre Dame basketball team dragged itself from the floor of the Pitt gymnasium on the short end of a 39-35 score. A fighting Panther host had come from behind in the second half to win one of the fastest games ever played at Pittsburgh.
Since that night the Irish players liave compiled themselves a string of 23 straight victories that includes a later season win over this same Pitt foe. This season, with a veteran unit returning, the Panthers have had only indifferent success on the road, but have played fine ball on their home court.
Irish Encounter Fast Offense
The Pitt basketball court is far different from the high-ceilinged, well-lighted floor of the Irish field-house.Being built under the new Pitt stadium, the ceiling is low, the lighting not all that it could be, and certain pillars along the side of the court add to the hazard of injury to the contest.
Doc Carlson's boys, who have beaten Ohio State, Temple, Georgetown, and Carnegie Tech and lost to Purdue, Minnesota, Duquesne and Butler, are the first Eastern team to play the -Irish this season. While midwestern teams stick to the slower set offense, the easterners use the fastbreaking game. On their own court, where they know every arc, angle and turn, this offense should prove a great weapon for the Pitt attack.
Two Strikes On Cribbs
Don Smith was the high scorer and inspirer of the team last year but they have lacked a leader this season. Of late, the veteran Charley Hughes, a steady but not brilliant player, has been valiantly trying to get the team rolling as fast as the material at hand warrants. He pairs at one forward berth with Don McCamant, who was a regular guard last year—a big, heady player.
One of the greatest centers in the east, Claire Cribbs will vie with Capt. Eddie Krause. Twice before these two have played against one another and each time Cribbs has fouled his way out of the game before he really got started.
Russ Ochsenhirt and S k i p p y Hughes, younger brother of Charley, are big, dependable men at the guard berths. In reserve, Carlson has the veteran Slim Waino and Ted Roder-
Twelve
Skating---
The recent spell of cold weather is welcome to at least one group of men as shown by the increasingly large number of ice skaters who have covered the lakes during the last few days. In spite of the roughness of the ice innumerable hotly contested games of hockey have been played while speed skaters of varying degrees of ability are performing daily to the admiring gaze of beginners.
The skating club, organized early last December, is co-operating in the sport by forming a hockey team to play in the several matches being arranged, and by giving instruction to those interested in speed and figure skating. Jimmy Dunnigan, the well known speed skater, is on the ice every afternoon teaching the fundamentals of that sport to all who desire instruction. Men who wish to try out for the hockey team or for speed skating are urged to begin as soon as possible for, although it is expected that the cold weather will prevail for another month, constant practice is necessary.
Hockey teams representing the different halls' have as yet not been formed but if enough interest is shown the skating club intends to organize several of these teams as well as the varsity team.
ick. All these Pitt players tower over the six foot mark and are good all-around players.
With Ed Krause in better form than ever before in his career, the Irish standa better than even chance to continue their string of wins to the twenty-third milestone. Against Butler, who downed Pitt early in the year, Big Ed played an almost perfect game with his hook shots and recoveries off the backboard. But another factor that might save the Irish if Pitt holds down Krause was the return to form of Joe Voegele. His shooting was especially accurate and his passing had the Butler lads dizzy with its speed and accuracy.
Bookmen Meet
The Bookmen held their regular’ meeting last Monday evening in the law building. Due to the football banquet the meeting was shorter than usual being mainly concerned with past business. Mr. Krug, a member of the Bookmen, will address the club next Monday evening in the Law building.
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
Provided that Pittsburgh submits to the Irish attack tomorrow in Pittsburgh and thus become the 24th consecutive victim of Coach George Keogan’s men, the chances of reaching 27 straight wins will be unusually bright.
Chicago, Valparaiso, Detroit, and Minnesota follow the Panthers in the order named on the Notre Dame card and while none are setups to the letter, they do not appear strong enough to stem the tide that has swept some of the best basketball quintets in the country down the stream.
Haarlow Paces Maroons
The Maroons from the Windy City invade the Irish court on January 24. The Keoganites have registered three victories over Western Conference opponents in the current campaign and Chicago should not mar the record. The Maroons’ best results were obtained against Illinois. In that contest they held the state team well in hand and had the score tied with less than a minute to go when an uncovered man on an out of bounds play tallied a basket that was enough to whip Chicago, 32 to 28. Bill Haarlow, a rangy forward who did his prepping in Chicago, is one of the brightest stars to grace the Midway court in several years. Although only a sophomore he is fast and an excellent shot. Bill Lang and Tom Finn share the burden of the Maroon attack with Haarlow.
After a week’s rest during examinations Krause and company resume on January 31 when a Valparaiso quintet makes its appearance on the local floor. Valpo has compiled an enviable record this year against smaller schools in the state but they too should take the count.
Detroit University will act as host to the Notre Dame squad on February 3. At present Lloyd Brazil’s men are in possession of a five game winning streak, two of their victims being Canadian clubs. Like Arizona, the Detroit first team is composed of men who have been playing together for four years. Now in their final year they are bringing basketball to the front in the automobile city. They are led by Norm Reisterer, a flashy guard who is their leading scorer. Incidentally, their coach, a graduate of Detroit himself, was at one time mentioned on several allAmerican selections.
Minnesota appears to be the strongest club in the quartet. The
(Continued on Paste 15)
The Scholastic
Leads Irish In Quest Of 23rd Victory
Interhall Hoop Teams Play Practice Games
The big bad wolf in Walt Disney’s animated cartoon once told the three little pigs that, “He'd huff, and he’d puff, and he’d blow their house in." Those well chosen words of the wolf gave a perfect description of the interhall basketball players last Sunday. For they huffed and they puffed and they blew the lid off, that is they blew the lid off the current interhail basketball season.
The better part of last Sunday was taken up with practice games between teams of the various halls. Judging from a few of the teams in action during the course of the day, and from all indications a couple of those hall aggregations are going to be hard to beat.
Practice Games
One of the interhall coaches spent the better part of the afternoon explaining the fast breaking offense to his proteges. After his team began to scrimmage against another of the hall teams he viewed that all of his recently imparted knowledge did not go for naught.
The Physical Education department has taken over the management of the Interhall sports this year, whereas in former years all of the hall sports were run by the Athletic Association. The Phy-Ed schools seems to have aroused new interest among the coaches, as all of them are working with but one object in view, that of winning the hall chamionship.
These Sunday practice games will continue until after the exams, then the league will get into full swing with games being played every Sunday afternoon. A schedule for all of the games that are to be played after the first of the month will be pf ..ed on the hall bulletin boards within the next few days.
Fencing Team Prepares For
Chicago University Contest
Captain Ed Krause
Big Moose will lead the Keoganites in their attempt for 2d consecutive victories against the Pittsburgh Panthers tomorrow night. Krause, playing the best basketball of his outstanding career, has been a leader of the Irish attack in every game.
The members of the fencing team, handicapped by the illness of their coach, are working diligently in preparation for their combat with the University of Chicago on Jan. 29. This bout promises to be as difficult a contest as is on the schedule of the Notre Dame team, since Chicago is one of the strongest teams in the mid-west.
Much faith is placed in the ability of David Ryan, the outstanding performer of past encounters. With him is a group of very able players, and the team as a whole is expected to make a good showing.
Thirteen
J a n u a ry ! 0, 19 3k
FOOTBALL BANQUET
(Continued from Page 5)
Hon. E. L. Hamemr, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, were the next speakers. Judge Hammer commented at length on the relation of athletics to scholastic activity at Notre Dame. Harry Stuhldreher and Harold “Red” Miller both eulogized the 1933 team as “a great team that could take it.” Tom Conley, captain of the 1930 eleven, introduced members of the team.
Layden Pledges Loyalty
The Rev. John O’Hara, C.S.C., acting president of Notre Dame, in his address pointed out again the relation of athletics to scholastic ability and standing in this institution. He stated the fundamental ideas of Notre Dame, and said to Layden, “Ebner, your job is to teach the boys that all that is worth while in life is what they give to others.”
Father O’Hara was followed by Coach Layden, who pledged loyalty and service to all, and ended cleverly with the prediction, “Notre Dame will not lose a game next year—in spring practice.”
The Hon. E. E. Kelly, mayor of Chicago, named Notre Dame “a great University, a great melting pot.” Joe Bach and Chuck Collins, “Mules,” eulogized Notre Dame coaches, past and present. Lawrence Perry of the New York Sun said, “In the spirit of Notre Dame I can catch the spirit of the pioneers of American history.”
McNutt Speaks For State
Gov. McNutt as the final and chief speaker on the program, presented these ideas, “I came on behalf of the people of Indiana to welcome Notre Dame on its 90th birthday,” and “The 1933 team gave encouragement to many citizens in these trying times.”
The invocation was pronounced by the Rt. Rev. Msgr. Joseph E. Hamill, P. A. George Menard, and John Ryan sang solos on the Glee Club program. The entire affair was broadcast over Stations WSBT and WFAM, South Bend.
Added to Staff
Announcement of the appointment to the staff of Cyril F. Stroker, a freshman in the Arts and Letters School, was forthcoming today from the editorial board of The Scholastic. Stroker, a resident in Carroll Hall, lives in Waterbury, Connecticut.
Announcement of detailed plans for the annual Bengal Boxing show, under the sponsorship of The Scholastic, will probably be made in the next issue, Feb. 9.
Introducing...
By John D. Carbine
Basketball players come and basketball players go, but the Crowes apparently go on forever. Just when the first of the Crowes—the Lafayette, Indiana to be exact—started to play basketball for Notre Dame, is beyond the memory of the oldest in-
Leo Crowe
He sells peanuts.
habitant. But this much is certain —it was a long time ago.
Leo Crowe is an unusual fellow in many "ways, but he is positively unique in two respects. First, he is unique among his brothers — Clem, Ed, Francis, Norbert et al—because he played on the Irish basketball team which beat Purdue. That’s something his brothers never had been able to do. And if there is any one thing that a Crowe likes to do, it’s to beat Purdue. Lafayette, the home of the Boilermakers is also, you know, the home of the Crowes.
Plays Best Game Of His Career
Leo played what was probably the best basketball of his life the night that the Irish defeated Purdue. Three times he arched beautiful long shots through the smoky air for baskets. Each of these scores came at a time when Coach Lambert’s men were threatening the Keoganites. Three free throws in three attempts from the charity stripe swelled his total for the evening to nine points. Scoring was not the only thing that Leo did that night. He played a fine defensive game and his clever guarding consistently broke up Purdue plays and passes. Leo deserved to be the star of that game for he had almost broken his arm while trying to conquer the Boilermakers last year.
Now that we have shown how Leo was unique among his brothers, it is time to point out how Leo is unique
BUTLER GAME
(Continued from Page 11)
semblance of an attack. Replacements by Coach Hinkle helped some but the Bulldogs never seriously threatened the Irish lead. The score at the half was Notre Dame 16, Butler 8.
Just how good the Irish were against Tony Hinkle’s men can be • realized when one considers that except for the loss of one man, Butler’s team of this year is the same outfit which last year split even in two games with the Keoganites. Butler won the first game 27-25 and lost the second by the score of 41-40 in a fierce overtime struggle.
The score.
Notre Dame (37)	FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
Jordan, If 			.... 1	0	1	0	2
Peters, If 		.... 2	2	2	o	1 6
Voegele, rf 			1	2	1	7
Alberts, rf 		.... 0	0	0	0	0
Krause, c 		.... 4	2	2	1	10
Ireland, 1g 			3	3	1	9
Crowe, rg 		.... 1	1	2	-3	o
Allen, rg 			.... 0	0	0	0	0
Elser, rg 		.... 0	0	0	1	0
Ford, rf 			.... 0	0	0	1	0
O’Kane, If 		.... 0	0	0	0	0
Totals ............. 11	9	12	11	37
Butler (17)	FG
Davis, If ............. 1
Jones, rf ............. 0
Reissner, rf .......... 1
Demmary, c _____.-... 0
Armstrong, c .......... 0
Parrish, 1g ........... 0
Bates, 1g ------------  1
Baird, rg ............. 2
FT FTA PF Pts. 2	3	14
0	0	0	0
0	0	12
0	10	0
112	1
110	1
2	3	3	4
12	15
Totals ___
7	11	8	17
among basketball players. He is, as far as we have been able to determine, the only basketeer in America who sells peanuts at his own games. True, Leo does not actually sell the peanuts, but he has the concession for their sale and the men who do sell them take orders from him. Leo’s agents sell the peanuts while he keeps the Notre Dame rooters among the crowd in a genial mood by his actions on the court.
Leo graduates this year. Clem, Ed, Francis, and Norb have gone before him. But for all of that, don’t think for a minute that the Crowe saga is over. There is more yet to come. Leo has two brothers who are playing the forward positions on the court team of Jefferson High School of Lafayette. Mike is a senior and he will b'e at Notre Dame next year. Emmet is a junior and he will be here in 1935.
Leo came to Notre Dame in 1930. This is his third year on Coach Keo-gan’s varsity squad and his second as a regular. He received his training at Jefferson High in Lafayette.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
---- (
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
PROSPERITY
It looks as if, possibly, Nick’s trackmen this season are going to find themselves getting around the corner that hid point prosperity from them last winter. Cheerful John P. admits that some of the boys have promise. He didn’t add anything, but we will: if they have promise, Nick will make them into pointwinners.
Apparently there isn’t a sprinter in the school, but remembering that Nick came up with Fran Murphy and a lad named Egan the past couple of years, we won’t start conceding the sprint races for the year* until the season moves along a bit.
The quarter, half, mile, and two-mile races are pretty well stocked with good men. Not great men, but good ones, capable of getting points against the average opposition. Certainly the field events are stronger this season than last.
Chuck Finkel, last year’s varsity weight leader, will have company this season in Don Elser and Joe Sullivan, a couple of sophomores capable of better than 46 feet. Elser, assuming that he is able to report regularly and work under Nick’s guidance, should show great improvement, for his shot-putting form as a freshman left much to be desired. Sullivan, too, should get better, but not through improvement of form, for even a year ago he was capable of demonstrating almost flawless technique.
Then there is a lad named Meagher who will fill a long-felt need on the Irish squad. He is a good broad jumper.
The high jump, of course, is in safe hands. Barring Willis Ward of Michigan, there .was no jumper in the Mid-West a year ago who could lick Vince Murphy when the tall engineer was on.
Jim Fagan continues to look the most improved performer we’ve seen in a long time. Mike Layden was a good prep hurdler, and should strengthen the scoring power of the team. Elser can run a capable low hurdle race, and Carl Link, coached from scratch by Nick, is coming along.
SCHEDULE
It would really be considerate of Mr. Tilden, of the tennis Tildens, to issue a time-table on his current pro
J anuary 19, 1 9 3 £
fessional tour. For instance, if fans wanted to see Vines win, they would have skipped the first two Tilden-Vines acts and come in at the third and fourth. Or if they preferred to see Elly catch it on the nose, they would have chosen performances one, two, and five. .
It’s a little confusing this way. Are they going to rotate in group of two, or will they change the system? Something should really be done to straighten it out, for the protagonists of youth and age are liable to be vehement souls, and if they keep on being crossed up, they’ll be at each others’ throats all winter.
Personally we thought Bill would win three of the first four. His legs will be expected to slow up a bit in about three weeks, and a big early lead would have kept the score even.
•
INTERHALL
Probably more popular even than interhall football is the annual interhall basketball season. Everybody plays. Even Sorin comes through with teams. Walsh has a class president on the squad. But the Sorin lightweights have the ace. “The Week” is no mean interhall eager. He is still enshrined in Morrissey as the one man who could stave off shutouts in the season of ’32 when the Morrissey bantams were dropping 23 to 2 games.
BASKETBALL
(Continued from Page 12)
Gophers were given little chance to go places in the Big Ten race at the start of the season but their surprise one point victory over Iowa last week makes them a threat. Once again Ed Krause who takes them in stride will have to contend with an excellent center in the person of Norman who led the assault on the Hawkeyes with six field goals and a charity toss. The Gopher crew will swing into action here on February 6 in a game that will be a test for the Irish.
Play Begins in Volley Ball League in South Bend
Play began last night in the newly organized volley ball league in South Bend. The league, composed of ten teams, features Notre Dame teams in action as well as “Benders.”
An all-faculty team, its members composed of players who participated in play in the faculty volley ball league, is participating in the downtown league. A limited number of teams whose personnel is supplied by students will also compete.
Juniors . .
Seniors . .
Attend the
^7	9
Humor
^rom -
Friday
February 9
^ed ^Weems and His Orchestra
Prom Bids, $5.00
Dinner Dance
Saturday Evening,
February 10
Fifteen
Freshmen!
Sophomores!
Bagby, the “Dome’s” official photographers, will now make your portrait, too.
•
Same styles, same prices, same careful personality portraits that pleased hundreds of upperclassmen this year.
•
Drop into our studio or phone 4-8941 for an appointment.
BAGBY’S 110 W. Colfax Ave.
On Down The Line
Phone:
Office 4-5661
Residence 3-4041
X-RAY
DR. E. S. LUCAS
DENTIST
702 J. M. S. Building Opposite Oliver Hotel
South Bend Indiana
By Nick Connor
The song writer who composed the currently popular song, “Smoke Gets in Your Eyes,” must have received his inspiration from either POP WARNER or HOWARD JONES. For team managers claim that these two coaches smoke from two to three packs during a single game . . . The WEST POINT choir claimed a dozen members of this year’s Army grid team. In fact the backfield was composed of a baritone, a tenor, an alto and a bass ... It is claimed that HANS STEINKE, German wrestler, won 1,000 consecutive matches before being thrown . . . BENNY LEONARD maintains that he had his hair ruffled in but one fight. Do you believe this? Neither do we . . . Jess Willard, ex-heavyweight champion, never served as a sparring partner nor fought a preliminary fight. All of his fights from start to finish were main events . . . THE ENTERPRISE, which defeated Lipton’s Shamrock V in the American cup series, was the most costly racing yacht ever built.
•
In 1908 Pitcher DURHAM of the Indianapolis Indians, hurled five double headers winning all ten games . . . When GABBY STREET takes over the reins of the San Francisco Mission baseball team, he will be the ninth manager since the club was formed in 1926 . . . During the past football season KEN MORTON, VIRGINIA end, played every position on the team with the exception of the quarterback position . . . Following the example of the University of California, STANFORD has decided to reinstate cross country running after a lapse of several years . . . To date there are some 37 coaches being considered as HEAD COACH at DARTMOUTH next year . . . Many people claim that all football players are lunk heads, but that is disproved,-because CASSIUS GENTRY giant Oklahoma tackle, likes poetry so well that he can recite nearly any famous verse from memory . . . The all-time football record of MICHIGAN — froml878 to 1933 — shows 308 victories, 19 ties, and 72 defeats, or a percentage of .811.
Big BILL TILDEN who can look back on seven National Championships was rated aS an unconquered Davis cup player until 1927—at 41 he is one of the enduring marvels of sport . . . The National Collegiate Athletic Association recently sent an appeal to congress in a fight against federal taxation of college football games ... The PROVIDENCE college football team null be under two head coaches next year. They are the
Cronin brothers, Jack and Bill . . . TAY BROWN, former Southern California tackle, is now coaching football and basketball at the U. of Cincinnati . . . Business men of Knoxville, Tenn., contributed $500 for BEATTIE FEATHERS, Tennessee halfback, as a token of their appreciation of his fine playing this year . . . In an opinion, Attorney General - James V. Allred of Texas held that “walkathons” do not come under the legal classification of “innocent sports.”
WISCONSIN has lost three basketball games this year and all three defeats have been adminstered to the Badgers by former pupils of their coach, Doc Meanwell . . . Woody Weir, captain of the Indiana U. net team, is the school ping pong champ . . . The University of NORTH DAKOTA basketball team made 390 points in its first nine games, an average of more than 43 points a game . . . According to Floyd Eastwood, instructor in New York University, FOOTBALL is the most DANGEROUS game, with pony polo next and wrestling following that . . . Reports come that YALE football players want a “new deal.” That is, they an outsider to replace their present coach Reggie Root.	'
Ray V. Sutliffe Speaks To Senior Journalists
An informal discourse on trade journalism was given to the senior journalists by Ray V. Sutliffe, of New York City, managing editor of Radio Retailing, a McGraw-Hill publication, Wednesday Jan. 10.
Prefacing his remarks with the statement that a cross-section of the editorial mind might offer some information to students of journalism, Mr. Sutliffe gave a quickly moving, concretely worded talk centered upon trade publications.
Elements Of Makeup
The five chief elements entering into the editorial make-up of a trade publication, according to the speaker, are policy of the magazine, its objectives, balance in content, reader interest, and careful tactful inclusion of controversial topics from time to time. - Using a copy of Radio Retailing as a means of illustration, the magazine editor pointed out the solutions found to various editorial, typographical and advertising problems.
Notre Dame’s campus radio shop, supervised by Harvey T. Rockwell, ’35, whose radio articles have appeared frequently in the Scholastic, is to be described in an early issue of Radio Retailing. Mr. Sutliffe-came to the campus to get material for the article.
The Scholastic
Sixteen
ILLINOIS BAND TO SALUTE OTHER UNIVERSITIES
University of Wisconsin, with its stirring marching tune “On Wisconsin” one of the best known of' all college songs, will be toasted by the University of Illinois band and glee club on Wednesday (Jan. 24) over WGN at 8:30 p. m. The Illinois Band and glee club presents its programs each Wednesday evening exclusively over WGN direct from the band building on the campus at Champaign.
Each week during the program the Ulini salute one of the major universities of the middle-west. The “On Wisconsin” song which has been the Badger’s great fighting song used at football games and school rallies was written by Purdy and the tune will be played in a special arrangement by the Illinois band with the vocals done by the entire Ulini Glee Club which is directed by Raymond F. Dvorak, who also is the assistant band conductor to Professor A. A. Harding.
Prof. Harding has arranged a great program of music for the band. Two of Sousa’s composition, “Fairest of the Fair” march and “Humoresque” as written by the great band master will be presented. The “Humoresque” score was taken from
A Better Position
You Can Get It
Hundreds of teachers, students and college graduates will earn two hundred dollars or more this summer. SO CAN YOU. Hundreds of others will secure a better position and a larger salary for next year. YOU CAN BE ONE OF THEM. Complete information and helpful suggestions will be mailed on receipt of a three cent stamp.
(Teachers address Dept. T. All others address Dept. S.)
CONTINENTAL TEACHERS AGENCY, Inc.
1812 Downing St.	Denver, Colo.
Covers the ENTIRE United States
School Officials-! You may wire us your vacancies at our expense, if speed is urgent. You will receive complete, free confidential repoits by air mail within 36 hours.
Sousa’s library which the master willed to the Ulini and the music is marked in the penciled writing of the master with this notation—“Humoresque”—“Look for The Silver Lining” and some extra wadding.”
The first and second movements of Franchetti’s Symphony in EMinor, Alford’s march, “Dunedin,” the overture “The Silver Cord” by O’Neil, and German’s “Rolling Down to Rio” also are included in the program.
The complete program follows:
HuMigungs March ....................Wagner
Symphony in E minor.____________Franchetti
(first and second movements)
Fairest of the Fair, march Sousa
The Silver Cord................... O'Neill
Dunedin, march ................... .Alford
Humoresque—Look for the Silver Lining Sousa
Glee Club and Band Grant Us To Do With Zeal...........Bach
Hospodi Pomilui..........From	the Hussion
Rolling Down to Rio.................... German
The Jig Sawing...........Medleg	of Old Tunes
Glee Club and Band
On Wisconsin ........................  Purdg
Glee Club and Band
THE BRILLIANT
NEW MAGAZINE
* FOR MEN *
• The only thing on which deacons and touts have ever agreed—because it’s jam-packed with belly-laughs and brow-raisers for every man of every type and taste!
OUT TODAY!
Duke university
SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
.DURHAM, N. C.
Four terms of elexen weeks are given each year. These may be taken consecutively (M. D. in three years) or three terms may be taken each year (M. D. in four years). The entrance requirements are intelligence, character and at least two years of college work, including the subjects specified for Grade A Medical Schools. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Dean.
BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES
Through the courtesy of The Notre Dame Alumnus we are reprinting the following. For further information get in touch with’ James E. Armstrong, Alumni Secretary, in the Alumni Office.
Positions Offered
1. Large national organization, Detroit, needs two men for selling or eventual selling: one, between 19 and 21, will do office work at small starting salary until trained for selling; the other, between 23 and 30, must have successful selling experience or be of the clear cut selling type.
January 19, 1 9 31
Seventeen
Only the Center Leaves are usi
Luc KJ

For these are t
Lucky Strike presents the Metropolitan Opera Co.
the Metropolitan Opera Company in the complete opera “DON GIOVANNI."
Saturday at 2 P. M., Eastern Standard Time, over Red and Blue Networks of NBC, Lucky Strike presents
We buy only the c for Luckies. N< leaves for they ; developed. Not 1 leaves for they an quality. Only the c for these are trul fully ripe. And th; tobacco we use-Luckies so round, fully packed—free ends that spill out. Luckies are alwa; ways truly mild. A ber, “It’s toasted” protection—for
Always the Finest Tobacco
Copyright, 1934. The American Tobacco Company.
and only the Center L
WHAT ABOUT SHORT WAVE
! used in
:kies
hefe are theMildest ffully ripenedfor wfect smoking
buy only the center leaves Luckies. Not the top es for they are underloped. Not the bottom js for they are inferior in ity. Only the center leaves :hese are truly mild and ripe. And that’s the fine cco we use—to make kies so round, so firm, so packed—free from loose that spill out. That’s why kies are always mild, al-> truly mild. And remem-“It’s toasted”—for throat ection—for finer taste.
ilitan Opera Co.
ropolitan Opera Com-the complete opera, GIOVANNI,"
nter Leaves
WORLD RADIO RECEPTION?
By Harvey P. Rockwell
What is this fascination of short wave radio? Surely there must be something about it when 30,000 American radio amateurs from all walks of life devote much of their spare time and money to the conquest of the air. They find great satisfaction in the perfection of a set which will reach out a little farther and farther until they have contacted the most remote parts of our globe. Many have said, “When I have contacted all continents, I will quit.” These may give
A modern table radio receiver that brings in both short and long tea res.
up theii- hobby for a time, but not for long. When once the “bug” has bitten the wound never completely heals. There is always something new until one has contacted every other amateur.
Several years ago the radio manufacturer saw how fascinating short waves could be. It was doubtless brought about by the advent of Police Radio. The public had heard of Police Radio and a cry went up, “How can I get Police calls.” It was not long before the market was flooded with adapters, converters, and many other really valueless devices. The listener, however, was not satisfied with a few police calls and a great amount of interference. He could not stomach such listening regardless of how hungry he was for short waves. The fact that many of these devices were valueless was not so much because of any intrinsic fault in the converter, but because John Public was not given the explanation of how to use his new toy. He was not told that the whole aerial-ground system must be changed; that ordinary insulation was just like a sieve to short waves, that tuning was quite different and finally that there was a great difference in time in various parts of the world.
Recently the owner of an all-wave receiver asked why he could not get London on his set. He said, “I’ve stayed up till 2 or 3 a.m. but have
never been able to pick them up. Probably not, because over there it was 7 or 8 a.m. and the station was not on the air.
Soon the manufacturer realized that he must greatly improve short wave reception if he wanted to satisfy the public. To this end he turned to the amateur’s circuits. The first designs had followed the conventional broadcast receiver. They found, however, many difficulties arose such as the dial not tracking over the various bands; images or repetition of stations caused interference, and numerous technical troubles of similar nature. The amateur had faced these difficulties and found the solution to many. So his remedies were used by the manufacturer who then produced a set which could guarantee World wide reception.
The man who has tired of just the ordinary form of entertainment can now seek out such stations as GBW in England or I2RO in Rome. By getting up early in the morning he can get the VK stations in Australia. Each country has its identifying letters just as we use W. and K. to indicate the United States or C to indicate Canada or X to indicate Mexico. This is by international agreement.
One of our own stations WHAM began some experimenting on greater tone quality and to that end built a transmitter capable of putting on the air programs having twice the former tone quality. However, in as much as they would take up two of the present channels and therefore spread farther over the dial, the government would not allow them to use their improvement. Since that time, however, several other stations have wanted to improve their tone sa the government is going to open up a section from 1500-1800 kc for such stations to use. This will of course necessitate short waves on the radio which is to receive these stations.
There have long been difficulties with short wave stations that regardless of how near they were, their volume never seemed to equal that of a regular broadcast station. Fading was also more noticeable. Skip distance, the trouble that caused a station to absolutely skip over a particular locality, has been difficult to understand. These difficulties and others have been attacked by means of using very high power. These experiments are now in progress and so far the results are very encouraging.
It is probable that in the very near future short wave reception will be improved considerably and that part of the radio spectrum will be vastly more interesting to every listener.
ODD BITS
Is Your
Ml
A Little Bilious?
•
Now is the time to have Dr. Rockwell look over that Radio of yours—he’ll give it a complete physical (and audio) examination without charge. Perhaps it only needs a bit of tonic (or a tube or condenser) to put it in first class shape again, at slight cost.
There are big things on the air these days and nights. Faulty reception, distorted tone, lack of power — these things will cheat you of the many pleasures from out your loudspeaker.
Incidentally, our radio hospital is the most complete in Northern Indiana. Come in and inspect our equipment while we inspect your Radio.
Consultation Hours:
12:30 m. to 1 p. m.
6:30 p. m. to 7 p. m.
Harvey P.
Rockwell
The Radio Doctor
155 Alumni Hall
A live bacterium reported found in a meteorite by Professor Lipman of the University of California would tend to prove that our earth is not the only inhabited planet in the universe.
A Columbia University professor predicts that by 1980 colleges will have abandoned required courses, and all students ■will be able to take whatever subjects they wish, ignoring those that they do not want.
An announcement on a bulletin board at Drake University reads: “Come up some time—any time—to the Christian Endeavor society meeting.”
College students of today are superior physically to student generations of the past, a Harvard University survey indicates.
Butler University is now offering a course in the art of staying married.
The famous false teeth of George Washington, which were displayed at the Century of Progress, are the property of the University of Maryland’s dental school.
Pictures must be handed in with themes at Northwestern University so that the professor will know whose work he is grading.
The faculty of the Northern State Teachers College have voluntarily reduced their salaries two per cent to create a fund for* impoverished students. This was prompted by the revelation that several students were living on one meal a day.
College teachers in the Liberal Arts School at the University of Minnesota are not under the NBA as far as the length of their work week is concerned; they put in over 50 hours a week.
Football, which gained popularity in the United States only after the Yale-Princeton game in 1873, is an extremely old game and has been traced back as far as the ancient Greeks and Romans and also to the Eskimos and the Polynesian Islands.
Methods of testing milk and its products for the quality and composition, as well as manufacturing methods and practical dairy plant opera-_tion, will be given in a twelve weeks course in dairy manufacturing which recently opened at the University of Wisconsin.
The next issue of
SCRIP
will be the
Charles Phillips Memorial Number
It will contain articles by many famous authors who knew Charles Phillips and his works, a review of his soon-to-be-published book — “Paderewski—The Story of a Modern Immortal,” a fine portrait by Dusch, and many other interesting features.
Because of the scope of this issue of “Scrip” it will not be issued on January 26th, as originally scheduled, but will appear promptly on February 16.
Only a limited number of extra copies will be available. Should you wish additional copies you must place your request with the Publications Office now.
•
Order Now!
SCRIP
AT THE UNIVERSITY
Notre Dame, Ind.
Tiv enty
The Scholastic
| We Want SNAPSHOTS!
Notre Dame shortly after the Civil War
^Phe Dome needs Snapshots for its 1934 edition — with subject matter a bit more recent than the interesting picture that we’ve given you above.
The editors have arranged a contest — with prizes ’n everything — covering all types of pictures you might take. Complete details are given in a news story in this issue.
Plan now to enter. Sort out your snaps, or dust off your lenses and sally forth with photographic eye.
Prints may be left at the Publications Office, Main Building, or at 156 Alumni
| The DOME of 1934
I At the University	Notre Dame, Indiana
IlllllUiilltlllIMlHilllUIIHIIIUIIHIHlilU*UlIllIHItliltltltUllilliHlllHMlllllltHUlilltlllillllllitllMHlilllHIIIlllllilllllUlllliiillUIUIUlllllltlll
KR. PAUL BYRNE, -LIBRARY, NOTRE DANE, IND.
©1934, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

a modern up-to-date Tobacco Factory in far-off historic Smyrna
SO important is the handling of Turkish tobacco
rettes that Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co., maintains this specially equipped plant right in the heart of the famous Smyrna tobacco section. It is the largest and
most modern tobacco factory in the Near East.
Turkish tobacco, you know, is the best "seasoning” there is for cigarettes. At all times Chesterfield has in storage — at this plant and in America—aboiit 350,000 bales of the right kinds of Turkish tobacco.
hesterfield
the cigarette that’s MILDER • the cigarette that TASTES BETTER