t
The Notre Dame SCHOLASTIC
73
15 Cts. a Copy $3.00 the Year
March 11 19 3 2
Juggler Reprint Series, No. 7.
March 11,1932
One
Livingston’s Cordially Invite You to Visit our Campus Shop and our new Downtown Store
2 doors South of former location
I a larger and better store — new spring merchandise — a new low price level —
Neckwear 65c up
Hosiery 35c up
Shirts $1.50 up
Hats $2.95 up Pajamas $1.95 up Sweaters $1.95 up
Athletic Underwear 39c up N. D. Jewelry Leather Jackets
New Spring
Suits and Topcoats Kuppenheimer and others $24.50 to $50
VISIT SOUTH BEND’S LEADING STORE FOR NOTRE DAME MEN!
123 So. Michigan St
Established 75 Years
Two
The Scholastic
WINTER SCENE»»»
Notre Dame’s Lawns, Blanketed With Snow this Week, Have Unusual Photographic Appeal.
March 11, 1932
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is published widely at ths University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1865	-
Entered ae second-dase ■matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mad ing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3,1917, authorized June 35, 1918.
Neil C. Hurley__ Henry B. Asman_ William W. Corr.
______Editor-in-Chief
----Managing Editor
Departmental Editor
Associate Editors WILLIAM BLIND GRANGER WEIL W. LESLIE RADDATZ News Staff EDMUND STEPHAN............News	Editor
PATRICK CORCORAN, Assistant News Editor MITCHEL TACKLEY. .Assistant News Editor WALTER KENNEDY ROBERT DILLON JOHN McELLIGOTT JAMES McCRALEY MAURICE GARLAND	PAUL FOLEY
BERNARD COUSINO	WILLIAM DREUX
LARRY DUNDA	MICHAEL	WIEDL
Desk Editors GEORGE DUQUETTE	LLOYD TESKE
J. DON SULLIVAN	WILLIAM FLYNN
Department Editors
JAMES CARMODY.............The	Week
JOHN PICK.............College	Parade
JOHN CONLEY.............Campus Clubs
JOHN RYAN............Music	and Drama
JOSEPH LOPKER...........Staff	Artist
Sports Staff
JAMES S. KEARNS.....Sports Editor
T. EDWARD CAREY	IRVING B. HALPER
PAUL HOST	JOSEPH MORPER
features Staff
WALTER JOHNSON...........Features Editor
HARRY BURCHELL WILLIAM KENNEDY STEPHEN HAWXHURST TIGHE WOODS EDWARD J. O’BRIEN BRYAN DEGNAN RAY SHOLZ
Business Staff
ANDREW McGUAN............Circulation Mgr.
RAYMOND J. NABER, Ass’t. Circulation Mgr. FRED BAUER, JR-......Advertising Manager ROBT. FITZSIMMONS, Ass’t Advertising Mgr. JOHN P. HESS.........JOSEPH SIMON
J. ALBERT SMITH HARRY McGOWAN JOHN F. STOECKLEY-.--Graduate Manager
Volume LXVII.
MARCH 11, 1932
Number 19.
SU MM AR Y
NEWS
Campus luminaries named among ninety-one appointed by Chairman Dyniewicz to fourteen Senior Ball committees ______________________________________ 5
Presidents’ club hears Father Burke, Professor Phillips, Professor Manion, Father Murch, and Alumni Secretary Armstrong speak at the outstanding banquet of the year_________________________________ 5
Grand Knight Collins appoints Gerald Conway K. of
C. Formal chairman; other committees named----- 6
Dr. S. J. Maher, world noted tuberculosis expert, receives Laetare medal, Notre Dame’s honor to a great Catholic_________________________________ 7
FEATURES
Jim O’Shaughnessy loves his pipe, fishing, his Irish name and concert symphonies in “A Man About the Campus”___________________________________12
“The old order passeth,” and Freshman hall gives way to the new gold coast_____________________16
A reporter hither and yon about the Scholastic offices watches the publication in the making-17
SPORTS
Fourteen harrier squads to clash in annual C. I. C. meet here tomorrow; Michigan Normal, and Notre
Dame favored___________________________________20
Six varsity eagers close careers as Keoganites whip Butler for 16th straight win-------------------22
Alex Wilson and Notre Dame mile team lower gym records as Irish defeat Marquette in dual meet-24
Lyons hall captures interhall indoor track championship __________________________________________25
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, March 11—Track, preliminary heats of the Central Conference meet, Notre Dame Gym, 7:40 p. m.— Scholastic staff meetings: editorial board, Publications’ office, 6:30 p. m.; news and sports staffs, in Publications’ office, 7:00 p. m.—Commerce Forum meeting, Room 110, Commerce building, 8:00 p. m.—Concert orchestra practice, Music hall, 6:30 p. m.—Debate, Notre Dame vs. Michigan, Washington hall, 8:00 p. m.
SATURDAY, March 12—Track, Central Conference meet, Notre Dame Gym, 2:00 p. m.—Movie, Janet Gaynor and Charles Farrell in “Delicious,” Washington hall, 6:4-5 and 8:25 p. m.
SUNDAY, March 13—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m.
MONDAY, March 14—French club meeting, Main building, 6:30 p. m.—Interhall Swimming meet, natatorium. 8:00 p. m.—K. of C. meeting, Walsh hall, 7:45 p. m.— Meeting of the Bookmen, Law building, 8:00 p. m.
TUESDAY, March 15—Concert orchestra practice, Music hall, 6:30 p. m.—Scribblers’ meeting, Howard “rec”, 6:30 p. m.—Educational Confraternity meeting, Law building, 8:00.p. m.
WEDNESDAY, March 16—Lenten devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 7:00 and 7:45 p. m.
THURSDAY, March 17—Spectators’ meeting, Law building, 8:00 p. m.—Wranglers’ meeting, Law building, 6:30 p. m.—Presentation of the University theatre, Washington hall, 8:00 p. m.	'
Four
The Scholastic
♦ THE WEEK ♦
By James Carmody
Two well-turned-out business men, down from the city to confer with Mr. Borland about the price of mystery balls and razorback hogs, were pushing trays along the rail at the cafeteria. Ahead of them was a young fellow who, they thought, looked a little more intelligent than the rest of the students in the caf, and could probably help them. When they caught up to him, one of them asked eagerly if he were a football player; they wanted to see some in the flesh. The young man shook his head, looked toward a table where Tom Yarr and Stump Cronin sat, and told the questioners there wasn’t a single athlete in the place—sorry, and all that. Well, sir, you can imagine the puzzlement of the disappointed gentlemen when someone mentioned that he saw them talking to Marchie Schwartz. “What do you mean,” said this someone, “you don’t know him! Why, I just saw you talking to him over there in line. Some boy, isn’t he?” “Yeh,” they got out, “some boy!”
T
■ HIS is story day on the first page, and we have another that concerns the antics of the Sorin subbers, who erstwhile blew a mean set of French horns. There’s a janitor there who quite frequently needs vigorous ablutions, and occasionally takes one. The ceremony is usually performed in the sub shower-room, and is as much celebrated among the residents as Michaelmas. The one difficulty is proving that the rite was per-formed-hence when the fellow was splashing the other day, an audience gathered to prove the fact for themselves. So glad were they in the knowledge that the act really did take place now and then, that they stayed, offering suggestions as to the right kind of soap, the proper method of brushing—and some made bets as to the date of the next performance, and as to whether or not the man’s clothes should take part or not. Someone then added to the pleasure of the proceedings by putting a plank across the door, and leaving it there while the showeree resignedly pleaded to be released. After a while he subsided and there was no sound; fearing that he was taking another shower for lack of anything else to do, the young rakes opened the door, only to find a clean and shining janitor non
chalantly following Rock’s old advice—he was drying carefully and painstakingly between his toes.
The seniors have come out of the huddle at last, and the boys who picked the right ticket last year all get their names in the paper this week as members of the different committees. Some of the selections have been surprises, to say the very least, and the choice shows remarkable prudence and judgment, not to mention a little shrewd manipulation. We knw a few boys who were smoothly approached with mincing words just before the final election who will get a shock to find that good faith and election promises have gone by the board. All of which, of course, is their own fault. What strikes the eye most, though, is the honorary committee, and some of its members. We note in particular that the Patricians get a place near the post, and that the editor of Scrip, while not nominated for oblivion, is put there anyway; this, we imply, indicates the erudition of the choosers, and settles the much-bruited question as to the superiority of the Latin over the Nordic. This is not a gripe at our being ignored in the lists—we were soundly trounced a long time ago in a nomination; it is rather a lament for the decease of that fine old word fratemite.
The Scholastic and the S. A. C. just have the nicest time flinging mud at each other that they cannot restrain themselves from the fray. The news men run a bunch of bouts and make a couple hundred dollars more than the politicians, and the torch is touched into flame, with the Kramerites all ready to fiddle away over the burning Ave Maria offices. One enterprising young pressman suggested that the weekly battle be transferred to the sport pages, with the added advantage that the editorials can then concern themselves with pep meetings and the minus benefits of extra-curricular activities. At any rate, the clash will be worth following, and the pols have developed some learned lads with weighty words to carry their end of the fight; the thing will fill in that dull season if you’re interested.
4
March 11,1932
Five
VARSITY DEBATERS MEET MICHIGAN HERE TONIGHT
SENIOR BALL COMMITTEES NAMED;
DYNIEWICZ MAKES ANNOUNCEMENT
Will Argue Question of Government Control of Industry.
Tonight in Washington hall at eight o’clock the varsity debaters of the University of Michigan will meet the Notre Dame forensic team in the first home encounter of the season.
It is to be a practice debate but will be conducted as a seasonal, formal match. No decision is to be rendered. The topic under discussion is to be: “Resolved, that the United States should adopt a compulsory, nation-wide plan of control and distribution in the major, basic industries.” Notre Dame will defend the negative side of the issue.
Monday, March 14, Notre Dame will travel to Coldwater, Michigan to debate on the same side of the same question against the representatives of Michigan State college. This debate, which will be held in the Coldwater High School auditorium, is to be the first official contest of the season.
The debaters from Notre Dame have not as yet been announced. Among the candidates from which the actual team will be picked are: ' James Meehan, William Darrow, Joseph Becek, Walter Johnson, William Murphy, Arthur Sandusky, Arthur Cline, James Boyle, Thomas O’Meara, Roger Brennan, William Kirby, and William Fitzgerald.
Miss Earhart, Who Flew Sea, Gets Stuck in Holland Tunnel
By Intercollegiate Press.
New York, March 10. — Amelia Earhart, noted flier and wife of George P. Putnam, finds that air travel is less subject to delay than ground travel. She was driving her own car to Newark Airport yesterday to fly her Lockheed plane, which she is about to turn over to Bernt Balchen under charter, when in about the mathematical centre of the Holland Tunnel she had a flat tire, the first in eight years, she said.
So the first woman to fly the Atlantic as a passenger was towed from under the Hudson by the tunnel emergency crew, more convinced than ever that the roads of the air are best.
Father Burke Speaks To 60 Club Proxies
By William W. Corr
Declaring that “reflection on memorized knowledge gives us experience or culture” the Reverend Eugene P.
Al Seymour
Prepared Presidents’ Menu
Burke, C.S.C. held the attention of campus club heads at the Presidents’ Council banquet last Tuesday evening. Al Seymour of the Northern New York club was chairman of the committee. Sixty men were present in the Lay Faculty dining hall.
Toastmaster Joe Deeb, president of the Council last year, introduced Professor Charles Phillips as the first speaker. “The Broadening Effect of Travel” was the subject of much of the discussion given by professor Phillips.
Well Qualified To Speak
After a summer spent in England Mr. Phillips was well qualified to treat the educational system at Oxford in comparison with the American system. Unlike our American universities with its various departments the English university is a collection of units accidentally grouped together.
“The reason for the phenomenal success of the English college,” declared Mr. Phillips, “can be found in
(Continued on Page 17)
NINETY-ONE ARE PICKED
Donalty Is Head of Ticket Committee; Connolly Aids in Selection.
By Paul Foley
C. Budd Dyniewicz, general chairman of this year’s Senior Ball, announced to The Scholastic today the complete personnell of the various committees who will assist in the arrangements for the dance. Under the leadership of Chairman Dyniewicz, fourteen committees have been chosen. Ninety-one seniors are named in the list.
Choose Honorary Committee
An honorary committee, with Herbert Giorgio as chairman, has been named and is composed of the following undergraduate luminaries:
Neil C. Hurley, editor-in-chief of The Scholastic; Robert E. Gorman, editor-in-chief of the Juggler; John F. Kramer, chairman of the S. A. C.; John A. Perone, chairman of the Blue Circle; Thomas Yarr, captain of football, 1931; Paul A. Host, captain of football, 1932; Joseph E. Kennedy, head cheerleader; William H. McCormick, captain of track; Norbert J. Crowe, captain of basketball; Charles A. Palt, captain of baseball; A. Charles Hitzelberger, president of the Presidents’ Council; Francis J. O’Malley, president of the Patricians; John A. Grams, manager of football, 1931.
Donalty In Charge of Ticket Sale
With Frank W. Donalty as chairman, the ticket committee is made up of Leo P. Fagan, Andrew F. McGuan, Herbert W. Petzel, and John W. Jack-son.
The Tea Dance committee is headed by George E. Cullinan. His staff is composed of Jerome J. Wilson, John A. Jordan, Charles M. Quigley, and James H. Chadwick.
The favors will be taken care of by a committee under the leadership of Gabriel E. Moran, assisted by James H. Gleason, Leo V. McLaughlin, Man-sel W. Miller, and Paul V. Belden.
The music is in charge of Chairman Frank A. Concolati, aided by drew J. Shiebler, and James J. Ward. John H. Wilson, Robert C. Streb, An-(Continued on Page 9)
Six
The Scholastic
Conway Named Chairman of Knights of Columbus Dance
NAME COMMITTEES
Committee in Charge Declares Work on Dance Will Start Before Easter.
Gerald F. Conway, a senior, was appointed today to act as general chairman of the annual Knights of Columbus formal to be held at the
Gerald Conway
Another Formal, another chairman.
Palais Royale, May 6. Conway, present advertising manager of the Juggler, comes from St. Paul, Minn.
Other various committees have been appointed and are planning to meet their chairmen and make plans to start arangements for the dance before Easter. John Cahill, chairman of the ticket committee, was selected his assistants to canvass the various halls.
No band has yet been chosen, but several popular bands are under consideration. Conway promises early selection of a leading orchestra. “Tweet” Hogan played last year for the local chapter’s formal, and is being considered again at this time.
The personnel of the various committees are:—
General chairman, Gerald F. Conway.
TICKETS—John Cahill, chairman; William Murphy, Irwin Crotty, Peter Connelly. August von Boecklin, Jack Jaeger. Joseph Dunn. Joseph Nugent, Francis Marley, Charles Bolger, Samuel West, Charles Nash.
(Continued on Page 26)
Hallinan Wins 1st Prize With
Monogram Skit
Paul J. Hallinan won the Monogram club’s prize of ten dollars for the best skit submitted to the group for use in the annual letterlmen’s absurdities.
The announcement was made here today by Nordy Hoffmann, president of the organization.
At the same time it was declared that Hallinan made a clean sweep of things, also taking the second prize with another playlet that he had submitted.
Hallinan is editor of the Santa Maria, Knights of Columbus annual, and last year edited the Notre Dame Dome.
Judges for the contest, besides Hoffmann, included Joseph Casasanta, Clarence Kaplan, and Carl Cronin. Seven skits were submitted.
Plans for the Absurdities are now swinging along in great shape, according to Hoffmann, who enthusiastically discusses the progress.
“You can tell ’em that it’ll be a great show,” he told The Scholastic this week. “And if you want, you can add that it’ll probably be the greatest in Monogram history.”
Driscoll Urges Idealism In Politics To Wranglers
Declaring himself an idealist in the field of politics, Jack Driscoll, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, delivered the featured talk before the Wranglers last night.
Refusing to believe the arguments that were advanced by the rest of the group, concerning the element of realism that unquestionably exists in American politics, Driscoll effectively mowed down all opposition to his views.
“Stick to the idealistic trend,” he declared, “and American governments will prosper longer and better than if racketeers are allowed to seize command of the city reins.”
CONCERT BAND TO GIVE.
PROGRAM ON MONDAY
Personnel of Seventy-six Men Largest In History.
Under the direction of Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, the Notre Dame concert band will present its first public concert of the season in Washington hall Monday evening, March 14, at 8:00 o’clock. The personnel of the organization numbers seventy-six, the largest in the history of the University.
Selections to be presented vary from marches to semi-classical numbers written by such celebrities as Herbert and Stromberg. The opening number, “Semper Fidelis,” will be sung as a tribute to its late composer, John Phillip Sousa. Another feature of the program will be the singing of the new “Notre Dame, Our Mother” by the student body. A special arrangement will be played by the band. The complete program follows:
PART ONE
1.	Marches—
(a)	“Semper Fidelis” .........Sousa
(b)	“On the Mall"...........Goldman
2.	March (from The Desert Song).. .Romberg
3.	Victor Herbert Favorites.......Herbert
4.	“Pomp and Circumstance”..........Elgar
5.	Selection—“The New Moon”.......Romberg
Intermission
PART TWO
1.	Marches—
(a)	“Stepping Along” ......Goldman
(b)	“On the Campus”........Goldman
2.	March—“Mister Military Man”...Sedgwick
3.	Selection—“The Desert Song”...Romberg
4.	Songs of the Campus—
(a)	“Hike, Notre Dame!”... .Casasanta
(b)	“Down the Line”........Casasanta
(c)	“When the Irish Backs Go Marching By”
Rev. Eugene Burke - Casasanta (d) “Notre Dame, Our Mother” (new) Very Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell Casasanta (e) “Victory March” .......Shea
The complete personnel of the 1932 concert band is as follows: Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, conductor; officers — The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., honorary president; Reverend Raymond M. Murch, C.S.C., faculty adviser; Virgilius A. Phillips, president; William A. Stewart, junior officer; Henry S. Tholen, drum major.
B FLAT CLARINET—Paul Locher, ’35; Jerome Boyle, ’34; James Morrison, ’34; Simon Locher, ’33 ; John Youngen, '34 ; Edward Zimmers, *35; John Locher, ’34; William Gor-gin, ’35; Russell Gramer, ’35; Paul A. Dough-er, ’35; Harold V. Pohlmeyer, ’33.
PICCOIX) — John Hemming. ’34 ; Joseph Burns, ’34.
E FLAT CLARINET—Leonard Kenkel, ’33; (Continued on Page 15)
March 11, 1932
Seven
CHANGE REQUIREMENTS FOR A.B.-LLB. COURSE
New Regulations To Go Into Effect September, 1932.
Attention of students intending to elect a combination A.B.-LL.B. six year program, at Notre Dame is called to certain changes in that pro-
Rev. Charles Miltner, C.S.C.
Prospective lawyers, take notice.
gram which will be effective in September, 1932, announced the Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, this week.
The changes are as follows:
1.	In the junior year of the Arts and Letters program, two semester hours will be required in Legal Ethics and two hours in Introdutcion to Law.
2.	In the first year of Law, students will carry two semester hours a year in Philosophy 4a.
3.	In the second year of Law, students will carry two semester hours a year of Philosophy 4b.
The requirements for the major will be twelve semester hours instead of ten. The thesis for comprehensive examination must be completed either at the end of the third or fourth year. The A. B. degree will not be conferred until at the end of the second year of law.
In the regular Arts and Letters program, the requirement for the major sequence has been increased to 24 semester hours and the number of free elective hours has been reduced from 24 to 20. This will make the total of the semester houis for the junior year, 36, and for the senior year, 32.
Scrip Appears on Campus Tonight For Second Time
Campus Editors Join To Praise McCabe’s Scrip
Campus editors joined together unanimously last night in lauding the second issue of Scrip, which will appear on the campus tonight.
Comments on the part of undergraduate editors follow:
Leslie Raddatz, 1932 “Dome” editor: Editor Joseph McCabe’s second issue of Scrip is excellent. Stories by Frank O’Malley, Kermit Escudier and Editor McCabe, an article on Christopher Marlowe by Louis (“Best Short Stories of 1931”) Brennan, book reviews by Paul Hallinan and Charles Sheedy, and a poem by Orville Ockuly belie the facetious articles that Editor McCabe has written for The Scholastic.
The first issue of Scrip was one of the best that has ever been publishea. The latest issue, however, surpasses it.
Neil C. Hurley, Editor of “The Scholastic”:—Joe McCabe has just shown me a copy of his latest Scrip. I use the word 'latest’ advisedly, for the publication is no tardier than seven weeks past its selected date for appearance.
But Scrip is excellently handled. It is well-edited. It is, indeed, as Joe himself would say, worth the two-bits.
Stories by capable writers literally flood the pages, which are inserted between the flaps of the most brilliant cover I have ever seen.
• Scrip continues an old tradition with its publication tonight. It continues it, capably, ably.
Robert Gorman, Editor of the “Jug gler”—“Editor Joe McCabe presented an issue of Scrip which should appeal to every student. He has enlisted the most representative—and, in my opinion, the most capable— staff of contributors in the history
(Contniued on Page 11)
ISSUE WINS PRAISE
Joe McCabe Tells Reasons Why His Book Is Worth The Twenty,-five Cents.
(The folloxcing article by Joseph McCabe, editor of “Scrip,” concludes his series of Scholastic stories on his own publication. Well . . . Ed.)
By Joseph McCabe
To all you eager listeners and watchers, the editor of Scrip presents his publication. The magazine is bigger than ever, and we would like to addd that it is better, were not last year’s editor still on the campus,® and in better condition than we are. He is Louis Brennan, and has an appreciation of Marlowe in this issue, and it is well worth anyone’s time (and money — only twenty-five cents!) There is also a short sketch of an artistic nature by the writer.
Modesty forbids the author to do much more than mention his own story. It is entitled “Semi-Pro”; and he will leave it to you to decide whether it is a story, a sketch, or a character study — or whether it is worth defining at all, indeed.
The two book reviews are both well done, and the books reviewed are recent and significant. Charles Sheedy writes of Frederick Lewis Allen’s “Only Yesterday”; his criticism is well written particularly since the book is one of a type difficult to classify. Paul Hallinan, last year’s Dome Editor, exercises his critical faculty upon Galsworthy’s “Maid In Waiting,” and partly dispels the idolworship so often blindly accorded to a famous name. On the whole, after looking over the magazine we are wondering why the price isn’t fifty cents. Have your money ready— we’ll be around. . . .
POSTPONE LAW BANQUET
As “The Scholastic” goes to press this noon, word is- re ceived in the Publications* office that the banquet scheduled by the Law club for Feb. 21 to honor Col. Hoynes, has been postponed.

Eight
The Scholastic
COMMERCE PROFESSORS CARRY ON RADIO TALKS
Investments, Credit Treated In Speeches Over WSBT.
By Mitchel Tackley
In his talk entitled “Investments and Speculation,” L. Thomas Flatley, M.S., of the department of finance, the College of Commerce, speaking over the South Bend Tribune station Wednesday evening declared that “poor management of funds was one of the primary causes of the depression.”
On Monday evening, a paper “Commercial Credit” written by Eugene J. Payton, LL.B., associate professor of marketing, was read by Cletus F. Chizek of the department of accounting. In this paper “the fundamental principles underlying the theory of credit in business and its practical application to our everyday economic life,” was treated.
Explains Investments
Mr. Flatley, from the outset of his speech, explained the term “investments” as used in modern financial history. The intangible forms of w’ealth, he said, were unknown in ancient and medieval times.
Concrete examples of the speculating and gambling w’hich took place with the market crash of November, 1929, and were cited by Mr. Flateley. The speculation mania was not confined to the little fellows, he stated, but also to the wealthy individuals and large corporations as well. It looked like a clear case of the “blind leading the blind,” he said.
“Know What You’re Buying”
“One of the most important of these investment fundamentals,” he continued, “can be summarized in a few words: ‘know what you’re buying’.” By studying the records of earnings, past history, checking up on tangible assets and prospects, this can be accomplished, he advised.
Market ability was also taken up by Mr. Flatley as one of the most important features of good securities. Its importance, he said, is dependent upon the circumstances of the individual to a certain extent. A careful study should also be made by the investor on the question of stability. The investor should never forget
' (Continued on Page IS)
ORGANIZER
Gilbert Augustine, rvhose efficient term of office as president during 1931 is one of the reasons for the success of the Spanish club this year. The present officers are stoutly carrying on with the name of Augustine still on the roll-call.
Ex.N. D. Prof. Exhibits Art Work At Cleveland College
Special to the Notre Dame Scholastic.
New Rochelle, N. ¥., March 10.— Ernest Thorne Thompson, etcher, who was formerly professor of Art and Director of the School of Fine Arts at the Unviversity of Notre Dame, and is now professor of Art at the College of New Rochelle, presented an exhibition of etchings at Cleveland College, Cleveland, Ohio, last week.
The group consisted of forty pieces including portraits, architectural subjects, and landscapes picturing sections of Nova Scotia, Massachusetts, France, England, Holland, and the Channel Islands.
Professor Thompson’s work was represented in the Fifty Prints of the Year in 1928. nl the same year he was awarded the Cunningham Prize and in the preceding year, the John T. McCutcheon Prize in Chicago.
For two years he held the position of Supervisor of Art in the Public schools of Lincoln, after which he taught seven years at Notre Dame. He has published articles on subjects relating to art in “Pencil Points” and in “Chapbooks,” printed by the University of Washington.
TICKETS ON SALE SOON
Ducats For Engineers* Formal To Be Limited.
Tckets for the Engineer’s Formal to be held on April 1, will be placed on sale Tuesday, March 15, in all the halls, according to an announcement of President Raymond Pfeiffer and General Chairman Joseph Toussaint.
During the first week of the sale, tickets were sold to Engineer’s club members only. After March IS, friends of the members will be permitted to purchase them. The dance will be limited to members of the club and their guests.
Those in charge of the disposal of tickets are: F. Murray, chairman (Sorin), R. Fitzsimon (St. Ed’s), T. David (Lyons), T. Skeehan (Alumni), E. Calhoun (Walsh), F. O’Connor (Corby), L. D. Lopker (Carroll), E. Troy (Badin), G. Shields (Morrissey), R. Shields (Sophomore), M. Saleh (Dillon), and J. Andres (Howard).
Commerce Professors Apply For Commissions in R.O.T.C.
Professors Stanley R. Price and C. F. Chizek of the College of Commerce have become candidates for commissions in the finance department of the National Officers Reserve corps. Professor Wesley C. Bender, of the same College, is likewise applying for a commission in the Infantry of the Officers Reserve corps.
Profs. Chizek and Price have had previous military training in the R. O. T. C. at the University of Iowa. Prof. Bender has received similar experience in R. O. T. C. work at Cornell.
Clarence Kaplan, a graduate in Boy Guidance Work, has been recommended for a commission as second lieutenant in the infantry.
NOTICE!
Examinations for those sophomores desiring to major in English will be held Palm Sunday, it was announced this week by the Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies.
Persons between the ages of 36 and 45 have the best chance of getting and holding a job in Philadelphia, according to the results of a recent survey.
March 11, 1932
Nine
TIME OF MOVIES CHANGED
Washington Hall Programs To Be At 6:45 and 8:25.
The moving pictures regularly shown in Washington hall every Saturday evening will now begin at 6:45 and 8:25 p. m. for the first and second shows, respectively, it was announced this week by the Reverend Raymond M. Murch, C.S.C., prefect of discipline.
Father Murch stated that students attending the first show will not be permitted to congregate upon the front steps of Washington hall, nor will persons coming to the second show be allowed to enter the hall until the audience at the first show has left.
BALL COMMITTEES NAMED
(Continued from Page 5)
John J. Geddes and Richard V. Oelrich will act as joint chairmen of the decorations. Those serving on the committee are: Hugh E. Ball, Paul L. O’Toole, Joseph G. Dalsey, Richaid E. Fabrycki,' Joseph R. Murray, John C. Walsh, Bernard T. Heitz, and Francis M. McClaim.
The Reception committee is headed by James E. Collins, who will have as his committee members, Raymond DeCook, Emmett F. Murphy, Waltei- A. Mortenson, Clay Johnson. James R. Slattery, and Henry S. Tholen.
The invitations will be handled by a committee having as its chairman, Joseph P. Judge, assisted by Vincent J. Donohue, Fred B. Snite, Edward E. Rhatigan, and Joseph F. Sinkule.
Edward F. O’Malley is acting as chairman of the Patron committee: John A. Matousek. William M. Newbold. Joseph P. Holbach, and Nathan Altman are the committeemen.
The Ballroom committee is headed by joint Chairmen Robert E. Lee and Walter F. Mullen. They will be assisted by John W. Hamilton, Eugene J. Coyne, John W. Davis, and George W. Zimmerman.
The entertainment is being looked after by a committee led by Chairman John R. Matthews. The committeemen are Frank X. .Graham, Rollin G. Baldwin, William R. Langen-bahn, and William R. Conaton.
The committee in charge of programs is to work under the chairmanship of Paul J. Murphy, who will be assisted by John D. Carney. Paul McConnell. William P. Cass, and Ralph J. Carwin.
Ernest C. Hechinger is to head the Arrangements committee, while Edwin T. Kolski, Erskine C. Edwards, John M. Scanlon, John H. Rudd, John R. Gostisha, and Francis A. Dillman will make up the committee.
The Publicity committee is headed by George A. Higgins and Edmund G. Britz, acting as co-chairmen. The committee is made up of Joseph L. Lopker, James B, O’Shaughnessy. Joel W. Ostrander, Joseph A. McCabe, and Joseph E. McKean.
TICKET SELLER
Frank Donalty, whose appointment as chairman of the Ticket committee for the Senior Ball is announced in this issue. Under his command are merchandisers who tvill aid in the marketing of the pasteboards.
Daniel D. Kaufman To Speak To Commerce Students Wed.
Dean James E. McCarthy announces that through the assistance of C. C. Mitchell of Chicago Daniel D. Kaufman will address the Commerce students in the Law building auditorium on Wednesday afternoon, March 16.
“Conditional Sales Arguments” will be the topic of the address. This is the sixth of a series of such lectures under the direction of Dean McCarthy of the Commerce school.
Chicago Florist Ships Bouquets Via Plane
Special to the Notre Dame Scholastic.
Chicago, Ill., March 11.—Chicago’s largest shipper of flowers, the C. W. Beu Floral Company, has contracted with Century Air Express to ship ail out of town orders by plane, Century officials announced today.
Contrasted to floral orders filled by telegraph where the customer never sees the actual flowers, use of the new shipping method enables the customers’ personally selected floral arrangements to be delivered to any of the Century terminal cities the same day, it was pointed out.
DR.S.J.MAHER RECEIVES LAETARE MEDAL AWARD
Tuberculosis Expert Is Named For University Honor.
By Walter Kennedy
Dr. Stephen J. Maher, of New Haven, Connecticut, internationally known authority on tuberculosis, has been awarded this year’s Laetare Medal, given annually by the University. The award was announced this week by the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University.
Dr. Maher, the recipient of the award, was born in New Haven on April 12, 1860. He attended St. Charles College, in Maryland, where he was graduated in 1881.
Attended Yale
He then entered Yale, graduating with honors from the Yale Medical school in 1887. After his graduation from the latter institution, Dr. Maher went abroad, pursuing post graduate work in hospitals in England and Ireland.
Upon his return he engaged in general practice work in New Haven for ten years, and in 1900 he turned his particular attention to the study of tuberculosis.
From then on, Dr. Maher rapidly became one of the recognized authorities on tubercular diseases. In 1928 he was named by President Coolidge as United States representatie to the International Tuberculosis conference in Rome. In 1930 he was reappointed to the Convention by President Hoover.
Travels in Europe
At this time he made the principal address of the meeting, and was received with great enthusiasm because of his discoveries concerning tuberculosis.
During his last stay in Europe, Dr. Maher was invited to speak at a meeting of the German Tuberculosis Society, and also addressed meetings of tuberculosis experts in London, Paris, Berlin, and Vienna.
Dr. Maher has found time to write many essays and much poetry of superior quality, besides his extensive work in laboratory in search for a cure for the deadly tubercular germs. He is also well known as a short story writer, showing in his articles (Continued on Page 12)
Ten
The Scholastic
U. THEATER TO PRESENT THREE ONE-ACT PLAYS
Professor Kelly’s Proteges To Perform Thursday.
Elements of comedy, characterization, and classic will be present in the St. Patrick’s day program to be given by the University theatre in Washington hall next Thursday evening. Three one-act plays of Irish nature will be presented under the direction of Frank Kelly, head of the department of Speech and Drama.
McCabe Plays “Halvey”
“Hyacinthe Halvey,” one of Lady Gregory’s humorous plays, is typically Irish in its character interpretations. Halvey, a man of character, which he tries to rid himself of, is played by Joseph McCabe. Mr. Quirk, the scheming butler, is portrayed by Franklin Straub, who scored a hit as the father in “Gold in the Hills.”
Miss F. Theresa Chisholm, of St. Mary’s faculty, plays the part of the postmistress, a characteristic gossip of her profession. Paddy Farrell, a messenger, is portrayed by Thomas Strictch, and James Carmody will be seen as sergeant of the police. Miss Charlotte Mourer, of South Bend, will enact the role of Miss Joyce, the priest’s housekeeper.
Yeates Play Presented
In “The Hour Glass,” written by William Butler Yeates, the underlying theme is that of the wise man and the fool. William Walsh, known for his splendid character interpretation in other University productions, will play the wise man, and James A. Carrico will play the fool. The story deals with the wise man •who teaches a false philosophy and, when called to account, thinks that his philosophy hasn’t taken root.
The third play, “The Rising of the Moon,” another of Lady Gregory’s, is a dialogue based on loyalty. Included in its cast are Tighe Woods and Albert Butler.
Attacks Economic Boycott
By Intercollegiate Press.
John Martin, professor of International Relations at Rollins College, last week told delegates at the annual southern conference of International Relations. Clubs that the-economic boycott as an anti-war measure “is fraught with dangers.”
MEDALIST
Dr. S. J. Maher—his ivork as one of the worlds outstanding tuberculosis experts merits him the Laetare medal, Notre Danie’s honor to a great Catholic of the year.
Lindbergh Kidnapping A Big Newspaper Story
By Intercollegiate Press.
Cleveland, March 10. — From the point of view of reader interest, the story of the kidnapping of the son of Colonel and Mrs.. Charles Lindbergh is considered by newspaper men to be one of the biggest stories that has ever “broken.”
There are, of course, stories which have been of far more importance to every newspaper reader—such as the outbreak of the World War, the assassination of presidents, and the depression. But, probably, never has there been aroused such universal interest in an event as is taking place this ■week.
There are many reasons for this. Outstanding is the fact that the full import of the story could be grasped by every newspaper reader of any intelligence on the first day it “broke,”
Furthermore, Colonel Lindbergh is undoubtedly unique as an internationally known, admired, respected, individual. It is doubtful if any other individual in history has been so thoroughly “written up” in the newspapers, or so well known, in his own life time.
“My first wish is to see the whole world in peace, and the inhabitants as one band' of brothers, striving who should contribute most to the happiness of mankind.”—George Washington.
FR.RAENERS TRANSLATES
Philosophy Professor Works on Foreign Cosmology Text.
By Raymond Waters
In search of an authoritative text on Cosmology in complete harmony with the new findings of chemistry and physics, the Century Company of New York City has approached the Reverend Sidney A. Raemers, M.A., Ph.D., of the department of philosophy of the University, with the task of translating for them the recent revised edition of Cosmology, a work of Professor Nys of the Catholic University of Louvain, one of the most outstanding cosmologists of the day.
Translates Church History
Simultaneous with the offer from the Century company came the request from the Benedictine monks of Solesmes, France, to translate the new and complete Church History. The original is a work by Doth Charles Poulet, monk of St. Benedict of the Congregation of Solomes. The translation of this book is to be in two volumes, the first of which will be published in the ball by the B. Herder Book Co. of St. Louis, Mo.
The contract for the work on cosmology has been signed and returned in advance to the Century Co. Father Raemers is now planning to communicate with Professor Renoirte, the successor of Nys in Louvain, for any new material that might be of use in the new book.
Father Butler Lends Assistance
In the work on Church History, which Father Raemers has already started, he has obtained the assistance of the Reverend T. Francis Butler, C.S.C., of the University department of history, who will re-read the manuscript and make suggestions.
The two works will be published as text books, the cosmology for use in colleges and universities and the history for colleges, universities and seminaries.
Father Raemers has made several other translations of French works, some of which are: Educational Psychology and Elements of Experimental Psychology by the Reverend J. De La Vaissiere, SJ.; A Handbook of Patrology and Holy Orders, and Ordination by the Reverend J. Tixeront; and The Mass, by Abbe A. Sicard.
March 11,1932
Eleven
SYRIAN DEAN LECTURES
Dr. Nickoley Addresses International Relations Club.
Dean Edward- F. Nickoley of the American University in Beirut, Syria, speaking in the Law Building auditorium before the International Relations club on Wednesday night, on “The Far East, Its Peoples and Problems,” paid a tribute to his foreign students.
“I’ll match our students against those of any institution in the United States. And that is no bluff,” said Educator Nickoley.
Taking up a discussion of the Near Eastern peoples the lecturer stressed the religious, moral, social and economic phases of their lives.
He said that in considering these peoples as backward it must be remembered that it is the average that is spoken of, and that there are many intellectually outstanding individuals among them.
Dean Nickeley also made mention of the rapid progress these peoples were making in the direction of mod-ery day methods. No longer do they depend upon the camel and donkey for means of transportation, but upon the automobile and truck.
Their problems, he said, are much like ours, chiefly financial difficulties. Their biggest problem according to the Dean is their inability to unite and concentrate their efforts towards the attainment of their desired end— to handle their own business and political affairs. He believed this problem to be the result of their clannish social structure.
Their devotion, loyalty, and cooperation is manifested only within the confines of their little clans; they care not about the outsider.
Experiment With Rockets
The American Interplanetary Society this month plans to carry out its first rocket experiment, at which a seven-foot rocket will be used. The society hopes to send a rocket up a mile. Next it hopes to be able ro deliver express and mail by rocket bailing 10 miles up. Thirdly, it expects to develop rockets that will carry passengers. Then it will take a shot at the moon.
The only unmarried President that the United States ever had was James Buchanan.
LECTURER
L. Thomas Flatley—said in his talk over WSBT, . . poor management of funds one of the primary causes of the depression.”
Editor Attacks Radio As Medium of Education
By Intercollegiate Press.
Chicago, March 10.—The “blatant claim to being a medium of education,” made by the radio, was attacked by Henry R. Luce, managing editor of Time, weekly news magazine, after the publication had received some 20,000 letters of protest against its announced intention of dropping its Friday night “March of Time” broadcasts.
Luce argued that the huge demand for a continuation of the program showed that there were few genuinely interesting educational features on the air. He went on to say that Time could not afford to be the “philanthropist of the air,” and argued that the broadcasting company should feel obligated to furnish some such form of educational program of its own accord.
Girl Has Two Years To Live; Sues For $50,000 Damages
By Intercollegiate Press.
Bridgeport, Conn., March 10.— Beatrice Christie, pretty 20-year-old former Boston University co-ed who has only two years to live as a result of an automobile accident last April, has sued a Somerville, Mass., resident for $50,000 because of the injuries which she says have shortened her life. She is said to be suffering from leukemia, an incurable disease of the blood in which there is an excess of white corpuscles.
OFFICIAL UNIVERSITY RING IS NOW ON SALE
May Be Purchased By Any N. D. Senior or Alumnus.
Notre Dame now has an official ring. The contract, which is to last for three years, has been awarded to the Chas. H. Elliot Company of Philadelphia.
For the past few years the need of a standard ring has been discussed at length by the S. A. C. The movement, originated by the council of 1929-1930, and carried on by the council of last year, has at last culminated in the action of the present council.
The sale of the rings is open to the members of the senior class and to the alumni.
Herbert Giorgio, 315 Corby hall, and Flo. J. McCarthy, of Walsh, are the senior representatives. All who desire to purchase a ring should see these men at Giorgio’s room.
EDITORS PRAISE “SCRIP”
(Continued from Page 7)
of the publication. In addition, the edition has wider appead and “reader interest,” to use a journalistic term which Editor McCabe will undoubtedly resent, than previous issues.
I am interested in seeing what reaction the students make to Joe’s latest tome. It should be one of hearty approval.
Paul J. Hallinan, editor of the Santa Maria and editor of the 1931 Dome:—“What a time to ask my opinion! Joe’s editorial discrimination reaches its breaking point this month with a fine book review by my favorite critic. I’ve read it six times now, so haven’t reached yet the works of Dick Escudier, (who lives across the hall) and Frank O’Malley (who lives down the hall) and Editor McCabe himself who probably won’t ask for more unless I tell what a great little mag and a great little editor, and a great little reading public Scrip is, has, and attracts.”
Buy Famous Sculpture Piece
By Intercollegiate 'Press.
What is believed to be the only example in the United States of marble sculpture by Luca Della Robbia has been purchased by the trustees of the Cleveland Museum of Art.
Twelve
The Scholastic
A Man About the Campus - Jim O'Shaughnessy
NEW ALTARS ARE HERE
By Louis Hruby
Jim O'Shaughnessy — whose first three days as a freshman were featured by meals eaten in the Hotel LaSalle Coffee Shop!
He claims Chicago as his birthplace in 1910, and received preparatory education at Loyola Academy of that city. Coming to Notre Dame four years ago as an Arts and Letters student he is now following that training with work in the College of Law.
Will Study Law
Considering the study of law as simply a means to an end, that the acquisition of sufficient income Jim intends to forsake all thoughts of it in later life. Upon graduation he will enter his uncle’s law firm, but does not harbor the intention of becoming a great lawyer. “Financial independence” is the sole objective, to be attained early in his career.
Brownson, Morrissey, and Walsh halls are places about which he will be able to enjoy reluctant reminiscence, remembering the days as a conscientious member of the famed “Dawn Patrol.”
Jim takes unlimited pride in his decidedly Irish name, and his room bears forth this pride inasmuch as the family escutcheon is prominently placed for the edification of all who may enter 329 Walsh. He maintains that as long as the University is in existence, the name of O’Shaughness.y will be inscribed on its rolls.
An Active Wrangler
O’Shaughnessy’s activities on the campus have been of wide scope. Forensically, he was a member of the freshman interhall debating team, and later strived for a position on the varsity debating squad. The Breen Medal served as an incentive to his desire for a broad knowledge of the art of oral expression, but he was never successful in winning it.
As a member of the Wranglers, of which organization he was recently president, he is carrying out the illustrious work of the only forensic society on the campus. Holding chairmanship of the interhall debating league this year, Jim honestly believes that the organization enjoyed its best season, modestly attributing
I
its success to the co-operation he received by his corps of coaches, and the willing support of the students who participated.
Dramatic art—his Pipe and a copy of Collier’s — travel, particularly in Canada ’ where he once thought of traveling the St. Lawrence river in a canoe — fishing, whenever he is near some body of water —the Irish tone of the novels of Don Byrne, whom he considers the greatest of the contemporary novelists— exhilaration imparted to him by a symphony con-
JAMES O’Shaughnessy cert—the indiffer-Likes his Irish name ences to the popu. lar jazz orchestra—all have a distinct appeal to his nature.
Jim brands as unfounded, all attempts by either his roommate, Alexander Wilson, or any other campus character to connect him diretcly or indirectly with any feminine creature. Thus he vindicates non-attendance ac social functions which do not interest him at all.
That Old Suit
That light summer suit which he has been seen wearing during the winter months carries with it some explanation. It is four years old, and is his favorite wearing apparel. Incidentally there is no connection with it, and the activities which occupy Jim’s time in the summer. (Ha! Nick Ruffing.)
Jim has moods, even if he didn’t mention them during the interview. He chooses a certain time for almost every action. He is jovial in a crowd, while when alone or with a single friend, a sombre look prevails. He is content when there isn’t a crowd around him, yet can become quite sociable when occasion demands.
Philanthropic grants by the Carnegie Corporation from the income of a $115,000,000 endowment fund left by Andrew Carnegie, amounted to $3,279,000 in the year ending Sept. 30, 1931, according to the annual report of Frederick P. Keppel, president.
Dillon, Alumni Chapel Altars Come From Italy.
By John McElligott
The altars for the chapels in the new residence halls, Alumni and Dillon, arrived from Italy early this week. At present they are being installed by a corps of workmen.
As is customary, the altars are dedicated to various saints. The main altar in Alumni hall has been dedicated to St. Charles Borromeo. The reason for this is because St. Charles is the patron saint of the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University.
The dedication took place in 1931, which is the silver jubilee of the Class of 1906, of which Father O’Donnell is a member.
The side altars in Alumni have been commemorated to the honor and glory of the Blessed Virgin, St. Joseph, and St. Thomas Aquinas.
Coach Rockne has a memorial in Dillon hall in a shrine dedicated to St. Olaf, the patron saint of Norway, from which Rockne came as a boy.
The confessional in Dillon has also been dedicated to St. John Baptist Vianney.
“The shrine in Dillon and the two main altars in the halls recognize the contribution of France, Ireland, and Norway in the upbuilding of Notre Dame,” according to the Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., prefect of religion.
DR. MAHER IS HONORED
(Continued from Page 8)
the havoc wrought b ydisease and the loss of life from tuberculosis.
The Laetare. Medal is -an annual award of the University, and takes its name from the fact that it is awarded on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday in Lent of each year.
The custom dates back from 188^,5 when it was started by Professor James Edwards, and the Reverend Thomas Walsh, C.S.C., then president of the University.
The Medal is given to a member of the Catholic laity, in recognition of merit and as an inspiration to greater achievement. Since its inauguration many years ago, the list of recipients shows men and women from every walk of life, all leaders in their particular field.
Marell 11, 1932
Thirteen
K.C. OFFICIAL PRAISES NJ).
The Composing Room Staff
O’Donnell Lauds University At Initiation Banquet.
By Granger Weil
“To be a Notre Dame student is the highest honor which can be paid to a Catholic student.” Such was the tribute given Notre Dame by John P. O’Donnell, State Deputy of the Knights of Columbus, in an address Sunday at the banquet following the initiation of fifty-four men into membership in the Notre Dame, Elkhart, Mishawaka, and LaPorte councils of the K. of C. The banquet and initiation were sponsored by the Notre Dame council, and held in the South Bend council chambers.
Awards Gift
State Deputy O’Donnell during the course of his speech awarded the Elkhart council with a bust of Columbus and a certificate of merit for being the most active in the state during the past year. The gifts were received by the Grand Knight of the council, L. S. Tuttle.
Past Grand Knight Thomas Collins of the Elkhart council was presented with the emblem of the Knights of Columbus by Mr. O’Donnell.
Other speakers at the banquet included Supreme Director James Donahoe, Mr. Walter Johnson, president of the National Council of Catholic Men. Otto Dorsey, State Secretary of the K. of C. and Louis Buckley, District Deputy.
Mr. Johnson in his speech explained the work of the organization of which he is the head. He also gave the history of the origin of the National Catholic council.
Father Tom Burke Toast Master
In his speech Mr. Johnson brought out the fact that it was to the educated Catholic body that Catholicism looked for its leaders.
Mr. Louis Buckley, district deputy, introduced the officers of visiting councils.
Music for the banquet was provided by the Notre Dame “Jugglers” and George Manard tenor soloist, accompanied by Justin Tompkins at the piano.
Reverend Thomas Burke, C.S.C. acted as toastmaster. John Cahill was chairamn of the banquet, assisted by Charles Fiss, John Witt-liff, Raymond Naber, and Robert Barrett.
(Story on Page 17)
Members of the Notre Dame Scholastic mechanical staff, who handle the type in the rough and set the pages of countless University publications. Left to right: Bert Bishop, Joe Guentert, Tommy Mason, and Bro. Mark, C.S.C.
French Film Will Be Shown on Campus; Date Uncertain
Professor DuBois announced at the last meeting of the French club that arangements for the showing of a French film on the campus had been completed. Owing to the uncertainty of the date of shipment from New York the exact time for the showing of this movie could not be determined. But Professor DuBois said that it was certain the film would reach the campus within two weeks.
Following this announcement, the Reverend Francis T. Maher, C.S.C. addressed the members in French. He was followed by President Jules de la Vergne who told of his experiences in Shanghai.
De la Vergne said that he was not at all surprised at the tense situation in Shanghai today because the present clash had been brewing for some time, and had almost broken out a year ago when he was there as a representative of the Oriental branch of the 4-H club.
Before the close of the meeting a short tribute was paid to Aristide Briand, deceased French statesman and apostle of peace.
Vincent Lopez Will Play At Met Club Easter Dance
Those who heard the Lucky Strike hour Tuesday night with Vincent Lopez had just a taste of his music. At the Metropolitan Club Easter Formal Lopez and his orchestra will play for five full hours.
That alone should entice eager feet in club official opinion; but they have also arranged to have Lopez play several piano seletcions during intermissions.
The dance will be held in the Hotel New Yorker’s beautiful modernistic grand ballroom, where the softly-lighted balcony was designed just for setting out an intermission of inimitable Lopez piano capers.
There will be a special train with one-way fare for the round-trip, arranged by the Metropolitan and New Jersey clubs.
“Bring your tuxedo out of its Lenten retirement,” declared Ed Kos-ky, president. “Send a letter off to ‘her today; and then on the night of March 28, drive over to the Hotel New Yorker for a musical treatment for ‘restless feet’ Vincent Lopez will be waiting.”
Fourteen
The Scholastic
BOOKMAN CRITICIZES STANDARDIZED READING
Literary Dictators of the Age Attacked By Kreps.
In an essay entitled “The American University of Literature” Kenneth L. Kreps, at the meeting of the Bookmen last Monday evening, attacked the movement toward the standardization of the reading of the American public.
The first part of his paper was a treatment of the tendency in this country among the middle class toward superficial culture which Kreps defined as “rotarianism.” From this discussion he showed how easy it was for such “cultured and erudite men” as Carl Van Doren and H. L. Mencken to dictate to such a group what they considered the right type of literature for the public. They have made their slogan: “Not what the public wants, but what American literature wants.” With the help of such writers as Upton Sinclair, Sinclair Lewis, and James Branch Cabell they have been very successful in the past six years in giving the public what American literature wants.
James T. Meehan, president of the Bookmen, was the other speaker of the evening. His contribution was a long narrative poem with a philosophic trend written in the style of the modem school of American writers.
De Paul Annual Abolishes
Its Campus Beauty Section
By Intercollegiate Press.
Chicago, March 10. — The editorial staff of the De Paulian, annual of the De Paul University here, have done away with a tradition by substituting for its campus beauties section, a section which will include the pictures and write-ups of five students distinguished for their achievements in scholarship, athletics, social activities and campus activities.
Brains, the editorial staff explained in making the change, are far more important than beauty, especially for a college student, and it was felt more appropriate to honor the brainy student than the pretty co-eds.
The most powerful amplifier in existence can carry a voice clearly for more than eleven miles.
■	—	•• j
Campus Opinions
Question: “Which do you prefer— indoor or outdoor track?” (Asked of campus track men.)
Joe Young, Lyons hall, sophomore: “My chief reason for preferring indoor track is because I am more used to it. There is more color, glamour and excitement when track meets are held in a confined space. Then, too, larger crowds are sometimes attracted. The attention is usually more concentrated on the events of an indoor program.”
Ed King, Morrissey hall, sophomore: “I prefer outdoor track over indoor. I base my preference for the outdoor sport on the fact that it is, for one thing, easier on one’s legs. The weather conditions are, in most cases, more desirable and the mental state of the athlete is higher once the chances of his being fouled or pocketed are lessened.”
Paul H. Laframboise, Lyons hall, sophomore; "Outdoor track has always appealed to me most because of the freedom offered. It is more beneficial than that which is run indoors, as far as health is concerned, and does not deter the runner with the mental hazards which are so numerous where the men are confined to a small track.”
Clyde Roberts, Morrissey hall, sophomore: "I prefer outdoor track to indoor if the weather conditions are anywhere near favorable. Unless one is running in rain or against a very strong wind, it allows a much freer feeling. There is not as much time lost on the turns of an outdoor track because the track is larger, nor is there as much chance of being pocketed.”
Ralph F. Else, Lyons hall, sophomore: “In my opinion outdoor track is preferable to indoor because of its effect upon the participants. Indoor tracks are more confined regarding both space and air. Outdoor meets are more colorful and, I believe, more healthful.”
DILLONITE TAKES PRIZE
Charles Deidrich Takes First in “Santa Maria** Contest.
Charles Deidrich, Dillon hall, was awarded the first prize in the snapshot contest held by Paul Hallinan, editor of the Santa Maria, publica-
Paul Hallinan
A Freshman won his contest.
tion of the Notre Dame council, Knights of Columbus. Second prize in the contest went to J. Raymond Fox, a senior living off-campus. Harry Burchell and Leslie Jandoli tied for fourth.
For the first time in its history the Santa Maria is issued as a year book. In former years the publication has come out at intervals varying from one to four times, in magazine form, but this year Editor Hallinan will initiate something new.
The snap-shot contest was one of the preliminary features of the Santa Maria. In the book there will be eighty pages containing the work of the council for the year and the relation this work has had to the University.
The frontispiece, a bust of Columbus, will be done by Joseph Lopker, art editor of the Juggler. There will be a news review of the year by Neil C. Hurley, editor-in-chief of The Scholastic, and articles giving the athletic history and accomplishments of the University by Joseph Petritz, editor of the Football Review.
More than sixty per cent of the total area of Arizona is owned by the United States Government.
March 11, 1932
ORCHESTRA APPLAUDED
Cleveland Musicians Play At South Bend High School.
The Cleveland Orchestra, conducted by Nikolai Sokoloff, was applauded vigorously by the audience that filled the auditorium of the South Bend High school last Tuesday, March 8.
The concert was opened by the Prelude, E. Major, Cantata No. 29 by Bach, and was followed by Brahms Symphony, No. 2, D major, Opus 73.
After the intermission, the orchestra rendered the prelude to Debussy’s “Afternoon of a Fawn,” and Tschai-kowsky’s immortal ‘March Slay,” Opus 31, which drew down such a round of applause that three encores were played.
The concert was sponsored by the Civic Music association of South Bend, the purpose of which is to foster an appreciation of classical music in the local community.
Hindu Poet Writes Two Epigrams For Yale News
By Intercollegiate Press.
New Haven, Conn., March 10.—As a token of his recent visit to Yale University, Dr. Rabindranath Tagore, Hindu poet, recently sent to the Yale Daily News two epigrams. They were: “Years mature into fruit ' So that some small seeds of moments May outlive them.”
“The gold raises its value by its rareness,
The flower by its perfection.”
German Club Notice
The local celebration of the Goethe Centennial will take place at the next meeting of the German club. Through the courtesy of the German Tourist Information office of New York, the club is fortunate in securing a number of lantern slides which will be used in connection with a comprehensive lecture to be given by Julius C. Hoenninger.
All those who are interested are invited to attend the meeting to be held in Walsh hall basement on Tuesday, March 15, at 6:30.
The paper alone used in each copy of one of our best-known five-cent weekly magazines is worth more than twenty-five cents.
Corsages Banned; Co-Eds Kick, But
Boys Just Smile
By Intercollegiate Press.
Salt Lake City, March 10.—When President George Thomas announced that the wearing of corsages would be' barred at the University of Utah junior prom, several girl students obtained an injunction against Doctor Thomas to prevent him from stopping them wearing the flowers if they so desired—and received them to wear.
Nevertheless, when the prom was held, only three or four girls appeared with corsages.
BAND CONCERT MONDAY
(Continued from Page 6)
James Bordeaux. '35 ; Robert Filson, *33.
OBOE—Alan Feeney. ’34 ; William Reilly, ’34.
C MELODY SAXOPHONE—Karl Vogel-heim, ’33.
ALTO SAXOPHONE—Harvey Rockwell. ’34 : Lawrence Fischer, '32.
TENOR SAXOPHONE—Robert Demer. ’34 ; Joseph Churchman, ’33.
TRUMPET — Clarence Hess. ’33 ; William Short, ’35 : Virgil Miller, '35 ; John Burns. ’32 : James Daly, ’35; James Freeman, ’33: John Gill, ’33 ; Clare Burger, ’35 ; August von Boeck-lin, ’34 ; Clair White, ’34 : Paul Sartoretto, ’33 ; Martin Moran, ’33; Paul Guamieri, ’35; William Reynolds, ’35 ; Thomas Flynn, ’35 ; Joseph Washko, ’35; Walter Dupray. ’34 ; Charles Wright. ’34 ; Charles Schill, *35 : Norbert Ott. ’35 ; Hugh McNarney, ’32 ; Jerome Gilding, ’33.
HORN—Ronald Bugni, ’34 ; Noble Harbaugh, ’32 ; Charles Jahr, ’34 ; Francis Maas, ’32 ; Albert S. Ripley, '33.
TROMBONE—John Jauch, ’32; William O’Donnell, ’34 ; Terrill Austin. ’34 ; Fred Weni-ger. *33: Joseph Evans. ’35 : Albert Stewart. ’33 : Ted Carville, ’34 ; Theodore Halpin. ’32 ; Virgilius Phillips, ’32; Edwin Wykoff, ’34.
BARITONE—Joseph De Paul, ’35 ; Francis Welsh, '35.
BARITONE SAXOPHONE—Charles Morris. ’35 : Charles Albert. ’35.
TUBA — Edwin Leuchtenberg. ’34 ; Joseph Murphy, ’35 ; George Byran, ’33.
PERCUSSION—William Waltz, ’32; Joseph Argus, ’35 ; Robert Robison, ’33 ; Paul Semper, ’35: Edmund Fitzmaurice, '34 ; Frederick McLaughlin, ’34.
Mo. Journalism School Large
By Intercollegiate Press.
Three hundred and sixty students, the most in the history of the school, have enrolled this semester in the Missouri School of J Journalism.
In Famce today there are thirteen political parties.
I
Fifteen	1
---------------------------- |
COLLONEL HOYNES TO BE	i
BANQUETED MARCH 21ST	j
Dean Emeritus of Law College	*
To Be Met By Old Students.	;
Dean Emeritus Colonel Wiliam Hoynes of the College of Law, will be feted Monday, March 21 at a ban-
Colonel William Hoynes
The Law school’s dean emeritus.
quet to be held in the Lay Faculty Dining hall of the University.
Invitations have been issued to several prominent alumni, many of whom were students here under the Colonel.
The history of Dean Hoyne’s campus life has truly been a history of the College of Law itself, which Kas grown from its old rooms in Sorin hall to its present impressive site.
In 1919 when the College was transferred to a new building, the latter was named Hoynes hall, in honor of the Dean.
N. Y. Has Oldest Bread Line
By Intercollegiate Press.
In New York City there is a breadline 139 years old. It was started in 1792 by John Leake.
In Berlin in case of rain you can drop a nickel in a slot and get a paper umbrella with a wooden handle.
Soda water is not made of soda, but of marble dust.
Light travels at the rate of 186,000 miles a second; sound at the rate of 1,100 feet a second.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
“Pasteboard Palace,” Passes	COMMERCE J’ROFS ON AIR
On, But Leaves a Heritage	End Commerce Talks.
By Bryan Degnan
Perhaps you’ve wondered just what those lightning rods jutting out of the roof of Freshman hall are protecting — now that the frosh are gone. Or even with the freshmen there the “Pasteboard Palace” may not have looked particularly precious. But the fact is that the place has a history—however short. Like the hob nails and chewing tobacco it is now part of the old order. The new “Gold Coast” provides the shade.
Not that Freshman was ever pretentious. It was purposely “temporary” and indeed its old age has surprised many. It was built in 1922. Some thought it would be demolished a year or so after its erection. But they came and went, and Freshman continued to serve its purpose. Now pfor the first time in ten years it is erifeless.
sue Marty Brill Once There c^a'But fragments of a great past be-^.ong to that gray clapboard structure faced with a clay courtyard. Marty Brill, his head in a football helmet, once pierced those rather shaky walls. There also Dick Mahoney once reigned as “King of the Hills”—and for no small period.
But the later years of its short history give Freshman more of its color. The “Tea Party” climaxed its social history. Several of the boys had bottles — apparently of potent nature—but on investigation it was found that they were calmly sipping tea.
Boy Strong For Facts
You could tread your way into a room in Freshman at almost any time and hear an amazing disclosure of facts — revealed, of course, in a confidential tone. One boy had offered Janet Gaynor a Chesterfield— only to find that she preferred Camels. “No sir, you can’t trust the ads.” Another would poin^ proudly to his “galle-y of women.” And if your lower lip sagged just a trifle you were in for an evening of “memoirs.” The champ could show you the white jacket presented to him by Jean Harlow. Surprising indeed that no one had danced with Lady Astor.
Don’t Overlook The Phone Booth
The telephone in Freshman was,
perhaps, the most important feature of the place. In the booth were various numbers and various names— and various descriptions "with the names. Your choice for a nickel. If you were at all gullible you could
Rev. William Molony, C.S.C.
Lives in palatial Alumni; misses old Freshman hall.
have an evening’s entertainment of the richest sort. If less adventurous you could be affably entertained by listening to one of the hall Dons read Shakespeare into the phone—unless, of course, the boy himself happened to be somewhat of an artist.
In the way of hall pride for cleanliness Sturla Canale’s room of last year was the paragon. Of course, the layers of dust on the desks, the well-punctured walls, and the stocking-padded corners were merely incidental. Sunday supplements furnished the suite with a unique expression of verve.
Passing of the Pasteboard Palace
To some the passing of the Pasteboard Palace is just another break in the trend: like the circle of the more richly ornamented halls, the gradual disappearance of the “shaggy” with the overflow of the “smooth.” Others see it as a vacant storehouse of what was once considered the last word in good times. Formerly the place vibrated with shouts, yarns, and guffaw.
But these are all things of the past. No imemdiate action is being taken, however, for the demolishment of Freshman hall. The freshman vacated it not long ago. Fred, the janitor, and Hilda, the maid, are no longer seen. But the lightning rods are still there.
(Continued from Page 8)
these four words: “seek reliable investment information.”
“Commercial Credits,” the subject of the paper written by Mr. Payton, and delivered Monday evening, dealt with honesty in credit, credit life blood, credit control, overhead control, selecting risks, and the extension of credit.
In opening, Mr. Payton said: “Credit is a personal matter and its soundness depends so largely upon human qualities that for its safety and its wide circulation, no factor exceeds in importance a hight sense of honor in treating the credit transaction.”
Use Credit Intelligently
Because the nation’s business rests so largely on credit, he stated, a widespread demand in intelligence in the uses to which credit can be placed without unpleasant reactions and financial disturbances, is required. Therefore, every business man should be engaged in constructive and protective activities of all associations and chambers of commerce, he concluded.
“The extending of credit requires thorough investigation and calm judgment,” he said. “This basic principle remains the same whether in the big factory with a special credit man or in the retail store where the merchant affiliates in that capacity himself.” Mr. Payton further explained the services of chambers of commerce, and credit bureaus, as well as the business transaction of the larger houses in cooperation with credit agencies.
Don’t Forget Ethical Principles
Morals of business, he said, have been for the most part a reflection of the morals of the people as a whole. One of the most deplorable things about the present depression, said Mr. Payton, is the apparent willingness of the business man to suddenly forget ethical principles.
In conclusion he said, “No economic or commercial fabric can be sound without a credit structure that has for its foundation that faith in our fellowship that naturally flows from a healthy stale of public mind.” This state of mind; he thinks, follows from a practice of. the virtues of honesty, fairness, justice, and humility.
March 11, 1932
Seventeen
PREXIES HOLD BANQUET “The Scholastic” in Process;
Noted Faculty Men Address Campus Club Leaders.
A Magazine in the Making
(Continued from Page 5) the remarkable preparatory school system in that land.”
Father Burke, editor of The Ave Maria, departed from his customary witty speeches and gave a serious talk that kept the interest of the entire group. Memory as the basis of culture was the theme of this discussion which pointed out the supplanting of memory by irrational reason as the foundation of education.
“Culture is the re-living of great experiences,” Father Burke said, “and we gain this virtue by reason of previous knowledge acquired by memory.”
Father Burke Speaks
The burdening of the youth of America with the task of “reasoning before they have the materials on which to reason,” was the fault of modern education according to the speaker. He closed with a plea for the increased training of the memory.
Coordination between the alumni and the students was the tenor of the talk by Professor Clarence Manion. This coordination is to be obtained by the bridging of the gap between the two organizations, he said. “The closer union of the heads of each organization,” he declared, “must be effected.
James Armstrong, secretary of the Alumni association, took up from this point and stated that “the first steps in removing the barriers previously existing have been taken by the alumni. They are having student representatives in their board of governors. The final step is the alumni interview with the prospective student.” These tend to cement the union between the organizations.
Seniors Must “Check Up”
Recalling the freshmen convocation of 1928 when he addressed the present senior class in their first year, the Reverend Raymond M. Murch, C.S.C. declared that the time has come for senios to “check up on the development of their characters.”
“College,” stated Father Murch, “gives us the instruments or tools with which to work out our own objective by following the eternal rules of human development, but the process is purely a personal one.”
By Edward O’Brien
Sharpshooters. That is what the circulation squad of The Scholastic seems to be as each Friday afternoon they plunge from one end of long corridors to the other, flipping the magazines crashing into doorways. They snap the Scholastics to left and right with great speed and accurate
Rollin Collins
“. . . the more you know about this, the less you’ll know about anything else.”
aim. A machine gun in a tunnel. But this is only one phase of The Scholastic. Let’s follow it through the process of assembling and printing.
A Scholastic reporter walks into the Publications office and tosses his story into the basket, looks around a bit, swoops down on an unguarded Juggler and then strolls out. The Juggler isn’t missed and the copy is read and corrected. Next we find it in the Printing office, back of the Main building.
In the Composing Room
Hearing a clinking and rumbling in a far corner of the composing room, we have a look. The sound emanates from several Intertype machines located there. We see the copy propped up in front of the operator as he taps out letters, words, and sentences. He has a complicated keyboard to work, and a seemingly hopeless mass of machinery behind it. Don’t ever try to understand this machine, because, as
Operator Collins dryly observes, “The more you know about one of these gadgets, the less you know about anything else.” It is enough to know that in some way the Intertype molds the type.
The type is then removed from the machine and cut to fit the three-column page of The Scholastic. Items are arranged in a “dummy” of 32 pages—the size of The Scholastic. Now comes the actual printing.
The first form is run on one side of the sheets of paper, four feet long and three feet wide. This is done on Thursday. The second form is run Friday morning, on the reverse side of the first form sheets.
Sheets Become Magazine
Watching these large sheets become magazines is interesting. They are snatched by suction from a pile of blank sheets at the elevated end of the automatic press and printed. Drifting down jiggling straps, they pass over gas flames to sink onto a neatly piled stack at the bottom. The flame serves to remove from the paper electricity which makes it as unmanageable as a feather in a gale.
The potential magazines are then taken to .the second floor where the Sisters cover and clip them. Strange as it may seem, the magazines are still in one piece and the last operation is the cutting.
A half hour later the magazine crashes into your doorway. But enough of this story of the evolution of The Scholastic, and let’s see what makes the printing shop “tick.”
Brother Mark Is Head
Brother Mark is one of the chief cogs in the workings of the printing shop. His work is chiefly that of linotyping and setting up type, but he is proficient at almost anything connected with printing. Despite this somewhat monotonous occupation, he is deeply interested in The Scholastic.
It is difficult to find any trace of the first location of the printing shop, but it must have been puny when compared to the present one. As an example, we might note that The Scholastic at that time, in 1867, was little more than -a fly-leaf stuck on the cover of The Ave Maria.
Eighteen
The Scholastic
VCX POP
The S. A. C. was stirred this week as never before. Rocked from their latent, lackadaisical attitude of indifference, the local “board of governors” indignantly denied the charges made in a Scholastic editorial last week.
The chairman of the S. A. C. demanded an apology from The Scholastic, which, of course, was not given. The Scholastic feels that its facts were true, its method right.
The following letter is printed here because The Scholastic believes that the S. A. C. should be given an equal right to express its views. That The Scholastic does not agree with the letter goes without saying.
For the benefit of the S. A. C., which, it seems, has met four times since Christmas, The Scholastic has italicised pertinent phrases.
V
To The Scholastic:
Your editorial “Nominated for Oblivion” is the latest move of The Scholastic in its inherent condemnation of the Student Activities council. We realize that there are times when the editor is forced to fill space with something selected at random. But it might be advisable for him to know what he is condemning.
We do not choose to condemn any campus organizations but to vindicate ourselves by correcting the false impressions of the editor. He might jot a few of these facts in a notebook and hand it to next year’s chief—he will appreciate it.
The Presidents’ council is a subsiddiary of the S. A. C. It was organized several years ago by the S. A. C. At first, the chairman of campus clubs, a member of the S. A. C., was in full charge, but for the past two years we have allowed the Presidents’ council to elect it’s own chairman. The purpose of this newly created body is to stimulate activity among the various state and city clubs, and to schedule meetings at appointed places. It is entirely under the jurisdiction of the S. A. C.; its president received his instructions at the start of the school year.
We realize, now, that we have allowed the Presidents’ council too much liberty. They overstep their bounds when they ask the S. A. C. or Blue Circle for two dollars for a charter. The S. A. C. has its charter directly from the University and it is responsible to no other organization on this campus. The Blue Circle is also a subsidiary. Probably we have been a bit lax in exercising our powers over the Presidents. We were, nevertheless, specific in our instructions at the start of the year. We did not realize that they would assume authority in matters other than those specified. Nor did we realize that the Presidents’ council would assume the title “ruler of all campus activities” instead of “ruler of all state and city clubs.”
The Scholastic never intended to praise the S. A. C. We shall refresh your memory a bit. Last fall you condemned the Presidents’ council in a similar editorial and thus indirectly the S. A. C. For the past four months you have given considerable publicity and praise to the Presidents’ council, sometimes devoting columns of space to a meeting that lasted five minutes and then repeating the same new (?) two weeks later. Until now, it seemed as though you were trying to kill us with kindness. Your
motive, however, is not clear. Might it be, that you were trying to elevate the Presidents’ council and then have it turn on its foster parent, the S. A. C.? If it is, then we gladly tell you that it is not the likely thing to happen.
Contrary to your opinion, the S. A. C. and Blue Circle are in no danger of losing their charters because of the recent edict of the Presidents’ council. The reason is evident. Incidentally, we have held more than one meeting this quarter, but we do not see fit to make statements to an organ that will change the substance and insert its own unwanted opinions.
The Council has often-times discussed the attitude of the editor of The Scholastic and his staff at the time of class dances. They would not co-operate with the class presidents because they were refused complimentary tickets. The class presidents were acting under orders from the Faculty Dance committee, and they appealed to the University authorities for aid in forcing the editor and the staff into granting the necessary publicity. We “racketeers” were emba/rrassed by the attitude of the editor-in-chief of The Scholastic.
Your stand is clearly stated in the editorial. “The Scholastic . . . has ever found it increasingly difficult to support with any degree of warmness the listless measures that the local ‘governing’ body has attempted to foster.” Truth is stranger than fiction. Unconsciously, you support our “listless measures” ivhen you approve the various actions of the Presidents’ council. For this we sincerely thank you.
It might be well to congratulate you on the success of the Boxing show. The S. A. C. sponsored these bouts in previous years and ivould not have permitted you to run it this year except that it heartily approved the purpose. We realize that it was not much of a success last year but you know the reason as well as we do. However, you might recall the bouts of a few years back. In those days the editor of The Scholastic was not prejudiced but gave his whole-hearted support to student activities. Nevertheless, your show received the co-operation of the S. A. C. and Blue Circle. Wasn’t John Perone, chairman of the Blue Circle, the vital factor? Didn’t members of the S. A. C. and Blue Circle materially and financially aid the success of the feature bout, the “hit of the show”?
The scope of our activities is not limited to the “superficial conducting of a pep meeting or two, or the halfhearted fostering of spring elections.” You are not acquainted with our activities and therefore in no position to judge. We have gone about our business in a quiet manner; we did not run a notice in The Scholastic every time a member of the S. A. C. went to town on business; nor did we mention that he came back by taxi—which, according to The Scholastic, is news (?).
Although we outside of the fold are not entirely familiar with the intricate workings of journalism, it seems that there are certain principles of journalistic ethics which are common to all. One of these principles might be crudely worded so as to bluntly, state, “go out and get the news.” We shall try to make our point clear by an example. The Tanktown Daily Bleat, on account of lack
(Continued on Page 31)	'

March 11, 1932
Nineteen
EDITCK’T PAGE
THEY WALK ABOUT, NOT TO AND FROM
Some editorial comment is probably necessary to explain the presence of the letter on the adjacent page. Yet The Scholastic hesitates before taking space to explain its position.
The Scholastic could well turn loose sarcastic remarks on the S. A. C. It could well resort to the same “mud-slinging” tactics of the undergraduate “governing” body. This editorial could employ, as they do, meaningless phrases with libelous charges.
But we prefer to smile, instead, and look with askance at the youthful enthusiasm, which is usually all too latent in the saga of the 1932 Student Activities council.
After all, The Scholastic history is an open book of as many issues as are published. It can cover up nothing. Its record stands on printed sheets. The minutes of its meetings are public property.
And where, pray, is the S. A. C. ?
The Scholastic can point to a swimming meet, to a boxing show, to a tennis tournament as proof of its activity. It can show some eighteen issues of its publication this year as facts that are indisputable when activity is mentioned.
And what, may we ask, has the S. A. C. accomplished ?
The Scholastic, with 67 years of sobering tradition, does not make rash, unguarded statements. Its editorial policy is carefully shaped, its plans sincerely laid, and conservatively voiced.
Its condemnation of the S. A. C. came when that group refused to show noticeable signs of activity, when meetings dwindled to less than one each month.
The S. A. C. has been conspicuously inactive. By what right have they to criticize other undergraduate organizations ?
Or where, we repeat, are the S. A. C.’s list of activities ?
The Scholastic cannot help but smile indulgently, as it gladly prints the letter of the S. A. C. The angry, jealous shoutings of the Student Activities council on another page are empty echoes from a hollow shell. They are cries from the distant past, of a group whose present is made wholly from the successes of other years, and whose existence is tolerated only on the grounds of tradition, not of 1932 activity.
It is possible that these editorial proddings may induce the S. A. C. to accomplish something further than the writing of letters, or slinging “mud” at the expense of editors of the campus publication. If The Scholastic has done that, it will be proud, for it does believe that the S. A. C., properly managed, can make a fine future for itself.
The Scholastic smiles at the references to the Presidents’ council, to its own news gathering system, to the slurring remarks against the successful boxing show.
What comment need The Scholastic make ? What issues must we debate ? Must we resort to “mud-slinging,” the favorite weapon of politicians, on or off the campus ? Must we single out the chairman of the S. A. C. and publicly report his errors ? •
Must we take the trouble to deny that the S. A. C. could have stopped The Scholastic from staging the boxing show, which they last year could not successfully run? Need it inform the campus that the Presidents’ council is separate from the S. A. C. in everything save an uninforced antiquated ruling?
It should not be necessary to tell the campus that one month has passed since the two representatives of the S. A; C. returned from a convention in Tennessee, without a meeting being held or a report filed.
The campus, The Scholastic feels, is fully aware that there is no student government at Notre Dame in anything other than a title.
The fault lies not with The Scholastic’s news-gathering organization, but rather with the lack of light under the S. A. C.’s bushel.
Twenty	’	.
♦ SCCRTS ♦
The Scholastic
Fourteen Teams In C. I. C. Meet
Michigan Normal Threatens Reign Of N. D. In Carnival Here To-Morrow
PLANS FOR INTERHALL SWIMMING ANNOUNCED
Renewal of Sprint Duel, Strong Hurdle Field, Feature Card; Wilson Stand-out Entry.
By James S. Kearns
The Notre Dame gym will be the mecca for fourteen track squads comprising almost 300 athletes tomorrow afternoon for the sixth annual renewal of the Central Intercollegiate conference track meet. Preliminaries in some events will be run tonight.
Notre Dame’s harrier squad will be defending its title for the fifth consecutive year. No other squad has ever won the indoor championship but the prospects of such an event are brighter this year than on the eve of any other meet.
Michigan Normal Feared
Outstanding in the field of 13 rivals is the hearalded squad from Michigan Normal College of Ypsilanti. The Ypsi runners are boasting their greatest track squad and are bent on capturing the team title.
Led by Gene Beatty and Red Simmons in the hurdles, and Captain Rha Arnold in the middle distances, the teachers swamped Butler 86 to 9 earlier in the year. Since that meet they have continued to show every indication of powerful scoring ability.
Wilson Defends Titles
Dominating the field of individual entrants is Alex Wilson, Notre Dame, holder of the 440 and 880 yard meet records. While he is expected to win both his favorite events, he can expect a stiff argument all the way, especially in the shorter race.
Jack Tierney, Marquette ace who pushed Wilson to a gym record last Saturday, and Rha Arnold are the chief threats to the blond speedster’s reign. Hersey, Michigan Normal,
and Hovey, of Michigan State, will add plenty of competition to the field.
Perhaps as strong a field in the hurdle events as has ever shown in the meet will go to the blocks. Simmons and Beatty of Michigan Normal placed one-two in the low sticks last year and are dangerous high-hurdlers. Michigan State will attempt to match the Ypsi pair with Bath and Liberty, great performers.
Other outstanding entrants in the high hurdles are Podrebarac, Drake, and Art Ravensdale, Marquette’s Canadian flash. Both men will probably run the low sticks as well.
Metcalfe-McCormick Dual
With one victory over the Irish leader under his belt, Ralph Metcalfe, dusky Marquette sprinter, rules a slight favorite to lift Captain Bill McCormick’s sprint crown in the 60yd. dash.
Frank Smith, a coming sensation with Drake, and O’Niel, of Detroit, are favored to survive the preliminaries and may shelve the McCormick-Metcalfe battle with a surprise win of their own. O’Niel finished in the money last winter when McCormick ran a :06.2 race to win.
Captain Ray Schwartz, Western State, Capt. Jack Walter, Marquette, Pongrace, Michigan State, and O’Connor, Michigan Normal, loom as the outstanding milers of the field. Schwartz, winner of last year’s mile is favored to repeat his triumph.
Kansas State Unknown
While both Clark Chamberlain, Michigan State luminary, and Gene Howery, Irish distance star, are entered in the mile, it is expected that they will confine their activities to the two mile race where a private duel is imminent.
The lone darkhorse of the large
(Continued on Page 25)
Preliminary Meets March 14th and 18th; Finals March 21.
Plans for the annual interhail swimming championships were released this week by Charles F. Weiss, head of interhall sports. Two preliminary and a fiinal meet are planned. The three events will be completed before Easter vacation.
Lyons, Morrissey, Sophomore, Dillon, St. Edward’s, Badin, Corby, and Sorin have been named for the first meet to be held Monday, March 14 th at 8:00 p. m.
Second Meet, March 18th
The second preliminary meet will be held a week from tonight, Friday, March 18th. The six remaining halls, Alumni, Walsh, Off-Campus, Howard, Brownson, and Carroll will compete.
Entry in the final meet will be restricted to the men who qualify in one of the preliminaries. The number of qualifiers for each event will be announced later.
Track Coaches In Charge
The natatorium will be open every evening but Sunday from 7:00 till 9:00 for practice. Hall track coaches will take over the various tank squads for the meets.
The list of coaches follows: Ad-donizio and Brancheau (Alumni), Cronin and Freehill (Badin), Golden and Gru (Brownson), Hofron and Hayes (Carroll), Henningfield and James Harriss (Corby), HoIIeran and Keating (Dillon), Kozak and La-Borne (Freshman), Quenan and Reu-land (Lyons), Seidle and Sabo (Morrissey), William Smith and Szekely (Off-Campus), Van Allen and Baechle (Sophomore), Blaine and Cardinale (Sorin), Chapamn and Clark (St. Edward’s), and Curry and Dregan (Walsh).
March 11,1932
Twenty-one
Title Defender
GAGERS WIN SECOND FROM MARQUETTE
Alex Wilson
National and Millrose 600-yard champion; titleholder in British Empire for the 440. Defends C. I. C. championships and records in 880 and 440 tomorrow.
ED KRAUSE, CROWE, AND NEWBOLD ON PITT ALL-OPPONENT
Three Notre Dame basketball luminaries were named on the all-opponents squad picked by the Pittsburgh squad this week. Ed Krause, center, was named on the first five. Captain Norb Crowe was given a second team berth, and Bill Newbold received honorable mention.
Sixteen teams from all sections of the country were represented in the selection. The Panther squad has met 22 cage squads during the season. Duquesne, Purdue, and Notre Dame each landed two men in the first two teams.
The balloting by the Panther players gave Krause the pivot position by a unanimous vote. Johnny Wooden, Purdue guard, was the only other unanimous choice.
The first team follows. Forwards— Nemer (So. Cal) and MacDougal (Duquesne); Center—Krause; Guards —Wooden (Purdue) and Reiter (Duquesne).
NOTICE!
Preliminary heats in the 60, 440, and 880 yard events of the C. I. C. meet will be run tonight. Preliminaries in the 65-yard low hurdles and the 60-yard highs will also be held this evening. The first heat will be run at 7:40 p. m.
C. I. C. ENTRY LIST
Butler
De Paul
Detroit City College
Detroit University
Drake
Grinnell
Kalamazoo College
Kansas State
Loyola (Chicago)
Marquette
Michigan Normal
Michigan State Notre Dame Western State Teachers
Krause Leads Scoring In 15th Consecutive Triumph.
Notre Dame won its fifteenth consecutive basketball of the season when the Fighting Irish defeated Marquette, 37-26, at Milwaukee last Friday night. A rally in the final seven minutes accounted for Notre Dame’s victory after Marquette had tied the score at 21-all in a second half spurt.
Irish Lead At Half
Krause led the attack for the victors, scoring four baskets, and playing an excellent floor game. Notre Dame scored nine points before Bud-runas sank a free throw to put Marquette on the records. The Hilltoppers then opened up a barrage on the basket and cut the Notre Dame margin down to 9-7, but the Irish forged ahead steadily, and at halftime the score stood 17-10 in their favor.
Marquette played brilliant ball during the second period and with only seven minutes to play tied the score at 21-all. But then Notre Dame began to function, and the spent Marquette was unable to avert the resulting slaughter.
Voegele, DeCook Score
Voegele and DeCook were next to Krause in scoring, each getting six points, and Newbold was next with five. Shipley was the only Marquette player who found the basket with any regularity, and Budrunas, chief offensive star, was held to a single field goal by Krause.
Summary:
Notre Dame (37)	g	f	p
Newbold, rf .....................2	1	0
Voegele .........................2	2	2
DeCook, If ......................2	2	2
Krause, c .......................4	0	3
N. Crowe, rg ....................2	0	1
Burns. Ig........................2	0	2
L. Crowe ........................2	0	1
Marquette (26)	c	f	p
Gorycha. rf .....................1	-3	0
Mullen, If ......................1	1	0
Budrunas, c .....................1	2	0
Kukla .........................  1	0	0
Ronzani, rg .....................1	3	2
Shipley. 1g .....................3	1	1
Referee — Schommer (Chicago) ; Umpire — Young (Illinois Wesleyan).
Steve Donoghue, one of the greatest jockeys in the world, rode a blind horse to victory.
Twenty-two
The Scholastic
Cagers Close Season With 28-23 Victory Over Butler
16th STRAIGHT WIN
DeCook, Krause, Lead Scoring In Hectic Tilt; Chadd and .Davis Star For Butler.
By T. Edward Carey
The Notre Dame basketball team closed the 1932 season last night by tying the proverbial can to Butler. Notre Dame, aparently showing the strain of a long, hard season, played some terrible basketball, but Butler, not to be outdone, was even worse. The score was 28 to 23, but Notre Dame was more than five points better than the visitors. Three thousand people jammed the Notre Dame fieldhouse to see the game.
Early Play Close
The first ten minutes of the game were hard fought. Proffitt scored the first field goal after Notre Dame had tallied four foul shots to Butler’s one. DeCook and Davis each came through with another foul to make the score 5 to 4 before Burns scored Notre Dame’s first field goal and gave the Fighting Irish a three point lead. At the end of ten minutes of play Notre Dame was ahead by the score of 9 to 4.
At about this time Krause and DeCook began to open fire and turned a more or less respectable contest into a near rout. DeCook sank four out of four foul shots and got two field goals in the first half. The score at the intermission was 18 to 6 in favor of Notre Dame.
Irish Lose Fire
The locals seemed to wilt during the second half. They began strong, however, and increased their lead to 20-10 during the first five minutes of the second period and were ahead 23 to 14 at the end of ten. But Butler began to fight harder, and a field goal and two fouls by Davis, together with the exodus of Tommy Burns on personals, made things look a bit brighter for the downstaters. Captain Crowe sank a timely field goal and Notre Dame led 25 to 18.
Both sides substituted freely dur-
1931-32 BASKETBALL SCHEDULE
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Dec. 4—Kalamazoo 7, N. D. 37.
Dec. 8—Adrian 13, N. D. 37.
Dec. 12—Indiana 23, N. D. 18.
Dec. 15—Purdue 32, N. D. 24.
Dec. 21—Northwestern 25, N. D. 32.
Dec. 31—Northwestern 21, N. D. 22.
Jan. 5—St. Thomas 19, N. D. 34
Jan. 9—Michigan State 25, N. D. 28.
Jan. 12—Marquette 31, N. D. SS.
Jan. 16—Pennsylvania 12, N. D. 25.
Jan. 23—Pittsburgh 25, N. D. 32.
Feb. 1—Iowa 18, N. D. 33.
Feb. 6—Pittsburgh 19, N. D. 26.
Feb. 10—Syracuse 18, N. D. 26.
Feb. 13—Western Reserve 25, N. D. 32.
Feb. 19—Butler 32, N. D. 37.
Feb. 23—Michigan State 20, N. D. 28.
Feb. 27—Army 23, N. D. 41.
Mar. 4—Marquette 26, N. D. 37.
Mar. 11—Butler 23, N. D. 28.
ing the hectic closing minutes, but this changed neither the relative strength nor score. Krause dropped in one final basket, and Leo Crowe added a foul, while Whitey Chadd was winding up the Butler scoring with a lengthy bucket and a foul.
Stars End Career
Every member of the Notre Dame first team except Krause closed his collegiate basketball career last night. DeCook led the scoring with ten points; Krause collected nine, and Norb Crowe, four. Davis of Butler got eight points, and Chadd, six. Fifteen personals were called against Notre Dame, and’ fourteen against Butler. Notre Dame outscored Butler from the foul stripe twelve points to nine.
Summary:
Notre Dame (28)	c	p	p
Newbold, rf .....................0	1	2
DeCook, If.......................3	4	1
Krause, c........................3	3	2
N. Crowe, rg ....................1	2	3
Burns, 1g........................1	1	4
L. Crowe, 1g ....................0	1	1
Butler (23)	c	f	p
Miller, rf ......................1	1	2
Davis, If .......................2	4	2
Proffitt, c .....................2	0	4
Tackett, rg .................... 0	, 2	3
Chadd, 1g .......................2	2	2
Referee, Warren (Chicago) ; umpire. Lane (Cincinnati).
MARTY BRILL JOINS
CONLEY AT LASALLE
Famed Irish Blocking Ace To Coach Backs Under Mate.
The latest developments in the grid coaching world bring together two members of the 1929 and 1930 national championship Notre Dame teams. Marty Brill signed yesterday to coach backfield material at LaSalle college, Philadelphia.
Tom Conley, captain and end of the 1930 team, has been head football and basketball coach at LaSalle during the past year.
Leaves Columbia
Brill coached the Columbia university backfield last fall and turned out a hard-blocking, driving set of backs. His decision to leave Columbia was announced some time ago.
While at Notre Dame, Brill played two seasons of varsity football, holding down a regular job both years. He was rated as the greatest blocking halfback in the country in his senior year, and was one of the greatest defensive backs in the game.
At the end of his senior year, Brill was awarded all-American honor by the all-American board of Warner, Rockne, Jones, and Alexander.
Natives of Philly
Both Conley and Brill are natives of Philadelphia. Brill spent two years at the University of Pennsylvania where he played one season of intercollegiate football.
Having applied most of his efforts to his freshman and sophomore material last fall,-Conley is expected to have a strong nucleus for his grid eleven next year.
March 11, 1932
Twenty-three
Wabash Defeated Irish In Historic Game On Cartier
This is the fourth of a series of articles by Tighe Woods, in which he describes famous Notre Dame plays and players.
By Tighe Woods
Until 1928, when a vicious Carnegie Tech team decided to take sweet revenge on Notre Dame for a long string of humiliating defeats, pep meeting orators used to remind students of a long and glorious tradition. Notre Dame had not been defeated on Cartier field since 1905. Many of us wondered who it was that caused this tradition to begin. The team was Wabash, and the defeat came as a complete surprise.
Notre Dame had been famous for long winning streaks before the Rockne era, but those winning streaks were confined to the state. The Irish had never been defeated by Wabash before, and the game was regarded as a breather. The crowd that witnessed that defeat was slightly larger than a present day Interhall Championship gathering. The boys in the pegged-top trousers and turtle-neck sweaters smoked their pipes and lounged along the sidelines, consenting to attend the game for the want of something else to do.
“The Little Giants” of Wabash had a lot more than just determination
NATIONALLY KNOWN SHOES $4.00 to $13.50 Master Fitted
120 South Michigan SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
that day. They had a light team for that year, probably averaging about a hundred and ninety-five pounds, and they had a gentleman by the name of Buser who seemed intent on going places every time he ran the ends. Notre Dame was not exactly lean in good men. Bill Draper, one of the greatest of Notre Dame all-around athletes was in the backfield and a smart line supported him. But, as The Scholastic naively put it, “lack of that all-together push,” defeated Notre Dame that day.
That Wabash game was one contest in which statistics could not help one bit. Notre Dame made five yards to one for Wabash during the game. Notre Dame lacked the scoring punch from any spot inside the twenty yard line. They had a chance to score from the one foot line late in the second half, but the “Little Giants” braced and Notre Dame tried an end run. The Irish made a brilliant attempt at a comeback in the second half, gaining over two hundred yards from scrimmage, but that day Wabash was destined to be the last invading victors on Cartier field for at least two decades.
Bees average about 40,000 miles of flying in the making of one pound of honey.
Exploring Ocean Bottom
By Intercollegiate Press.
Under the auspices of Princeton University, the International Scientific Expedition to the West Indies has been able to obtain hitherto unknown details of the Bartlett Deep, a large trough in the ocean off the southeastern coast of Cuba.
The St. Louis Browns is the only major league team that has never won its league’s pennant.
Sunday, March 13 CARL MOORE and his WGN Orchestra Drake Hotel, Chicago 75c per person. 9 p. m. to 1 a. m.
St. Patrick’s Party Thursday, Mar. 17
CHARLEY STRAIGHT and his Brunswick Recording Orchestra
5 Big Acts of Vaudeville
Novelties-^-Noisemaker Free. A pair of Chiffon Hose to each lady attending party.
50c per person Park Plan Dancing 9 a. m. to 2 a. m.
Palais Royale
South Bend, Ind.
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
Gym Records Fall As Irish Runners Outscore Marquette
HOWERY WINS TWO
Distance Star Takes Mile and Two-mile; Wilson, Mile Team Shatter Gymnasium Marks.
By Joseph A. Morper
Winning six first places and setting two new gym records, Notre Dame defeated a strong Marquette University track team last Saturday in the local fieldhouse, 50 1-3 to 40 2-3. It was the fourth consecutive dual meet victory for the Irish.
Metcalfe Beats McCormick
The fans who gathered for the clash between Captain Bill McCormick and Ralph Metcalfe, Negro dash star of the Hilltoppers, were rewarded with a bang-up race. McCormick started fast and was a yard ahead at the 30 yard mark. Metcalfe, however, crept up and breasted McCormick at the finish. Dave Booth, team-mate of Metcalfe, was third.
Alex Wilson , continued his winning ways in taking the 440 yard dash in record time. The fleet Britism Empire champion defeated Tierney of Marquette in a driving finish; Macbeth finished third. The new mark of :49.6 was almost a full second better than his old mark of :50.2.
Gene Howery, Notre Dame’s iron man, lived up to his name when he won both the mile and two mile runs. Howery took the lead on the first lap in the mile and won all by himself in 4:31.6, the fastest local mile of the season. Jack Walter of Marquette was second and Roberts of N. D. was third.
Ravensdale Wins
The high hurdles went to Marquette’s Olympic runner, Art Ravensdale, co-holder of the world’s 120 yard low-hurdle record. He defeated Fagan and Poredon of Notre Dame. Finkel won the shot put for Notre Dame, trimming Ronzani of Mar-quete and Groves of the Irish.
Rohrback’s vault of 12. feet 4 inches was good enough for a first in the pole-vault. Schrem and Jelenik, of Marquette, finished in a three way tie with Slattery, of Notre Dame, for second honors.
Nicholson’s decision to hold Wilson out of the 880 made it a wide open event. Kores of Marquette took advantage of the situation and won a close race from Ray Troy and Little, of Notre Dame. The high jump resulted in a tie, Darling of N. D. and Winden of Marquette each clearing the bar at 6 feet.
Mile Team Sets Record
Both the relay races, run in the manner of exhibitions, proved to be record breakers. Marquette failed to enter a team in the mile, and the Irish team ran against time. The quartet of ’ Wilson, Vettel, MacBeth and Kelly clipped two and four-tenth seconds off the mark they set last week, covering the distance in 3:24.6.
Marquette’s record breaking half mile relay team, made of Tierney, Booth, Sisk, and Metcalfe, was only a tenth of a second away from the na' tional amateur mark of 1:33.4.	'
Summary:
ONE-MILE RUN—Won by Howery (ND) : J. Walter (M), second; Roberts( ND), third. Time 4:31.6.
60-YARD DASH—Won by Metcalfe (M) ; McCormick (ND), second; Booth (M), third. Time :06.3.
SHOT PUT—Won by Finkel (ND) : Ronzani (M), second; Groves (ND), third. Distance, 44 feet, 9 inches.
60-YARD HIGH HURDLES—Won by Ravensdale (M) ; Fagan (ND), second; Poredon (ND), third. Time :08.1.
440-YARD DASH—Won by Wilson (ND) ; Tierney (M), second; MacBeth (ND), third. Time :49.6. (new Gym record; old record of :50.2 held by Wilson).
TWO-MILE RUN—Won by Howery (ND) : Geissman (M), second; Ewing (ND), third. Time 9:48.
POLE VAULT—Won by Rohrback (ND) ; Slattery (ND), Schram (M), and Zelenik (M), all tied for second. Height, 12 feet, 4 inches.
880-YARD RUN—Won by Kores (M) : Troy (ND), second ; Little (ND), third. Time2:03.4.
HIGH JUMP—Won by Darling (ND) ; Winden (M), second. Height, 6 feet.
ONE-MILE RELAY—Wilson, Vettel, MacBeth, and Kelly, of Notre Dame, ran against time. Time 3:24.6 (new Gym record; old record 3:27, set by Notre Dame).
880-YARD RELAY —Won by Marquette (Tierney, Booth, Sisk. Metcalfe). Time 1:33.5 (new Gym record).	•
A collection of reptiles from Siam, many of them resembling creatures out of a nightmare, have been received by the Smithsonian Institution at Washington.
C.I.C. RECORDS LIKELY
TO TOPPLE TOMORROW
N. D. Relay Team, Wilson Are Threats to Record Marks.
At least three Central conference records seem due to go by the boards tomorrow when fourteen squads clash in the annual indoor championships. At least that many more are sure to be endangered.
The 440-yard run should see the first meet mark shattered. Alex Wilson, holder of the record, and leading Notre Dame point-getter, ran the quarter in :49.6 last Saturday in the Marquette dual meet. His C. I. C. record of :50.2 seems sure to be surpassed in tomorrow’s race as he will again be facing Jack Tierney, of Marquette, who furnished the major share of competition last week.
Should Win 880
Wilson should repeat his double victory of a year ago by taking the half-mile as well as the quarter. The record in the longer race is also very likely to fall.
Last winter Wilson covered the distance in 1:59.2 for a new record for the meet. He ran almost five seconds faster than that during the season, however, and with the improved running conditions of the re-made track, he should shave the mark considerably.
Relay Record Doomed
There is little doubt that the mile relay record of 3:28, established by Notre Dame last year, will be beaten. The Irish quartet ran the distance in 3:24.6 last week and should have no trouble bettering the meet record.
Invading athletes will threaten the records in several events. Both hurdle races, with Beatty, Simmons, Ravensdale, Liberty, and others in the field should be run close to record time. Beatty was leading the high hurdle field last year when a fall put him out of the race. Johnny O’Brien of Notre Dame went on to win in a new American record of :07.5.
Distance Fields Strong
Clark Chamberlain of Michigan State, will meet a stiff challenge from Gene Howery in the two-mile run and seems slated to approach his record time of a year ago.
The mile run, with Captain Ray Schwartz, of Western State as the outstanding candidate, may produce another new record but it is a bit more remote than in the other events.
March 11, 1932
Twenty-five
Get your copy of SCRIP on sale tonite
Fly Home This Spring Vacation
11% hours to Detroit....$9.95 % hour to Chicago_$4.95 10% off on round trips.
Connections to all parts of the U. S. from South Bend Municipal Airport via ^Iransamerican Airlines Gup.
“South Bend’s Oldest Airline”
VETERAN PASSENGER and AIRMAIL PILOTS
Pioneer Air Transport Operator.
For reservations and information call
3-8151
Lyons Captures Interhall Track Crown In Final Meet
C. I. C. TRACK MEET HERE
(Continued from Page 20)
field is the squad from Kansas State college. The Westerners submitted an entry list of almost §5 athletes and are expected to be represented by one of the largest groups in the meet. Little is known of the strength of the Kansas runners.
Entries in the field events point to the keenest sort of competition. There is little to choose between Finkel, Notre Dame, Blanck, Drake, Dill, Michigan State, and others in the shot put. Leroy Dues, City College of Detroit, ace is rated as a slight favorite on his showing as a sophomore when he consistently threatened the 50 foot mark.
Fair Pole Vaulters
Crink of Loyola, Jim McKinley, Michigan Normal, and Collins of Drake are conceded the leaders’ positions in the pole vault through Dutch Johnston’s meet record of 13 ft. 4% inches seems safe enough.
The advance indications point to a mediocre record in the high jump unless some little-known star is uncovered. First place should be attainable at about six feet one inch.
The team standing hinges largely on the ability of individual performers from teams not in the running to cut in on the strength of Notre Dame, Michigan Normal, and Marquette, the favorites.
N. D. to Be at Rifle Meet
Notre Dame will be unofficially represented at the Indoor Rifle Competition of the Indiana National Guard and Indiana Rifle Association to be held at Culver Military Academy, Culver, Indiana, April 2. The list of entrants from the University has not yet been decided upon, but will be chosen from the members of the National Guard attending here.
Dr. L. J. (Doc.) Cooke, veteran of the University of Minnesota athletic department, has begun his 35th year of sendee. He is 63, and save Amos Alonzo Stagg of the University of Chicago, is the oldest man in point of service in the Big Ten conference.
DILLON IS SECOND
Sophomore, Carroll, Off-Campus Crowd Winners; Van Petten Leads Lyons.
By James W. Pick
Lyons hall won the interhall track meet Tuesday night, leading the field with the totad score of 23 5-6 points. Dillon finished second with 17 ft, Sophomore third with 15 1-3, Carroll fourth with 15 markers, and Off-Campus close behind with 13% for fifth place.
Van Petten Wins Two
The other halls finished in the following order: Alumni and Howard tied for sixth place with 6 points each, Brownson next with 5%, then Walsh with 51-3, and Corby last with 1 point.
Van Petten, of Lyons, led his team to victory by scoring two firsts, one in the mile and the other in the 880 yard run. Robinson and Huisking of Lyons placed first and second, respectively in the shot put to boost their theam’s total. Louey accounted for the remainder of Lyons’ points with a tie for first in the pole vault, and a tie for second in the broad jump.
Van Petten besides being the highest individual scorer of the meet turned in two of the best times of the evening. He ran the mile in 4:57 and the 880-yard run in 2:08.5. Caldwell of Carroll was second in individual scoring with seven points. He took first in the broad jump with a leap of 20 ft. 8 in. and a third in the high jump.
Mueller Takes 60
Mueller of Off-Campus won the 60-yard dash by three yards from Donovan of Alumni. His time was :06.6.
Flatley of Dillon won the high jump easily from his few competitors with a leap of 5 ft. 8 in. Three men, Coogan, Maxwell, and Louey tied for first in the pole vault at a height of ten feet.
Ned Rowan, of Sophomore hall, gave his team a tremendous lead in the first lap of the relay. The handicap was not overcome, but Diloln and Carroll put up a great battle for (Continued on Page 26)
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
LYONS WINS TRACK MEET
(Continued from Page 25)
second place with Dillon finally leading.
Contestants who placed first, second, or third should call for their medals in person at the manager’s office in the gymnasium Manday, March 8, between 3:00 and 5:00 o’clock in the afternoon.
The summary:
60-YD. DASH—Won by Mueller (OC) ; Donovan (A), second; Ashenden (D) and Miller (W), tied for third. Time :06.6.	•
MILE RUN—Won by Van Petten (L) : Duke (H), second; McDevitt (C;, third; Helmer (Br.), fourth. Time 4 :57.
65-YD. LOW HURDLES—Won by Hoffert (D) ; Bospflug (H), second; Kennedy (S), third; Reinboldt (C). fourth. Time :08.
SHOT PUT—Won by Robinson (L) ; Huisk-ing (L), second; Dames (A), third; Mathews (C), fourth. Distance 40 feet, 8 nches.
POLE VAULT—Coogan (Br.), Louey (L), and Maxwell (S), all tied for first; Osweiler (S) and Short (OC), tied for fourth. Height 10 feet.
440-YD. DASH—Won by Bandy (OC) ; Se-ber (C), second; Berger (S), third; McGuire (Br.), fourth. Time :58.
880-YD. RUN—Won by Van Petten (L) ; Cline (W), second; Scholz (D), third; O'Meara (D), fourth. Time 2:08.5.
BROAD JUMP—Won by Caldwell (C) : McCutcheon (S), and Louey (L), tied for sec
ond ; Kennedy (W), fourth. Distance 20 feet, 8 inches.
HIGH JUMP—Won by Flatley (D) ; Kenny (OC), second; Caldwell (C), third. Height 5 feet, 8 inches.
74-MILE RELAY—Won by Sophomore; Dillon, second; Carroll, third; Alumni, fourth. Time 2:33.9.
Mammoth X-ray Tube Begun
By Intercollegiate Press.
Construction is to begin at Massachusetts Institute of Technology at Boston this week of a 15,000,000-volt X-ray tube, which only a few months ago was considered an impossibility.
Yale Wins Glee Club Contest
By Intercollegiate Press.
The annual college glee club contest held at Carnegie Hall in New York was won this year by Yale, with New York University second and Princeton third.
SCRIP the literary quarterly with the human touch. On Sale Tonight!
NAME K. C. COMMITTEES
(Continued from Page 6)
MUSIC—Frank Miller, chairman ; Charles Hitzelberger, Leo Hodel, Frank Honercamp, John McElligott, Kenneth McLeod.
PROGRAM — Charles J. Fiss, chairman; John Murphy, Michael Fox, Robert Hilger, Norbert Christman, Richard Conley.
PUBLICITY—Granger Weil, chairman ; Paul Hallinan, Neil Hurley, Paul Flannigan, Frank Kelley, Joseph Kurth.
RECEPTION—Charles Quigley, chairman ; William Dea, Frank Consolati, Frank Messina, Thomas Tarasovic.
ARRANGEMENTS—Francis Madden, chairman : Harold Stone, Eugene Bernhardt, John Ryan, Stanley Czpalski.
DECORATIONS—Leonard Donoghue, chairman ; Earnest Hechinger, Cyril Theisen, Paul Belden, Leonard Condon, John McGrath, Lawrence Sexton.
PATRONS — Raymond Naber, chairman ; William Judge, Ralph Caletri, Vincent Cin-quina, Patrick Quirk, John Sexton.
BALLROOM — Joseph Kennedy, chaiiman ; Clem Theisen, Ralph Schewe, Harry Hart. Ray Boland, Michael Coyle.
INVITATIONS—Donald Lusardi, chairman ; William Sheils, George Murphy, Francis Don-alty, Leonard McCambridge.
The pyramids of Cheops is made of about 2,300,000 stone blocks, each averaging about 2% tons.
There are twenty-one cables across the Atlantic Ocean.
GREETING CARDS
What could be more appropriate (and economical) thana greeting card on St. Patrick’s day and Easter ?
Our complete selection will please any taste.
Office Supply and Equipment Co.
(Affiliated with the Book Shop) 130 N. MICHIGAN
Better Visum and More Comfort Thru, Better Glasses
Glasses
Properly styled and properly prescribed to give better vision and more comfort by competent specialists.
(Exclusive for those particular people who are interested in good eye-care.)
LEMONTREE
Optometrists
222% So. Mich. St.	102 W. Wash. St.
Old established Optometrists who merit your confidence.
Broken lenses duplicated promptly and accurately
March'll, 1932
'Twenty-sewn
Splinters From The Press Box
By James S. Kearns
THE END
No, not of the column—the twenty game basketball schedule. Without question, the season just finished is one of the most remarkable ever completed by any Notre Dame basketball squad.
When the gun ended last night’s rather weird struggle, the season’s percentage of the Keoganites was an even .900. Of the eighteen victories, sixteen were recorded in succession. The victims ranged through conferences, and sections enough to give a national aspect to the campaign. All of which makes the glory greater.
Just as surely as the season had to end, so do athletic careers. Six of them got their finis last night. Captain Norb Crowe, Ray DeCook, Bill Newbold, Tommy Burns, Clay Johnson, and Al Schumacher played their last game under Coach Keogan. Everyone who watches Notre Dame basketball is sorry to see them go.
They w’ere great performers and fine sportsmen. Combinations of that sort are somewhat rare, but the qualification fits them all. They’ll be missed.
V
SHADES OF THORPE
M. Ladoumegue, for shame! Merely a few “unofficial” gifts for that 4:09 mile and the French amau union says “Out.”
It cost the Olympic games a bit of their brightest color,' but it is a most heartening sign of sincerity in international competition. Also, a bit rare.
Before the box-seat timers award the Olympic 1,500 meter crown to the Pottstown . sensation, Gene Venzke, we’d like to point a little to a Har-vard lad named Hollowell. He won the I. C. 4A mile last week in 4:12. Admittedly it is a bit shy of Venzke’s mark, but it requires no apology.
V
INTERHALL
We seem to remember a motto we used to read over one of our pals’ desk.“. . . If you think some praise is due him, now’s the time to slip it to him . . .” was the theme. Spurred by the memory, we are about to re
move from our chest one large-sized bit of commendation that we feel is weeks overdue.
Possibly the unqualified success of the Interhall sports season is glory enough for Charles F. Weiss, manager in charge, and his two assistants, Tony Wirry and Clyde Lewis. It is
THE CLASS OF ’32
CHARTER HOUSE
SUITS
—at new low prices
’30
Charter House Clothes represent the prevailing fashion approved by University men.
MAX ADLER
On the Corner	Michigan at Washington
unquestionable tribute to their organizing and directing abilities.
Few years in interhall history can show the real enthusiasm, or the wide-spread support given the system this year. While there may be other causes, we are inclined to attribute the greatest share of responsibility to the three managers.
Infinite precision as to detail and untiring application to’ the endless problems, have cured the ills of the Interhall sports system. Charley Weiss, Tony Wirry, and Clyde Lewis have been the doctors.
Twenty-eight
The Scholastic
INTERHALL SPORTS
By Irving B. Halper
Carroll hall lightweights were the first of the various interhall teams to be declared the winner of their group league. Off-Campus lighties forfeited to the freshmen, Sunday, and this victory cinched the title. The Carroll five completed their schedule with six wins and no defeats. Brownson, their closest rival, has won four, while dropping one, and has but one game left on their schedule.
In every other group the winners are not definitely decided. Badin lightweights and Off-Campus heavyweights are both undefeated in their groups but there are possibilities of their being defeated this next Sunday, which, incidentally, will write finis for the regular schedule of the 1932 Interhall basketball season.
Lyons accomplished the impossible in downing Sorin’s heavy-weights and threw the Group I lead in the air. Now Sorin, Lyons, and Sophomore are tied for first place. This Sunday Sorin plays Sophomore and Lyons—
is opposed to Morrissey, who is only one game behind the leaders in the standings. Morrissey could make it easy for Charley Weiss and his assistants by defeating Lyons and in this way make the winner of the Sorin-Sophomore game the champions. However, if Lyons wins, and the dope favors them to do so, it will mean a play-off.
Law, Walsh right forward, and his team-mate, Hitzelberger, led Walsh to an easy 22 to 10 victory over Brownson. Law tallied seven points and played a good floor game, as did Hitzelberger. Wheeler, Brownson center, • starred for the losers.
Lyons dumped Sorin, 25 to 21, in a fast and rough game. Sandura, who jumps center for- Lyons, was the star for the winners, but was forced to share individual honors with Host, Sorin captain and forward. Sandura was credited with six field goals, while Host tallied ten points. Gildea and Vettel of Lyons and Heitz and Baldwin of Sorin were other stars.
Off-Campus continued their march
to the heavyweight crown by taking Carroll into camp to the tune of 16 to 10. Vitt, Off-Campus forward, led the Daydog attack. Heinle starred for Carroll.
Corby defeated Dillon in the game that probably decided the last place position of Group I, by a score of 16 to 15. Mulhram and Moke were the senior luminaries, while Morrison shone for the losers.
Freshman, led by Sinkowitz, stellar left guard, defeated Alumni, 14 to 11. Frye, center, and Barnett, forward, were other Freshman stars. Clark was the outstanding man in the Alumni lineup.
Fred Weidner made what is believed to be a record for scoring this year and was one reason St. Edward’s trounced Badin, 37 to 17. Weidner, who cavorts at guard for the “Minims,” scored seven field goals and two free throws for a total of 16 points. Mueller and Jahr were other St. Edward’s stars. Lewis shone for Badin despite the overwhelming score.
It took Sophomore three overtime periods to do it, but they finally defeated Morrissey, 15 to 13, Crossan and Weingrad leading the offensive attack for the winners. Brost and
SURPLUS STOCK
Men’s High Grade
Double Tap Sole—Iron Bed
FIELD SHOES
FOR MEN OR BOYS
Last year’s price vas $3.85. A shoe for all outside workers.
ENDICOTT-JOHNSON Men's Oxfords $1.95
GIL-BRO’S
330 S. Michigan St.
Hello Men!
Smith’s Cafeteria HIE. Jefferson Blvd.
Shetland Bldg.	*
^he Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The place that makes you glad you re hungry
March 11, 1932
Twenty-nine
INTRODUCING a Al Schumacher
By William Flynn
December 21st, Notre Dame was playing Northwestern, defending Big-Ten basketball champions, at the local field house. Most of the bleacher seats were empty. A rather dismal place for a little drama of sport.
Five minutes to play, Dr. Keogan’s charges were holding in check the . scoring activities of Joe Reiff, Wildcat ace, and the score read 26 to 25. Notre Dame began to stall to pull out the Northwestern defense.
A quiet, modest, hard working forward was sent in to replace Bill Newbold. He settled himself to .the job and stole the show.
Two field goals and one free throw he dropped through the hoop before the final gun was fired. The final score read 32 to 25, and Allan Schumacher had again come through in a pinch.
Eight years before, this same boy had had something to do with another team winning basketball honors. In Shawano, Wis., his home town, the coach of the 1923 basketball team was then looking for someone
Allan Schumacher
to hold tion.
From coming macher.
down a forward posi-
the ranks of the infreshman class came Schu-
He satisfied his coach and
helped carry Shawano High to the
year was awaredd his monogram. For two years he has been a waiter in the west dining hall. •
In June Schumacher is returning to the town he helped carry to basketball titles eight years ago as a freshman in high school. There he plans on going into the family furniture business with his father. He has spent his summer vacation driving the furniture truck, but after graduation he is going in for more adimnis-trative part of selling davenports, over-stuffed chairs, and interior decoration accessories.
He doesn’t say much about himself or his ambitions. But his room in Sorin, 213, reflects good taste in furniture selection. And when he mentions basketball teams and players he grows about as enthusiastic as a quiet person can in his praise of this year’s Purdue team. He rates them and their captain-guard, Johnny Wooden, as the best team and player he has ever witnessed in action.
Phone	Xray
Office 2-1067
Residence 3-4041
Dr. E. S. Lucas
Dentist
702 J. M. S. Building Opposite Oliver Hotel -
SOUTH BEND - INDIANA
runner-up title in the Wisconsin state high school basketball tournament. He continued on for four years in that capacity. But he did not limit his high school athletics to basketball alone.
During his four years of high school competition, Schumacher played football, basketball, and track. He tried them all and gave a good account of himself. He won numerous letters but never mentions them.
In 1927 he matriculated at Marquette and played a year of freshman basketball at the Milwaukee institution. The following September, 1928, saw him sweltering in the long line of students in the Main building at Notre Dame, patiently awaiting an opportunity to register in the College of Arts and Letters.
Now, four years later, he is finishin his A. B. course with a major in history and membership in the monogram club. He has worked as an understudy to Bill Newbold, and last
EVERY HOUR ON THE HOUR
ROUND TRIP EXCURSION
South, Bend to Chicago
$3.90
Week ends, Fri., noon thru Mon.
Leave South Bend station, Michigan and La Salle streets, any train Friday noon to Sunday noon. Return on any train up to and including 11:30 p. m. train, Monday. For information phone South Bend 3-3111, or see Chas. Woods, 222 Lyons Hall.
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
50Uthsehore
Thirty
The Scholastic
INTERHALL SPORTS
(Continued from Page 28)
Herold fought hard for the losers. By virtue of the victory, Sophomore tied for first place with Sorin and Lyons.
Sorin lightweights hit their winning stride again and defeated Lyons, 16 to 8. Brown, of Sorin, with six points, was the high point man of the game. Mullen, Podrasza, and Meyers handled the ball well for the losers. Meyers is Lyons’ hope for all-interhall honors.
Dillon, led by Bringarden, right forward, defeated Corby, 18 to 15. The above duo played a good brand of basketball. Dunleavy and Dalsey starred for the seniors.
Alumni downed Freshman in a fast fray, 19 to 13. Joyce, who plays left guard for Alumni, starred for the winners. Hoffman also played well for Alumni. Toomey starred for Freshman.
Freeman, Badin center, scored ten points and led his mates to their sixth straight win, over St. Edward’s,
20 to 16. Montgomery was another Badinite who aided his team toward the title . Buckley and Ward shone for St. Edward’s.
Sophomore downed Morrissey in a tight battle, 13 to 10. Rich, Sophomore center, hooped four field goals in the second half and led the way. Hendricks and Dugan starred for Morrissey.
STANDINGS
4 TESTS
That make your dollar buy more at this store this spring
1—IS IT GOOD STYLE?
No matter what you spend for a suit, if it isn’t good style, you’re going to feel uncomfortable every time you wear it. We know style. We insist that everything we sell be in good taste and keeps that good style. Otherwise—“thumbs down.” That’s Text Number 1.
2—IS IT MADE WELL?
The sewing, linings, seams, felling—everything must be well done or your clothes won’t fit or hold their style. If there’s any skimping anywhere—that merchandise hasn’t a chance of getting into our stock. That’s Test Number 2.
3—WILL IT WEAR?
In clothes, we insist on weight tests, thread count tests, rubbing tests and a half-dozen other tests. You’ll get long, satisfactory wear out of everything you buy here.
4—WILL IT SELL FAST AT SMALL PROFIT?
That’s not only another way of saying Extra Values for your money—but also it means good-looking, stylish merchandise. If it moves quickly, we can give you more for your money and take less for ourselves. That means fresh stock always.
Spiro’s—Hart Schaffner & Marx Suits and Topcoats for Spring answers
“YES”to all4 Tests
Unusually fine values this Spring for
*20 *25 *2950
Sam’l Spiro & Co.
. The Home of Hart Schaffner & Marx Clothes
GROUP I.
Heavyweights	Lightweights
	w	L	PCT.	w		L	PCT.
Sorin	5	1	.833	Badin	6	0	1.000
Lyons	5	1	.833	Dillon	5	1	.833
Sophomore	5	1	.833	Sophomore	4	2	.667
Morrissey	4	2	.667	Sorin	4	2	.667
St. Ed’s	3	3	.500	Corby	2	4	.333
Badin	1	5	.167	Lyons	1	5	.167
Corby	1	5	.167	Morrissey	1	5	.167
Dillon	0	6	.000	St. Ed’s	1	5	.167
			GROUP II.				
Heavyweights				Lightweights			
	w	L	PCT.		w	L	PCT.
Off-C’pus	5	0	1.000	Carroll	6	0	1.000
Freshman	4	I	.800	Brownson	4	1	• .800
Walsh	3	2	.600	Howard	3	2	.600
Howard	2	3	.400	Off-C’pus	3	2	.600
Alumni	2	3	.400	Alumni	1	4	.200
Carroll	2	4	.333	Freshman	1	4	.200
Brownson	0	5	.000	Walsh	0	5	.000
GAME SCHEDULE
March 13
Group II—
8:30 a.m.—Brownson vs. Howard
9:30 a. m.—Freshman vs. Off-Campus
10:00 a.m.—Alumni vs. Walsh Carroll—bye.
Group I—
1:30 p. m.—Sophomore vs. Sorin
2:30 p.m.—Badin vs. Dillon
3:30 p.m.—Lyons vs. Morrissey
4:30 p.m.—Corby vs. Et. Edward’s
March 20—Championship game at 2:00 p. m.
Police broke up a demonstration at the University of Berlin last weeK when more than 1,000 National Socialist students started a noisy protest against the expulsion of four students, two of whom were “Nazies”, as a result of recent rioting at the University.
The Yale swimming team relay recently lowered the world’s record in the 500-yard free-style race.
Campus Editors Praise SCRIP
On Sale Tonight!
March 11, 1932
Thirty-one
LETTER FROM THE S. A. C. (Continued from Page 18)
of organization funds, or some other unknown cause, fails to receive any news from Washington. The editor, * looking over his copy, is startled by this phenomena, and immediately sits down and writes an editorial. Tanktown is startled the next day by screaming headlines, “There is no government in Washington!” Of course you smile. But is the smile so r very far fetched? The Scholastic is the campus news organ. The Student Activities Council is the student organ of government. Is it the fault of the Council because there is not a reporter assigned to cover its meetings? (Editor’s Note: What meet-«	ings?)
There are two things unforgivable in a newspaper—carelessness and ignorance. The former often brings costly law suits, the latter does not help circulation. Upon inquiry of the secretary anyone curious enough to ' go to the trouble of asking, will be informed that the S. A. C. has met four times since Christmas. If the officers do not care enough to see their names in print to write up their own activities, they must suffer their light to remain under a bushel..
•	We of the simple reading public
have always had the impression that news organs published material that was of interest to the majority of their readers. Any organization which contains fifteen or twenty members in a student body of three thou-' sand, certainly is not deserving of columns of space because Shaw happens to be an iconoclast,—whether Livy was accurate, or Quo Vadis? If the gentlemen who, by their connections with the press, were really sincere, in their thirst for extra knowl-:	edge and intellectual advancement,
they certainly would not bother about securing publicity.
Remember gentlemen, the Student Activities Council organized the Presidents’ council as a subsidiary body, and also remember that when the S. A. C. does put through a worthy measure, The Scholastic suddenly loses its editorial courage and does not mention a word about it. That, gentlemen, is the highest principle of all journalism—the courage to stand behind one’s convictions.
1	It is to be remembered that the
statements put forth in this reply are unbiased and true fact. The Council is not founded on assumptions nor governed by the imagination. We
stand ready at all times to promote student welfare. Our motto is not “No Axe to Grind, No Bone to Pick, But.”
The Student Activities Council.
Student Riot In Soochow Forces School Head to Flee
By Intercollegiate Press.
Durham, N. C., March 10.—A letter received by the alumni office of Duke University here from Miss Helen Clark, a graduate of Duke, who joined the faculty of Soochow University in China, related that the president of Soochow and his family have had to flee for their lives after threats from students of the University.
“The trouble,” Miss Clark wrote, “is over the expulsion of the strike leaders "who insulted President Yang the other day because he refused to let them have a mass meeting during class time.
“If only so much enthusiasm and partiotism can be purged of its lawless elements and turned into constructive rather than destructive channels, then the China of the future will be the truly great nation that she ought to be.”
Wizard Human Calculator
Visits American Colleges
By Intercollegiate Press.
Cleveland, March 10.—Universities in New England and in California are being visited by Dr. Salli Finkelstein of Warsaw, said to be one of the fastest human calculators in the world.
It is said that the doctor recently obtained a position with a large concern and displaced more than twenty workers and nearly as many adding machines.
He is capable of adding a column of fifteen figures in a quarter of a second, not appearing to look at the figures the while. On his arrival in this country, a reporter handed him a paper on which were three figures to be multiplied by three others. Dr. Finkelstein, according to the New York Times, simply glanced at the paper and wrote down the correct answer.
The shortest distance from the Atlantic to the Pacific is 2,150 miles; the distance between Charleston, S. C., and San Diego, Calif.
National holidays in England are arranged so that it is possible for those who wish to spend a long weekend in the country. The “bank holidays” always fall on Monday.
The First Number of
SCRIP
has been sold out.
Get the new Scrip
TONIGHT!
SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY March 11-12-13-
SATURDAY All Seats 35c
Until 6 P. M.
What a Show!
On the Stage
VAUDEVILLE
Headed By
DeVito & Denny
With
Dot Stevens
In “LADY HARROWER’S RECEPTION” Its a Riot of Laffs
DONOVAN GIRLS And BISHOP “DELINEATORS OF HARMONY”
The Lad With the Index Brain Freddie Craig, Jr. Serves You “ALPHABETICAL SOUP” Truly Amazing
The Ball Accordion Five
In
“A FESTIVAL OF MUSIC”
And On the Screen ANN HARDING Adolphe Menjou In “PRESTIGE” RKO Pathe Picture
A great star . . . great in any role . . . Ann Harding dares a dramatic role that eclipses all previous attainments of this supreme artist of the screen. DOORS OPEN 12:45
PALACE
Thirty-two
Where Notre Dame men like to be photographed
Lorraine Studio
Home of Gold Tone oil painting.
FREE
One 8 x 10 Gold Tone oil painting with order of dozen photagraphs.
Prices range from $4.00 up for Vi dozen. As many poses as necessary and no extra charge for special costumes.
Come in and talk it over.
Lorraine Studio 211-213 Shetland Bldg.
Corner Michigan and Jefferson
Phone 3.5600
On Down the Line
RAY DECOOK and ED KRAUSE were placed on the all-Indiana State basketball team by W. Blaine Pas-ton, Indianapolis Star Sports Editor . . . The only flat race the U. S. won in the last OLYMPICS was the 400 meter run . . . PASSAIC (N. J.) High School on Feb. 20th lost their first home basketball game since 1916 . . . 27 post-time favorites have won the Kentucky Derby . . . HINDOO, in 1881, was the shortest priced winner ... he paid 1-3. . . .
V I
RED CARLSON, Pitt cage coach, played on three undefeated Pitt football teams coached by POP WARNER ... AL FOREMAN, Montreal lightweight, knocked out RUBY LEVINE in 1% seconds . . . the Dominion Boxing Commission lists it as the record . . . The New York GIANTS have won the National League pennant nine times . . . IDAHO SPRINGS and CENTRAL CITY high schools (Colo.) played a scoreless tie basketball game, in an added extra period, Central City won 3-1. . . .
V
BUDDY ENSOR, old time jockey favorite, made a comeback last week placing wit,, his first two mounts, after a loyoff of ten years . . . Although only 15 years old, JACK HOLST, of Los Angeles, is regarded as one of America’s outstanding hopes in the gymnastic event in the coming Olympics . . . JIM CORBETT and BOB FITZSIMMONS ended their ring careers at 37, incidentally Dempsey at the same age is trying a comeback . . . MICHIGAN will be gunning for their third straight hockey title tonight. . . .
V
BUCKY HARRIS’ Detroit Tigers have blasted tradition in their training camp at Stanford University. In Dale Alexander’s first trip to the plate, he hit a ball over the bleachers, the first time the feat as ever accomplished . . . JEAN BOROTRA French net ace will not compete in the Davis Cup amtches for France . . . Age, is the reason for his decision . . . Two hundred men have applied for jobs as UMPIRE in the Eastern Baseball league . . . JIMMY MALONEY, Boston fighter, has turned wrestler . . . CALIFORNIA University has accepted $10,000 left by the late Andy Smith to provide scholarships for needy football players. ...
The Scholastic
GIRLS
Do Not
Smoke Pipes
THE GIRLS haven’t left us many of our masculine rights. They By our airplanes, drive our cars, smoke
our cigarettes— but they don’t smoke our pipes! They’ve left us this one manly right, anyway.
A man almost has to smoke a pipe nowadays. A pleasant necessity! For a pipe filled with good tobacco is just about die
You’ll never see her smoking a pipe.
t smoke a man
For men only— the joys of a pipe.
could want.
And if you’re troubled about selecting a tobacco, . remember that
Edgeworth is die popular favorite in 42 out of 54 colleges. It somehow seems to fit die college man’s taste. Edgeworth
is cut especially for pipes, it bums slowly, it gives a cool smoke. You can buy Edgeworth wherever good tobacco is sold. Or, for a special sample packet, write to Larus & Bro. Co., 100 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old hurleys, with its natural savor enhanced by Edgeworth’s distinctive

and exclusive eleventh process. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms —Edgeworth Ready-Rubbed and Edge-worth Plug Slice. AU sizes, 15^ pocket package to $1.50 pound humidor tin.
r
IT’S THE “PULL”
In the case of a locomotive it is a question of how many cars can be pulled at high speed.
» » »
In an advertising medium it is a question of how many customers can be pulled into your store.
» » »
Let us demonstrate a really profitable medium. A call to 3-1121 will bring a representative.
» » »
THE SCHOLASTIC
At The University	Notre Damez Indiana
“Ch

oosey Teople like
the way they TASTE
LIBRARY, NOTRE DAME, IND
ITS just what you’d expect. People who enjoy the good things of life ... are constantly looking for something better to eat and drink . . . and smoke.
In cigarettes this better taste can come only from finer ingredients. Chesterfields are more satisfying to the cultivated palate. For one thing, there’s never any attempt to skimp on Turkish leaf.
These richly flavored Turkish tobaccos are added with a generous hand.	,
•"Music that Satisfies.” Hear Nat Shilkret’a brilliant orchestra and Alex Gray, soloist, every night except Sunday . . . entire Columbia Network . . . 10:30 E. S. T.
• 1932. LtGcnT * Nnu Tosaccd Co. '
THEY'RE MILDER • . THEY’RE PURE • • THEY TASTE BETTER- •
In fact, Chesterfield’s new way of mingling tobacco flavors and aronias is really the equivalent of an entirely new kind of tobacco . . . one that combines the best qualities of Turk* ish and fine Domestic leaf.
Smoke Chesterfields whenever you like. ..They’re mild and pure. They’ll never tire you as an oversweetened cigarette might easily do. Light up and see for yourself. They satisfy!
1 I I $ i
£