AUTHORIZED NAVAL TAILORS
Representing M. BORN & CO.
Chicago's Largest Custom Naval Tailors
PARKER-WINTERROWD
I 15^2 - I 1 7x/2 N. Main Street (Upstairs) North of Oliver Hotel, South Bend
CUSTOM TAILORED UNIFORMS AT READY-MADE PRICES!
Fit, tailoring and correction mean a great deal.
Compare Our Prices!
Blue, 16 oz. Serge Uniform.....................   $42.00
Blue, 16 oz. Lastique Uniform...................   47.00
Whipcord Raincoats, with detachable lining____ 47.00 30 oz. Beaver Overcoats____________________________ 57.50
Cap and Device________________________________...$13.50 up
ALL ACCESSORIES, INCLUDING SHIRTS AND TIES, AT REASONABLE PRICES.
PARKER - WINTERROWD
Phone 3-6318
BOB KUIPERS 114 Alumni
CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVES
CAPT. GEORGE MURPHY -	130 Alumni
EDDIE DORE 238 Alumni
Open Saturday Afternoon and Evening, and Sunday Afternoon.
2
COLLEGE PARADE
JOHN A. LYNCH
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Discs Quasi Semper Viturus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturua
FOUNDED 1867
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103. Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, i918.
HEAD OF THE WEEK
“ODK Osculation At Council Dance.”
—The Vanderbilt Hustler
The ODK is a fraternity. What the rest is all about, we wouldn’t be saying.
THOU SHALT NOT
The mighty law of St. Bonaventure College has come through with a new slate of commandments for the boys to keep on the Junior Prom week-end. Moses never saw the likes of this!
1.	I am the Junior Prom. Thou shalt not hold past proms before me.
2.	Thou shalt not comment on thy roomie’s girl. He probably thinks the same of yours.
3.	Remember thou shalt not check in later than 7 a.m. on the Sabbath.
4.	Honor thy Father and thy Mother. They’re paying for it.
5.	Thou shalt not kill the last of the coke.
6.	Thou shalt not adulterate the Scotch with soda.
7.	Thou shalt not swipe thy roomie’s shirt. It's probably the last one he has.
8.	Thou shalt not tell lies about thy roomie. But don’t tell the truth either.
9.	Thou shalt not covet the honor of having thy girl picked Prom Queen. The judges’ decision is purely biased.
10.	Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor’s car. This will be the last time he'll have it for the duration.
THE NEW ORDER
The Brown and White of Lehigh University presents a pictorial account of a recent football game and riot aftermath. One of the pictures, depicting a somewhat disorderly group of after-game students, bears the caption: “One policeman who is barely visible is down on his back with four students showing their regard for the law.”
He was probably just waiting for a street-car. This New Order is terrific!
BIG BLOW
“News From Africa” is the title of the piece and it appeared in The'Nezu Yorker. In part, it was:
“The invasion was still a rumor. Next morning, however, he found the news generally accepted by everybody, from an American general down, and a lot of the American soldiers were doing a snake dance and singing the Notre Dame song.”
And after what we did to Army!
THE LONG WAY HOME
I was chaz-zned by the look in her eye,
By her nightingale voice I zvas smitten, Azul hez- beautifzil figure—Oh zny!
By her gloz-ious tongue I zvas bitten. She is really the chaziningest girl, sir,
Izi hez- azmis azzy znan would find bliss, sir;
But what struck me most about her
Was hez- hand zvhezi I started to kiss her.
—Queezi’s U. Journal
FAMOUS LAST WORDS
We quote directly from the Boston College Heights of a few issues back.
“Boston College — Holy Cross: The Crusaders are ‘up’ for this one, but so are the Eagles. We think the Meyers-men will emerge on the long- end of a 27-7 count”
Well, you can’t always be right!
TAKE FIVE
A colored preacher at the close of his sermon discovered one of his deacons asleep. He said: “We will now have a few minutes of prayer. Deacon Brown, will you lead?”
“Lead!” said Deacon Brown suddenly awakening. “Why I just dealt.”
'TAINT GOOD
Life magazine is on the way out as far as the students, faculty, alumni and friends of Indiana University are concerned. After Life’s Nov. 23 display of Indiana student life, the above groups joined in a protest to the magazine for “Never letting the facts stand in the way of a good story.”
The complaints made were gathered into an open letter, from which we quote:
“They (the students pictured) were told that the photos were to illustrate the ‘do’s’ and ‘don’ts’ established by campus tradition. Unknown to them, and without their permission, the editors of Life used these photographs in an entirely different way, publishing all the ‘don’ts’ and skipping all the ‘do’s’.”
SAD APPLES
“It’s scandalous charging us §1-5 for towing the car only three or four miles,” protested the motorist’s wife. “Never mind, dear,” replied the husband, “He earned it: I had my brakes on.”
Robert D. LeMense, Editor
Daniel Downey........Managing Editor
Ted Weber______________________Campus	Editor
Bill Reynolds__________________Sports	Editor
Jack Denniston........ Admin- Editor
Robert Lonergan________________________Promotion Walter Krawiec_____________Art Editor
Al Schaefer......-.Staff Photographer Gail Fitch, Jr...Advertising
Rev. C. M. Carey, c.s.c., Faculty Adviser
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published thirty-three times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to Editor, 267 Alumni Hall or 121 Administration Bldg.. Notre Dame. Indiana.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms. Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7 :lo p. m.
IN THIS ISSUE
CAMPUS
Great Lakes Finale ____________ 5
Centennial "Dome" _____________ 6
Stay-at-Home Christmas _______  8
ADMINISTRATION
Centennial Celebration:
The History of Notre Dame......10
Keep Faith With God and America 14
Prayer at the Log Chapel_______16
Father O'Donnell Gives Thanks -17
Plan Trip to South America.....19
SPORTS.	,
Tough Battle for Irish ________22
Cagers Trip Ball State_________23
Southern Cal Trounced __________24
FEATURES College Parade ..................  3
The Week ______	4
Man About Campus _______________ 7
The Ears Have It _______________26
Short Shots __________________  30
Strictly Instrumental ___________31
Pressbox Splinters __________ „.32
THE WEEK
JACK WOELFLE
brisk rubdown with Wildroot and a brisk massage with a rivet gun, your cords will -be ready for anything. “You have to be careful after the third month of wear or they’ll start walking away. I found mine early one morning looking for another pair for a cab. But above all, treat your cords with kindness. Remember, one

TOP OF THE WEEK
Fieldhouse: “I came here to cheer for Joe.”
OH DR. GALLUP!
The girls from across the road recently conducted a popularity poll and were so kind as to let us be the first to print the results. Things went as follows: Favorite smoke: It depends on whom they’re out with.
Favorite sport: Gossip.
Favorite boys’ college: Thanks a lot!
Favorite authors (?): The Week. (Girls, you really shouldn’t have!).
Favorite beverage: Ovaltine.
Favorite branch of service: Boy Scouts and Junior- Commandos.
Favorite literature: It was a draw among Superman, Breathless Deer, and Fearless Fosdick.
♦
TOUGH APPLES
Saturday. Those Ball State screamers sort of sent shivers up and down the boys’ spines. Then they saw the gals and fainted. . . . Frank King once again didn’t like the band chosen for a campus dance. Next time we’ll have to sign up Frank and his French horn. Francis is no doubt a great music critic but his fashions in corn are really too professional for us. Besides, the criticisms smack of repressed genius. Mr. King’s choice of Jerry Wald as the band to watch is no doubt due to the fact that he has never heard Mr. Wald. Jerry Wald has a fine swing outfit but we’ll still take the Messrs. Dorsey, James, and Rey. Now jump down my throat, Francois. . . . The E.R.C. requirements are getting, tougher and more strict. Pretty soon you’ll even have to have teeth.
MESSQUIRE
Perhaps the Notre Dame man could be called “the well dressed man” but unfortunately the Amalgamated Bums of America haven’t a publication of their own. Unique is the word that describes the N.D. fashions but there is a better word. The Notre Dame idea of a zoot-suit is to wear a hat, coat,' pants, and shoes, all at the same time. A tie makes it “full dress.” The Notre Dame student has probably the most varied wardrobe in the college world today. This is because of a unique system made possible by the laundry whereby a student never
gets back the same shirt twice. Then there’s the pants. It’s a happy song, the song of the corduroys. As the lads walk briskly to breakfast these popular type trousers sing out their merry little tune. “Zip, zip.” Occasionally an old pair chimes in with a: “Zoop, zoop.” Oswald Nana, cousin of Greenba Nana, has his own method of keeping corduroys in condition. Says Oswald: “Scratch your knees and if you find — etc.” Yessir, aftei- a
A P.T. man practices on St. Mary's Lake.
cord in the pants is worth two in the roast beef.” Take heed men of Notre Dame. The next time you see those Irish slacks go marching by remember what they say at Harvard, Princeton, and Yale: “Oh, say fellas!”
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
That horn and white handkerchief in Los Angeles.
The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 77
DECEMBER 4, 1942
No. 9
GREAT LAKES EXODUS BEGINS TODAY;
BAND WILL PRESENT NEW FORMATIONS
weather conditions on the campus prevented the band from practicing new ones. At any rate, Mr. Hope has promised another colorful show for this week-
AL SOMMER
Since last April Notre Dame has been the host to the Navy on the campus; twice this season the Fighting Irish have given the men in blue a hearty reception on the gridiron. Tomorrow Uncle Sam’s seamen return the compliment when they meet Notre Dame at Soldier’s Field in Chicago. This time it is not the Middies from Annapolis or the fliers from Iowa; this time it’s the lads from the Great Lakes Training Station north of Chicago.
Exactly how many fans and followers of the teams will flock into the stadium is not known; it is known however that over a thousand student tickets have been bought by Notre Dame students at the student price of 90 cents. These tickets are all grouped around the 30-yard line on the Notre Dame side. Many other Notre Dame men will dot the throng with their parents, dates, or friends.
W. Lee Hope, the director of the Notre Dame band, has planned several treats for the thousands of fans. Before the
tree with huge ornaments. Then they will swing into the form of a cannon, a bullet, and a swastika while playing “Praise the Lord.” The human bullets will sail through the cannon and smash the swastika; the whole band will then form a giant “V.” The band, by request of many students, will form “TOO,” the cheer leaders will bring out the giant birthday cake, and Notre Dame will be serenaded with “Happy Birthday to You.”
Director Hope had many new formations planned for this last game; but
NOTICE
Applications for editor positions on the SCHOLASTIC are now being received at Room 215 Walsh Hall. All those interested should apply on or before Wednesday, Dec. 9.
end.
Although for a few days early this week there remained a possibility classes tomorrow might be cancelled, the situation remained as outlined in last week’s Scholastic: classes as usual Saturday; no week-end to extend beyond Sunday night. Those wilh cuts left, of course, may leave Friday following their classes. Many on the campus plan to take a Saturday morning train for Chicago.
From 9 to 1 tomorrow night the Notre Dame Chicago Club is sponsoring a Victory dance at the Medinah Athletic Club. Fpr the benefit of Chicagoans and out-of-towners, this was formerly the Tower Club. It is located on Michigan Avenue just north of the Tribune Tower. Bids . are selling on the campus for $2.-50 plus tax; at the door they will be $3.00 plus tax. Will Back and his orchestra will furnish the music for the Notre Dame men and “women.” Officials of the Chicago Club are Bill Sullivan, president; Roger Cummings, vice-president; Bill McGaughey, secretary, and Joe Farmar, treasurer.
game, Notre Dame’s hundred pieces will salute the Great Lakes supporters with a giant “Hello” accompanied by “Hi, Neighbor.” Then the band will veer to the other side of the field and serenade Notre Dame with a UND and “Notre Dame, Our Mother.” The band will march to the end of the field and their join in with the Great Lakes band. Together they will march up the field playing the “Victory March.” Near the flagpole they will halt and, as the flag is raised, play the “Star Spangled Banner.”
Between halves, the band will again address itself to Great Lakes. The members will form a sailboat with sail down, while playing “I Joined the Navy to See the World.” Then they will swing into - “Sailing, Sailing” while the sail goes up.
Finally they will beat out “Anchors A weigh” for the benefit of the sailors.
The band will then form a giant Christmas tree in front of Notre Dame’s boosters and softly sound “White Christmas” and cheer leaders will decorate the
"Mike" thrives on city life.
Battle of the Snow Won by Dillonites;
WOLFS, Auxiliary Unit, Aids Alumnimen
Raging snows and blizzards descended upon Notre Dame last week and granted a reprieve to the hard pressed Alumni Hall commandos, now facing annihilation at the hands of the fast-rolling Dillon offensive.
Dillon won the greatest battle of the war Sunday (See Chicago Sun—“Notre Dame At War”) when the Dillon Downtown Operators, attired in their usual palm beach suits, captured 27 Alumnites as they straggled churchward. The Dillon Operators’ palm beach garb camouflaged the Straightshooters against the snow and they preyed with ease upon the Commandos, many of whom were trying to conceal their identity as Alumnites by arriving at mass on time and contributing to the collection plate.
Dillon efforts to retake their chapel were frustrated by internal dissension when a large majority of the Straightshooters were unable to locate the chapel.
Alumni’s offensives, including the siege of the Dillon factory section, were on a minor scale:	„
Today marks the nineteenth day that 1A the Dillon factory wing has held 8 * out against an Alumni offensive. Alumni today is no nearer victory than when the siege started.
The Commandos captured the seventeenth hole of the golf course as they birdied the hole. They have established an airport there and have launched air attacks against the Dillons. A midnight communique read: “Alumni has launched successive air attacks against Dillon, and today in an address Der Fooler of Alumni promised that the raids would continue, saying, “When Alumni gets thru
Drawings, Color Photographs Highlight Centennial "Dome"-Last for the Duration
F. J. PEQUIGNEY	!
The value of Notre Dame—in war, in peace, in the lives of her students—will theme the centennial Dome. Editor Kelly Cook expects the yearbook around Dec. 15.	' .
Only the account of the Great Lakes game need be added to complete the copy. Editor Cook will listen. to the broadcast in the printer’s office, South Bend, and write up the game. Then the article -will
6	' '	'	'	•
with Dillon the world will not have seen such shambles unless they can remember the dates Dillon imported for the Cotillion.”
Dillon retaliated for the air raids by political gestures as they signed a nonagression pact with Cadillac hall and lend-leased 50 cents to Sorin. The Sorin loan was a stroke of diplomacy and the interest from the loan will be used to erect another Homecoming Decoration.
The Straightshooters’ headquarters further promised that any further bombing raids on Dillon would be returned until “Alumni looks like a Sunday evening meal.”
Major developments are expected this week and Alumni is expected to garner some minor strength due to the fact that Dillon is rocked by internal disorder— The laundry which the Dillonites sent out as frosh was due last week but has not arrived as yet. (This has added strength to Dillon, too.)
Now snow has come to aid Alumni and it is expected that the Commandos’ auxiliary unit, the WOLF’s, used to the icy stares in downtown regions, will be better equipped than Dillon.
lrS Flash—Alumni com-i overwhelming Dillon of-
fensive was launched this morning against the Alumni suburbs. We encountered some minor* losses and after fierce fighting the first four floors of Alumni hall fell to Dillon. We are now entrenched firmly on the fifth floor, which remains securely in our hands. Enemy demands to surrender have been ignored. Our only threat at this moment is the fact that one senior has pink tooth brush.”—Dave Condon
be rushed to the presses! Early next week the pages will travel to Chicago to be bound.	.	!
Maroon lettering on a . light cloth binding will cover the publication! In the upper corner will stand the University’s seal, blue on gold. Stunning modern type will highlight the copy.
A new feature will be the inauguration of ten drawings by the Sherer twins and
Mr. Francis J. Hanley of the art department. These will allegorize the meaning of life, and the part the University plays in it. Also the book will contain four fullpage color photographs, captioned by the free verse of J. H. Johnston. Various students will describe their impressions of the different months in “The Year” section. Here pen sketches will be scattered among the photos—both depicting the month’s particular mood. And in the front will be a special centennial drawing: Yesterday and Today, 1842-1942.
The Dome will contain only 200 pages, about two-thirds as many as the last issue. The reduction will be made at the expense of the Juniors and the faculty, as also of many clubs, whose pictures will be omitted. Only those organizations will be pictured that are open to all the stu- ‘ dents or which deal with a subject relevant to the present times.
The University Board of Publications has announced that this will be the last Dome for the duration, due to difficulties of the three semester plan, and the war priorities. In the future, a greatly enlarged Scholastic will bid the seniors farewell.
Department heads on the publication, include Edward Meagher, copy editor; James Gibbons, sports editor; John Morris, picture editor; Gerry Hogue, managing editor; William Boss, campus editor; and William Binet, art editor.
Travel Advice is Given For Student Holidays
As everyone knows, the railroads are doing a tremendous job of moving masses of men and materials for the war effort. ; But the strain on the nation’s rail facilities is becoming increasingly acute, particularly in the passenger service. The Pullman Company, for instance, will transport some 7,000,000 troops in or- T ganized movements this year, alone, and on certain days half of the company’s y entire fleet of sleeping cars is “in the ' service.”
Take this mounting military traffic, add the hundreds of thousands of civilian travellers engaged in essential war work ; and then throw in haphazardly one hundred thousand or more college students > homeward bound for the holidays and it may easily be seen what an epic traffic jam could result. Fortunately, most schools, Dr. Guy E. Snavely of the Association of American Colleges reports, v are aware of the danger and are staggering closing dates so that no more than one college in a single area closes or re-opens on the same day. But there must be individual cooperation by the . students too, if troop movements are to be made on schedule,, if vital war mater- _ ials are to reach factories and docks on time.	- ‘	W
College students can help most to keep the tracks clear for vital wartime use by not travelling during the peak period from Dec? 15 to Jan. 15. If they must go home there are some simple rules to follow which will help to keep rail travel running smoothly. They are:
1.	Make Pullman reservations early. It helps railway men gauge the traffic and provide adequate facilities.
2.	Cancel Pullman tickets promptly when plans are changed. Someone else can use your accommodations and, besides, if you cancel after train departure time you can no longer get a refund.
3.	Take as little luggage as possible. There isn’t room in crowded cars for peacetime paraphernalia.
4.	Accept available accommodations. You cannot always get just the accommodations you prefer or find space available on the train you usually take.
Few restrictions have thus far been placed upon civilian travel. Willing public cooperation in the observance of such simple voluntary rules as the foregoing has been a big factor in this excellent railroad performance. College students, as members of the public, can do their part by also observing these rules, particularly during the critical holiday period that lies ahead.
Notre Dame Conditions
Notre Dame students will almost certainly be able to obtain transportation to their homes at Christmas if tickets are purchased in advance, Mr. James Byrne of the campus travel service announced this week. He said that the roads will be able to judge the amount of needed equipment if the tickets have been picked up in advance (ten days at least). He also recommended that students purchase return tickets as soon as they reach their home and ascertain their return date. He pointed out that no guarantees of seating or standing room could be made but that it was very likely that students will obtain necessary transportation.
He again emphasized that the student travel service ho longer handles railroad tickets but that bus tickets to any point in the country can be obtained from him at his office, 265 _ Dillon Hall. There is no deadline on the purchase of bus tickets. No seating guarantee accompanies the ticket.
Elections and Banquet
Conclude Wrangler Year
The Wranglers held a membership . meeting last night; their next meeting will be the last of the semester. Each applicant for membership to the club
gave a three minute speech. Later the members considered and voted on them: by rule and tradition the number of students admitted to the club is limited so not more than four or five of the applicants could be accepted. Even before a student could try out, though, he first had to be engaged in some forensic activity and be interviewed by the membership committee.
Next week a farewell banquet in honor of the three seniors who will graduate at the end of this semester is to be held in either the Hoffman or the LaSalle Hotels. These seniors are Mark Lies, Bob LeMense, and John Ryan. Nomination and election of officers will also be held; Ryan was president this year, Lies is secretary.
Dave Condon
Senior Paul Malloy rode the stage lines in from Tulsa, Okla., oil capital of the world.... Malloy, small and darkhaired, attended school in shadow of oil wells.... graduated from Cascia Hall High school in Tulsa.... followed hobbies of golfing and boxing all through high school.... played on school golf team.
Since coming to Notre Dame Paul has won fame in the square circle.... has been familiar figure in boxing centers for four years._won Bengal 120 pound title three times.... copped South Bend Golden Gloves championship in ’4L ... placed second in Indiana state collegiate ring meet last year.
Malloy followed path of older brother who played oh Irish golf team.... last year Paul lettered on varsity golf club and became member of Monogram. club .....played in National Intercollegiate tournament sponsored by Notre Dame this past summer.
Paul Malloy’s other love is polo.— played on Tulsa teams while in high school....plays polo all summer and loves horses.__ recalls famous polo teams of Oklahoma, Arizona, and New Mexico Military.__looks for large increase in polo enthusiasts after this war.
A member of the E. R. C. and an English major.... Malloy graduates in December and ambitious to win an officer’s commission in the armed forces.
Student Council Directs Sale of Red Cross Kits
Under the direction of Jerry Witzman the S.A.C. made an intensive canvass of campus halls Tuesday, Nov. 24, for the purchase of Red Cross “overseas kits." The results are:
Zahm Hall ___________?.__334
Alumni Hall______________20
Breen-Phillips Hall_______ 20
St. Edward’s Hall_______ 17
Cavanaugh Hall _________ 10
Total __________;__§101
At present Sorin, Dillon and Walsh halls have failed to report.
The kits are about eight inches deep and 11 by five inches rectangular with a green leatherette casing. They contain sewing sets, writing paer and envelopes, shoe-shine kits, cigarettes, soap, playing cards and reading material. Costing a dollar each the donor has his name and address sown in the top of the kit so that the fighting man will know who sent it to him. The service kits are distributed . to all branches of the armed forces before troops leave the country.
The S.A.C. turned all collections over to Father John Burke, C.S.C, and they w'ere then sent to the local South Bend chapter of the Red Cross.
Reporter's Report
(Excuse):
How Scholastic reporter spends 40 hour week working on Scholastic assignments: time , spent Friday morning waiting for mail man to flutter by, 15 minutes; time spent picking up lone post card, 10 seconds; time spent reading (Downey’s handwriting) seven minutes; time spent swearing over assignment, 9 hours; paces over to Alumni to talk matter over with editor, 3 minutes; gets side-tracked, . rides bus downtown, 12 minutes (if bus is on schedule); sees movie, 2 hrs., 20 min.; stands , on corner of Walgreen’s, 10 minutes; spots girl, 1 sec.; runs to meet her> 3 seconds; mentions name, one-half second; length of acqaintance, 0; bus back to N. D., 12 minutes; stands in line for supper, 15
7
minutes; eating meal, IJ/2 minutes; goes back to hall via “Caf,” 15 minutes; bed, 2 days, 13 hours, rises for morning check, 19 seconds; thinks up excuses for not doing Scholastic assignment, 21 hours, 15 seconds; explains to editor that idea is illogical, terrible, and smells, 2 hours; listens to editor rant, 10 seconds; decides to write article, one second (editor is big man); locating typing paper, 11 minutes; time spent writing article, 3 seconds.
All in all it adds up to more than 40 hours, but a.b. men can’t count.
Publications Library
Gives More Engravings
Something besides Lucky Strike green has gone to war. A second consignment of copper and zinc engravings from the Board of Publications library will be sent this month to the University metallurgy labs for war research work.
The library includes ten cabinets of 50 trays each, making 500 trays of the engravings. Only the most essential of the plates are being kept. Included among those now being given to the war work are junior and senior pictures from the 1941 Dome, pictures of party guests, orchestra leaders, and vocalists. In early October six cases of discarded plates were sent to the labs and according to the publications office, about three more will be contributed by the middle of this month.
The files are housed in the old Ave Maria building behind the Main Building. Many of the engravings were originally used in Domes of past year while some are made up from week to week for use in the Scholastic or Alumnus. Becoming increasingly important because of war-time conditions is the use of part of larger plates originally used in the Dome. All students personals are cut from the junior and senior plates of last year’s Dome. Many of the shots used in the Scholastic are “cropped” from older and larger engravings.
New problems confront the editors of campus publications with the announcement that there will be no more Domes for the duration. Since there will be no junior or faculty section in the present Dome, older faculty pictures will be used while the use of student pictures wi 11 have to be curtailed. Further, the securing of sports action shots will be complicated as past files of this type are nearly exhausted.	.
Tulane University had its beginning in the Medical college of Louisiana, organized in 1834.
8
Stay-at-Home Christmas Theme Featured By Campus Wide Pre-Vacation Parties
DAVE CONDON
ACT ONE, Scene One
The Pacemaker. It is peaceful and quiet as Notre Dame students, sipping cokes and studying Volume 7, Encyclopedia Criticalia, ride peacefully homeward to begin their long Christmas vacation. Not an eye is lifted from the pages as a golden-haired girl strolls through the car. The girl is seven years old.
Scene Two
The train is cutting through the night, chopping off the miles as the lonesome beam of a headlight dances along the track. It is romantic. The engineer is playing “I’m Dreaming of a White Christmas,” on the whistle. The whistle shrieks mournfully and the engineer chuckles, pretending he is Guy Lombardo.
Scene Three
Morning. Last station stop before home. The train slides into the depot. Immediately a squadron of sergeants climb aboard, confiscate all E.R.C. members, and hasten to the nearest reception center.
Scene Four
Little Willie, 4-F, alone is left on the train. He is the only one who will spend Christmas at home. Willie (brother of Oswald is angry) is happy. He laughs.
ACT TWO, Scene One
Willie the frosh arrives in Podunk. He wants people to know he has been to college. There are 57 varieties of stickers on his laundry bag, and he is following a sound truck draped with monogram blankets and playing the Victory March,. down main street.
Scene Two
Willie skips up the steps, bangs open the door, and with his palm to his forehead, begins searching for the folks. He sees them seated at the dinner table.
Willie (remembering Notre Dame): “Food! Water! The cattle are saved!” (Then, remembering that his parents haven't seen him for three, four, or perhaps ten months, he says:) “I need some money, Pop.”
Father: (Succumbing, as usual): “Here you are, William.” .
Willie: (withdrawing gun from his father’s ribs.) “Thanks.”
Willie (on the run): “Sorry folks, . have to hustle. Got a date. Where’s the car?” (Willie runs zipstairs,-puts ozz the T shirt with Notre Dazne in neozi lights, and dashes out to pick up Jane. He is happy azid doesn’t get angry even when
Jane doesn’t come dashing out the first time he honks.)
Willie and Jane drive off. The car runs out of gas. (Rationing, you know.)	'
(curtain)
Korn Kobblers play tragic music as r second act ends.	.	.
ACT THREE (Finale)
Curtain rises, audience hushes. Three stage hands exit hurriedly. On the stage, • in an old hammock, is seated Scattergood Bained, the friendly old philosopher.
He tosses aside the financial page, looks t longingly out at the audience, and lights his pipe. Then casually speaks:
Scattergood: “Evenin’ folks. How ya’ all? That was a pretty tragic story of 1 Willie, wasn’t it?” (He allows the audi-ezice 71 seconds to pozider ovez' previous acts.)	•
Scattergood: “You see, folks, little Willie didn’t appreciate his parents. He didn’t know that this Christmas vacation may be the last Christmas that the family might be together for a long time.” (Audience hisses) “Willie should ■ have stayed at home this Christmas.” (Audiezzce applauds.)
Scattergood: “But that occurrence is not going to happen again.” (Loud applause forthcoming.) “No siree, this Christmas Notre Dame men and old Scattergood are going to appreciate the holidays. And why?-’ (He leaves the sues-tion dangling) “WHY?” (No coaching— ten seconds, please.) “Because the Notre Dame student council is going to awaken the students and give them to understand that they should spend Christmas at home.” (Shouts of hear, hear.J
Scattergood: “Yes sir. On Wednesday, Dec. 9, there will be hall parties in ‘ every one of the Notre Dame residence halls.” (Mild applause.) “And the theme of the parties will be ‘stay at home and > visit with your parents this Christmas’.” (Wild applause.)
Scattergood: (rising from chair azid climbing zip ozi the mantle.) “Be it known that on the night of Dec. 9, every hall at Notre Dame, Ind., will have a Christmas party under the sponsorship of the ' t Student Council. Said halls will furnish their own entertainment, financing, and ~L refreshments. The Council will do the rest.” (Here Scattergood thunders his fizzal - oration.) .“Make this Christmas a merry. Christmas. Visit with your parents and family.”	.
.	the end
&
K
1
SAVOYARDS SCORE ANOTHER TRIUMPH WITH 5 PERFORMANCES OF "PATIENCE"
NOEL DIGBY
Five nights this week Mr. Cecil Birder, head of the Notre Dame department of speech and director of the Savoyards, put a well groomed, trained cast of 40 young men and women on the Washington Hall stage to do Gilbert and Sullivan’s rollicking operetta, “Patience.” The cast opened its run with a strong and much applauded first night before students, faculty members and guests of the University. Tuesday and Wednesday the performances were for the navy trainees and local N.R.O.T.C. men; Thursday and tonight for the University.
Not a thing to be “whipped up,” the show was actually begun weeks ago when tryouts were held, the cast chosen. To safeguard against mishap and because he had the material, Mr. Birder picked an alternate for each of the five major male arts. From then on it was continuous night rehearsing, week-end brushing up and between class practices for the singers.
When the production opened Monday night, Nov. 30, there was everything on hand to assure a good show. Libretti, containing the whole story, words and music, of “Patience” were sold, complete programs distributed.
After the brief overture and chorus of the maidens, the operetta goers got their first glimpse and listen of leading lady, Patience, Mary Frances Kabel. An outstanding and experienced soprano, Miss
I

Zorovich sings with a well fortified background.
Kabel sang and acted her way into the hearts of each audience each night. Opposite her in the male role of Reginald Bunthorne, Milenko Zorovich did his first Gilbert and Sullivan lead part excellently. As the second flighty poet, Kevin O’Toole of the Glee Club and his own octet did his best singing and acting as Archibald Grosvenor. Owen Donley, Herbert Clark, William Brady and William Murrin in the other male leads and the entire Savoyard group furnished the well costumed full voiced background.
The other -female parts were capably sung. As the Lady Angela, Miss Agnes Haney did her role sincerely. In the first act, her duet with Patience, “Long Years Ago,” in which Patience tells of her only love—for a little boy—was one of the memorable pieces enjoyed by all. As the buxom Lady Jane, Miss June Anderson, a veteran Gilbert and Sullivan singer here on campus, was marvelous and had very much of the operetta to herself. After her singing and acting in the first act, Miss Anderson opens the second act alone with her song, “Silvered is the Raven Hair.” While singing, she draws notes from a huge bass fiddle, supposedly by her own playing. Her song done, she briefly surveys the fiddle, slings it over her shoulder, lugs it off the stage in the funniest exit of the two act show.
The Lady Jane was not the only humorous character, however. Typical of
Gilbert and Sullivan, each player had his and her “moment.” With the humor came a good measure of serious song and much pleasant, romping Sullivan music.
Mr. Birder combined them all—costumes, scenery, makeup, the Savoyards, the rapturous maidens, orchestra, some of the best male and female voices ever ' heard here, put them to Gilbert’s witty dialogue, Sullivan’s music and got results that made Washington Hall audiences chuckle, laugh, applaud and applaud.
Syracuse-New York Catholic
Forum Hears Dean Manion
When the Syracuse-New York Catholic Forum met in Syracuse last Sunday night, Mr. Clarence E. Manion, Dean of the College of Law, was the principal speaker. The title of the dean’s address was: “The Religious Sinews of American Freedom.” He told the Forum that true liberty consists in the freedom to do whatever is consistent with the laws of God and the rights of our fellowmen; however, he continued to explain that these two limitations.were one and the same, for the rights of man are imbedded in the laws of God and are to be found nowhere else. “Furthermore,” he said, ■ “secular' concepts of freedom are simply sly synonyms for slavery.” Mr. Manion also very strongly advocated in his speech that those who are to write the formula for a successful and righteous peace must forget both Kant and Marx and look once more to the American Declaration of Independence.
The meeting took place in the Lincoln Auditorium. It was preceded by a reception for Dean Manion at the Belmont Country Club. The Central New York Notre Dame Club sponsored the reception, and Mr. Henry T. Hickey was the chairman.—Dick Keoughan
Propellor Club Meets To Discuss Luncheon
Discussion of election and luncheon plans occupied the time of Propellor Club members at their meeting in the Commerce building last Wednesday. The club, whose purposes are to promote, further, and support the American Merchant Marine and to aid the development of river, Great Lakes and harbor improvements is directed by D. K. Smith, Alumni senior. R. A. Araujo of Sorin is vicepresident; Vince Oppenheim of Dillon is secretary, and Jim Whalen, treasurer.
9
The History of Notre Dame
- «;
This radio play was written by Professor Richard Sullivan, a faculty member of the Department of English, at the University of Notre Dame. It was broadcast over a nation-wide NBC hookup on Wednesday night, November 25 from 10:30 to 11:00 Central War Time.
THE STORY OF NOTRE DAME MUSIC: {Full, then down as background.)
Announcer: On this eve of Thanksgiving, The University of Notre Dame, celebrating the one hundredth year of its founding, presents—
Narrator: The Story of Notre Dame!
MUSIC: {Up full, then cut.)
A hundred years have ended. Tonight we remember the beginning, the meagre, strange beginning, of a story full of the hope and courage of America—
Sound: {wind, low as background.) You hear that wind?
Listen.
Sound: (wind, up, then occasionally low through following.)
It’s blowing now the way it blew the day the schooner Iowa sailed into port at New York a hundred and one years ago, September 13, 1841. That was a Thursday, like tomorrow. The master of the lorva was Captain Pell. Among the passengers were Father Edward Sorin and six Religious Brothers. They had crossed the Atlantic that summer from France.
Sound: {wind; water; creaking of oars.)
Three minutes to go. From left to right: Fort Pearson, narrator; Dick Sullivan; Ed King; Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C.; Dr. Ray Shield, and Daniel Pedtke.
You hear the sound of oars in water? Late that Thursday afternoon Father Sorin was rowed ashore in a small boat. And Sorin did something when he got ashore that men had done before him and men have done since— He knelt and
Sorin: {deep voice, softly, slight French accent)
I kiss the earth of America.
Music: (Up.)
And now, my Brothers, We have work to do!
Music: (Up. Softly, background.)
Narrator: Yes, they had work to do.
A month later these seven were a thousand miles deep in this American continent. They were at Vincennes, in Indiana. There’s a lot I could tell you about Vincennes— They were there a year. But the real thing is that while they were there, and before they got there, even before they’d left the old world for the new one, Sorin had kept one purpose clear— They had work to do: they were going to start a college. He didn’t know where and he didn’t know when but they were going to do it. When time and place came he knew he would know how. It took that year
to find the place. In the fall of forty-two the Bishop of Vincennes gave them some land on a couple of little lakes up in the elbow bend of the St. Joe River in the northern part of Indiana. Winter came early and fierce that year. The trip was two hundred-sixty miles. They went by ox and by horse, fording slush and crossing ice, fighting the snow and the iron cold, and on the eleventh day,	*
Music: (up slightly, accelerated.)
the twenty-sixth of November, 1842— A hundred years ago, tomorrow, then, at ten o’clock in the morning, Father. Sorin and his Brothers in religion— crossed the St. Joe River on blue-white ice and came to—
Music: (cut.)
Sorin: (softly—slight French accent) Notre Dahm du Lac! Everything frozen, and yet—it is all so beautiful. . . I think we all feel like little children— We would like to run along the shore of the lake, in spite of the cold!
Narrator: That was what Father Sorin said. Not words made up for a radio program, but his words. A little while later that morning he and his companions gathered in the old mission chapel that was set back from the shores of St. Mary’s lake—	.
Sorin (softly) .
Holy Mother of God—Notre Dahm du lac—with my Brothers and myself, I present to thee now at this moment all those generous souls whom Heaven shall be pleased to call round me on this spot and all who shall come after me.
Music: (up very brief; cut.)
Narrator: —and all who shall come
. after him.'A handful of men in the snow—Today there are 3000 students in residence at Notre Dame. And those > who have come after Sorin have come from every one of the forty-eight states H, of our Union—from Alaska and Canada, and. Brazil, from the Canal Zone
. and China, from Mexico and Peru, the Hawaiian: Islands and West Africa—
• Other places too—say the six con ti-nents and the seven seas have all sent men to' Notre Dame—that gives you
10
' a glass case of stuffed animals. They’re the idea. ... A handful of men in the snow.
(Pause)
But between then and now—struggle and strain, fervor and fever, death -	and growth between then and now.
Music:
VOICE: (cutting in sharp)	'
/ The malaria!
Narrator: Y^s, the malaria. Between ’	1852 and ’56, at the worst time of all
a third of the community—priests, Brothers, and nuns—died of malaria.
Music:
Voice (cutting m) The Civil War!
Narrator: I’m not forgetting—that was K the first war for Notre Dame.
SOUND: (distant galloping.)
’ s The governor of Indiana sent a courier ' to the campus, appealing for help, nurses and chaplains. The nuns went as nurses, and Notre Dame sent more chaplains to the Union Armies than <	" any other community or diocese in the
country.
?	• Music:	,
i Voice: Father Corby at Gettysburg!
' Narrator: Yes . . . that’s a story to re-
| member.
. Sounds: (Low crowd noises—dis-j	tant rumble of cannon)
;	Four o’clock in the afternoon of July
2, 1863. The battle of Gettysburg has i	already begun.
j	Sound: (Loiv distant rumbling as
]	background to following:)
i Father William Corby of Notre Dame, r' now chaplain to the famous Irish Brigade, stands on a great black rock in
? the midst of Union soldiers—
I	Corby : Men, I need not remind you of
I	the high and sacred nature of your
!	trust, and of the noble object for which
£ • you fight. I have proposed to your |	commander that before going into
r battle I give to all of you a general ।	absolution.
5	Sound: (Crowd murmurs.)
p Corby: This is intended—in so far as it
;	can be—not only for our brigade but
for all, North and South, who are sus-
:i ceptible to it—
(	Sound: (Distant rumble.)
and who this day are about to appear
| before their Judge.
Sound: (Distant scattered burst of rifle fire, distant nimble of cannons. Croiud murmurs, shuf-_	fling sounds. Then hush.) -
Narrator (softly): They’re all kneeling—
. Sound: (Distant scattered bursts _	. of rifle fire. Distant rumble of
. cannon. Then, up close, crowd
murmurs, shuffling sounds. Then hush.)
Narrator: (softly) They’re all kneeling, Catholics and non-Catholics. The priest high on the rock is raising his right hand over them.
Corby: “Dominus Noster Jesus Christus vos absolvat, et ego auctoritate ipsius, vos absolvo ab omni vinculo (murmuring now) excommunicationis et inter-dicti in quantum possum et vos indi— getis (clearly) deinde ego absolve vos, a peccatis vestris,.
Sound: (Sharp rattle of rifles, off.)
in nomine Patris, et Filii, et Spiritus Sancti.
Sound : (Boom of cannon, off.) Amen!
Music: (loiu but gathering strength and intensity.)
Narrator: There is so much to remember. Hours of days and men and the rolling years.
Voices: The fire!
Narrator: April 23, 1879, in its thirtyseventh year, Notre Dame burned to the ground. Listen!
Sound: (Low crackling as background.)
It’s eleven o’clock on an April mom-ning. Bright sun, clear sky, and a spring-sweet wind.
Sound: (crackle of flames close up.)	-
VOICE: (in distance) College on fire!
VOICE: (closer, higher pitch) College on fire!	.
Sound: (crowd cries; crackling.)
Voices: (rising pitch) Fire!
Fire!	•
Fire!
. Sound: (crowd and crackling, continued as background to following.)
Narrator: (loiu excited voice) You can see it now, it’s on the east side of the dome of the college building. Greyblack smoke. The wind takes it away. Quck sharp tongues of flame. They look mean. They look white against the blue sky, yellow-white and mean. Against the smoke they’re red. And they’re spreading! It’s a pitch roof! You can’t see the flame now for smoke. You can’t see the roof now for red fire! They’re carrying water.
Sound: (Background of shouts, crackling, many footsteps hurrying.)
Priests and Brothers and teachers and students, they’re running with buckets and tubs of water. Wait! Hey! What’s that? Two students just ran by with .
bringing out books and trunks, and desks. There goes a boy with a framed painting as-big as-he is I They say the water pipes have burst. That’s why they’re carrying water. ..
Sound: (Crash of timber; crackling.)
What? What’s that?—They tell me two students are trapped up there where the fire’s worst. I don’t know...-.
' Sound : (crash of timber.)
Whew! It’s getting hot here, you can feel the heat fifty yards away. And the smoke—it makes your eyes water.
What? I can’t hear you!	-
’ Oh! .
Those boys who were trapped are out safe. They jumped through a burnt floor to the story below—
Sound: (Crash, loud crackling louder.)
Ah! The dome! The dome has fallen! That was the dome falling, that crash you heard. Oh, it’s no use now. It’s too late. All they can do is try to save other buildings now. Wind’s from the south-west blowing away from the church, so that ought to be safe. But the college— All they can hope for is to save the other buildings.
Sound: (Fire roar up loud to climax. Then out.) -
The college is gone!	-	.
. Music: (Up softly. Continued as background.)
Yes, it took the fire three hours that April day to wreck the work of thirtyseven years. At nightfall Notre Danie was a heap of smoking rubble. The night air smelled of ashes. Father Sorin was away. They were almost afraid to send him word. He was sixty-six now, they didn’t know how he’d stand the shock. But they sent a message, and he came back . . . home. I wish I could make you see the man. Straight, white-bearded, patriarchal, he came to the ruins of his “Notre Dahm du lac.” Nobody can say how he felt. But you know what he did. He called the community together in the church —the only building left—and standing on the altar steps he told them very calmly and confidently, with his faith and his resolution running through his words like electricity through a tense wire—he told them that a new Notre Dame would be open to students that fall. He had built before and he’d build again.	.
Music: (cut.)
Sorin: (Slight accent) If it were all gone I should not give up!
Narrator: That was how he ended. And if they went into the church that day
It
as beaten men they came out as builders, conscious of hands to work with, ready to rake and sift and clear, raise beams and set stone, lay brick and spread plaster. Out of the dark ashes that summer rose the new Notre Dame, open to students that fall.
Music: (Swelling and prolonged, about 30 seconds. Then cut.)
Narrator: The new Notre Dame. A university sharing in the life and adding to the life of America.
How am I going to tell you about Notre Dame, so that right now, tonight, you • listening in will get an idea of its constant sharing and contributing? What would you like to know? What’s pertinent right now, tonight? Would you like to see past and present come together? See what Notre Dame has done in the past that is still living now, on this eve of Thanksgiving, 1942?
Voice 1: Planes!
Voice 2: Radio!
Voice 3: Rubber!
Narrator: Yes. Planes, radio, and rubber. Things of today. Well ....
Voice (Sharply): In the 1880’s Professor Albert Zahm was experimenting at Notre Dame with gliders launched from the roof of Science Hall and landing in Brownson campus, at Notre Dame. Zahm built the first wind tunnel. His pioneer contributions to the science of aeronautics were acknowledged by the Wright brothers, who followed him and by still later pioneers.
Narrator: There are some good stories about Albert Zahm. The night he strapped wings on an assistant and hoisted him up by rope and tackle in the big two-storied foyer of Science Hall and there twirled him round and . round-—and when the caretaker next morning found footsteps running sidewards twenty feet up on the dusty wall —he thought ghosts had been walking! But I guess I’m taking up time with stories—
Voice (Sharply): In the 1890’s Professor Jerome Green, after four years of experimentation with wireless, duplicated Marconi’s famous achievement within a month, at Notre Dame. There were technical differences in the methods. But the results were identical.
Narrator: The first wireless message in America was sent by Jerome Green from the church tower at Notre Dame . to a receiving set at St. Mary’s College a couple of miles away.'	"
Voice (Sharply): Back in - the 1920’s < "working in the chemistry:laboratories
12	‘
at Notre Dame, Father Julius Nieuw-land discovered his formula for synthetic rubber. His was the basic work of pioneering. Later developments, based on his formula, have led to the production today of a Synthetic vital to America.
Narrator: Back in 1912 Father Nieuw-land had a laboratory assistant named Knute Kenneth Rockne. He later be-. came well-known in another field. —
But you see what I mean now: The past at Notre Dame contributing to the present. And it has not been just planes, radio, and rubber, or the dozen other things I could talk about. No— Most of all—and I feel proud looking back and saying this—most of all it has been men!
Music: (up softly as background.) It was men in 1917. Something over, twenty-two hundred Notre Dame men in uniform.
MUSIC: (continues as background.) The two bronze tablets at the east door of Sacred Heart Church list the names of the Notre Dame war-dead of 1917 and 18. The inscription over that door reads:
Voice: “God, Country, Notre Dame. In glory everlasting.”
Narrator: And the windows there, lead-ribbed, stained glass, rich with sun, ruby-colored and deep blue, are windows of the warrior Saints, Michael and Joan of Arc.
Music: (up briefly, then cut.)
Sounds: (occasional low rumbling of heavy guns as background through following.)
There was the time Father Matt Walsh, Vice President of the University, in France as a chaplain, looked up and down the trenches at night for an enlisted man who had quit school at Notre Dame just before commence-. ment of his senior year without waiting for- a diploma.
Walsh : Dan!—Oh, Dan McGlynn! McGlynn: Father Walsh!
Walsh : I’ve been looking for you. McGlynn : It’s good to see you!
Walsh: Dan, they .want men for officers training at once— They need them badly. I told them about you?.
McGlynn: But Father, they want college graduates. ..	■
Walsh : You finished your work' at Notre , Dame..	. .	J
McGlynn: But I’ve ho diploma, no de-, gree!
Walsh: We’ll have them mail the diplo- -ma from home, Dan. And as to the degree—1	:	k
(slowly) By.virtue of the authority vested in me as vice-president of the University of Notre Danie du lac, and in
the absence of the president and the rest of the faculty I here and now confer upon you, Daniel McGlynn, the degree of bachelor of laws.
Music: (up loud. Then cut.)
Narrator: Stories of men and of Notre Dame. The 1920’s now, when some people first began to thinlc about Notre Dame as the place where the football teams came from—
Sounds: (Crotud sounds; cheering-)
Music: (Dim background of Victory March.)
The Four Horsemen, the National Champions, Coach Rockne—
Music.- (Cut.)
Sound: (Cut.)
Rockne . . . Everybody knows his story, and knowing it, knows something of Notre Dame.
Sound: (Distant sound of plane motor, idling, getting louder as hurried footsteps sound over it.) Voice: Just in time, Mr. Rockne. They’re ready to take off.
SOUND: (Door click, roar of plane motor, gradually diminishing, as in distance. Plane, sound cut. Phone bell. Pause. Phone bell. Click of receiver.)
Voice: (slight Irish brogue) Hello. . . . Yes . . . This is Notre Dame. Whom . do you want? ...
What?—You’re sure? Yes. . . .
Sound: (Click of phone receiver.) Rockne’s—dead! The plane crashed.
Sound: (Babble of voices, breaking off.)
Music: (for each of folloiuing and siuelling up louder again immediately.)
Voice: Did you hear about—?
Music
Voice: It’s just a rumor!
Music
Voice: It’s on the radio! It’s in the paper! Rockne’s dead!
Music
Voice: Rockne?—dead?
Music
Sound: (Babble loud and confused, rising. Then cut.)
Music: (Up softly.)
Narrator: That was on March 31, 1931. On April 5 Father Charles O’Donnell, then president of the University, preached Rock’s funeral sermon.
.Music: (Swelling, then cut.) O’Donnell: What was the secret of his irresistible appeal to all sorts and conditions of men? I think, supremely, he loved, his neighbor, his fellowman, with genuine, deep love, giving himself, spending himself like water, not for himself but for others. And once again in his case, most illustriously is - verified the Christian paradox—he has cast away to keep, he has lost his life

*
to find it. This is not death but immortality. . 0 Mother of God and Mother of God’s men, we give him into thy keeping. Mary, gate of Heaven, open to receive him. Mary, Morning Star shine upon his sea. Mary of Notre Dame, take him unto thy House of Gold, Our Life, our Sweetness, and our Hope, we lay him in thy bosom.
Eternal rest grant him, 0 Lord—
Crowd Voices: And let perpetual light shine upon him.
Music: (Up, sivelling and prolonged. Then cut.)
Narrator: Yes . . . And that just about brings the story—the way I’m telling it, with- gaps and jumps—the full way round. Poverty and malaria, fire and war, death and growth. The hundred and first year is starting. A hundred years— It’s a long enough time to celebrate gratefully. But if looking back over it and feeling the good warm human pride that’s natural looking back, you then do what those men did a hundred years ago, if you look ahead, as they, did, to the other years, the coming ones, 1952, 1982, 2042, well, then time grows meaningful, somehow, and Notre Dame’s first hundred years grow meaningful, because — Today Notre Dame is not just a university with all the. v-programs and reserve corps and war training classes for civilians that go today with Universities. It is also a United States Naval training base. Twelve hundred fifty future officers of the Navy are today in training on the campus of Notre Dame under Captain Henry P. Burnett. Listen.
Sound: (Marching feet) “hup-2-3-4! Hup! -2-3-4!” “Halt!” (Cut marching.)	,
That’s one part of Notre Dame today. The Notre Dame that Father Sorin founded on the earth of midwestern America.
Sound: (Footsteps, hurrying.)
Student A (groaning) These eight o’clock classes!	.
Student B: We’ll be late again. The bell’s due. ...
Student A: Come on. We’ll take the side door.
Student B: He’ll throw a quiz today, sure. .	.	•
Sound: (Rattle of door.)
Student.B: What’s the matter?
Student A: Door’s locked. ■
Student B: Push it. It sticks sometimes.
. Sound: (Rattle of door.) ;
Student A: (grunting): Uh-uh.
Sound: (Distant bell, like phone bell.)
Student B: Oh-oh, there’s the eight o’clock bell. We’re late!
Student A: It was never locked before. We’ve gone in this way other mornings when we were late! .
Student B: Can you see anybody inside?
Student A: No. . . . Wait! Yes! There’s a watchman in there! He’s coming to the door! ‘
Student B: A watchman? What?
Student A: I don’t know what—	'
Sound: (Door click.)
Watchman: All right fellows—looking for somebody?
Student A: We just want to get in!
Student B: We’re due at an eight o’clock class!	-
Student A: Thanks for opening—
Watchman: Sorry. You’ll have to go round to the front door.
Student A: But we.always use this— Student B: -We’re late!
Watchman : This door is locked, from now on. Have you a pass to get in? War training classes going on down in the basement lab.
Student A: War research?
Watchman: That’s right.
Student B: Come on, we have to get going!
Sound: (Footsteps, running, fading off.)	■
Our Lady of the Snow
Narrator: Yes . . - That’s another part of Notre Dame today. The campus, which is the same as it always was, yet is not quite the same as it always was. There are some doors which do not open now, but they will open again. And there are other doors, new ones, which have opened wide. Over 800 adults, men and women, are enrolled right now in Notre Dame’s war training program, for civilians. They were meeting tonight, those classes. They’ve been over now for about an hour. Some of the people in them aren’t-even home yet, because they come to Notre Dame from within a radius of about thirty miles.
Voice: General Aeronautics! Tool and Die Design! Metallurgy!
Narrator: Those are some of the courses taught. Twenty-six in all, with double sections of some subjects.
Man-A : I’m taking Electric Motors and Controls, myself. Seems queer, for an office-worker! -
Man-B: This Industrial Math—that’s what I signed up for. It’s the biggest class they have.
Man-C : No Personnel Administration is the biggest. That’s the one I’m in I
Man-D: My wife and I both signed up for Engineering Drawing. Seems kind of funny to us to be both in school to. gether, after so many years.
Music: (Up as background.)
Narrator: And that’s another part of Notre Dame today, as it starts its hundred and first year.
And there are still other things to tell you— There are no bronze tablets on the church door yet for this war’s dead. But there is a scroll in the vesti-' bule, and the list of names there is growing, to grief but to glory.
Music: (Up softly background.) And there is another Notre Dame today— its hard for me to explain this
—but you’ll see what I mean.
Another Notre Dame not here on the campus but everywhere, in far places, on islands and mainlands, in snow and in sand, by sea and by sky, wherever on the round world its men are’in battle—students, alumni, chaplains, professors — three thousand in uniform, now, tonight — “generous souls who shall come after me,” Father Sorin called them once in anticipation—wher-ever its men are tonight in service of.
. God and of country, Notre Dame is there too, tonight. This point in space has spread into human hearts. I could tell you more, but you see what I mean about Notre Dame. - '	„	"
Music: (Up to close.) . '	-
13
Keeping the Faith with God and America
Sermon delivered by Monsignor Fulton J. Sheen.
noted radio orator, at the Centennial Pontifical
Mass, University of Notre Dame, Nov. 26, 1942.
Though our Divine Savior did so many wonders and worked so many miracles, that, as St. John tells us, if they were written down, the world would not be large enough to contain the book thereof, the Creed nevertheless summarizes His Life in four simple statements: a) Born of the Virgin Mary, b) suffered, c) died and was buried, d) and the third day rose again.
Such is the history of Christian men and Christian institutions.
1) The University of Notre Dame was born in the year 1842. The first sermon of Father Sorin who founded it was preached in Le Mans, France, on the subject of the Blessed Virgin, Our Lady, under the text: “Qui elucidant me, vitam aeternam habebunt.” On the Feast of Our Lady of Snow he left Le Mans for America; on the Feast of the Divine Maternity he reached Vincennes, Indiana, the goal of his journey, and on November 26, 1842, in company with the seven Brothers who came with him, he knelt beside a spot called “St. Marys of the Lakes,” and after rechristening it “Notre Dame du Lac” consecrated himself and his confreres to the Blessed Virgin, and thus the University of Notre Dame was born, as the Creed puts it, “of the Blessed Virgin Mary.”
The Second Period
The second period in the Creed is “suffering.” No great work of God was ever accomplished with the first touch of the brush. God seems to be always with those things which have survived a catastrophe. Across the face of the universe, there is written the law that no one shall, be crowned unless he -has struggled. The angels were not confirmed in glory until they had passed, the ordeal of being within an inch of damnation. All visible creation had to be remade after a calamity; “Mirabiliter condidisti et mirabilius reformasti.” Even the gold in the bowels of the earth must be subject to the purging fire, before it reaches its glory in the chalice of The altar. It is only through Good Friday that one comes to the glory of Easter morn; there must be ashes ere, Phoenix can rise from it.
Calvary came to Notre Dame in i the year 1879jwhen Father Sorin was destined to see his labors Vanish into smoke.
14	’	v-'::
As Peter saw the vision of Moses and Elias fade away from the Hill of the Transfiguration and the spectre of Golgotha rise in its place, so Father Sorin saw the tents he built vanish to be seen no more. As the great unpentecostal tongues of fire spoke out their message that as man fell to be remade, so the labors of his thirty-seven years were undone that they might be done again.
• Msgr. Sheen speaking from the pulpit in Sacred Heart Church.
As the Promethean fires reeled off their macabre dance of death, it was as if an angel with a flaming sword stood at the gates of paradise ushering him into, the sad land of dust and ashes.
•„ Going out among the whirling, ruins of his mounded labors, there at his feet, as at the foot of another Calvary, was the statue of Our Lady which once adorned the dome, and which now had crashed, as if seven fiery, swords had smittenher. heart. But she was still standing. “Stabat Mater dolorosa.”	.	: ,
- Another Notre Dame.
At a moment like this, when the labor . of years whirled as dust, most men would have summoned their confreres into.their; office, or called; an insurance company. This great man addressed himself to St. . Joseph in what must- have been one of ,; the most, dramatic sermons of all times: . “Suppose.that a very wealthy and power- . ..
. ful man had lost his wife in a fire. Would
he not, if he could, use every effort to rescue his wife and restore her to the loving dignity that had been hers? St. Joseph, your spouse lies beneath all this smoking debris. Will you not save her, and place her once again where she was the ruling spirit of our lives?”
He planned another dome; this time a dome of gold, on which the statue of Our Lady, like his flag of battle, would be unfurled in pledge of the victory of faith. But there were some realists in the community; today we call them “practical men”—men who think that the spiritual is incidental to the material— who opposed a dome of gold as Judas had opposed the wasting of the ointment. But Father Sorin was as impractical as His Master who refused to come down from a Cross, even for the practical reason of winning over the executioners, and the impractical man won the day. Our Lady is still the Queen of Notre Dame, looking down on us now from that dome of gold, more glorious in her Assumption than in her first Presentation. Notre Dame was now ushered into the third period of the Creed: “died and was buried.”
In the very year of the fire,’ 1879, Notre Dame along with .all moral and religious education was laid in the grave. At that time the four pallbearers of liberalism, science, progress, and relativism arose in Germany, France, Belgium, Holland and throughout the English-speaking world, to interr what they thought was the corpse of Christian education. Education, it was assumed could now prosper without God and the sense of■ right and wrong, for man was naturally good and progressive; time operated in favor of betterment; evil and sin were due to ignorance, and if men were given more education they would necessarily become better.
. During the War
..From 1879,.through the first and now during;the second world war, the modern world.still continued to regard Christian education as a corpse. But now we are at the third day, the day of resurrection. Noti-e Dame, and the Christian education for which it stands, is rising from the dead, for the modern world has finally come To see, that you cannot preserve human and democratic, values on a non-moral and non-religious foundation.
F \
I tv .;

rw
In the light of two world wars, in 21 years, our generation now is forced to admit that once education abandoned moral standards, it could no longer pass judgment on the Tightness and wrongness of political and economic actions; that once schools ceased to develop and refine the moral sense, the only difference between the educated and the uneducated, was not the wisdom which prepares for moral leadership, but information which only equips for quiz-programs; that the youth of the world has suddenly become revolutionary, not because it did not have economic advantages — for never before did it have so many — but because it had ’ost the purpose of the goal of life which
K
l'.

VX religion alone can insure; that once ethical standards are abandoned in education, there is no criterion except power, and with it the increasing prospect of increasing wars and revolutions of nihilism; that once the" Divine Logos as the source of Truth was forgotten, there was no difference between truth and' propaganda, and that all a party had to do to seize a nation was to confiscate the vehicles of propaganda: the radio and press, as it did in Germany, and who could say they were wrong, for the universities had already denied there was any difference between right and wrong. As Dr. Einstein himself has said, when the revolu-
tion broke out in Germany he looked to the universities to protest, but he found them ’helpless. “Only the Church stood squarely across the path of Hitler’s campaign for suppressing Truth ... I am now convinced and forced to confess that what I once despised I now praise unreservedly.”
Philosophy of Expediency
If, there was any day in which ethical relativism, the denial of an absolute distinction between right and wrong collapsed, it was on December 7, 1941. For years the Japs had been studying philosophy in American institutions; they learned that the distinction between right and wrong was only a point of view; they heard William James , quoted saying : “Whatever is advantageous in terms of cash value is right.” They took the ideas back to Japan and on December 7th, flew across an ocean and bombed Pearl Harbor. Were they right? On the basis of ethical relativism they were. Now, we have learned that: the absolute distinction which Notre Dame and Christian education preserved alone — could say that they were wrong and we were right.	.
Thus did education come to the tragic vision that a high degree of scientific advancement could exist alongside - of utter moral depravity and prompt Mr. Lippman to warn us that one of the first
thing’s we must do when this war is over, is to hold a rendezvous with education and to restore its greatest essential: the moral distinction between- right and wrong.
But what was Notre Dame and Christian education doing all this time the world thought it dead? It was really keeping faith in the Declaration of Independence by preserving in our national life a belief in God, from whom this document said, all our rights are derived; it was keeping faith with George Washington who in 1796 warned us that “reason and experience both forbid us to expect that national morality can prevail in exclusion of religious principle”; it was keeping faith with Lincoln who said: “It is the duty of nations as well as of men to owe their dependence upon the overruling power of God, and to recognize the sublime truth announced in Holy Scripture and proven by all history, that these nations alone are blessed”; it was keeping faith with our President who said: “Only a spiritual regeneration can save the world.” And while many of her older sister universities which began as she did, as religious institutions completely abandoned both their religion and morality, Notre Dame kept its faith with this great country and now on this the third day rises to her glory as one of the greatest educational institutions in our land, and from the viewpoint of influence, indeed the greatest.
Notre Dame enter into your heritage! Lead a darkened world back again into the Light. You have been a living proof as an institution of what the Pacific hero, Commander- Shea, wrote to his little
son: “Be a good Catholic, and you will always be a good American.”
Notre Dame you were born of the Virgin .Mary; she stood with you in the fire of 1879; she watched by your tomb and now she is in the midst of your children, abiding in prayer in the Pentecostal centenary.
Notre Dame, Our Lady, through whose portals of the flesh the Eternal Word came into history, be the portals through which the War will become flesh in the lives and hearts and souls of America.
Notre Dame, who has been loved by ~ more than any woman who ever lived, continue to be the patroness of the University, who has more alumni than it ever had students, more devotion than it has enrollment, and more sons than it ever begot.
Notre Dame, as in the beginning thou wert a living ciborium that once housed the great Captain Christ, so be now the House of Gold Avith a Dome of Gold, to welcome those whom That Son called His brethren, the Church calls her children, and whom thou dost call Notre Dame men—Our Lady’s men.
Notre Dame who once stood under a Cross, and who on the eve of thy great Feast saw the country which is dedicated to Thy Immaculate Conception, deceitfully bombed at Pearl Harbor, be, we beseech, thee, during this war “terrible as an army, drawn up in battle array,” that with Thee and with Thy Son thou mayest be Our Queen of Peace, and Guardian of great Notre Dame that has kept its faith with God and country.
Prayer at the Log Chapel
By VERY REV. ALBERT F. COUSINEAU. C.S.C.
(Following is the beautiful prayer of thanks offered up by the Superior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross on the occasion of the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the University of Notre Dame.)
Our Lady of the Seven Dolors, Patroness of the Congregation of Holy Cross, behold us assembled in prayer in the Log Chapel where the Very Reverend Edward Sorin knelt a hundred years ago. To Thee he consecrated himself, his successors and all the future students of the institution he was about to found. His consecration was a pledge that we, his followers, should dedicate our lives and all our activities to Thy glory under Thy benevolent protection. We have seen to it that Father Sorin’s word was kept so far as human frailty has allowed. In return, Most Holy Mother, Thou hast ever watched over us from Heaven with unfailing kindness.
In my own name, and in the name of my spiritual sons, I return Thee thanks on this centennial morning for the many favors granted in this Country which is so dear to our hearts. Mayest Thou be forever blessed, 0 Sweet Virgin Mary, our Patroness and our Mother!
In Thy name, 0 Sovereign Queen, Father Sorin and seven companions: Brothers Francis Xavier, Gatien, Patrick, Basil, William, Peter and Francis took possession of a tract of land known as Notre-Dame-du-Lac. For the past century the work of these valiant pioneers has been carried on by a multitude of generous apostles, many of whom now share the Founder’s eternal reward. However, only their bodies lie buried in the past; their immortal souls dwell in the eternal vision of God. They now enjoy indescribable bliss, for they have' been admitted to heavenly felicity; and they possess..the.assurance of- never losing the reward, which their sacrifices and labors in the service of God merited them. For them, tears shall be no more. Their trials and struggles are over. Their faith has become certitude; their hope reality; their love beatific vision. 0, the fullness of celestial ecstasies! Fill their souls/ with heavenly, light in these troubled, times. Quoniam dies mali sunt (Ephes. V. 16) . We feel trampled under foot in this bloody war which involves all peoples; bur bodies are bruised and
16	;
we lose courage as we look with saddened eyes. at the frightful task which lies ahead of us. De profundis clamavi ad te, Donline. Yes, we are afraid we may fall into the very depths of the abyss. Therefore, we seek the company of our departed priests and Brothers who live in the presence of God and His angels. We ask the Founder of this great Catholic university and the Father in Christ of so many spiritual sons to fill our souls with strength and courage. We lift our hearts to God in fervent prayer as we say: Doniine, exaudi vocem meant. 0 Lord, hear our prayers! And do Thou, 0 Blessed Virgin Mary, present our supplication to the eternal Throne of Jesus Christ our Saviour. We give thanks to God and to Thee, 0 Virgin most maternal, for all the favors we have received through the intercession of our beloved dead ever present in our midst. New and stronger ties bind them more closely to the great family of Holy Cross. These honored dead still look after the great work they achieved at the cost of so many sacrifices, the greatest undoubtedly being the immolation of their consecrated lives. They intercede for us before . Almighty God; they mingle their pleadings with those of our heavenly protectors, with Thine, 0 Blessed Virgin and with Thine, 0 St. Joseph. So it is rather by their merits than by our work , that we obtain the blessings which astonish us and put Notre Dame on equal footing - with the leading universities of the United States.
Yes, the spirit of our dead brethren is ever alive among us in the manifold works brought by their hands. It is to the.Founder of Notre Dame and his colaborers, both priests and Brothers, that we owe this century-old university which increases in fidelity to the ancient medieval tradition. Their spirit of progress . still animates this university’s development and prosperity. ’ Even in death, the voices of former presidents and professors, lay and religious, rise in never-ceasing accents to summon us to higher achievements. It is our privilege to enjoy the campus they beautified, to pray with recollection, at the Grotto of Lourdes built with Marian love by hum. ble religious who had dedicated their lives, to obscure tasks. The varied species of -trees and shrubs that beautify, the - campus, the lakes reflecting. Our Lady’s dome, the carpets of green which soothe
our tired eyes, the long, peaceful paths inviting us to meditation and prayer, testify to the poetic inspiration and the unceasing devotion of our predecessors.
Among those who set foot here in 1842, the name of one of Thy faithful sons, 0 Virgin Mary, Queen of Heaven, spontaneously comes to mind: I mean dear Father Sorin who was sent to the United States by Father Founder Moreau to establish the work of Holy Cross in America. His first permanent foundation is the University of Notre Dame, a monument of Catholic Faith, completely dedicated to the best interests of our Country and the highest aims of sound learning. The statue of Father Sorin, on its granite pedestal, rises on the campus to remind us of his eminent moral stature which succeeding generations have looked up to as the pattern of their manhood. The great work of the Founder of Notre Dame is, first of all, a beautiful poem to Thee, 0 Mary Virgin and Mother, Whom he loved above all other saints. He set Thy image on the summit of the dome over the Administration building as a token of his confidence in Thee. Moreover, a place was chosen for Thee in the Grotto where Thy children lovingly repeat from dawn to dusk: “Mary help us, help ive pray; help us in all care and sorrow; Mary help us, help we pray.” Thanks to Father Sorin’s apostolate of love, Thou dost truly live in the hearts of those who pray to Thee; Thou art the cause of whatever holiness of life we have attained; Thou art the model we strive daily to imitate. Remember,, 0 Mary, the devotion Father Sorin didst pledge to Thee. Was not his Marian piety one of his most authentic titles to glory? It. was and it always will be the source . of all fruitful religious activity here at Notre Dame.
0. Blessed Mother, look down upon us and deign to bless forevermore the educational work Father Sorin established here. The Founder of Notre Dame was pleased to find, .upon his arrival in America, true .liberty which he cherished, of which he often spoke in praise and through which he worked wonders. As Father Sorin did a hundred years ago I, . today, give homage to the United States of America, the only Country, by virtue of her Constitution, to grant fair play to the Catholic Church. Let us hope that the spirit of justice and tolerance will spread throughout the world, that all re-
ligious persecution, however disguised it may be, will soon perish from the earth. Father Sorin built the walls of Notre Dame under the protective, outspread wings of the proud and mighty American eagle. He drew up a program of studies which, down to this day has retained his spirit in spite of the modifications made necessary by this ever-changing world of ours. The Reverend Hugh O’Donnell has pointed out that Notre Dame changes, but forever remains the same. “Notre Dame still emphasizes the discipline of the spiritual, the intellectual and the moral. Here you will always find the first principles from which all true development proceeds. This is still the Notre Dame of Father Sorin and his worthy successors....”
All honor to the intrepid Founder of Notre Dame! Inspired by God, he built a bulwark of the Catholic Faith in the Middle West. Consequently, the people in this part of the United States are largely indebted to Father Sorin for their spiritual wealth.
Have pity, 0 Lord, on those of ours who now sleep the sleep of death. Through Thy Blessed Mother we beg of Thee, Lord Jesus, that they may share Father Sorin’s eternal reward. If Fath
er Sorin, at times, had recourse to strong action, his dealings with his fellowmen were motivated by the supernatural, so ardently and generously did he endeavor to work for Thy glory under the watchful eye of Mary. Hear, his prayer and listen to the petitions of Father Moreau, the founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross. Bless the work of these two great souls and bless the efforts of their companions and their successors. Today, they are dead, stripped of everything which they loved in life, but like the grain of wheat falling on good ground they have yielded fruit a hundredfold.
In this centennial year may our tears and prayers obtain from Thy mercy and kindness, 0 Lord, eternal happiness for our deceased Fathers and Brothers, should their great sacrifices and holy deaths be found insufficient.thus far to admit them to the joy of seeing Thy Divine Face. Lord Jesus, bless our predecessors in the works of their successors. What we ask of Thee, 0 Lord, is the privilege of working for Thy glory. Never be it said that we are unprofitable servants in the household of the Faith.
This morning, 0 Lord, on the very spot where Father Sorin solemnly promised to glorify Thy Blessed Mother, we renew our pledge to love her, so that. Thou mayest be better known and loved. Look with favor upon our consecration to Thy all beautiful Heavenly Mother, who is also our mother, a mother hon
ored here for the past century under the magnificent title of Our Lady of the Lake.
Finally, for all our beloved dead who rejoice in spirit with us* on this memorable day, for us who must remain at our tasks, with lively faith, with hearts
Rev. Hugh O'Donnell's Concluding Remarks
“The time has come to bring these beautiful exercises to a close. Our hearts are full as we see about us so many evidences of God’s continuing blessings upon the school dedicated to His Blessed Mother, which now begins its second century of devotion to the principles of Christian education that were born two thousand years ago upon the Galilean shore.
“As all of you know, today’s ceremonies are an act of thanksgiving. It is significant that the performance of this prayerful act should take place in the presence of the chief shepherds of the two dioceses which have been closest to the development of Notre Dame. On behalf of the University, I extend our heartfelt gratitude to the beloved ordinary of the Diocese of Fort Wayne, Bishop Noll, and to our dear friend Bishop Ritter, of Indianapolis, the successor of that Bishop Helandiere from whom Father Sorin received the land on which we now stand.	;
“We are also appreciative of the honor bestowed upon us by the highest authority in the Congregation of Holy Cross, the Superior General, Father Cousineau, whose impressive prayer manifests his sympathetic interest in Notre Dame. To
full of hope and love, we mingle our voices with those, of the other members-of the Congregation of Holy Cross throughout the world -and repeat with the Church the prayer which Is ever new and always appropriate: .
De profimdis clamavi ad te, Domine.
him we express our homage and devotion. I am also very mindful of the cooperation we have received from our Provincial, Father Steiner, for which I am very grateful.
“To Monsignor Fulton J. Sheen, adopted son of Notre Dame and ambassador-at-large, we make grateful acknowledgement for the eloquence and beauty of his sermon. All through the years he has-been the devoted friend.
“I cannot begin to name all those here at Notre Dame and elsewhere whose tireless loyalty has helped to make the day what it is: a fitting observance of the actual Centenary of our founding. I am not unmindful of the kindly interest of our friends in the city of South Bend, nor am I forgetting the kindness of the Blue Network which has made it easier for Notre Dame’s far-flung family to come home in spirit.
“I know of no better way of concluding this day of double Thanksgiving than by recalling—and paraphrasing in part— the Gaelic hymn • of thanksgiving—the Irish Te Deum:	- .
Thanks be to God for the light and the darkness: Thanks be to God for the hail and the snow;
Thanks be to God for showers and sunshine: Thanks be to God for all things that grow ;
Thanks be to God for lightning and tempest: Thanks be to God for weal and for woe;
Thanks be to God for His own great goodness;
Thanks be to God that what is, is so:
Thanks be to God when the harvest is plenty;
Thanks be to God when the barn is low;
Thanks be to God that the mass-bell and steeple Are heard and are seen throughout Mary’s fair bower;
Thanks be to God that the priest and the people Are ever united in war and in trial.
Thanks be to God that the brave sons of Mary Have the faith of their fathers as lively as they.
Thanks be to God for God.
Centennial Celebration
Held Thanksgiving Day
The arrival 100 years before of Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., and the seven Brothers who founded the University of Notre Dame was solemnly and brilliantly observed on the campus on Nov. 26, Thanksgiving Day.
A solemn pontifical Mass in Sacred Heart Church, celebrated by Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., bishop of Fort Wayne, provided the principal observance of the long-awaited day. A capacity congregation — priests, Brothers, nuns, students, alumni and many other friends of the school — assisted at the Mass and listened to the magnificent sermon of Rt. Rev. Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen, D.D., nationally noted orator of the Catholic University of America, which is printed in its entirety elsewhere in this issue.
Other officers of the Mass were: Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, assistant priest; Rev. Bernard J. Hl and Rev. Matthew J. Schumacher, deacons of honor; Rev. Joseph A. Maguire, deacon of the Mass; Rev. Thomas P. Irving, sub-deacon of the Mass; Rev. William R. Connor, master of ceremonies; and Rev. Leo W. Gorman, assistant master of ceremonies. Rev. Patrick J. Carroll and Rev. George J. Marr were chaplains to Bishop Noll, and Rev. William A. Bolger and Rev. Louis M. Kelly were chaplains to Most Rev. Joseph E. Ritter, D.D., bishop of Indianapolis.
The music of the Mass was by the University Choir of Moreau Seminary and the- University Glee Club, both directed for the occasion by Rev. Carl Hager, director of the choir. Prof. Daniel H. Pedtke, director of the Glee Club, was at the organ.
Following the Mass a commemorative plaque, designed for the Centenary by Eugene Kormendi of the University, was unveiled and blessed in the vestibule of the church by Bishop Ritter.
18
With the conclusion of the church services, a procession wound its way (in frigid weather more than a little reminiscent of the day of the founders’ arrival) to the space near the Log Chapel and the nearby monument to the founders. There Very Rev. Albert F. Cousineau, superior general of the Congregation of Holy Cross, offered a prayer for the founders (which is printed completely in this issue) and Father O’Donnell, in concluding remarks, thanked all who had contributed to the day’s success and significance.
The sermon of Msgr. Sheen was broadcast to the nation by the Blue Network. The previous night, Nov. 25, at 10:30 p.m. CWT, NBC presented to the nation from Chicago “The Story of Notre Dame,” a dramatization of the University’s hundred years of life written by Prof. Richard Sullivan of the Department of English with music by Prof.
Father Sorin encountered winters like this.
MATH SOCIETY MEETING HERE OVER THANKSGIVING I
On Nov. 27-28, The American Mathematical Society held its Thanksgiving meeting at Notre Dame. Twenty papers were presented at this meeting. The list of speakers included: Professor Graves of the University of Chicago; Professor Ewing of the University of Missouri; Professor Nesbitt of the University of Michigan; Dr. Scott of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; Professor Springer of the University of Oklahoma, and Professors Jonah and Smith of Purdue University. From the University of No--tre Dame: Professor Menger, Professor Milgram, Professor Pepper, and Mr. Reed.
At the same time, the University of
Pedtke. This production, beautifully conceived and ideally executed, was received with enthusiastic acclaim in all parts of the country.
The importance of the Founding Day observance was emphasized by the presence of three newsreel companies, Paramount, Fox Movietone, and Universal Newsreel, which sent representatives to the campus to record the events for the millions of the nation’s movie-goers.
The observance of the Centenary will continue until next September, when, War conditions permitting, there will be. a climactic gathering on the campus in connection with the Commencement of that month. Meanwhile, again as War conditions permit, a series of meetings of learned societies will be held here, Sisters will have a centennial observance of their own and various publications will be issued.
4/


Notre Dame arranged its sixth Annual J. Mathematical Symposium. The topic was | Modern Statistics. Lectures were given by Professor Neyman of the University of California, director of the Statistical '“t-Institute there, and Professor Wald of Columbia University, this year’s vice-president of the Institute of Mathematical Statistics. The discussions were led by Professor Craig of the University of Michigan, president of the Institute of Mathematical Statistics; Dean Ingra- k>‘ ham of the College of Letters and Sci- t ences of the University of Wisconsin, Professor Wright of the University of I. Chicago, and Professor Copeland of the University of Michigan.	1
> AatniitUifudiG4t >
vac
FATHERS COUSINEAU AND CAVANAUGH PLAN EXTENDED TRIP TO SOUTH AMERICA
The Congregation of Holy Cross announced 'this week that the Very Rev. Albert F. Cousineau, C.S.C., superior general of the Congregation of Holy Cross, and the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., a member of the provincial council of the Congregation and vice-president of the University, will begin an extended trip through South America. They will leave Miami by Pan-American Airways on Dec. 4; in the course of their month’s journey they will visit cities in Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Chile, Argentina, Uruguay, and Brazil. From Rio de Janeiro they will fly to Trinidad and Jamaica before returning to Miami.
The Fathers will establish contacts which will be of value after the war, when, it is planned, the Congregation will establish a university in South America. Also they plan to visit alumni residents in South America and also the parents of Latin American students now in attendance at Notre Dame.
Notre Dame and the Holy Cross Congregation has long been interested in South America. The University catalogue was printed in Spanish several times during the late 19th and early 20th centuries. This interest reached a .. peak when the Dome was reprinted in Spanish.
Another high-point in relations with the Latin Americas was the work of the Rev. John Zahm, C.S.C. Father Zahm made several trips through South America, one with Theodore Roosevelt, and wrote several books concerning his travels. The University library has a rich collection of South American literature.
Bishop O’Hara, at present bishop of the Anny and Navy diocese, when he was president of Notre Dame, continued Notre Dame’s policy of friendship with the other Americas. He was well suited for this role, for he had worked with his father in the American consulate at Montevideo, Uruguay. In this way he became acquainted with all phases of South American life and this experience proved invaluable in later years. In 1938 Father O’Hara served on the United States’ commission to the Inter-American Conference in Lima, and in the following year was appointed chairman of a
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
social service commission which visited Venezuela at the invitation of its president.
Father Cousineau was educated in Canada, was professor of French and Greek, became president of St. Laurent College, served in Rome for a while as acting procurator general of the Congregation, before assuming the post of superior general. Father Cavanaugh joined the Congregation after being graduated from Notre Dame. In so doing, he forsook a promising career in the sale promotion department of the Studebaker Corporation.
Thus the Congregation of Holy Cross takes another stride forward. But not the Congregation alone, but all of the western hemisphere stands to profit from this venture. It is a far-sighted step toward stronger hemisphere solidarity.
Al Sommer
Portuguese to be Offered
During Next Semester
Mr. Earl F. Langwell, head of the department of modern languages, announces that courses in Portuguese will be offered beginning in the spring semester, under the direction of Professor. Walter M. Langford, who also teaches Spanish.
Mr. Langford has been instructing a select group of students interested in Portuguese during the summer and fall semesters, and it is expected that this group will form the nucleus of the new class, although it is open to all the students of the University. The same credits can be obtained as in the other foreign language classes: two years study will satisfy the University’s foreign language requirement, and one year’s study will count for credit, if the student has already earned two years’ credit in some other foreign language.
This departure from teaching the traditional foreign languages is not restricted to Notre Dame: in many colleges at the present time, courses not only in Portuguese, but even in Russian, Turkish, Japanese and the African dialects are being given. Mr. Langwell pointed out that: “The department of modern languages is desirous of giving instruction in foreign tongues which because of their linguistic and literary value, can be considered valid subjects in a college curriculum. The retention of any modern language in a curriculum depends upon the intrinsic worth of a language as well as the needs and desires of the student body. In 1935 courses in the Polish and Slavic languages and literatures were begun here, but had to be discontinued because of disinterestedness of the students. We hope that Portuguese will fare better.”
Math. Professor Honored By Harvard University
Professor Karl Menger has recently been invited to give the next Putnam
Prof. Karl Menger
Memorial Lecture at Harvard University. Invitation to deliver the annual lec- v ture in this series, established four years ago, is a signal honor and is conferred on only outstanding mathematicians. _
19
Reporter Fares Badly With Book Buyers;
Shiny New Book Brings a Meager Offer
DAVE CONDON
There, was a strange phenomenon on campus last Monday and Tuesday. Upperclassmen were scurrying around with loads of text books, headed anywhere but towards classrooms. The occasion, it seems, was one that called for little rejoicing: it was the homecoming of commercial book-buyers, again entrenched on the campus, determined that a little work and small pay would make Jack—and plenty of it.
This exodus of book buyers is a yearly occurrence. They were a long time in arriving this semester, an inexplainable fact, since in other years they have usually visited the campus a couple of times by the first of December. Perhaps that was before they took up the side-line of bootlegging gasoline.
But it turns out that Notre Dame, Indiana, is several hundred miles removed from Tom Dewey, only racket buster not yet depicted in the comic magazines, and so this region is the happy hunting ground for the book buyers.
Headquarters are usually established in the bookstore. You are expected to take the books you have accumulated during the past ten years and deliver them into their hands. They always work in pairs—one appraises the books and lets you know that you are a lucky, lucky student to have them take such worthless things off your hands.
Then you find that this one is out, that one is no good, you get ten cents for this one, fifty for that one, and two-bits a piece for the other two. You feel flattered about the 50 cents because that means you are one of the few who have sold a set of the Harvard Classics.
After you decided to take advantage of the offer, you meet the second member of the organization, the treasurer. He stands in the corner with a bag of Planter’s Peanuts and pays you. To date he has eaten more of the peanuts than he has given out and is still on the first sack.
There are other sides to the picture, too. One student explained Monday evening that he had sold two books. The rub came when he said, “I know I didn’t get much, but seeing as how they are giving the books to the boys in service, I’m satisfied.”
To check on the matter myself, I. hastened over Tuesday with three books under my arm. To aid in the experiment I borrowed a new, shiny copy of Lessons in Logic, by Turner,, from the shelves of
the University bookstore. I took it over to the purchase counter.
The gents offered 50 cents for a Spanish book, two bits for another one, and told me to throw away the §3.00 speech book, unused and unopened except for ten minutes during the final exam last year when prof had strolled to the back of the room.	_
Then I offered them the Lessons in Logic, ten seconds earlier reposing on
the shelves of the book store as a new edition with a price tag of $1.25. He took a quick look and offered a quarter. No deal. The Lessons in Logic went back on the book shelves to be sold for $1.25.
That is the tale of book-buying concerns. The books are tidied up arid list prices, slightly reduced from the cost of new texts, are sent to. universities, and professors. If you want to acquire wealth, don’t sell your books—buy them from someone else and offer them for resale!
Tracy Replaces O'Connor
In Philosophy Debate
Doctor Francis E. McMahon’s philosophy debate of Wednesday, Dec. 9, 1942 took on two new aspects this week. The first is the last minute substitution, on the affirmative team, of the first speaker. William C. O’Connor, Peekskill, N. Y. will be unable to debate and Joseph A. Tracy, Bronx, N. Y., will-substitute for O’Connor. H. John Smith, St. Louis, Mo. will remain the number two speaker on : the affirmative team, which will be coached by James C. Downey, senior, of West Pahn Beach, Fla. The negative team, coached by senior H. Claiborne Adams, of El Paso, Texas, will , remain the same with Alphonse A. Sommer, of Golf,. Ill., and Leo J. Buchignani, Memphis, Tenn.	-.
Secondly, McMahon has decided that the audience will be given an opportunity
to ask the speakers questions from the floor after their speeches. In addition the audience will decide the winning team.
The thesis for the debate will be: There is a real distinction between the essence and the existence of an actually existing created being. The procedure will run along these lines: the first affirmative man will expose the arguments for his side; then the first negative speaker will present the arguments for his side. The second negative speaker will break down the first affirmatives’s arguments; and the number two man on the affirmatitve team will break down ' the first negative’s arguments.
The debate will get under way at 8:00 p.m. in the Law auditorium on Dec. 9.
Educational Committee
- To Speed-up Studies
Far-reaching changes in the Catholic education system in the United States are expected during and after the war. The Reorganization Committee of the National Catholic Educational association is at present considering a series of changes in education which may ultimately result in men being fit and ready for professional studies by the time they reach 19 or 20.	.
- The changes, similar to those instituted by Dr. Robert Hutchins, president of the University of Chicago, would have the student attend eight years of grammar school as now, but secondary and college . courses would be cut, with the result that the span from grammar school to graduation from college would be six years instead of the present eight. •
- The Rev. Wm. F. Cunningham, ?C.S.C., professor of education at the University of Notre Dame and chairman of the Reorganization Committee, announced that the committee would holdits second meeting at Notre Dame on Jan. 5, 6, and 7. Father Cunningham also stated that a reorganization committee similar to the national committee is at present considering these changes as they could be effected, at Notre Dame. As to whether students who have finished two years of high school would be admitted in the near future, as freshmen at the university Father Cunningham declined to say.
. The committee states that the reorganization should: 1. Make the greatest possible contribution to the glory of God and the sanctification of souls. 2. Harmonize closely with the best Catholic arid American traditions and with the Bishop’s program of citizenship training. 3. Give rise to the least possible change in buildings,, teaching- staffs, and curriculum. 4. Result in the best program edu- : cationally. 5. Result in the soundest plan financially.	. .
> x y *7«4e Ncwu at Nolte ^bante , , , ,
SALTY SAM SAYS—
The editor of these two Navy pages was a bit leary about letting me “in” as a guest columnist, but when I explained that Old Sam came from a long line of seafaring men and had a relative doing a column for the Log at the Academy, he decided to give me a try out. So here goes.
First, we’ll explain what this column’s about. It’s going to have some news about midshipmen, perhaps a poem and maybe some jokes (?), and some constructive, friendly criticism.
Speaking of criticism . . . they say any fool can criticize, so that lets me in. . . . I’d like to point out to some of you midshipmen that you can’t seem to forget you aren’t civilians any more. When you’re in a public place you shouldn’t be unbuttoning your coat and slouching around with your hands in your pockets. And if you’re going to take off your cap, take it off. Don’t, by the barnacles of Noah’s Ark, leave it ’twixt and ’tween on the back of your head.
I will say that most of you look pretty shipshape when you’re downtown.
It’s about time to get away from the serious side in this column . . . have you heard the one about the sailor who had just come ashore and was approached by a lady, who said, “after being a sailor so long, you must be accustomed to sea •legs.” To which he answered, “why lady, I wasn’t even looking.”
I just read an article in the Bureau of Naval Personnel “Information Bulletin” which tells about the Japanese propaganda organizations getting their signals fouled up and giving our fleet a remarkable series of promotions.
After the battle of the Coral Sea, the article- states, the Japanese short-wave radio announced: “The Pacific Fleet is annihilated. America is reduced to a fourth-rate power.” Three months later, after the first major, action in the Solomons, the Tokyo radio reported “wholesale destruction of the American Fleet,” and observed that our naval force was now “reduced , to that of a third-rate naval power.” Later the official Japanese news agency, Domei, commenting on the latest operations in the Solomons, said that the Japanese Navy “has again
proved its great superiority over the American Navy, which must now be considered a second-rate power.”
* * *
Everybody is talking about the first formal dance you boys held at the Indiana Club last Saturday night. I was there, although you didn’t recognize me, and I must say you young fellows had a right nice shindig . . . some of the midshipmen were wearing their gold regimental stripes for the first time . . . idle Hop Committee was distinguished by gold loops around their shoulders . . . two of the boys really “cut a rug” around the bandstand . . . quite a crowd collected to watch them strut their stuff . . . the next dance is to be held December 12 . . . maybe some of the men won’t feel like attending, as it comes right after exams . . . I’m wishing you a lot of luck, anyway . . . after the next hop, watch this column . . . I’m going to give you a hint as to which one of all the pretty gals I think made the nicest looking “drag,” as the gals are known at midshipmen’s hops ... I might add here that we’d like to see more of the N.R.O.-T.C. men present ... a word of praise is hereby in order for the boys in the choir who “rendered” at the hop.
Ensign J. M. Crawford, of the third battalion, has received orders transferring him to duty elsewhere. He makes the tenth officer to be sent out of here in, the last few weeks.
THE JAPANESE "ZERO" FIGHTER
Plane Proves Maneuverable but Protection is Poor
A Japanese Zero fighter (Mitsubishi ’00), which was salvaged after being only slightly damaged when forced down in the Aleutian Islands, has been brought , to the United States and repaired at the Naval Air Station, Sari Diego, Calif.
- ’The enemy plane will be brought" to" the Naval Air Station at Anacostia, D. C., where Navy pilots will put it through exhaustive tests in order to obtain data on its performance characteristics. - Preliminary tests already have taken place at San Diego.
- Present plans call for the Zero to be flown across the United States, in view . of the difficulties attached to shipping it. Because the Zero’s airframe is a single
unit and the wings are riveted solidly to the fuselage, it is not considered feasible to attempt disassembly of the plane. Details of the proposed cross-country flight have not been worked out.
When salvaged, the Zero was painted a smooth light grey, tinted with blue and light green, a coloring selected for operations in the foggy Aleutian area. It has been repainted in Navy colors.
Preliminary flight tests of the Zero developed a top speed of slightly less than 300 m.p.h. Later tests may increase this speed somewhat.
The Zero shows to best advantage in a dogfight where tight turns make high speeds impossible. Then its maneuverability and climbing speed comes into play.
Around 200 m.p.h. the Zero is very light on controls, but at higher speeds the controls become stiff. Above 225 m.p.h. the Zero will not make a fast roll because of this stiffness. At 380 m.pJi., in a dive, the Zero develops marked flutter and vibration, which may be inherent or due to some undetected disalignment caused by its rough landing in the Aleutians.
Otherwise the Zero is a stable, easy-to-fly plane with generally good flying characteristics. Its lightness is not gained by flimsy construction, as it is well designed. The lack of self-sealing tanks and armor protection for the pilot, which mainly accounts for its lightness, have made its over-all combat record against Navy’s Grumman Wildcat a poor one. : The Zero’s empty weight is 3,781 pounds and its combat weight, without belly tank, is approximately 5,200 pounds.
The 900-horsepower radial engine is a 14-cylinder, double-row design using modifications-or direct adoption of many features found in our Pratt & Whitney and Wright engines. The propeller is a three-bladed, constant speed, hydraulic type identical with the Hamilton model. Radio equipment is copied after Fairchild units.
■ The-.over-all length of the "Zero is 30'3", its wing span 39'5". The wings are hinged two feet from the tips to allow folding for easier carrier handling. The cockpit would be uncomfortably small for most of our pilots.
Armament consists of two 22-mm. low velocity cannon, one mounted in each wing, with 60 rounds of ammunition, and two 7.7 guns, with 500 rounds each, in the nose to fire through the propeller disk.
21
FOOTBALL SEASON REACHES FINALE;
FIGHTING IRISH FACE GREAT LAKES
BILL BOSS
A worn and, according to coast papers, “mean” Irish eleven will conclude the staunchest grid program in Notre Dame history when they tangle with Great Lakes in Soldier Field tomorrow afternoon.
The Bluejackets opposed by Northwestern on Thanksgiving Day wielded a bank of power to scuttle the Wildcat turkey, 48 to 0. The Cats, weakened by their spirited clash with the Irish the previous week were without support from the opening quarter. Electrically-controlled Bruce Smith shocked the Evanston line throughout the afternoon and ran up a splurge of yardage that far surpassed the over-balanced score.
Notre Dame will doubtlessly be a tired team when they ramble on the snow-crusted Chicago gridiron at 2:00 p.m. C.W.T. The greater part of last week was spent within the shallow walls of a Pullman car. A shuffle in Wednesday’s snow was the first time the Irish had for stretching and limbering periods.
In the only previous meeting of the two clans, during World War I, the Irish came back to brush a 7-0 ball game into a 7-7 deadlock.
A good air attack solves many strong lines.
From round-about naval sources comes the news that it is no military secret - that the Bluejackets are out to fry Notre Dame tomorrow. The Irish have rocked the Iowa Naval Seahawks and the Naval Academy teams thus far and the Sailors feel pretty sure that the third time will be charm for the fleet. -
Boasting six straight shutouts the Bluejackets rehearsed plans this week accurately aimed at stopping Angelo “The Arm” Bertelli and N.D.’s model ‘T’ running attack. Definite instructions from Coach Lt. Tony Hinkle, who personally scouted the Irish in the Michigan encounter, have brought the Sailors to the realization that the ’42 term has produced a different Notre Dame team; that it has put on the assembly line an Irish eleven that finds it doesn’t have to rely on the steel wing of Bertelli. For “Click-ety” Clatt and his running mates cover the floor for the Irish and cover it very effectively.	-
Like Missouri; Marquette, Illinois and Northwestern before them, Notre Dame is going to the Great Lakes melee with a record of at least one score in each
previous encounter. These four elevens failed to cross the Navy’s goal line but Lt. Hinkle and his aides are impressing ' upon the Bluejackets that Notre Dame will display the deadliest attack they have faced since the opener at Ann Arbor when a well-prepared Michigan team drubbed the unorganized Sailors.	■*
The Great Lakes lineup, dotted with a ream of professional stars, will outweigh the Irish by quite a few pounds. Their first tier averages 214 pounds pei’ - man and the second division approxi- ’ mately 210. These two lines have held u the opposition to an average of 80 rushing yards per game.	A
The Bluejackets have already met a variation of the T attack. Iowa and Missouri both employing the T were held ; scoreless by the bulky Sailor squad.
With the exception of the Northwestern scrimmage, Great Lakes and Notre Dame are nearly even on the basis of comparative scoring. An unpolished Irish team tied Wisconsin, 7-7, and the Badgers spilled Great Lakes, 13-7. Notre Dame beat Illinois by one touchdown as did the Bluejackets. Michigan dropped Notre Dame by 12 points and the Sailors -by nine.	T
Notre Dame, having won seven, lost two and tied one, has a better campaign average than the Sailors who have won eight and lost three.	_
Great Lakes will be at full strength tomorrow afternoon. Centers Basil Petry 7^ and Carl Mulleneaux, listed on- the hospital list, are back for service while the Irish are still uncertain of having scat- * back, Russ Ashbaugh, ready for action. >
A glance at the starting Great Lakes lineup will give a disheartening idea of what power to expect in the broadness • of Soldier Field tomorrow. Howard Hickey, an all - Southwestern end from the . University of . Arkansas and Nebraska’s Fred Preston, one of the greatest wingmen in Big Six annals, will pin down the flanks. All-American Urban Odson of Minnesota and Jimmy Barber, captain of ’ the Washington Redskins in 1939, 1940	\
and 1941, will man the tackle posts. _ Notre Dame well remembers Bill Rado-vich of Southern California, who was < instrumentai in the 13-13 tie game with । the Trojans in 1936. Radovich with Ohio State’s Gus Zarnas, another AllAmerican will bolster the guard territory. Petry of Purdue is a chunky boy . and protects the center lane well.	'
The Bluejackets backfield manages to
22
bull its way through the opposition with I . Bruce Smith, Herman Schneidman, Paul I Anderson, Bob Sweiger, Steve Belichick, P	Pete Kmetovic, Rudy Mucha, and Johnny
..	Popov carting the leather. The water
boy is an eastern All-American. Disap-_ pointed when he didn’t make the first c * three secondaries the lad decided to wash , , away his worries.
Probable Lineups
T Notre Dame	Great Lakes
Dove ............L.E........ Hickey
/. 'X	Rymkus .........L.T...........Odson
McBride ........L.G....... Radovich
■	Brock ............C.......... Petry
Wright .........R.G.......... Zamas
1	Neff ............R.T........ Barker
A t	Murphy .........R.E........ Preston
Bertelli .......Q.B....Schneidman
4 -<	Livingstone ....L.H.......... Smith
C. Miller ......R.H.......... Popov
-	Clatt............F.B....... Sweiger
l < Walsh Quintets Lead
t	In Interhall Basketball
Don Murphy
A couple of Walsh lightweights set the pace with record breaking performances as the third week of the Rockne basketball league was completed. The standings find Sorin leading one heavyweight league and Walsh the other. In the Lightweight class, Dillon leads the first division and Walsh’s perfect record tops the second.
Frank Vignola’s lights from Walsh knocked off Brownson, 78-39 last Tuesday when Platt broke the league record by potting 36 points. His teammate, Hoffman nearly caught up to him with 30 tallies, thus the pair accounted for all but 12 of the team’s enormous total.
Sorin seems to be the strongest team in the heavyweight league, but will be * pressed by Walsh when the inter-league competition begins Monday. ■ The top " teams in each of the two leagues of the weight classes will be matched against the top teams in the other league. The -1 teams in second place will play each other and so on down the line.
4
In the games played last week in the heavy league, Breen - Phillips and the R.O.T.C. knocked off St. Ed’s and Brownson. Dillon and St. Ed’s took it on the
chin from Sorin, and Cavanaugh. Zahm took an overtime tussle from Alumni and Walsh , won an extra inning affair from N.R.O.T.C.
The lightweights opened up with St.
. Ed’s battering Carroll; Dillon beat Cavanaugh, and St. Ed’s, dropped Breen-
Phillips. The N.R.O.T.C. and Walsh scuttled Zahm and Brownson while the Off-Campusers forfeited their game to the N.R.O.T.C.
STANDINGS .
Lightweights
League I.	W.	L.	Pct.	League II.	W.	L. Pct.	
Dillon	3	1	.750	.Walsh	4	0	1.000
St. Ed’s.	3	1	.750	R.O.T.C.	4	0	1.000
Cavanaugh	2	1	.667	Alumni	1	2	.333
Sorin	1	1	.500	Brownson	1	3	.250
Carroll	1	2	.333	Zahm	0	2	.000
Breen-Phil.	0	4	.000	Off-Campus	0	3	.000
Heavyweights
League I.	W. L.		. Pct.	League II. W.		L. Pct.	
Sorin	4	0	1.000	Walsh	4	0*	1.000
Cavanaugh	3	1	.750	R.O.T.C.	3	1.	.750
Dillon	2	2	.500	Alumni	2	o	.500
Carroll	1	2	.333	Zahm	2	2	.500
Breen-Phil.	1	2	.333	Brownson	0	3	.000
St. Ed’s.	0	4	.000	Off-Campus	0	3	.000
Win Over Ball State
Launches Cage Season
On the eve of nation wide football disasters, the Fighting Irish basketball team launched its 20th season under Coach Keogan with a 56-42 win over Ball State on the Notre Dame home floor. The contest was hard fought as evidenced by the 17 fouls called against both teams.
In the stands, too, there was a hard fought contest. The predominantly feminine rooting section. of Ball State lost the contest for come-on-team honors to the yet to be defeated Notre Dame “Hanky-Wavers.” The merriment in the stands was added to by the presence on the floor of Referee Nate Messinger who,
■ Butler, poised and ready.
through his antics, makes it a pleasure to have a foul called against the team.
Though the score indicates that the Irish had a fairly easy time in the game, . it did develop into a contest shortly after the second half started. The Irish left the floor at half time with a 26-18 lead but upon returning found a fighting Ball State team that soon narrowed the margin to 26-24. Coach Keogan’s men then got a grip on themselves and gradually pulled away until the final gun when 14 points separated the two teams.
Bob Faught, last year’s leading scorer dropped in the first basket of the season and through the night caught a total of 11 points for himself. Captain Charley Butler was the leading scorer for the Irish getting a total of 13 points on three baskets and seven free throws. He never missed one chance when in the free throw circle. Joe Evans of Ball State was the top scorer of the game, getting 14 points from his six field goals and two free throws.—Bill Brown
Ticket Manager Bob Cahill
Receives His Navy Stripes
Last Tuesday, Dec.’l, marked the beginning of a new era in the active career of a real “Notre Dame man,” Mr. Robert Cahill, ’34, former assistant business manager of athletics. He reported to Harvard University where he will start his training in the communications branch of the Navy. He is wearing the one and one half stripes of a lieutenant (junior grade). '	..
Bob entered Notre Dame in 1930, and chose Commerce as his course of study In this, college he maj'ored in business administration, which, along with the practical experience he gained working in the Athletic Office, greatly influenced his receiving the commission in the Navy.
For seven years, Bob was secretary to Elmer Layden, then head coach of the N. D. football teams. During this time he handled some ‘40,000 letters, which came to Mr. Layden from all parts of the world. He remembers well that hectic week after the triumph over Ohio State in ’35, when it took the aid of several assistants to keep up with the overflow of correspondence that flooded the coach’s office. Then, in 1941, Mr. Layden was chosen Commissioner of Pro-football, and Bob was promoted to the position of assistant business manager, succeeding Herbert E. Jones. Here he directed the ticket sales for all the Notre Dame sports events, until leaving for Harvard and the Navy last week.
Although the communications branch
is somewhat out of Bob’s line we are sure it will not take him long to catch on to the new trade. His versatility was shown in his numerous activities while here at school. Besides holding various secretarial positions, he was also assistant editor of the Juggler and business manager of the Glee Club. He joined
Notre Dame Blanks Southern California, 13-0;
Aerials Stop Trojans for Third Straight Time
J. D. USINA
It was a pugnacious collection of Irishmen that gave the football representatives of the University of Southern California a thorough working over last Saturday. Notre Dame’s grid machine sparkled fire and brimstone at every turn and Angelo Bertelli whipped two touchdown tosses to topple the Trojans 13 to 0.
Last Saturday’s game, played in Los Angeles, was the seventh victory of the 1942 season for the Fighting Irish. Stanford, Iowa Naval Pre-Flight, Illinois, Navy, Army and Northwestern were battered into submission in previous games this year. Only Georgia Tech and Michigan summoning enough strength to win over Notre Dame, while Wisconsin held the Irish to a draw.
From all accounts almost everything a football fan could hope for occurred in that tilt. Most of the showmanship can be credited to the Irish, their fistic exploits gaining a good deal of enthusiastic comment.
Notre Dame’s first tally came in the opening quarter when Bertelli’s pass from the Southern Cal 48-yard stripe was snagged by Creighton Miller who scampered 25 yards across the Trojan goal line. The conversion attempt by Bertelli was no good.
The Californians roared back after this first successful touchdown thrust of Notre Dame. A beautiful pass by Mc-Cardle to Heywood eating up yardage to the N. D. 26. A penalty poked still deeper into Irish haunts but splendid defen- ’ sive play by the Notre Dame line halted the march within inches of what could have been a decisive first down on the one-yard line.
Southern California came back after Notre Dame couldn’t get enough headway up to start rolling. Down to the N. D. 25 they went and then folded under pressure of penalties and a crackling bunch of Irish linemen.
Starting from their own 20 where the Trojan end-zone punt was brought out,;
24
Layden’s staff during his final semester.
Lt. (J.G.) Cahill has been replaced by George Koch, a teacher from Riley High school of South Bend, who has directed the ticket sales for the Southern California and Great Lakes games.
—Dick Keoughan
the Fighting Irish uncorked a stirring 80-yard battle down the turf for their final touchdown.
Again it was brilliant passing by Bertelli that was largely responsible for the success of the drive. Bert tossed four with Bob Dove grabbing two, Captain George Murphy and Fullback Corwin Clatt the others. On the Southern Cal 13, things were readied for the scoring performance which had Bob Livingstone on the receiving end of a fifth aerial by Bertelli. Following Livingstone’s tally, Johnny Creevey booted the oval through the uprights to give the Irish a 13-0 count.
Twice in the final half, Trojan.efforts failed to crystallize into touchdowns. There were other times too, when the
bb^—ca—aa—bu^—bb——bb-an—hu—mh—
Complaint Department
Dear Editor:
I wish to call your attention to the fact that the SCHOLASTIC'S edition of Nov. 27. had not reached Dillon Hall at the time of this writing (Monday. Nov. 30, 8:30 p.m.). The SCHOLASTICS were delivered in other halls on Friday, official date of distribution.;
SCHOLASTIC readers, even men of Dillon, do not like to read the SCHOLASTIC when it is one week old. There is no logical reason why the magazines should not have been circulated in Dillon at the same time .they were distributed in the other halls.-
I do not know what brand of inefficiency prevails at the publications office, nor do I care for the weak-kneed excuses such as the fact that the print shop did not work Thursday (Thanksgiving.) The fact remains that-the SCHOLASTIC was not delivered at the proper time, nor anywhere near the proper time. An- apology, to Dillon hall should, be. forthcoming.
Very truly yours.
. , (Editor’s Note: SCHOLASTIC is delighted to find that its readers . so anxiously await its arrival. We rest, however, on the alleged “weak-kneed” excuse and hope that the delay did not spoil the iveek-end for theDillonites.)	.
Californians couldn’t find a way to barge ' through Notre Dame defenses.
Most threatening of these attempts was in the third period when the Trojans stabbed to the Notre Dame 12 and were repulsed. Again in the fourth chapter the West Coast eleven managed to advance to the Irish 10 before being halted.
Perhaps it could be said that this en- ' gagement was spiked with as much if ■not more color and expressed rivalry than any other game on the Fighting Irish schedule. It was a hard-fought tilt and flaring tempers and the resultant * tangles with the foe sent several Notre Dame gridders out of the encounter' somewhat ahead of schedule.
Then the Notre Dame forward wall j came forth with about the finest showing of the year. When it is seen by the sta- „ tistics that the Trojans went into the air 30 times, it can be realized that the Irish > line had a great part in this change of tactics. Outstanding in a brilliant line were Bob Neff, Tom Brock, CaptainMurphy, Bob Dove and Harry Wright.
So it was a hectic atmosphere that prevailed as the University of Southern California and Notre Dame clashed before a crowd of 95,000 in Los Angeles. In wanning this game, their seventh, the Irish reached the pre-season requisites J for a good year as laid down by Coach Frank Leahy—“six or seven wins.”
-i
—mi—m—M—M—Bt>^— BO^— BU^— BB—mi—-BB—— an—>BB—
y
A Dillon Sophomore.
Forum Prexy Announces Dinner and New Officers
Officials of the Notre Dame Commerce Forum made three important announcements this week; the war bond sales reached the $1,300 mark; the annual banquet will be held next Thursday evening; and club officers for next year have been chosen.
New officers are: Tom O’Reilly, president; Ted Toole, vice-president; Joe O’Keefe, secretary; Richard Murphy, treasurer; Dick Borgess, chairman of the board; John A. Quinn, executive committee; Bob O’Maliy, Joe Rud, Fritz Funk, senior directors; Bill O’Connell, John Toole, Joe Murnane, junior directors. James Madigan was chairman of the elections.
The banquet will be in the Rotary room of the Oliver hotel with Tom O’Reilly and Ted Toole as banquet chairmen. President Gail Fitch said he expected the banquet would cost members $1.00 while the Forum will pay an additional 50 cents. Professors are invited to attend at the same price as extended to members. There will be entertainment and an outside speaker. If any reservations are left, outsiders will be admitted at $1.50. Tickets will go on sale a few days before the banquet.
Western Michigan Cagers
Visit Field House Court
Phil Keen
The Irish hardwood experts tonight will tangle with the Western Michigan Broncos in the field house. With Ball State disposed of in fitting manner, Coach Keogan’s men now concentrate on their grueling pre-Christmas season.
Mentor “Buck” Read will invade the campus with one of his most brilliant quintets headed by Harold Gensichen, former* South Bend Central High school star. Gensichen was picked on the AllState team selected by Michigan state coaches and was also named the most valuable collegiate player of the state. His amazing record of 400 points in 20 games last year, scoring 32 in one game and never falling below 14 points, will undoubtedly have the Irish netters working overtime perfecting a defense for the local boy.
With the “field goal twins,” Bob Faught and Bob Rensberger operating at top speed it promises to be a busy evening for the visitors. Captain Charley Butler, Johnny Niemera, Ray Kuka, Tom Brennan, and a host of sophomores are expected to v put on a display of cage skill that will put gloom in the hearts
of the many Bronco followers who will be on hand.
The Broncos started the season with a 59 to 52 win over Calvin College. Gensichen spilled 19 points in the victory hoop for the Wolverine Staters as they overcame a squad that averaged three inches taller. '
Commenting on the opener last Friday against Ball State, Coach Keogan said, “We played good at times and bad at times. On the whole, it was a typical opening game.” Next Saturday the Irish cagers travel to Chicago to meet North
Windswept. Biology Building-bound students do not appreciate this beauty.
western. “Dutch” Londberg will send a seasoned team against Captain Charley Butler and his gang. Four of the five starters of last year’s Wildcat quintet are returning to see what they can do about giving Northwestern a winning team in basketball.
Lineups
Notre Dame	West. Michigan
Butler ------------F------- Gensichen
Niemera ___________F_______ Slaughter
Faught ------------C-------- Loranger
Rensberger _______G___________ Kahler
Kuka ------------  G---------- Slater
25
£«	<£♦	<{• «£• <£♦	*J
THE EARS HAVE IT
VAIL PISCHKE
■> ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ i* ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ & ❖
"Mrs. Miniver,” film hit, is the timely attraction which will be presented on the Screen Guild Players program on the anniversary of Pearl Harbor, next Monday, Dec. 7 (CBS: 9:00-9:30). Greer Garson, Walter Pidgeon and several other members of the original cast appear on the broadcast over the Columbia network. . . . During the program, the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer .studios will receive the “Redbook Magazine” award for their production of “Mrs Miniver”—Gary Cooper, who won the award for his performance in “Sergeant York” in 1941, will make the presentation. CBS scores again by wisely renewing Norman Corwin’s “An American in England” show for an extension of 5 ■ more broadcasts. . . . Corwin, along with Arch Obler and Orson Welles, put a smooth polish on radio’s reputation with their solid work. Our old favorite Bill Stern, a guy who rarely makes mistakes —in spite of the fact that he’s the fastest talker in radio outside Winchell (NBC ratings) — pulled a “The-best-of-’em-do-it” last Saturday night when he said: "Another Japanese policeman came running from all directions.” FM (frequency modulation) continues to take the prominent interest with radio makers and wholesalers. With WSBT starting their FM station in about a week or so, Indiana will boast of 3 such stations— the others being located in Fort Wayne and Evansville . . . the South Bend unit go under the call numbers of “W71SB” . . . FM’s biggest trouble comes in getting enough tubes for correct bass reception—they’ll lack those low tones, but it’ll still be worth the trouble of getting FM equipment. There are still a few sets (which can be plugged into your present console set, providing it is a 9 or 10 tuber) available at about $25.95.
PRIZE BONER OF THE WEEK: Irene Rich on “Dear John”: “I can’t find the Niles, knob!” (CBS)
SOMEHOW IT DOESN’T SOUND JUST RIGHT: Announcer: “Proceeds will go to Benghoff Hospital for hot . dogs.” (CAAB)
Local “stuff-’n-sech”: Last Thursday campus radioites showed plenty of interest at their meeting in the Engineering building—they’re all looking forward to the time when Notre Dame will have its own broadcasting unit. The idea is out for the duration, but as soon as the war’s over, the plan should pop up again for serious consideration. Local blows were well distributed by Pat O’Brien over
26
Joe Boland’s broadcast from Los Angeles last Saturday . . . Bertelli, Miller, Clatt, Thomas Hickey, etc. That O’Brien really is a Notre Dame man . . . hope he’s around when they produce the “Son of Knute Rockne,” or something.
N.D. Fencers Start Season;
Face Champion Buckeyes
The long awaited call of “En Garde” will echo in the ears of the Notre Dame
fencing team tomorrow for the first time
JIM MADIGAN
in the 1942 season when the Irish enter the lair of the Big Ten champions, Ohio State.
Ben Burtt, outstanding star on the Buckeye squad that inflicted one of the few defeats on the
Irish last season, has been named coach and boasts a traditionally strong squad. Irish Captain Jim Madigan and his gang are rapidly hitting their stride and look to the coming meet as the toughest of the pre-Christmas season.
As a result of the weeks of practice Coach Walter Langford has been able to prepare a tentative line-up. However, a round robin elimination held earlier this week will aid in fitting the men in their proper positions.
In the foil, varsity men, Jim Madigan and Angel Gonzalez, will head a list that includes Frank “Perpetual Motion” Rep-ilado, Charles Raley, Ventura Gonzalez, Stewart Stratter, Bob Witucki, and Ray Zando. Herb Melton, last year’s star saber man, will again lead the field in this department. Fine support is expected by Dave Roney, Gene Slevin, Alfredo Ortiz, Don MacDaniel, and possibly a repeat by foil man, Angel Gonzalez. Captain Jim Madigan, John Watters, and “Bitsy” Repilado will carry the burden in the epee. Coach Langford is considering using Mr. Gonzalez also in the epee, making him the first three weapon man at Notre Dame since 1936.
Following the Ohio State meet, the Irish travel to Lafayette to battle the Purdue Boilermakers, Tuesday, Dec. 8. Fencing fans here will get their first chance to see the Blue and Gold team in action on Dec. 19 when Chicago comes to the fieldhouse. There is also an effort being made to schedule Marquette or Northwestern before the December graduation takes its toll of three of the varsity mainstays, Captain Jim Madigan, Angel Gonzalez, and Herb Melton.
—Phil Keen
Trackmen Move Indoors
The mercury merchants of the Notre Dame track team invaded the Field House, Monday, in preparation for the indoor season that starts in February. Hampered by a bleacher covered path, Coach Handy’s men have to contend with a barrier of wooden planks, half way up the stretch. As yet the “Flying Irish” do not have a schedule. Definite word will await a meeting, next week, of the Big Ten directors, to whose rules Notre Dame adheres.
On Thursday, Nov. 26, members of the cross country team, running as the N.D.A.A. swept the CYO-Central A.A.U. open meet in Chicago. As usual, Ollie Hunter broke both the ribbon and the standing record. Tony Maloney and Bill Leonard finished in the first four, while Balt Brehmer and Frank Martin were other joint winners.—Bill Carey
Interhall Swim Meet
The last call for the swimmers for the annual inter-hall swim meet is now being issued. All prospective swim stars . are urged to report for the meet which will be staged Dec. 8 and 9. The preliminaries will be the first night and the finals will be run off. the following evening. The winners of the events will be given medals. The list of events was published in a previous issue of the Scholastic.
• • •——
Palomar, the famous 200-inch telescope of the California Institute of Tech-nology atop Mt. Palomar in San Diego county, is barred to the public for the duration of the war.
IT IS NOT TOO LATE; MEET THE GANG AT THE
SUNNY ITALY
for
ITALIAN STYLE SPAGHETTI
Under the new management of Leonard and Bob
Sunny Italy Cafe k
601 N. Niles Avenue Phone 3-0678
OF
U.S.NAVY UNIFORMS

We have been appointed by the Navy Department as one of the official retail
distributors of the new regulation forms for Commissioned Officers.
Uni-
We're keen about the job. We like ing navy men. And we like these
serv-new
uniforms. Their trim, smart lines are really keen. Navy men will like them, too.
They are quality to the fingertips—from the none-better fabrics to the know-how tailoring. And for the quality, the prices are exceptionally low.
We ought to know about that because, in
order to make those prices possible, we have agreed to operate on a profit margin considerably below the level indicated by sound business practice.
That's all right with us. Glad to do it.
In fact, we pledge Commissioned Officers that we will give them the most skilled alterations, the fastest delivery service and all the help they need in selecting their service wardrobes.
Our stocks of uniforms, furnishings, caps, braid, insignia and devices are complete at all times.
PRICES ESTABLISHED
BY NAVY DEPARTMENT
Commissioned Officers Service Blue $40
Commissioned Officers Overcoat $50
Cap Complete with 3 Covers $13.25

Commissioned and Warrant Officers Raincoat-Overcoat (with removable wool lining) $37.50
No Charge for Minor Alterations — Other Alteration Charges as Approved by Navy Department
NAVY APPOINTED DISTRIBUTORS
ADLER
*ON THE CORNER" . . . Michigan at Washington
.★
27
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE. D.D.S.
628-629 Sheriand Bldg.	South Bend, Ind.
INTRODUCING	I
JACK DENNISTON	"
■
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2574
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS 503 Sheriand Building
Phone 3-1254	South Bend, Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY 825 Sheriand Building
L. E. Fisher. M.D.
M. J. Thornton. M.D.
Glasses Correctly Fitted
E’*-	1900
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS
E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mig. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST.
Evenings by Appointment
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at South Bend's Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Xmas Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws X-Rays and Consultation
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bldg., South Bend, Ind.
VINCE COMMISA
none other than
AVitlx the senior football men all “Introduced” the current spotlight goes off its prescribed course for this week to bring you inside into the life of one of Notre Dame’s real likeable fellows. This chap has served efficiently as Mr. Scannell’s assistant supervisor for Interhall sports for the last two semesters. He is good natured Vincent
John Joseph Commisa.
Vince was born in the rough and tough section of Newark, N. J. on All Saints day in 1921. His mother was going to name him Santo (means saint in Italian), but on further consideration she figured he would probably turn out to be a devil; so he was named Vincent. We’re still trying to find out what Vincent means in Italian, maybe some of the boys up on the third floor in Alumni can help us out. We’ve heard them call Vince by some other names but it is impossible to print those here.
Vince has two sisters and two brothers. Brother Sal, a former Notre Dame footballer (’36) is now coaching a high school team in Newark; and brother Nick, an all Newark high school halfback, is coming to Notre Dame this January.
Commisa went to McKinley Grammar school and Barringer High. In high school Vince played football for three years as a guard. For two straight years he was mentioned on all-state teams and was all-Metropolitan. He was considered by many Eastern" coaches _ as the best guard to come out of New Jersey in many years, and he received numerous offers from Eastern colleges. His biggest thrill during his high school days was winning the city championship (football) for two straight years. This was quite an achievement for Barringer when you consider Vince and his boys: Fred Westfall, Cornell; Len Bonforte, Georgetown, - and Jerry Mere, L. S. U. had to face such men as Harry Stevenson, ex Notre Dame; Mike Holovak, and Joe Repko.of Boston College; Matt Bolger, ex. Notre Dame; Jimmy Hearn, Fordham; and Bob Duffy of Georgetown. Commisa kept his 5 ft; 9 inch. 188 pound frame in shape during the off season by doing a little fencing and playing baseball. He
was the practical joker of the high school besides being an honor student in the Leaders Club.
Vince had wanted to come to Notre Dame ever since he was old enough to listen to Irish football games on the radio. He wanted to come here and play football and study in the Physical Education school, which he considers the best in the country. In his first year Vince was number one guard on the green shirted squad. And during Frank Leahy’s first spring grid drill, Commisa was on the second team until he dropped out of the picture. He also won his numerals playing freshman baseball. He has played Interhall baseball, as well. as being a member of that famed basketball team of the St. Ed’s. A. C. last year.
His hobby is collecting classical records; and taking in all the Italian operas. The Commisa idol is Joe DiMaggio, but his ambition is to become a public health director and physical education instructor' in some large city. His favorite dish is his mother’s Italian food, and for tops in professors he lists Father Brennan. Since he has come to N. D. Vince’s biggest job has been getting Joe Hillenbrand to exercise.
His biggest thrill here at Notre Dame has been working with all the fellows and helping with football, as well as the administration of Notre Dame’s most successful Interhall season.
His roommate is John F. Lanahan from Jacksonville, Fla. — and Vince is still trying to convince “Rebel” that the North won the War Between the States. As we left the room Vince was thinking of some way of tricking his roommate.
Brownson Beats Dillon
As Tourney Nears Close
The last original affirmative team in the inter-hall debate tournament fell by the way this week as one half of the semi-finals were completed when Brownson-Carroll pushed Dillon’s affirmative debaters from the tournament. The tilt was judged by Wrangler member Joe Rud, Chicago. The other semi-final pitted undefeated, negative St. Ed’s against once beaten and recently turned-affirmative, Cavanaugh.
Finals in the tournament are scheduled for early next week. Bill Talbot is chairman of the inter-hall league which, is sponsored annually by Wranglers, campus honorary forensic club.
28
TELESCOPE
George Bariscillo
FRIDAY, Dec. 4: Final day for submitting manuscripts for radio debate contest (see Prof. Coyne and bulletins) ; N. D. basketball “five” takes on Western Michigan in the Field House at 8 p.m.; extra-added attraction—108-piece Notre Dame band in action; South Shore jammed with departing Irishmen; pep rally in Chicago.
SATURDAY, Dec. 5: Classes as usual! “Views and Previews” with Vail Pischke and Bob Johnson and the latest campus gossip; WSBT, -12:30-'	12:45 p.m.; N.D. battles (and sinks,
we hope) Great Lakes at Soldiers’ Field, kickoff at 2 p.m.; broadcast over NBC by Bill Stem; Students invited to participate in the “N.D. Quiz Show” in the Radio Studios, 3rd floor, Engineering Building— *	5:00-5:20 p.m. over WSBT; Movie,
“The Night of January 16th.”
SUNDAY, Dec. 6: Dog-sled parties with •- St. Mary’s—“Mush!”
MONDAY, Dec. 7: “A year ago today—” Student-Professor Meeting in Rockne Memorial Lounge at 7:30, starring Frank O’Malley.
TUESDAY, Dec. 8: Feast of the Immac-' '► ulate Conception; No classes; St.
Joseph Valley N.D. Alumni Club v football banquet at the Indiana Club with many prominent guests attending.
- “ WEDNESDAY, Dec. 9: Christmas Party in Every Hall, 7:30 to 10:00; A banquet for the Economic Round-Table members at the Hoffman hotel.
THURSDAY, Dec. 10: Commerce Forum ’ “ banquet; Bookmen Christmas party at the home of Prof. T. Boyer Campbell; Coral Room of Hotel La Salle site of Wrangler’s final banquet;
* Supper in the dining hall 6:10 and , v 6:20 p.m.
FRIDAY, Dec. 11: Final issue of the Scholastic.
Cleveland Club Hears
Reports on Dance Plans
Members of the Cleveland Club heard club officials outline plans for a holiday । dance and report on the success of the . Jj Victory Dance held over the Navy week-i end in Cleveland. The football dance was □ held in the Fenway Hall hotel, 107th and ■ Euclid, with Veet Capello and his Cav-aliers furnishing the music. The meeting, JI scheduled for 7:45, was held in the Lounge of the Rockne Memorial. Smokes B and free food were provided.
Round Table Has Joint'.
Meeting with Saint Mary's;
One of the more intellectual campus clubs went slightly social this week when the Economic Round Table played host to 15 St. Mary’s co-eds at their weekly meeting. The girls, members of the International Relations club and economics majors at St. Mary’s, participated in the discussion following the paper by Joe Reed entitled “Some Questions to be Answered After the War.”
The meeting is an annual occurrence on the Round Table schedule of meetings. Guests were Prof, and Mrs. William Downey. The meeting was held at the Morningside Hotel.
Next week’s final meeting of the school year will take the form of a farewell banquet for nine seniors who graduate this month. To replace these members, eight new members were recently accepted. Those graduating are President Charles Kralovec, Secretary William O’Neil, Charles Steltman, Francis Haley, Leo Scafani, Bart Ramsour, Oren Stiens, Mark Lies, and Bob LeMense.
378 Seniors to Graduate
on Sunday, Dec. 20
Three hundred and seventy-eight seniors will be added to the Alumni at 4 p.m. on Sunday, Dec. 20, according to word received from the director of studies office. The location of the commencement exercises is not yet decided, although there is the possibility that the new Navy field house will be used.
William M. Jeffers, rubber administrator for the government, will deliver the principal address and will receive a Doctor of Laws degree from the University. Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., former president of the University and at present auxiliary bishop of the army and navy diocese, will deliver the baccalaureate sermon at a Mass celebrated Sunday morning by Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., bishop of Fort Wayne.
On Saturday, Dec. 19, the class day exercises will take place. Included in this traditional ceremony will be the presentation of a new flag to the University by the senior class. Normally this is a feature of Washington’s birthday, but the new program makes it impossible to continue the tradition unchanged. Also, as in the past, oh this day seniors and their parents will make their final visit to Sacred Heart Church.
Mr. Jeffers, president of the -Union Pacific railroad, was called from that position to become rubber administrator. He began at the bottom with his com
pany and worked up through a succession of offices to the presidency.
Despite the transportation difficulties, many visitors, including parents and friends of graduates, are expected -to visit the campus over the graduation week-end.
NOTRE DAME BOOK STORE
A. ^eu/eVuf
★
OFFICIAL NAVY STATIONERY AND NAVY JEWELRY
Toilet Articles Supplies
Notre Dome HUDDLE
GYM SHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. “T” SHIRTS GYM PANTS
SUPPORTERS
SOFT DRINKS CIGARETTES
CANDY TOBACCO
PIPES
29

SHORT SHOTS from SPORT SPOTS
Bill Reynolds «ai	... ■-	lev
For a Notre Dame all-opponent backfield how about this quartet of “number 45’s”—Bob Musick, Southern Cal; Tom Kuzma, Michigan; Hank Mazur, Army; and Gordy Studer, Navy? And if you want a relief man, Jimmy Luck of Georgia Tech also wore number 45. ... A lad by the name of Eddie McGovern garnered all the headlines as Kose Poly went undefeated. McGovern got the headlines for leading the nation’s scorers with 165 points. There was another lad on the Rose Poly team who managed to rack up 67 points; he is Francis Hillebrand, who the seniors will remember as quite a freshman footballer here at Notre Dame.
One of the roughest, toughest football rivalries in the country is the annual Tennessee-Alabama clash. In this year’s game the total penalty assessment was 15 yards coming as the result of two ’Barna offsides and one Vol offside. . . . Reminds me of a high school game I once saw in which there were only two offside penalties called and one of them was refused. . . . And then there was the guy who said that Gary Cooper should have been given the American League’s Most Valuable Player Award. ...
And now is the season for the “experts” to pick the All-American teams. .... Wonder if anybody ever thought of making up an All-American team which would contain a list of 99 men — then there wouldn’t be quite so many good
MEDICO
FILTERED SMOKING
ABSORBENT FILTERSj
ntrinwc'
GENUINE FILTERS FOR MEDICO PACKED ONLYIN THIS REO & BUCK BOX
players slighted. . . . With nine complete teams one would be almost certain to have an All-American squad. . . . And speaking of All-Americans: “It’s too bad that these teams couldn’t be arranged so as to make room for such men as our own “Dippy” Evans. If anyone was ever All-American it is “The Dipper.” No, he didn’t play a lot of ball; in fact, “Dippy’s” action was limited to two minutes, but the presence of Dippy Evans on the bench means a whole lot more than a lot of these “All-Americans” do when they play 60 minutes and score three or four touchdowns. . . . Frankie Sinkwich was awarded the Heisman trophy, which he greatly deserved on his season’s play, but I don’t think I am the only one who will say that Sinkwich would have to be content with being a sub if he and “The Dipper” were battling it out for the same position on anybody’s football team. . . .
So Bruce Smith of Minnesota wasn’t of All-America caliber last year . . . that’s what some said . . . but you can’t tell that to Lt. Paul (Tony) Hinkle, coach of the Great Lakes Bluejackets. . . . Smith (of Minnesota) leads the Great Lakes with a net gain of 661 yards in 117 attempts for an average of 5.6 yards per try. . . . Tom Quinn, former Michigan Normal star running for the Notre Dame Midshipman’s School, finished fourth in the recent National Servicemen’s Cross-country Meet held in Chicago. . . .
66 Baffle Filter ThrillsSmokeis
USED IN MEDICO PIPES, CIGAR, AND CIGARETTE HOLDERS
New York—The scientific, absorbent filter has contributed mightily to the smoking pleasure of millions of men and women who have switched to Medico Filtered Smoking. Actually, the smoke must travel through 66 “baffles” before reaching the mouth. Flakes and slugs are trapped; and the smoke is whirl-cooled as it winds its way through the filter.
"Dome"
Students who have not called for their 1942 “Domes" are once again reminded by Mr. William R. Dooley, business manager of publications, that these year-books must be picked up before 1943 "Dome" distribution begins this month. Students who have not received last year's "Dome" and are entitled to one may receive it by calling at the Publications Office, 127 Main Building.

Releases from the Great Lakes Naval Training Station are headed: HERE COMES THE NAVY! ... The latest one started like this: The Greak Lakes Bluejackets, bulwarked by a line averaging 214 pounds per man, will throw the best defense in the middlewest against Notre Danie’s T-formation in Soldier Field next Saturday (Dec. 5). . . . Maybe that’s the way they have been winning football games . . . scaring their opponents. ... It will take more than that to scare the “Fighting Irish” who Californians say are just that ; . . but that’s probably just another rumor. . . . Who said “Oh Yeah.” . . .
no- iwa nun
SOUTH BENO, INDIANA
Bruggner's in the J. M. S. Building have a fine line of Tobaccos, Cigarettes, Pipes —Novelties — Fountain Service — Billiards.
>-
-4,
ITlaim avid
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
Bruggner's News Corner has your home town papers — or will get them for you — also magazines — books, maps, and greeting cards.
30
STRICTLY INSTRUMENTAL
Rank A. King
Things on the musical front have reached (even for South Bend) a new low with not one name band appearing in this locality lately. Advance agents for Les Brown and his Plaguers were reported seen on the campus last Friday; however, as Brown is now holed up back east we don’t expect to see him again for a while.
Artie Shaw, serving in the navy at Newport Training School, Rhode Island, is soon to have a band which, say his press agents, will be the best (impossible) that Artie has ever fronted. The greatest band that was ever fronted by the King of the clarinet was his Begin the Beguine Band, featuring Georgie Auld, Tony Pastor, Les Robinson and a fella named Peterson on the saxes; Pierson, Best and Price on the trumpets, George Arus holding down the trombones, Buddy Rich on the drums, and Helen Forrest teaming with Tony Pastor on the vocals.
Woelfle doesn’t know how right he is about my walking out when I saw the minimum in the McAlpin. When I looked at that minimum and then listened to Johnny Mess(ner) breaking into his swell new arrangement of Turkey in the Straw I decided that it wasn’t worth the 10 cents. That was a swell joke about my scratching the pancakes and pouring maple syrup down my back.... and very appropriate . . . both the joke and the University are 100 years old this month. Incidentally, when the Lifebuoy salesman dropped up to see you why didn’t you buy a few cases yourself before sending him to the “Rock.” Speaking of the “Rock” your antipathy (that means “dislike,” Jack) wouldn’t be the result of a brush-off, would it? . . .	'
Why Don’t You Do Right? by Benny Goodman is my choice for the record of the week. Peggy Lee does a nice job of telling a no-good man off in a really lowdown fashion. The sock chorus is well handled in the style that is always associated with B.G., viz., a perfect ride by the King himself and plenty of nice stuff by McGarrity on the trom.
Six Flats Unfurnished, on. the back is a very well done jump tune with a smooth tenor ride by Heimie Shertzer. It is just as good as Why Don’t You Do Right? but there is less to say about it.
When Stan Kenton hits the Palais Royale the local gentry are going to be present at the birth of a new midwestern hero. His outfit, though little known, is really good. Kenton has the best band to hit South Bend since Charlie Barnet paid us a visit.	.
Woeful Woelfie’s Weekly Wails are getting pretty bad. He must be getting
pretty hard up for copy when he has to print such drivel as that poem about Bearskin, and that letter from Belinda. . . .’ That letter business was swell for the first 57 times that it was used but it’s beginning to get a little ripe now. Why don’t you get some jokes that are funny like, “Who was that lady I saw you with last night?”
Rumor of the week is that Tommy Dorsey is going to be a very smart hombre and dodge the fuel oil rationing by spending the winter in . . . ahhh! think of it, sunny California.
Sifts of Leather
TAe JEAEHER. Shop.
121 West Washington Ave.
DO YOU DIG IT?
Submitted by Mr. R. K. Phillips Huron, Ohio
^ENGLISH TRANSLATION
This wag is telling how he got in solid with thefil. Sugar-talk cuts no ice. Just dish up the Pepsi-Cola ’cause she likes that mighty good! And no wonder —it’s a very nice drinkl
> V
VIA
®;uWhg. «’s
WHAT DO YOU SAY?
Send us some of your hot slang. If we use it, you get $10. If we don’t, you get a rejection slip. Mail slang to College Department, Pepsi-Cola Company, Long Island City, N. Y.
Pepsi-Cola is made only by Pepsi-Cola Co., Long Island City, N. Y. Bottled locally by Authorized Bottlers from coast to coast.
' BETTER
5
31
WHICH would you vote “most likely to succeed?”
"The Aircraft Warning System gives a single plane on ground alert the equivalent striking power of 16 planes on air patrol.” This startling statement comes from England.
Our country’s Aircraft Warning Service — quite similar to England’s—keeps a constant check on the flight of all aircraft. Should the need arise, it is prepared to send fighter planes aloft, to mobilize and direct ground defense forces, to warn endangered areas. Every step in its operation requires the fast, accurate communication of the telephone.
This is just one of the many wartime johs that are keeping telephone lines busier than ever before. To help us keep lines clear for vital military and industrial calls, please avoid using Long Distance to war activity centers unless the call is urgent. And please keep all your telephone calls as brief as you can. Thank you.
Biology Prof. Outlines Use of Poison Gases
“It is not inconceivable that the Axis, when the chips are down and they are , losing, will turn loose all the weapons ’ at their disposal. One of these will possibly be poison gas.” Thus Mr. R. F. ' Ervin, assistant professor of biology, announced his subject at the StudentProfessor Meeting last Monday night.
“So far poison gas has been used twice _ in this war: By the Italians against the ! Ethiopians and possibly by the Japanese t . in China.”
Mr. Ervin said that several circum- ’ stances" have prevented the Germans from using this instrument against the ; English civilians. For one thing, the * winds travel across England to Germany, thus making it difficult for Germans to k ■ predict weather conditions in England, which is important when poison gas is ' used. Secondly, the Germans have been using much of their chemical equipment for other purposes.	'
“At present there are about 12 effective gases, used in actual warfare. Most of these are liquids which volatilize when * exposeci to the air. These liquids can be hurled at the enemy in various ways. For instance, a gas shell shot out of an ar- . tillery piece is one means; another would be to drop an explosive from a plane which will scatter the liquid for some distance. Many other means can be used.” 4
Mr. Ervin enumerated some of the better known types of poisonous gas. Among them were Lewisite, on which some work was done at Notre Dame by Fr. Nieuw-land; mustard gas; and chlorine. It was probably mustard gas which was used against the Ethiopians and Chinese.
“Mustard gas, which is one of the so- " called blistering gases, is a heavy liquid -» and volatilizes slowly. It sticks close to the ground, thus making decontamina- -tion a difficult problem. And further, a gas mask is not 100 percent effective. ** This gas can cause death by burns at places where it strikes the skin. It burns '** through cloth, even shoe leather. It stays > on the ground for a long time;’ only a specific chemical will neutralize it.” )
Next Mr. Ervin spoke of Lewisite. This gas, he said, produces death as quickly, but is relatively new in warfare as compared with mustard gas. Chlorine, ’ he continued, is a so-called choking gas. * It is not dangerous on the skin. Its principal danger is that it leaves the lungs open for pneumonia. In fact, he said, it requires the same treatment as pneumonia. Tear gas merely causes irritation of the eyes and possibly blindness for three or four days.	t
“Of course, the most obvious thing to
32
I
►	do during a gas attack if you are touched
f	by some of the poison is to immediately
wash it off, with soap and water if possible. In the event you are affected by tear gas, then wash out your eyes. Generally, the best precaution civilians can take if attacked by mustard gas or any of the others is to stay indoors. And also go to the higher stories of the building r' and seal all openings into the room. If a person does that, there is little chance he will be overcome or killed by this type of enemy attack.”
“Whether we are ever attacked or not, J it will pay civilians to be prepared.
Poison gas may not be used in this war; but probably when the axis is near the end, they are going to turn everything loose.”
MAX ADLER
“ON THE CORNER” . . . Michigan at Washington
It's Adlers for Arrows!
You’ll find Arrow formal shirts and a huge selection of Arrow whites and patterned at Adler’s — a collar style for every man.
Campus Federation Plans < Meeting for December 13
On Sunday, Dec. 13, the Notre Dame t Federation of Catholic activities is holding a meeting. Included in this organ-*■ ization are the Catholic Action Students, the members of the Committee on Decent Literature, members of the Servers’ Club, and of other Catholic organizations on the campus. The purpose of this federation, according to Louis Kurtz, founder and first president of the organ-ization, is to coordinate all the Catholic activities on the campus.
John Terry, regional vice-president of the National Federation of Catholic College Students, announced that the annual convention of that group will take place in Cincinnati at Mt. St. Joseph on the Ohio from Dec. 27 to 30. Notre Dame’s delegates to this gathering are George Barriscillo, a junior in Walsh; Terry, a c sophomore in Dillon; and James Cunningham, a junior in Walsh.
At this meeting, the programs and i- policies of the National Federation will be discussed and formulated. The theme ■<’ of the meeting is: “Victory in War and , in Peace.” The talks and discussions will center around the role of Catholic college ♦ students in the peace which will follow.
Previous national gatherings were held in Philadelphia and Washington. Louis Kurtz, senior in Alumni and at present । vice-president of the National Federa-tion, attended these.
I
j All Notre Dame students are requested | to attend this nation-wide gathering. S- Special rooming and boarding facilities | are available in Cincinnati for those who w attend. Anyone interested should see | either Terry or Kurtz within the next E ten days.
Nothing can beat a harmonizing Arrow shirt, tie, and handkerchief ensemble—especially designed to be worn together. You’ll find your favorite collar style in a large assortment of patterns and fabrics—and ties that everyone will admire.
Arrow Shirts, S2.25 up Arrow Ties, SI up
Arrow Handkerchiefs, 35c up
BUY U. S. WAS BONDS AND. STAMPS
ARROW SHIRTS
TIES .COLLARS .HANDKERCHIEFS .UNDERWEAR .SPORT SHIRTS
33
CURB SERVICE AND DELIVERY
WELCOME MIDSHIPMEN' Special Prices to Students and V-71 American Shoe Service New, Modern Repair Shop All work guaranteed
Phone 2-4830	613 N. Michigan
(Two blocks South of Bridge)
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Patronize Our Advertisers
4^
| P’ibAaImmC' Spltt'deH |
^o********************** •e********** *?«***^**^3H^***^**<$M$Hg*<$M8M$M$*
"Red" Lonergan
CHANGE IN SEASON
At this time of each year we see the leaves being covered up by old man snow but it’s not just a change in season but a change from football to basketball. When you say basketball you automatically think of Indiana, the focal point for all basketball. Practically every great team, regardless of its geographical location, has at least a couple of Hoosier boys on the squad who figure prominently in its offensive manuevers. All coaches looking for material for their next year's team find that the best market place is the Indiana highschool basketball finals at the Butler fieldhouse. Practically every participant on the first four teams will be found on the starting lineup of some top-notch college team within the next two years. Even Notre Dame, which is eastern in makeup in practically every other sport, comes just two short of having half their squad of Indiana vintage. When the nation’s sports writers are trying to figure out the answer they ought to take a look in the back yard of every Hoosier home. Here you’ll find a bushel basket nailed to the side of every garage roof. This, like football, is one of the few sports that cannot be won by twelve months of California sunshine. It’s a sport that is to a great extent dominated by Indiana talent.
The tragic thing about this season for the Notre Dame student body is that they will be deprived of seeing their season’s big game with Northwestern, as both games are scheduled for Chicago’s Stadium. The Great Lakes star studded team will also be featured at the Stadium and up at Great Lakes, but not here. Then we open what ought to be a thrilling series with De Paul and both of these are features of the Chicago winter show. We will, however, get to evaluate the Butler, Purdue, Marquette, and Michigan State teams which are among the nation’s finest.
- BON VOYAGE
Mr. Robert M. Cahill, the Notre Dame ticket manager for the past two years, has been commissioned a lieutenant (jg) in the United States Naval Reserve and has reported to Harvard University for indoctrination. Mr. Cahill graduated from the-university in 1934 and was at that time secretary to Elmer Layden, then athletic director and head coach. To Mr. Cahill we give a rousing round of applause for his fine work and we wish him “smooth sailing.”
Among the sophomore candidates for
BOILED DOWN—
THERE ARE 19 TRAINS DAILY!
Don't let timetables keep you in a stew — just remember this easy South Shore schedule to Chicago: The first two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning with the third, at 7:30 A. M., and on through until 9:30 P. M., there's a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past - the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight.
For information call C. W. VEACH, TICKET OFFICE 301 N. Michigan St.
Phone 3-3111
NAVY MEN!
Ask about special furlough rates
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
41* City Matte**! Bank BMc.
HARPER METHOD MEN S SHOP
34
the varsity basketball squad is Jack Leahy of Casper, Wyoming, and a nephew of Frank Leahy. Jack seems to be about as active as his uncle is in athletics for Jack was also one of the star performers on this summer’s boxing shows. The Western Michigan-Notre Dame game will bring together two of the nation’s most prominent coaches in “Buck” Read of Western Michigan and our own George Keogan. “Buck” is starting his twenty-second season with the Broncos and George is starting his twentieth here. Buck is one of the few mentors in big time basketball to ever serve for two years as chairman of the rules committee of the National Basketball Coaches Association.
"IT AIN'T TRUE"
It was claimed by many of the nations dopesters that history would repeat itself in the Notre Dame-Southern-California game: that heat and speed were two elements the Fighting Irish just couldn’t combat. We all know the answer to that one by now. Maybe those diagnosers will start realizing that they can t add up that intangible something that the Irish possess. The U.S.C. victory to a large extent can be called the result of the fine defensive play of such men as Neff, Dove, White and Brock. You know it seems impossible to keep those Brocks out of the headlines when it comes to football. Tom is coming into his own this year and his other brother at Creighton is one of their finest players. His oldest brother, Charley Brock, of both Nebraska and Green Bay fame, put on what your columnist still calls the greatest piece of defensive line play he has ever witnessed, when Charley played his greatest game against Minnesota in his sophomore year. There is an old saying that football ability is one thing that seldom runs through a family more than two times. The man that said that ought to meet the Brocks.
DOUBLE TROUBLE
That’s just what it is for all opponents when either one of those brother combinations are in action. These two combinations we all know well, Creighton and Tom Miller of Wilmington, Delaware, and Tom and Dick Creevy of Chicago, Illinois. These combinations will be broken up this year, much to the displeasure of all of us. Both Millers will be graduating, and only one of the Creevy’s will be playing for us next fall, that being Tom. Creighton Miller has been one of the team’s best defensive players; a fine kicker, and a hard runner. Tom Miller showed us again in the game with the Sunshine boys that he is one of the teams most elusive runners. Both of these boys have been
awarded the “player of the day” by the student body at least once. Dick Creevy is one of our finest all around backs, as there are few things which Dick cannot do with the highest degree of efficiency. His brother Tom is only a junior and has had ilttle chance to show his wares with men like John Creevy and Angelo Bertelli in front of him. For the few times that Tom has had a chance, he has certainly performed like a seasoned veteran____ One of the brother combinations in basketball here was broken up by graduation also, for George and Joe Sobek missed playing on the same Notre Dame net team together by a year. George is now playing some high class
TRADE-MARK
Delicious and Refreshing
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
ball with the famed Great Lakes aggregation. The two brothers have a good chance of meeting on opposite teams when the two clubs play this winter.
NO DIRECTORY
Early this week the Registrar’s Office announced that there would be no publication of the student directory until next semester.
The Office gave no reason for this decision except that they saw no reason for publishing the book until next January or February.
“How about a Coke date
“We ve been ‘goin’ steady’ a long time, you and I. You see. I’m a symbol of the life and sparkle of Coca-Cola. Therefore, I speak for Coke. I like your company. I offer something more than a thirstquenching drink. It’s refreshing. Yes siree...it’s got that extra something you can’t get this side of Coca-Cola itself. Let’s get together. Make it a Coke date.”
35
More than
Copyright 194', Iicgltt f: Mrw Tosacco Co>
...the milder, better-tasting, cooler-smoking cigarette
Again Chesterfields are out front ■with their Bright and unusually attractive Special Christmas Cartons. Send them to the ones you’re thinkins; of... their cheer-ful appearance says I wish you A Merry Christmas, and says it well... and inside, each friendly white pack says light up and enjoy more smoking pleasure.

