Volume 73	November 3, 1939	Number 7
A BRILLIANT array NBC Airs Army of speakers: Rev. J. Rally Tonight Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice president of the University; Ehner F. Layden, director of athletics; and- Capt. William Wood, football coach at West Point, will headline an NBC broadcast from New York, tonight at 9:30 o’clock. (See page 5)
❖
SCRIP, THE campus “Scrip” Out	literary quarterly, will
Next Friday	meet its autumn dead-
line next Friday afternoon when the Ave Maria presses throw off the first run of magazines printed under the editorship of John Meaney. The best student work in poetry, book reviews and fiction will be presented.
(See page 6)
WHILE Johnny Bull, Hall Debate jr., Adolph Schultz and Teams Battle other boys in Europe are trying to pass their daily quizzes in the difficult subject of blowing off heads, the Notre Dame Interhall debaters are engaged in deadly verbal struggle.	(See page 7)
♦
THE REV. FRANCIS Academy Fetes J. Wenninger, C.S.C., Fr. Wenninger dean of the College of
Science, was honored by the Academy of Science last Friday morning on his 51st birthday, when the entire Academy attended a mass celebrated by him in Sacred Heart Church.
(See page 9)
Cheerleader Jerry Flynn in a Disney setting—But Irish backs and Army forwards will stage real battle before 79,000 tomorrow. (See page 12)
2
The Notre Dame Scholastic

IWTIM/ITE LETTERS
'wmaus b&rsmi
THROUGH THE
Helenj^Hayes
Here is a unique story: what the outsider does not see of Helen Hayes, the anecdotes the world hasn’t heard. Here, as Helen Hayes’ mother says, is “every little thing I can recall about my Helen Hayes” ..In a series of letters called Mary, This Is Your
Mother, she reveals to her granddaughter (and to Post readers) the struggles and glamorous career of America’s great actress, who has spent thirty-four of her thirty-nine years in the theater and “on the road.” First of eight parts—this week.
IN THIS SAME ISSUE
A half hour of excitement: Harold Channing Wirp’« yam Glory Hole about a cave-in 1700feet down! (Too bad they’d fired the lad they thought was “yellow,” the only man who had the key to the rescue....)
AND a lively story of a girl reporter who went out to cover the races and ran into a story with a real news angle— when she fell in love with a gentleman rider, and he walked away!
MME spine chills in the climax of Alec Hudson’s vivid and authentic submarine war story. Battle Stations.
HUS... an article, The Great Bed Father, by W.G.Krivitaky, on the bloody undercover work of the Comintern in Germany; and If You Must Borrow—by Lowell Brentano. (Attention—students low on their pocket money!) Also stories by Zachary Gold and William Faulkner, poems, editorials, cartoons.
,.W ^-coach. Youll	for z,8’®011 P««e Cha- /
The Clin,	/
THE SATURDAY EVENING POST ’
The Notre Dame Scholastic
College Parade by Jack Willmann
Pardon the Personal, But—
Away with sham! Enough of these college parades concocted from the publications of the nation’s academic institutions. This week the Scholastic dispatched Managing Editor Foskett to the Associated Collegiate Press Convention and, we visited the Michigan State campus to look over the.... publications department. ACP delegate reports there were some serious round-table discussions, and we made the startling discovery that co-ed colleges have Co-eds. On that angle the ACP service offers this news bit:
“Michigan State College’s date bureau will soon begin the third year of its existence. The idea proved very successful there. Michigan State co-eds no longer grace sorority house firesides.”
At Least, It Rhymes
She sat on the steps at eventide, Enjoying the balmy air.
He came and asked, “May I sit by your side?”
And she gave him a vacant stair.
—Cornell Widow ♦
With No Further Comment
“Just who is the ‘dreat bid he-mans’ freshman football player at Notre Dame to whom Priscilla Kukolsky, frosh cutie, sends cookies which she bakes with her own ‘itty-bitty’ hands?”
—LaCrosse Racquet ❖
.Attorney for the Defense
The popular myth about the carefree college boy who sleeps late, dates a glamor girl nightly, becomes dizzy changing clothes, drives a convertible and sings rah-rah songs in the interim has been dispelled by an editorial in the Daily Dartmouth:
“The college boy may seem that way at times, and particularly when he begins to reminisce for the benefit of the homefolks during vacation periods, but that is only because he is learning that the only way to please is to give people what they expect, and that no one will believe, much less listen to him if he tries to tell the crowd that he is doing a serious job of going to college, and that he has a lot of things on his mind.”
♦
Between the Lines
Father Hubbard, the glacier priest, extinguished a fire in the projection room of a Marquette movie emporium .... A co-ed writes a football column in the Missouri Student.... Southern Cali
fornia girls have organized the Powder-puff Football League. ' They wear soft-ball shoes and chest protectors, and play 12 minute quarters.... Minnesota’s humor mag, the Ski-U-Mah, is having censor troubles.... U. of California’s Sophs are conducting a “Dream Date” contest among 75 colleges—the winner will appear on the campus with full cooperation of major Hollywood studios.
Wacky Antidote
Cedric used to snore so loud that he woke himself up, but now he sleeps in the next room.—De Paulia
❖
Badger By-play
When Coach Harry Stuhldreher addressed a pep meeting before the Indiana game his son, Skippy, pulled the number that won an airplane trip to the Northwestern game.... “Roundy” Coughlin, the Sage of Mendota, also spoke to the 10,000 students.... Ina Ray Hutton appeared at a Madison theater two Cardinal staff men dated her a la interview.... They found her to be a nice date, admittedly 21, on the co-ed side, quite personable, and enthusiastic about hot music.
❖
Professor Indicted
In a signed article, the Georgia Technique challenges the campus professor who theorized that a student is expected to study at least three hours for every credit hour received. For the engineer taking 21 hours the writer conjectures a day of classes, study, and
eating until 3:00 a.m.—with 45 minutes of unconcentrated effort. His conclusion:
“All your, lessons studied are better than a part of them, but a part is better than nothing at all. However, nothing is better than a good lesson, so why spend eight hours a night studying when five minutes will be enough.”
❖
Jive on the Greensward
Charlie Barnett will keep his date for the Kansas Frosh Frolic despite the half-million dollar Palomar fire which destroyed his arrangements... Good boy, Charlie, sheet-men are a dime a dozen.. .. Clemson signed Russ Morgan for the Thanksgiving Hop.... Tommy Dorsey, now giving out at the Palmer House Empire Room, gave a blow to N. D. Clarinetist Bob Richardson who recognized the “Sentimental Gentleman of Swing”.....Ben Bernie was a hit at Stephen’s College.... Canisius men welcomed Glenn Miller to Buffalo.__Most college pulps have a hep-cat column with record reviews.... For four hours Charlie Barnett beat it out on the solid side for dancers and alligators- at the U. of Kansas Frosh Frolics. After the regular program the band retired to an eating establishement where it “jammed” for another two hours, abetted by campus musicians and encouraged by munching lookers-on. Barnett’s rifiing tenor sax stole the allegiance of many Jurgens, Miller, and Dorsey enthusiasts.
♦
One Always Turns Up
This week it’s the Ka Leo o Hawaii, the publication of the U. of Hawaii.... Offered a prize for the loudest aloha* shirt at a football pep meeting... Take the game seriously — scheduling several California teams.	. .
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Week by Frank Wemhoff
OPINION
Top of the Week
Notre Dame by a “nose” or “Kerrsed” by the Irish.
Notice to conceited movie stars
If you think your stuff is A-l Academy Award material, just sit in with the Washington Hall boys on some lonely Saturday night and get a little criticism off the elbow.
Stymied
It was in the course of an interhall debate last week. A couple of Wrangler coaches were exhibiting their brainchildren for the first time. One debater was vigorously asserting that we could no longer isolate ourselves from the rest of the world, and that “there were many raw materials such as tin, that we have to import, and consequently, we cannot be totally self-sufficient.” The debater even brought out some charts and figures to prove his point. Whereat the opposition in the form of Joe Mulligan arose with flaming Irish gestures to blast down his well-meaning opponent. “Charts and figures,” snorted Joe. “What good are those? You probably got them out of some old book. So what good are they then? I still say we don’t have to import our tin.” And not to be outdone by a fellow team member, Don Tiedemann in his deep baritone thundered, “Besides, the tin can has had its day.” Inspired by the heat of competition Don seemed to forget that he was cutting off his nose to spite his face because his father feathers the family nest egg by engaging in—the canning business.
❖
Question of the week
Why did everyone interviewed in a recent Scholastic campus opinion poll favor the use of the honor system in conducting classroom exams?
❖
Black and white
We don’t claim the credit, if any, for the next one, but it’s too good to keep. It seems that a certain halfback had been smashing the left side of an opponent’s line for the better part of a quarter, the left side of said line being patrolled by four large darkies who wouldn’t budge an inch. After each play the halfback would pick himself up bruised and battered and then try again to no avail. Finally with one last gi
gantic effort he again hurled his body at the left side of the line so ably defended by the four darkies. To his great satisfaction a hole opened and he sent his pain-wracked frame hurtling through it. Ten yards up the field he spied the huge fullback, a white man, roaring down upon him. The thought of another bonecrushing tackle caused his inner self to rebel. So he took off his helmet, stood stock still, thrust out his hand to the white fullback, and said, “Dr. Livingstone, I presume.”
Racing tip
Sheridan in the third at Yankee Stadium.
Overheard in the caf
So I sez to the guy, “Midshipman my eye, this is a Notre Dame band uniform”_____ Yeah, but she’s got a keen personality.... I hear the King’s navy is having much trouble because the Germans named their ships after jokes so the English wouldn’t see them.... What is today? Saturday? Hot dog! Funny papers tomorrow.
Little helper of the week
That whoozy little freshman who caught us peeking through the cracks in the Cartier Field fence at football practice and timidly squeaked, “Won’t you please move to another place, just to keep us managers happy?” He should have offered us a piece of fudge too, and then we would have been glad to nominate him for queen of the May.
❖
Quoting a Quip
Remark made by Jimmy Doyle, dean of columnists in the Cleveland Plain Dealer: “Johnny Kelleher, the Lorain boy who booted Notre Dame to wins over Purdue and Southern Methodist, doubtless would have given his right foot to boot a goal from the field against Navy. But Johnny, on the spot, failed. You can’t boot ’em all, as Nervous Rex of Mansfield said, on clicking off a flashy assist after making eight errors in a row.”
❖
Bottom of the week
Those Carnegie Tech sidewalks: “Irish Luck Can’t Last Forever.”
This is the fourth of a series of articles concerning student opinion on questions submitted by the students themselves. The question chosen this week, entered by Harry Snyder of Freshman Hall, is: “Are you in favor of intercollegiate boxing being introduced here on the campus?” Following are typical comments:
Lyons—Michael Humphries: “I think the introduction of intercollegiate boxing here on the campus would be a swell idea. As it is, the same fellows fight in the Bengal Bouts year after year, with only a small amount of new blood entering each year. If intercollegiate boxing were introduced, a greater amount of interest would be stimulated and better boxing would result.”
Dillon — Bill Dunham: “I think it would be a very good idea to have intercollegiate boxing because it would be a fine way to further show the sportsmanship of Notre Dame which I have witnessed at all athletic contests. Most other large universities have boxing as a minor sport, and I think Notre Dame should follow suit.”
Alumni — Tom Le Strange: “Most other large universities already have intercollegiate boxing included in their athletics. The one thing which Notre Dame is weak in is the development of its minor sports, and I think it would be a great idea to join in the parade of other leading universities and include boxing among the minor sports.”
Carroll—Joe Donlan: “I believe intercollegiate boxing would be a waste of time here at school. I do, however, feel that it could be developed more than it is here on the campus intramurally, so that more interest would be stimulated in the sport. There, isn’t enough national scholastic interest in boxing to develop it on an interscholastic basis.”
Brownson—Julian Durbin: “I believe it would be a great idea to develop boxing here on the campus to such an ex-ten intercollegiately that there would be just as much interest in it as in other leading universities. If enough interest can be aroused on campus to produce successful Bengal Bouts, I am sure the fellows would respond favorably to boxing as an intercollegiate sport.”
Cavanaugh — Gerald Currier: “Boy, that idea of having interscholastic boxing is a good one. Some of the fellows don’t get a bit of exercise, and boxing would act as an incentive to build themselves up. It would also give more fellows a chance to compete in intercollegiate athletics and a chance to win a monogram.”
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Z 188_____
Volume 73
November 3, 1939
Number 7
SUBWAY ALUMNI WILL CHEER TOMORROW
Students, Band in New York For Colorful Army Contest
Fr. O’Donnell, Layden Talk Via N.B.C. Tonight
A brilliant array of speakers: The Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice-president of the University; Elmer F. Layden, director of athletics; Captain William Wood, football coach at West Point; and Notre Dame’s famed writer, Francis Wallace, will headline an NBC broadcast tonight at 9:30 (Campus Time). The program will emanate from a pre-game rally of the Manhattan Center Club in New York City. Notre Dame’s 100-piece band will also be heard on the same broadcast.
Dancing to the music of Johnny Green and his Philip Morris orchestra, the full-dress uniforms of West Point will vie with the tails and toppers of Notre Dame Saturday night at Hotel Astor in New York City. The dance is the traditional Army-Notre Dame Military Ball, held every year after the Irish-Cadet football classic.
Father Murdock, Catholic chaplain at West Point, is in charge of the West Point arrangements, while the Met Club of Notre Dame is handling affairs from this end. The profits from the dance will go toward the completion of the Catholic chapel at West Point.
Last Tuesday the first detachment of the Notre Dame cheering section left for* New York, and yesterday another train pulled away from South Bend for the Empire City, containing more students and the band.—Don Heltzel
Kantner Will Address
Local Metallurgists
On next Wednesday evening at 6:45 o’clock members of the Notre Dame chapter of the American Society for Metals will gather in the University Dining Halls for their regular monthly meeting.
Guest speaker for this November meeting is Mr. J. J. Kantner, research
metallurgist for the Crane Company, of Chicago, who will discuss “The Creep of Metals.” Mr. Kantner will define the term “creep” in terms of current usage, and will present the various stages of creep as they are related to material, time, and stress. He will also discuss the allowable working stresses as based upon experimental creep determinations.
Mr. Kantner is a graduate of Armour Institute and the University of Chicago and has served with the Crane Company since 1920. In 1929 he was awarded, with the late L. W. Spring, the Dudley-medal for outstanding investigations concerning the creep of steel.
Colloquium On Micrurgy
Slated For Laboratories
Notre Dame will play host to the first colloquium on micrurgy and germ-free methods and their application to experimental bacteriology and medicine in the University Laboratories of Bacteriology, Thursday and Friday, Nov. 16 and 17.
Thursday will be occupied with a discussion of the general application of micrurgy to biology with demonstrations of and opportunities to use methods and apparatus for isolating single bacterial cells, microdissection, microinjection, micromanipulation, mechanization of viable count and micro-colony manipulation.
Friday’s session will witness a demonstration by Prof. James A. Reyniers, of Notre Dame, of the germ-free technique, its instrumentation and application to raising animals free from contamination. Further treatments of the germ-free technique in invertebrates, embryos and plants will be presented by Dr. Rudolph Glaser of the Rockefeller Foundation, Dr. 01am Woolpert, Ohio State University, and Dr. Philip K. White of the Rockefeller Foundation.
In the afternoon the colloquium will be occupied with discussions and demonstrations of the control of cross infection among limited populations. In this field, too, Notre Dame has made contributions which will be explained by Prof. Reyniers on the use of mechanical barriers in preventing cross infection among hospitalized infant populations. Dr. W. F. Wells, of the University of Pennsylvania, will discuss the control of air borne infections and the use of ultra
6
The Notre Dame Scholastic
violet barriers. Dr. Iwan Rosenstern of the Cradle, children’s home in Evanston, Illinois, -will discuss the use of aseptic techniques for preventing cross infection.—Jack Dinger
“Scrip” Next Week
Scrip, campus literary quarterly, will
meet its autumn deadline next Friday
Ane Maria presses throw off the
afternoon when the
John Meaney
first run of magazines printed under the editorship of John Meaney. There will be no Scholastic next week.
A Scrip much altered physically is expected, although the content probably will follow the pattern of other years — the best student
work in poetry, book reviews, fiction, essays and sketches will be printed.
The new book will run to 72 pages, 9 by 6 inches, printed on grey paper. Full page illustrations have been abandoned in favor of small etchings placed at the end of articles.
Supreme Knight To Give Talk At K. of C. Banquet
Notre Dame council 1477, Knights of Columbus, largest collegiate council in the country, will be honored on Sunday, Dec. 10, when the recently elected supreme knight, the Honorable Francis P. Matthews, K.S.G., of Omaha, Neb., will deliver the principal address at the banquet after the exemplification of the major degrees of the Order on that day.
The Initiation Class composed mainly of students, with some 20 candidates from the second Indiana district, will be known as the "Francis P. Matthews Class,” in honor of the Supreme Knight.
In addition to Mr. Matthews, several notables from the University, and the Knights of Columbus in Indiana and surrounding states, will be present. Plans to accommodate nearly 700 are under way. Grand Knight Tim King of the Notre Dame council, will announce committee appointments to handle arrangements at the next general meeting.
In preparation for the major degree on Dec; 10, three first degree initiations are scheduled prior to that date. The first of these has already been held for
a class of 24 candidates. The rituals were in charge of the Mishawaka council first degree staff under the leadership of Past Grand Knight Nelson Christianson. The remaining two, scheduled for Nov. 21 and Dec. 5, will be under the supervision of the local council officers.
Students possessing the proper qualifications and desiring to join the K. of C. in this honored class, may ..^contact any campus member, or £he K. of C. headquarters in Walsh Hall, open daily from 9 to 5. All applications must be in at least one week in advance of initiation into the first degree.
John Reed, chairman of the Catholic Activities committee, announced that the first of a series of corporate communions will be held Sunday, Nov. 12. November being the month of the poor souls, the intention will be for deceased members of the council.
There is still room for members who wish to participate in the handball and bowling tournaments. Jim Metzler, chairman of the sports committee, has drawn up plans for both tourneys. The sign-up list is located in the council office.
—John Casey.
Cotillion—N. U. Game
Promise Gala Week End
Sufficient and satisfactory accommodations for all guests is one of the outstanding plans for the 1939 Cotillion, to be held on Nov. 17. Under the direction of Jim Carnes, chairman, the arrangement committee has compiled a list of all available rooms in private homes for
girls attending the sophomore dance. Over 100 rooms have been reserved, and their addresses will be posted in all upper-class halls. It is believed that this will relieve the last minute confusion so evident in former years.
The price of the combination dancefootball game tickets is $5.20 instead of
Cotillion — Choose Your Partner — Then Begin
the $8.20 listed last week. Bids are $3.00 and will go on sale Wednesday, Nov. 15, in the basement of the Dining Hall. There will also be a committeeman in each hall selling tickets. As to special football tickets, Jim Magarahan, general chairman, said, “The student will get his free ticket as usual. On Nov. 15, he will turn that in with $2.20 and receive two other tickets.
Lou Breese and his orchestra will come to the Palais after a successful road trip through the Middle West. His thoroughly enjoyable swing music won for him new supporters wherever he appeared. He is now rated one of the most promising maestros of the present day—John McDevitt.
“Midland Naturalist”
In Thirty-First Year
The Army game Saturday will spread the name of Notre Dame over every sports page in the country, but the November issue of the Midland Naturalist will for the thirty-first time make the university known throughout the world. Excepting laboratory physiology, it deals technically with every field of biology.
The Rev. Julius Nieuwland, C.S.C., edited the first issue in 1909, and continued this work until 1934, when he retired. Professor Theodor Just succeeded him, and is carrying on the work. Mr. Just receives contributions from every well-known university in the United States, and frequently from research workers abroad. Through the magazine the University receives ap
proximately 500 valuable periodicals which otherwise might not be available. The Midland Naturalist is published bi-monthly at a subscription rate of $5.00 a year, and $1.00 a copy. Volumes of outstanding reprints are issued occasionally. One will be released during January.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
7
Hutchins To Speak
Dr. Robert Maynard Hutchins, president of the University of Chicago, will speak in the auditorium of the Central Senior High School in South Bend on Monday evening. His address will concern “Public Education and the Necessity for Continuing It.” Dr. Hutchins’ speech will feature the observance of American Education Week, Nov. 6-11, in South Bend.
“Sell Yourself/’ State
Job Expert Tells Forum
“Getting a job depends upon your ability to sell yourself to the employer,” said Miss Elizabeth Smith, local manager of the Indiana State Employment Service, who spoke with Mr. Robert L. Thomas, district manager, at a Commerce Forum meeting for seniors, Thursday.
“What you really have to do,” she added, “is a sales job on yourself. As a salesman persuades a storekeeper to try his product, so you must persuade the employer that you are able to do the job. There are four outstanding rules that should govern your actions.
“First,” she said, “take inventory. Find out what you have to sell. Single out your assets and liabilities on paper if necessary, and use them as the basis of your conversation. Even small things done long ago help. For instance, if you have held even an insignificant summer job, it is well to mention it. An employer likes a man who has held at least some position.
“Second,” Miss Smith continued, “find out where you can sell yourself.” She especially warned against a hit-and-miss policy of seeing the name of a company and applying on the spur of the moment. Her advice was to get the names of the companies one wishes to work for, to find out if one is needed, then to make an appointment.”
“Third, be well-dressed. This point cannot be stressed enough,” Miss Smith emphasized, “because the average applicant doesn’t realize how much depends on this simple rule. The other day a very capable stenographer was refused a job merely because she had a smudge of powder on her coat. You should remember, too, that the employer expects you to appear every day in the same manner as when interviewed. Sloppiness is out!
“Fourth, sell yourself. Don’t forget that the employer has been out of college for a long time, if he ever went, so avoid flaunting your knowledge. Be respectful and specific in answering his
questions and, above all, be sure you see the right person.”
Miss Smith’s talk was preceded by an address by Mr. Robert L. Thomas, district manager of the State Service. He described the present high-pressure business world, and gave some interesting information about his work. He said the Indiana State Employment Service had filled 60,000 vacancies last year, and that similar services were established in the other 47 states. He also had good news for the Forum — accountants are much in demand.—John McDevitt
Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C.
Money Awards Tempting
In K. C. Vaudeville Show
Calling all entertainers! Please report to Washington Hall on Monday, Nov. 27, for the preliminaries of the Knights of Columbus vaudeville show. Ten of you will be selected from a group who have already signed up for the show to compete in the finals on Dec. 5. And speaking of the finals, do you know that the K. of C. has raised the ante on the prizes? The lucky gentleman who is crowned king of entertainment at Notre Dame will be able to separate the leather in his wallet with 30 beautiful pictures of the father of our country. His two closest rivals can add $20 and $10 to their own collection of prints.
Judging from the number of names and acts that are represented by the
group that has signed up, Nov. 27 looms as a great night for those who want laughs, good singing, and a little magic.
There’s still time for anyone who wants to get into the contest. All you have to do is drop into the K. of C. headquarters in Walsh Hall; or see the Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., the man behind vaudeville revival at Notre Dame, and fill out an application.
Lyons, Howard Units Win
In Debate Tournament
While Johnny Bull, jr., Adolph Schultz and the other boys in Europe are trying to pass their daily quizzes in the difficult subject of blowing another fellow’s head off, the Notre Dame interhall debaters are engaged in a struggle over the question—“Resolved: That the United States should follow a policy of strict military and economic isolation toward all nations outside the Western Hemisphere engaged in armed, international and civil conflict.”
In the first round of the furious forensic battles, the affirmative Lyons team blasted the Morrissey lads with a series of verbal grenades. Zahm’s negative team succeeded in driving Breen-Phillips into retreat, while the Brownson-Carroll unit won on a default from Badin. Cavanaugh Hall drew a bye, and was given another week in which to polish up its argumentative guns. Dillon’s affirmative team was unable to stand up under the attack from Howard’s orators.
The defeated teams, however, were not eliminated from competition. Each team debates twice in the first round. One win advances a team to the second round.
This week’s schedule as -announced by Chairman Ralph Gerra finds Dillon battling Alumni, Sorin facing St. Ed’s, and Walsh attacking Howard in the Senior division. In the Junior section, Cavanaugh meets its first opponent in Lyons, Breen-Phillips and Badin clash, while Morrissey hopes to break into the second round at the expense of Brownson-Carroll.—Sam Boyle
Shift Express Office
In order to offer greater conveniences to the students, the Railway Express has announced that beginning today, student express packages will be delivered from, and outgoing packages will be accepted at, the Western Union Telegraph office on the campus. Under this new plan, Railway Express business may be handled any time during the Western Union office business day, instead of from 12:30 to 1:00 as heretofore.
8
The Notre Dame Scholastic
“Legal Thought” Honors Da Pra and Lancaster
Recognition in the form of publication of articles in Current Legal Thought, the Lawyers Digest of Law Reviews, was recently awarded to Louis Da Pra and Leon Lancaster, senior Law students and staff members of the Notre Dame Lawyer.
Louis Da Pra wrote on “Workmen’s Compensation — Continuing Jurisdiction of Industrial Board Due to Change in Conditions.” After a careful examination of the Indiana Workmen’s Compensation Act, Da Pra commented on the fact that the whole case, which involved the injury of a packing house employee, hinged on the definition and interpretation of the all - important phrase- “on account of change in conditions.”
“Liability of An Unlicensed Automobile Operator,” was the subject Leon Lancaster selected. This case concerned an automobile accident in which a car driven by an unlicensed woman driver collided with the rear of an unlighted truck. The writer emphasized the fact that the jury was not required to find that the failure to have an operator’s license at the time of the collision con-sitituted negligence which was a contributing cause of the accident.
CLUBS
Patricians
The presentation of Plautus’ comedy, “Captivi,” translated and adapted for the modern stage by the campus “Patricians,” some time next semester, will represent the greatest project which this club has undertaken. The society, now
entering its ninth year, will again publish its annual journal containing results of student research into classical fields.
At a recent meeting, Thomas Wall was elected president; John McCauley, vice-president; John Meaney, secretary; and Thomas McGee, treasurer. Meetings are held every other Thursday in Badin Hall, at 8 p.m.
J. P. Turley and D. T. Plunkett, faculty advisors, wish to obtain new members from the freshmen and sophomore classes especially. The club aims to bring out the relation of the classical world to the world of today.
Bookmen
The Bookmen, campus literary group, gathered at the Hotel La Salle last Monday to initiate five new members. Those inducted into this select group include: Raymond Allen, Joseph Ryan, and Robert Stenger, new senior members; Charles Carney and Neil McCarty, sophomores. Robert Blake delivered a paper on the' “Poetry of Robinson Jeffers.” The remainder of the meeting was devoted to the selection of currently popular books and periodicals for club use. Professor T. Bowyer Campbell, faculty advisor to the club, presided at the meeting.
Texas
James E. Foley, Dallas, was named president of the Texas Club at a meeting of representatives from the Lone Star State last week. John W. Meaney, Corpus Christi, became vice-president, while Paul W. Brownfield, of Dallas, was elected secretary-treasurer. Officers are to meet next week to discuss the constitution and make plans for the schoolyear.
Academy of Politics
“Retain or Repeal the Arms Embargo” was the title of the paper delivered by Ted Kmiecik at the meeting of the Academy of Political Science on Oct. 25. Mr. Kmiecik gave both sides of this vital problem. The main point for those who favor the repeal of the embargo was this: Sale of arms and munitions to the warring nations will shorten the . present European war. The shorter the war, the less chance we have to become involved.
The main point for those who favor the retention of the embargo, and incidentally Mr. Kmiecik’s personal opinion, is expressed in a quotation by Senator Arthur Vandenburg: “Repealing the arms embargo probably won’t get us into war. But it is like taking the first drink of whiskey. After a -while you’re drunk.” The concensus among Academy members was that the embargo should be retained.
Schoolmen
The Schoolmen, campus philosophy club, recently held two meetings at which new members were present. The first meeting was on October 12, at the Rose Marie Tea Room, and the following new members attended: Walt Hartung, Charles Dillon, Joe Callahan, Jack Burke, George Metzger, Jack Haffner, John Payne, James Cleary, Roy Allen, John Dillon, Bob Sullivan, Paul Menneg, Victor Assad, Jerry Sexton and Ed Corey.
Following the dinner, Fred Wolff read a paper evaluating the case for both sides in the present European war, in the light of principles set forth by St. Thomas Aquinas. Neither side was jus
Vankee Stadium Crowd Will Watch Band Maneuver
The Notre Dame Scholastic
tified by these principles, it was concluded. Wolff also said it would be folly for this country to enter the war, and recommended a policy of strict isolation. After concluding his paper, he defended his idea against attacks by other club members.
George Meltzer was elected vice-president of the club at a meeting held in the Law Building on Oct. 26. The President, James Daner, and other officers of The Schoolmen were elected at the close of the last school year. A motion was passed to the effect that in the future, membership is to be decided by senior members at the beginning of each semester.
The Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C., will speak at the next meeting when a dinner will be held at the Rose Marie Tea Room on Thursday.
Round Table
The problems involved in keeping America neutral were the subject of a paper delivered by Walt Wuebbold at a recent meeting of the Economics Round Table.
Professor Christopher J. Fagan, of the Economics department, was the guest speaker. He gave a summary of the entire international situation, and invited open discussion when he concluded.
Two meetings of the Round Table were cancelled because of conflicting school activities, but the club will again meet on Nov. 6.
Wilcox Attends Meeting
Professor C. C. Wilcox, head of the department of mechanical engineering of the University, and chairman of the St. Joseph Valley section of the A. S. M. E., attended the regional meeting of the society in Chicago last week. Among other business, the members selected a nominating committee for the president of the national administration.
Student engineers whose curriculum involves the use of welding equipment, will welcome the new oxygen acetylene manifold made available by the Union Carbide Co. This instrument will greatly expedite the students’ welding operations as well as facilitate instruction. The manifold itself is a system of tubes and valves connecting several tanks of welding gasses, which will be piped to each individual torch — instead of the former arrangement where each student had his own set of tanks. The joints in the pipes of the manifold itself are welded and strong enough to withstand any pressure that the tanks themselves can take.
FACULTY
Yves Simon, professor in the department of philosophy, and recently of Lille, France, ' answers the following
.questions on the war situation in Europe, in question and answer form.
Q. What have you to tell me of the present war?
A. It is my profound conviction that the
Prof. Yves Simon war waged by
Great Britain and France is a typically defensive war, which has been necessary in order to save several countries from the lot which is already that of Austria, Czechoslovakia and Poland.
Q. Is there any hatred on the part of the French people toward the Germans?
A. To my knowledge there is no hatred in the people of France against Germany. Today there is a great difference between the moral situation of 1914 and the present war. In 1914, people considered the Germans as the enemy. Now they realize that the enemy is rather the totalitarian state and the Nazi regime, the first victims of which are the German people themselves.
Q. What do you think will be the probable strategy of the Allies?
A. The experience of the Great War and that of the Spanish war have shown that the defensive position is the best. Nobody wants to launch an offensive which would cause heavy losses. In particular, the French seem to have no reason for attacking, since their defensive lines are impregnable. I believe the British blockade will be the decisive factor.
Q. What part will airplanes play in the war?
A. Air-competition will not be as determining a factor as some seem to think. Although it is impossible to know the exact figures the output of British and French plane factories will outnumber that of German factories, if not at present at least after a while.
Mr. Simon concluded: “I put much hope in the moral standard of the French people. There is good reason to hope that after the breakdown of Nazi-ism the reconstruction of peace will be undertaken in a spirit of mutual understanding.”—Joseph W. Larkin
French Government Will
Confer Title On Dubois
The honorary title of Officier d’Acad-emie will be conferred on Prof. Benjamin G. Dubois by the French consul general of Chicago, Monsieur Rene Weil-ler, next Wednesday. Although announcement was made last year of Mr. Dubois’s distinction, the presentation was postponed until the opening of this school year.
The honor of Officier d’Academie is awarded to those who have rendered distinguished service to the promotion of French culture and education. Mr. Dubois has taught French since 1920. Furthermore he has contributed to the advancement of French culture by his activities in the Alliance Francaise of South Bend, having assisted in its foundation and served as president from 1937 to 1939.
A dinner will be given in honor of Consul and Mme. Weiller by the modern language teachers before the presentation.
Fr. Wenninger Honored
By Academy of Science
The Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the College of Science,
was honored by the Academy of Science
last Friday morning on his 51st birthday, when the entire Academy attended a M a s s celebrated by him in the Sacred Heart Church.
Father Wenninger has been a mem-
Father Wenninger
her of the No-
tre Dame faculty since 1916. He received his Litt.B. degree from Notre Dame in 1911, and then attended the Catholic University of America. He returned to Notre Dame where he received his M.A. degree in 1917; later he studied abroad at the University of Vienna, obtaining a Ph.D. in 1928. While there, he was the lenten preacher at the Cathedral in Vienna at the invitation of the Cardinal Archbishop — a signal honor.	.
Fr. Wenninger has been an inspiration to the College of Science, and has done much to increase its prestige. He was mainly responsible for the establishment of the Academy of Science, which has proved most helpful to science students through its lectures.
10	The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1 s c ~
William C. Fay, Editor-in-Chief
William C. McGowan, News Editor
Frank Wemhoff, Literary Editor
William Kelleher, Art Editor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor, 259 Alumni Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evenings in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff. 6:30 P.M.; General Staff. 7:00 P.M.
Across the Editor’s Desk
Luck of the Irish
THE NOTRE DAME victory string will be snapped in New York this week-end. Whatever the outcome of the Army game in Yankee Stadium the Irish will be defeated in the Sunday morning edition of the Herald Tribune. Stanley Woodward is one sporting editor -who can wallop Notre Dame year after year without getting up from his typewriter.
You may recall his deathless lead of last year. The Irish, he "wrote through many paragraphs, won because they commanded too much manpower for the Cadets. It was a very pretty tale but, unfortunately for the Woodward logic, game statistics reveal that Notre Dame and Army alternated two teams until Notre Dame scored its third and decisive touchdown—and that Army, because of an early touchdown, was able to rest its starters at the quarter, whereas Notre Dame regulars played eight minutes of the second period. Therefore, far from being overpowered, the Army first team carried an eight minute advantage into the second half.
Woodward also charged clipping by Irish blockers on important plays—one Ben Sheridan’s dash to the two-foot mark to set up the winning touchdown —but movies of the game did not bear out his contentions.
The few scraps of Woodward column to circulate on campus this fall indicate Stanley already has made up his mind about tomorrow’s game. If Notre Dame wins by two touchdowns, he will charge manpower; if the margin is less—say
Donald Foskett, Managing Editor
James Newland, Sports Editor
Richard Metzger, Art Editor
Rev. C. Laskowski, C.S.C., Faculty Adviser
an extra point—he will cry luck; and if Army wins, he very likely will enlist. His antipathy for Notre Dame has been demonstrated clearly in the past. We mention it now merely because it is typical of the growing tendency of unimaginative writers to attribute each Notre Dame victory to the “Luck of the Irish.”
We have watched Notre Dame win five games this year and we call none of the victories lucky. Johnny Kelleher kicked a perfect field goal to defeat a Purdue team which never threatened to score. The varsity slashed Georgia Tech for 14 points in ten plays of the second quarter and held a 17-7 lead at the half. The final score likely would have been more decisive than 17-14 had Layden not decided to toughen his third string.
Southern Methodist brought a courageous, hard-hitting team to the Stadium, but Notre Dame fumbled to donate a quick opening touchdown, came from behind twice to tie tne score, and finally won, 20-19. Why call it luck that Zontini and Kelleher made good the conversions which Mustang kickers missed? Why not praise the line for protecting the kicker, the center for passing accurately, the quarterback for placing the ball precisely, the kicker for the hours he trained his foot in front of Cartier Field goal posts?
The 419 yards the Irish attack gained in the 14-7 victory over Navy silenced the critics temporarily, but the chorus broke out again when Carnegie fell, 7-6. However, most of the Pittsburgh writers
gave credit to Notre Dame for the defensive perfection which won the game. If Woodward & Company are interested in big league reporting they might look into the writeups of Chet Smith, sports editor of the Pittsburgh Press, who gave a fine factual account of the game, and of Havey Boyle, sports editor of the Post Gazette, who wrote his review around the brilliance of Merlyn Condit, the alertness of Bud Kerr, and the physical courage of John McIntyre.
Only Harry Keck, sports editor of the Sim Telegraph, went over to the ranks of the Woodwards. We are almost certain Keck attended the game, yet he wrote: “It was, in short, a game Carnegie might have won—should have won —did win in every department but the score, which is the only one on which they pay off.”
Yet Carnegie did not make a first down until the final three minutes when Condit ran 46 yards through the second team to reach the Notre Dame 40-yard line. Two first downs moved Tech to the 18, but there the Notre Dame first team stopped the Skibos cold—as they had stonewalled them on the 10-yard line earlier in the game.
But Jerry White picked off a fourth down pass deflected by Kerr and ran to the six-yard line. Condit scored in three smashes. Credit White with the same alertness which Kerr demonstrated earlier when he stole the ball from Condit and ran 20 yards for a touchdown. Call honors even from the standpoint of touchdowns, but Zontini of Notre Dame converted, and McIntyre of Notre Dame blocked Muha’s attempt to tie the score. Where was “The Luck of the Irish?”
Later in his article Keck, in the best Woodwardian tradition, wrote: “Just before the game ended Tech did an amazingly daring thing . . . the Tartans tried four straight passes from their 21-yard line, spurning to kick on final down. . . .” Some day we wish Mr. Keck would write a play-by-play account of a drowning man grasping for a straw.
Year in and year out Notre Dame plays the most difficult schedule of any team in the country. Defeats are more to be expected than overwhelming victories.
One of Rockne’s greatest teams finished an undefeated season by edging Army, 7-6. If Army wins tomorrow we hope Stanley Woodward gives the Soldiers the hand they will deserve, but if we win—even by a point after touchdown—we would like to read a game story written from the novel point of view that the Irish "won because they outscored their opponents by one point.
—William C. Fay

The Notre Dame Scholastic
11
Fifty Years of Scholarship
By Rev. Christopher O’Toole, c.s.c.
For the student of philosophy the chief center of interest at Louvain is the Institut Superieur de Philosophic founded under the initiative of the Holy See in 1899 and confided to the direction of the then Monsignor Mercier. November 8th marks the fiftieth anniversary of this foundation. In the encyclical letter Aeterni Patris Leo XIII had pointed out the necessity of a more profound and scientific study of traditional philosophy particularly in view of rapid advancements in the positive sciences. A grave danger existed that Thomism would be relegated merely to a history of philosophy, if the methods of presenting it did not become more critical and vital. Mere repetition of what St. Thomas had said did not constitute true philosophy. The problems which Thomas posed, had to be posed anew in their proper setting if they were to 1’eceive an integral answer. Pope Leo was particularly eager that the whole question of the relations between science and philosophy be examined with a view to bringing about a closer rapprochment between the two if that were possible and desirable. For this work a scholar more enthusiastic and more capable than Monsig. Mercier could hardly be found. The Institut Superieur de Philosophic, with its world reputation, its excellent staff of professors, is a monument to his genius. If in the earlier years of the Institute there existed some over - emphasis upon the place of positive science in relation to philosophy, this has by no means retarded the development of the original idea as suggested in the Aeterni Patris. One might almost say that over-emphasis was necessary in order to revitalize traditional philosophy and to make it known and respected.
The plan of studies at the Institute is very simple. Courses are divided into two comprehensive cycles. The first cycle embraces the two years of what is called the Baccalaureate. In these years the entire field of philosophy is covered in a summary way. Along with this there is given a course called “Encyclopedic de la Philosophic” whose object it is to link together the various branches of philosophy and to suggest a philosophic method. At the same time courses in the positive sciences are followed so that the student may understand their methods, their limits, their relation to the philosophical sciences, and appreciate
the light they throw upon philosophic problems.
A second cycle of two years includes a more profound and detailed study of questions in each of the usual fields of philosophy. The efforts of the student are narrowed and intensified and a taste for research is given. The thought of the main figures in ancient, medieval and modern philosophy is exposed. No attempt is made to exhaust the subjectmatter, but some aspect of a problem
Wind Over Maine
Slim fingers that once had raked the sky And tried to grasp the racing clouds Strain and quiver before the lash of wind
But hold no wings to flee zvith, so they sigh.
Shattered panes of glass that once had seen
Flickering golden sparks leap from the counter’s hands
Take feeble revenge ivith jagged thrusts At the unseen rush of the invader.
A door that had opened only twice a year At the touch of a hand still scented with salt
Swings back and forth in uncertain arcs And groans in belated protest at such unrelenting force.
A man who once had seen the gleaming spires
Of pointed pagodas bathed in Oriental suns
Leans wearily against the familiar shapeless force
And lives in dreams as he slowly trudges home.
—John Riley.
is thoroughly studied and approaches suggested which the student may follow later according to his preference and talent. The final proof of the student’s ability to pursue philosophical inquiry independently and with a measure of originality, is the doctoral dissertation.
That, very briefly, is a description of the framework within which the Insti
tute operates. The vitalizing element comes, of course, from the professors. Unfortunately the student of today will not have the privilege of listening to the inspiring lectures of a Mercier, a Nys, a Deploige, a DeWulf, but he will enjoy the ripe scholarship of one of the finest staffs of professors in the world. Monsignor Noel, whose charm and graciousness no American student will forget, is the president of the Institute. His profound contribution to the key question of epistemology has hardly been equalled. Canon Balthaser is a master in metaphysical method. His fearless recognition of the difficulties of genuine metaphysics is a challenge to every philosopher to examine his conscience to see whether or not what he has been taking for metaphysics is not pure phenomenology. Canon Mansion is an Aristotelian scholar of the first order. The analyses of Kant’s philosophy as given by Canon Dondeyne throw a completely new light upon the Critique of Pure Reason, and invite one to recognize the contribution which Kant has made while at- the same time avoiding the errors of “Kantianism.” Canon Le-clerq’s approaches to problems of morality are fresh and stimulating. The clarity and thoroughness of Canon Van Steenberghen’s commentaries on Saint Thomas and Siger de Brabant are the delight of every student. M. Dopp’s rapid yet penetrating remarks on that very difficult subject—Spinoza, if carefully examined, will help to generate a new enthusiasm for that very sincere thinker. The work of M. Michotte in experimental psychology has earned for him a membership in the Pontifical Academy of Sciences. Psychologists everywhere pay tribute to his inventive genius. A supplementary course in the history of experimental psychology offered by M. Fauville gives Louvain students a good understanding of the progress being made in this field. Canon Renoirte, in rapid-fire style, clearly marks off the field of science from that of philosophy, and gives his students excellent instruction in the interpretation of the concepts, laws and theories of physical science.
In these men, and in many others whose courses I was unable to attend,', there is embodied the spirit of Leo XIII, the spirit of Mercier and of Thomas.
—See Page 22—
12
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Strong Army Line Opposes Notre Dame Speed Tomorrow
Cadets Depend On Soph Backs To Thwart Irish
All eyes and ears will be turned toward the Yankee Stadium tomorrow. For on that field, the football classic of the week will be staged. Army’s Cadets, corps intact, will face Notre Dame’s Irish, undefeated gunners for national honors.
Last Saturday in Pittsburgh, the Irish met a stubborn Carnegie eleven, a team which blocked and tackled with animal ferocity. Two brick - wall defenses battled through 60 minutes, and finally, the opportune blocking of Tech’s try for extra point won for Notre Dame, 7-6.
To prevent any possibility of potency in the Irish attack, the Army comes up with a big aggressive line built around tackles Stella and Lotozo. Captain Stella hails from Kankakee, Ill. Two weeks ago, Notre Dame faced another Kankakee boy, Captain Allen Bergner of the Navy. Stella is Bergner’s equal. Meaning—Irish, be wary.
The Cadet ends are Frank Yeager and Stan Hudson. Both are lanky men who specialize in pass-receiving. Two Irishmen from last year’s plebe team ■will squat at the guard slots. They are Jim Rooney and Dick Hennessee. Bill Gillis, who bolstered a weak mid-section in the middle of last season, is back to play center tomorrow.
But what of the backs? Such names as Huey Long, Woody Wilson, and Sid Martin are missing in the program. Captain Jim Schwenk is gone. In fact, from the glittering backs of last season only Art Frontczak has returned.
The plebes from last year answer the question. From the first year team have come schoolboy wonder, Jere Maupin, and “Army brat,” John Hatch. With Frontzak performing as line bucker extraordinary and as signal caller, Maupin and Hatch will furnish the Cadets with a passing attack, speed, and long punts. A Mr. Evans, backing up the Army line will have a great deal to say about long Irish gains.
The Army line tips the scales at an average of slightly over 193 pounds. And speed is not lacking at any of the
front positions. Hatch and Maupin are the fast, shifty type. Each weighs 170. Evans and Frontczak are heavier and more powerful runners.
If we are to take the Carnegie game as our example, watch for defensive strength along the entire Notre Dame front line. Assuming that there were standouts in that battle, pick on Kerr, Harvey, Gallagher, Kelly, and McIntyre. But can we leave out Riffle and DeFranco? The shock troops conducted themselves in an orderly fashion, stopping everything that came at them excepting a 40 yard end spurt by troublesome Merlyn Condit.
Stevenson became the running back of the day against Tech. Known to be an expert passer and kicker, Harry made himself a real triple-threat on Saturday last.
Bud Kerr repeated his heroic performance of last year, and scored Notre Dame’s only touchdown against the Tartans. According to that, Benny Sheridan and Joe Thesing are due to shake loose tomorrow. Blocking will help win for . Notre Dame. Get those runners out there in the open, and then mop up downfield.
—John Patterson
About Iowa
Next Saturday, Nile Kinnick and company will settle down to the task of upsetting Notre Dame.
Kinnick is Iowa’s stand-out. However, there are ten other men on the field with him. Mike Enich hits 212 pounds. This boy will be difficult to move from his tackle slot. Ham Snider and Charlie Tolleson will handle the guard assignments. Bob Otto, a sophomore, has moved in at center taking the place of two veterans, Bruno An-druska and Jerry Niles. The flanks will be guarded by Captain Erwin Prasse and Dick Evans. The average mass of the seven linemen is a mere 206 pounds.
Kinnick needs no introduction in the backfield set-up. But he has three mates who should be remembered. Ed McLain has been moved from full to blocking back. Al Coupee is the pile-driver at fullback; Bill Green has been stationed at left half.
Army Games Alu
Through the years great Notre Dame backs—Eh long punts in a quickening dusk at Yankee S
Notre Dame
Biagi .......
Brutz .......
DeFranco .... McIntyre .... Riffle ...... Lillis ...... J. Kelley (C) Sitko ....... Stevenson ... Zontini ..... Thesing .....
....Left ] ......Left 1 ....Left C ....Cent ....Right C ....Right I ....Right ....Quarte ...Left Ha Right Ha ....Fullb
Time—1:00 p.m. (C.S.T.). Place 77,000. Referee—W. H. Friesell fj (Pittsburgh). Head Linesman—A. —C. M. Waters (Williams). Radio's
Remember Bob Wilke? His running
The Notre Dame Scholastic
13
ways Spell Action
Splinters From The Pressbox
by Frank Aubrey
Vlder, Schwartz and Shakespeare—have tumbled Stadium. Watch Harry Stevenson tomorrow.
L i.n eup s
ice—Yankee Stadium. Attendance— CPrinceton). Umpire—A. H. Slack Maginnes (Lehigh). Field Judge 'broadcast—N.B.C.
t End.... TackleGuard..
nter.....
GuardTackle..
t End.... terback lalfback. lalfback. llback...
Army .... Yeager Stella (C) ... Murphy ...Gillis ... Rooney ... Michel ... Hanst ..Frontzcak ... Maupin ... Evans ... Hatch
ing and passing won the '36 game.
Week by week our boys in blue are having a bad effect on the collective -nerves of campus under-grads and campus-followers sitting at radio sets from coast to coast. Doctors will tell you— at least magazine ads lead us to believe, that harrowing experiences are bad on the nerves. You Camel-smokers can get a lift after one of these one-point orgies on Saturday, but that is out of the question for clean-living lads. Before our life-expectancy is curtailed too drastically something will have to be done about these nerve-shattering one-point victories. There must be easier ways to win football games. And not only that, “we” haven’t won a game. Our press has been developing anatomical wonders, as witness: “Notre Dame wins on Stevenson’s arm”—“Kelleher’s foot w’ins for Notre Dame”—“Zontini’s toe gives Irish game”—and finally, “McIntyre’s nose wins for Notre Dame.” Surely somebody will give his right eye to beat Southern California.
Elmer and all his lieutenants and Father O’Donnell and his legion ought to get together and talk it over some cold night this winter. With any luck at all the association should come up with an improved schedule, one that would entail a few slight alterations, but beneficial, and how! For instance, we could substitute North Carolina State for Purdue, Sewanee for Georgia Tech, Chattanooga for Southern Methodist, Mercer for Carnegie Tech, Kentucky for the Army, and The Citadel for Northwestern. And before Joe Boland could say “Make mine a cigar this time,” we’d have a schedule, which, if surmounted, no sports-writer in the country could think twice about before nominating us the number one team of the nation. More to the point, it would offer some basis for comparison with one of the nation’s great teams, Tennessee, for the Volunteers at present are playing the above mentioned teams, and doing a dandy job of it, too. Of course it remains to be seen whether Piepul, The-sing, Zontini, and the rest could cope with a mighty Mercer and the merciless men of The Citadel. Still we ought to be willing to take the risk, if only to prove that Notre Dame, too, plays no favorites.
❖
Judging from last Tuesday’s sweet little episode concerning the boxing game, another sport is in for a nation-
wide purging. Not so long ago that we seniors can’t remember, wrestling was a rugged and flourishing sport. Every town has its weekly wrestling card at the local arena. Big timers of the wrestling circuit toured the sticks staging bouts with the small-town behemoths. Fans flocked to see these ex-footballers, ex-circus strongmen, and ex-Europeans who were exemplary performers in the finished art of grunt-and-groan. Wrestling occupied an important slice of the sporting public’s time. Men like Jim Londos were generally believed to have made a million dollars from the game. But it wasn’t a game. As performances became cruder, and critics and fans alike became keener, the true light of wrestling began to be seen. It was recognized as an out-and-out farce — a sham exhibition fixed and rehearsed to ' entertain the public, or suckers as they naturally came to be called. As a result, wrestling fervor cooled off quicker than a graduated All-American. The “sport” degenerated to a position where today nobody gives it a tumble. We are not predicting any such fate for the ring game because of the Harry Thomas-Schmeling or Galento fiasco, but we cannot see where such an expose will do the ring any good. People had a sneaking suspicion right along that all was not “pure and holy” in the art of fisticuffs, but no one suspected that dirty • work was afoot among the ranking professionals. We smile knowingly, for instance, at Primo Camera’s long list of K.O. victims. But these bouts were mere “build up” affairs conducted in obscure clubs The Thomas statement incriminates the top-notch boxing circles. From now on people are going to demand a thorough investigation of the whole sport. But even as baseball survived the odious antics of the Chicago Blacksox, boxing should survive this latest blot. The kids aren’t going to believe anything sordid about men like Dempsey and Tunney, — nor are we.
♦
Picking Splinters:
Notre Dame over Army Ohio State over Indiana : Yale over Dartmouth	.
Duke over Georgia Tech	. .
Princeton over Harvard
Michigan over Illinois
Minnesota over Northwestern .
Penn over Navy
Tennessee over L.S.U.
14
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Introducing by Pete Sheehan
McBride Leads Brownson
To Soccer League Lead
Johnny McIntyre usually keeps his nose out of other people’s business! When an unblemished record is in danger, however, he believes that it is his business to do something about it. When Johnny returned from Pittsburgh Sunday morning, his nose was pretty sore but his name was stretched across the headlines of sport sections throughout the country. As George Muha’s place kick caromed off the McIntyre schnozola Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish bounded toward the top of the national standings.
Blocking kicks was Mac’s hobby at LaSalle Academy, Providence, R. I., where Johnny won all-state honors in ’34 and ’35. If you entertain any doubts as to the prowess of Johnny’s opponents check up on the pro teams and see how Bill Osmanski, former Holy Cross ace, and Hank Soar, old Providence College star, are getting along. LaSalle won ten games and the state title in ’35.	'
With the coming of winter Mac got his ice skates sharpened and took his position at left defense on the hockey team. In hockey, as in football, he played three years as a regular and two as an allstate star. LaSalle was runner-up to Mt. St. Charles, Woonsocket, R. I., for national scholastic honors in ’35.
Spring fever is prevalent in Mac’s home town around April and May so he spent three years as regular first basemen on LaSalle’s baseball team in
order that the malady would not catch up with him.
During the last four years the varsity center has been a senior and, strangely not one of these pivot men played with the first team until his final year. Fred Mundee’s great work kept Pat McCarty down in ’36 but Pat came into his own in ’37. He had to be good to keep Ed Longhi, last year’s ace on the bench. This year McIntyre received his. starting chance and his performances have equalled the feats of the above mentioned stars. A giant on defense, Mac is ready to fill in any gap in the Irish line. His passing is nearly perfect.
Most of the players were enthusiastic over the trip to Southern California last
Fall. They had never been closer to a movie star than the front seats in Washington Hall. This was their chance to meet their screen idols. Screen celebrities were nothing novel to Johnny, however. Sonja Henie had presented him with a sweater when he made the allProvidence hockey team. And—as always —the glamour had worn away!
Like Bud Kerr; Mac is a music lover. He confines his efforts to the piano and
organ and is looking forward to Christmas vacation when he will be called dn to accompany the church choir back home.
Jack comes from an athletic family. John Moran and John O’Rourke, cousins, were famous athletes at Manhattan and Georgetown, respectively. A brother, Frank, is present captain of Fordham’s freshman team.
Statistics: Full name—John Aloysius McIntyre. Born in Providence, R. I., on June 27, 1917. Weight, 195 pounds; height, 6 feet. A Physical Education major, Mac hopes to be teaching high school boys the art of blocking placement kicks when next autumn rolls around.
Last Sunday morning Brownson Hall’s soccer team rode into the league leadership on the toe of “Mac” McBride, who scored the two goals that vanquished Breen-Phillips 2 to 1. The outcome was in doubt until the final gun, and a surprisingly large crowd of spectators who braved the chill winds were amply rewarded with a close struggle.
When the smoke had cleared after Sunday’s hot battle two facts were definitely known: first, Brownson had usurped the league leadership; second, McBride had kicked his way into a commanding lead in individual scoring. But so unpredictable is the game of soccer, that next week’s statistics may present an entirely different setup. Regardless of the outcome, however, the league promises unusual competition up to the last minute of play.
Standings of teams:
POINTS
Brownson ...............  ........	7
Freshman .......................  6
Breen-Phillips .......  ........  4
Zahm  .....................       3
Carroll ........:..............   2
Cavanaugh ....................... 0
Scoring: 2 points for a win; 1 point for a tie.
In a non-league contest Sunday afternoon, the LaRaza Club of Notre Dame was defeated by the Tri-State College team from Angola, 7-0. Next Sunday the Angola team will return to the campus for a game with an All-Star team to be picked from the various interhall and club teams.
Rockne Memorial
Approximately 78 freshmen went into action this week in two tournaments at the Rockne Memorial. Forty-five are entered in the foul shooting and 23 in the handball.
The number of entries in freshman handball is indicative of the increased use of the building. Last year only 35 from the entire school participated in a generaf tournament.
The free-throw meet will probably be concluded this week. Each contestant gets 50 shots from the foul line.
Director Tommy Mills also announced that the interhall light and heavyweight basketball tournaments will get under way in a few weeks. There will possibly be a-'practice game or two for each team.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
15
THEATRE
It shouldn’t be too long before South Bend movie patrons will praise what Jimmy Stewart has done with his best Hollywood part to date. The-movie is “Mr. Smith Goes to Washington,” and Stewart, in his “Jeff Smith” role, combines his peculiar knack for facial expression and manual gesture with topnotch results.
This picture is certainly one that must be seen in correct sequence, due to its dependence upon sustained drive and rising action. So if you are hissed rather violently foi- scrambling to your seat five minutes before the end of the picture don’t say we didn’t warn you. If you must buy a ticket without first consulting a movie time table, for your own sake, wait in the lobby until the thing is over.
Usually, a movie based on the inner workings of a great government fails miserably unless it strives toward authenticity. This show, besides its authentic facsimiles of buildings associated with the government, has a cast capable of establishing a genuine Congressional atmosphere. One poor actoi’ can throw the whole project out of gear. Here, fortunately, Mr. Capra, the director, had a capable cast and the genius to synthesize it.
The plot formula in its most general form is local-boy-makes-good. But don’t let this mislead you. Clever dialogue and situation makes up for plot triteness.
You find yourself mentally urging young Jefferson Smith to expose the proverbially crooked political machine, and sympathizing with victimized Senator Joel Paine (Claude Raines) as the Taylor enterprises hurl him into line with the dictates of big boss Jim Taylor (Edward Arnold). You catch yourself marvelling at the facility with which Hollywood can graduate crooked politics to the level of the highest lawmaking body in the country—and more, still render it convincing.
By all means, see “Mr. Smith Goes to Washington”—and see it from the beginning.—Vern Witkoivski.
Kerr Steals Ball in Own
Version of End Around
“Thou shalt not steal,” is the Seventh Commandement which Bud Kerr did not keep last Saturday.
In the third quarter, with Carnegie Tech and Notre Dame both scoreless, Kerr pilfered the ball from Merlyn Condit’s arms as the Scots’ best player was
tackled by Tom Gallagher. Bud then ran 21 yards to the goal line.
“The ball was in his right arm, and I thought I could grab it, and did. Then I just started running,” Kerr said, after he had returned to the campus with the team. Fellow members of the team said
THIS MARK OF DISTINCTION ASSURES YOU A COMBINATION OF ELEGANCE AND FIT
Bailor6®
FULL DRESS OR TUXEDO SUITS — OR DINNER JACKETS — WE INVITE YOU TO CALL AT OUR UPSTAIRS SHOP AND LET US HELP YOU SELECT YOUR FORMAL CLOTHES	.
Slbler ^ocJjcstfr correct clothes for every occasion
PARKER-WINTERROWD 115%-117% NORTH MAIN (UPSTAIRS)
Consult our Campus Representatives
GEORGE L. HAITHCOCK-MAIN BLDG.	HARRY STEPHENSON-109 SORIN
••TAD” HARVEY-11 MORRISSEY	JACK DEMOSS-309 SORIN
THE HUDDLE . . .
SATURDAY ■ SUNDAY ■ MONDAY ■ TUESDAY 10 per cent Off on AH Pipes LIMITED TIME! - UNLIMITED VALUE!
YOU LL GET A KICK OUT OF; THE ORIGINAL
fp* PIPE
DrGRABOW
Dr. Grabow scores everytime with men of action.
*150 ■ oMt«
He HiB
Mieno cumb
BREAKING IN • NO BITE • NO BITTER TASTE
Bud had been trying to do the trick all afternoon, and that there was no fumble on the play.
Kerr’s touchdown, Lou Zontini’s conversion and John McIntyre’s block of George Muha’s attempted extra point were Irish highlights.—John Lewis
-ONLY ________________ DR. GRABOW Pipes are presmoked with fine tobacco (EDGLWM'TW) to break them in by Linkman's Ex* elusive Pipe Smoking Machino. MABe»YM.UHKMANeCO,a0CA6O
16
The Notre Dame Scholastic
OUR DAILY BREAD
LITURGY
The Church, the Mystic Christ, is a supernatural society. Its true inwardness is its oneness with Christ. It is also a visible society. In this connection the anniversary of the Dedication of the Basilica of the Most Holy Saviour (Thursday) picks up the thread of history as well as of doctrine.
The Basilica is better known as St. John Lateran. St. John, from a nearby Benedictine monastery dedicated to St. John the Baptist and St. John the Evangelist whose monks served the church; Lateran, from the family of the Later-ani whose palace occupied the site in ancient times. Early in the fourth century Constantine acquired the property and gave it to the Church. The palace was the residence of the Popes for a thousand years. Here were convened several General Councils of the Universal Church—one in 313 against the heretical Donatists; five, called Lateran, between the 12th and the 16th century.
It is the cathedral church of the city of Rome, the official seat of the Pope who is the Bishop of Rome. On its walls one reads: “Mother and Head of all the Churches of the City and of the World.” Thus is it at once the symbol of unity and perpetuity. ,
Mass Calendar: November 5-11
Sunday, 5—Twenty-third after Pentecost. 2d prayer, Octave of All Saints, 3d, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Monday, 6—Sixth Day within Octave. Mass of the Feast. 2d prayer, of the Holy Ghost, 3d, Church or Pope, 4th, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Credo. Votive or Requiem.
Tuesday, 7—Seventh Day within Octave. Everything as of yesterday.
Wednesday, 8—Octave Day of All Saints. Mass of the Feast. 2d prayer, the Forty Holy Martyrs, 3d, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Thursday, 9—Dedication of the Basilica of the Most Holy Saviour, (St. John Lateran). Mass: Terribilis fin Common). 2d prayer, St. Theodore, Martyr. Credo.
Friday, 10—St. Andrew Avellino, Confessor. Mass: Os justi (in Common). Prayer proper. 2d, Sts. Tryphon and Companions, Martyrs, 3d, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Saturday, 11 — St. Martin, Bishop, Confessor. Mass proper. 2d prayer, St. Menna, Martyr, 3d, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Mass Calendar: November 12-18
Sunday, 12—Twenty-fourth after Pentecost. (Mass of 5th Sunday after Epiphany) . 2d prayer, St. Martin, Pope, Martyr. 3d, of the Saints (A cunctis), 4th, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Monday, 13—St. Didacus, Confessor. Mass: Justus fin Common). Prayer proper, 2d, of the Saints (A cunctis), 3rd, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Votive or Requiem.
Tuesday, 14—Saint Josephat, Bishop, Martyr. Mass proper, 2d prayer, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Wednesday, 15—St. Albert the Great, Bishop, Confessor, Doctor. Mass: In medio (Common of Doctors). 2d prayer Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Credo. St. Albert tvas the teacher of St. Thomas Aquinas.
BERMAN’S


« for
SPORT fl

‘Buckskin” Shirts, all V yL wool outdoor Shirts.
Caps with ear	|
tabs at 98c.	fl
108 North Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
MEDIC
PIPES, CIGARETTE A CIGAR HOLDERS ONLY filter combining 66 baffle interior and cellophane exterior, keeps nicotine, juices, flakes out of mouth. No breaking in. No tongue bite. Breaks up hot smoke stream,
mild, healthy
MEDICO HLTEKDSMOIQNG. HL money
CAN BUY
Most beautiful new styles — unheard-of-value
Thursday, 16—St. Gertrude, Virgin. Mass: Dilexisti (in Common), Prayer proper, 2 d, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Friday, 17—St. Gregory the Wonder Worker, Bishop, Confessor. Mass: Stat-uit (in Common). 2d prayer, of the Saints (A cunctis), 3d, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Votive or Requiem.
Saturday, 18—Dedication of Basilicas of Sts. Peter and Paul. Mass: Terribilis (in Common). 2d prayer, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Credo.
THE BOOK SHOP
Notre Dame Headquarters for Books	Stationery
Pens	Pencils
Greeting Cards
130 N. MICHIGAN STREET
BREAKS IN MEDICO
nNasraaiAU
ata a buck mx
cerrire filters rea MEaice pipes
The Notre Dame Scholastic
17
VINCENTIANS
That worn spot in the tile before the door of the office of the Notre Dame Conference—there is a story behind it. A number of transients have filed into the office this year; Executive Secretary Jack Reddy has filed accounts of their experiences as told to him.
One day there must have been seven men who applied for clothes. Jack not only helped them to get outfitted but he also helped them by listening to their stories—it’s always a relief to get something off one’s chest. The men were not just wanderers but they were poor fellows who needed a lift, a tiding-over. There is organization in No. 23 Lyons: the transient tells why he needs clothing; if satisfied, the office helps him and here is a point worth noting, asks him
Skate tar Health ... and Enjoyment...
PLAYLAND ROLLER RINK
(Melody Gardens Ballroom)
TWO SKATING FLOORS — ONE FOR BEGINNERS Every Night Except Monday — Matinee Sunday and Thursday Students always 25c “A Good Way to Make Money for Your Club"
to send back word of his efforts to secure work.
Since the beginning of the year it is interesting to notice that two or three of the transients have been railroad men. One of them asked for shirts, white ones if possible.
"Lessons in Liberty"
by
CLARENCE “PAT" MANION
ACCLAIMED BY THE PRESS OF AMERICA
Excerpt from one review:
“Lessons In Liberty,” a Study of God in Government, by Professor Clarence Manion. At last a textbook of Political Science which subordinates forms and methods to substance and purpose . . . Developing his thesis that all governments may be judged as good or bad according as they serve or enslave the governed, the author proves that our American constitutional democracy is substantially a good government solely because the founding fathers rooted it deeply in religion.—Brother Leo, The Monitor, San Francisco. Calif.
N. D. BOOKSTORE
“A white shirt always makes a fellow feel good,” he said.
Another said: “Wandering over the country is the hardest thing a man does. The mental anguish of drifting is more exhausting than the most laborious work.”
THK TtSTID INK
FOB IVMY PIN
"HEADQUARTERS"
DECCA — BLUEBIRD......35c and the new COLUMBIA....50c
234 S. Mich St., LaSalle Corner
36
years of experience at your command.
years of reliable, competent service.
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eyes and the making of fine glasses.
LEMONTREES
Optometrists and Opticians
314 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
18
The Notre Dame Scholastic
. There was another man—and a real MAN—who appeared to be very tired, worn out even from a walk down the stairs. He had been well off; at one time he and his sister were left over $15,000. He had been in an executive position. Adverse business conditions left him penniless, and here he was wandering over the country looking for work. One chance for a position sent him from Chicago to New York and back again to present his birth certificate. Such men, without legal residence and unable for economic reasons to establish it, are not given aid by various agencies in a city. They must take care of their local needy; so it is that the transients come to the N. D. Conference for help. An overcoat and a pair of shoes sent this man on his way, -refreshed and better equipped to get that job.
Any word received from such men after they leave? There certainly has been. Men have made it a point to -write their thanks and the welcome news in manly hand: “I’ve got that job!”
Plans are under way for a dance to be held the night of the Southern California game. Proceeds are to go to the Notre Dame Conference. No charity to Southern Cal on the field—it will need none; all the charity for the Society that night.—Richard Leo Fallon, Jr.
You’ll get showers of Compliments
By
ALLIGATOR
A check-list on your evening attire . . .
NOW before Sophomore Cotillion be sure that your formal accessories are complete.
In Your
These Features Make Style News:
$750
At Better Dealers
UNIVERSITY COACHER RAINCOAT
Loose fit tins with full drape!
It’s lovely to look at and lovely to wear...because theUniversity Coacher by Alligator combines ALL that’s smart with guaranteed waterproofing! It’s the most practical coat for fall-will keep you dry and comfortable at football games...everywhere... every time! Get yours today in deep sea green, yellow or black.
The 'Coacher" by Alligator also available in
Somthur ''Special Finish** ... $14^5
jewelry— .
cuff buttons and studs
COLLARS— regular and winged
HATS—
Toppers. $12.50—Snap
brim felts, $5.00
HOSIERY—
Black silk—plain and clocked, 50c up
BRACES— Black and white, both —$1.00 up
Full85-incb sweep for smartness!
Shiny brass buttons
—fly front!
Casual type convertible collar!
We are featuring a new Tuxedo Shirt—soft, pleated bosom, French cuffs and attached collar. Broad-doth, $2.50 . . . other shirts for Tuxedo or Full Dress, $3.50 up.
FULL DRESS CLOTHES and TUXEDOS —from $35.00
Galecloth
Renfranz-Rasmnssen, Inc.
106-108 South Main Street Opposite the Court House
$18.50
Other Alligator Raincoats, $5.75 to $25
Roomy pockets—as Guaranteed water-yon tike them! proof-tight weight!
because . . . IT’S SURE TO RAIN!
The Alligator Co., St. Louis, New York, Los Angeles
ALLIGATOR
The Notre Dame Scholastic
19
YOUR RELIGION
Sacraments. By them we are spirituallj’ reborn, endowed with a new principle of life, sanctifying Grace; we are strengthened like soldiers well
trained for the battle of life; we are nourished as with daily food and drink, with a bread whose substance is Himself, so that He is in us and we in
It works. The phrase is American, of few words, but with a wealth of connotation. It was probably first applied to a machine, and then by analogy extended to other things. A machine that works is one that functions as its builder intended it should. It does what it was supposed to do. Nothing essential is therefore wanting to it. It has integrity of parts. There is in the arrangement of its parts that order, that agreement with the laws of mechanics which enables it to attain suitably the end of its being. All this is connoted by the terse phrase, It works.
Similarly, not indeed identically, for men are not machines, nor are mechanical laws moral laws, it can be said of your religion that it works. It will, if given the chance—and in that “if” lies the heart of the difference between the material and the spiritual world—function as its Divine Founder intended it should. It will do for us what He asserted it would. It, too, is complete, for it embraces the fullness of Divine Revelation. Nothing further ever will or need be added to it. There is about it a unity by which each part illumines and completes the others, a consistency which enables it successfully to withstand criticism, and a vitality which endows it with perennial youth. It is a religion to live by, a way of living as well as a channel of new life.
It works, for it makes saints, makes men know and love and live like God. That was what it was meant to do because that is what men were meant to be. God Who made men for Himself could not but want them to become like Himself. God Who knows Himself and loves Himself, since He gave us a mind capable of knowing Him and a will capable of loving Him, obviously intended that we should know and love Him. Moreover, to those natural gifts He added, first, His supernatural revelation through which our knowledge of Him could become incomparably superior to our natural knowledge, and also infallibly certain. Secondly, He established a society on earth, a Church, which by His commission, in His name and under the guarantee of His unfailing guidance was to teach us the full truth about Himself and provide us with a rule of life that, observed, will lead to Him. Finally, He caught up our earthly nature and united it with His own divine nature in the person of His Son Who, after winning for us infinite merits by His passion and death, applies them to us through the sevenfold channel of His
SCHOOL OF DENTISTRY
The University of Buffalo
A four year curriculum completed in three calendar years, by means of the quarter plan. (Four quarters of eleven weeks each, to the school year).
The dental and medical schools are closely affiliated, instruction in the basic medical sciences being under the supervision of the medical faculty. Clinical practice of dentistry, in all its varied aspects, is supervised by the dental division, and there is an intimate association with the clinics of several hospitals. Periods of internship in two general and one children’s hospital during the senior year, offering unusual experience in clinical observation, diagnosis, and treatment of dental conditions.
Next regular session will start the first week in July, 1940.
For further information address:
The School of Dentistry
University of Buffalo
25 Goodrich Street
Buffalo, New York.
HEADQUARTERS FOR FOOTBALL FANS

AMERICA'S NEWEST GREAT BAND JIN SMUT AND HIS TOPHATTERS ORCHESTRA For DINNER ond SUPPER DANCING
BLUE ROOM HOTEL LINCOLN 44th TO 45th STS. AT EIGHTH AVE.
NEW YU
With??*«s
20
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Him, so that we truly live by His life, so that we become and deserve to be called ‘sons of God’ and co-heirs with Him and of His Father’s Kingdom; we are joined one to another as permanently and intimately as He is to His Church, two in one flesh, so as to cooperate with Him in continuing the life of the race; we are raised to a Holy Priesthood, some to co-ministers with Him, and all to co-offerers with Him of Himself in the Holy Sacrifice of the
LIFESAVER
FOR POOR MEMORIES
South Shore Trains Leave Every Hour on the Hour, 6 A. M. to Midnight
For complete information CALL C. W. VEACH City Passenger Agent
301 N. Michigan Street Phone 3-3111
CHICAGO SOUTH SHOOK A SOUTH BKMD KAIUtOAD
SOUTHnSeHDRE
Mass, that clean oblation which everywhere, from the rising of the sun to the going down thereof, goes on continuously; we are restored again and again to spiritual life after the spiritual death of sin; and we are finally enlightened and strengthened in body and mind in the last hour to go forth to meet Him on the threshold of eternity.
From birth therefore to death and
lAO^KKfWOODIE
f This is one you’ve just got to have— unless you’re a bookish fellow given to staying indoors. The "watch-case” top on this pipe keeps the wind from tearing into the pipe-bowl and "emptying” it. Protects the briar (and that new tweed outfit of yours) from burning.
The slotted grill controls the draft perfectly, and slides back sideways for filling and emptying. The whole pipe is trim as a watch and tight as a dammakes all other covered pipes look like the Gay Nineties. It’s the smartest thing that's come through our doors in many years—you’ll agree as soon as you see one. Shown above, No. 33.
KAYWOODIE COMPANY
Rockefeller Center, New York<»«</London
during all the years between, your religion is a unique and unfailing ally vivifying your soul with new life, new truth, new strength, keeping ever before you the supreme end and purpose of living, setting your actions in order, providing norms whereby you may distinguish clearly the good from the bad, the right from the wrong, feeding the fires of your faith, uniting your heai-ts with His own and with those of your
Heads or Tails it’s always
Howell's Cafe
Notre Dame Headquarters for
FINE FOOD
Your favorite Beer, draft or bottle 211-213 N. MAIN STREET
It’s Max Adler’s for Formal Clothes
Tuxedos and Full Dress $21.50 upward
Arrow Dress Shirts $2.50 and $3
Complete Line of Dress Accessories.
MAX ADLER
Michigan at Washington
The Notre Dame Scholastic
21
fellowmen in charity, and anchoring them solidly in that hope which none of life’s adversities can disturb. The record of its influence for good in the world is glorious beyond the power of words to describe It is a most precious ointment, even though the vessels in which it is contained are outwardly at times earthly and unpleasant to look upon. Nevertheless, it heals, it purifies, it sanctifies.
It works, you say? It makes saints? Then why am I . . . ? Have you forgotten? It is a question of “if thou wilt.” Religious truth is there for the knowing. Religious joy is there for the loving. Religious life, supernatural life, sanctity, is there for- the asking and the taking, — “If thou wilt.”
—Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C.
Dean Jackson Speaks
Monday evening, the Notre Dame branch of the A. I. E. E. held its first meeting of the year. The principle speaker was Dean Dugal C. Jackson, Jr., who addressed the members on “The Place of the A. I. E. E. in the Electrical Engineering Profession.” Mr. Jackson gave a short history of the national organization and listed the advantages of membership. James A. Varga then gave a report on his recent trip to the Great Lakes District Annual Convention of the A. I. E. E., as Notre Dame Branch representative. After naming committees for the coming year, Chairman Joseph Hughes ended the meeting, and refreshments were served.
Notice
The Scholastic wishes to publish student work—essays, poetry, book reviews, fiction, sketches—on its Literary Page. Address contributions to the Editor, 259 Alumni Hall.
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
You Can Join the World’s Best-dressed Fraternity for $2
For as little as $2
you can join the Loyal
Order of ^e Wearers of Arrow Shirts.
The ritual is simple ... go to your nearest Arrow
dealer .
and that inimitable Arrow shirt
'Gordon Oxford" ... with the Dover
roll-front LjC
over
button-down collar is yours. Hand and you're in. To clinch
pins in every shirt.
ear-
are optional... no extra charge.
GIVE YOUR NECK A BREAK...
The symptoms—You’ve gotten so that you just can’t look another one of your ties in the face.
The Prescription—Ask us to show you the grand new Arrow ties we just got in— with their heart-wanning patterns . . . their perfect knotability . . . and their non-wrinkle resiliency.
Try two or three—you’ll feel like a
, C ARROW J new man!	a
and $1.50
ARROIT SHIRTS
COLLARS ... TIES ... HANDKERCHIEFS ... UNDERWEAR
mom
22
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Louvain
(Continued from Page 11)
What is it that keeps these professors and their students at their tasks year in and year out in the damp, dreary climate of Louvain, if not an intense desire to know and impart the truth? Here there is insistence upon the development of the intellectual virtues—intuition, science and wisdom, that is close to ideal. The aim of the Institute, as I see it, is not an apology foi' St. Thomas, nor directly for the Catholic Faith. The aim is simply and solely the discovery and imparting of truth. Philosophy here is not considered as an instrument of Apologetics (although it may be that); its autonomy is recognized. Its catholicity is recognized. That is, contributions to truth may be made by a Descartes, a Spinoza, a Kant, a Bergson. Scholastic philosophy does not have a monopoly on truth. Where there is a mind, active and sincere in the search for truth, there exists the possibility of new contributions to truth, in spite of the method that may be used in acquiring it. Here there is emphasis upon the fact that philosophy is living. Philosophy to be carried on must be lived in the minds of the philosophers of every age. In
SPECIAL!
NOTRE DAME Monogram Bill Folds (in your School Colors)
Sonneborn's Sport Shop 121 West Colfax Avenue (Formerly Mike Kelly’s)
putHILLFon
YOUR LIST
FOR THE BEST PIES	CHILE
HAMBURGERS 317 N. Michigan 216 W. Colfax 109 E. Wayne
Right or Wrong?
A 2-minute test for telephone users
1. Bell Telephone engineers are making exhaustive studies of solar data from observatories all over the world.
RIGHT □ WRONG □
2. Radio network programs are transmitted from studios to broadcasting stations on regular telephone circuits.
RIGHT □ WRONG □
3. Twenty years ago, putting through a long distance connection took about three times as long as it does today.
RIGHT □ WRONG □
4. Lowest telephone rates to most out-of-town points are available every night after 7 P. M. and all day Sunday.
RIGHT □ WRONG □
The Notre Dame Scholastic
23
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
CDr. 0. Qrundy
Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments 434 Associates - South Bend
Office Phone 3-2574
DR. H. R. FRASER REGISTERED PODIATRIST
SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 4-8989 SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
OFFICE 4-5661
RES. 3-4080
3)r. ^R. & JSticas
DENTISTRY — X-RAYS
702 J.M.S. BLDG.
SOUTH BEND
{■pm................niiiiHuiimHUiiminiiuiiiiiiiimuiimA
DENTISTS
405 Associates - South Bend
Phone 3-I254
w1—w—	» ""‘I*
I	SOUTH BEND	I
i X-RAY LABORATORY 1
I 825 SHERLAND BUILDING 1
I L. E. FISHER,	M. J. THORNTON, 3
|	M.D.	M.D.	|
ose. an
d ^Rose
DENTISTS
430 SHERLAND BUILDING • TELEPHONE 3-4269
Mt

ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BLDS., SOUTH BEND
vital kinship with truth philosophy advances.
For fifty years professors of the In-stitut Superieur de Philosophic have been doing the task set for them by Leo XIII and Monsignor Mercier. The influence of their teaching has been felt in practically every part of the civilized world. Certainly they deserve the sincere congratulations of every lover of the truth.
DISC - CUSSION
When she w'as your age, your mother was probably singing “Oh Johnny.” Since then a lot of others have sung it; none, perhaps, as successfully as Bonnie Baker of Orrin Tucker’s orchestra. While Miss Baker hasn’t a voice, she has something that appeals to most men from seven to 70. A little of it is present in even her recordings. “How Many Times?” on the other side, shows off Tucker’s Band to better advantage.
Artie Shaw has yet to make anything up to his “Begin the Beguin” or Album of show hits. He tries again on “Two Blind Loves” and “Last Two Weeks in July.” Helen Forrest does the vocals painlessly and there is, of course, plenty of sax and clarinet. You’ll hear a lot of both songs and Shaw is still Shaw.
Kay Kyser has vocals by everyone but the Tobacco Auctioneer on his pair of songs from his show: “That’s Right; You’re Wrong.” “The Answer is Love” is a little too much for me but if you’re interested in some excellent harmony by two excellent singers, listen closely to Harry Babbitt and Ginny Simms on “Happy Birthday to Love.”—Bill Seddes
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor to
ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
8 ONLY 1940 RCA-Victor Radio-Victrola COMBINATION
Manufacturers’ List $39.95
Our Price $29.95
Save $10.00
• Feather-touch Crystal Pick-up
•	True-Tracking Tone Arm
•	Superheterodyne Radio
•	Plays 10 and 12-inch Records with lid closed
HEAR THE LATEST
VICTOR AND BO BLUEBIRD RECORDS
AT RODIN’S
6ListeningBooths,ElectricMachines Complete stock of Accessories Well-informed Clerks
RODIN’S
132 N. Michigan Phone 4-1184
Open Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday evenings until 9 p. m.
THE PICK OF THEM ALL FOR
is Chesterfield because of its right combination of the best American and Turkish tobaccos
Miss PHIL OFFER was this year’s pick of them all for "Cotton Queen" because she has the right combination of charmanci loveliness typical of the modern American girl. For real smoking pleasure the pick of them all is Chesterfield because its right combination of the world’s best tobaccos gives smokers Real Mildness and Better Taste.
MAKE YOUR NEXT PACK hesterfield
THEY REALLY SATISFY
Real mildness is more important in a. ... cigarette today than ever before because people smoke more now than ever before. That’s why so many smokers have changed to Chesterfield... they are finding out that for Real Mildness and Better Taste the pick of them all is Chesterfield.
You’ll find that Chesterfields are cooler, better-tasting, and definitely milder. . . you can’t buy a better cigarette.