Volume 73
February 2, 1940
Number 14
A COMPLETE sumIssue Reviews mary of the consecra-Consecration tion of the Most Rev.
John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., including a full page of ceremony pictures, the complete text of the sermon of Monsignor Thomas V. Shannon, the testimonial banquet speech of former Congressman Samuel B. Pettengill, and the farewell talk of Bishop O’Hara, is presented in this issue. (See page 8)
❖
GENERAL Chairman Juniors Hear Lawrence Burns and Busse Tonight Ball Queen Mary Eliz. abeth Messner, of St. Mary’s College, will lead the Grand March around the Palais Royale ballroom tonight, at 9 o’clock, as the annual Junior Class Promenade ushers in the 1940 social season. Henry Busse and his orchestra will trumpet the music.
•	(See page 5)
♦
COACH George Keog-Keogan’s Face an’s Fighting Irish will Illinois Threat combine all their power, speed and finesse tomorrow night when they entertain an ancient rival and one of the leading Big Ten quintets. Illinois will attempt to make it two in a row over Notre Dame.
(See page 19) ❖
AS BENGALEERS Bengal Crowns continue the training Not Too Safe grind with thoughts of fistic triumph on March 15, the gossipers and gossipees in the Caf, Huddle and the Halls are hashing over the possibilities of last year’s champs and telling wild tales of unknown Greats.	(See page 20)
Her eyes write a caption — a mother examines the episcopal ring of her son, the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D.
AD MULTOS ANNOS!
Most Rev., John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
3
College Parade by Jack Willmann
I thought I saw a Navy man a-bobbing in the sink
But when I tried to cut the ice he’d gone to get a drink.
The parade of jolliety, romance, and leisure came to an abrupt halt over the nation’s campuses last week. It was the mid-year check-up on the students’ academic ship-shapeness. The consumption of midnight oil broke all records. Even the playboys and glamor-eds were seen with books—as they sipped their cokes to the pounding rhythms from the nickel bandstand. Professors were compared to anything from Simon Legree to Captain Bligh. Concentration camps sprang up in dormitories, private homes, and even frat houses. And infants were not the only rational animals using cribs. Many unmentionables were hung up on the walls, but if you escaped this professorial flaying without any failing bruises or scars—“Frolic, friend, and let your quips fall where they may.”
(Culture a la Kilocycle
There are some eight million students who have no worries about exams, cutting classes, lab fees, or letters home. These are the folks on the eastern seaboard who tune their radios to the Radio Institute, a new study series designed to extend educational opportunities. Under the sponsorship of Boston University, professors will broadcast authoritative discussions of the pertinent topics that need interpretation and amplification for the man-by-the-radio. For ten weeks the lectures will be on the air Sunday mornings and three nights during the week. To the students writing the prize essays at the conclusion of the series will go valuable volumes of the world’s best books. Make way, Professor Quiz.
Put Mine on Rye, T. Dorsey
Up Minnesota way was Tommy Dorsey and his gentlemen to play a theater date. At the theater was a very hep jitter-bug sitting in the first row. As the second show ended, Dorsey noticed Oscar Ickie. Down from the stage came Tommy to ask Oscar if he contemplated remaining for another performance. Assured that Oscar was to remain until they packed up their instruments, the orchestra resumed the music. When the third show had been under way for a few minutes the second trumpet man had a few rest notes, so he came down to Oscar the Obdurate with a tray on which was a lunch—on the band.
Something for Nothing
One of the trials of teaching is the effort necessary to make students buy text-books. But DePauw undergraduates vindicated the species last week when they proved that such reluctance is due to deflated wallets rather- than a disdain for learning. The library had some 200 surplus volumes to give away, and the head librarian was pleasantly surprised when the supply was depleted within 15 minutes after the library opened on a sub-zero morning. The first-taken of the event was a huge Webster’s unabridged dictionary which was carried off by three word-loving lads.
Bearding the Tiger
Publishing their Tiger monthly entirely from the contributions of the women who came to week-end at Princeton, the editors very aptly named it— “The Invasion Issue.” We reprint:
Last night I saw a Harvard man come crawling down the wall
But when I ripped his accent off he wasn’t there at all.
I thought I saw a Dartmouth man come skiing dozen the stair
But when her father hove in sight he really wasn’t there.
I thought I saw a Princeton man come hanging from the ceiling
But when he changed to orange rind I found him quite a peeling.
Moral:
There are maidens in Scotland more lovely by far
Who would rather be bride to the young Lochinvar.
Many a Truth in Jest
A New England epitaph reads: “Here lies an atheist.
All dressed up and no place to go.”
Debatable Definition
A University of Missouri student’s definition of a skeleton maintains that it is a stack of bones with the people scraped off.
Frankel Froths
Most forthright editor of the collegiate dailies is Northwestern’s Stan Frankel. He insists on using the editorial “we” as a first-person, nominative, singular. His latest rash was occasioned by fact that he is openly subsidized for his work on the Daily, whereas Big Ten athletic officials write rigid rules against such criminal offenses for the the public and then hypocritically wink at consistentoffenders. No critic of college football, Frankel believes that the university should be just as blunt about the fact that its football players receive scholarships and monthly checks for university jobs.
❖
Campus and Frolics ...
is the unofficial name of Ohio State’s Sociology 645, more generally known as “Leadership and Direction of Group Activities.” On the first day of class the instructor distributes names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the students. Then the class meets in a recreation room equipped with upholstered divans to plan games, dramatics, social dancing, and outdoor activities.
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Week By Frank Wemhoff
OPINION
Top of the Week
Campus politicians pay off tonight.
Calling Smoky Stover
The fire trucks had to promise they wouldn’t stay long before they could get by Big Bill at the front entrance.... it was a treat to see water finally reach some parts of the building.... Father Reddington led a safari with coffee and doughnuts into the heart of the blaze.... Father Gartland hanging on a fire truck and yelling, “Whe-e-e-e”.... Father Hebert’s remark: “They’ll make a fire out of this thing yet.”. . . and the irony of it all—putting the football men of Carroll, Bereolos, Rassas, and Co., over in the seminary, and sending Brownson’s freshmen down to the hotels....
January Clearance
Oranges now 96c a dozen in the caf.
Here and there
What ever happened to the much-heralded talent scout for “Brother Orchid?” Perhaps he was waylaid by a defunct member of the drama group on the way over.... The cash register in the caf has broken down several times lately—from guilty conscience no doubt .... Norv Hunthausen, our ace flipper, was groaning under an artificial sunburn with blisters during the recent 15 below snap.... Another professor had his course so well organized that he gave a daily quiz after his exam.... Bud Fowler gave his roomie, George Vazzi, a birthday present while he slept, a fur neckpiece in the form of a dead cat.... In a recent “Week” we erred in speaking of Harry Boisvert, misspelling his name and crediting him with a little too much prestige at St. Mary’s.... very profound apologies to the Senior class president.
❖
Afeudin’
Eddie Corey and his “Periscope,” our radio bet of the week. This gentleman of the misplaced inflections delights all the girls at “the rock” when he tells them how pretty they are. But we could even overlook hypocrisy if he wouldn’t use such sillies as “a local band from South Bend.” Radio Guide forgot to
mention the “Periscope” in its recent ratings but we will, a one-tinkle program. ...
Fun for all
Dashing Jim Brugger, the Erie Eagle, is well known for his extra-curricula sorties but this week he outdid himself. He and two other entities went on a triple date, blinds at that. When they went to call for the girls it turned out that the first fellow had a date with something about nineteen, the second fellow received her aunt, aged 48, but the Erie Eagle sported grandmother (1863-19??). They decided to go to a show but Granny wouldn’t leave the house without a chaperon, so they played post-office. Special delivery for you, Jimmie.	।
Yank from Yonkers
The Dome staff had a mass meeting recently. Father Carey and Editor Tom Carty adlibbed for hours waiting for the food to arrive. Finally they adjourned, each member fired with the old. Dome spirit but still hungry. Somewhere the usual Dome efficiency methods had slipped up and the refreshments had been diverted to the third floor of Dillon where they were ambushed and Finnished off. Peace offerings were sent to Editor Carty but didn’t please him as he was too engrossed in the ancient problem of breaking the records set by past editors for getting their pictures in the yearbook the greatest number of times. Mr. Carty has a new pose—one in which his hair is waved like Richard Greene’s.
Prom on deck
Gosh, girls on the campus again. It’s a good thing they are only here for the weekend because everyone must want to dive right in to that second semester work. But it’s going to be a great dance in spite of everything. We didn’t have to ask too many girls this time did we, McGroder? Bill Fay was looking for a cute, inexpensive, date. Johnny Seifert got a dozen telegrams of refusals. We hope our date remembered to bring a formal—and some spending money.
❖
Bottom of the Week
Henry Busse buys an extra trumpet.
Question: This iveek we have conceived a slightly different angle in the Opinion box. After listening to a number of discussions concerning the coming Bengal Bouts, we decided to give the overheard opinions in language typical of students in the various departments. Results:
A philosophy major—“Syllogistically speaking, I would reason thusly concerning the Bengal Bouts:
Major Premise—I am a champion of worthy causes.
Minor Premise — The Bengal Bouts are for the benefit of a worthy cause.
Conclusion—Therefore, I am a champion of more and better Bengal Bouts.”
An engineer—“As I survey the possibilities of the coming Bengals, my instruments foretell exciting evenings of fighting. Besides, my sense of balance and equilibrium is always aroused to an emotional state by the perfect geometric design of the boxing ring.”
An English major—“Really, I do believe that there can be no righteous destructive criticism pertaining to the excruciatingly thrilling University boxing championships. The roar of the crowd, the incessant thud of glove on , flesh, oh, the glory of it all!”
A Commerce man—“Lookin’ at these fights from a business standpoint, I see a lot of potentialities for myself. Supposin’ one of these boys is really a classy boy, why, maybe I could buy a piece of him from the manager. We could go on and win a world championship, my boy and I.”
A Pre-med—“Steady, purposeful, sincere training by each fighter is a great physical asset. The dread bacteria of all diseases can be thwarted; we future doctors are in favor of less bacteria. We have enough trouble with Quantitative Analysis. Long live the Genus Pugilis-tica, Species Bengalia, Class Freshmania Sophomoria Junioris Senioriticia.”
A Lawyer—“Court room fights are seldom productive of much excitement. But even a General Motors trial, even the Jimmy Hines case, even a smoker talk by Mr. Dewey could not be as worthy as the Bengals. My only case against them is that they are too brief.”
—John Patterson
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Z 188
Volume 73
February 2, 1940.
No. 14.
PROM PREVIEW — CHAIRMEN AND THEIR GUESTS
Left to Right: Mary Messner, Lawrence Burns, Patricia Rogers, Clarence Marquardt.
Juniors Dance With Busse At Palais Royale Tonight
Tea Dance, Illini Game Scheduled for Saturday
General Chairman Lawrence Burns and Ball Queen Mary Elizabeth Messner, of St. Mary’s College, will lead the Grand March around the Palais Royale Ballroom tonight, at 9 o’clock, as the annual Junior Class Promenade ushers in the 1940 social season. Henry Busse and his orchestra will trumpet the music.
Events keep moving for the Juniors tomorrow. A Tea Dance is scheduled for 2:30 in the afternoon at the Progress Club. This three-hour dance will feature the music of Dick Anderson and his orchestra, a young and rising band. In the evening, the Prom guests will occupy a special section at the Notre Dame-Hlinois basketball game.
Class President Clarence Marquardt will escort. Guest of Honor Patricia Rogers of St. Mary’s.
Henry Busse, a graduate of Paul Whiteman’s famous orchestra, had the unique distinction of rising to fame on a single song, “When Day Is Done.” This tune, soloed by Busse with the Whiteman orchestra, attracted so much attention that he decided to go out on his own. His success was a foregone conclusion and the composition of “Hot Lips,” his current theme, only increased his popularity.
Both Class President Marquardt and General Chairman Burns expresed great satisfaction at having been able to obtain Busse. The official Prom song, they said, is being orchestrated by him. The song, “Thank Heaven,” was written by John Francies, especially for the occasion.
Stay-at-home students will have an opportunity to hear this and other current numbers tonight on station WSBT. The Radio Culb is cooperating with Publicity Chairman Tom Carty, and students
will handle the half-hour broadcast beginning at 10:30. Periscoper Ed Corey is slated to announce with Bob Le Jeune and Bob Watters as engineers.
The chairmen of the various committees are: General Chairman, Lawrence Burns; Music Committee, Robert Leonard; Ticket Committee, Francis McGro-der; Patron Committee, John Meyer; Program Committee, Clarence Hayes; Publicity Committee, Thomas Carty; Decoration Committee, William Bums; Reception Committee, John Tormey; Tea Dance Committee, Walter Cronin.
—Conway McDevitt
Bragg—Man of Hobbies—
Lectures Here Thursday
Chester Bragg, South Bend’s “man of a hundred hobbies” will appear in Washington Hall next Thursday night to tell you how to get more practical value and fun out of your hobby. And if you haven’t a hobby Mr. Bragg will show you what you’re missing in life.
Among his many hobbies, Mr. Bragg’s pet project is the collection of Indian relics in this section of the country. This collection began as a spare-time hobby and gradually developed in value and interest. Today Mr. Bragg is one of the recognized authorities on Indian lore and possesses one of the most complete collections of Indian relics in Indiana. He will exhibit and explain this collection during his lecture here.
Whether you have been saving stamps or shoestrings, dolls or push-carts, you will be interested in listening to a master tell how he got started in his many odd hobbies.
Philosophy Symposium
Slated For Feb. 16-17
“Religion and Modern Society” is the main topic to be discussed at the philosophy symposium on Religion and Modern Society, which will be held at -Notre Dame on Friday and Saturday, Feb. 16 and 17. Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., of the department of philosophy has been in charge of arranging the program.
Among the speakers at the symposium will be Monsignor John K. Ryan, Ph.D., of Catholic University of America; Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., Ph.D.; Mr. Francis J. O’Malley,- M.A.; and Mr. Daniel C. O’Grady, Ph.D., all of the University of Notre Dame faculty.
6
The Notre Dame Scholastic
LOTS OF SMOKE — AND LOTS OF REFUGEES
Smoked out — Carrollites Stand By As Firemen Battle 510,000 Smudge.
Carroll Fire Damage Estimated at $10,000
An estimated $10,000 fire—the first at the University in more than 60 years— scattered nearly 300 Carroll and Brownson Hall students to various parts of the community and even South Bend, upset the 'carefully planned examination schedule, and generally upset the campus Sunday morning, Jan. 28, when firemen halted a blaze of unknown origin in the Administration after a two-hour battle. Notre Dame’s last major fire was April 23, 1879 when the first Administration building was destroyed. The Rev. James Trahey, C.S.C., prefect of discipline at the University, took complete and efficient charge of the refugees.
Because the heating and lighting systems were disconnected during the blaze, the students were assigned to other places to sleep for the night. Only three slept in the hall over night—Brothers Angelus, Maurelius, and Bonitus. Murals by the celebrated Italian painter, Gregori, were not damaged by the smoke in the Main Building. Examinations scheduled for Monday were cancelled and set for Wednesday. The Tuesday program went on as planned, but registration was moved back to Thursday and the beginning of the new semester to Friday.
At least 70 students entered Holy Cross seminary over night, including Eddie Riska, George Sobek and Frank
Quinn, basketbailers of repute, and the Greek footballers, George Rassas and Hercules Bereolos. The Rev. Joseph R. McAllister, C.S.C., superior of Holy Cross Seminary, was greeting the boys there and didn’t enforce the 9:30 p.m. retiring and 5:20 a.m. rising rule. Brothers Pius and Donald were in charge of the “one night stand.”
More than 70 refugees took command of Freshman Hall, taking over unused rooms or doubling up with regular occupants. Additional groups of 70 or more moved into both the LaSalle and Oliver hotels. Perhaps the happiest student of the group was Bob Rensberger, freshman from Nappanee, Ind. Walking along the corridor at the LaSalle, a neatly-attired gentleman bumped into Bob. The former remarked in a hurry, “Oh, excuse me, please.” It was Dick Powell, guest at a South Bend theater , the same day. And Bill Earley had another difficulty. Bill, address—Oliver Hotel, S.B.—“slept in” until 11:20 a.m.—but woke up at 6 a.m.—by force of habit, he contends. One good wink and he continued the unusual freshman sleep. Footballer Bob Saggau slept with friends at Lyons hall.
To a group of students goes the honor of discovering the fire and possibly preventing a major catastrophe. Included in the group were: Hans Helland, Jim Hill, Bob Radnich, Fred Trenkle, George Uhl and Andy Gorka. The first smoke was discovered about 10:30 a.m. in the washroom, near the west stairway lead
ing up from the ground floor. Fire centered in the basement of the west wing. The Rev. John J. Reddington, C.S.C., University maintenance director, put in the call for the South Bend fire department. Firemen from six companies battled the blaze and smoke more than two hours. Carroll washroom floor col-lapsed and the shower room was almost completely demolished. Damage was estimated at $10,000.
Brother Justin, C.S.C., rector of Carroll, and Brother Patrick, C.S.C., of Brownson assumed their regular assignments Monday evening, and Mailmen Harry Phillips of Carroll and “Tony" of Brownson were sure they were delivering mail in the right place again. In addition, a novena of thanksgiving was begun immediately to Our Lady.
—Bill Scanlon
Prof. Hanley’s Painting
Wins $100 Riley Prize
A $100 prize contributed by Peter C. Riley, Indianapolis, was awarded to “Sung and Samurai,” by Prof. Francis J. Hanley, of the University department of art, at the Hoosier Salon Patrons Association’s 16th annual exhibition which opened Saturday night in the Chicago galleries of Marshall Field & Co. Two hundred and fifty-five pictures and 22 pieces of sculpture will be on exhibit through Feb. 10.
Prof. Hanley’s prize-winning exhibit was judged the best work in any medium submitted by an instructor in a Catholic school. Epitomizing the spirit of Indiana, the salon is limited to natives of the state, to those who attended art schools in the state, or who have lived in Indiana for five years.
Cossacks Whip Blizzard, Score Musical Victory
The Don Cossack division of Russians, led by Nicholas Kostrukoff, invaded Washington Hall last week and won a decisive victory over approximately 800 students.
Armed with a superb blend of massed tone that varied with constant swells and recessions, these remnants of the old regime’s culture literally stunned their receptors with breath-taking musical assaults.
Like their countrymen of the new regime, the Choir unit was retarded by the blizzard and low temperature that they suffered coming through South Bendski; they arrived ten minutes late.
Their early attacks consisted of such strategic assaults as Donigetti’s “Ave
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Maria,” Tchaikovsky’s “Blessed Be The Lord” and the sacred hymn, “Save Thy People, O God.”
Snappy folk, military and gypsy songs followed in a vibrant, fiery thrust. Their novel effects in reproducing “Two Guitars” and their flashy, zestful folk dances realized the decisive points in their cleverly devised program.
The militaristic precision the Cossacks showed in formation and their flashy uniformed appearance recalled the festive color of a land that once preferred arts to arms.
The Cossacks have completed nearly 4,000 campaigns but were forced to acknowledge the valient return of applause that met every offensive they attempted.
—Edmund Butler
Fr. O’Donnell Named
To President’s Post
Rev. John Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., Litt.B. ’16, Ph.D., vice-president of the University since 1934, has become acting president until the formal appointment of a president of the University by the Provincial Chapter of the Congregation of Holy Cross in July of 1940.
Father O’Donnell, monogram football man and original Glee Club member in his undergraduate days, entered the priesthood after graduation from Notre Dame. He studied at Catholic University, where he took his Ph.D. in Church history. He has taught at Notre Dame in subsequent years, but has stood out through his entire career as an executive.
In 1922, Father O’Donnell returned to Notre Dame as teacher, and rector of Badin Hall. In 1923 he was made prefect of discipline, a post he filled until 1931. Under his direction, the office asumed the proportions of a clearing house for student activities, and Father O’Donnell was more the patron of student activities than their censor.
He was appointed president of St. Edward’s University in Austin, Texas, in 1931 and served in that capacity until he returned in 1934 to act as vice-president of Notre Dame under Father O’Hara. Much of the freedom which Father O’Hara’s nature and program demanded was made possible by the experience and ability of his next-in-command.
Father O’Donnell has always been a jealous guardian of the welfare of Notre Dame. It is in keeping with his long record of loyalty and devotion that he has stated of his administration:
“. . . With the loyal support of the administration, faculty, alumni and students, I shall try to carry out his [Father O’Hara’s] program for the advancement of all departments of the University, in accordance with the traditions of the founder, Father Sorin, and his noble successors in the office of the presidency. . . .”
In Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., as acting vice-president, the University enjoys many advantages. Father Cavanaugh was active as a student, heading the S.A.C. during the trying days of the post-war adjustment, the day-dog overflow, the famous Greek era in eating, the Endowment campaign, etc. He, like Father O’Donnell, was through school, in fact was launched on a most promising business career, when his vocation brought him back to the University. It will not seem strange if the
Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C.
similarity of name with that former great president of Notre Dame finds even more familiar echoes in the new administrator, who served as secretary while a student, under the beloved elder Father John. Father Cavanaugh has already given indication of the solicitude of ;the new administration for the student, by opening for student counsel the familiar tower room in Sorin, so long the capital of Father O’Hara’s religious kingdom of the campus.
Replacing Father Cavanaugh as assistant provincial, is Rev. Kerndt Healy, C.S.C., ’15, and assuming the duties of assistant superior of the Congregation at Notre Dame, is Rev. Charles C. Milt-ner, C.S.C., ’ll, dean of the College of Arts and Letters.
Students divided their sentiments on
January 15 between affection and regard for the Bishop, and affection and loyalty to the new administration, feeling that in both moves, Notre Dame bag again enjoyed the special blessings which constantly challenge the devotion of Notre Dame and all Notre Dame men.
Nobel Winner Addresses
Local Chemical Society
A Nobel Prize winner, who is a former citizen of the South Bend vicinity, returned to address the St. Joseph Valley Section of the American Chemical Society, which met in the auditorium of the Engineering building on Jan. 23. The speaker was Dr. Harold C. Urey, professor and head of the chemistry department of Columbia University, New York City.
Born a few miles from South Bend, in Walkerton, Ind., Dr. Urey won the Nobel award in chemistry in 1934 for his research results with “heavy water,” a work that also won for him the Willard Gibbs medal of the Chicago Section of the American Chemical Society. The subject of this famed scientist’s address to the local chemists was “The Differences in Physical Properties of Isotopic Compounds and Their Use in the Separation of Isotopes.” Dr. Urey’s discovery of “heavy water” and of the element, deuterium, and the subsequent discovery by Washburn of the method of electrolytic separation of this element have revolutionized the research program of many laboratories in chemistry, biology, and physics for the reason that hydrogen—deuterium is also known as heavy hydrogen—being an important constituent of water and numerous other compounds is the element most frequently encountered by the chemist and biologist. The physicist is intensely interested in this element for the transmutation of other elements.
In addition to Dr. Urey the St. Joseph Valley Section was host to another distinguished speaker last month. Due to itinerary difficulties the local section will have no outside speaker for the month of February. Instead Dr. Frederick C. Koch, professor and head of the biochemistry department, University of Chicago spoke before the group in the Engineering building Jan. 16, on “The Male Sex Hormones.” One of the outstanding physiological chemists of the country, Dr. Koch is an authority on the subject of hormones. Many local physicians attended the meeting.—J. Dinges
Vassar College has received special funds to finance a study of child behavior and normal personality development.
8
The Notre Dame Scholastic
CONSECRATION CEREMONY OF MOST REV. JOHN F. O’HARA, C.S.C., D.D.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
9
Bishop O’Hara Consecrated Auxiliary of Army and Navy
Episcopal Ceremony Held In Sacred Heart Church
Father John O’Hara, C.S.C., ’ll, has been a history-maker at Notre Dame from his undergraduate days. Impatient of delay and red tape, imbued with a vitality to keep pace with his quick mind he finished his college work in three years. Determining on the priesthood, he was soon ordained and contributing to the campus those many influences that have subsequently flowered.
He was impressed, from his South American background, with the importance of a study of commercial relations with other countries. The College of Commerce in 1920 was a result of his zeal; he was its first dean.
Elsewhere in this issue there is a beautiful outline of the transition of
THE PICTURES OPPOSITE
Top: Bishop John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., imparts his blessing to those attending the Consecration, Bishop Ritter on his left. Bishop Noll on his right.
4
Upper left: Archbishop Spellman and Bishop O'Hara in a part of the ceremonies. Note beautiful detail of miters and background.
Upper right: The splendor of both ceremony and of Sacred Heart Church is caught in this view of a portion of the Consecration.
Center left: This view of record-breaking group of the House of Bishops in attendance at the Consecration was taken in the University Parlor of the Main Building.
Center right: Another general view, showing the effective lighting that brought out the beauties of Sacred Heart Church.
Lower left: The Cospel book is placed on the Bishop-elect's shoulders by Father Thomas McAvoy. Fathers Eugene Burke and Charles Miltner are on the altar. Father John Burke holds the crozier presented to Bishop O'Hara by alumni and friends, with the Statue of Our Lady its principal feature.
Lower right: Bishop-elect O'Hara reading a part of the service, surrounded by Bishops Noll and Ritter, his co-consecrators, Fathers Connor and Wenninger, masters of ceremony, and others of the 35 dignitaries who took active part in the Consecration.
Notre Dame under his spiritual guidance from an ordinary college campus to a City of God, half of whose inhabitants are daily communicants.
His presidency was marked by a succession of projects, any one of them a tribute to administrative ability, and all of them requiring time and detail for a full tribute of appreciation. No one college or department held the wide and active range of his attention. Many future developments will find their roots in his administration.
So it was not surprising that, in one sense, closing his career at Notre Dame, he should continue to mold its history.
On December 11, news came from Rome that the Holy Father had chosen Father O’Hara as Titular Bishop of Mi-lasa, and Auxiliary Bishop of the Army and Navy Diocese, of which His Excellency, Archbishop Spellman, is the Ordinary. This marked the first elevation of a president of Notre Dame to the episcopacy.
And on January 15, in Sacred Heart Church, in the presence of the largest assembly of hierarchy and clergy in Notre Dame’s history, Bishop O’Hara was raised to his new offices by Archbishop Spellman, and Bishops John F. Noll, of Fort Wayne, and Joseph E. Ritter of Inidanapolis.
The more than two score Bishops at the ceremony were headed by five Metropolitans, Archbishop Spellman of New York, Archbishop Francis J. L. Beckman of Dubuque, Archbishop Samuel Stritch of Milwaukee and Archbishop-designate of Chicago, Archbishop-designate Moses Kiley of Milwaukee, and Archbishop Louis Mathias of Madras, India. Present also were three Abbots, forty Monsignori, hundreds of priests, including superiors of religious orders, numerous distinguished statesmen, educators, civic and business leaders, industrialists, alumni of Notre Dame, members of the Army and Navy chaplains, and friends and family.
Bishop O’Hara’s mother was prevented from coming by inclement weather, but many other members of the family attended. Bishop O’Hara was consecrated before the arrival of the Apos
tolic Letters, and permission for his consecration was read by the notarius, Rev. Norbert Hoff, instead of the Letters, a rare privilege, through permission from the Apostolic Delegate, Most Rev. Am-leto Giovanni Cicognani.
After the consecration, many other details of which are described elsewhere in this issue, those attending the ceremony, who filled a beautifully decorated and lighted Sacred Heart Church, were guests at a luncheon in the University Dining Halls. Rt. Rev. Monsignor D. L. Monahan was toastmaster. Speakers were Most Rev. Francis J. Spellman, D.D., Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., and Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., who presented to Bishop O’Hara a purse on behalf of alumni and friends.
Members of the Board of Directors of the Alumni Association were special guests at both the consecration ceremonies and the subsequent banquet. President Daniel E. Hilgartner, VicePresident Henry C. Wurzer, Directors Joseph M. Byrne,-Francis McKeever and Edward O’Toole, William R. Dooley and James E. Armstrong, were among the official alumni representatives who wished the new Bishop and- beloved fellow alumnus Ad Multos Annos.
Friends of New Bishop
Present Crozier, Purse
Time was so short, and technicalities of solicitation so complex, that the problem of manifesting to Bishop O’Hara the affection and esteem of his fellowalumni and friends was finally vested in a Committee of Friends of Bishop O’Hara. The letter announcing the project of the Committee, the purchase of a suitable crozier, was sent to all the presidents of Local Alumni Clubs, many classmates, former students, and personal friends. Undoubtedly many were missed.
But the reponse was so generous, the tribute so great, that in addition to the beautiful crozier, pictured in this issue, the Committee was able to have Father Hugh O’Donnell present a handsome purse at the luncheon following the consecration.
Heading the Committee was George L. O’Brien, ’93, South Bend. Bernard J. Voll, ’17, South Bend, was treasurer. Members included Byron V. Kanaley, ’04, Chicago; William E. Cotter, *13, New York; Clyde E. Broussard, ’13, Beaumont, Texas; Angus D. McDonald, ’00, San Francisco; John H. Neeson, ’03, Philadelphia; Ambrose A. O’Connell, ’07, Washington, D. C.; John P. Murphy, ’12, Cleveland, and Joseph A. LaFortune, ’18, Tulsa, Okla.
10
The Notre Dame Scholastic
THE CONSECRATION BANQUET
Left to right: Most Rev. Samuel Stritch, Archbishop-designate of Chicago, Very Rev. James A. Burns, C.S.C., Most Rev. John F. Noll, Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., Most Rev. Francis J. Spellman, Archbishop of New York.
Archbishop Spellman
Says New Bishop Will Serve St. Cecelia’s Parish, New York City
Notre Dame is not losing Bishop O’Hara, but through him will bring the spirit of Notre Dame to the country and to the Army and Navy, the Most Rev. Francis J. Spellman, Archbishop of New York and Bishop O’Hara’s Ordinary in his new post, declared at the luncheon in the University Dining Halls which followed the new Bishop’s consecration.
“My first word today is a word of veneration and of respect and of gratitude to him whom I succeed as Chaplain Bishop of the Army and Navy, Cardinal Hayes,” Archbishop Spellman said.
“I have had the happiness this morning of consecrating Bishop O’Hara as Auxiliary Bishop of the Catholics in the armed forces of the United States. I want to say that this is going to be one instance where the Ordinary of the diocese will act as the Auxiliary Bishop, because I enter upon my pastorate as Bishop of the Army and Navy forces by delegating my powers to Bishop O’Hara. I am conscious I will succeed in these new duties because I have complete confidence in Bishop O’Hara’s carrying out everything that is expected of me.
“I want to say also on this occasion that I think it proper and just that I pay a debt of gratitude to Monsignor Waring, who served well as Vicar General of the diocese of the Army and Navy, and who has asked to be relieved of those duties. I have agreed to his request, and so Monsignor Waring relinquishes those duties that he has performed so well during all these years and for which service Monsignor Waring has my gratitude and the gratitude of all of us.
“Bishop O’Hara becomes the military vicar of the Army and Navy — he becomes Vicar General. His Chancellor will be the Rev. Robert E. McCormick of the archdiocese of New York, who will be at the exclusive service of Bishop O’Hara. Bishop O’Hara will, at present, reside at the Archbishop’s residence, 452 Madison avenue. His chancery office will be in the Chancery Office of the archdiocese, 477 Madison avenue. At Bishop O’Hara’s request, he is also to have quarters at the rectory of St. Cecilia’s Church, 125 East 105th street, where he will have a permanent residence and a permanent home, and where he will have an opportunity of practicing the works of ministry among the people he has served veiy well and very long. He will have an opportunity of serving a population lately to come to our shores from Puerto Rico, and where, with his knowledge of Spanish, he can help them to retain the religion of their country. There he will have the assistance of seven American Spanish-speaking Redemptorist Fathers, who are now taking over that parish permanently.
“Some three years ago, on a rainy afternoon, he who is now our Holy Father, Pope Pius XII, came to Notre Dame, on a day that was hazardous for flying, to receive an honorary degree from Notre Dame — to honor Notre Dame as he honored two other Catholic universities by receiving honorary degrees. Bishop O’Hara wrote to me after that visit of His Holiness and he said that, despite the rain, it was the most glorious and brightest day in the history of Notre Dame.
“Pope Pius XH has again come to our university, and, through the midst of
the sorrow that hovers over our campus today, there is also a bright light in the history of Notre Dame. It is not that Notre Dame loses Father O’Hara. It is not that Notre Dame gives Bishop O’Hara up forever. It is that Notre Dame, through the personality of Bishop O’Hara widens the University’s scope, and brings the spirit of Notre Dame into our Army and Navy, brings the spirit of Notre Dame into our country, and the spirit of Notre Dame is a spirit of patriotism, the spirit of devotion to our country, the spirit of love for the Church. I am sure that the chaplains of our armed forces, men of peace serving for peace, will, under the leadership of their own Bishop O’Hara, inspire their men to live lives of virtue, lives of men ready and willing to die for country, -find for Church, and for man, and to live for country, and for Church, and for man, which is even harder than to die, under the glorious leadership inspired by his glorious example.”
Solemn Pontifical Mass
Celebrated for Students
Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., titular bishop-elect of Milasa and auxiliary bishop of the Army and Navy diocese, celebrated his first solemn pontifical Mass in Sacred Heart church, University of Notre Dame, at 6:20 o’clock Tuesday morning, Jan. 16, for the student body.
In addition to Bishop O’Hara, the celebrant, the following were officers of the mass: Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., assistant priest; Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., and Rev. Kerndt M. Healy, C.S.C., deacons of honor; Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., deacon; Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., subdeacon, and Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., master of ceremonies.
A souvenir card containing a picture of Bishop O’Hara was presented to the students attending the Mass as a memorial of the occasion.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
11
South Bend Honors New Bishop
Dinner in Oliver Hotel on January 9 is City’s Expression of Affection; Former Congressman Pettengill Speaks; Studebaker President Hoffman Toastmaster
Most Rev. John F. O’Hara. C.S.C., D.D., retiring president of the University of Notre Dame, who recently was appointed titular bishop of Milasa and auxiliary to the archbishop of New York by Pope Pius XII, was the guest of honor Jan. 9 at a testimonial dinner in the Oliver hotel given by South Bend citizens.
The dinner was served in the Rotary room and the two adjoining rooms on the south, 375 persons occupying the attractively laid tables.
Following the impressive invocation by Rabbi Albert M. Shulman, of Temple Beth-El, and the dinner service, extracts from letters of congratulations were read by F. A. Miller, chairman of the general committee.
Following reading of congratulations Mr. Miller introduced Paul G. Hoffman, president of the Studebaker corporation, as toastmaster. Mr. Hoffman presented Mayor Jesse I. Pavey, who spoke for the city.
“. . . When you depart from our midst you will leave with the full knowledge that you have endeared yourself to the entire citizenship of South Bend and we unite in extending to you our best wishes and our humble prayers for your future health and welfare. . . .”
Mayor Pavey was followed by former Congressman Samuel B. Pettengill who paid high tribute to Father O’Hara and closed by presenting him a beautiful platinum, open face watch engraved on the back of which are these words: “Pre
sented to Bishop John F. O’Hara by his South Bend friends, Jan. 9, 1940.”
Mr. Pettengill said:
“This evening belongs neither to the university nor to the church. This evening belongs to South Bend. Neither race nor creed separate us. They unite us. There is Rabbi Shulman who asked God, as Tiny Tim might have done, to bless us every one.
“You will recall Schiller’s great story of Nathan the Wise. It concerned a Jew and a Christian. They were friends for many years but they could not wholly obliterate the thought that a line divided them. Finally in some great crisis, as in a lightning flash, they saw each other plain; And then the Christian cried, ‘Why Nathan, you are a Christian.’ And Nathan replied, ‘What makes me to you a Christian makes you to me a Jew.’
“And there is Dr. Baillie, a gentler Jonathan Edwards living in our midst. Father, I’ll let you in on a secret about Dr. Baillie. He is a Presbyterian with leanings toward Christianity. (Tremendous laughter.)
“It is not a bad way for men to live together. The wide world, to its good profit, might follow our example. There was Tay Pay O’Connor, the great Irish M. P. He used to say, ‘Look at Ireland, Protestants at the north of it, Catholics at the south of it, always at each other’s throats. Why can’t they be heathen so they could all live like Christians?’
“A tolerant world. I was Father O’Hara’s guest one day at Rockne field.
The race went not to the swift nor the battle to the strong all through the first half. Up in the grandstand was a loyal alumnus who tried to assuage his grief with what the old Romans called aqua fortis, but known to us moderns as spir-itus frumenti.
“But at the half he could stand it no longer and called out ‘Father O’Hara, if you don’t get those Irish clicking I’m going to turn Methodist.’
“Yes, a tolerant world!
‘So many roads that wind and wind,
‘So many faiths, so many creeds, ‘When just the art of being kind ‘Is all this this old world needs.*
“To those of us who have been living here in this world-famed city tolerance, like the charity of which it is a part, began at home. It has abolished all boundaries between town and gown. We are not like the walled cities of mediaeval times. No moat, no drawbridge divides us. We of the town and you of the gown are the common inheritors of a great and happy tradition.
“Great men of both the city and the University willed that it be so. To mention only one of a noble galaxy, I can not forget at this movement genial, lovable Father Cavanaugh. God rest his soul in the peace that he deserves. How many times in this very room did the magic of his eloquence make us forget that we were Catholic, Protestant, Gentile or Jew, Greek or barbarian.
“It was old St. Thomas Aquinas him
SOUTH BEND’S GOOD BYE TO THE BISHOP
Left to right: Very Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., Rabbi Albert Shulman, Toastmaster Paul Hoffman, Chairman F. A. Miller, Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., Mayor Jesse Pavey, Speaker Samuel Pettengill, Rev. C. T. Baillie, Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., Episcopal Bishop Campbell Gray, Mr. E. M. Morris.
12
The Notre Dame Scholastic
self who said, ‘Among all world things there is nothing which seems worthy to be preferred to friendship. For friendship unites good men, preserves and promotes virtue. It is what all men need in whatsoever occupations they engage. In prosperity it does not thrust itself unwanted upon us nor does it desert us in adversity. It is what brings with it the greatest delight, to such an extent that pleasure is changed to weariness when friends are absent.
But primus inter paribus, first among equals. No one, Father, none of those s who handed down to you from Father Sorin’s time the lamp of knowledge and the torch of Christ, none has done more than you have done to cement us as Americans all, proud of Notre Dame, proud of South Bend’s fame, jealous of Indiana’s name, first among states in the greatest nation in the world I
“It is not appropriate, Father O’Hara, that I dwell at length upon the course to which duty and God have called you. As I remember the Good Book it be-cometh not to speak of him that girdeth his armor on but rather him who layeth it off. No doubt there will be moments of anxiety, but your wit will see you through. But if you ever get in a really tough spot remember the Irishman before the Irish judge. The judge said, ‘Haven’t I seen you here several times before?’ ‘No, your honor. The only time in my life I ever saw a face with the look of eagles upon it like yours was when I once gazed upon the picture of an Irish king.’ ‘Case dismissed.’
‘Except the Lord build the House ‘They labor in vain that build it, ‘And except the Lord the city keep, ‘The watcher but waketh in vain.’
“My fellow citizens of South Bend and Notre Dame, Father O’Hara would not wish us to catalog at length the qualities for which we love him. I will pass over his scholarly attainments, his rare administrative ability under which his beloved Notre Dame has grown like a green bay tree and from whence his thousands of boys have gone forth to enrich our lives with their faith in themselves, in Notre Dame and our common country.
“But I can not close without one word concerning Father O’Hara as a man. And for its expression in language beyond my power I go back to what Sallust said of the elder Cato, one of the noblest men whose name is like a shining bead on the rosary of time:
“.‘As for Cato, his only study was moderation, regular conduct and, above all, rigorous severity. He did not vie with the wealthy in riches, nor in turbulence with the factious but taking a nobler aim he contended in valor with the brave, in modesty with the modest, in integrity with the upright and was more desirous to be virtuous than to appear so; so that the less he courted fame, the more it followed him.’
“Father O’Hara, wherever you go you will have ‘honor, love, obedience, troops of friends.’ But I trust it will always be a happy memory to you to recall
these faces of your old fellow townsmen who love you best of all. In their behalf, and at their request, I present you with this slight token of our admiration and our love.”
Father O’Hara responded in a feeling way which indicated the depth and sincerity of his appreciation of the compliment paid him by South Bend and also of the gift. He pointed to the close relationship which has developed between South Bend and Notre Dame and its significance and hoped it always would exist. He referred to the great responsibilities confronting him in his new work and the possibilities it offers.
Following the singing of the first stanza of “America” the benediction was pronounced by Rev. Charles Tupper Baillie, D.D., pastor of the First Presbyterian church. For a long time after the early adjournment Father O’Hara was kept busy receiving congratulations from men present and in autographing the evening’s program the first cover page of which bears a most excellent picture of him.
Among those from out of the city attending the dinner were Col. George Miller, Culver Military academy, Culver, Ind.; John C. Tully, ’ll, president of the LaGrange National bank, LaGrange, Hl.; Bishop Campbell Gray, Mishawaka; Byron V. Kanaley, ’04, Chicago, president of the board of lay trustees of the University; Daniel Hilgartner, Jr., ’17, Chicago, president of the Alumni Association; John Dwyer, of Chicago.
“Notre Dame and South Bend will not seem the same with Father O’Hara absent from us. But we can still rejoice that he will be in God’s keeping and doing God’s will. Woodrow Wilson, whose spirit had been tried in the fire of great hopes crushed to dust, in what I think was his last written message to his fellow Americans, said: ‘Our civilization can not survive materially unless it is redeemed spiritually. It can be saved only by keeping permeated with the spirit of Christ and being made free and happy by the practices that spring from that spirit.*
“I am profoundly convinced, now more than ever, as we see the modern godless Caesars return to ancient Romes, living and perishing by the sword, crushing all that is decent in the relationship between man and man and man and his Maker, that the supreme crisis of our times is a moral failure and that no party, no statesman and no government can redeem us from our sins.
"The God-fearing men who laid the foundation of this republic knew well that:
CONSECRATORS AND THE CONSECRATED
Left to right: Archbishop Spellman, consecrator; Bishop O’Hara; Bishop Noll and Bishop Ritter, co-consecrators.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
13
“The Open Door”
By Rt. Rev. Thomas V. Shannon, ll.d. ’21
Preacher at Consecration Points to Bishop O’Hara’s Accomplishments at Notre Dame as Evidence of His Singular Fitness for His New Duties.
(Sermon delivered by the Rt. Rev. Thomas V. Shannon, LL.D., at the Consecration of the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., as titular bishop of Milasa and auxiliary bishop of the Army and Navy diocese.)
“Behold, I set before thee an open door, and no man can shut it.” Ap. iii, 8. Excellencies, Clergy, Religious, Brethren:
St. John, in his exile at Patmos, had a marvelous vision. He had seen great sights before. He had seen the Son of God win the victory on the Cross. It was the Beloved Disciple who recorded the triumphal cry: “It is finished!” He had seen his Lord in the glory of Resurrection. But now he beholds Him as the Eternal Priest and King reigning in the midst of His Churches guiding them, exhorting them, reproaching them, commending them.
One was singled out for praise for what it was and for what it was to become. “I have set before thee an open door, and no man can shut it.” We do not know precisely what the open door was. We would like to know what form the opportunity was to take.
The text fits aptly for what may lie ahead for the Bishop who is being consecrated in this historic church. We feel that Christ is repeating to him what the Angel of the Churches said to the Church of Philadelphia: “Behold, I set before thee an open door.”
All callings by Christ have their own special value and merit, and it may be well, as in the case of the saints, neither to contrast nor to compare them. But, at least, we may enlarge on the vocation of the newly consecrated. To feed the flock committed to him, to rule it, and teach it is the work of a bishop. The duties are clearly and amply set forth in the ordinal. But there is something new in the work which this Bishop is to undertake. Scattered through this nation, over ocean and continent, are those whom we regard, now more than
ever, as the pledge of our safe existence and even the continuance of our national life. True, fighting is their business but dying is not less so. A soldier does not make war; nor is he a warmonger. No one knows better than the combatant the hatefulness of war, its crucifying drudgery. Pacifism would identify the soldier with the evil of war. No such charge is made by John the Baptist or St. Paul.
Rt. Rev. Thoma* V. Shannon
Soldiers are mentioned in the New Testament with honor and respect. “Be content with your pay” may sound strange for the Twentieth Century, but in it was the Baptist’s advice to soldiers in the First.
It is more than a coincidence that every centurion, he who had charge of the hundreds, a captain in modem rating, is an outstanding man both by nature and by grace. Saint Paul looked with something akin to holy envy on the Roman Legionary. He admired his stout readiness, his magnificent accoutrement, his fine courage. He literally steals the uniform of the Roman soldier, bit by bit, to make it fit into the symbolic equipment of a warrior of Christ. “Put ye on the armor of God,
that ye may resist in the evil day. And let your feet be shod with the gospel of peace, taking the shield of faith to extinguish the fiery darts of the most wicked one. And take unto you the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the spirit.” From the sandal to the helmet there was something to challenge admiration. But, note—all for the Gospel of Peace. There have been pacifists in the Church from the beginning, but they were invariably of the kind that we dismiss as lacking in meatal poise. This is far from praising war. The Church regards it as a scourge. She has always held up the claims of peace as the ideal after which all men should strive.
Soldiers are to be assets of Bishop O’Hara; men, not churches, not schools, not orphanages. He would ask for nothing more congenial. They will be men in the rough, with all a man’s virtues, and all a man’s faults. They will be strong, vigorous, and, as one might say, knowing their way about. He will be neither surprised nor shocked to find sin amongst them. But it will be of a type that is human. And like St. Paul, he will find reason, if not excuse, for those upon whom such temptation falls, for he well knows that sin is virtue in a wrong channel. In the back of his mind, and with antennae that are sensitive, there will always be Alma Mater, that great spiritual powerhouse that has riches and to spare. There will always be something harking back to that which is old and familiar. After all, it is no new task for Bishop O’Hara to lead men to the feet of Christ. To how many has he not stood in the shoes of God these twenty years past? And no one knows better than he does the significance of the words: “I have called you. I am with you always.”
The note is often struck that now-a-days the doors of opportunity are being closed one by one. The cynic says: “This is no day of open doors.” Men are said to be turning towards everything save Christ and His Church. There is a dreary familiarity about these gen
14
The Notre Dame Scholastic
eralizations. We have heard them before and, doubtless, we shall always hear them. There are forces of evil at work today. If this were not so there would be little need for us and our ministrations. St. Paul summed it up when he wrote in the First Century: “Redeem the time because the days are evil.” Buy up the opportunity just because the days are bad, not because they are good. When did difficulties in the Church cease to be a challenge and an opportunity?
And what St. John said is reechoed by St. Paul. “A great door and an effectual one is opened unto me, and there are many adversaries.” The door is opened not because there is an immense number of friends, not because Christians are popular. The very existence of persecution and enmity spurred him on to a greater work and a harder fight. He did not doubt of victory no matter how powerful the forces of evil. These vanished with the treasures of Divine Grace which flooded in when the door was opened.
Now, as then, the door is open because Christ lives and Christ reigns. His Kingdom is an everlasting Kingdom, and the Church is the army of that Kingdom. In that army today a man is given a mandate of authority. With that Apostolic Commission goes another, by choice of occupation. In the latter there will be no uniform to mark the rank. But this is far from saying he will be out of the fray. He will not fight against flesh and blood, but against the powers and principalities of evil. He is not going to watch this battle from a safe place, and on a distant eminence. He will not, cannot, calculate his own safety. His physical well-being will be the least of his concern. His armor will be Christ whose soldier he is. He will know no enemies, no hatreds. His is the warfare for justice, love, and peace. An immense responsibility will be lightened only in the obedience which accepted it. Only the obedient can command. Only those conscious of their own weakness can be strong.
So, in a measure, we can. visualize the great door, and the effectual one that is open to Bishop O’Hara.- From its threshold we may glance an immense territory, inviting, though difficult, known, though uncharted. The vista envisions the work, some of it strange, and none of it easy. But had the newly consecrated the choice of occupation in his Episcopate, it would be the very work of his selecting. After all, it is
more or less of a piece with what he has done during his whole priestly life, and, be it noted, about which he never permitted anything of the perfunctoriness of a routine. So close was it to him that neither the burden nor the dignity of high office has been able to divorce him from it. It was his own reservation, that this work must always be his special care. No other duty could come before the cherished one of guiding, admonishing, consoling, uplifting troubled youth. The record he has achieved has become a manual to inspire and direct others in a work in which he was a trail-blazer. It was the charity of Christ wedded to the deep affection for youth that urged him on. And we who know Bishop O’Hara have the deepest conviction that there will be no abatement of this holy crusade in a newer and larger field.
Today there will be added to the many other titles of the consecrated that of Pontiff. In a liturgical sense it is quite clear when a saint is referred to in Hagiology as “Confessor and Pontiff.” It is generally accepted that the word Pontiff comes from a “maker of bridges.” From most ancient times a certain sacredness attached to the man and the craft that brought men closer’ together in social converse or fellowship. The wiping out of chasms and the leveling of valleys has always been the sacred work of the bridge builder. The blowing up of bridges is more than an omen of ill will. But long before the imposition of Episcopal hands on Bishop
O’Hara, he had already earned the enviable title. And its significance is greater today when so much of the forces let loose on the world make for division, misunderstanding, suspicion and fear. Peace and justice are denied their encounter, but iniquity and violence are met together. The myths of class and race, the myths of socialist and proletarian are put to the work of eradicating the mark of God in the souls of men.
Sanctity in the Church must remain as ever a characteristic mark. Learning must ever be its congenial companion, and both are never so resplendent as when placed in the diadem of those who are called to rule the Church of God. Unless the “Lord watch the city those watch in vain who keep it.” In the present crises no one can dare underestimate the value of learning. We shall not trespass on the inner forum of Bishop O’Hara. However, we are permitted no doubt about it. Nor are we less poor in the conviction of his learning. And this learning is of the type not garnered from books alone, but that deeper learning which comes from association with men. A policy which has been recently stressed, and in which Bishop O’Hara has taken a prominent part, has been too long delayed by a shocking prudery or worse. The fellowship of all men on this hemisphere came near perishing beyond recovery. Fortunately, it has been saved.
Because the consecration of today comes at a most parlous time, it takes on another value. It is impossible to ■separate its significance from world movements and affairs. These broaden its implications. It betokens a girding on of armor against a pestilential philosophy, a stiffening of sinew against a soft sentiment that has received a rude awakening in the revelations of the past months. Only the blind will refuse to see what has now become obvious, that social plans were disguised for deeper mischief. The alleviation, of suffering, the alleged leveling of values, the purported concern for the poor, were entering wedges for the main objective, the banishing of God. These were so many blinders, even to the well-disposed, to conceal an attack on religion.
Mexico in all the world is the sole friend of Russia and, as a persecutor of the Church, is close to the atheism which is at present encroaching on the civilization of Europe. Poland a short while ago, Finland today, are more than a portent. They are witnesses to a menace of monstrousness that if not checked will engulf the whole, world into the
The Notre Dame Scholastic
15
darkest period of its existence. Men who had an easy tolerance of what has been presented to them as an adventure in the alleviation of human misery, now see it as a destroyer of humanity itself.
That portion of the intelligentsia which saw in radicalism an adventure, are now hard put to find excuse for outrages upon honesty, justice, and mercy. The plot stands exposed. Spain first, then France, both of whom might have become wholly alien to their Christian traditions, have cast out the loathsome thing. It is becoming increasingly evident that Democracy goes down with the collapse of religion.
In our own country more than mere words have recently signified the need for religious and democratic forces to join hands in order to save civilization and Christian culture. If racism and totalitarianism contending against the reasoned conviction of civilized mankind should triumph, the ideal of a society of freemen, based on a respect for the rights of the person and allowing fraternal cooperation, would receive a death blow.
One of the bastions of Christianity which stood in the way of the march of the Soviets into Europe has fallen. Ten million living in that part of Poland that succumbed to the guns of Russia are already Sovietized. The Soviets are knocking on the gates of Germany. Dreadful as this menace may be, it is made infinitely worse by the fact that a subtle and ruthless campaign is being waged not only against 20,000,000 Catholics within the Reich but against 7,000,000 in Austria, and 12,000,000 in Czecho-Slovakia. There are at the moment 65,000,000 of the Faith for whom the possibility in the near future of living as Catholics and openly practicing their religion is problematic in the extreme. It is easily understood that their condition is highly favorable to the advance of Bolshevism, a truly appalling situation. There is no defense of Church or State that should not be set in motion against such onslaughts. There must be union between all men of goodwill and an immense crusade against a peril only equalled in history by the menace of Islam. Radicalism and Bolshevism have the unavoidable consequences of paganism and atheism. War and confusion are their best weapons.
In our own land, thank heaven, we have a strong anti-Russian sentiment, shared alike by people and government; the invasion of Poland, the attempted rape of Finland, and the ruthlessness of dealings with the Baltic Republics are
reason enough, though there are other reasons equally deep and noxious.
Bishop O’Hara has presided over an institution that has always connoted a brave spirit, co-partner in the militancy of the Church. We know him to be a man of peace. Storms may beat about him but his bark is well ballasted. No one can teach others who is not himself taught of God. The light of the sanctuary must be lit before you can see its beauties. “As every man hath received the gift, even so must he minister the same, one to another, as good stewards of the manifold Grace of God.”
Today, Most Reverend Bishop, the hope of your friends gathered here and scattered over this globe, run high for you. And this is bolstered up by another aid which is outside you, although its citadel is within. You embody in yourself a truly great institution, an institution based on the rights of persons, offering to each an opportunity to develop the gifts which each has received from God. The collapse of Christian values inclines to weaken Christianitiy itself. In your selection to the Episcopate this University is honored. You have been part and parcel of its body and soul. Few, of all the Community that so faithfully serve here, have had such a knowledge of its varied facets of power. Your feet have been on all the steps of the ladder, from the lowest to the topmost rung. You have known the wide ministrations of your Alma Mater. You know they have been neither parochial nor selfish. It may not be for you to say, but we here assembled testify to the leaven of Notre Dame, already fermenting the whole Catholic life of America. And now it has a divine discontent in merely turning out Catholic men. It is assuming and fulfilling a larger mission of training Catholic leaders.
Some wit has chiseled out a synthesis which he might have thought a clever gibe. But it is not beyond the larger fact that there is an alumni which has never entered the portals of Notre Dame. Millions call it their own who have never seen it, nor will ever see it. But they have a sort of holy nostalgia for it. And the heart of the multitude always rings true. Many hearts thrill-today over this event, sharing in every emotion that grows out of the ceremonies. They see the real spirit of Notre Dame loose on another field, one that is even dearer to them than that which crowds the pages of the daily press. In some deep and mystic way this institution responds to the high cravings of the lowly multitudes. And this is a rich asset, not the less real because intangible.
And this, Most Reverend Bishop, you can count as a treasure that can neither rust nor corrode. It will be the open sesame, the charm that will cause hearts to open and doors to spring apart. In un-numbered ways bonds will have already been formed and paths made easy.
Your friends join in fervent prayer that God will give you strength to carry out your work in all its completeness. Even those who have never seen you, or whom you have never seen, are lifting up their prayers this day in thanksgiving and in supplication. The nation, one may say, is beseeching a fruitful ministry for you: yea, and other nations as well.
May God give you length of days, to fill out the holy ambitions you have as a General in the army of Christ, His Church, and our beloved Nation. Amen.
Milasa Has Population
Of Thirteen Thousand
Milasa is a town in Smyrna Vilayet, Turkey, and is situated 85 miles southeast of Smyrna city. It is on the site of ancient Mylasa and has a population of about 13,000. Its chief industry is the manufacture of carpets. The town is situated in a fertile plain near a mountain abounding in white marble of fine variety. It was here that a temple was dedicated to Augustus Caesar and the goddess of Rome.
The temple, which stood for not many years, had six columns in front; 22 columns altogether. Milasa had ornate public buildings, especially temples. It was so adorned with these that a certain musician once entered the agora or market place as if he intended to issue a proclamation and used the words “hear ye temples” instead of “hear ye people.” At one time Milasa was credited with having bad air and an abundance of scorpions. The name has various spellings: Milas, Milassa, Mylasa, Mylassa and Milasa.
Wore Chasuble of Pius XII
The chasuble which Bishop O’Hara wore when he was consecrated was also worn by Pope Pius XII when he was consecrated a Bishop, and it was worn likewise by Archbishop Spellman when he in turn was raised to the dignity of a successor of the Apostles. The episcopal ring used in the ceremony was an amethyst of the late Bishop Joseph Chartrand of Indianapolis, a warm friend of Bishop O’Hara and the Bishop who ordained him.
16
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Bishop O’Hara Says Goodbye
Leaving Campus After 31 Years, New Bishop Humbly Thanks All
Presented at the post - consecration luncheon to the members of the Hierarchy, Monsignori, priests and other friends by the Right Rev. Monsignor D. L. Monahan, toastmaster, after His Excellency Archbishop Spellman had paid him a touching tribute, after Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., acting president of Notre Dame, had presented the respect and voiced the love of the alumni and friends, respect and love demonstrated by a generous gift, and after the great audience had given him a soulstirring ovation as he arose, Bishop O’Hara started his brief, heartfelt remarks by confessing himself bankrupt when he undertook the task of expressing his gratitude.
“Somebody has said that bankruptcy is the proper admission to the House of Bishops,” Bishop O’Hara said, “although somebody told me also that Archbishop Spellman and I, in the Diocese Castren-sis, have a unique record of no debt — also, no income, of course. But I need bring no witnesses before you to attest . to the fact of bankruptcy. You have seen the kindness of Notre Dame to a poor sinner, and you see the great heart of the Archbishop of New York in welcoming a timid auxiliary, and enthroning him before he gets there. And what on earth is a man to do under these circumstances? I am quite bankrupt. I say ‘thank you,’ but that is quite inadequate.
“During 31 years’ residence here I was impelled by a natural curiosity to see everything going on — every brick that went into every new building on the ground. Because of this, the building trades union of South Bend actually made me a member, and trahsmitted the fact of my membership to New York. Somehow, I couldn’t see a new building going up without tramping over it three or four times a day.
“If it were purely a case of human effort, it would be difficult, impossible, to pay my debt. But it is, after all, a supernatural thing — the Grace of God is there, and, not only that, the Kingdom of God is there. Whether it be at Notre Dame, in the Army, in Mexico, in the Navy, or anywhere else, there is the Kingdom of God, and I thank God for
the opportunity to work in His Kingdom as the lowest of his flock of shepherds.
“So, goodby Notre Dame, and hello Army and hello Navy,’ is just simply an opportunity to work in God’s Kingdom.
“I could not begin to thank everyone who has been so kind to me, in kindnesses not only incident to these consecration ceremonies, but all through my life.” Bishop O’Hara referred particularly to Bishop Chartrand, who ordained him and others who had been closely associated with him.
“I could not close without a special word of thanks to Father Burns, here on my right,” His Excellency said. “He is the last man who would ever want a word of thanks, but I feel that I should say at this particular time that all the beautiful things that have been said about me during the administration of the last six years should be said of Father Bums, because all I tried to do was to carry out the plans that Father Burns prepared during his administration, and he, in turn, carried out the plans of Father Zahm and other predecessors.
“Just a word of thanks, then, for everybody — and particularly, thanks for the prayers, which I hope will be continued, and I assure you of a deep reciprocal obligation on my own part. God bless you.”
Farewell To Students
In ‘Religious Bulletin’
Bishop John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., wrote his farewell to Notre Dame students in the January 13 issue of the daily Religious Bulletin, which he started more than 18 years ago when he was prefect of religion at the University.
Under the heading “Goodbye, Boys, God Bless You,” he wrote:
“The typewriter is a bit rusty from disuse, and perhaps the fingers move more slowly than they once did, but the heart begs the prefect of religion for a chance to do one more Bulletin before the separation.
“Shall it be done in retrospect? The
mind wanders back easily, especially in the familiar surroundings of the Sorin Hall tower, with chains and medals all around, with the old San Xavier picture on the wall, and the blessing of Pope Pius XI, and in the drawer on the left the purple stole that is stained with the chrism of ordination and the tears of penitents. Yes, the mind can picture a line of penitents at the door, waiting to tell a story of 10 years or 10 hours— that will turn a soul from death to life, that will empower a boy once more to smile from his heart.
“Yes, retrospect is easy, especially when in three decades of work with Notre Dame men you can’t recall one who was really evil. Retrospect is pleasant when you know that thousands of penitents have gone out with resolutions strong enough to withstand temptations, when you know that daily Communion has turned good intentions into good deeds, has made weak infants into strong men, and strong men into saints of God. Retrospect is inspiring when the priest, poor, weak mortal like anyone of you, learns daily lessons in humility from the great-hearted men who kneel to him who takes God’s place in their lives.
“But retrospect, while pleasant to nodding old men, is useful to your spiritual growth only so far as it gives you pitfalls to avoid and good example to emulate.
“Your problem is of the present and of the future. It is yours to say whether Notre Dame shall be for your brother and your children’s children, the Shrine of Our Blessed Lady, the haven of peace it has been to you.
“The one thing that can insure your happiness, the one thing that can keep Notre Dame a holy place of goodness and clean fun, is the supernatural spirit of sacrifice. You will find happiness only in what you do for others — for God, or for your neighbor. Even the personal quest of salvation, to which you are obliged by justice and charity, gives the greatest happiness when you forget yourself in the love of God.
“Daily Communion is the food of sacrifice—never let its tradition weaken or fade. Daily Mass is the sacred core of sacrifice. Daily visits to Mary, the Mother of God — at the Grotto, telling your beads, in a goodnight smile to the Lady of the Dome — these means of grace keep you close to God.
“To the students of today and tomorrow I entrust Notre Dame.
“Goodbye, boys. God bless you.”
The Notre Dame Scholastic
17
EDITORIAL COMMENT ON BISHOP O’HARA
FULLY DESERVED
Elevation of Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., to the titular bishopric of Milasa, Turkey, and the auxiliary position of head of Catholic religious welfare organization for the United States armed forces causes gratification and regret but no surprise. It is gratifying that the exceptional talents of the president of the University of Notre Dame have been given fitting recognition by the supreme head of the church. The regret that he must leave Notre Dame, with which he has been directly affiliated for 22 years, is tempered, of course, by realization that he is entering a field of more extensive service. Nobody familiar with his personality and his accomplishments can be surprised that he is being called to a broader field. The general feeling is that even greatei’ honors embodying heavier responsibility will be granted him.
The titular bishopric will not compel him to go to Turkey. His departure from Notre Dame will be made necessary by the auxiliary assignment to supervise the military welfare service. It is belaboring the obvious to remark that he will leave a university that has progressed in every respect under his presidency. As chief administrator of Notre Dame he has manifested unselfishness, physical and mental vigor, foresight, respect of sound tradition and deep religious sentiment; and the imprint will ever be on the school. Again this true Christian gentleman of high intelligence and modest demeanor has been given deserved recognition.—South Bend Tribune
NOTRE DAME LOSES TO THE ARMY
To Easterners Notre Dame University is famous chiefly for its football. To Latin Americans it is famous for its president, Father John F. O’Hara, who has traveled extensively throughout that area, and, before he entered the Church, served the United States Government there in a secretarial capacity. Now at last the East is to have the chance to learn that Notre Dame’s Father O’Hara is as deserving of acclaim as is its football. He is about to move to New York to take over the for the
Roman Catholic Church the jurisdiction over all the Catholic chaplains in the United States Army. By way of recognition of the importance of this high office the Pope recently named him Titular Bishop of Milasa.
Few men are better fitted for this important work in the army. Father O’Hara combines fine qualities of spiritual leadership with earthly common sense. He is, of course, primarily a man of religion, but his early training brought him into practical contact with business men, diplomats and professional people in both continents. At Notre Dame he was at first concerned largely with religious instruction, but his capacity for personal leadership brought him such popularity that when the time came to find a successor to the president who died in 1934 the choice at once fell on him.
Since then he has had extracurricular activities, such as serving as one of the delegates to the eighth Pan-American Congress in Lima and on a special mission to Venezuela. His simplicity, directness and practical approaches to problems, together with his encyclopedic knowledge, have made him a valuable member of each mission.
The fact that he has to resign from the presidency of Notre Dame in order to perform his new duties is, of course, deeply regretted by that institution, with which he has been connected for the last twenty-three years. Not yet fifty-two years of age, he takes up his new work at the height of his powers. It is a large and important field, full of potentialities if world conditions grow worse. Notre Dame’s loss to the army is compensated by the realization that Father O’Hara will have new opportunities to make his powers felt.
—New York Herald-Tribune
BISHOP JOHN F. O’HARA
The tribute of His Excellency Archbishop Spellman to His Auxiliary as Ordinary of the Army and Navy Diocese will, we are certain, have a joyous echo in the hearts of millions of American who have come to know and love Bishop John F. O’Hara for his great qualities of mind and heart.
Bishop O’Hara, born in Michigan
and reared in Indiana, is as American as the flag of our nation; nurtured in the faith in a home which radiated its spirit, he is as Catholic as the Sign of the Cross. In his thirty-one years of residence and labor at Notre Dame, he has left the impression of his manly character on thousands and tens of thousands of young men who have in turn been a blessed influence on other tens and hundreds of thousands who have never seen the golden dome of the University of Our Lady.
Quietly, through the years, Bishop O’Hara has been laboring also to foster harmonious relations between the United States and the South American Republics, relations which have been strained often to the breaking point by an utter failure of so many in high places in our nation to realize the necessity of being civil and courteous to South Americans if we wish them to be friendly toward us. With a background of service there in the consular office of his father, and with his natural love for his fellowman and his scholarly appreciation of the value of cultures not his own, Bishop O’Hara has done at least as much as any other man to bring the relations of South American countries and the United States to their present comparatively happy state.
A man of peace, intensely and profoundly devoted to the Prince of Peace, Bishop O’Hara will labor for the Catholics in the armed forces of the United States. He will labor to bring the Peace of Christ into the hearts of the men, and all who know him know that he will succeed there no less than at Notre Dame.
Bishop O’Hara does not leave Notre Dame; rather does he bring Notre Dame with him. New York is happy to be able to claim him henceforth, as the devoted Auxiliary of the beloved Ordinary of the Army and Navy Diocese, the Most Reverend Archbishop of New York. His duties will take him far afield, but New York will be his home. And this great metropolitan area will soon convince His Excellency, if he does not know it already, that it is a natural habitat for that Spirit of Notre Dame which he so perfectly personifies. Ad Multos Annos.
—Catholic News (New York City)
18
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Discs Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
William G. Fay, Editor-in-Chief
William C. McGowan, News Editor
Frank Wemhoff, Literary Editor
Wu&lam. Kelleher, Art Editor
Donald Foskett, Managing Editor
James Newland, Sports Editor
Richard Metzger, Art Editor
Rev. C. Laskowski, C.S.C., Faculty Adviser
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco.
logical process, but rather a matter of experience — starting as vice-office boy, being kicked around a few years as pony editor, and then waiting for someone to die.
Those are big jobs in the sense that men depend on them for sustenance for themselves and their families, and they mean to keep them for a lifetime. Editors don’t graduate after four years, leaving their places to younger men; columnists live long lives, sometimes unfortunately, and keep their jobs as long as they can squint. Foreign correspondents like Walter Duranty go on forever, unless they make enough money to write novels about what they think they saw. It is discouraging, but one simply must wait one’s turn.—William C. McGowan
THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor, 259 Alumni Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evenings in Editorial Rooms. Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
Across the Editor’s Desk
The New President
THE PRESSBOX literati have an idiom to describe the reserve strength of football teams. They write that Old Siwash is three-deep at every position— a minimum requirement of modern football, and who mentioned Iowa, anyway?
But such reserve strength is needed on every campus in a far more vital field—the administration of University affairs. Our sudden loss to Army and Navy, in the person of Bishop John F. O’Hara, will be long felt. Only the exceedingly wise and logical choice of the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., to succeed him as acting president prevents the loss from being irreparable.
Father O’Donnell has every qualification for success in his high office. He understands the students well from his own undergraduate days when, incidentally, he played plenty of center on the 1915 varsity football team. There may be supplementary evidence gathered dur-. ing his tenure as prefect of discipline from 1923 to 1931. He has demonstrated his capacity for administrative work as president of St. Edward’s University, Texas, from 1931 until 1934 and as vice-president of the University since 1934.
It is not an easy task to be president of Notre Dame, but Father O’Donnell takes with him to his new work the confidence, and the prayers, of the students, and the faculty, and the alumni.
On Finding a Job
A FEW WEEKS ago Mr. William Dooley of the Placement Bureau sent a bulletin to each member of the Class of 1940. In the bulletin Mr. Dooley warned Seniors that finding a job is their responsibility, and that they should start immediately to look for one. Those two points are well taken, but there is another feature of job-finding that should not be overlooked. Many college graduates who cannot immediately get the job they studied for are dumfounded, because they had found part-time and summer jobs with ease. Most of them, however, had worked at putting up benches, or. correcting papers, or addressing cards, or filing papers, or waiting on table, or washing dishes. Some of the more fortunate ones had been graduate instructors or mailmen. During the summer they had not been averse to accepting hod - carriers’ duties, ditch - diggers’ positions or steel mill jobs. All these were physical for the most part and menial. No one studies for them or points to them as a goal. Getting a job as editor on a newspaper, publisher’s assistant, or star reporter for the New York Times, or as foreign correspondent for the Herald Tribune, or even as columnist for the Telegram is not quite so simple. One works toward those jobs in a practical way, for much of their requirement is not a matter of study dr
Hail, Blithe Scrip!
THERE was a time when we used to sympathize with the editor of Scrip. We never got to know the fellow very well, but we used to be fairly intimate with some of his intimates and they often told us about the solitary life he led. Hounded by engineers, heckled by commerce men, almost entirely alone in his own little world of self-sacrifice, he worked like the proverbial dog for two months, watched the campus newsboys toss copies of his brainchild at every door in his corridor, then went into hiding for a couple of weeks until the student body forgot all about the outrage. And all through no fault of his own. It seems that, at least during the four years we’ve been here, Scrip has acquired a reputation, source unknown, for being about as relevant as a football coach at the University of Chicago.
But apparently the journalistic worm has turned. During the past week students who used to, at best, ignore the campus literary magazine have approached us with a bewildered smile and asked us whence the new lease on life taken by Scrip. It was easy to answer. Scrip's editors for 1940 have seen that the most effective way to rouse their reading public from indifference is to offer something new. They have introduced an attractive format, reduced the magazine to manageable, size, and of-, fered more diversified material. Editor John Meaney and his staff haven’t had the most desirable task one could think of. They have had to work in the face of inordinate criticism. But they’ve made much progress and we predict even more. When an engineer tells you he’s read a book review on totalitarian ideologies, things are looking up.
—Donald A. Foskett
The Notre Dame Scholastic
19
Irish See Chance to Even Score With Illinois Five
Drish, Hapac Expected To Lead Orange Attack
Coach George Keogan’s Fighting Irish will combine all their power, speed and finesse tomorrow night when they entertain an ancient rival and one of the leading quintets in the Big Ten race. Illinois, with one of its best teams i n years, will attempt to make it two in a
Ed Riska
Gene Klier
row over Notre Dame in a game destined to be a thriller.
The Illini have a great -scoring combination in Hapac, Drish and Wukovits, the latter a brother of Tommy
Wukovits, former
Notre Dame cage star. Hapac is probably the outstanding individual player in the Western Conference and the Irish
intend to keep close tab on his actions.
It was a 42 to 20 victory for Illinois in the first meeting of the season between the two teams, but Notre Dame isn’t the same club it was during the Christmas holidays when the Illini took them into camp at Champaign. Instead, it is a short passing, close guarding, brilliant shooting ball club. Illinois has since been nosed out of the Big Ten lead by Indiana.
The following week the Keoganites will head east where they will tangle with New York University at Madison Square Garden in the “game of the century.”
“We face undoubtedly the greatest team in the East when we meet N.Y.U.,” Coach Keogan said when questioned concerning the game. “According to all reports from leading coaches and officials
this team is superior to any in the Metropolitan section, and Kaplowitz, their sophomore star is the best to play for the Violets in several years.”
All of which adds up to the fact that if Notre Dame can continue their present pace, 20,000 fans in the Garden will thrill to a magnificent battle—Midwest vs. East. Notre Dame teams have always risen to superb heights when playing in New York, and this year’s fast aggressive team should be no exception, win or lose.
N.Y.U. has its entire team of juniors back from last year. Notre Dame won both games last year by four points and will oppose the same team which has shown vast improvement.
In the early part of the season the Irish were spotty, but with victories over Syracuse, Kentucky, Butler, Pennsylvania and Northwestern they have shown signs of going places.
Last Saturday they took time out from exams long enough to go “hog wild” on the court when they avenged an early season 10 - point defeat by trouncing Northwestern’s Wildcats, 56 to 27. It was all Notre Dame from start to finish as 5,000 roaring fans saw the Irish get down to business and uncork some uncanny shots that left the Cats bewildered. Sobek led the team in scoring with 15 points.
The Keoganites had little trouble in taking Pennsylvania into camp, 55 to 35. This was the fourth consecutive victory for the Blue and Gold and their first appearance of the year in the East. The game was close for the first 20 minutes, but Keogan’s men played a whirlwind second half that put the game on ice. Riska, Ertel and Sobek led N. D. in scoring.
Butler’s Bulldogs came to Notre Dame and were decisively whipped, 55 to 39, by an Irish team that rang up points from all angles of the court. The visitors made a game of it during the first half, leaving the court on the short end of a 21-19 score, but Notre Dame came to life in the second half and won easily. Riska and Ertel were outstanding for the locals in the scoring.
On January 13 Notre Dame went on a scoring spree to defeat a colorful Kentucky University team, 52 to 47.
—Chuck Farrell
Nickmen Face Toughest
Track Schedule In Years
Notre Dame’s football Fighting Irish can talk all they want about their “suicide schedule” for next year. It’s tough to be sure, but when track coach John P. Nicholson announced his 1940 schedule this week, folks around here began wondering whether he is trying to go one step farther and pick opponents just a little more stubborn.
The Irish thinlies will open the indoor season Monday night against Michigan State at East Lansing, minus the services of Greg Rice, Bud Faymonville and Ed Beinor. And from that night on Nick’s boys will face their most vigorous schedule in years. The first indoor meet at home will be February 10, when Marquette invades the local fieldhouse.
According to Coach Nicholson, Notre Dame will not be at the top of the list as far as point getting is concerned, but they won’t be holding any tea parties either and they will hope for the best at every’ turn.
The 1940 schedule is as follows:
Indoor
Feb. 5-----------Michigan State at East Lansing
Feb. 10---------------Marquette at Notre Dame
Feb. 17------------Illinois relays at Champaign
Feb. 26------------------Indiana at Bloomington
March 2---------------Michigan at Notre Dame
March 8-9--------Central C. C. at East Lansing
March 16-----------Butler Belays at Indianapolis
Outdoor
April 20-----Quadrangular at Bloomington, Ind. [Michigan, Indiana, ’Wisconsin]
April 26-27--------------Drake and Penn relays
May 4-----------------Wisconsin at Notre Dame
May 11-----------Michigan State at Notre Dame
May 18-------------------Illinois at Champaign
June 1----------------State meet at Lafayette
June 4----------------Marquette at Milwaukee
June 7----------------Central C. C. at Milwaukee
Fencing Squad Faces
Michigan State Unit
Coach Walter Langford’s University fencers make their first trip of the 1940 season, encountering Michigan State at East Lansing Saturday.
Heading the list of fencers this year are Captain Robert Sayia, foils; John Gavan, foils and sabre; Joe Smalley, epee and sabre; and Jerry Donovan, sabre, all seniors, and lettermen last year. Other returning veterans include: Russ Harris, John Gaither, and Hubert Schlafly, all juniors and members of the foil squad. Harris was a sophomore in 1937 but left school for a year of travel in Italy.
Monogram winners from last year lost by Coach Langford, include: Captain Salvatore Scarlata, sabre; Joe Leising, foils; Charles Colgan, foils and epee; Al McEneamey, foils and epee; and Jim Graham, epee.
20
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Introducing By Jim Newland
If the good citizens of Greens Fork, Indiana should ever honor a native son in the years to come by presenting him with the keys to the city or by picturing him shaking hands with the mayor on the front page of their only newspaper, we imagine Rex Ellis, senior varsity player on the Notre Dame basketball team, would rate high among the candidates considered. This is true because
Rex is probably the best player ever to come out of Greens Fork—and the folks down that way differ little from other Indiana people. They love their basketball and would do anything to honor an individual player.
Rex graduated from the Greens Fork High School in 1936 and since that time he has given players and fans a real sample of how basketball is played. He gave towering Paul Nowak a run for his money three years ago and this year especially has marked him one of the aces on the Irish squad. His high school team went to the finals in the regional basketball tournament in 1936, losing to Newcastle.
And basketball isn’t the only thing Rex is proficient in either. He serves up strikes and balls to opposing semi-pro batsmen during the summer months as well as taking a regular turn on the mound for Jake Kline’s base
bailers during the spring ------------ season. During his high school career, Rex was never defeated on the Richmond American Legion team and in his senior year his team won the high school county championship.
Last year he won three and dropped two games for Notre Dame and one of these games will live with him for a long time. He pitched a one - hitter against Iowa, Big Ten Champions, winning 1 to 0 to break a Hawkeye winning streak at ten games. The lone hit was a scratch double which landed on the foul line and rolled fair.
Summer before last Rex pitched for the Post Products team at Battle Creek, Mich. Last summer he hurled for a team at Saranac Lake, N. Y. His percentage of victories for both campaigns was good.
Rex is a major in Philosophy and his professors will tell you he doesn’t play around any when it come to learning.
As a matter of fact he led his high school graduating class with an average of 96.4 and if some of the present seniors don’t watch out he may do the same this year. His average is well over 90 and when the magna cum laude's are read at commencement in June, Rex Ellis will be included among them. He was offered a scholarship to Indiana University but rejected it to attend
basketball Notre Dame.
Rex blows a trumpet as a hobby and likes to hear symphonic music and operas about as much as he likes to throw a baseball. He played in the N. D. band during his freshman and sophomore years.
All in all for a lad who can do many things and do them well, Rex rates high. He’s a top notch basketball player, a good pitcher, a straight A-grade student, he knows music—and there are rumors that a certain young girl friend is anxiously awaiting commencement.
When he leaves in June, Rex will have five monogram sweaters tucked in his grip, a good collection for any athlete. A brother, John Ellis, a Sorin-sub resident, will receive his diploma with Rex.
Statistics: Born July 8,1919 at Greens Fork, Indiana. Height 6 feet, 3% inches. Weight, 185. He hopes to play professional baseball for a few years, then plans to teach philosophy.
Bengal Champs On Spot
As Newcomers Gain Form
As Bengaleers continue the training grind with thoughts of fistic triumph on March 15, the gossipers and gossipees in the Caf, Huddle, and the halls are hashing over the possibilities of last year’s champs and telling wild tales of unknown greats who will uphold the glory of first floor Howard (or any other hall on the campus—for that matter any other floor).
Students are looking at the Bengals this year more from the Interhall angle than from the individual side. Personalities are fading before an intense interest in “taming down the freshmen” or “licking the seniors.”
“Brone o” McNish and “K. O.” Schwartz, boxing greats from high school days, are being counted upon by freshmen to pin Rod McGuire’s ears back and meet each other in the finals. In fact, overheard conversations lead bystanders to believe that the returning champions are just a bunch of poor souls who had better “have stood in bed” than even considered entering this year.
Scouring the campus thoroughly for a trace of the much-talked about newcomers, we succeeded in uncovering two outstanding prospects. Number one — Larry Sullivan, freshman heavyweight flash; number two—Joseph D’Ambrosio, brother of the Herkimer Hurricane, Lou Ambers.
But these two promising candidates are the only big threats we could discover before the temperature bade us return to a warm room.
What bull sessions have failed to point out was our next line of thought. Conclusion was that gossipers had failed to inform gossipees as to how little one has to suffer financially to witness every fight throughout the prelims and the finals.
Groping around for a slide rule, we decided to do some figuring and determine what we would get for cash. We waived aside any figuring concerning the prelims; there is no question about that dime entrance fee. No one is getting robbed there except possibly the Missions.
But that great big two-bits for the finals, now there was a problem. We had to figure out just how far that was going. Conclusions were that we would be paying just about a cent a round. Bargain day at a ball game in the Yankee Stadium can’t come close to equaling that.
Besides, think of where the money goes. The Bengal Missions in India get
The Notre Dame Scholastic
21
every bit of it. And if you think it isn’t needed, just ask one of the men at the Mission House on campus, speak to one of the Mission band, listen to the praise and hearty thanks the fighters and students get from the priests who speak to us from the pulpit.
There was the answer to our financial puzzle.
Next problem was to find some way to show the fighters how much they are appreciated. Decision was to present every contestant with an award of some kind, win or lose. Whether it should be a medal, a watch charm, a boxing ring, or a jumping rope is something to be taken up by the board of directors at the next meeting. But it is certain that there will be a training table set up for the semi - finalists and finalists. Menu will be specified by Mr. Napolitano; arrangements will be made by Mr. Connolly. To those who would like to get in on these excellent meals, and who like watch charms, we suggest immediate entrance in the bouts.
Having tackled these problems to our satisfaction, we hade a reluctant farewell to the Bengals until the next issue. The sun was sinking majestically behind the flats, and the moon was making his substitution announcement to the referee.—John Patterson
Pacific, Illini, Added
To Irish Grid Schedule
“Suicide schedule!” The birthday of this famous, almost trite, phrase isn’t
Splinters From The Pressbox by Frank Aubrey
exactly settled as a historical fact but there’s no secrecy as to how it was brought into popular usage nor to the identity of the responsible party. It’s a generally accepted fact that the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame consistently, year after year, meet the toughest college competition in the nation.
This year being no exception to the annual line of fearless, blood-hunting, ambition-crippling list of opponents, the Irish and their wiry mentor, Mr. Layden, can begin to adjust the straps on their straight-jackets and settle down to anothei’ season of shrieking nightmares and horrified stares. For the 1940 football schedule has been published.
In short, it means that Notre Dame has nine football games to play next year. In fact, all the Notre Dame varsity football team has to do to become National Champions it to lick two 1939 Bowl Champions, the United States Army and Navy, the whole state of Iowa, Northwestern, Carnegie Tech and Illinois, and Alonzo Stagg’s 50 years of coaching experience, aided and abetted, of course, by 11 squadmen from the College of the Pacific.
The schedule:
Oct. 5______College of the Pacific at Notre Dame Oct. 12_____Georgia Tech at Notre Dame
Oct. 19._________Carnegie Tech at Notre Dame
Oct. 26_________________Illinois at Champaign
Nov. 2____________________^rmy at New York
Nov. 9____________________.Navy at Baltimore
Nov. 16_________________Iowa at Notre Dame
Nov. 23____________Northwestern at Evanston
Dec. 7......Southern California at Los Angeles
—Tom Poivers
less an authority than Mr. Bill ‘T-bone’ Mahoney, frosh track coach, and his aide-de-camp, Steve Szumachowski. Ipso facto, a posteriori, and you-said-it, we’re due to have a track team abound here in a year or so which will demand a Hollywood adjective. It seems that Nick foresaw the European war and the resulting postponement of the 1940 Olympics, and decided to look ahead to the 1944 games—Communism or Cham-berlinism, come what may.
As a result, we have a Frosh track squad which shapes up as the strongest Nick has ever had. Come June 1943 and graduation, and we are likely to have a few more Greg Rices to watch. Thumbnailing the boys will have to do
PICTURES
of the
CONSECRATION CEREMONIES
A lasting momento of Bishop O'Hara's Consecration. Dull-finish photos suitable for framing. On display in the Bookstore.
Also supplies for the new semester.
Start right with all the equipment you need.
We haven’t held a session of the old ‘hot-stove’ league in quite a while now, but in deference to hizzoner, K. M. Landis, who’s monopolized the baseball talk lately, we ought to forget the diamond and concentrate on a little track. We haven’t got a hot-stove, crackerbarrel, or box of sand, and we ain’t going to chew the baseball fat, still we have got a cast-iron radiator here which says ‘Webster: mfg. 1902,* and that ought to do. Y’see the doings of our own Greg Rice have sorta brought track back into the news despite the untimely thermometer. Last Saturday’s K. of C. results in Boston seem to show that Greg is just about ready to have his say in who’s going to win these top-notch distance events. ’Course you’ve got to give Coach Nicholson a lot of credit for planning that race for Greg, and out-smarting the Lash-Deckard combination.
Rice had been running into a bit of trouble up until last week in trying to pass the other Hoosiers because they were sprinting with him in the stretches, thus forcing Greg to run wide on the turns if he wanted to pass. In Boston Tommy Deckard wasn’t up to par, so Rice was able to run his own race in beating off Lash, Joe McCluskey, and Wisconsin’s Mehl. With little Montana Greg putting Notre Dame over in a big way on the track, he’s going to have a lot of support tomorrow night in the Millrose Games in New York. Greg isn’t going to need any luck to win, just a clear track. If he doesn’t run into any unforeseen block-signals, the inside dope is that he’ll win.
Which reminds lis that locally there are vague reports of a great track team in the wind. You know how these wild rumors usually are . . . well, this is not a rumor; it’s a judgment passed by no
Notre Dame Bookstore
Badin Hall
Duke university
SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
DURHAM, N. C.
Fear terns of eleven weeks are given each year. These may be taken cen-secatively (gradnation in three and one-qaarter years) or three terms may be taken each year (gradaatien in fo«r yean). The entrance reqairements are intelligence, character and three yean of college work, indnding the sabjecta specified for Class A nwdical schools. Catalogaes and application ferns may be obtained from the Admission Committee.
22
The Notre Dame Scholastic
for now, but don’t say we didn’t warn you. (It is requested that unassuming freshmen do not put too much stock in the heroic list of names about to be read, as Nick wants more candidates . . . adv.)
From California, says the T-bone, comes Bill Delaney who has heaved the 12 lb. ball over 58 feet to break the world’s interscholastic record. Recently, Bill hoisted the 16 lb. shot a mere 49 feet. Then, too, right out from underneath Dean Cromwell’s nose, there is a sensational California high-hurdler named Dillon. He together with Bill Nicholson give T-bone plenty to work with in the hurdles. Two Morris High, New York, boys, both of them 4.29 milers in high have cast their lot with Nick. They are Frank Comforti and Tony Maloney.
Coupled with Don Hunter, a 4:28 man, and a year or two of Nicholsonian running lore, this trio won’t chase many other milers to the tape. As if this wasn’t enough mile talent, Nick has Steve Tupta developing into a miler. Tupta has done the scholastic quarter in :49, has run the half, and in his first mile test ran 4:34 . . . which should give you some idea. Then there is Reardon, a 1:58 half miler who clocked a mile in 4:31 the other day, and who looks and runs like Bill Bonthron of Princeton. But why go on?
Continuing with our impressions, we have a quarter named Priester. This fellow not only cracks 50 seconds, but lopes around like Big John Woodruff while he’s doing it. In the sprints Jay Gibson has done 9:9 by the clock, yet is pressed by two other speedsters, Evans and Woods. There is a broad jumper who can do 23 feet, name’s Garvey, and he hasn’t even got his growth. Big Johnny Michuta, former varsity tackle, has sent his little brother here and the younger Michuta is tossing the shot well in between football seasons.
To wind up this future checklist there is a home-grown product who will attempt to take up the slack in the two-mile event since Rice left. He is John Crimmins, no relation to the Charlie infielding for Jake Kline. Now all we
have to do is sit back and wait for this gang to come along. Chances are pretty good that Nick won’t hinder them any, so barring one or two who may have arrived too soon, or who run afoul of some scholastic or disciplinary Charybdis, they’ll all be on hand when 1941 arrives.
Rockne Memorial News
Play will be resumed Monday, Feb. 5th, in the Inter-Hall basketball league.
The leaders to date follow: Heavy division, (each of these leaders has won two games and lost none) League I, Howard; League H, Cavanaugh; League III, Lyons; League IV, Alumni. In the lightweight division, (the leaders are tied, each having one apiece) League I, Dillon and Alumni; League II, Sorin and Breen-Phillips; League HI, St. Edward’s and Brownson; and League TV, Cavanaugh and Freshman.
The schedule for the coming week is,
Flowers of Distinction
for
Junior Prom
at
SOUTH BEND FLORAL
114 South Michigan Street
Campus representative: Burley Johnston, Alumni Hall
“It pays to always look your best”
Go where N. D. Men Go!
Headquarters for Delicious
Sea Foods
Fried Chicken
Spaghetti Dinners
HOWELL'S CAFE
SKATE FOR HEALTH
AND ENJOYMENT . . .
PLAYLAND ROLLER RINK
(Melody Gardens Ballroom)
TWO SKATING FLOORS — ONE FOR BEGINNERS
Every Night Except Monday Matinee Sunday and Thursday
Students always 25c
“A Cood Way to Malje Money for Your Club”
Hotel Hoffman Barber Shop
120 West LaSalle St.
Learn AVIATION at an AVIATION School
U. S. Civil Aeronautical Authority’s approved methods used.
COMPLETE FLIGHT AND GROUND SCHOOL COURSES FOR ALL LICENSES.
See your Hail representative or Don Marietta, 232 Alumni Hall.
INDIANA AIR SERVICE
Phone 3-2455	(Incorporated)	Bendix Field
The Notre Dame Scholastic
23
as follows: Monday, Feb. 5th, Heavy division: Howard vs. Zahm; Carroll vs. Sorin; Walsh vs. Cavanaugh; Dillon vs. St. Edward’s. Tuesday, Feb. 6th, Lyons vs. Off - Campus; Breen - Phillips vs. Brownson; Alumni vs. Freshman; and Morrissey vs. Badin. The “lights” play Thursday, Feb. 8th: Dillon vs. Lyons; Walsh vs. Alumni; Sorin vs. Breen-Phillips, and Zahm vs. Morrissey.
Recent results follow: Heavy division, Monday, Jan. 15th, Howard, 20, Sorin, 16; Carroll, 26, Zahm, 23; St. Ed’s, 24, Walsh, 23; Cavanaugh, 28, Dillon, 19; Wednesday, Jan. 17th, Lyons, 31, Brownson, 22; Breen-Phillips, 61, Off-Campus, 21; Alumni, 31, Badin, 20; Freshman, 29, Morrissey, 22; Lightweights, Thursday, Jan. 11th, Dillon, 29, Walsh, 13; Alumni, 43, Lyons, 24; Sorin, 20, Zahm, 15; Breen-Phillips, 23, Morrissey, 14; Thursday, Jan. 18th, St. Edward’s, 32, Carroll, 25; Brownson, 33, Badin, 18; Cavanaugh, 21, Howard, 19; Freshman by default over Off-Campus.
Shirts, which will aid the officials considerably in officiating the contests, are now available for the games.
Handball
Doubles in handball will start this coming week, entries closing Sunday, Feb. 4th. Entries also close Sunday in the squash meet. Gold medals will be awarded to winners in each event.
—John Leivis
THE Headquarters for Coca-Cola, HUDDLE Pipe Tobacco and Candy
Academy of Science
On January 22 the Academy of Science held its 174th meeting. President Arthur Maddalena called on John J. Gilrane, who gave a paper entitled, “Wuchereria Bancrofti and Filariasis Diseases,” to fulfill the requirements for the Academy key. He discussed the distribution, carriers, and diseases produced by this type of worm. The complete life cycle, mode of infection, and curative measures were also considered.
John J. Hillenbrand presented a paper on “Endocrines and Personality.” He explained the functions of the pituitary gland as the governor of the endocrines, and the various diseases produced by hyper- and hypo-secretion of the pituitary gland.
Frederick On Radio
Mr. John T. Frederick, associate professor of English at Notre Dame and professor in Northwestern University’s School of Journalism, has recently been given charge of a unique undergraduate course in Modern Life and Letters at Northwestern. The class will be taught by radio; that is, lectures are to be held in the Chicago studios of the Columbia Broadcasting Company while Mr. Fred-
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Co. by
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND 1107 Beyer Avenue
Show appreciation of our advertisers by patronizing them.
24
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Monogram Winners Hear
Elder, Sweeney, Rice
Rows of blue and gold sweaters lined the dining hall tables as Toastmaster Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., introduced the speakers of the evening. The occasion was the annual Monogram banquet held each year for those athletes who have won the coveted “ND.”
Such former stars of Notre Dame as Greg Rice, Jack Elder and All-American
AHA! ANOTHER QUICK GETAWAY
OTEP on a South Shore electric train and ride direct to downtown Chicago.
Service is quick, comfortable, convenient. Trains leave South Bend every hour on the hour, 6 A. M. to midnight (excepting 6:50 A. M.) Hourly service back from Chicago.
For detailed information call
C. W. VEACH
City Passenger Agent
Ticket Office
301 N. Michigan St. Phone 3-3111
Chuck Sweeney gave short talks. Coaches Joe Boland and Joe Benda were also called on to'speak.
Rice and Sweeney, stressed the fact that all athletes should look ahead to the time when they are to graduate and be prepared for it now. Greg mentioned his recent visit to Boston where they accorded him a wonderful welcome and pointed this out as an example of the treatment Notre Dame men receive everywhere.
Jack Elder, whom all football fans will remember as one of the fastest backfield stars during the Rockne era, and who is now doing C.Y.O. work in Chicago, urged those present to consider entering boy’s work in which he himself has made rapid strides. He was followed by Notre Dame’s two line coaches who had words of praise for the Monogram winners and who beseeched them to continue the tradition of their famous predecessors who carved out their niche in the athletic glory of the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame.
—Chuck Farrell.
Bishop O’Hara Honored
With Glee Club Concert
On Sunday evening, Jan. 14, a large audience heard the Glee Club concert given in Washington Hall in honor of the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D. Many of the guests were distinguished bishops, monsignori and clergy who were present for Bishop O’Hara’s consecration.
The program opened with the “Ave Maria” of Witte, followed by the “Sanc-tus” from Gounod’s “St. Cecelia Mass” in which Anthony Donadio sang the solo. Other soloists were Robert Bischoff, baritone; William Mooney, pianist, and Donald Tiedemann, baritone.
The Glee Club of 50 members will make a short tour soon appearing in Toledo, Indianapolis and other southern Indiana cities.
Five Local Religious
Escape Soviet Poland
Five members of the Congregation of Holy Cross of Notre Dame recently fled the eastern or Russian part of Poland and are now probably enroute to America. The priests and brothers who were successful in getting out of Poland are: the Reverends Hilary Paszek, Joseph Kmiecik, B. J. Sztuczko, and Brothers Roman and Hormisdas.
They were among a group of 31 American refugees who arrived in Bucharest, Rumania, on Jan. 23, the first of an estimated 180 Americans in Soviet Poland to escape the country. The remaining 149 lack either passports or funds for travelling.—John Casey
Little Chapter
And now God sits like a little Child On the drawn knees of Time.
It is only Time that grows old And silvers its frantic hair. But God’s years are always infantile;
So young, We have no integer to count them.
—Marcel Smith.
HAMBURGERS
317 N. Michigan St.
216 W. Colfax 109 E. Wayne
Headquarters for ARROW SHIRTS
Complete stocks of the Newest styles. Featured in Arrow Trump — ?2.
MAX ADLER Michigan at Washington
The Notre Dame Scholastic
RADIO
Tonight, while Joe Junior and his best girl are waltzing around the Palais, at least one person at the dance will be thinking of the boys back in the halls. Eddy Corey, the “Periscooper,” will bring the shut-ins some of the color of the dance and a lot of the “Hot Lips” music of Henry Busse’s orchestra in a program to be heard over WSBT at 10:30.
Behind the scenes, Bob LeJeune and Bob Watters will do their share in putting the program on the air by acting as engineers.
This Sunday at 11:00, an important
Survival of the Fittest
Arrow Trump’s the longest wearing and the fittin’est shirt you ever put on your back. The superb Mitoga form-fit is custom shaped to your build. Trump’s sleek, good-, looking soft collar is one of Arrow’s best— specially woven and Arrow styled.
Tell your roommate to buy some white Trump shirts today. Only two dollars each. You’ll like them—so will he! They’re Sanforized-shrunk — fabric shrinkage less than 1% — a new shirt free if one ever shrinks out of fit
ARROW SHIRTS
meeting of the Radio Club will be held in the studio on the third floor of the Engineering building. Plans will be made for the semester’s broadcasting activities and all interested are urged to attend.—Ray Kelly
Local Chief Describes
Modern Police Methods
“Prevention—not detection of crime— is the ideal of the criminologist,” declared Chief W. K. Ingram, of the South Bend police, in a discussion of modern police methods before student sociologists last week.
An efficient police force is the best crime preventative, said Chief Ingram.
He emphasized that intelligence, size— a good big man makes a better policeman than a good little man—and compatible home environment are requisites for employment on the South Bend force. “The average South Bend policeman has slightly better than a high school education,” he pointed out.
“But even with these requisites, a man is of little value until he learns courtroom procedure, how to administer first-aid, some of the technicalities of the law, what is ‘evidence’ what is not, and the thousand other everyday emergencies of police work,” he added.
Chief Ingram pointed out that modern police work is scientific—much evidence now comes from the laboratories—and functional. The patrol division prevents crime; the traffic division handles the growing problem of vehicle transportation; the detective division goes into action when the patrol division fails; the records division files evidence, is the force historian; and the vice division specializes in crimes against morals.
“Efficient administration is the coordinator of the force,” Chief Ingram concluded. “A police force is efficient when the responsibility of each man is fixed and definite.”
BEAUTIES HIT TOWNI
IF you want to see some patterned shirts that are real beauties . . . shirts that are absolutely tops in style . . . just drop in today and see our swell new collection of Arrow shirts. $2 up-	.
RL5WTO
26
The Notre Dame Scholastic
OUR DAILY BREAD
LITURGY
The use of art forms in the Liturgy is most effective when they are natural, spontaneous. They appeal to everything in human nature which it is the aim of the Liturgy to transform. Christ, the Great Artist, so dealt with men, and the Liturgy is Christ working in and through the Church. St. Paul copied the Master: “I became all things to all men, that I might save all.” (1 Corinthians 9, 22).
Consider the dramatic intensity of the quick transition this year from the contemplation of the Crib to the contemplation of the Cross. Two short weeks and Septuagesima stilled the Alleluias, hung the purple veil. The liturgical texts filled the interlude with forebodings of conflict, warnings of preparation. And now the curtain rises upon Lent. Though we are of consequent need for expiation. “Behold, now is the acceptable time; behold, now is the day of salvation.” (2 Corinthians 6,2)
Mass Calendar: February 4 to 10
Sunday, 4—Quinquagesima. 2d prayer, St. Andrew Corsini, Bishop, Confessor.
Monday, 5—St. Agatha, Virgin, Martyr. 2d prayer, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Tuesday, 6—St. Titus, Bishop, Confessor. 2d prayer, St. Dorothy, Virgin, 3d, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Wednesday, 7—Ferial of the Ashes. Mass proper. 2d prayer, St. Eomuald, Abbot.
Note for Lent: The Tract replaces the Alleluia and its verse after the Gradual. Preface for Lent every day unless otherwise noted. If the Mass of the feast is said, the last Gospel is from, the Ferial Mass proper for that day. If the Ferial Mass is said (purple vestments), the Gloria is omitted, the first prayer is of the feast, the others as indicated for that day.
Thursday, 8—St. John of Matha, Confessor. Mass: Os justi (Common). Prayer proper. 2d Ferial, 3d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Friday, 9—St. Cyril of Alexandria, Bishop, Confessor, Doctor. Mass: In medio (Common). Prayer proper. 2d, Ferial, 3d, St. Apollonia, Virgin, Martyr, 4th, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Credo.
Saturday, 10—St. Scholastica, Virgin. Mass: Dilexisti (Common). Prayer proper, 2d, Ferial, 3d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
You’ll find them in stores, eating places, gas stations along the highways—in all kinds of public places convenient for your use.
Nowhere else in the world is the distribution of tele-
phones so general. And nowhere else can you get such fast, accurate, and friendly service at such low cost.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
27
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
SUCCESSOR TC ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
years of experience at f your command.
years of reliable, compe- tent service.
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eyes and the making of fine glasses.
Optometrists and Opticians 314 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY .
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
William Lyon Phelps, famed Yale professor, taught more than 20,000 men during his 40 years in the classroom.
The flag of Clark University will be planted at the south pole by a member of the new Byrd expedition.
DISC - CUSSION
Tommy Dorsey again this week takes top honors with his “Deep Night” and “Starlit Hour.” The former is another Jack Leonard and chorus number, and is, I think, the best since the original: “Marie.” “Starlit Hour” is along orthodox sweet lines and Dorsey’s trombone, Leonard’s voice, and Peter De Rose’s melody and Mitchell Parish’s words all blend very nicely.
For some smooth swing—English style —try Sid Phillip’s “Blue Romance” and “Palais de Danse.” You’ve heard both songs, though the titles may not mean much to you. If you are undecided about swing music, at least listen to these.
Ginny Sims gets an excellent chance to show off her exceptional range on Kay Kyser’s record of “Fit To Be Tied.” She makes good use of the chance and, along with the band, produces a very interesting record. “The Little Red Fox” gives the entire band a chance to perform. If you saw “That’s Right; You’re Wrong,” you might enjoy it. You might anyway; I don’t know.
Frankie Carle has taken a few other-men from Horace Heidt’s outfit to record “Night Glow” and “Blue Fantasy.” His piano is very fine and the record contains some other nice instrumentation. Virginia Dale sings “A”- side—a song that shouldn’t be sung — with a voice that shouldn’t be singing. The tunes themselves are the most praiseworthy features but I don’t feel that that is enough.
A new name—Dinah Shore—is beginning to be heard in the music world. Her discing of “I Thought About You” and “Last Night” is one big reason why. Miss Shore styles her songs after the manner of Nan Wynn, and with a good break may go as far as her predecessor. Her voice is sometimes very good; always interesting. You’ve heard a lot of both songs; try this arrangement.
—Bill Geddes
SENIOR PICTURES
Seniors have a final opportunity to obtain pictures Monday through Thursday, between the hours of 12:30 and 4:30 p.m., at the Walsh Hall basement, Dome Editor Thos. Carty announced. Carty urges all Seniors who have not yet had pictures taken to do so as early as possible.
Dr. O. ^rundy Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments 434 Associates - South Bend
Office Phone 3-2574
DR. H. R. FRASER
REGISTERED PODIATRIST
SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 4-8989 SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
OFFICE 4-5661
ucas DENTISTRY — X-RAYS
702 J.M.S. BLDG.
SOUTH BEND
DENTISTS
405 Associates - South Bend Phone 3-1254
4"—”—-—-—-—-—-—-—’—-—-—"—-—■+
I	SOUTH BEND	|
1 X-RAY LABORATORY |
!	825 SHERLAND BUILDING	1
1 L. E. FISHER.	M. J. THORNTON. 1
| M.D.	M.D.	j
4"------------------“--“--—“----—-------
Drs. (Dose and (Dose
DENTISTS
430 SHERLAND BUILDING TELEPHONE 3-4269
ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BLOC., SOUTH BENO
What you want in a smoke you GET in CHESTERFIELD’S RIGHT COMBINATION of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos
These tobaccos, and the Chesterfield way of blending them, is why Chesterfields SMOKE COOLER.. .TASTE BETTER... and are DEFINITELY MILDER than other cigarettes. For more pleasure, make your next pack Chesterfield.
Copyright 1940, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.