ANvTMCA ImcKLUMT «abTmM BY W. C«»AM¥ | AMC*

NEW PRODUCTS LEAD TO BETTER JOBS AT DUPONT
COULD YOU MAKE A BETTER BATHING SUIT?
The suits these girls are wearing are made of nylon, the first truly synthetic fiber. It is a product of DuPont research. Pure research. Applied research. And research in manufacture, research in product improvement. All require many types of skills.
You may not discover a new fiher, but as a technical man you can profit well anyway. For once a product—any product—is discovered, hundreds of technical men go to work. Pilot plants are designed. Operating procedures are devised. New plants are built. Manufacturing methods are improved. Product quality is worked on, backed by Du Pont’s policy: Let’s make it better . . . still better . . . even better. Discovery is but the starting shot; these later activities are the game. The players? Men of every technical specialty.
You’ll find a teamwork atmosphere at
DuPont. Others have. Maybe that’s part of the reason half of DuPont’s profits today come from products unheard of twenty-five years ago.
If you join Du Pont, the men who have worked on new products and ways to make them are the men who will teach you. Ibu will be given an actual project assignment almost at once, and you will begin to learn your job by doing it. Advancement will come as rapidly as your -abilities permit and opportunities develop. For DuPont personnel policy is based firmly on the belief in promotion from within the company strictly on a merit basis.
For more information about career opportunities at DuPont, ask your place- -ment officer for literature. Or write us. E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), 2420 Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, Delaware.	■
cfiUPOfiD
Belter Things for Better Living... through Chemistry
December 4, 1959
SHIRTS EXPERTLY LAUNDERED 5 for $1.00 RUBIN CLEANERS 217 E. JEFFERSON Downtown—on the Bus Line Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 39 Years!
ABOUT THE COVER
The tenor of the whole season is summed up in this drawing by Ken Witte, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters from Pasadena, Texas. Injuries struck a heavy blow at new coach Joe Kuharich’s plans as two preseason All-American players were forced to watch much of the action from the sidelines.
Here one of them, George Izo, one of the best passing quarterbacks ever to play at Notre Dame is seen huddled in conference with head coach Kuharich. Izo suffered a knee injury in fall practice. He returned to full strength in the Iowa game and led the Irish to a 20-19 victory.
asana anar^ sbebh bss aatuEB man □EH G1S0SB

EHGSS DEH BKlBSna HDH □□□□e enmsa OSH HEEDEfi
aasa □EG3 BEES HUIS EES SBSBBBS EBEDM BSSBSBS □□□□□ □waasna BBHsa
tflMSNVTGDM
KGDL KROSSWORD
No. 9
ACROSS
1. Struggles of some scope
6. Mountain dimbersdig this, on ice
13.	It holds a square that’s called a ring
14.	Sad about the code?
15.	Not the opposite of yours
16.	Seems
17.	How to start English Lit.
18.	Initiatesina fog?
20.	One way to get to first base
21.	Rake from Rouen
23.	Favorite subject of coeds
24.	They sound like last year’s dresses
25.	With vitriol
27. What 34 Across is usually for
29. When it’s super, it’s real fast
30, Truman’s birthplace, not quite Hedy
34. See 27 Across
36. Marine (slang)
37______polloi
39.	Combining form for within
40.	How Kools always taste
42.	H you blow it, you’re mad!
43.	3 letters to a loan wolf
44.	Yellow pigment 46. British fly-boys 47. Rose’s side-kick 48. French ands
DOWN
1.	Subjects of snap courses?
2.	River in Venezuela
3.	Kool’s mascot
4.	Compass point
5.	Kin of a cummerbund
6.	Mad fad
7.	What sinners do
8.	Little electrical units
9.	Little Morris
10.	Prague to the Czechs
11.	Character in Hamlet
12.	They’re for the birds
19. Bolger was once in love with her
22. What the head guys on this paper do
24. What good lookers do
26. Naval ship
28. Rita’s ex
31.	Kool’s kind of magic
32.	It’s just between France and Spain
33.	What a hot spot does under new management
35.	Where you feel Kool’s smoothness
36.	Army lads
38. Eggs a' la Bardot
40. Ready, aim,
13
15
17
21
25
29
34
35
ARE YOU KODL ENOUGH TO KRACK THIS?*
40
43
46
48
41. Certain cigarettes (dang)
45. Sigma’s last name
L	7	8	9	10	11	12
E						
						
r			■	20		
		■	1			
27 28
30
31
38
37
42
41
44
47
49
39
When your throat tells 7 W you its time for a change, j	|
you need / ( a real change...
I®1
YOU NEED THE
°F KGDL^
£ 1959. Brown St Wunarnson Touacco Corp.
K®L
mild menthol
4
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
FOOTBALL REVIEW
I Vol. 101 No. 9 I
DECEMBER 4, 1959 |
Founded 1867
editor-in-chief
THOMAS ROSE
editorial assistants
JAY KILROY
WILLIAM CARY
editorial consultants
RONALD BLUBAUGH CHARLES TAUSCHE TED THOMPSON
special contributors THOMAS GANNON
>	ROBERT SCHAEFER
JERRY HEWITT TED THOMPSON TERRY SMITH GREG ROGERS TOM BATES
photography
WALTER DALY, JR.
special photography contributors
EDWARD SHAY WALT WITTENBERG
art editor
JERRY FLORENT
cover artist
KENNETH WITTE

business manager and staff ROBERT HORN Joseph Finnigan
. circulation manager ; LAWRENCE LEACH
’ 'ad salesmen ,	' -	;
Richard Ballot .
' Thomas Carey AAA .....A"/ >. James Keough ;A<-.<7 .
The *
A A?	a regular issue of the
’	- ScHQU^’nc; It b pub-^
. lished annually on the _ . Friday following the last - football' game of the
><>> ■xseawa. A '
.a
SPECIAL! CHRISTMAS SALE
until December 24
Notre Dame 100 years by Arthur E. Hope, C.S.C.
Only $1.29
DURING THIS SPECIAL CHRISTMAS SALE
This is the deluxe, illustrated, cloth-bound edition that regularly sells at $4.00.
A GIFT THAT WILL BE PRIZED BY ALL FRIENDS OF NOTRE DAME
For mail orders, enclose 25c extra for each copy to cover cost of mailing.
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
Puter-Wiitemwi
Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS 115%-11Z% No. Main St. UPSTAIRS Phone CE 3-6318
Complete service to all Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Personnel. Uniforms, Caps, and accessories — entire ready - towear or tailor made to measure. You may pay when you receive your Government allowance.
Placing your order early means better service.
Parker-Wiiterriwi
Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS
115%-11Z% Nd. Main St.
UPSTAIRS
Phone CE 3-6318
>

I
ENJOY THE HOUDAYS AHEAD
IN A NEW IVY TUXEDO
$4150
On the Campus—Notre Dame
Put Ivy smartness in the holidays ahead in a new After Six tuxedo that combines the comfort of featherlight tropical fabric with the smartness of satin shawl lapels, natural shoulders, unpleated trousers. In handsome blueblack. Select yours now in time for the holiday season . . . charge it the Campus Shop way.
^GILBERT'S
December 4, 1959
THE LASTING CHRISTMAS GIFT
Jewelry
OMEGA
WATCHES
tcarvec
IAMOND RINGS

Bulova
WATCHES
' '////////// /
H atchez
14 Kt. Gold Chaims Bracelets - Pendants Crosses Wedding Bands
PATEK PHILIPPE
The World's Foremost Watch
4
OULTRE
watches
3 WAYS TO BUY:
• CREDIT (With No Interest)

* HANDY-CHARGE
A
• LAYAWAY
121 W. Washington
Ph. CE 4-1311
Congratulations to

1959 FIGHTING IRISH
and especially

ADAMSON CIESIELSKI COLOSIMO
CROTTY DOYLE FLOR
HEENAN IZO LODISH
MUEHLBAUER NEBEL NICOLAZZI
RINI SABAL SCHOLTZ
STICKLES WHITE WILKE
a
SENIOR CLASS OF ’60
TAe Scholastic
-j

Notre Dome Miniatures for Your Sweetheart
J


CHRISTMAS 1959
Miniature Notre Dame rings are available in a wide choice of jeweled or plain styles. These rings may be presented as engagement tokens to the girl of your choice, or to a feminine member of your family with whom you wish to share the prestige of your association with the University.
The miniature ring is identical with the official ring design, only more delicate in . its.modulation and.construction.	-	...
Wedding bands to wear with the miniatures can be especially contoured to fit as an ensemble. These plain and contoured bands are illustrated above.
PRICE LIST — NOTRE DAME MINIATURES AND BANDS — 1959-60
All rings are in durable 10K Gold
Black Onyx ...............................     J
Synthetic Blue Spinel No. 1, buff top, faceted back Synthetic Blue Spinel No. 2, faceted top and back Synthetic Ruby No. 1, buff top, faceted back__ Synthetic Ruby No. 2, faceted top and back____ Synthetic Sapphire, dark blue_________________...
Synthetic “Notre Dame" Blue Spinel
No. 1, buff top, faceted back ................
Synthetic “Notre Dame” Blue Spinel
. No. 2, faceted top and back ___________________
$17.00 i 19.00 19.00 19.00 19.00 19.00
19.00
19.00
ENGAGEMENT RINGS
All-diamond cluster ------------
$165.00
Diamond cluster with oval synthetic sapphire, synthetic ruby or synthetic tourmaline center 100.00
WEDDING BANDS
Lady’s, plain or beaded. Regular		$ 8 .00
Lady’s, plain or beaded. Contour		 9.00
Man’s, plain or beaded. Regular		 11.00
Man’s, plain or beaded. Contour			 12.00

Add $3.00 to the price of any buff top stone ring for 24K gold encrusted Notre Dame monogram. Tax — Add 10% Federal Tax to the above prices.	.
Ring Size For Measuring Finger
345 67 8 91011
-*a
ORDER YOUR MINIATURE RING FROM
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE

Notre Dame, Indiana

December 4, 1959

IN YOUR FAVORITE PACKAGE DESIGN!
Best lighter offer yet! They re windproof, sturdy, handsome —and richly enamelled in full-color baked on! Just tell us which of the 3 great cigarette Dockage designs vou oreter — and order as many of each as you want! But order NOW because offer expires January 31, 1960 —and time flies!
4
SEND ONLY 60c AND THE BOTTOM FLAP FROM 10 PACKAGES OF
T M nr f UF^TFPFIFI h nr OA^K
4
•t
SMART, TIMELY GIFTS — 3 Great Liggett & Myers Brands to Choose From
4
I'"
BOTTOM FLAP
This offer expires Jan. 31, 1960 and is not valid for shipment into states where prohibited, taxed or regulated.
NOTICE: If you are sending in for more than one lighter be sure you have provided sufficient postage to cover additional weight of coins and paper flaps.
SPECIAL OFFER
Order as many lighters as you wish!
LIGHTERS, P.O. Box 85 A, Mt. Vernon 10, N. Y.
I enclose 60c (no stamps) plus the bottom flap from 10 packages of EM or Chesterfield or Oasis, for each lighter. (Send money and bottom flaps by First Class Mail only.)
L&M LIGHTERS
.CHESTERFIELD LIGHTERS
.OASIS LIGHTERS
1
10
The Scholastic
Contents
Page
Season in review.._________________    12
Action spread ...............      .14-15
Game summaries ________________ ....17-33
North Carolina .................   17
Purdue ___________________________ 18
California ....................    20
Michigan State __________________  22
Northwestern ................      23
Navy ______________________        24
Georgia Tech ________________      30
Pittsburgh ....................    31
Iowa ___________________________   32
Southern California .............  33
Behind the scenes ___________________  21
All-America team __________________    26
Sports publicity _____________________ 35
Seniors --------------------------     36
Coaching staff’s weekly job __________ 41
Freshman team ________________________ 44
Next year ____________________________ 46
December 4, 1959
11
BACK HOME
In taking the head coaching position at Notre Dame, Joe Kuharich returned to his hometown and to his alma mater.
Kuharich is a native of South Bend and a 1938 graduate of Notre Dame.
While an undergraduate here at Notre Dame, Kuharich earned monograms three times as a guard, was a two-year regular and won All-Midwest honors as a senior.
Kuharich graduated with honors, receiving a B.S. degree in physical education. Among his classmates were Johnny Murphy, now assistant freshman coach and also a South Bend native, and Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame.
His first coaching job was as the assistant freshman coach at Notre Dame in 1938 while doing graduate work. He then coached one year at Vincentian Institute in Albany, N. Y., played two years with the Chicago Cardinals and was line coach of the Pittsburgh Steelers for a year. He then spent four years as head coach of San Francisco University where he turned out some excellent players and had an unbeaten team in 1951. His next step up the ladder was into professional football as a coach where he was head coach of the Chicago Cardinals for one year and of the Washington Redskins for five years.
In accepting the Notre Dame head coaching job last year Kuharich realized a longstanding ambition to return to his alma mater as a coach.
THE
♦
The story of the 1959 Notre Dame football team is a story of inexperience, of injuries and finally of the maturation i of eager sophomores into self-controlled, hard-hitting football players. A season that was spotted heavily with the frustration of injuries, costly mistakes 5 and inconsistency, finally ended in glory as a group of well-disciplined and hard- ' hitting Irish gridders finished the year with smashing victories over Iowa and ’ Southern California.
Fast Finish. The return to the line-up of three injured players, George Izo, Jim Crotty and Clay Schulz, in the last two games of the year suddenly jelled Notre Dame into an eleven that clearly j outplayed both Iowa and Southern Cal, , two teams considered to be the best in the country. Against Iowa’s specialty, offense, second best in the country, the Irish outgained them 426 yards to 200	,
yards. Against the Trojan's specialty, defense, where they had been holding their opponents to an average of 84.7 rushing yards per game, the Irish de- 4 । fenders held USC to 97 yards on the ground while grinding out 219 yards through the tough Trojan line.
Notre Dame was obviously a far dif- < ferent football team on these last two Saturdays from the team that lost to | Purdue 21-0, to Michigan State 19-0,	4
to Georgia Tech 14-10 and to Pittsburgh v 28-13. While the key to this sudden change in the Irish squad was certainly the return of injured players, this is not the whole answer. For the first time all season Coach Kuharich was able to field two lines which he could alternate inter- 1 changeably without hurting the team’s effectiveness. It took eight games for these linemen, many of whom were j. sophomores, to master their jobs and find the delicate balance between selfcontrol and aggressiveness.
New Offense Installed. It must be , remembered that Joe Kuharich and his staff took over the coaching duties only last spring. They brought with them an offense that was unfamiliar to all 4 the players. The seniors were like soph- I omores in the sense that their blocking assignments and defensive formations had to be learned for the first time, a The Kuharich offense, a straight-T with flankers on practically every play and occasional slotbacks, calls for a tremendous amount of precision and can ▼ best be learned only by actual game experience. It admits of a great amount of versatility although this aspect of it was limited by the injury of key • players. That it is an effective and well-balanced offense once it is mastered is borne out by the final two games when the Irish began to function smoothly. In these last two games Notre Dame averaged 396 yards total offense with rushing accounting for about 45% and passing for 55% of this yardage.
12
The Scholastic

END CAME TOO SOON
\ Sick List Long. Aside from being remembered as Joe Kuharich’s first year at Notre Dame, 1959 will always be remembered as the yeai* of injuries. In an » almost unbelievable series of casualties, ' the Irish lost George Izo, Red Mack, Myron (Moe) Pottios, Jim Crotty, Dan Griffith and Clay Schulz for varying > absences ranging from the whole year to a couple of games. With three of these six back at full strength Notre Dame looked impressive in their last J two games. All together over 25 players suffered injuries which kept them out of action for at least one game. One (	can only speculate about what might
1	have been without these injuries. They
happened. They are part of football.
The year was especially disappointing , for Bill (Red) Mack, junior halfback who had been so impressive as a sophomore last year. Mack, one of the most dedicated workers and fierce competi-k tors ever to don an Irish uniform, saw very little action due to a knee injury. He played on sheer courage and was perhaps only 60 per cent effective.
Unusual 5-5 Record. When the 1959 Notre Dame squad was getting ready for the season’s play, the consensus of informed opinion was that the Irish would he doing good to win half of theii- games. As it turned out, this opinion was right. Joe Kuharich’s gridders ended the year with a 5-5 record. But nobody would
have dreamed of the way in which this record was compiled.
In the opener, the North Carolina Tar Heels, who had been picked as high as number three in the preseason polls, were swept off the field 28-8 by the nervous energy and pent-up enthusiasm of an Irish squad eager to make their new coach’s debut a smashing success.
Against Purdue the next week the inspiration was gone and the inexperience showed up in its place. Notre Dame lost to a rugged Boilermaker team 28-7 and for the next six games the keynote of the Irish play was inconsistency. Notre Dame won two of these games, beating California and Navy while losing to Michigan State, Northwestern, Georgia Tech and Pittsburgh.
Time and time again the Notre Dame squad would begin to move the ball on . offense and then suffer a big loss or fail to make a first down on a third and one situation. And the Irish defenders would often stop the enemy cold for two plays and then mysteriously collapse at a vital point and allow the opposition an unexpected first down.
Sudden Improvement. But all of a sudden against Iowa the 1959 Irish were a mature and confident football team. Led by Captain Ken Adamson the line became vicious, especially on key plays. On the off-tackle slants where Georgia Tech’s Anderson and Pittsburgh’s Cun
ningham had decimated the Notre Dame defense, Iowa and USC were stopped cold. The defensive halfbacks came up quickly to help out on the wide plays with Crotty and Schulz being especially adept at this job.* And the pass defense became quite adequate as the Irish intercepted five aerials in the last two games and held a potent Iowa air attack to a measly 71 yards. The Trojan passers managed to complete only ten passes in 38 attempts but some of this trouble was of course due to the numb-fingered receivers simply dropping the ball.
Offensively the Irish attack which had been sputtering all year, suddenly became effective. The return of Izo to the line-up loosened up the enemy defenses to the point where Crotty, Sefcik, Gray, Perkowski, Scarpitto, Mack and Dabiero could bolt through into the enemy secondary with an amazing consistency. Even Monty Stickles got into the rushing picture as he carried the ball on an end-around three times against USC for 26 yards.
Seeds Planted. For those who measure the success of a football season in terms of won and lost record, Kuharich’s first year was only 50 per cent effective. But for those who looked for a sound grounding in blocking and tackling and an evident progress in the mastery of a new system, 1959 was a good year. The real harvest of 1959 has yet to be reaped.—Tom Rose
IZO-TO-STICKLES, BUT THIS TIME ON THE GROUND
Irish startle Trojans with well executed end-around play. This Izo-to-Stickles play was used three times in the USC gam* with Stickles gaining a total of 26 yards.- Monty is the first end to be used as a runner at Notre Dame since Leon Haft. -
December 4, 1959	;r •
NOTRE DAME
All-American end Monty Stickles gobbles up a 43-yard pass from White for the only Irish TD against Tech.
Mike Muehlbauer leads the way for Scarpitto as Jim Maxfield, passing master for the Middies, jockeys for position to make the tackle.
Both Bob Scholtz and Mike Stock notice that the ball has escaped the grasp of the Wildcat ball carrier.
Jerry Scattini of California runs into a host of Notre Dame tacklers led by Joe Carollo and Red Mack.
Sophomore Joe Perkowski drives hard into the middle of the Georgia Tech defense but is hit hard as most of the Notre Dame linemen are on the ground. ■
14
The Scholastic
ACTION
Sophomore fullback Dick Naab finds his path blocked by two big Georgia Tech tackles as he attempts to slide off to the right.
Scarpitto hauls in a touchdown pass from White against Northwestern. The ball bounced off the fingertips of Mark Johnston the Wildcat defender and into the arms of the fleet Irish right halfback.
Monty Stickles is shown scoring three of his ten points in the Georgia Tech game, a 41-yard field goal. Stickles scored all ten of the Notre Dame points.
Frank Gargiulo leads Scarpitto around end as Notre Dame linemen are sprawled on the ground. Mike Muehlbauer has made a good block on the Navy tackle.
Jim Crotty deflects .a pass at the last minute. The ball is poised on Laraway’s shoulder.
December 4, 1959
15
PEP RALLY The Friday night before each home football game is the occasion for about 2,000 Notre Dame students to lend vociferous support to the Fighting Irish football team. These pep rallies are famous for the spirit and enthusiasm displayed by the students in support of their team. Most of the visitors who are on hand for the week end make it a point to start the week end by attending the pep rally. All of the team members are present at the rally. There are always several distinguished speakers on the program, usually past Notre Dame greats. But the most interesting and exciting parts of
the rally are the spontaneous and unplanned occurrences which arise from the enthusiasm of the students.
Coach Joe Kuharich is shown here as he addresses the initial rally of the year. It is Notre Dame tradition that the coach of the team speaks at the opening rally. In the following weeks various members of the team are called upon to get up and voice their own sentiments and those of the team to the student body.
Notre Dame pep rallies are an amazing spectacle to watch and furnish the basis for saying: “When you play Notre Dame, you don’t play eleven men, you play 6,000.”
16
The Scholastic
Notre Dame ..... 28
North Carolina ... 8
SURPRISE
*
NOTRE DAME, Ind., Sept. 26, 1959—Football crowds at Notre Dame are usually noisy. For some reason this one wasn’t. The reason? Simply this. The football team Joe Kuharich had taken over from Terry Brennan was playing its first game this gray September day and the people in the crowded stands were waiting to see how well hometown boy Kuharich had done, to see whether his team would have the “excellence” that the Brennan-tutored 1958 club had supposedly lacked. More than that, the whole sporting nation was watching the rain-soaked South Bend gridiron to see whether Kuharich could parlay professional football methods and twelve returning lettermen into a combination that would better the six won, four lost record of Brennan’s last squad, which had been a preseason choice for national honors.
So the crowd sat quietly as the Irish, in brand new, blue jerseys, ran through pregame calisthenics. On the other side of the field, deep, seasoned North Carolina, smarting from a tough 20-18 loss to Clemson the week before, was waiting too.
The game began in a driving rain. On defense Notre Dame tackled hard; on offense fine blocking sprung Irish backs wide around Carolina’s highly-touted ends, Al Goldstein and John Schroeder, but difficulty in handling the slippery ball stalled two drives. Then, late in the first quarter, the breaks evened themselves up. Tar Heel Wade Smith fumbled and Notre Dame end Pat Heenan slithered across the wet grass to recover on the Carolina 24. Two plays later quarterback Don White threw to Bob Scarpitto in the right flat and the fleet halfback rambled to the two-yard line. On the next play, Scarpitto cut inside a fine block by Myron Pottios and sliced into the end zone for Joe Kuharich’s first Notre Dame touchdown. All-American candidate Monty Stickles added the extra point and the Irish were ahead to stay.
Notre Dame’s line, for the most part green and inexperienced, put tremendous pressure on the Tar Heels throughout the afternoon. Helped by the slippery, rain-wet ball, the hard-charging Irish ruined North Carolina’s kicking game, keeping the Southerners bottled up in their own territory for most of the game and setting up two more Notre Dame scores in the second period.
On the first drive, senior fullback Jim Crotty circled his own left end for 19 yards and the score. Just before the end of the half, Crotty lunged into the end zone again, this time
Statistics ND NC '
Total First Downs ..... 15	9
Net Yards Rushing..... 223	100
Net Yards Passing .... 86	60
Passes Attempted ...... 20	19
Passes Completed ......... 7	5
Passes Intercepted by ....	2	2
Punts (number) ......... 8	13
Punting Average ...... 36.4 25.8
Fumbles (number) ....... 3	3
Ball Lost (fumbles) .... 1	2
Yards Penalized ...... 120	35
from three yards out and the young Irish skipped into the dressing room with a 20-0 lead.
It was the same story in the second half. The Irish combined aggressive defense and strong kicking by sophomore halfback George Sefcik to contain the Tar- Heels, then cashed in on the breaks for easy scores. One Sefcik kick sailed out of bounds on the Carolina one. Monty Stickles broke through on the next play to block Jack Cummings’ end zone punt for a safety. A few moments later, Carolina’s Wade Smith wobbled a pass downfield. Notre Dame’s Ray Ratkowski was there to intercept, dance away from the clutches of a swarm of Tar Heels and sprint 43 yards down the sideline for a score. The Irish had 28 points, Carolina had none and for all practical purposes the ball game was all over. The Tar Heels did avert a shutout, ramming over a touchdown with 27 seconds left to play, but the issue had already been decided.
In the first rush of postgame excitement, Joe Kuharich called the victory “the eighth wonder of the world.” Later, after the dressing room had calmed down, he issued another statement, more reserved and less enthusiastic, as winning coaches usually do. Yet Notre Dame fans could not be discouraged. The Irish had done a competent job against a highly-rated opponent and their supporters looked forward with more confidence than fear to the next week’s clash with Big Ten favorite Purdue at Lafayette.
The statistics bore out what everyone had seen. In the first half Notre Dame had rolled up 140 yards rushing to Carolina’s 18; the Tar Heels had crossed mid-field only once. The strong Irish rush, led by sophomore end Les Traver, had pressured Carolina’s punters so badly that they averaged only 25 yards per kick. On the whole it was a most impressive performance by a young Notre Dame team from which little had been expected by anyone.
Inexperience and a lack of depth had made the outlook during the preseason practice only hopeful and Coach Kuharich’s troubles were compounded when twisted knees put passer George Izo and breakaway halfback Bill (Red) Mack out of action. Yet these two fine football players were not missed against the Tar Heels. Don White gave capable direction to three touchdown drives and halfbacks Scarpitto, Sefcik, Ratkowski and Dabiero took up where Mack had left off the year before.	—Tom Gannon
Irish end Jim Colosimo chases Tar Heel quarterback Jack Cummings who had faded back to pass and changed his mind.
Second string North Carolina signal-caller Henry Clement is tripped up by Ken Adamson on a punt return as Stickles and Heenan close in.
December 4, 1959
17
28
DISMA Y
Notre Dame . .
Purdue ......
LAFAYETTE, Ind., Oct. 3, 1959—Purdue’s Boilermakers, cofavorites in the Big Ten, brought Notre Dame’s high-flying Irish back down to earth here this afternoon with a 28-7 lesson in rugged, hard-hitting football. Notre Dame’s sophomore-laden Irish were no match for the veteran Purdue squad as the first few minutes of the game demonstrated with the Boilermakers taking the opening kickoff and moving 76 yards in ten plays for an early 7-0 lead. The Irish never recovered from this initial shock.
The Irish rooters had hoped that last week’s 28-8 victory over a supposedly strong North Carolina team was just what Coach Joe Kuharich’s charges needed to spark them on to a successful season. The sophomores looked like veterans in that encounter, taking advantage of every break to score a decisive win.
But here in Ross-Ade stadium before a sellout crowd of 50,362 fans, these hopes were dashed to the ground. Except for a few brief moments in the third quarter, the Boilermakers’ defense was impregnable and the offense moved smoothly. So one-sided was the victory that Coach Jack Mallen-kopf was able to use 62 players in the contest.
The only bright spots for the Irish were the performances of veterans Jim Crotty, Don White and Myron Pottios. Pottios, a junior guard, was the core of the Notre Dame defense as he made tackle after tackle trying to halt the Purdue attack. One jarring tackle sent Ross Fitchner, Purdue’s quarterback who played an outstanding game at that position, to the sidelines late in the third period with a broken shoulder. Crotty, a senior fullback and two-year monogram winner, averaged over three yards per carry against the rocklike Purdue defense, scored the lone TD and caught two passes for 32 yards in a third period Irish comeback attempt. White, a reserve quarterback for two seasons who got his chance when George Izo was hurt early in the fall sessions, called a good game, completing seven passes for 126 yards (over half the total yardage for the Irish).
One of the major factors in the Irish failure to mount more than one sustained offensive attack was the hard-charging of Purdue’s ends. Each time the Irish were faced with crucial third down situations, those ends would either drop the passer for a long loss or hurry the throw and cause a bad pass. For the day they dropped White and sophomore George
Statistics
ND Purdue
Total First Downs ..... 12	12
Net Yards Rushing ..... 59	242
Net Yards Passing .... 143	66
Passes Attempted ...... 24	6
Passes Completed ...... 10	3
Passes Intercepted by ....	0	1
Punts (number) ........... 7	6
Punting Average ...... 36.3	42.3
Fumbles (number) ........ 4	5
Ball Lost (fumbles) ____ 2	2
Yards Penalized ........ 10	26
Haffner for a total loss of 61 yards.
On the first play from scrimmage in the game, Fitchner went for 20 yards on a rollout around left end to the Purdue 46. On the next play he tried the same play to the opposite side and got 18 yards. Two plays later he went around left end again for twelve to the ND 21. A Fitchner-to-Bob Jarus pass carried to the six, and Jarus went over from the five two plays later to give Purdue a 7-0 lead.
Later in the period the Boilermaker second unit started a 77-yard, eight-play march that ended with the second period 44 seconds old. Key play was a 58-yard pass from Bernie Allen to Len Jardine which carried to the ND 22-yard line. Fitchner capped the drive with a seven-yard TD pass to Dick Brooks. Allen kicked the point for a 14-0 lead.
Minutes later the Boilermakers had another score. Crotty fumbled the kickoff and Purdue recovered on the Irish 32. Seven plays later- Jarus had his second touchdown of the game, and his fifth in the last two years against the Irish, for a 20-0 Purdue lead.
The second half opened with the Irish coming out and playing like a brand new ball team. They took the kickoff and marched 80 yards in nine plays for a score, the key play being a 38-yard White-to-Monty Stickles pass which put the ball on the four. Crotty went over on his second try from the one to narrow the deficit to 21-7.
After a Purdue punt, the Irish again marched down the field only to have the drive stopped by Allen’s interception on the Purdue 14. Three plays later Jim Tiller, a 150-pound seatback, went 74 yards on a quick opener for the game-icing TD.
The game demonstrated that the Irish have a good team, not as good as some had hoped after last week’s win, but a team which will be able to give most of its opponents a real battle. The sophomores will continue to make mistakes, but these will become more infrequent as they become seasoned veterans. If the Irish can shake the injury jinx that has hurt so much so far this season, the possibility of a 6-4 season does not seem too remote.
The illusion created by the North Carolina game was shattered. Notre Dame appeared as a young team, eager to hit, but making too many mistakes against a tough, seasoned Big Ten eleven.
—Bob Schaefer
George Sefcik is pursued by hulking Purdue lineman Fred Brandel as he breaks into the clear with Norb Roy coming over to help.
Boilermaker fullback Jack Laraway is stopped cold at the line of scrimmage by an Irish charge led by Nick Buoniconti.
The Spartan defender is helpless as Scarpitto gathers in a pass from Don White for a first down against Michigan State.
Sophomore fullback Frank Gargiulo cuts back sharply to his left while his teammate Bob Scarpitto is employing a questionable blocking technique on the MSU end.
Pat Heenan, Irish right end, grabs off a pass as Georgia Tech defender Butch Carter performs more like a ballerina than a football player.
Clay Schulz and John Powers zero in on California right halfback Steve Bates who was on the receiving end of Mike McKeever’s inimitable style a few games later.
Ed McLucas, big Michigan State tackle, clamps his meaty paw on Scarpitto’s helmet as he returns a kickoff. .
Jack Laraway takes a handoff from Bernie Allen as the Boilermaker forward wall lays some crushing blocks on the Notre Dame defenders. Powers and Pietrzak are blocked out nicely while Bouniconti appears in position to make the stop.
December 4, 1959
19
Notre Dame «	2#
California......... 6
REBOUND
BERKELEY, Calif., Oct. 10, 1959 — With a four-touch-down-to-one ratio proving to be the margin of victory for the third straight week, the Irish returned to the winner’s circle in their initial outing to Northern California by conquering the Golden Bears, 28-6. In a game marked by the return to action of quarterback George Izo and halfback Red Mack, the Irish took advantage of two Cal fumbles to score three times in the first 22 minutes, putting the game on ice, 21-0, by the intermission.
68,500 shirt-sleeved fans had hardly seated themselves after the kickoff when the fireworks began. Irish center John Powers grabbed a wild pitchout on Cal’s first play from scrimmage, and two plays later, from the 27, Izo hit halfback Bob Scarpitto on the 13 for the first tally. Although the fans saw very little more of this ND signal-caller, they did watch another Irish quarterback, senior Don White, engineer two scoring marches in the second quarter, and also saw his understudy, sophomore George Haffner, put the frosting on the cake with a 45-yard pass to end Les Traver in the fourth period.
The final score might easily have been higher, had it not been for 158 yards in penalties which the Irish accumulated in the course of the afternoon. One of these was a real rarity, as the boys from South Bend gave up 25 yards on the same play— 15 for roughing the passer and 10 for interference with the pass receiver. The Bears, for their part, were only fined 16 yards all afternoon.
' Coach Joe Kuharich was pleased with the victory, but quite unhappy over the casualty list. Star guard and linebacker Myron Pottios, who at the time was leading the rest of the squad in tackles, was lost for the rest of the season; fullbacks Jim Crotty and Gerry Gray and guard Norb Roy were all put out of action for the next few weeks, and the rest of the team was nursing a variety of minor injuries.
One of the big factors in the Irish victory was the inability of Cal to combine any kind of a consistent passing attack with its running game. On the other hand, White hit .on six out of ten passes, Haffner and Izo both connected with TD aerials, and three sophomores and a junior; Gray, Sefcik, Dabiero and Scarpitto, amassed 190 yards on the ground among themselves.
Following the Izo-to-Scarpitto tally, the ball changed hands
Statistics ND Cal
Total First Downs ____ 17	14
Net Yards Rushing..... 204 179
Net Yards Passing..... 140	52
Passes Attempted ...... 14	15
Passes Completed ....... 8	5
Passes Intercepted by ....	3	0
Punts (number) ......... 6	4
Punting Average ...... 40.2	40.3
Fumbles (number) ....... 2	5
Ball Lost (fumbles) ____ 1	3
Yards Penalized ______ 158	16
several times before the Irish took command again late in the first period. White sent Gray galloping through the middle of the line for 17 yards, then hit Rusty Wilke with a pass good for 18 more. A trap play from the Cal 26, sprang Dabiero over center for an additional 15. Three plays later, White took it over from the one. Stickles’ conversion after the first TD had been good, so White’s kick brought the score up to 14-0 in favor of the Green.
Two plays after the ensuing kickoff, Irish end Pat Heenan pounced on Grover Garvin’s fumble on the Cal 40. Thirty-nine yards and nine plays later, Gray smashed across from the one-foot line to complete a drive highlighted by Sefcik’s 21-yard scamper over left guard. White’s conversion gave the Irish a 21-0 lead.
Here both teams settled down to a series of fruitless marches, culminating in interceptions and punts. The closest the Irish came to scoring was just after halftime, but a fumble ended the drive on the 13.
The Bears finally got an offense going toward the end of the fourth quarter’ when Bates took off on a pitchout and covered 56 yards before Garguilo nailed him on the 22. Five plays later, from the five, Crow passed to end Tom George for the six-pointer. The conversion try failed and Notre Dame led, 21-6.
Following the Cal kickoff, three running plays had gained 20 yards to the Bears’ 45, when Haffner dropped back and pitched a perfect strike to Traver, who hauled it in on the 20 and raced into the end zone. Stickles’ conversion was good, making the score, Notre Dame 28 - California 6. The game ended three minutes later with the same totals, giving the Irish their second victory of the year.
It was an important win for Coach Kuharich’s young, inexperienced squad. Not only had they taken advantage of the opportunities Cal had offered them, recovering three fumbles and intercepting three passes, but they had held the Bear offense to only one sustained drive.
The victory also had a special significance for their coach, for the last time he had led a team against the Bears was on an afternoon back in 1950, when he was coaching at the University of San Francisco. On that rainy day, the Dons had suffered a disappointing 13-7 loss. So it was a happy team and a happy coach that flew back to South Bend that night.
—Jerry Hewitt
California quarterback Larry Parque fumbles in the first quarter and ND fullback Jim Crotty is about to recover the pigskin.
Al Sabal is caught in a pinch as Bear halfback Steve Bates attempts to circle right end past Pat Heenan in the second quarter
20
The Scholastic
•	f
Ruund tin Scm»
Notre Dame Football Requires ...
SUPERVISION . . .
PLANNING . . .
REVEREND EDMUND P. JOYCE, C.S.C.
Father Joyce has served in his present capacity as Notre Danie’s executive vice president since 1952. He is also chairman of the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics and the-University Building Committee. During this past summer, Father Joyce was an American delegate to the North Atlantic Congress in London. Instrumental in the rise of the athletic program here at Notre Dame, Father Joyce, however, has. never allowed it to interfere with the high academic standards, of the University.
EDWARD W. KRAUSE
Ed “Moose” Krause is now in his eleventh season as Director of Athletics here at Notre Dame. An outstanding undergraduate athlete, Krause returned to Notre Dame in 1942 and was appointed assistant Athletic Director in 1948, assuming the head post thirteen months later. The last ten years have been fruitful ones for Notre Dame sports and have seen the Irish develop a highly successful well-rounded athletic program under Krause.
FINANCE . . .
TICKETS . . .
HERBERT E. JONES
Herb Jones is now in his nineteenth year as Notre Dame’s business manager of athletics. Graduating from Notre Dame in 1927, Jones was the assistant business manager of athletics until 1940, when he moved up to his present position. Included among his duties are the handling of athletic accounts, arranging for away athletic events and supervision of the Notre Dame Stadium on football Saturdays. •
ROBERT M. CAHILL
Bob Cahill, Notre Dame’s ticket manager, has handled more than ten million tickets since he took over his present post in 1941. In fulfilling the details of his job and trying to make seats available for everyone, Cahill has never seen a complete game in Notre Dame Stadium. Along with Jones, Cahill was made an honorary member of the Notre Dam* Monogram Club two years ago.
December 4, 1959
21
Notre Dame........0
Michigan State ... 19
FUMBLITIS
EAST LANSING, Mich., Oct. 17, 1959—Dean Look, fumbles, an inspired defensive line and an off-form George Izo who still showed the effects of his preseason knee injury, all combined to give Michigan State a 19-0 win over Notre Dame on a cool, cloudy afternoon at Spartan Stadium in East Lansing, Mich. The game was played before the eyes of a nationwide television audience and 73,480 spectators in the stadium. It marked the seventh Michigan State victory in their last eight outings against the Irish.
Both squads were young teams and their play indicated as much. There were 13 fumbles, nine by the Spartans and four by Notre Dame, and also three intercepted passes. In the end it was the superlative performance of Look, switched to quarterback this season and returning to full effectiveness after a preseason injury, and the clutch defensive play of the second team Spartan unit nicknamed “Cundiff’s Crew” after their leader, center Larry Cundiff, which were responsible for the Spartan win. It was Notre Dame’s second loss of the season, both to Big Ten teams.
The game opened with a barrage of fumbles. Five bobbles had occurred and the ball had changed hands eight times in the first quarter when Spartan quarterback Look rolled out around right end, cut back sharply, and weaved his way from the MSU 29 to the ND 30, a 41-yard run. Seven plays later Larry Hudas scampered around left end to put the Spartans ahead 7-0 at the end of the first quarter.
Four more fumbles occurred in the second quarter as neither team was able to sustain a long drive. After Notre Dame took the kickoff following the Spartan TD, Scarpitto gained eleven and twelve yards on successive plays around left end to move the ball almost to midfield. Here Izo’s pass was intercepted by MSU’s Fred Boylen who fumbled but his teammate, Pete Kakela, picked it off in mid-air and hauled it to the ND 38. But two plays later Spartan halfback Herb Adderley bobbled the ball into the hands of Irish end Rusty Wilke.
Notre Dame started to move the ball at this point. With Gerry Gray and Scarpitto doing most of the running, the Kuharichmen advanced the ball from the ND 28 to the MSU 33 where once again the well ran dry as Izo’s pass was picked off by Michigan State’s alert Don Stewart and the Spartans led at halftime, 7-0.
Statistics ND MSU
Total First Downs .... 12	19
Net Yards Rushing..... 106	307
Net Yards Passing ..... 79	113
Passes Attempted ...... 24	13
Passes Completed ......... 9	7
Passes Intercepted by ....	0	3
Punts (number) ......—	6	3
Punting Average .....   39.5	34.3
Fumbles (number) ......... 4	9
Ball Lost (fumbles) .... 3	5
Yards Penalized ......... 40	49
Notre Dame got another break early in the third stanza when Adderley let the pigskin slip out of his grasp for the fourth time in the game. George Sefcik pounced on the ball I for Notre Dame on the MSU 37. But the Irish were unable	}l
to capitalize on their good fortune as Don White was snowed	।
under on a fourth down pass attempt by Larry Cundiff.
Six plays later the score was 13-0 as MSU’s left end Fred Arbanas took Look’s pass over his shoulder near the left side-line, slipped away from Notre Dame defendei- Bill Clark at ' the ND 22 and raced into the end zone. The play covered 52 yards. Bob Scholtz blocked the extra point attempt for Notre Dame.
The Irish got another scoring opportunity shortly after the MSU score. Notre Dame took over on the ND 41 and marched right down to the MSU 2 in eight plays. The key plays in this advance were a 12-yard Izo-to-Lodish pass, with the Irish * right end from Detroit making a spectacular catch, and an 18-yard run by Frank Gargiulo down the right sideline to the two-yard line. But here the Spartan defensive unit led by Cundiff stopped Notre Dame short of the goal line on four straight plays. Gargiulo carried three times in a row and got down to about the one-foot mark. Izo tried to sneak over on fourth down but was hurled back by the inspired Spartan defenders.
After this demoralizing failure, Notre Dame never seriously threatened to score in the remainder of the game. The Irish did move the ball from their own five-yard line to the ND 35 on three complete passes by Izo, the first being a 13-yard toss to Lodish from the ND 3 in which the Irish right end made another sensational catch. A 19-yard heave to Scarpitto brought the ball to the ND 35. But the third Michigan State interception of an Izo pass snuffed out this march and set up the third Spartan TD.
Starting from their own 41 after the third interception of an Izo pass, the charged-up Spartan reserves, fourth and fifth stringers, battered away at the tired Irish line and managed to cross the goal line eight plays later on an end sweep by full- । back Ron Hatcher with only 16 seconds remaining in the game. The TD meant little, it was simply icing for the cake. Cundiff and crew had won the game for the Spartans with their tenacious goal line stand.
—Tom Rose
Notre Dame speedster Bob Scarpitto comes around left end on his favorite (day as Les Traver fends off Art Brandstatter.
George Izo cocks his talented arm behind good blocking against die Spartan ends by Sefcik and Angelo Dabiero.
The Scholastic
Notre Dame . .... 24
Northwestern . ... 30
EXCITEMENT
NOTRE DAME, Ind., Oct. 24, 1959—Northwestern’s highly-rated .Wildcats came up with the big play when they needed it and hung on for an exciting 30-24 win over an inspired Fighting Irish squad. The Wildcats bolted into an early 12-0 lead in the first seven minutes of play by taking the opening kick-off for the score and tallying again quickly after the Irish fumbled on the first play from scrimmage.
But from there on the Wildcats were in for a battle. Such a quick two-touchdown advantage should put a team out of a game but Coach Joe Kuharich’s boys responded to Northwestern’s opportunism by scaring the pants off the Wildcats before succumbing.
Statistics meant very little in this game in which touchdowns were traded back and forth until Northwestern amassed a 16-point lead late in the third quarter. It was then that the Irish who should have been hopelessly beaten by this time rebounded with a touchdown and a field goal and threatened to cross the Wildcat goal line on long passes late in the fourth quarter.
The key to the Wildcat win was their ability to come up with the long scoring play just often enough. Following the first two touchdowns, Northwestern scored on a 54-yard pass play, a 78-yard running pass, and a 61-yard scamper from scrimmage by quarterback John Talley who also passed for three TD’s.
The Irish had one long touchdown play to their credit. Bob Scarpitto grabbed a deflected Don White pass on the Northwestern 20 and hustled over the goal line to complete a 52-yard play for Notre Dame’s final six-pointer.
Northwestern struck for a two-touchdown lead almost before the umbrella-covered fans could get settled in their seats. The Wildcats moved 79 yards with the opening kick-off to score in 5% minutes. After two plays left the Wildcats with third and ten, Talley hit right end Elbert Kimbrough with a 14-yard down-and-out pass. Later during the drive they teamed on exactly the same play for 14 more yards and Kimbrough scored on the same down-and-aut play that covered 18 yards. Pat Doyle blocked the attempted placement.
The opportunistic Wildcats pounced on a loose ball on the Notre Dame seven on the first Irish play from scrimmage following the kickoff. It took Northwestern just two plays to ram it in and build their lead to 12-0. Talley missed on the
Statistics ND NW
Total First Downs ..... 11	15
Net Yards Rushing..... 47	120
Net Yards Passing ______ 139	183
Passes Attempted ...... 25	16
Passes Completed ...... 10	6
Passes Intercepted by ....	0	2
Punts (number) _________ 7	5
Punting Average ______ 40.0 40.0
Fumbles (number) ....... 3	4
Ball Lost (fumbles) ____ 2	4
Yards Penalized _______ 23	30
first of four straight passing attempts for the points after. The Wildcats did not convert after a touchdown all afternoon.
After driving deep into Wildcat territory, the Irish relinquished the ball on downs when on fourth and ten, Izo passed to Rusty Wilke on the three, only inches short of the first down. But the Irish proceeded to get it right back on a fumble on the NW 2. Two plays later, Scarpitto skirted his own. left end to make the score 12-7.	.
Talley retaliated by throwing a 54-yard scoring heave after a beautiful fake to Ray Purdin who was all alone behind the Irish secondary and Northwestern owned an 18-7 halftime lead.
After a recovered fumble early in the third quarter, Izo spotted halfback George Sefcik all alone in the end zone and threw him a strike. Stickles’ long extra point, necessitated by a holding penalty, made it 18-14.
Again Talley retaliated immediately through the air. This time he hit end Irv Cross on the ND 40 and he scampered all the way to complete the 78-yard play. Only minutes later, Talley weaved his way through the entire Notre Dame line for a 61-yard jaunt after finding his receivers covered to boost the Wildcats’ margin to 30-14.
The Irish bounced right back too with White’s 52-yard heave to Scarpitto. Stickles’ third successful kick made it 30-21. Little more than a minute later Stickles kicked a 32-yard field goal to end the scoring for the day.
Northwestern managed to keep play centered on Notre Dame’s half of the field for the final ten minutes of the game. The Irish, unable to muster another touchdown, had done everything but win. They played their hearts out against a strong Northwestern team and came very close to an astounding upset.
Talley was a one-man show on the field. He completed six of 16 passes for 183 yards and three touchdowns and led both teams in rushing yardage besides with 42 net yards in 13 carries.
.Northwestern’s hard-charging line and alert ends limited the Irish to only 13 yards rushing in the second half and only 47 yards rushing in the game.
—Ted Thompson
Don White grimaces and braces himself for the jarring onslaught of Wildcat end and safety man Elbert Kimbrough.
Pat Doyle is tackled hard just-as he gets through the fine by < ' : American linebacker Jim Andreotti <rf Northwestern. . < :'
December ,4, 1959
Notre Dame.......25
Navy.............22
MISSILES
NOTRE DAME, Ind., Oct. 31, 1959—In a finish fashioned for Frank Meriwell, a 43-yard field goal by Monty Stickles furnished a melodramatic ending as Notre Dame defeated Navy 25-22, before 58,652 mesmerized people in Notre Dame Stadium to even up the Irish grid record at 3-3.
The boy with the golden toe completed his kick despite a 15-yard penalty for “coaching from the bench” that set the ball back to the 33. The penalty was caused by junior manager Bob McCuthan who ran onto the field with the kicking tee before Don White had a chance to inform the officials. Nevertheless, Stickles booted the ball neatly between the posts with 32 seconds left in the game.
This was the third time that a field goal by Stickles won for Notre Dame. It was also the longest and most dramatic. He kicked one from the 29-yard line to beat Army in 1957, 23-21, and one from the 23 to top Duke 9 to 7 last year.
' The field goal actually broke a possible tie with Navy rather than preventing a loss. The play that set up the victory was a pass for two points after the touchdown from Don White to Ray Ratkowski. This was the first time that a Kuharich-coached team had attempted to pick up the two-point reward for a running or pass play after the score.
The Irish had a 13-point gambler’s margin before the game, but the attitude of the Navy team was anything but defeatist in the first quarter. Quarterback Jim Maxfield led a fast 89-yard drive to the ND goal with six consecutive pass completions to put the Middies ahead 7-0.
By the end of the game, Maxfield had completed 18 out of 30 passes for two touchdowns and a total of 290 yards — a Navy record. Joe Kuharich’s gridders tied the contest at 7-7 late in the first quarter with a 13-play march from their own 31-yard line which brought the Irish to Navy’s 14 where George Sefcik wiggled through the line shedding Navy tacklers like water and finally lurching into the end zone.
In the second quarter Maxfield proved his humanity by finally throwing an incomplete pass on his seventh try of the game. He tried another on the third down but met up with Irish end Rusty Wilke who sat him down unceremoniously 16 yards behind the line of scrimmage. This forced an exchange of punts in which the Middies finally got the ball on their own 20. From here they moved to the 40 where Maxfield lofted a
Statistics ND Navy
Total First Downs ....... 18	18
Net Yards Rushing..... 258	82
Net Yards Passing .... 64 290
Passes Attempted ...... 11	31
Passes Completed ....... 4	18
Passes Intercepted by ....	2	2
Punts (number) ........... 2	4
Punting Average ...... 35.0 38.0
Fumbles (number) ....... 3	2
Ball Lost (fumbles) ____ 3	0
Yards Penalized ....... 50	50
pass to Joe Bellino on the Navy 48. Bellino juggled the ball over his shoulder and Bob Scarpitto came up from behind to snatch it out of his hands and scamper to pay dirt. Stickles’ placement was perfect and the score was 14-7.
But with less than a minute remaining in the first half, Navy’s air attack struck once more. Maxfield launched a 38-yard pass to Mankovich who fell over the goal. The extra point kick was wide and the half ended with a one-point lead for the Irish, 14-13.
Red Mack caught the opening kick of the second half and ran head first into the stomach of Navy’s halfback Roland Branquist who fell like a dead man and left the game. But two plays later Perkowski fumbled on the Navy 48. Maxfield, taking advantage of the opportunity, hit for two successful passes, the second to Dick Pariseau who stood abandoned in the end zone waiting with eager hands to put the Middies in front 19-14.
A Navy interception again took the ball away from the Irish on the Middies’ 47. Six plays later it was fourth and seven on the ND 20 and Mather kicked a perfect field goal. The score was 22-14 and the Irish were at their low point in the game.
In the middle of the fourth quarter, the Irish came to life. Don White passed 27 yards to Traver who was downed on the Navy 21; Ratkowski added 19 yards and finally Scarpitto crawled over to score. White then passed to Ratkowski for the important two-point conversion to tie the score, 22-22.
The Irish held the Middies on four plays and took the ball on their own 47 with 4:22 remaining in the game. White completed a 21-yard pass to Angelo Dabiero and two plays later lateralled to the sophomore halfback who took it to the Navy 12. The “coaching from the bench” set the ball back on the 33. Undaunted, Stickles stepped back to the 43, waited for the snap. It came, he kicked, keeping his head down, and afraid to look up as the ball sailed between the uprights with 32 seconds to play. It was too late for Navy, even with the deadly arm of Maxfield.
The teams were hardly off the field before the stadium parasites began to feast on the goal posts with piranhalike merriment.
—Terry Smith
Red Mack shakes loose from a desperation tackle and turns on speed as Middie Jon Zenyuh moves up quickly to challenge Mack.
Sefcik races around right end as Navy’s center Frank Visted leaps over the fallen Notre Dame captain, Ken Adam^n
24
The Scholastic
QHH^SCORES AGAIN....
Knnjrnffl In Appreciation for the Patronage of Notre Dame Men Eddie will chop off your bill
1345 E. Ironwood CE 2-5861 For Reservations
10%
upon presentation of your Student I.D.
SPECIAL RATES FOR
Parties . . .Banquets . . . Special Functions . . .
I
4
after every shave
Splash on Old Spice After Shave Lotion. Feel your face wake up and live! So good for your skin... so good for your ego. Brisk as an ocean breeze. Old Spice makes you feel like a new man. Confident. Assured. Relaxed. You know you’re at your best
when you top off your shave with Old Spice! ]00 oh* in
AFTER SHAVE LOTION
by SHULTON
' December 4, 1959
SJlAJUUMlUd
- College Sports E
Back of the Year
BILLY CANNON
LSU
, Halfback
Coach <
RIP
PE
LSU, Syracuse, Army, Stanford, USC PlaceTwo On Sports Editors’ Fourth Annual All-America * *
Once again the Scholastic is pleased to announce its annual College Sports Editors’ All-American football team. This is the fourth such team to be selected. The poll was initiated by Scholastic sports editor John Glavin in 1956.
The two elevens selected in our poll were chosen by the sports editors of the college publications throughout the country. Over 300 sports editors were sent ballots and asked to pick the top player of the year at each position plus a Back of the Year, Lineman of the Year and Coach of the Year.
Each year the response to our poll keeps improving. More votes were cast this year than in any of the three previous years. Naturally some of the ballots are biased and represent only a regional awareness of college football and its top players, but this is offset by the cross-sectional participation in the poll. We feel that the fourth annual College Sports Editors’ All-American selections represent a comprehensive and accurate reflection of the opinion of the college sports editors throughout the country.
Coach of the Year. This season was marked by the resurgence of great football teams in the East, something that has been lacking for several years.
Syracuse and Penn State of course were two of the best teams in the country with Syracuse almost sure to be the nation’s leader in both offense and defense and annexing its first national football championship.
The balloting for Coach of the Year honors finished in an almost dead heat between Rip Engle of Penn State and Ben Schwartzwalder of Syracuse, with Engle winning by a mere two votes. While Syracuse admittedly had a more successful year as far as the won-lost record is concerned, the voters evidently were of the opinion that Engle did just as good a job of developing his players as did Schwartzwalder. The Penn State-Syracuse game indicates the evenness of the two teams as Syracuse just edged out Rip Engle’s Nittany Lyons 22-20.
This was Engle’s 10th season as head
by BILL CARY
coach at Penn State and his overall record is now 61-28-4. He is one of the most respected men in the coaching profession today. Engle will take his squad to the Liberty Bowl in Philadelphia later in December.
Back of the Year. For the second year in a row Billy Cannon, LSU’s 208-pound bundle of power and speed, is our Back of the Year. A 6-1 senior, Cannon can run the 100 in 0:9.5.
Probably his most famous accomplishment this season was an 80-yard punt return against Mississippi in the final quarter of play to preserve LSU’s unbeaten record. In this run Cannon was at his explosive best, shaking off and out-maneuvering a whole host of tacklers.
His coach Paul Dietzel has this opinion of Cannon: “Billy’s by far the best athlete I’ve ever coached. Give him a step and he’s gone. But if there’s no room, he’ll run over you, and when he does, it hurts.”
Cannon was a near unanimous choice for the Back of the Year accolade. A look at his 1958 performance quickly shows why. He carried the ball 115 times for a net gain of 686 yards, an average of six yards per carry. He completed three out of four passes not including the TD toss to Mickey Mangham which won the Sugar Bowl for LSU. He caught nine passes for 162 yards and one TD, returned nine punts for 89 yards and two kickoffs for 82.
Lineman of the Year. Bill Burrell’s achievements as middle linebacker of Ray Eliot’s Fighting Illini are almost legend. The 6-0, 210-pound senior made an almost unbelievable total of over 130 tackles in nine games.
Burrell’s performances in the Army and Purdue games of this past season are especially noteworthy. Against the Cadets he made 22 tackles, intercepted one pass, recovered two fumbles and made tackles which resulted in two other fumbles by Army — all of which caused
ERNIE DAVIS
Sophomore All-American
Eliot to label these deeds as “the greatest single linebacking job” he had ever seen.
Against the Boilermakers Burrell was in on the astronomical number of 26 tackles. He twisted his knee in the third quarter and had to be helped off the field but came back on in the final period to help halt a Purdue drive and preserve a 7-7 tie.
In high school Burrell was a fullback but was switched to guard as a freshman. Possessing tremendous strength and agility, Burrell is at his best in pulling out to lead a sweep or to crossblock the opposite tackle. In the Wisconsin game it was Burrell’s bone-crushing and precision blocking that opened up wide holes in the heralded Badger defense.
Ends. Monty Stickles, Notre Dame’s talented-toed flankman, and Bill Carpenter, Army’s “lonesome end,” walked away with the end positions on the first team. Nobody else was even close to them in the balloting.
This marks the second year in a row
NORTON	BURFORD	FLOYD	CORDILEONE	R. DAVIS
.28
The Scholastic
SMITH	FUGLER	NORMAN	ANDERSON	WHITE
for Stickles on the first team. The 6-4, 225-pound end from Poughkeepsie, N. Y., was hindered in his pass catching activity this year because one-half of the famous Izo-Stickles combination spent most of the time on the sidelines nursing a knee injury. But his talents as a kicker came to the fore and he booted a couple of field goals which were over forty yards, one of these winning the Navy game for the Irish, 25-22. Stickles is almost certain to be a first round draft choice of professional football.
Bill Carpenter in the opinion of his former coach, Red Blaik, is “the best pass receiver and best downfield blocker he has seen in many years.” In addition Carpenter has proved to be a clever defensive player with size and strength enough to meet the attack head-on, and with cleverness and speed enough to hand-fight and cover the flank.
The second team ends are Don Norton of Iowa and Chris Burford of Stanford. Burford, the main target of Dick Norman’s accurate aerials, is the 6-3, 198-pound captain of Stanford and called “one of the best ends in Stanford’s football history.” Norton, at 170 pounds, is perhaps the finest lineman at his size in the country. He is a tremendous receiver and very capable on defense.
Tackles. The tackle spots on the first team are manned by Dan Lanphear of Wisconsin and Dan Ficca of Southern Cal.
Lanphear, at 6-2, 214, is one of the main reasons why the Badgers will be heading out West this month to get ready for the Rose Bowl. A braising tackler, Lanphear had to be double teamed by all of the Badger opponents.
Ficca is a burly 230-pounder from Atlas, Pa., and is by general agreement the best tackle on the West Coast, particularly proficient on defense in piling up the enemy blockers and stopping a play cold.
The second team tackles, Don Floyd of TCU and Lou Cordileone of Clemson, were right behind Lanphear and Ficca in the voting.
Cordileone’s credentials are best summed up by these comments of his opponents: Billy Cannon, “I don’t know his name but that No. 74 was on my back all afternoon,” and Bo Strange, “He’s
the toughest guy I ever played against.” Cordileone weighs in at 245 and his nickname is “Big Momma.”
His running mate Don Floyd is in the words of his coach Abe Martin, “a player of tremendous agility and saavy who never makes a big mistake.” Floyd is 6-3, 215 and hits very hard.
Guards. Along with Bill Burrell the first team guard position is manned by Mike McKeever of USC. McKeever, one of the most sought after high school prospects in history along with his twin brother Marlin, is living up to all expectations and is undoubtedly one of the toughest linemen around. At 6-1, 218, he and his brother are top pro prospects.
Roger Davis of Syracuse and Zeke
SECOND TEAM
Don Norton, Ie _________________  Iowa
Don Floyd, It--------------------- TCU
Roger Davis, Ig ............  Syracuse
Max Fugler, c ...................  LSU
Zeke Smith, rg ...............  Auburn
Lou Cordileone, rt ..........  Clemson
Chris Burford, re ............Stanford
Dick Norman, qb ............. Stanford
Ernie Davis, hb................J._Syracuse Bob Anderson, hb...........___....Army.
Bob White, fb_______________Ohio State
Smith of Auburn are two of the best second team guards we know of. These two boys just missed making the first team. Davis led the powerful Syracuse line which was responsible for the Orangemen ranking first in the nation in both offense and defense. Smith once again was the anchor of the Auburn defense which has always been one of the best. He was awarded the football writers’ Outland award as the best inside lineman of 1958.
Centers. Our first team selection at center, Maxie Baughan, is the main reason why Georgia Tech had such a strong rushing defense. An extremely quick and sure defender, Baughan made 50 more tackles than anyone else on the Yellow Jacket squad last year.
For the second straight year Max Fugler of LSU is our second team
center. Although small for a college center at 198 pounds, Fugler is the best linebacker in the SEC according to his coach Paul Dietzel.
Quarterbacks. Richie Lucas was practically a one-man show for Rip Engle’s Nittany Lions this year. In his first game against Missouri this year he completed ten of his first eleven passes. Says Engle: “Lucas is the best runner on our team, a good passer, an excellent blocker, and a brilliant defender. He has speed, strength, brains and he’s the team’s best punter.”
Our second team quarterback, Dick Norman from Stanford, led the nation in total offense with over 2,000 yards, almost all of this coming through the air. He had a phenomenal day against California when he completed 34 of 38 passes for over 400 yards.
Halfbacks. Billy Cannon’s partner at halfback on our first eleven is Northwestern’s Ron Burton. The 5-9 speedster set a new scoring record at the Wildcat school with 130 points in three years and also led his team in lushing average this year with 5.6 yards per carry. His coach, Ara Parseghian, describes him as having “every requirement a coach could want in a player.”
Ernie Davis of Syracuse and Bob Anderson of Army are the second team halfbacks. Davis is only a sophomore but he was sensational this year as he blasted through the holes opened by the Syracuse line. He is a big man at 6-2, 205. For Anderson it marks the third straight year that he has made our second team. Perhaps if the Army squad had done better this year, the hard-driving halfback from Cocoa, Fla., would have finally made the first team.
Fullbacks. Charlie Flowers of Johnny Vaught’s Mississippi Rebels was the landslide choice at fullback. Averaging nearly six yards per carry from the fullback spot, the hard-hitting Flowers led the Mississippi rushing attack, one of the best in the country.
Last year’s first team fullback, Bob White of Ohio State, has been demoted to second team. Running behind a less powerful line has hurt the tremendously powerful runner’s effectiveness.
December 4, 1959
29
Notre Dame........10
Georgia Tech . ... 14
MI SC UES
NOTRE DAME, Ind., Nov. 7, 1959—Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish fell today before the ground game of Georgia Tech’s “Rambling Wreck.” The score was 14-10, but it doesn’t tell "the story of a Fighting Irish squad that played one of their "better games of the year.
Monty Stickles scored all ten Irish points with a 41-yard field goal, a touchdown and PAT. But this was not enough to offset the many miscues which marred the Irish game and gave the Yellow Jackets their sixth victory of the season.
The Green fumbled the ball to Tech four times and Jost the pigskin three times via the interception route. And Notre Dame was not able to dent the Tech defenses with any degree •of regularity with the exception of a White-to-Stickles touchdown pass in the final stanza.
Georgia Tech, on the other hand, got a couple of chances and made the most of them. A 32-yard run set up the first Tech touchdown while a 41-yard kickoff return after Stickles’ touchdown set up the winning tally. The Irish defense was able to contain Tech’s passing game but on these two occasions, the Green couldn’t contain their explosive backfield. The less than sharp Tech line play didn’t slow the Engineer’s attack.
It was Tech’s running game that pinned the fourth loss of the season on the Irish. The Yellow Jackets continually gained through the Irish line, picking up 181 rushing yards. Tech tried only three passes, two fell incomplete and one was intercepted by Don White early in the first quarter on the Notre Dame eleven.
Tech fullback Taz Anderson played an outstanding game, gaining 85 yards. Anderson was the workhorse of the final Tech drive in the fourth quarter, carrying the ball four of nine plays from scrimmage. Quarterback Marv Tibbetts, a junior quarterback, usually used on defense, scored both touchdowns for the Yellow Jackets. Tibbetts sneaked over from the one-foot line in the third quarter for Tech’s first score and ran through the Irish defenses on a six-yard keeper play for the winning points.
The fourth quarter Tech rally was initiated by halfback Frank Nix. Nix gobbled up Stickles’ kickoff after the Irish score and returned the ball 41 yards to Irish territory. From there Tibbetts and Anderson took over and pushed the winning tally across with only 4:27 to play. After that, the Irish
Statistics ND GT
Total First Downs ...... 9	11
Net Yards Rushing..... 64	181
Net Yards Passing ____ 173	21
Passes Attempted ...... 24	6
Passes Completed ....... 9	3
Passes Intercepted by ....	1	3
Punts (number) ......... 7	8
Punting Average ...... 37.0 35.0
Fumbles (number) _______ 5	3
Ball Lost (fumbles) .... 3	3
Yards Penalized ........ 20	0
simply ran out of time. But they didn’t give up.
The Irish attack was led by Don White. White, who played 59 minutes, pitched a 43-yard touchdown pass to Stickles. White’s passing had improved steadily throughout the season and this scoring play was well executed. White completed nine of 22 passes for 173 yeards. Passing was the focal point of the Irish attack. But the Green couldn’t run over the Tech defenses. They gained only 64 yards on the ground.
Notre Dame’s inability to gain on the ground probably cost them the game. The Green only penetrated past the Tech 35-yard line three times. Once for the touchdown, another before the field goal. On the only other threat, White fumbled on the Tech 10. Otherwise the Yellow Jackets contained the Irish offensive series very well.
Joe Perkowski, sophomore fullback, gained 51 yards on the ground for Notre Dame. Ken Adamson, Bob Scarpitto and Bob Scholtz played the full game. Adamson, Scholtz and Ollie Flor were the Irish leaders on defense.
The Irish were alert on defense, grabbing off three Tech fumbles. The offense worked fairly well but when the Green got close, the Tech defense tightened up. The Irish couldn’t take advantage of their 3-0 half time lead and the stubborn Engineer offense churned a fighting Notre Dame team under with one TD in both the third and fourth quarters.
Coach Bobby Dodd added these sentiments after the game. “Both teams made lots of mistakes, but I am sure that neither team ever fought harder from beginning to end of a football game. It is always a great victory when you can come from behind twice like our players against a real scrapping Notre Dame team.” Kuharich said that he couldn’t “find fault with the ball club. We played pretty well but they played a bit better.”
Mistakes at the wrong time once again spelled defeat for the Irish. Defensively the squad performed adequately, allowing only two touchdowns, but a spasmodic and sputtering offense cost the Kuharichmen the game. Every time Notre Dame began to muster an offensive drive, it was quickly quenched by an interception, fumble, penalty or a long loss.
Tech used alternate units to wear down the tired Irish defenders who played almost the entire game. Bobby Dodd played it close to the vest as always and against the young Irish it paid off.	—Greg Rogers
( 1
* I
t *
1
Red Mack puts on the brakes as he returns a punt against Georgia Tech. All-American Maxie Baughan moves in to tackle Mack.
Right halfback Bob Scarpitto pulls out around left end as the whole Yellow Jacket line follows in hot pursuit of the junior speedster.
30
The Scholastic
Notre Dame.........13
Pittsburgh.........28
MUDDERS
PITTSBURGH, Pa., Nov. 14, 1959 — The moody Pittsburgh Panther turned vicious here today and sent Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish screaming from its muddy cage with a 28-13 mauling. The game was played on a muddy field in a steady rain. '
A crowd of 52,337 saw the Steel City eleven, which had been a hot and cold team during their first eight games in । splitting even, produce its best performance of the fall campaign and deal Notre Dame its second straight loss and fifth in eight contests.
The Panther “C” backfield of halfbacks Fred Cox and Bob Clemens along with fullback Jim Cunningham tallied the four Pitt touchdowns, with the latter scoring twice.
Cunningham, a stocky five-foot-eleven, 205-pound junior, ended the day with 101 yards rushing while Cox added another 99. The Panthers total offense was only 261.
But the longest play of the rain-drenched game was by Clemens who struck t the first blow at the Irish with a 64-yard punt return in the middle of the first period. ; Cox added the first of his four conversions. ’ The Irish, using an all-sophomore unit under the direction of George Haffner, I	threatened mildly to avenge this initial
I	stab following the kickoff but managed to
। reach only the Pitt 37 when soph halfback I George Sefcik was forced to punt. | The ball changed hands again in the $ early part of the second frame and the Panthers were once more in possession on their own 27.
A few short jabs at the Irish mid-section put the pigskin s on the Irish 44 from where Cox landed the second blow — • a 44-yard dash through left tackle. The 73-yard march took j only eight plays and Cox kicked his second conversion.
j The Panthers had the Irish on the run near the end of i the half but a holding penalty stalled off another score al: though Pitt was on the five as the gun sounded.
- The halftime rest appeared to be just what Notre Dame ■ needed for within a minute and a half after the start of the third quarter, Coach Joe Kuharich’s men had landed their ‘	own haymaker. Red Mack returned the kickoff 28 yards to
.	the Irish 33 and Jim Crotty added nine on a pitchout. Quarter-
back Don White, needing only one yard for a first down, sur-' prised the Panthers by passing to Bob Scarpitto on the Pitt 15, with the play covering 58 yards over-all for the score.
Statistics ND Pitt
Total First Downs ..... 13	14
Net Yards Rushing..... 51	248
Net Yards Passing ...... 165	13
Passes Attempted ........ 14	4
Passes Intercepted by ....	0	0
Punts (number) ......... 7	5
Punting Average ....... 35.0	32.0
Fumbles (number) ....... 5	1
Ball Lost (fumbles) .... 2	0
Yards Penalized ....... 33	60
End Monty Stickles’ conversion gave the Irish their seventh point.
Moments later, Notre Dame appeared to have backed the Panthers to the edge of the cage when a bad pass from center sailed over punter Cox’s head on a fourth down play. Cox still was able to get off a punt and Notre Dame had the ball on their own 43.
A holding penalty forced the Irish into punting situation but the Panthers were called for overaggressiveness in banging into punter Scarpitto and Notre Dame was now in Pitt territory on the 37.
Instead of heading for the goal-line in front of them, the Irish ended up punting from the Panther 46.
The Panthers then hit home with their third blow early in the last quarter.
Cox punted to Irish halfback Bill Clark on the Notre Dame five-yard line but the latter was unable to control the ball and Pitt’s Dave Walker fell on it.
After a one-yard burst, Cunningham took a pitchout and circled the left side for the six-pointer. Cox’s try for the extra point was good and the Panthers led 21-7.
The Panthers added their final and bruising blow the next time they had the ball. Scarpitto punted to Cunningham who returned to the Irish 28. Cox, Cunningham and Clemens took turns, as Pitt moved the ball to the ND six although quarterback Ivan Toncic added nine yards on a keeper. Notre Dame was penalized to the three and from there Cunningham scored again. Cox made his fourth conversion.
The Irish received the kickoff with only five minutes to go and were able to tally again on the passing of quarterback George Izo. He passed 14 yards to Mack, 36 to Scarpitto and finally eight to Scarpitto. There was less than three minutes left when Stickles’ conversion was wide.
It was too late for the Irish. The muddy field and the steady downpour had prevented the Irish from launching a concerted air attack against the Panthers. The alternative was to try to move the ball against the tough Pitt line and this proved to be impossible. Pitt played probably its best game of the season and the mud-soaked Irish never could coordinate a sustained march.
—Tom Bates
I
Bruising Pitt fullback Jim Cunningham is shown ramming into the Irish line for his second TD. ■
December 4, 1959
Bob Scarpitto, who has got behind the Pitt defender, gathers in Don White’s pass for a 58-yard scoring play.
31
Notre Dame.......20
Iowa.............19

IOWA CITY, IOWA, Nov. 21, 1959 — A courageous Notre Dame eleven, riding the crest of George Izo’s brilliant return to full-time action, surged back in the fourth quarter with a 56-yard touchdown to upset the Iowa Hawkeyes 20-19. The victory was the first Notre Dame win in four years over Iowa. Coach Forest Evashevski’s gridders were seeking to become the first team in history ever to defeat the Irish four years in a row.
Izo’s return to the line-up made all the difference in the world and for the first time this year- Notre Dame picked up over 400 yards total offense. Izo himself was responsible for 295 yards through the air with 14 completions in 25 attempts and all three touchdowns were scored by receivers on the end of an Izo pass.
The Irish defense was also tremendous, holding the Hawkeyes, who were the second best offensive team in the country and averaging close to 400 yards per ball game, to a mere 200 yards total offense. The vaunted Hawkeye passers, Olen Treadway and Wilburn Hollis, were held to 71 yards and Treadway watched George Sefcik pick off one of his passes late in the game to snap the Iowa quarterback’s string of unintercepted passes at 126. The Irish secondary led by Jim Crotty and Clay Schulz was especially alert in moving up quickly to stop the wide sweeps and off-tackle slants of Jeter and Jauch. And the whole Irish line was very stingy, yielding ground only grudgingly to the powerful Iowa wing-T attack.
The game was played on a slightly soggy field but this didn’t seem to bother the charged up Irish gridders very much as they took the opening kick off and in ten plays were down on the Iowa 21 knocking on the door. But on first down Bay Jauch pilfered an Izo pass and raced 61 yards downfield before Izo, who had waged a desperate battle in staving off a Hawkeye blocker, finally pushed him out of bounds on the ND 22. From here the Hawkeyes were able to push over a score and move out in front, 7-0. But the Irish didn’t give ground easily. It took nine plays for Iowa to move the ball 22 yards. The Notre Dame squad obviously didn’t intend to be pushed around.
After receiving the kickoff, it took Notre Dame just five plays to move deep into Hawkeye territory with a 23-yard
Statistics
ND Iowa
Total First Downs ..... 17	16
Net Yards Rushing .... 131	129
Net Yards Passing .... 295	71
Passes Attempted ........ 25	17
Passes Completed ...... 14	7
Passes Intercepted by ....	3	3
Punts (number) ......... 3	5
Punting Average ....... 32.3	31.6
Fumbles (number) ....... 2	3
Ball Lost (fumbles) .... 0	0
Yards Penalized....... 110	60
Izo-to-Sefcik pass eating up much of the mileage. Then Izo faded back from the Iowa 29 and lofted a perfect strike into the eager arms of All-American end Monty Stickles to knot the score at 7-7.
Late in the first quarter another interception of an Izo pass, this time by Tucker, set the stage for another Hawkeye tally. Tucker returned the ball to the N.D. 25 and a few minutes later Jeter scampered around right end with a perfect block from the fullback Horn to put Iowa in front 13-7.
Two minutes later the lowans were out front 19-7 as Jerry Mauren returned a Sefcik punt 80 yards down the right sideline. It looked as if the game would turn into a rout. The Irish were playing well but Iowa had taken advantage of every opportunity.
But with 8:27 remaining in the half the lethal arm of Izo hit the bulls-eye once again. With third and one on the Iowa 45, Izo called a pass play in hopes of catching the Iowa secondary off guard. The play worked perfectly as right end Pat Heenan got behind the defenders, caught the floating aerial, squirmed from a desperation tackle and stumbled into the end zone.
At halftime the Irish entered the dressing room with a wide edge in statistics but still found themselves on the short end of a 19-13 score.
Late in the third quarter Notre Dame started to march. They moved from their own 18 to the Iowa 4 with Izo’s passes being interspersed with draw plays and straight ahead smashes by Gerry Gray. But with first and goal on the four the Hawkeye linemen rose up to thwart the drive on the one-foot line. This was a tremendous frustration for the Notre Dame squad and it looked as if they had blown their chance. But moments later Izo struck the killing blow. On first down with the ball on the ND 44, he dropped back and curled an arching pass to little George Sefcik who tucked the ball under his arm and scampered into paydirt to tie the score. Stickles calmly booted the ball right between the uprights for the 20-19 lead.
Iowa was beaten physically and psychologically at this point. Sefcik’s interception gave the ball to the Irish with 2:25 remaining and Notre Dame jubilantly ran out the clock.
—Tom Rose
Clay Schulz and Jim Crotty come up fast to stop Ray Jauch for a one-yard gain early in the ball game.
Mike Muehlbauer and Bob Scholtz dose in on Bob Jeter as two Iowa blockers and Max Burnell are left in the wake.
32
The Scholastic
Notre Dame........16
Southern Cal .... 6
MATURITY
NOTRE DAME, Ind., Nov. 28, 1959 — Southern California’s Trojans came to South Bend this overcast November day ranked seventh in the nation with a reputation for trampling their opponents underfoot. Notre Dame’s sophomore-laden Irish showed the same concern for this reputation as they had for that of powerful Iowa the week before: they ignored it, humbling the Trojan powerhouse, 16-6.
Notre Dame began to move early in the first quarter after end Monty Stickles deflected a punt by USC fullback Clark Holden; the ball sailed out of bounds on the Trojan 39-yard line. On the first play, fullback Gerry Gray found a hole at left tackle and sidestepped his way to the USC seven. Here he was tackled and fumbled, but Nick Buoniconti recovered for the Irish on the three yard line. Gray slammed into the end zone on the next play, Stickles converted and the Irish were out in front to stay.
The Irish threatened once more late in the first period as quarterback George Izo passed for 23 and 25 yards to ends Pat Heenan and Stickles, putting the ball on the USC 18. But the drive stalled when Trojan halfback Bob Levingston intercepted Izo’s first down pass.
Southern California had trouble moving the ball in the first half. The quickhitting Notre Dame defense piled up their runners with negligible gains and pressured their passers, Willie Wood and Ben Charles, into throwing erratically. Two breaks gave the Trojans scoring opportunities in the first half — a Levingston interception and subsequent 29-yard return and end Marlin McKeever’s recovery of a fumble on a punt return by Notre Dame’s Jim Crotty. USC quarterback Wood’s fourth down pass sailed out of the end zone to end the first threat, and Irish fullback Joe Perkowski stopped the second with an interception on the Notre Dame six. A few moments later the half ended and the Irish left the field with a 7-0 lead, clearly in control of the situation.
Notre Dame’s second score came in the middle of the third period after a 49-yard march. Pat Heenan made a diving catch of an Izo pass on the Trojan ten. Bob Scarpitto slanted to the right for four more yards, then Izo rolled out to his left behind guards Ken Adamson and Al Sabal and moved to the one-yard line. Fullback Gray picked up his second touchflown on the next play. Stickles again converted and Notre Dame led, 14-0.
Statistics ND USC
Total First Downs----- 17	9
Net Yards Rushing .... 219	97
Net Yards Passing..... 147	118
Passes Attempted ...... 23	38
Passes Completed ........ 11	10
Passes Intercepted by ....	2	3
Punts (number) ......... 5	9
Punting Average ______ 41.0 35.0
Fumbles (number) ....... 4	2
Ball Lost (fumbles) .... 3	1
Yards Penalized ....... 84	40
Angelo Coia gathered in the ensuing kickoff for USC and brought it back to his own 18 where he decided to reverse his field. He gave ground steadily and Gray’s ankle tackle drove him into the end zone for a safety and the Irish were 16 points ahead.
The Trojan offense finally clicked in the fourth quarter for an 84-yard touchdown drive. Sophomore quarterback Charles directed the drive, completing seven passes, and passing to halfback Coia for the final 13 yards. He pushed his luck too far on the conversion attempt; the Irish forward wall would not let him get rid of the football as he tried to pass.
USC’s passing was puzzling in view of the supposedly bruising Trojan ground game, but sure-tackling defensive demons Clay Schulz and Nick Buoniconti had cut down the Southern California runners and forced USC to throw in desperation. Notre Dame weathered the aerial storm, helped by a few jittery Trojan pass-catchers. As USC coach Don Clark so aptly put it, “We had anticipated it might be necessary to pass, but we did not plan on our receivers dropping so many.”
Late in the fourth quarter, a Notre Dame fan in a black surcoat and watchcap, came onto the field to talk things over with the officials. Obviously elated with the score of the game, he glided through the curious USC secondary with half a dozen of South Bend’s finest in pursuit. He was finally pulled down from behind and escorted from the field, but not before he had chalked up one of the finest broken-field runs of the afternoon.
The celebrated McKeever- twins, Mike and Marlin, seldom made the 48,682 chilled spectators aware of their presence. Mike, perhaps better known than his brother, aggravated an ankle injury and sat out the second half. Marlin played a good defensive game but saw little action on offense due to a broken hand which made pass receiving difficult. However no credit should be taken away from these two boys or the USC squad in general for they were beaten by an inspired Irish eleven.
The Irish had ended the season on a far brighter note than the pessimists had predicted, giving Coach Kuharich a commendable five won, five lost record in his first season at Notre Dame.	—Tom Gannon
Ray Ratkowski stops in his tracks as Marlin McKeever comes up to talk things over. Next conference — Nov. 26, 1969.
Sophomore fullback Gerry Gray is off and running on his 35-yard jaunt that led to the first Irish score in the USC game.
December 4, 1959
3*
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
•
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
NOTICE
Award Jackets
GOLD STEERHIDE LEATHER SLEEVES 24-OUNCE WOOL NAVY MELTON BODY
IRRIDESCENT RAYON LINED BLUE AND GOLD TRIMMED
Special $17.95
MINKOW'S
303 So. Michigan St.
NEXT TO PLANTERS PEANUTS Home of Adam Hats, Massagic Shoes, and Campus Sports Clothes.
I960 REDDEN TRAVEL BUREAU
all expense vacation tours
N. D. vs. UNIV, of MIAMI
AT MIAMI, FLORIDA—NOVEMBER 12, 1960
9 Day All Expense Tour
Leave Nov. 7 & Return Nov. 15
6 Days on the ocean at the Seville Hotel
Approximate cost is $240.00
Swim in pool or ocean — fish golf — dog racing — jai alai
“Variety is the spice of life.” Enjoy
GOOD—WHOLESOME DELICIOUS & DIFFERENT CANTONESE FOODS
•
Steaks - Chops Fried Chicken
Sea Foods
•
Reasonably Priced
w
MARK'S CAFE
SEN SAI GAI e
134 N. Main St.
TOURS DEPART in TWO SECTIONS
Sec. 1—Midwest (Chicago) via IC “City of Miami”
Sec. 2—East (Washington, D.C.) via ACL “Champion”
ALASKA SUMMER TOUR DELUXE
18 Day All Expense Tour. Lv. Chicago, Aug. 27—Ret. Sept. 14
See Jasper and Glacier National Parks — staying at their finest hotels — cruise 10 days on the S.S. Prince George, visiting Alaska’s interesting ports — see the Canadian Rockies.
WRITE NOW FOR DETAILED INFORMATION
REDDEN TRAVEL DUREAU
.	1671 Lincolnway East
AT 9-8659 South Bend 14, Indiana AT 8-0420
34
The Scholastic
SPORTS PUBLICITY
In Breen-Phillips hall there is an office which carries on much of the behind-the-scenes work that goes with the football season each year, and continues for the several other varsity sports at Notre Dame. This office is the Department of Sports Publicity, directed by Charles M. Callahan, ’38.
The office, as its name implies, carries out the job of publicizing the Fighting Irish sports teams throughout the country. Its job does not start and end with the school year but continues the whole year. The yearly cycle can be said to begin in July, with the preparations for the publication of the “Fighting Irish Football Dope Book,” and ends when all the material — clippings, pictures, etc. — have been filed away from the spring sports season.	,
The greater majority of work comes during the football season, when sports writers, radio and TV announcers, from across the nation invade South Bend and Notre Dame to watch the Fighting Irish in Notre Dame Stadium. Callahan must see that these men have hotel reservations for the week end, and accommodate them in the press box during the game. He arranges the reporters in the 300-seat press box so that the reporters who need wire sei-vice are close to the Western Union operators. He also sees that the radio-TV men have space for theii- broadcasts from the press box roof booths.
(Continued on page 49)
CHARLIE CALLAHAN AND HIS STAFF
The Irish sports publicist is seated at his desk and * surrounded by the regular members of his hard-working staff. With Callahan are: Mary McCarthy, his personal secretary; Ken Murphy (far left) from Meadville, Pa.; Tom Bates, chief assistant and senior from Meadville, Pa.; and Bob Schaefer, assistant from Minneapolis, Minn.
TRAINER	EQUIPMENT	LIAISON
GENE PASZKIET	JACK McALLISTER	DAVE SLATTERY
Gene Paszkiet, head athletic trainer, mends the bumps and braises that Notre Dame football players inevitably pick up. This year Gene was kept especially busy by the avalanche of injuries that fell upon the team.
Gene is more than a handy man with tape and linament. It takes something of a physician-electrician to use successfully the diathermy machines, infra-red and ultra-violet lamps and whirlpool baths that are included in Gene’s healing equipment.
Gene has been head trainer at Notre Dame since 1952 when he replaced his former boss, Hugh Burns. He is married and lives with his wife and two children in South Bend.
This year marked the 29th football season that Mac has served as Notre Dame’s superintendent of athletic equipment. As such he sees to the distribution of equipment and the cleaning and sorting of the paraphenalia that the Irish gridders wear on the practice field and for the games.	-
The particular need for a good memory arises when Notre Dame takes to the road. For an away game Mac has to make sure seven tranks and foi-ty duffle bags contain everything they should. In them are pants and pads, shoes and socks, light and dark jerseys, rain capes, balls, helmets, miles of tape, and often the team’s own water supply.
Dave is Coach Kuharich’s administrative assistant. He relieves the coaching staff of many of the administrative tasks that are inevitably associated with a football program of the scope of Notre Dame’s. Dave directs the secretarial help needed each fall to keep up with the mountains of correspondence.
Off-season Dave devotes considerable time to public relations work, supplying the Notre Dame clubs around the country with Irish football game films disseminating the Notre Dame athletic philosophy whenever he travels.
Slattery is well-qualified as a salesman of the Notre Dame football idea. He graduated from Notre Dame in 1948 and was Scholastic sports editor.
December 4, 1959
35

SENIOR STARS
1959 NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TEAM
FIRST ROW: (left to right) Monty Stickles, George Izo, Mike Muehlbauer, Ollie Flor, Bob Scholtz, Capt. Ken Adamson, Jim Crotty, Pat Heenan, Don White, Al Sabal, Mike Lodish, Henry (Rusty) Wilke.
SECOND ROW: (left to right) George Williams, Dan Luecke, Bob Scarpitto, Ray Ratkowski, Bill Clark, Frank Gargiulo, Jim Colosimo, Dick Cicsielski, Tom Rini, Ed Nebel, Dick Roth, John Castin, Tom Monahan, Rich Boyle.
, THIRD ROW: (left to right) Jim Mikacich, Charles Augustine, Max Burnell, Tom Liggio, Bob Koreck, John Linehan, Bob Pietr-| zak, Jim Kane, Tom Jorling, Bob Bill, Nick Buoniconti, Joe Carol-lo, Bob Hinds, Angelo Dabiero, George Sefcik.	'
f FIFTH ROW: (left to right) Pete Sayour (mgr.), Ed Kfoury |	(mgr.), Bill Ford, Don Candido, Frank Grau, Dick O’Leary, Bill
| Snyder, Bill Killilea (mgr.).
FOURTH ROW: (left to right) Les Traver, Mike Magnotta, Bill Clements, George Haffner, John Powers, Gene Vida, Mike Giacinto, Jim Loula, Dick Naab, Tom Hecomovich, Gerry Gray, Ted Zmarzly, Roger Wilke, Clay Schulz, Joe Perkowski.
INSERTS: (left to right) Myron Pottios, Pat Healy, Norb Roy, Pat Doyle, Bill Mack.
I 17 SENIORS FINISH IRISH GRID CAREER
Seventeen seniors played their final | game for Notre Dame against Southern | California last Saturday. It was fitting ; and proper -that these sturdy young men i should close out their college' careers in a blaze of glory provided by the stirring 16-6 upset win over the highly regarded Men of Troy.
Team Leader. Leading the retiring seniors is the player who led them on the field all during the year. We speak here of Notre Dame’s fine captain of 1959, Ken Adamson. Ken was an inspiration to his teammates with his gritty play and never-say-die attitude. He will be a hard man to replace.
i Another major graduation loss is • the celebrated Irish wingman, Monty [ Stickles. Monty thrilled the fans throughout the year with his fine all-
I around play and also booted three field I goals, one of which beat Navy in the E' final 32 seconds. He showed his running ’ ability in the USC game, executing the ; end-around play with great skill.
i Jim Crotty returned to the Irish line-\ up against Pittsburgh after being out i of action with an injury suffered in the
California tussle. He starred on defense in the upset victories over Iowa and Southern California. Jim gave the Irish 100% at all times on the field and will be missed next year, both for his fine defensive efforts and his fighting spirit.
Quarterbacks Gone. Don White and George Izo shouldered most of the quarterback burden this year. These two seniors gave the Irish good strength at the vital quarterback slot. White led the Irish in wins over North Carolina and Navy and Izo filled the same capacity in the stirring wins over Iowa and USC. Finding adequate replacement for these two signal callers will be one of the major problems for the Irish next year.
Bob Scholtz led the Irish in tackles with 83, one more than Captain Adamson. “Big Bob” was a standout for the Irish for three years and his steady play was one of the features of the season just completed. He enjoyed his finest game against the Wildcats of Northwestern.
A player who was a pleasant surprise this year was Ollie Flor. He took over the left tackle spot when Joe Carollo was
injured and played good ball in every game. He was one of the heroes of the USC win with his aggressive play.
Al Sabal and Mike Muehlbauer were two steady performers at guard. Sabal started four games and gave the Irish experienced linebacking. Muehlbauer was a capable relief man for Adamson.
When Bob Bill was injured, Dick “Choo-Choo” Ciesielski was called on to replace him and did a very commendable job. The native South Bender distinguished himself in the Northwestern game with his fine play.
Cinderella Man. Pat Heenan, Rusty Wilke and Mike Lodish were three senior ends who played fine ball for the Irish. Heenan was the “Cinderella Man” who made the jump from interhall to the first string of the varsity. Both Wilke and Lodish gave good accounts of themselves in the games they played in.
Pat Doyle, Jim Colosimo, Tom Rini and Ed Nebel saw only spot action but each played with the determination that' marks a Notre Dame player.
To all of these seniors we extend.our appreciation for four fine years of good hard football here at Notre Dame. -
December 4, 1959
Left to Right: Don Doll, Backfield Coach; Hugh Devore, Freshman Coach; Bill Daddio, Assistant Coach; Dick Evans, Line Coach; Dick Stanfel, Assistant Line Coach; Joe Scudero, Assistant Backfield Coach; Joe Kuharich, Head Coach.	,
§
Notre Dame Coaches
Most descriptions of a coaching staff start with the head coach perfunctorily. A description of the new Notre Dame coaching staff must begin with Head Coach Joe Kuharich for a different reason. He is the focal point around which the entire staff revolves.
If there is anything that the members of the staff have in common, it is com-
Kuharich plete confidence in the coaching ability and knowledge possessed by Coach Kuharich. The new members of the staff (all are new except Hugh Devore, holdover freshman coach) all came to Notre Dame primarily to work with and under the man Frank Gifford of the professional New York Giants last May called “the greatest coaching genius in football today.”
With him to Notre Dame Coach Kuharich brings a varied coaching back-
by TED THOMPSON
ground in both college and professional ranks. His most significant college coaching achievement is his undefeated ten-game season at the University of San Francisco in 1951. This team, composed entirely of San Francisco area boys other schools had rejected, has furnished a number of stars to the pros.
Following his undefeated season at USF, he joined the staff of the Cards in 1952, was out of football officially in 1953 and became line coach of the Washington Redskins in 1954. In late August of the same year he was named head coach and served there until he accepted the Notre Dame position last winter.
His was the only team in the National Football League to use an unbalanced line with the straight “T” offense. He plans to install that same offense here after a few years. Just as it took the Redskins three years to adjust to such an offense, it will take about three years for Notre Dame to learn Coach Ku-harich’s offense. In the meantime he plans to employ the balanced line.
At Notre Dame Coach Kuharich has
had a well-conditioned, hard-hitting, proud, and clean and well-dressed team. He has always insisted on conditioning. He says, “If a team can’t run, it can’t win.” Although he is supposed to be a strict disciplinarian, his players at the Redskins had tremendous affection for him. His players respected and liked his leadership. A big man, he was always a gentle man. The four Redskin players who were in the team’s office when the announcement of his acceptance of the position at Notre Dame was made came as close to crying as grown men do.
Coach Kuharich runs very tight practice sessions. He knows what he wants to accomplish before he sets foot on the practice field. His fantastic eyesight enables him to stand at one point on the practice field and observe minute details at both ends of the field. From his position he barks corrections when he observes mistakes, but during both practice sessions and during games he shows very little emotion except pacing constantly up and down the sidelines. He
The Scholastic

is, however, actually a very emotional coach.
Imbedded in his coaching theories is a firm belief in formal yet close contact with his players. He tries to have some personal contact with all his players. As an example of this, one need only point to the fact that he called in for personal interviews all of the 104 players, invited to participate for spring practice, before the players left school for the summer.
A capsule of Coach Kuharich’s coaching beliefs would show that he is a product of two of the three great coaching eras, Knute Rockne of Notre Dame and Jock Sutherland of Pittsburgh. The third was Pop Warner. While he places important stress on physical conditioning, he realizes that his teams must also be mentally and emotionally prepared.
There is definitely a “Kuharich player.” He must be well-dressed, well-spoken, well-conditioned, and hard-hitting. He must have the confidence in his coach that his coach has in him and must be willing to work to attain the state of preparedness that Coach Kuharich demands.
It is only fitting that Bill Daddio, who is in charge of the ends, is Coach Kuharich’s first assistant because it is he who possibly gave up the most to join i	Coach Kuharich here.
J Daddio was secure 3 at Purdue and was happy in his job there. A number of the people down there, who knew that he was a good friend of Coach Kuharich, Daddio felt that Daddio would stay on at Purdue anyway.
But they were wrong. Daddio felt so strong a desire to work with Coach Kuharich that he decided to make the switch and come to Notre Dame.
Daddio is the only member of the new staff besides Kuharich to have previous experience as head coach of a four-year college. He was head mentor of Allegheny College in his home town of Meadville, Pa., from 1947 through 1951. Following his stay at Allegheny, he joined Coach Kuharich and the Chicago Cardinals as line coach for the 1952 season. After scouting for the Pittsburgh Steelers the next fall, he joined the Purdue staff in the spring of 1954.
He followed his graduation from Pittsburgh in 1939 by coaching at Pitt for two years before trying his hand at pro ball with the Cardinals during the ’41 and ’42 seasons. Four years in the Navy then preceded his taking of the position at Allegheny.
One of his highest ambitions outside of the football realm is to annex the South Bend city golf championship to his list of link achievements. While at Allegheny he was the golf coach as well as the football coach and was city champion of Meadville during part of the time. While at Purdue he also became city champ of Lafayette. Daddio was a golf pro for five years, the five years at
December 4, 1959
Allegheny, but has regained his amateur status.
Line coach Dick Evans has more
coaching experience than any member of the varsity staff with 14 years of coach
ing behind him. He is the only member of the staff to accompany Coach Kuharich to Notre Dame from the Redskins.
Evans would like to stay with football and coaching and especially with Kuharich. He says that one of
Evans the things he likes most about Coach
Kuharich is that you work with Coach Kuharich and not for him.
Evans will handle the line, particularly the tackles. In remarking about the difference between coaching in college and in the pros, he said that the pros were of course much more advanced in football knowledge and had more experience. Here he will spend much more time on fundamentals. In college coaches have to go back to the basic aspects of the game and spend much more time on fundamentals. He also commented on
the lack of experience among college football players as a main influence on coaching techniques and emphasis.
Inasmuch as he handled the phones in
the press box for Washington, it is likely that he will do the same thing here. This requires a knowledge of the entire team, not just the line, and demands more than a passing acquaintance with
each of the opponents.
His family which consists of his wife and three children comprise his most important extra-curricular activity.
Dick Stanfel, former All-Pro guard at Detroit, is the proverbial “strong, silent type.” A big man, Stanfel is somewhat
Stanfel
reserved at first but loves to talk with his friends, one of the best of whom is Joe Scudero, flashy assistant backfield coach.
Stanfel was recently elected to the USF Hall of Fame and was also designated as the outstanding guard in the school’s history. He was also
picked by his teammates as the most
valuable player on the 1954 world cham
pionship Detroit Lion team.
Stanfel compares coaching to playing (he just finished his seventh year in the-NFL with Detroit and Washington) this way: “It is much easier to play than to coach. When'you’re playing, you only have one man to worry about and that’s yourself. When you’re coaching, you have many men to be concerned about. Also coaching takes much more time than playing ever did. I’ve found that out already.”
Stanfel is here to study under Coach Kuharich as well as to work under him.
The All-Pro lineman regards his new boss as one of the best teachers in coaching today. Stanfel likens coaching under
Coach Kuharich to sitting in a classroom, “some of it is bound to rub off.”1
Don Doll, the new backfield coach, is immediately noted for setting up the pass defense that halted George Izo in
the ND-USC last November while working with the backfield at S outhern California.
Previous to his tenure at Southern Cal, he served as backfield coach at the University of Washington in 1955 and handled the
DoH	head coaching duties
at West Central Costa
Junior" College the following fall.
He has moved around quite a bit since his start in pro ball in the 1949 season. Four of the six years he played in the NFL, with Detroit, Washington, and Los Angeles; he gained All-League honors as defensive back. Then he coached at three different schools for three years until he signed on at Notre Dame last winter.
He finds it hard to move around from one place to another so much. He said that he wants to be able to stay in an area long enough to be a part of it.
The flashiest and liveliest member of the new staff is Joe “Scooter” Scudero, 28-year old combination football coachactor.
Scudero, who prances around in his fiery Thunderbird, played with Stanfel, his close friend, under Coach Kuharich on USF’s fine teams in 1949, ’50 and ’51.
This is his first attempt at coaching-
Scudero His last seven years have been spent in pro ball, one with Detroit, one with the Toronto Argonauts of the Canadian League and the last five with the Redskins.
His co-occupation is the theater. Having graduated from USF with a dramatic arts major, he has appeared in a number of the popular TV westerns and in some movies, usually as a “bad guy.” He hopes, among other things, to outgrow this particular type of role and to be recognized by Hollywood as a more versatile actor.
It may seem that trying to remain active in the theater and in coaching at the same time would be too demanding, but Scudero will be able to handle the combination if his performance during his final semester is any indication of his determination.
Having saved seven courses, including four history and two political science courses, for his final semester because of football, he had classes all morning from eight to twelve, he was out for track in the afternoon, from seven in the evening until midnight he worked on the theater, in plays, etc., he slept from midnight until four in the morning at which time he got up and studied until time for his first class.
I I—JI	■ I Wl
39
3
1
Final 1959 Season Statistics
	TEAM	KICKOFFS RETURNED			PUNTS RETURNED	£	
Notre Dame 171 	 141 	 84 	 53 	 4 	 1352 			 458 	 3.0 	 1431 	 204 	 91 	 .446 	 13 	 187 	 2783 	 59 	 2186 	 37.0 	 381 	 36 		 21 		 Scarpitto .... Heenan 	 Stickles 	 Sefcik 		 Traver	 Crotty 	 Gray 	 Dabiero 	 Lodish 	 H. Wilke	 Mack 	 Colosimo 	 Perkowski .. Burnell 	 Scarpitto .... Stickles — Crotty 	 Sefcik 	 Gray 	 White 	 Ratkowski .. Heenan 	 Traver 	 Team 		Opponents 	 Points Scored 	 180 	 First Downs 	 137 	 by Rushing 	 92 	 by Passing 	 36 	by Penalties	 9 	 Yards Rushing 	 1685 	 Times Carried 	 452 	 Yards-per-try 	 3.7 	 Yards Passing	 987 ... Passes Attempted 	 165 ... Passes Completed 	 65 Completion Percentage 	394 Passes Intercepted by 	 19 . Yards Int. Returned 	 291 . TOTAL OFFENSE 	 2672 	 Punts		 62 	 Total Yards 	 2139 	 Average 	 34.5 Yards Punts Returned 	 348 	 Fumbles 	 39 	 Ball Lost 	 20 PASSES CAUGHT Number Yards TD 	 15	297	4 	  12	198	1 	  11	235	2 	 11	203	2 	 8	142	1 	 8	104	0 	 8	56	0 	 6	64	0 	 3	26	0 	 2	27	0 	 2	24	0 	 2	23	0 	 2	12	0 	 1	20	0 SCORING TD PAT SAF FG Pts. 	..... 8	0	0	0	48 	 ... 2	16	0	3	37 	 3	0	0	0	18 	 3	0	0	0	18 	 3	0	0	0	18 	 1	2	0	0	8 	 1	1	(pass) 0	0	8 	 1	0	0	0	6 	 1	0	0	0	6 	 0	0	2	0	4		Scarpitto ... Sefcik 	 Mack 	 Dabiero 	 Ratkowski . Gray 	 Perkowski . Crotty 	 Heenan 	 Williams ... Clark 	 Gray 	 Sefcik 	 Scarpitto .... Crotty 	 Perkowski .. Dabiero 	 Ratkowski .. Mack 	 Gargiulo .... Stickles 	 Naab 	 Doyle 	 Schulz 	 Healy 	 Clark 	 Rini 	 Izo 	 Haffner 	 White 	 PASS White 	 Sefcik 	 Scarpitto ... Ratkowski . Schulz 	 Crotty 	 Perkowski . Hecomovitch Sefcik 	 Scarpitto .. White 	 Izo 	 White 	 Haffner 		No. Yds. TD	No. Yds. Avg. 	 12	247	0	Sefcik 	 10	138	13.8 	 7	140	0	Scarpitto 	 7	118	16.9 	 5	98	0	Ratkowski 	 6	52	8.7 	 4	70	0	Dabiero 	 4	27	6.8 	 2	43	0	Traver 	 1	20	20.0 	 2	39	0	Mack 	 3	16	5.3 	 2	38	0	White 	 2	8	4.0 	 2	36	0	Stickles 	 1	2	2.0 	 1	26	0	Clark 	 1	0	0.0 	 1	7	0	Haffner 	 1	0	0.0 	 15	0 RUSHING	DEFENSIVE STATISTICS TC. Yds. Avg.	Opponents Fumbles Recovered 	 50	256	5.1	Adamson 4; Heenan and Scholtz 	 49	206	4.8	3. sefcik and Traver 2;	Roy, Pow-	 59	199	3.8	erSj pietrzak, Schulz, H.	Wilke and 	 83	184	3.0	Stickles 1. 	 53	164	3.1 	 36	118	3*3	Tackles 		 26	108	4.2	,	«	. 32	86	2 7	Scholtz	83;	Adamson 82; Buom- 14	g4	4 g	conti 67; Stickles 52; Schulz 46; 4	27	6 9	39;	Sabal 37; Traver and 3	26	8 7	Scarpitto	33;	Crotty 29; Heenan 10	20	2 0	and Bill 28; Pottios 24; Gray 23; 1	15	15 0	Sefcik and Corollo 22; White and 1	14	14 0	Muehlbauer 21; Ratkowski and ?	jg	lg	Williams	18;	Haffner 14; Ciesiel- 1	0	0 0	an^ Dabiero 43 > Hecomovitch, 6	-28	-4 6	H. Wilke, Mack and Perkowski 8	-52	-6 5	42; Pieta^ak and Burnell 9; Clark 42	_gg	1 g	6; Lodish 5; Powers and Naab 4; Roy, Doyle and Gargiulo 3; Mag-INTERCEPHONS	notta and Colosimo 2; Koreck, No Yds TD	Nebel, Healy, Mikacich, Augu- 3	39	0	stine and Izo 1. 	 3	35	0 	 1	48	1	Passes Broken	Up 	 1	43	1 1	13	0	Sefcik 4; Sabal and Scarpitto 1	6	0	Schulz, Ratkowski, Flor and 2	3	0	Stickles 2; White, Mack, Buoni- 10	0	conti, Colosimo, Perkowski, Adam- son, Traver, Corollo, Scholtz, Gray, PUNTING	Lodish and Heenan 1. No. Yds. Avg. .... ’ 25	937	37.4 .... 32	1189	37.2	Blocked Kicks ....	2	60	30.0	Stickles, Traver and Doyle 1. PASSING	, Att. Comp. Had Int. Yds. TD	Pct. 	 95	44	13	661	6	.463 	 87	39	6	653	3	.448 	 22	8	0	117	1		I I $ $ - A ’ ♦ 1 1 'a , f -
40					The Scholastic	3 Ji
Coacku' Week
From Monday To Sunday
By JAY KILROY
Football coaching at Notre Dame is a profession that does not enjoy the eight hour day, especially during the regular season. For it is then that Coach Joe Kuharich and his staff of assistants have more than enough work to do. Yet, they will he the first to admit that irregular working hours are the price of success.
Scudero scouts. The coach’s week begins early Monday morning. Assistant coach Joe Scudero reports to the office about 7:30 to prepare the scouting reports for the next week’s opponent. He has seen this opponent play the preceding Saturday and the reports are usually thirteen or fourteen pages in length. While this scouting report is being prepared, the other coaches are meeting with Kuharich to discuss such things as personnel and basic offensive and defensive patterns. This discussion also includes movies of one of the opponent’s games during which Kuharich points out their basic formations. The coaches return from lunch ..about 1:30 and at that time Coach Kuharich points out to his assistants specific details and changes. He might also introduce a new defensive pattern to be used.
Freshman scrimmage. The Monday afternoon practice begins at 4:00. The players who have played in the game on the preceding Saturday have a short workout which lasts about an hour. During this period they work out the kinks and adjust themselves to the practice sessions ahead. The players who did not participate in the Saturday game scrimmage the freshmen. This scrimmage is controlled, one team running the offensive pattern while the other practices its defense.
Coach Kuharich has a meeting with his squad on Monday evening at 8:00 p.m. It is at this time that he* hands out the scouting reports to the players, adding to these reports with a diagram session and a lecture. In this meeting Kuharich also points out all of the defenses the Irish will use in the next
game. The meeting usually ends at 9:30.
On Tuesday morning the coaches continue their study of such details as offensive and defensive patterns, also discussing personnel changes for the rest of the week. It is at this time that Dave Slattery, Kuharich’s administrative assistant, prepares the injury report, one of his many functions as Kuharich’s aid.
The Tuesday afternoon session consists of a light scrimmage in which the first team defends against the opponent’s plays. Meanwhile the second and third teams alternate on offense in a dummy scrimmage. The teams are rotated throughout the afternoon. The Tuesday night meeting begins at 7:30. Here the players see films of the opponent and learn their assignments for the next game.
High school movies. The Wednesday morning coaches’ meeting begins at nine. At this time Kuharich reviews with his assistants the details of the preceding two days. Changes in lineup are also mentioned and several new offensive plays may be added. It is on Wednesday morning that the assistant coaches also review movies of high school prospects wishing to attend Notre Dame. In the Wednesday afternoon sessions, the coaches stress defense, principally with the first and second units. There is no night meeting.
Personnel changes are of first importance on Thursday morning. Here, the assistant coaches mention the players showing the most improvement on the third, fourth and fifth teams. Slattery, meanwhile, is preparing the dressing list and making all of the arrangements for uniforms and equipment,
IRISH MENTORS DISCUSS STRATEGY
Stanfel, Kuharich and Doll confer during Tech game.
whether home or away. He also takes care of last minute preparations such as charter flights or speaking engagements which he makes while on trips.
Visitors’ day. Much of Friday morning’s time is occupied by high school players and other visitors who are welcomed mainly by Slattery. Once more the coaches review movies of the opponent and in the Friday afternoon session, they again point out all of the defensive assignments to the players.
At least two of the coaches accompany the team to the rally on Friday night. Meeting with the players after the rally, Kuharich and his assistants again lecture on individual assignments and also answer any questions which arise. At this time, the quarterbacks are given a card with forty plays which should be used most successfully against the opponents. After the meeting, Kuharich accompanies the team to a movie.
The coaches and the team attend Mass together on Saturday morning, followed by a light breakfast. The remainder of the morning is spent in leisure. The coaches may take care of any last minute preparations while the players are being taped and dressed. Kuharich makes sure that all of the uniforms fit to perfection, pointing out that the Irish have always been one of the nation’s “best dressed teams.”
After-game huddle. After the ball game, the entire staff meets at Ku-harich’s home to see the game'movies. On Sunday there is a meeting with the players. Here, the player’s are briefed on the next opponent. At the conclusion of this Sunday meeting, the coaches seven-day week comes to an end, but only to begin again on Monday.
December 4, 1959
41
Managers Play Vital Role In the Football Operation
Throughout the football season here at Notre Dame, the job of the Irish football managers is seldom considered by the average spectator. Yet these “unsung heroes” are a vital part of the football operation at Notre Dame.
Student Control
Here at Notre Dame, we have one of the most unique managers’ organizations in the country. It is one of the few that is completely student run. The managers are selected neither by the coaches nor the administration, and all business is carried on within the organization itself.
Killilea Head Manager
This year’s head football manager is Bill Killilea, a senior in the College of Commerce from San Mateo, Cal. Killilea was elected to this position last spring. Selected as his assistants were seniors Ed Kfoury of Andover, Mass., and Pete Sayour of Brooklyn, N. Y. These three men took over their football managerial positions during spring practice last year.
As head football manager, Killilea’s job is one of supervision. In this capacity he must take care of all the demanding situations that arise. He is
also the man with whom the coaches confer. And in general, he directs and supervises the activities of the underclassmen football managers.
Kfoury is in charge of office and personnel. His job includes making arrangements for late dining hall meals, taking care of class cuts and other similar functions. Sayour is in charge of equipment, making sure that all of the uniforms are accounted for and everything is in orderly condition.
Throughout the years, it has been the tradition that the senior managers establish a set routine which is carried out by the freshman, sophomore and junior managers. There are three junior managers. However, each week their job changes. For a week, one may be in charge of the stadium, one takes care of the practice field while the third junior goes on the trips with the team. The junior that travels with the team must take care of accommodations and see that the meals, checks, tips and things of that nature are accounted for.
30 Freshman Managers
There are about thirty freshman managers and fifteen sophomore managers. However, this group is cut down to a total of nine by the junior year, three of them being the football managers. The freshman and sophomore group is primarily the laboring group. They must be present at the practices
and be sure that all of the necessary equipment is there, if needed. They also see to the cleaning and storing of the articles needed for the practice sessions.
Killilea, as the head senior football manager, is generally considered to have f the top manager job on campus. Presiding over meetings which are held about every two weeks, he discusses with the other senior managers the policies which should be carried out and also any new business which might have been presented by any one of the eight other senior managers. Meetings are also held before each home game.
The senior football managers will hold their positions until right before spring practice. At this time they will get together with the six other senior managers and elect the senior managers for the coming season, including the head football manager. All of these newly elected seniors receive either a full or partial scholarship for their final year.
Holy Cross Brothers TEACHING, YOUTH WORK, farming, clerical work done by Brothers are in great need today in the U S and foreign missions
For information and literature write: BROTHER EYMARD, C.S.C.
11 Dujarie Hall Notre Dame, Indiana
A MODERN HOTEL WITH A COUNTRY CLUB ATMOSPHERE
92 Rooms
92 Baths
• TERRACE DINING ROOM
• PRIVATE FUNCTION ROOMS
• BEAUTIFUL PATIO
• GOLF PRIVILEGES
•	CIRCULATING ICE WATER
•	RADIO IN EVERY ROOM
•	LARGE PARKING AREA
{Delightful {Drinks
Excellent facilities for Banquets, Dinners, Luncheons, Meetings and Receptions
Prompt Attention Witt Be Given Your Reservation Reqnest . . . Sorry, No Public Sale of Rooms for Home Football Week Ends.
Owned and Operated by UNIVERSITY of NOTRE DAME
ARMAND E. LYSAK, Manager
42
The Scholastic
' !
The Huddle
Best Wishes to 1959 Notre Dame Football Squad
■ ■ ■ ■ STOP at the HUDDLE , ■ , ■ for that little snack between classes
—
THE CLASS of 1962
Expresses its best wishes to the
1959 FIGHTING IRISH
Lyons - Morrissey - Cavanaugh - Zahm
December 4, 1959
43
HUGH DEVORE
Former head coach of the Philadelphia Eagles now works to ready freshman gridders for the rugged varsity competition.
JOHN MURPHY
South Bend native and very successful and popular coach assists Devore in supervising the development of the Notre Danie frosh.	■
Notre Dame
by BILL CARY	f
The 1959 freshman football team of the University of Notre Dame was under the able guidance and tutelage of , head freshman coach Hugh Devore and his popular* assistant, 4 Johnny Murphy. The frosh assembled on September 14 to ’ start their indoctrination into college football. They were good students, eager to absorb as much knowledge as possible in the short time alloted for practice. How well they learned their lessons can only be ascertained from their performances in the next few years of varsity competition.
Dedicated Men. Head frosh mentor Devore coached the yearling backfield while Coach Murphy tutored the linemen. These men probably never will receive the full credit they deserve for their tireless efforts in teaching the freshman. The freshman year for the college football player is a very important one. The transition from high school ball to the college game is an extremely difficult one for most freshmen. Thus one can easily see the need for top-flight freshman coaching. Notre Dame is indeed fortunate in having two dedicated ) men such as coaches Devore and Murphy. As head Irish tactician Joe Kuharich has said, “I can think of no man better suited to teach freshmen the game of football than Hugh Devore.” The same goes for John Murphy.	*
Blocking and Tackling. The frosh drilled endlessly on such fundamental things as blocking and tackling. Many a winning coach has stated that all good football is built on < the strong foundation of good, crisp blocking and tackling.
- The linemen sharpened up by pushing the blocking sled all over Cartier Field. They learned such things as proper means. of pursuit on plays away from them and how to block for the passer. The backs sharpened their offensive arsenal in passing drills, plus the usual drills in hard running and cutting. Some times the progress was noticeable; at other times it was agonizingly slow. The important thing is that the J frosh didn’t lose faith in the coaches and more important, they didn’t lose faith in their own ability.
Monday Scrimmage. The highlight of each week was the scrimmage on Monday with the varsity reserves. The players who saw extensive action in the varsity game of the preced- , ing Saturday were usually given the day off after a short workout. Then the fun began as the freshmen and varsity reserves banged away at each other with no holds barred.
In some of these sessions the frosh would be on defense , for the entire workout. At other times they played both offense and defense. Regardless of the situation, the frosh always gave a good account of themselves. They played with a real zeal and enthusiasm for contact. Thus they showed that A they have what it takes to be a football player truly representative of Notre Dame.
The frosh have their share of boys who should give a good account of themselves in their upcoming varsity careers. Both . the backfield and line boasts prospects who look like real fine 1 football players.
Good Quarterbacks. The important quarterback slot has four outstanding prospects. Daryle Lamonica, Ed Rutkowski, -Eddie Eck and Norb Rasher rate special consideration here. Lamonica, a 6-2, 205-pounder from Clovis, Calif., is the best passer of the bunch. Rutkowski, from Kingston, Pa., measures	’
6-1, 195. He is rated the best runner of the freshmen signal	I
callers. Eck, 5-11, 165, is from Richmond, Va. Rasher is 6-1, 180 and played his high school ball at Cathedral Latin in Cleveland.
Two fullbacks stood out for the yearlings. Ron Tocchini / and Ron Crawford both are powerful runners who also block well. Thus they fulfill the requirements for a good fullback in the Notre Dame system of attack. Tocchini is from San	.
Francisco where he prepped at St Ignatius High. He stands	'
6-1, 212. Crawford is a 6-3, 225-pound physical specimen from Pana, Ill.
Unsung Heroes. The unsung heroes of any team deserve ■ mention here along with the backs. These unsung heroes are, ■
The Scholastic
,	-	-	-	•	I
44
| Yearlings
I gv
f of course, the linemen who make possi-r ble the fine runs of the backs. The frosh I’ linemen this year are big, fast and | rugged. Most important they thrive on | hard work and body contact.
I
:> Remember the names of Oldenick, ;	Sweeney, Burke, Kutzavitch, Sherlock,
Seiler, Murphy. These boys, barring I	mishap, should distinguish themselves
I on the gridiron in the next few years.
| Ken Oldenick is a big, raw-boned boy | from Cincinnati Purcell High. He tips |, the scales at 235 and stands 6-3. He is I' a tackle. Chuck Sweeney, a burly guard f is 6-2, 225 from Oneonta, N.Y. He is a good blocker and a real hard nose on defense.
Ed Burke, 6-1, 230, and Bill Kutzavitch, 6-2, 205, are the frosh centers. Both of these lads are 17 years old. > Burke is from Mendel High in Chicago and Kutzavitch calls Moon Run, Pa., home.
i Jim Sherlock, Leo Seiler and Denny Murphy are three ranking ends on the • plebe squad. Sherlock is from Mount Carmel High in Chicago, a school that has contributed many standouts to the , Irish. Sherlock is 6-0, 200, and a high school teammate of Irish quarterback George Haffner. Seiler is from Wichita, , Kansas, where he attended Kapaun -J High. He has good hands to go with an £ impressive 6-3, 235-pound frame. Mur-fr phy is the son of Coach Murphy and is a hometown product from South Bend l Adams. He is 18 years old, 6-2, 200 pounds.
,.	18 States Represented. The coaches
"» did a thorough and extensive job in their recruiting efforts this year. Proof of this can be seen by the fact that eighteen states are represented on the 1 freshman roster.
Pennsylvania, as usual, has the greatest representation of any of the states with eleven players from the coal mining state. Illinois is a surprising second •with ten players. Ohio, like Pennsylvania, one of the best recruiting grounds, is tied with California for third place with seven boys each.
New Jersey and Kansas are far down the line tied for fourth place with three each. Five states are represented by _ two players each. They are New York, Massachusetts, Indiana, Kentucky and Florida. Washington, Georgia, Marys' land, Virginia, Texas, Missouri and Iowa £ number one combatant each. £ f Coach Devore says that the freshman « are “an average to good football team.” I He turned out the fine sophomores who I have helped the injury-riddled varsity | this year. As stated previously, an ac-| curate estimate of the 1959 “Raiders” cannot be made because of the many [ unknown quantities present. Only time will tell.
| December 4, 1959
L______. .	.	. _ .
AMERICAN LITERATURE: ITS CAUSE AND CURE
Today, as a service to students of American literature, this column presents digests of two classic American novels:
THE SCARLET LETTER by Nathaniel “Swifty” Hawthorne
This is a heart-rending story of a humble New England lass named Hester Prynne who is so poor that she does not have what to eat nor a roof to cover her head. But she is a brave, brawny girl and she never complains, and by and by her patience is rewarded: in the summer of 1859 she wins a football scholarship to Alabama.
Hard-working Hester soon wins her letter and everyone says she is a shoo-in for All-Conference honors, but along comes the War Between the States and football, alas, is dropped for the duration.
Poor Hester goes back to New England. It is a bitter cold winter and poor Hester, alas, does not have any warm clothing except for her football sweater from Alabama, but that, alas, has a big scarlet “A” on the front of it and she can hardly wear such a thing in New England where Union sentiment runs so high.
Poor Hester, alas, freezes to death.
LITTLE WOMEN
by Louisa May “Bubbles” Alcott
The Marches are a very happy family— and for no discernible reason. They are poor as snakes; they work from cockcrow to evensong; their dear old father Philip is away with the Union armies; and they can’t do a thing with their hair.
Still, nothing can dampen the spirits of madcap Meg, jocular Jo, buoyant Beth, animated Amy, and crazy old Marmee, as the merry March girls laughingly call their lovable mother.
And speaking of literature, in our book the best selection of cigarettes on the market today comes from Philip Morris Inc.—Marlboro filters; new Alpines, high Utmtion and light menthol—and, of course, mild, unfiltered Philip Morris.
Well sir, one Christmas the March girls get an invitation to a ball. They are dying to go because they never have any fun at all except maybe a few chuckles during the hog-rendering season. But Beth reminds her sisters that they can hardly go traipsing off to a ball and leave poor Marmee all alone at Christmas time. The sisters swear a lot, but they finally agree with Beth.
Marmee, however, will not hear of it. “Land’s sakes, little women!” she cries. “You must go to the ball and have some fun. There will be fruit punch and Toll House cookies and Early American sandwiches. Best of all, there will be morris dancing. Oh, how your father and I used, to love that!”
“I never knew father could dance,” cries Meg.
“Oh yeah?” cries Marmee. “You should, have seen Philip morris.”

“Was Philip a good morriser?” cries Jo.
“The best!” cries Marmee. “Philip could morris in soft pack or flip-top box and was full of fine, fresh, natural mildness!”
The girls are cheered to hear this and go to the ball. Marmee stays home alone, but soon gets a wonderful surprise: Philip comes back from the war!
When the girts return from the ball, they find Marmee and Philip morrising, and they cry “Huzzah!” and throw their poke bonnets in the air, where they are tO this day.	© 1959 Max Shulmaa
DIAMONDS - JEWELRY
J. TRETHEWEY
*
For: Hamilton - Elgin Butova - Longines and Wittnauer Watches
See: JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St.	JM.S. Bldg.
TWO LEGS INC.
Specializing in
IVY STYLES
SLAX — SWEATERS SPORT SHIRTS and JACKETS
118 South Michigan Street

Jj^ickerbodffir
JUdson 2-4200 5
EverytHsg now for your OMufiirf and convemenee. Completely sow .rooms ■■Mt modem furanhmgs m* eluding air-conditioning. Rodfo ■ Television in every teem.
- ♦ h . r . c ■ ‘ of Times Square
NEW YORK
SURVEY of INJURIES
If the 1959 football season was a year of anything for Coach Kuharich and his players, it was a year of injuries. No fewer than 28 players were knocked out of action for at least one game with eight of these casualties being lost for the season.
Defensive Leader Lost. The biggest loss, of course, was that of Myron (Moe) Pottios who tore the ligaments in his knee in the California game and had to undergo an operation and remain out of action the rest of the year. Pottios was the anchor of the Irish defense and a real hard-nosed competitor who inspired his teammates and made tackles all over the field. His loss was a stunning blow.
Dan Griffith, a junior fullback who had looked impressive in spring practice, broke his ankle on September 6 just after fall practice had started and this sidelined him for the remainder of the season.
Luck of the Irish? The most extraordinary event of the year as far as injuries were concerned was the events that took place on September 9. On this day both George Izo, a preseason All-American quarterback and one of the best passers ever to play at Notre Dame, and Bill (Red) Mack, also a preseason All-American and a smooth, low-slung, deceptively hard-hitting runner, severely twisted their knees. The ironic thing about this was that neither injury was caused by contact. Although Izo and Mack returned to action by the California game, they never did regain the physical efficiency necessary for topnotch performance. Izo, who noticeably favored his knee much of the season, was off-form in his passing most of the year and logged very little playing time. As late as the Georgia Tech game Coach Kuharich called him only 60% effective. Mack never did regain his old form and seemed to be unable to cut sharply and change directions quickly after his injury.
Seven Fullbacks. The fullback position was hit the hardest by injuries. No less than seven players filled this spot in the line-up at one time or another during the season.
Dan Griffith was battling for a first-string berth when he broke his ankle. Then Jim Crotty switched over from halfback and looked real good for the Irish against North Carolina and Purdue. But against California he sprained his ankle. Gerry Gray, a sophomore with a stand-up style of running, took over the fullbacking duties in the MSU game and came up with a topgrade performance. But he twisted his knee the next week against Northwestern and was out until the Iowa game. Frank Gargiulo, who had been spelling Gray, was next to fall. He suffered a bruised thigh muscle against the Spartans also.
Three other players, Joe Perkowski, Dick Naab and Pat Doyle, also performed the fullbacking duties at one (Continued on page 48)
HansA Rintzsch
'uqqaft Shep
WE CAN SOLVE YOUR GIFT PROBLEM
MICHIGAN AT COLFAX Phone CE 2-5881
Hare a WORLD of FUN!
Travel with UTA
Unbelievable low Cost
. Many tours intlvdr nllrgt ertdif.
Europe 1 sltMitr trots $675
Orient
43-65 Beys
Also low-cost trips to Mexico $169 up. South America $699 up, Hawaii Study Tour SSNup and Around the World $Nfl up.
WORLD TRAVEL

46
The Scholastic
1960 SCHEDULE i
I Sept. 24—California at Notre Dame
The Golden Bears, although losing their outstanding guard, Pete Domoto, I will vastly improve their dismal 1959 *	record. With a host of sophomores and
r	juniors returning, Coach Pete Elliott’s
| eleven should be one of the better West Coast teams.
Oct. 1—Purdue at Notre Dame
? The Boilermakers lose Ross Fichtner and Bob Jarus. However, Coach Jack Mollenkopf will once again have his | usual rugged line. Quarterback Bernie Allen, instrumental in the 1959 victory over Notre Dame, also returns.
Oct. 8—No. Carolina at Chapel Hill
Coach Jim Hickey, in his second season as head mentor, loses such stars as Don Klochak and Jack Cummings. Junior Ray Farris should handle the ' quarterbacking chores well but the Tar Heel line lacks experience.
1 Oct. 15—Mich. State at Notre Dame b The 1960 Spartans should once again rise back into the national limelight. Coach Duffy Daugherty’s main problem will be finding capable replacements for the departed Dean Look and Blanche Martin.
. Oct. 22—Northwestern at Evanston
Quarterback Dick Thornton and full. back Mike Stock lead a large list of returnees. Although losing such stars as Ron Burton, Jim Andreotti, and Joe Abbatiello, the Wildcats will again be top contenders for the Big Ten crown.
Oct. 29—Navy at Philadelphia t Losing two quarterbacks of the caliber i of Jim Maxfield and Joe Tranchini is [ bound to hamper the Middie attack. ■ Coach Wayne Hardin will build his of-’f fense around the running of two Joe’s, Bellino and Matalavage.
Nov. 5—Pittsburgh at Notre Dame
All-America end Mike Ditka, halfbacks galore and a well-balanced, always tough Pitt line should greatly improve the mediocre 1959 Panthers. Coach John Michelosen must find a A quarterback replacement for Ivan Toncic.
Nov. 12—Miami at Miami
The Hurricanes are the only new team on the Irish schedule and Coach Andy Gustafson’s squad will be out to avenge their 1955 defeat by the Irish. * Miami’s famed “belly series” will have to operate without graduated quarterback Fran Curci.
Nov. 19—Iowa at Notre Dame
The perennially tough Hawkeyes have • always . managed to. be ; “up” for the Notre Dame game. Even without the services of-such graduated stars as Don A Norton and Ray Jauch, Iowa’s tough wing-T will be hard to contain.
Nov. 26—So. California
The McKeever twins, Don Ficca, Lynn Gaskill and experience at every position will again feature one of the top teams in the nation. Coach Don Clark’s eleven should win their third PCC title in a row.
Outlook for Next Year by JAY KILROY
The 1959 Notre Dame football season was one marked by innovation. For it was this past season that head coach Joe Kuharich and his assistants first assumed their jobs. And it was in 1959 that a large group of tough, hard-fighting sophomores played in their first football games for the Irish.
Rebuilding Year. To many observers, the 1959 football record here at Notre Dame would not seem impressive. And in terms of victories and defeats, it isn’t. However, this is not a true basis for judgment. For 1959 was a “rebuilding year” for the Irish. Last fall, Coach Kuharich was greeted by only thirteen returning lettermen. Using these experienced men as a nucleus, Kuharich also had to count on many squad members with no varsity experience. Games were lost but a team was being built. And in 1960 we should be able to see some of the results of this building process.
MYRON (MOE) POTTIOS
Returns to action in 1960
It must also be remembered that 1959 was a year in which the Irish were constantly plagued by injui-ies. Such key performers as George Izo, Bill Mack, Jim Crotty and Myron Pottios were inactive for at least half of the games because of casualties. With such a long injury list, it was difficult to find the one “right” unit and stick with it.
Better in ’60? And what about the 1960 football season at Notre Dame? All facts indicate that the Irish will be much improved next year. First, Coach Kuharich will be greeted by a larger group of returning lettermen next fall. And certainly the list of injuries will be shorter. Added to this is the fact that the freshman squad was one of the best and most aggressive in a long time.
Although the Irish lose Monty Stickles
and Henry Wilke at the end position, they can count on three sophomores who saw considerable action this year to take up the slack. Les Traver of Toledo, O., was one of the top pass receivers on the squad. Max Burnell of Evanston and Jim Mikacich of Sacramento also showed great promise as the season progressed.
Returning at the tackle position will be sophomores Bob Bill, Joe Carollo, George Williams and junior Bob Koreck. Bill, a 220-pounder from Garden City, N.Y., and Carollo, a 230-pound native of Wyandotte, Mich., were starters for most of the season and will provide aggressiveness and experience at this position next fall.
Pottios Returns. Junior Myron Pottios, a 215-pounder from Van Vooris, Pa., and Nick Buoniconti, a sophomore from Springfield, Mass., were outstanding performers at guard and return to trouble their opponents again next season. Norbert Roy, a 195-pound sophomore from Baton Rouge, La., also played well throughout the season. The Ii-ish lose outstanding senior guards in Captain Ken Adamson, Al Sabal and Mike Muehlbauer.
The 1960 gridders will be without the valuable services of center- Bob Scholtz. However, 205-pound sophomore Tom Hecomovich from Bovey, Minn., was very effective at that position after recovering from an injury. Sophomore John Powers, a 215-pounder from Harvard, Ill., will also see a lot of action at center in the next two years. Senior Dave Hurd, injured for the season, is expected to return also.
Upon the graduation of seniors Don White and George Izo, the quarterbacking chores will be left primarily in the hands of two sophomores. George Haffner, a 180-pounder from Mt. Carmel in Chicago, demonstrated veteran poise and deceptive ball handling ability while directing the team this year. Tom Jorling, a highly-regarded 200-pound sophomore from Cincinnati, was injured and did not play this year. He is expected to make a strong bid for the signal calling position next season. Bill Henneghan, an injured 190-pound junior from Detroit, also should see action in 1960.
Strength at Halfback. Bob Scarpitto, Bill Mack, Ray Ratkowski, George Sef-cik, Bill Clark and Angelo Dabiero will give the Irish fine depth at the halfback position. All played considerably this past season, and each one has the speed and ability to break away for a touchdown at any given moment.
Jim Crotty is the only departing senior at fullback. Sophomores Gerry Gray, Joe Perkowski, Dick Naab and juniors Dan Griffith and Frank Gargiulo will be doing the fullbacking for the Irish next year. With the exception of Naab, all were injured at least part of this season and Griffith was out for the year.
December 4, 1959
ROCCO'S NEW Restaurant
STEAKS - SEAFOODS Also the Finest Italian Dishes
MODERN PRIVATE ROOMS AVAILABLE
Call for Reservations ★
Cpen till midnight—Sunday 12-8 P.M.
18142 South Bend Ave.
CE 4-7224 Still Operating at Our Old Location 537 N. St. Louis
Contact Lens Specialist
DR. T. R. PILOT
Optometrist
•
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
LISTEN
TO
THE ALL
NEW
WSND
FEATURING . . .
MUSIC NEWS SPORTS
AND SPECIAL FEATURES
640 on your DIAL
Injury Survey
(Continued from page 46) time or another with Perkowski, a sophomore, displaying good explosive power and speed up the middle and off tackle.
Another spot in the line-up that was hit especially hard by the avalanche of injuries was the tackle spot. Both Joe Carollo and Bob Bill were injured in the Northwestern game and at the time both of these sophomores were starting. Senior Ollie Flor and sophomore George Williams did a good job of filling the gap but they were forced to play virtually without rest because of the thin manpower.
The defensive secondary suffered a damaging blow also when ace defensive quarterback Clay Schulz suffered a bruised shoulder against Navy and was out until the Southern Cal game. This forced Don White to go both ways, thus hurting his offensive effectiveness.
The following is a list of the major injuries, their nature, when they happened, and the period in which the player was lost to the team:
Senior Dick Ciesielski hurt his knee in fall practice and returned to action in the Northwestern game.
Dan Griffith, broken ankle, lost for the season.
Tom Jorling, a sophomore quarterback who had been second-string in spring practice, was out for the year with a bum knee which he picked up the same day as Griffith broke his ankle.
Tom Hecomovich, a rangy center from Bovey, Minn., missed the first three games of the year with a shoulder separation and then came back to be a good linebacker.
Tom Bonofiglio is another sophomore quarterback that missed the 1959 campaign with a knee injury.
Senior end Jim Colosimo, who has been plagued by injuries for four years, suffered a pulled groin muscle against Purdue and never did get back in the line-up. Colosimo was regarded as a very fine offensive end.
Norb Roy, a sophomore guard who had done a very acceptable job of relieving Captain Ken Adamson early in the year, sprained his ankle against California and was out until the Pittsburgh contest.
Pat Healy, a promising junior halfback from Baltimore, Md., twisted his knee against Navy and was forced to watch the rest of the games from the sidelines also.
These are just a few of the major injuries sustained by the Fighting Irish and says nothing about the minor injuries which curtailed a player’s effectiveness without putting him out of action or of the major injuries of gridders who were not expected to be predominate in the Irish plans anyway.
It was a year of knee injuries. The theoretical best backfield of Izo, Mack, Scarpitto and Crotty missed a total of nine games completely and their performances were limited in many others. The problem can best be summed up by
AQUim USURY aid RNK SHOP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., South Bend A Nonprofit Organization
a Swingline
pack of gum!
(Including 1000 staples)
SWINGLINE “TOT
Millions now in use. Unconditionally guaranteed. Makes book covers, fastens papers, arts and crafts, mends, tacks, etc. Available at your college bookstore.
LONG ISLAND CITY. NEW YORK. N. Y
SIMERI'S CAFE
Daily Special
ITALIAN BREAD SANDWICHES HAM — SAUSAGE — BEEF 50c
•	SPAGHETTI
•	RAVIOLI
•	PIZZA
•	SEAFOODS
Friday Special FROG LEGS $1.50 e
410 N. Hill St. South Bend, Indiana CE 3-0677
The Scholastic
1
the fact that Coach Kuharich was only able to use the same starting line-up twice all season.
Not only did the flock of injuries hurt the effectiveness of the team as a whole, but they forced Coach Kuharich and his staff to change their basic strategy. With one or two newcomers in the lineup every week, the coaching staff was forced to stick to simple offensive patterns.
Other injuries:	’
John Linehan, chipped bone in thumb, September 2, out until Northwestern.
Greg Divis, knee, September 8, lost for the season.
Bill Clark, ankle, September 6, out for a week.
Ted Romanowski, knee, September 10, lost for the season.
Paul Nissi, knee, September 8, out the whole year.
George Williams, knee, September 9, out until the California game.
Scarpitto, hip muscle, missed the Purdue game.
Pat Heenan, broken finger, out for one week.
Nick Buoniconti, ankle and nose, happened against MSU, used sparingly the next game.
George Sefcik, broken thumb, happened in Navy game, did not miss action, however.
Mike Muehlbauer, shoulder bruise, missed the Georgia Tech game.
of NOTRE DAME
PRESS
BYRON
What America Stands Sot
Edited by Stephen D. Kertesz and M. A. Fitzsimons
The issues of American identity and the world’s image of the United States are the chief concern of the articles in this volume. The authors’ evaluation of American institutions, ideas, and purposes should eliminate many of the stereotypes that so often becloud the world’s vision of what America stands for.
Distinguished scholars have contributed to the volume: Jerome J. Kerwin, Chicago; Guy B. Johnson, North Carolina; Don K. Price, Harvard; Karl de Schweinitz, Jr., Northwestern; Clark Kerr, President, California; Charles M. Hardin, Chicago; George N. Shuster, President, Hunter; John Ely Burchard, M.I.T.; and Stephen D. Kertesz, M. A. Fitzsimons, John T. Frederick, Thomas J. Stritch, and I. A. Abell, Notre Dame.
$4.75
For a Gift of Distinction
“Give away thy breath!”
From My 36th Year, line 36
I On sale at the Notre Dame Bookstore I
<	and all leading booksellers
December 4, 1959
UNIVERSITY
Sports Publicity
(Continued from page 35)
Also during the games he sees to it that play-by-play copies by quarters, half-time and final statistics, and other information is distributed to each reporter for his story.
The during-game work is such that “Charlie,” as he’s known to everyone in the newspaper trade, rarely gets to see more than a few minutes of actual game action as he is constantly seeing that each writei- has everything he needs.
Sports Publicity also takes care of the football programs for each home game, and assists the away opponents by furnishing any necessary information they need for their programs.
Each week during the fall season, starting with fall practice in early September, a six- to eight-page news release is sent to 1350 newspapers, writers and radio-TV announcers across the nation. This weekly release is further supplemented by a daily story which is sent to the Chicago Tribune, Indianapolis Star, and both news sei-vices—Associated Press and United Press International.
As an added service, pictures and hometown stories are sent to each ball player’s home town newspaper during the season. This is true for all sports. These stories are sent several times during the season, depending on how well the player performs.	•
The office handles throughout the year any requests which come in for infor
mation on current or past Notre Dame athletes. The Monogram News, the semi-yearly publication of the Monogram club, is prepared by this office also.
This year marks the foui-teenth year as head of Spoi-ts Publicity for Callahan. He is a graduate of Notre Dame, class of 1938, and took over his present position in 1946 after serving with the Air Force in World War II. He also writes a column for the Sunday Visitor, a Catholic newspaper with national circulation.
On Callahan’s staff are his personal secretary, Mary McCarthy, and students Tom Bates, a senior from Meadville, Pa., who is chief assistant, and Bob Schaefer, a junior from Minneapolis, Minnesota and Ken Murphy, a sophomore also from Meadville, Pa. During the football season Callahan is assisted also by Mrs. Eleanor Vanderhagen.
PAUL’S SHOE SHOP
Catering to Students and Faculty o
GENERAL SHOE REPAIRING SHOE ACCESSORIES QUICK and COURTEOUS SERVICE o
In Rear of Administration Building
You Always Get a Square Deal at Breen’s
WATCHES DIAMONDS RADIOS SHAVERS Expert Watch Repairing
BREEN'S Jeweler 325 S. Michigan St. Phone AT 7-3630
ARMY-NAVY
AIR FORCE
Insignias
MILITARY SUPPLIES
Gendel's Surplus Sales R.O.T.C. BRASS AND MILITARY SUPPLIES
YOU SAVE EVERYDAY AT GENDEL'S 512 SO. MICHIGAN ST. SOUTH BEND
NAMCHT CAFETERIA
★
Savory Food Since 1897 REASONABLE PRICES
★
1415 Lincoln Way West
be first In your class to JET HOME
In a hurry!
You can be cavorting back home with Nola (or whatever her name is)x on your next holiday while your stodgy classmates are scarcely off the campus when you travel on United Air Lines’ new DC-8 Jet Mainliners — built by Douglas, which makes big, comfortable airplanes like nobody.
United’s DC-8s are roomy enough even for basketball players. And the loudest noise you’ll hear is the soft snoring of the guy in the next seat.
Two lounges, yet, First Class or Air Coach, for pinochle, loafing or (perish forbid) reading. Two trim stewardesses deftly serve truly Lucullian (i.e., terrific) meals.
Just one thing: people are going for United’s DC-8 Jet Mainliner® service like crazy. So make reservations early and avoid being at the end of a line a block long. Call a travel agent or the United Air Lines ticket office that’s nearest to you.
EXTRA CARE HAS MADE IT THE BEST OF THE JETS
The Scholastic
I