^GILBERT'S
A W,..
* n
4
. *
NATURALLY . .
your best!

THE NATURAL SHOULDER SUIT
For Fall and Winter
Tailored by Palm Beach
Palm Beach tailors this suit to perfection . . . the better fitting-contour collar, natural shoulder style, vest, and slim, trim trousers without pleats. The colors are deep and dark in subtle herring bone patterns or solid colors.
$65	$69.50
JANUARY
^GILBERTS
•wag- *5
NO CARRYING CHARGE
MARCH
ONE NOTRE DAME MAN TELLS ANOTHER
Come in, select what you need NOW, when you need it, and pay one-third in January, one-third in February and one-third in March of 1964! This convenient way to purchase has no service or carrying charge. Is it any wonder one man tells another?
ONE
OF AMERICA'S FINEST UNIVERSITY SHOPS


3
On Campis W Shulman
(J uthor of Rally Round the Flag, Boys and Barefoot Boy With Cheek)
SCHOLASTIC
The Student Weekly of the University of Notre Dame
Vol. 105 October 11, 1963 No. 3
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
WORDS: THEIR CAUSE AND CURE
Today let us take up the subject of etymology (or entomology, as it is sometimes called) which is the study of word origins (or .insects, as they are sometimes called).
Where are word origins (insects) to be found? Well sir, sometimes words are proper names which have passed into the language. Take, for instance, the words used in electricity: ampere was named after its discoverer, the Frenchman Andre Marie Ampere (1775-1836); similarly, ohm was named after the German G.S. Ohm (1781-1854), wall after the Scot James Watt (1736-1819). and bulb after the American Fred C. Bulb (1843-1912).
There is, incidentally, quite a poignant little story about Air. Bulb. Until Bulb’s invention, all illumination was provided by gas, which was named after its inventor Milton T. Gas who, strange to tell, had been Bulb’s roommate at Cal Tech! In fact, strange to tell, the third man sharing the room with Bulb and Gas was also one whose name burns bright in the annals of illumination— Walter Candle!
The three roommates were inseparable companions in college. After graduation all three did research in the problems of artificial
light, which at this time did not exist. All America used to go to bed with the chickens, and many fine citizens were severely injured falling off the roost.
Well sir, the three comrades—Bulb, Gas, and Candle—promised to be friends forever when they left school, but success, alas, spoiled all that. First Candle invented the candle, got rich, and forgot his old friends. Then Gas invented gas, got rich, bankrupted Candle, and forgot his old friends. Then Bulb invented the bulb, got rich, bankrupted Gas. and forgot his old friends.
Candle and Gas, bitter and impoverished at the ages respectively of 75 and 71, went to sea as respectively the world’s oldest and second oldest cabin boy. Bulb, rich and grand, also went to sea, but he
went in style—as a first-class passenger on luxury liners.
Well sir, strange to tell, all three were aboard the ill-fated Lusitania when she was sunk in the North Atlantic. And, strange to tell, when they were swimming for their lives after the shipwreck, all three clambered aboard the same dinghy!
Well sir, chastened and made wiser by their brush with peril, they fell into each other’s arms and wept and exchanged forgiveness and became fast friends all over again.
For three years they drifted in the dinghy, shaking hands and singing the Cal Tech rouser all the while. Then, at long last, they spied a passing liner and were taken aboard.
They remained fast friends for the
rest of their days, which, I regret to report were not many, because the liner which picked them up was the Titanic.
What a pity that Marlboros were not invented during the lifetimes of Bulb, Gas, and Candle. Had there been Marlboros, these three friends never would have grown apart because they would have realized how much, despite their differences, they still had in common. I mean to say that Marlboros can be lit by candle, by gas, and by electricity, and no matter how you light them, you always get a lot to like—a filter, a flavor, a pack or box that makes anyone—including, Bulb, Gas, and Candle—settle back and forswear pettiness and smile the sweet smile of friendship on all who pass!
© 1963 Max Shulman
Tom Hoobler
. . . editor
Dick Stranger
. . . managing editor Brian Barnes
. . . business manager Mel Noel
. . . news editor Terry Wolkerstorfer
. . . sports editor James Devlin
. . . features editor Larry Sicking
. . . art editor Jack Pope, Joe Wilson
. . . copy Tom Keane
. . . circulation
Tom Nahm
. . . advertising Brian Beck, Pat Ford
. . . photography
David Barrett, Jim Callero,
Brian Jorgensen, Frank McConnell, Bill Smith, Mike Walusis
. . . contributors Frank O’Malley
. . . faculty advisor
John Anton, Al Basso, Tom Bettag, Jim Boland, Ray Burke, Al Dudash, Bob Edler, Geary Ellet, Jim Finch, Sam Goodwin, John Gorman, Mike Hoyt, Jim Komasinski, Rex Lardner, Rick McQuaid, Carl Magel, Bill O’Grady, Bruce Palka, John Phillips, Jack Quine, Jack Rowe, Joe Ryan, Gary Sabatte, Frank Smith, Steve Stuecheli, John Twohey, Joe Weiss, John Whelan
. . . staff
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC _ is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
Etymology is not the business of the makers of Marlboro Cigarettes, who sponsor this column. We deal in rich tobaccos and fine filters. Try a pack soon.
OFFICE OPEN:
Sunday, 1:30-5:30,7:30-12:00; Monday, 1:30-5:30, 7:30-12:00; Tuesday, 7:30-9:30; Wednesday, 1:30-5:30; Thursday, 1:30-5:30; Friday, 1:305:30; Saturday, not open.
4
The Scholastic
EDITORIALS
The Dilemma of Catholic Schools
/catholic education in the United States faces a ^serious problem that finds its roots in a dearth of finances, and branches out into almost every field. It is a problem that can only increase in gravity unless vital solutions are found and radical steps are taken to effect them.
The increasing difficulties that Catholics find in raising the money for their schools reflect in crises in personnel as well as in facilities. Look reports in the October 22 issue that enrollment in Catholic elementary and secondary schools has increased 129% as compared to a 53% increase in public schools since 1940. With this increase in enrollment has come a corresponding increase in lay teachers. While the annual salaries for lay teachers exceed those paid religious by as much as 500%, they still average $1,800 less per person than those paid by the public schools. The implications of this are obvious. The Catholic educational system depends for its existence on an increasing number of lay teachers although it is still unable to compete with the public schools for the services of the better teachers; it follows that many of the lay teachers will be people unable to meet the requirements of the public-school system, , thus yielding a less satisfactory education for Catholic school children.
A shortage of money also dictates that laboratories, audio-visual aids, instructional equipment, and classrooms will be in short supply. Classes will be overcrowded, with the result that the individual child will get less supervision and personal instruction than his counterpart in the public schools. Pastors now have to turn away many children because there is no room for them. There is a maximum capacity that must be observed, and once this is reached, there can be no additions without an increase in facilities — impossible without more money.
There are several solutions which would do much
to ease the financial situation of the Catholic school system, but all are subject to some question. Two of the most often heard are the proposals for “shared time” or “released time” agreements with public schools. The first provides for the sharing of facilities of the public schools with the parochial system. Catholic students would attend the public schools for physical education, science, language, mathematics, and technical subjects. They would study religion, social studies, literature, art, and music at their own schools. The second proposal calls for Catholic students attending public schools to be released during the day to go to the Catholic school for religious instruction.
Both of these proposals would ease the situation in that they would take much of the burden off the parish and place it where it can most easily be borne — i.e., the present tax structure — without sacrificing their beliefs and wishes regarding a Catholic education. They both are merely delaying action which would forestall what seemingly must come sooner or later — dropping part of the educational system so that finances and efforts may be directed toward improving the other parts. The question has been: which segment should be dropped?
It would seem that there is little doubt that the earlier grades would suffer the least, but this is not always the case. Evidence is also presented that the secondary level could best be given to the public realm. The solution to this question will be much affected by the study currently being conducted at Notre Dame under the sponsorship of the Carnegie Corporation. This is not enough, however; local and diocesan studies must be undertaken so that each situation and its problems can be correctly ascertained. It is only when the problems are correctly identified that any concrete steps can be taken to solve them.
October 11, 1963
1 ?
I
■ i
'DuPont T.M. for its polyester fiber
^GILBERT'S
See this classic shirt and our complete range of ARROW styles for business and college wear at
Greet the shirt with an Oxford education

by
Any scholar will appreciate	;
this new Decton oxford	'
shirt... the latest graduate to the world of wash-and-wear by ARROW. A blend of 65% Dacron* polyester and 35% cotton... it outlasts	'
all cotton shirts. From	]
that famous button-down	]
collar to the back button and	I
back pleat, it’s University	f
Fashion at its best.	$
Tapered to trim you down,	;
“Sanforized-Plus” labeled to	‘
ensure a lasting fit, Decton oxford comes in white, colors and British stripes.
Short sleeves as illustrated	i
only $5.95	I
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED
BROKEN LENSES DUPUCATED BROKEN FRAMES REPLACED “fast service” DR. M. MITTERMAYER Optometrist 228 S. MICHIGAN
HAND BALLS & GLOVES
Reco Sporting Goods
113 N. Main St.
Next to Oliver Hotel
COVER
Scholastic Art Editor Larry Sicking depicts a typical bus shelter scene on the weekend of the Military Ball.
6
The Scholastic
Letters...
DISPLACED PERSONS Editor:
There is in college, we believe, two basic goals. First the augmenting of worldly and moral knowledge, and secondly the absorption of benefits derived from life in the dorms. The second, while not a primary interest, is, in the long run, one of the most valuable gains of college life. This interpersonal relationship with different types of people is the keystone of a successful social life. Equally important as these different social contacts is the forming of solid relationships.
This week, on October 7, the Freshmen of Cavanaugh Hall, 1st floor, were told they were being moved. Why? Because upperclassmen wanted Cavanaugh berths. The Freshmen would be moved out as soon as a vacancy appeared in another freshman hall. They would not necessarily be moved as a unit, with their roommates.
Freshmen are exactly what the name implies. No individual reacts well to constant change, especially one who is in a new environment to begin with. This is a crucial time for Notre Dame’s new students. If the University is sincere concerning its Freshman Year of Studies then let the boarders of Cavanaugh 1st floor remain. They deserve that much.
— The Students of Cavanaugh (2nd Floor)
HIDDEN COSTS Editor:
A simple inquiry — are three changes of underwear per week sufficient for the typical student? Under the current rules set up by the ND Laundry, each student is allowed three pairs of underpants, three undershirts and three pairs of socks per week. The rate for laundering more than the allotted amount is ten cents per article. An amount of laundry which I would consider minimal for one week’s wear includes:
3 shirts —	$ .60
7 underpants	.70 (1 per day)
7 undershirts	.70 (1 per day)
7 pr. socks	.70 (I per dav)
1 pr. pajamas	.30
1 pr. wash pants	.35 (khaki)
1 towel	.07
1 wash rag	.03
TOTAL	$3.45
This, I repeat, I do not feel to be an excessive amount for a Notre Dame man, who, according to the directives, is supposed to dress decently.
However, the laundry does not concur with my opinion. They set the limit at $2.25 worth of laundry per week. They claim that this figure is October 11, 1963
based on the “typical need” of a ND student. According to them, we should wear “3 shirts, 1 pair pajamas, 3 pr. underwear, 3 pr. socks, 6 handkerchiefs and 3 towels.”
I hardly believe that the standards set by the laundry are conducive to cleanliness, to dressing well, or least of all to economy for the student when he is required to pay an extra $1.20 per week for laundry, after paying an initial laundry fee with his tuition, room and board. I feel the students should force another look at these standards on the laundry.
Bob Leggat
208 Dillon
PASSIONATE INDIGNATION Editor:
Unholy, sacrilegious, abominable is the flagrant disregard for a longstanding tradition of Notre Dame — by those undergraduates who boldly mount the cement steps leading into the old Administration Building. To add insult to injury, this mockery of tradition is perpetrated directly before the offended eyes of the Golden Lady Herself.
This conduct manifests a frightful spirit of recalcitrance whose ultimate
ERASE WITHOUT A TRACE ON EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
Typing errors never show on Corrasable. The special surface of this paper makes it possible to erase without a trace—with just an ordinary pencil eraser. Results: cleanlooking, perfectly typed papers. Next time you sit down at the keyboard, make no mistake—type on Corrasable!
Onion Skin.
boxes. Only Corrasable.
In handy 100-
sheet packets and 500-sheet
Eaton makes
A Berkshire Typewriter Paper
Your choice of Corrasable in light, medium, heavy weights and
EATON PAPER CORPORATION :'E S PITTSFIELD, MASS.
significance is a student attitude hostile to both Notre Dame and all she stands for. Would those unuscrupu-lous delinquents advocate also the discontinuation of football at Notre Dame, the defamation of the name “Fighting Irish,” the dismantling of the Golden Dome itself? Would they abolish all tradition of Notre Dame, to leave her but a soulless academic corporation, whose vital animus no longer sparks the dynamism of the Notre Dame Way of Life?
Think, you dishonorable sons whose filiation you have flouted! Recall who you are and the meaning of where you are, respect the traditions that make us a family under the maternal patronage of Notre Dame!
Robert Piechuta 143 Zahm Hall
THEATERS
AVON—1. "The Sun, the Place, and the Girls," 7:07 - 9:45 p.m.; on now, thru next week. 2. "Girls on the Rocks," 8:15 p.m.; on now, thru next week.
COLFAX—"Wives and Lovers," Friday, about 1:00, 3:00, 5:00, 7:00, 9:00 p.m.
GRANADA—"V.I.P/s," 1:20, 3:55, 6:30, 9:00 p.m., on now, thru next week.
STATE—"Toys in the Attic," 1:30, 3:30, 5:25, 7:20, 9:20; on now, thru next week.
AND LIVES AND BREATHES...
Progress takes many shapes in the Bell System. And among the shapers are young men, not unlike yourself, impatient to make things happen for their companies and themselves. There are few places where such restlessness is more welcomed or rewarded than in the fast-growing phone business.
My Bell Telephone Companies
8
The Scholastic
• Peter Nero, the 28-year-old pianistentertainer who has been described as a flawless and imaginative artist, will perform in Stepan Center tonight after the pep rally. This versatile performer is heard on radio and television, and in nightclubs and concert theaters throughout the world. He has six popular LP's, has arranged and recorded the title song for the film “My Six Loves,” and hopes to compose for the Broadway musical theater in the near future. The reason for his immense success is summed up in his own description of his style. “Both jazz and the classics are part of my musical upbringing and I merely combined, through a natural process of practice, these elements into the kind of music I play. There cannot be a constant sameness in the rendition of tunes, otherwise you are not creating anything at all. The artist cannot become a mere ‘echo’ of the written composition, he must allow his own musical personality to come to the fore.”
•	The Southern California victory dance will be held in LaFortune Center on Oct. 12. There will be 450 tickets available at $1.50 per couple, and if there are any remaining tickets they will be sold at the door. The Lettermen will provide the music for dancing.
•	In this day of an 18-million-dollar drive for a new library and a 66-mil-lion-dollar challenge program, there stands out a fund raising campaign which perhaps more than any other is a witness to the spirit of charity. The net receipts from this campaign totaled $1,366.55. But the uniqueness of this drive lies in the fact that the money came not from successful alumni or companies seeking tax
October 11, 1963
breaks but from Notre Dame students themselves. The campaign was the annual Student Foundation Drive held last March.
The Student Foundation, now in its tenth year, is founded on the belief that the student body would like to have a chance to contribute money toward the betterment of the University. In the past, such drives have been conducted halfheartedly and have met with more than the usual amount of student apathy. Last year, the drive, under the leadership of Chairman Paul Meagher and Vice Chairman Nick Sordi, netted an increase in revenue of 250 per cent over any previous year. Approximately 60 students worked on the week-long campaign. Mr. Dennis F. Troester, associate director of the Notre Dame Foundation, assisted the student committee.
For the first time in the drive’s history, the proceeds have gone to scholarship aid for Notre Dame students. According to Troester, this use of the funds for scholarships was the primary reason for the marked increase in revenue. As he put it, “When students are asked to contribute money to build something, the response is almost naturally apathetic. But when they know the money is going to be used to assist their fellow students, they really pitch in to help.”
As a result of the Student Foundation Week contributions, three students currently attending the University are receiving scholarship aid for the 1963-64 academic year. They are senior James Burch, and juniors, Thomas Buhl and John Pesta.
•	CILA has elected officers and planned activities for the coming year. Pat Deluhery and Professor
Walter Langford of the Modern Language Department are the president and faculty moderator, respectively.
Movies of last year’s Peru and Mexican projects will be shown in 123 Nieuwland at 7:30 P.M. on October 14, 15, and 16. Anyone interested is, of course, invited but those underclassmen interested in going on next year’s South American expedition are especially requested to attend as there will be a discussion immediately following the movies.
For three years Notre Dame students have worked in the Mexican migrants’ village in South Bend. A new program is planned by CILA this year including dances and picnics.
The CILA has, in the past, helped out at the Westville Mental Hospital. ND and SMC students will coordinate their efforts again this year and entertain the patients at picnics in the fall and spring.	:
As in the past three years, CILA members will go to each hall after -semester tests to collect books to be sent to new libraries in Japan, India, and the English-speaking countries in : Africa. During one past collection : 8,000 books were contributed.	j
•	Dr. Herbert C. Brown, professor i of chemistry at Purdue University,	:
delivered a series of Peter C. Reilly J lectures at Notre Dame this week. His	j
topic was “The Case against Non-	j
Classical Ions,” a controversial topic j in the field of chemistry.	j
The lectures were delivered in room j 123 Nieuwland Science, October 7, 9,	!
and 10, at 4:10 P.M. They were open	|
to the faculty and students of Notre j Dame and the people of the surround- j ing community. The topic was gener- i ally concerned with the theories of	।
chemical bonding in radical groups.	j
Dr. Brown has been associated with	;
I
9	j
I
Notre Danie Mock Convention, 1952
Purdue since 1947, having taught previously at the University of Chicago and Wayne University. He holds his undergraduate and doctorate degrees from Chicago. He is a consultant to the Argonne National Laboratory and serves on the editorial boards of three professional chemical journals. An accomplished speaker, Dr. Brown has lectured regularly at universities and before professional groups in this country and abroad.
Dr. Brown is a leading opponent of the nonclassical bond theory. He holds that bond phenomena in certain ions can be explained without creating any hew concepts. A controversy has developed between Dr. Brown and Dr. Saul Winstein, professor of chemistry at U.C.L.A., who is a major exponent of the new concepts for bonding.
The annual Reilly lectures in Notre Dame’s chemical and chemical engineering departments were established in 1945 by a gift of more than one million dollars from the late Peter C. Reilly, industrialist. He was president of the Reilly Tar and Chemical Company, one of the largest producers of coal tar in the United States. Before his death in January, 1952, at the age of eighty-two, Mr. Reilly had been a member for many years of Notre Dame’s Associate Board of Lay Trustees.
• The most important single part in the upcoming Mock Republican Convention will be played by the campaign managers, those men who organize campaigns on campus and in the immediate area for announced, favorite son, and unannounced candidates. In the 1960 convention there were eleven candidates and as many managers all operating behind the scenes in the months prior to the convention.
A campaign manager has the desire and responsibility of getting his candidate nominated. He proceeds toward this end in a variety of ways.
First, he must make direct contact with the man in whose behalf he is working and arrange to receive financial and material help. The latter aid is usually in the form of buttons, signs, placards, and a great variety of literature. If the campaign manager has been able to receive direct financial help, he can canvass the campus on a scale one would associate only with campaigning on the state and national levels. He has often had to entertain important delegation chairmen as well as members of his own organization. It is his job to inform the student bodies of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s of his candidate’s qualifications and platform. This he does with the assistance of local news media. He also stages movies, parades and rallies which may attain surprising proportions, to direct attention to his candidate. In short, he lives over three months in an atmosphere like that experienced by a real campaign manager.
The Executive Committee of the Mock Convention has requested that all inquiries about the convention be addressed to the General Chairman, Box 93, Notre Dame, Indiana. The Committee has promised that in the next week more information will be provided on the necessary application procedure for those interested in becoming campaign managers.
• The Student Health Insurance Plan, offered by Continental Casualty Co., is available again this year to any student currently studying at Notre Dame. In the ten consecutive years this plan has been in effect, more than 6,000 students have received benefits, and it is likely that more than 900 students will benefit this year.
Continental Casualty has added new benefits to their program. This year, when a student is confined as a bed patient in the infirmary, the cost of drugs and medicines will be paid up to $35 for each confinement. Any
laboratory test which must be taken elsewhere than the infirmary will be covered up to $25 in each case. Finally, the $10 deductible clause which applied to accidents has been eliminated.
The entire cost for one year’s coverage is $25.50. The plan is in effect for all students who have applied and paid their premium as of Sept. 14, 1963.
Students wishing to enroll in this program may consult Tim Morrison, student insurance representative, at the LaFortune Student Center. Or he may be reached by calling CE 3-3773. The enrollment deadline is Friday, October 18.	.
•	Notre Dame has once again reaped the benefits of Father Hesburgh’s academic policy, becoming one of the eight colleges or universities to receive grants of more than one million dollars — $1,078,700 to be exact — from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation.
Organized in 1934 by General Motors executive Alfred P. Sloan, who, incidentally, has been almost the sole contributor, the Foundation makes grants to approximately 500 undergraduate students in American colleges and universities and offers fellowships for unlimited research to outstanding young physical scientists on the faculties of American and Canadian universities. It also supports other programs in such fields as executive development, business administration, and cancer research. In the last two years, the Foundation has made commitments of 19.3 million dollars, and its total commitments went over the 100-million-dol-lar mark early in 1963.
Other institutions which received grants of over one million dollars include N.Y.U., M.I.T., Dartmouth, Johns Hopkins, Princeton, Brown, and Rochester.
•	The Tri-Military Council is presenting “A Damn Yankee Ball” to-
10
The Scholastic



Miss Elizabeth Schlaefer
Miss Teresa Failla
Miss Jane Ellen Smith
night in LaFortune Center. It is the biggest ROTC affair of the year. (Cars and 2 o’clock permissions have been granted to everyone who attends.) The Jimmy Dorsey Orchestra under the direction of Lee Castle will play soft music in the atmosphere of a Southern mansion of a century ago. Confederate flags and flowers will be placed throughout the mansion and Karon Court will be decorated as a peaceful garden and pool.
The Queen of the Ball and also the “Queen of the Sea” is Miss Teresa Failla who will be escorted by Leon Raymond, who is the general chairman of the dance and in the Naval branch of the ROTC.
The “Queen of the Land” is Miss Elizabeth Schlaefer, whose escort will be Richard Lee, from Army ROTC, the executive chairman of the affair.
The “Queen of the Air” is Miss Jane Ellen Smith, the date of Michael Mestrovich, AFROTC cadet and chairman of the Communion breakfast held on Saturday morning.
The Maids of the Court include: Miss Marlie Brookman, Miss Nancy Chappell, Miss Paulette Crouere, Miss Jeanne Doll, and Miss Mari jo Gas-sensmith.
The committee consists of John Borchard (tickets and IBM), Thomas Connelly (decorations), Walter Gamard (business manager), Harry Toebach (military coordinator), Michael Mathis (accommodations), and Thomas Pletz (publicity).
• Dr. Ray W. Powell, head of the department of accountancy in the College of Business Administration, has been named national chairman of the Accountancy Careers Council. The purpose of the Council is to co-ordinate guidance concerning accounting careers for young people. Dr. Powell, a Certified Public Accountant holding a doctorate in business administration from Indiana
October 11, 1963
University, has been on the Notre Dame faculty since 1959.
• The US Senate has received a House Resolution (No. 5902) to exempt Professor Eric Voegelin of the ND Political Science Department from provisions of the naturalization law. The private bill was entered by the late Representative Walter of Pennsylvania to protect Dr. Voegelin from losing his US citizenship. Dr. Voegelin, a native of Germany, has been on leave to teach at the University of Munich.
Under Section 1484, Title 8, of the US Code for Nationality and Nationalization, any naturalized citizen who holds three years continuous residence in his country of birth or former citizenship is liable to loss of American citizenship.
Representative Walter’s bill passed the House October 1 of this year and has been received by a Senate subcommittee for consideration. The bill should be considered within the next week.
•	The Junior Class, in conjunction with our “dears” across the Dixie, is sponsoring a “Play Day” this Sunday afternoon, October 13. The day will be highlighted by touch-football, volleyball, and softball followed by a “Hootenanny” in the Clubhouse. Refreshments will be provided for all of our Junior “athletes.”
•	October 22 and 23 — on these dates, ticket sales will take place for the 1963 Student Trip sponsored by the Blue Circle. This year’s trip will include a four-day jaunt to New York City to witness the Thanksgiving Day battle between the Fighting Irish and the Orangemen of Syracuse. From all indications this trip will be one of the biggest in Notre Dame history. The factors involved are several. The fact that the trip will be made by a special train leaving and returning directly
from campus is one of these. Perhaps the biggest factor, however, will be the price. Cost of the entire trip will be approximately $58.00, which includes train fare, hotel reservations, game tickets, and admission to the Victory Celebration on Thanksgiving night. The entire cost will actually be less than the usual train fare alone! Make your plans now; ticket sales are less than two weeks away.
Baelsu>a»h—
With typical gracious magnanimity, the Laundry has granted each student $2.25 worth of laundry (Re: last week, The Last Word). This fills a student’s heart with joy and goodwill when he remembers that last year he was allowed only a total of $1.83.
Much more magnanimous, however, was the way the laundry granted itself a “cost-of-living” increase. They hiked all the prices. For this $2.25 students are now expected to use only three, instead of six, pairs of socks each week (there have been no apparent provisions for campus-wide fumigation); cold or no cold, you can use only six handkerchiefs. Anything extra costs extra as usual.
Taking full advantage of an old Notre Dame tradition that everyone wears trousers, the laundry again used their monopoly to raise the price of wash pants another ten cents — or 40 per cent. If everyone on campus will wear a pair of pants during the week the laundry can, of course, count on an additional $600 income each week.
No one would complain about this price increase if there was a corresponding increase in the quality of work done; as it is, everyone is complaining. Trousers are still being creased horizontally, and if one particularly wants a shirt back in good shape, he’d better pay the thirty cents extra for “special handling.”
— J. W.
11
i I
I
I I i ( i i
i i i I
on other eampuses
• The Ohio State Lantern reports that fifteen faculty members at Ohio State have resigned because “the climate in the university and the community is not conducive to academic fulfillment.” The departing professors expressed dissatisfaction with the Columbus environment: “It is a closed, anti-intellectual climate. People would not want to leave here if things were decent.”
A main objection concerned the “Speaker’s Rule,” a notice from the president that all campus speakers must be approved beforehand by a faculty board.
Some of the departing men had not even sought new positions. Dr. James Torczon, instructor of English, said that his new position had been offered him in a surprise long-distance telephone call. “People have been tipped off that this place is ripe for raiding,” he commented.
• No word has come from the University of Miami (Fla.) concerning the success of the experiment during the summer session with coeducational dormitories. The administration committee sponsored the program, to the dismay of many a frowning professor.
The idea was heralded as an “experiment in self-discipline,” and, if all went according to plan, there were no restrictions placed on the conduct of the students other than those agreed upon by a resident student committee.
All curfews were abolished, dress regulations were curtailed, and no limitations of the random movements of the residents through the dorm halls were imposed.
• With the revision this year of night out and study period rules, the students of St. Bonaventure University in New York are breathing more freely amid a more liberal attitude. Their appreciation of this change is greatly magnified when they consider the rules of 1878. Here are some excerpts:
—Students shall deposit their pocket money with the treasurer . . . who shall keep an exact account of money received and paid out.
—Students shall not enter the room or dormitories of others . . .
—Visits to parents or friends during the scholastic year are against the rules of the institution.
—Letters and parcels sent to or from the students are subject to the inspection of the president.
—Thursdays and Sundays are the days appointed for the common walk out of the college; none shall remain in the college without permission but shall all proceed in a body and keep in a strict order.
—Bathing in the river is absolutely forbidden.
—Students are not allowed to go beyond the limits of the playground. They are permitted, however, to walk
along the bank of the river on Thursday and Sunday.
—Students shall not sit or lie on blankets on the bed.
—To withdraw a book from the library is forbidden.
• Enthusiasm is running high at the University of Chicago for the return of varsity football, dropped from its sports program in 1939. If enough people volunteer for the team, intercollegiate football there may be revived. U. of C. President George W. Beadle has no objection to students playing on a football team, or even playing a full football schedule, as long as football does not interfere with the academic program. He would not, however, wish to see football become a “big-time” sport at U. of C. This year’s “team,” which has about 45 members, will scrimmage with at least three colleges in the area. The coach of the team is Sidney Stein — last year a line coach at the University of Bridgeport. Stein has even suggested the formation of a league involving Chicago, M.I.T., and Cal Tech; but as yet this suggestion has not developed into any positive action by any of the schools.
• A student at Alameda State College working at the campus print shop found a way to augment his $2.50 an hour salary. A Secret Service raid found $2.4 million in $20 and $50 bills, a part of the over $4 million total turned out by the student.
feiffer
6£UWED,IT5 TIME M Ik) THE PEACE movement STOPPEV 3LAMIM& OTHERS FOR OUR FAILURE AMP LOOKED TO THE REAL CAUSE: OURSELVES.
WE HAVE FAItEP TO PROJECT THE Rl&HT IMAGE. PEACE, LIKE ANYTHING ELSE, IS A PRODUCT. IF INE INTEND To MASS'MARKET IT lUE MUST 00 OUR SHARE OF CONSUMER RESEARCH.
lOELL,iNE HAVE DONE SOME RESEARCH AMP THESE
ARE OUR FINDINGS. THE PUBLIC FINOS
PEACE EACRIU6IM
VIRILITY EEDTlEMED. IT FINDS IT OVERLU PASSIVE, NAIVE ABOUT COMMUDIGM AMP A SOP FOR. WOMEM AMP BEATNIKS'
THAT IS mot the w of PEACE THAT SELLS! OUR WINES REVEAL THAT PEOPLE FIDO THE PREPARA-RATODS FOR WAR 5HMIWW ITS ONLH THE END RESULTS THAT THE^ FRomNON-IF tUERE GOING TO MAKE PEACE CATCH CM WE'l/EEOT TO MAKE IT AS MASCULINE AS MH
DUMBER OUE-RETHLE OUR MOVE' MEDT'HAWKS FOR PEACE." NUMBER TlNO-REPLACEOUR . PEACE COUMCKzS WITH PEACE. COMMANDS-NE CAN CALL THEM' PEACE COMMS." UUM0ER 1HREE -RETlTLE OUR PEALE INORKERS- CALL T^TROUBLE SHOOTERS:
DUMBER FOOR-PUTOUT A SERIES OF KHAKl-GPLOREP CRASH PROGRAMS ON SUCH THEMES AS 'PEALE
POSTURE: "PEACE ESCALATION,' "PEACE counterforce: NUMBER FIVE- OtM ALLOW PEOPLE WITH SUITS AUD TIES TO JOIN. GET A FEW OF THOSE MINISTERS OFF THE SPONSOR LIST AMP POT 0M A COUPLE OF GENERALS!
IM SURE , CONGRESS
WILL BE
HAPPU TO
GIVE US
wc
inant.
' GENTLEMEN, ONCE INE MAKE THE IMA6E OF PEACE MORE MR' LIKE, OUR FUND RAIGIM6 PROBLEMS ML BE OI/ERf
2-t7
12
The Scholastic
James Devlin • • •
Mondo Cane
As one of the more recent serious documentaries, Mondo Cane is intense and revealing. Like The Sky Above—The Mud Below it is an intelligent motion picture that relies above all on the structuring of scenes on the principles of abrupt antithesis and startling juxtaposition through subtle editing. Attentive to the rigorous suggestion of a dynamic worldview, the audience is made eyewitness to such satirical scenes as obese women exercising in Vic Tanny’s and slim young ladies eating chocolate-covered ants in a notable New York restaurant; and a few minutes apart, the pathetic and tragic portraying of the derangement of animal life on an island subjected to atomic testing. Unlike The Sky Above—The Mud Below there is no immediate unity to the movie: there is no voyage; there is no single setting; and certainly no explicit unity of movement. The forming of the discrete episodes into a whole is left to the hovering reporter the narrator, and this narrator gives Mondo Cane its uniqueness.
There is, of course, a serious pur-
MOVIES
pose to the motion picture. The disparity of the incidents recorded demand a severe and well-directed discipline somewhere, lest the movie have no sense at all. The purpose is to affirm moral imperatives in a unique way, with obviousness, but a subtle sort of obviousness that could be mistaken for mere simplicity. Apart from the unorthodox setting in relief of each scene from the general context — the uniqueness of editing and direction — Mondo Cane employs a narrative technique perhaps formerly exclusive to the novel. The narrator of Mondo Cane is radically ironic, and he sets himself off from his material in order to make of it a unified whole; he strives to be uninvolved in individual scenes so that he can make implicit judgment of the work as a whole. If a scene, through position in the context or simply by its own force, casts an influence about itself that is moral in character, that calls for moral judgment, the narrator remains just on the periphery of that influence, refraining from explicit judgment himself. He speaks as an
unbiased, eminently neutral reporter. He remains anonymous, and pretends that he is not essential to the drama being visually unfolded. Actually he is essential, for he is the audience’s entrance into each given situation. And the words he speaks, the relations he makes as though it were a matter of course, and the attitudes he takes up are the most important things about the movie, the only things which promote any sort of coherence. Basically, his function is to disturb in some way, to disturb by his disinterest or by his pretentious worldly wit, by merely the sound of his voice always on the verge of being so worldly and skeptical that it loses its humanness altogether to assume something superhuman or something maniacal. The audience cannot shake him; like a devil he is always present with his dry and intelligent and sardonic commentary. He never makes-the mistake of alienating the audience by being mechanical, for he has a wide range of expression, and is capable of sympathy. But his sympathy is the kind that amounts to condescension, that contains nothing whatsoever of moral affirmation, that embodies no real feeling. He is intangibly dislikeable, so to try to push him away is to try to push a phantasm away. As a further safeguard certain scenes through the movie seem to be present only for the narrator to place himself more into the audience’s favor, to give him a chance to regain his grasp, scenes like the Australian life-saving girls rescuing hearty young men from the ocean. There the narrator’s attitude is just a broader and more refined facsimile of the viewer’s, and the rapport is reestablished at its initial strength.
The movie’s effort is to dramatize and comment both repertorily and, in the implicit manner of functional irony, morally, upon interesting useless activity, upon needless waste and unnecessary pretention. In addition, at the end and by the time that the audience is acquainted with the narrator’s method and with the irony of his almost inhuman “fine sentiment” and “objectivity,” the movie’s presentation takes on an explosive ambiguity. The last few scenes include a cave man, a missionary giving half-naked natives Holy Communion, and a native ritual in which natives wait hour after hour and day after day for an airplane to land to take them to an Eden, an airplane lured to them and away from a nearby airport by a small, wooden dummy plane. They present a new tone through the presentation of new material. Here the scenes take on a more deeply cultural
(Continued on page 23)
13
October 11, 1963
GABRIEL MARCEL:
CHRISTIAN PHILOSOPHER
By Dr. Frederick J. Crosson
A s the epigraph for the second part of his Metaphysical Journal, Gabriel Marcel quotes the following from the novelist E. M. Forster: “It is private life that holds out the mirror to infinity; personal intercourse, and that alone, which hints at a personality beyond our daily vision.”
As Marcel develops this theme in his philosophical writings, it becomes the affirmation that man and God cannot be understood by analogy with nature; that, on the contrary, even the nature which we encounter in the everyday world and in the laboratory is a reality whose meaning is derived from the human world of language and association; and that, finally, we can think about God truly only insofar as we think about Him as You, or as Father.
This French philosopher, a convert to Catholicism in 1929, is now 74 years old. He is probably the most honored and influential Catholic philosopher, certainly one of the most original and powerful minds of the century. He is also a successful playwright and drama critic, and a composer and music critic.
He has never been a professor of philosophy, except for brief periods during the last war, although his influence on contemporary French philosophy in particular has been strong. While he is often referred to as a Christian existentialist, he himself (like Heidegger and Sartre) repudiates the latter designation, and prefers to refer to his thought as Christian Socratism.
Perhaps his effort in philosophy could best be summed up by saying that he seeks to restore to human experience its ontological weight. That is, the attempt to understand the meaning of being, of the “ontological mystery,” must be sought in the clarification of certain specifically human data, such as fidelity, hope and love.
This may sound suspiciously anthropomorphic, or subjective, until one understands that the fundamental metaphysical insight of Marcel (in common with all later forms of “existentialism”) is that such experiences
are neither objective (in the sense of natural science) nor subjective (in the sense of psychological, or private and unique).
There is rather, he contends, a third kind of existence and truth, a realm of being which is at once objective and yet essentially dependent on the subject. If this contention is correct, then it represents a decisive enlargement of our categories of explanation and understanding. A whole new realm of reality is revealed, and one more fundamental than the easy opposition of objective versus subjective.
The perspective of objectivity consists in putting my own existence in brackets, as it were, and thinking of objects — my body among them — as in a universal which is oblivious to me as existing and which contains me as one body among others. This type of reflection or attitude toward experience Marcel calls primary reflection. It is characterized by its detachment, and its conceiving of all ques
tions as problems, that is as questions for which one’s personal existence is irrelevant.
But there are questions which involve the questioner and which cannot be adequately translated into problems. Such questions Marcel calls mysteries, and the type of reflection which recognizes them is secondary reflection. Affirmations about mys- I teries cannot be verified by an ob- ; server who is not involved in them, and such an observer will tend to classify such affirmations as subjective. To do this is to distort or misconceive their nature: for example, to treat faith in as opinion that, or to treat hope in as desire that.
The assumption of the attitude which sees only problems is that what is real for one person must be real for another (normal) person: but this, Marcel contends, is wrong. What is given to a person may depend on what he is open to. Where the uniqueness of the person forms part (in some way) of what is given to him by experience, no public or common verification of his claims is possible. “Put yourself in my place here and tell me whether this desk is scratched” is a perfectly consistent conjunction. “Put yourself in my place and tell me whether my mother loves me” is not consistent, although in both cases it is a statement about what is given in experience which is in question.
In both cases, that is, an objective claim is made, but in the former it is a claim in which the uniqueness of the person making it is irrelevant: any normal person could verify it. In the second case, however, the claim can be verified in principle by only one person. We Eire deeding here, Marcel says, not with a judgment about esse but about cum-esse.
The pre-eminent instance of such interpersonal relations and the judgments which express them is that of religious faith in God. The unbeliever understands the believer to be making affirmations about God in the same way in which the astronomer makes affirmations about planets. But this is not the case. The believer’s affirmations are not about an object (in the t sense of primary reflection), although they are nonetheless about a reality p which is other than the believer’s psychic states.
Indeed, since God is a transcendent person, an Absolute Thou, He can be thought and affirmed truly only by judgments in the mode of secondary reflection. To speak about God as an object is not to speak about God at all — this in spite of the fact that many Christians tend to think about God only as Him.
(Continued on page 21)
14
The Scholastic
One Aspect of the Role of the Folk Singer
As Exemplified by Woodie Guthrie
by Brian Jorgensen
r> ecause we seem to find it embar-passing or incongruous to say what we wish we could, our everyday speech often tends to mean as little as possible, as if conversation were a process of filling out congruent, mimeographed forms for no one’s information, while standing back to back. Sometimes this is because it seems hard to mean much of anything, or at least anything worth telling. These difficulties are reasons for the principle of aesthetic distance, present in folk song as well as other art forms. By this principle the personal is formalized, and the form has personality, so that we find that what is at least a few dignified and sincere steps in another’s shoes can at best be a stepping away from our everyday selves, so that the large, empty spaces between things are seen to shrink, confusion to resolve into order once our own shadow gets out of the way. It becomes possible at least not to disbelieve in what we find ourselves hoping for, and a little harder to forget, or refuse, to hope. Even the very simplest songs say things we want to say, and the folksinger talks through his singing, freely and unashamed to try and mean something, because he has the discipline of the songs to guide him, and has made the words his own.
There are as many ways to do this as there are singers. I want to talk about one, Woodie Guthrie, and one of the many types of songs that he sang, songs of pride and hope similar in many ways to Negro spirituals.
Woodie never sang too many spirituals, but he would look around at a boxcar full of loafers and drifters and losers, put his tongue in his cheek and sing ‘This train is bound for glory” as if he meant it. In a way he did, but he was more inclined to find glory in the here and now than in the hereafter. When he put words and music to the tempo of the work he was doing and had done, he came up with a song not about crossing the river of death into the promised land, (as in “Michael, Row the Boat Ashore”), but a song about following
October 11, 1963
a river that turned desert into green country, and seeing the promised land all around: “Pastures of Plenty.” Though the migrant who speaks for all of his kind knows well enough who owns the dust and the deserts, the mountains, orchards and cities, whose tables sparide with the wine he sets there, yet he says to those owners, in the last verse of the song:
“It’s always we’ve rambled, that river and I,
All along your green valleys
I will work till I die.
My land I’ll defend with my life if it be
For my pastures of plenty must always be free.”
And he and a few billion other people before and after him have their say in a song that mixes the boldest kind of humanism with the brashest kind of horselaugh:
“I’m just a lonesome traveler, the great historical bum,
Highly educated, from hist’ry I come.
I built the rock of ages, that was in the year of one,
And that’s about the biggest thing that man has ever done.”
This is the song of all the men never famous or great, who shared in, in fact made possible, the triumphs and failures, guilts and blessings, of most of the great and famous.
“I beat the daring Roman, I beat the daring Turk,
I fought the greatest leaders and I licked them every one.
I worked in the garden of Eden, that was in the year of two, Joined the apple-picker’s union,
I always paid my dues.
I’m the man that signed the contract, to raise the rising sun
And that’s about the biggest thing that man has ever done.”
The song betrays the same slightly ironic attitude toward the deity of the employers and contractors as do many Negro spirituals toward a God Who was most probably white:
“I got shoes, you got shoes, All God’s chillun got shoes.
When I get to heaven gonna put on my shoes
Gonna walk all over God’s heaven.”
Or:
“Don’t care so much about shakin God’s hand
I just wanna get to the promised land.”
Woodie was interested in giving people a kind of faith too proud to look around for heaven, just work.
“Work is the thing. The biggest and the best thing you can sing about is work. ... I am out to sing songs that will prove to you that this is your world, and that if it has hit you pretty hard and knocked you for a dozen loops, no matter how hard it’s run you down and rolled over you, no matter what color, what size you are, how you are built, I am out to sing the songs that make you take pride in yourself and in your work. And the songs I sing are made up for the most part by all sorts of folks just about like you.” (California to the New York Island.)
Woodie may have thought he was just about like everybody else, but a song like “This Land Is Your Land”( which I hope I don’t have to quote) proves that he wasn’t. Time and again it works, it does the job, makes it hard to feel selfish or beaten, makes it hard to stop humming about hope.
Notre Dame still has problems, but Ron Bliey’s emergence last Saturday gives the Irish the break-away runner they so desperately need. by Gary Sabatte
For Irish fans, the drama enacted last Saturday at Ross-Ade Stadium before 51,273 spectators was a familiar one: the game being played, at times, seemed to be no more than a rerun of the Wisconsin cliffhanger. Like the Wisconsin game, it was a tight defensive game, marked by grueling line play; like the Wisconsin game, it was a game which saw the Irish lose late in the fourth period. Admittedly — and particularly for Devore — it was a bitter defeat, especially because victory had again seemed so close.
Essentially, the Purdue encounter magnified certain problems that arose and became critically apparent in the Wisconsin game: Notre Dame’s lack of a polished quarterback and need for a talented break-away runner. Of equal importance is the perplexing question of how to avert any more of the fourth quarter fadeouts which, unhappily, occurred in the first two games.
At best, two of the three problems remain unresolved. Devore is still dipping into his virtual potpourri of quarterbacks to find a seasoned field general who can consistently sustain offensive drives. The two quarterbacks in last Saturday’s game proved brilliant on occasion, but oftentimes vacillated from brilliance to mediocrity in their selection of plays. However, the signal calling was noticeably better against Purdue than against Wisconsin.
Starting with the premise that “a good offense is the best defense,” it would appear that the Irish have a long way to go. So far, Notre Dame’s defense has been its best offense; the defensive wall anchored by Lehmann, Nicola, and Arrington has almost compensated for the offensive lapses. But it hasn’t been enough. The only logical solution, hence, in eliminating the fourth period collapses is to mold a potent offense that won’t put the defense in as many make-or-break situations. But this is more easily said than done.
Whatever else Devore may pull out of his bag of tricks, however, it was apparent after last Saturday that he may have found in Ronnie Bliey the answer to Notre Dame’s lack of out
side speed. It was Bliey whose running late in the fourth period almost brought Notre Dame back from the edge of defeat. After Purdue scored, Bliey returned the Purdue kickoff 26 yards. Then, with Huarte calling the shots, Bliey ripped off gains of 15, 11, 13, and five yards, mostly on end sweeps.
His fourth quarter spurts were undoubtedly the best of his two-year career. Even before last season, it was no secret that Bliey was fast, but he had remained unproven.
For those who had been waiting over a year for Bliey to turn that corner, the waiting ended last Saturday. Significantly, what was seen was a new Bliey: it was a hustling, handclapping Bliey who was running and — surprisingly — blocking well.
“I just knew I had to move,” said Bliey of Notre Dame's last threatening drive. “This was our last chance and we had to win. ... I knew I was getting some good blocking up front, but, at the time, you can never tell who is making the blocks. I had that corner on my mind, and that was all.”
Bliey, who alternated with Joe Farrell for the afternoon, picked up an impressive 55 yards in 10 carries. This, in itself, is sufficient evidence that Hugh Devore has the explosive outside runner he needs. How Devore may employ Bliey in tomorrow’s engagement remains to be seen. But Devore must now admit that he has that much-sought-foi’ outside speed to hurl against the Trojan wall.
Southern California, although no longer king of the mountain, is still tough. Fresh from a victory over Duffy Daugherty’s ground troops. USC still has the “B-Boys” — Brown. Bedsole and Beathard. And if that’s not enough, one can point to rugged Damon Bame, Troy's all-American linebacker. Tomorrow could indeed prove trying.
The Irish must put together some kind of sustained offensive to win against Southern Cal. Meanwhile, confidence remains high even in the wake of two defeats. As Bliey says: “Southern Cal’s got nothing on us. Nothing.”
Saturday will tell.
17
Rugby Deity: Non-mythical Zeus
by Rex Lardner
IN Greek mythology, Zeus was the chief of the Olympian gods. But in Notre Dame athletic circles, “Zeus” is senior Bob Mier.
The nickname—appropriate enough, since Mier is founder and captain and coach of the Notre Dame Rugby Club, and is almost synonymous with rugby at Notre Dame — was given Mier, jokingly, by his teammates. But, joking aside, Mier has been almost solely responsible for the rise of rugby at Notre Dame.
Since the fall of 1961, he has seen it grow tremendously in participation, popularity, and publicity. “Two years ago,” says Mier, “we had about 30 players out for the team. But this fall we’ve had as many as 75 or 80 out for some practices.”
Mier is enthusiastic about this year’s team: “Our depth is really tremen
dous, and I’ve never seen as many outstanding players as in the last few weeks. Then, too, we’ve lost only one starter from last year. Although there hasn’t been any publicity for freshman tryouts, we have had quite a few of them at practice, and we’re going to have tryouts after the interhall football season for those freshmen interested.”
Commonly known as British football, rugby has much in common with American football: the field dimensions are approximately equal in both sports and the object of each game is essentially the same — to cross the opponents’ goal line.
There are, however, some fundamental differences between the two. In rugby neither timeouts nor substitutions are allowed. There is no blocking in the British game and the
time is divided into 35-minute halves; also, there is no forward passing in rugby, and no equipment is worn.
“We have essentially two types of players in rugby — forwards and backs,” comments Mier. “The forwards or scrum are usually our bigger men while the backs are our better runners. Size is not that important in rugby; in fact, many of England’s best players are relatively small men.
“Our scrum averages only a little over 200 pounds, and our backs are much lighter. Teamwork, as in other sports, must be stressed in rugby.
“Eight forwards and seven backs play at a time. Probably the most fundamental formations of the game are the line-out and scrum-down.
“The line-out takes place when the ball is thrown or kicked out of bounds. The ball is thrown down the middle of a line of the opposing sets of forwards, who stand parallel to one another. The forwards’ job is to get the ball out to the backs. Lined up diagonally behind the forwards, the backs then try to start a downfield running movement; the ball is passed laterally as the movement develops.
“The scrum-down usually is the result of a penalty. When this happens the two sets of forwards group themselves together in a type of huddle, each locking arms with a teammate. The ball is rolled on the ground between them. It is their job to “heel” the ball backwards with their feet. The backs are again behind the scrum in their diagonal formation. Once the ball is “heeled out” the backs try to get the same sort of movement going as in the line-out.
“The primary concern of the backs is to get the ball out to the last man in their formation. This is done as quickly as possible; the faster this is accomplished, the less time the opponents will have to tackle him.”
Tonight, the club plays its first game of the season against a strong University of Indiana team.
Veterans in the scrum include Harry Steele, Ken Stinson, Billy Kelly, John Mauro, Chris Carmouche, Dick Bell, Terry O’Hara, Bob Lesko, Mike McManus, and 6-5, 230-pound Mike Murphy. The backs are Mier, Buzz Breen, Pat O’Malley, Bill Ryan, Tom Gerlacher, Pat Kealy, Frank Fee, Nat Davis, and Al Byrne. The game will be played under the lights on Cartier Field after the pep rally.
Since Rugby is an international sport, many players on teams opposing the Irish will be from foreign countries. One game, on October 26, is against the Embassy All-Star team of Washington. “We’re playing them in order to improve international relations,” cracks Mier.
18
The Scholastic
SCOREBOARD
GOLF: Mike O’Connell, seven strokes behind after 36 holes, shot 73-70 in the last two rounds of the Burke Open golf tournament to edge Jim Tenbroeck by two shots.
O’Connell finished with a 72-hole total of 295; Tenbroeck, with a 76 on the final round, still managed a 297. Jerry Lefere finished third and Charlie McLaughlin fourth; Jim Hiniker and freshman Mike Thorpe tied for fifth.
SOCCER: Herman Friedmann became the first player to score against national champion St. Louis University this season; unfortunately, he was the only player to score, as the Billikens swamped the Irish, 8-1.
Friedmann also booted a goal on Sunday against Washington University, as did Hemon Puentes and Mariano Gonzales, and Notre Dame beat the Bears, 3-1. The weekend split gives the soccer team a 3-1 record going into tomorrow morning’s game against Goshen.
RUGBY: Bob Mier will unveil the 1963-64 Notre Dame rugby team tonight, under the lights on Cartier Field. The Irish will face Indiana in the first of four fall engagements Mier has scheduled to prepare the squad for their spring season.
INTERHALL: The interhall football season begins with six games Sunday afternoon, on the fields behind the tennis courts. All teams will play except Walsh-Alumni, which drew a bye. Starting time for the first pair of games is 1:00 p.m.
CROSS-COUNTRY: Notre Dame, with potentially its best team, opens the season against Indiana on the Burke Golf Course at 4:00 p.m. today.
WRESTLING: There will be a meeting for all men interested in wrestling in room A of the Rockne Memorial on Tuesday, October 15. Freshmen report at 5:00 p.m., upperclassmen at 5:30. Bring medical slips to the meeting.
SCHEDULE Soccer
October 12, Goshen at Notre Dame, 10:00 a.m.
Cross-Country
October 11, Indiana at N.D., 4:00 p.m.
Rugby
October 11, Indiana at Notre Dame, after rally
Interhall
Sunday, October 13:
Cavanaugh vs. Breen-Phillips, 1:00 p.m.
Dillon vs. St. Ed’s-Howard, 1:00 p.m.
Farley vs. Zahm, 2:15 p.m.
Sorin vs. Badin, 2:15 p.m.
Keenan vs. Stanford, 3:30 p.m.
Off-Campus vs. Alumni, 3:30 p.m.
October 11, 1963
Voice in the Crowd
Tust a year ago — in “Voice in the Crowd” for October 12, 1962 —
John Bechtold wrote, “One of the key questions . . . remains unanswered: Who will lead the team at quarterback, the most important single position on any club?”
Now — on October 11, 1963 — although Notre Dame’s football team has other, more minor problems, its major problem is again the same: no quarterback has yet demonstrated the ability to take charge of the team and move it consistently.
Statistically, the Notre Dame offense has been more than adequate in the first two games. The top five runners have gained 263 yards on only 62 carries — an average of 4.2 yards per attempt; the top five receivers have caught 15 passes for 198 yards, and Jim Kelly alone has five receptions for 93 yards — almost a 20-yard average — and a touchdown. The Irish have gained 276 yards rushing and 249 passing, for a total offense of 525 yards and an average of nearly five, yards gained per offensive play.
At the same time, Notre Dame has nine defenders in double figures in tackles, including Bob Lehmann with 23 and Norm Nicola with 18; and the Irish defense has held its two opponents to 514 yards total offense, a four-yard-per-play average.
Even Notre Dame’s quarterbacks have fared reasonably well, statistically, completing 16 of 36 passes — just a shade under 45% — for 237 yards, a touchdown, and a 14.8-yard average. John Huarte completed six of eleven passes against Purdue, including a 41-yarder to Kelly, and Sandy Bonvechio was three for five in the same game.
But, significantly enough, Notre Dame has run only 111 offensive plays, compared to Wisconsin-Purdue’s 128, and herein lies the problem. Irish quarterbacks have been occasionally brilliant but frequently erratic; they have been unable to control the ball consistently — and hence have allowed the opposition possession. And despite a statistically satisfactory offensive effort, mechanical mistakes and poor play selection have prevented the Irish from capitalizing on several scoring opportunities.
As a result, the offense has put a disproportionate burden on the defense: not only must Notre Dame play defense too long, but twice the defense has been put in the position of defending a one-touchdown lead for over half the game.
This problem presents as distressing a dilemma for Coach Hugh Devore as for anyone. While none of his quarterbacks has so far played exceptionally enough to offer a definite solution to the problem, he must still settle on one man and play him without reservation, or none may ever solve the problem.
To be fully effective, a quarterback must have complete confidence in himself, and must inspire the confidence of his team. As long as he must look over his shoulder before each play to see who is replacing him, he can do neither; he cannot have the poise to direct the team smoothly, gambling — or being conservative — as the situation demands. And as long as he is only one of a group of alternating quarterbacks, he cannot gain the experience necessary to eliminate mental and mechanical errors.
It is difficult for the coaching staff to risk a poor signal-calling job against such an awesome opponent as Southern California, with only the nebulous promise of proficiency later in the season as incentive. But a quarterback will respond to this kind of confidence from his coaches, and it is a risk the coaching staff must take if Notre Dame is to achieve a winning season.
If the Irish are to beat Southern Cal tomorrow, it must be by virtue of an exceptional team effort — and an exceptional effort by one quarterback.
—Terry Wolkerstorfer
19
TYLER JR.’S
PICKS OF THE WEEK
TEXAS VS. OKLAHOMA at Dallas: All-American Scott Appleton will have to stop the Sooners’ Jim Grisham and Joe Don Looney in the Game of the Week. But All-American Damon Bame couldn’t do it, and neither will Appleton.
LOUISIANA STATE AT MIAMI: George Mira is bound to throw a touchdown pass sooner or later, and the Hurricanes should pull the Upset of the Week in Miami tonight.
ARMY AT PENN STATE: The Cadets are still hurting from last week’s venture into Big Ten land, and Rip Engle’s Lions may be the best in the East.
PURDUE AT WISCONSIN: The Badgers will be too big, too strong, too good — and after an open date, too fresh — for the Boilermakers.
NAVY AT SOUTHERN METHODIST: The Mustangs shot down the Falcons last Saturday in an upset, but will have more trouble sinking the Middies. Navy’s guns — primarily Roger Stau-bach — are too potent, its armor too heavy for SMU’s light line.
MINNESOTA AT NORTHWESTERN:
The Wildcats will be up for this one after last week’s loss to Illinois, and Minnesota is too inexperienced at key positions.
OTHER GAMES:
Arkansas over Baylor
Michigan State over Michigan
Syracuse over UCLA Rice over Stanford Indiana over Iowa Nebraska over Air Force Academy
Last Week: 10-2, 83%.
To Date: 18-6, 75%.
it’s
invisible.
man!
It’s incredible, incomparable, infallible I Code 10 for men, the new kind of hairdressing from Colgate-Palmolive. The new invisible way to groom a man’s hair all day. Non-greasy Code 10 disappears in your hair, gives it the clean, manly look that inflames women, infuriates
inferior men. Be in. Get the non-greasy hairdressing, CodelO. It’s invisible, man!
20
The Scholastic
‘Marcel’
(Continued from page Ik)
This briefest of sketches of Marcel’s thought may suggest, at least, some of the insight and fruitfulness of his ideas. In common with the other “existentialists,” and more perhaps than any of them except Kierkegaard, he has once again placed at the center of philosophy the quest for the mean
ing of human existence, and stressed the relation of this quest to the mystery of divine transcendence.
Even apart from the theoretical contribution which he makes to the dialogue of philosophy, Marcel is richly rewarding to the nonprofessional reader. His mode of thought is concrete and free of an excessive technical vocabulary. One is struck in reading him, by the impression that
more than an ensemble of ideas is being offered. There is an awareness of an invitation to encounter a person, and one puts the book down, as Edward Muir wrote, “with the sense that the sum of human wisdom has been increased.”
(Several of Marcel’s works are available in paperback translations: The Mystery of Being, The Philosophy of Existence, Homo Viator.)
Fables for Fun

Confucius say, one day in fun, To a friend and Number One Son, “With my Swingline I’ll fuse Your most honorable queues Because two heads are better than one!" SWINGLINE
STAPLER
: No bigger than a pack of gum :
=	• Unconditionally guaranteed!
:	• Refills available anywhere!
| • Get it at any stationery,	;
i	variety, or book store1	'
£ o Send «n your own Swingline Fable >	Prizes for those used	5
I	INC, LONG ISLAND CITY 1, N.Y. '
L-,	......._...............j
from our University Shop DISTINCTIVE FALL SPORTWEAR styled by us, in sizes 35 to 42
Tweed Sport Jackets in new, unusual colorings. Plaids, diagonals, herringbones, stripes, and fancies in greys, browns, olives, blues, $55
Wool Flannel Blazers in navy or dark green, $50
Odd Trousers (sizes 29 to 36) in worsted flannel, $ 21.5 0 j in cotton corduroy, $15;
in cotton chino, $ 10
Quilted ski or outdoor jackets with nylon shell, contrasting linings, $27.50 Warm, practical outer jackets, from $45
ESTABLISHED 1818
^en’s furnishings, ^ats ^Sbocs
74 E. MADISON ST., NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. NEW YORK • BOSTON • PITTSBURGH • SAN FRANCISCO • LOS ANGELES
October 11, 1963
21
Freshman Year
The first Freshman Year of Studies Orientation Program to help the first-year students find out about the possible course programs open to them as sophomores in the various colleges will be held October 15, at 7:30 P.M., in the Engineering Building. This initial meeting is “required attendance” for all Engineering Intent freshmen, but is open to all freshmen who might be considering, however vaguely, the possibility of an engineering career.
Dean Norman P. Gay of the Engineering College, his Department
Chairmen, and representatives of the various organizations and honor groups in the undergraduate areas will be present.
Last year the Freshman Office held these Orientation Programs during the month of March. Reviewing our over-all program this past summer, we felt that the Engineering Intent student should be introduced this fall to the various opportunities open to him in the College of Engineering. Consequently, this October 15 meeting will initiate a series of open houses to be held by the various engineering departments. These open houses, with the department chair
man and his faculty and outstanding upperclassmen present, will be scheduled on a one-a-week basis. This will allow an engineering freshman who is in doubt about his future area of concentration to visit between October 15 and December 1 all of the departmental open houses. This knowledge, plus the Freshman Brochure to be distributed early in December, plus the faculty counseling available to students in the Freshman Office, should give every Engineering Intent student a clear-cut picture by the Christmas holidays of the opportunities open to him as a sophomore.
—Dr. William M. Burke
^■ZA
BL. JUST ARRIVED!
DELIVERY
FOR DELIVERIES AT THE CIRCLE AND BEHIND FARLEY
Delivered on demand — PIZZA. HOAGGIES, PRESSURE COOKED CHICKEN
PIZZA MOBILES
New (Radio Controlled) units To Deliver your PIZZA within Minutes and SIZZLING HOT TOO!
/^FASTEST ^HOTTEST DELIVERY IN TOWN
FRANKIE'S 1003 N. Notre Dame Avenue CE 3-1115
Even if you are a beginner ...Youll
Dance after 3 hours
at the
ARTHUR MURRAY STUDIO
You can go dancing after only three hours when you put yourself in the hands of an Arthur Murray teacher.
At our gay studio parties, free to all students, you will thrill to the wonderful adventure of dancing the new steps in the Fox Trot, Cha-Cha, Twist, etc. You'll gain poise, develop your personality as you make new friends.
Join the fun; accept a half-hour U" W U' U' Trial Lesson............. All II i
ARTHUR MURRAY STUDIO 120 East Wayne Street CE 2-3339
PaperbMate
FREE FILL '
The biggest pen bargains going are at the big fall Paper Mate Free Fill. Come in —choose the color and style Paper Mate pen you like best—get an extra refill freel
available at THE NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
22
The Scholastic
‘Movies’
(Continued, from page 13)
sense, actually a religious sense, and tend to dramatize, against the background of uselessness set up by the rest of the movie, profound hope and, at least from a modern viewpoint, profound need. The apparent sincerity of the people portrayed in these scenes is in direct conflict with the attitude of the narrator, and, somewhat, he responds to the conflict. A kind of maelstrom is created by the dialectic of this response, and the movie ends, perhaps fittingly, with an abruptness that almost seems to sig
nify that the structure which placed a narrator in opposition to the material is invalid after all. There is the sense that even the religious feelings are useless, as though the movie had been building up to such a condemnation, but there is also a sense of a sudden, powerful identification of the modern, even the modern blase, with the ancient, profoundly sensual dedication to that which is unknown. Something new appears, and the movie is so constructed, intentionally, that it cannot embody it.
The structure, through an intentional progression, implicates itself in something so large and important that the structure fades away before it.
And, in a real sense, the purpose of the movie from the start is to destroy its own basis for presentation, to negate itself, and to affirm something larger, much as the natives negate and affirm in a single process, the dialectic process of progressing culture. All the silliness is condemned first by the narrator’s irony, and then with finality by the self-destruction of the only instrument by which the silliness could be expressed, the movie itself as a structural presentation. All the while Mondo Cane pretended to be divorced from concern; all the while it persistently asserted concern by making the audience aware of the threat of unconcern.
Does a man really take unfair advantage of women when he uses Mennen Skin Bracer?
All depends on why he uses it
Most men simply think Menthol-Iced Skin Bracer is the best after-shave lotion around. Because it cools rather than burns. Because it helps heal shaving nicks and scrapes. Because it helps prevent blemishes.
So who can blame them if Bracer's crisp, long-lasting aroma just happens to affect women so remarkably?
Of course, some men may use Mennen Skin Bracer because of this effect.
How intelligent!	[MJ
October 11, 1963
Zv<l O RM D RINGS
For Style
Quality and Value
True artistry is expressed in the brilliant fashion styling of every Keepsake diamond engagement ring. Each setting is a masterpiece of design, reflecting the full brilliance and beauty of the center diamond ... a perfect gem of flawless clarity, fine color and meticulous modern cut.
Authorized Keepsake Jewelers may be listed in the Yellow Pages. Visit one in your area and choose from many beautiful styles, each with the name “Keepsake" in the ring and on the tag.
HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING
Please send two new booklets, “How to Plan Your Engagement and Wedding” and “Choosing Your Diamond Rings,” both for only 25j£. Also send special offer of beautiful 44 page Bride’s Book.
Name___________________________________________________________
Address________________________________________________________
City________________________________Co State___________________
KEEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS, SYRACUSE 2, NEW YORK, 13202
Welcome all
NOTRE DAME MEN
• YOUR HEADQUARTERS for KEEPSAKE Diamond Rings FROM $50.00 to $1,000.00
CREDIT AND LAYAWAY AVAILABLE
J EWELEE8
121 W. Washington CE 4-1311
RUBIN CLEANERS 217 E. JEFFERSON Downtown—on the Bus Line
★
Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 40 Years!
★
•	The Finest in Dry Cleaning
•	Expert Shirt Laundering
•	Complete Laundry Service
ATTENTION SENIORS!!
PLEASE NOTE WELL
1. Please check your picture for the 1964 Dome. 2. If you haven’t had your picture taken, please check with Dome for picture requirements. 3. Please check your activities list and make sure you have the three activities you want.
PLACE: Dome office (above the Huddle) WHEN: Through October 31
TIME: Mon.-Fri., 3:00-5:00
DO IT NOW!
24
The Scholastic
Senate ...
Last Monday’s 3-hour Senate meeting was far more efficient than the 4^ hours of confusion two weeks ago and more productive than last week’s 2 hours of superficiality. Besides a balance of speed and legislative insight, however, a new element emerged on Monday — that of coherent and persuasive debate.
A point of general interest divulged at the meeting was the availability of Campus-Pacs this Monday and Tuesday. They will be sold, in order, to Seniors, Juniors, etc., at a cost of 15< or 2 for 25<. Also, a closer estimate of the Student Government debt was released — $10,000. The Senate was promised a monthly account of income and expenses, to lead (hopefully) toward tighter economic control.
Discussion of the Mardi Gras budget indicated that most Senators were blending curiosity with constructive analysis. The budget was passed largely as presented, however, undoubtedly due in part to the provision for a University accountant to administer it.
A motion to grant Senators preferential tickets for Homecoming and Victory dances was rejected, essentially because of recognized student opposition to such action in the past. The Senate did authorize a student referendum (Oct. 14) on the question of converting the Barn into a “night spot” — with the understanding that a liquor license for such an establishment very likely will not be obtainable.
The most controversial issue was a motion that Notre Dame withdraw from the national Who’s Who, and the ensuing debate brought out the best in the Senate. Discussion centered on the standards used by Who’s Who in determining its recognition, and on the appropriateness of ND’s membership in a “small-college” organization. However, most Senators favored some recognition of outstanding students, so the problem of standards remained in any event. When a list of the “small member colleges” was read the Senate felt little fear of bad company through affiliation, and defeated the motion.
But while the issue was important, the striking characteristic of the decision was that it was largely the result of persuasion of Senator by Senator, a rarity at most past meetings. Perhaps it is too early to draw conclusions, but a general trend toward this type of debating would greatly enhance the overall effectiveness of future Senate action.
—Al Dudash
1. What’s the matter, no appetite?
I have more important things to think of than food.
2. Worried about exams, huh? No, about getting old.
3. You’re kidding?
Not at all. I’ve reached a milestone today. I’m 21. The days of my youth have flown.
4. You should be celebrating not brooding.
The age of responsibility is upon me.
5. How come you’re not a member of tlie Drama Club?
Already my father’s talking about my being “self-supporting.” I see responsibilities all around me—wife, children, lawn, leaves.
6. Relax. You can let Living Insurance from Equitable take care of responsibilities. It can provide for your family, your mortgage, the kids’ education ... even build a sizable retirement fund for you.
Say, this is good spaghetti.
For information about Living Insurance, see The Man from Equitable. For information about career opportunities at Equitable, see your Placement Officer, or write to William E. Blevins, Employment Manager.
The EQUITABLE Life Assurance Society of the United States
Home Office: 1285 Avenue of the Americas, New York 19, N. Y. ©1963
Tom Hoobler. ..
The Last Word
Since cleanliness is reputed to be next to godliness, the laundry’s well-publicized (see LETTERS and CAMPUS AT A GLANCE, this issue) and much-disputed increase in charges might possibly be affecting the spiritual tenor of the Notre Dame students. We leave this for the Religious Bulletin to decide. However, Fr. Paul Wendel, C.S.C., Assistant Vice-president for Business Affairs, (who is nominally responsible for the price increase), supplied us with a comparison of laundry fees, in partial justification of the increase.
The comparison lists the Notre Dame laundry prices against the prices of a South Bend commercial launderer (who shall remain unnamed) and average laundry prices in the Chicago area:
	ND	South Bend	Chicago
shirt	$.20	$.29	
T shirt	.10	.25	.20
pajamas	.30	.50	.45
shorts	.10	.20	.20
handker-			
chief	.04	.05	.08
towel	.07	.11	.13
The laundry		allots $2.25	per stu-
dent per week this year, as compared with $1.83 last year. This allotment is based on the services printed on the back of student laundry cards, which are not intended to be an average week’s laundry, but merely a suggestion how the $2.25 can be used. Students have commented that the amount of laundry listed on this year’s card is less than last year’s. The decrease was necessitated because the cost of the services on last year’s card was calculated to be 80c more under the new prices, while the allotment increase ($1.83 to S2.25) was only 42c. Thus, services had to be dropped to make up the 38c difference.
In other words, the administration, whether officially or not, doesn’t expect the students to be able to have as much laundry done this year without extra payment. The implication is that the full price for a student’s laundry is no longer covered by his room and board fee. The only justification is that, as noted above, ND laundry prices are still comparatively low, and that the last price rise was made in 1951.
In the situation as presented, the administration is sympathetic but helpless. The only way to bring the laundry allotment up to what the student could normally be expected to spend would be to raise the room and board charge, which the administration is trying to hold off as long as possible.
The one traditional recourse for the student is to write home to dad, plead
ing for more money. Clip this column to your letter if dad wants corroboration.
For freshmen only, we are beginning this week a column that will run at somewhat regular intervals, by Dr. William Burke, the Dean of the Freshman Year of Studies. The column is to inform freshmen of events sponsored by the Freshmen Year Program as well as to provide occasional advice (in fields outside Ann Lander’s domain, that is). Page 24 this week.
The time of the Martin Luther King lecture (now billed as a “Southern Christian Leadership Rally”) has been changed to 8:15 p.m., Friday, October 18. Tickets are now available in the Scholastic office. (Actually, they are “$2.00 Donation Receipts,” but without a “Donation Receipt” you’ll have to stand in the back.)
It might seem unnecessary to talk about apathy during the football season, because of the vigorous displays of spirit that go on every weekend. Still, the signs of the typical problem of student indifference and more apparent as the year goes on. In the upcoming student government elections, many offices will be uncontested; a few, even senatorial posts, will go begging for just one candidate to take the office by default.
Why this should be so is difficult to explain. In the case of freshmen, who would normally be the most enthusiastic and activistic group in the school, they may be intimidated by orientation warnings about how much time must be spent in studying. Yet, the point that extracurricular activities are as much a place in every student’s life as his formal studies is granted implicitly by the administration, since it furnishes the thousands of dollars needed to operate the various student groups every year. If a student cares to do nothing more than just lock himself in his room and study, he is missing out on most of the opportunities that Notre Dame provides for education.
There is, of course, much more to the problem of student apathy than merely the non-participative attitude many students have toward student government and the other student extracurriculars. But since these activities are among the most appealing to all students, it would seem logical that a break in the pattern of indifference would first appear as an increased interest in the student government elections. We would like to encourage, then, any qualified students particularly freshmen, to consider running for some office in the elections.
26
The Scholastic
Highlander Motor Lodge & Tony's Restaurant
112 Bypass ELKHART, INDIANA
★
— 42 Rooms —
★ Phone: JAckson 3-4780
LOUIE'S
Free deliveries to campus 937 SOUTH BEND AVE. CE 3-0324
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist
•
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
-	- MM	_
Once again Michaels & Mann presents the traditional look for fall and winter with the Convoy Coat. Pat Whelan and Hank Schlachter, campus representatives for Michaels & Mann, with Sue Hess, a charming St. Mary’s girl, show immediate approval of these practical but good-looking coats. Why don't you come in and try one on. too? The fabric and coat are imported from England and it comes in navy, black, olive, and camel priced at $22.50. You, as a Notre Dame man, can easily acquire the traditional look at Michaels & Mann, one block south from the bus stop on the sunny side of the street.
Your I.D. immediately opens a 6-month charge account Michaels & Mann - — 1 — me. =■■
118 S. MICHIGAN STREET	NEXT DOOR TO OFFICE ENGINEERS
— |mm| =====
SHOES BY JARMAN
STANDING ON OUR OWN THREE FEET
Research, Manufacturing and Operations form the solid base upon which 6T&E has built its strength. Today, 6T&E is the largest of the many Independent telephone companies that supply a substantial share of America’s e ver- gro wing communications needs. By conducting our own research, manufacturing our own communications products and operating our own telephone system, 6T&E contributes to the communications progress of the whole nation.
GENERAL TELEPHONE & ELECTRONICS ®
730 THIRD AVENUE, NEW YORK 10017 V
GT&E SUBSIDIARIES: General Telephone Operating Companies in 32 states • General Telephone & Electronics Laboratories • Genera! Telephone & Electronics International • General Telephone Directory Co. • Automatic Electric • Lenkurt Electric • Sylvania Electric Products