Renk Dairy Farm, Sun Prairie, Wisconsin

Greener pastures
for Americas second largest telephone system.
Nowhere in the United States is the economic “grass” greener than in the great agricultural areas of our nation. New farm equipment has increased productivity. New home conveniences have brought a higher standard of living, and demands grow for an even better way of life.
Part of this better living has been the demand for more and better Communications.
It follows that as these rural areas expand and prosper, so does General Telephone. For these are the areas we serve.
In Wisconsin, for instance, dairy farms are producing more milk of better quality from fewer cows. Wisconsin country homes are bright and up to date. Their standard of living is equal to or better than that of their city brothers.
In this one state, Gen Tel plans to spend more than $30 million in the next few years improving and increasing telephone services and facilities.
This is a typical example of how we strive not only to meet today’s communications needs—but to answer tomorrow’s.
GENmEPHON£iELEGrRONICS ®
SHIRTS EXPERTLY LAUNDERED
for $1.00 RUBIN CLEANERS 217 E. JEFFERSON Downtown—■on the Bus Line Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 39 Years!
OUR COVER: This week the SCHOLASTIC'S cover is a self-portrait of the campus-renowned artist Ivan Osorio. Ivan is shown leaving the campus in January, never to return. Following him are an assortment of devils. It is fitting that Ivan bows out at the front of an edition which is dedicated to him (see page 18).
SEIBE SEES non EBEEBEEBE EBB BnOBSHEDE BHQ eqs nasaae
BEBE
SEED EDD SQHS
Holy Cross Brothers TEACHING. YOUTH WORK farming, clerical work done by Brothers are in great need today m the U S and foreign missions.
For information and literature write:
BROTHER EYMARD, C.S.C.
11 Dujarie Hall Notre Dame, Indiana
KGDL (CROSSWORD
ACROSS
1. Kind of necessities
5. Birds in Bernstein (var.)
9. There’s one for every he
12. What you are to Pop until you work
14.	Wow’s first name
15.	The bad guy in Westerns
16.	English drink
17.	Angry kind of land
18.	They’re crossed by duel _ personalities
20. Affected smile
23.	Tears for grass widows?
24.	Needlers
25.	Bats backward
27.	Tiny socialist
28.	Suburban----
29.	The doohickey on type like this
32.	Whose limbs are for the birds
33.	Places (Latin)
34.	Belonging to
9 Across
35______emptor
37. Kind of cry
39.	Yes from a Wave
40.	Make the next one a Kool
45.	Start in service
46.	With Kools, you’re more 	____all day long
47.	It’s for Art’s sake
48.	Latin version of 5 Down
49.	What chicks grow up to be
DOWN
1.	Springsville
2.	It’s “perlite” to do this when you cut in
3.	This was the thing in Roma
4.	A state or building ‘
5.	To be (French)
6.	A kind of creek
7.	Gives in without a word
8.	White rain?
9.	Where inflation pays off
10.	What alibis and carafes should do
11.	Members of the Lambs Club?
13. Makes like coffee
19.	Olive drabs, briefly
20.	Most of a spasm
21.	It plants bombs at sea
22.	Not the life-of-the-party type
26. Subjects of Pop’s lecture
30.	Willie’s pad
31.	Kind of French carriage
32.	Beat the wheat
35.	House in Spain
36.	Old school items
37.	Bill O’s last name
38	you smoking Kools?
41.	Girls’ Friendly Society (abbr.)
42.	Article
43.	Half a pack of Kools
44.	Edgar, Edwin.
Edward
1	2	3	4 1
12			
15			
DEEB
'j^BDEBS

3 SEEDS EEDEJS
BEQECJE BED
SHE BEHEBBBBE □EE EEDnEHBEB BEE SEEB BEDE!
tfiMSNVI
No. 10
$ 1959, Brown £ Williamson Tobacco Corp.
KGDL
U/hen your throat tells you its time-for a change you need a real change

ofKODL
mild menthol king-size


December 11, 1959
55 I
For the best in clothing and haberdashery, for the famous	i
names from around the world, come to the Campus Shop.
Here you will find a complete selection, sizes to fit all men, and men trained to help you select the best for you. Come in to the Campus Shop soon ... get ready for the holidays	|
ahead.	J
The Scholastic
5
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY ...
I
Get what you need now ... or for the holidays ahead . . . and charge it the Campus Shop .way. You can pay one-third in June, 1960 . . . one-third in July, 1960 . . . and one-third in August, 1960. No finance or carrying charge, of course.
On the Campus—Notre Dame
« December 11, 1959

Don’t be caught napping
No need to waste valuable vacation time fighting crowds in that hometown department store. You’ll find gifts for the whole family right here on campus. The Bookstore invites you to come in and leisurely browse through the hundreds of conveniently displayed items selected to please friends and family of all ages. Visit the Second Floor Book Department to find the perfect gift for the person who has everything. Remember, you can travel farther and pay more, but you’ll never find better quality than at the.....
~Notre Dame^
BOOK STORE
on campus
REQUEST
For prompter publication of letters we.-request that all such mail be sent tq>_ Repercussions, c/o The editors, Fisher or 203 Fisher. Thank you.
LAUS .	1
Editor:	|
I would like to express my apprecia-J tion of the work you and your fellow j editors are doing in the Scholastic. It11 seems to me that the editorial policy of, | the magazine this year is more positive. | and more clearly constructive than ever. | before. The feature articles have been I especially fine. The merely mechanical | job of proofreading has been well done; | too.	. f
John T. Frederick, Head Department of English . |
A REPORT TO THE “ELASTIC”	]
■
Editor:	- $
Maybe the “SCHOLASTic-announced” f date for the opening of Channel II —■ M Feb. 15, 1960 — which had to be sub-> i sequently retracted because of vehement , ] protests of WSND officials, is more;';! nearly correct than WSND’s own an-,yl nounced date — Nov. 15, 1959; I mean^.1 Dec. 5, 1959; I mean Dec. 6, 1959; Fj mean ...
Vincent Calder
212 Fisher
DISAPPOINTING	X
Due to circumstances beyond my con- ig trol, the London House Gallery and Cof-sf fee House will not open.
To the many people who freely gave^ their time and effort in the cleaning,:^ painting and preparation of the building, I can only give my sincere gratitude,
To the students, faculty members, and others who expressed their interest in'.;, the Coffee House, I thank you for your|: concern and I apologize for the disappointment.
James D. Rose ® 128 East Marion StreetSr
INNOCENT
Editor:
PROTEST
I would like to correct an error in the® Scholastic of November 20. The disci-fi plinary measure, which necessitated the® mass exodus, did not govern all thoseB across the Dixie; but the residents ofS LeMans. Thank you.	J
An Innocent Bystander a St. Mary’s College S (Continued on page 33)	s
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is _ printed at _ the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editor*, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. AU unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.

s-
The Scholastic
■> /

&

k
The Notre Dame
i$> t ’? ’ h '
-
r

I

Vol. 101 No. 10
DECEMBER 11, 1959
■IV
3
Founded 1867
3
: editor-in-chief \	: >
RONALD BLUBAUGH associate editors	.
, E. (TED) THOMPSON CHARLES TAUSCHE
' news editor and staff
ROY RUBELI Wade Clark . Arthur Graham Thomas Weiss
features editor and staff . CHARLES RIECK
Francis Smith ' ,	\ Thomas Sullivan
William Sweeney \ William Veeder -sports editor and staff .
THOMAS ROSE - William Cary J. (Jay) Kilroy copy editor and staff
WALTER RUDGE George Casey . Peter Geniesse
Thomas'Marciniak "'vS art editor	. x
f JERRY FLORENT
photographer , .	. : .
WALTER DALY, Jr.
business manager and staff ;
ROBERT HORN ; Joseph Finnigan . \ circulation manager
LAWRENCE LEACH
" moderator' - •
REV. CHARLES CAREY, c.sx
\ news- reporters -;’....7
: T Philip Larrabee . John Ohala : . . ; Thomas Schelereth William Sparks J ■ . < Michael Woods
'■ % spbrtsreporters7 ; 7 ■	Thomas Barthel
?-7''<ZkJohn Bechtold -t”c> Richard Corso K ’
‘ v “ J<M^--.Hewitt-r
• _ Gewge^Vofis:
“BIGGER PIECE OF PIE”: At a recent meeting with the presidents of a number of campus clubs, the 1959 Mardi Gras committee announced a new plan for payment of organizations sponsoring booths in the pre-lenten carnival. This winter, each club constructing and operating a booth will receive a 20% cut of its take, an amount four-times that paid by last year’s committee. In addition, the value of the prizes to be awarded in the best looking and best grossing competitions will be increased to $10, $15 and $25. In our mind, these are well-deserved changes. The committee is to be congratulated for its recognition of the necessity of such increases. When a club does work of building and running a booth, it surely deserves a good financial reward for its toil. Furthermore, the increases in prize money should stimulate the boothbuilders to even finer things than before. From a distant glance, the 1959 Mardi Gras seems to be coming along better than ever.


¥
4
3
NIGHTLIFE STOPS AT 7 P.M.: Students venturing to the Cafeteria, Rockne Memorial and various other places on campus in the next few months might be surprised to find them closed and locked after 7 p.m. on certain weekday evenings. The reason for these early closings can be determind upon consultation of a 1959-60 Notre Dame basketball schedule. A number of years ago it was decided that the Cafeteria, Rock, etc., would be closed during home basketball games since most of the student body attended these contests. At the present time, however, this reasoning is no longer valid. Even if all 6500 students on campus wished to attend the games, which is certainly not the case, only about 1500 of them could be admitted to the Fieldhouse. It is quite possible that the other 4000 students might want to use the facilities in the Cafeteria and Rock. Should this huge majority be prevented from using them if no better reason than “tradition” can be given? Certainly not.



--'I
3

A PURPOSE FORGOTTEN?: The General Bulletin of the University states that the Rockne Memorial is a building “devoted to the physical welfare of the whole student body and the faculty of the University.” Unfortunately, in the past few years this idea seems to have been lost in the shuffle. With the change in the football coaching staff last January, two rooms in the building (the boxing and wrestling rooms) were converted into office space for coaches. One reason given for the change was that the rooms were not being used by a large number of students. In this case, the students who do desire to use such facilities were completely ignored and the “physical welfare of the whole student body” was likewise disregarded. Not only have coaching staffs moved into the building but several varsity teams as well. The two in point are the wrestling and swimming teams. Whereas the swimmers seem to have valid grounds for using the pool during the dinner hours, namely that it is the only pool on campus, the wrestling team has no such .claim. They have completely taken over the light apparatus room for about twelve hours a week. Students are not even allowed in this room during these hours. Certainly this is not the fault of the wrestlers. They would actually prefer to move out of the Rock and into more suitable quarters, such as the Fieldhouse where they hold their meets. They are prevented from doing this, however, by the basketball squad which needs the floor. Although it is now impossible to dislodge the coaching staff from the building, there is no reason why the University cannot attempt to provide adequate facilities elsewhere for the wrestling team. (Perhaps in the old handball courts of the Fieldhouse if remodeled) . If the Rock is to be kept for its original purpose, something must be done.
A
THE LONG WALK: Shortly before Thanksgiving vacation the Scholastic received word that because of the deadlocked bus strike the University or its student government would run buses from school to downtown South Bend at stated intervals on the days immediately preceding the vacation period. The plan obviously fell through because nothing more was heard of the venture. With the upcoming week end before Christmas vacation in mind we would like to suggest that the plan be reconsidered and all attempts be made to put it into effect. Otherwise the student leaving the Univerisity for his long awaited respite will find, much to his dismay, that getting downtown will be by far the most difficult portion of his trip.
-L
-.y
UNFORTUNATE DEMISE: At a meeting of the University’s Academic Council last spring the decision was made to drop the A.B. school’s time-honored program for physical education maj'ors. The reason for the removal of such a program has been' dropping steadily in the past few years. This year the last freshman class was admitted to the program. Its number: twelve students. Certainly the A.B. College could not be asked to continue such a specialized program when it cannot be conducted on a reasonably sound financial basis. It is most unfortunate, however, that a good program of education for both mind and body, in the classical sense, has to be abandoned. What is even more pitiful is the fact that today’s potential physical education instructors prefer to go to local normal schools where they do not have to meet such strict academic requirements.	— B. T. & T.
7
"MUSIC HAS CHARMS”
The 17th Century playwright, William Congreve, was the first to set down this classic metaphor concerning the powers of sound and rhythm. You'll find the whole quote in "Hie Mourning Bride”, Act I, Sc. 1:
"Music hath charms to soothe the savage breast. To soften rocks, or bend a knotted oak.”
"RHYME OR REASON"
Edmund Spenser, 16th Century poet, expected a pension. He didn't get it. So he wrote this rhyme: "I was promised on a time/To have reason for my rhyme;/From that time unto this season,/ I received nor rhyme nor reason."
Jockey Underwear
URANO*
Of all the kinds of underwear, only Jockey brand is espe* dally tailored to feel better because it fits better. This superior comfort is assured by exclusive construction features that no other underwear has duplicated. Tb enjoy real comfort, insist on Jockey brief—the world's first and finest. Look for Jockey at your campus store.
Don't
Throw Your Empty ALPINE PACKS AWAY! SAVE THEM!
[■JtiiniiniiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiitiaiiiitiniitiiitiiiiiitiiiinitiiiMiiiiiiiiiitiQ v
2	3
| Contents |
I	I	s
3	S
| At the Theaters___________________ 21 11
| Back Page_________________________ 34 | |
=	:	4
| Campus Scene_____________________ 13 i |
S	3
=	5	3
I Commentary _______________________ 7 |
f	Critical Horizons ___________________ 17	11
I	Editorials ___________________________ 9	i |
|	Escape ______________________________ 11	| ]
|	Odds and Ends _______________________ 31	| ]
|	L. David Otte _______________________ 15	11
|	Repercussions ________________________ 6	Lj
i	H
I	G. P. Scarpia _______________________ 21	| j
s	• 1
I	If
|	Sports Picture ______________________ 27	||
i	Time Out ____________________________ 29	H
s	|f
QiiiaaaiiiiiiaiaaiiiiiiiaaiKiaaiaaiiaiiaaiaiiitiaaatiaaiiaiaaiiaiaaaiiitiniiiQ
FOR COOPER UNDERWEAR!
Rasmussen Men's Shop MAIN & WASHINGTON STS.
The Scholastic;
—J

approbation
Joe Kuharich has done a remarkable job. On the surface the 5-5 record does not appear commendable, but it is what lies beneath that marks the 1959 season as an outstanding achievement for the new head coach and his able staff.
In spite of all the obstacles he faced, Notre Dame’s head man never once was heard to “cry” about the lack of veterans, the decimating effect of an interminable series of injuries or the problems of trying to install a new offense in one year. All he was ever heard to say was, “We have a job to do,” and he proceeded immediately to set out to accomplish his most difficult job.
Possibly it was his cool control of the situation that impressed observers; possibly it was his sincere devotion to the school which gave him his start in football, that aroused the maximum of effort in him and the backing of the Notre Dame fans; possibly it was his striving for perfection that caught the eye of the football enthusiast and held it.
Actually it was all this and more that contributed to the almost universal feeling of appreciation that the students of the University extend to Joe Kuharich. He has placed a high premium on winning, on the proper execution of every play. But, more important, he has placed this winning of games in a true perspective. He has not lost sight of the contributory effect of football to the development of the men who play it. Winning football games at any cost is not his aim. His aim, it seems rather, is to teach preparation, to teach confidence, and to teach success, which will carry beyond the football field. He wants his teams to win, but he wants them to win because they have prepared adequately and because they have a desire to win which will not fade.
Although he has been here not yet a year, it was obvious in the last two games of the season, against Iowa and Southern Cal, that the perseverance and leadership ability of Coach Kuharich and his staff has already begun to take effect. In these two games the players showed that they had learned “to love to hit,” a desire which lies at the heart of winning football, and, as Coach Kuharich himself pointed out, the team had not lost its desire to win, to perform its task of playing football to the best of its ability. For this he distinctly complimented the team.
The reason for the constancy of this desire in the face of crippling injuries and discouraging defeats can be found only in the confidence of the team in its new coaches and its devotion to them. The coaches patiently instructed the young squad during the spring and throughout the fall season, and late in the year their efforts began to produce tangible results.
In the final two games of the season, the Notre Dame football team looked the champion it is (and will continue to be under the direction of Coach Joe Kuharich). One.can say this confidently after watching him bring a team out of the depths of a 3-5 record to superb performances in the final two games. Just when everyone was ready to despair about the 1959 season and write it off as an inevitably unsuccessful year, Notre Dame’s head coach fielded a team that he had instructed so well in the fundamentals of blocking and tackling and in which he had instilled such a tenacious desire to win that it decisively whipped both Iowa and USC.
This fall was encouraging. Coach Kuharich did not allow. the obstacles of injuries and inexperience to interfere with his purpose and work. He did not relent in driving himself and his team toward his goal, developing a champion. In the final two games the Fighting Irish reflected his aggressiveness, determination and ability. They became champions.
— T.T.
December 11, 1959
finally
After many years of dreams and planning it at last begins to look as if Notre Dame will receive its much needed new library. In a speech last Sunday Father Hesburgh made the formal announcement of what has been generally suspected around the campus for about two months: we will have a library. According to the present schedule, construction may begin as early as next fall. The proposed site: Cartier Field.
It takes but a few minutes in the present library to see the sorry state of the “heart” of our University. The books are shelved far away in that nebulous place known as the stacks. Most students ordering books from the card catalogue have often wondered if that index was a list of books the University had or wanted to buy. How often have we received the checkout slip marked “on search” or “not in the stacks”? Certainly, it can be validly asserted that books will be stolen and lost in the new library but with open stacks we will no longer have that lingering doubt that maybe it really was there. As for a place to study, our “court house” leaves much to be desired. Its two gigantic reading rooms are more reminiscent of barracks than a place of intellectual concentration. But enough said about the present. What does the future offer?
With a proposed budget of $5 million (some ranking administration members hint at a figure closer to $5% million) the new library will surely be what the “new” students desire. With a capacity of over two million volumes, a tremendous growth potential is presented. Our new building is to have smaller rooms for study and even a place for the use of typewriters. Of course, the aforementioned open stacks will be an essential feature.
But there are many more benefits to be derived from the new library. It is an absolute prerequisite for a graduate school. As the number of volumes in the post-war library increased, the number of graduate students quadrupled. But now, continued volume growth has been threatened by the lack of adequate facilities. Removing this block, we might look toward an ever-increasing number of graduate students who may find at Notre Dame a Catholic University capable of providing them with the resources for advanced study.
The library marks a tremendous milestone on the road toward academic achievement. With the drive for progress here at Notre Dame the library, of necessity, has to be the focal point. High caliber students can do nothing if their University cannot afford them the tools of learning. Talk about College Boards and average I.Q. of the student body is rather meaningless if these students are put in the awkward position of not being able to do the research required of them by their professors. This research is a virtual impossibility in a closed stack library. Again, however, this problem will be alleviated.
Still another important aspect of this new expansion is the prestige factor concerned. While, by no means the most important consideration, it is significant to note that universities are often judged by the size of their library, specifically the number of volumes. With a potential of two million volumes, the new building will allow Notre Dame to grow to a size favorably- comparable with other schools. This presumes, of course, that the acquisition rate will continue at the current high level. Certainly the ambitiously-outlined capacity would indicate that this is the planned course.
Nevertheless, a word of warning should be interjected even while the glow of a new building still is here. If we do not adequately staff this new building, if we do not make it practically impossible to steal books from the library, if we do not see to it that when books are lost they are replaced, the most beautiful building in the world becomes nothing more than a showplace. The library is for students, not tourists.
—R.B.
’	-	9
AMERICAN AIRLINES
Flight
Stewardesses
(hdsa^osA^
(Author of “I JFos a Teen-age Dwarf” “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
TV OR NOT TV
ITO BE
I INTERVIEWED
H A CAREER IN THE SKY
| AWAITS YOU
H	Fun, Adventure, Travel
i:	Meet Fascinating People
ti H Openings in immediate ::	and future classes
FOR APPOINTMENT SEND COUPON
I	1
•	*
I	I
| Personnel Department
। American Airlines, Inc.
I 5245 W. 55th
J Chicago 38, Illinois
} I meet all qualifications and I am interested in an interview.
• I | Single
J r-1 Age 20-26
I '—'
[ |—| A High School
I I—I Graduate
I __
] □ Weight 105-135
! □ Height 5'3"-5'8"
I
1 [“I 20/50 vision without
| I—J glasses (contact lenses
I may be considered).
i
] Name.,_________________________
I
I Address________________________
I
| City_____________Slate_________
I
---------------
1 i i i ■ i
I i
I I
I I !
1 I
1 I
1 I
I 1
I I
I I I
I I
I 1 I I I
I I
I I
J
The academic world has made its first tentative steps into television—a few lectures, a few seminars, a few lab demonstrations—but colleges have not yet begun to use television’s vast capacity to dramatize, to amuse, to stir the senses, to unshackle the imagination. Like, for example, the following:
ANNOUNCER: Howdy, folksies. Well, it’s time again for that lovable, laughable pair, Emmett Twonkey Magruder, Ph. D., and Felicia May Crim-scott, M.A., in that rollicking, roistering fun show, American History 101 ... And here they are—the team that took the “hiss” out of “history” — Emmett Twonkey Magruder and Felicia May Crimscott!
DR. MAGRUDER: Howdy, folksies. A funny thing happened to me on the way to my doctorate. A mendicant approached me and said, “Excuse me, sir, will you give me 25 cents for a sandwich?” and I replied, “Perhaps I will, my good man. Let me see the sandwich.”
MISS CRIMSCOTT: Oh, how droll, Dr. Magruder ! How delicious! You’re a regular Joe Penner!... But enough of badinage. Let us turn to our rollicking, roistering fun show, American History 101.
DR. MAGRUDER: Today we will dramatize the taut and tingling story of John Smith and Pocahontas. I will play Captain Smith and Miss Magruder will play Pocahontas.
ANNOUNCER: But first a message from our sponsor ... Folksies, have you tried Alpine Cigarettes yet? Have you treated yourself to that fresh-filtration, that subtle coolness, that extra-long, extra-efficient filter? Have you? Hmmm? ... If not, wake your tobacconist and get some Alpines at once!... And now to our grim and gripping story. Picture, if you will, a still summer night. An Indian maid stands by a moonlit brook. Suddenly she hears a footstep behind her.
' ♦
She turns ...
MISS CRIMSCOTT: Oh! John Smith! You-um startle-um me-um!
DR. MAGRUDER: Howdy, Pocahontas. What are you doing by the brook?
MISS CRIMSCOTT: Just washing out a fewr scalps. But what-um you-um wrant-um?
DR. MAGRUDER: I came to see the Chief.
MISS CRIMSCOTT: You-um can’t-um. Chief is leaving for Chicago.
DR. MAGRUDER: On what track?
ANNOUNCER: And speaking of tracks, stay on the right track with Alpines—the track that leads straight to smoking pleasure, to fun, to frolic, to swreet content... And now7 back to those two gassers, Emmett Twonkey Magruder and Felicia May Crimscott.
DR. MAGRUDER: Well, folksies, that’s all for today. See you next week,
same time, same channel.
MISS CRIMSCOTT: Stay tuned now for “William Cullen Bryant—Girl Intern.”
ANNOUNCER: And remember, folksies, there was a time when you needed to smoke two cigarettes to get what you get from one Alpine—one cigarette for flavor, one for filtration. Today you can get it all in a single Alpine, which means you no longer have to go around smoking two cigarettes at a time, causing your friends to snigger, and violating the fire laws.
C 1959 Max Shulman * ♦
And speaking of TV, remember to watch Max Shulman's “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis" on CBS every Tuesday night—presented by Marlboro Cigarettes, from the makers of Philip Morris and Alpine.

The Scholastic
by D. JIM AUSUM
a merry little
Christmas
i f'
SANTA BABY, I WANT A
December, 1956 Deal- Santa Claus,
I am a freshman at SMC, and I am writing to ask you to bring me seven dates a week with six different boys all dolls with money and I want this for the rest of my whole life Santa, honestly I do, and if you bring this oh Santa, I love you! I don’t even want anything more, except clothes and a trip to Bermuda and things like that, but Daddy always takes care of those things anyway. And Santa, baby, couldn’t I have champagne maybe just once a week, and if I’m really good, couldn’t I have candy and milk shakes just once in a while.
Love ’n kisses, Pauline
WHEN THE SPIRIT IS THE GIFT
December, 1957 Dear Mr. Claus,
I am a Sophomore at Notre Dame, and I would like to request several items from your bag of goodies. First, I want a blue-eyed blonde who is constructed according to an above average blueprint. Then, I want to win both of the Mardi Gras cars (you know I wouldn’t try to hide one on campus). Next, I want to develop a taste for Scotch whiskey. I’m afraid that if it doesn’t come pretty soon, I shall be either a social outcast or a stand-in for one of those frowning marble figures who live in the middle of fountains. Finally, I want a Five average. A Six is ostentatious.
Thank You, J. Ausum
MINE ENEMY IS GROWING OLD
December, 1958 Look, Santa,
It’s been two years since I wrote you first, and it’s about time we had a little action. All right, so I didn’t get six different boys for seven different nights. I got one, and with no help from you, thank you. He’s not smart, he’s not good looking, he can’t dance, he’s poor, and
he can’t even talk, but at least he’s a man, and as soon as I save the money, he’s going to give me a miniature. Well, I don’t mind so much about the man, and I don’t even mind about not having had any champagne since then. I had some hard cider, and that was close enough. But listen, Charlie, listen good — I don’t want any more candy, and if you ever show me another milk shake, I’ll cram it down your throat. I am now as round as you are, only I’m not nearly as jolly, so you’d just better send me about sixty-five years worth of visits to Slenderella, along with one-thousand pounds (uggh) of Regimen tablets. Until you do,
Watch it, Fat Boy Pauline
P. S.—Please make those mean boys at Notre Dame stop writing about us like that. I don’t see why it is that the guys on “Comedy of Errors” are punished for being nice to us while that idiot “Escape” writer goes free.
WELL, THERE’S ALWAYS SOCIAL SECURITY
December, 1959 Dear Santa,
I thought I would take this opportunity to write to you about what you’ll bring us this year. There have been times in the past, Santa dear, when some of us have been just a little disappointed. Not that we haven’t been understanding about it — hell, Santa, we all make mistakes, and why should you be any different? But it’s just that we’ve come to expect a little more than the ordinary from you, that extra something that nobody else could give. I mean, when you find a guy who can drive eight tiny reindeer, and make them fly, yet, then you’ve got somebody special, somebody absolutely top-drawer. That’s when you’ve got a man who makes you proud to be a member of the team, and proud to have him as a teammate. And you are that man, Santa, you are, when you want to be. Why, I remember when you first came into the fold, you were young, and eager, and you cared, Santa, you cared. I don’t mind telling you, I cried without shame at
youi- magnificent youth, your honesty, your cherubic beauty, your heart-warming charity. You were a sweet bird, Santa, a solid sugar sparrow, if I might be poetic. It was you who gave us wai-mth, and made old men young again; you who made our girl friends look beautiful and seem intelligent; you who made a losing football season bearable, with your promises of the future; you who gave us the finest looking girl undei- the clock at the Biltmore; you who made Stroh’s taste like Lowenbrau. Santa, the world was a cesspool, and you brought it airwick.
Those were other days, those times of enthusiasm and joy, when every sentence you uttered was a carol to your goodness; but you’ve changed, oh how you’ve changed. I asked you for a six — you brought me a one. I asked you for a drink, and you brought me a suspension. But Santa, when I asked you for something to make me set apart, did you have to give me Vincent’s? That’s not what you would have done once Santa, that’s not it at all. You used to have real spirit — I remember when you brought Lili St. Cyr to the junior prom, now there was a warm reception if I’ve ever seen one. And you rascal, you brought bird seed for the pigeons she brought. What would the Audubon Society say, not to mention the police? But you don’t do it anymore, and I’m sorry to say what I have to say, what I can’t hold back no longer, Santa, I don’t believe in you anymore. I don’t. I can’t. Maybe, someday, somehow, there’ll be another one like you used to be, one I can cry over. Maybe then I’ll forget what I have to tell you now. Santa, I think it is better that you have reached retirement age. Frolic in the snow for a while, do what you want to do, be alive before you die. And don’t worry about the gifts this year. Just bring us deliverance in June, and that will be plenty, more than enough. If you have an unfired cannon, send me that blonde, but your ship is sinking, Santa, soon it will be gone. Be smart, Santa, get off it. Have an eggnog on me.	J. Ausum
December 11, 1959
11
I---------------------------------------------------»
i	i
i	i
!	A Campus-to-Career Case History	’
There’s a message for you in Mark Dollard’s progress story
।
Mark Dollard (center) discusses an impending customer service problem with two of his supervisors.
Mark C. Dollard earned his B.A. degree in English from Yale University in June, 1955. He joined the New York Telephone Company the following July 18th. Three and a half years later, he became a District Manager for the company in New York City—with a staff of 87 people reporting to him and responsibility for 49,000 customer accounts.
Mark’s choice of a telephone career came after numerous job interviews in a variety of business fields. “What sold me,” he says, “was the telephone company’s reputation for solid managerial training, stability and growth. And I was impressed by the high caliber of people I met during my visit to the company.”
And those are the things to which Mark credits his rapid advancement. His training during his first two years covered a wide range of activities... including the handling of customer contacts in the business office, selling communications
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
services to businessmen and supervising a business office.
“It was the company’s vigorous growth that created the opportunity for me to become District Manager in January, 1959,” Mark points out.
“What I like most about my present position is the variety of managerial responsibilities I have,” he says. “It’s interesting, stimulating work. I deal with sales and marketing programs, handle personnel problems and make a lot of public relations contacts.”
* * *
The message for you? Stability, growth, systematic training and genuine advancement opportunities all add up to rewarding careers with the Bell Telephone Companies. Be sure to look into the opportunities for you. Talk with the Bell interviewer when he visits your campus —and read the Bell Telephone booklet on file in your Placement Office. You’ll like what you learn.
j
4
12
The Scholastic
CARTIER FIELD UNDER CONSIDERATION AS POSSIBLE SITE OF NEW LIBRARY
Father Hesburgh Reveals Efforts for September Start; Ask Alumni to Double Gifts to Meet Construction Costs
By WADE CLARKE
Two months of rumors and news leaks concerning a new library for the Notre Dame campus have been confirmed by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president. Father Hesburgh said that the administration is definitely accelerating efforts to meet a late 1960 start-of-construction deadline.
Announcing the timetable in a speech at a Communion Breakfast of the Notre Dame Club of Indianapolis, he said that Cartier Field is one of the sites under consideration. The estimated cost for the library is better than $5 million.
A University spokesman said that a proposed September deadline will be met if no unforeseen difficulties arise. He pointed out, however, that an architect is still to be hired and details of fund raising drives to be settled.
The new library would house approximately two million volumes and serve the needs of the present 5,000 undergraduates and 1,000 graduate students more than adequately. Study space for up to half of the total enrollment may be provided.
one of the most famous in the United States; the 3,000 volume Hiberniana Library with works pertaining chiefly to Irish history and literature and the Zahm South American Library, consisting of 1,500 volumes of literature, maps and photographs of South America. Some of the specialized departmental libraries, such as those for law, science and engineering, may stay in their present locations.
Alumni=$2 Million. Father Hesburgh said that the alumni will be asked to contribute two million dollars of the construction cost. A spokesman said that it is hoped that the alumni might be persuaded to double their current $500,000 a year pace of giving. The balance of the construction costs will then be met by gifts from friends of Notre Dame.
Although $5 million was set as the original cost estimate, the spokesman said this may well prove inadequate in view of rising construction costs when contracts are finally let.
Faculty Participation. The spokesman said a faculty committee will be ap
pointed in the near future to work closely with the administration and the architects on the final plans for the library.
Cartier Field site is one of three or four sites now under consideration, the spokesman said. The late Knute Rockne’s famed football teams played on the field which is just north of the stadium, it is now used for football practice, baseball games and track meets.
Earlier reports stated that the administration was considering the possibility of razing the present administration building and replacing it with a suitable administration-library building. However, architects found it impossible to design such a building and still retain the golden dome. It was felt that alumni would be strongly against the dome’s destruction.
The new library must have a site with considerable area not only for the building itself but for parking. Future campus growth is largely restricted to the east of the present campus.
The library will be the second building to be erected under the $66 million foundation program. The first was the $600,000 new warehouse and maintenance center on the north end of the campus. The foundation has $18 million earmarked for buildings, with the rest going to faculty salaries and scholarships.
Building projects in the program include additions on the Commerce, .Law and Engineering buildings, two graduate halls, a priest-faculty building, an auditorium and a fieldhouse.
Study Quiet. It has long been felt by Father Hesburgh that the University must find some means of providing a more adequate study area for the students. The residence hall atmosphere, he feels, is not conducive to good study. The new library would do away with large reading rooms and replace them with smaller, more comfortable study areas. There would also be sections designed for the use of personal typewriters while doing research.
The new building will serve as a center for research and will house many of the rare book collections owned by the University which are now stored in the archives.
This would contrast markedly with the present library, which was built in 1917 from plans which were originally intended for a courthouse and which were changed slightly by the architectalumnus for use as a library. At that time Notre Dame had 1,200 students, no graduate school and 100,000 books on hand. The capacity of the present library is 618,000 volumes. Of these, 370,000 volumes are in the main section of the library and the rest in the special collection rooms.
These special collections include the 2,900 volume Dante Library, noted as
SOON TO BE REPLACED LIBRARY ' “They said it couldn’t be done”
December 11, 1959
New Air-Tight Jacket Developed by Lobund; Effectiveness Proved During Summer Tests
A new air-tight isolator jacket, developed at Notre Danie’s Lobund Institute, has enabled the laboratories to move another step forward in their study of germfree animals. Professor Philip Trexler, the Lobund biologist who has spent much time developing new equipment for germfree life studies, said the new isolators indicated their effectiveness during test runs last summer.
The new isolator — called the “jacket isolator” by Trexler to distinguish it from the others in use at Notre Dame —will house about 2C0 families of mice and cost about §500. This contrasts with the 12-family capacity of the smaller plastic or stainless steel isolators, which cost about §5,000 to manufacture.
The capacity as well as the cost of the new isolators will make them practical for use by commercial animal raisers who wish to enter the field of supplying germfree animals to laboratories.
A low table of wooden frame and hard plastic top forms the base of the new isolator. An envelope of clear plastic material, four-thousandths of an inch thick and about four feet high when inflated, is sealed to the table.
The new feature of the jacket isolator gives the apparatus its name. A porthole in the base of the isolator houses a plastic jacket. To care for the animals, a technician rises inside the porthole from beneath the table, the upper half of his body enclosed in the plastic jacket and hood, which is sealed at the bottom of the air-tight isolator.
Wearing the jacket, the operator can care for hundreds of animals in much less time and with less effort than it would take to care for a similar number
GERM-FREE JACKET ISOLATOR
Lab' technician handles pampered mice
of animals in the smaller units.
Much of the economy permitted by the isolator comes from its simple construction. The plastic sheeting from which the walls are made is comparatively inexpensive, and since the plastic is inflated by air pressure, no rigid frame is required. Economy is also achieved in the amount of labor required to care for a large number of animals.
University Theater to Present Second Production on Feb1. 11
The University Theater has started preparations for its second production of the school year. The play, “Tiger at the Gates,” will be presented in Washington Hall on the week end of February 11 and 18. “Tiger at the Gates,” translated into English from the French by Chrystopher Fry, is a story of the main events leading up to the Trojan War.
The cast was chosen two weeks ago, with John Smith, a sophomore commerce student playing the part of Hector, the lead role. Also, Mary Aimbuster as Andromache, Dave MacDonald as Ulysses, Diane Crowley as Cassandra, Dick Kavanaugh as Demacos and Elizabeth Young as Helen are among the well-selected cast.
Frederick Syburg is the director of the play, and Rev. Arthur Harvey, C.S.C. is the moderator. Gil Rathbun, technical director and Bill Flaherity, stage manager, round out the heads of the back stage departments.
Rehearsals for “Tiger at the Gates” have already started.
Father Hesburgh Give Atoms for Peace Talk
Monday evening, at 8 p.m. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., will present a lecture on “Atoms for Peace.” The lecture, which is open to the students, faculty and general public, will be the first of the newly initiated Distinguished Lecture Series.
The series is sponsored by the Student Senate and is one of the projects of the student academic commission. The series, the purpose of which is to arouse interest in the vital issues and intellectual movements in America today, will this year be presenting such speakers as Rev. Harry Gardiner, S.T., literary editor of the magazine America.
The “Atoms for Peace” movement is a subject with which our Notre Dame president, Father Hesburgh, is immediately familiar. Pope Pius XII appointed Father Hesburgh permanent Vatican City representative to the International Atomic Energy Agency. He signed the statute of the atoms-for-peace organization at the United Nations in 1956 and attended its first general conference at Vienna in 1957. Father is also a member of the Policy Advisory Board of the Argonne National Laboratory and a director of the Midwest Universities Research Association.
Father Hesburgh’s lecture on Monday will express the activities and hopes of those associated with the atoms-for-peace movement; hopes for the realization of the success of the atom in peaceful uses and the accession of atomic power as the future source of energy throughout the world.
WNDU Invites Students
To Take in Open House
An open house for Notre Dame juniors and seniors will be held Monday evening, from 8 to 9:30 p.m. at the WNDU-TV studios. It is sponsored by the students and instructors of the Telecommunications II class, which is taught in connection with WNDU-TV.
Evei-y half-hour- the 16 students in the class will show a 15-minute videotape they televised and produced which will typify the kind of work done in their class. They will also demonstrate the use of some of the equipment in the studio and answer questions concerning their work in television broadcasting. Refreshments will be served.
Edward Doyle, who with William Mac-Kenzie instructs the Telecommunications II class, reports that the aim of the open house is to interest those juniors and seniors who are looking for possible elective courses for next semester or next year. Two courses are offered in connection with WNDU-TV: Telecom
It


munications I and II. The first teaches I the theory of television broadcasting; the second provides practical experience in |1 television work.	|
“The primary purpose of WNDU,” | said Doyle, “is to train Notre Dame men | in the broadcasting business.”	I
3
14
The Scholastic
Clubs Put Final Touches on Vacation Plans; Formats, Masquerades to Highlight Holidays
J., Otte
I
With the coming holiday season rapidly approaching, the social committees of many of the geographical clubs on campus are putting final touches on their plans for various social activities they will sponsor during the Christmas vacation. Plans of the different organizations range from high society formal dances to novel masquerade parties.
Have a Ball. Planning one of these “very special” formal affairs in the holiday season is the Metropolitan club of Notre Dame. The New Yorkers have set a “Crystal Ball” as the theme of their- annual Christmas formal and will hold the dance in the Grand Ballroom of the Hotel Astor on Sunday, December 27 from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m. Tickets are on sale from representatives in the various residence halls and will cost §6.50 if purchased here at school and $7.50 if bought at the door. Francis Walher and his orchestra will provide the music for the evening.
Dance and Mix. Members of the Westchester club will set a new precedent on December 22 when they have their first official Christmas dance as a campus club. The New Rochelle Shore Club will be the scene of this semi-formal dance from 9 a.m. to 1 a.m. with both alumni and students from the Westchester area invited. A hundred bids at $3.50 each will be sold at the club’s meetings. The group is also planning a holiday mixer with the New Rochelle College for Women and details will be announced at a later date.
Buddy Sharp and his orchestra will entertain Chicagoans and their dates at the annual Christmas Ball sponsored by the Chicago Club on Monday evening, . December 28 from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. in the Grand Ballroom of the Sheraton Hotel in downtown Chicago. Anyone wishing to purchase tickets, should contact the hall representatives of the organization anytime this week end. Tickets will cost N.D. students $4.00.
To really ring in the New Year, Notre Dame students from Cincinnati will find the fourteenth annual Christmas Ball a “must” on their holiday social calendars. “The Scholarship Ball” will be open to all Notre Dame students, alumni and guests and will be held in the Music Hall Ballroom in Cincinnati
MEET THE DEADLINE
All students desiring to submit material to the JUGGLER for its winter edition are asked to bring it to 348 O’Shaughnessy or send it to the JUGGLER, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. Deadline is January 10. Instead of the commemorative edition scheduled for the next issue, the upcoming literary quarterly will be devoted to current student writing, poetry, fiction and essays.
from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. on December 31. Prices are $7.50 a couple and bids can be bought either at the door or here at school from the club’s officers.
Tuxedos will also be the required attire for the Irish from Cleveland, when they attend their annual Christmas Formal on Decembei- 29 in the Statlei- Ballroom. Four hundred bids are available to alumni and students at $5.50 and can be purchased at the Cleveland club’s meetings. New Year’s Eve will also find the members of the club out once again in their finest or at least in their most novel, when they give ’59 a royal send-off at a Masquerade Ball on the 31st. Costumes will be required and the event will take place in the Ohmstead Hotel.
’Twas the Night Before. The Phi-Lo club will be the scene of a holiday dance sponsored by the Philadelphia club of Notre Dame on the 27th of December. Plans for this affaii- are in their final stages and will be completed this week end. Information concerning tickets sales can be had from any of the club’s officers.
Notre Dame men from St. Louis and their dates will spend the evening of December 29 dancing in the beautiful Khorassen Room of the Chase Hotel from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m. to the tune of $3.00 per couple. The St. Louis organization has also announced that alumni and friends are most welcome to this Christmas dance.
Also the New England, Detroit and the Delaware Valley campus clubs and several other similar organizations are planning holiday activities which will be announced on hall bulletin boards.
—Tom Schlereth
Designs Due in January For Mardi Gras Booths
Presidents and representatives of some of the campus clubs met recently in connection with the 1960 Mardi Gras Carnival. Chuck Brieger, the chairman of the Mardi Gras Carnival, outlined the rules and responsibilities for those who wish to enter a booth in the Carnival.
The prizes for the three best designed booths are $25, $15 and $10. Duplicate prizes are awarded to the three boths earning the highest amounts of income. The booths are also permitted to retain 20% of their proceeds.
Any club which wishes to enter a booth must submit a design of the booth on a 20" x 30" illustration board in scale and in color. The illustration is due on January 7, 1960 in the Mardi Gras room, 1A and IB of the student center or in room 416 Walsh Hall.
The clubs must supply their own powder base paint and brushes. The Mardi Gras Carnival will supply the nails, tools, staplers and staples. Muslin, lost tools and sawed lumber will be . charged against the 20% earnings.
ws ILL
Some interesting questions were raised at this week’s Senate meeting, but other than that, it was mostly routine.
Maybe SBP Babbitt is right. Maybe I’m right (Scholastic, Nov. 20). The question: How often should there be Senate meetings? Three weeks have elapsed since the last gathering, and Babbitt commented on the lack of the Senators’ effort during the respite. He feels the regularity of the weekly meetings keeps the Senate on
the members’ minds. Yet there is rarely enough business to warrant meeting that often. Who’s to know? Perhaps it is a moot question from the beginning.
The other point that was discussed concerned the big-name entertainment for next spring. The Kingston Trio has all-at-once become available for sometime in the week prior to Mardi Gras, but the Senate has already contracted for the Dukes of Dixieland to play on that Saturday. Are two big deals in that week too much? Tempering the final decision should be the facts that the Jazz Festival will be held in mid-March, and Louis Armstrong will be here on April 1 or 2, just before the Mock Convention. While the Senate is not in the business of making money, neither should it be expected to underwrite unnecessary losses. Students who have opinions on the matter are encouraged to contact their hall Senators prior to the meeting next Tuesday.
The Student Discount Service (SDS) will go into effect at the beginning of next semester, it was announced by Chairman John Keegan. The University Council has neither approved nor disapproved the plan, but is waiting to see how it materializes.
The budget for the Mock Convention was approved and $352.25 appropriated in order to cover the anticipated deficit.
A motion by John Clark was approved which will make each graduating senior class close out its accounts to the Senate, then receive $150 for an alumni operating fund. This will bring about better control and start each class evenly. In the process, the Senate will receive any surpluses and suffer any liabilities in the classes’ funds at the time of graduation.
At the request of Chris Lund, the Dolphin club had its pending water show okayed, and Tom Scanlon told of the Blue Circle’s Christmas activities.
December 11, 1959
15

OFFICE HOURS for the SCHOLASTIC are Sunday and Monday evening from 7:15 to 11:15 p.m. At other times contact news editor Roy Rubeli, 42 Pangborn, features editor Chas Rieck, 319 Badin or sports editor Tom Rose, 337 Walsh. All material for the next issue must be in by Sunday evening. There will be one more issue before Christmas.
ALL MATTERS pertaining to subscriptions and distribution of the SCHOLASTIC are handled in the office of the business manager, Robert Horn, at the University Press located in the basement of Stanford Hall. Please do not bring such matters to the editorial offices in the Student Center.
Notre Dame Glee Club 1959 CHRISTMAS CONCERTS
Washington Hall, Sunday, 8 p.m. No admission charge.
PROGRAM
I
I
SHUBERT „
NIGHTS (Ext Sun.
™eA;^oSCHICAGO* NOW
8 30 PM • MATS WED 4 SAT 2PM
Ave Maria ..... Angelus ad Pastores Cherubim Song........ Alleluia ............
Duet: Crucifix.
.__WitM| ... Sweelinck’S Bortniansky S . Handel’ ...Faure -v-
HOME FOR THE HOLIDAYS?
Make them extra-special... see
MEREDITH WILLSON'S MuiicalJlii
FORREST TUCKER
Michael C. Ritschel, Tenor John S. Oliver, Baritone	st'
Soldiers’ and Students’ Chorus...........Berliozg
(from The Damnation of Faust) ... Pilgrim’s Song .........  Tschaikovsky-.
Old Mother Hubbard ..........Arr. Diack g Italian Salad ............... Geene

NONE SEATED DURING FIRST SCENE
Entire Production Staged by
MORTON D* COST*
SEATS AT BOX OFFICE OK BY MAIL
With Remittance Inclose
Stamped Self-Addressed Envelope
PRICES (Inci. Tax): Mon. thru Thurs. Eves. Main Floor 5.50; Mezz. 5.50, 4.95; Tst Bale. 4.95, 4.40; 2nd Bale. 3.00, 2.50; Fri. and Sat. Eves. Main Floor 6.60; Mezz. 6.60, 5.50; 1st Bale. 5.50, 4.40; 2nd Bale. 3.50, 2.50; Wed. and Sat. Mats. Main Floor 4.40; Mezz. 4.40, 3.85; 1st Bale. 3.50, 2.75; 2nd Bak. 2.20; New Year's Eve Prices: Orch. 7.70; Mezz. 7.70, 6.60; 1st Bak. 6.60, 5.50; 2nd Bak. 4.40. 3.50 (Tax inc.)
III
Minstrel Boy
Mooreg
Drink To Me Only With Thine Eyes....
......................Arr. Parker-Shaw
It Was A Lover And His Lass
All Through The Night De Animals a-Comin’... Ride The Chariot......_
IV
Birthday Of A King.... Lo How a Rose......... Christmas Day .........
>....Morley^
Arr. Rieggerl;
Arr. Bartholomew M ......Arr. Smith Is
NeidlingerB® Praetorius®
:Twas The Night Before Christmas. Christmas Carols:
Holst g .Darby®]
Silent Night
First Noel
God Rest Ye Merry Gentlemen
Adeste Fidelis
Accompanist: John S. Oliver

at
E
NoDoz, the safe stay awake tablet — available everywhere
If hitting the books ever makes you drowsy, NoDoz is the fast waker-upper you need. NoDoz Stay Awake Tablets deliver an accurate amount of safe stimulation to keep your mind and body alert during study and exams. How? With caffeine—the same pleasant stimulant in coffee. But non-habit-forming NoDoz is faster, handier, more reliable. Buy some— and be in good company. Millions of times a year safe NoDoz helps busy people keep alert and awake.
P-S. JFAen you need NoDoz, it'll probably be late. Play safe. Keep a supply handy.
Does studying for exams make you want to zzz-zz-zz?
Let safe NoDoz® alert you through study and exams!
16
The Scholastic
F
Critical
PHILOSOPHICAL PLURALISM
by JOSEPH BUCKLEY and TOM SULLIVAN
c
IN any attempt at a statement and a solution to the pi'oblem of philosophical pluralism in a Catholic university one will find .oneself constantly referring to “the Catholic philosopher.” Although this may be a gross oversimplification it is inevitable and excusable since at least a few things can be said about the present responsibilities of Catholic philosophers, before getting into further points of method and doctrine which separate them. Once in a while these common tasks should hold our attention.
A Catholic university is the heir by tradition to Thomism. Thomism, however, is an abstract system and as it is developed by individual Thomists it takes on the personal vision and prejudices of each. So, as we can see, long before any other school or system is introduced there exist the seeds of disunion among Thomists. Now if you add to this the multiplicity of doctrines held by other Catholic philosophers you have a large and divergent system with little more in common than the name Catholic. This situation presents very specific problems to tolerance and cooperation among philosophers. ■'
William James in a letter to G. H. Palmei- describing the Harvard spirit of philosophy, said, “I think that the delightful thing about us all in the philosophical department, where each has a set of ideas, both practical and theoretical, which are the outcrop of his irresistable idiosyncrasy, is our deep appreciation of one another, and our on the whole harmonious cooperation towards the infusion of what probably is objective truth into the minds of students. At any rate it’s genuine liberalism and non-dogmatism.” Whether or not this attitude was true of the Harvard school of James there can be little doubt that it is the ideal to be striven for.
The initial commitment of philosophy is, or course, to the search for truth, and if it fails in this it is nothing. And truth admits no compromise. But as Jacques Maritain says, “if philosophers, lovers of wisdom, cannot cooperate with each other, how will any human cooperation be possible. The fact that philosophical discussions seem to consist of deaf men’s quarrels is not reassuring for civilization.”
CATHOLIC COERCION
The one solution, prevalent in Catholic circles, is that of in the human subject. He is endowed with certain rights in relation to his fellow men but he is also afflicted by vicious inclinations which are derived from his will to power.
The one solution, prevalant in Catholic circles, is that of the absolutists who would impose truth by coercion. Their error comes from the fact that they shift their right feelings about the object of philosophy from the object to the subject. They think that just as error has no rights of its own and should be banished (by means of the mind), so the man when he is in error has no rights of his own and should be banished from human fellowship (through the means of human power).
The relativists propose another solution to the problem. They make relativism a virtue and prescribe ignorance and doubt as the necessary condition of human tolerance. Their error is the exact opposite of that of the absolutists. It occurs
December 11, 1959	■
from the fact that they shift their right feelings about the human subject — who must be respected even when he is in error — from the subject to the object (philosophical knowl-. edge). This error deprives man and the human intellect of the very act in which man has his dignity and, in fact, his reason for living — adherence to the truth.
Besides the denial of the basic right of humanity this solution errs in another way. There is real and genuine tolerance only when a man is absolutely convinced of what he holds to be a truth and when at the same time recognizes the right of those who deny this truth to exist and contradict him. They have a right to speak their own mind and this fact must be realized. Their right does not come, of course, from their freedom from truth but because they seek truth in their own ways and because they deserve to be respected for their human nature and human dignity and those very resources of the intellect which makes them potentially capable or attaining the truth.
OR PICK AND CHOOSE
The solution that seems to have greatest acceptance today (at least in secular universities), is that of doctrinal exchanges between systems. From this point of view each system can avail itself of one another for its own use by dismembering them, and by feeding on and assimilating what it can from them. This is indeed cooperation but in a very strange sense: the cooperation that the lion gives to the lamb is of little use to philosophers.
There is a second point of view in which perspective another system can be seen with more justice, and mutual understanding is possible. If the foreign system is contemplated as an object situated in an external sphere a kind of real though imperfect cooperation may be achieved. This achievement is limited to the extent that each system succeeds 1) in recognizing for the other a right to exist and 2) in availing itself of one another no longer by borrowing or digesting parts of each other, but by bringing its own specific life and principle to a higher degree of achievement and extension.	.
If philosophers are able to realize that their mutually opposed affirmations seldom bear on the same aspects of the real and that they are of far greater value than their mutual negatives, the first requisite to a genuine understanding will be realized. They will be better able to overcome and rise above their own system of signs and language and to take on momentarily the other system so as to bring to their own system of reference the value and insight of the other.
Then there is no longer any concern with analyzing'and sorting of the set of assertions peculiar to various systems. There is no value in spreading them out, so to speak, on a single surface in order to examine what exchange of ideas they may mutually allow in their inner structure. We are, however, interested in a third dimension, which may examine the manner in which each system can, according to its own light, do justice to the other.
(Continued on page 32)
17
Ivan Osobio is certainly the outstanding cartoonist at Notre Dame, of this there is little doubt. He is a student of Architecture, and he will graduate in January. He does not plan to practice his profession, though, and instead he will attempt to eke out some sort of existence as a cartoonist on the East coast. But what sort of a man is he, this humorist who signs his work with a drawing of a devil? I don’t think I know at all, even though I tried hard to find out. I was supposed to write about him for this magazine, and I interviewed him on Saturday evening. Somehow, this is what happened.
Ivan Osorio, whoever he is?? is the subject of this article, which I didn’t actually even want to do. I mean so the guy can draw, who cares. Can he do anything for me? But, I work for the Scholastic, so if I want to keep working, I do an interview with Osorio. So, I went over to his room in Fisher, and he wasn’t there, but he had a collection of dirty books, and right away I liked him. I looked on his desk for some matches, but it was hopeless, since I’ve never found a match, except for one, and his name was Christine, but I did find a needle, which I swallowed. Not much taste. There was however, a note on his desk which I would have found helpful if I could read Chinese. There in my perplexity, a little fellow came in. “Excuse me,” he said, “is this Birdland?” “No,” I said, “this is Ivan Osorio’s pad.” Hearing this, he died,
DOWN
ON THE
FUNNY FARM
by JIM AUSUM


• which spoiled my whole evening as well B as three oranges and a bunch of grapes -which were sitting on the window sill. ; Thus, I was forced to resort to an old : magic trick — I walked down the street, and turned into a saloon. Since my night ‘ ■ was completely ruined, it was fitting j that here I should run into Ivan Osorio, and I did. Then Ivan said to me, “Get lost, you fink!” Immediately, I knew him as a man of no perception. Consequently, I wasn’t at all surprised to learn that his cartoons are actually drawn by Christopher Marlowe. Ivan does attend the University of Notre Dame du Lac, but his means of liveli- * hood is provided by his job as a popcorn seller in New Jersey. How- 1 ever, I was forced to ask about the es- I sential facts of his life, and I learned I that he never was born. He picked up I a pen and drew himself — what a Ford- I like, figure. Ivan says of himself that O he is a tremendous guy, which is some- 9 what of a falsehood. Perhaps he will be I someday, since he intends to study under the Brooklyn Bridge, and he may drown. Bodies do bloat, you know. Ivan feels, like all of us (the lucky ones); that he was happiest in Colorado (he helped build Boulder Dam). But there be met Harvey, who professed to be a cartoon- J ist, but .who was actually a rabbit, and we all love the land, the earth, the sod.
. Harvey really was a cartoonist, though, - (Continued on page 25)	_	■
. ....	. The Scholastic
18
Uslg ? IF You ^OU'T *J6HT TO Yooe CoUUTioW,U&E YoO* KsoMMATB^ l*SuE
AT THE THEATER/
AUDIENCE
vs.
, ORCHESTRA )
THE New Art Wind Quintet, a well-balanced group of oboe, flute, clarinet, basoon, and French horn, entertained a sparse audience last Friday night in Washington Hall. Depai-ting considerably from the scheduled program, New z Art Wind offered Stravinsky and Milhaud in place of the Beethoven Quintet in E flat major, Op. 71.
I For the most part, this unusual quintet succeeded in achieving a pleasant blend, resulting in some exciting and often opulent tones. Following the lengthy perfunctory explanations, New Art Wind opened with a delightful Pastorale by Stravinsky.
Anton Reicha, a prolific contemporary of Beethoven, was represented with Blaeser-quintett, Op. 88, no. 2. Except for a Scherzo, the No. 2 Quintet was quite insipid. It was unfortunate that I the oboist had lost his Beethoven part : rather than his Reicha score.
. Fortunate was the man who was able i to retrieve the Milhaud Suite from the jaws of the carnivorous audience last Friday. Applauding whenever they pleased, they were quite successful in demonstrating a boorish and disrespectful attitude toward this fine chamber ; group. The Suite of seven pieces was, nevertheless, delightful.
. After intermission, the Quintet offer-“ ed two selections, Hindemith’s Kleine Kammermusik, and Ibert’s Trois Pieces Breves. The dissonant Hindemith was . quite playful and the Ibert offered some marvelous shadings and colorings, especially in the Andante and Allegro scher-| » zando.
R;ARE are those times when an audi; ence is justified in breaking into I' applause at the wrong moment — and ’ Sunday afternoon was not such a time. ' When conductor Haymes of the South j Bend Symphony pauses at the end of the 5 first movement of Brahms’ Second to let 0 the latecomers be seated — he is ap-। plauded; as the Adagio no troppo draws f to a pleasant close— more disturbing I applause; soloist John Browning pounds I the last C minor chord of the Rachmani-j! noff concerto and waits patiently for the ? clapping to cease. Worst of all were the p » claps and sighs which met Browning’s brief introduction to his encore. Spon-■ taneous and sincere applause is wel-। corned by any artist, but too often the | hand-clapping sounded like the mechanical reaction of a drowsy audience sud-j denly wakened by a loud finale.
There is something resonant and soni orous in all Brahms’ orchestral music, and I think to some extent this is due to (Continued on page 25)
, December 11, 1959
Having already fully recovered from Thanksgiving vacation, I proceed to drive you mad once more.
Love and Lust, showing at the Avon Art (Dec. 10-16), is a delightful little family show which tells what happens when boy meets girl head-on. The result makes Erskine Caldwell seem like Louisa May Alcott. Playing with it is Law and Disorder, a comedy about nothing in particular. All in all, a highly Art-istic offering about love, lust, law, and disorder. Nothing more.
Sheilah Graham’s self-expose, Beloved Infidel, is playing at the Colfax (Dec. 1019). Sheilah is, it seems, a woman of few well-chosen words. Unfortunately, these have to be toned down too much by producer Jerry Wald. Deborah Kerr plays Sheilah the reckless and Gregory Peck is seen as F. Scott Fitzgerald the wishy-washy has-been. The language is strong and the photography specializes in tortured faces. In a nutshell, the show is suitable only for adults and precocious children. And Sheilah wins the White Owl Award of the Week. Have a White Owl, Sheilah.
Across the wildest jungle sounds the call of the inarticulate nobleman: Tarzan. Only this time, in Tarzan, the Ape Man (Granada, Dec. 10-19), there is a new specimen of shaggy dog. His name is Denny Miller. Quite unromantic, when you consider such names as Rock Hudson and Rip Torn. But there’s Joanna Barnes, socialite turned tree-climber, who clears up the mystery of how come Tarzan went ape. This movie starts the plot of Tarzan’s jungle life (or so it says), all over again. This might be good for Edgar Rice Burroughs, who during the past years has been joyously spinning in his grave. Coffee, tea, or milk? Or how about a martini?
Our unreliable source, the A.B.U.H. Research Institute, Inc., has announced that they have finally located the River Park. Their field investigator was gaily skipping rope along a remote sidewalk one day when he tripped over a small structure. Lo and behold, there it was. In foot-high letters, the marquee proclaimed: River Park Theater. Anyhow, at present (Dec. 10-13) they are showing a sidesplitting double bill: The Perfect Furlough and The Remarkable Mr. Pennypacker. The first is a farce centering about men isolated from the companionship of young ladies, a situation well known around these hallowed halls of decay. Tony Curtis gets the dream furlough with expertly constructed Linda Cristal in Paris — complete with an MP escort. Janet Leigh forms part of the escort and is the one finally taken aback by Curtis^ charm. And they lived happily ever after. The Remarkable Mr. Pennypacker, starring Clifton Webb, spins the homey yarn of a man with two families and a harem (17) of children. Sidestepping the crime of bigamy, the movie dwells on sweeter moments and the sound of the crowd screaming: “Daddy!”
The State comes up with a provocative twin bill, to say the least. Five Gates to Hell (Dec. 11-17) stars a real international cast ranging from Irish McCalla to Linda Wong (no relation to your reporter). Put such a combination together, and what do you get? Nobu McCarthy. The movie deals with a young love-starved Chinese War Lord who kidnaps some. Red Cross nurses during the French Indo-Chinese War, and for the rest of the movie there is very little war. Its co-hit is The Blue Angel, starring May (rhymes with display, risque, negligee) Britt. Miss Britt can currently be semi on many walls throughout Dillon Hall. Well, anyway, her current effort concerns a scholarly professor, a night club songstress, and several young whippersnappers. The professor goes to the night club to corral the whippersnappers and ends up being lassoed by the songstress. It’s a very good show, except for a lousy ending. But you can’t have everything. How these two ever escaped the clutches of the Avon Art’s manager is beyond me.	.
Finally, after several fruitless efforts, the Washington Hall schedule has been located. This Saturday, Dec. 12, they will show The Scapegoat, a useless adaptation of Daphne Du Maurier’s excellent book which is well worth the price of admission to Washington Hall. It stars Alec Guinness and Bette Davis. That’s it.
A closing thought. You know the sound of two hands clapping, but do you know the sound of one hand clapping? Ask Shelley.
Tony Wong
21
Since its formation in 1915, the Notre Dame Glee Club has developed from a twelve-voice chorus for informal song-fests to the present day forty-voice University Glee Club, traveling 8,000 to 10,000 miles annually and entertaining more than 20,000 listeners across the nation coast-to-coast and border-to-border.
The Club makes its appearances on various week ends throughout the year. These week-end trips cover most of the surrounding states. During the Easter vacation the Glee Club makes an extended tour covering a certain section of the country. This could be considered as the activity which highlights the year.
Three years ago, the Club undertook an encompassing cross-country tour which covered well over 5,000 miles. Appearances were made in Denver, Colorado; Las Vegas, Nevada; Los Angeles and San Diego; California; Gallup, New Mexico; Tulsa, Oklahoma; and St. Louis, Missouri. Last year the major tour included the northeastern portion of the nation, from Asbury Park, New Jersey, to Lewiston, Maine.
Ed Sullivan’s “Toast of the Town” Easter program featured the Notre Dame Glee Club from 1948 through 1955 on a nation-wide network with listening audiences estimated in the millions.
In 1950, before 20,000 persons crowding the Chicago Stadium, they sang a benefit with movie stars Pat O’Brien and Ann Blyth.
Teamed with Jeanette McDonald, Jose Ferrer, Eddie Fisher, and Arthur* Fiedler directing the Robin Hood Dell Orchestra,
in Philadelphia’s Municipal Stadium, the their largest audience, 85,000 people, at Music Festival in 1953.
Again with Eddie Fisher, they assisted
Club entertained the Philadelphia
him on his “Coke
Time” TV broadcast from the Notre Dame Fieldhouse on
AND
THERE WAS MUSIC
ri,. g. had enjoyed a distinguished career in vocal and instrumental I music. A pupil of such outstanding musicians as Alexander I Raab and Sergei Tarnowsky, Mr. Pedtke studied at the BusH <m and American Conservatories of Music, besides earning degrees at the Universities of De Paul and Chicago.	. i
Today, he is a fine musician and conductor, as well as an'; outstanding composer, arranger and teacher. He has composed several works for piano and organ, including a Massi in honor of St. Jude, and is the author of a textbook forj piano students entitled “Key Board Harmony.”	®
Though most of the organizations sponsoring the Glee Clubgi are Notre Dame Alumni Clubs and Councils of the Knights® of Columbus, the Club will sing for any agency willing to® defray the expenses.	K
The Business Manager must refuse numerous requested throughout the year because of conflicting dates, inconvenient I distances, or other practical reasons. His requests to book the i Club in a town that would fit perfectly into a tentative tour, 1
by MIKE PANDO

September 30, 1955, when the campus television station WNDU-TV was dedicated.
Having appeared on several CBS, NBC, and Mutual radio programs, the Club has recorded some of the most popular songs in their repertoire, including the famous “Victory March.”
The Club is a student-managed organization without financial backing. It must pay its own way and so it dare not leave the campus without a minimum fee assured to cover transportation, hotel and food expenses.
Its officers, guided by Prof. Daniel Pedtke, arrange the details of every appearance, be it a football “pep rally,” an intermission program in the Student Center, a one-night stand in Chicago or a two-week tour of New England.
In the fall, the Club invites all students, especially freshmen, to try out for the organization. From the approximate 200 that are auditioned, 30-40 men are selected on the basis of tonal quality, range, volume and “ear” for music, to replace the previous year’s graduates. The entire group comprises 100 members, representing every class and college in the University. Few have outstanding voices, and only, the minority can read music, nevertheless they compose a well-blended group.
There are two factors which are responsible for the development of this group into a well-trained Glee Club. One certainly is long hours of practice. The other factor being the hard work of the director, Professor Daniel H. Pedtke.
Professor Pedtke assumed the duties of Glee Club director and coordinator in 1938. Before coming to Notre Dame, he
are too often declined. So, all in all, many fortunate “breaks”® are necessary to set up a successful trip.
Aftei* a contract is signed the Publicity Manager sends! the sponsor detailed suggestions concerning committee organ-B ization, advance publicity in the form of pictorial and written^ releases about the Club, the directors and officers.	g
While the sponsor strives to attract an audience, the Club® rehearses every weekday for one hour, refreshing standard® songs and learning new numbers for their repertoire. 1-
Financial reasons limit 40 men for out-of-town engage-afi ments. They are chosen for musicianship, knowledge of songs,! I attendance at practice, seniority and all-around character®?
Although there is no form of remuneration or tuitio: grants from the University, the Club has her renownei school’s name behind them, without which they could do littlel Their love for singing and the possibilities for travel are th® wonderful motivating factors that help maintain a fine spirit.|
In May of 1955 at the meeting of the National Inter " Collegiate Choral Association, the delegates from 45 of the, nation’s college glee clubs learned that only two, Purdue and*® Notre Dame, operated with a budget of over $10,000 per yeari
As we all know, wherever and whenever Notre Dame foot-: ball is mentioned, the name of Knute Rockne stands out ai one of the game’s finest contenders and coaches. An interest-: ing sidelight on Coach Rockne was his interest in student^ musical activities here on the campus. In 1913, the “Rock inaugurated the Monogram Club’s musical review “Monogram Absurdities” and directed the musical himself. And, as the
staunchest defender of the student spirit that was always behind the great teams he built here at Notre Dame, he often „ commented on the work of those forerunners of the present Notre Dame singers who boosted the Irish spirit in song at pep rallies twenty-five years ago, as the current group does each season.
The Notre Dame Glee Club opened its activities this year with a week-end trip to Tiffin and Mansfield, Ohio, on the 21st and 22nd of November. At present plans are being made for performances in Columbus and Cleveland, Ohio, Wisconsin, , Michigan, and Illinois.
The Easter tour this year will be to the southern portion of the nation. The Club will tour parts of Texas, Louisiana, Missouri, Alabama, Georgia and possibly Florida. As of now there are definite contacts made in most of these states. However, a lot more work has to be done before the final plans for the two-week tour can be made.
As the University of Notre Dame Glee Club tours and performs throughout the country, they continue to broaden the circle of audiences and critics from all parts of the nation who recognize them as true ambassadors of the Notre Dame Spirit.
APPLIED MAGNETISM 405-406
Reactions of water, hair, women
Professor D. Juan
10:00-11:00 p.m. Saturday
Examination of why men usually use water with their hair tonic. Demonstration that water causes dried-out hair resembling explosion in a silo. Practical applications of 'Vaseline’ Hair Tonic; proof that 'Vaseline’ Hair Tonic replaces oil that water removes from hair. Definitive interrelationships of water to 'Vaseline’ Hair Tonic to hair to women to things in general. Laboratory evidence of reverse magnetism between women and messy hair. Positive correlations between alcohol and dry hair, cream tonics and clogged-up hair (Ragmop’s Third Law). Required before Christmas vacation.
Prerequisite: ANIMAL MAGNETISM 203-204.
Materials: one 4 oz. bottle ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic
it’s clear, it’s clean, it’s Vaseline*’ HAIR TONIC ‘Vaseline’ is Ike retisterH traMmrt et CkesekreefhPeafs lac.
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
! December 11, 1959 i X.
212
Contact Lens Specialist
DR. T. R. PILOT
Optometrist -
•
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
S. Michigan CE 4-4874
THE BOOK SHOP
Paperbacks
•
Contemporary Cards and Glassware •
All the Best Sellers
•
130 N. MICHIGAN STREET
Right down from the Bus Stop
HIP, HIP, HURRAY for the
•
Caroling, Socializing Highlights Week End
Social activities for the week end will take on a seasonal mood as Notre Dame ; men and their dates try their hand at ; Christmas caroling and socializing with : Santa Claus at the annual Christmas Ball.
Buses for the caroling party will leave from the circle at 6:45 p.m. tonight for St. Mary’s College and Holy Cross School of Nursing. There will be separate buses for those going stag and for those with dates. The buses will take the carolers to a residential section of South Bend where they will be directed in their harmonizing by members of the 1 Notre Dame Glee Club.
These Yuletide merrymakers will re- , turn to the LaFortune Student Center 5 at 9 p.m. for a mixer. Free refresh- [ ments will be served at the mixer which I will break up in time for the girls to ; return to their halls.	;
Tickets for the caroling party, spon- T sored by the Blue Circle, may be pur- J chased for $.75 from the floor represen- -tatives in the resident halls.	;
Dancing Santa. Winding up the pre- > Christmas social agenda will be the ' fourth annual Christmas Ball, to be held d in the LaFortune Student Center to 1 morrow night from 8:30 to 11:30 p.m.
Music for dancing will be provided by records due to the ban on “live” music (j during advent. Group singing will help H to enliven things and a Christmas song | variety will be presented by the Notre | Dame Glee Club. Santa Claus, alias I Mike Meagher, has promised to attend I as guest of honor.	I
GREYHOUND* way to save money!
Got the good word about Greyhound Scenicruiser Service®? It’s the latest, the greatest way to go... with air-conditioning, picture windows, air-suspension ride and complete restroom! You’ll have a ball headin’ home on a Greyhound —it’s often faster than other public transportation, and always
St. Louis	$ 9.30
New York	23.35
Pittsburgh	12.60
Louisville	8.60
*Tax not included
BAGGAGE PROBLEMS? You can take more with you on a Greyhound. Or, send your belongings by Greyhound Package Express. They arrive in hours and cost you less!
rrs such a comfort TO TAKE THE BUS...AND LEAVE THE DRIVING TO US!
Greyhound TenninaL Main & Monroe, AT 7-6541
Student Service to Start Discount Rates in Feb.
From an embryonic idea in the minds of a few student government workers early in the fall, the Student Discount Service has been fully developed and ’ will come into being next semester.
The plan was the work of the Student . Discount Service committee headed by John Keegan. After the idea had been passed by the Senate, the University Council declined to promote or reject the plan and instead left its execution to the initiative of student government. 9
On the whole, the Committe found the a majority of the South Bend area mer- | chants receptive to the idea of student 1 discounts. Approximately 60% of the 1 merchants contacted were willing to par- I ticipate in the plan. The chief reasons I for the refusals received were a fear | that the student discounts would harm fl local business and an inclination to H wait and see whether or not the plan El was successful before participating in H it. A total of 14 businesses including H restaurants, furniture stores and tuxedo I rental concerns are to be enrolled in a the plan.	I
The discount cards will be given out I at registration next February, and IBM a number cards will be used. .. .. I
The Scholastic ■
24
Orchestra vs. Audience
(Continued from page 21) his magnificent use of the strings. This section of the South Bend Orchestra has vastly improved, and it seemed to me that the cellos in particular were responsible for most of the successful moments in the symphony. Nevertheless there were times when the necessary force and cohesion of the work seemed beyond the touch of this orchestra, and I can’t help feeling more comfortable when it confines itself to smaller, more controllable works. The delightful short Dance from William Tell played at the beginning of the program was all it was meant to be — “a charming and light-hearted miniature” (said the program ’^~Q+es).
The orchestra acquitted itself admir
ably in the Rachmaninoff Second Concerto, but of course all the attention was on the pianist. John Browning appears to be a very young artist, and in comparison with other guest performers who have played with the Symphony, also a very good one. He was fortunate to have a beautiful instrument to play on and he made' the most of it. His technique was precise and only occasionally cloudy—perhaps from an overdose of pedal — but the most remarkable thing about it was its apparent effortlessness, a rarity in good interpretations of Rachmaninoff. Browning proved in the fragile encore (Chopin’s D minor Nocturne) that he understands delicacy as well as thunder and passion. The afternoon was entirely pleasant and I see the time coming when I might be able to say more.
Down on the Funny Farm (Continued from page 18) and Ivan learned from him the secret of success. He traces the pictures in Mary Worth. But Harvey lived in Colorado, and because of the environment, he turned into a turnip. So, when he grew up, he cut off his greens and joined the United Steel Workers. At present, he is holding out for all he can get.
At this point, I discovered that I could no longer read anything except “Brewed and bottled at St. Louis, Mo., U.S.A., by Anheuser Busch, Inc.,” and Ivan couldn’t draw any more, either. I guess it was just the magic of the spell he casts off in his relentless search for truth. Or is it money? I can’t remember, but it’s pretty important, so I doubt if he’ll ever find it.
^lij. Apner comes alive
IN THE (gasp!) BIGGESTAND(roar!) FUNNIEST
Happy Songs!
“Jubilation T. Cornpone."
"Namely You." and many morel
♦
With Hollywood's most exciting cast of NEW FACES AND (gasp.’) FIGGERS!
PETER I flLUlUl	!■
red-blooded American
come a-teann from
into the movies! In
and Vistavision
-natchelly!
As a 100 per cent
boy (age 17) I cain t
possibly lie! Your whole
family will go stark, ravin
mad wif joy when we
2 years as a Broadway
moosical smash-hit—right
Technicolor
AND(panf9GlRUESrSHOW
HOLLYWOOD EVER WHOMPED UP!
COMING SOON TO YOUR FAVORITE THEATRE! Watt Far It!
I) . December 11, 1959
SPECIAL!
CHRISTMAS
minis UBUBY ui BOSK SHIP
Win $100.00
SAVE YOUR
ALPINE
PACKS
SALE
until December 24
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., South Bend A Nonprofit Organization
See
Details at
HUDDLE
- CAFETERIA
- CASA PIZZA
Notre 2)ame 100 years
by Arthur E. Hope, C.S.C.
Only $1.29
DURING THIS SPECIAL CHRISTMAS SALE
This is the deluxe, illustrated, cloth-bound edition that regularly sells at $4.00.
A GIFT THAT WILL BE PRIZED BY ALL FRIENDS OF NOTRE DAME
For mail orders, enclose 25c extra for each copy to cover cost of mailing.
GO WHILE THE GOING IS GOOD on a 1960 American Express Student Tour! Right now, while you can still look forward to a long summer vacation, may be your once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to see, enjoy and study Europe. And the “going is always good” on an American Express Student Tour... where experts arrange everything perfectly for your travel convenience. Tours are comprised of small groups, conducted by distinguished leaders from prominent colleges. Itineraries can include England ... Belgium... Holland... Germany... Austria.-.. Switzerland .. . Italy . .. The Rivieras ... and France. Ample time allowed for. full sight-seeing and leisure, too.
Choose from: 10 interesting, educational Student Tours ... from 14 to 54 days ... by sea and air ... from $765 and up. Member: Institute, of International Education and Council on Student Travel.
For complete information, see your Campus Representative, local Travel Agent or American Express Travel Service. Or simply mail the coupon.
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
I AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVEL SERVICE
I 65 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y. c/o Travel Sales Division
।	Please send me complete information about
I	1960 Student Tours of Europe.
I Name................................................
■ Address.............................................
| City......................Zone....State.............
26
J

IRISH GAGERS OFF ON 6-DAY WESTERN TRIP
A
race Air Force and Nebraska On Saturday, Monday Nights
C


The Notre Dame basketball team begins its annual western tour when it invades Colorado Springs, Colo., for a . game with the Air Force Academy. The Irish hoopsters left South Bend on Thursday, December 10, arriving in Colorado Springs the next morning. Coach John Jordan and his squad will stay at the Hotel Broadmoor while in Colorado Springs.	',
x Air Raiders. Although the Air Force * team loses its big star over the last three seasons, Bob Beckel, the Falcons’ overall strength is better than last year. Coach Bob Spear has a fine floor leader in senior Don Wolfswinkel, a player who has all the shots to make up for his lack of height. Wolfswinkel stands an even , 6-0. Returning to work with Wolfswin-kel in the backcourt will be 6-0 junior Tommy Norris, a good playmaker.
Jim Ulm, a 6-2 forward and the Falcon’s leading scorer last season, will hold down one of the forward positions. Sophomores Bill Knipp, 6-1, and Bob Schaumberg, 6-1, are battling for the other forward position as is 6-2 junioi-John Stover. The Falcon’s center position will be shared by Ron Deep, a 6-4 senior, and Tony Burshnick, a senior standing 6-3.
Apparent to the Irish is the fact that the Air Force team lacks height. However, Coach Spear depends on a good fast break and a sound defensive game to make up for this paucity of height.
l
Whistle Stop. The Irish will leave Colorado Springs right after the game and will arrive in Lincoln, Nebr., on December 13 for a game with the University of Nebraska on the following day. While in Lincoln, the Notre Dame team will stay at the Hotel Lincoln.
i
S
X;
.3
%
li The Nebraska Corn Husker quintet will be built around the brilliant combination of Herschell Turner, a speedy
Il 6-2 senior forward, and 6-3 junior Al-j bert Maxey, who returns at the other I ; forward post. Turner is a top1 playmak-! er, scorer, and rebounder while Maxey I averaged 15.3 as a sophomore and should 11 be even more effective this year. Coach ' Jerry Bush will also be counting on ■ four sophomores, who have seen considerable action. Al Buuck, a 6-8 newcomer, is scheduled to start at the pivot for the Buskers. However, 6-6 Jan Wall is also slated to play a lot of pivot and may ! be used as an alternate for Maxey at । forward.
; Nebraska’s veteran guards are seniors ! Wayne Hester and Dick Shipwright, both i experienced playmakers. This pair will
December 11, 1959
GRANEY
REBOUNDS
Irish captain controls the board
be relieved by two sophomores, 6-0 Rex Swett and 6-2 Al Roots.
Nebraska will use a varied offense featuring the fast break and the double or open post. Coach Bush will also use a tight man-to-man defense, switching to the zone when necessary.
Coach Jordan’s five will leave Lincoln shortly after midnight on December 15, arriving in South Bend about noon the same day.
Defense Shines. On Thursday, December 4, the Irish eagers opened their 1959-60 season with a resounding victory over Western Illinois, 77-59. Coach Jordan’s five started slowly but finally warmed up before the half to leave the court with a 39-26 lead. The offensive burden in the first half was carried by junior center John Tully, who registered 17 points. Tully had a total of 25 for the evening, also picking off 22 rebounds, one more than did Captain Mike Graney who scored 19 points. Senior Emmett McCarthy, although injured with seven minutes left, connected for 16 points. The Irish lead never dwindled after the half as they went on to win by 18 points.
(Continued on page 30)
All They Had
by TED THOMPSON
Notre Dame’s youthful eagers gave everything they had before succumbing to a strong Spartan five at East Lansing, Mich., last Saturday, 61-56 in overtime.
The Irish battled from behind in the second half to take a four-point lead into the last 40 seconds of play only to have the Spartans, cheered on by a nearcapacity Jenison Field House crowd of 11,375, bounce back to send the game
into the 50 with tied the overtime
overtime session. Trailing 5437 seconds left, the Spartans game at 56 all and won it in as 6-2 center Art Gowens
scored the last five of his 28 points.
Spartan guard Dave Fahs pulled a boner which might well have cost his team the game when, with twelve seconds remaining, he called the time out which gave Michigan State one over the limit of time outs for the half. Emmett McCarthy sank the free throw on the ensuing technical foul and the Irish had the ball out of bounds. But the Spartans intercepted a pass and Fahs came out from underneath the ND basket to bank in the hook shot that sent the game into the overtime period.
Very significant in the Irish loss was the early departure of workhorse captain Mike Graney. Graney picked up three fouls in the first eight minutes of play and a fourth with four minutes to go in the half.
Then Graney stalled the second half but picked up his fifth foul with seven minutes left in the game and with him left the most potent offensive punch of the night for the Irish. Graney sank eight field goals for the Irish in the 29 minutes he played and performed well against the Spartan jumping-jacks Gowens and Horace Walker, on the backboards.
When center John Tully left in the last minute of play, Irish hopes looked even dimmer. With the two big men out on fouls, the Spartan board men wore down the tense Irish and moved on to the overtime win.
Spartan stars Walker and Gowens had four and three fouls respectively in the second half at the same time that Graney and Tully had four and three. The Spartans, however, picked up no more fouls in the rough contest and were around to provide the impetus in the extra session.
The Irish were very tense throughout the game and especially so in the first half when they appeared even a little
(Continued on page 30)
27
JOHN MAY DIRECTS DILLON ELEVEN TO SECOND INTERHALL TITLE IN A ROW
Too much, too often, too fast. This sums up the 20-0 win registered by Dillon over Breen-Phillips in the annual battle for campus supremacy on the gridiron. The Dillonites, coached by Dan Griffith, Notre Dame varsity fullback who missed this year’s football campaign because of a broken ankle suffered in fall practice, repeated for the second year in a row as Interhall champs in much the same manner as they humbled Stanford last year in the snow and cold of the Stadium. The game was played on ancient Cartier Field since the Stadium sod is being uprooted and replanted.
Southpaw Passer. Dillon scored twice by the airlanes to giab a 14-0 halftime lead. Southpaw field general John May flipped the two scoring passes to Eddie McCarron, a big 6-3, 205-pound flanker. McCarron wore jersey numbei- 83, a number made famous here in football competition the last year by Pat (One-Year) Heenan. May threw to halfback Steve Leroux for the two point conversion after the second score. Leroux tallied on a 17-yard cutback over offensive left tackle early in the fourth quarter to complete the day’s scoring. May was snowed under trying for a two point conversion via the forward pass.
Dillon directed its offensive power against the tackles of the eager B-P line. May ran the “belly series” to perfection and sent the hard-running Dillon backs into the line for repeated gains. May also passed on a rollout after faking the “belly” and this maneuver accounted for the first two Dillon tallies. May, and the rest of his offensive mates, both backs and linemen, had to share the spotlight with a hard-hitting defensive
team which did not allow a B-P first down until the final minute of play.
“The Tank.” It would be hard to single out any one player as being the outstanding member of the Dillon defensive unit. However, we feel we would be less than just should we fail to mention the heroic deeds of one Dillon defender known by his teammates as simply “The Tank.” He seemed to typify the Dillon defense which thwarted every offensive effort of a very good Breen-Phillips squad.
B-P also came up with some stout defensive play which can be attested to by the fact that Dillon had to go to the air for their first two scores. The losers played with hustle and never-say-die attitude seldom seen in a team that loses by 20 points. They simply were out-classed by the victors and indeed have nothing to be ashamed of.
Fancy Attire. The victorious Dillon eleven was attired in blue jerseys and gold pants with blue knee-length socks to protect against frostbite and other such misfortunes likely to result from cold Indiana weather. B-P countered with a snappy outfit featuring kelly green jerseys, white pants and green knee socks.
In case there are some fashion conscious fans among our reading audience, the officials appeared on the scene of battle in the conventional black and white striped shirt, white trousers resembling the knickers worn in youth and white socks. One official, thought to be the head of the Interhall football program, was also decked out in a red stocking cap. Several hundred of the faithful turned out for the afternoon’s festivities.	;— Bill Cary
Inexperienced Matmen Meet Veteran Findlay Here Today
Notre Dame’s wrestlers swung into action at home, yesterday, against the University of Illinois at Chicago. This was the first meet of the season for the Irish matmen. Today, the Irish take on Findlay College, here, in a dual meet. To complete a torrid three-day schedule, Notre Dame takes on Wayne State University at Detroit, Mich., on Saturday afternoon at 1 p.m.
Coach Tom Fallon announced a starting line-up for the opener which featured team captain Jerry Sachsel, a senior from Gai-wood, N. J., in the 123-pbund division.
The 132-pound division is headed by sophomore Carmen Belefonte, of Bethlehem, Pa.
Another sophomore, Larry Bunchek of Carrollton, Mich., starts at 138 pounds.
The only other returning letterman, senior Dick Sapp from Munhall, Pa., will head the 147-pound division.
Another green sophomore from Pennsylvania, John Chumetski from Wilkes Barre, will handle the 157-pound assignment.
Senior Gene McFadden from New York City, will give experience to the 167-pound division.
Junior football player Jim Kane from Bloomington, Ill., replaces last year’s captain, Bucky O’Conner, in the 177-pound division.
The big man in the heavyweight division will be sophomore Tom Slater from Sault Sainte Marie, Mich.
While the team is very inexperienced, Coach Fallon is very optimistic and expects the team to come up with a “pretty good season.”
Many of the wrestling matches this year will be held in the Fieldhouse on Saturday afternoons after the basketball game to encourage student interest.
Tankers Tally 29 Points ♦ To Place Fifth at Loyola
Notre Dame’s swimming team, participating in its first meet of the season, captured fifth place in the fifth annual Loyola University Relays swimming meet. The Irish tankmen, beginning their second season of varsity compe-tition, registered a total of 29 points to place ahead of sixth place Northwestern with 26 points.
Southern Illinois, defending Intercollegiate Athletic Conference and Central AAU champions, swept five first places and two seconds to top the other five entrants. A record-breaking 85 points i assured the victory for Southern Illinois over second place North Central’s 63 points.
Of the other entrants, the host Loyola team took third place with 46 points. Western Michigan finished fourth with 32 points and Notre Dame and Northwestern followed in that order.
i New records were set in several events. Southern Illinois set a 200-yard free style relay record with a time of 1:33.3. The Notre Dame Swimming Club had held the previous record in that event, swimming the distance in the 1957 meet in a time of 1:39.0.
Notre Dame’s Paul Chestnut and Jim { Carroll took first place in the diving event. The Irish placed third in the 200-yard free style relay and fifth in the 400-yard individual medley relay and 500-yard free style relay. However, the local swimmers took the cellar- position in the 200-yard medley relay, the 200-yard backstroke relay and the 200-yard butterfly relay.
Coach Dennis Stark’s 1959-60 swim-t mers will be confronted with a full schedule of dual and tournament meets in the next two months.
Tyler Jr.’s Picks of the Week j	DECEMBER 11
* Brigham Young over UCLA Cincinnati over St. Joseph’s North Carolina over Kansas Kansas State over North Carolina
• State
Southern Cal over Oklahoma State Utah over Wichita
DECEMBER 12
Notre Dame over Air Force Manhattan over LaSalle
Kentucky over St. Louis University • Bradley over Bolling Green
Butler over Michigan '» Villanova over Clemson
Purdue over Detroit Connecticut over Boston College Illinois over Western Kentucky
DECEMBER 14
Illinois over Marquette Indiana over Kansas State Notre Dame over Nebraska Kentucky over Kansas Texas over LSU
TIME OUT
It has been a month now since this column last appeared in the Scholastic. Since that time the football season has come to a happy end and the winter sports program is now in full swing.
What seemed sure to be a disappointing football year was suddenly brightened by two stunning Notre Dame victories over Iowa and Southern California. Everyone concerned with the future of Notre Dame football owes a special debt of gratitude to a group of seniors who led this late season resurgence. The seniors on this squad had all the reason in the world to ease up in their last two games. The season had been frustrating for them and the end was in sight. There was a natural tendency to be nonchalant in the approach to these last two games. But to their great credit they did just the opposite. Adamson, Crotty, Stickles, Izo, Heenan, Flor, White, Scholtz and Muehlbauer, fighting grimly to even the mark at 20-20 for their four years here, inspired their teammates to their best efforts of the season resulting in astounding victories over two of the top teams in the nation. These two victories mean as much for the team’s morale and confidence next year as they did for the success of the recently ended season.
After watching Syracuse on television last Saturday against UCLA, it’s pretty hard to argue against their being the top team in the country. It has often been said that “one picture is worth a thousand words” and this was certainly true of the Syracuse team. Before the mistake-hunting and critical eyes of the nation, they staged an awesome perfonnance of power, versatility and defense. Perhaps the most impressive aspect of the Orangemen’s repertoire was theii- rushing defense. The grisly Syracuse linemen, stunting continually, smothered the Bruin’s single-wing attack, holding them to minus 13 yards on the ground. It is good to see such a powerful team come out of the East for a change.
THE AMATEUR SPIRIT
Pro football is just getting exciting and college bowl games are yet to come but here at Notre Dame the switchover from the football season to the winter sports season has taken place. No longer will the campus be swarming with visitors on the week ends. The only place Notre Dame will appear on the sport pages of the nation’s newspapers is in the fine print listing college basketball, swimming, wrestling, track and fencing scores. There is not much glory involved for the winter sport athlete at Notre Dame with the possible exception of the basketball team if it has a good year and gets an NCAA bid. Those who put forth the effort and sacrifice necessary to compete on the varsity level represent college athletics at their best. They are amateurs in the true spirit of the term — seeking no reward outside of the competition itself.
All four of the early winter sport teams are in action tomorrow. The fencers open up their season with a 3-team meet with Case Tech and Indiana Tech in the Fieldhouse. The swimming team meets St. Louis University in the Rockne Memorial pool. The wrestlers go against tough Findlay College today and Wayne University tomorrow. And out in Colorado Springs the Irish eagers battle the Air Force tomorrow evening.
ZONE DEFENSE NEW
Coach John Jordan and his basketbailers are off again bn another 25-game schedule. With four games behind them they left this Thursday for a week’s excursion out West. If they can win their two games in this sojourn and get a chance to give the sophomores, Reo, Dearie, Schnurr and Roessler, a little game experience, the Irish eagers should come back with the poise and confidence seemingly absent in the Michigan State game.
Jordan has introduced something new this year — a zone defense which can be altered at times to a semi-zone. It has been very effective so far due to the ball-hawking of Crosby, McCarthy and Bradtke on the outside perimeter. Although the Irish have fairly good height, rebounding is a slight problem. With Graney and Tully in the game we’re all right. With either one of them out we’re hurting. When these two fouled out of the MSU game, the rebounding collapsed completely.
But it looks as if the main problem confronting the Jordanmen so far is a full court press. For the last two years with Gene Duffy around, Notre Dame didn’t have to worry about this tactic. But now with no expert dribblers on hand, the Irish will have to develop a passing pattern with a set of alternatives to bring the ball up the floor. — T. R.
r»______
11 men
90
A Good Solid Team
by GREG ROGERS
The 1959-1960 Irish Basketball team is a sound squad. There is no better way to compliment Coach Johnny Jordan and his squad. The long drills and practices before the season have paid off. Jordan has come up with a team that works well together, plays hard, and plays good basketball. It is not the best team that Notre Dame has ever had but the squad should compile a very respectable record.
McCarthy Sparkles. Emmett McCarthy is a most pleasant surprise. McCarthy has shown a big improvement over last year. He is much more aggressive on offense, taking more shots and hitting consistently. His defensive work is good also. Against Wisconsin he was very impressive, as he constantly drove by Wisconsin defenders when the Badgers were pressing the Irish.
Captain Mike Graney is playing good ball also. Mike is aggressive and is going all out to do the best job he can. His increased scoring over last year will be a great help. He is getting high up in the air on his jump shots and they are going in consistently.
Tully’s big, graceful hook and good board work are encouraging. The slender junior is becoming increasingly aggressive. His scoring should be consistent and valuable.
Western Illinois was no push-over. They played a determined game and it took a well-drilled team to beat them. The Illinois quintet’s shots came predominantly from the outside as a result of the Irish zone defense. Graney and Tully blocked passes and shots and the Irish succeeded in controlling the defensive board well enough to keep complete control of the game. But the Green’s defensive board play could have been better.
“Lazy Defense." The zone defense is referred to by Jordan as the “lazy defense.” Each man defends an area instead of a player and hence does not have to move as much. This zone defense has proven very effective. The three teams that the Irish have played so far have not succeeded in breaking the zone. The Irish have held their op-
WSND SPORTS
Unfortunately, radio station WSND ■will not be able to cover the western swing of this year’s team. However, they will return with the games after Christmas. The schedule is to be as follows: Jan. 12, DePaul; Jan. 9, Detroit; Jan. 22, Bradley; Feb. 13, Kentucky; Feb. 16, Butler; Feb. 23, Evansville; Feb. 27, Louisville. Check for times later.
position to 178 points while pouring through 211.
The Irish have played a controlled game on offense. Crosby as a playmaker, looks like a good replacement for Gene Duffy. He is more deliberate, but it makes no difference. The whole attack has been slowed by Jordan. “We want the shot that’s going to go in. If we don’t get it right away, we work the ball until we get it.”
Overtime Heartbreaker. The Michigan State game was a heart-breaker. The Irish played the same steady game, but they played a better team than Western Illinois. Overtime games can go either way. Nervousness and inexperience probably are the best answers as to why State tied the game. But, early in the season, we have to discount it and forget it.
Against Wisconsin, the Irish beat the press that they will surely see a lot of. Wisconsin didn’t want the Irish to set up their plays. The Irish simply ran around the Badgers and romped to victory. Many lessons were learned at Michigan State and the Irish showed great improvement in this game. The reserves again proved valuable as they piled up the lead after the regulars retired for the night.
There is only one thing really lacking in the Irish team. The team doesn’t have the ability to score consistently high all the time. The Green do not really have a powerful scoring punch. But they have enough guns to win a lot of games. The team is going to play a lot of close games this season. But, with the spirit and aggressiveness this team has, plus a strong, experienced bench, they are going to win most of them.
Western Swing
(Continued from page 27)
On December 5, the Green traveled to East Lansing for a game "with Michigan State. Behind four points with fifty seconds to go, the Spartans tied the count with two seconds left in the regulation game on hook shot by Dave Fahs. The Spartans went on to score five points in the first overtime to win 61-56, as Notre Dame failed to add to its total.
Graney led the Irish scorers with 17 points, followed by McCarthy with 16 and Tully with 12.
On December 7, the Irish returned to the Fieldhouse where they defeated the University of Wisconsin 78-58. Playing against a full court press most of the evening, the Irish were in complete control from the beginning. Tully led the Jordanmen with 22 points followed closely by Graney who registered 21. McCarthy, a steady performer all evening, totaled 16 points. '
MIKE GRANEY
Shooting eye sharpened
Ail They Had
(Continued from page 27) timid against the powerful Spartans. This was no doubt at least partially caused by the calling of the quick fouls against Graney.
Playing a little looser in the second half, the Irish battled the Spartans almost even on the backboards, 32-35, after trailing in the first stanza, 33-17.
The Irish were noticeably improved on the defensive backboard and the game slowed down to where each team was often getting only one good shot at the basket each time it brought the ball down. This helped account for the low shooting percentages of both teams (both shot 30%) and was in part responsible for the low score, also occasioned by the well-executed “slow-down” offense employed by the Irish against the fast-moving Staters.
Michigan State was forced to play Notre Dame’s game and for a while it looked as though the Irish, crippled by fouls, could hold on for the win. But it was just a question of how long the deliberate-playing visitors could stall off i the rush of the powerful Spartans.
The whole team played hard, as hard ' as could be expected. They gave their all. Bill Crosby, pestered by the fans constantly, played the best defensive i game of his career, repeatedly inter-f rupting the Spartan offensive patterns^ and Mike Graney was outstanding both| in shooting and on the boards against f the strong Michigan State rebounders. |
Emmett McCarthy played well con-J sistently and very ably took over the| leadership of the team after the tail! men had fouled out.	1
It was a game no one should be| ashamed to lose in view of the handicap fe under which the Irish were playing ind the late stages. The heart they showed | in East Lansing was enough to win most! games.	s
The Scholastic
30
Have a WORLD^fFUN!
Travel with HTA
SPEND ElSa
Many tour* include college credit.
Orient 43-65 o-yo,t’^r $998
Also low-cost trip* to Mexico $169 up, South America $699 up, Hawaii Study Tour $598 up and Around the World $1898 up. 27th Year Alk Yoor Trove( Agent
Europe
60 Day* titnr from $675
■ SM 332 Se. Michigan Ave. ■ ■ Chicago 4, HA 7>2557
WORLD TRAVEL
I At Christmas...
I hooks are best!
CLOTH BOUND * JUNE 6, 1944—THE LONGEST DAY
C. Ryan
* THE THIRTEENTH APOSTLE
E. Vale
* ADVISE AND CONSENT
A. Drury
*	PROVINCE OF THE HEART
P. McGinley
*	STATUS SEEKERS V. Packard
*	PICTORIAL HISTORY OF
VAS. MARINES
L. Montross
*	LIFE OF CHRIST
F. Sheen * CHRISTMAS WITH ED SULLIVAN * HOLY BIBLE trans, by R. Knox
*	THE LIVING PARISH
L. Ward
*	THE LORD OF HISTORY
J. Danielson
* PEANUTS REVISITED
C. Schulz
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE on-fhe-campus
ODDS and ENDS
Oscar Robertson has started the present campaign as if he were a part of one of those famous hurricanes that whip up along the coast of Florida. “The Big 0” notched 45 points in the season opener against Indiana State. He followed up on this explosion with 43 markers last Saturday as the Bearcats clawed an undermanned Marshall University five, 102-61. This year Oscar has plenty of support from veterans such as Ralph “Spud” Davis and Bob Weisenheim, plus highly-regarded newcomers Paul Hogue and Sandy Pomerantz. Robertson needs 537 points to break the major college scoring record set by Dick Hemric of Wake Forest. Hemric set the present mark in four years of varsity competition, whereas Oscar will be seeking to break the standard in only three years of varsity play. . . .
Speaking of super-stars, Jerry Lucas of Ohio State seems to be as good as the press notices said he was. He already has guided the Buckeyes to three early season victories. He also broke the record for consecutive free throws set last year by Larry Siegfried, a standout junior on the Buckeye squad. Siegfried’s record was 23 foul shots in a row. Lucas has 24 straight from the charity stripe in his current streak. Lucas hit for 16 points in the season opener versus Wake Forest. He hiked his point total to 34 as the Buckeyes won their second game in three nights over Memphis St. Last Saturday, he led the Bucks to a 94-49 win over Pittsburgh, hitting eight of eleven from the field and eight straight from the foul line. Also Mr. Lucas is an “A” student. . . .
Sam (Power Puff) Huff continues as the outstanding obstacle in the path of National Football League ball carriers. Last Sunday, Sam, a very gentle soul, asked Jim Brown, the big Brown fullback,* to cease his ball toting activities for the afternoon and take an early shower. Jim declined the invitation and so Sam lowered his shoulder and Jim left the ball game with the reassuring arm of the Cleveland trainer steadying his still groggy and massive body. Jim returned in the second half but it was all New York as the Giants whomped the Browns, 48-7. The two old pros, Charlie Conerly and Frank Gifford, turned in flawless performances as the Giants clinched their second successive Eastern Division title. They have a 9-2 ledger with the final regular season game next Sunday. Then comes the championship playoff, tentatively set for Sunday, December 27 in the city of the Western Division winner. In this case it will most likely be the Baltimore Colts. Remember the Colts nipped the New Yorkers last year in “sudden death,” 24-17. Maybe the Giants will even the score this year. . .
Capt. Mike Graney seems to have found his scoring touch this year if the first two games are any indication. He opened with 19 tallies against Western Illinois. In the losing effort versus Michigan State, “Big Mike” paced the Irish with 17 points, even though he fouled out with seven minutes of regulation time still on the clock. Graney is the man who must come through this year if the Irish are to have a successful year. . . .
You Always Get a Square Deal at Breen’s
WATCHES	DIAMONDS
RADIOS	SHAVERS
Expert Watch Repairing
BREEN'S Jeweler 325 S. Michigan St. Phone AT 7-3630
Attention: All Students and Faculty!
Save 20 to 50% from Retail Prices.
You may now buy thousands of nationally advertised items at WHOLESALE prices. These include:
Typewriters	Radios... TV sets
Furniture	Luggage
Tape Recorders	Watches
Musical Instruments Fountain Pens
Electric Appliances Cameras Phonographs Many Others
To obtain the large, 300 page, wholesale catalog, send $1.00 (Refunded on your first purchase) to:
ATLAS DISTRIBUTING CO.
605 S. Dearborn
Chicago 5, Illinois
LISTEN
TO
THE ALL
NEW
WSND
FEATURING ...
MUSIC NEWS SPORTS AND SPECIAL FEATURES
6 40 on your DIAL
December 11, 1959
Philosophical Pluralism
(Continued from page 18)
In this, two considerations appear to be all important: the one is the central intuition which lies at the core of each great philosophical doctrine; the other is the place which each system could, according to its own lights, grant the other, the legitimate place the latter is out to occupy in the universe of thought.
Actually each great philosophical doctrine lives on a central intuition which may be wrongly formulated or erroneous as such, but which insofar as it is a valid intuition truly grasps some aspect of the real. Each doctrine, once grasped in its central intuition and re-integrated in the light of another doctrine should be granted its rightful place. If philosophers try to be just to the philosophical systems against which they take their most determined stand they will find both that intuition which they involve and that place we must grant for them. This does not occur by borrowing from them or exchanging with them certain views but by seeing through them more profoundly into our own doctrine.
Now we see emerging a plan for toleration between systems. But systems are abstract intellectual ideas with only intelligible being.. They cannot will tolerance of themselves.
Not toleration but Justice — intellectual Justice between philosophers, cooperation founded on this intellectual Justice and the duty common to all philosophers to understand each other’s thought in a genuine and fair manner. But there is no Justice, intellectual or not, unless it be founded on Charity, for
if we do not love the thought and intellect of another what moves us to make the pains to discover what truths are conveyed by him?
“. . . After all is it not better to have Hegelian errors with Hegel than to have Hegelian errors without Hegel — I mean hidden and defuse errors rampant throughout the social body, which are Hegelian in type but anonymous and unrecognizable. . ” — Jacques Maritain.
A truly great philosopher is like a light on the reefs. He makes men able to identify and to avoid the errors from which he suffers, makes them clearly aware of them and able to fight them and in this he plays an essential rale in human society. Philosophers disagree with such violence because each one has seen some aspect of the real which, if you will, changes his eyes as perhaps the sun changes physical eyes. He may express these truths which he has seen in a most insane manner* but his fellow philosopher must be aware of this and the segment of reality which it describes.
If this mutual respect for the validity of another’s central insight is grasped and adhered to the problem it will no doubt rage on as it has before, but mutual understanding and common approach will make the work of the philosopher no matter what his system, more fruitful and of greater value to humanity at large.
And finally it might be well to keep in mind the remarks of Etienne Gilson on the nature of philosophy: “Unless philosophy is greatly mistaken its object is being and the truth about it cannot be proved, it can only be seen as a vision. It is and it can be nothing else than an invitation to look and see.”
4* *
*
after every shave
Splash on Old Spice After Shave Lotion. Feel your face wake up and live! So good for your skin... so good for your ego. Brisk as an ocean breeze. Old Spice makes you feel like a new man. Confident. Assured. Relaxed. You know you’re at your best
(face
AFTER SHAVE LOTION
4’
when you top off your shave with Old Spice! JOO
by SHULTON
The Scholastic
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
•
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS 1 to 24-Hout Service 309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
BERMUDA
College Week 1960
wil be tte CREATES?!
•	As always, the “Mixer” — College Day at the Beach.
•	And the All-Day Cruise to an ancient fort with calypso, luncheon, gombey dancers and native bands. AND FOR THE FIRST TIME
•	INTERCOLLEGIATE JAZZ SESSIONS, with competition between jazz combos of leading men’s colleges.
•	COLLEGE WEEK REVUE— amateur college talent (YOU?), directed by a professional.
•	Barbecue Luncheon and Games Afternoon.
s Special TROPHIES for Fishing, Golf, Tennis.
ALL WITHOUT CHARGE.
The
BERMUDA
Trade Development Board
420 fifth Ave., New York 20, N. Y.
December 11, 1959
Repercussions
(Continued from page 6)
SLIGHT MISTAKE
Editor:
I would like to call your attention to the fact that I did not call the meeting on campus clubs which you criticized in the “Commentary” of Nov. 20. Regardless of my feeling on this meeting, I feel that in criticizing it, you should know who actually called it. This was, in fact, the student affairs commissioner, and not I. The issue of the correct position may seem small, but it involves the issue of responsibility. This is never small.
John Christen Social Commissioner
(ED: This was an inadvertent oversight on our part. There was never any doubt as to who called the meeting, but the chairman’s title was wrong.)
DIRTY POOL
Editor:
Following up a letter to the November 20 Scholastic, I heartily agree that Tony Wong’s movie review is, in his own words, a “crazy column.” Mr. Wong evidently is under the impression that the student’s mind isn’t sufficiently taxed by his studies during the week; he must try to decipher Tony’s jargon simply to find out what movies are showing at the local theaters.
To borrow a phrase from one of television’s unrigged shows, “Let’s have just the facts, man!” I hope Tony will try to stick a little more to the press releases with a satisfied conscience. You don’t need to impress us with flashes of your best rhetoric. Save that for your English class, Tony. And be sure to lay aside one of those White Owls for your English teacher — he’s liable to need it!
Jack Felix 441 Zahm
GRATEFUL
Editor:
Last week I received a pleasant and unexpected surprise when the November 13, Scholastic was given to me by an undergraduate friend. If you do not mind, I would like to refer to that particular issue as my issue because it contained an article I wrote. (“The Day Frisby Died,” remember?)
For the record you should know that I graduated from Notre Dame last June 7. At present I am an operating trainee at United States Steel’s Gary Works. (I was quite interested in the “Back Page” comments on the steel question.) This fall I have made two pilgrimages to the ND stadium where I had some nostalgic moments watching the Freshmen tear down the goal posts. (They come down rather easily now, don’t they?)
My issue of the Scholastic was most enjoyable. However, I was a bit shocked over l’affaire Frankie and your White Owl awards. (My but I am getting on in years.) At any rate, thank you.
Vito S. Nigrelli Class of ’59

Watches by
• OMEGA
• BULOVA
• LONGINES
• IE COULTBE
• WITTNAUEH
• PATEK PHILIPPE
Diamonds & Wedding Bands by Keepsake & Artcarved
• GOLD & STEELING CHARMS
•	RELIGIOUS JEWELRY
•	BIRTHSTONE RINGS
•	COSTUME JEWELRY
•	MEN'S JEWELRY
•	GIFTS
WATCH AND CLOCK REPAIR HAND ENGRAVING
121 WASHINGTON
CE 4-1311

J^ckerbocker
EverytMng mw for year oamrarf and coovoomocou Coaplofaly oow roomn —“ moat modorn hvabKny doding air-conditioning. Rado 1 Talovhion in ovary
NOB.
Back Pg^
morse of Oregon
Senior James Byrne, author of this ■week’s “Back Page” article, is in the gen-■eral program. He is active in the International Relations chib but is perhaps best known as the pioneer student government columnist in last year’s Scholastic.
hi the contemporary era of indirection ■and confusion which surrounds us, Byrne feels that he has found a leader who bases his decision on principles. It is about this person whom he writes.
Aman is important insofar as he represents a certain set of prin-•ciples. If they are good principles, we call him a good man and teach our children to imitate him. In my opinion, Wayne Morse is such a man, but perhaps •one who has suffered the misfortune of being too often right.
The first thing I ever learned from Aristotle is that he was a man who ■didn’t like to waste his breath. Unless people agree on first principles, says Aristotle, it is senseless for them to discuss anything in terms of these prin-•ciples. So, before I go any further, I shall lay down my “first principles.” If you can’t accept these, pray for my soul but please don’t argue with me. Always be clear whether you are criti-■cizing Morse’s actions or his principles.
The first is the “principle of the maverick mind.” I simply do not believe that it is right to live by the maxim "that “the best way to get along is to go -along.” Anyone whose mind is nourished "by such intellectual sawdust is just a step from losing sight of the fact that ■once a principle exists.
POLITICAL LIBERALISM
The next is perhaps a statement of my brand of political liberalism— a ■quotation from Morse himself: “I con-aider it one of the primary objectives of a representative government to protect the economic and political weak from the •economic and political strong; but do it within the framework of a private prop-•erty economy and in accordance with the legal principles and guarantees of the Constitution, including its precious ‘Bill •of Human Rights.’ ”
Basically, these are the only standards outside of the moral code that I use to judge a man’s record and I have ■always done this in regard to Senator Morse. .
The first question people ask about Morse is, “Why did he turn traitor to “the Republican Party?” I have no indention of getting involved here in partisan politics, but I do want to relate an
34
incident that occurred last summer. I was in Morse’s office talking with Bill Berg, the Senator’s administrative assistant, about the Clare Luce incident. Berg said, “Jim, you think they’re treating us badly in the press right now. You should have been here when we left the party!”
He went on to say that he was sitting in the same chair in which I was then seated, when Morse finally made up his mind to leave the party and campaign for Adlai Stevenson. “What!” exclaimed Berg. “Wayne, they’ll boil us in oil.”
Morse shook his head sadly and said, “A lot of little people will be hurt by this Eisenhower crowd. Come on. Let’s go,” and they walked to the radio rtation and broadcasted the statement of resignation to the people of Oregon.
When we consider that the two major parties have succeeded only as embodiments of principles expressed by the people, how can we deny that a man has the right to leave a party when he feels that the principles have been ignored? Of course one can question how sincerely Morse disagreed in principle, but this position of imputing motives is an exceedingly fallible pastime.
Often Wayne Morse is cursed for his inflexibility, as if this were a fault in itself. However, if we understand the principle of the “legislative pacifier” we might not be so quick to damn his refusal to “go along.”
It is a fact of practical politics that there must be a certain amount of public opinion behind any political action that is taken. In the case of legislation, especially in touchy fields like labor reform and race relations, public clamor is a very necessary spark to move vote-conscious legislators to action. Sadly enough it is also a fact that the public can be “pacified” by labels. Not very many people will read the labor bill as it was passed. An equally small number will read and understand a civil rights bill or a foreign aid bill. A title or label is often enough to satisfy them.
Of course I realize that to study each law would be asking too much of a busy public. That’s the very reason for having a representative government—to alert responsible persons whose job it is to take the time to judge in particular instances, what is in the best interests of the public.
In the light of this, how can we quarrel with a man who refuses to go half way, realizing that to correct a job half done is far more difficult than doing a thorough job from the first?
A good example of this is the Civil Rights Bill of 1957. Morse was hooted
by JAMES BYRNE !
A
loudly as the only Northern senator to vote against it, but his prediction that ' the bill would be ineffectual has been proven true by the investigations of the Civil Rights Commission. With election year around the corner, the chances were not good for any grand corrections in the tv touchy field.	|
No discussion about Wayne Morse is possible without mention of the- Clare Luce incident. Even a paper as responsible as the New York Times badly misrepresented Morse’s position and editorialized against him harshly.
2
LOOK AT THE RECORD
If one is interested in this issue, let me refer him to the Congressional Record of April 27, 1959. Morse’s 29-page speech is not only a well-documented statement of his position, but also an excellent historical discussion of the famous campaign of 1940 when F.D.R. is supposed to have “lied us into war.” I’m not saying the Senator’s speech will prove to everyone that Clare Luce was unworthy to be ambassadress to Brazil, but it will show that Morse was far from being demagogic in his opposition.
Here are a few facts which might make one question the condemnation in the press of Morse’s position: Wayne Morse was the man who first moved that the Senate approve her nomination. It was only after subsequent investigation that he began to change his mind. Also, the Senator was very much aware that there was no “political mileage” in his opposition to Mrs. Luce, and he stated this fact at the very beginning of his April 27th speech. Whatever Morse is, ’ he is no fool, and it hardly seems likely that he’d have opposed the nomination if he were currying public favor. It was pretty clear from the 16-1 Foreign Relations committee vote in favor of Mrs. Luce that he’d probably lose in the Senate, yet he still had the courage to make the speech. (Incidentally, only one other senator was present for most of the testimony during the committee hearing, and the vote was taken before any of the absent senators had time to read the record).	I
I’ve tried in this article to indicate the principles by which Wayne Morse leads his political 'life and to show that he has been motivated by principle in the controversies I have mentioned. If you disagree with the principles you will surely disagree with Morse, but even he does not demand that you agree with him. We only ask that you judge him in terms of the principles and not in terms of imputed motives.
The Scholastic
k
wherever you go..
YOU LOOK
BETTER IN AN
ARROW SHIRT
For holiday festivities—or anytime you want to look your best—treat yourself to a lion’s share of flattery—the kind you’ll find in an Arrow. In 100% cotton oxford that stays neat, Arrows are a pleasure to wear ___And, a most acceptable gift for the man	• who prizes fine tailoring. In favorite collar styles. $5.00.
-ARROW-Each Saturday see the NCAA football "Gamo of the Week"—NBC TV-sponsored by ARROW.

do your Christmas shopping now.. .for Gifts of Arrow Shirts
*
Get a smart start on the Christmas rush and shop now for the gift men love to receive...
Arrow oxfords. See our smart collar styles that fit perfectly, stay fresh longer. In traditional stripes, solids, white. $5.00.
A
GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend
805
BURLINGTON
WHITE MOUNTS EXPRESS
Winston’s
Fn NER
* ASUNCION
A'iAMA
MIAMI
LORIDA SPECIAL
FILTER-BLEND up front is packed for pleasure!

Sure, most filter cigarettes look alike. But there the resemblance ends. Winston is different. Winston has both a modern filter and FilterBlend — choice, golden tobaccos specially selected and specially processed for filter
smoking. That’s why, when all is said and done, this one quiet fact stands out: more folks find it fun to smoke Winston than any other filter cigarette. How about you ? Next time you buy cigarettes, ask for Winston.
WINSTON TASTES GOOD like a cigarette should!
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM. N. C.