Disce quasi semper vieturus; rive quasi eras moriturus.
Vor. XVIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MAY 23, 1885.
No. 37.
The Old Church.*
Stick by stick, and brick by brick,
With rope and saw, with hammer and pick, They have taken the old church down.
Ah, rude was the work, though gently done, And sad was the triumph the workman won, When the dear old walls were down 1
And many a string of the soul and the heart In sorrow and pain was forced apart, While the loved and the old came down!
No more the altar, chaste and bright,
Shall lift to heaven its blessed light, Altar and lights are down.
The tabernacle, home of Love,
Sweet seraph rest of the heavenly Dove, Alas 1 that too is down.
No more the eye is fastened there, -
The spirit rapt in silent prayer,
Alas, alas, ’tis down 1
Around the wall, no more shall we The sad procession sorrowing see, The Stations all are down.
The Christ no more upon the Cross, Winning us from our fearful loss, Shall hang in suffering down.
Her speechless grief no more alarms, Dead to all but the Dead in her arms, As she looks in agony down.	'
Where Spalding, Purcell, Smarius preached, Whence grace so oft our poor hearts reached, The pulpit too is down.
The rich-toned organ now no more
Shall swell and echo, o’er and o’er,	.
The golden pipes are down.
The purple light, in wave on wave, No more through transept and through nave Shall come in glory down.
The godlike Eye, that gazed on high As if our immost soul ’twould spy, Shall look no longer down.
♦ This poem originally appeared in the Scholastic about ten years ago and is now republished by request. The thoughts expressed in the verses are recalled by the present demolition of the last remaining 'wing of the old church.—[Ed.]	-
And many an eye of blessed priest, Like that kind Eye, its look has ceased, And the voice no more comes down.
Gone, too, the font and the stool and the rail, Where bishop and priest to the sinner pale, Brought Heaven lovingly down.
Aye, gone are our hearts with the blissful days When wre knelt in those aisles for prayer and praise, Gone with their memory down.
The temple, rising stately, grand, Will shine more glorious o’er the land, Than that which now is down.
But we, remembering, still shall thirst For the beauty and glory of the first, The church they have taken down.
H.
The Literature of Greece.
One of the most striking features in the history of the Grecian people is the perfection which they attained in literature and art. It was their intellectual activity and their keen appreciation of the beautiful that constantly gave birth to new forms of creative genius. There was an uninterrupted progress in the development of the Grecian mind from the earliest dawn of the history of the people to the downfall of their political independence; and age after age saw the production of some of those master-works of’genius which have been the models and the admiration of all subsequent time. In ancient times there existed two great schools of epic poetry. The first comprised poems relating to the great events of the heroic age and were characterized by a certain poetical unity; the second included works tamer in character and more desultory in the mode of treatment, containing the genealogies of men and gods, narratives of the exploits of individual heroes, and descriptions of the ordinary pursuits of life. The poems of the former class were called Homeric and the second Hesiodan. The first class were the productions of the Ionic and ^Eolic minstrels in Asia Minor, among whom Homer stood pre-eminent and eclipsed the brightness of the rest: the second class were the compositions of a school of bards in the neighborhood of Mount Helicon in Boeotia, among whom, in like manner, Hesiod en-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
joyed the greatest celebrity. The poems of both schools, it is said, were composed in the hexameter verse and in a similar dialect; but in almost every other feature they differed widely. We shall speak first of the Homeric poems.
Homer was almost worshipped by the Greeks, by whom he was called the “Poet.” The Riad and the Odyssey were the Greek Bible. They were the ultimate standard of appeal on all matters of religious doctrine and early history. They were learned by boys at school, they were the study of men in their riper years, and even in the time of old Socrates there were Athenian sfentle-men who could repeat both poems by heart. Wherever a Greek settled, he would carry with him a love for the great poet, and when the Greeks lost their independence, the Iliad and the Odyssey still maintained an undiminished hold upon their affections. Why, then, should any one wonder that seven cities—Smyrna, Chios, Colophon, Salamis, Rhodes, Argos, and Athens—each laid claim to the honor of being his birth-place?
Three works have come down to us by tradition bearing the name of Hesiod—the “Works and Days”; the “ Theogony,” and a description of the “ Shield of Hercules.” The first two were generally considered in antiquity as the genuine productions of Hesiod; but the “Shield of Hercules,” and the other Hesiodic poems were admitted to be the compositions of other poets of his school. It is to his brother that he addresses his didactic poem of the “Works and Days,” in which he lays down various moral and social maxims for the regulation of his conduct and life.
Greek lyric poetry commenced as a cultivated species of composition from the middle of the seventh century before the Christian era. In the Ionic EEolic colonies of Asia Minor, and in the Doric cities of the Peloponnesus an advancing civilization and an enlarged experience had called into existence new thoughts and feelings, and supplied new subjects for the muse. At the same time, epic poetry, after reaching its climax of ex. cellence in the Iliad and Odyssey, had fallen into the hands of inferior bards. The national genius, however, was still in all the bloom and vigor of its youth,‘and the decay of epic minstrelsy only stimulated it more vigorously to present in a new style of poetry the new circumstances. and feelings of the age. The same desire of change and of adapting the subjects of poetry to the altered condition of society was of itself sufficient to induce poets to vary the metre; but the more immediate cause of this alteration was the improvement of the arts of music by the Lesbian Terpander and others, in the beginning of the seventh century B. C.
The lyric poems of the Greeks were composed, not for the solitary reader in his chamber, but to be sung on festive occasions, either public or private, with the accompaniment of a musical instrument. Hence there was a necessary connection between the arts of music and of poetry; and an improvement in the one led to a corresponding improvement in the other. No important, event either in
the public or private life of a Greek, could dispense with this accompaniment; and also the song was equally needed to solemnize the worship of the gods, to cheer the march to battle, or to enliven the festive board. But it is to be regretted that lyric poetry has almost entirely perished, and all that we possess of it consists of a few songs and isolated fragments. Yet what remains of it, enables us to form an opinion of its surpassing excellence. It should only be one’s aim to call attention to the most distinguished masters of lyric song, and to illustrate their genius by a few specimens of. their remains.
The great satirist Archilochus was one of the earliest and most celebrated of all lyric poets. He flourished about the year 700 B. C. His extraordinary poetical genius is attested by the unanimous voice of antiquity which placed him on a level with Homer. He was the first Greek poet who composed iambic verses according to fixed rules; the invention of the elegv is ascribed to him as well as to Callinus. His fame, however, rests chiefly on his terrible satires composed in the iambic metre, which we find in “ Horace’s Ars Poetica.”
“ Archilochum proprio rabies armavit lambo.”
He was very poor, and was a suitor to Neobule, daughter of Lycambes, but his suit was rejected, for which reason he, being so enraged, held up the family in public scorn, in an iambic poem, accusing Lycambes of perjury and his daughters of the most abandoned profligacy. His lampoons produced such an effect that the daughters of Lycambes are said to have hanged themselves through shame. He was discontented at home, and on that account went to Thaos on an expedition; but neither was he happy there, as he writes when attacking that place in his satires. He passed a great deal of his life in wanderings, and finally fell in a battle between the Parians and Naxians. He possessed high attributes of style, as the following will show:
“ My soul, my soul, careworn, bereft of rest, Arise! and front the foe with dauntless breast; Take thy firm stand amidst his fierce alarms. Secure, with inborn valor meet his arms, Nor conquering, yield, fall down at home and weep, Await the turns of life with duteous awe;
Know’ Revelation is great nature’s law.”
Simonides, a native of Amorgos, was contemporary with Archilochus, with whom he shares the honor of inventing the iambic metre. He is the earliest of the gnomic poets, or moralists in verse. The most important of his extant works is a satirical poem on “Women,” in which he describes their various characters. In order to give a livelier image of the female beauty, he derives their different qualities from the variety of their origin,—the cunning woman being formed from the fox, the talkative woman- from the dog, and so on. The following will give an idea of his sentiments as expressed in verse:
“ Next in the lot a gallant dame we see, Sprung from a mare of noble pedigree. No servile work her spirit proud can brook—.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. '	583
Her hands were never taught to bake or cook.
The vapor of the oven makes her ill, She scorns to empty slofs or turn the mill; No household washings her fair skin deface, Her own ablutions are her chief solace.
Three baths a day, with balms and perfumes rare, Refresh her tender limbs: her long, rich hair Each time she combs, and decks with blooming flowers.
No spouse more fit than she the idle hours Of wealthy lords or kings to recreate
And grace the splendor of their country state;
For men of humbler sort, no better guide Heaven in its wrath to’ ruin can provide.”
Tyrtaeus and Aleman were the two great lyric poets of Sparta. Tyrtaeus was a warrior. He was in great demand by many nations to encourage their warriors to fight by his warlike songs. His most celebrated song is the following:
“ To the field, to the field, gallant Spartan band, Worthy sons, like your sires, of our warlike land! Let each arm be prepared for its part in the fight; Fix the shield on the left, poise the spear with the right. Let no care for your lives in your bosoms find place, . . No such care knew the heroes of old Spartan race.
Aleman lived about from 670-611 B. C. His poems were of repose and enjoyment after the fatigues and perils of war. Many of his songs celebrate the pleasure of good eating and drinking; but the more important were intended to be sung by a chorus at the public festivals of Sparta. His description of night is one of the most striking remains of his genius:—
“Now o’er the drowsy earth still night prevails, Calm sleep the mountain tops and shady vales, The rugged cliffs and hollow glens;
The wild beasts slumber in their dens, ■ The cattle on the hill. Deep in the sea The countless finny race and monster brood Tranquil repose. Even the busy bee Forgets her daily toil. The silent wood No more with noisy hum of insect rings, And all the feathered tribes, by gentle sleep subdued, Roost in the glade, and hang their drooping wings.”
This sort of poetry was also improved by Arion and Stesichorus. Of the history of Arion, little is known, and he died very early before he was able to accomplish little or nothing.
Stesichorus was a native of Himera in Sicily. He was born in the year 633 B. C., and flourished about 608 B. C. He is said to have made great improvements in the Greek chorus. He was the first to break the monotony of the choral song— which had consisted before of nothing more than one uniform stanza—by dividing it into the strophe, the antistrophe and the epodus, the turn, the’ return and the rest. Alcteus and Sappho were both natives of Mytilene in the Island of Lesbos, and flourished about 610-580 B. C. Their songs were composed for a single voice, and not for the chorus; both were inventors of new metres which bear their names, and are familiar to us by the odes of Horace. Their poetry was the warm out-pouring of the writers’ inmost feelings, and presents, the lyric poetry of the yEolians at its highest point. Alcaeus is renowned for his warlike odes. The following is a fragment of one:
“ From floor to floor, the spacious palace halls Glitter with war’s array;
With burnished metal clad, the lofty walls Beam like the bright noon day.' * '
There white-phimed helmets hang from many a hail Above in threatening row;
Steel-garnished tunics and broad coats of mail spread o’er the space below;
Chalcedeon blades enow, and belts are here, ' Greaves and emblazoned shields,
Well-tried protectors from the hostile spear
On other,battle fields,—
With these good helps our work of war’s begun,— With these our victory must be won.
, Sappho was contemporary with Alcaeus. Plato calls her in.an extant epigram the tenth Muse; and even Solon, on hearing the recital of one of her poems, expressed a wish not to die until he would have it committed to memory. Of her life, little is known. In several of her fragments we perceive the exquisite taste .with which she. employed images drawn from nature, of which we have an example in the beautiful line imitated by Lord Gordon Noel .Byron:—
“ O Hesperus, thou bringest all things! ”
Anacreon is the last lyric poet of this period who claims our attention. He spent part of his life at Samos, where he wrote many songs. Universal tradition of antiquity represents Anacreon as a consummate voluptuary; and his poems prove the truth of this tradition. He sings of love and wine with hearty, good will, and we see in him the luxury of the Idnians inflamed by the fervor of the poet. His death was worthy of his life—if .we • may believe the account that he was choked by a grape stone. Very few fragments of his writings are extant, since it is universally acknowledged that they were too spurious to be preserved.
Down to the end of the seventh century before Christ, literary celebrity in Greece was exclusively confined to the poets; but at the commencement of the following century there sprang up in different parts of Greece a number of men who, under the name of the “ Seven Sages,” became distinguished for their .wise sayings or maxims. Their names are Solon, Thales, Pittacus, Periandle, Cleobulus, Chilo, and Bias. Most of these personages were always actively engaged in the affairs, of public life, and exercised great influences upon their contemporaries. They were the authors of the celebrated mottoes inscribed in later days in the Delphian temple: “Know thyself”; “Nothing .too much ”; “ Know thy opportunity ”; “ Surety-ship is the precursor of men.”
The history of Greek philosophy begins with Thales of Miletus, who .was born about 640 B. C., and died in ,550 B. C. He founded the Ionic school of philosophy, and to him were traced the first beginnings of .geometry and astronomy. His main teaching was that water or fluid substance was the single original-element from which everything came and into which everything returned. Anaximander, his successor in the Ionic school, was the first to introduce the sun-dial into Greece. Anaximenes, the. third in the series of Ionic philosophy, endeavored, like Thales, to derive the origin of all material things from a single element; and according to his theory, air was the source of life.
584	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
In like manner, Heraclitus of Ephesus, who flourished about 513 B. C., regarded fire or heat as the primary form of all matter. Anaxagoras, the most illustrious of all Ionic philosophers, abandoned the system of his predecessors, and, instead of regarding some elementary form of matter as the origin of all things, he conceived a supreme mind or intelligence, distinct from the visible world, to have imparted form and matter to the chaos of nature. He taught such men as Pericles, Socrates and __	O _	7
Euripides. The 2d school was the Eleatic, deriving its name from Elea or Velia, a Greek colony on the western coast of southern Italy, founded by Xenophanes of Colophon. He conceived the whole of nature to be god, and did not hesitate to denounce as abominable the Homeric descriptions of the gods. Parmenides and Zeno were his dis-ciples. The 3d school of philosophy was founded by Pythagoras—very little of his teachings are now known. True it is, however, that he believed in the transmigration of the souls; as it is related by his contemporary Xenophanes, that he, upon seeing a dog beaten, interceded in its behalf, saying: “It is the soul of a friend of mine whom I recognize by its voice.” The foregoing presents but a glimpse of the beauty one derives from the study of the Grecian wise men. The amount of learning that may be obtained from their works is astonishing. It is, indeed, too true, as a certain poet sings:
“Greece! Greece! mighty thou hast ever been!
’Tis in letters, ’tis in warriors, and ’tis in sages, too, That Thou, where’er they be or where’er they shall be, Wilt ever be there too.”
G. H. S., ’85.
Something About Coal.*
The more we study, the farther we advance in the sciences, so much the more will we be able to appreciate the beauties and works of nature. Yet, while we seemingly advance towards discovering those hidden laws of nature, we are retreating in another way. Our stronghold of boasted knowledge is shattered and sundered, our best theories seem absurdities, and ultimately we are forced to acknowledge that we know nothing.
Man is ever busy in his efforts to aid himself; all his works are marked by a certain amount of destruction and waste. His ambition seems to be «that his memory may be kept green ”; and though time may destroy most of his works, yet nature will wrap some in shrouds of stone, where they may be studied, perhaps by scientists of another race. Untiring nature is ever busy, and strata upon strata are the monuments of her work. Man is endowed with many precious gifts, each of priceless value, and great, indeed, is that one which allows him to make known his thoughts to others. Yet he cannot penetrate the gloom that precedes and follows his career, except by interpreting from the word and works of God.
* Paper read before the Notre Dame Scientific Association by Delano C. Saviers, ’86.
What revolutions our globe has passed through, preceding the time of man, is faithfully recorded by nature; and the geologist reads from her hieroglyphics, in the various strata, what were the conditions and various changes in past ages—many are the subjects and theories in Geology—all pleasing to discuss; yet, knowing but little of that of which I would I knew more, I will confine myself to a few words upon coal.
In Geology, when speaking of time, we speak not of days or years, but of ages, and by that is meant unknown time wherein certain general changes were effected upon the earth, and it is from these changes and effects that the ages derive their names. We will first speak of the carboniferous age—the third period of Paleozoic time. We find that wood and coal are composed of the same elements—carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen— but in different proportions. We will leave the explanation of how wood is transformed into coal to the chemist, and only mention the intermediate forms.
In the spring of the year, when rivers are swollen by rain and snow, they carry away with them trees, branches, and all kinds of floating material. Thousands and thousands of trees are thus transported from forests and swamps, and miles of this debris and drift wood have been found at the termination of rivers. Year aftei' year have witnessed these accumulations in different parts of the world. Next let us notice some of the great forest-covered swamps like those near the Mississippi. Here are found a dense growth of reeds and shrubs, while herbage of every kind is mixed up with the fallen trunks of trees; and if vegetation seems plenty now, what must it have been during the carboniferous age, when it was more abundant, when its growth was unlimited?
Let us look at peat formation. A few feet below the surface of swamps has often been found a substance resembling coal lying, intermingled with rotten logs and sticks, this is called peat; it is the principal fuel in Ireland, and large areas of the country are covered by'these peat bogs; it is also found in Scotland and the United States. One of these beds found in Main was twenty feet in thickness. Lignite occupies an intermediate place between peat and coal, it being more brittle and firm than the former, and more resembles the latter in appearance. Both of these exhibit the fibrous structure of the original vegetation, as coal is only metamorphized vegetation. In examining coal, we find the remains of many species of plants, often the trunks of trees, standing erect in these coal beds, while their upper portions lie near; and these trunks that once were seven or eight feet in circumference are found flattened to the thickness of a couple of inches.
In Geology we study from results, and judge the subject from their remains. When we pick up a shell we naturally conclude that the animal that inhabited it was of the same structure as the space enclosed by the interior of the shell. So, when we come across such impressions in the strata of the earth, we say such and such an animal or plant
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
585
must have lived during the formation of that strata.
All men’s fore fingers, when impressed upon wax, leave the same general impression, yet each differs on closer examination; thus the various strata are general in appearance to the ordinary observer, yet each differs from the other, and it is from this that the geologist can tell the animals and plants that lived during the different ages. These strata are composed of worked-over mate-, rial, together with the remains of animals and vegetation.
In speaking of the carboniferous age, with its forests, jungles and floating islands, we may say that thus far about 900 species of plants are known. Among these fossils we find fern, like the common fern of to-day; also tree ferns that towered twenty or thirty feet in the air, bearing at the top radiating tufts. Also do we find leaves, stems and nutlike fruits, and all of these far exceed in size and perfection those of the present day. The skeletons of different species of mullusca, articulates, radiates, and some forms of the lower vertebrates, are found in coal beds.
In the carboniferous age more carbon acid was contained in the atmosphere than now, thus aiding the growth of vegetation. Vegetation helped to purify the air, by absorbing the carbonic acid, thus preparing and making it suitable for the higher animals. As already observed, nature is ever busy; ever converting one substance into another; gathering that which man casts aside and converting it into other substances which he is pleased to use. Thus it is, ever changing yet loosing nothing, she continues her work. Man may make use of her productions and may think that her supply will soon be exhausted, yet, on the contrary, it seems the more we use the more we find. Coal is confined to no one region, nor can it be said to be scarce. It is found in the Arctic regions, Great Britain, Germany, France, Spain, and the other countries of Europe; also Asia, Africa and America. Coal beds are generally found resting upon a bed of grayish or bluish clay called “under <clay,” or upon sandstone or shale, while above \4may be found sandstone, shale, conglomerate or limestone. The beds may vary from a fraction of an inch to thirty or forty feet in thickness— though from 7 to 10 feet is considered a good bed.
It has been calculated that the amount of coal in a single coal seam six inches thick, is greater than the most luxuriant vegetation of the present day could produce in 1,200 years; and as a 3 feet seam is the thinnest that can be worked to an advantage, it would require 7,200 years.
Coal varies in kind, being anthracite, bituminous, brown and cannel-coal; it also varies in regard to the impurities present. All contain more or less earthy matter which remains, after being burned, in the shape of ashes and slag. The gases that are given off' pass into the great workshop of nature, are absorbed by vegetation, and the endless chain of transformation into coal may again ensue. As stated already, coal is confined to no one region; and in order that you may have some idea of the immense quantities of this useful mineral, I may
mention the fact that Great Britain produces about 65,000,000 tons of coal every year, and it is calculated that the coal-fields of England and Wales would supply 60,000,000 tons annually for a thousand years to come. ; The galleries of these mines are sometimes very extensive: those in the Killingworth mine, near New Castle, measure altogether upwards of one hundred and sixty miles. We find that Great Britain and Ireland has about 12,000 square miles of coal fields, Spain 4,000, France 2,000, and Belgium 518, while North America has about 200,000.
The use of coal as a fuel was known to the early Britains, but was used only in small quantities. But little trade occurred in this mineral up to the year 1239. The use that man makes of this mineral may be seen every day—our houses are heated and lighted, our ships propelled, our engines turned, and many of the comforts of life are derived from the use of coal. There are thousands of men and beasts employed in the coal mines. Many have lost their lives by accidents, either from fire, flood or caving in of the earth. There are explosive gases, called fire damp, contained in crevices and unventilated parts of the mines; these explode with great force when coming in contact with a flame. Previous to the year 1816 the only method of obtaining light in the mines was either by candle or from a “ steel mill ” which produced sparks of light. Sir Humphrey Davy invented a lamp called the “Davy Lamp” or “ Miner’s Safety Lamp,” which is a great protection to miners, being one of the most beneficial triumphs of science. The chariot of science in her flight rolls steadily toward the great hereafter; the scenes change with each successive turn of the wheels. Lighter and brighter grows her course, forming strange contrast with the darkness and gloom that surrounded the first part of her journey.
If all nature’s productions were to be banished, save a few that were to be chosen by man, we certainly would not choose gold, silver, or the precious stones, but those things that now seem ordinary and common. Coal would certainly be among these; and science will join with man in hailing coal as one of the grandest productions of nature, more precious than brilliants, more useful than gold,—the wealth, comfort and joy of nations and men.
Spring Fever.
Spring fever is a malady that comes over the school-boy’s spirit as regularly as the return of the season. It carries with it an aversion to study and to everything else that does not promise pleasure, and pleasure without toil. It strikes the youthful Aristotle simultaneously with the reappearance of baseball, fishing parties and picnics, and all these seem to be in league as they keep" one another alive and are naturally delightful alternatives-. A victim to this disease will sit at his desk, with open book, while he is apparently going over his literature. But be not deceived! that boy is not troub
I!
586	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	j
ling the bygone Willie Shakspeare or Johnnie Milton: his thoughts are of sports, of schemes to get “ rec,” or perhaps he is counting the days that intervene between the tedious present and the vacation. This boy, now gazing pensively at the book before him, wonders why such contrivances as colleges are built, unless to annoy him and spoil his pleasure. Sad is the patient’s lot! Arithmetic is disregarded; Grammar a miserable bore, and Latin quite disgusting. A thousand wild ideas crowd his brain, and he fancies delights that could be indulged in were if not for all these piles of books that puzzle the brain and weigh down the youthful spirit. Finally, when he gets over the attack, he resolves to be studious, and to write a composition that should have been written a week ago; but spring fever is the mortal enemy of ambition and the murderer of all good resolutions. The members of the Literature Class have it bad; and one of them has been heard to say that the immortal bards, the sweet sons of song, and all of nature’s oracles, etc., are bars to earthly happiness and that he is willing to let them lie comfortably under the daisies, where they were laid long ago, and that, for his part, he could never understand why the dead and the beautiful should be resurrected just before fly-time when the victim of spring fever registers ninety in the shade.
_________C. J. S., 88.
Scientific.
AN' ERROR CORRECTED.
The Scholastic of last week contained an essay entitled “ Two Hours in the Biological Laboratory,”—a very interesting history of the torula or yeast plant. The treatment of the subject was complete and interesting, besides being exact, with the exception of one passage in which the writer makes the following statement:
“If we take another drop of the fluid containing the yeast plants, and treat it with potash solution, an entirely different reaction takes place. We find the cell-wall unchanged, as usual, but the protoplasm is all dissolved, leaving an empty sac.”
The last clause is erroneous. By actual demonstration on April 16th, I found that Messrs. Huxley and Martin, authors of “Practical Biology,” have made a unique statement in observing that a potash solution will dissolve the protoplasm from the sac. The illustrious Professors, and the author of “Two Hours in the Biological Laboratory” have plainly both been misled by appearances :—an assertion in support of which I present these two facts: (1) Iodine and magenta, if already applied to the preparation, will have their coloring properties neutralized by a solution of hydrate of potassium; but the protoplasm itself remains unchanged.- (2) If the yeast cells have not been previously stained by iodine or magenta, enough of the two must be taken to counteract the colorneutralizing property of potash.
If . these two facts are borne in mind whilst ex
perimenting on the yeast plant, no one can fail to observe that in every case protoplasm is not dissolved from the sac; what we observe acting is simply the neutralizing power possessed by potash solution over colors—not the destruction of the protoplasm. The author of “ Two Hours in the Biological Laboratory ”—has evidently too closely followed the text-books, which, we are taught, are 'often wrong-and whose teaching’s are better learned by doubt and experiment than blind belief.
Frank J. Hagenbarth, ’87.
Notes.
—A new statue of Linnaeus at Stockholm was solemnly inaugurated on the 13th inst.
—The pendulum of the new clock in the Chicago Board of Trade building weighs 750 pounds. The dials are 10 feet 10 inches in diameter.
—Baron Nordenksjold is preparing for a fresh attempt to reach the north pole by way of the islands south of Siberia. He expects to be absent three years.
—M. Lauth of Sevres has, after ten years of experimentation, produced a porcelain far superior to the famous old Sevres. It will take all kinds of glazes,'and is susceptible of the highest kinds of decoration.
—The Mont Ventoux Observatory, near Avignon, in France, is in course of construction, and in a few weeks will be in working order. Its height is nearly 6,300 feet above the sea-level, and the additional observatory, likewise in progress, is 5,150 feet in height.
—Herr Palisa, of the Vienna Observatory, needing funds for an expedition he has projected to observe the total eclipse of the sun in August, 1886, announces that he puts up for sale, at 1,250 francs, the right to bestow a name on the asteroid No. 244, his last discovery. This is the first op-poi tunity that lovers have ever had to get a star named after their sweethearts.
—A new explosive, known as kinetite, is at pres-, ent being studied in Germany. It consists, it is said, of a mixture of oils and gun cotton, and is superior to dynamite, as its manufacture and manipulation are absolutely without danger; it will detonate only under certain peculiar and well-defined conditions of shock. Only the part exposed to concussion explodes, and when fired it burns quietly with a brilliant light. The true composition is being carefully kept secret.
—The Organ fur Oelhandel gives an account of some experiments lately made in St. Petersburg with pyronaphtha, an illuminating oil which Beil-stein, the celebrated Russian chemist, thinks will, supersede kerosene. It is said to be wholly free-from danger of fire, and burning kerosene is easily extinguished by it. Pyronaphtha itself can be readily put out by water. It burns with a bright light, and gives off no smoke or. vapor, while the fact that it is a residual product of the Baku distillation of petroleum ma.kes it cost less than kerosene.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
587
Art, Music and Literature.
—Brinley Richards, the Welch pianist and composer, died on the 4th inst:, aged 66 years.
—A complete German translation of the Babylonian Talmud, the first ever accomplished, is to be published shortly at Innsbruck.
—The Shakspeare memorial window, in the church at Stratford-upon-Avon, subscribed for by American visitors, was unveiled on the 5th inst.
—Prince Ibrahim Hilmy, son of the ex-Khedive, is preparing a work on “ The Literature of Egypt,” the first volume of which will shortly be issued. The work is dedicated to the prince’s father.
—A British drama association has been started in England with a capital of five hundred thousand dollars. It is formed to procure and produce on the stage the highest class of original dramatic works.
—Messrs. Kegan Paul, Trench & Co. will publish, early in the autumn, the English edition of the “ Life, Letters, and Journals of the Late Henry Wadsworth Longfellow,” by the brother of the poet. It will fill two volumes.
—A biography of Gustave Dore has been written by Mme. Blanche Roosevelt, and will shortly be published by Cassell & Co. The author’s material is said to have been derived from personal recollections and from the family of the artist.
—The “ Madonna di San Sisto ” at Dresden has been subjected to a cleaning process, consisting in the complete removal of the old varnish and the substitution of new. There has been no interference with the original colors. Titian’s picture of the “ Tribute Penny ” has been similarly restored.
—“ The return of Mr. Irving to his theatre implies,” says the London Times, “ the departure of Miss Anderson, who will carry home with her the good wishes of the English public, won by the charm of her personality not less than by her superb art. It is to be hoped that her absence will be but temporary.”
—Walter Grethe has bequeathed the poet’s house at Weimar to the State, together with a legacy of £1,000, to maintain the estate. He also bequeathed his posthumous works and manuscripts to the Grand Duchess of Weimar, and his art collections to the Grand Duke. The Grethe villa on the Jaena road is left to the crown.
—A life of Gen. Gordon has just been published in Dutch, the sale of which is almost unprecedented in Holland. The whole of the first large edition was ordered before it was ready, and a second had to be issued at once. The author, the Rev. C. S. A. van Scheltema, is a clergyman of nearly eighty years of age, whose life has been devoted-to philanthropic labors.
—Philip Gilbert Hamerton, the art writer, gives an opinion that «the Americans now far surpass all other nations in wood engraving, and their deli--cacy of execution and manual skill is a continual marvel, and it is accompanied by so much intelligence—I mean by so much critical understanding
of different graphic arts—that a portfolio of their best wood-cuts is most interesting. Not only do they understand engraving thoroughly, but they are the best printers in the world.”
—Dr. Ingleby is preparing “ Shakspeare and the Welcombe Enclosures,” a folio volume of autotypes of the extant pages of the private diary of Thomas Greene, Town Clerk of Stratford-upon-Avon during the later years of Shakspeare’s life. They are’ accompanied by a transcript prepared by Mr. Edward Scott, of the British Museum, and an appendix, consisting of illustrative.documents, which, like the diary, are preserved at Stratford. . To these Dr. Ingleby furnishes an introduction.
—Athenceum.
—The memorial—a statue and heroic tablet—of the Poet Edgar Allan Poe, presented by the actors of New York, to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, was unveiled, on the 4th inst., with great ceremony. Algernon S. Sullivan presided, and the presentation speech was made by Edwin Booth. The marble tablet bears the following inscription:
“ This Memorial, expressing a deep and personal sympathy between the Stage and the Literature of America, was placed here by the Actors of New York to commemorate the American Poet, Edgar Allan Poe, whose parents, David Poe, Jr., and Elizabeth Arnold, his-wife, were actors, and whose renown should therefore be cherished with peculiar reverence and pride by the dramatic profession of this country.
“ He was born in Boston, the 19th day of January, 1S09, He died in Baltimore, the 7th day of October, 1S49.
“ He was great in his genius, unhappy in his life, wretched in his death. But in his fame he is immortal.
“ Szepius vends agitatur ingens	'
Pinus, et celsae graviore casu Decidunt turres, feriuntque summos
Fulgura montes.”
—A noteworthy feature of the Thirty-second Congfress of the German Catholics, which takes place at Munster this year, will be an « Exhibition of Christian Arts.” This interesting exhibition will be divided into the following parts: a. Line Arts. (1) Architecture: Sketches, plans, models. (2) Plastic Art: Stone, metal, ivory, wood, etc. (3) Painting: Enamel, mosaic (on glass, porcelain, ivory, etc.), as well as designs and sketches. (4) Graphic Arts: Engraving, etching, drawing, wood cutting: b. Artistic Handwork and Trades. (1) Gold and silversmith’s work, engraving and chiselling. (2) Iron and copper work. (3) Bells,brass and tin work. (4) Wood carving and artistic cabinet work. (5) Organ building. (6) Vestments, ’ weaving, embroidery, lace,banners, etc. (7) Decorative, painting. (8) Bookprinting: Liturgical and religious, and art books. (9) Bookbinding. (10) Ceramic: Church vessels of porcelain, majolica, glass, etc. (11) Wax: Altar candles, etc. c. Mziltiplicatvve Arts. Only such subjects as require artistic skill, or serve as models and designs. The Exhibition, which is destined only for “ all artists, artistic workmen, and artisans of German-speaking countries ” who apply their art for Church purposes, will be open from August 30th to September 6th. The whole is under the direction of Professor Funcke, of Munster,
588	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
WE IM S CH OTIC.
Notre Dame, May 23, 1885.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Eighteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate tor the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the Uni versify of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Si.yo per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
—The readers of the Scholastic who have admired, as well as enjoyed, the various contributions of “Justin Thyme” during the past fifteen years will be pleased to learn that he has collected the best of these effusions and has published them in book form. He has entitled his book “Vapid Vaporings,” but the title gives no idea of the rich fund of humor, unsurpassed by a Mark Twain, a Bob Burdette, or any other living humorist, contained within the volume. The work needs only to be seen to be appreciated, and we are confident that it is destined to have a wide circulation and make the author famous.
—-Very Rev. Father General Sorin, at the time of his recent visit to Rome, presented a formal petition to the Holy Father for the Papal benediction upon particular persons and works. Last week Father General received a'notification from Rome that the petition had been granted, and the blessing of His Holiness bestowed,"as requested, on (1) the whole Congregation of Holy Cross; (2) all its establishments and pupils’; (3) the Ave Maria, the Scholastic, and other publications at Notre Dame, and their subscribers; (4). the Catholic press of the United States; (5) all benefactors and several friends; (6) all the parishes in charge of the Fa
thers of Holy Cross and their parishioners; (7) Notre Dame, St. Mary’s, and the venerable Founder himself.
—Last Wednesday evening the students were entertained with an interesting and instructive lecture by Rev. James M. Cleary, of Kenosha, Wis., the distinguished President of the Catholic Total Abstinence Union of America. The lecture was delivered in Music Hall, where a large and appreciative audience was gathered. The members of the two Total Abstinence societies of South Bend attended in regalia, and by their fine appearance added greatly to the impressiveness of the occasion. Among the audience we noticed the Rev. Pastors of the Catholic churches, and the Rev. J. Lloyd, of the Episcopal church, South Bend.
Father Cleary spoke on “ Total Abstinence,” and for upwards of an hour and a half enchained the attention of his auditors by the eloquent and argumentative presentation of his subject, enlivened at times by humorous anecdotes, which served as apt illustrations and applications of the arguments brought forward. The speaker viewed his subject from moral, physical and economic standpoints and showed how a man’s highest interests, spiritually, mentally and corporally, were best served by the practice of total abstinence. He concluded with an eloquent exhortation to the’ students to range themselves on the side of total abstinence before leaving the College walls, and thus secure for themselves an honorable career in after-life and the successful fulfilment of their duties as men, as citizens and as Christians.
The words of the reverend lecturer produced a deep impression on the minds of his youthful auditors, and gave a new and marked impetus to the grand cause of Total Abstinence.
—Rev. J. C. Carrier, C. S. C., writing to an old friend on the subject of an article which lately appeared in the Scholastic, says:
“ It was not without deep emotion that, while perusing it, I vividly imagined myself led by your friendly hand through the dear fields, woods, and marshes of old Notre Dame, and, most particularly, along the now, no doubt, quasi-obliterated walks of my former so-called ‘Botanical Garden’ by St. Joseph’s Lake. I do heartily commend the thoughtful suggestions you make in said article; and I hope that the authorities of the University will consider and carry them out.”
In relation to the present field of his scientific labors, he continues:
“But what I was riot permitted to accoriiplish at Notre Dame, there seems to be a possibility of accomplishing here, although the favorable site for a botanical garden is sadly wanting. Such as the location is, I have succeeded already beyond my expectations; and I have even now a far greater number of plants in my Canadian garden than I had in the Indianian one.
“ The spring season is rather backward at St. Laurent. I may say that, this year, it fairly began, but one .week or ten days ago [this letter bears date May 12th]. You may judge of it by the fact that the hepatica, claytonia, san-guinaria, erythronium, trillium, symplocarpus, asarum and about half a dozen other plants (among them the beautiful little Dicentra Canadensis) are only now in full bloom.”
Can we say as Riqch? It is doubtful,—about
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
589
the trillium especially. In spite of the higher latitude ^of the Province of Quebec, St. Laurent may congratulate herself that her spring has been only rather backward. With us it has been decidedly more than rather. We are glad that our former Professor of the Natural Sciences has not allowed his botanical zeal to be chilled by his long sojourn in a Northern abode.
—We present herewith the address to His Holiness Leo XIII from the students of Notre Dame, which was recently forwarded to Rome. The graceful and classic Latin verses are the composition of Rev. S. Fitte, Professor of Philosophy. The address was elegantly printed on superfine parchment beautifully decorated, and enclosed in a magnificent burse, tastefully designed and artistically ornamented. It reads as follows:
Beatissime Pater:
Nos juvat Nostra: Dominie Studentes
Te pio cultu celebrare, Summe
Pontifex, scriptum dare nos oportet
Pignus amoris-
Primus agnorum est oviumque Pastor Petrus, et mundi veteris novique . Priesul, ut semper doceat fidelis
Verba salutis.
Inferi frustra minitantur, atque
Impire in cymbam fragilem procellie Mugiunt, nunquam poterunt Leonis Corda movere.
Nunc dolos regum patiens retundit
Papa, nunc firmus loquitur virili
Voce, quum Sanctte Fidei superbos
Obruit Hostes.
Quid quod humane rationis usum Vindicat, leges hominum Deique Jura defendit, solids: probando Munera pacis?
Quid quod tetatem superat Leonis
Alta mens, constans animus, benigma
Caritas? Quid quod facies serena
Pectora mulcet,
Eminet vultu genius, nitescit
Fronte majestas, oriens sicut sol Ridet, os lumen roseum superne Spargit et ignem ?
Et quidem Pastor vigilans gregisque Anxius, curas ovium salutem, Nec tamen Christi teneros ineptus Negligis agnos.
Te, Pater, quanquam venerantur omnes, Hie tqam vocem dociles sequuntur Filii, et laeti capiunt perennis
Gaudia vitie.	_
Hie viam recti juvenes docemur, Nec boni pravis coeunt alumnis, Quos Sacrie Crucis socios Beata
Virgo tuetur.
. Hie Athenarum veterisque Romie Litene florent, Domini coluntur Verba,- et intersunt juvenum labores Sacra profanis;
At Fidem sectans Ratio magistram, Corporis partes animique vires Explicat, quorum in studiis ubique Regnat Aquinas.
O Gubernator Fidei, o perite Pontifex Roma:, o venerande Pastor, Filios Crucis doceas paterno Ore precamur!
Serus in caelum redeat patronus, Et din natos foveat, priusquam Lietus seternam mereat coronam
Papa, Leo, Rex!
(Communicated.)
Finishing' the Church.
We have all been pleased to see, for the past two weeks, the large number of men at work on the foundations of what will form the long wished-for completion of our beautiful church. Many, no doubt, will be surprised to hear of a new expenditure of $40,000 or $50,000, in these hard times, to finish a church. But Father General Sorin says he is getting old and can delay no longer the crowning of the work he has had most at heart for more than 20 years.
As the church now stands (180x60, and 120 in the transepts) it presents interiorly probably one of the best efforts of the art of painting to be seen in the West, Professor Gregori having spent years in its decorations. It is indeed no wonder that visitors are so loud in the praises of its rare and rich beauties. But Father General says rightly that the edifice must be without beauty, until the plan is completed. Just as the Main Building of the University, two years ago, before the erection of the Dome with its Queenly statue and electric crown, presented an appearance very different from its present imposing dimensions, so with the church: he says, it has no beauty, no effect, no proportion in anything. He can bear no longer with that big black cross on the wall in clear contrast with the splendid altar. That wall must go down, and the real Sanctuary be extended 42 feet, as originally designed and now required by the increase of our clergy and young choristers. Then, besides, the six new chapels and altars are absolutely needed for daily Masses; Father General needs and must have a special grand chapel, 50 x 33, and a gallery with an organ for his princes, and for them alone—200 of them. At the end of that new chapel (of the Sacred Heart), 295 feet from the main entrance door will be seen the. beautiful statue, now at the Gospel side, raised 40 feet from the floor, bathed in light from above. This new chapel is to be painted by Gregori, who has promised to adorn it in a style superior to anything, in the church.	.	.
Now, imagine the spectacle presented from.the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
centre or the body of the present building over the main altar, no feet further; that lovely statue of the Sacred Heart reflecting the sweet light pouring upon it from the sky. Next in beauty to this grand effect on the entire centre of the church, from the statue of the Sacred Heart, at such a distance and height and in such a light, will be seen, at the end of the aisle on the Gospel side, 226 feet from the front door, the splendid altar of Our Lady of Good Counsel, and on the other side that of Our Lady of Lourdes—the chief seats of our two principal religious associations. Again try to fancy (what will be likely realized before Christmas) and hear from that royal gallery a chorus of 40 or 50 angelic young voices, well trained and in perfect harmony, singing for the rest of the Congregation and by themselves, as they will every Sunday, at a distance behind the sanctuary an Adeste jidcles or a Venite ador emusI Ah, then there will bean effect in the church both for eyes and ears! 7 hen our voung princes whose beautiful address, last month, so much delighted His Holiness, and evoked such a warm blessing from his paternal heart, will, indeed, add a new charm to our ceremonies. Then our church will be worth visiting. With what new interest will not all be drawn to its sacred precincts! Hence the attention with which'we watch every day the progress of the important and dear undertaking; what a precious desideratum for every living soul here! May Heaven prosper and speed the work to its glorious' end!
In the Fall of 1875, about the end of November, a cold snap froze the river from the dam at South Bend up to Mishawaka. But the winter was mild, the frogs having been heard to croak on New Year’s Day, 1876. The leaf buds of the honeysuckle had opened by Feb. 29th, and aspens were in leaf. A cold snap set in with the beginning of March, and lasted through that month.
The winter of 1880—’81 was extremely long, beginning with a fall of snow in November, and not ending till Easter, April 17th. A break-up in February flooded the river and tore down bridges and dams.
Christmas week of 1881 was mild; and the ,winter of 1881—’82 open and pleasant, followed by a late spring. 1882, 1883, 18S4—three cold summers in succession.
February 1883 was remarkable for the formation of a crust of ice on the snow, sufficiently strong to bear up skaters. The same formation, less firm, however, occurred in 1884.
The past winter of 1884—’85 will be memorable for several peculiarites. For the sudden thaw of vast deposits of snow in Christmas week, and the floods following. For the length and intensity of the cold snap, beginning Jan. 14th, 1885, and ending Feb. 21st; and for the strange combination of snow and dust, making sleighing and wheeling equally impracticable, in the month of March.
A general retrospect convinces us that it is utterly impossible to know what will turn up in the sphere of meteorology.
A Disgusted Weather Prophet.
Peculiar Seasons.
In the spring of 1862, towards the end of May, while the lilacs were in bloom, a severe frost occurred, cutting off the young sprouts of the white oak trees and the grape-vines, which were a foot long. The black oaks and the wheat were uninjured.
New Year’s Day, 1864, was intensely cold; after rather a mild spell preceding. Case of freezing1 to death in Alabama.
In January 1871 occurred a remarkable incrustation of trees by a freezing rain. Some trees were so loaded as to be broken down. Others lost their branches. The result could be seen in the woods for years afterwards. The effect of the sunlight on the scene after the frost was wonderfully beautiful.
The winter of 1872—’73 was characterized by abundant snowj falling early in the season and remaining very late in the spring.	•
That of 1873—’74 was remarkably mild. The lakes were perfectly free of ice as early as March 7th.
August, 1874, was so hot and dry that the corn was burned up, and cut before it was ripe.
Christmas, 1874, the students played baseball.
Feb. 3, 1875, was a terrifically windy, cold day, followed by six weeks wintry weather, or more; and yet there was barely a gleam of sunlight on the 2d.	,	.
Exchanges.
—“The numerous anniversaries to be celebrated this week—including those of the Cardinal and of Archbishop Corrigan—remind us that The Catholic has entered on its fourteenth year. Ours have been years of toil, not without their satisfactions and successes as well as their disappointments and trials. None have been more prosperous than our past two years, and certainly at no period has The Catholic Revie-w felt stronger in the affections of its friends and the support of its public. That it has a work to do, none doubt. Heaven helping, it shall be done.”—Catholic RevieTU, May 9.
The Catholic Review has a noble mission and nobly is it fulfilling that mission. The able manner in which the Review handled the question of freedom of worship against the consolidated bigotry of the State of New York for the last four or five months challenges the admiration, not only of the Catholics of New York and of the United States, but of every lover of freedom and justice. The Catholic Review is a strong paper, it is a clean paper, it is an admirable paper. True to its Catholic principles of right and justice, under any and all circumstances, it is a paper that deserves the hearty support of every true Catholic.
—We have seen nothing of The Princetonian since it became a tri-weekly; are we to infer that we shall no longer consider it an exchange? If the editors of The Princetonian think they cannot afford to send a tri-weekly in exchange for our
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	591,
weekly they would be right in stopping the exchange.
—We are glad to see The Rambler, from Illinois College, taking our hint and correcting its mistake about journalistic work excusing from the regular literary requirements at Harvard. So many wild assertions in regard to colleges and college work have been set afloat that it is about time to put a check upon them. At present one knows not what to believe. The college papers, like the daily press, start a rumor to-day only to contradict it to-morrow. This is disreputable, and we are glad that the Rambler is opposed to it and to every other species of humbug. The Rambler is a good college paper.	-
—Owing to the stand it takes in boating matters against the Yale News, and the large space given to the Tariff question, the Pennsylvania Magazine is more lively and attractive than usual, to outsiders at least. Prof. Sumner, the great Free Trade, champion, lectured at the University of Pennsylvania lately, and met with an enthusiastic reception. If the University Magazine gives a faithful abstract of the lecture, Prof. Sumner fails to meet the arguments advanced by Prof. Thompson at Harvard. We expected much better from such a man as Prof. Sumner. He seems not to meet the questions fairly and squarely, as did Prof. Thompson. Prof. Sumner indulges in generalities, and never seems happy except when away from home, away from his subject, which deals with America and Americans. In justice to Prof. Sumner we may well express a fear that he has not been correctly reported; though, on the other hand, there can be little reason to suppose that those who gave the Yale Professor such an enthusiastic reception at Philadelphia would wilfully misrepresent him.
—-The editors of The Academy Review are to be complimented upon the manner in which they conduct their paper. Good judgment and good taste characterize the various departments; even the so-called “Spice Box” and selected items—in which so many college editors betray execrable taste—are here in keeping with the other parts of the paper. The “ weighty ” item, however, about the Vassar graduate’s bread, might have been wisely excluded. Vassal' has been bantered beyond endurance upon her bread, and the household economy of her graduates so universally berated by college editors that one is reminded of the famous remark of Lowell’s Rev. Wilbur, “When I see a certificate of character with everybody’s name to it, I regard it as a letter of introduction from the Devil,” i.e., the Father of Lies. The Musical and Art Notes of the Review speak well for the culture and refinement of the editors, but in its poetry we think Gbthe’s “ Violet ” not worth translating. It is a sickly-sentimental thing, and we heartily despise the sickly sentimentality of which Gbthe possessed so much; it is a sure sign that its possessor lacks sap and is prematurely running to seed.
—We congratulate the editors of the Notre Dame Scholastic bii being able to edit a weekly; but we think they
should bring out pure college work. In the issue before us, April 29, we find “The Country West of the Mississippi ” by Prof. William Hoynes, and a paper on “ Photography ” from the Scientific Society. What are the University classes doing? We like the Exchange notes of the Scholastic very much; in fact, they are the most interesting part of the paper to us.—Boston College Stylus.
Et tn Brute! We have just been answering the Cornell Daily Sun and the Kentucky Skirmisher on this point, and now comes our friend the Stylus. The fact that the Scholastic is a weekly, and not a monthly like the Stylus and the Skirmisher—circumstances have thrown these names together although there is as little similarity in the papers as in their merit—should, we think, be a sufficient answer for the wider and less exclusive scope taken in editing the Scholastic. And yet, although the literary contributions of the members of the Notre Dame Scientific Society are pure college work, and, strictly speaking, class work, the Stylus's question is justified by the paucity of contributions from the other University Classes, and will, we hope, be taken into consideration by them. While commenting upon the Stylus's criticism we cannot let this opportunity pass without a word upon the excellence of its articles in general, and those of the present number in particular. In poetry, especially, the Stylus takes the first place among college papers, both for fecundity and excellence. If it be true that “ poets are born, not made,” then Boston and its vicinity must be a favorite resort of the Muses, and Boston College their chosen tryst-ing place. In prose, we find “The Stage of the Future,” “ Circles,” “ A Retrospect,” and other well-written articles. If the critic of the Rochester Concordicnsis, or others in his mood, point to these remarks and say, “ There I I told you so I ” we refer them to the Stylus for May as our all-sufficient answer.	■	.
Books and Periodicals.
College Songs. A Collection of New and Popular Songs of the American Colleges. Compiled by Henry Randall Waite. Boston: Oliver Ditson & Co. Price, 50 cents.	,
This is a new and popular collection of the jolly, rattling lyrics that constitute the peculiar music of the colleges; and, being of lower price than the others, it will doubtless have a large sale. There are 73 of the songs. Altogether, there is a large half dollar’s worth. The melodies can be sung by any voice, and the choruses well enough either by male voices or mixed voices. Accompaniments for Piano or Orgfan.
—The Catholic World for June opens with a paper entitled “The Scienceville Society for Psychical Research,” which is a clever bit of satire on the vagaries of many so-called scientists of the day. Mr. Maurice F. Egan contributes an interesting sketch of the life and work of Lady Georgiana Fullerton. A timely and important article is the one on “Freedom of Worship in Practice” by R. H. Clarke, LL. D., who shows that religious liberty seems to flow from the very
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
nature and constitution of the Catholic Church, and has ever characterized her teaching and ministry. Among the other articles are, “ The Anglo-Russian Question and the Testament of Peter the Great”; “The Curse.of Print—a Lay Sermon”; “Irish Bards and Scotch Reviewers.” The number also includes interesting tales of fiction and excellent poems.
—The North American Review concludes its seventieth year with its June number. It never bad so large a circulation, nor greater influence, nor’ a more brilliant staff of contributors. This number discusses seven topics of vital public interest by no less than fourteen eminent writers, not including the short contributions in “ Comments.” ,, Shall Silver be Demonetized ? ” is answered, pro and con, by three distinguished economists,—Sumner, Laughlin and Walker, representing Yale and Harvard Colleges, and the Massachusetts Institute o * ___	__
of Technology. “The Tardiness of Justice” is discussed by Judge W. L. Learned, and “ Prohibition in Politics” by Gail Hamilton; “The Swearing Habit” by E. P. Whipple, and “French Spoliation Claims” by Edward Everett. The Rt. Rev. John J. Keane, Bishop of Richmond, contributes a learned and concise paper in defence of “ The Catholic School Policy,” in which he shows that the one grand aim of the Church is to make good Christians and good citizens—that the Catholic system “is better calculated than any other to realize both these ends,” and that “ it is prompted by love of country as well as love of our families, our Church and our God.” Says the learned prelate:
“ The Catholic educational theory is based on two convictions. The first is, that the aim of education should be to equip youth with the knowledge and the principles that will fit them for life’s duties and for the realization of their destiny as human beings. The second is, that our destiny as human beings, and our consequent duties, are those taught by the Christian religion. Our conclusion from • these premises is, that the education of the young should be essentially Christian, moulding them to live thoroughly Christian lives. This does not at all exclude the knowledge that will fit them for secular pursuits. The duties for this world and the duties for the next should be united in life, as the body and soul are united in a human being; and therefore they should be united in the training that prepares for practical life. We are old-fashioned enough to believe that the Christian religion is God’s revelation, and therefore the best possible basis for the life of God’s creatures. We have no confidence in any pretended new civilization that would offer a different basis for human life; all such experiments must end in disaster for communities as well as for individuals. We, therefore, look upon the Christian element in life and in training as absolutely indispensable.”
Personal.
—John R. English, of ’75, is visiting his Alma Mater, whither he has come to recuperate after a severe illness from which he has just recovered.
—Signor Gregori spent the greater part of the week in Chicago, where he was engaged by the Union League Club in painting portraits of the two ex-Presidents -of the society—Messrs. Elbridge Keith and. Louis Coburn.
-—Chas. C. Echlin, of ’82, writes from his home
in San Francisco, wishing to be remembered to his many friends at Notre Dame. Charley is enjoying good health, and occupies a trustworthy position as assistant book-keeper in the firm of J. I. Macke & Co., wholesale druggists.
—We are pained to receive the sad intelligence of the death of William Cash, of ’72, who departed this life in the 18th year of his age at his home in Chicago, on the 19th of last month. The deceased was for a number of years one of the bright Minims of Notre Dame, and was beloved by all his teachers and fellow-students. May he rest in peace!
—Rev. D. E. Hudson, C. S. C., the accomplished Editor of the Ave Maria, has, we are glad to say, almost entirely recovered from his late severe illness. He is now passing a few days in rest and recuperation with friends in Detroit. The readers of Our Lady’s Journal, as well as the many personal friends of Father Hudson, will rejoice to hear of his restoration to health, and will pray that it may be made permanent.
—“Mr. Charles Warren Stoddard, formerly of the San Francisco press, and a writer and traveller of wide reputation, has accepted the chair of English Literature in the University of Notre Dame, Indiana. In the Faculty of this University is a former surgeon in one of the regiments of the first Napoleon, and a survivor of Waterloo—the Rev. Dr. Neyron, who, at the age of ninety, still teaches anatomy.”—Dial (Chicago).
—Among the visitors during the past week were: Mrs. and Miss Coghlin, Toledo, O.; Mrs. and Miss Thos. Walsh, Morris, Ill.; Mrs. F. Flecken-stein, and John Schulze, St. Paul, Minn.; John Boos, Huntington, Ind.; Dr. Redlich, wife and daughter, Chicago, Ill.; Mrs. Ellen Penty and daughter, Geneva, Neb.; Mr. and Mrs. A. D. Andrew, and child, Laporte, Ind.; Miss Kelly, Logansport, Ind.: Miss K. Donnelly, Michigan City, Ind.; P. A. Eckenroth, and A. J. Eckenroth, Lebanon, Pa.; Mrs. James O’Kane, Cincinnati, Ohio.
Local Items.
—Picnic, ho!
— The Banana Boys stayed at home.
—Old Science Hall has seen its last days.
—The Rev. Mr.Thy me is sojourning amongst us.
—The festive, comfortable duster has appeared.
—The latest at-the store: “Will you have an ice-cream”?
—There will be a grand scientific entertainment this (Saturday) evening.
—Next week the Surveying and Botany Classes intend to make a trip to Lake Maxinkukee.
—The Grads, are thankful to the . “ Banner Boys ” for a kind invitation to their picnic.
—Improvements and decorations around the College are assuming immense proportions.
_ —Where are our local poets? They have not appeared in these columns for a “ coon’s age.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	593
—Jep did the talking for the Banana Boys as they meandered, amid the vesper hours, around the lake.
—The St. Cecilians are studying their parts. They will present the play on or about the 10th of June.
—It is suggested that the Military company give a grand prize drill on the Campus, sometime in the near future.
—Signor Don Regan, of Indianola, Texas, had the honor of carrying the large flag in the Banner Boys’ Procession.
—Thursday morning the Cornet Band serenaded Rev. Father Cleary, President of the T. A. Union of America.
—We have received several items for publication, but as no name was signed, they were consigned to the waste basket.
—“A Troubled Heart; and How It was Comforted at Last” is being read in the Junior refectory. Everyone is delighted with it.	■
—The “ student with a dainty taste ” wants to know when strawberries are coming-. Sometime when the spring-chickens fly in, dear boy!
—One of the guests who attended the Banner • Boys’ Picnic reports to us that the music produced by the Band on that occasion was excellent.
—The sporting season has at last opened here. The Crews are selected, the nines arranged, and practice is making perfect the members of each.
—The Botany and Zoology Classes, having completed then* session’s work, have now been merged into the class of Practical Biology under Father Kirsch.
■	—The best singers, the best athletes, the best
i	public readers, the best soldiers, the best linguists,
S'	the best artists, the best eaters and the best schem-
! ers belong to the Club Orchestra.
—The Philopatrians will appear in a grand [ entertainment ne^t Wednesday evening. Prof. I Ackerman is busily engaged in making the neces-f sary stage decorations. The costumes and scenery, [ it is said, will be gorgeous.
!	—Mr. John English, of Columbus, Ohio, a few
days ago presented to President Walsh an elegantly-framed artist proof etching, entitled “ Even:	ing.” The picture is the largest and one of the
best etchings we have yet seen.
f	—Another Old Land-mark Gone.—The
I demolition of Old Science Hall—once the organ 1 and choir extension of the old church—has begun,
•	•	O /
and before many days nothing will remain of this 1 grand relic of the past but a heap of rubbish.
—The Surveying Class may be seen every after, noon in the pursuit of practical studies. Besides surveying and platting St. Joseph’s Lake, they have surveyed several of the fields adjoining the college, and now are about to begin on a map £ of Notre Dame.
—Last Sunday the Euglossians made their ansi nual trip to the Farm. A most enjoyable day was had—fishing, ball-playing and sight-seeing^ af-| fording ample pleasure to all. A vote of thanks
dL
I .'
is returned to Rev. M. J. Regan, Bros. Leander and Augustine, Prof. Lyons and Mr. E. A. Otis for favors conferred.
—The arrangement of the Crews for the June Regatta is as follows: Minnehaha—T. McKin-nery, ’85, Captain; H. A. Steis, bow; S. J. Dickerson, 2d; L. Kavanagh, 3d; J. Riley, 4th; A. A. Gordon, 5th; J. McKinnery, Stroke; Frank H. Dexter, Coxswain. Evangeline—P. Goulding, ’86, Captain; D. C. Saviers, bow; M. Burns, 2d; J. McMillan, 3d; W. CamplJell, 4th; T. L. Mathers, 5th; P. J. Goulding, Stroke; A. McNulty, Coxswain.	*
—The Library Association acknowledge with many thanks the receipt, from Mrs. Dr. A. Lippe, of Philadelphia, of photographic reproductions (Goupil, Paris) of two important paintings recently presented to the Cathedral of Philadelphia by her nephew, Henry Thornton, himself an artist. The paintings are from the brush of Mr. Moss, a Philadelphian, who studied with Mr. Thornton under Bonnat. The pictures represent “ Our-Lord Teaching in the Temple,” and “The Raising of the Daughter of Jairus.”
—On the afternoon of the 17th inst. a game of ball was played between the Senior second nine and the “ Atlantics ” of the Apprentices. The latter played well until the fourth inning, when, in consequence of an error made by their catcher and several wild throws, the Seniors succeeded in scoring- five runs. The Seniors were, with few exceptions, good batters, and but for the excellent pitching of McHenry, of the “Atlantics,” would undoubtedly have won the game. P. O’Brien caught several fine flies; L. Wilson also distinguished himself. Score: “Atlantics,” 10; Seniors, 9.
—On Wednesday last, the captains of the first nines’ Senior Baseball clubs held a consultation for the purpose of selecting their regular players, the result of which is as follows: Star of the East —W. Coghlin, Captain; McCabe, c.; H. Porter, p.; Goodfellow, s. s.; F. Combe, 1st b.; F.Devoto, 2d b.; W. Tully, 3d b.; S. J. Dickerson, l.f.; W. Murphy, c.f.; W. Coghlin, r. f. Reserves: A. Browne, J. Nester, and W. Collins. University Blues—A. McNulty, Captain; V. Burke, c.; J. Guthrie, p.; W. Loomis, s. s.; H. Steis, 1st b.; A. McNulty, 2d b.; C. Combe, 3d b.; T. McGill, l.f.; M. A. Dolan, c.f.; E. Hotaling, r.f. Reserves: Kolars, Harless, and Chapin.
—The contest for the baseball championship of ’85 was opened on last Thursday, the 21st inst., by a close and interesting struggle, which resulted in a victory for the University “ Blues.” In the start, the “Universities” led off considerably, managing, by some heavy batting, to run up a few tallies. They were aided also by several errors on the part of the “ Stars.” The steam-engine battery of the former team made it very interesting for their opponents, until, in the first half of the sixth inning, Captain Coghlin turned the tide by hitting a “ sky-flyer ” into left field, making third, and bringing in the first man. The “Stars” then
594
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
gradually gained, Devoto and Combe scoring in the next inning on a wild throw of Loomis. From this on it was a tug-of-war for the mastery, the “ Stars’ ” battery becoming warmed up to their work in good style. This, however, was counterbalanced in the next inning by the superior out-fieldine of the “Universities.” The first basemen of both teams played an elegant game, and cut off many a wild runner. The tallies ran up rapidly toward the last, and at the end of the ninth inning the score stood 15 to to for the “ Universities,” who thus have added one feather to their caps. The following is the complete score:
Star of the East.
Coghlin, r. f.............
Dickerson, 1. f...........
Porter, p.................
McCabe, c.................
Tully, 3d b...............
F. Combe, 1st b...........
Devoto, 2d b..............
Murphy, c.f...............
Goodfellow, s. s..........
Total..........................
9 8
University.
McNulty, 2d b............
Guthrie, p...............
Steis, 1st b.............
Burke c..................
McGill, l.f..............
Combe, 3d b..............
Loomis, s. s.............
Hotaling, r. f...........
Dolan, c.f...............
Total....................
Innings :—1 2 3
Star of the East :—o o <
University :—4 3 1
R. I. B. T. B. P. O. A. E.
12	4	TOO
IO O I O I
II	I	OO4
2	2	2	3	1	0
TOO 353 2	1	2	9	0	0
II	I	2 0 0
OI	I	IOO
IOO 530
10 8	11
r. 1. B. t. b. p. o. a. e.
12.3	421
11	1	420
32	3	500
14	8	10	2	2
32	3	210
IT	I	0	2	0
13	3	010
2	2	2	III
2	2	2	III
15 19	26	27	12	5
4	5	6	7	S9
)	O	O	6	O	2 2=10
0	2	0	4	1 -=I5
Earned Runs, “ Stars,” 2; “ Universities,” 5. Time of game, one hour and forty minutes. Umpire, H. Dean.
—The Banner Boys’ Picnic.—On the first day of the year, Rev. President Walsh promised a grand day’s enjoyment to those boys of the Junior department .whose names should appear on the “ Roll of Honor ” regularly every week up .to the istof May. Fifty-five fulfilled the required conditions, and on Thursday last, they held their picnic. At nine,o’clock a. m. they formed on the campus, and, led by the Cornet Band, they marched in double file, with flags and banners waving, through the parterre in front of the College, out along the banks of St. Joseph’s Lake and on to the classic groves of Johnson’s woods, the scene of the festivities. The time was spent in various amusements until the hour of noon arrived—when the chefs de cuisine who had been mysteriously engaged all morning—announced the readiness of the mid-day, repast. At the same time, Rev. President Walsh and. Rev. Father Cleary, of. Kenosha, Wis., appeared upon the scene and were heartily’- greeted by the boys. Among the other invited guests, whose presence added greatly to the enjoyment of the occasion, were the Rev. Prefect of Discipline, Bro. Leander, Profs. . Stoddard and Edwards, Messrs. Clafiey. and Otis, and last, but not least, ye members of the Class of ’85. (It is said that
the latter even took part in the afternoon games!) The spread was excellent, and justice was done it amid the flow of humor, wit and repartee.
In the course of the afternoon, games of all kinds were indulged in, and made interesting by the prizes offered. But our limited space will not permit us to go into detail. Let it suffice to say that the picnic was a grand success, and when the shades of night were falling, and the picnickers returned to the College, marching to the music of the Band, there were no happier boys in all Notre Dame than the Banner boys of ’85.
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty’.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Arce, Austin, Ancheta, A. A. Browne, Baca, Becerra, Burns, Breen, F. Burke, V. Burke, Callaghan, Conlon, Walter Collins, Chapin, Conway, Crawford, Creel, F. Combe, Cusack, Campbell, De Groot, Dwan, Dexter, Dickerson, Estrado, Goulding, A. A. Gordon, Guthrie, Garcia, Goodfellow, A. Gordon, Hamlyn, Halligan, Howard, Johnston, Kolars, Kleiber, Kavanagh, Loomis, McMillian, McKinneiy, McGuire, McCartney’, McMurray’, Mathers, Miller, Morrison, Jno. Murphy’, O’Connell, H. Paschel, C. Paschel, Perley’, Padilla, P. Prudhomme, H. Porter, C. Porter, Phillips, Price, Rothert, Reach, Ruppe, Roth, G. H. Smith, Sheridan, Steis, Snapp, Triplett, Tully’, Jno. Troy, W. Williams, Wagoner, White, Woodbridge, Werst. *	“	.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackerman, Arts, Amoretti, Borgschulze, Benner, Berthelet, Bastable, Congdon, Colina, Cavaroc, Cooper, Chute, Dempsey, Dorenberg, Donnellan, Dillon, Daly, Darragh, Emmons, Ewing, Finckh,Fehr, Flood, L. Grever, E. Grever, Hoye, Hibbeler, Holman, Houlihan, Hagen-barth, Johnson, Kegel, Kenny, Luther, H. Long, F. Long, Loya, Lewis, Levin, Martinez, Mulkern, McCourt, B. Morrison, Monschein, Menig, Myers, Macke, Meehan, Nester, Oxnard, O’Brien, O’Conner, Portillo, Prudhomme, Regan, Real, Rebori, Ruffing, Remish, Reynolds, Rogers, Redlich, Senn, Soden, F. Smith, Shaw, Stange, Servis, Stubbs, Talbot, Thurston, Thompson, Vanselow, Wabraushek, Wagoner.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adams, Ackerman, Boos, Bunker, Berry, Bull, Barger, Blakeslee, Baker, Crotty, Campau, Cobbs, Chute, Dunford, E. Doss, L. Doss, Ernest, T. Falvey, E. Falvey, Garrity, Graham, Haney’, Hopkins, Bloomingston, Me Phee, McVeigh, Murphy, McGill, C. Mitchell, Moncada, Millard, Mason, Meinzer, McNulty, McGuire, Mooney, Nussbaum, Nester, J. Peck, Piero, Paul, Perkins, Quill, Ramsey, Sweet, Stone, Tracy, Weston, Williamson, McCourt.
Class Honors.
[ In the following list may’ be found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Messrs. Meister, McCabe, Rahilly, Breen, Coghlin, W. Murphy’, Dwan, Marion, Chapin, Austin, J. V. O’Donnell, McMurray, C. Paschel, H. Paschel, Livingston, Harless, Noonan, Hotaling, Hamlyn, Darragh, Johnson, Mullane, Daly, Rogers, Spencer, Meyers, Berthelet, O’Brien, Luther, Menig, Ruffing, Houlihan, Holman, Hibbeler, Talbot, Howard, Harris, Monschein, Borgschulze, Wabraushek.
For the Dome.
John'Mahoney’, .Chester, N. Y..............$500
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	595
Saint JFlaty's Acabemy.
One Mile West of Notre Danie University.
—The Minims took the most delightful walk of the season on Ascension Thursday. -
—Of the Minims, Ella Blaine, Flora Johnson, and Fannie Spenser received 100 in lessons.
—Of the Third Senior Class, the Misses Ellen Kearns and Ella Brady received 100 in lessons.
—Miss Kate Donnelly, of Michigan City, Ind., a former esteemed pupil of St. Mary’s, is spending a few days at the Academy.
—The hymns sung by the Children of Mary at the May Devotions are very beautiful, and are greatly admired by those who attend the services.
—The singing of the Litany, of Loreto by the Children of Mary, as they pass from the Academy in procession in the morning, sounds very delightful to our ears; and the fervent invocations must certainly reach the heart of the “ Queen of Virgins,” as they arise from those pure young souls to heaven.
—Those who drew for the Roman mosaic cross were the Misses E. Sheekey, Keyes, Regan, Richmond, Snowhook, Trask, Van Horn, Brown, Erlenborn, Smith, Stadtler, Searls, Norris, Prudhomme, Boyer, and E. Balch. Cora Prudhomme was the winner, but waived her claim in favor of Agnes Keyes.
—An important addition has been made to the philosophical apparatus. Among other things, a large Aurora Tube, Crookes Ruby Tube, a Telegraph, a large Electrical Chime, several instruments for proving Ampere’s Law, Archimede’s principle, and many other utensils, equally important to the elucidation of Natural Philosophy. The apparatus was purchased from the firm of Queen’s & Co., of Philadelphia.
—At the regular Academic reunion Miss Fuller recited the beautiful poem of George H. Miles, entitled “ San Sisto,” and Miss Munger read an amusing selection. Very Rev. Father General made some valuable remarks impressing the importance of graceful, respectful deportment, and • that modest self-possession which marks the true ? lady. Father Shortis paid some well-merited | compliments to the readers.
Bidicule.
BY SARAH DUNNE.
Addison, who was possessed of an unquestionable knowledge of human nature, says: “ The talent of turning men into ridicule and exposing to laughter those one converses with, is the qualification of little minds, and ungenerous tempers. A young man of this cast of mind cuts himself off from all manner of improvement.”
If this be true of the sterner sex, it, is tenfold.
more so of our own; and yet, often, so strong is the desire of thoughtless young girls to create a sensation, and so weak is their,sense of common justice and propriety, that they lay themselves open to the condemnation of the great English writer.
Happy for them if thoughtlessness and not malice be the cause of their folly, for some hope is then left of their correction. The prevailing spirit of society at the present day is a hunger and thirst after amusement, and the author who cannot divert the mind of the reader is laid on the shelf: the speaker who does not interlard his sermon, lecture, or dissertation with something of a laughable nature is discarded at once as dry, and no matter how important may be the information conveyed, ten to one, it.will not be accepted. The • fault may not lie with author or speaker; but the repugnance of the reader or listener to make any mental effort, is generally the cause of indifference.
We read in Holy Writ that “Jesus wept”; but we do not remember any passage where the idea-is conveyed that levity was at any time tolerable to Him. He permitted His sacred person to be the object of scorn and mockery, but lips Divine were never desecrated by the utterance of a trivial word.
Pagans in the early ages, like faithless races of the present time, seemed to .exist only for the moment, and in their tyrannical selfishness often employed the most inhuman means to gratify their wicked propensities. We do not wonder at them when we learn that they did not know God. They knew no guide save their perverse and unhallowed inclinations.
The great persecution began under the black shadow of an entertainment given to please the Roman emperor. Twenty-one years had not passed away after the Deicide on Mount Calvary, when Nero ascended the imperial throne. Unhappy world, to be ruled by a man who knew no law but self-satisfaction! Is it.the least wonder that a code whose first principle is that of self-abnegation was perfectly abhorrent to him ?
Having set fire to the city of Rome, he retreated to a distant tower that he might enjoy to the full the magnificent effect of so great a conflagration. Alarmed afterwards at the condign punishment which the positive knowledge of his wanton act was sure to bring upon him, with that cowardice always a counterpart of cruelty, he threw the blame upon the Christians, and by his order great numbers were put to death, and among them St. Peter and St. Paul. The revolting modes of torture to which his victims were subjected we refrain from, dwelling upon. For three hundred years imperial Rome amused herself in like revolting spectacles. The wealthy patricians must be. diverted, so Christians were cast to the lions, and the Roman spectator enjoyed himself.
Those ages have past away, and in proportion as Christianity spreads its benign influence over the world, the spirit of barbarity diminishes; but in 'pro-portion as it is ignorant^ it increases p and who are the objects of this barbarity? ‘ The weak, the poor, the defenceless, the aged, the infirm, the uninteresting! Those who have crossed our path,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
and whose popularity may be a disadvantage to us; and among them may even be those to whom we owe a debt of gratitude beyond the power of human gifts to repay—parents, teachers, loving friends to whom our advantage is dearer than life itself. It is shocking to contemplate, but we must answer and pray for them with our Lord: Father, J or give them, for they know not what they do!
Circumstances may conspire in which a joke at their expense may prove to their unmeasured disadvantage. And yet, wit, repartee, and innocent laughter are in themselves no crime. They can be made the instruments of great good. A kind-hearted young lady, an intelligent, thoughtful, generous soul can make them the avenues of the • greatest good to many, but not when they are the main object in view.
It takes a rare—we came near saying an heroic— courage to enable one to rise above and resist successfully the power of ridicule. Often, however, this courage is necessary if one would not forfeit her good reputation, not to say lief soul.
The world is amused at the jokes of the comedian, laughs at him, cheers him, and urges him onward, but not one would pretend to say that he is worthy of emulation. A little light pleasantry may be indulged in from time to time, but an inveterate joker is the most dangerous of companions. No one feels safe in the presence of one who on the slightest pretext may make you the laughing-stock of all present.
A discreet and cultivated lady once said of a near relative, who was possessed of many excellent qualities, marred by an ill-ordered love of the comic and ridiculous: “ I do not encourage her visits. One who will stoop to make herself the ‘ Merry Andrew,’ the ‘ buffoon ’ of a company, is not one whom I would wish my friends to meet in my parlor.” And she was right. There is an innate dignity in the Christian soul, to be found alike in the wealthy and the poor. Descend from this, and there is an end to self-respect. She who assumes the role of the clown, is to be commiserated; she is not to be imitated,
Let us have cheerfulness to the greatest extent. Let it spread its bright, rosy banner over every walk of life. Smiles—the innocent smiles of a clear conscience and a light heart—are the sunshine of Gods love. Earth can never secure enough of them. They make the dark paths of adversity fair and beautiful; they throw the glory of heaven over the trials of earth; but as the distance between the stars and the earth, so is the distance between the influence of the trifling, joking mirth-lover, and the calming, holy power exerted by the truly cheerful and upright.
Boll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.-
. Par Excellence—Misses M. Adderly, M. Bruhn, Barlow, Blair, Brady, E. Call, Carney, S. Dunne? A. Donnelly, E. Donnelly, Dillon/ M. Fuller, C. Ginz, B. Gove, Griffith,
Alice Gordon, Gavan, A. Heckard, B. Heckard, Hutchinson, Hale, Keenan, Kearney, N. Kearns, Lange, T. McSorley, A. Murphy, McHale, O’Halloran, O’Connell, Ramsey, Rose, Sheekey, M. Scully, C. Scully, Schmidt, S. St. Clair, L. St. Clair, M. Shea, C. Schilling, Sharrette, L. Walsh, E. Walsh, White. 2d Tablet—Misses Cox, Dwan, A. McSorley, Richardson, Thornton.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Brown, T. Balch, B. Erlenborn, Hertzog, M. Murphy, Norris, Prudhomme, Preston, Richmond, G. Regan, E. Sheekey, Snowhook, Searls, Stadtler, L. Trask, L. Van Horn. 2d Tablet—Misses O. Boyer, E. A. Keys, M. Balch, McEwen, M. Smith.
MINIM DEPARTMENT. '
Par Excellence—Misses E. Blaine, E. Burtis, E. Chapin, Hopkins, Johnson, Lindsey, Murray, Schmauss, Spencer, S.Van Fleet, E. Hammond, D. Lee.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.	/
Graduating Class—Miss B. Gove.
ist Class—Misses V. Barlow, A. Shephard.
2D Div.—Misses M. Bruhn, M. Hale, N. Keenan.
2D Class—Miss C. Ginz.	:
3D Class—Misses M. Adderly, E. Carney, E. Horn, C. Morrison, M. O’Halloran, K. Schilling, L. Van Horn.
2D Div.—Misses M. Ducey, M. Dillon, M. Fuller, M.
B. Kearney, M. Munger, Scully.	£
4TH Class —Misses C. Fehr, A. Malboeuf, A. Murphy, H. Ramsey, B. Snowhook, G. Wolvin.
2D Div.—Misses H. Call, K. Ducey, D. Fitzpatrick, C. Griffith, T. McSorley, A. McSorley, L. St. Clair, E. Wallace.
5th Class—Misses M. Barry, E. Brady, Angela fef Donnelly, E. Donnelly, S. Dunne, A. English, M. Fisk, Alice Gordon, L. Hutchinson, B. Lauer, G. Regan, B. Sharette, E. Taylor, Elizabeth Walsh.	-pi-
2D Div.—Misses G. Faxon, Addie Gordon, M. Keyes, C. Rose, M. Schmidt, C. Servis, G. Stadtler, E. Schultz, ii F. Thornton.	1;
6tii Class—Misses N. Brown, C. Cox, M. Ducey, B. ? English, M. Kearsey, M. Murphy, A. Richardson, M. Shea,	' j
Ella Sheekey, Margaret Smith, F. Spencer, S. St. Clair, H.	. I
Stumer.	.	.	f '
2D Div.—Misses I. Alcott, S. Bubb, B. Erlenborn, E. £ Kearns, M. Morse, M. Newman, E. O’Connell, Ella Walsh.	fe
?th Class—Misses M. Allwein, M. Blair, F. Carmien,	|
S. Campeau, B. Heckard, M. Helpling, F. Hertzog, C. , Lang, E. Norris, A. Schmauss, G. Searls, V. Stull, A. > ; White, M. Wright.	£■
8th Class—Miss C. Prudhomme.	(
9TH Class—Misses E. Blaine, E. Chapin, M. Lindsey, B. Murray.	■ '	|
ioth Class—Misses E. Burtis, J. Hammond, D. Lee. f HARP.	g
2D Class, 2d Div.—Miss M. Dillon.	§
3D Class, 2d Div.—Miss D. Fitzpatrick.	*
4TH Class—Miss A. Shephard.	|
guitar.	|
4TH Class—Miss A. English.
6th Class—Miss A. Schuler.	-
VIOLIN.
Miss E. Carney.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
ist Class—Misses M. Bruhn, M. Hale.
2D Div.—Miss B. English.
2D Class—Miss S. St. Clair.
2D Div.—Misses A. English, B. Lauer H. Ramsey, K. Schilling.	,
3D Class—Misses I. Alcott, M. Ducey, L. St. Clair, E. Sheekey, E. Walsh, L. Walsh.	*
4TH Class—Misses Addie Gordon, Alice Gordon, E. Rose, G. Stadtler, C. Griffith.
5TH Class—Misses C. Fehr, C. Lange, B. Heckard.
I