DO YOU INHALE ?
Then you're better off smoking PHILIP MORRIS
...because PHILIP MORRIS is definitely less irritating, definitely milder than any other leading brand!
PROVE IT YOURSELF
Take the PHILIP MORRIS NOSE TEST ... start enjoying PHILIP MORRIS today!
IJ
I’J
I
Ji
§
NO CIGARETTE HANGOVER means MORE SMOKING PLEASURE!
s PHILIP MORRIS
2
The Scholastic
sCdbanaro
Here'S lha-1'
sporh shirl
with
tie for
a
stepping out.

| you heard Babou+/“
Wear it open for sports, or...
Gabanaro . . . with the amazing new Arafold collar
$6.50
ARROW
SHIRTS • TIES • SPORTS SHIRTS • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS
LETTERS
A Pat on the Student Back
Students:
■ Last Saturday I sat with my ear glued to the radio listening hopefully to the first Notre Dame football game at home I’ve missed in years.
I wondered expectantly as to how the student body would react when the team began a new * year after last season’s unfortunate record. Men, I can say that each and every one of you should be heartily congratulated on the tremendous open-throated support you gave the team.
The spirit we have that was dampened last year has been formed anew out there on the campus.
Keep it up! Yell yourselves hoarse, and pray yourselves dutifully! The star of Notre Dame shall rise once again to its rightful position with a student body like you behind it.
Again, congratulations to you. to the team and coaches, and to the cheerleaders and band. Let’s make it a complete season of victories.
Sincerely,
Dick Herrle, Ensign, SC Class of ’51
USS Coral Sea (CVB-43)
We’re Still Looking for the Tea
Editor:
I read with sardonic amusement the lamentations of Misses Sayre, Ryan, Ong, and Leong, all of St. Mary’s, as they bemoaned the fact that the belles of that renowned institution of learning (?) were unable to meet “their ten men.”
I hesitate to enter into the obvious by remarking on the use of the possessive adjective “their,” but I think that it is worthy of note and analysis. Might I suggest to these SMC queens
Make GILBERT’S your ARROW headquarters
I
The HEN'S Corner
’Arrow Shirts
GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o'clock
SOUTH BEND 7. INDIANA
Oct. 12, 1951
5
that by virtue of going to that school they do not get ten men, “their ten men” with the tuition, and that it takes a certain amount of charm and poise, generally supposed to be inherent in the creature, woman, to get or to attract one man, even in the wilds of Indiana.
Might I further point out that it is because of the lack of this allurement, or the failure to utilize it, that these girls and many of their sisters have failed to meet not only ten, not only five, but even one of the gallants from across the Dixie.
As to why any St. Mary’s girl would want to have ten admirers at one time out here with the limited dating opportunities of both schools, it may very possibly be that the girls of SMC with this deplorable lack of poise and charm would not know what to do, thrown on her own with one man.
Yours for more tea and less dances, John Lambert
Sorin Hall
More on the Catholic Press
Bill Riley,
That I think some words still remain on this Catholic periodical question is no reflection on the clear delineation of your ideas of end and means in journalism as of last week’s Scholastic, but more a question of these ideas.
Granted that the purpose of writing is to communicate ideas, it would seem that the method of communication must correspond to the ideas themselves, that is to say, colorful, thoughtful, on profound styles are a means of expressing complementary ideas. This is especially true in periodicals.
But it was noted over some coffee cups that Commonweal is perhaps more aware of the present-day problems—call it reality if you will—than
ANNOUNCEMENT
For your convenience—Shirts expertly laundered
Rubin Cleaners
217 E. Jefferson	On the Bus Line
20% DISCOUNT ON CLEANING AND PRESSING
any other inexpensive American periodical today. Yet isn’t it significant that such a magazine is now staging a desperate drive for more subscriptions in order to continue publishing? This may be due in part to its unattractive layout, but it seems to be more logically attributed to the fact that Americans are used to having their opinions predigested and their fiction stereotyped, wishing to rest in intellectual lassitude.
If Commonweal refuses to be a part of this world of complacency, I suppose it will never reach a mammoth circulation, and perhaps will not be able to afford a more attractive layout, but at least it will not descend from its primary purpose, which you stated rather well, and which is certainly of prime necessity at any time, but especially today.	Dave Burrell
Correction
Editor:
In regard to your story on page 12, Sept. 20 issue:
Who is Dewey? Seems as how there is a chap of that name who is governor of New York. Meanwhile the undersigned continues as Placement Director at Notre Dame. I’ll appreciate a correction. I don’t have a mustache.
William R. Dooley Placement Director
The last time we saiv Mr. Dooley he didn’t have a mustache. We stand corrected.—Ed.
COUNCIL AGENDA
The agenda for the next meeting of the Student Council, Monday at 7:15 p.m. in room 100 Law Building, will include:
1.	Dining Hall Report.
2.	Interhall Phone Report.
David Kempler
FAY’S
Quality Jewelers
Welcomes Notre Dame students to come in and visit with us.
We carry a large showing of fine Watches and Jewelry . ..
We maintain a complete
Watch and Jewelry Repair Service.
111 South Michigan Street
GIGANTIC
RECORD SALE
•	ALL LATE HUS .
•	UNBREAKABLE
•	BRAND NEW
r----------------------
T0P H,T 45 dfaV TUNES FOR
TEN 78 RPM or 45 RPM RECORDS
AU the late mis: Select 1U records i78 RPM or 45 RPM) from the list below for onb 84.4b plus C. O. D. postage and 35c handling charge— or send $4.90 and ne will chip prepaid Less than 10 records 49c each plus C. O D postage and 35c handling charge per order
CHECK YOUR SELECTIONS
□ 38 Sweetheart of Yesterday — tn the ! Cool, Cool, Cool of the Evening !
□	37 Bell, Bell, My Liberty Bell — Long- ! ing for You	!
□	36 Twas Brillig — L'nbirthday Song — J Very Good Advice — Golden After- !
noon FROM ALICE IN WONDER- ’ LAND	•
□	35 I’m Late — In a World of My Own J FROM ALICE IN WONDERLAND	!
□	34 When the Saints Go Marching In — J Good Morning Mr. Echo	!
□ 33 Sweet Violets — I'm in Love Again J □ 32 Because of You — Come On-A My !
House	’
□ 31 Wang Wang Blues — My Trulv “ Truly Fair	’
□ 30 Unless — Mr. and Mississippi „ □ 20 How High the Moon — Hot Canary , □ 26 Too Young — The Loveliest Night of £
the Year	•
□ 97 I Want to Play House With You— J Peace in the Valley	J
□ 96 Hey Good Lookin’ — Let’s Live A .
Little	!
□ 95 Always Late — I’ll Hold You In 5Iy .
Heart	j
□ 94 Howlin’ at the Moon—1 Can’t Help It | □ 90 Strange Little Girl—Down the Trail | of Aching Hearts	■
ALL TIME HITS ;
□ 01 Mexicali Rose—Red River Valley I □ 02 Home on the Range — The Last I
Roundup	■
□ 03 You Are My Sunshine — It Makes I No Difference Now	I
□ 04 Nobody's Darling But Mine — Be • Honest With Me	I
□ 05 Whispering Hope—Blue Skirt Waltz I Q 06 Tumbling Tumbleweeds—Cool Water I
MONEY BACK GUARANTEE
! Galgano Distributing Company. Dept. G38 .
J 4142 Armitage Avenue	.
* Chicago 39. Illinois	g
■ Please ship	records as checked ■
I □ 78 RPM's □ 45 RPM's |
I I enclose S	...ship prepaid. •
i	Ship C.O.D. [ ]	•
J Name ....................g
I Address ................ ■
I City and State ......... 1
1aw —!
4
The Scholastic
Top of the Week
This beautiful and soul-stirring- Indiana autumn . . .
Travelling Notes
Some 300 seniors are still spuck-eyed and weary from last weekend’s rollicking sojourn in Detroit, and just about all the travellers were impressed with the size of the Motor City, its pretty girls, its used car lots (they’re everywhere) and its wonderful hospitality.
Local Stuff
The re-opening of Marozan’s, one of the more well-established downtown refreshment parlors, has palpitated the interest of all the more well-established boulevardiers on campus.
And small wonder, for in front of his newly-renovated answer to the Stork Club, Marozan is placing a new sidewalk modelled after Graumann’s Chinese theater- of Hollywood fame. All steady patrons of the Michigan. Ave. retreat will be invited to place their elbow prints in the wet cement for all posterity.
Anyone got a trowel and an extra bus token?
Manhattan Hysteria
The New York contingent here on campus (the place is crawlin’ with ’em) are usually a well-assimilated lot, leaping to one another’s defense when nettled like so many loyal lodge brothers.
But such was not the case this week, for dissension rose up in their midst during the late days of the pennant contention and has continued throughout the Series, with Giant and Dodger
By Jack Hynes
fans sneering and snarling at each other and both in turn curling up their respective lips to emit brackish batcalls at the haughty and aloof Yankee followers.
Cases of threatening letters, broken friendships and welshed bets have become rather common happenings among the Gotham crowd because of all this and fiery tempers are still rife. But all we can say is: “Whatever became of the Red Sox?”
Quote of the Week
Overheard in the library: “I want to take out this book, ‘Little Women,’ I have a friend who’s getting married to a midget.”
Letter of the Week
Anybody want a pen-pal? A lonesome young thing from New Rochelle College in New York who holds post office box 35 at that eastern counterpart of SMC, scripted a note to the holder of the same box number here at ND, hoping to start a little correspondence with, her fellow addressee.
The note, which has been passed along to us, goes thusly:
“Hello! You might think that this is awfully silly, but having lots of leisure time, funny thoughts run through my head and one of them is—who has my post office number at Notre Dame.
“Even though I am a New Yorker, I do get lonesome at college and love to receive mail. Please write and tell me a little about yourself and about Notre Dame. I’ve heard so much about it and would like so much to hear from a Notre Dame man.”
The holder of box 35 here on campus
and recipient of this tender epistle is a rather elderly and distinguished English prof, who, slightly abashed over the whole incident, has made it known that he is definitely not interested.
P.S.: The note is signed (get this, now) “Lollipops.” New Rochelle College, we salute you!
In Retort
Speaking of letters, we raised a quizzical eyebrow to one we read in the Letters to the Editor column of last week, in which four of the charmers from across the highway seek retraction of a few statements made by big, fat, ole me several weeks ago.
Since whispering in the ears of the new arrivals that the odds at the “tea” dances were stacked somewhere in the neighborhood of 10-1 against them, we have been regarded by the collegiate femme fatales as a heinous heretic long overdue at the stake.
The editors have courageously refused to back down to the growing rumbles of discontent, and neither will we. And in view of the latest revelation that the traditional weekly “tea” dances 'will be held but monthly, we are genuinely puzzled as to whether this change is meant to shorten or lengthen the aforesaid odds.
Until this unprecedented move is clarified, we stand humble and undaunted—tea bag in hand.
Bottom of the Week
. . . will soon be followed by four months of snow, rain, sleet and mud-
VOB MIU WMHMiCMMI
209 W. COLFAX AVE.
Paul Wehlan, Mgr.
RENT YOUR FORMALS FROM
and you will wear the latest in Style and Quality
Oct. 12, 1951
5
CalencCur
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
General Dentistry
Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building
Soum Bend By appointment Ph. 4-5661

OCTOBER 12
BADIN BOG—The biggest and most important pep rally of the season will get underway at 7:15 tonight with the band making its usual tour of the campus. The Pep Bally committee has lined up some leading sports figures to speak, and that alone should insure 100 percent attendance. Tomorrow’s the first big one. Let’s show the team we’re behind ’em.
PALACE (through Oct. 19)—What happens when an old alley cat inherits a fortune and a baseball team, is told in a comical sometimes tiresome film, Rhubarb (Legion of Decency Rating A-2) starring Ray Milland and Jan Sterling. The cat becomes the object of an eccentric millionaire’s affection and when the old gent goes down swinging, the cat collects all, including a baseball team. From then on it’s one unbelievable problem after another right through to the World Series and by that time the whole thing becomes rather stale. Regular readers of Jungle Jim will get an extra thrill from the show when they see their hero, played by Johnny Weissmuller, romp through 66 minutes of the co-feature, Jungle Manhunt.
GRANADA, (through Oct. 18)—A full house for the Saturday and Sunday matinees is assured with two westerns sharing the billing—Cattle Drive, (A-l) with Joel McCrea and boy wonder Dean Stockwell, and Mark of the Renegade, (A-2) starring Cyd Charisse and Ricardo Montalban. Both have plenty of scenery shots, both are in Technicolor and both are directed toward the juvenile mind.
OCTOBER 13
STADIUM—The first real test of the year will start at 2 p.m. with SMU providing the opposition. You never can go by what’s on paper when these two teams meet in what has become one of the great rivalries of intercollegiate football. Notre Dame has never beaten SMU by more than one touchdown; tomorrow we think they’ll beat ’em by at least two. But they’ll need all the help from the stands they can get.
DRILL HALL—The third Victory Dance of the season will get underway at 8:30 with dancing till 11 to the music of Gene Hull and his Lettermen. The usual privileges and restrictions will be in order and buses will run to and from St. Mary’s.
WASHINGTON HALL—Irene Dunne and Alec Guinness star in The Mudlark.
OCTOBER 17
AVON (through Oct. 30)—People Will Talk (B) is a witty comedy-drama which takes a crack at the gossip of the small town. Co-starring Jeanne Crain and Cary Grant, it is one of the better films to come out of Hollywood in recent months.
Nationally Advertised
WATCHES DIAMONDS GIFTS REPAIRING GUARANTEED 25
126 NO. MICHIGAN-^.!.
Special Student Rates For All Dances
Tuxedos, Full Dress Cutaways, White Gabardine Dinner Coats. Sizes: Boys’ 3 to Men’s 56; over 500 suits to choose from.
No deposit for N. D. Students
We invite you to come in and inspect our formal attire
LOGAN'S
107 North Main, South Bend, Ind. (In the Oliver Hotel Bldg.)
A
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
toria.ls'/
Vol. 93 October 12, 1951 No. 5
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor
JOHN J. POWERS
Associate Editor JOHN F. MEANEY
Managing Editor ROBERT G. FINNEY
DONALD J. CARBONE.................News
PATRICK CARRICO...........Assistant News RICHARD P. CODY...........Features
JACK R. VARLEY..................Sports
WILLIAM J. LONDO......Assistant Sports
WILLIAM H. FRASER..........Photography
LEON GARDNER.................Librarian
RONALD E. ZIER...............Advertising C. T. HULL...........Advertising
WILLIAM KERWIN.............Circulation
JOHN P. DEFANT........Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, As-. sociated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
, The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Ad-i dress all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre । Dame, Indiana.
No Room for Reds
Chicago newspapers last week carried an interesting story. It’s a little late and commenting on it isn’t really our direct concern—except that it might concern collegiate press in general. But here we are anyway.
The story concerned the editor of the student newspaper. Maroon, at the University of Chicago. It seems that this young man went off to the Youth Festival in East Berlin this summer and from there decided to continue his visit behind the infamous Curtain. In fact, he didn’t quite make it back for the beginning of the semester, o o
Authorities at the University of Chicago took a dim view of all this. In fact, they fired him. Their argument was that because of his Red tendencies he wasn’t fit to edit a free and independent American college newspaper.
Some of his staff members took a dim view of the University’s action. In fact they defiantly stated that they’d stay behind their absent hero and, if necessary, go to the student bodv for financial and moral support. That’s the last we heard of it, up to this writing, but it’s enough.
It is rather appalling when you stop to think of it. The designs of Soviet Russia should be obvious to everyone by now. And the aims and purposes of their American agents and sympathizers should be obvious to every American by now. Dissension, sabotage and revolution are the eventual plans for the United States under Uncle Joe’s master plan. The gentleman in question is'-ayetapd a graduate student. He should know the score. We can onlv assume that he does.'
But we’d guess that some of his wild-eyed supporters back home on the Midway —don’t know the score. There might have been some excuse for it six years ago, but not now. The communists have shown their hand now and there’s too much at stake to divide allegiance. Understand now, we’re not yelling “traitor” at all the kids on the Maroon staff who protested their editor’s ouster. But we do say that they’re acting foolishly.
There’s a difference between freedom of the press and the irresponsible disloyalty that has characterized the Red-tinged press in America. By protesting the University’s decision, these people have played right into the hands of those who have the worst interests of this nation at heart. And there’s no longer any place for this sort of thing on the campus of American colleges.
COVER: The day isn’t over at sundown for the men of The Student Voice in their studios not-so-high atop the Notre Dame Fieldhouse. When everyone else is settling down in his room or heading downtown, WND is just warming up for a busy evening. This is when the department heads, producers, announcers, writers, and engineers start jumping, and this is when the “live” shows start pumping through the steam tunnels. The “Story of Story-ville,” “Campus Digest,” and “Date at Eight” are the result of a lot of work behind those lighted rectangles. Our cover, then, is a tribute to the men who have made 1230 the favorite spot on the dial in eight out of ten campus rooms. For a long look at the history and layout of WND see page 22 of this issue.—Photo by Al Muth
Good Health? — Make Sure of It!
Assurance of your own good health is just about the best news you can hear— anytime. There’s no substitute for good health and there’s no excuse for not making sure you are in good health in this age of modern medical science. Which is the big reason why we suggest that you make sure you’re x-rayed on campus sometime next week.
The Tuberculosis League will set up its X-ray unit in the basement of the Dining Hall lobby again this year. It will be there for a week. It’ll be there as a service to the students and the University community as a whole. For a few cents and a few minutes you can make sure your lungs are in good shape. There’s no reason in the world for not taking advantage of this deal.
Probably your lungs are fine. But none of us has any absolute assurance unless we get an X-ray every year. TB has been just about licked in the early stage. If it’s caught in time it can be licked.
But it is still up to you to make sure they catch it. With the deal like this one on campus next week you can’t miss.
Oct. 12, 1951
How You
They’re the choice of the experts, these Van Heusen OXFORDS .. . season-after-season performers. So style -right... so rich-looking ... so perfect for that casual college air. Only Van Heusen Oxfords can boast such famous seamanship . . . such comfortin-action. Scout out some of these
Van Heusen Oxfords and score a touchdown for good looks on the campus!
Can Read
Better.
Faster^
Word Reading Is Slow and Tedious

If you read word by word .
dot by dot. . . you spend
American Oxfords
by Van Heusen
needless time and energy^
Van Heusen “the world’s smartest" shirts
Phillips-Jones Corp., New York 1, N. Y.
$4.50
Better Reading Is
Fast and Efficient
When you read by thought-units
. . . or bracket by bracket . . .
you not only
speed up reading but you also
obtain a clearer understanding

of what you read.
Its ADLER’S for
...VAN HEUSEN
On Michigan at the Bus Stop
Find out now how even fast read- ..	'
ers speed-up comprehension 100% yJ or more this easy way.	j
L
Ask for 16-page descriptive book- . y let, or better, visit our training center. There’s no cost or obliga- 1 ( tion.
LISTEN TO OUR CLASSICAL MUSIC CONCERT — 10:30 EVERY
NIGHT OVER WHOT	|
ir
FOUNDATION FOR % BETTER READING	I
114 E. LaSalle	3-0077 < |
8
The Scholastic
Notre Dame
VOLUME 93, NUMBER 5
OCTOBER 12, 1951
WND Schedules Four New Weekly Programs, Broadcasts Two Dances Tomorrow Evening
A special program schedule is planned by WND tomorrow night, as two dances of interest to campusites are to be held.
Chazz Schubert and Jack Hynes, who are scheduled to appear at all Saturday Student Council dances will be on hand at the dance at the Drill Hall, while the Ralph Martiere dance from the Palais Royale will be announced by Jerry Costello.
Four new programs took to the WND airwaves this week as the campus station increased its programming facilities under the direction of newly appointed program director Tom Knott.
The Campus Digest, which originated last semester in imitation of the CBS “Hear it Now” show run by Edward R. Murrow, will be handled this year by a new crew. Jim Runser and Jim Richmond will manage the chores of recording campus events for the show, while
CIRCLE AND FRESHMEN They Are Almost Orientated
the announcing end will be held up by Tom Finn. The show appears Tuesday at 8:45 p.m.
Jerry Costello, arranger for the Gene Hull Lettermen, is now appearing on his own WND program, “Musical Innovations,” which is broadcast every Tuesday at 7 p.m.
Modern but Mild
Jerry is expected to feature music on the modern side, but announces that he “doesn’t intend to go wild about it.” “The program’ll be mostly Shearing and that sort of thing,” he says.
Under the sponsorship of the campus La Raza Club, “Hit Tunes of Latin America,” a fifteen minute show, will be featured every Wednesday at 8:45. Don Rellins, the author of the show, says its aim will be to feature the tunes that are now popular in the Latin American countries.
Last among the WND newcomers is the “Gai Parisian Music Hall,” a transcribed feature which the local station has obtained from the French Broadcasting System. The program appears every Sunday at 7:30 and features recordings in French of popular numbers from both sides of the Atlantic.
Program director Knott remarks that the new acquisitions are subject to the approval of campus listeners. “We know that Jerry’s show and the Digest are popular with the ND audience be-, cause they went over so well in other years,” Knott points out.
“During the weeks to come,” the program director adds, “we intend to add more new programs and to subtract old ones until we’re sure we have the best lineup possible.”	'
Blue Circle Conducts Last Study Seminar
The Blue Circle educational committee, under the direction of Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., and in conjunction with the Freshman orientation program is currently conducting a series of academic discussions.
The last of three such discussions is scheduled for next Thursday night in each of four Freshman halls. Breen-Phillips Hall will accommodate Commerce students, Farley and St. Ed’s will house the Engineering and Science students and Arts and Letters students will gather in Zahm Hall.
Co-chairmen of the Blue Circle educational committee are Tom Morsch, a junior political science major in Arts and Letters, and Fred Hartman, Senior accounting major in the College of Commerce.
The seminar consists of an introductory talk by the panel chairmen concerning study habits, use of the library and its branches, and the department of testing and guidance. The floor is then thrown open for questions by the students and their questions are answered by members of the panel.
All seminars start at 7:15 pan. in the hall study rooms.
The seminars were successfully initiated by the Blue Circle last year.
Oct. 12, 1951
9
Rago, Hungary's Frank Merriwell, Teaches Management, Water Polo to Commerce Men
By NEIL SCARLETT
The gentleman who first uttered the phrase “jack-of-all-trades” must have been thinking of Notre Dame’s Professor Louis Rago when he originated this oft-used saying. For Mr. Rago, an assistant professor in the College of Commerce, boasts the distinction of being an author, diplomat, teacher, student, and champion athlete, all in one.
A newcomer to the University, the 28-year-old native son of Hungary is now engaged in a research project leading to a Ph.D. degree in management, in addition to teaching principles of business and production management. Prior to coming to Notre Dame, he was a visiting professor in industrial management at Valparaiso (Ind.) University.
Mr. Rago, the recipient of five degrees, atteded Piaristo gymnasium in his homeland, and later graduated from the Hunfalvy College of Commerce at the University of Budapest. He also was a graduate student for one year in the school of business and economics.
During World War II the Hungarian government assigned him to then* consulate in Munich, Germany. In addition to his diplomatic duties Mr. Rago studied at the University of Munich Institute of Technology, where he received his master degree in industrial management.
Doctorate at Munich
When Germany overran his native land in the spring of 1944, he became a teacher at the University of Munich. While there he completed his doctoral dissertation, and it was accepted just two days before General Patton and his Third Army took over the city.
Mr. Rago continued his studies with a fellowship of the Alliance Francaise at the universities of Strasburg and Paris. In Paris, he was a member of the Hungarian legation. But when the communist subversion of his government compelled him to resign this post, he became a methods engineer for the Renault Automobile Corporation and taught at Lingua Vox Institute. Mr. Rago completed his tour of European schools by spending a summer at the University of Zurich, in Switzerland.
In 1948, with an already impressive educational background, he came to the United States under the provisions of a University of Chicago scholarship. It
was there that he received the master of business administration degree. Following his stay in the “Windy City,” he resumed his teaching as a professor of management at the University of Toledo, where he remained as an instructor until last year.
Author, Athlete, Storyteller
Mr. Rago is also an author of considerable recognition. While in Germany he published a series of articles on the problems of production management. Since coming to the United States, he has written a Management Syllabus and An Introductory Analysis. The latter was used as a text in his management classes at Toledo.
PROF. LOUIS RAGO
Seventh University for Him
The versatile Mr. Rago lists swimming and water polo as his favorite hobbies. However, his attraction for the aquatic sports can hardly be termed “pastimes,” for he was a letterman in swimming at the University of Chicago and five times was a member of the National A.A.U. water polo championship team.
In speaking of the position that athletics hold in an educational system, he contends that “sports are all right for physical development, but you must know something about business also.” To emphasize this fact, he cites an occurrence that he experienced while teaching at Toledo U. “One of my students,” says Professor Rago, “had been bragging about being such an excellent swimmer. Well, on the first
quiz, this boy got a poor grade, so I spoke to him after class. The boy ap- J peared somewhat indignant and said to me, ‘You may know more about this course than I do, but I bet I’m a bet- -ter swimmer.’ So, I suggested a match, -with him deciding the distance we should swim.” If you ask Mr. Rago how the race came out, he will reply with a blushing smile, “I beat him by v four lengths.” The fellow eventually turned out to be an “A” student. ?
In comparing the collegiate athletic scenes in the United States and Europe Mr. Rago states, “Here, the students . have a fortunate experience to go “ through school with so many fine facili- ; ties. European athletics, as developed in colleges and universities, are far be- = hind the United States, and hence most ;;; of the boys must turn to private clubs ; for recreation.”
Since becoming a member of the Notre Dame family this year, Mr. Rago £ . says that he has been highly impressed j. by the “beauty of the campus and the ¥ fine attitude of the students.” He hopes g to remain at the University as a teach- ? er and eventually write a few books, & especially those that are needed in edu- t-cation. But, in his own words, his	P
greatest aspiration is “to be a good	I
teacher and a friend of the students.”
Bishop Noll Main Speaker
At Holy Hour in South Bend j
Notre Dame students are invited to 'S participate in an Eucharistic Holy Hour S to take place at School Field, South Bend, this Sunday. Most Rev. John F. Noll, bishop of the diocese of Fort Wayne, will be the principal speaker. S
The devotions will begin at 2:30 p.m. g.’ with a procession led by the Knights g of Columbus. All of the parishes in S the South Bend deanery will participate. J
Students from Notre Dame and St. g Mary’s are invited to come and express g publicly their devotion to Christ in the S Eucharist.	g
Dr. Daniel Pedtke,	director	of	the	£
University Glee Club	will lead	the	|
Eucharistic Chorus in	religious	hymns	3
during the sacred music period.	|
“Response for this October’s adora- | tion has been the finest in recent years,” | said the Rev. Richard Grimm, C.S.C.,	|
prefect of religion. “Great blessings I are bound to come on the students and | the University because of this.”	I
A wide selection of daily missals is g still being offered at the student chap- I Iain’s offices. Students are urged to I take advantage of this offer and to 1 begin the most advantageous way of I participating in and understanding the 1 mass.	§
The Scholastic 1
10
Navy Announces Exam for College Program, Names Notre Dame as Area Testing Center
| The Navy announced recently that the sixth nation-wide competitive exam-U	ination for its College Training Pro-
j”	gram has been scheduled for Dec. 8,
1951, and will be open to high school seniors or graduates within the age requirements.
Successful candidates will be given a four-year college education at government expense and will be commissioned as officers of the Navy or Marine Corps upon graduation.
The University of Notre Dame has f' been chosen as an examination center. The competitive examination will be given on the assigned date, Dec. 8, v from 7:45 a.m. to 12 noon in the Engineering Building Auditorium.
The program is open to male citizens of the United States between the ages of 17 and 21, and quotas have been assigned to each state and territory on the basis of its high school ■* population.
Those who are successful in passing the aptitude test will be interviewed ' and given physical examinations; then, if they are found in all respects qualified, their names will be submitted to state and territorial Selection Committees composed of prominent citizens and j naval officers.
The Navy expects to enter about 2,000 students into the program commencing -with the fall term of college, 1952.
Government Pays All
The students selected by these com-, petitive examinations will be assigned to the 52 Naval Reserve Officers’ Train-- ing Corps units which are located in various universities and colleges in the United States. If accepted by the college, they will be appointed Midship-’’ men, USNR, and will have their tuition, books, and normal fees paid for by the Government. In addition they will receive pay at the rate of $50 per month for the four-year period.
Upon graduation they may be commissioned as officers in the Regular Navy or Marine Corps and required to serve on active duty for three years. At the end of this time they may apply for retention in the Regular Navy or Marine Corps, or transfer to the Reserve and, depending upon the needs of the Service, return to civilian life.
Applications are made available at high schools, colleges, and Naval Recruiting Stations. At Notre Dame they
may be obtained at the Naval ROTC Office, University Drill Hall.
Notre Dame students who are interested should see Captain Thomas F. Conley, Jr., USN, professor of naval science, in the Drill Hall to obtain specific information about the program, the competitive examination, the method of making application, and the specific age and scholastic qualifications.
Marines Accept PLC, OCS Candidates Now
Major Andrew M. Zimmer, USMC, instructor in the Naval Science Department, has announced the initiation of immediate procurement of candidates for the Marine Corps officer candidate course and platoon leaders class. It has been the custom in previous years to enroll candidates in February, but recent correspondence with Marine officials has sanctioned the change.
MAJOR A. M. ZIMMER, USMC Sign on the Dotted Line
Eligibility requirements which have to be fulfilled for the officer candidate courses are as follows:
a)	be a citizen of the United States;
b)	be a senior in good standing or have received a degree;
c)	be over 20 and not more than 27 years of age on July 1, 1952;
d)	pass the U. S. Naval Academy physical examination.
Candidates for this program will at
tend a ten-week training course at Parris Island, S. C., shortly after graduation, and will proceed to Quantico, Va., to attend Officers’ Basic school. Upon completion of the course at Parris Island, the candidates will receive their commissions.
PLC for Undergrads
Men interested in the platoon leaders class must have the following requirements for eligibility:
a)	be a Freshman, Sophomore, or Junior in a four-year course;
b)	be over 17 years of age now and not more than 25 on July 1, in the year in which they are eligible for commission;
c)	be a citizen of the United States;
d)	pass the U. S. Naval Academy physical examination.
Two separate summer training camps, each six-week periods, will be attended by the candidates of this course, following enrollment. Candidates will be commissioned after graduation.
Enrollment in either of the Marine programs implies immediate draft exemption for all candidates.
Commissions in the Marine Corps Reserve are granted to all men enrolled in the above programs, and they have the opportunity for active service and commissioning in the regular Marine Corps.
Details can be obtained by contacting Major Zimmer in the Navy Drill Hall or by calling 297.
Classes Sponsor V-Dances; Juniors First, Then Seniors
Beginning tomorrow evening, each class will sponsor a victory dance in the Notre Dame drill hall. The Junior Class will give Saturday’s dance after the Southern Methodist game.
The Seniors will work on the one following the Purdue contest on Oct. 27. The Sophomore and Freshman classes will be in charge of the festivities after the Iowa game.
Although they will still be designated as “Student Council Dances,” the different classes will handle all of the work connected ■with running them.
This plan is intended to give an impetus to the idea of decorating the drill hall for dances. The Student Council allots a certain sum of money for decorations for each affair. Presumably the decorations will have a football motif.
Gene Hull and his lettermen are contracted to supply the music for each dance. The usual permissions have been granted.
Oct. 12, 1951
Student Life at Notre Dame Gets New Twist; University Principal Joins Toiling Masses
in practical training for construction and he was formerly a Lecturer at the County Technical College in Stafford.
In pursuing his studies, he has visited Lourdes, Lisieux, and Assisi.
By PAT CARRICO
Italy and Ireland are also among those countries which he has visited
Campus nomads who sit around and dream of places where they can spend the next weekend will find an appreciative personality in the form of Ka-dankairl Chacko Chacko — just plain Chacko to you.
Chacko, 37, gave up a year with his family and friends in Palai, India, a position as acting Principal of Maharaja’s Technological Institute in Tri-chur, and a summer wardrobe, to come to Notre Dame—a 12,000-mile trip.
From the looks of his time schedule, it would appear that he had even had heavenly intervention in preparing his trip to Notre Dame.
He left Bombay, the nearest port of embarkation from Palai, on Aug. 15, feast of Our Lady’s Assumption, and very appropriately set foot on the Notre Dame campus on Sept. 8, feast of the Nativity of Our Lady. It might seem that Chacko travelled pretty slow in coming to the United States, but actually his trip was quite the contrary. He had a unique experience.
After boarding a plane in Bombay at 2 p.m., he landed in Rome the next morning in time to serve 9 o’clock Mass in St. Peter’s Basilica, the prince of the world’s cathedrals. He was then given a special audience with His Holiness, Pope Pius XII, in the Pope’s private chamber and he received the Papal Blessing. It was here that he broadcast a special message to India over the Vatican radio, and is believed to be the first Indian layman ever to do so.
While in Rome, he gave the Holy Father a complimentary copy of his latest book, Sister Alphonso. After that, he flew to the United States.
Beatification Nears
At present, preparations are being made for the preliminary steps in the canonization of Sister Alphonso, a native of Chacko’s home town, Palai, where she died in 1946 at the age of 36.
Palai, a little village of approximately 10,000 inhabitants, is about 95 percent Catholic. St. Thomas the Apostle is believed to have converted the forefathers of Chacko and his village neighbors. Although the fact of St. Thomas’ presence and work among the inhabitants there is based purely on tradition, there is no evidence' to the contrary. Our small, jovial author commands the unique honor of being
the only biographer of Sister Alphonso whose work is printed in English, and it is partially upon his work that the process of canonization is being constructed.
But his biography of the nun, -whose name is among the ranks of those about to be beatified, is not confined to English. It appears in five other languages; Konkani, Tamil, Hindi, German, and French.
KADANKAIRL CHACKO CHACKO .
He Stoops to Classwork
In the French edition of the book, Cardinal Clement Rogues, Archbishop of Rennes, has written the preface in appreciation of his task. He obtained added permission to publish it in Swahili (East African), Spanish, Sienhal-ese (language of Ceylon), Maltese, and
’ Italian.
He hasn’t stopped there, however. Jesus For Children, Practical Imitation of Christ, and Social Life in England, are among others which he has published.
Don’t ever think that publishers get
in ■ a rut. Writing books is just one of Chacko’s features. He holds a Master’s' degree in Mathematics, and has an Honors degree in Civil Engineering. He is a chartered engineer at the Indian Institute of Engineers in addition to his position as Principal at the University of Travancore.
Lecturer in Stafford
One year has been spent in England
and it was w'hile in Ireland that he had a special audience with Eamon de Valera, Prime Minister of southern Ireland.
Besides wanting to see America, he came to study Amei'ican educational methods and to familiarize himself with the modern processes employed in the construction of dams, irrigation wrorks and concrete structures.
Of Notre Dame particularly, he says: “I am gratified to see the number of Communions on campus every day. And the great facilities for confession and Communion are unique in my experience. I wish and pray that all Notre Dame men might profit by them.”
As a Fulbright Scholar, he has been selected by the Board of Foreign Scholars in Washington and through the Educational Foundation in India to attend Notre Dame under the terms stipulated by the Fulbright Committee — to promote international student relationships on a mutual basis.
In June, he will leave Notre Dame and visit some friends before returning home in October to resume his position as Principal of Maharaja’s Technological Institute in Trichur and to do further social work with his experiences acquired in the United States.
Half and Half
Chacko admits that he will be glad to see his family once again. Besides being one of a family of 15 children, he now has six of his owm. Adhering to the old adage that “variety is the spice of life,” he has been blessed with i three boys and three girls.	5
However, in order to break the | monotony of the situation, he has man- | aged to have them alternately — one boy and then one girl until the line of i six has been completed.	|
Chacko is proud indeed, but yet he | possesses the qualities of a true man I in being modest when speaking of his 1 six children. His uncle had 22.	1
IRISH PLAYERS
The Young Ireland Theatre Company, scheduled for Washington Hall on Tuesday and Wednesday, Oct. 16-17, has been forced to cancel its engagement because of severe illness among members of the cast.
12	The Scholastic |
Schedules Released For 5-Day Navy Trip
A special train leaving the St. Mary’s siding at 5:30 p.m. Oct. 31, will take Notre Dame Student-Trippers to Washington, D. C., and from there to Baltimore to witness the annual ND-Navy football game.
The train will bear them to Cumberland, Md., where the students will attend 7:30 mass at St. Patrick’s Church on All Saints Day. The journey will be resumed at 9 o’clock the same morning and the group will arrive at the Union Station in Washington a little after noontime.
Reservations will be made for all who wish them at the Annapolis Hotel in Washington. Only three-night reservations can be made. People going on the trip will have the balance of Thursday, Friday, and Sunday morning to see the nation’s capital. Conducted tours will be available from the hotel.
Saturday at 11 o’clock the crowd will leave Washington for Baltimore, Md. After the game trains will take them back to the capital. The Notre Dame Special will leave Sunday afternoon at 1 o’clock and get all the exhausted fans back in time for 8 o’clock classes Monday morning.
Excused Cuts Friday
Only those making the official student trip will be excused from classes Friday. However, classes will not be held on Thursday and Saturday.' All those under 21 must have their parents’ permission and be cleared by a note from their rector. A football ticket will not be sold except with a round-trip railroad ticket.
Broken down into particulars, the cost
of the trip is as follows: Train Fare .....................$32.39
Hotel Reservations (3 nights).... 9.95
Two Meals on Train .............. 3.60
Bus Transfer to Hotel ..............41
Football Ticket ...............   4.75
Miscellaneous ..................    25
$51.35
Tickets will be on sale in the Dining Hall Basement from noon to 1 p.m. on the following days: Seniors, Oct. 16; Juniors, Oct. 17; Sophomores, Oct. 18; Freshmen, Oct. 19. There is a limited number of tickets available.
The Student Trip Committee, headed by Bill Lewis and Frank Reagan, is formulating plans for a tea dance to be held at one of the Washington girls’ colleges Friday afternoon. The Notre Dame Alumni of Washington, D. C., are planning a dance for Saturday evening.
Sophs Invite Juniors and Seniors to Dance To Al Trace's Music at Cotillion Next Friday
Many Sophomores have already gotten their bids to the “Southern Serenade,” priced at $6, and their Purdue game tickets, Cotillion chairmen Jerry Sheehan and Walter Vaughan have announced.
Now Juniors and Seniors too will get their opportunity to hear the Oct. 26 stylings of Al Trace and his orchestra. Also they may get pairs of
AL TRACE This Is Everybody’s Darling?
special Cotillion tickets to the otherwise sold-out Irish-Boilermaker contest.
The 1951 Cotillion committee is offering a special feature — a free bid to the lucky fellow who guesses the identity of the “Cotillion Gal.” A St. Mary’s belle well known in Notre Dame activities is playing the part of this woman of mystery. WND is carrying her voice every day at 12:30, 7, and 9:30 p.m.; her masked pictures are at various spots on the campus.
Another special for Cotillion-goers is a Sunday morning Communion breakfast after the Cotillion Mass in Sacred Heart Church. Two campus notables and a master of ceremonies will speak at the breakfast.
The first 70 tickets for two were sold at $2 apiece; the others are selling for $3. The Student Council is making up the difference on the 70 tickets to help the students cut down on expenses for the weekend.
Music by Al Trace
Providing the “Southern Serenade” for the fall semester’s major social event will be Al Trace and his orchestra. Billed as “The Happiest Band in the Land,” Trace and company have
written and recorded several top hits including You Call Everybody Darling and Pretty-Eyed Baby. They feature as singers beautiful Lola Ameche, Carmen Dello, and Frankie Raymond.
Since he started in 1933, Trace has played in many of the country’s top night spots. Just two weeks ago, he ended a 22-week stand at Chicago’s Martinique restaurant.
He is best known for his rhythmic stylings though he plays much sweet, danceable music. In keeping with the Southern background and the formal atmosphere, he will play mostly the slower variety for the Cotillion.
For those fellows who intend to bring girls from out of town, a few rooms still may be reserved for the nights of Oct. 26 and 27. In each Sophomore hall, two men whose names and addresses are on the bulletin board, have a list of available private residences.
Also if a Cotillion-goer wants to rent a tux, he can see any of three men — Ed Connors or Mike Laughlin in Cavanaugh or Warren Golden in Morrissey.
Engineers Draw Up Plans for Nov. 16 Ball
On Friday evening, Nov. 16, the men from the long building on the southeast corner of the campus will allow their books to collect dust for a few hours while they enjoy an evening of dancing at the 1951-52 Engineers’ Ball.
Co-chairmen for the Ball will be Roger O’Hara and Pete Skerrett.
At this writing plans were not complete but a tentative list of activities for the weekend has been releas°d.
At the head of the list is the dance, tentatively set for the Indiana Club with the music of Gene Hull. Saturday afternoon there will be a “radio party’’ (also tentative) at the Erskine Country Club with a buffet lunch, dancing, and radios to enable all attending to keep tab on the Notre Dame-. North Carolina game. Saturday night the Student Council dance wall be on as usual.
A very different and eye-catching poster will soon be out carrying more pertinent information.	.
The approach of this dance is especially brought to the attention of the freshmen, for it is the only major dance of the fall semester that they may attend.
Oct. 12, 1951
Growing NFCCS Unit Here Seeks Better Cooperation Among Campus Organizations
When the Blue Circle conducted its “student welcome” program for the Freshmen not long ago, many of the campus organizations set up tables in the Fieldhouse to answer the questions of any interested Frosh.
One booth that received considerable attention was the one labeled “NFCCS.” The new ND men wanted to know: What is it? What does it do? Why? Who can join? What does the student get out of it? Many an upperclassman, too, exposed for years to those five letters and what they stand for, is still in the dark.
Really “National’
It all started back in 1937, when students at Catholic colleges and Universities in the New York area got fed up with their own little isolated scholastic existence and decided to do something about it. Representatives of the student bodies of these schools, realizing the need of some kind of unity on • the student level among the various colleges and within the colleges themselves, created an organization which they optimistically named the National Federation of Catholic College Students.
With the assistance of the NCWC Youth Department, to which it affiliated itself, the NFCCS soon did become a
CAMPUS NFCCS COUNCIL From Isolation to Cooperation
national organization; today it includes practically all the Catholic colleges and universities in the United States, and has a membership of well over 200,000 students.
If you are a lay undergraduate student at Notre Dame, you are also, automatically, a member of NFCCS.
The Federation is divided in two ways: according to regions and according to commissions. When the students of a college, through their student government, affiliate with NFCCS, they work closely with nearby schools in what is called a region. Notre Dame is a member school of the Fort Wayne Region.
A commission is like a nation-wide club; it unites all the campus organizations which are concerned with some subject of general interest — such as industrial relations, Mariology, or student government — to help each group in its work, and to coordinate its activities with those of similar groups (without infringing upon the club’s autonomy or its individual activities).
Set Up Chapters Here
There are 14 national commissions in all: Catholic Action Study, Confraternity of Christian Doctrine, Liturgy, Mariology, and Missions, in the reli
gious field; Student Government, Press, Radio, and Forensics, involving student affairs; Industrial Relations, Interracial Justice. Social Service, and Family Life, j for social improvement; and International Relations.	?
At Notre Dame, where several or- j ganizations may fit into the same cate-gory, chapters have been formed to en- y able these groups to coordinate their common interests. The Apostolic and -i International Relations chapters were set up here last year, while press and science chapters are in the planning ?
Affiliated clubs and chapters have a voice on the campus NFCCS council — headed by a “senior delegate” (Al DeCrane) and a “junior delegate” (Paul Zalecki) who are appointed from the student body and represent the students in regional and national matters. The council’s purpose is to decide over-all campus NFCCS policy and projects, subject to approval of the Student Council.
But suppose a student isn’t a member of a club related to a commission — just what NFCCS activities are there for him?
In the past, there has been the annual two-day Mardi Gras Carnival, which (with the exception of last year when a special Student Council-appointed committee took charge) has been managed by the local NFCCS.
Proceeds from the charity affair have been devoted to foreign student relief, and a part of profits from the 1950 pre-Lenten carnival were used to set up the campus Charity Chest.
Most of the carnival booths are run by the social clubs, and all students can take part in the affair.
Place for All
Last year’s May Day candlelight ceremony, conducted by the Apostolic Chapter, enlisted the participation of a majority of the students.
This year the NFCCS Council will attempt to hold several other activities in which all students may participate. One under consideration is a series of “town meetings” at which a faculty member and a student panel would discuss some current topic of general interest, enlivened by questions from the student audience.
Since the NFCCS is not another social organization, but rather a federation of students designed to cooi’dinate and promote activities of interest and importance to the student, it is concerned primarily with those whose chief aim in college is becoming a better-informed Catholic layman. NFCCS was created by such students for such students.
The Scholastic
14
Latin American Studies Group Inaugurates Plans for Panel Discussions and Debates
The committee in charge of the Pro' gram of Latin American Studies has |	formulated plans for a series of panel
’	discussions during the 1951-52 scho-
lastic year, in which four members of the faculty or visiting professors will jointly discuss current problems affecting the countries south of the Rio Grande.
The panel for the First Quarter ' will take for its topic: “Latin America in the Face of the Threat of PresentDay Communist Aggression.” The participants in this first panel will be Professors Walter Langfoi’d of the Department of Modern Languages, James Llorens and Thomas E. Downey of the / Department of History, and John Kennedy of the Department of History will be the chairman of the meeting which will be held in the Engineering Auditorium, Monday evening, Oct. 15, at 8 p.m.
Professor Downey will be the first speaker on the topic, “The Influence of Native Cultural Movements.” Professor Llorens, who recently received his doctorate in Spanish History from Harvard University, will discuss “The Spirit of Hispanidad.” Professor Kennedy, who comes to Notre Dame after ' several years of teaching at the University of Porto Rico will talk on “The Idea of Freedom in Latin America.” Each of these speakers will be limited to 15 minutes in opening the discussion from his particular aspect. After that, the meeting will be open to questions and arguments from the floor, as well as between the members ’ of the panel.
In organizing these quarterly panel discussions, the Committee of the Program of Latin American Studies hopes to allow the students interested in Latin American studies, from a business or professional approach, to promote their ideas about the program of studies and the particular emphasis the Notre Dame program should take.
The program is not a separate department, but has endeavored under the guidance of the members of the Committee to allow students in the Colleges of Arts and Letters, Commerce, and Law, interested in Latin America to increase their knowledge of the history, the culture, and the economic and business conditions of the countries to the south. Already there are students in the Colleges of Arts and Letters, Commerce, and the Graduate School following classes in the program.
The addition of Professor Kennedy, of the Department of Political Science to the program this year will give added importance to that part of the program intended to train students interested in the Foreign Service in Central or South America.
The members of the committee in charge, besides Mr. Kennedy include Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., of the Department of History as chairman, Mr. Edmund Smith, Assistant Dean of the College of Commerce, Mr. Downey, Mr. Llorens and Mr. Langford.
Mr. Edward F. Barrett of the College of Law, and Mr. Archie J. Mac-Alpin of the College of Science, are also assisting in the program.
University Theater Conducts Tryouts for Next Production
The University Theater announces tryouts for Old Heidelberg, the second play of the 1951-52 season.
Tryouts will be held Thursday and Friday, Oct. 18 and 19, from 3 until 5 p.m. in 327 Main Building. There will be opportunities for approximately 25 acting roles and an equal number of singing roles.
The musical play, which should prove an interesting addition to the repertoire of the University Theater, will be produced by Mr. W. J. Eisen with the assistance of Prof. Daniel Pedtke and the Department of Music. Mr. Leonard .Sommer will direct the play and Mr. John Tumpane will design all settings.
All interested in appearing in this
“No Sooner Do I Sit Down to Study at 10:30 Than They Turn Lights Out."
production are urged to come to the tryouts at the scheduled times. Those interested in becoming members of the chorus or orchestra should contact Mr. Pedtke and make all arrangements with him. .
Ex-Scholastic Editor Writes New Column
Pfc. Robert Stock, Notre Dame alumnus and former Scholastic Editor is now a self-appointed columnist for The Catholic Universe Bulletin, official Diocesan publication in Cleveland, Ohio.
Stock, campus editor- in ’49 and a graduate of the class of ’50, sends his weekly column from Darmstady, Germany, where he is now stationed in the Occupational Forces.
The context of his column is composed of the usual picture of grime and gripe which accompanies army life.
A typical example of his spice is recorded in the Sept. .21 issue of the. Bulletin. Speaking of the Basic training, he says: “As the training progresses, so do the blisters on your feet. Marches down long, dusty roads are gradually extended until you can walk for hours at a time, toting enough stuff to start an Army-Navy store. After that comes a graduation ceremony where the commanding general struggles valiantly to find something nice to say about your company, and it’s all over.”
He also speaks very favorably of the highly mechanized artillery which the army uses: “With each weapon, you learn how it' works and what special job it can do . . . the ‘special job’ part is important. The grease gun, for instance, is nice to have when you’ve got a mob of uglies charging right down on top of you. It fires a stream of .45 calibre bullets that’ll knock a man flat no matter where he’s hit. But for long-range firing it’s useless.”
Stock is a native of Cleveland.
Grid Tickets Still Available For Pitt, Iowa, USC Games
With the ND grid campaign well under way, Bob Craig at the Ticket Office was able to report late last week that the contest at Pittsburgh, Oct. 20, is nearly a sellout. Only 500 tickets were available at the Ticket Office, while only 4,000 ducats remained at Pittsburgh.
Approximately 12,000 tickets were available for the Iowa game, Nov. 24, and a number were' still on sale for the following week’s contest at Southern California, Dec. 1.
Oct. 12, 1951
15
International Relations Committee Famous For Books, Symposia, Professor Exchange
By FRANK JACKMAN
be added to the Committee’s ever-growing accomplishments.
Meanwhile European universities have reaped the benefits of study under experts from Notre Dame, such as Dr. Gurian, Professor Fitzsimons, Professor Shanahan, and Dr. Hermens.
You walk by a bulletin-board some afternoon and a bulletin catches your eye. You look at it. It begins, “The Committee on International Relations Presents ...” You look at the lecturers: foreign names: Kertesz, de Jouvenel, Arendt; impressive degrees: from Budapest, Paris, Vienna. You wonder, shrug your shoulders, and move on.
If you had ever followed up your wonderment, you would have found out that the Committee on International Relations was conceived and born in the minds of three men of Notre Dame in the summer of 1949. Those three were Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of the University, Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., then Director of Studies, and Dr. Waldemar Gurian, internationally known expert on political science and professor of political science here.
Father Cavanaugh succeeded in interesting the famed Rockefeller Foundation into subscribing to their idea. The Foundation presented them with a grant (for three years) of .$69,000 which was to be matched by the University.
The embryo Committee’s activities were to be two-fold: to do important research into the field of international relations, and to organize and promote lectures for the enlightenment and education of the public. In doing so, the Committee has brought many eminent scholars to Notre Dame.
Bring Many Experts Here
Some of the men — and women — of learning that it has brought to the campus are: Prof. Bernard Brodie of Yale, expert on American Foreign and Military Policy; Prof. J. K. Galbraith of Harvard, authority on the Marshall Plan; Prof. H. R. Butterfield of Cambridge, England, author of Christianity and History; Prof. Josef Pieper of the University of Munster, specialist in the ethical side of foreign policy and international relations; Miss Hannah Arendt, author of The Origins of Totalitarianism; and Prof. Philip Mosely of Columbia’s Russian Institute.
This last-named expert is widely known outside of strictly scholastic circles, due to the publication of her book this March. The Saturday Review of Literature said, about the work, “This book, in which each page bears witness to the author’s lucid intelligence and power of provocative analysis, will
16
amply repay the careful reader.”
On the research side of the ledger, the committee has organized a number of important symposia. Among these were: Ethics, Law, and Power Politics; The Catholic Church and World Affairs; Soviet Union, Background, Ideology and Reality.
Several interesting and informative discussion seminars, too numerous to mention, have also been held.
PROF. STEPHEN KERTESZ
Thursday, on the New Russian Empire .
Write Books on Symposia
Like any ordinary American History 22 student, the scholars associated with the Committee have research papers to do. Thus far, two books have come from this research and the symposia. They are: Europe, Between Democracy and Anarchy, by Dr. F. A. Hermens; The Soviet' Union, Background, Ideology, Reality, a symposium, edited by Dr. Gurian.
Still another activity of the busy Committee is the exchange teacher agreement with prominent European universities. This arrangement has brought to Notre Dame such outstanding men of learning as Professor Josef Pieper of Munster, leading German Thomistic Philosopher and Professor J. B. Duroselle, Dean of Arts and Letters at the University of the Saar-brucken (see Sept. 28 Scholastic).
Two more books, Bolshevism by Dr. Gurian and Democracy by Professor Mario Einaudi of Cornell, are in the formative stage, but will probably soon
Experienced Personnel
Of course the Committee would not run smoothly without competent personnel. The work and overall effects of the group testify to their competency. They are: Dr. Gurian, chairman; Dr. Hermens; Mr. Stephen Kertesz of the Department of Political Science; and Professors William O. Shanahan and Matthew A. Fitzsimons of the Department of History.
Dr. Michael Pap, a Ukrainian displaced person with a degree of Doctor of Philosophy from the University at Heidelberg, is special research assistant to the Committee. He is eminently fitted for the task as he speaks over six languages—English, German, Hungarian, Ukrainian, Russian, and most other Slavic tongues.
The latest activities of the Committee are a series of discussions on Communism in Theory and Practice and three lectures on Pan-Slavism by Professor Hans Kohn of City College of New York. Pan-Slavism, an early nineteenth century, organizational and cultural influence on the Slavic peoples has once again been on the upsurge due to Russian imperialism.
Communism Discussion Thursday
The first of the discussions on Communism—“Establishment and development of the Communist Power in Russia”—was held last night, with Dr. Gurian as discussion leader.
Next Thursday, at 8 p.m. in the Rockne Memorial Lounge, Mr. Kertesz will lead the second of the series of discussions, on the topic “How the Soviet Union Organized Its Satellite Empire.”
Everyone is welcome to attend the four remaining discussions on Communism—Oct. 18, 25, Nov. 8, 15 at 8 o’clock in the Rockne Lounge.
Through such activities, the Notre Dame Committee on International Relations lives up to the standard set for it in the charter of the group:
To organize research and to publish the results and to foster the teaching and study of international ••elations. Particular attention will be paid to the influences of religious forces, ideologies and movements.
—In a word, to foster the spirit of cooperation in world affairs and to thereby make the world a better place to livejn;^'
The Scholastic
Student Chemists Hear Talk By Kneisley at Next Meeting
Dr. J. W. Kneisley of the Hercules Powder Co. will speak at the next regular meeting Oct. 18 of the Notre Dame Student Affiliate of the American Chemical Society.
Here to conduct job interviews, Dr. Kneisley will talk on “What Industry Expects of the College Graduate.”
Other items to be discussed at the meeting are organization of bowling and basketball teams, scheduling of plant trips, and participation in the Science Ball.
About 40 students and eight faculty members attended an organization smoker in Chemistry Hall last week. Two movies, a short on the wartime uses of somar and radar and a color cartoon, were shown, and refreshments were served.
Similar events are planned during the coming months.
Campus Radio Station Opens Doors to Public
Once again this football weekend, the campus radio station is throwing open its doors in a Saturday afternoon “open house,” so that visitors can examine the Fieldhouse studios while the station is operating at top capacity, with Jim Gannon and Bob Dougherty broadcasting the football scores from all over the nation.
“Unlike the ‘open house’ which got the season underway over the Indiana weekend, this WND program will be carefully planned,” said Mickey Carroll, publicity chief, “and visitors can count on getting a comprehensive view of the student voice in action.”
Visitors will be met at the door by staff members and escorted into Studio A, where a number of exhibits demonstrating the station’s methods of programming will be featured. Chief engineer Ted Byrne also announces that there will be several technical exhibits on hand, including, if possible, an oscilloscope on which visitors may see the patterns of their own voice waves.
In cooperation with program director Tom Knott, Byrne also plans an exhibit which will spotlight the programs over the campus station which are sponsored by local merchants.
A full view and explanation of the technical equipment, including the transmitter which may one day carry WND’s programs to the St. Mary’s campus, is also planned.
As in past weeks an amplifier will broadcast Saturday afternoon’s “Football Scoreboard” out the window to the area in front of the Fieldhouse Studios.
Hall Presidents and Councilmen Elected; First Job Will Be Publicizing X-Ray Test
The second functional step in the formation of an active hall council system was taken last night as each hall elected a president from its three or four different floor candidates.
The election of floor representatives on the evening of Oct. 4 in the thirteen undergraduate -residence halls was the first step in the process.
Jim Manion, vice-president of the Student Council, who is in charge of the hall council elections, announced that the first practical service to be rendered by the hall council system will be the distribution of pamphlets concerning the forthcoming tuberculosis X-ray tests which will be available on campus.
Floor Representatives
Following is a list of floor representatives elected in the various halls on Oct. 4. Following each man’s name is -the number of the floor he represents.
Senior hall representatives: Sorin: Jerry Soden (basement), Henry Pre-Ian (1), Joe O’Brien (2), Brian Duff (3); Alumni: Joe Byrne (1), Roland Cahlbeck (2), Phil Meyer (3); Walsh: Larry Lopena (1), John Moran (2), Matt Duggan (3), John Economou (4).
Junior hall representatives: Badin: John Cox (2), Jim Blackburn (3), Dick Harvey (4); Howard: Armand Deatrick (1), Jim Noonan (2), Justin Davis (3), Fred lonata (4); Dillon: Bob. Hoodecheck (1), Jim Gallagher (2), Jim Ronan (3).
Sophomore hall representatives: Morrissey: Mike Caliandro (basement), Tom Viviano (1), Chris Cohan (2), Jack Pittas (3), Ed Snyder (4); Cavanaugh: Bob Fries (1), Bill Conley (2); Lyons: Bernard Levo (basement), Joe Bertrand (1), George Welch (2), Phil Brehm (4).
Freshman hall representatives: Farley: Frank Schillo (1), Joe O’Donnell (2), Pat O’Brien (3)), Dan Lynch (4); St. Edward’s: Dave Kilkeary (1), Dick Clamens (2), Dan Healy (3), Jack Tyson (4); Zahm: Dick Reamer (1), Ed Rhomberg (2), Tony Pasqusi (3), John Peisker (4); Breen-Phillips: Don Meridian (1), Don Lotten (2), Jim Barry (3), Jim O’Shea (4).
As the schedule now stands the members (elected Oct. 4) of each hall council will, within a week or two, jointly select sufficient members to fill the number of offices assigned to their hall.
When the councils are complete, Dillon, Alumni, and Morrissey will have
seven members; Walsh, Howard, Cavanaugh, Lyons, Zahm, Farley, and Breen-Phillips will have six men; and Sorin, Badin, and St. Edward’s—five members each.
Once a hall council is set up, it will hold an open meeting at least every two weeks. Minutes of these meetings, or when meetings are cancelled, notification to that effect, must be presented to the Student Council and posted on the main bulletin board and at the mail boxes in the hall. The hall rector or someone designated by him jnust attend each meeting.
The hall presidents will gather bimonthly to discuss their halls’ various projects and to propose action to the Student Council.
Objects and Aims
According to Jim Manion, competition among the halls will be the key to the whole setup. Other objects of the hall council system, as stated in the Hall Councils Constitution approved last year by the Student Council, are:	‘ .
To provide an effective channel of communication between the rector and residents, and between the hall, as a campus unit, and the Student Council;
To cooperate with the rector in administering all hall activities, i.e., religious, academic, athletic and social;
To act as a service organization for • the rector and hall residents, to further in any way bettei- living conditions in the hall.
P‘-
Mass, No Classes Mark ND Founder's Day Tomorrow
Founder’s Day tomorrow, the first official holiday of the school year, will be commemorated by a Solemn High Mass in Sacred Heart Church at 9 a.m.
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.. president of the University, will celebrate the Mass, while Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., executive vice-president, and Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of student affairs, will serve as deacon and subdeacon, respectively. The sermon will be preached by Rev. James Norton, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of studies.
October 13, is the feast of St. Edward, patron of the University’s founder and first president, Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C.
There will be no classes tomorrow.
Oct. 12. 1951
17
CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C.
Vice-President of Student Affairs
Representing the administration of the Student Council, the student policy-making unit at Notre Dame, Secretary Tom Reedy and President Jim Garvin at the president’s desk (Above). Below: The Executive Committee—Reedy, Blue Grde Chairman, Ed Noonan, Vice-President Jim Manion, Treas. Lou Garrippo, Garvin.
MEN OF NOTRE DAME:
The extra-curricular year is in full j swing. Many new activities will soon roll your way. Your Student Council members are conscientious and enthusiastic. They have reams of ideas and the “know-how” to put them through.
The job of the Student Council this year is to sell itself to you, the Student Body, which it ALONE represents.
This accomplished, the Council can better proceed to sell itself to the administration—to convince the University officials, via successful endeavor, that the students are willing to accept their responsibilities.
But remember, Fellows, Student Government is everybody’s job. To be successful your Council must have the confidence of an alert student citizenry.
Harmony—as opposed to friction —that’s the theme for the year.
Sincerely,
JIM GARVIN,
President, Student Council
>
GEORGE SWEET
Senior Class President

Mangialardi,
Victory dances, the student
trip, the
ROBERT PODEN
JOSEPH GALLAGHER
Floyd Blair
(L. to R.) James Mutscheller, Walter Purcell, Frank
Alfred DeCrane
Your Student tonndl
Dedicated to the furtherance of cooperation between the students and the administration, the Student Council is the student policy-making group at Notre Dame. In an attempt to acquaint our readers with this year’s Council, Scholastic herewith presents pictures of the Council members and an explanation of the group’s make-up and aims.
Four men, elected from last year’s regular Council, comprise the stay council. Their job is supplying continuity and experience to each newly-elected body. Eight of the total of 18 members are the presidents and vice-presidents of the four undergraduate classes.
At present the Council is composed of 16 men. The two Frosh representatives will take their seats after the Freshman elections in November. The othei- members are two Senior class representatives at large, one Law College representative, one off-campus representative, the Blue Circle Chairman and the Senior delegate of the NFCCS.
The Council supervises and regulates most student extra-curricular activity at Notre Dame. There are exceptions like athletics, publications, music and debate. However the great majority of campus activity is regulated, in one way or another, by the Student Council.
This year, for instance, it handles the
Mardi Gras Carnival and raffle. It will sponsor the Student Musical and another talent show. A monster rally for one of the bigger games later on is in the planning stage. Every big dance, even those like the Cotillion and the Prom, is underwritten by the Council.
Policy-making and planning is, again, the Council’s main function. Execution of its decisions is carried out by committees appointed by the president. Some of its work is also done by its two service arms and the NFCCS.
There is a story on the NFCCS elsewhere in this issue. It represents the ND student body on the outside and on campus it coordinates existing clubs and organizations.
The Blue Circle is Notre Dame’s only honor society. It is made up of students who have good scholastic records and have proven themselves loyal and capable in extra-curricular activity. The members serve as the Council’s service organization; their job is to get various Council chores done well and fast, like Frosh Orientation, ushering, conducting pep rallies and the like.
Committee work on the Council is similar to that of any parliamentary (Continued on Page 24)
(L. to R.) John Sweeney, Henry McCormack, James Hutchinson,

THE stairway leading up to the Fine
Arts Department on the fourth floor of the Main Building is easily the most amazing climb in Northern Indiana. To begin with, every step of the way is littered with musty old jokes-Jokes about • nose-bleeds, jokes about oxygen masks, jokes about St. Bernard dogs and exhausted artists, jokes so thick you have to kick them out of the way to get through. But even more fascinating, the stairway doesn’t go anywhere. It doesn’t go to the fourth floor, it just stops dead. There’s no such thing as the Fine Arts Department. It’s just a figment of someone’s imagination, a dream, a typesetting mistake in the Arts and Letters bulletin. And for those who still doubt—have you ever* seen the Fine Arts Department?
URT
£
I in the AttlC
$
h
I
I
§ .
g	The Curriculum: Designing,
1	- Sculpturing, Staying Alive
I
I
I Text by Bill Stapleton . . . Photos by Al Muth
I 20
The mirage of the Fine Arts Department is a conclusion one could easily come to around here. For to most people ' it is a place where students get nosebleeds climbing up the stairs, where oxygen masks are in order and St. Ber- ■ nard dogs roam the stairway searching for exhausted artists. And that’s all. What the place looks like, what is taught there, what are its aims, no one knows.
If anyone, still needs assurance, there definitely is a Fine Arts Department. In appearance, it is fax- from elaborate, but ’ it is spacious, comfortable—and slightly different from the ordinary University classroom. Where one often finds submission, here is participation; where he sees tolerance, here is interest. Every A-« variety of fine and commercial art is either on display here, or in the making. r In one large room a group of students is listening to the instructor and mold- | ing clay. In another smaller room seven . or eight sit sketching, and neither so odd I nor unusual as the passer-by might * | imagine, singing the Whiffenpoof Song. | This, he might find out is a practice sometimes engaged in if all agree on its I helpfulness.	1
A Four-Year Course
Fine Arts is a four-year course at Notre Dame, one of the few Catholic schools in this country which can boast a Fine Arts department. The curriculum is not, of course, confined exclusively to the study of art. The objective is to provide the student with a liberal education, and in the process, give him art training. For a slightly less extensive course in the field of art there is in addition an Art Major curriculum, conferring a B.A. instead of the B.F.A. —Bachelor of Fine Arts.
What the program tries to do is train the student so that he can make a living in his field, although it is not a commercial course. Ars gratia artis has not been forgotten, only modified. If an
The Scholastic


«snja£bsaBK>xHit>E
artist is to have the opportunity to express himself, in other words, he should first be able to support himself. The history of art is filled with examples of artists who underwent tremendous hardships because they wanted to paint. Van Gogh’s only support throughout his entire life was an uncertain brother. Gauguin left an unsuccessful brokerage business late in life for the life of an artist, depending upon his friends for help. The modern artist, however, can avoid the rigors and destitution of “Bohemian life” because of the opportunities in commercial art. But the art student at Notre Dame doesn’t spend his time drawing washing machines and bottles of mouthwash. A grasp of the fundamentals enables him to produce either commercially or creatively.
BROTHER HOWARD, C.S.C.
Solitary Work at the Easel
Emphasis on Fundamentals
To elaborate, we know that every person, is an individual in himself. Perhaps there is no one else exactly like him. And similarly, it is quite possible that no one in the world can create exactly like him, whether it be painting, sculpture, or designing. Therefore, the practice here is to ground the embryonic artist in fundamentals—the figure, for instance, and then let him proceed according to his own capabilities and inclinations. There is no attempt made to mold everyone into some basic pattern, for that would be mere imitation.
The staff of the Fine Arts Department, although small, is quite able. Mr. Stanley S. Sessler, head of the department, teaches a great many of the painting courses. Mr. Frederick Beckman brings in the practical note with his advertising and commercial art. Mr. Robert Hewitt is in charge of basic art, while Father Anthony Lauck handles the sculpturing classes.
To these men the fourth floor of the Main Building must seem like an island at times. The isolation in which the department finds itself, however, is caused not only by its obscure location but also by a wall of general apathy towards art. It is a wall which neither “Rhyme nor Reason.” can explain. Art has been often called “one of the finer things in life.” This is a rather stuffy way of putting it, but it is a part of life and a part of life to be enjoyed. Literature and music, to make a comparison, are also a part of life meant to be enjoyed. Now, it is obvious that enjoyment of something increases in proportion to the understanding of that thing. But you can enjoy music to some degree without even knowing what you hear, often without
the realization that you are listening. A good book can be read and enjoyed without knowing anything about it but its contents, as, for example, children enjoy Gulliver's Travels without really knowing what Swift wanted to say. But to enjoy a painting without knowing or understanding anything about it is extremely difficult. Art must be understood at least to some small degree before it can be appreciated.
An Alarming Situation
To Father Lauck, this apathy towards art is by no means confined to Notre Dame. Catholic art, he would tell you, is neither what it should nor could be in this country, and the absence of an educated Catholic art-buying public, one (Continued on Page 24)
ART CLASS
A Grasp of the Fundamentals
MOLDING CLAY OR . . .	. • • PAINTING ON PAPER
Let Him Proceed According to His Own Capabilities
Oct. 12, 1951
21

big band hits vocal chores, that Saturday
the the for
Empty air-waves all over the place waiting to be Allied before the low number, with program director Tom Knott handling Below: it’s the special events staff in a tape-recording session night Digest show.
IP HOM /
Text by JOE IMBRIACO
Giant searchlights probe the low-hanging clouds ... an orchestra plays triumphant music . . . while a simple, but impressive, ceremony takes place. And the occasion? Why, the eagerly awaited extension of WND broadcasts to St. Mary’s of course. For the student voice of Notre Dame will soon take another forward step of the sort which merited its selection last Spring as Scholastic’s Activity of the Year.
Today WND is the largest carrier current station in the Mid-West, that is, one operating not as the ordinary broadcasting station, but one using the carrier current principle that restricts reception only to those buildings connected by wire, which in this case runs through the underground heat tunnels.
Today WND has a collection of over 12,000 records, a large part of which consists of electrical transcriptions. With what is probably the most extensive selection of recordings in this area, ND can schedule programs of musical comedy songs from early September ’til after Christmas without repeating a show.
Today WND furnishes tape-recorded sports interviews to radio stations in Chicago, New York, Boston and Buffalo, a job handled until now by Joe Boland, veteran WSBT announcer. Last year WND gained recognition for an expertly done job of interviewing such nationally-known sports commentators as Bill Stern, Mel Allen, Dennis James, Russ Hodges, Red Grange and Bob Elson at home football games.
Today WND listeners receive sport flashes as soon as do listeners to local stations, thanks to the recently-acquired Western Union sports ticker which taps out the news day and night. And today WND is installing a United Press newsservice teletype machine which will keep the Notre Dame man abreast of world news through hourly broadcasts. It will provide access to national, international, and local news bulletins and stories 23 hours a day.
Occupies High Position
In fact, WND has come into a position of such stature on campus today I that it’s hard to believe less than four • years ago WND was only an experimental station broadcasting 20 hours a week from the basement of Washington Hall. ' In its present form, WND began operations from the Fieldhouse on Feb. 9, 1948. Credit for the ambition and effort
Ill HIM1 HI
Photos by AL MUTH
On the
other side of the gloss: Right, World
Series time is sportcaster’s time.
them; here, the
bigger men, moderator Jerome Fallon and
shell, plus the generosity of in donating several microphones, control panels and other equip-Growing rapidly during its four-
record station
librarians. Below: Two of the manager Bill Ryan.
studio WSBT remote ment.
of organizing the station belongs to Frank Cronin, a ’48 grad who engineered and directed its establishment, aided by Pete Reiner, who crawled through the stifling heat tunnels for three weeks to lay the transmission wires under the campus.
The only aid to the embryonic station came in the form of an initial $1300 grant from the University to build the
year existence, WND now stands on its own feet, financially speaking, with advertising by South Bend merchants its only source of income.
About 3% hours of solid program are sponsored each week, and there are spot commercials for over half the station breaks. It now has a staff of over 80 technicians, announcers, salesmen and writers, all headed by the hard-working station manager, Bill Ryan. Much of the credit for bringing business-like efficiency and organization to WND, for expanding the record collection and diversifying the programs belongs to Ryan, who spends almost every spare hour engineering, scriptwriting, announcing, and selling time to sponsors.
IJVr
Divided Into Six Departments
Organization of the station, which is moderated by Mr. Jerome Fallon of the Speech Department, is divided into six . departments. Continuity, under Dan ’ Flanagan, coordinates all programs and station activities. Jerry Burlage heads the special events division, under which comes all spot broadcasts and tape-recordings. Sports news and events are supervised by Bob Dougherty, while Jim Adler is the business manager. Program Director Tom Knott holds another important post, and the engineering department, headed by Ted Byrne, makes sure that WND hits the air waves. A staff of 25 announcers, led by Jack Hynes, and publicity man Mickey Carroll finish up the staff.
In appearance, WND is probably one of the busiest slices of activity on campus. Almost exeryone knows where it is and how to get there—up the flight of splintered fieldhouse stairs, a couple of quick left turns, and through a thick soundproofed door. In the office the sports ticker spins out miles of tape from under a glass bell into a wire basket and upon the floor. The station
Unsung heroes—no organization is completed without
manager’s desk is piled high with stacks of yellow news releases, scripts, and program schedules.
At one end of the office is the entrance to the “sweat box”, a five-by-five announcer’s booth officially known as Studio “B”. “A” is a fairly large room to the left, designed for live shows but necessarily used for other purposes. Studio “C” bow holds the stacks of records and transcriptions. To meet the need for more studio and office space, serious consideration is now being given to proposals for moving to the basement of Farley Hall or expanding into the Fieldhouse proper.
WND begins its daily broadcasting activities during the noon hour with Chas Schubert’s “12:30 Club”, a record show devoted mainly to the Jazz of Shearing, Gardner, and the more pro-srressive musicmen. Following four hours of soft-type music conducive either to study or sack, and two more hours of the heavier stuff, the station really begins to hum with a full quota of evening shows.
Chas comes back with his casualvoiced partner Jack Hynes on “Date at Eight,” a d.j. show interspersed with clowning and chatter. T es, Ace Jabara Flying Jackets, Robert Mitchum Smoke-ing Jackets, Schlegal's Dive Bombers, Perkowski’s Begals, and such productions as “Sands of Michiana” with Roddy McDowall as the tough marine, not to mention Big, Small, and Fly Man of the week, all this and music too at eight.
Many Standout Shows
During the week many other standout programs crowd the ether. “Story of Storyville” tells the story of New Orleans jazz at 8:00 Monday nights. “Campus Digest” presents a summary of activities and interviews with University figures, guests and students, while “Sports Review” recounts the day’s athletic happenings at 10:15. “Dateline, Notre Dame”, another tape-recorded program, is now a regular- feature over WSBT each Saturday. One of last
PHOTO CONCESSIONS
Because there were no student bids on the photo concession for the Sophomore Cotillion, the Student Council decided at last Monday’s meeting hereafter to leave the matter of obtaining satisfactory photography service at class dances entirely up to the sponsoring class of the dance. That rule shall be in effect for this year, beginning with the coming Soph Cotillion.
year’s highlights was the tape-recorded, on-the-spot broadcast of the fire in the new Science Building foundations. So effective were the interviews with Father Hesburgh and the firemen that WHOT used the recording for a newscast later that day. Dance music is broadcasted from the Palais Royale on Saturday nights, while portions of the Drill Hall Victory Dances will also be broadcasted on home game nights. Still on the planning table is the retransmission of “The Catholic Hour,” featuring such nationally-renowned speakers as Bishop Fulton J. Sheen, together with a “Meet the Prof” program and several live musical shows.
And soon the student voice will speak to St. Mary’s as well as Notre Dame. WND is really branching out.
Fine Arts
(Continued from Page 21) that can appreciate art, is something at which to be alarmed. In religious art the Catholic simply does not know what is good and what is bad. The dearth of good Catholic art in America is partially due to this fact, and many of our finest artists would confess that Catholic religious aft is inferior to that of other denominations in this country.
The only way to change this situation is to foster the cultivation of a sense of artistic appreciation in the university. This is the aim of the Fine Arts Department. It offers courses in appreciation and studio work, for example, that almost anyone can understand and enjoy. For them one needs neither a burning ambition to paint nor any unusual ability. You’ll find precious few half-mad geniuses dancing in anger over disappointing canvases. But if you want to see some pretty level heads learning how to appreciate art and make a living with it at the same time, trudge up the four flights to the department near the Dome. Oh yes, it’s there. Just kick the jokes away.
Student Council
(Continued from Page 19) group. When a matter comes up that the Council is not ready to deal with, it is referred to a committee. The committee investigates and reports the following week. The committee chairman reports his findings and makes pertinent proposals in the form of motions to the Council. Standing committees at the present time include the Audit committee, Service, NFCCS, Social. Charity Chest and Utility.
Meetings are held every Monday night at 7:15 in Room 100 of the Law Building. All meetings are open to the student body. The group can do its job
only if it is expressing the real opinion of the majority of Notre Dame men. It can be sure of the majority opinion, in turn, only if enough people take an active interest in what’s going on in Your student Council.
Presenting
The New
STUDENT FLORIST
We have something different in flower service— the BEST quality obtainable at prices an ND man can afford.
Managed by:
TOM HAMPTON
261 Alumni
ED SULLIVAN 130 Alumni
See your hall representative before that big game.
lull’ll illlKTin]
IN PERSON
ONE NIGHT ONLY
At the New Remodeled
PALAIS ROYALE
SATURDAY, OCT. 13
•
Don’t miss his only Indiana appearance in ’51.
24
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
Irish Face Pony Aerial Razzle-Dazzle
Cross-Country Squad Wins Over Wheaton
SMU Seeks Revenge for Close '49 Defeat;
Benners Heads Ponies1 Famed Pass Attack:
Running under gray skies and on a muddy track Notre Dame’s well-coached cross-country harriers opened its season last Saturday when they defeated Wheaton College from Illinois, 25-32.
ALEXANDER AND ALMAGUER A sophomore and then a senior
Despite the threatening elements, there were a number of ND rooters on hand to see a field of fourteen very determined runners cover a distance of three miles around the lakes, winding up at the entrance to the Grotto.
Setting the three mile pace for the Irish was Sophomore John Alexander who finished first in the flashy time of 14:58.8. Running a close second at 15:01 was teammate Benny Almaguer, 16 seconds ahead of Wheaton’s best, Dud Halworth.
Irish coach, Alex Wilson, was well pleased with the showing of his fleetfooted lads, and praised the terrific pace (Continued on Page 29)
Oct. 12, 1951
By TOM FOOTE
Intent on snapping the new Irish win streak, the Southern Methodist Mustangs move their aerial circus under the big top of the Notre Dame Stadium tomorrow afternoon. And despite a mediocre Mustang record thus far, the battle shapes up to be one of the most sensational of the season.
Representing Southwestern football at its wildest, the Mustangs will feature their razzle-dazzle wing-back attack with criss-crossing backs and run-jump-pass tactics.
The encounter will mark the fourth between the two teams, and if this one is anything like the other three, ND rooters will have numerous occasions for heart failure. In all previous meetings the Irish were heavy favorites but were barely able to eke out victories. In 1930 the undefeated Notre Dame champions smashed out a 20-14 victory and the 1939 eleven won a 20-19 squeaker. Then came the classical struggle of 1949 which wound up in a 27-20 Irish triumph. Only eight SMU survivors of that game return to meet the Irish tomorrow.
Coach H. N. (Rusty) Russell is in the process of rebuilding the Mustangs
PROBABLE STARTING LINE-UP (Offense)
SMU	NOTRE DAME
White ........LE....... Ostrowski
Dean .........LT......... Poehler
Forrester ....LG............ Bums
Hightower ...... C........ Hunter
Robb .........RG...... Varrichione Partee ...............RT. Toneff
Rippey .......RE... Mutschelier Benners ...........QB.. Mazur
Musslewhite	..LH...... Petitbon
Norton .......RH......... Barrett
Knight .......FB.......... Worden
Kickoff time: 2:00 CST.
this year- and in particular is faced with the task of filling the holes left by a mass exodus of graduating linemen. And, of course, he has yet to find a running back to compare with the likes of the great Kyle Rote. But the pass-minded Ponies still have enough talent to provide a very interesting afternoon for the Irish.
Passing Wizard
For instance, sparkplug Fred Benners, king of passing wizards, will be
PAT KNIGHT
One of the most consistent performers
filling the Stadium atmosphere with his deadly aerials. Last year Benners averaged better than a pass completion per minute as he connected for 109 successes in 108 minutes of playing time.
From his fullback position co-cap-
25
tain Pat Knight will carry the brunt of the SMU ground attack. Although used principally as a blocking back last year and doubling as a defensive end, Knight averaged 4.5 yards per carry and is one of the most consistent performers the Mustangs will field against the Irish tomorrow.
Another talented SMU back is the
DICK HIGHTOWER
Southwest nominee for All-American
fleet Benton Musslewhite who gained more ground rushing last year than any other returning ball-carrier in addition to starring on defense and ranking high in pass receptions. Already being compared to the fabulous Doak Walker, the versatile junior will run the team from his quarterback position.
Jerry Norton, a hard-charging sophomore, or H. N. Russell, Jr., will probably round out the helter-skelter back-field, but the Mustangs have a host of
other talented ball-carriers they can call on in Gene Roberts, I. D. Russell, Henry Stollenwerck, Vai Joe Walker, and Bill Forester.
One of the brightest spots in the Pony line is their great center, Dick Hightower, who rates as a leading Southwest nomination for AU-America honors. Hightower is the 60-minute brand of center, excelling on both offense and defense. Bill Fox, a rugged sophomore, will spell the Mustang cocaptain when and if he needs rest.
The guard positions will be solidly filled by returning veterans Herschel Forrester, one of the three SMU cocaptains, and Ike Robb who form a dynamic combination on both offense and defense.
Problem at Tackle
However, Coach Russell’s problems become acute at the tackle positions where no less than seven men were lost through graduation. Harry Dean, a converted end, will probably fill one of the vacated posts with Buford Partee, Wayne Ligon, and Bob Cadwallader battling for the other.
Ben White, the clutch pass-catcher returns at end as one of Benners favorite targets. Last year he caught four" TD tosses and gained 468 yards on pass receptions, several of his catches bordering on the miraculous. Jimmy Hawn and Bill Rippey are capable men for the other end post.
To date SMU has won only one of three, but that was a crushing 34-0 triumph over Missouri last Saturday in which the famed Mustang passing game took a back seat to their strong ground attack. Surprising Georgia Tech upset the Ponies 21-7 in their opener while powerful Ohio State squeezed out a 7-0 win over them two weeks ago. But prestige or past records will mean little tomorrow as the Mustangs throw
everything in the book in an attempt to halt the ND steamroller before it gathers momentum. The game, a sellout since early last summer, should be a crowd pleaser with lots of thrills provided by the wide-open style of play employed by the Mustangs.
For Notre Dame, tomorrow’s encounter may well be the key game of
BENTON MUSSLEWHITE
Already compared to Doak Walker
the year. After having met little resistance in pulverizing Indiana and Detroit, the Irish will have to be prepared for the battle of their lives in order to outlast the Mustangs as Mazur, Barrett, Petitbon, Mutscheller, Toneff, Burns, and the other seniors well know from personal experience in Dallas two years ago. A smashing victory by the Irish would remove all doubt as to the great comeback of Coach Leahy’s team and could well pro-
(Continued on Page 29)
Titans Recover Fumble	Mutscheller Hugs Ball
An outclassed but courageous Detroit Titian eleven crushed
26
The Scholastic
Splinters fromt^ressbox
Spartans Win Again; Four Opponents Lose
By JOE DURKIN
Two Undefeated
Of Notre Dame’s eight remaining opponents only two still have unmarred records. So far three teams have taken a whack at Michigan State and Southern California and haven’t been able to push either into the loss column. (That 27-17 victory by Camp Pendleton Marines was registered against the Trojan B squad.) And certainly not by coincidence, these two teams seem to have the greatest potential of ruining an undefeated season for Frank Leahy and his gridders. However, by the time the Irish make the trip West to meet the Trojans, chances are that USC will no longer be listed among the football elite for tomorrow afternoon they meet Oregon State and the Beavers will definitely give them quite a tussle. Then, the following Saturday they will meet California’s Golden Bears who are currently billed as the nation’s top team. So chances are if Oregon State doesn’t knock the Trojans off tomorrow, the Bears will the following week.
MSC Different
But Michigan State is a different story altogether. The Spartans have already passed the roughest part of their schedule up until the Saturday Frank Leahy takes his gridders to East Lansing. Last Saturday State had their “rough one” when they had to throw in everything but Coach Biggie Munn himself to defeat the seventhranked Buckeyes of Ohio State, 24-20. They opened against Oregon State and were very fortunate to end up 6-0 victors and then beat arch rival Michigan, 25-0. So, chances are they have met their most possible conquerors until Nov. 10 when they are host to the Fighting Irish, for between now and then they meet Marquette, Penn State and Pittsburgh . . . with the week before the ND-Spartan tilt open. That open Saturday while the Irish are traveling to Baltimore for the Navy game isn’t going to hurt the Spartans any either.
So far in three games Michigan State had averaged about 18 points while their opponents have averaged only 7. It was Ohio State that garnered all the points — Michigan and Oregon State were held scoreless. Meanwhile in two
By Jack Varley
games, Notre Dame has averaged 44 to their opponents’ six.
Anyway, that game should be more than the “Game of the Week.” It very well could be the “Game of the Year” to decide the National Championship.
Odds ’n’ Ends
Excerpts from the Indiana University press release dated Oct. 5:
“Indiana’s chastised Hoosiers, possessed by a burning desire to vindicate themselves after their shocking experience at Notre Dame, get their first chance here Saturday against much-improved Pittsburgh before a homeopener crowd expected to reach 27,000.”
Later the release stated, “Maybe it was an omen. Indiana JJniversity buses carrying the football squad to its game with Notre Dame were forced by traffic to crawl for several miles behind a truck loaded with caskets.”
Wally Fromhart, a graduate of Notre Dame and assistant coach at Detroit was probably almost as interested to see Indiana beat his alma mater as he was when the Titans played the Fighting Irish. His son, Larry, is a right halfback of the Hoosiers and played against Notre Dame. Speaking of father and son combinations, H. N. “Rusty” Russell, coach of the Mustangs has a son on his squad—H. N. “Rusty” Russell, Jr.—listed as a back.
Benny Almaguer, senior harrier, has been elected captain of the 1951 cross country squad.
Prediction of the Week
After seeing SMU trounce Missouri 34-0 last Saturday, Frank Leahy commented, “We don’t think we’re good enough for Southern Methodist. Our team is too young to be considered great. We have 15 freshmen and sophomores among our top 22 players.”
To this statement, Mustang coach Russell commented, “Propaganda.”
And we are inclined to go along with Russell. The game tomorrow isn’t going to be as easy as the first two Notre Dame played and we aren’t forgetting the great passing arm of Fred Benners, still the Irish should win by several touchdowns . . . Notre Dame 34, Southern Methodist 13.
Michigan State has given ample warning to its gridiron opponents that it is not to be trifled with. Combining a well balanced running attack with a very accurate aerial offense, the Spartans were extremely impressive in defeating Ohio State, 24-20. Behind 20-10 with but six minutes remaining, Michigan State displayed a potent punch, scoring almost at will. Both the winning touchdowns were products of passes. One was a six-yard affair from Al Dorow to Paul Dekker that climaxed a 74-yard march. The winning march came on a 28-yard pitch from Tom Yewcic to Dorow following the recovery of an Ohio State fumble on the Ohioans’ 45-yard line.
NAVY’S BOB ZASTROW
Unleashed a powerful running attack
Purdue and Iowa, two future dates on the Irish schedule, hooked up in quite a scoring battle with Purdue coming out on top by a margin of 34-30. The big difference was the splendid passing of Quarterback Dale Samuels of the Boilermakers. Trailing 30-20 with five minutes showing on the clock, Samuels took over and threw a long pass that was caught in the end zone by end Tom Redinger. However, the marker was nullified by a penalty. Samuels then shot a bullet pass to halfback Phil Klezek who raced 47 yards for the score. Iowa was forced to punt, soon after the kickoff and Samuels went into action once more. After three plays he tossed to Redinger in the end zone for the winning margin and then
Oct. 12, 1951
27
I
4
i i
e
L
r t 1
I
I
J r
i I
i
< i
j
r
i i
kicked his fourth extra point. Samuels’ dazzling display completely overshadowed the excellent work of George Eice, a sophomore back who scored thrice in the Hawkeye cause.
Indiana Wins
The Panthers of Pittsburgh held a vengeful Indiana eleven to a 13-6 score and showed itself to be a vastly improved team. Pitt halfback Bill Reynolds climaxed a 60-yard march with a 17-yard run around end in the second quarter for the Panthers’ only score of the day. Trailing by seven points Pitt held the Hoosiers on the one-foot line in the fourth quarter. The big difference was fullback Gene Gedman who scored twice for Indiana; one on a run of 85 yards and the other on a pass from Lou D’Achille.
Down in Dallas, Southern Methodist overwhelmed Missouri, 34-0. Benton Musslewhite, the Mustang quarterback, led the way for the Mustangs when he personally set up. two touchdowns and then ran 71 yards for a third.
The Middies of Annapolis became number 15 on the Princeton victory skein when they fell 24-20 before the Tigers. After a poor first half which saw the Midshipmen trailing 17-0, the Navy unleashed a powerful running attack that netted two scores; one by Bob Zastrow and the other by Frank Brady. Zastrow then threw to John Gerski for the third score. Navy missed what would have been the winning touchdown when a pass was dropped in the end zone. A weak Navy pass defense permitted All-American halfback Dick Kazmaier to pass for all three Princeton scores. Jack Newell, who made three conversions for the Tigers, also kicked a 15-yard field goal in the second period.
Huskies Upset
An inspired Southern California football team recorded an upset over the Washington Huskies in a fierce Pacific Coast contest. Husky fullback Hugh McElhenny ran the length of the field on a punt return to tie the contest up in the fourth period. Trojan quarterback Rudy Bukich immediately followed with a series of passes that resulted in the score which gave USC victory, 20-13.
A bruising running attack by the Texas Longhorns and a sweltering 90-degree heat combined to overwhelm North Carolina, 45-20. Texas piled up a 24-7 lead at the half and then added three more markers in the second half. The Tarheels unveiled a powerful passing attack in the second half that was responsible for their final two scores.
En Garde; ND Fencers Start Sharpening Sabres
The Notre Dame varsity fencing team, directed by Mr. Walter Langford, will open practice sessions soon for what looks to be a very promising season. Last year, the squad had an eight win, two lost record and placed tenth in the entire nation in the Nationals.
The loss of co-captains Nick Scalera and Dan Parisi will no doubt be felt, but with nine returning lettermen, the picture looks more than bright. Eight of these nine veterans are seniors. The men, according to classes, are: Captain Jim Walsh, Jim Jacobs, and John Mooney, a junior, in foil; Charles Daschle, Paul Gibbons and Jim Graham in sabre; Ernie Franzgrote, Jay Conlon and Brian Duff in epee.
Scalera, Daschle and Duff were Notre Dame’s representatives in theii- respective classes in last year’s Nationals.
Any upperclassmen with fencing know-how are invited to come to the practice sessions. The regular season does not begin until sometime in January or February.^
Tennis Tourney Continues; Gallagher Victor Over Reale
The weatherman threw another monkey-wrench into the Campus tennis tournament over the weekend. The appearance of the October brand of Indiana monsoons pushed the finals back a week and added another wrinkle to the brow of tennis coach Walter Langford.
A few matches were played between showers, and the big news was the advance of Dick Simons to the semi-finals with a convincing 6-1, 6-2 win over Paul Lavering. Lavering had upset sixth seeded Bill MacMurray the week before.
One of the favorites was defeated as Chuck Gallagher moved into the quarter finals by dropping Frosh Bill Reale 6-3, 6-2. Reale had been ranked number five before the match.
Other players in the quarter-finals are: defending champion Jim Farrell; Frosh Wally Clark, the second seeded competitor; third seeded Dan Crowley; and the tourney dark horse Maurice Reidy, a promising Freshman.
ATTENTION STUDENTS
All students must have I.D. pictures in their ticket holders in order to be admitted to tomorrow’s football game and all succeeding games. The pictures have been distributed in the office of the Prefect of Discipline.
Petitbon and Worden Lead Irish Scorers
Halfback John Petitbon leads the Irish gridders in rushing with fullback Neil Worden leading the scoring parade according to statistics compiled for the Indiana and Detroit games.
Petitbon has gained 123 yards in 17 tries for a 7.2 average. Sophomore halfback Jack Lattner is right behind Petitbon with a 6.1 pei- try.
Worden’s second - quarter splurge against the Hoosiers in which he garnered four* touchdowns gives him the scoring crown with 24 points. Petitbon’s three markers against Detroit places him second with Menil Mavraides coming in third on the basis of ten successful conversions.
In the punting department Lattner is high man with a 34.7 average with halfback Billy Barrett right behind him with a 30.8.
Quarterback John Mazur has an even .500 average in having successfully completed ten out of 20 passes for 192 yards.
As a team, the Fighting Irish have outscored their opponents 88-12, have outrushed them 498 yards to 194 and racked up 30 first downs to 19 for their opposition.
Rushing and scoring statistics for two games:
RUSHING Times
Carried Yardage Avg.
Petitbon .......17	123	7.2
Lattner ........ 9	55	.	6.1
Joseph ......... 2	11	5.5
Reynolds ....... 7	35	5.0
Paterra ........ 8	34	4.3
McHugh ......... 7	29	4.1
Worden .........30	98	3.3
Heap .........  13	43	3.3
Barrett ........17	48	2.8
Gander ......... 4	10	2.5‘
Guglielmi ...... 4	8	2.0
Mazur .......... 2	3	1.5
Carey .......... 3	3	1.0
Bianco ......... 1	—2	—2.0
SCORING TD PAT	Pts.
Worden ......... 4	0	24
Petitbon ....... 3	0	18
Mavraides ...... 0	10	10
Barrett ................. 10	6
Heap .................... 10	6
Mutscheller ............. 10	6
Lattner ................. 10	6
Guglielmi ............... 10	6
Gander .................. 10	6
28
The Scholastic
SMU Athletic Director Talks at Rally Tonight
One of the season’s liveliest rallies is promised for tonight by the Junior Class, which is sponsoring it in conjunction with the Blue Circle.
The Rally will begin this evening at 7:15. It will be held in the Badin Bog, or, in case of rain or cold weather, will take place in the old gym.
Plans have been made to once again bring out a powerful student spirit in anticipation of the SMU encounter tomorrow. Mark Tolle and Hugh Braun . have announced plans for this game rally, a tradition at Notre Dame. Tolle and Braun are Junior Rally and Blue Circle Rally committee chairmen respectively.
Matty Bell, well-known former coach and now athletic director at Southern Methodist, will be on the porch of Badin Hall this evening to address the Irish partisans. And either Mel Allen or Harry Wismer will also speak briefly. In addition, Notre Dame’s own athletic director, Ed “Moose” Krause, will have a word or two to offer in anticipation of Saturday’s game.
And just to make the evening a little gayer, the new Secret Weapon, Senior comedian Charlie Schubert, plans to be on hand to assure that the fighting Irish won’t fail tomorrow.
Cross-Country Squad
(Continued from Page 25)
they maintained throughout the meet. Meanwhile, Wheaton’s red-shirted harriers, coached by Gil Dodds the famous “Flying Parson”, gamely pushed the Irish but could not overhaul them. They were never once out in front, as Alexander and Almaguer led rounding the first mile, keeping that pace the rest of the way.
Finishing fourth and fifth respectively were Paul Balog and Walt Steinkraus, both of Wheaton, in times of 15:17 and 15:20. Notre Dame’s Bob Feiler was clocked at 15:25 in finishing sixth, while Con Tetrault also of the Irish followed right on his heels with 15:26.
Wheaton’s Taylor McKenzie jogged across the line at 15:29 finishing eighth, followed by a whole host of Irish runners, namely George Helfinstein, John-ney O’Conner, and Harry Snyder. Helfinstein came in at 15:31, while O’Conner and Snyder brought up the rear in 15:34 and 15:40 respectively.
—Jack Sand
Mass Schedule
Monday, Oct. 15—Feast of Saint Teresa.
Tuesday, Oct. 16—Feast of Saint Hedwig. Colls. 2, 3 at choice.
Wednesday, Oct. 17—Feast of Saint Margaret Mary.
Thursday, Oct. 18—Feast of Saint Luke.
Friday, Oct. 19—Feast of Saint Peter of Alcantara.
Saturday, Oct. 20—Feast of Saint John Cantius.
CONTEST WINNERS
Jim Garvin, campus representative of the Chesterfield pick the winner contest, has announced the winners -for the Indiana and Detroit games.
Dick McKenna, 229 Walsh, was closest for the Indiana game with a prediction of 27-13. Tom Moore, 251 Cavanaugh, was closest for the Detroit game with 41-6.
In order to win the prize, a carton of Chesterfield wrappers must be handed in with each prediction before the deadline to room 227, Walsh Hall.
Predictions for the SMU game must be in by noon tomorrow.
Irish Face Ponies
(Continued from Page 26) vide the impetus to carry the Irish to an undefeated season.
Detroit Goes Down Before Irish
Last Friday night, Coach Leahy’s gladiators had little difficulty with an outclassed but courageous Detroit Titan eleven by cruising to a 40-6 triumph. From the moment when the opening whistle blew and John Petitbon ran
CLOTHIERS	TAILORS
Special SALE OF BETTER SUITS and COATS
Choice of the house — 80% are new fall garments.
$75.00 Suits and Coats now $57.50
$85.00 Suits and Coats now $67.50
25% discount on all made-to-measure suits and coats from $75 to $140. Also a 25% discount on our entire trouser stock.
SPECIAL PRICE ON TUXEDOS AND ACCESSORIES — $6.50 complete. All orders must be in before the fifteenth.
PARKER - WINTERROWD. Inc.
115/2-117/2 N. Main Street
RENTALS	UNIFORMS
the kickoff back 85 yards to pay dirt, the outcome never was in doubt. Lightning struck twice more in the opening quarter and in the same form as the fleet New Orleans halfhack returned a Titan punt in a 73-yard touchdown gallop and slithered through the Detroiters for a 38-yard scoring sprint to personally account for the 20-0 ND lead at the close of the period. A 30-yard Mazur to Mutscheller aerial with 45 seconds to go in the second period rounded out the Irish scoring in the first half.
To the delight of a capacity house of. Detroit rooters, the Titans came back in the second half to display a highly inspired brand of football. A short plunge by Bob Lippe climaxed a 50-yard drive and gave the Titans their lone touchdown. But the Irish couldn’t be throttled for long as soph sensation Johnny Lattner pilfered a Titan aerial and scampered 30 yards for TD No. 5 early in the final period. A few minutes later freshman quarterback Ralph Guglielmi plunged over from one foot out to add the finishing touch to the night’s scoring. Menil Mavraides again had ample opportunity to make use of his talented toe in the course of the evening and split the uprights on four of six attempts.
Oct. 12, 1951
a1
BOOKS
9: i
The Troubled Air, by Irwin Shaw; Random House, New York, 1951. S3.75.
I
i

This novel tells the story of a radioshow director who gets hit with the almost universal weapon of our present panicky prosperity, the “you-are-a- communist - or - at - least - a - fellow traveler” smear campaign.
He is advised by his higher-ups that the five key actors on the show must be fired, because an anti-Communist magazine supposedly has the goods on them. The magazine has written to his superior, a Mr. Hutt, saying that if these actors are released immediately, the article on them will not be published. Clement Archer, the director, decides that he must fight for these people, even though all of them are listed in the rosters of organizations designated subversive by the attorney-general.
He questions the actors, one by one, and discovers that at least three of them have been exposed to Communism. One of them admits that she is a Communist: another, that she was once scheduled to make a speech on the evils of murder
stories and comic books at sive banquet”; still another member of the Austrian Party for two months at
8
a “subver-has been a Communist the age of
twenty-three. His best friend, Vic Herres, says that he is not a Communist, and Archer takes his word for it. The star of the show, a negro comedian, refuses to commit himself one way or the other.
The musical composer, the two month Austrian Communist, loses his job, and is threatened with deportation, finally committing suicide. Archer goes to his
THE BOOKS EVERY NOTRE DAME MAN WANTS:
Notre Dame by Richard Sullivan
and
With Rockne at Notre Dame by'’Scrap-iron" Young
Read about the people and institutions that have? made that "Spirit of Notre Dame." You can get them at:
The Book Shop, Inc
130 North Michigan
funeral and the tabloids plaster his picture across the front pages.
Finally, he makes a speech at a meeting of radio actors and writers who have gathered to oppose an “anti-Communist” blacklist, and is accused of being an active Communist. He loses his job, discovers that his friend of fifteen years’ standing has been head of a Communist cell-group all the time, and has stacked the accusations against him.
Archer thought he knew what to expect when he decided to fight for the actors’ jobs. His employer, Mr. Hutt, had told him: “You must expect to have the searchlight put on you; you have become the partisan of an unpopular group. Your reasons will be investigated . . . everything about you will be investigated. People you’ve forgotten for years will come up with damaging misquotations, memories, doubtful documents. Your public life will be scrutinized, your foibles will be presented as sins, your er?-ors as crimes. . . . Nobody can stand investigation. ... If you Hunk you can you must have led your life in a deep freeze for the last twenty years.”
And he got what he expected because he attempted to make clear the line between the weli-meaning liberal, the confused reformer, and the active, intelligent Communist. He believed that a person is innocent until proven guilty, at least in America, and said so. In doing this he became, as Mr. Hutt said, the partisan of an unpopular group, and should expect to suffer.
Mr. Shaw makes clear that time is not really the Great Healer, the Rubber-Out; Mr. Hutt speaks wisely: “No one can stand investigation ... no one.” The old allegiances can seem sinister and frightening when exhumed for public exhibition. But still, “. . . how much,” asks the composer, “are you expected to suffer for two months of your
South Bend, Ind.
life seventeen years before, when you were twenty-three years old in another country?”
No one seems to agree on that point. The composer, Pokorny, suffers so much that he takes refuge in suicide; Archer is flattened materially speaking, as well as mentally for a time.
This is an interesting book, extremely well written, as is most of Mr. Shaw’s work; it is dramatically rich, and would be perfectly adaptable for the stage.
Nevertheless, once more we see an old plot try to unfold into a new one and poop out in the end. A trusting American sees injustice done, despite the Constitution: rises nobly to the occasion and fights madly, even a little hysterically, for his ideals; is knocked flat in a losing fight; regains his breath, and comes out bloody, but unbowed, making fierce and passionate promise of just retribution.
It is, as I have said, an interesting book, certainly one worth reading. However, at times the quietly disillusioned sanity of Clement Archer is just a little hard to take.—John Engels.

La Raza Club Hears Mexican Consul at Sunday's Banquet
The La Raza Club will hold its annual banquet Sunday, Oct. 14, in celebration of Columbus Day (El Ria de la Raza) and the founding of the Spanish colonies in the New World.
The coronation of Our Lady of Guadalupe as Queen of the Americans will also be commemorated in a talk by Dr. Jorge Prieto of Mexico, who was present in Mexico City . when the Pope’s message was broadcast throughout that city in honor of the event.
Guest speaker at the dinner will be the Honorable Luis Duplan, Mexican Consul in Chicago.
During the evening new members will be presented, as well as members and representatives of Spanish clubs at St. Mary’s College, St. Marys Academy, and Barat College in Chicago.
Music will be furnished’ by a vocal-and-guitar trio of members of the La Raza Club.
Corbett Publishes Catalogue Of Old Alchemy Manuscripts
Professor James A. Corbett, a member of the faculty in the Department of History, has published a new catalogue on medieval manuscripts on alchemy.
Professor Corbett’s new catalogue, published in Brussels, Belgium, is entitled Catalogue des Manuscrits Alchim-iques Latins,. Volume 2.
The new volume by the Notre Dame
The Scholastic
30
J) 1
professor lists medieval manuscripts in alchemy in the public libraries in France outside of Paris. The first volume, published in. 1939, listed those in the Paris libraries.
Professor Corbett is a graduate of Ecole des Chartres, noted French school of medieval paleography. He also is a contributor to the series “Medieval Studies” which is published by Notre Dame.
Book Exchange to Redeem Slips Beginning Next Week
Starting Monday, the Book-Exchange, located in the Main Building, will redeem slips on books already turned in and resold. It will be open from 3 to •5 p.m. Monday, Wednesday, and Friday and from 1 to 5 p.m. on Tuesday and Thursday.
For the past week, the YCS-spon-sored B-X has been giving refunds to students with the wrong books. Several students received their money back on texts which they mistakenly bought and couldn’t use.
Tom Melfe, B-X manager, asked that students who want refunds present their white slips in numerical order. This will allow volunteer workers to look up the numbers faster and more accurately.
Melfe also thanked the student body for patronizing the B-X this semester. Because of good student support, all the popular textbooks were sold in the first few days.
Vetville Sponsors October Devotions in Farley Chapel
Vetville residents are holding their own October devotions this Fall, with Rosary and benediction conducted by Rev. Alfred Mendez, C.S.C., in the Farley Hall chapel every Sunday afternoon at 4 o’clock for all married students. The ward rosary, similar to the block rosary, is being held daily at 4 p.m. by the wives of the community at the home of a different family each day.
The first Vetville Sports Smoker, held Oct. 3, was such a success that other Smokers are scheduled for every other Sunday night of the football season. Forty men attended the gathering at which Bob Lally was guest speaker. Movies of the 1935 Ohio State-Notre Dame battle and Notre Dame Highlights of 1949 were shown. Gene Rit-zenthaler and Bud Guiltiman were in charge of the affair. The Smokers will start at 8:30 p.m. Admission is 25 cents.
Placement News
On Wednesday, Oct. 17, Dr. Frederick H. Roberts, Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation, Tonawanda, N. Y., will be on the campus to interview Ph.D. Chemists.
On Oct. 18 and 19, Mr. Howard Knapp and Mr. Harold Weir, two representatives from the Boeing Airplane Company, Seattle, "Wash., will interview midyear graduates in the fields of aeronautical, electrical, mechanical and civil engineering, as well as mathematicians and physicists in all degree levels. A representative from the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company, Akron, 0., will interview mid-year engineering graduates on Friday, Oct. 19.
Dr. J. W. Kneisley, Supervisor of the Synthetic Research Division of the Hercules Powder Company, Wilmington, Del., will also be here on Oct. 19, to interview prospective Ph.D. Chemists for 1952.
Seniors and Graduate students completing their work here are requested to come to the Placement Bureau to fill out registration forms. Forms may also be picked up and returned to the office of the Dean of Engineering.
Dr. Winkler Lectures on South American Trip to Geologists
Featured at the second meeting of the Geology Club last Wednesday evening was a lecture by Dr. Erhard Winkler, concerning his South American trip and field work in the Ocumare Basin in Venezuela during the summer.
At their first meeting last week, a student-teacher appraisal of Indiana University’s summer field camp in Montana . by Dr. R. C. Gutschick, also of the geology department, and George Moore was conducted. Dr. Gutschick was an instructor on the Indian?, University staff last Summer.
BEST AND LATEST AT
/It SmMii
RECORD BAR
Complete line of
JAZZ—DIXIELAND—POPULAR CLASSICAL—BLUES on all 3 speeds
412 S. Michigan Phone 7-3553
Don't miss our WND shows.
Oct. 12, 1951
31
Student Council Body Studies Honor Code
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of the University, met with the Student Council at last Monday’s Council meeting and engaged in an informal discussion with that group.
Father Cavanaugh expressed the opinion that an organization such as the Student Council could be an extremely effective organ to offset the *‘cold war” which all too often exists between the Notre Dame student body and the University administrative organization.
Father Cavanaugh’s appearance was the first of several such discussions between the Council and administrative officials to be held at various Council meetings throughout the year.
Discuss Honor System
Father Cavanaugh and the Council discussed the pros and cons of the possibility of installing the honor system at Notre Dame. A general agreement was reached that such a system could only be successful if it were strictly enforced.
It was clearly pointed out, however, that such a system can come only from the students themselves if it is to mean anything. No amount of administrative work could make the honor code a success if there was not a genuine desire for the system on the part of nearly every student on campus.
Other matters considered by Father Cavanaugh and the Council were the problem of working up genuine hall spirit in all the residence halls this year, and the feasibility of establishing one or two purely academic fraternities here at Notre Dame.
Among the items handled as regular Student Council business was a donation of $50 from the Campus Charity Chest to the Society for Aid for Leprosy Patients.
The budget for the Engineering Ball was also approved and the dance underwritten by the Council.
KAMPUS KEGLERS MEET
There will be a meeting of the Kampus Keglers Bowling Association Tuesday, Oct 16, at 7:15 in room 101 of the Law Building to elect new officers for the coming season. All new teams who wish to join will please contact Lou Garippo in 137 Alumni Hall.
Students Welcome at Meetings
A proposal from the Notre Dame band that members of the visiting Southern Methodist band be admitted free of charge to Saturday night’s Victory Dance as guests of the Student Council was approved and granted.
The Council again extends an invitation to every Notre Dame student to come to the Monday night meetings, held at 7:15 in room 100 Law Building, and see for himself what his Student Council is doing.
A number of students were visitors at the last meeting, and, during the course of the discussion between the Council and Father Cavanaugh, suggestions from the audience were acknowledged and considered.
High-lighting next week’s agenda will be a report on the hall communications system.
X-Ray All for TB Next Week In Basement of Dinins Hall
X-ray checks for tuberculosis, sponsored by the South Bend Tuberculosis League, will be given Monday through Friday in the basement of the Dining Hall.
The tests will be given from 11:30 a. m. to 3 p. m. and from 5 to 7 p. m. Monday through Thursday, while the time for X-rays on Friday will be 9-11 a. m. and 12-3 p. m.
League officials are hoping for 100 per cent cooperation from the students in taking the examinations. In addition to the students of the University, all adults in the area are welcome.
These tests are the only means by which tuberculosis can be discovered in its early stages. Previous tests indicating good health are not evidence that a person is free from TB.
One case of TB was discovered in 1948 and one in 1949 at this station on campus.
The tests are voluntary. Those who wish to take the test should report to the basement of the Dining Hall where their names and addresses will be taken. They will then be X-rayed, and in a few weeks will be notified as to the results of the test and their present condition.
Subsistence Checks Delayed
The Office of Veterans Affairs has announced that because of the cut in personnel at the main office in Indianapolis, Veterans’ subsistence checks would be a little late in coming out this fall. It was said, however that all the vets will have received all their due checks by Nov. 1, and that thereafter they will arrive on time each month.
Foster Speaks in Opening Lecture of O'Hara Seminar
Will A. Foster, vice-president in charge of advertising and sales promotion for the Borden Cheese Company, spoke yesterday to students in the College of Commerce in the first of the 1951-52 Bishop O’Hara Seminar Lectures at Notre Dame.
Mr. Foster, who has devoted most of his life to the dairy business, has been associated with Borden Company for the past 26 years. Upon first entering the dairy business in Wisconsin after World War I, he organized the first attempt to sell milk as a popular beverage.
Since joining the Borden organization in 1925 as assistant manager of sales, Mr. Foster has served in three different vice-presidential positions. He assumed his present position in 1940.
The Bishop O’Hara Seminar Lectures, honoring Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., former Notre Dame president and now bishop of Buffalo, N. Y., are held annually to correlate theoretical classroom instruction in industrial management with practical experience in the field.
Juniors Plan Class Council;
Representative System Used
A new Junior Class Council will begin operation soon, the class officers have announced. The council would consist of one representative for every 40 rooms in the Junior halls.
It would be their duty to make certain that a legitimate complaint or worthy suggestion from any Junior is voiced to the Student Council.
This year’s Junior Class officers are President Floyd Blair, Vice-President Jim Hutchinson, Secretary Mike Dolan, and Treasurer Bob Rust.
Committee chairmen are Bob Wagner, activities; Bob Niquette, publicity; Jerry Kelley, class day; John Houck and Art Henken, religious; Joe David and George Higgins, SMU Victory Dance.
CORRECTION
In last week’s edition of SCHOLASTIC we erroneously interpreted the Hall Council Constitution in relation to the Hall Rector. The Hall Council is set up to organize residents for sports and social activities under the supervision and with the approval of the Rector, who is appointed by the President of the University and is responsible to him alone. The primary aim of the Hall Council is to organize the students and to suggest activities, not to determine University regulations.
32
The Scholastic
Nourie and Gorski to Lead NFCCS Apostolic Chapter
The Apostolic Chapter of the NFCCS, composed of the student religious organizations on campus, got rolling this week by planning its program for the year and electing new officers. Heading the chapter for the coming year will be Tom Nourie, Knights of Columbus representative.
The new secretary will be Gene Gorski of YCS, who took charge of the chapter during the summer. The election between these two men was very close, Nourie finally succeeding on the third ballot.
The Chapter representatives also adopted the group’s main theme for the year—the developing in the student of “The True Catholic Life.” This is not intended to limit the Chapter’s
work, but rather to direct it toward a single end.
The first project the group will work on is encouragement of attendance at and participation in the Mass. A special committee has been set up to see how the religious organizations, coordinated by the Council, can best accomplish this end.
ND Bards Invited to Submit Poems for College Anthology
All Notre Dame students with a flair for poetry are invited to submit their efforts to the National Poetry Association, for consideration for inclusion in the annual Anthology of College Poetry.
Manuscripts must be sent by Nov. 5 to the National Poetry Association, 3210 Selby Ave., Los Angeles 34, Calif. Each poem should be typed on a separate
sheet and must bear the author’s name, home address, and college.
Officers of All Campus Clubs Meet to Discuss Finances
Club presidents and treasurers of all campus organizations attended, a business meeting last night in Room 103, Law Building.
Purpose of the meeting was to acquaint the various clubs with the policies concerning club treasuries. All clubs will be subject to the policies which were inaugurated at this meeting.
If for some reason both the president and treasurer could not attend, a competent representative should have been sent. Failure to have done so will subject a club’s charter to possible disciplinary action by the Student Council.
WANT A , DANCE DATE SATURDAY NIGHT?
ENROLL AT ARTHUR MURRAY'S
TODAY
Even if you’ve never danced before — you can dance with carefree confidence this Saturday night. It’s so easy to learn "The New Arthur Murray Way.” Because once you know the Arthur Murray Magic Step, the secret to all dances is yours. Come to Arthur Murray’s today!
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. Wayne St.
Phone 2-339
SPECIAL N. D. RATES
|STATE
NO ADVANCE IN PRICES! ADULTS ... 37c Plus Tax’
Starts Sunday h?
1st Run — CHARLES DICKENS1 IMMORTAL
MASTERPIECE — DON'T MISS IT!
All the Excitement Suspense and Gripping Drama
HENRY STEPHENSON and ii&odudng JOHN HOWARD DAVIES as Oliver Twist • Directed by David Lean * Produced by Ronald Neame Screenplay by David Lean and Stanley Haynes* A J. Arthur Rank Organization Presentation* A Cmeguild Production *	Eagle Lion
PLUS
JACKIE COOGAN
TOM NEAL
EDDIE DEAN
"VARIETIES ON
PARADE"
14 BIG WONDERFUL SPECIALTY ACTS!
Fun-Making For AU!
Oct. 12, 1951
~lhe l^ack
____________________ By Bill Riley
This is the first of a series of “stories without morals." Others may appear. —Ed.
It happened at the Buick plant. It had been a quiet day at the Buick Motor Co., Inc. Hardly noticeable was the small clicking noise sounded by the tiny, but tremendously complex carcounter at the end of the assembly line. It ticked off the serial number of each Buick as it rolled off the assembly line.
It was a good day for Buick. It was the kind of day that had inspired the chief of Buick publicity to rhapsodize: “Another minute, another Buick. Sixty Buicks an hour, 24 hours a day; 1440 Buicks a day. We’ll cover the earth with Buicks. Buick will run wild!” He did not realize how prophetic this statement was.
It was something of an extraordinary day at Buick, though. That afternoon, at 2:59, the 10,000,000th Buick was going to slide quietly past the last man on the assembly line—the one who polished the bottom half of the left bumper-guard. It was to be a big day at Buick. The car itself would be almost obscured by the celebration. The chief speaker was to be Allen Egiister Barron, A.B., M.A., Ph.D., head of the Buick foundation.
The Buick foundation had -been set up by H. G. Buick himself. Its purpose, announced at the giant Buick festival in 1950, was to study the reasons for the greatness of Buick. Mr. Buick had said: “We are sure that this foundation will objectively show the greatness of the Buick way, the American way.” It was, of course, non-profit.
At 2:30 the chief of Buick publicity, accompanied by a retinue of young men, all wearing grey-flannel suits, rep ties, button-down collars and argyle sox, appeared. The chief looked worried. The Young Men looked worried. At 2:45 Mr. Buick appeared. The chief brightened. The Young Men brightened.
The chief of publicity was carrying in his arms, as a mother might carry her infant, a long purple ribbon, almost a foot in width, with six-inch high white letters, reading, “Buick molds better Buicks!” The slogan, w'hich had originally read, “Buick molds better
cars,” had been revised because of a network ruling which had stated that not only could not an advertiser mention the name of a product similar to his; he no longer was permitted to mention the existence of another product.
The ribbon -was synthetic, manufactured from the clinkers left over from the coal furnaces at Buick.
There was a great deal of accuracy in the way the slogan was phrased. The current Buick was the best Buick that Buick had ever- built.
It was almost completely automatic. It had no gear shift, no clutch, no brake. The entire operation was carried on by an ignition knob. When this knob was pushed in, the car went forward. When it was pulled out, the car reversed its direction; or, if it had been going forward, stopped or slowed, depending on how hard the knob was pulled.
Actually, it was this that caused the trouble. About midway in the assembly line worked Herman Gnash. His sole job was putting a small glass insulation-piece between the ignition knob and the wires to the motor.
The people at Buick had refined mass production to a near perfect science. Each man had a special job to do. He talked to no other man while at work. He worked eight hours, sipping a liquid lunch through a straw. There was no break in the tempo. Nothing stopped the Buicks.
There had been some trouble with absenteeism. However, the director of Buick personnel had developed a system whereby anyone who was absent one day for insufficient cause was docked five days’ pay% This ruling was a rider clause on a more important bill which guaranteed a $15,000 bonus for the union leader who did most to better management-labor relations. It pretty well stopped absenteeism.
» Herman Gnash was the first break in the system. At 2:30 p.m. he dropped - dead. At 2:32 p.m. another man was on the job, but the damage had been done. One Buick had gone by without the glass insulation piece. As the engine was already in place, the Buick’s motor began to warm up. It did not move, however, as its wheels were sus
pended above the floor. Its motor was extremely quiet. “Less than a purr! No one saw the wheels move, since the men at the far end of the assembly belt wore blinkers. It cut down distraction; speeded up production.
It so happened that the insulationless Buick was the 10,090,000th Buick to be produced. It began moving when it hit the floor. First it started towards Allen Eglister Barron, who was speaking from a mimeographed manuscript. Barron, however, jumped astride a fence that ran down the .middle of the plant, and thus saved himself.
The machine turned on H. G. Buick himself. Buick, running at what was for him top speed, tripped over the purple ribbon, became entwined in it, and fell into the die which shaped Buick experimental models. Afterwards, they could not remove the ribbon. He left the world with the motto, “Buick molds better Buicks,” engraved upon his chest.
The car motor died, of course, but not before demolishing eight young men who had thrown themselves before it in an attempt to save the chief of publicity. They succeeded.
The publicity man was saved. Visibly shaken, he said, “All I can say, is that this is the way Mr. Buick would have wanted it. He was a Buick to the end.”
Production, meanwhile, resumed its original tempo. No one noticed that the car-counter had begun running backwards.
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY—WATCHES
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St.	J. M. S. Bldg.
AQUINAS
Library
and
Bookstore
Next to the grace of God a taste for good reading is one of the greatest gifts we can possess.
•
110 EAST LaSALLE
34
The Scholastic
The Committee on International Relations Series
Waldemar Gurian, Director M. A. Fitzsimons	F. A. Hermens
W. O. Shanahan	Stephen Kertesz
The Soviet Union-. Background, Ideology, Reality and Europe Between Democracy and Anarchy are the first two publications sponsored by the Committee on International Relations; seven others are in preparation, and several more are planned. The committee was organized in 1949 by the University of Notre Dame with the partial support of a grant from the Rockefeller Foundation. The Committee is particularly interested in the study of the ethical aspects and implications of International Reltaions.
THE SOVIET UNION: BACKGROUND, IDEOLOGY, REALITY
A symposium edited by Waldemar Gurian	$3.50
•	From Lenin to Stalin, by Waldemar Gurian.
•	Historical Background of Soviet Thought Control, by Michael Karpovich of Harvard.
•	Methods of Soviet Penetration in Eastern Europe, by Stephen Kertesz.
•	Soviet Exploitation of National Conflicts in Eastern Eu-
•	rope, by Philip E. Mosely of Columbia.
•	Aims and Methods of Soviet Terrorism, by Vladimir Petrov of Yale.
•	Economics of the Soviet Union, by Naum Jasny of Stanford.
•	Church and State in the Soviet Union, by Nicholas Timasheff of Fordham.
•	Church and State in Central Europe, by Francis Dvornik of Harvard.
“This volume represents the most up-to-date and reliable brief introduction to the complex problems of Soviet ideology and reality. It combines expert scholarship and considerable judgment with an awareness of the urgent issues facing all people' in the non-Communist countries today.”—Professor Hans Kohn.
“It is a phenomenon nowadays when-a symposium lives up to its name and really is a conversational feast. Waldemar Gurian gathered a group of experts on Russia and Eastern Europe and has edited their papers. The volume will give the reader sound and clear views on the development of the regime since 1917, on the difference between ■ thought control under the Czars and Stalin, on Soviet policies in Eastern Europe, on the Soviet system of terrorism, and on religion in Russia since 1940.”—America.
EUROPE BETWEEN DEMOCRACY AND ANARCHY
Ferdinand A. Hermens
$4.00
In Preparation
The Catholic Church in World Affairs — Edited by Waldemar Gurian and M. A. Fitzsimons
Diplomacy in the Shadow of the Red Star: The Case of Hungary — Stephen Kertesz
The Social Ethic of German Protestantism: 1848-1933 — W. O. Shanahan
The Foreign Policy of the British Labour Government: 1945-51 — M. A. Fitzsimons
Bolshevism: An Introduction — Waldemar Gurian
Christian Democracy in Western Europe — Mario Einaudi
Panslavism — Hans Kohn
Europe’s energies are stymied by constitutional difficulties, Professor Hermens holds. What he explains in this book has often been in the news in recent years.
When, in France, Prime Minister Pleven chose to have his cabinet fall rather than abandon the attempt to bring about electoral reform he addressed the deputies in the National Assembly in terms strikingly similar to what Professor Hermens says in his two chapters on France.
When, in the fall of 1948, the Parliamentary Council met in Bonn to draft the new German constitution, its chairman, Adenauer, now the Federal Chancellor, was so much impressed by lectures given during the preceding semester by Professor Hermens at the University of Bonn that he had them printed and distributed to all of the members of the assembly over which he presided.
“With its extremely well-documented analysis pointing to P.R. as the chief institutional handicap to the stability of democratic government, Europe Between Democracy and Anarchy should at last destroy the many fallacies in which even seasoned observers of the European scene have persisted to this day. I consider Dr. Hermens’ work one of the most useful books that has been published since the Second World War.”—Professdr Joseph Dunner, Chairman of the Dept, of Political Science, Grinell College.
“Professor Hermens’ book is of great value to students of modern European history, comparative government, political parties, legislative assemblies, and recent political theory. Through a wealth of information and analysis not elsewhere available, he documents the importance of electoral systems in the democratic process.”—Professor Franklin L. Burdette, Department of Government and Politics, University of Maryland.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PRESS
Oct. 12, 1951
Notre Dome. Indiana ■	35
THE UNI VER lemmonier NOTRE
3ITY LIBRARY LIBRARY
local
THE BIGGEST
PLUS
IN CIGARETTE HISTORY
"No Unpleasant After-taste"
_added to the world s most famous ABCs
Always Milder Better Tasting

"It’s the only, one
CHESTERFIELD IS brands tested in which me
THE ONLY CIGARETTE of all mbers of our taste
panel found no
From th* report of a
^Wnown research er9an>xahon
Always Buy	19)1, UscnrA