483
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 5,.
S 3 S S 3 9 P
9 9 9
9
9 9
9 UI
pl pl s p) s
1 pl
9 9
9 9 a
3 I
	THE SCHOLASTIC STAFF		
	Jack Mullen, Harley L. McDevitt,	Editor-in-Chief • - Business Manager	
Leo McIntyre, John McMahon, Richard Elpers,	- - - News Editor - Asst. News Editor Literary Editor	John V. Hinkel, - -John T. Cullinan, J. F. Mahoney, - The	Sports Editor - Tl- Week College. Parade
Joseph Murphy John Bergan	NEWS David Saxon	William c jug	John DeRoulet Richard Parrish	Bernard Garber	Raymond Drymalski		
ADVERTISING E. T. BONNER, - - - Local Adv. Mgr. H. J. Noon,	Local Circulation Mgr. D. M. MElNr	- Foreign Adv. Mgr.		BUSINESS L. J. Wisda	H. O’Bryan C. M. Ashman	e. J. Carlin W. E. Burchill	
VOL.
JANUARY 27, 1928
NO. 16
1872
TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Week ..................... Next Week’s Events............
Music and Drama............... N. D. Magazine Contributions. . Campus Clubs.................. College Parade................
The Editor’s Page.............
Hobnails......................
Blank (a story)................ .The Never-sharp Always-sharp.
Jasper Brent
1928
.Arthur Stenius..........
.Brother Alphon. ^, C. S. C. . J. D. Murphy........... .J. F. Mahoney............
. AUan-a-Dale .. . John F. Bums. .Joseph S. Friel
The Attitudes of Men Toward Immortality J. William Conboy
Lost Love—(Poem) Track Team Loses. Sport News.....
..Jasper Brent...
.. R. P. Drymalski .. John V. Hinkel.
.484 .485 .489 .491 .496 .498 .498 .499 .500 .502 .503 .504
505 .507
HSaSBSa5a2525252S252Sa5a5B5aSB5252Sa5aS252Sa5B5252SeS2525252S2Sa5a525a5HS2525aS25a5a525asa5a525a52Sa5asa52SHSaS!SZS25a52525B5i
Tbe Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of AD Notre Dame Men
THE SCHOLASTIC to pobllshod weekly at the Unlrersity of Notre Dame. Manascrtpie may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC or to rooms SM or 4M Morrissey Hall.
Enitrtd M sseomLclau matter at Notre Dam*. Indiana. Acctptanc, for mailing at tpceial rate of pottagt, Section 1103, October f, 1917. authorized June 15. tut.
Tomorrow, and tomorrow, and tomorrow ' Creeps in this petty pace from day to day:
During the delightful weather of an Indiana January. Perhaps I should be more careful; perhaps by the time this opus appears in what Mr. Fenlon is pleased to call the World’s Greatest Weekly, summer, or at any rate spring, will be with us again. The prospect at present is not promising.
’ The athletes have been travelling again. The basketeers went out to Des Moines, where Drake did the usual by a score of 29 to 19, and the track team went over to the gymnasium, where they went round and round, accompanied by the repre' sentatives of Northwestern University. The Northwestern aggregation was a little faster, this time; on several occasions the spectators were treated to the unnatural sight of an Irishman chasing a Wildcat.
Monday was notable chiefly for two things: a Scribbler meeting and the beginning of the end of the Seniors. The latter are being measured for caps and gowns in the basement of Walsh Hall (a place given to strangely varied uses), and according to John F. McMahon, who is in charge, all Seniors hoping to take part in the traditional exercises on February 22 and June 3 must appear by tomorrow at the latest. It is rumored that some of the more sentimental fourth year men broke down and wept at the prospect that the ceremony of measurement brought to their minds; no one has yet decided the exact reason. I am personally a bit skeptical concerning the truth of the report.
The Scribblers promise a poetry contest, to close on February 15. From long experience in Scribbler poetry contests, I am willing to hazard a guess that among the poems submitted will be: Despair, My Angel, The Slim Diana, The Bucket Shop (or something else showing the influence
of the industrial age on art), Burnt Punk Wooden Ivory (both vers libre), and To-----. The last named has never yet failed to make an appearance.
Then Tuesday, the Knights of Columbus were addressed by Professor Charles Phillips ; and President Dick Halpin of the Chicago Club made known a banquet which will be attended by all possible notables, excluding Cal Coolidge, Benito Mussolini and Ruth Elder. When asked whether two or three first-class gunmen could be imported, Mr. Halpin declared that he had nothing to say.
Be thankful for Examinations! Am I crazy? No, I am not crazy. When it comes to a choice between examinations and Juniors talking enthusiastically about Proms, Prom girls, Prom songs, Prom chairmen, and Prom publicity, I prefer examinations. They have given the Juniors something else to talk about until Tuesday evening, at least.
But returning to the Prom, the promoters thereof promise the most monumental event of the kind since the long list of monumental events began in Melville Hall, South Bend, back in 1909. You may take the statement at its face value;shaving attended only one of the Junior Formals, I do not feel that I am in a position to commit myself.
Another dance is in prospect, ,also, an informal under the auspices of the Villagers. The date is Tuesday, January 31, and the music will be slaughtered, maltreated, or whatever it is that they do to music these days by the “Campus Serenaders.” Stags will be permitted to attend.
Tonight you may see “Seventh Heaven in Washington Hall, if you feel incline > tomorrow—Classes taught on Mondays (but not taught on Tuesdays) . • • W1 be examined. . ..	—JASPER BRENT.
THE NOTRE DA
<♦ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ <» ♦> ♦;• « NEXT WEEK’S EVENTS <•
•♦* ❖ •♦♦ ••* *•* *** ❖
Friday, January 27—Semester examinations begin at 8:00 A. M. to last until 5:00 P. M. Tuesday, January 31.
Examination schedule: Saturday, Jan. 28: Classes taught on Mondays (but not on Tuesdays) at 9 and 11, will be examined at 8, and 10, respectively.
Monday, Jan. 30: Classes taught on Tuesdays (but not on Mondays) at 8, 10, 1:15, and 2:15 will be examined at 8, 10, 1:15 and 3:30 respectively.
‘ Tuesday, Jan. 31: Classes taught on Tuesdays (but not on Mondays) at 9, and 11, will be examined at 8, and 10, respectively.
Movies—“Seventh Heaven”—Washington hall—6:30 and 8:30 P. M.
Saturday—Basketball—Michigan State College vs. U. of Notre Dame—Gymnasium— 8:00 P. M.
Sunday—Masses — Sacred Heart Church — 6:00, 7:00, and 8:30 A. M.—Students’ Mass, 10:15 A. M.—Parish Mass.
Monday—Meeting of the Scribblers—Hoynes Hah—8:00 P. M.
Religious Conference—Conducted by Father James W. Donahue, C.S.C., superior-general of the Holy Cross order—basement of the Sacred Heart Church—7:15 P. M.
Tuesday—Meeting of Le Cercle Francais— Hoynes Hall—6:30 P. M.
Wednesday—Registration for second semester—8:00 to 5:00.
Thursday—Chicago Club banquet—Lay faculty dining room, University Dining Halls— 6:30 P. M.
Meeting of the German Club—Hoynes , Hall—6:45 P. M.
Friday—Basketball—U. of Notre Dame vs. . Michigan State College—East Lansing
Michigan.
Saturday—Movies—“Mockery” — Washington Hall—6:30 and 8:30 P. M.
ME SCHOLASTIC	485
SCRIBBLERS TO HOLD POETRY CONTEST
At a meeting held Monday evening in the Law Building, President Walter Layne of the Scribblers announced that the campus literary club will hold a poetry contest again this year.
The contest is open to all Notre Dame undergraduates. Manuscripts must be presented in triplicate to one of the members of the committee on or before February 15, 1928.
The judges of this year’s contest will be announced in the next issue of Twin Scholastic. Prizes are to be donated by The Scholastic, the Dome and the Juggler, and will consist of a first prize of fifteen dollars, a second prize of ten dollars and a third prize of five dollars.
Last year’s competition was won by -Richard Elpers’ “Tragedy in Tercets.” “Farewell,” by Jack Mullen was second, and “The Pale Dancer,” by John de Rou-let, third.
The committee in charge consists of Frank O’Toole, Richard Elpers, and James Roy.
S. A. C. TO REQUIRE NOTICE OF CLUB MEETINGS •
D. M. Meinert, chairman of the Student Activities Council, announced this week that beginning with the second semester, all campus clubs or organizations of any kind must inform Louis J. Carr, 302 Corby hall, of the time and place of any smokers, meetings or banquets previous to holding these gatherings.
The aim of the new regulation, as explained by Meinert, is the prevention of conflicting dates. The order must be adhered to strictly by club officers. Clubs failing to conform will be disbanded.
N. B.—There will be no Scholastic issued next week; the staff will take time out for the semester examinations.	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
486
CENTRAL OFFICE BUREAU ALMOST COMPLETED
A central bureau containing the offices of many of the administrative officers of the University is under construction in the old Brownson refectory. The bureau, which will be modern dn every detail, will be completed March 1.
Registration, long a problem at Notre Dame, will be efficiently handled in the new offices. Hereafter, a student will be able to enter a door in th real' of the Administration building, complete his registration at the series of twelve windows at the front of the new bureau, and leave at a door that opens under the steps leading to Brownson hall. The long porch at the rear of the building will serve as a protection to the students waiting in line during bad weather.
The remodeled refectory will be so arranged that it will lend itself to supervision by an office manager. Aside from partitions in front of the large room, and the private offices, the bureau will be open and the offices separated by rails. Mail for the entire office can be handled by one person.
Efficiency marks the arrangement of the new bureau. The left side of the large room, as viewed from the corridor in the center front of the room, will be occupied by a row of windows set in a partition, by the private offices of the registrar and the director of studies, by a students’ waiting room, and by the clerical forces of the director of studies.
A counter extending across from the office of the treasurer to that of the secretary will be situated at about the center rear of the room.
A general conference room to be used for faculty meetings and the like will occupy a large space at the front of the room at the right. Across a small corridor from this room will be erected a partition which will set off an office and a waiting room for the prefect of discipline.
A central telephone switchboard and a bureau of information will be housed in a small room next to the office of the prefect of discipline. Adjoining this room, toward the back of the bureau, will be found a mim
eographing and mailing room.
An indirect lighting system will be a feature. Conduits are being placed in the floor to be used in connection with electric bookkeeping machines, and the like. Further, each office will be equipped with a private telephone.	’
Everything has been done to preserve the historic old paintings on the walls of the former refectory, according to Father Thomas A. Steiner, C. S. C., assistant dean of the College of Engineering who is playing an active part in the remodeling of the old dining hall. These paintings of famous churches are the work of the uncle of Professor Francis Ackerman of the Mechanical Drawing department.	1

POST-EXAM DANCE PLANS COMPLETED
Final plans are completed for what promises to be the greatest informal affair of the year, the Villagers’ Post-Exam Dance.
Because of the tremendous response of the past two years the Villagers find that they are able to give the dance charging the low price of one and one half dollars the couple (half couple, half price.)
With the cooperation of the management of the Palais Royale an excellent band has been secured for the evening. The “Campus Serenaders,” as they are known in the South, is comprised of eight men who are the cream of several university orchestras on the other side of the Mason and Dixon line, and who have been traveling throughout the states since graduation last June. They come guaranteeing some real orchestration —or your dollar and half and carfare refunded.
The dance will be at the Palais Royale on the evening of January 31, between the hours of eight-thirty and twelve o’clock. It will be noted that this is the evening of the last day of the exams.
Tickets are now on sale at seventy-five cents each and may be procured from any of the hundred and fifty-four Villagers who may be found most anywhere both on the campus and off.

I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
487
4. 4> ❖ ❖ ❖	* ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ «
* CAMPUS PERSONALITIES ❖
A A	❖ *♦* ❖ <♦ <♦
$ V "	*
Joseph G. Jachym is the captain of the nationally known basketball team that hops on and off the train as it slows down
JOSEPH G. JACHYM
Captain of the Basketball Team
at a town named South Bend, Indiana.
This consistent forward started his athletic career in Westfield, Mass. During his first year at Notre Dame he was a member of the freshman baseball and basketball teams, and was claimed by the varsity, in his second year, as pitcher and forward, respectively.
The Students’ Activities Council and the Monogram Club list Jachym as a member.
Since “Joe” is a Badinite perhaps he will be drafted for the swimming team. But it is rumored that Corby hall, which is above swimming, is seeking a Milton C. Work, so an abduction might be expected. If that occurs, the Badinites will be marooned—for without Jachym they have no bridge.
“Joe" is a worthy successor to “Vince” McNally and “Johnny” Nyikos, captains of Notre Dame’s “Western Champions” basketjail teams in the season of 1925-1926, 19261927. “Joe” says that “three” is his lucky number.
WEDNESDAY SOLE REGISTRATION DAY
Registration for the second semester will be held Wednesday, Feb. 1, it is announced. Students failing to obtain their class schedule before 5:30 o’clock that evening must pay a late registration fee of five dollars.
Financial accounts must be settled by the student with the secretary of the University before he can register. Beginning Thursday, Jan. 25, the students’ office in the Main building will be ready to accept payment of accounts for the second semester.
Students can learn the exact amount of their bill by making inquiry at the secretary’s office. Those students who fail to settle their accounts before 5 o’clock, Feb. 1, will be charged a late registration fee of five dollars. The secretary’s office on that day closes promptly at 5 o’clock. This permits students registering at the secretary’s office before that hour to register for classes before 5:30 o’clock that evening.
Students are being advised to settle their accounts with the secretary as early as possible. By attending to the matter on time the tedious waiting in line will be .avoided.
DEBATE FINALS HELD
Father William Bolger, head of the department of politics and economics, and coach of the varsity debating team, selected twelve men to represent the University in the Inter-collegiate Debating Society. They are James C. Roy, Joseph P. McNamara, William F. Craig, Arnold L. Williams, Arthur Stenuis, Walter Stanton, James McShane, James Keegan, J. J. Walsh, William O’Keefe, James McGrail and Donald Colman.
Debates have been arranged with De Pauw University, Franklin College, Purdue University and Earlham College. Several others are pending. The first de- 1 bate will be held on March 2.	.
The question for debate this year is: “Resolved, that the Direct Primary in the Election of Fgderal and State Officials be Abolished.”	.

488
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
JUNIOR PROM ACTIVITIES
TICKET DEADLINE
Tuesday, February 7th, will be the last date to buy a Prom Ticket. A list of those attending the Prom must be in the hands of the Faculty Dance Committee the next day. Tickets may be had from Thomas Ryan, chairman, Lyons Hall; W. Seiden-faden, Badin; Pete Brysselbout, Walsh; Joe O’Brien, Morrissey; Hank Burns, Off Campus; Jack Grey, Off Campus; Buck Ahern, Corby; Herb Shimberg, Walsh; W. McAnnany, Lyons; and Bernard NulLy, Morrissey.
SONG WELL RECEIVED
The Junior Prom Song of 1928, "Make Believe You Are Mine Tonight Little Girl,” has .been well received on the western coast, where it was recently introduced by Harry Owens, its composer. Mr. Owens composed the song especially for the class of ’29. In order to test its value, he played it over radio as the Notre Dame Prom song. It was received very laudably. Mr. Owens is also the composer of many popular tunes. Some of his best sellers are “Linger Awhile,” “Adios” and “One More Kiss.”
PUBLICITY
The Prom Publicity Committee asks those intending to attend the affair to kindly assist them in their work. The South Bend newspapers have kindly consented to publish pictures of the Prom guests. It will be necessary to have these by next Tuesday at the very latest. They may be given to either William F. Craig, Lyons Hall; Frank Doan, Walsh; Hank Noon, Morrissey Hall; or John Hinkel, Badin.
PATRONS AND PATRONESSES SELECTED
The Prom Committee has selected the following as patrons and patronesses of the Junior Prom: Judge and Mrs. W. G. Wooten, Mr. and Mrs. William Roemer, Mr. Daniel O’Grady, Mr. James Hines and Mr. John Brennan. All of the patrons with the exception of Judge Wooten of the Hoynes College of Law are professors in the College of Arts and Letters.
CHAPERONS
Chaperons for the Junior Prom are Mr and Mrs. McCarthy, Mr. Paul Byrne and Mr. Paul Fenlon. The Prom will be held on Friday, February 10th.
DISTRIBUTION OF FAVORS
Distribution of the Prom Favors will be in charge of Robert Newbold and his committee. It will take place on Wednesday, February 8th. A Prom ticket will be necessary in order to receive one of the silver monogrammed jewel cases that are to be given as Prom favors.
FORMAL BIDS
Attractive Formal Bids have been ordered for the Junior Prom. A Prom ticket presented to one of the Invitations Committee will obtain one. Apply to either Thomas J. Hughes, Walsh Hall; Joseph Hiss, Corby; or Al Sylvesta, Off Campus.
ORCHESTRA
As we go to press we are informed that the selection of a Prom Orchestra has been limited to four bands. They are Charlie Dormberger, a widely known Victor recording orchestra; Ben Bernie, of the Hotel Roosevelt in New York; Abe Lyman, of Chicago, or Gus Edwards, now playing at the Edgewater Beach Hotel in Chicago.

INTERESTING LIBRARY DOCUMENT
The original land grant for the city of Fort Wayne, Ind., issued and signed by President James Monroe and dated Sept. 4,1823 has been presented to the local library.
The document is of heavy vellum parchment, 36 by 24 inches in size; slightly yel-loyed with age, it bears a fine gold border and a large green official seal in the lower left hand corner.
The “grant” which was written in a large readable hand,' was given by Charles E. Stuck of Fort Wayne to Rev. Bernard Mul-loy, C.S.C., to be presented to the Notre Dame library on the condition that it never be removed elsewhere. It is interesting to note that the “grant” was issued the same year as the famous Monroe Doctrine.
It was also at this time that Lafayette was making his “good-will” tour of this country.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
£ MUSIC AND DRAMA *
In spite of the fact that exams are upon us in all their fury, the Glee Club and Band are working assiduously upon concerts which are to be given in the near future if the well laid plans do not fall asunder. The Glee Club after returning from its last trip which took them thousands of miles, starts upon another which terminates in that progressive city of Fort Wayne where a concert is to be given tonight. The program will be much the same as the one given during the trip to the coast, for as yet, time has not permitted the perfection of some new selections which are to take the place of a few of the lighter bits now upon the Club’s list of offerings. The Band goes on unassuming, and we are promised that shortly after exams have passed into oblivion, the .■campus is to see and hear the organization in a concert which ■will surpass anything along local musical lines ever presented in the past. For a successful fulfillment, we extend our best wishes.
—*—
Living up ot the promise made some weeks ago, the Oliver Theatre continues to bring to South Bend productions of true worth, for Monday evening we are given the opportunity to see Walker Whiteside in his latest show “The Hindu.” True, the play is an exotic bit, but not to such a degree that one finds himself unable to adjust himself to the dialect or mannerisms. Although Mr. Whiteside's name as an actor is in itself sufficient to insure an evening of entertainment, the play “The Hindu” is a mysterious drama wherein one finds everything that ’ produces thrills. With a strong beginning and a stronger climax, “The Hindu” is a play which will make one wonder just why a ark room can suddenly become foreboding. With Mr. Whiteside is Helen Hardison in
e pantomime role of Shirza, the lithe, young native girl, who does much but says J e> except in Hindustani. Truly a diversi-.7finished actress—she can be remem-• * . many plays, there being Shake-peanng parts at one end and work in “In a
489
Garden,” “Trelawney of the Wells,” and The Great God Brown” at the other—one hardly And a better co-star for Whiteside’s production.
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS CONVENE
Grand Knight Howard V. Phalin and his Knights of Columbus held an enthusiastic meeting in their Walsh hal chambers Tuesday evening, January 24, 1928. Grand Knight Phalin announced during the meeting that the Council would hold an initiation, followed by a banquet in the Hotel Oliver, Sunday, February 19, at which Supreme Knight Carmody, the paramount officer of the Knights of Columbus, would be present.
Professor Charles Phillips, introduced by Lecturer Peter Edward McKeown, regaled the members of the Council for more than an hour’ with his delightful recollections and impressions of such great literary people as Robert Louis Stevenson, Charles Warren Stoddard, William Butler Yeats, Joaquin Miller and many others.
The Council’s annual spring formal dance, it has been tentatively decided, will be held shortly after Easter. The date and the ballroom for the dance are withheld for the present awaiting the sanction of University officials.
“Bert” Korzeneski, “Johnny” Frederick and the rest of the house committee, when Professor Phillips had finished, distributed cake and ice cream among the members. Chaplain Father Gallagan, C.S.C., terminated the meeting with prayer at 9:50 P. M.
--------0-------- '
DR. NIEUWLAND LECTURES
At the recent meeting of the Organic Symposium of the American Chemical Society at Columbus, Ohio, Rev. J. A. Nieuwland, C. S. C., professor of organic Chemistry, presented a paper covering his researches on the “Mechanism of Catalytic Reactions of Acetylene.” Father -Nieuwland is Councilor of the St. Joseph Valley section of the A. S. C., and is nationally known for his work in the field of organic chemistry.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
$ MUSIC AND DRAMA ❖ $ <> 4> ❖ ❖ ♦ ♦ * ♦ * * *	* *
In spite of the fact that exams are upon us in all their fury, the Glee Club and Band are working assiduously upon concerts which are to be given in the near future if the well laid plans do not fall asunder. The Glee Club after returning from its last trip which took them thousands of miles, starts upon another which terminates in that progressive city of Fort Wayne where a concert is to be given tonight. The program will be much the same as the one given during the trip to the coast, for as yet, time has not permitted the perfection of some new selections which are to take the place of a few of the lighter bits now upon the Club’s list of offerings. The Band goes on unassuming, and we are promised that shortly after exams have passed into oblivion, the .•campus is to see and hear the organization in a concert which will surpass anything along local musical lines ever presented in the past. For a successful fulfillment, we extend our best wishes.
—$—
Living up ot the promise made some weeks ago, the Oliver Theatre continues to bring to South Bend productions of true worth, for Monday evening we are given the opportunity to see Walker Whiteside in his latest show “The Hindu.” True, the play is an exotic bit, but not to such a degree that one finds himself unable to adjust himself to the dialect or mannerisms. Although Mr. Whiteside’s name as an actor is in itself sufficient to insure an evening of entertainment, the play “The Hindu” is a mysterious drama wherein one finds everything that ' produces thrills. With a strong beginning and a stronger climax, “The Hindu” is a play which will make one wonder just why a dark room can suddenly become foreboding. With Mr. Whiteside is Helen Hardison in the pantominic role of Shirza, the lithe, young native girl, who does much but says bttle, except in Hindustani. Truly a diversified and finished actress—she can be remembered in many plays, there being Shakespearing parts at one end and work in “In a
489
Garden,” “Trelawney of the Wells,” and “The Great God Brown” at the other—one could hardly find a better co-star for Whiteside’s production.
--------<♦—______ s
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS CONVENE
Grand Knight Howard V. Phalin and his Knights of Columbus held an enthusiastic meeting in their Walsh hal chambers Tuesday evening, January 24, 1928. Grand Knight Phalin announced during the meeting that the Council would hold an initiation, followed by a banquet in the Hotel Oliver, Sunday, February 19, at which Supreme Knight Carmody, the paramount officer of the Knights of Columbus, would be present.
Professor Charles Phillips, introduced by Lecturer Peter Edward McKeown, regaled the members of the Council for more than an houi’ with his delightful recollections and impressions of such great literary people as Robert Louis Stevenson, Charles Warren Stoddard, William Butler Yeats, Joaquin Miller and many others.
The Council’s annual spring formal dance, it has been tentatively decided, will be held shortly after Easter. The date and the ballroom for the dance are withheld for the present awaiting the sanction of University officials.
“Bert” Korzeneski, “Johnny” Frederick and the rest of the house committee, when Professor Phillips had finished, distributed cake and ice cream among the members. Chaplain Father Gallagan, C.S.C., terminated the meeting with prayer at 9:50 P. M.
--------$-------- ‘
DR. NIEUWLAND LECTURES ■
At the recent meeting of the Organic Symposium of the American Chemical Society at Columbus, Ohio, Rev. J. A. Nieuwland, C. S. C., professor of organic Chemistry, presented a paper covering his researches on the “Mechanism of Catalytic Reactions of Acetylene.” Father -Nieuw-land is Councilor of the St. Joseph Valley section of the A. S. C., and is nationally known for his work in the field of organic chemistry.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

490

*2* & ❖
OUR CONTRIBUTORS
❖
The feature of John Burns’ story “Blank” is its human interest. John, being a senior in Journalism, might capitalize this point by tendering his story as a graduating thesis, and be reasonably certain of success.
Joe Friel’s first essay, “The Girl-friend at the Football Game,” brought some retorts. The only possible replies to this bit of good humor are letters of appreciation from amused readers; the elephant can be disregarded, and any suit brought by irate makers of mechanical-pencils would be laughed out of court.
“Attitudes of Men Towards Immortality” is probably the most original theme ever’ treated in the Scholastic. J. W. Conboy’s naturalness in handling it makes good reading of a topic that might have been uninteresting, written less casually.
If the Scholastic ever published a verse to be clipped out and mooned over and memorized, that verse is in this issue. Jasper Brent has never written a poem with more appeal, by which superlative you may judge that “Lost Love” is very
good and very memorable.
—R.C.E.
COMMONWEAL CARRIES N. D. POEM
The late issue of the Commomveal, foremost Catholic literary magazine in America excepting the Santa Maria, carries a poem by Jack Mullen, Editor of the Scholastic.
The poem titled the “Careless Traveler,” appearing as it does in the Commomveal, nothing further need be said of its merit.
George N. Schuster, who was a professor here for many years and one time head of the English Department, is an associate editor on the Commonweal. He is famous for his work, “The Catholic Spirit In Modern English Literature” which is dedicated to Rev. Joseph L. Carrico, C.S.C, Ph.D., Head of the Department of English here.
NO SCHOLASTIC NEXT WEEK
Because of the examinations and registration taking place next week, there will be no issue of the Scholastic on next Friday.
MEXICON BISHOP VISITS UNIVERSITY
The Rt. Rev. Nicholas Corona, bishop of the diocese of Pantla, Mexico, was a visitor at the University last week for several days.
Bishop Corona, the first bishop to be expelled from his diocese in Mexico, came to Notre Dame in order to visit his brother, Professor Jose Corona of the department of modern languages. While here he was quartered in Lyons hall.
During the present conflict of Church and State in Mexico, Bishop Corona has directed the welfare of the Catholic people until he was expelled by President Calles. During his enforced exile from Mexico the Bishop has encountered many adventures. He was imprisoned twice and had been in concealment in one house for 13 months in Mexico City.	■ '
Bishop Corona came to Notre Dame from Washington, D. C., where he had attended a conference regarding the present situation in Mexico. He left the University Friday morning.
MADONNA GIVEN TO ART GALLERY
Rev. James A. Burns, C S.C., Provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross has received a large oil painting of the Madonna and Child.
The painting, which is an exquisite one,.is the gift of Miss Hanna Reid of Brighton, Mass. It will be restored by Father Gregory and he displayed in the gallery in the near future.
-------*--------
BROWNSON HALL TO HOLD SMOKER
Preparations for the second smoker to be held in the near future are going foi’ward under the direction of Brother Alphonsus, C.S C., rector of the hall.
The smoker, one of the oldest entertainments on the campus, has taken on the character of a popular social event of the school year. Boxing, music, entertainment and speakers, all furnished by the students themselves, feature this event.	'
The first smoker held last November was a great success and it is hoped by its sponsors that the second will surpass the first.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dames Contribution to Current Literature in 1927
•	Compiled by Brother Alphonsus, C.S.C.
T the present'day, current literature is A synonymous with popular- literature.
No doubt a great deal of the matter ubiished by the innumerable newspapers and magazines of our time is only of ephemeral value, and
re-
worth the time
is not
BROTHER ALPHONSUS, C. S. C.
Rector, Brownson Hall
quired to keep abreast of the great deluge of print that pours daily from the countless presses of the world. While this evaluation of periodical publications is true on the whole, yet there are some notewoi-thy exceptions to the ineffectiveness of the output of most modern magazines and newspapers.
The general reader of current literature is quite able to estimate the value of what he reads. Of course, his own tastes and preferences will largely determine the quality °f his reading. Apart from the technical scientific contributions to present day Mature, which will interest but a limited number of readers, there is a host of publi-^tions which offer worth while material. To jn t°uch with the progress of events, ? to learn.what our age is contributing to 6 advancement of civilization, we must rusethe best periodicals of the day.
Besides the interest which every educated man should find in general current literature, there is for Catholics a department of periodical literature that should appeal strongly to them. This is literature impregnated with the Catholic spirit. Among the magazines in which such contributions may be looked for are The Ave Maria, America, and The Commonweal, all weekly periodicals; The Catholic World, a monthly; and Thought, a quarterly review. These are all American publications, of which we may be proud. The most scholarly English magazines in this class are The Dublin Review and The Month; Studies is an able Irish quarterly review. In'these various periodicals the thought of the best Catholic authors may be found. Their special articles, editorial comment, and poetry are worthy of the serious attention of cultivated readers. Among these articles and poems are some ' which have been contributed by members of our own faculty, and to this rather complete list I now wish to call the attention of my readers.
It is not my intention to single out for special and deserved commendation any of the productions, but merely to give the title and place of publication of each article that my readers may see for themselves the interest and value of Notre Dame’s contribution to current literature in 1927.
REV. GEORGE ALBERTSON, C.S.C.
The first volume of the “Universal Knowl-
edge”,	1927:
PAGE	PAGE
90			“Abutilon" 388 	“Ailanthus”
101	“Acacia" 630 — “Alpine Plants”
109	“Acanthus” 674 	“Amaranth"
1.23		“Acclimatization	674 	 „
151	“Aconite" 675 — “Amarylhdaceae
151 235 *-	“Acorn” 695 	“Amentherae” '"““Adonis” 762 	"Apelopsis"
375 —	’	“Agrimony” 779 — “Anacardmceue

ME SCHOLASTIC
492	TH E	NOTRE DA
PAGE	PAGE	
879		"Angiosperms” 1334		“Artemisia"
962		“Antiarin” 1339		“Artichoke”
1018		“Apios” 1346		“Arum”
1198		“Areca” 1358		“Asafetida”
1198		“Arenaria” 1366_	_ “Asclepiadaceae”
1299		“Arnica” 1367		“Ascomycetes”
1314.		“Arracacha” 1398		“Asparagus”
1319		“Arrowhead” 1434		“Aster”
BROTHER ALPHONSUS, C.S.C.
Annals of Our Lady of Lourdes—December: “A New Edition of the Imitation of Christ”—“A Masterly Analysis of Prejudice and Bigotry.”
The South Bend Tribune, December 25th: “Christmas Bird Census at Notre Dame.”
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG
Report of the Fourteenth Annual Conference of American Alumni Council—
“Club and Alumni' Scholarships.”
PROFESSOR JOHN J. BECKER
South Bend News-Times—
Special Articles on Music.—Critical Reviews of Concerts in South Bend.
Musical Observer, New York City—
“A Method with an Ideal.” (March issue.) (Articles to appear in “Musical.Observer,” New York City in 1928.) One article to appear in “The Musical Quarterly,” 1928.) “Reviews of Vander Swissen’s Translation of Goethe’s Faust,” reprinted in E. P. Denton’s Book review paper.
REV. WILLIAM A. BOLGER, C.S.C.
N. C. W. C. Bulletin—December:
“A Catholic Industrial Program.”
REV. LAWRENCE BROUGHALL, C.S C.
Notre Dame Alumnus,—November: “History, Tradition of the New Dining Hall.”
MR. PAUL BYRNE
Notre Dame Alumnus—January: “Notre Dame Library Treasures.” '
REV. PATRICK J. CARROLL, C.S.C.
Ave Maria—January 15th:
“The Mating of Tess.’—(short story).
February 16th: “Night,” (poem), March 19th: “March 17,” (poem).
July 9th: “The Priesting of Michaeleen.' — (short story).
December 10th: “The Fleeing Judas,” (poem).
America—March 19th:
“The Dead Shamrock,” (poem).
Oct. 15th: “Readers for Catholic Writers.1 —(essay).
Dec. 24th: “Christ or Santa Claus.”
—(essay).	'
Nov. 5th’: “The Blind Man of Jericho,1 (poem).
Catholic World—April:

.i
js
-3
“Irishmen of Easter Week”—(essay).
“How Shawn Found His Soul.” — (short story accepted).
“The Man God: A Life of Christ.” Scott, Foreman & Co. Pub.
Ecclesiastical Review—June:
“Pastoral Instruction of Converts.”
REV. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C.S.C.
St. Mary’s Chimes—June:
Commencement Address at St. Mary’s College, Notre Dame, Ind.,—“Behold!-The Dreamer Cometh!”
Notre Dame Alumnus—June:
“The Soul of the Church.” (A semon preached at the Installation of the Rt. Rev. George Finnigan, C.S.C., D.D.)
Book Review for Catholic Vigil and the Little Flower Circle.
REV. WILLIAM CONDON, C.S.C.
Notre Dame Alumnus'—December:
“An Echo of the Eucharistic Congress.”
PROFESSOR BURTON CONFREY
Catholic School Journal—27 :213 ff., Oct:
“The Writing of a Dissertation.”
27:306 ff., December:	’
“The Writing of a Dissertation: II The Use of the Library.”
24:407 ff., February:
“Oral English: The Speaker’s Relation to His Audience.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
“Oral English: Variety in Assignment.” Loc. Cit. May, 27:59 ff:
Magnificat—
40:290 ff., October:
“Secular Domination of Reading Matter.” (Book Reviews contributed each month.) Sentinel of the Blessed Sacrament—
“Why Does Youth Yearn?”
' 30:703 ff. Nov.	'
“Sons of God.”
30:143-9 March—30:233-41, April.
“A Sentinel of the Blessed Sacrament.” Lop. Cit. June, 30:366 ff.
Grail—
“The Quest for the Grail at Notre Dame”: January, 8:409 ff; February, 8,460 f; March, 8:499-502; May, 9:28 f; June, 9:77 f; August, 9:166 ff; Sept. 9:214 ff; October, 9:260 ff.
“Spiritual Conquistadors”—
November, 9:305 ff; December, 9:359 ff.
Scholastic—
“Father Carroll’s New Book”—Sept. 23, 60:10 f.
America—
“Sharing an Enjoyment in Poetry.” April 16th, Vol. 37, p. 16 f.
Catholic Education Revieiu—
“The Teaching of Oral English III.” February, 25:96-106.
“An Orientation Course Developed through Discussion.” Loc. Cit. May, 25:257-67.
English Journal—
“The Expository Talk as a Class Exercise.” March, 219-22.
Placidian—
"Reading Lepanto Aloud.” April, 4:139-42.
V“A Chaplaine of the Virgine Myld.” Loc. Cit. July, 4:234 ff.	.
Western Catholic—
“A Survey of the Religion of College Men.” - February 25.
Thought—
' “Crashaw’s Religious Poetry.”
• December, 2:392 ff.
REV. WM. F. CUNNINGHAM, C.S.C.
Catholic School Interests—
“All Learning is Self-Activity.” March.
“Chaos Vs. Chosmos in Teacher Train-> ing.” May.
“The Reconstruction of Secondary Education” (July, August, September; also reprinted in the Proceedings of the Catholic Educational Association, 1927.)
“American Secondary School.” August.
“Secondary Education in France.” Nov.
“Secondary Education in Germany.” Dec.^-
Homiletic & Pastoral Revieiv—
“The Perfect Gift” (Sermon)—April.
“True Neighborliness” (Sermon)—July.>.
MR. NORBERT ENGELS
America—(Poems) :	'
“White Lilies Grow There Now.” Mar. 19.
“Ave Maria.”—May 7.
“Come, Walk With Me.”—Aug. 20.
“In Gascony.”—Nov. 12.	.
Wisconsin Magazine—(Poems) :
“Reflecting.”—April.
“Foolscap.”—May.
Grail—
“Veneer.”—September.
MR. VINCENT ENGELS
Commomveal—(Poems) :
“Prayer For a Lonely Night.”—May 11.
“Avignon.”—August 31.
’ MR. WILLIAM E. FARRELL „
Universal Knowledge—Vol. I.
“Pre-Columbian Discovery of America.”
PROFESSOR H. B. FRONING
Universal Knowledge—
“Adipocere.”
“Albumin” (albumen).
“Albuminuria.”	.
MR. RAYMOND HOYER *
Knights of Columbus Boy Life Bureau— , “Games and Stunts for Boys.”
Exchangite—	"	’
“A New Profession.”—April.	...
s 1..
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
494
x	MR. DANIEL HULL
Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of Sci-
' ence (1927) :
, “Theory of. Thunder Storms.”
. PROFESSOR FRANCIS KERVICK
The Notre Dame Alumnus—	.
. “The New Dining Hall, Architecturally.”
PROFESSOR E. G. MAHIN
Transactions, American Society for Steel Treating—(Paper):
“Segregation of Dissolved Elements and Its Influence upon Carbon Distribution t in Steel.” Vol. 12, p. 905. E. G. Mahin and H. J. Dillon.	•
(Book): Third Edition, Fourth Impression of Text,Book: “Quantitative Analysis.” McGraw-Hill Book Co., New York.
(Paper): Coloidal Arsenic Triiodide in the Arsenic Determination.
(Paper) : Hydrogen Diffusion in Iron.
(The last two papers are to appear in the 1927 Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of Science.)
REV. GEORGE MARR, C.S.C.
Bulletin of National Catholic Educational
Association^—
“A College Course in Religion.”—Nov. ।
REV. CHARLES C. MILTNER, C.S.C.
Proceedings of the First Annual Meeting of ' the American Philosophical Association.
“Neo-Scholastic Ethics and Modern
Thought.”
lb., Second Annual Meeting.
“Neo-Realism: A Discussion.”
The New Scholasticism—
“Moral Sense: Mind and Man”
Vol. I, No. 2.
“History of Philosophy, Miller.”
Vol. I, No. 4.
The Ave Maria—	'	-
. “Guarding the Gift of Faith.”—Dec. 2.
* Book Review’s—(Weekly).	'
Notre Dame Alumnus—
“Neo-Scholastic Schools and Scholars.”— ' September.	'	•
REV. JULIUS NIEUWLAND, C.S.C.
Universal Knowledge—
“Acetic Acid.”	-
“Acetic Ether.”
“Acetins.”	•
“Acetoacetic Ether.”
“Acetone.”
“Aldehydes.”
“Alkaloides.”
“Analine.”
“Aromatic Series.”
“The History of Botany.”
American Midland Naturalist—
Book Review—Page 371, Vol. X, No. 10.
REV. JOHN F. O’HARA, C.S.C.
Religious Survey—(1926) :
Religious Bulletin—(Daily).
REV. CHARLES L. O’DONNELL, C.S.C.
America—
“Address to the Crown.”—April 16.
“Questionaire.”—May 7.
“Before a Crib.”—December 24.	’
Annals of Our Lady of Lourdes—
“Mother of Priests.”—January.
“In Passiontode.”—March.
“Upon St. Magdalen, Weeping.”—April.
“Of Visions.”—May.
The Ave Maria—
“ “To Her.”—May 7.	.
“Misnomer.”—November 12.
The Commonweal—
“Vesperal.”—February 2.
“Design for a House.”—February 23.
“Conclusions.”—March 2.
“Marginals.”—April 20.
“In No Strange Land.”—August 24.
Poetry—A Magazine of Verse—
“In the Upper Room.”—April.
■ “On Meeting a Lady.”—December.
Thought—
“The Presence of God: A Sonnet Se-quen.”—September.
“Advice to the Poets.”—May.
In Anthologies of Poetry by Theodore Maynard. Thomas Walsh, Louis Vincent, Margarite Wilkinson, Jessie B. Rittenhouse,


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
495
Burton Stevenson, Richard Le Gallienne, Father Talbot, S. J., and W. S. Braithwaite.
PROFESSOR CHARLES PHILLIPS
America—
“Some Real Christmas Reading."—Dec. 18.
. (1926).
“Inscription for a Book" (verse)—July 23. "California Aquarelles" (verse sequence —8 poems).—August 6.
“Miracle.” (verse)—October 8.
“Rose in the Rain" (verse)—'October 15.
“Prelude in a Daisy Field" (verse)—(date lost).	1
“Joyce Kilmer in Heaven” (verse) — (date lost) “Eucharist" (verse)—Dec. 17.
Commonweal—
“Ladislas Reymont” (article)—Feb. 16.
“A Poet of Soul and Sex” (article) Feb. 7.
Catholic World—
Book Reviews:
"The Patriot Novelist of Poland”—Oct.
“The Man-God.”—September.
“American History.”—September.
“Lotus of the Dusk.”—July.
“Incense.”—June.
“Forever Free.”—June.
“Roads from Eden.”—June.
“The Fire of Desert Folk.”—June.
“Rip Van Winkle Goes to the Play.”, May. “A Dictionary of European Lit.”—March. “The Naked Washington.”, (article), Feb. “The Big Show (article)—September.
American—
“Debating the Mexican Question” (article)—May 7.
“The Living Classics."—November 5.
The Campus Publication—
(Article accepted but file lost).
The Book of Modern Catholic Verse—
Literary Digest—
“Sister Giovanna” (verse).
Scholastic—
“Fathers of Sons” (verse—Feb. 22.
Poland (mo. mag.) —
“A David Among Nations” (poem).—Nov. “Iridion”—(article)—July.
New York Times and Literary Digest— “Electra”—December 10.
Volume of Poetry—
“Hight in Her Tower"—September, F. T. Kolars Co., N. Y.
MR. KNUTE ROCKNE
Notre Dame Alumnus—
“Football Still Has a Kick.”—Oct.
MR. WILLIAM F. ROEMER
Proceedings of the American Catholic Philosophical Society, 1927—
“St. Thomas and the Ethical Basis of International Law.”
REV. JOHN A. RYAN, C.S.C.
Our Sunday Visitor—
“Studies in Church History.”
REV. MATTHEW SCHUMACHER, C.S.C.
International Catholic Truth Society—•
“The Catholic Church
Her Indefectibility and Perpetuity.”
REV. LEO L. WARD, C.S.C.
The Midland—
“Master and Servant” (a story)—Jan.
Thought—
“A Note on George Meredith" (a critical essay) —June.
The Commonweal—
“Bruth Fire” (familiar essay)—Nov. 30.
J
DR. H. H. WENZKE
4>
“Thermal Conductivity of Condensing
Vapor Films.”
(This paper is to be published in the 1927 Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of Science.)
REV. F. X. WENNIGER, C.S.C.
Universal Knowledge—First Volume:
“Agouti”..... “Amoeba” .... “Annelida”... “Arachnida” ... “Argali" .... “Army Worm” “Ape” .......
PP.
PP.
PP.
346
758
926
. pp. 1123 pp. 1202
. pp. 1298
pp. 1010
496
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
HON. DUDLEY G. WOOTEN
Notre Dame Lawyer—
The Church and the State in Mexico.”— (2 articles)—Vol. II, Nos. 4 and 5, Feb. and March, —25 pages, (reprint in pamphlet).
“Standardization Run Mad, the Gibbs
' Bill in New York.”—Vol. I, No. 6, April-May, 1926.—6 pages.-
“The Scopes Case”—Vol. I, No. 1. Nov. 1925—29 pages. (Reprint in pamphlet.) ‘‘Curiosities of the Law. A Case in Punctuation.” Vol. I, No. 5, March, 1926.— 14 pages.
■ National Catholic Educational Bulletin No. 24.—“The Province and Purpose of Catholic Education.” November.—39 pages. (Reprint in pamphlet.)
MR. M’CREADY HUSTON
(Corby), C. Jans (Brownson), P. McGreal (Carroll), John Houlihan (Sophomore), J. Harlan (Freshman), and Day Dogs see Dick Halpin, 213 Lyons.	.
EAST-PENN
The East-Penn Club of the University held a meeting in the south room of Lemmonier Library Wednesday evening, January 25, 1928. President Leo R. McIntyre conducted the meeting. A report of the club’s financial status was read by treasurer A. J. (Jerry) Ransavage. Plans were discussed concerning the club’s mammoth post-exam smoker.
MISSOURI CLUB
The Missouri Club started the New Year off by holding a very enjoyable banquet in the Lay Dining Room last Wednesday evening. Future plans and club business were discussed, after which the forty attending members heard interesting talks given by Dean McCarthy, Prof. Boyle and William Coyne. The officers of this year’s Missouri Club include: Joe Schwartz, President; John Seiter, Vice-President; Charles Homer, Secretary and Frank Quinn, Treasurer.

Pictorial Review—
“A Clean Collar,” short story—April “An Unexpected Welcome,” short story
—June.
Scribner’s—
“Daughters,” short story—June. ------------------------------
*5* *5*	*5*	❖ *2*
*	. CLUB NEWS	*
❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖
CHICAGO CLUB
Tickets for the Chicago Club banquet which is to be held on Thursday evening, February 2, at 6:30, Were placed on sale Monday morning by the committee in charge of tickets. The banquet which will be held in the Lay Faculty Dining room will be one of the greatest events of the school year as far as the club is. concerned. Tickets for the affair will be limited to members of the club and will sell for seventy-five cents.
Prominent guests at the banquet will include the Very Rev. James A. Burns, C.S.C., president emeritus of the University, Rev. Charles O’Donnell, C. S.C., Assistant Superior-General of the Congregation of Holy Cross, Norman Barry ’21, president of the Chicago alumni, Aiderman Maypole of Chicago, Samuel Insull and Judges Marcus Kavanaugh and Kickham Scanlon.
Tickets for the event may be procured from Fred Baer (Lyons), Jim Leahy (Morrissey), Geo. Helmuth (Howard), Dan McCain (Badin), Joe Haberkorn (Walsh), Ed Rafter (Sorin), Jim Gray
ACADEMY OF SCIENCE	-	■
At the mid-January meeting of the Notre Dame i Academy of Science, two well written papers on	J
medical and biological subjects were presented by	1
two Pre-Medical members. Mr. Richard J. Wehs -1 reviewed in detail the progress which has been made 1 in “General and Local Anesthesia,” and Mr. Arthur 1 G. Fleming discussed the theories which have been evolved pertaining to the subject of “Immunity.” 3
The next meeting of the Academy will be held	s
in Washington Hall on February 5th at 8 o’clock,	|
and will consist of a public lecture by Father Milt-net on certain philisophical subjects pertaining to science. The general student body is cordially in- 1 vited to this meeting.	’
SCRIBBLERS	■
The Scribblers met Monday evening in the Law ; Building. After a discussion of business, President	;
Walter Layne announced a poetry contest, details of which may be found in another column of The $ Scholastic. Richard Parrish was introduced to the members, and a humorous paper on short-story writing was read by Harry Engel.	J
The next meeting will be held Thursday, Febru-	■
ary 2, at 8 P. M. in the Law Building. Papers are	!
to be read by Murray Young and Walter Layne.	;
;
INDIANAPOLIS CLUB	'
A discussion concerning the Easter Formal Dm-^ , ner Dance to be given at the, Hawthorne Country ■ Club in Indianapolis on Easter Monday took place , pt the Indianapolis Club meeting last Monday night.	j
The affair will be limited to members of the dub	।
and alumni. Mr. John Harrington is chairman of the dance committee.	■ ■?
THE COLLEGE PARADE
By J. F. Mahoney
I am still receiving each week Christmas numbers of various college literary publications. The Holy Cross Purple is resplendent in a striking white cover with a mammoth star shining down on what is, I believe, the town of Bethlehem. The table of contents lists twenty-two separate literary pearls, of which eleven are labeled “verse.” I appreciate very much the thoughtfulness that prompted whoever is responsible for sending the magazine to me, but I cannot help feeling that there is nothing quite so perturbing as Christmas verse on or about January 20.
This week’s fable, from The Wisconsin Daily Cardinal: CO-EDS FAVOR INEXPENSIVE JUNIOR PROM.
—❖— ■ I
Physical education at Northwestern:
“The greater part of the winter’s gymnasium work has been devoted to the art of dancing and most of the men in the classes are striving to get an A on their graceful performances.”
—«—
From an interview granted by Rockne to a representative of The Brown Daily Herald, and reported by The Minnesota Daily:
“Today we have in our colleges two types of students, the student and the ‘Hollywood’ student. The former, the real college man, and the latter, the moving picture student who unfortunately does exist and who finds more of college in the hip flask and the night life than he does in his books or his lecture halls.”
,	—«—
The Way, student organ of Routt College, Jacksonville, Ill., requests exchange and comment. I have nothing to do with the exchange department, but as for the comment—I have just read your magazine for the first time, and I am well satisfied.
Romantic doings at Marquette, as- reported by the interviewer of the Prom, Queen:
“Only three days elapsed between >the first meeting of the king with Miss Gossens and the time he asked her to be his queen. Sunday, Jan. 8, was the red letter day for ‘Angie,’ as her friends know her. The king’s visit to the nurse’s home with several friends, each perfectly strangeto the other, an introduction—then that peculiar attracting that some girls exert, prompting the king to make his choice the following Wednesday. What did she say when she accepted him? ‘I said,’ (a trifle hesitantly as though ashamed of her perfectly natural thrill) ‘Oh, Kenneth, I’d love to.’ ”
The Franklin of Franklin College reports the game which Notre Dame won 36-24: (Notre Dame, as usual, is greatly favored) “Lacking the services of H. Williams, the Franklin quintet entered the contest in somewhat of a crippled state. Four of the thirteen members of the varsity squad were off duty owing to illness and injuries. And yet the Wagnerians played a style of ball that fully equalled and in many ways bettered the best efforts of Notre Dame.”
1 ’
Exultant boast in The Butler Collegian:
“Everywhere I went ... I was surprised to find how much superior our new campus will .be to those of the eastern universities.”
—$—
Mr. Karl Johnson,~of Kokomo, Ind., has been pestering me a gre’at deal of late concerning the scenic attractions and industrial prosperity of that city. I am afraid Kokomo is associated in my mind with Kankakee, Keokuk, Hackensack and others of vaudeville fame, but I am not one to quibble about a small point, and since Mr. Johnson wishes publicity for the hamlet of his choice, he shall have it.
498
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

THE POETRY CONTEST
Last week, in this column, a statement was made concerning the dead or near-dead condition of the Scribblers. Since then, the club has made known a poetry contest, open to all undergraduate students, and a further contest, probably in the short story field, is being planned for the men who either are not able or do not care to express their ideas in verse.
The Scribblers have now held poetry contests annually for some years. They have brought out good verse, bad verse, and mediocre verse in varying quantities. The quality of the material submitted is not of the
first importance, however; the one thing that matters is the fact that some writings are submitted, that the University has thirty, or forty, or fifty men who are willing to and capable of writing in an attempt to attain an expression of beauty and emotion. When universities cease to produce men who have some poetry in their make-up, even if that poetry is not given, an outlet or is told in wornout phraseology, then universities will fall from their former positions as institutions of education and become merely places where a given number of people learn how to make money.
THE DRIBBLE
It is row almost a year since the basketball rules committee, gathered for the purpose, it seems, of making the game as complicated as possible, decided that the dribble should be cut down to a single bound of the ball. Such a rule amounts, in the final analysis, to a complete abolition of the dribble. No player can travel a great distance while bumping the leather against the floor- only once.
By some means or other, the dribble has been given one year of grace before it joins the late field goal, flying wedge, shift play, and intentional pass in the eternity created by various rule committees. Until
the present, basketball has consisted of pass dribble, and shoot; in the future it will be merely pass and shoot.
We are not so good an authority on basketball as to be able to discuss the merits and defects of the dribble from a technical viewpoint. We can regard the matter merely as a spectator. When the dribble is eliminated, if it is actually eliminated, one of the fastest, most thrilling plays will be removed from a game that, until now, has been one of the fastest and most thrilling.
Rules committees, however, probably are neither requested nor allowed to consider the mere spectator.	—j. a. m.
NEW MAN ON SCHOLASTIC
J. Troy Bonner, a senior in the College of Commerce, has been appointed to succeed Eugene A. O’Brien as local advertising manager of the Scholastic for the remainder of the winter and spring terms.
Mr. O’Brien, who has been in this capacity since autumn, is graduating and the staff takes this opportunity of wishing him the best of success. Mr. O’Brien has been one of the most efficient members of the business staff and it is with reluctance that we see him leave.
Mr. Bonner will occupy his new position beginning with the new term.	■—HL.M.
“MARIUS”
Two months ago or more a small dog appeared on the campus, a fuzzy dog of faded coloring reminiscent of brown and white. In spite of bad weather and worse people, the small dog has remained at the University, resting in snow-banks and such comfortable ( places.	()
His name is “Marius the Epicurean, Marius because we were talking about Patel when he appeared in the cafeteria, and “the Epicurean” because he warmed up to the Scholastic. Please do not kick him.
. wWET TO A GIRL WHO DOESN'T SEEM TO MISS ME AS MUCH AS SHE OUGHT
“Life is most exciting since you've. Item gone, And Tm having a wonderful time?' you. write; "This week Tre had a dais for every might: Some with PHU, and Ken, but most with Ed <C John. [ thought to see, as time u'ore. on and on That you ■might find a little, time to write To me, but if you don't care to, it's all right— Anyway, Pre been mice to you too long."
My dear, I, too, am having lots of fun; Tonight—why, tonight I shall be free To raise a little riot so to speak, (That is, until eleven). You're not the only one— But this is all so silly—can't you see
That your letter has ruined my whole week?
—JOHNNIE PLOW.
DAT'S EASY; DERE’S CO-ED KOLLITCHES
Dere Alan; Las month a fella sez to me, "When I git home from kollitch dis Christmas, I’ll spend de hull of my time and money on Lulu. I here as how I rate aces wit her.”
■Wdl, Alan, dis bloat breezes over to dis gal’s home in de ole home town, and hoofs into de room dey live in, an— something turrible happened; he Joined he had arrived in time to be the first admirer of the weddin gifts which just been delivered. Do you think he got sore? No— tha hell he didn’t! If it hada bin summa time he woulda teared up a straw hat.
Do you see, Alan, what chances de kollitch boy takes? Kin you blame him for not wantin to leave home an de luved ones (or, one) ?—dk. piffin, '29.
LOOK, BALTIMORE LASSIE; YOU’RE AN INSPIRATION
Good Morning Allan.- Pray tell me, who is this vendor of "Dream Girls”? Who is this gifted creature who contributed so beautifully to “hobble nails” last week? She, in her poem, waved her magic wand, and behold! from the dim dusky vales of long ago, there arose before me, the ghost of my oigotten yesterdays—phantoms of the might-have-been,
„ Shadow Man,” has entreated his friend, he .Weeping Buffoon," to reply to her, and, dry-n8 his eyes, the poor fellow smiles 'his melancholy smile, and speaks:
Jut shall when love has floiun?
. the way is desolate, stark and cold,
And*h16^6 tke Pittance and drunk the wine, . the Playthings are broken, yours and mine . . .
jpT^?tt«n toys, blue with mold;
.a shall we do, alone, and old?
—THE SHADOW MAN.
A LITTLE DARK-EYED ARGEL
She sat down and played for ns, and as her fingers danced upon the keys, we listened—but I heard it not—.
No. I saw it.
I saw a little dark-eyed angel skipping and dancing up along the mountain side, first through the pine trees, then on past the timberline and up to the snow caps. On the peak she danced about, then sprang up and whirled away in a fluffy little cloud that trailed off in a little wisp. But I could hear her laughing—yes, laughing, and I watched until it died away.
The music had ceased. Did we like it? Well—
What was that other guy saying?
“—-Yeah, I guess you can play pretty good, but say, you orta heard the fellah at the Palace last week—
I arose in disgust and walked to the window, gazing out at snow-covered hill and the star-spattered sky. And I, did I like it?
She was beside me now, but I did not answer— in words. I looked into her deep black eyes, then we both gazed out into the night. I knew that she had played it for me,—and I hope she understood that I saw it. I think she knew, but maybe she just thought I was a dumbell too.
—THE SENTIMENTAL FOP.
VAIN QUEST
Tarry in a village,
Tarry in a valley;
Search in the hills where
The little rivers sally;
Look under wide shies, Look under trees;
Try every rusty lock
With all the rusty keys;
Follow the red leaves
Wherever they are blown—
You'll not find happiness
Alone.	—CYRANO.
J'X” EXEMPLIFIED
Dear Allan: Enclosed find an illustration of a famous phrase. In speaking of habit and custom' today, one of my profs said: "It is a question which has always fascinated me.”
His lecture was a perfect example of that fascma: tion of the unknown.	—bransome JEWK.
No matter how pressing affairs may be, don’t let a little thing like exams keep you from reading Hobnails. It is "The Cream of the Jest"; it is designed for the tired college man; and our motto is service. If you like it, tell your friends; if you don’t like it, don’t tpll us—we haven’t read it. IVe re taking exams.	ALLAN-A-DALE.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
499
HOBNAILS
, caNNET TO A GIRL WHO DOESN’T SEEM A TO MISS ME AS MUCH AS SHE OUGHT u,ife is most exciting since you’ve been gone, And I'm having a wonderful time," you writej uThis week I’ve had a date for every night: Seme with Phil, and Ken, but most with Ed & John. [ thought to see, as time wore on and on That you might find a little time to write To me, but if you don’t care to, it’s all right— knyway, I've been nice to you too long" Uy dear, I, too, am having lots of fun; Tonight—why, tonight I shall be free To raise a little riot so to speak, (That is, until eleven). You’re not the only one— But this is all so silly—can’t you see That your letter has ruined my whole zucek?
—JOHNNIE PLOW.
DAT'S EASY; HERE’S CO-ED KOLLITCHES DereAlan; Las month a fella sez to me, “When I git home frum kollitch dis Christmas, I’ll spend de hull of my time and money on Lulu. I here as how I rate aces wit her.”
Well, Alan, dis bloat breezes over to dis gal’s home in de ole home town, and hoofs into de room dey live in, an— something turrible happened; he loined he had arrived in time to be the first admirer of the weddin gifts which just been delivered. Do you think he got sore? No— tha hell he didn’t! If it hada bin summa time he woulda teared up a straw hat.
Do you see, Alan, what chances de kollitch boy takes? Kin you blame him for not wantin to leave home an de luved ones (or, one) ?—dr. piffin, ’29.
LOOK, BALTIMORE LASSIE; YOU’RE AN INSPIRATION
Good Morning Allan : Pray tell me, who is this vendor of “Dream Girls"? Who is this gifted crea-.ure who contributed so beautifully to “hobble nails" sst Week? She, in her poem, waved her magic wand, and behold I from the dim dusky vales of ong ago, there arose before me, the ghost of my b«n°^n yesterdays—phantoms of the might-have-
Man,” has entreated his friend, i eeping Buffoon,” to reply to her, and, dry-is eyes, the poor fellow smiles 'his melancholy and speaks:
W0 w^en l°ve has flown?
IPAen e> tS de8°late> stark and cold, 4wd tl°6T ^le pittunoo and drunk the wine, FornJ, ^Vthings are broken, yours and mine . . . What ^ue W^1 mo^i>
shall we do, alone, and old?
—THE SHADOW MAN.
A LITTLE DARK-EYED ANGEL
She sat down and played for us, and as her fingers danced upon the keys, we listened—but I heard it not—.
No. I saw it.
I saw a little dark-eyed angel skipping and dancing up along the mountain side, first through the pine trees, then on past the timberline and up to the snow caps. On the peak she danced about, then sprang up and whirled away in a fluffy little cloud that trailed off in a little wisp. But I could hear her laughing—yes, laughing, and I watched until it died away.
The music had ceased. Did we like it? Well— What was that other guy saying?
“—Yeah, I guess you can play pretty good, but say, you orta heard the fellah at the Palace last week—."
I arose in disgust and walked to the window, gazing out at snow-covered hill and the star-spattered sky. And I, did I like it?
She was beside me now, but I did not answer— in words. I looked into her deep black eyes, then we both gazed out into the night. I knew that she had played it for me,—and I hope she understood that I saw it. I think she knew, but maybe she just thought I was a dumbell too.
—THE SENTIMENTAL PDF.
VAIN QUEST
Tarry in a village, Tarry in a valley; Search in the hills where The little rivers sally; Look under uiide skies, Look under trees;
Try every rusty lock
With all the rusty keys;
Follow the red leaves
Wherever they are blown—
You’ll not find happiness
Alone.	—cyrano.
x“X” EXEMPLIFIED
Dear Allan: Enclosed find an illustration of a famous phrase. In speaking of habit and custom today, one of my profs said: “It is a question which has always fascinated me.”
His lecture was a perfect example of that fascma; tion of the unknown. -bransome jewk.
No matter how pressing affairs may be, don let a little thing like exams keep you f™m5ead,ng Hobnails. It is “The Cream of the Jest ; it is de-signed for the tired college man; and our motto is service. If you like it, tell your friends; if you . wt like it, don’t Wl taking exams.
Blank
Pride and Two Falls
JOHN F. BURNS
u-r-^LANK” Dawson gazed; down theblink-ing main street of Elkhart and scowled. When a fellow doesn’t eat for a mere forty-eight hours, or thereabouts, there is a natural tendency for him to pull a wry face, whether he be a metaphysics professor or just a no-account bum, like “Blank”. This being down-and-out was a new experience for Dawson, and he relished it like gall and wormwood. He had been blackened in Pittsburgh, buffeted in Chicago, even baked in San Antonio, but never before had he been hungry. And then to aid insult to injury, of all towns it had to be “oneway” Elkhart. Besides “Blank” had always prided himself that he was away up in his profession, had his degree, was an absolute stranger to a rough finish. Now humiliation, pride after a fall, and “the man inside” aggravated his woes. “Blank” scowled again and shuffled on.
“Blank” had always been clever. As a mere lad he had eluded the long arm of the law by diving simply and beautifully through a. plate-glass window: He was undoubtedly , smart. All of us, however,- have our ups and downs, no matter how inherently quick-witted we may be, and this was one of Dawson’s downs. Fickle Dame Fortune had finally tripped him.
Now “Blank” knew that he was approaching the center of the city. A seemingly trivial note—merely a greater profusion of cigarette stubs—had been quite enough for “Blank’s” agile intellect to deduct a propensity towards a more intense centralization of population. And likewise, there was
• the Tivoli exuding its nightly hundreds of amusement seekers. '
“Now,” the thought flashed, “here’s my chance.”
“Say, ‘Bud,’ gotta half-dollar? Went broke and—”
“Ain’t got no money. If I had, I wouldn’t give you none.” The stranger brushed by, mumbling to himself.
“Jack, set me up for a flop, will ya?”
No response.
“I gotta—”
“Had the same trouble, brother; had mine taken out.”	’
“Hey there big boy, kin ya fix me up for a feed, a cup o’ coffee—anything?”
The lean stranger looked at “Blank,” not altogether without sympathy.
“Ya see,” Dawson continued his cant, “I draws me pay termorrow, and I needs a little help till then.”
“My dear sir,” the reply was almost apologetic, “it grieves me painfully to be forced to refuse a fellow Christian, especially when he is under disconcerting pangs of hunger. Please do not judge me too harshly, but it is entirely and irrevocably against my principles to aid total strangers.”
“Aw, can the chatter,” broke in the solicitor. "Tell it to the Salvation Army.”
“Blank” wormed in and out through the crowd. He asked big men and little men, the well-dressed and the ill-clad. Failure; stark, hungry failure the result in every instance. Not that “Blank” was going back-nothing like that. He was sure his line was every whit as good as ‘Crying Dan Malone s, even in that gentleman’s palmiest days. And his line, scrutinized from the standpoint o smoothness, had “Philadelphia Jack 0-Hara’s” whipped to a frazzle. Yet he was

Wo w® tiasilH tihd sdninithhg: Bniind in। ^sHft\X'nR&’ grtg5. r JiWi Hifehungt^x oiRAprmg. Jind
not one Hand!Wont diixstiim .of’ a, pin®. nor dilBitvingiy’ tdtvnvd life.. .TSfeWmilU diifii’h ly^fenBhiijy mniB, .tHn HigHen-(fevnU-^kudvnfe naitu-o Wro'o ■'XKnned;, raid ’ i^^'ani'oti^ Itemm.
s^ttfeii rapdiist ttle did of: tHe j^.Haid^hiixid His- fnnv noalljy'ih^ xarfmitfeB off the owning.. Kta: a
and.' tHoories.. Ite «Hi-
^^K-<'ailivjiigf' And' tHewnpon Ite ‘ street.- ttv a. n®d’. “Uonm-Bunch.’.’ ttte oxtiirg- House. Bftvraon ivindow. ail
• offttiec5 htbirbr. ‘ ‘Bl Irak’ ’' shimral Hite a Hmne-fftcing ’ rite? dbor..
flhsii«i :r tend of:

^‘c^wegrstta-
niu sminttroel: tb> a
He. Hawfei;. “Blinme
^3%^
ttier-censm.-. Het me-iidJhvthfefHiT^ and1 a- siite? <f ’ noss.
mid' mitite ii
dnidt-a “BHm’d” Hird5 His orrtte”He>-iHteaite tevl.’ swaHfaraii !iis' ff*nd
.. AfftaTHisssibmaeHi HndlBmi
WwWwi
ton- aWinut 'seventy ftedt -Xyar&d wMfenlJvlite .fe^Gdi Infested? to> 3i ttirtdlWk. litem dtot^l ihttoranallfey.
Blhnkf ssnuntbdl an His- HnundHes- ini *i dlmkrcmraenraidl IteigHtxlhins^^ . ‘^S&ssk?,’ ’ Hix mused’.’' ra f&iltnv^, gottte -usej W, beam tfhwi dkys;. Were, ws?m finite tttei liMutiftill and; dhmb>g(rttlijy, liiitithKn; dixj^ Hungann. ^fevndhyx; it. dbnit midie; no, diftfewret.* 'wHfeHaryordieraitfftdiOTw iivyroyupneirsA^	UNnowssar
ibttti. guvs vrHiw sttaradJ ttn dtettii j.nstt Bfe~ <®ns?>. Htey dilHiit Hinve ihsj pnsii.. BiittB dd-wys was1 Hindis 11 halijy. Wlisn s B wks^ n. HitH. U use?Ha: Hmig ' armuicU wial atHearsmaidldfe. THtsve was- Bhd	“BinmidHie? Rtdt’’'
and1 ‘‘Kihgy Bimdit.. All: ttfeni kifc- wass clbiva;, and: fHeT’hx- fdr' sirthii’ prett^y ttwldjy. B hdlsnnn‘0?’ ttkebesd diiminweituakes^dintte grant., nndttle- c*R-ht”"and “ISngridffie’ttvw slickGsr frawss' in. “GHB'” thrmh’’ nan^- Wid: :ril! Heins—tthi' Hindi o:>’ guyssm t&lldvv'tmvdss wid i wHeni Hds^ voting;. ’anise- tttatiss ■wtten a; guv/ItermS'Cnufikesi;. BH^agiansmieHiterd^ good. TKieBiidi! nlirays'Wvisstpuidtim on.. TBi^HTCwise.. Y&ssEuUguisS'Bfn>smrad sill light; Bid B abnitt wrad tiar ttdiee all I tte ctnedin fformeselBlxlbne;. THi^i&lbfeoV.tHiii^ tididHeljisd! me.n'dbng;, and II alivayS' diiil gEEt the? Ijjwlis.’.’'
‘ Win'd’‘idiraLdi^	ttnran ujnigHttptesi-
tfbn; aHiR’lMsnfft^^	-
ttie’stfencHior the? nW- AdlhsdHeixnmdteil tHeW+lteimnxdnutttxnfindHiinseUT^ ondHe’sfllnraik:- TJumihgnssntiiiamffi^ stresr, H&dHtt ar
wHhibdl to»ffndl HimseiB’ ormfronttngr snBJb®- , ;■ aiRtodlgiwrtihni aff tH^
u55bdni Hitvodnerirae'-altagrvW®	.-
dn^r’sstid	' n ’.kj
^ferme-^sifrmjy and’ tvalliodl toward ^Tjfes&w'tHe'ssan^^
I&jjfc offrannsofH ermdbsarasiinn. andl ssamtorod! tihmigti1 tile • txattife He? qni^crarcB His-: para.’
$




THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
clever enpugh to see easily that something ffa3 decidedly and unusually wrong. He had tried the “dying brother in Mishawaka” gag, ma'de a plea for his hungry off-spring, had even shed a tear for the white-haired mother he had left behind- Yet not one hand went down in the general direction of a purse, not one arm waved approvingly toward the restaurant across the street. The world didn’t appreciate talent any more, the higher developments of a man’s nature were scorned, and Elkhart was an out-and-out lemon.
“Blank” settled against the side of the Y. M. C. A. and started his first really intense concentration of the evening. From a maze of jumbled facts and theories, he educated one blazing thesis, namely, “the world owes a fellow a living.” And thereupon he proceeded to shamble across the street to a bold white sign which read, “Loney Lunch.” Before entering the eating house, Dawson flattened his nose against the window, all the intent of which was merely to get a digested conception of the interior. “Blank” discovered a counter, shaped like a horseshoe, and a cashier facing the door.
Dawson breezed inside, flashed a look of condescension at the dull-eyed young man behind the cash-register, and sauntered to a seat at the extreme end of the counter.
“I want chicken,” he bawled, “Gimme a cup o’ coffee; heavy on the cream. Let me have a bowl; white bread and a side o’ peas. Throw in some apple pie, and make it snappy.”	\
hi two minutes "Blank” had his order’ before him. He ate fast, swallowed his food in great chunks. After’ his stomach had been
Wicfiod	i i „ 7	street, he felt a tap on his shoulder. “Blank”
satisfied, he rose slowly and walked toward	14!	„ W11O
iheixit. He saw the same dull-eyed cashier,	to “ h“?e11,	a blu®-
eest.the same look of amused condescension, coa ed ^uar ian 0 e aw'
turned his head and sauntered through the “You’ll have to come along with me, the door. Once outside he quickened his pace, officer said.
At the first corner he swerved sharply. Now he burst into a brisk trot. Thus he continued for about seventy fast yards; suddenly he jerked himself to a total halt, then darted into an alley.
“Blank” squatted on his haunches in a dark corner and laughed inwardly. “Yessa,” he mused,” a fellow’s gotta use his bean these days. There was a time the beautiful and dumb got by, but them days has gone. Nowadays it don’t make no difference whether yer beautiful or not, it’s wat ya got in yer upper story what counts. I knows a lotta guys what starved to death just because they didn’t have me push. But I always was kinda lucky. When I was a kid, I use ta hang around wid other smart kids. There was Bud Malone, “Jimmie the Rat,” and “King” Banda. All them kids was clever, and they’re all sittin’ pretty to-day. Bud’s one o’ the best dummy-chuckers in the game, and the “Rat” and “King” is the two slickest fences in “Chi,” barrin’ none. That all helps—the kind o’ guys a fellow travels wid when he’s young, ’cause that’s when a guy learns quickest. Then again me blood’s good. The Irish always was quick to catch on. They’re wise. Yessa I guess I’m smart all right. But I don’t want ter take all the credit fer meself alone. They’s lots o’ things that helped me along, and I always did get the breaks.”
“Blank” straightened to an upright position, chuckled softly, and lurched forward in the stench of the alley. At last he rounded the furthermost rut to find himself once more on the sidewalk. Turning south on Division

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
)
The Neoersharp Always-sharp
An Argument for Slates
JOSEPH G. FRIEL
OCCASIONALLY, some ingenious mind places on the market an object , which the overanxious advertising agent claims as the eighth wonder of the world. Really, the Always-sharp pencil is a wonder. I wonder will it write?
I recently attended a meeting of the Jumbo Memorial Association. At the time, a movement was in progress to outline Jumbo’s (the elephant) shape on all animal crackers. In the role of a reporter for the South Bend Daily Dilemma, I went to the lecture, accompanied by my trusty Always-sharp pencil.
I took my seat up in the front row, anxious to hear all and see everything. Daintily, I fingered my nice clean copy paper, arranged myself in a comfortable position and reached for my Always-sharp. You see I was a student of preparedness. Evidently my training in the Boy Scouts left its effects. _
The first and only speaker of the evening was the caretaker of the famous eelphant, apparently a man who could give me some important material about the beast. “This story ought to make the first sheet,” I said to myself, allowing for the fact that only insane persons talk with themselves.
The lecturer, in his introduction, related incidents of Jumbo’s babyhood. I must jot this down quickly. I did write a few words, but in my anxiety the point of • the Always-sharp broke. I twisted the barrel of the pencil until a tiny piece of lead protruded from the tip (the tip is the little thing below the fingers). ”... when Jumbo had passed his second Christmas, the trainers were teaching the mighty beast to sip its food through a straw. Shortly after, Jumbo could ...” How clever! Certainly I must report the beast’s intelligence.
Clutching the Always-sharp with five sturdy fingers, I attempted to write, the magic phrases which lurked in the corners of my brain. (No, brave reader, I am not a square
head). The point broke again. The fates were antagonistic tonight. Fortunately, I 1 was prepared for such calamities. I brought	5
forth my last piece of graphite and inserted	-
it into the pencil, simultaneously twisting the barrel as before.
Up to this time, I had scrawled but three	1
sentences on my paper. Surely I could not	;
concoct a story from a few meager words. ; The caretaker droned on. I listened to every word he uttered, not missing a syllable. “. . . at the tender age of five, Jumbo surpassed all other animals of his genus in size . and weight. His fame was known throughout the world. The Queen of Roumania, on her recent visit, scribbled her name on the tusks of the beast. Prince Gustaf of Sweden and many other notables followed her example ...”	/
The speaker was interesting but his soft tone created a soporific effect. In my drowsiness, the pencil fell to the floor. Again the point broke. I screwed down the barrel for the third time, but on this occasion, the lead , refused to show itself from the tip. “What ails it,” I cried in a tone loud enough to reach the speaker’s ears. I shook the pencil and knocked it against the chair in front of me. But it was in vain. I brorowed a hairpin from a lady beside me. I pushed the pin into the tip of the Always-sharp. I wiggled the pin, pulled, shoved and wiggled it again. Bang! Bang! 0 few more raps scarred the pencil, but its condition continued useless.
The lecturer went on. “In his last year Jumbo was removed”—Bang! Bang!—"to the little”—Scratch! Clank! Quiet! “Stop that noise!” . . . “zoo in Forest Park where he”—Thump! Bump!... “passed his remaining days”—“Shut up!” “Throw him out!" Bang! Bang! . . . “in peace.”
The meeting wasj over. Amid the applause I tried to recollect the details of the speech, could not. Forgetting the condition of the pencil, I tried to note something, but coul
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
not. I retreated from the hall in dispair, angry at my performance and the Always-sharp< Confound that pencil.
Tonight and forevermore, my trusty Al-'
ways-sharp, wretchedly distorted, rests on the dirt-ridden bottom of the sweetly scented St. Joe River. May I never see another Always-sharp I .
The Attitudes of Men Toward Immortality
If there’s another world, he lives in bliss;	,
If there is not, he made the best of this.
—BURNS
•	J. WILLIAM CONBOY
ONE of the most important questions in life, and one which we hear little about, is the attitude of man toward . immortality. The attitudes in question may be broadly distinguished as three. There are those who do not think about immortality, those who fear it, and those who desire it.
The majority of people belong to the first class, except, perhaps, in certain crises of life. The normal attitude of men towards death seems to be one of evasion. They do not trouble about it; they do not want to trouble about it; and they, resent its being called to their notice. A certain man, now deceased, used to tell a story which was thought to be very illuminating. In conversation after dinner he was pressing his host for the latter’s views on the after-life. “Of course, if you press me,” the host answered, I believe that we should all enter into eternal bliss; but I wish you wouldn’t talk about such disagreeable subjects.” Men don’t want to be worried; although they would object to the idea of extinction, they can hardly be said to desire immortality. Professor Osler said: “I have records of about five hundred deathbeds, studied carefully with reference to the modes of death and the sensations of the dying. Ninety suffered bodily pain or distress of one sort or another; eleven, showed mental apprehen-. sion, two positive terror; one expressed spiritual exaltation, one bitter remorse. The great majority gave no signs one way or the other; like their birth, their death was a sleep and a forgetting.”
' It cannot be said that most men desire im
mortality; rather they are, in then’ normal mood, and ever at the point of death, indifferent to the question. Most men perhaps in some moods and some men continually, do reflect upon the subject and have conscious and definite desires about it. Of these, however, not all desire immortality, and some are so far from desiring it that they passionately crave extinction and they would receive the news that they had survived death, not exultantly but with despair. The two positions must be distinguished. On the one hand, a man may simply have had enough of life without having had any quarrel with it, and may prefer to the idea of continued existence that of oblivion and repose. According to Metschnikoff, such would be the normal attitude of men if they were not habitually cut off before the natural term of life, a term which he puts at well over a hundred years. It is still the attitude of some men under present conditions. The poet Landor wrote the following epitaph, on himself:—
I strove with none, for none was worth my strife; Nature I loved and next to nature, art;
I warmed both hands before the fire of life;
It sinks and I am ready to depart.
On the other hand, there are those who not merely acquiesce in, but desire, extinction; and that because they believe, on different grounds, that any possible life must be bad. These are the people called pessimists; they are more numerous than is often believed, and they are to be regarded by the plain man with a certain moral reprobation. That
504
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
it)
this is so, is testimony to the instinctive op-, timism of mankind. Whatever may be the , promise of life, it is, as we know it, to those who'look at it fairly and straight, often very - terrible, unjust, and cruel. If any subsequent life should be of the same character as this life, no freer from limitation, no richer in hope, no fuller in achievement, then the pessimist is right. The desirability of a future life depends upon its character, just as does the desirability of this life. So that it is pertinent to ask those who desire extinction, whether or, not there is some kind of life which, if offered to them securely, they would be willing to accept after death.
The third class desire immortality. What is it they desire and is it really desirable? At first, there are those who simply do not want to die, and whose desire for im-mortality is merely the expression of this
feeling. Old people often cling in this way to life; more often, indeed, than the young) With all fairness, however, they would hardly wish to go on forever in this life, with all the infirmities increasing upon them. Surely nothing is sadder, nothing meaner, than this desire to prolong life here at all costs. The sick, the infirm, the aged—that we care for them as we do may be creditable to our humanity. But that they desire to be cared for, instead of to depart—is that so creditable to theirs? To arrest any period of life, even the most glorious'time of youth, the triumphant time of manhood, is what no reasonable man desires rightfully. To the value of life, the change we call growing old seems to be essential and we cannot stop that process anywhere this side of death. Death is our only hope for immortal youth in the life to come.
1
1
Lost Love
Now it is gone forever, I suppose.
I used to wonder if it ever should
Fly out the door, or like an autumn rose
Drop all its petals in a silent wood.
Now it has flown; I cannot find a trace
Of that ivhich sent the blood in pounding surges Out of my heart; and now yottr vivid face Into the passed, forgotten faces merges.
One thing is strange: today I still remember— The picture does not fade and does not change— A tardy summer day in mid-September
When we found golden-rod. This thing is strange And beautiful, for if we had not kissed I had but loved and passed you in a mist.
—JASPER BRENT.
Purple Trackmen Humble Irish in Season’s Inaugural, Win By Close Score, 44-41
The sensational performance of Jack Elder, Notre Dame sprint star who stepped the sixty yard dash in the world-record equalling time of 6.2 seconds, and the all-around exhibition of track prowess by Captain Tiny Lewis, Noirthwestern’s versatile captain, featured the i Blue and Gold-Purple dual meet held in the University = gymnasium last Saturday evening, when the gentlemen from Evanston were returned 44-41 victors over the gentlemen from Notre
Dame in as close and as thrilling a track embroglio as was ever staged in the home bailiwick of the Blue and Gold.
It was a heart-breaking engagement for Coach Nicholson’s proteges to lose, as they had enjoyed a two-point lead up until the last event, the mile relay. Superiority in this final event on the evening’s thrill-replete program though, gave the Big Ten tracksters a hard-earned, dearly-won, triumph over their desperately battling hosts.
Notre Dame was courageous in defeat as Northwestern was splendid in victory. Each man on the Irish track team gave and gave until he could humanly give no more, and what competent sports critics had ■ Prognosticated as an overwhelming Northwestern victory, resulted in a bare three Point triumphant margin, but a clean-cut victory nevertheless, for the Purple spiked shoe artists.
Ability at annexing six of the ten first Places, as well as a fair percentage of the seconds and thirds, provided the Evanston-with enough points to eke out a close YDuring the course of the evening’s 'Activities Notre Dame swept the boards
clean in two events, and their visitors scored a grand slam in one. The Irish came through with beautiful monopolies in thte mile and two mile run when all three places in each event were captured by Gold and Blue runners, while the Wildcats collected every place in sight in the shot-put. The Purple also secured the only two places awarded in the hurdles, as two Notre Dame performers in that event were disqualified for knocking over more than the regulation number of hurdles allowed. This was an extremely tough misfortune for the Irish, for had the hurdlers qualified, the result of the meet would have been reversed as one of the men was a close second to the visiting winner of the event, only to lose out on the technicality.
Elder’s brilliant dash was undoubtedly the greatest individual feat of the evening. The Kentucky speed merchant got off to a good start and gathering momentum with every stride, was never headed by Hermanson and Wilkins, Northwestern stars, who finished second and third respectively. Morrissey, Notre Dame’s other qualifier in this run, was inches behind Wilkins at the finish.
Little need be said of Lewis, visiting track ace. As someone remarked towards the close of the evening, “Lewis and the Brown brothers had a nice track meet. Outside of the distance runs and the sixty yard dash there was not one event in which he was not entered and did not secure a place. He was the sensation of the meet and through his individual efforts added thirteen points single-handed to his team s final score. In an exhibition he also broke the gym record in the shot-put with a toss of 46 feet, 8^2 inches.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

In another extra exhibition Dro.egemuel-■ler of Northwestern soared to a height of thirteen feet in the pole vault. Neither of these marks will displace the present gym records however, as they were made after the athletes had finished competing in their respective events as far as the meet itself was concerned.
The Brown brothers, William and John, made the longer races strictly a family affair. Bill took the mile run with comparative ease and facility with a time of 4 minutes, 33 seconds. Brennan and Schleikert of the Blue and Gold also ran a good race, and finished second and third respectively ahead of a trio of Purple runners. John Brown was never extended to capture the two mile affair, although Vaichulis and Hopkins, his teammates, were close on his spikes the whole trip, Vaichulis finishing second, and Hopkins, third.
Captain Joe Griffin and Doan encountered hard luck in the 60 yard high hurdles and both were disqualified for knocking over more hurdles than the rules allow. Griffin especially, played in hard luck as he was inches behind Lewis, the winner, at the finish. Lewis’ time was eight seconds flat.
Griffin came right back though and succeeded in tying with Rettig, Northwestern’s star high jumper, in that event. Both men managed to clear the bar at six feet, two inches. Welchons of the hosts was a close third.
McGauley of Notre Dame cantered the quarter in 54.8 seconds to lead the field home in that event. Bloomberg of the Wildcats and Reidy of the Gold and Blue were close on the winner’s heels, and finished second and third respectively.
Lewis, Karstens and Bagge, all of Northwestern, staged an individual competition among themselves in the shot-put and finished in the order named. Lewis’ winning • heave was good for 45 feet, 4% inches.
Tom Bov of Notre Dame and Droege-mueller and Lewis of the Purple performed valiantly in the pole vault, but try as they did, simply could pot surpass each other. Each managed to get over the bar at 12
feet, 6 inches, and therefore all tied for ' first and split the points between them. I
Joe Abbott and Fisher of the Gold and I Blue gave Gorby of the Purple a splendid I fight for first place in the half mile, but a j final sprint by the Northwestern star < earned him the winner’s verdict, Abbott 5 finishing a close second and Fisher third. 1 Gorby’s time was an even two minutes. i
The momentous mile relay, which closed the evening’s competition, was a thriller from start to finish. Wilkins and, Abbott, . number one men of both teams, battled almost neck and neck around the stretch and came in with the Northwestern man holding a slim lead over the Notre Dame runner. Fox, the second Purple runner, and Reidy, his Gold and Blue opponent, ran an “even-stephen” race around the 880 yards and finished practically as they had started. Bloomberg, of the Wildcats, sprinted away from McGauley in the next individual encounter, and handed the stick to Gorby, his teammate, ten yards or so in front of his stout-hearted rival. Kelly, Notre Dame’s anchor man, ran as he had never ran before in a desperate endeavor to close the gap, but Gorby was not to be denied and came in several yards ahead of the Gold and Blue runner with the points which not only decided the race, but also decided the meet too. Incidentally, too much credit cannot be given Kelly for the courageous race he put up, as he ran with his ankle swathed in bandages, due to a spike wound suffered several days before.
Summary:
60 yard dash—Won by Elder, Notre Dame; second, Hermansen, Northwestern; third, Wilkins, Northwestern. Time—:6:2. (Equals world record estab- , lished by Lorenhurchiser in 1923.)
60 yard high hurdles—Won by Lewis, Northwestern; second, Morris, Northwestern. Third place not allowed, two hurdles knocked down by Grinin, Notre Dame. Time—:8.
440 yard run—Won by McGauley, Notre Dame, second, Bloomberg, Northwestern; third, Re y> Notre Dame. Time—:54.8.
880 yard run—Won by Gorby, Northwestern; second, Abbott, Notre Dame; third, Fisher, No r Dame. Time—2:00.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
507
Mile run—Won by W. Brown, Notre Dame; second, Brennan, Notre Dame; third, Schkeichert, Notre Dame. Time—4:23.
Two mile run—Won by 3. Brown, Notre Dame; second, Vaichulis, Notre Dame; third, Hopkins, Notrd Dame. Time—9:53.
Pole value—Won by Droegemueller, Northwestern, Lewis, Northwestern, and Bov, Notre Dame, (all tied.) Height—12 feet, six inches.
High Jump—Won by Rettig, Northwestern, and Griffin, Notre Dame (tie); third, Welchons, Notre Dame. Height—six feet, two inches.
Shot-put—Won by Lewis, Northwestern; second, Karstens, Northwestern; third, Gagge, Northwestern. Distance—45 feet, four and three-fourths inches.
One mile relay—Won by Northwestern (Wilkins, Fox Bloomberg, Gorby.) Notre Dame team (Abbott, Beidy, McGauley, Kelly.) Time—3:34.6.
Referee and starter—Tom Jones, Wisconsin.
DRAKE SUCCUMBS TO KEOGANITE ATTACK, SCORE 29-19
Vicotry number ten for the current Notre Dame basketball season was rung up in comparatively easy fashion last Saturday evening at Des Moines, Iowa, when . the Gold and Blue eagers came through with an impressive 29-19 triumph over a
L fighting Drake five. The __________ contest was played on the home floor of the Blue and White in the capital city of !— the Hawkeye state, and a capacity crowd turned out \\ to witness an exceptionally P )/ well-played basketballgame. The Keoganite floor machine was in almost perfect working order throughout, • and clearly demonstrated their cage superiority over their hosts. Assuming a five point lead in the first few minutes of play, the Notre Dame performers managed to maintain, and gradually add materially to this advantage, as the battle grew older. The Gold and Blue defensive proclivities especially, functioned smoothly in holding their opponents to a quintet of field goals during the course of the evening’s pastim-M Two of these double-deckers came in first half, and the remainder in the last. - Notre Dame’s main superiority lay in the act that it was unusually proficient in its
floor play, and well-nigh dazzled its hosts with a speedy and baffling passing attack and defense.
Coach Keogan started Captain Jachym, and McCarthy, at the forward berths; Colerick at center; and the two dependa-bles, Bray and Smith, at guard. This combination played the entire first half intact, and was not broken up by substitution until early in the last twenty minutes of play.
The contest opened with each quintet feeling the other out, and it was not until three minutes of playing time had elapsed that Captain Jachym of the visitors ended the preliminary skirmishing by making good on a free throw. Colerick immediately after came through with a two-pointer, and when the Notre Dame leader also tossed in a double-decker, the Keoganites assumed a five point lead before Bowes of the home team could send the ball whistling through the net for the initial Drake tallies. Jachym tossed in another charity heave soon after this however, and Smith, not to be outdone by his mates, increased this advantage another two points when he sank a long shot from near mid-court. Drake came to life after this basket and battled their guests on even terms thereafter, until the Keoganites found themselves in the van, 13-7, at the intermission.
Notre Dame opened the second half with a rush, and the Blue Devils were carried off their feet when successive two-pointers by Jachym, Smith and Colerick made the count 19-7 before the lowans could again find themselves and retaliate with Bowes’ second and final field goal of the contest.
Coach Keogan began substituting at this point, and during the remainder of the engagement numerous changes were made in the Gold and Blue lineup, until two complete teams had performed at one time or other for Notre Dame during the battle.
In spite of these changes however, the lowans could do little against stout Keo-ganite guarding, although they did bolster up their own defense considerably in limiting their guests to ten points during the rest of the struggle. Drake flashed its best play in the closing stages of the game when


THE NOTRE DAME- S C H O^L AST IC
a pair of baskets, intersparsed with several successful foul tosses, raised its total considerably.
The Blue Devils fought doggedly against their more superior visitors, and deserve commendation for the courageous but hopeless endeavor they put up throughout the entire forty minutes of play to achieve the long end of the final verdict.
"Long John” Colerick with a trio of double-deckers and a like number of foul shots was high-point scorer of the evening with nine points to his credit. Captain Jachym with a pair of field goals and the same number of successful charity heaves, was close behind his teammate. Frank Crowe and Ed. Smith were others who
INTERHALL LIGHTWEIGHT BASKETBALL LEAGUE
The second series of lightweight games showed “what a whale of a difference” a few days’ practice can make. Each quintet showed a marked improvement in teamwork, passing and defensive play over the previous Sunday’s engagements, while several produced a vastly improved offensive also. The scores:
LYONS 2—FRESHMAN 0
Forgetting the old proverb, “early to bed and early to rise,” cost the Knights of the Pasteboard Palace a game which was forfeited to Lyons when the yearlings failed to put in an appearance.
were extremely prominent in the Notre Dame scoring and all-around play.
Meyers, Barnes and Bowes performed in splendid fashion for Drake.
Lineup and summary:
NOTRE DAME (29)
B. F. P.
Jachym, f.................2	2	1
Crowe, f .................2	1	0
McCarthy, f ..............0	0	1
Newbold, f ...............0	0	1
Newbold, f ...............0	1	0
Colerick, c ..............3	3	3
Vogelwede, c .............0	0	0
Bray, g ..................0	2	0
Donovan, g................0	2	2
Smith, g .................2	0	3
Moynihan, g...............0	0	2
Totals ................9	11	11
- DRAKE (19) B. F. P. Meyers, f................ 1	2	3
Bowes, f .................2	0	0
Zvacek, f.................1	1	4
Pettibone, f, g...........0	0	2
Simpson, c ...............0	4	3
Parisho, c ...............0	2	1
Barnes, g ................1	0	3
Ashby, g..................0	0	1
Totals ................5	9	16
For further information write to your local representative UNIVERSITY TRAVEL ASSOCIATION 285 Madison Ave., New York City
CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE HARLEY L. McDEVITT 425 WALSH
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
BROWNSON 19—MORRISSEY CUBS 2 j^ed by Raycroft the Arabs completely oiitclassed the Cubs; holding them to one basket. Displaying an air-tight defense and strong offense the Bronsonites jumped to an early lead and from then on had things their own way. Martin sank the Cabs' lone basket.
CORBY 30—BADIN 12
Again showing the slashing offensive which had already rated them as potential champs, the He Men from Corby rejoiced and made merry while Badin was wondering what it was all about. Completely outplayed the Badinites fought gamely, their lone rally yielding them eight of their twelve points. Terreri of Corby copped the individual honors with five baskets.
OFF CAMPUS 26—WALSH 20
The Day Dogs hung up their second win of the season at the expense of the Walsh contingent, when their last quarter rally yielded seven points and an unexpected victory. After trailing for three quarters they cut loose to sinch the game when Walsh, Day Dog forward, sank two buckets in rapid succession. Carey of Walsh was responsible for twelve of his team’s twenty points.
HOWARD 15—MORRISSEY BEARS 10
In a beautiful exhibition of post season football, Howard, by virtue of its superior line smashing, took the Bears into camp. Roughness completely dominated the finer points of basketball except in the third quarter when Howard showed a nice passing attack to pile up enough points to win. Watral of Howard led the scoring with two baskets. -•
SOPHOMORE 24—CARROLL 21
Never separated by more than two basket? at any one time in their red-hot battle, both teams battled fiercely throughout; the ty? year olds saved enough scoring punch . to rescue the game in its waning moments. A. much needed two-pointer in the last minute proved the margin of victory and kept the Sophomore Hall slate clean. Kozak of Carroll turned in the best per’ tohnance of the scrap.	J. H. Z.
509
HEAVYWEIGHT DIVISION
SORIN, 11—BROWNSON, 6
Without taking any credit away from Mr. McKinney et al from Sorin, this game was just a question of the humble Frosh bowing down before the august Seniors. Brownson scored only three points in each half while Sorin was amassing eleven tallies with little or no effort apparently. Even the officials seemed to lessen their hold on the reins of which they are supposed to keep control. No doubt, this fact was another mental hazard that the yearlings had to contend with.
. BADIN, 13—CORBY, 9
Badin didn’t seem to strike their stride until the middle of the final period but after then there was no stopping them. Their somewhat loose playing had enabled Corby to obtain a lead which wasn’t relinquished until the aforementioned middle of the second half. Mock, of Badin, was the outstanding hero of the fray with Leach and Wozniak, of Corby, pressing him hard for the honors.
WALSH, 15—OFF-CAMPUS, 7
Although both aggregations were missing shot after shot Walsh clearly demonstrated that they were the masters of the situation. Off-Campus was trailing the winners 5-1 at the end of the half and never seriously threatened the slippery Gene Grogan and his cohorts. Murphy, at center for Walsh, turned the best work of the day with his aptitude for finding the basket at opportune moments. Art Stenius, of Off-Campus, also deserves mention for his stellar work.
HOWARD, 11—MORRISSEY, 9
Howard had to take two overtime periods before they convinced the Gold Coast quintet that they were the superior team. Morrissey was lagging four points behind at the end of the first half but they got their machine going in the second and soon drew up to a deadlock with the yearlings. But Howard, led by Schrall, was not to be denied the fruits of victory and stepped out in the second extra five minutes to secure the winning points.
510
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Dr. Frank M. Powers
UNIVERSITY PHYSICIAN
OFFICE PHONE LINCOLN 1067
RESIDENCE PHONE LINCOLN 9553
DR. EDGAR S. LUCAS
DENTISTRY
701-702 J,M.S. BUILDING SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
CLOTHES
Ready-made And Cut to Order
ESTABLISHED ENGLISH UNIVERSITY
STYLES, TAILORED OVER YOUTHFUL CHARTS SOLELY FOR DISTINGUISHED SERVICE IN THE UNITED STATES.
^Charterhouse
•	Suit* MO, MS, »SO overcoats	I
Enjoys Can of Tobacco
16 Years Old
Waxahachie, Texan
Larus & Bro. Co.	1926
Richmond, Va.
Gentlemen:
The agent while going through his plunder stored in our baggage room came across a can of your tobacco and account of his not using a pipe he mad? me a present of this tobacco.
You will note the revenue stamn and your memo which was inclosed The tobacco was put up in 1910 six-teen years ago. But it was in good shape, of remarkable flavor, and was greatly enjoyed by me.
Thought you would be interested in knowing how your tobacco held out in these days of fast living.
Yours very truly, (signed) Gordon McDonald
Edgeworth
Extra High Grade
Smoking Tobacco
OFFICE PHONE MAIN 0689
RESIDENCE PHONE MAIN 1162
■o*
DR. ROBERTF. LUCAS
Extracting; Diseases and Surgery of the Mouth
i and Jaws
X-RAYS
■o-
612 J. M. S. Building
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SOPHOMORE, 19—CARROLL, 13
It remained for the last game of the day’s events to reward the spectators for their patience. In an exceptionally fast and interesting game Sophomore was returned the victor over Carroll. Both quintets have a very clever passing attack and are equally as effective on the defensive. Carroll jumped into a six-point lead soon after the initial whistle was blown but Sophomore gradually began to cut down the advantage until they were only one point behind at the end of the half. Then, in the second period the two-year-olds caught up with the yearlings and then proceeded to amass a working margin for themselves.
' -FRESHMAN—LYONS
The Freshman Hall basketeers journeyed to Battle Creek, Michigan and consequently their game with Lyons had to be postponed until later in the week.
Next Sunday’s schedule:
Brownson vs. Sophomore, at 9:30.
Walsh vs. Badin, at 10:30.
Sorin vs. Freshman, at 1:30.
Morrissey vs. Off-Campus, at 2:30.
Howard vs. Corby, at 3:30.
Lyons vs. Carroll, at 4:30.
—D. W. S.
CAN SUCH THINGS BE ?
A recent issue of a Chicago paper tells of four Freshmen at the University of Arkansas who do not know who Lindbergh is. They proved themselves typical collegians, however, and when confronted with the question, stubbornly refused to admit defeat. .
No. 1 declared that Lindbergh was the name of a famous battle line in the late War which stretched along the WEST front. ‘
The second youth believed him to be a noted German general in the great conflict. v	,
Frosh number three believed the name denoted a popular ski slide and winter resort in the Swiss Alps.
The
Cavalier Tux
By Kuppenheimer
Acclaimed the country over as the Tux for university men and found exclusively at
der garment on. You’ll see why it is acknowledged to be the finest at
$50
Others $35
o
THE HOME OF KUPPENHEIMER CLOTHES
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
512
—=x
MAX ADLER CO.’S
HALF PRICE
SALE
NOW IN FULL SWING
Suits and Overceats
$25 values, now..................$12.50
$30 values, now..................$15.00
$35 values, now..................$17.50
$40 values, now..................$20.00
$45 values, now..................$22.50
$50 values, now..................$25.00
Real Silk Socks
(Sub-standards)
3 Pairs for $1.00
A sale of Real Silk Socks (sub-standards) is now on at Wyman’s until February 1st! Three pairs of socks in stripes and plaids or in plain colors for only $1. These socks wear particularly well and so—not so many darning worries! Remember—this sale lasts only until February 1st.
--o--
Come and See Us. -----o--
GEORGE WYMAN & COMPANY
Collegiate Corduroys
. in Tans, Grays, Colors.
Half Price
$5.00 Corduroys, now...........$2.50
$6.50 Corduroys, now...........$3.25
Half Price
ON
Shirts
Hats and Mufflers
MAX ADLER COMPANY ON THE CORNER MICHIGAN AND WASHINGTON
Office	Residence
Main 0887	Main 3561
Dr. John A. Stoeckley
DENTAL SURGEON
511 J. M. S. Bldg., South Bend, Ind.
.PHONE MAIN 0254
Dr. J. M. Singler
Dr. E. A. Probst
DENTISTS
261 ASSOCIATES BUILDING