
.....,,,...... ,..,,,,__,,,,,._..,,,.. ~-...,.......... ..
~~· 
•·~•:" ...._ ..m_"~.. ,..,,. __ ...,,,,_.,. ._..,,-._,,_,,,. 
.-=,.,,N,-,mu-•.,=:·11--•·,,.,... 0111·---,m11-";......__..,.,,,,._.,m111--=m,,_..__ ­
.:-·'-:--' . ...::·~ -:-.: . --=--;-,:" 
=:-=~=~:=:::::::::::=:==::::::=:::... -......::.;:::::~ :·~:::==:~.... 
.·· ~-:-.·_ 1f!· .....·:......:: .........~...... .......... ___.......... ·__....."~-.--··.... if:·.... ... 
;,,,,  I,  -~·  '  ,ol<l,lj.  
' 
.  .  
m: -11111--m<>,-,m11•-===···-"1m,_m,·-m1,· · __:.m.--,"nl· 7m11  }"  
·  ·  1 · ·  ·  ··  =~  m· --.:;,..._._...,---•wm,-•'"'!m,..._..,.,,_,mm,.s,m,, =,.,. .mm--. · ~.m, ____11·--u• ___1c-..m,__.. ·  -..":11,  

~-~--~~ 
"b'•·-.mm-"1",,lll-•.s11c-.miu,-..........--..r?:m.1,,r;.;-· -mm1o·· ..:m•-·:y· --i"'."""'-r~.+-= ~•:.••m1c··= ..,,-U,,:.....::·;:__:11··-.:m,: · ··,.. · ··•:';··,,. · 
.. ,....... ·.. ··___::........,·,,_.,......:. ·..·_:".·.~ ..".'<.:-::'._.~'... ~--mn•-' .. ".::.·:<::;+\~;::r;;, 
: . . . 
. . . 
->:F:~:7-.~~0: ·i(}fJ! _--~ 
i . 
(}>-t w,. ' . 
•i:··••
::i---,, 
,IIIIIIIIIIIllllllllIIIIIIIIllllllIllIIIIIllIllIllIIIll Ill IIIll Ill Ill lllllIIIllllllllIlllllllllIIIll Ill Ill Ill IIIllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllllllIIIIIIIllII II IlllllllIllIllllllllIllIIllIIIIII IIIII IllIIIIIIIllIIlllllllllIllIIIllIll Ill llllIllIIlllllll 

INTERESTED. IN GETTING SOME SALES EXPERIENCE? 
Then come join the SCHOLASTIC'S advertising staff!!! 
We'll be having an organizational me~ting on Tuesday,. 
October 27, 7:00 p.m. at the Scholastic office 
If you have any questions, call Monica Spoelstra at239-5029 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 

SOMETHING TO LOOK FORWARD TO AFTER FALL BREAK 
SUB presents·the ULTIMATE PARTY BAND 
October 24, 1987 







THIS 
END 
UP 

Time and place TBA depending on game tirne 




Scholastic 
Notre Dame's Student tv\agazine October 15, 1987 
Sports 
14/The Team That Fell To Earth by Marty Burns 
16/Sportsweek by Terry Lynch 


Departments 
4/week in Distortion: Elkhartian Creeps by John Coyle 
17/Music: That Chi-Town Sound by Tim Adams 
18/ Coming Distractions by Rosabelle White 
2O/Final Word: _On The Road Again by Matt McGlynn 



Cover 
6/From Punk to Progressive by Joe Maloney and Chris Dauer 
9/Campus Disc Jockeys Offer Another Alternative For Musical Needs · by Steven Harvey 
10/Student Run Organization The Musician's Network Extends A Variety Of Services to Campus Bands by Mike Wieber 

News 
12/Psst ... Want A Job? by Anne Soisson 
Scholutic i• publiahed wNkly durin1 the 1chool year except durin1 examinations and vacation periods at Notre Dame, IN 46656 and printed at The Papel'II, Inc., Milford, IN 466542. The subscription rate is $20.00/year and back issues are available at Sl.00/copy. The opinion, expreHed in Sc:holutic are thoae of authol'II and editol'II and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholutic or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or student body. Editorials represe~t the opinion of a majority of the editorial board. Manuscript¦ are welcome. All un¦ olicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. Scholastic is represented nation­
ally by CASS Communications, Inc. · 0 1987 Scholastic magazine. All rights re1erved. Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited. 


Editorial 

Keep CIA Dialogue On Campus 
T 
he Central Intelligence Agency's recruit­ing presence traditionally has created stirs on college campuses across the country. That's not the case at Notre Dame. For most underclassmen, the CIA's visit was met with complete apathy; seniors, however, had the opportunity to participate in interviews for jobs with the agency, which were organized through Notre Dame's Career and Placement Services. Two campus groups, Pax Christi and Women United for Justice and Peace, raised questions about the ethical implications of CIA activities. Such questioning is a good thing for this campus -but the students should have the oppor­tunity to interview with organizations that they want. The university should continue to permit CIA recruit­ing on campus just as it allows other organizations that follow career and placement guidelines. At a university that often refuses to debate issues concerning itself and its involvement with organiza­tions or U.S. policies that possibly violate the Church's principles, it is. no surprise that the CIA's recruiting didn't create dialogue-inspiring controversy. But there should have been some dialogue. The ethical dilemma over covert operations within the CIA is definitely real. The current aftermath of the Iran-Contra fiasco shows that the organization may not be as pure as the .armchair patriot would like to believe. The CIA's time on campus would have pro-.· ded a perfect opportunity for discussion concerning the role or·average Notre Dame students in national issues that affect them. The students ~role in the entire process, however, is key. Pax Christi and Women United for Justice and Peace did their part towards increasing student aware­ness of issues concerning the CIA and covert action. And now it is time for the students to become truly educated about the subject thcmseives. Considering that the university docs not and should not take a stand on the morality or immorality of the companies that interview on this campus, in a case that still has elements of ambiguity, students should take the oppor­tunity to make their own judgements. 
Scholastic 
2 


•· ijtisj11~s~N{~~a'ger:.·qqthy Coffc'L 
•· \}s·•·•·•·••·••·••>:Mtcn-Uti~d\-ty•·B· 

. · .. Dcp~ftnients:Mikc 
"JSiudcnt Ei[erSara ·. >N;~s: Marga.rd .. 
<J ... · >¥ports: "[er < ))~p~i't111ents:R 


' ~~i!;&fW*{~~gl,;J:;. 
.· .Pho:to .Manag~r: . ·· Allan-Lirri; temsMaAag fyn¢ePrayi .uction Mari

krtiY .··•·········•··· 
.I>X1;foi;i3:ktinJ~tkn16sii 

Offict:Mapagcr: Julie F;Ialiyr,ty•. 
.'('i:;affr\~;f~~tJi~;~f;;hdfslra•, 
.P!J:t~gra;hy y 
Tirn Demps~y··· JoeiVitactb 

Scholastic 





~~~~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!Letters 
Scholastic Letter Policy Outlined 
Keep letters brief and typed, include identifying information 
Letters to Scholastic must be Because of space limitations, Scho­ty:,ed and include the writer's lastic cannot print all letters name, address and phone number. received. University students should include their year in school .and college. Faculty members should include Letters should be limited to their department. All letters must fewer than 250 words. Address all be signed. Names will be withheld correspondence to: upon request in certain instances. 
Scholastic reserves the right to The Editor reject letters that are libelous or 

Scholastic
obscene by the laws of the United States. Scholastic also. will edit for LaFortune Center copyfitting, grammatical or spel­

Notre Dame, IN 46556
ling errors and Scholastic style. 
UNIVERSITY HEALTH SERVICES EXPANDED PHYSICIAN

HOURS 
In an effort to better meet you~ health care needs, the hours in which physicians are available in our outpatient clinic have been expanded as follows: 
Open at 8:00 am Available during the lunch hour On duty from 5:00 pm -8:00 pm 
PLEASE NOTE: Above schedule is Monday-Friday 
HOURS MAY VARY WHEN SCHOOL JS NOT IN SESSION 


Final Word Columnist Disgruntled 

Dear Editor 
I am writing to express my displeasure about the insensitive editing performed on my article "The Magic of the Special Olym­pics" published in your September 24th issue. 
I had been pleased with the abridged version I proofread and was led to believe would be pub­lished. I was terribly disappointed, however, when you published a version where entire sentences had 
. been rewritten, transitional para­graphs excised, and even a bla­tantly elementary grammatical mistake produced as a result of mindless editing. I was the first to acknowledge a good editing job as I did in writing after reading the first version -but I was genuinely amazed and disquieted by the lack of good judgement and the obvi­ous insensitivity exhibited by the editing in the published text. 
The article was particularly dear to me, since I had managed to articulate in a manner faithful to my experienc!! the very privileged time · I spent with the Special Olympjcs. I would have never allowed your version to be pub­lished under my name. 
I consider your action not just an editorial blunder but a breach of the trust that as a writer I con­ferred on you. You have the responsibility to be faithful to the author's intentions in what you publish. In my case you have failed in that responsibility. hope that there is a lesson behind this case, and that in the future your important work yields the good fruit that it is intended to for the benefit of us all. 
Victor J. Krebs Philosophy Graduate Student 
3 


Week in Distortion/John Coyle 



Elkhartian Creeps· 
, 


observe our eating habits and also couple of years ago 
emember, way back, a 

the last stronghold of normal, cool, 
to disorient and confuse us by 
when they had those 

not totally clueless, anti-tobacco 
having it appear that spinach 
"cavity creeps" com­

chewing humans in the entire state 
of Indiana. We must not go down 
casserole defics gravity. mercials? We were 
without a fight. threatened by deadly tartar buildup but, 
The dining hall mirrors and luckily, the Crest cavity fighters 
The first hint of the impend-
the signs on the trees around came to save the day. Well, today 
.ing seige was the R.V./Conversion 
campus helped me to discover the the menace has returned. But 
va·n Show that greeted us as we 
identity of the Elkhartian leader. I they're not after little old molars 
drove down Notre Dame Ave. in 
knew they had to have a plant this time. No, this time they're 
August. Seemed like good, clean 
somewhere but I just couldn't fig­after the entire Notre Dame 
Hoosier fun from afar, but upon 
ure out who. Deciphering the code campus. 
further inspection I discovered 
of what appeared to be the Latin troops scoping the area, looking 
they were actually reconnaisance 
translation of the names of your Yes, ladies and gent~emen, it's 
basic, average, rim of the mill "Cavity Creeps II: The Transmuta­
for potential points of attack. 

trees provided the answer. "All tion;" The "cavity creeps" are 
praise the great 'Hickster'," "Bill back, regenerated in the form of 
The amount of construction 
will lead us to the promised land," the "Elkhartian Creeps". Now we 
happening around the campus was 
and "Render unto Hickey what is face an even stronger foe, deadly 
another sign that something was 
Hickey's." Yes, William Hickey, Hoosier buildup. And the Crest 
amiss. Disguising myself as a civil 
the Director of Notre Dame Food guys, haying died long ago in that 
engineer, I found out that the 
Services, is actually the Comman­tragic retainer accident, are not 
masons · are actually Elkhartian 
dant of the the hated "Elkhartian around to save us. Who will stand 
foot soldiers laying the ground­
Creeps". It makes sense. Any­in the way of this threat to all 
work for the attack. The buildings, 
body who is not hip to a innocent Domerkind? Will the Elkhartian 
fooking every bit the part of your 
little food fight can't be a friend creeps .be free to take over our 
average, random college dorm 
of Notre Dame. tranquil, peace-loving, only . 
from the outside are actually mul­
tipurpose complexes designed to natural fibers wearing campus? 
house the headquarters, debriefing Well, I .have unmasked the
rooms, brainwashing centers and
Who and where are these enemy and although it is no secret

torture chambers of our dreaded
"Elkhartian Creeps"?, you may 

that the force is with me and thatfoe.
ask. I, too, did not realize their 

James Earl Jones is my father, I presence at first because, you see, 
The mirrors in South Dining 
still need your help to-save the these newfangled creeps are a 
Hall over the food were another 
unHoosierized human race. We tricky lot. But little by little I 
clue. Come on, like these really 
must work fast if we are to began to see the light and detect 
serve a purpose other than to make 
preserve the last vestige of normal their presence and their dastardly 
us head for the cereal bar a little 
human existence in this sea of soyplan. Notre Dame is the last piece 
earlier. The mirrors are actually 
beans, pickups, seed hats and flan­of the Hoosierland puzzle. We are 
two way mirrors designed to 
nel shirts. ll 


4 

Scholastic 

Time On Hand 
Parking, condoms, sex and dirty hands are all making news on other campuses 
Sex is not on the minds of high school 
and college students as much as many of us assume. According to a report coming out of the annual meeting of the American Psychological Association, students think about sex only about one percent of the time. Students spend 20 percent of the time thinking about a "task at hand," 14 percent "just looking at or-listening to something," six percent is spent towards "problem solving," with other categories -including sex -receiving less than five percent of the vote. The report fails to state how often sex is a "task at hand" or "a problem to be solved," which may account for the startling discrepancy between reality and psychology. 

U.N.D., responding to complaints by a 
small faction of students, limited the use of the school mascot and banned certain sports cheers paro­dying the same. ·The College Press Service reported that Native American students at the University of North Dakota concl_uded that some of the actions associated with their "Fighting Sioux" (not to be confused with "Fighting Sue") nickname were racist and offensive to minority groups. In a related story, another U.N.D. --Notre Dame --found increased opposition to its mascot because of the racist under­tones that Irish people actually do act as such in front of thousands of fans. 

Parking at · Kansas University has 
become a problem because of an oversell of parking permits for the "yellow stall" lot , leaving many stu­dents beet red with anger. KU Parking Services oversold the capacity of the lot by 20 percent, and that percentage will increase, according to the assis­tant director of parking. When asked his opinion on ·the matter, an unidentified worker at Notre Dame 
Campus Security stated, "I don't really see what the problem is here. Haven't you ever walked through D2 in the spring?" 

Brigham Young University's reputation 
as a "clean" school may be in jeopardy,_ according to the National On-Campus Report. It seems that researchers witnessed 39 women in campus rest­rooms, only to discover that, if the unsuspecting f cmale victims of this peeping tomfoolery thought themselves alone, most did not wash their hands. When in the presence of other women, however, I 8 out of 20 washed their hands. 

"Make mine a double," is now a phrase 
that has new meaning for campus delivery services at the University of New Mexico and the University of Rochester. Door-to-door condom delivery services have hit it big at both campuses, with Friday and Saturday night availability. Student entrepreneurs arc enjoying this goldmine, according to the National On-Campus Report, but there is some question as to the responsible party in the case of a late delivery. 

The Head of the Charles crew race, a 
college and rowing tradition, may soon be called the "Dead Head". There will be a ten-fold increase in security this year, and this year's race could be the swan song if the event continues its "drunken rowdy, and dirty" nature, according to Harvard Crimson reporter Jonathan Moses. The race usually brings a largely college crowd of about I 00,00 to the banks of the Charles River; this year's race will be held October 18. 
EDITED BY DOUG ANDERSON 

5 





From Punk to Progressive 
A diverse group of campus bands offers music for all tastes 
BY JOE MALONEY 
AND 
CHRIS DAUER 
C hip's, Uncle's, Senior-Alumni Club, Theodore's . . . unfortunately the list does not go on. One hand is all that is needed to count the places that student bands can display their talents. That at least is a common complaint from band members. South Bend's limited college bar scene and difficulties in obtaining on-campus shows and practice space are more problems a number of diverse bands face. Zeto and the Heat Ons, a Car­roll Hall based group, concerns itself primarily with putting together a good show that students will enjoy. "I think entertaining people is why we're out there," said guitarist Dave Brockway. The band consists of sophomores Gerard Donnelly (lead vocals), Don Elbert (bass), Geoff York (drums), Troy Thibodeaux (guitar), and Brockway. Providing back-up vocals are Saint Mary's College seniors Kathleen Bach and Beth Wheplcy. They came together last spring largely due to the fact four out of the band's seven members are Carroll Hall residents. While Zeto and the Heat Ons arc currently working on writing their own material, they primarily perform covers ·of other bands' songs. "We do a lot of covers of older stuff --50's and 60's music," said Brockway. "We. also mix in some new things, like R.E.M. and The Cure." 


They appeared at the Freshman Talent Show last semester, and managed to catch the attention of Student Body President Pat Cooke. He subsequently recommended them to play at the student recep­tion following the inauguration of Fr. Edward Malloy on September 23. Although they have yet to play at Theodore's or any local bars, Brockway expressed that the band's "next move" would be in that direction. "We'd also like to play SYR's," he added. 
Brockway noted that one of the main problems a Notre Dame stu­dent band might face is that of obtaining practice space. "If we practice in Carroll, the problem is 
storage. We end up having to store 
tl)e equipment in our own indivi­
dual rooms." Otherwise, Brockway 
is satisfied with support from administration and students alike. 
"Student support has been really 
good." 

In complete opposition to the concept of playing music familiar to most students stands Human 
Blowtorch. The band includes 
sophomore Nick Lenzmeier 
(drums), junior Heather Ingraham (bass), newly added freshman 
Rick McBrien (guitar), and a senior guitarist who requested anonymity. Human Blowtorch is characterized by Converse high tops, Killdozer T-shirts, volume, 
pumpkins, an aversion to guitar solos, and a shared annoyance con­cerning the reluctance of many students to expand their musical 
horizons very far. 

"We're currently doing . more covers than our own music," said Ingraham, "but we are attempting to work on some of our own." Human Blowtorch does its own versions of songs by Killdozer, Big Black, Naked Raygun, Wire, Stooges, and others. "We don't do U2 covers; no Motown either," emphasized Ingraham. "And we don't do La Bamba," added the guitarist. 
6  Scholastic  
~';'.'  -­ '  -- -•  ~ ~  ••  ~  ', '""' - ·~,;  !""'.  -~~  :: ·-'""  ,~ '"  • ;  •  -" ­ -~ - :­ "~ /: - '-t: ~:.... - I  • _~: ·.: ' - ' ' l,' ,'. - "  

While the band has yet to per­form publicly, the members fore­see the possibility of playing at off-campus parties once the new guitarist is incorporated. "On campus I don't think we'd get much support," admitted Ingra­ham, "and since we're not a jukebox, the bars probably wouldn't hire us. But I think if we were playing off campus in somebody's basement people would stick around and probably find out that they even liked some of the music." 
The band sees two major draw­

backs to the band scene at Notre 
Dame. The first concerns on-campus opportunities to play. "The campus needs a place a little more informal than Theodore's where it's easier to get shows," said the guitarist. Additionally, 
Human Blowtorch would appreci­
ate smaller acts coming to campus 
whose shows could be opened with 
performances by campus bands. 
The second problem concerns 
student attitudes regarding music. 
"If students weren't so dead set on 
hearing what they recognized, it 
would be a much ·better atmo­
sphere," asserted Ingraham. "Any­
one who wants to come listen to us 
practice in the Zahm basement is 
welcome to stay, but most people 
don't. We're probably too loud." 
"We are the loudest band on campus," confirmed Lenzmeier, "and we're not even heavy metal." 
Word of Mouth is a band which 
strives to play popular music while 
trying to keep away from pure 
pop. Members include senior Ted 
Merkel (guitar), junior Maura 
Colleton (keyboards), sophomore Brian Doherty (drums), and junior Dan Mangan (bass). The lead vocalist position is currently open pcnciing the completion of audi­tions. "We try to be danceable but not top 40," said Merkel. "We play U2, The· Fixx, The Alarm, The Cure, that kind of stuff." 

The band, which has seen three different lineups in its three years of existence, has appeared f re­quently at Theodore's along with occasional quad shows. They also opened for Timbuk 3 last semes­ter. Their main goal is ensuring that their audience will have a fun time listening and dancing. "We're a dance band," stated Merkel. "We won't play anything they can't dance to. Our U2 numbers always go over well, and they're fun to play." 
Student support is strong, according to Merkel. "We've had some real good audience feedback. Most college students have heard a lot of different styles of music,·so you can play a lot of different stuff. Every band has a core fol­lowing of mostly friends and peo­ple in their dorm, but it's fun to go someplace and be a hit with everybody and not just your friends." 
Merkel views this year's band scene as highly competitive. "I'd like to get into playing bars, but 
it's tough to get that first show. That's where the money is, and you get to see a lot more people than just students." With the sheer number of student bands in existence, getting show dates both on and off campus is becoming increasingly difficult. Compound­ing the problem is the lack of ~ practice space. "We're planningt on practicing in a back room at A Stepan, but we can't keep our 
S  equipment  there,"  said  Merkel.  
~  "I'm always amazed  at w hat peo­ 
ple  have  to  do  to  get  practice  

7

October 15, 1987 

space." 
Word of Mouth w·ill probably continue on, as it has in the past with a core -membership which incorporates new talent until the original members graduate, leav­ing behind a new core lineup. "There is a lot of talent out there ,; said Merkel. "The problem this year is singers and bass players. Drummers and guitarists -and good ones :. are a dime a dozen. 
1---3
That's the one area where this a· campus is unique." t,
.. 
_Senior Shawn Ryan, drummer .g for the student band Monarch ~ agreed with Merkel's sentiment: '< "This year, I think everybody who's out there playing is great. There are just so many really good bands out there." Monarch also includes senior Tom Conforti (bass), third-year law students Peter Grenier (guitar), and Kevin Berry (singer), a new addition. 
Monarch performs a variety of covers, ranging· from The Rolling Stones, The Kinks, Jefferson Air­plane, and Led Zeppelin through the Cure and R.E.M. "We try and keep about a 50% mix of old songs from the 60's and early 70's, and· more and more we're adding semi-alternative college music," 

~ 
!::~ ~ ~ 
Monarch entertains North quad. 


Sean and the Sun Kings entertain the crowd at Theodore's. 
about our music, but we're not astated Ryan. "We have really good heavy-metal band."
sound quality and also have a good can Monarch has not · encountered 
song selection that people the difficulties in obtaining prac~
enjoy and can have a fun time get­tice space that other bands haveting out there and dancing." 
thanks to Ryan's off-campusThe band won the 16 act Nazz residence. However, he recognizes
competition last spring, and has that the _on-campus band situation
gone on to play Theodore's, Senior could be improved. "There couldBar,· and quad shows, along with be things done on campus to ha:veoff-campus bar shows. Ryan noted · a bigger scene, like having bandsthat while increased numbers of play in the dorms on weekends if
bands leads to more competition they have the space," he sug­
for off-campus . show dates, gested.
"there's more of a band scene. If Ryan stressed that Monarch is a
more people are actually going out developing band. "We like to make
to see bands, there are more opportunities to play." -it so that if a person comes out to see us, we'll be different from the
Ryan finds his student audi­last time he saw us. We're not the
ences supportive, although he · same -band we were when we
admitted that, at times, Monarch f cit a little limited in its song started," said -Ryan. "We'd also 
selection. "We'd be kind of wary like to get out more, so, ideally, of playing real obscure songs, everybody on campus will have from groups like Redd Kross that the opportunity to see us," he are really· good groups, but as far added. Two such opportunities as being popular it might not go will occur ~hen Monarch appears over too well. But we're trying to at Chips on November 3rd and get more into stuff like that." The 17th. band is also trying. to divorce itself Sean an:d · the Sun Kings started 
from what Ryan views as an playing together last" year. The undeserved heavy-metal reputa-band consists of Matt Brehm (gui­tion. "Led ·Zeppelin, · The Who, tar and some vocals), Kevin and The Kinks are about as hard· Mulhall (guitar, mandolin) and Pat rock as we get. We're not wimpy· Tedesco -(guitar, harinonica and 
Scholastic 

vocals). The three are enrolled in the architecture program and started playing in bars and on public squares around Rome. Said Brehm, "The Italians loved Amer­ican music. We'd put a hat out and they would put money in it." . 
The band plays mostly guitar based folk music with a play list that includes Crosby, Stills and Nash, Cat Stevens, Rolling Stones and the Grateful Dead. "People have been very receptive to our kind of music. Playing here has been really casr. Mostly it's just a matter of getting the guts and the initiative to get out and find jobs for oursc:lvcs," said Brehm. The band has played several times at Theodore's already with f uturc dates set for Theodore's and Hag­gar Center at Saint Mary's. 
Freudian Slip's current lineup has been together about six months. Like most of the bands discussed here, Freudian Slip sticks almost exclusively to cover tunes. While they have a couple of originals dropped into the set intermitantly-"Dream Confes­sions" and "Up and Down" arc fairly regular-the majority of tunes in their __set arc written by other bands. The covers they play are fairly typical for a college band-stuff from U2, REM, The Clash, and The B-52's. 
However, the band -Chris Balint (drums), Mike Mennes (bass), Dan Holland (lead guitar), Keith Tadrowski (keyboards), and singer Kelly Igoe are not adverse to shaking . that up. Said Tadrowski, "We play about 35 songs regularly ... we try to be one of the more progressive bands on campus." Freudian. Slip encounters the same problems of other bands here on campus; although they have been lucky enough to find a convenient practice spot, Balint pointed out that there's still a lot 

9 


of bands in a limited area. "There's no question about it," he · said, "the competition is tough ... we got here a week early just to try and get a jump on it." 
Freudian Slip . is fortunate because they have a· couple of characteristics that set them apart. For one, they lfave a female lead singer, the only such band on campus. In addition, a reliance on their synths gives their sound a bit of a modern edge that is often sadly lacking with college bands. 
The Bottom Line ("Remember the 'The"' warned drummer Matt · McGlynn) may not have those dis­


tinguishing f ca tu res, but they probably shouldn't worry-they captured top spot· in -the Battle of the Bands competition a couple of weeks back. The band consists of McGlynn, guitarist Steve Sparks, bassist Scott Selig, keyboardist Greg O'Connor, and singer John Griffin. After practicing · in Flanncr's basement for a couple of years, The. Bottom Linc has taken to practicing exclusively off campus. McGlynn suggested that a special place on campus for bands might be wise: "There's so many bands, it just makes sense to give us a place to go," he said. 
The Bottom Linc plays covers, but in an "exacting" fashion. Sound man Bill Weinshcrmcr gives the band a tough rock/dance mix. They recently played six gigs in nine days, so it appears to be a successful mix as well. These guys are serious about playing -there's a couple of music majors here, members of the Notre Dame Jazz Band -and an apparent willing­ness to compromise on band deci­sions, in order to stay together, even after graduation. "We try to 


Scholastic 


, play something for everyone,," said singer Griffin, "everyone gives a little." ' 
Blank Generation would pr.ob­ably do well if they listened to that ideal; they still consider them­selves a band(they wouldn't be included here if they didn't) but they did decide to take a break from each other after the Battle of the Bands-where they came in second~ incidentally, · although many there thought they had perhaps won: Blank Generation is: 
Brian Brahman, guitar; Rick Car­ton, lead guitar; Paul Hart, drums; Paul Czarnecki, bass; and singer 
Mike Roe. 
The band formed last Christ­mas, and they've played the typi­cal spots-Chips, Uncles, and the like. Problems have arisen in the 
. band because of a conflict in musical direction; some guys-like guitarist Brahman.. want to stick with older tunes, with a handful of newer songs; others lean more toward stuff like The Replace-. mcnts (and, said Brahman, their subsequent philosophy of "We don'( want to be popular.") Whether or not their conflicts can be settled will deterinine the future of the band. 
Notre Dame bands may face difficulties here, with the com­petition of other bands and the problems that causes, but student support, agrees most of these guys, is pretty strong, and that makes up for a lot. Chances are none of these bands will became hugely successful, -that's true of virtually any band you'd care to name; and it's precisely that fact that makes their efforts all the more pleasing to watch, and to hear. They're playing with that dream in mind, perhaps, but the music itself seems to keep them going, II 



Pssst..-Want A Job? 
Amid protests from campus groups, the CIA interviews seniors at Notre Dame 
W 
BY A~--lNE SOISSON 
ith the recent Iran­ate scandal fresh in 
he mind of the public · nd the installation of 
new director and so­called "clean-up" man William Webster, the Central Intelligence Agency has become, whether it desired to or not, a noticeable organization. Closer to home, CIA representatives arrived on campus two weeks ago to interview Notre Dame students. They were greeted by a less-than-warm welcome from two groups --Pax Christi and Women United For Justice and Peace. 
One question about CIA recruiting is whether or not it is different at Notre Dame than at other places. CIA Personnel Representative Kathe Lowe said, "recruiting is no more intense at Notre Dame than at other major universities." Colin Lipnicky, a senior Government/English major, who wants tq work for some type of a government agency, found out about the interviews through the Career and Placement Center. He said the CIA is one of the few government agencies that comes to campus to interview students. 


"If they did recruit more stu­dents from Notre Dame than from other universities, it might have a lot to do with the backgrounds of the people that go here," Lipnicky said. "Most of them havc:1't been in trouble a whole lot, and a lot of them arc pretty conservative, and you kind of have to be (to work for the CIA). And though it didn't actually come out in the interview, I think that they would be more apt to hire a man," said Lipnicky. 
ln preparing for his interview, Lipnicky "looked at a few things about the CIA, you know, researched it like you would any interviewer's company," but not much more . "You can't really get a whole lot (of information)," he said. "There isn't a lot available." Lipnicky said that as a result, he didn't know that much about what the organization did going into the interview. The interviewer spent time explaining the CIA to him, 
however. "He really didn't expect you to know that much about it, like other companies do," said Colin, adding that "it was really kind of laid back -almost like you were in a seminar. It was really comfortable, really relaxed." 
Scholastic

Lowe said the format of the interview included spending about half of the time explaining the agency and its career options. She explained that questions were aimed at determining whether or not students were qualified to advance to the next step of what can become a long process -9 to 12 security checks , during which you may be cut at any time. She said that the CIA is looking for "high academic achievers, who have an international interest, and, ideally, experience abroad and/or fluency in other languages." 
Over a period of two days, Lowe said the organization inter­viewed about 55-60 students here. Some were invited to interview, and others came to the open inter­views that were available to any­one who was interested. Lowe said there is no way to predict what percentage of people interviewed would make it through the entire rigorous process to actually being 
hired, but that the number would be comparatively low this year because the CIA has fewer posi­tions available right now. Other than college campus interviews, Lowe said the agency uses news­paper and magazine ads to reach the general public. 
Pax Christi and Women United For Justice and Peace protesting the presence of the CIA on cam­puses around the country is not a new occurence. Last spring, former President Jimmy Carter's daughter, Amy ·carter, stood trial, along with 14 others, on charges of trespassing after they protested CIA interviewing at the Univer­sity of Massachussetts. They claimed that the agency was not operating in accordance with the law, ·and_ thus, under university policy, 'should not be allowed to interview students. At Fordham, protestors who were arrested won a small victory when the univer­sity decided the following year not to allow the CIA to interview on campus. The CIA moved their interviews across the street. 
Pax Christi, an international Catholic Peace movement with about 50 members in its chapter here, is an organization that seeks to educate, from a Catholic per­spective, on issues of war and peace such as the arms race. From the Latin "Peace of Christ," it tries to take the notion of Jesus as peacemaker and to bring about that peace. Specifically, their objections to the CIA are that its methods come in direct conflict with the teachings of the Catholic Church. 
Spokesperson Joe Ross said, "Pax Christi's concern is that the CIA is involved in all kinds of things aimed at the destabilization of governments as one of the ways they work for what they consider 
. to be U.S. national interests. It's pretty clear that (the CIA) has used disinformation campaigns, assassination and training of groups such as the Contras -and those things can be substantiated. That's not today's headline ­nobody is shocked when you say the CIA is behind some plot to overthrow somebody." Ross con­tinued, "we are not, as some would accuse, · composed of a bunch of communists. We don't love our country any less than the average person, simply because we disagree with the methods of one of its agencies. 
"The Church has a lot to say about the way governments relate one to another. Things need to be done aboveboard, overtly, and based on political. discussion and dialogue in an atmosphere of trust, because (methods such as those employed by the· CIA) work against mutual dialogue, work against political solutions and that is not the way justice gets served." 
Ros3 said the intentions of his group were not to stop people from interviewing; but merely to educate people about the CIA. "I do hope that our protest might cause people to think twice about whether they wanted to work for such an agency. We're thinking of possibly asking the University to disallow (CIA) interviewing on campus." Kristin Komyattc, spok­esperson for Women United for Justice and Peace added that "stu­dents are free to interview with whomever they want, wc just want to educate them about the injus­tices that are being done." She was less enthusiastic about the possibil­ity of future, more controversial actions the groups might take. "Those (types of) actions might be viewed as · antagonistic, but as a Catholic University, I hope (Notre Dame would) think about the institutions that are allowed to interview here." 
Komyattc's group raises objec­tions to primarily the same things as Pax Christi; and, in fact, the two groups' ideals and activities often coincide, according to Ross, but WUFJP raises their objections from a woman's perspective, and on what Komyatte called "a moral and ethical basis." 
Lowe said she was not allowed to comment on any of the allega­tions of the two protesters. The ·cIA's Office of Public Affairs in Washington refused to comment on the allegations. 
At Notre Dame, the presence of CIA interviews on campus has raised some questions about the appropriety of that presence on the campus of a Catholic univer­sity. II 
13 


hat 
, :;,._.,
fe\\ 
~ 



his teammates positively embar­
BY MARTY BURNS team that fell to Earth set out to rassed the fourth-ranked Irish, 
start over -this time without their 0 matter what disasters scoring on four consecutive drives spotless record, without their may await the Notre in the first half and knocking out flashy ranking, and most impor­Dame football team this Notre Dame quarterback Terry tantly, without two of their better season, it can't get any Andrysiak for the season with a players. Besides Andrysiak, start­worse than it did last broken collarbone. It just couldn't ing free safety Corny Southall will Saturday. To say the get any worse. 
sit out the remainder of the seasonIrish looked 
And that, in (act, was the pre­
after tearing knee ligaments. Thebad in their 30-22 loss to Pitts­vailing attitude among the loss of Southall will be prob­burgh would be. understatement. 
members of the Irish squad as they lematic. The loss of Andrysiak,To say they looked good would be, took the field for a bone-chilling meanwhile, may be catastrophic. 
well; like saying Panther running 

cold day of prQ.ctice on the Mon­
There may be hope, however. It back Ironhead Heyward moves day after. There, less than 48 comes in the form of a bow-leggedlike Fred Astaire. Ironhead and hours after the Pitt debacle, the · sophomore quarterback who's so 
14 Scholastic 

fast he might be able to catch his own passes if only he didn't throw the ball so darn far. Tony Rice, a Proposition 48 victim last year, took over the reins of the Irish offense Monday, and although Irish head coach Lou Holtz won't say for sure, they may stay in Rice's hands for the next f cw games at least. Rice's electric play in leading his team to three second-half scores at Pitt made him the obvious choice to replace Andrysiak, although freshman signal-caller Kent Graham has made enough of an impression to buy himself sume time as well, 
Graham's emergence notwith­standing, on this day of practice Rice looked like the man who would lead Notre Dame (3-1, ranked 13th in UPI) into its battle Saturday with 5-1 Air Force at Colorado Springs. "I thought he competed well against Pitt, espe­cially considering how difficult it was to come in down 27-0," said Irish head coach Lou Holtz of Rice's 68 yards rushing and 5-of­12 passing. "He's an excellent ath­lete, but he just doesn't have the experience Terry . did. We just have to work with him as much as we can to get him ready." 
One area in which Holtz and his staff must work will be to instill some confidence in the young quarterback. As a substitute for Andrysiak, Rice often had to sit down after a mistake, which means he did a lot of sitting. Holtz stated after one practice, "Tony Rice can throw the ball 80 yards, but I don't know yet which team will catch it." Holtz even commented on Rice's elocution in the huddle, noting that the South Carolina native's southern accent often left the orders confused. Quite simply, Rice needed some time to adjust. 
"I still have a lot of work to do to be ready for Air Force," admit­ted Rice after his first day with the first · team. "Kent and I arc both getting a lot of attention. Before, when I made a mistake it was usually, 'all right, get another quarterback in there.' Today I made some mistakes and they let me keep going until I finally got it right. I'm really enjoying it." 
Yet while Rice, and perhaps Graham, hold the key to the Irish offense for the rest of the season, the defense must recover from the loss of Southall and its own lack­luster performance against Pitt. 
Southall led the unit in intercep­tions and was one of its main tacklers. His place will be filled by freshman Todd Lyght, who blocked a Panther punt to set up one score, and veteran Chris Kvo­chak. The poor tackling which characterized Saturday's effort by the "No-Name!;," meanwhile, must be corrected soon if Notre Dame wants to beat Air Force and its following opponent, USC. 
Air Force figures to be a par­ticularly imposing challenge for the Irish defcnse. Although Notre Dame handled the Falcons with ease last year, rolling to a 31-3 win sparked in part by Tim Brown's 95-yard kickoff return, Air Force has been successful moving the ball throughout the season. Run­ning behind sophomore quarter­back Dee Dowis, the No. I rusher among the nation's quarterbacks, Air Force has short-circuited scoreboards all over the Western Athletic Conference. Their 444. 7 yards offense per game average puts the Falcons at No. 8 in the country, and they score at a healthy 30.2 points per game clip. 
"If there's one single thing that makes playing Air Force diffi­cult," Holtz says, "it's that you basically got three days to become experts at defensing the wishbone. They aren't going to out-physical you, but their execution is flawless so much of the time that you know your defense is going to be tested." 
While Air-Force may not be the best opponent for a team trying to start over, Holtz feels confident the disaster at Pittsburgh has left his team with a chip on its shoulder. "We're disappointed, but we've still got a chance to be a good football team," says Holtz.II 
As the likely replace­ment for the injured Andrysiak, Rice (left) suddenly has become the center of attention. 
sport 
e 

SOCCER 
The soccer team travels to DePaul on Saturday to take on the Blue Demons. The Irish, 13-0-1 after winning the USC­Spartanburg Invitational, will travel to the West Coast during break to take on Port­land (Oct. 22) and play in the Metropoli­tan Life Tournament (Oct. 31-Nov. 1) with UCLA and San Diego State in key match­ups that will test Notre Dame's newfound national prominence. 
Last weekend the Irish survived a scare against Spartanburg in the USC­Spartanburg Invitational on Friday. Trail­ing 1-0 late in the game, JOHN GUIGNON scored the game-tying goal that forced overtime. JOE STERNBERG booted in the winner in overtime. The Irish captured the tournament title on the following day with a 4-1 win over Winthrop. 
VOLLEYBALL 
Once again, the Notre Dame volleyball 
team lost to a nationally-ranked power, this 
time to ninth-ranked Kentucky. The 3-2 
loss also snapped a home win streak that 
dated back to Sept. 16, 1986. Three out of 
the four losses that the Irish suffered came 
at the hands of Top 20 teams. 
The Irish salvaged two wins out of the 
weekend against Northern Illinois (3-0) and 
Minnesota (3-1) to boost their record on 
the season to 16-4. Outside hitter KATHY 
CUNNINGHA2vi suffered a separated 
shoulder on Sunday that should keep her 
out for two weeks. 
The team will head south for matches 
against Texas, Baylor, Texas A&M and 
Nebraska over break before returning to 
Notre Dame for a five-game homestand. 
FIELD HOCKEY 
The field hockey team, 4-4-1, suffered another shutout last week, this time against Central Michigan by a 2-0 score. The team will head east over break to play games against American, Catholic, Georgetown and Maryland-Baltimore County. The team returns home for an Oct. 24 game against Goshen. 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

The women's tennis team won its fiRh straight North Star Conference Champion­ship, remaining the only conference cham­pions in the history of conference tennia play. The Irish tallied 46 team point ¦, ahead of Northern Illinois (36), Marquette (35), Dayton (13.5), DePaul (13) and .Val-. paraiso (5). 
CeCe CAHILL took the number one singles title, defeating Meg Mulcahy o( Marquette, 6-3, 6-2. STEPHANIE TOLSTED took the top spot in the number two postion, and MICHELLE DASSO and KIM PACELLA won the third and fourth flights, respectively. Cahill and Dasso also won the number-one doubles flight. 
The team will have a long break before participating in the regional Rolex Touma'." ment on the second weekend in Nov. in Madison, WI. Champions from that tour­
ATHLETES OF THE WEEK 
CeCe CAHILL 


_eja vu! As if taking North Star Conference Athlete of the Week honors were not enough, Cahill decided to do it again. The freshman tennis phenom closed out the regular season undefeated in singles play, dominating Marquette's Meg Mulcahy 6-3, 6-2 to capture the number one singles title at last weekend's North Star Confer ence Championship. 
JOHN GUIGNON 


Guignon, the junior co-<:aptain of the soccer team from St. Louis, scored a crucial goal last Friday night against Spartanburg in the 
. USC-Spartanburg lnvi­
; tational. Trailing 1-0, 
· Guignon scored the 
equalizer with one minute remaining to 
force overtime, in which the Irish won, 2-1. 
Guignon also had an assist on the following 
day against Winthrop. 

nament will go on to the national Rolex L--------,-------------~ 
Tournament. 
·MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 

The Irish travel to West Lafayette, IN tomorrow to run in the Indiana Invita­tional. It is only the second race on the road for the Irish, who defeated George­town earlier in the year in Washington, 
D.C. Last year's champion, Indiana, will present the Irish with the strongest chal­lenges, while Purdue and an improved Ball State team will give Notre Dame all it can handle. 
WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 

The women's cross country team will 
also make the trip to Purdue tomorrow for 
the Indiana Invitational. The Irish enter 
the race defending the little state division 
they won last year, and hope to unseat 
perennial powers Purdue and Indiana. 
TERRY KIBELSTIS will again miss the 
race because of stress fractures. 

Last week, Ball State beat the Irish in a 
dual meet, but only after head coach DAN 
RYAN decided to rest his top five runners 
for tomorrow's meet. Sophomore LINDA 
FILAR led the Irish against the Cardinals, 
followed by the freshman trio of RUTH 
PIATZ, TERESE LEMANSKI and RENEE 
KAPTUR. 
SAINT MARY'S SOCCER 

The Belles dropped to 4-5-2 after two losses over the weekend against Kalamazoo and Lewis Colleges. The team travels to Adrian, Michigan today to take on Sienna Heights College. 
SAINT MARY'S TENNIS 

Saint Mary's lost its unblemished record last week when the Belles fell to University of Illinois (Chicago), 4-5. The team raised its record to 9-1 on Saturday with a 7-2 victory over St. Francis at Joliet. This weekend the Belles will be in the NAIA District 21 State Tournament. 
SAINT MARY'S VOLLEYBALL 

Saint Mary's beat Grace College in three straight games to raise its record to 13-5. Over the weekend the team came in second at the Lake Forest Invitational. 
COMPILED BY TERRY LYNCH 
Scholastic 
Music/Tim Adams 
That ChiTown Sound 
New records by Big Black, Precious Wax Drippings, and Eleventh Dream Day 
actions) head-on, pamtmg an as­
~ ·r-'11 admit that the city of 

scrcamingcst, best songs this year. 
wc-see-it picture of the dark side of
Chicago is not exactly 

Then there's a cover of Kraftwerk's 
life. The music grew from Albini's
where it's at musically·. 

"The Model," which relents a bit 
solo musings to Big Black's current
With only a handful of 

even while retaining BB's charac­
monolithic sound, and popularity
clubs (Batteries Not 

teristic metal-on-metal guitar 
came to them despite never
Included, Cabaret 

sound. This is the record's most 
kowtowing to anyone. Obnoxious,
Metro, Cubby Bear, Exit Club 
radio-ready song, in case you care. 
yes. Noisy, yes. Controversial, you
Dreamerz) regularly booking decent 
rock bands and only a half-dozen or 
Elsewhere, the album continues 
bet. But this is gr~at stuff that hits 
so respectable local groups playing to rock pretty heavily, fro'm 
home harder than most anything 
around, things just aren't that great adrenalin-charged rush of "L Dopa" 
around. Definitely not music for 
in the Windy City. But I think 'to the barely controlled bounciness 
bed-wetters, which means that most 
somebody's mother once said that if of "Pavement Saw." And the song 
ND students won't be able to handle 
you can't say something nice, don't topics remain fixated on the under­
it. 
say anything at all, so I'll limit belly of the human psyche, on the 
Two Chicago acts that might go 

myself to discussing what's been • occasionally surreal facts of life and 
over a wee bit better than Big Black 
good recently in Chicago music. the ways people try to screw each 
(at Notre Dame at least ... at other 
Take, for instance, the new Big other over. "Colombian Necktie" 
colleges, Big Black is immensely 
Black album called Songs About refers to an old Mob tactic of slit­
popular) are Precious Wax Drip­
F---ing. The title of this album is ting someone's throat until his 
pings and Eleventh Dream Day, 
almost as tasteful as the cover of tongu{; flops out onto his neck; in 
who both released debut records 
their last record, Headache (which "Bad Penny," a weasely guy has sex 
recently. PWD's sound is acutely 
featured a full-color morgue photo with his friend's girlfriend and later 
garage-oriented, with a few cheesy 
of an axe-murder victim's head -gloats that she now hates her boy­
harmonies laid atop the band's 
mm mm good), but fortunately the friend; "Precious Thing" is a tale of 
frenetic pop constructions, while 
music is a big improvement over the complete domination and submis­
Eleventh Dream Day stick with 
four good-but-not-great songs on sion; and "Kasimir S. Pulaski Day" 
more Westernish songs. On Precious 
Headache. Here the band pounds again addresses the Mob's actions, 
Wax's EP, Ain't We a Wishin' 
more mercilessly than ever, with this time about a car bombing. 
Bunch, they pump out several 
deeper hooks embedded in stop-Pretty neat stuff. 
excellent tunes, and influences as 
start rhythms and the edgiest sound 
diverse as the Replacements, Redd 
they've yet displayed. Big Black's. Last time I checked, Big Black 
Kross, early Who, and Kiss pop up. 
music has always been a gut-level hadn't yet written a love song, and 
Eleventh Dream Day's self-titled EP 
covers more expansive and less
roar, but here things threaten to get seeing as how Songs About F---ing 
accessible tei:ritory; the closest they
out of hand. Utilizing their drum is their last record, they never will. 
get to a college-radio sound is on
machine Roland to the full extent of Their goal never was to be anything 
the eminently palatable "Walking
its capabilities, the band lays down resembling a traditional rock band. 
Through the Barrel of a Gun,"
the aural equivalent of a string of With early influences like Killing 
which would not be too far out of
tornadoes, one right after the other. Joke and the Birthday Party, group 
Guadalcanal Diary's league if GD
First is the fist-raising rig anthem leader Steve Albini set about creat­
weren't so silly. Fans of the Gun
"The Power of Independent Truck­ing an original postpunk American 
Club and the "West Coast sound"
ing," in which Roland plays whore band that would tackle people's 
will probably get off on this one.
to the song's constant and aggressive behavior (and, consequently, their 
Oops, time's up, gotta go, bye.II
tempo shifts. Probably one of the rationalizations behind their 
Scholastic 

Coming Distractions October IS-November 4 

FILMS 
"National Lampoon's European Vacation" Engineering Auditoi:ium 7, 9:30, 12 p.m. 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16 Fall Break Begins MONDAY, OCTOBER 26 
Classes Resume at 8 a.m. 
FIL~1S 
"Shoot the Piano Player" Annenberg Auditorium 

SPORTS 
Football: 
Notre Dame vs. USC (Home) 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 26 
Classes Resume 8 a.m. 
FILMS 
"Shoot the Piano Player" 
Annenbcrg Auditorium 
7 and 9 p.m. 
TUESDAY,OCTOBER27 
"Last Metro" . 
Annenberg Auditorim 
7 p.m. 
"Pennies From Heaven" Annenberg Auditorium 
9:15 p.m. 
LECTURES 
"Managing Perfectionism" Rosemary Phelps 6:30-8 p.m. 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28 FILMS 
CONCERTS 
Dick Holliday & the Bamboo Gang October 16 Biddy Mulligan's 7644 N. Sheridan 8 p.m. 
Koko Taylor & Her Blues Machine October 17 · Biddy Mulligan's 7644 N. Sheridan 
8 p.m. 
10,000 Maniacs October 30 Cabaret Metro 
3730 N. Clark 
7:30 p.m. 
Marshall Crenshaw October 20 Park West 8 p.m. 

Royal Court of China Hurrah Northern Pikes Will & The KiII November 2 Cabaret Metro 3730 N. Clark 
7:30 p.m. 
The Fixx October 17 Park West 322 W. Armitage 
I.D. Required 
7:30 p.m. 
THEATRE 
Animal Farm Bailiwick Repetory October 15-November 22 Thursday and Friday 8 p.m. Saturday 6 and 9 p.m. Sunday 3 p.m. 212 N.Broadway $10-$15 Arsenic and Old Lace Shubert Theatre 22 W. Monroe October 15-October 24 8 p.m. Matinee Saturday 2 p.m., Sunday 3 p.m. $13-$35 
MICHIANA 
MOVIES 
TOWN AND COUNTRY 
"Three O'Clock High" 
7:45 and 9:45 p.m. "Fatal Attraction" 7 and 9:30 p.m. "Someone to Watch Over Me" 
7:15 and 9:45 p.m. 

18 Scholastic 
"Fire Starter" En&incering Auditorium 7, 9:30, 12 p.m. 
LECTURE 
Scholastic Lecture Series 8 p.m. 
THURSDAY,OCTOBER29 
FILMS 

"Fire Starter" 
Engineering Auditorium 
7, 9:30, 12 p.m. 

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30 FILMS 
"The Hitcher" Engineering Auditorium 7, 9:30, 12 p.m. 
"Summer" 
Anncnberg Auditorium 
7:30 o.m. and 9:30 p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARl<. EAST 
"The Big Easy" I 7:45 and 9:45 p.m. 
• "No Way Out" 7 and 9:30 p.m. 
"Beverly Hills Cop II" 
7:30 and 9:30 p.m. "Can't Buy Mc Love" 
5:30 and 9:30 p.m. "Untouchables" 
7:20 p.m. "Surrender" 
7:30 and 9:30 p.m. "Stakeout" 7 and 9:30 p. m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK WEST 
"Big Shots" 
7:45 and 9:45 p.m. "La Bamba" 7 and 9:30 p.m. "The Pick-Up Artist" 
7:30 and 9:30 p. m. 
SATURDAY,OCTOBER31 
FILMS 
"The Hitcher" Engineering Auditorium 7, 9:30, 12 p.m. 
SPORTS 
Football Notre Dame vs. Navy (Home) 
SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 1 
MASS 
Spanish Mass Farley Chapel 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2 FILMS "The Green Room" Annenbcrg Auditorium 
7:00 p.m. 
SCOTTSDALE 
"Bestseller" 
7:45 and 9:45 p. m. "Surrender" 
7:30 and 9:30 p.m. 
"The Blue Angel" Anncnbcrg Auditorium 
9:00 p.m. 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3 
FILMS 
"Top Secret" Annenbcrg Auditorium 7 and 9 p.m. 
LECTURES: 
Depression Patrick Utz, Ph.D 6:30-8 p.m. 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4 
FILMS 
"Crocodile Dundee" 
Engineering Auditorium 
7,9:30, 12 p.m. 



Final Word 


On the Road Again 
BY MATT MCGLYNN 

tudcnt rock group The Bottom Linc just fin­ished a seven-day, three-state tour. The following are excerpts from the tour journal of 
the  band's  drummer,  Matt  
McGlynn.  
Stonehenge,  September  19:  

Another outdoor gig, and every bit as difficult as the An Tostal picnic last spring. If it isn't the sun in my eyes, and the wind in the mies, and the dozen alumni holding their ears; it's the entire drum line from the marching band catching every mistake. The cymbals all seemed two feet further away than they were in George's basement -for Christ's sake, the whol~ drum kit's grown! I've played· in too many small rooms. Now that I'm used to the drum sound bouncing off the walls, right back in my face, I can't seem to play well without it. The sound company did a nice job with the PA. Even though it took them five tunes to get a decent mix, and even though they never 
were able to get rid-of the Nash­ville twang in John;s voice, we sounded pretty good. Keenan SYR, September 25: Like playing inside a brick toilet. Worse acoustics than Theodore's. Billy brought out our new mixing board. We were hoping to mic the entire drum kit, but the permanent echo down in Keenan's basement make the drums sound fat enough already. Phil Collins would've loved it. ''Sympathy for the Devil" went over very well. So did "Werewolves of London." Gotta 
learn some Grateful Dead. All the new equipment worked great. The speakers CRANKED -those eigh­teen inch woofers have about six inches of travel to them. Too bad they weigh so damn much. 

Battle of the Bands, September 
26: Pro Audio did the sound, which was a lucky break for us. Trying to kill the echo in Theodore's is like trying to copy John Bonham's bass drum tracks with one foot. We were Big Ner­vous. This was serious competi­tion. We were against three other campus bands; including last year's Nazz winner. Nothing like a little pressure. Besides the rushed set-up and tear-down, the fact that two of the people in the audience are responsible for hiring bands for Theodore's and Senior Bar, and the fact that we couldn't do a sound check, someone was making a video. No pressure, no pressure! We played great! After missing the Nazz competition last year, we were all psyched to make a good showing. We packed serious energy into this gig, and it paid off. We were the one band that didn't "tie for second place." All in all, a very good night. Chips, September 29: · Nothing went right. Too much feedback, overheated power amps, and the crowd was dead. Chips, September 30: The PA worked beautifully! Tonight we had the crowd moving for four hours. 
Michigan barn dance, October 2: 
And I thought playing outside was bad. I would have gladly traded those barn walls for a steady, flat floor. I've never seen anything like it. I was playing the verse to Johnny B. Goode on the hi-hats and all the crash cymbals were jumping up and down because the floor was heaving. The sound wasn't too bad. I'll say one thing for hay and rotting wood -it sure eats up the echo. Besides the Floor from Hell, we were loving the stage setup. 

Northwestern frat party, October 

3: Last show in the nine-day, six­date tour. I -.was spent. We use entirely too much equipment to be moving it around as. often as we do. But hey, the floor was flat! And steady! I got psyched in spite of myself. We did a quick set-up and ignored a sound check in favor of a fantastic dinner at Bill's house. Returned to the frat and played a marathon 4-set blowout, including ad-lib versions of "Satis-1 faction" and "Rock Lobster."! After the last notes of our second encore echoed across Lake Michi­gan and after all the groupies and hangers-on finally wandered away, we packed up and got to bed about 5 a.m. Sunday. Somehow, two hours later, we woke long enough to load the cars. I have vague recollections of a U­haul trailer fishtailing at 70 mph, but the rest of the trip is a blur. Somehow, we made it home. The members of The Bottom Line -John Griffin, Matt McGlynn, Greg O'Connor, Scott. Selig, Steve Sparks, and Bill Weinsheimer -can be seen on the third floor of the infirmary, where they are being treated for exhaustion and other... disorders. Please observe visiting I hours. II 
----~-­

---~ ---·-~ ·~ -.. ~~ : ---: -·---• -, -~ --',_,,_... • ' ---'': t _,.,. ..-,. ~--;;_ --; ':,' -~.-..' • :: ,. -, ' -__..,. --..,,, -~ 
0 ; 







1' 
E.ME.MBEQ: WI-\AT 'S '.J ARrJT IJ.J THE CRADI...E. rn S Tll,L Tl-IE. ToNB. ~ 
~ TOMB? 10MB? ~ 
/ WHAT"S 'TI-\IS "' ·/~· I\BovT A :::: 

'( Nr<TE: r~fNioP.IC Bf\r,1::•~)£1(;'.•o<" .. , . "''j$L1:.XIC 
... -:-::-::::-:=--TOMR7 C.

HUMQ(1., A C.OMMq,J Sooc;:.r.i::, ,,; r ~,vnt 1r1;:t 
....,...i,..______,;;.;;;.....____~-::1 
I:>

WHAT TB£~ Oo to ~ou IN klND~GA1<PE.R ;;! n 
~ 

I= IRS~ 'T~E~ MA'!::I:: tJDO LEAVE Pit..L :::louR COOL Sl-\1,-J'.:!) WAR 'T'0':::1S P.rJO '.::
or= jl-\t 

SEX'::) PLAS"ilC. POLLS AT HoME. JtJS"iE.AOJ THE.';1 &1\/E ~D\J A B"r-.l c.H OF ro
f\Mo tJ 6 

CLo~'f::_'.,, DIRT':,, WoRtJ, BoRlNG,o".ls N\At>t ouT oF Dur-iB wooo OR S0N1£TH1"" _,
~DIJ CALI-11"J -rR\lt, TKI:% To!:lSHA\JE FASc.1..iR-r1..iG C.\-\tW MAR~S oN TH€:MJ Bvr 

1r< 1N1vj E,ARV~. 

·n-\~~ f\QI:: R!:At.L';, RtALL':; RE.ALL':, R.cl'\t..\,".) Re.Pit..\..~ HARV 'to BRcA)!::, THtH°S RIGHT! O'l:.fl'jJ T+l.E.tJ "il-\E. LP,'i)~ MA'!::ES ~00 DO STVi=°i; l-lKE MAgc.1-\ P,12.0urJO M0~E WIMfl::::, PINO SrT STl\.. \.. Ai:lO SitJG .SorJGS ArJO l...tS1trJ 'TO S'l"ORl~S p,BovT e,ur.JrJll:S. 
1,\TT\.,t £,~_Blj .W-\DD\... 11-lf i?,UNIJ~ STOl?.IES Ct:\N Bt Qvi-rE. t\MvS,r-16, f:\tTUA\..t..1;?, T\-l~N ';:JO\J GO l.lii'l.E SA.B\GS-­OUTSIDE: TO PL.A~. Go (=oR. 7'H~ .Sw1r-1G5--"TI-\E.~'RE: ,HE FUNNES-t: 11-\El-l 1T'.s f?.Ac.K 1t-JS.1-0E. Foe cgAc.'l::.1:.1a5 AtJV wAR.M Jv1c.E. "::,o\J c.A.J
1s -rtt~ B1b iiMt. 

CAuSI:: A Rvc.1<::vS B~ CA\..Ll,J(::, IT "WORM JI.JI CE.'' 
Kll'JNER&f\R'OE.tJ 1511-lE LAST PLf:\C.~ ~Ol1't.\. BE: ABL..t -ro AS!: AtJ~ Qv~~"T/Ot-J T~AT GoM€5 
iO MltJ'O WITHovT t=€AR OF 
f,{;1T1.J6 SMAC'l:t'D JtJ Rf.PL~. 
IF C::,oc;, IS: E.VE.~WHE.~E.., 
lolC.L.. '.::100 
DE.AV W~ 
lS HE. 1,0 

:jO\J MA~ ,Bf THE. TOLL-ET? 
SN)AC.\::.-E..O 
J\N:j wA ~. 

So k.1 r-\ o~ 0AR.TE.R r= v l'l, \:. vE N Tl-\ou c, H 
•HE.<:, u)IL-L-TQ~TO GE.T BEuJA~E 01= THE.1R. c.Mm 1-lERl::'.s Tl-IE. T~\E.D-AIJl)­
11-l'c.~ ootl'T f-lA\lt
':lou 'r'o 1r-ic,Q.1M1.Jf>iTE M~,JE.vVE.RS'. Do,J'T L-Er T~vE RESPotJSE. To AL-l.. 1'1-lE.M C.ATC.1-'-':101.l OFF·C,UAl!O. BL-~ME.-Sl:f.\(:1,-J(:, QVE/?.tE:S, TV Tt-\E..~E: Ar-10 'TH£ Bl&
'1ooeS1:.L-F. 
t.AO~ 'TAl..KS TOO Mil(!-/ t\N C> SI-It f'IN5 111 oTcS 10 ~ov ~ c.L..oTHc S 
B£c..AV5t SH£1'HJtJI<~ ~oll'i!E >0 s-ruPI\:> L..o$€'El'1or-l THE WA';i 
HOME, THE (;,Ol"O PART
EE> 

JS J::.1~NE~&ARTl:>J 1-~STS 
IT IS E.AS':! it> SEE. TI-IROllGH FoR.£VER. BuT 'Tl·IS THIS TACTIC.. A C.OMMOIJ BL.\liJt>E.'t. 
8Af? PAR'T" IS 
' ' ­
• --'-"...... ~--•-...,_h _......_ -J -• --~--• 





