THERE CAN BE MORE TO CASUAL DRESS THAN
COMFORT...!
You can enjoy casual clothes — with all of the comfort they afford — and still look well dressed. A smart pair of slacks and a well-chosen Ivy League sport coat or two from the Campus Shop’s selection will convince you that “A man’s best friend is his sport coat.” Why not drop in and look them over at your convenience.

On the Campus—Notre Dame
GILBERT'S
^@ampu^hoK
CHARGE IT—
THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY
PAY
PAY
MAR
No Carrying Charge
At the Campus Shop you will find a complete selection of nationally famous suits, topcoats, sport coats and furnishings . . . and a convenient charge account with which to buy. If you’re on a budget — like most college men are — why not charge what you need the Campus Shop way. Simply get what you need now and pay one-third in February, one-third in March and one-third in April. It’s that simple — and, of course, there is no carrying charge. Use your Campus charge account tomorrow!
DRESS RIGHT — You can't afford not to!

ON THE CAMPUS — NOTRE DAME
January 17, 1958
LET’S DANCE
It’s Easy—And Fun to Learn Classes Now Starting in TAP & BALLET SINGING and TAP for Television Stage
ENROLLMENT: Jan. 4 to Jan. 14
CLASS AND MIVATI INSTRUCTION
CALL TODAY-CE 3-3396
Marie Buczkowski
School of Dancing
Vice President of the Chicago National Association of Dancing Masters
30th Consecutive Year in South Bend
119% W. CoffaxAve.	Phone CE 3-3396
YOU CAN’T WORK
WITHOUT YOUR TOOLS
College Outline Series
Fine Art Materials
Architectural Supplies
Sheaffer Pens
School
Supplies
Also reminder for
February 14 Valentine Cards and Gifts
Notre Dame Bookstore
The Notre Dame
2
Scholastic »
Vol. 99 January 17, 1958 No. 11
Disco Quasi Semper Victurui Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
if
s
- r
I
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
JIM STEINTRAGER Editor
DAVID L. KUBAL Associate Editor
JOHN GLAVIN Associate Editor
GEORGE CLEMENTS HARRY McKEE ....
BOB EARLY....... MIKE FITZPATRICK
BOB WILLIAMS „ LORAN SHEFFER MIKE KURAS .. JOE DEZELAN .... STEVE ROAKE ... WALT RUDGE .... TOM EDWARDS . TOM LAMONT ... BOB SEDLACK .... ED ROHRBACH .. TED THOMPSON
&
.... News Editor i .... Copy Editor s Features Editor j .. Sports Editor I .... Photography
.... Business Manager ___Assistant Business Circulation Manager ___ Assistant News ___ Assistant News .... Assistant Features .... Assistant Features ... Assistant Features ___ Assistant Sports ___ Assistant Sports

News Staff: Ken Baumgartner, Alan Bosch, Art Dechene, Luino Dellosso. Bob Maruyama. Gil Pap-rocki, Lyn Relph, Charles Rieck. Roy Rubeli. Tom Romans, Milt Streifel. Tom Swanstrom. Dick Zang.
Sports Staff: Bob Briggs, Jim Brogan. Dave Cole, Jack Dolan. John Koch, Bob Miller. Mike Murphy, Tim O’Reilly, Bob Schaefer.
Sports Features: Joe Bride, John McMahon, Greg Rogers.
Business Staff: Bernie Dobranski, Pete Hasbrook. Bob Horn, Conrad Suski.
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, at the University of Notre Dame. Subscription rate, $4.00 a year. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Publication Schedule for the 1957-58 school year, Volume 99: No. 1, Sept. 27; No. 2, Oct. 4; No. S, Oct. 11;	No.	4,	Oct.	18; No. 5,	Oct.	25; No.	6,
Nov. 8;	No.	7,	Nov.	15; No. 8,	Nov.	22; No.	9,
Dec. 6; No. 10, Dec. 13 (Football Review); No. 11, Jan. 17;	No.	12,	Feb.	7; No. 13,	Feb.	14; No.	14,
Feb. 21;	No.	15,	Feb.	28; No. 16,	March 7; No.	17,
March 14; No. 18, March 21; No. 19, March 28; No. 20, April 25; No. 21, May 2; No. 22, May 9; No. 23, May 16; No. 24, May 23.

1
■ 2
J

Si
The Scholastic

science scare
Ever since the Soviet Union put up the major news story of last year—“Sputnik”—American education has been placed under close scrutiny. Editorials as well as front page features have asked the question: Where are the American Scientists? and What’s Wrong with American Education? Catholic educators have also been doing some careful inspection ever since Monsignor Ellis’s American Catholic and the Intellectual Life appeared, and a recent statement by Father John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., of Notre Dame increased the excitement in the Catholic and newspaper circles. Now all universities are beginning a type of self-analysis.
This reaction is good — BUT only if it is properly channeled. Any organization regardless of its size or prestige must be careful to guard against complacency. (It is too bad that America needs something big and fat to awaken it.) Nevertheless, this renewed life (helped along with grams and loans from industry) will be gradually infused into the school systems in order to produce more scientists; and will, as we said, have to be carefully watched, or the offspring will be a monster — one that will be more horrible than the world knows today. That monster is a science that has full license to rule man and the world.
A great need exists for scientists but we must also realize the tragic demand for broadly educated men. Science has a knack of destroying spiritual values and replacing these with the material. Its emphasis falls upon specialization, utility and that which can be seen and counted.
The results can be noted plainly in our society today. Men have lulled themselves to sleep under the misapprehension that American possesses a Christian spirit. A thought predominates which precipitated from Calvanism that recognizes riches as God’s blessing — no matter how one obtains them. We have men today like Norman Vincent Peale who assures the American public of salvation if they profess a belief in God — and that is about the extent of it. All this comes from pure materialism; and is caused by rationalism and a perversion of the ends of science.
And what does this have to do with education? Everything. For if the “Sputnik” scare produces an emphasis upon science without a thought to its proper bounds and a disregard of the humanities we will continue the movement away from God and the spiritual and further the embrace of the values of this world. Education must point out to its young men the wealth of philosophy, art, literature, and the rest of the humanities, and also show youth that science must be made subservient to him and not a god which will destroy his individuality.
—D.L.K.
January 17, 1958
open criticism
I AST week a nondescript and anonymous journal called 4 the Thursday Throwback, made its second appearance of the school year. According to its own authority the Throwback is published in “a spirit of friendly, helpful criticism, with the hope that” they might “bring a more balanced view of the University and its life.” The idea . behind the Throwback is a fine one but the editors have not always lived up to it. Too often their remarks are totally uncalled for, uninformed, and downright foolish.
Probably the most significant thing which came out of the latest issue was that it prompted a junior to write the Scholastic with some meaningful remarks concerning the Scholastic and the Throwback- Included indirectly, and perhaps unknowingly, was a method of eliminating the Throwback as such. The ideas were by no means new but certainly deserve some discussion at the present time.
It is no secret that the Scholastic cannot always publish everything it wants. One prevalent argument in all such “censorship” is the fact that the Scholastic is sent into many places where the full context of a point being discussed is not known. This could lead to misunderstanding on the part of people in the “outside world” and result in unnecessary bad publicity. However, as the letter writer suggested and as has been suggested before, there is a solution to the problem.
If there were a paper printed at Notre Dame and written just for the campus would it not be possible for student criticism to appear openly? This is done at several other universities and could be done here-in one of two ways. Either the Scholastic could be transformed into such a publication or a separate^ inexpensive journal of criticism could be written for the campus with the Scholastic remaining in its role as a “news magazine.” A strictly local publication would prove beneficial in many ways. First of all it would allow student leaders, both academic and extracurricular, to make poignant comments on failings at the University. This might well spur on the University, that is students, faculty, and Administration, to correct the failings. On the other hand the publication would not be published in the clandestine manner of the Throwback- This would guarantee more responsibility by writers, something which is certainly not true of several writers for the Throwback- Of course, there would have to be an understanding that the Administration would make no attempt to banish a writer for his comments regardless of what they might be. On the other hand the students would have to make certain that the printed word would not reach the “outside world.” It certainly is not impossible to achieve either of these conditions and the idea should be considered carefully by the University and the student body.	—J.S.
A Campus-to-Career Case History
John Reiter (right) discusses the route of signals from the leave guide through the IF stages of a microwave receiver.
“This was the kind of challenge I was looking for”
Here’s what John A. Reiter. Jr., B.S. in Electronics, Arizona State College, ’54, says about the biggest project so far in his Bell System career.
“This was the kind of challenge I was looking for—a chance to assist in planning a microwave radio relay system between Phoenix and Flagstaff, Arizona. Five intermediate relay stations would be needed, and I began by planning the tower locations on ‘line of sight’ paths after a study of topographical maps. Then I made field studies using altimeter measurements, and conducted path-loss tests to determine how high each tower should be. This was the trickiest part of the job. It called for detecting the presence of reflecting surfaces along the
John Reiter is building his career with Mountain States Telephone and Telegraph Company. Find out about the career opportunities for you. Talk with the Bell interviewer when he visits your campus. And read the Bell Telephone booklet on file in your Placement Office, or write for a copy of “Challenge and Opportunity” to: College Employment Supervisor, American Telephone and Telegraph Company, 195 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y.
transmission route, and determining measures necessary to avoid their effects.
“Not the least part of the job was estimating the cost of each of the five relay stations. All told, the system will cost more than $500,000. When construction is finished in December of this year. I’ll be responsible for technical considerations in connecting the radio relay and telephone carrier equipment.
“This assignment is an example of the challenges a technical man can find in the telephone company. You take the job from start to finish—from basic field studies to the final adjustments—with full responsibility. To technical men who want to get ahead, that’s the ultimate in responsibility.”
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
The Scholastic
in jest returns
by BOB COLAIZZI and GERRY PASTULA
Well here it is, 1958, we’re back, and who cares. We look back with fond memories on a very sterile vacation. Besides not being able to find a job to earn some coin for an occasional eggnog, we junked the family means of transportation, spent enough to support a family of five for three months, New Year’s Eve’d it with the bartender in our local bistrow, and with the hangovers we’ve got, we should be better off dead.
PASS THE SLOAN’S
The other night our landlady asked us to do her a favor. It seems her son had given her a new electric stove for Christmas, (she was having a tough time stealing wood) and it was to be delivered in the morning. This meant she wanted someone, us, to cart the old one out to the garage. As far as we were concerned, she could go call a mover, but we’re two weeks behind in our rent, and it’s too cold to sleep in the car. After two and a half hours of wrestling with the thing, we finally got it in the garage. We dropped it twice; one of us will have a permanent limp, and the other will never lift again. We overheard her say that she was thinking of switching to gas . . . how come we’re so lucky?
VIVA LA PARLORS
As a special service to our countless readers, we’d like to tell all three of you about our escapades at 11:30 last Saturday night, when we decided to look in on the parlors across the road. After our last column, we are finding dates hard to come by, so we went alone.
When our eyes became accustomed to the blinding flash of light, we began to make out shapes (and that’s about all we did). We saw the couples sitting around playing “huggy-bear” in this warm, lush, homey atmosphere. One couple particularly tugged at our heait strings. They were so much in love . . . you could tell by the way she gently moved her checker as she jumped his king. There in a dimly lit corner was anothei- couple (they had drawn the drape and were standing on the window sill) obviously infatuated with each other. He stood there, squeezing her hand, and whispering softly in her ear that she was crushing his cigarettes. Ahhhh, there were others, saying their fond good-nights, the SMC girls with lighted cigarettes in their mouths, and waving good-bye with their souvenir menus from the Lido.
P.S. SEND MONEY
We have often wondered what prompts the Notre Dame student to write home, so we conducted some interviews.
The Freshman we talked to said he wrote home to find out if anyone, even mother, still loved him. Better luck next year at SMC.
The Sophomore claimed his last letter was to his older brother for some tips on how to win at Hearts and Gin Rummy.
A Junior, who had' just' turned 21 said, “. . . ish nish of yoooo boysh to ash 99
The Senior seemed to have the most
logical’ answer when he told us that he wanted to keep his parents happy since he was going to live there with his wife after graduation.
WE JUST SIT DOWN, AND. .. .
Many people (one or two, anyway) have asked us how we write this mess. Well, here is the unadulterated verisimilitude (straight jazz, that is). First of all, we write down some of the ideas that have been rolling around in our warped minds, then laugh ourselves into oblivion . . . after we sober up, we generally throw the stuff away.
We’ve tried asking the guys what they would like to read, but since the SCHOLASTIC isn’t that sort of magazine, we had to look elsewhere.
Actually, we usually end up stealing most of it from Humbug.
CONFIDENTIALLY:
SMC Senior:
No we aren’t, and we’re ashamed to hear you say a thing like that!
Bill K:
Pay us the five bucks you owe; we need it desperately by the end of next week.
Bronko N:
We will definitely pay you the $5 at the end of next week . . . please sir? Mother:
Could you possibly send us $5 by the end of next week?
Joe K:
Maybe we don’t like your sense of humor either!!!
January 17, 1958
At the Movies
COLFAX
The Enemy Beloiv: (Jan. 17-22). This one stars bad-boy Mitchum and continental star Curt Jergens. An excellent movie in color and CinemaScope. (A-l).
A Farewell to Arms: (Jan. 23). David 0. Selznick’s version of the Hemingway novel, with Rock Hudson, Jennifer Jones and Vittorio De Sica costarred, is a 150-minute story about a man and a woman who meet in wartime, carry on an affair, try to cope with an unexpected pregnancy by postponing marriage until the baby is born, and are defeated by death of mother and child. In CinemaScope and Deluxe color, it is recommended for adult audiences.
GRANADA
The Tarnished Angels: (Jan. 17-22). Rock Hudson, Dorothy Malone and Robert Stack wander through the CinemaScope production of a Faulkner novel, from which the screen play derives, concerning life, love and death in the world of barnstorming pilots who, in the depths of the 1932 depression, risked their necks in rickety cracker-box planes competing for prize money in air circuses at county fairs, carnivals, and so on.
Raintree County: (Jan. 23). The principal roles are played by Montgomery Clift, Elizabeth Taylor and Eva Marie Saint. No need to rush, this one’s going to be in town for three weeks.
PALACE
The Long Haul: (Jan. 17-18).
Co-hit: The Hard Man.
The Monolith Monsters: (Jan. 19-22). Features Grant Williams and Lola Albright. This provocative motion picture treats a delicate theme pertinent to all science majors, particularly biologists.
Co-hit: The Love Slaves of the Amazon. An Amazonian Mary Worth becomes entangled in the underbrush as well as the eternal rectangle.
RIVER PARK
Jailhouse Rock: (Jan. 17-18). The story finds Presley, a shy kid with nervous temper, going to prison on a manslaughter charge for beating a man to death with his hands. In his third and latest vehicle Presley is aided by the late Judy Tyler. Summing up: Culture takes a holiday.
Stopover Tokyo: (Jan. 19-21). A great deal of fast and furious running about some lovely scenery in Japan comprises much of the footage of this well-paced, but unoriginal spy thriller. Robert Wagner, Joan Collins, and Edmond O’Brien spotlighted. Deluxe color-CinemaScope.
Co-hit: 3:10 to Yuma. Glen Ford-Van Heflin. (A-2).
Perri: (Jan. 22-25). This lively, animated Walt Disney production might well be described as “squirrel.” Co-hit: Joe Butterfly. Audie Murphy-George Nader. (A-2).
STATE
The Red Balloon: (Jan. 17-18). The charming tale of a young boy and his balloon, including a grand tour of Paris. A French film it won a special first prize at the Cannes Film Festival and an Academy Award for best original screen play.
Co-hit: The Lost Continent. An Italian documentary with English narrative this is another Cannes Film Festival winner, it also gained the Berlin Film Festival Award.
Co-hit: The Treasure of Bengal.
Bride of the Monster: (Jan. 19-21). A warm, tender love story about a most happy-in-love couple. <	.
Co-hit: Fury in Paradise. The story of a struggling 4-H Club in Altoona, Pennsylvania.
Hot Rod Rumble: (Jan. 22-23). Co-hit: Calypso Joe.
WASHINGTON HALL
The Poiver and the Prize: (Jan. 18). Robert Taylor-Elizabeth Mueller. You know as much about this one as I do.
—Steve Sailer
REAL ITALIAN AMERICAN FOOD
Enjoy a Private Party in the Seclusion of Our Hideaway Room
713 East LaSalle	CE 3-0951
The
RESTAURANT
127 N. Main Street
Welcomes Notre Dame Students
TO TRY OUR FINE FRENCH AND AMERICAN FOODS
•
Prepared By Our French Chefs
•
Call For Reservations CE 3-5606
Nabicht Bros.
FAMOUS FOR THEIR FOODNOW IN CAFETERIA STYLE
1415 LINCOLNWAY WEST
SUNNY ITALY CAFE A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food
601 NORTH NILES AVENUE
Diamonds Jewelry Watches J. TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
8
The Scholastic
ROBERT KENNEDY NAMED ‘PATRIOT OF YEAR’
Senior Class Selects Senate Chief Counsel
Senate investigator Robert F. Kennedy has been selected by the Senior Class to receive its annual Patriotism Award. The award will be presented at traditional Washington’s Birthday exercises, Feb. 22, in rhe University Drill Hall.
Don McNeill, president of the Senior Class, will present the award to Kennedy. Also at the ceremonies, James
ROBERT KENNEDY
Patriotism Award Winner
Walsh, the class vice-president, will give to the University an American flag which will be flown for the first time on senior graduation day. George Van Kula is chairman of the event.
Kennedy, selected in 1954 as “One of the Ten Outstanding Young Men in the United States” by the U. S. Junior Chamber of Commerce, has had an active if brief public career.
He played varsity football at Harvard College, and upon graduation attended the Virginia Law School where he received his LL.B, in 1951.
During World War II he served as a seaman aboard the destroyer “Joseph P. Kennedy, Jr.,” which was named after his oldest brother. He saw further military action when in 1948 he covered the war in Palestine for the Boston Post.
His public career began with his ad
January 17, 1958
mission to the Massachusetts State Bar the same year he graduated from law school. The thirty-two year old lawyer then was attached to the criminal division of the Department of Justice.
He was campaign manager for his brother John, who was running for the United States Senate in 1952. In 1953 he was an assistant counsel to the Hoover Commission.
In 1955 Kennedy was made chief counsel and staff director of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations. His work on the Senate Select Committee on Improper Activities in the Labor or Management Field, won him national acclaim.
The award ■winner is selected by the members of the graduating class in an early fall election. Previous winners of the Patriotism Award, which was established in 1954, include FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover, Bishop Fulton J. Sheen, General Curtis E. LeMay, and Senator John F. Kennedy, brother of this year’s recipient.
New Pastor Named For Campus Parish
Pastoral changes in two South Bend area parishes were announced today by The Rev. Theodore J. Mehling,' C.S.C., provincial of the Holy Cross Father’s Indiana Province.
The Rev. Albert L. Schlitzer, C.S.C., pastor of Sacred Heart Church on the campus, has been named pastor of St. Pius X parish, Granger. He succeeds The Rev. Thomas Richards, C.S.C., who has been relieved of his pastoral duties because of ill health.
Succeeding Father Schlitzer as pastor of Sacred Heart parish is The Rev. Philip Schaerf, C.S.C., who will continue to serve as director of the Confraternity of the Immaculate Conception of Our Lady of Lourdes whose headquarters are on the campus.
Both appointments are effective immediately, Father Mehling said.
Father Schlitzer has been pastor of the campus church since 1956. A specialist in sacramental theology, he holds doctor of philosophy and doctor of sacred theology degrees from the Gregorian University, Rome.
Father Schaerf has taught English courses at Notre Dame since 1949.
Sir Dixon to Lecture On Campus Monday
Sir Pierson Dixon, permanent representative of the United Kingdom to the United Nations, will give an address on “Diplomacy in the UN” in the Rockne Memorial Lounge next Monday at 8 pun.
The British diplomat was originally scheduled to speak at Notre Dame last October, but was forced to cancel his address due to the crisis in the Middle East and the impending visit of Prime Minister Macmillan to Washington.
Sir Pierson, who will speak under the auspices of Notre Dame’s Committee on International Relations, will be honored at a dinner at The Morris Inn on the campus preceding his talk. He will also hold a news conference at the Inn at 4:30 p.m.
Appointed to his present post at the UN in March, 1954, Sir Pierson formerly served as principal private secre-taiy to two of Britain's foreign ministers, Anthony Eden and the late Ernest Bevin. He has been deputy undersecretary for both political and economic affairs at the British Foreign Office and attended all the major World War II conferences including those at Yalta, Cairo, Casablanca, Quebec, Moscow and Potsdam.	'
From 1948 to 1950 he was his country’s ambassador to Czechoslovakia. Before embarking on his diplomatic career in 1929, Sir Pierson was a classicist, and he still maintains a keen interest in classical antiquity.
Notre Dame’s Committee on International Relations, headed by Dr. Stephen Kertesz, former Hungarian minister to Italy, was established in 1948.
WSND ‘SIGNS OFF
Station WSND will provide FM music from 6:30 a.m. to 11 p.m. during the exam period for the convenience of the students. The station ended its regular broadcasting schedule last Sunday evening and will return to the air on Jan. 29.
There will also be a change in the WSND staff during the second semester. John Jackman, a senior majoring in electrical engineering, will replace John Harrington who graduates in January.
9
BERNIE McGOWAN, DAVE McMAHON, BERNIE PELLEGRINO, GEP DURENBURGER
Mardi Gras Committee Draws Up Plans for 1957 Festival
'T-Bird' Picked as Student Mardi Gras Car;
Weekend of Festivities to Open With 'Le Bal'
The student prize in the Mardi Gras contest is the new four passenger Ford Thunderbird.
The car will be displayed on campus at the beginning of the next month. This will coincide with its unveiling across the nation. The 300-h.p. “T-Bird” with a special V-8 engine will be the first to be displayed in Indiana.
The Mardi Gras week end gets off to a festive start with “Le Bal Mardi Gras” on Friday night, Feb. 14. In the setting of a New Orleans garden 600 couples will dance to the music of Kai Winding and His Septet from 9 a.m. until 1:00 a.m. The usual car and late permissions will be granted.
The grand opening of the carnival is the following evening in the Navy Drill Hall. For two more evenings, Monday and Tuesday, from 7 until 11:30 p.m. the Navy Hall becomes a waterfront Canal Street.
Here, 25 campus clubs will operate various booths of fun and chance. Dixieland bands rotate with the traditional St. Mary’s show to entertain the festive crowd.
Tuesday evening, the last night of the carnival, will be the time of the grand drawing. At this time the winner of the 1958 Cadillac will be announced along with the winner of the student car.
The money will be used to finish pay
10
ing for the expenses that the redecoration of the Student Center brought on. Also, a fund null be set up to purchase new equipment, such as a new public address system, for the Center. Some of the money will go to the campus Charity Chest while another portion has been set aside for the Moreau Seminary building fund.
General Chairman Dave McMahon asks that everyone turn out and really participate. He points out that this is the only fund drive on campus and that it is a positive way to contribute to the Notre Dame charities.
Knights of Columbus to Hold 'Valentine' Dance on Feb. 7
The Notre Dame Knights of Columbus, Council No. 1477, will hold their third annual ball, “Columbian Valentine,” on Feb. 7. The dance will be held from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. at the South Bend K of C Club on North Michigan Street.
Formal ticket sales end tonight at 7 p.m., but tickets will still be available at $3 each from Tom Maloney, dance chairman, in 428 Walsh, or Carl Edmundson, 271 Dillon.
Gene Bertoncini and his orchestra will provide the music for the couples. The usual car and 2 a.m. permissions are available for all those attending the ball.
Duo-Pianists to Play On Campus Tonight
This evening at 8:15 p.m., Arthur Ferrante and Louis Teicher, the popular duo-pianists, will present a concert in Washington Hall.
Their performance, described by one critic as “an amazing display of two-piano virtuosity,” will feature two concerts in one. The young artists will present a first-half concert consisting of choice classical selections. Their repertoire will range from Bach and preBach composers through the great romantics to modern works.
The second half will be devoted to popular- music. Special arrangements of these popular tunes include extraordinary sound effects, especially delightful in music taken from fresh Broadway hits such as “My Fair Lady.”
Together from the age of six, these widely demanded duoists, have had many interesting, common experiences. They have appeared on the Gary Moore, Steve Allen, and Ernie Kovacs shows, and have even composed and played the music, with original sound effects, for the motion picture, “Undersea Conquest.”
Tickets will be on sale from 3:30 p.m. until the time of the performance at the Washington Hall box office. The prices are $.75 and $1 for students, faculty, and employees.
Gilbert Receives Scroll
As 'Merchant of Year'
Paul D. Gilbert, president of Gilbert’s Men’s Clothing Corporation, was honored as “Indiana merchant of the year” at a banquet Jan. 7 in Indianapolis.
The honor, a state and national award, was presented to Gilbert by the Indiana Retail Men’s Wear Assn. The banquet was sponsored by the Men’s Apparel Club of Indiana.
Recipient of the scroll must be a clothier and one distinguished in civic work.
Gilbert, president the past 20 years of the firm his father founded, has been in the business more than 30 years. The firm’s gross sales ranked fifth in the nation in 1956. The 1957 rankings have not been compiled.
Gilbert is chairman of the National Fathers’ Day Council and a past president of the Indiana State and National Retail Clothiers’ Association.
In the civic field, he is president of the Committee of 100 of South Bend and Mishawaka and a co-chairman of the St. Joseph County Hospital Development drive. He is a past president of the Board of Park Commissioners, of the South Bend Community Chest, and the Sinai Synagogue congregation.
The Scholastic
1
h Engineers Plan First of Semester's Dances;
i 'Rodeo* Scheduled for Student Center Jan. 31
j Two hundred and fifty engineers will 'I drop their slide rules and grab their il lariats for their biggest social event and L’ ND’s first dance of the second semester, w the Engineering Ball. The ball, the | “Rodeo,” will be held at the LaFortune i Student Center, Friday, Jan. 31, 9 p.m.
Ito 1 p.m.
The engineers will dance in a western atmosphere at the “Rodeo” ball. The ji entrance to LaFortune Student Center | t will be decorated as a Texas corral gate | while the interior of the center will be ' f, studded with such western replicas as
Debaters Take First
4 In Pittsburgh Tourney
Notre Dame debaters Jack Martzell and Gerald Goudreau took first place among the negative teams in the Pitts; burgh National Invitational Debate tournament held at Pittsburgh on Dec.
* 13 and 14. '
, Martzell, a senior and president of the I’	debate team, and Goudreau, a sophomore,
competed with teams from England, Canada, and the United States in ar-■ guing the topic, “That Requirement of Membership in a Labor Organization as a Condition of Employment Should Be
, Illegal.”
| Paul Coffee and Jay Whitney finished ; second among the affirmative teams.
In the most recent debate activity, representatives of Notre Dame journeyed to Lubbock, Texas, for a demonstration at Texas Tech on Jan. 9. Notre I ♦ Dame argued the affirmative of the topic, “That Coeducation Is Detrimental to the
Best Interests of Higher Education.” The debate was broadcast on radio and television.
From Lubbock, the team went to Amarillo for the Golden Spread Tournament * at Amarillo College. Freshman Guy Powers took first place in extemporaneous speaking, and the team of Martzell and Dick Whearty reached the quarterfinals in debate.
The debate team’s total record for the month of December was 41 victories out 1 of 42 debates. This figure includes victories at the Butler* Novice Invitational on Dec. 7 and at the University of Illinois at Chicago on Dec. 14.
Future debates in which Notre Dame will be represented are scheduled for Miami on Jan. 29 and for Springhill, Dartmouth, and Northwestern during February.
ranch fences, camp fires, and boot hill.
Don Glasser and his orchestra will provide the music for the rodeo. The orchestra features “Miss Energy,” Miss Lois Costello, as female vocalist. Miss Costello is a former student of St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods College. Don Glasser’s orchestra has made appearances at the Aragon Ballroom in Chicago, Casa Loma in St. Louis, and the Hotel Deshler-Wallick in Columbus, Ohio.
Chief cow-girl at the “Rodeo” will be Miss Ann Marstall of Middletown, Ohio. Miss Marstall will be escorted by Bob Norris, a chem engineer senior and chairman of the dance. Dean Karl
ANN MARSTALL
Queen of the Wild Frontier
Schoenherr of the Engineering College will crown Miss Marstall queen of the rodeo.
The intermission of the dance will feature entertainment by the engineers with Guy Weismantel as MC of this portion.
Tickets for the dance may still be purchased by members of all colleges from Bob Norris in 100 Walsh for $4. The usual car and late pel-missions will apply for this dance. Room reservations are still available at the Morris Inn.
The dance is sponsored by the Joint Engineering Council and the College of Engineering. Aiding Bob Norris in the planning are: Guy Weismantel, business manager; Paul Anderson, accomodations; and Pat Toner, decorations. David Immonen is in charge of publicity and Joe Knott and Dan Sullivan are handling the program and bids.
Moot Court Team Wins In Regional Competition
This year as in the past, Notre Dame was well represented in the Moot Court Competition. Winning the regional tournament in Chicago, the three-man team advanced to the finals in New York City which were held on Dec. 17, 18, and 19.
Representing Notre Dame were William Ragan, Raymond Tam, and Donald Very. In the first round of the finals they beat Loyola of the South but were defeated by Emory College in the second round of the five-round competition which was eventually won by the University of Pennsylvania. Finishing ninth in a field of approximately 100 schools, they remained undefeated in oral argument.
One of the more distinguished judges at the competition was Justice Felix Frankfurter, the senior membex- of the Supreme Court. Other judges were taken from the highest courts of various Eastern states. The competition is annually sponsored by the Young Lawyers Committee of the Ear Association of the State of New York and is held in the New York Bar Association Building.
Bill Ragan, a resident of Buffalo, N. Y., graduated from Canisius College in Buffalo, where he majored in history. He hopes to secure- a teaching fellowship in a law school.
The head of the team, Don Very, is from Pittsburgh, Pa., where he attended St. Joseph High School and Duquesne University. He holds a BA., in political science from the latter school. His future plans, include trial work.
Raymond Tam from Wahiawa, Oahu, Hawaii, graduated with an A.B. in economics from the University of Michigan. His plans also include trial work.
Senate Set to Sponsor Dance in Student Center
Dances and an open house will be the social activities in the coming weeks.
Tomorrow night the Senate will sponsor its first dance of the new year. This student government dance will be open to all students. The Bertoncini Combo -will provide the music. The dance will be from 8:30 until 11:30 pjn. and tickets are $1 a couple.
A Cabaret Party is on the agenda for Feb. 1. The Social Commission has planned this as the big dance of the year. Along with music by two of Ber-toncini’s combos there will be vaudeville-type skits and acts. Anyone interested in doing a skit is asked to see Pat Rogers in 324 Walsh. The dance will be at the Student Centex- from 8:30 until 11:30 p.m. Tickets are $1.50 a couple, with refreshments free.
January 17, 1958
11
Politics and Morality
In Civil Rights
by The Rev. Stanley Parry, C.S.C., and Gerhart Niemeyer
*-
The following article represents a faculty attempt to offer support to Father Hesburgh in the discharge of the various important responsibilities of public service in which he is now involved. The memorandum was drafted by Father Parry and Professor Niemeyer of the Political Science Department and discussed by a group of faculty members from the departments of English, Philosophy, and Political Science. The group hopes that other faculty members will join in a continuing discussion of the moral, political, social, and legal problems which are likely to occupy Father Hesburgh’s attention in his various public positions.
Civil rights in contemporary America * pose a manifestly complex problem.
This memorandum is concerned with the complexity of the moral aspects of the problem.
It seems to some that the moral aspect of the civil rights problem could be reduced to the simple question: May citizens rightly be treated in a discriminatory fashion? In formulating the moral question thus simply, one relegates the complexity of the problem entirely to the field of political techniques and instrumentalities, which are then considered in themselves morally indifferent. If such a formulation of the problem were accurate, even people of modest moral insight could hardly have any doubts about how to answer the moral question. Yet we find that men who need not be ashamed of their moral standards do question, on moral grounds, those policies which derive from the obvious answer to the simply formulated moral question. Such people do not defend moral wrong, nor do they advocate the rightness of discrimination. Rather they believe that the moral question, far from being simple, extends to the methods and instruments of politics which as such are considered morally relevant rather than
indifferent. Seen from this point of view, one might thus formulate the moral question: Is it right to apply governmental compulsion against one part of the citizenry that believes in practicing discrimination against another part of the citizenry?
In what sense are political instrumentalities morally significant? This is the
THE AUTHORS
question which essentially divides the two views of the civil rights problem. Aristotle reminds us that under all but the most fortunate circumstances, a state comprises several groups holding mutually exclusive concepts of justice, each based on sincere conviction even though on faulty thinking. If this is the case, a government taking sides with the conviction of one group necessarily violates the sense of justice in the other group and contributes to a tendency that moves both sides closer to civil war. An attempt of the government to decide between the two groups on the basis of substantive moral right would involve it in such side-taking, with the effect of deepening the rift between positions already mutually hostile. Hence there falls to the government the moral task of setting up and maintaining a constitutional structure that includes some official recognition of each of the contending groups but avoids identifying public authority exclusively with any one of the clashing convictions. A constitutional structure assigning this kind of role to
the government becomes in itself an all- i embracing order of justice and constitutes a concept of the common good acceptable to groups with conflicting notions of justice. In other words, where people hold different and unreconciled A ideas about justice, a limited function of | the state is a moral duty. The state , acts as an instrument of virtue precisely by refraining from acting as an instru- j ment of salvation. It makes possible a | peaceful and just community by con- । fining itself to the peace-making tasks of a reconciling constitutional structure, j
By contrast, it is precisely in modern | totalitarian states that the government is supposed to intervene militantly on the side of alleged right. In such states, power is wielded without limitations, because the people who ■wield it insist i that they are in possession of the truth, that their will is good, and that govern- v ment exists to translate correct concepts into legal command. Hence they regard the state above all as an instrument for emphatically taking sides with the officially endorsed cause and for supress-ing divergent convictions.
The civil rights issue in contemporary H ' America arises from the kind of situation which Aristotle envisaged. The , problem is not one of citizens violating standards on which all are agreed, but rather one of sharply divided convictions on the question of justice. Segregation- » ists, for example, are convinced a) that I the legal order of the Southern states I assigns to colored people precisely the S place which they ought to occupy in a r white civilization; b) that Federal at- I tempts to change that legal order con- | stitute unwarranted interference “from j the outside”; and c) that the mixing of | the races in social institutions would j eventually destroy American civilization.	®
Desegregationists, by contrast, are con-	g
vinced just as deeply a) that any dif- | ferential treatment of colored people I violates a principle of equality which applies absolutely to all men; b) that it j is the duty of the Federal authorities to enforce this principle of absolute
12
The Scholastic
| equality, and c) that American civiliza-I tion will be the better for the mixing- of the most varied elements, particularly j the races, in social institutions.
? Now the American system of govern-| ment is called a democratic one. This is * taken to mean, among other things, that । no one part of the population is assumed w to have virtue or wisdom to such an eminent degree as to impose an obliga-£ * tion on the other parts to submit to | its rule. The government, in our na-Ition, is expected to function in the limited fashion indicated in Aristotle’s theory of the mixed state. It can assume , a substantive right to action only with | respect to the areas of general agree-। * ment on the substance of justice. Beyond j this, the principle of democratic justice f is to respect various groups and their f convictions —even when, or especially I when, these convictions clash with one ‘ another.
b This is no counsel of relativism in law iA or morals. Nor does it reduce government in democratic America to the role of a mere arbiter or night watchman. Wherever there is government there must be authoritative action on behalf of virtue, action motivated by the aim i of making possible a common life under ♦ order and justice. In the American system, however, the government works for * virtue by according respect to groups with conflicting convictions. It raises the quality of common life by cultivating a sense of constitutional balance, of mutual forbearance among potentially hostile parts of the whole. For it is above all the maintenance of this con* stitutional principle which operates to create among Americans a spirit of •	friendship and trust, and a common will,	ingness to abide by the law while un-
avoidable tensions of social life are | gradually eased.	.
Supposing that this is a substantially i * correct view of the moral relevance of political instrumentalities and methods, • what specific criteria of right and wrong would apply to the contemporary civil rights issue in America?
In its actions as an authority for justice, the Federal government should A be guided by the following criteria:
1.	Life in America is likely to be a good life in the degree to which Americans are educated by the laws and their government to practice forbearance with one another, to respect one another in spite of disagreeing convictions, and to * subordinate partial interests to the com-, nt mon good. In so far as all people agree 1 on substantive concepts of justice, it is right for the government to take authoritative action to protect the order of justice against its enemies — always bearing in mind that the Constitution itself is the main embodiment of justice in the United States. But where groups
of Americans differ in their concepts of justice, an attempt on the part of the government to throw its weight behind one of these conflicting concepts must destroy the existing chances of mutual forbearance and so the moral quality of American life. The government should, therefore, not consider itself an instrument for the moral elevation or correction of groups of citizens. It should instead identify its educative function with that of the constitutional balances which may have a bearing on the issue in question.
2.	In taking, as it must, its position on the side of virtue, the government should be wary of abstractly formulated principles of morality. In case of doubt — and there should be a general presumption in favor of doubt — it is preferable to look for guidance to the historical traditions of the American people rather than to abstract speculations about morality. For these traditions embody the composite judgments of most Americans through many generations. They represent an enduring consensus and in a nation of equals, the enduring consensus of the people is held to represent the best of virtue and wisdom that is available to the community’s laws. A government that follows abstract speculations on right and wrong is more likely to rule both unjustly and unwisely than if it hewed close to traditions, imperfect as the latter may be.
The particular constitutional balance relevant to the civil rights problem concerns the relation between the Federal government and state laws. The issue centers in the question of Federal action to compel changes of state laws or practices bearing on civil rights. With
President Eisenhower presents commissions to Father Hesburgh and other members of Civil Rights Commission.
respect to the right of states to maintain discriminatory laws, the following views are held by groups in contemporary America:
a)	Southern ivhite men consider racial segregation just.
American negroes believe justice can be done only by desegregation.
In the Southern states, governments and laws reflect the white men’s concept of justice at the expense of the American negroes’ concept of justice.
b)	Desegregationists hold that Federal action to compel a change in the Southern legal system is just. States rights advocates consider such action unjust. Federal compulsion of Southern states would reflect the desegregationists’ concept of justice at the expense of the concept of justice held by Southern white men and states lights advocates.
Federal action compelling desegregation in the Southern states thus would seek to correct an injustice contained in Southern state laws which authoritatively assert one group’s ideas of justice over those of another. But Federal action itself would consist of the authoritative assertion of one group’s ideas of justice over those of another.
The moral question is whether it is right to combat one injustice with another. The answer to this question depends, in the American system, not so much on who is to be considered substantively right, but which of the two (Continued on page 21)
January 17, 1958
13
A DU PONT JOB-FINDER CHART FOB
Here is a sampling of the kinds of engineers and scientists which Du Pont will employ this year with BS-MS training—and their fields of work. The chart is an easy way to match your own interests against job openings at Du Pont.
For example: If you are a mechanical engineer, run your finger across the “Mechanical Engineers”
column. The code letters refer to the type of work (Research, Development, etc.). The departments of the Company are listed across the top. The column across the bottom indicates some of the locations where these departments have openings. Du Pont also has opportunities for other engineering and scientific specialties, but space does not permit a complete listing.
4
DEPARTMENT	ENGINEERING	ELASTOMER CHEMICALS	ELECTROCHEMICALS	EXPLOSIVES	EXPLOSIVES, ATOMIC ENERGY DIVISION	FABRICS AND FINISHES
PRODUCTS	Designs and constructs major plant facilities. Conducts research and development, and provides engineering consultation in chemical and mechanical engineering, instrumentation, and materials technology.	Neoprene Rubber Chemicals Organic Isocyanates	Metallic Sodium Hydrogen Peroxide Vinyl Products Sodium Cyanide Chlorinated Solvents Nylon Intermediates	Sporting Powders Blasting Supplies Dynamite Polymer Intermediates	Nuclear Reactor Materials Heavy Water	Coated Fabrics Paints, Varnish^ Lacquers Synthetic Resin Finishes
CHEMICAL ENGINEERS	A, B, C	B	A, B, D, F	B, D	A, B	A, B, F
MECHANICAL ENGINEERS	A, B, C	B		E	A, B	
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS	A, B, C			E		
METALLURGICAL ENGINEERS	A, B	A, B			A, B	
CHEMISTS			F			A, B, F
PHYSICISTS					A, B	
POSSIBLE INITIAL ASSIGNMENTS	Wilmington, Del., . or Plant Locations	Beaumont, Tex. Louisville, Ky. Montague, Mich. Wilmington, Del.**	Memphis, Tenn. Niagara Falls, N.Y. Wilmington, Del.**	Gibbstown, NJ.	Aiken. S.C.*	Newburgh, N.Y. Parlin, NJ. Philadelphia, Pa.
PERSONALIZED INFORMATION—The kind of work you will do and the location of your first assignment depend on your qualifications and the openings available. Since the above chart was prepared, some of the
openings listed may have been filled or new jobs may have been added to the list. For up-to-the-minute information about possible jobs for you, see the DuPont representative when he visits your campus.
WATCH THE DU PONT “SHOW OP THE MONTH” ON TELEVISION
BS MS ENGINEERS AND SCIENTISTS
A Research
B Development
C Design
D Production
K *
E Plant Engineering
F Sales
	 FILM	GRASSELLI CHEMICALS	ORGANIC CHEMICALS	PHOTO PRODUCTS	PIGMENTS	POLYCHEMICALS	TEXTILE FIBERS
Is | Cellophane ' । Sponge Yarn Mylar® . Polyester Film r	Cel-o-seal® Bands	Acids and Heavy Chemicals Biological and Agricultural Chemicals	Dyes Petroleum Chemicals Tetraethyl Lead Fluorinated Hydrocarbons	Photographic and X-Ray Film Photographic Papers Processing Chemicals	Titanium Pigment Pigment Colors Titanium Metal Hyperpure Silicon	Ammonia Antifreezes Urea Products Plastics Nylon Intermediates	Nylon Dacron® Polyester Fiber Orlon® Acrylic Fiber Rayon
A, B, D, F	A, B, D	A, B. F	A, B, D, F	A, B, F	A, B, D, F	a,b,d
A, B, D, E		A, B, F -	A, B, E, F	A.B	A, B, D, F	A, B, D, E
* B, D, E, F		-	E		A, B, D, F	B, D, E
I						
A		A, B, F	A,F	F	A, B, D, F	A, B, D
1			A		A, B	A, B
Buffalo, N.Y. Circleville, 0. Clinton, la. * Old Hickory, Tenn. Richmond, Va. r Wilmington, Del.**	Cleveland, 0. East Chicago, Ind. Houston, Tex. Unden, NJ. Wilmington, Del.**	Deepwater, NJ. Wilmington, Del.**	Parlin, NJ. Rochester, N.Y.	Edge Moor, Del. Newport, Del. New Johnsonville,- Tenn. Wilmington, Del.**	Charleston, W. Va. Orange, Tex. Parkersburg, W.Va. Victoria, Tex. Wilmington, Del.**	Camden, S.C. Chattanooga, Tenn. Kinston, N.C. Martinsville, Va. Old Hickory, Tenn. . Richmond, Va. Seaford, Del. Waynesboro, Va. Wilmington, Del.**
r
♦Government owned, Du Pont operated **Sales and/or Research 4 Development only

SEND FOR INFORMATIVE BOOKLETS packed with information about careers at DuPont in chemical, mechanical, electrical, metallurgical and other engineering fields, and in research and development. Just send your name, address, class, school and name of subject that interests you to Room 2494-D Nemours Building, E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co., Inc., Wilmington 98, Delaware.
fillPONT
G-
REINHART BATTLES EISON
* *
DEVINE SCORES AGAINST HOOSIERS
The Hoosier Classic
REBOUND FOR HILL
16
The Scholastic
H Irish co-caplain reviews the first half
! £
of the season and tells of
f The Irish Success
| *	by BOB DEVINE as told to E. COLLINS THOMPSON
The games ovei- the holidays did a great deal for our confidence. We led Michigan State by eight points, 43-35, at the half, before they got hot and beat us in the second half. After we had been told how badly we were going to get beaten, we gave them a good fight. The Spartans aren’t quite as good as they were last year, and, if we meet them again (in the NCAA regionals), I think we can take them.
Then in the Hoosier Classic we really began to jell. We beat two good teams in Purdue and Indiana and played good ball in winning those two.
Tommy Reinhart has improved tremendously since the beginning of the season. The experience and the confidence he has gained in these early season games is beginning to show. He has had a chance to work with the offense during games and work into the first-string unit. After all, you can only practice so much. When you get in a game, no matter how much you have practiced, it’s different.
Our offense is starting to click now much better than it was in the preChristmas games. It was obvious that we weren’t really organized out there; we lost the ball unnecessarily too many times. Now that we have twelve games behind us, we have our double pivot offense, which Coach Jordan uses, down to where we feel that it will work against any team in the country. This doesn’t mean that we have perfected it yet, but, if we keep improving, we won’t be afraid to pit this offense against any team’s defense.
Besides the double pivot, we have been working on some variations of a single pivot. So, if this double pivot bogs down for a while, we can go into the single pivot and move the ball just as effectively-
In addition to “Rhino,” Tommy Hawkins and John McCarthy are doing good jobs up front. “Hawk” is coming through for us like we expected. He’s even better than he was last year when he set all kinds of school records. John has a popular habit (with us) of being in the right place at the right time, and it’s paying off for him and for us with quite a few buckets from down under.
Gene (Duffy) has one of the toughest
January 17, 1958
jobs on the floor as our outside man. He has a good outside shot, and he showed he can score when he hit eight baskets against Valparaiso. He only shot twelve times. He doesn’t get a chance to shoot much from his spot.
When Valpo tried a one-man press against us, Gene just drove the defensive man crazy. He can beat any press in the country. The only way another team can make a press work against us is by not letting “Duf” dribble. And they’ll have trouble doing that.
Michigan State was, in my opinion and the opinion of most of the players, the best team we have faced so far, but all of the Big Ten teams are good this year. The league is better balanced than it was last year, and the caliber of teams over-all is probably a little better.
'State beat us by getting hot when we hit a cold spell in the beginning of the second half. After they overcame our halftime lead, we played them evenly, but we let them get too far ahead to be able to catch them.
Northwestern is potentially a very tough outfit. They haven’t been able to put together two good halfs yet, and, when they do, they’ll be one of the top squads in the Big Ten.
Butler played a fine ball game against us. They were hurt by the loss of their star forward, Ted Guzek. (He was out with a broken leg. Last year he scored 38 points here at Notre Dame to lead the Bulldogs to an 86-84 win.) He’ll be back in the line-up when we face them in Indianapolis later in the season, and we expect a much rougher game than we received from them last week, and they were tough enough then. Four of their boys, including Guzek, have been playing together for four years, and this will be their last chance to get at us. Butler loves to beat Notre Dame, anyway, and this will make them doubly tough.
From here on out the schedule gets harder and harder. We think we’re a better team than Marquette, and we get another chance to prove it. They hit on 67% of their shots against us when they beat us. Coach won’t have to worry about getting us up for that one. They won’t beat us a second time.
The three teams we face next are all
THE AUTHOR
solid, hard-playing clubs. This Goldstein from Louisville is a fine boy, who has improved since the scoring burden is on him now. Louisville is always a fine, well coached club.
Illinois will throw five good shooters at us no matter which five boys they put on the floor. They seem to challenge anyone to outshoot them. And very few teams can. The only way to beat them is play them exceptionally close on defense all the way.
Bradley is good, big, and experienced. What makes them so rugged is that they are always fighting the whole game and are extremely tough on the boards. There’s not. too much you can say about them. They’ve just got an awfully lot of real good basketball players, any one of which can kill you.
But these teams will meet a good basketball team when they play us. We have not hit our peak yet, and we’re still improving. We’re going to have to get over the scoring lapse of around five to ten minutes we’ve been having early in the second half of our games.
We expect to gain Mike Graney at the end of the first semester, in time for the Illinois game. He will have to work to break into the starting line-up; he won’t be starting right away. But he’s excellent on defense, strong on the boards, and a good shot. Even if he never breaks into the starting line-up, he will be a valuable man on the bench. Another good big man never hurt anyone.
We have to take these games coming up one at a time. We can’t look ahead to Bradley and North Carolina with teams like Louisville and Illinois ready to knock us off.
We’ll get over our second half lapse pretty soon. Then we will be playing a consistent whole game and be ready to take on anyone on our schedule.
17
Indoor Track Team Opens Season Feb. I
For the last month and a half, the Notre Dame indoor track team has been working out in the Fieldhouse under the guidance of Coach Alex Wilson, preparing to meet one of the most ambitious Irish schedules in recent years. Missouri opens the winter season for the Irish on Feb. 1.
According to Coach Wilson, prospects in general look very promising. The Irish squad is deep with returning veterans. And, if some talented sophomores are able to come through in top form, Wilson feels this could very well be one of the most successful Notre Dame track teams in history.
However, the cindermen are not with-
DALE VANDENBERG
Irish Halfmiler
out their problems. One of the big question marks is Captain Aubrey Lewis. The speedy senior from New Jersey, counted on heavily by Coach Wilson, has been greatly hampered by an ankle injury. Lewis’ versatile ability will greatly aid the squad’s chances if he is available. Wilson will rely on Lewis, senior Joe Foreman, and junior Pete Salsich in the 60-yard dash. Salsich and newcomer Phil Eckert, also a junior, have shown promise.
If Lewis runs in the dashes, Wilson can then move the speedy Foreman up to the quarter-mile, where he would join veteran Barkley Ewart to give the Irish a strong one-two punch in this event. Junior Bob Hassenger is another outstanding candidate here.
Senior Dale VandenBerg is the number one man in the half-mile, followed by junior" Marty Clynes. Veterans Mike O’Connor and Bill Newell and sopho-
(Continued on page 20)
I
Jordanmen Meet Illinois in Chicago Stadium : And Tackle Cards in Home-and-Home Series ' *
Notre Dame’s basketball team moves into the second half of its schedule by encountering Louisville twice, Illinois, Bradley, and Canisius.
The Irish will travel to Louisville for their first meeting with the Cardinals tomorrow night and meet the Illini in the Chicago Stadium the next Saturday night. They return to the Fieldhouse for the second in a home-and-home series with Louisville Jan. 29. The next Saturday, Feb. 1, the Irish make their second trip of the season to Chicago Stadium to face nationally-ranked Bradley and then come home to face Canisius the next Tuesday, Feb. 4.
Louisville, which has defeated the Irish the past two years, faces a large rebuilding job after losing All-American center, Charlie Tyra, forward Bill Dar-raugh, and sparkplug guard, Jim Morgan by graduation last June. In last year’s game at the new State Fairgrounds’ Coliseum in Louisville, Tyra poured in 40 points to lead the Cardinals to a 85-75 victory. Louisville has been having trouble finding the scoring punch to replace him.
Jerry DuPont at 6-10 has moved into the center spot nailed down so effectively by Tyra the past two years. He tallied 25 points in the Cardinals’ most recent outing, an 85-79 loss at the hands of Marquette, the same team that beat the Irish earlier in the season, 78-64.
At forwards are veteran Don (Bed) Goldstein, an All-American candidate, and Alex Mantel. Goldstein stands 6-6, and Mantel 6-3.
Sophomore Boger (6-1) Tieman has teamed with letterman Harold (6-3) Andrews to give Louisville an effective guard duo. These two successfully applied a full court press against St. Louis University last week to turn a four point St. Louis lead into a 67-55 Cardinal victory.
Illinois, next to title favorite Michigan State, compiled the best preconference competition record among the Big Ten teams, 6-1. So far, in Big Ten competition the Illini have won one of three contests, losing to Iowa and Indiana by a combined total of nine points. Iowa edged the Illini 70-68, and last Saturday the Hoosiers held off Illinois rallies to post an 89-82 win.
Last Saturday, three boys from the same (Edwardsville, Ill.) high school tallied all but six of Illinois’ points. Sophomore center Govoner (6-4) Vaughn hit for 28, and senior guard Don (6-3) Ohl and sophomore foi"ward Mannie (6-3) Jackson scored 26 and 22. Among
i j the three of them, they hit on 16 of 17	0
free throws.	J
Ohl, second in Big Ten scoring last j year, was an All-Conference selection i last season and is a top All-American 't . contender this season. His coach, Harry Combes, said over the Christmas holi- ’ days, “Ohl is a definite All-American if there is one in the country.” His jump shot is one of the best in the country, i and he also rebounds well.	I
These three have been carrying the J scoring burden for the Illini all season. । Guard Boger (6-0) Taylor and captain ‘I1 and forward John (6-1) Paul round out the first team. Paul is noted as a fine ballhandler while Taylor is the playmaker on the squad.
Most notable reserves are centers 4-5 sophomore Ed (6-5) Perry and letter- I man senior Ted (6-7) Caiazza. Caiazza held down the center position the last I half of last season, but Perry ousted him from the job at the start of this year’s campaign. Now Vaughn has moved ahead of them both.	.j
Illinois has been hurt so far by the lack of a big man in the starting line-up, ■ but the Illini have good speed and a deep bench.
Bradley’s Braves, with their entire first string back intact from last year’s NIT championship team, have been living up to their preseason rating as Missouri Valley Champions and one of > the nation’s most powerful quintets. Bradley has lost just once, to Seattle, and is undefeated in the Valley, counting among its wins a 79-73 verdict over Cincinnati and a 116-80 mauling of Houston last Saturday night. The Braves are currently ranked sixth na- x tionally.
Coach Chuck Osborn not only has his • top seven men back from the varsity but also has a freshman squad coming up that didn’t lose in fifteen games. Top returning veteran is 6-7 center Barney Cable, ticketed a sure All-American. Be- 4 sides scoring at a rate of 18 points a game and leading the squad in rebound- j ing last year, Cable is so feared that opposing teams are forced to concentrate on him and leave someone else open.
Bobby Joe (6-2) Mason, one of the 4 most talented high school players in Illinois two years ago, averaged 17.3	1]
points a game for twelve games and won	|
the first two games in which he played | last year with key last-minute points.
Shellie (6-5) McMillon and Gene (6-3)	।
Morse return at the forward slots. They averaged 11.6 and 10.6 points last year.
(Continued on page 20)
18
The Scholastic
SKI SCENE
i	'
The atmosphere of the sport seems to stimulate the interest.
What is more thrilling than racing down a slope with only two boards and i two poles providing the speed and bal. ance. •
Then what can be more satisfying 4 than entering the warmth of a chalet | type lodge, sitting down before the fire, i and just relaxing.
Easter vacation has become the time for some to find transportation to the | sun, sand and quiet breezes of Florida, but the semester break finds an adventurous group making their way to the snow, icy winds and thrills of northern ski slopes.
This semester migration has gained momentum over the past five years and ♦ now has become a standard trip at Notre Dame.
i
The ski areas of the Midwest lie in upper and lower Michigan, Illinois, Wisconsin and Minnesota. All can be easily reached by car, bus or train in only a matter of a few hours, and at not I too great an expense.
* Probably the most popular resort for the Notre Dame skiers is Caberfae, lo-. cated at Cadillac, Mich. It is approximately 280 miles from South Bend.
Caberfae is equipped with 30 ski runs ranging from beginner to expert. Servicing these runs are 20 tows, including * a newly acquired double chair lift, the largest in the Midwest.
Caberfae also has an artificial snow machine which insures the skier of adequate conditions when he arrives.
Besides the graduated slopes, there are l» overland ski trails for cross country ski and snowshoe hikes.
Like most other resorts, Caberfae has a cafeteria, snack bar and lounge for entertainment off the slopes.
The closest ski hill to South Bend is Lemont, about 20 miles southwest of Chicago. Its longest run is 900 feet as compared to Caberfae’s 2,300 feet.
In Wisconsin there is the Little Switzerland resort located at Slinger, , Wis., about 160 miles from South Bend. It is equipped with snow making machines and claims to be the greatest vertical challenge in Wisconsin.
by JOHN McMAHON
Majestic Hills, which is located at Lake Geneva, just south of Milwaukee, is in its first season of operation. It has five runs, all equipped with snow machines, the longest being 850 feet. Majestic Hills also has facilities for skating and tobogganing.
New Munster, which is near the Little Switzerland resort, rounds out the closest of the Wisconsin ski slopes. It is open just for week ends and holidays. Its longest run is 1,250 feet.
In upper Michigan, probably one of the most favored spots for Notre Dame skiers is Pine Mountain at Iron Mountain, Mich. It has one of the longest runs in the Middle West. There is a vertical drop of 250 feet with a run of 3,500 feet.
Pine Mountain has the world’s highest artificial ski jump, which is usually avoided by Notre Dame skiers.
Coming into lower Michigan, there are several other resorts that are very popular to the scholastic besides Caberfae.
Boyne Mountain, at Boyne Falls, Mich., has the longest run in the Middle West with a slope that is 8,000 feet long and a vertical drop of 500 feet.
It has two chair lifts besides regular rope and T-bar tows to service its 12 runs. It is equipped with lights for night skiing.	'
Houghton Lake Snow Bowl, which is south of Boyne Mountain, will open for night skiing also this year. It has a long run of 3,800 feet, among its 30 runs with nine rope tows.
Gaylord, which is almost a synonym for skiing in the central section of Michigan, boasts of five different ski resorts that are ’ excellent for the novice. They include Snow Valley, Sylvan Knob, Gay El Rancho Ranch and Ski Club, Au Sable Ranch and Ski Club and Ski Village. .
The greatest drawback to the sport of skiing are the skeptics that feel it is one of the most dangerous sports played in America.
This feeling, according to the National Ski Patrol, has been due largely to the over publicity of ski accidents. A ski accident is news, but the thousands of disciples of the sport that get a thrill each time they try a new slope get no publicity, therefore the rate of accidents seems rather high.	•
An NSP survey shows that 51 per cent of all skiing accidents result from persons trying to ski above their ability, and skiing when they are fatigued.
Ski safety depends upon the individual.
The thrills, jargon, relaxation and sense of adventure in skiing can open new scopes of pleasure. The semester’ skiers here on campus will know it again this year.
January 17, 1958
19
TIME OUT
Again Coach John Jordan seems to have the best independent basketball team in the Midwest. The first half of the season was highlighted by good wins over both Indiana and Purdue in the Hoosier Classic and an equally impressive victory against Northwestern New Year’s Eve. These three teams have proven themselves the best in the Big Ten, or at least as good as any, in a well balanced league. But looking at the schedule, we must admit that the tougher half is yet to come.
Louisville is always tough for us, as is Illinois in the Chicago Stadium. Incidentally, the Stadium is a bit of a nemesis for Irish basketball teams. They never seem to be at their best on that floor. The Illini game is between semesters and should be a scorcher. Coupled with the always fine Chicago Club dance, this should be a pleasant week end for those of us who are not going home or skiing.
After Illinois, Louisville again, followed by the leader of the Missouri Valley Conference, Bradley. From all we can learn Bradley has one of the finest teams around these parts. Barney Cable could well be the best center in the Midwest, better even than John Greene of Michigan State fame. If the Irish can get by these tough ones without a defeat, they have a fine chance of getting through the remainder of the season with no more than four losses. And we expect them to for several reasons.
First is the fine play of Tom Reinhart who has done quite an adequate and admirable job in filling the gap left by John Smyth’s graduation. It’s tough coming onto a veteran team and fitting in. The other four starters had been playing together as a unit for a whole season. Reinhart, with little game experience came off the bench and molded himself into the unit. He is passing better and more steadily each game, and is scoring well. He is doing all that is being asked of him.
Secondly we believe that since Gene Duffy has started to shoot more from the outside the club has become much tougher to defense. The opposition isn’t sagging off him and into the hole as they were in the first few games. They can’t because if they do he will hurt them with set shots.
Finally Tom Hawkins should pick up considerably in the next few games. He seems to have flattened out a little after the first couple of games. Even with this minor lapse he has averaged over 20 points a game and has been tough on the boards. But Hawkins is an even better ball player than he has shown thus far and will give us all many thrills before it is all over.-
BASKETBALL TICKETS
Tickets for most of the away basketball games are now available at the ticket office in Breen-Phillips. Tickets for the following games are on sale: Jan. 25, Notre Dame-Illinois and Loyola-Marquette, at Chicago Stadium; Feb. 1, Notre Dame-Bradley and Loyola-Xavier, at Chicago Stadium; Feb. 15, Notre Dame-North Carolina and Loyola-Kentucky, at Chicago Stadium; Mar. 4, Notre-Dame-DePaul at DePaul.
A limited number of seats for the Notre Dame-NYU and St. John’s-St. Louis doubleheader in Madison Square Garden on Feb. 20 will be available Feb. 1.
There are also tickets for the remaining home games still on sale.
TRACK
The indoor track season is once more upon us and it looks like the Irish will again be tough. If Aubrey Lewis can run and everyone else come through as expected Coach Wilson will again have his squad on top of the Midwest heap. The two question marks would seem to be the shot-put and the pole vault. Everywhere else the Irish are deep enough to stay in there with almost anyone. We’ll be able te judge with a little more accuracy after a couple of meets. —M.F.
Track
(Continued from page 18) more Galen Cawley add balance and depth. Clynes, however, will be out for a short length of time with a pulled muscle, which he incurred last Saturday.
In the mile, letterman Dick DiCamillo rates the edge over senior Vic Dillon and sophomore Dave Cotton. Senior Ed Monnelly, junior Mike Haverty, and veteran John Burns, all members of the national championship Irish cross-country squad, give Notre Dame strong representation in the two-mile grind. For the mile relay, Coach Wilson hopes to find a good fourth man to team with Lewis, VandenBerg and Foreman.
Junior monogram winner Steve Dorn-bach leads the returning hurdlers. He is being counted on to run in both the 60-yard high and low hurdle events. It is hoped that Lewis can participate in his specialty, the low hurdles. Veteran Don Faley will most likely also be called on in the lows while senior Jim Holzbach 'will be depended on for action in the highs.
Wilson will rely mainly on senior Jack Cote in the broad jump and pole vault. Faley will be in the broad jump event as well. Sophomores Tom Reichert and Glen Cividin have shown promise in the pole vault.
In the high jump, Wilson rated senior Tom Sanfacon as the best. In the shot put, sophomore Gerry Wilkes has the edge over the other candidates. Wilson expressed the hope that football tackle Frank Geremia would report this week to add strength to the shot put.
1958 INDOOR TRACK SCHEDULE
Feb. 1—Missouri (Home)
Feb. 8—Mich. State Relays (Away)
Feb. 15—Purdue (Home)
Feb. 22—Iowa (Away)
March 1—IC4A (New York City)
March 8—CCC (Western Michigan)
March 14—Chicago Relays.
March 15—Milwaukee Relays.
March 21—Cleveland Relays.
Jordanmen
(Continued from page 18)
Rounding out the top five is veteran * i guard Chuck (6-1) Sedgwick. He tallied a little over nine points a game last winter.
Canisius has only two veterans back from last year’s 22-6 team that defeated the Irish in overtime in Buffalo. Greg (6-1) Britz and Jim (6-1) Springer team with a group of sophomores in facing one of the country’s toughest schedules. The Golden Griffins have lost to both Kansas and West Virginia by more than 20 points this year and have been troubled finding a winning combination with so much inexperience tackling such a rugged schedule.
The Scholastic
20
j
Politics and Morality
(Continued from page 13)
* injustices is more injurious to the overall constitutional structure and the historical traditions of American public life. This would have to be decided from case to case. At a first glance one might assume that Federal compulsory desegregation would upset not merely Southern state law but the entire constitutional balance between the Union and the states, while the discriminatory state laws of the South affect only the citizens of that area. Morever, Federal desegregationist action, while justifiable in abstract terms, would radically de-t part from American traditions and customs in at least a part of the country, while Southern segregation, no matter how objectionable, does not do this. Contrariwise, it would seem that United States interests in our foreign relations would call for some kind of Federal ac-A tion to end Southern segregation. This argument, however, raises the question whether the Federal government should set aside democratic justice for the sake of its foreign relations.
The complexity of the moral question is manifest in such considerations. In thinking such problems through to the point of practical decision — a task which is clearly beyond the scope of this memorandum—one will always be aware i that the state cannot make people freer | than their own ideas allow them to be.
Creating some sense of common good and justice in the midst of divergent convictions is a great moral achievement.
« Beyond this, ultimate moral growth can be expected from Grace alone.

Classified Advertising
4 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING can be placed at the University Press Office in Farley Hall at a cost of 50c per line. A minimum of 3 lines is necessary and all advertising must be presented by Monday of the week of insertion.
| SERVICES______________________________
THESIS and dissertation typing wanted, by an experienced, accurate typist. Reasonable rates. Call a ATlantic 9-2826, June Walter, R.R. No. 6, 20101 Miller Road.
I PLACEMENT INTERVIEWS
CHANCE-VOUGHT AIRCRAFT, INC.—All types of Engineers, Math and Physics majors. February 3 and 4.
E. I. DUPONT DE NEMOURS—March 11-14. ~
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES
*	CORP.—All types of Engineers, those interested
in sales. February 4.
I PERSONALS
ANNOUNCEMENT: Club meeting, ticket sales, lose something? Save time and expense of posting notices on the bulletin boards. Do it the easy, cheap way with Classified Ads.
MUSICIANS WANTED: (WIND OR STRING) TO ORGANIZE DANCE BAND. CALL BL 5-9382 AFTER 5 P.M.—ASK FOR ‘RAY.’
WHERE NOTRE DAME SHOPS WITH CONFIDENCE
Fine Quality Diamonds
Nationally Advertised Watches Jewelry and Gift Items
Jewelry and Watch Repairing
126 N. Michigan. Ph. CE 2-1202
HOTEL
KNICKERBOCKER
. WEST OF (ROADWAY rooms with radio	$4
and MUZAK from	’
cnnHHK ?
No, it’s
. luxe.
for speed, comfort, and economy combined
John Birk, Charter agent,
158 Alumni
2 FINE HARRIS HOTELS ^I^in NEW YORK
45* ST. EAST OF (ROADWAY 400 fine rooms with radio
JU-2-4200
AIWAVS CHOOSC
from TELEVISION AIR-CONDITIONED Other Harris Hotels
““" TIMES SQUARE
JIE
LA-4-6900
CINCINNATI, Mefropo/a Broadway Kemper tana r- -	-	MIAMI BEACH, Sovereign
HOTEL METROFOLE, Cincinnati, Ohio ncro/MT — , *** . —
ALBERT HARRIS, fresidrat	I'.
ARTHUR H. FRIEDMAN, Managing Director COLUMBUS, Broad-Lincole
DO SPEED AND SPACE EXCITE YOU?
You can be a career speed merchant if you're an engineer. You may make speed history, if you choose Chance Vought, whose Crusader fighter has set three notional records. Ask about exciting assignments on our 1,000-plus-mph Regulus II missile and on other projects programmed for our 3,800-mph wind tunnel.
OUR REPRESENTATIVE WILL BE IN YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE
FEBRUARY 3 and 4
C H A M C Kg	--------
^OUGHT AIRCRAFT
21
January 17, 1958
Annual Tour Begins Thursday to Capital
The annual Washington Tour will again be escorted by Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew of the Department of Political Science.
The tour begins Thursday afternoon, when buses leave from the Circle and St. Mary’s to take the students to La Paz. There they will board the Baltimore and Ohio’s “Columbian” streamliner.
Arrival time in Washington is 8:30 a.m. the next morning. Buses will take the group to the Bureau of Engraving and Printing and afterwards to the F.B.I. headquarters. Following lunch there will be a tour of the Supreme Court building.
Leaving the Capitol the tour proceeds by bus to Baltimore, stopping at Annapolis on the way. From Baltimore it will cross the bay by overnight steamer and arrive in Norfolk Saturday morning. The group will spend the day sightseeing at Jamestown, Yorktown and Williamsburg.
Arriving back in .Baltimore Sunday morning the students will attend Mass at the Cathedral. After breakfast they will board special buses for Washington. Sunday afternoon will be spent touring the entire District of Columbia.
Monday morning’s itinerary will include the Smithsonian Institute and the Pentagon.
Following a visit to the White House on Tuesday morning the visitors will attend a Congressional committee hearing.: That afternoon there will be a reception at the Swiss Embassy. The tour leaves that night to return Wednesday morning in time for class.
The total cost of the toui- is $135 and includes all expenses. It will be necessary to take money only for souvenirs and personal incidentals. Anyone interested is asked to make his reservation by Monday with Dr. Bartholomew, Room 346 O’Shaugnessy Hall. The telephone extension is 635 or 354.
Campus Clubs Allotted One-Half Movie Costs
This year’s movie pool policy allots all clubs on campus one-half of the total cost on any movie they show up to a maximum of $8.
Educational movies were also placed in the pool this year. As a result, any club that has shown any type of movies this semester and hasn’t as yet received their refund should send a representative to Drew Arnan, campus club commissioner, in 220 Fisher. This must be done before the end of the semester.
22
Senate Moves to Sponsor Foreign Student; Administration Rejects Senior Cut Proposal
Three major issues were discussed at the January 8 Student Senate meeting. The senators received an administration veto on their senior cut plan. A motion was raised to attempt to sponsor a foreign student here. A report was given concerning the increase in bus fares.
A motion to increase the number of cuts a senior may take in order to go to off-campus employment interviews was rejected by the administration. The Rev. Philip S. Moore, vice-president for Academic Affairs, explained in a letter to the Rev. James E. Norton, vice-president for Student Affairs, that the proposal to modify the present three cut regulation was unanimously vetoed by the council composed of the foui- deans and Father Moore. Father Norton said that the motion bore the brunt of the serious abuses of last year.
Joseph Knott, chairman of the committee that studied the problem, said, “We feel that this decision is not a reasonable one and we will again petition the administration for a change in the Placement Bureau policy.”
In order to more fully participate in the foreign student leadership program of the National Students Association (NSA), commerce senator John Dewes proposed that $1000 be appropriated from Mardi Gras funds to sponsor a foreign student at Notre Dame. The NSA selects outstanding students from universities in Africa and Asia, and only a limited number of the universities applying are selected to sponsor a student.
The national executive committee of NSA does not place consideration of the students’ placement primarily on a high bid, but on which school the student will attend. Notre Dame, if selected, would be the first Catholic university to sponsor a student under FSLP. The $1000 would be applied to the foreign student’s room and board for one year. The Ford Foundation helps finance the program.
Voting on the motion was postponed until the next meeting in order to give
MARDI GRAS COLLECTION
The Mardi Gras contest books will be again collected by the hall presidents on Jan. 30 and Feb. 10.
The off-campus collection will be on the same days at room 1 -B of the Student Center. Extra books may be had from the hall presidents or at room 1-B of the Student Center. Returns may be made any afternoon at the same place.
the plan careful attention.
Bus fares will soon go up five cents. The student welfare committee, headed by Dennis Shaw, has sent letters to the mayor and City Council of South Bend, and to the bus company, to present the opinions of the students and to bring out certain facts concerning the South Bend to Notre Dame bus run.
Bill Graham, Student Senate secretary, led the discussion on the resolution to allow student political organizations on the campus. Foremost among these organizations are the Young Democrat and Young Republican Clubs. The resolution passed unanimously.
President Brady announced the creation of the International Commission, to be headed by Bob Hilger, for the development of student interest in foreign affairs.
The question of which class should । reside in Keenan and Stanford Halls during the next school term was referred to the policy committee.
The senators were informed that the student activities brochures ■will be distributed to the freshmen in the near future.	,
S+. Mary's Sponsors 'Winter Wunderbar'
“Der Winter Wunderbar” is the theme for this year’s Winter Carnival sponsor- <. ed by the students of St. Mary’s College. ' The carnival will be held on the St. Mary’s campus Saturday, Feb. 8.
A comedy take-off on “Romeo and Juliet” will start off the afternoon’s activities at 2 p.m. The initial performance will be for sophomores and seniors, while the freshmen and juniors will see the show at 3 p.m.
At 5:45 p.m. there will be an ice show ‘ on the lake. The guest star will be Shelia Murphy, North American Speed and Figure Skating Champion, from Marquette University. The St. Mary’s girls will also present some dance and precision numbers.
Beginning at 5:30 p.m. dinner will be served in the “Rec” for the sophomores and seniors, the freshmen and juniors will “get their eats” at 6:30 p.m.
After dinner, at 7:15 p.m., Pat Donovan, St. Mary’s Sophomore Class president, will crown the Blessed Mother. J
Then at 7:30 p.m. the dance “Ski Mist” will climax the day’s events. Marty Maginn will reign ovei' the ski lodge setting as queen of the dance.
Miss Maginn is general chairman of the carnival, while Marilyn Kramer is in charge of publicity.
The Scholastic
i Fr. Beichner Appointed To Wilson Grant Board
J The Kev. Paul E. Beichner, C.S.C., dean of the Graduate School, has been appointed to a national committee which will select recipients for 1,000 Woodrow Wilson fellowships for the 1958-59
1 school year.
I According to Richard C. Boys, dil rector of the Wilson National Fellowship Foundation at Ann Arbor, Mich., the selection committee is composed of ten graduate school deans and professors from colleges and universities in the United States and Canada. The ** Woodrow Wilson grants underwrite the ( first year of graduate studies for young men and women who have considered college teaching as their career.
Beside Father Beichner, the members of the committee, who will convene at the University of Michigan Feb. 13-15 ' to select the fellowship winners are:
Dean William C. Steere, Stanford Universify, Palo Alto, Calif.; Prof. Frederick Bracher, Pomona College, Claremont, Calif.; Dean Robert M. Lumian-sky, Tulane University, New Orleans, La.; and Prof. John O’Neill, Williams
* College, Williamstown, Mass.
Other members of the committee are: Dean John McConnell, Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y.; Dean Marcus E. Hobbs, Duke University, Durham, N. C.; Dean Roy F. Nichols, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa.; Dean Lewis M. Hammond, University of Vir-
4 ginia, Charlottesville, Va.; and Dean J.
I Homer Herriott, University of Wiscon- sin, Madison, Wis.
Lobund Professor to Appear a Over CBS Radio Tomorrow
James A. Reyniers, research professor1 of bacteriology at Notre Dame’s Lobund Institute, will be the featured guest on the “Adventures in Science” program over the CBS radio network Saturday at 1:30 p.m. EST. a
Prof. Reyniers, founder of the famed germfree animal research center, will discuss “The Need for Technicians” in an interview with Watson Davis, director of Science Service. The program will originate, transcribed, from the , CBS-WTOP studios in Washington, D.C. ' Prof. Reyniers and his associates at the Notre Dame research institute have developed the germfree animal as a valuable tool in biological and medical investigations. The unique creatures are currently being employed in a number of research projects dealing with cancer, tooth decay, shock, the common cold, and other medical problems.
Church Unity Octave Opens In Dillon Chapel Tomorrow
Tomorrow afternoon at 5:15 in Dillon Hall chapel, Benediction and special prayers will be offered in observance of the Church Unity Octave, according to Mike Crowe, Student Senate spiritual commissioner.
Services will be held every afternoon of the Octave, through Jan. 25, and will last about 15 minutes. Between the singing of the O Salutaris and the Tantum Ergo special prayers for the return of all branches of Christianity to unity under the Pope will be offered.
The Church Unity Octave begins on the feast of St. Peter’s Chair at Rome. Each year, observance of the Octave is held at Notre Dame.
Famous Geologist Speaks To Campus Group Recently
Dr. A. I. Levorsen, Tulsa, Okla., consulting geologist, lectured on “Some Regional Application of Paleogeology” Jan. 8 in Nieuwland Science Hall. His talk was sponsored by the distinguished lecture committee of the American Association of Petroleum Geologists, and the Notre Dame geology department.
2Stt Year
Have a WORLD FUN!
Travel with IITA
Unbelievable low Cost Europe X. $585
Orient 43-45	**■ $998
Atony toun include college credit Also low-cost trips to Mexico $149 up. South America $699up, Hawaii Study Tour $498 up and Around the World $1398 up. Ask Your Travel Agent
L 332 So. Michigan Ave. IK. Chicago 4, HA 7-2357
DA<WTURBOW ^OPTOMETRIST
OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces” EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5///
LOOKING FOR A GOOD-FITTING JOB?
Ready to dehut as a practicing engineer? Then here's a suggestion.
Whatever your engineering specialty, see what Vought offers to men with your training. See how Vought can help, you find the field you're cut out for. See how your whole career benefits when you start with the right job. SEE THE VOUGHT REPRESENTATIVE IN YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE
FEBRUARY 3 and 4
★OUGHT AIRCRAFT /AICOAPOAAr/O • ON LU 9, T 9 X 9 9
January 17, 1958
23
Plans Set for Second Semester Registration; Students to Report to Drill Hall on Jan. 27*28
Spring semester registration will begin at 8:15 a.m., Jan. 27, in the Navy Drill Hall, according to the time schedule released last week by Leo Corbaci •of the Office of Academic Affairs.
All freshmen and sophomores will register on Monday, Jan. 27; juniors, seniors graduate students, and all new students will report on Tuesday, Jan. 28.
Freshmen and sophomores who will have passed all their first semester courses will register in the morning. Those freshmen and sophomores who will have failed in any of the first semester courses will report from 11 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. The distinction has been made in order to preserve as far as possible the preregistered schedule of non-failing students.
Students are reminded that upon returning from vacation to check their respective hall bulletin boards for lists of failed students. The registration schedule should then be followed accordingly
Freshmen and sophomores with one
Alumni Voting Names Association Directors
The election of four new members to the board of directors of the Notre Dame Alumni Association was recently announced by Executive Secretary James E. Armstrong.
Successful candidates in nationwide balloting among the University’s graduates are John C. O’Conner, ’39, Indianapolis, Ind., attorney; James H. Sheils, ’35, general partner, McManus and Walker, New York City brokerage firm; Joseph R. Stewart, ’22, associate general counsel, Kansas City Life Insurance Co., Kansas City, Mo.; and Charles E. Rohr, ’30, Cleveland, Ohio, restaurant operator.
The newly-elected directors were installed at a meeting of the alumni board at the Morris Inn which concludes today. Included on the board’s agenda is the election of officers of the Notre Dame Alumni Association for 1958. J. Patrick Canny, general attorney for the Erie Railroad, Cleveland, is the current president.
Nearly 50 Notre Dame alumni from throughout the country are expected to attend the 1957-58 Class Secretaries Conference to be held at the inn at the conclusion of the alumni board meeting. The class secretaries, all columnists for The Notre Dame Alumnus, will attend a reception tonight at 9 p.m. and will hold business sessions tomorrow.
failed course or more in the first semester who were unable to complete registration are to report again at 8:15 a.m., Jan. 28, at the registration center.
In order to enter the registration center it is necessary to possess a tuition certificate. The certificate may be picked up on the ground floor of the Administration Building on that Monday and Tuesday.
Prior to registration all students will receive a packet containing several forms. It is advised that the forms be filled out before entering the Drill Hall.
The packet also contains a list of cancelled classes. Students are urged to examine this sheet carefully. For any adjustment or rearrangement they should consult the dean for instruction.
Those who failed one or more first semester courses must see the dean at the Drill Hall to have their schedules adjusted.
Every registrant should have in his possession a tuition certificate, a spring semester class schedule booklet which was distributed at the time of preregistration, the packet of forms, and a pen.
The procedure inside the Drill Hall will be to secure a preregistration form (see dean if necessary), pick up cards for each class, and complete class cards and any additional forms to be filled out.
Aesculapians Schedule Trip For Mayo Clinic Thursday
To extend their knowledge of the practical application of medicine and relax from tensions of the exams, the upperclass Aesculapians will tour the Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn., leaving Thursday night, January 23.
A tour of the Mayo Clinic buildings is planned for Friday. Particular emphasis will be given to the research labs. Friday night there will be a mixer with St. Mary’s Nursing School' of Rochester. Part of the group will observe surgery at St. Mary’s Hospital on Saturday and the rest will witness frozen section technique in St. Mary’s surgical pathology lab.
On Sunday a tobogganing and ice skating party will be held with the St. Mary’s girls. Monday morning the group will observe more surgical techniques in St. Mary’s Hospital’s operating rooms. The Aesculapians will return in time to register Tuesday.
Frank Pugliese and John Choby, senior pre-meds, are in charge of the excursion.
FATHER THOMAS McAVOY	)
Church Historian Recognized	,
Fr. McAvoy Receives History Author Award	;
The Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C.,	'
head of the department of history at f Notre Dame, has been awarded the John I Gilmary Shea Prize by the American ’ Catholic Historical Association. The award has been made annually since ‘ 1944 to the author of a distinguished book relating to Church history. Father McAvoy was honored for his new book, The Great Crisis in American Catholic History, 1895-1900.
Presentation of the §200 award was » (. made during the Association’s 38th annual convention at the Hotel Statler, New York City, Dec. 29. Father McAvoy was also elected second vice-president of : the 1,028 member organization at the sessions.
Earlier recipients of the John Gilmary Shea Prize, named for the eminent	’
American Catholic historian, include	•
Monsignor John Tracy Ellis, Catholic	.
University of America, Washington, D. C., and Monsignor Philip Hughes, the	;
celebrated British historian who is now	;
a member* of the Notre Dame faculty. . , Father McAvoy, who is Notre Dame’s । archivist as well as chairman of the ■ history department, is an authority on the history of the Catholic Church in	.
the United States. A native of Tipton,	'
Ind., he is the author of The Catholic Church in Indiana, 1789-1834, and A History of the Catholic Church in the ' South Bend Area.	. |
Father McAvoy is managing editor of Notre Dame’s quarterly Review of Politics and is a frequent contributor to professional journals and popular periodicals. He was educated at Notre Dame and Columbia University which awarded him a doctorate in 1940.
24
The Scholastic
Fr. Hesburgh Talks At MSU Dedication
sj Michigan State University’s 4000 ■i Catholic students were urged by the H president of Notre Dame last Sunday to J adopt the celebrated Cardinal Newman ji as the model of their intellectual and i, spiritual lives.
|S The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, |	C.S.C., traced the life and career of the
Oxford scholar at the dedication of St. John’s Church and Catholic Student Center near the campus. He delivered the dedicatory sermon during a Solemn Pon-
I tifical Mass celebrated by Bishop Joseph • Albers of Lansing. The $600,000 struc-i ture includes a 950-seat church, an auditorium, and other facilities for Newman Club activities.
Catholic students, Father Hesburgh said, should try to develop “that same dedication to scholarship and truth, that same striving for intellectual and moral excellence, that same wholehearted integrity of life, that same courage to fulfill the will of God in all things that made John Henry Cardinal Newman a great man in success and apparent failure.”
* “St. John’s Church and the Newman Club are here at Michigan State University to do what Newman himself wished to return to Oxford University to do,” Father Hesburgh said. “It is no small compliment to American religious maturity that St. John’s Church and its teaching chaplains are welcome at Michigan State University, as Newman Clubs * are welcomed at many other state universities throughout oui- beloved land.”
s According to Monsignor Jerome Mac-Eachin, Michigan State’s Catholic chaplain, credit courses in Catholic theology are offered at the University, and additional non-credit courses in liturgy, * philosophy and church history will be offered at the new center.
Aliens Must Register Addresses in January
* Howard I. Major, officer in charge of the U.S. Immigration and Naturaliza-1 tion Service, in Hammond, Ind., reminds all aliens that they must report their address to the government during the month of January.
Major said that forms with which to ' make the report will be available at all St	post offices and offices of the Immigra-
I tion and Naturalization Service during I the month of January.
I All non-citizens, except those in diplo-& matic status, foreign representatives of certain international organizations and those admitted temporarily as agricultural laborers, are required to file.
Presidents, Senators Chosen By Voters in Freshmen Halls
One thousand ninety-three freshmen students went to the polls Dec. 12 and elected the senators and presidents for their respective halls.
In Cavanaugh Hall Chris Lund was named president and David McAndrews senator. Thomas Ryan was elected president and John Clark senator of Breen-Phillips. In St. Edward’s Anthony Sci-belli was named president and James O’Rourke senator.
Five officers and a senator were voted into office in Farley Hall. John Keegan was elected president, James Brogan vice-president; Gil Paprocki, secretary; Mike Smith, treasurer; and John Patton, senator. Zahm Hall voters gave the nod to Pat Hart president and David Offutt senator.
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
Moran Given R.C.A. Grant
Paul Moran, a Notre Dame physics major, has won a scholarship grant from the Radio Corporation of America, Dr. C. B. Jolliffe, chairman of the R.C.A. Education committee, announced recently. This is one of 31 scholarships granted for studies in fields directly related to the electronics and broadcasting industries.
unnu UBUKYud BMKSNP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
A Non-Profit Organization
Order a full year's subscription to the SCHOLASTIC for your parents and friends. Only $4.00.
DO MECHANICAL BRAINS INTRIGUE YOU?
Do these intellectual vamps arouse your engineering instincts? Then why go on ogling? Especially if you're an electronics or mechanical major! Plan to enjoy the company of the best mechanical computers. Create your own electronic brains for missile guidance. 'Find out what's ahead at Chance Vaught in this fast-growing field.
OUR REPRESENTATIVE WILL BE IN YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE
FEBRUARY 3 and 4 'OUGHT AIRCRAFT
January 17, 1958
25
Hack
I &
the island j
by JERRY BRADY
society
I *
I
[ i
| The college society is, in one way, I wonderfully unnatural. It is happily j free of babies, mothers, fathers, dogs, ■ •commitments, conflicts and most of all, J responsibilities. This is nowhere more s true than at Notre Dame.
1
j We are an island without an eight. hour day, the traffic jam (an impos-I	sibility without the car), dishes to wash,
|	leaves to rake, or dogs to let out at
I night. This is not at all surprising, for ! we are physically set aside from the rest i	of society, but what is less obvious is
I	the implication of this physical isolation:
i our isolation is not only physical, it is spiritual as well and that is the way we
:	like it. We do not attempt to mirror
j	the feelings, values and ideals of the
society because we have our own and can judge the rest of the world by them.
We do not mind at all being unlike the life in back, of us, ahead of us or around us. This is probably the reason the alumni return to campus or the hundreds of men come here for retreats in the summer. In a sense Notre Dame endeavors to be a retreat and no doubt often wishes it was less like the world around it. In a large measure this is its value; it is an island retreat set peacefully aside from the continent of American society.
I can hear your question already: "I’m in favor of retreats, but must they I»e four years long?”
It’s not such a bad idea.
The college is not, as some people think, a device to shuttle a troublesome portion of the population that would otherwise be donning cobra jackets into a more refined but less meaningful existence, to come out ten thousand dollars poorer and four years older. If it keeps ns out of circulation it also gives us a marvelous freedom and a marvelous perspective. From our island retreat we can, for four years, survey the continent
that is our society. We may laugh at it all we wish, renounce it if we will or praise it if it deserves praising. We need not be taken too seriously, for we are not yet qualified to have an opinion that will be felt. We are simply taking advantage of the precious time when we can look at society without joining it.
There are no violent forces to disturb us. We have the peace that is necessary for the intellectual life, even though we sometimes cause artificial storms by booing at referees.
Most of us, being Catholics, have no challenge from different religions and agree on basic beliefs. While this homogeneity is an advantage to the learning process it does not reflect the religious diversity that exists away from our island.
But this is all part of the perspective of our academic retreat, the college, traditional rejuvenator of society, making old ideas young or bearing new ideas to feed society. In this quiet life struggles take place in the mind, not in the life processes themselves. It is a tranquility made all the more natural by comparison with the whole of America. A tranquility where meals are regular and maids just a little bit less so.
And this is the hazard. We do know where the next meal is coming from and that the maid will appear and we may forget that this is an island. Soon we will walk on the continent and become the pudgy alumni who point out Lyons Hall to their wives and buy milk bottle megaphones on fall afternoons.
In our happy isolation we will not forget that people rake leaves, wash dishes and worry about dogs but we may not realize the values these things symbolize. Although the fabric of our lives may seem to be larger: stocks, bonds, hydraulics and tragic plays, we will soon have to weave these and the
I
ideals fabric
We
that accompany them into the of simple, common activities. v have not yet begun to love or
hate or dedicate in the way simple, unexciting people have learned to do-. quietly. Human feelings so basic they: cannot be analyzed have escaped our un-? -derstanding through no fault of our.:
2

own. As yet we have not lived them and '. I cannot know what they are.	j
We have known life’s fun parts and f
its fast parts and we have learned of life’s meaning and value in religion classes and a stumbling spiritual life — but we have not yet lived it. Our necessary island, age and economic advantage have so far kept most of us from the pulse of humanity. It is a pulse to be found in sorrow, sacrifice, drudgery or responsibility, as a husband, a father or a scoutmaster, not dancing, driving nor a whirl of activity. What to now has been at best vicarious must become real. Whatever it is — and we really do not know as yet; how can we? — the life to come is not to be avoided, for it is life.
With a little bit of luck and a little bit of money (or even without both for that matter) we can avoid the whole thing quite handily. Even better than buying our way out, we can look no further than the present for oui- meaning and be satisfied with a question unresolved or not even thought of.
For the present we should be thankful for the perspective of our island and endeavor to be less like the continent in many ways. From this vantage point we have been given most of the answers worked out perfectly for someone, not yet for us. Our island has given us the luxury of seclusion without responsibility, but has not yet given us the meaningful part of life. The answers are not yet a part of us. From an island formed of academic seclusion, age and probably economic advantage we must soon find a way to make a better continent.
Jl
if
fl
I

1

&

26
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS
&SS9!
wssiiisiia
FIND OUT what It’s like to be with IBM
campus interviews for 1958 graduates vith M.S., Ph.D. DEGREES
February 4
If your interest is in
and degree or major is
Sales
Business Administration
Applied Science.....................
Engineering Research and Development
Manufacturing
Customer Engineering
System Service.......
Contact your college placement office for an appointment today
SOME FACTS
The growth of the company has been spectacular since its inception in 1914. This has been especially true in recent years, as business, industry, science and government have turned increasingly to automation through electronic computers.
Such growth naturally provides many opportunities for advancement to well-qualified college graduates. IBM company policies and practices lay a firm groundwork for rewarding, enjoyable and secure careers.
At IBM, for example, individual merit is quickly recognized by increased responsibility and remuneration. Through “small-team” proj-
If you cannot attend interviews, write or call the manager of the nearest IBM office:
IBM Corp.
234 N. Michigan Street South Bend 1, Ind.
IBM
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES COBPOBATION
Liberal Arts • Business • Accounting • Engineering • Mathematics
Accounting • Administration • Management • Auditing
Physics • Mathematics • Engineering
Physics • Mechanical • Electrical • Engineering Physics • Mathematics Industrial • Electrical • Mechanical • Mathematics • Physics Physics • Engineering
Liberal Arts • Business • Accounting • Mathematics
ABOUT IBM
ect systems . . . cordial employee-management relations ... excellent financial rewards — outstanding company-paid benefits — the potential exists for well-established careers. IBM-sponsored educational and training programs are among the most advanced in the American business world today.
IBM laboratories and manufacturing facilities are located in Endicott, Kingston, Owego, Poughkeepsie, Yorktown, N. Y.; San Jose, Calif.; Lexington, Ky.; and Rochester, Minn. Sales and service offices in 198 principal cities throughout the United States.
DATA PROCESSING ELECTRIC TYPEWRITERS MILITARY PRODUCTS SPECIAL ENGINEERING PRODUCTS SUPPLIES TIME EQUIPMENT

1*1
fi'nnsw.
«et
s
Now available in crush-proof box, too!
”	1	'■
UKEA
CIGARETTE
SHOULD!



Y-ihsica [
Y>u re on the right track-when you switch to WIWSTOH
k‘ngos,..
Wherever you meet people, you meet Winston! This rich blend of bright, clear tobacco gives you mellow flavor you can enjoy. And you’ll enjoy America’s favorite filter, too! The pure, snow-white filter in the smart, cork-smooth tip is exclusive with Winston. Now is the time for you to switch to America’s favorite filter cigarette—Winston!
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO . V,lN5T0N-SALEM. N. C.

Smoke WIWSTON Americas best-selling, best-tasting filter cigarette!
:g