
Stock up now and save one-half ... 
SWEATER SALE 
Now, for a limited time, you can select from many famous name sweater fashions . . . V-necks, crew necks, turtlenecks and more, in a great variety of colors . . . all reduced for clearance. 
you save 

one group at one-third off 
YOUR ACCOUNT IS ALREADY OPEN 
\i\Te invite you to select and wear your apparel now ... you pay: 
ONE-THIRD ONE-THIRD ONE-THIRD 
in June in /uly in Aul{USt 
NEVER A SERVICE OR CARRYING CHARGE 


----:-.., 
~~~ 
LIER • atnp11$~ho 
........_--~ 
ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
University-Styled 
SUIT, SPORTCOAT, TOPCOAT 



SALE 
Now in Progress 
savings of 
1/3 

This is the annual sale that many Notre Dame men take advantage of . . . the em­phasis is not only on savings, but on quality, too ... the same fine quality that built the Campus· Shop's reputa­tion for sound value. Stop in, look around, your ac­count is open. 
---~-­
~~~ 

LIER • ampU$~ho
------~ 
ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
Educational Radio is a 



BORE 

Well, yes. If you find the best of serious music, from Praetorius to Stockhausen, boring; if you can't find any­thing of interest in sym­phonies, sonatas, operas, bal­lets, oratorios, concertos or songs. 
If, in addition, progressive rock leaves you cold, if you can listen to names like Jef­ferson Airplane, Moby Grape, Buffalo Springfield. H. P. Lovecraft, or Jimi Hendrix without the faintest glimmer of recognition. If it doesn't matter to you that Captain Electric's new record was premiered on an educational station. 
If you're not at all interested in Jazz, folk music, Indian music, the avant-garde, dra­ma. If you couldn't find a little joy in listening to Dick Gregory rapping about the 
U.S. for 30 minutes, or in David lVIoynihan describing the Coleman report, or in specials about Acid, the Pres­idency, blues and rock, poli­tics, and just about every­thing else. And if you don't want the news, not just from the United States viewpoint, but as described in the for­eign press. 
If none of that does anything for you, you're right-educa­tional radio is a bore. 
WSND-FM 

88.9 Mhz 

SCHOLASTIC 
Feb. 14, 1969 / Notre Dame, Indiana / Vol. 110, No. 14 
FEATURES THE CONTROLLING HAND / Joel Connelly and Thomas 
Payne ....................................... 16 A HORNY DILEMNA / Joel Garreau . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 CENSORSHIP THROUGH HISTORY / Philip Kukielski .... 23 SILENCE GIVES CONSENT/ Mario Corradi ........... 26 
AN INTERVIEW WITH ALLLEN GINSBERG / Philip Kukielski and Fran Maier . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28 
DEPARTMENTS LETTERS ......................................... . 5 EDITORIAL 6 ND NEWS AND NOTES .......................... . 8 SMC ... THE WEEK IN REVIEW . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 ON OTHER CAMPUSES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 MOVIES ......................................... 15 DOUG MARVIN/ Liturgy of Confrontation ............. 21 JOEL CONNELLY / The Common Denominator . . . . . . . . . . 25 
Editor-in-chief / WILLIAM CULLEN Managing Editor / TIMOTHY UNGER Executive Editor / JOEL GARREAU 
Associote Editors / JOEL CONNELLY, JAMES FULLIN. THOMAS HENEHAN, MARTIN Mc­NAMARA, THOMAS PAYNE 
Art Director / DAVID HESKIN Coordinating Editor / JOHN DUDAS Photography Editor / DENNIS MALLOY Copy Editor / STEPHEN KRCHMA Art Editor / KIM KRISTOFF Assistant Copy Editor / TIMOTHY MANNION 
Sports Editor / WILLIAM SWEENEY 
Contributing Editors / KATHLEEN CARBINE, PHILIP KUKIELSKI, RICHARD MORAN, STEVEN NOVAK, MICHAEL PATRICK O'CONNOR, RAYMOND SERAFIN 
Business / PETER MclNERNEY Circulation / TIMOTHY SCHLINDWEIN Public Relations / RICHARD LAVELY 
Faculty Advisor / FRANK O'MALLEY 
Contributors / TONY INGRAFFEA, FRAN MAIER, KATHLEEN SHEERAN, DOUGLAS MARVIN. 
Writers/ George Arkedis, Marilyn Becker, Thomas Booker, Barry Breen, Kathy Call~n, Tom Card, Jomes Coburn, Adrienne Coyne, J. J. Deegon, Steve Duak, Michael Fallon, Dovid Finley, Joseph Furjanic, Kothy Gibbons, Cynthia Golan, Bill Golden, Terry Goodwin, Maureen Gore, Len Groszek, Mork Hannahan, Lynne Hauck, Dave Hirschboeck, Robert Keefe, John Keyes, Torn Knowles, Timothy Murphy, John Norton, Jim Petelle, Jahn Powers, Edward Sheehy, Mary Stoltz, Jody Tigani, Joseph Tynan, Robert Vodnal, Jim Werner, John Zipprich. Copy and Layout / Robert Devita, Kerry Durr, Andreo Magazzu, Chuck Nelson, David O'Brien, Kevin O'Connell, Mary Jone Sullivan, Lee Paterson. Artists and Photographers / Douglas Allaire, Martine Bethards, Zack Brown, Gary Cosimini, Terry Dwyer, Steve Kogge, Michoel McCleor, Jo:nes McDonald, Fred Quiros, Ole Skarstein, Stefonie Stanitz, Richard Walsh. Business and Circulation / Bob Burke, Jomes Grady, Mark Kearns, Robert McGroth, Joan Mcinerney, Jon Tocks. 
Second class postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services, 360 Lexngton Avenue, New York, New York 10017. Publshed weekly durng the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year (including all issues and the FOOTBALL REVIEW). Please address all manuscripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC. 
The Scholastic 
letters 
The SCHOLASTIC welcomes letters from its readers on all topics of cur­rent concern. Letters should be ad­dressed to William Cullen, Editor­in-chief; Scholastic; Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
ARlUY CAMOUFLAGE 
EDITOR: 
Unless your last issue was a paid military announcement, the content of which was not necessarily the opinion of the editors, then I must take issue with your staff. 
The advertisement pertaining to the two-year program for Army ROTC seems to not only be in viola­tion of L½e Wheeler-Lea Act of 1938 (deceptive advertising), but also the trust the student body places in its publications. The issue lies in the following quote which appears in the advertisement: 
If you desire, you may request postponement of your military service while you complete your studies for a graduate degree. 

It is true that you ::nay "apply" for this deferment, but unless you are a medical student, it is doubtful that it will be granted. The chance of this application being fulfilled is a shade better than my application for the position of president of Gen­eral Motors. Maybe unintentional wording; maybe intentional. 
Though the financial incentive re­lieves the SCHOLASTIC of some of the guilt burden, it is by no means jus­tified. But the primary issue of my letter is this: the armed services seem to be a deceptive body that wants to trap all the unsuspecting youth it can. It relieves itself by en­couraging one to read the "fine print." Like this ad, how "fine" is "fine print"? It appears to me that the body that is intended to protect peace and justice taints the truth to arrive at its end. I believe the pur­pose in bending the facts stems from the armed services' inability to truthfully persuade men to volun­teer. This is another reason for the establishment of Richard Nixon's volunteer army. 
Edward J. Burt 
418 Walsh 

The advertisement to which you refer was only that -a paid adver­tisement. No inferences as to the 
February 14, 1969 
opinions of the members of the edi­
torial board of the SCHOLASTIC 
should be drawn from such an ad­
vertisement. 
The SCHOLASTIC investigated your 
charge that this advertisement was 
deceptive. Of all the senior Army 
ROTC cadets we interviewed not 
one who had applied for a graduate 
school deferment had had his a'PPli­
cation denied., and most had already 
received their deferments. 
-Ed. 
HAVING IT BOTH \l7AYS 
EDITOR: 
How curious that those students 
who submitted to Father Hesburgh 
a list of "non-negotiable" demands 
were unconsciously reverting to the 
paternal role of the University Ad­
ministration which responsible stu­
dent activism has been seeking to 
abolish for the past several years. 
To repudiate a violation of aca­
demic freedom by armed police, if 
such a violation occurs, should be 
the responsibility of the entire Uni­
versity community, not merely its 
president. 
But inasmuch as the activity which was disrupted by the police last Friday was officially sponsored by neither the Administration, the faculty, nor the Student Union, the seizure of the film can be consid­ered an invasion of academic free­dom only by those who conceive of this freedom as an immunity from prosecution for all acts taking place on the campus premises. 
If this definition is rejected (as it was by the Administration), the blessed anarchy envisioned as the outcome of the decline of Adminis­tration paternalism will be less be­atific than anticipated as long as we are legally subordinate to the hardly more enlightened Blue Laws of the State of Indiana. 
In short, you can't have it both ways, gentlemen. The Big Daddy in the Dome, however sinister he may appear in our Oedipal fantasies, is a provider, a protector, and a defend­er whose strong right arm we must either accept or learn to live without. 
James L. Fullin 
424Farley 
NO NO, NAU 
EDITOR: 
Charles Nau's letter in the Janu­
ary 17 issue of the SCHOLASTIC 
makes several presumptions, not the 
least of which is that the eyes of 
Mr. Nau see all things in their proper 
perspective. I cannot understand how 
he can criticize SE:nator McCarthy's 
logic and follow with a most .illogi­
cal, indeed hateful and spiteful 
letter. 

I would like to know if Mr. Nau has proof that McCarthy supported Lyndon Johnson in 1960, or if it is just a product of his fanciful imagi­nation. I really don't think Senator McCarthy's nomination of Adlai Stevenson was quite the cloaking device Mr. Nau tries to make it. In the absence of other evidence, and \vith only Char!es Nau's · word against it, I'll presume that Sena­tor McCarthy sincerely supported Stevenson as his first choice for the 1960 Democratic nomination. 
I would like to remind Mr. Nau that at the beginning of his cam­paign McCart.11y was accorded little chance to "humiliate'' President. Johnson, iet alone ,vin the Presiden­cy. If anyone stood to be humiliated, it was McCarthy. I would also like to know when Senator McCarthy called Johnson "a rube, an ogre, killing helpless women and enjoying it," or if this properly belgngs to the vocabulary of Mr. Nau. 
Mr. Nau cites several McCarthy votes, but he never tells us the ra­tionale behind them. A man may vote against the bill not because he disagrees with the aim, but because he considers it a poorly written bill, or feels it will not accomplish what it aims for. This is the case \vith many of the gun-control bills before Congress, for example, which are poorly written bills. Mr. Nau would have us believe that McCarthy is really a conservative in liberal clothing, but I don·t think he makes an effective case. 
Mr. Nau concludes his letter by accusing Senator McCarthy of arro­gance; he then has the arrogance to say, "those of us who are truly con­cerned with saving this country can get to the work at hand." As a con­cerned liberal who is truly concerned with the welfare of our country, I want no part of lVIr. Nau's ideas for "saving this country." I am ashamed that I once voted for Charles Nau as Student Body Vice-President. 
Timothy K. McMorrow 
443 Stanford 






Editorials 

In Defense of an Attitude 
Perhaps we just have a bias in favor of those who 

are in the business of trying to communicate. But 
there is a distinct possibility that the flap over the 
pornography conference has elements of scape­
goat-ism in it. 
It is important to note that the Student Union Academic Commission has presented this campus with a lecture and conference series that has been nothing short of amazing. Look at the people who have spoken here in the past few months. People like French socialist Francois Mitterand; Senator Strom Thurmond; Vietnamese ambassador to the U.S. Tran Van Chuong; Fr. Burtchaell on the pill; Tom Hayden from the S.D.S.; Marcus Raskin, author of Up Against The Wall; Protestant theologian Martin Marty; Playboy's Jim Goode; Swami Ranganathan­anda; Mark Lane, Mayor Lindsay; Muhammed Ali; Otto Preminger; Newsweek's Ken Woodward -even the Boston Celtics. The list goes on. The point is that you many not have agreed with some of these people, but you have no reason to not know why you don't. 
Some thought the Pornography Conference was in­appropriate. That would suggest that matters sub­jective -not susceptible to logical, scientific con­sideration -are not academic concerns. Which is absurd. 
On a broader level, many accuse Mroz and the Academic Commission of running not a lecture series, but a cavalcade of stars. A circus, with no taste. And this is indeed a major fault. But although we wish that no one would ever make mistakes in judgment, and we acknowledge that the Academic 
Commission has certainly made their share of them, 
this may well be due to the ambitiousness of their 
attempts, and we would not like to see this am­
bitiousness die. 

Of course, during the Literary Festival some ex­cruiting gapes were perpetrated, like introducing Granville Hicks as the "dean of American critics," or Kurt Vonnegut as the "dean of American science fiction writers" -descriptions that even left the authors flustered. And then there were the Norman Mailer premiere spotlights and all the rest. But the point is, there was a Literary Festival, where there was none before, and because of it, Notre Dame was a more exciting place. 
We are not defending individual personalities in this editorial, and we will be upset if the students end up re-reading parts of this piece in Mroz's SBP campaign material. 
However, we are defending an attitude. The Academic Commission should think out more thor­oughly their projects. So should we all. The Aca­demic Commission definitely should seek a sense of taste, but that is something that can be acquired. The ability to take a fresh approach, however, to think aggressively, is something more rare, and highly 
valuable. 

And th!s the Academic Commission has dis­played. If it were to re-trench from this position, it would be a major loss for the Notre Dame com­munity. The school would be less stimulating, and thus less worthy of the name University. 
Joel Garreau 

Means, or Ends? 
"Never let the truth get in the way of a good 

story" facetiously cautions the student editor. And 
sometimes it doesn't, and ·the campus magazine or 
newspaper has lost sight of its goal of "serving the 
community," and allowed style or a scoop to become 
ends in themselves. Administrators love to let loose 
at times like those. 
A Ph.D. or a distinguished alma mater, style or a scoop-they may indicate the excellence of a faculty member, they may indicate the excellence of an article-but they are not ends in themselves. A teacher's worth lies in his capacity to help others fulfill themselves, and a doctorate may or may not indicate ability to do so. When administrators lose sight of their ultimate goals, they might expect, and ideally they should want, a reaction from the students. 
Fr. John McGrath has decided on excellence for his school, St. Mary's College. He wants St. Mary's to be an educational innovator, a place of intel­lectual excitement. On paper, the number of grad­uate students from one school, Notre Dame, who are presently full members of St. Mary's faculty, looks discouragingly parochial. A related point is that instead of a heavy load of basic, required courses, a freedom to select and specialize will be­come more and more available to the student. Faculty who are specialists, then, not simply instruc­tors capable of handling general courses, will be needed. And then too, some of the young faculty simply are not superior teachers. And so a number of St. Mary's teachers have received notices of dis­missal on or before June, 1970. 
Basically, students object to the action on two' levels, the lack of personal, Christian consideration in the dismissals, and the lack of student participation in the decision. 
If students and faculty can expect nothing else of a small, Catholic women's college, they should be 
February 14, 1969 
able to find there a concern for people as persons, an atmosphere of community, a dedication to values not only intellectual but also "spiritual, aesthetic, physical and social" (Bulletin of St. Mary's College). Otherwise, why put up with the disadvantages? But for these teachers, the non-renewal contracts came without warning, without explanation, without regard for any standards but those coolly objective. Those involved were apparently not .evaluated according to their individual contributions to the school, which in some cases were considerable. A means for up­grading the faculty-requiring a Ph.D. and diversified backgrounds-was twisted into a goal, and several creative, thoughtful faculty are to be let go. Dismissed without a prior opportunity to resign, without any stated reasons to grapple with, without a concern for them or their students as persons with sujective, personal needs. 
Crying after lost values accomplishes little when confronted with legalism, with power politics. Stu­dents' best opportunity for reversing some of the dismissals, and preventing similar actions in the future, lies in insisting that their voice be formally considered before a teacher is promoted or dismissed. Standards for faculty promotion, or lack of it (which results in eventual dismissal!, laid down by the AAUP involve earning a degree or publishing, or "superior teaching." And if students have no formal part in the evaluation, the decision is made with incomplete evidence. On this point, the apathetic student re­sponse which impaired this semester's SMC Teacher­Course Evaluation has borne bitter psychological fruit. But there is no guarantee that it would have made a difference anyway. The administration has an ethical, though not a legal, obligation to incorpor­ate student opinion in the evaluation of a teacher. At a Christian college, especially, students should be able to insist on more than legalism. 
Kathy Carbine 
Notre Dame 

news and notes 

11roz, McKenna, Kendall: The Private Race for SBP 
THE RACE FOR STUDENT BODY 

PRESIDENT has begun in earnest, 
albeit in private. In spite of public 
statements to the contrary there are 
three candidates making the race 
with ·a fourth contender considering 
jumping into the fracas. 
The leading candidate, at least be­

fore the Pornography Conference, 
has been Student Union Academic 
Commissioner John Mroz. In SUAC, 
which has better than 100 members, 
Mroz has a natural organization. 
Mroz is expected to use the SUAC 
office in the basement of Breen­
Phillips as headquarters, with SUAC 
conveniently "vacating" the premises 
immediately before the start of the 
campaign. John's running mate at 
this time appears to be Student Gov­
ernment Human Affairs Commis­
sioner Ted Jones. 
The Mroz platform, being au­thored by a number of people active in student affairs, will have to be revised to include a section on ob­scenity and free expression. As to the campaign structure itself, expect leading Mroz managers to include Junior Class President Leo Klemm and Student Body Vice President Charles J. Nau, Jr. (in a domineer­ing advisory role). The Mroz effort is expected to be well-run, but might suffer from the pornography con­troversy. One government depart­ment faculty member commented early this week "Last year he raped literature. This year he raped por­nography." 
Stay Senator and NSA Coordina­tor Mike Kendall is also early at the starting block. The Kendall effort is well-staffed, although it contains less student body poo-bahs and not as many laborers in the vineyard as Mroz's campaign. Kendall's run­ning mate will likely be Lyons Hall President Barney King. According to informed sources, Kendall's cam­paign manager will probably be Rob­ert "Mack". Smith, a heretofore un­known among student government circles. 

Kendall was a leader in the move­ment for the Action Student Party endorsement of Richard Rossie for Student Body President last year. He has been a sponsor of numerous students' rights legislation in the senate. 
Kendall's chances depend on the presence on campus of the same spirit which led to the election of the Rossie-Nau ticket last year, gen­eral dissatisfaction with things as they are and commitment to greater student participation in university affairs. The choice of King as a running mate is not expected to help Kendall as much as the choice of Jones, who is black, will help Mroz. 
A third contender of major im­portance is expected to be Hall Presidents' Council Chairman Phil McKenna. McKenna, who was ap­proached by Kendall as a possible running mate earlier this year, ap­pears at this juncture to be a com­promise candidate of left forces of the campus as well as of student government officials not supporting Mroz. Potentially this is a strong coalition, especially if Larry Landry, mastermind of the Rossie and Klemm races of last year, takes on the job of managing the campaign. If Mc­Kenna chooses Fred Dedrick, senator from his own Morrissey Hall, as vice presidential candidate the ticket may be weakened. However, Dedrick 
is a prominent leader of the campus 
left and himself constitutes an im­
portant link in the coalition. 
The McKenna platform is .unclear 
at this juncture. However, an indica­
tion of probable stands is provided 
by McKenna's leadership in the cir­
culation of a petition denouncing the 
police raid of last week. 
The fourth possibility for the 
presidency is Free University head 

Rick Libowitz. Libowitz at present 
has no organization to speak of, but 
is expected to gain the support of a 
number of senior student govern­
ment leaders if he chooses to run. 
The likelihood is, however, that if 
Libowitz is satisfied with McKenna's 
platform he will withdraw from the 
race. 
Among those who worry about such things, the apparent unity of the "right" behind Mroz and the apparent split of the "left" has caused near apoplexy. In the past two months, LaFortune Student Center has been filled with palace intrigues in an effort "to stop big SUAC and all the little SUAC's from taking over next spring." 
The Jame duck session of classes between Christmas and the exami­nation period witnessed several at­tempts to reduce the number of "li!>eral" candidates by means of a primary or some such device. This notion fell through largely because "liberal" could only be spoken of in terms of "non-Mroz," a condition which does not permit the electorate for the primary to be defined and limited. It seems that there is really no grounds for considering Mroz "conservative" and thus eliminating him from the primary. 

In the beginning 

After an editorial meeting several nights ago, the august editorship of this rnagazine, having nothing to do and no money to go to Louie's, spent an engaging evening rummaging through back issues of the SCHO­LASTIC. We thought the-te was much there to interest our current reader­ship, and decided to institute a reg­ular feature consisting of material froni back issues. 
Ou,r first offering in this depart­nient is a reprint from the editorial page of May 12, 1933, entitled "Eu­ropean Muddle." A bit of historical research has indicated that the edi­torial was written about a rnonth after the Four Year Enabling Act had given Hitler dictatorial powers. 
"FOLLOWING HERR HITLER'S SUR­

PRISE ADDRESS of this week, a well­known American newspaperman re­viewed the speech over a national hook-up. The Nazi lord, he said, had made momentous, powerful state­ments. They would have desirable effects on world trade, and quiet the troubled international mind. But, he asks, is Hitler sincere? He proceeds to claim that he is not. 
"One does not have to hold a brief for the brown shirt to admit that the American in question is guilty of a rather one-sided outlook. Does he not predeterIPJne the German Chancellor? If Hitler had asked for more arms, he would have been ex­coriated as a mad belligerent. He asks for peace, and is said to be planning some sinister next move. 
"In such a time as the present, even if some be inclined to impugn the integrity of the German, it is un­questionably the best policy to give him the benefit of the doubt. We talk about mutual trust as being the basis of international amity; we may as well start to practice it." 


Wolfe as Mater et Magistra 
Tioin Circle has done it again. The reader may recall earlier this year when Fr. Daniel Lyons, S.J., latter­day Cardinal Allen and editor of Tioin Circle, wrote a "news story" entitled "Is Notre Dame next SDS Target?" which attempted to link the Student Body President and the editors of SCHOLASTIC and The Ob­server to an SDS plot to instigate a Columbia-style student revolt at Notre Dame. Not contented with this little bit of gross distortion­not to mention possible libel-the twin circles have gene through a full swing of dizziness and printed an article by Dale Frances entitled "Student Thinkinr at Notre Dame" 
SPEAKING last Saturday at a sym­posium observing the 100th anni­versary of the Notre Dame Law School, San Francisco Mayor Joseph Alioto blasted dissenting elements in America today. Addressing the topic "The Moral Basis of Violence," Alioto attacked what he termed "the militancy of the blacks and the radi­calism of the whites." 
Much of Alioto's harsh criticism was aimed at the Black Panthers, a militant group active in the San Francisco and Oakland ghettos. "Black racist stormtroopers are un­able to define a goal other than the smoldering ruin of a society they envy and despise," he said. "All they do is articulate a vengeance that somehow gives virtue to violence." 
Alioto commented on white radi­cals in the same tone of his attack on black activists. The San Fran­cisco mayor contented that "the whiskered radicals of the so-called 'New Left' ... are carried along by their own outrage, and, while their 

Joseph Alioto: The Moral Basis of Violence 
in which he tries to persuade his readers that Chris Wolfe's position on birth control is representative of any significant segment of the stu­dent body. 
The second paragraph of the article claims "it would be a serious mistake to believe that the students at the University of Notre Dame are all in rebellion or that there are not those among them who are will­ing to defend the more orthodox 
principles." This equation of dissent from the papal position on birth control to "rebellion" serves as an interesting commentary on the mind of Tioin Circle's editorial staff. 
uncombed novelty gives them no­toriety and while they may give some articulation to the drives and urgencies of a changing society, they are not the harbingers, but the hangers-on, of vast social forces." 
Turning again to the problem of ghetto violence, Alioto admitted that problems of black areas are serious, but maintained that the "non-violent militancy" of the majority of San Francisco blacks is "persuasive in all levels of city government." 
Alioto acknowledged that the phi­losophy of violence "has ample and honorable antecedents" in America as a final solution, but contended that there is a "discernable and di~:­quieting difference between the b~s­toric purposes of those past battles and the dead-end philosophy of the Black Panthers and other modern panderers to violence. Their philos­ophy is narrow and paranoid, filled with hate and distrust and suspicion 
and  illuminated  by  visions  of  
power."  
9 

February 14, 1969 
More Psychological Services on the ·Way 
FR. RALPH DUNN, DIRECTOR of the Psychological Services Center, has been reluctant to confirm the rumors currently being bruited about that he has asked for an increase in the budget of his department. The rumors have it that the requested increase would be substantial per­centage-wise, but Fr. Dunn has decided to respect the integrity of Administrative councils, and not divulge the figure. 
Fr. Dunn was willing to admit, however, that there has been an in­crease in the number of students availing themselves of the services 
of his office. According to Dunn, he can only guess as to the reason of this incerase, but he does not feel that he wants to attribute the in­crease to any rise per se in the number of students with psycho­logical problems. Dunn explained the increase by saying, "I think that the increase is due to the fact that we have now established ourselves. Many students have been aware that the service exists, but were perhaps questioning whether or not they should take advantage of it. We've been establishing a reputation by word of mouth as more people take advantage of us." 

WORD HAS BEEN OUT now for some time that an unusual number of second and third string ND foot­ball players have been signed by the pros. The SCHOLASTIC sent a few reporters to two of those who fall within this category, Chuck Lan­dolfi and Bob Belden. The first to be contacted was Belden who has been drafted by the Dallas Cowboys. Belden accounted for the draft by saying, "Well, it is true that I only played for about 60 minutes this year, but we had a lot of talent on this year's team. The pro teams have good scouts, and saw some potential in us, I guess. They thought we would fit in with the sort of team they want." 
Belden is a mathematics major in the College of Science, maintains a 
3.4 average, and will continue his education in the off-season. 
Chuck Landolfi was the kind of football player who could beat out anyone -for second string fullback. Dushney, Zimmerman, and Ziegler all ranked ahead of him in consider­ation for the starting role, but there was never any doubt as to who to watch when the second unit made its entrance. In like manner, pro football (or its computers) snatched eleven Notre Darners but overlooked Chuck in the recent pro draft. But the Chicago Bears took another look and decided to sign him as a free agent. Which probably quali­fies him as a sort of second string draft choice. 
Landolfi, who had planned to go into the slightly less violent world of teaching Spanish, leaped at the unexpected chance. "There's never been any doubt that this is what I've always wanted to do. I'll be going to camp with the other rookies for ten days in June. I didn't get much to sign, but there'll be an ex­tra bonus if I make the team." 
German Majors and Friends 
ALFRED K. WIMMER, AN INSTRUC­

TOR in the department of Modern Languages, has announced the in­itiation of a counselling program for language majors with a concentra­tion in German. \Vimmer has under­taken the project in cooperation with Randolph Klawiter, an associate professor in the same department. 
Wimmer explained his motivation for establishing the program by say­ing, "The number of majors in the German section of the department has grown due to the Innsbruck pro­gram. I realized that they were running wild without any guidance as to their program here or as to possible future careers. Klawiter and I decided something had to be done." 
Before the student registers for courses with the department head, "he first goes to see one of us for advice. We are trying to find out information about good courses and teachers which would be of interest to German students. We want to be a sort of clearing-house for such information.'' 
Wimmer also thinks that the counselling program could be useful in planning careers. In explaining the program, Wimmer said, "Many students would like to go to German universities, but there is no place our majors can go to find out how to do this. Every professor around here knows about how to get into grad­uate school, but this is an area where no one has much experience. For instance, Kodak offers a program for study and work in Germany. Vve hope to make the students aware of such programs and alternatives." 

A. Wimmer 

St. Mary's 
the week in review 
Ranaghan, Flanagan, Hengesbach Named to Go 

AT FIRST THERE WERE RUMORS~ then the mysterious signs were posted announcing the dismissal of about 12 members of the Saint Mary's faculty. After telling that James Flanagan of the English Depart­ment, and Kevin Ranaghan and Theodore Hengesbach of the The­ology Department had been given nonrenewal contracts for next year, the signs went on to ask, "Why are our most creative teachers being dis­missed?" 
On Saturday night of last week a meeting was called for Sunday to discuss ways that students may ef­fect the reversal of the decision to dismiss in the case of some of the teachers. It was the consensus of the meeting that the best way to at­tempt solution of the problem was not to attempt a power play, but to demonstrate reasonably the worth to Saint Mary's of some of those dismissed. 
At the time of the meeting, no reasons had been given for the dis­missals. In the beginning there was an attempt to discern a pattern of ac­tivism among those dismissed, and rumors to the effect that there was 
., 
A

I 
l 
Little 
Summer 
Music 

February 14, 1969 

Kevin Ranaghan 
a purge on were current for a while. However, when the student body dis­covered the full extent of the dis­missals, there was common agree­ment that many of those dismissed were poor teachers and that the ac­tion taken by the SMC administra­tion was justified in their cases. 
Fr. McGrath exercised the final decision-making role in each case, although only some of the cases were heard by the Faculty Commit­tee on Rank and Tenure. The motiv­ations for the dismissals could only be surmised from previous state­ments, statements of department beads, and from the assumption that Fr. McGrath would base his actions in this regard on the Heald-Hobson Report. Among the observations made in this report was that if Saint Mary's hopes to attract good faculty personnel it is not advantageous that the faculty be dominated by those who have received their advanced degrees at Notre Dame. Many of those dismissed are doing graduate work at Notre Dame and should they be permitted to continue teach­ing at Saint Mary's they would ulti­mately be given tenure which means a Notre Dame-dominated faculty. 
THE LATEST ADDITION to the ex­panding series of summer programs at Saint Mary's College was an­nounced last week by Sister Jeanne Finske, C.S.C., coordinator of the 1969 Summer Session. 
Music for Youth, a five-week program for high school juniors and seniors who intern'!. to become music majors in college, is scheduled from June 16 to July 19. The program will offer intensified training in music theory with separate classes in ear-training, sight-singing, dictation and harmony. 
James Flanagan 

The dismissal o.f Flanagan may have been a cleric2.! error. According to the college's faculty regulations, no one may remain an instructor for more than five years without either being appointed to assistant professor or being dismissed. However, since no one may be di!?missed \vithout a year's notice, the decision to retain or dismiss an instructor must be made at the end of his fourth year. Again, according to the regulations, the promotion to assistant professor must be based upon a recommenda­tion from the department head for outstanding teaching, the instruc­tor's earning a degree, or his gain­ing an academic reputation by be­ing published. Flanagan is near his degree, and according to the stu­dent opinion expressed in Sunday's meeting, is a creative teacher. The reason for his dismissal probably lies in the fact that his department may have overlooked the fact that the decision to promote or dismiss an instructor is actually made after his fourth year and therefore have neglected to recommend him as an outstanding teacher. Such an over­sight would have resulted in his dis­missal. 
Students who have studied music previously may take the course for four college credits to be held until the student enrolls in a college. The course also may be taken by begin­ning music students as a non-credit program of studie5. In addition to the formal music classes, students may enroll for private lessons in piano or organ. 
Music for Youth joins such pro­jects as Upward Bound and the ex­panded summer school term-as part of a continuing plan to expand the overall educational program of the CoUege. 

T-«Jo Neiv Student C onunissions Proposed 
OUT OF THE LOOPHOLES, technicali­criticism from across the road, she ties and imbalances of power in counters, "Whenever SlVCC proposes SMC's semes!er-olc: community gov­something that has been attempted ernment comes the restructure to at ND, they (ND) forget that SMC end all restructures. is a much smaller school with prob­
There is little doubt that the stu­lems which must be dealt with on a dent body has been inundated with different basis." She contends that commissions. Sally Strobel, Student "Union" is only a name and perhaps Body Vice-President, cites the loss "Student Service Commission" might of power by campus legislative grate less on Notre Dame ears. bodies as another reason for the The structural overhaul of stu­restructure proposals. At present dent government will not require there are six such bodies with the wholesale approval by SMC. Having continual problem of deciding what witnessed many such attempts to goes where. The ni::w proposal would shake up the present structure and merge these six bodies into a viable establish a working order, most of Student Affairs Commission, a tri­the students will no doubt be un­partite board with faculty, adminis­moved by this latrst attempt. There tration and studeni representation. is, however, a pending furor over the 
Perhaps the most talked about power basis at SMC. The initiators aspect of the new plan is the forma­of the new proposals hope to acceler­tion of a Student Service Commis­ate the deemphasis of class-voting sion or "Union." The body would be blocs and to increase the growing autonomous and answerable only to sentiment for hall-based represen­the Student Advisory Board. It is tation. hoped that the new commission A sign of diminishing class lines would free student government from was the recent dress-code question­the time-consuming s_ervice affairs naire indicating that the majority of which now hinder its performance. students favor community rather 
Sally Strobel emphasizes that the than legislated ruling on this issue. head of the Corru:;ission would not The date and number of open po­be a "trouble-shooter" but a "co­sitions in the spring elections hinge ordinator" of the largely joint ND­on the passage of these proposals. SMC service affairs which are now Vi/hile this year's government has channeled to Therese Ambrusko for begun the long talked about "grand lack of anywhere else to go. experiment" in community govern­
Junior Beth Driscoll, innovator of ment at SMC, the new proposals the proposal, has doubts about the offer the most tangible approach to term "Student Union." Reacting to existing problems. Sally Strobel 

•• '<. • 
~-·-,:i: : : .. ·-, .. 
V V : ' 
~ • '< ~ ' ~ ~ 

Con£ us ion Abroad 
.. -· -~ 
• .,f. J..-f'-~ 

• POTENTIAL FRESHMEN AT SAINT l\1ARY'S COLLEGE are swamped with information concerning the school's Sophomore Year Abroad programs. This interest is carefully fostered, developed, and nurtured. Or was up until the beginning of second semester. 
At this time several academic questions were raised. The basic problem involved is one of fulfilling require­ments. Many requirements are customarily fulfilled in the first two years, however, the Philosophy course in Angers· and the Philosophy, Theology and English courses in Innsbruck will not meet the SMC criteria. 
The problem is one of St. Mary's identity, i.e., if lower division courses can be taken abroad, and upper division ones at Notre Dame, what is Saint Mary's role? "The administrative identity crisis is understand­able," says a student formerly in the program, "but what I can't understand is why the school practically bends over backward to encourage us to enroll in these programs, and then makes it so difficult for us to fulfill their own requirements. A year in Europe is something I was really looking forward to, but I don't know if it's worth five years in college." 
The Scholastic 
A Cluster of Coffee Houses, A Field of Folksingers, A Pride of Poets 

WHEN CHUCK PERRIN RETURNED last year from Angers, there were no coffeehouses on either campus. By the end of the year he had opened one at St. Mary's. Now there are three of them, and jointly they are spon­soring a three-part Folk Festival. The Folk Festival was conceived by Perrin as an opportunity to expose a large number of students to folk music. A Folk Festival has not been held here for several years. They were a fad of a couple of years ago, what with big attendances at hootenannies and teeny-bopper idolization of folk singers. Why the trend back? ,,'hat is the idea behind the return to folk and the Folk Festival itself? 
Part I was Tuesday. Not a grand and glorious per­formance -the showmen were local talent, common folk, not ready for a professional debut at Stepan Cen­ter, just wanting to share something of themselves. Perrin's idea was not presented in a coffeehouse ("some people feel they have to be invited to a coffee­house") but in LaFortune. An invitation to LaFortune? Well. ... "Not on a weekend either ... after all, people have things to do then." Nothing grand, nothing elab­orate, the idea was acquaintance in a casual atmosphere "in the middle of the week when no one really does any­thing anyway." 
Part IT will be in March, a night of Bob Dylan. Part Ill will be in April; Pen-in is planning some big-name entertainment as a climax. But why a Folk Festival at all? Perrin believes, "folk music has a universal appeal; some people don't like blues, but everyone of all ages likes folk music. To me, it's a kind of prayer. I have spent over half of my life at Notre Dame, and now I'm a senior and I'm leaving. I wanted to leave something behind me." Perrin leaves behind tis Folk Festival, Parts I, IT, and III, "a promotion of the folk arts, nat­ural and national arts created by the folk." 

All the Better to Study With! 

February 14, 1969 
THE RELATIVE LACK OF space for quiet study at Sajnt Mary's has led Barbara Curtin, secretary of the stu­dent government, to make inquiries into the possibiliiy of remodelling the dormitory buildings to make them more amenable to the pursuit of scholarship. According to Curtin, the classroom building closes at six o'clock, while the library closes at ten. This means that SMC students who wish to study past ten o'clock must either study in the dorms, where things tend to be a bit noisy, or across the road at Notre Dame. 
Feeling at SMC is that it would be better if the girls could stay in at night and that ways have to be found 
to make the dorms quieter. Accord­ing to Miss Curtin, stmlying, typing. and co~ex facilities. ,vith the primary emphasis on individual study space in the individual halls, may be the answer to the problem. At present the remodelling plan centers around installing carrels in the dormitories with the necessary sound-proofing, space, etc. to make them service­able. There is alsc, some talk about money from outside the college being . used to make ·the top two floors of Regina Hall serviceable for study. Several new buildings being planned may alsc be used to in­crease study space. 


on other campuses 

W
ARNING to an ROTC cadets, 
profs, and suworters: what 
you are about to read you will not 
like or agree with. Don't say we 
didn't warn you. 
Yale, Harvard, and Dartmouth ­
three universities which rate at the 
top of the academic ladder in the 
United States -have taken steps 
within the past two weeks to re­
strict RO'I_'C activity on their 
campuses. 
Yale moved first, when its faculty voted to take academic credit away from ROTC courses, and strip the military officers in charge of the program of the title "professor." The vote was by a margin of 4-1. 
One day later, Dartmouth's facul­ty voted to phase out the ROTC program and, if possible, limit it to summer military camps. A motion to reduce credit for ROTC immedi­ately and to eliminate all credit over a three-year period passed by 101-32. 
Harvard's decision came shortly thereafter. By a vote of approxi­mately 2-1, the Harvard faculty voted to strip ROTC of academic credit, and requested that Harvard refrain from hiring officers as instructors. 
Dr. Arthur Galston, chairman of Yale's faculty committee on the -course of study, said "ROTC is like singing in the Whiffenpoofs -a perfectly fine activity, but one 

that we don't think merits any 
academic standing." 
He added that the faculty's decision was made "exclusively on academic consideration." Yale's board of trustees ratified the faculty decision two days later. 
Reporters from the Lehigh Brown and White interviewed a member of the Yale Daily News staff shortly after the decision was announced. The Yale writer expressed the opinion that the students had felt that the decision would be made sooner in the year, and added that most students felt the faculty decision was a compromise with which they were not wholly satisfied, but "probably nothing will happen because the Yale student body isn't very activist." 
A 
STUDENT boycott of all pay cafeterias at the University of Washington has been only partially successful thus far. The boycott, prompted by the refusal of the cafeterias to refrain from the sale of California table grapes, has resulted in a decline in total business, but an inC"rease in the sales of grapes. 
The boycott is sponsored by a vast coalition of student groups, and is headed by a steering committee which includes representatives of the United Mexican-American Stu­dents, Students for a Democratic Society, Black Student Union, Young Socialist Alliance, the YMCA, and Student Government. 
One of the cafeterias reported a drop in total patronage on the second day of the boycott of some 40 percent. However, that same day that cafeteria sold 28 pounds of grapes in one 45-minute period. 
The university administration says that it plans to remain neutral in the dispute. However, the administration's position is in some question, according to the ACLU spokesmen, who claim it is inconsistent. The executive director of the Seattle ACLU told the University of Wa£hington Daily, "I totally reject the administration's contention that it must sell grapes because the indivicual has the inalienable right to buy grapes. Nowhere does the constitution establish the right to buy a grape." 
T
HE quote of the week, from the Michigan State News: 
"I love America more than any other country in the world, and, exactly for this reason, I insist on the right to criticize her personally."-Jam(;'s Baldwin 
-Steve Novak 
feiffer 
W/l..t,,l(0.)8£ NJDIF (f ITS ]}W l115r 71i/~
H4' VAWJTI~? r Rc­>-VO IU. BReAk' <OLJ.
FV:56f 

WILL!l1.JB6 NJV rF r YOI) fcf'IEff'HA! HAI 
Ml/ VAl£lJTlt:£f RtfVS€7· '({A) f:ffUst'?' . 
~ 
I 


00! 
I 

I. K. MUELLER, INC. 
NATIONALLY ADVIITISID 
Keepsake 
DIAMOND IINGS 
OMIGA-TISSOT-IULOVA 
ELGIN WATCHES AND IINGS SPEIDEL AND KREISLER WATCH BANDS EXPEIT WATCH AND JEWELRY REPAIRING 
218 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 
CALL-233-4200-CALL 

Contact Lens Specialist 
• 
Dr. T. R. Pilot 
Optometrist 
• 
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS 
• 
212 S. Michigan 234-4874 
DOWN 
WITH 
SOILED 

SUMMARIES! 
Up with Eaton's Corrasable Bond Typewriter Paper! An ordinary pencil eraser picks up 
every smudge, every mistake.The special ,--------., surface treatment lets you erase 
-r o"' 
without a trace. If Eaton's Corrasable 

· • ~E,., -"'• 
leaves your papers impeccably neat, -·i. o: 
.· ~<t-1B&J'.: ~ 
what are you waiting for? Get it in light, 

·---­
medium, heavy weights and Onion .::-:_-::~ Skin. In 100-sheet packets and 500-EATON'S_CORRASABLE sheet ream boxes. At Stationery Stores TYPEWlllTEll PAPER and Departments. --h-•• _.:..:___ ___ J 
'-I 
Only Eaton makes Corrasable~ 
EATON'S CORRASABLE BOND TYPEWRITER PAPER 
Eaton Paper Company, Pittsfield, Massachusetts 01201 
February 14, 1969 
Movies 
AVON: 
The Fixer is John Frankenheim­er's screen adaptation of Malamud's novel._ The book won both the Pu1it­zer Prize and the National Book Award for fiction. As cinema, The Fixer is something less than genius; Alan Bates in the lead role does not quite communicate as the oppressed Russian Jew, his performance is sketchy, at times mediocre and un­convincing. Still, the plot line is in itself enough to tie down the view­er's attention, and development is visually interesting and realistic. Critical opinions on this one have been diverse and contradictory, clouding up the basic issue of wheth­er or not the filrr. is worth seeing. And since this column is one of the least of all "critical opinions," I suggest you solve the problem for yourself. The Fixer is certainly good enough to be worth the risk. Call 288-7800 for times. Admission: $2.00. 
GR.AN.AD.A: 

Three in the .Attic is a simple case of movie industry dementia. Yvette Mimieux may have a delec­table torso, but she can't act; C-nris­topher Jones has the talent, but he's chosen to chuck it in favor of his James Dean delusions of angry­young-man grandeur. This time he's hip, not angry, but flat nonetheless. The really macabre element to this film is that it's billed as a comedy. The sadistic qualities of the film are bad enough, sex is used to tease the audience, then warped into an in­sane, brutal expression of the char­acters' own vengeful frustration. The whole film is a lie. The real crime is that the creators of this monster then try to tell us that Three, etc. is "what's happening." The movie is an adolescent se.x-dream gone night­mare, without, apparently, anyone noticing. The sound track by Chad Stuart is cheap, flashy, and detracts (if possible) from a visual expe­rience that scrapes the bottom of the barrel for innovation. Three also makes off with several of The Grad­uate's good ideas, turning them bad in the process (e.g., bus-station finale). The best parts of Three in the .Attic are the startling solariza­tions for credits and -the mediocre cartoon at the end. The drag is what comes between. Admission: $1. 75. Times: 5:30, 7:30, 9:30, or call 233­7301. 
-Fran Maier 
15 

The Controlling Hand 
by Joel Connelly & Tom Payne 

U
NIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME President Rev. Theo­
dore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., last March referred 

resolutions of the General Assembly of Students to a 
special committee of the Board of Trustees. Many 
reading his letter thought that at last a crucial policy 
decision would be made by someone other than the 
president. Indeed Fr. Hesburgh stated "it seemed best 
to me to refer the whole matter of ultimate govern­
ance of the University and ultimate policy of which 
they are the final authority." The Board seemed to act, 
and in mid-May its chairman, Edmund Stephan, pub­
lished a letter creating a tripartite board, now the 
Student Life Council. 
For all practical purposes, this appeared to be a committee decision. However, beneath the surface, the SLC was the work of one Theodore M. Hesburgh. Hesburgh referred deliberations to the Trustees, but influenced the deliberations of the ad hoc Committee, himself proposing the final solution. The May letter itself was largely the work of Hesburgh. 
The foregoing case study illustrates the exercise of power at Notre Dame and the position of the presi­dent. Ultimate authority rests with the Board of Trus­tees. The Academic Council and the Student Life Council are legislative bodies governing academic and student affairs. However, collective decision-making is not the practice at Notre Dame. Overall policy is set by one individual, the most dynamic and powerful figure here, the man Edmund Stephan once referred to as "Father Ted." 
In recent years, the powers of the President on paper have diminished. After all, the Board of Trus­tees can now do everything except sell the buildings. However, as one department head maintains, "The po­tential of decision-making bodies at Notre Dame is not realized." While the president no longer has total power in a technical sense, Hesburgh is Notre Dame's decision-maker. 
This state of affairs does not necessarily represent the desires of Hesburgh. His statements plus the cre­ation of the Board of Trustees demonstrate a desire for something other than singular authority at Notre Dame. Nevertheless, during his busy hours here Hes­burg is integrally involved in every area of University endeavor. "He pokes his nose into everything" is a comment frequently heard. 
Hesburgh's heavy involvement, even while he is away on fund raising and U.S. Civil Rights Commis­(continued on pa.2e 24) 
I
N EVERY ORGANIZATION there is a man whose authority it is to exercise a .financial veto. Usually this man is the company president or ·chairman of the board. Un­derstandably such a figure has great influence over any and every realm of corporate endeavor, since he can pronounce the magic words, "We can't afford it!" He is not restricted to any specific responsibilities, but rather carries out his seemingly negative functions on every level and with every enterprise. 
At Notre Dame there exists an individual who fits this description, a man usually overlooked in the sphere of University authority or regarded con­descendingly as something of a nonentity. We are speaking of the University Executive Vice President, Edmund P. Joyce. At Notre Dame Joyce has the power of the purse. 
In the power structure here, Fr. Hesburgh makes positive policy decisions. However, Hesburgh must travel much of the time and cannot be burdened with questions of financial outlook. The power of decision, or rather of veto, in the monetary realm has thus passed to Joyce. Hesburgh trusts Joyce, and even re­fers money matters to the e..xecutive v.p. for a final judgment. He is rarely known_to overrule Joyce. Thus it is that Joyce can, in the words of a prominent faculty member, "flush 14 years of work down the drain by saying, 'vVe don't have the money.' " 
Joyce's exercise of authority comes in for con­siderable criticism. There is rarely any appeal from one of his decisions, since matters in any number of cases have been referred from Hesburgh. Also, Joyce is reticent about any release of financial data. "He is in his way a good administrator, but he does not see the urgency of the implementation of changes;" is the ob­
(continued. on page 24) 
I
F THE CONTROLLING HAND depicted on the cover had been dealt just 18 months ago, the face of Philip Faccenda would not have been present. Officially styled "Special Assistant to the President" Faccenda has accumulated a number of offices which give him a considerable influence. Faccenda holds mainly sub­ordinate offices of humble title, and few· final decisions rest with him. He has very little power, if power is to be considered as the ability to suppress the wills of other persons in favor of your own. Faccenda's power lies chiefly in his ability to influence the deliberation and judgment of those with whom final decisions lie. 
Officially, Faccenda is Assistant Secretary to the Board of Trustees, and officially is the liason between the President's Office and the Board. A great deal of initiative in drawing up the agenda for a Board meet­ing comes from the President's Office as well as the presentation of the material pertaining· to the agenda items. All this will ultimately pass through the hands of Faccenda. By being involved in the preparation of material for Board consideration, Faccenda stands in relation to the Board roughly as a committee of the Congress to the Congress itself. Reflection on the pow­er of Congressional committees should give the reader some idea of the potentialities of Faccenda's office. 
Faccenda is the Executive Secretary of the Student Life Council; he sits in on every meeting and has the privilege of the floor which he often uses to influence the SLC to regard him as the spokesma1:1, for the presi­dent's Office, there is a tendency for the members of the SLC to regard him as the spokesman for the Presi­dent, the only person who can veto SLC decisions. This gives him a subtle leverage to influence the de­cisions of the body. According to sources on the 
(continued. on page 24) 



cJ 
0 
en , . 
~ ....."--,.,,. 1-~. • ...,.,~ 
< ~ .,,. ..., 
~ .;,.~fi\.:: ~ 
,";.: f~ 
h 
L 
G) 
.c 
0) 
ca 
L 
L 
ca 
0 0 
E 

ANY account of the intersecting strands of influence 
n, that comprise the webs of power at Notre Dame 
would not be complete unless it gave some mention to 
the remaining officers of the University and to the Of­
ficers' Council. 

The Officers' Council, sometimes called the Local 
Council or Council of Vice-Presidents, consists of the 
vice-presidents of the University (Academic Affairs, 
Business Affairs, Student Affairs, Public Relations and 
Development, and Research and Sponsored Programs), 
the executive vice-president, the president and his 
three assistants. It meets once a month, without any 
formally established procedure, but it does keep min­
utes. Very few persons know about this council since 
it is not a formal structure, and since it has no authori­
ty per se to decide anything. 
The influence which this monthly gathering exer­cises should not be minimized because of the relative lack of notoriety of its meetings. The Council's meet­ings are devoted mainly to problem solving. One vice­president will present a difficulty which he is having within his particular sphere of competence and then hear his colleagues give him any advice which they may deem proper to give. The Council thus serves to give a unity to the overall direction of the day-to-day admin­istration of the University, and serves as a basis for the formation o.f a unified front on the part of the Administration as it presents itself to the rest of the University community. The inbreeding of ideas inevi­table because of such close and constant contact among the University's vice-presidents must be assumed to effect a similar unity among those members of the Administration who are also on the Board of Trustees. These men are Fr. Hesburgh, Fr. John E. Walsh, the vice-president for Academic Affairs; Fr. Jerome J. Wilson, vice-president for Business Affairs; Dr. George 
N. Shuster, a special assistant to the president; Fr. Joyce; and Fr. Charles McCarragher, vice-president for Student Affairs. This group is probably the only faction identifiable as of yet among the Board of Trustees. 
F
ROM the student point of view, three of the vice­presidents of the University deserve special attention. They are Fr. Walsh, Fr. Wilson, and Fr. McCarragher. Students have far more to do with them and with the workings of their offices than they have to do with James Frick of Public Relations and Development and Dr. Frederick Rossini of Research and Sponsored Programs. 
Fr. Walsh of Academic Affairs runs his office in a rather lethargic fashion. Most initiative in academic matters does not co:rrie from him or his associates; they are generally to be found in the role of executives, car­rying out the decisions and policies made chiefly at other places. Among those who do take the lead in academic policy-making are Fr. Hesburgh and his spe­cial assistant, Dr. Shuster, who also heads the Center for the Study of Man in Contemporary Society. Fr. Hesburgh is personally interested in academic adminis­tration; his whole tenure as president has been devoted to improving the academic standing of the University. Dr. Shuster's directorship of the Center located on the eleventh floor of the library was an office created espe­cially for him. His particular talent lies in an uncanny ability to cook up projects which either philanthropic institutes or the federal government will support. At the first sign of green he can get a sociologist, a psy­chologist and a political scientist flying off to New 
York to study narcotics addiction even though no one 
(continued on 'JXl{Je 24) 
18 
the board of trustees 
C
ONTRARY to popular imagination, the supreme gov­ernance of the University as a corporate entity does not rest with the Board of Trustees but with a body called the Board of Fellows. The Fellows con­sist of six priests of the Congregation of the Holy Cross and six laymen. These same six priests previously exercised supreme control of the University as the former clerical Board of Trustees which was abolished in the reforms of May 1967. The six clerical Fellows, who are also ex officio Trustees, are Fr. John E. Walsh, vice-president for Academic Affairs; Fr. John J. Cav­anaugh, former president; Fr. Howard J. Kenna, Pro­vincial Superior of the C.S.C.; Fr. Edmund P~ Joyce, executive vice-president; Fr. Charles I. McCarragher, vice-president for Student Affairs; and Fr. Hesburgh. The lay Fellows, also ex officio Trustees, are I. A. O'Shaughnessy, an oil executive; Edmund Stephan, a lawyer and chairman of the Board of Trustees; Bernard Voll, machine tool tycoon; J. Peter Grace, shipping magnate and 1967 Laetare medalist; and Paul Helmuth, another lawyer. 
The Fellows exercise supreme legal governance be­cause they alone can alter or amend the by-laws of the University, elect Trustees, and approve the trans­fer or disposal of University property. The Fellows are further empowered to maintain "the essential charac­ter of the University as a Catholic institution of higher learning" by two-thirds vote of the body. These pow­ers have never been exercised. 
When the formation of the lay Board of Trustees was announced, Stephan stated that there would be no radical changes in the policy of the University, since the innovations were of a purely legal, and not prac­tical, nature. Prior to the formation of the lay Board the old clerical Board did not take any major steps without consulting and securing the approval of the old lay Board whose members now compose the new Board. 
In the main, the new Board has been true to its chairman's promise not to make any radical innova­tions of its own. The formation of the Student Life Commission was on the authority of the Board, but not on its initiative. That came largely from Fr. Hes­burgh with Student Government seconding his peti­tion. In fact, as noted earlier, Hesburgh's heavy as­sist to Stephan in the authorship of the letter creating the SLC is widely bruited in informed circles. The reason for the Board's lack of initiative stems largely from a sense of caution arising from its newness. Its first year was spent largely in accustoming itself to its new position. This year, however, they seem to be asserting some independence: at the fall meeting, there were grumblings of dissatisfaction over Hes­burgh's frequent absences from the campus. D 
the academic council 
R
OUGHLY SPEAKING, the Academic Council is to the intellectual life of the University what the SLC was intended to be for student life. Both exercise a legislative power within their own respective spheres of competence. The Academic Council, however, is a much larger body than the SLC consisting of the President of the University, the Vice-President for Academic Affairs, the heads of. departments and various other ex cfficio members, plus an equal num­ber of elected members chosen by the faculty. 
No student sits on the Academic Council, and the relative effectiveness of that body as compared to the lack of accomplishments on the part of the SLC serves as an interesting commentary on student power at this University. This situation has a two-fold cause. First of all, the Academic Council is an institution of much greater age than the SLC, and has a much longer and 
February 14, 1969 
better institutional memory; this gives it the necessary self-confidence to take matters into its own hands and to depart from traditional ways of t..liinking in policy­making. The SLC on the other hand is new to its power and unused to its exercise; it proceeds cautiously and slowly for fear of making a mistake. 
The second reason for the_ fact that the Academic Council has developed its potentials far more than its sister in student life lies within the general psycho­logical milieu in which the two councils operate. A casual glance at the history of this University ever since Fr. Hesburgh became its President reveals a gen­erally progressive attitude with respect to academics and a rather conservative attitude towards any inno­vations in student life. These attitudes serve as a liberating force for the Academic Council while re­
(continued on page 24) 
the student life council 
U
NDER the influence of Fr. Hesburgh, the Board of Trustees last May decreed creation of a tri­
partite board with legislative power over the realm ofCl) student affairs. This decision saw final implementationCl) this past fall with realization of the University Stu­
dent Life Council. The Council is a legislative body.
Q) Its decisions can be vetoed by Fr. Hesburgh, but in the exercise of veto the president has pledged to refer any 
¦ 
-
such issue to the Trustees. The SLC, with the bulk of its membership elected,
~ got off to an auspicious start by at once deciding af­firmatively on senior cars. However. this has been its one legislative action in better than three months of
-ca activity. Council work has largely been done in sub­committee, and has consisted mostly of exhaustive study in such areas as hall life and dining hall condi­tions. Indeed; study has been the response of the Coun­cil to a number of the crises which have come up thus far in the year. For instance, with the clashes over the film confiscation last Friday the SLC has created a
Cl) subcommittee to investigate the violence. A subcommit­tee came into existence to look into the dining halls-after October's food poisoning. 
r:. 

The campus cheered with the creation of the Stu­Cl) ,-.. dent Life Council, and the Observer praised its early decisiveness on the senior car issue. However, as the 
¦­

L subcommittees have delved into intricacies, criticism has mounted. The SLC has been called a "do nothing" body. SLC members, though, see progress being made. Dean of Students Rev. James L. Riehle, C.S.C., contends 
(continued on page 24) 
the controlling hand 
ALMOST every community has a formal structure to fi govern it, but as everyone knows, the organiza­tional flow charts which describe the coordinations and subordinations of this structure are very often pictorial fairy tales. The actual situation is far more dependent upon personalities, working agreements be­tween officials, and the traditions and psychology of the community in which the formal structure operates. This is no less true of Notre Dame; perhaps it is even more true here, since the smallness of the community
~ 

makes intangible qualities such as personality an im­
L 

portant element in the over-all scheme of things as theyca really are. 
E 
The reader should note that by the term "power" the authors of this article do not mean absolute con­trol. In the sort of liberal society of which this uni­
E 
versity is a part, there are few tsardoms left, even in the most restricted areas of authority. However, it is inevitable that in any decision-makmg process, some 
en 
persons would have more to say than others and that::::J those who do have the final say will be heavily in­fluenced by others. It is this dimension of decision­
making with which the study was chiefly concerned. 
The editorship of this magazine thought that a study of the relationships of the inter-reacting in­fluences in the Administration and other governing bodies would be valuable to the student body in the future, particularly to those who would like to get something out of the power structure. The study itself was written by two associate editors and is the result 
(continued on page 24) 
20 
The Scholastic 

Doug Marvin: The Liturgy of Confrontation 
A
VERY SAD event occurred in Cleveland last January 26. Two priests decided to celebrate Mass in St. John's · cathedral 15 minutes before the regularly scheduled Mass was to begin. The priests were holding the Mass for a group called "Christians Wno Care," and it was to be a protest against the "establishment" Catholics who, it was purported, didn't care.
-iii 

Police were called in to break up the affair, the two priests were immediately sus­pended by their bishop, and a melen occurred during which hosts were dropped to the floor. (This confronta­tion had an aura oi the Democratic National Convention in Chicago in that the police got tough, innocent people were hurt, and reporters were "ushered" outside.) During the scuffle inside of the cathedral, the two cele­brants held up hosts and asked questions like, "Whose law must we obey?" They kept repeating sentences like, "This is the body of Christ. Show reverence to it." As with all confrontations, people were polarized and a conflict resulted. One side used force while the other claimed God to be on their side. Because such an event is becoming typical in the late 1960's, especially on college campuses, it demands analysis. 
Contemporary confrontation in America, of the type mentioned above, takes shape in the mind of the demonstrator. The desire for open conflict initially arises out of a situation which the potential demon­strator believes to be inequitable. His inability to cor­rectly diagnose the problem, find its root, and then move to the most efficient solution, frustrates him. While the problem is most often a real one, the poten­tial demonstrator never truly understands it or its implications; he is moved by the emotional frustration of some form of existing injustice. The outraged man immediately finds the "establishment" 1:1nreasonable because of its inability to promptly remove that which is the cause of his emotional instability and insecurity. The only solution open to such irrationality seems to be a confrontation. The open conflict purposefully in­duced by a demonstrator is ultimately used more to justify and fortify his own beliefs than to construc­tively eliminate the injustice. The self-justification begins with unclear thinking and almost always ends up in violence. 
T
HE WORD "confrontation" itself describes the na­ture of the protest; usually the demonstrator will­ingly breaks a law, thus forcing the authorities to either enforce the law or back down. Whatever path is chosen, the demonstrator is the psychological win­ner. If the authorities back down, then the demon­strator says that he was right all along. Even more interesting, if the "establishment" resists and force is used, then those in authority are rebuked for re­sorting to violence. Violence, as does nothing else, cleanses the demonstrator of any doubt and draws the lines of right and ·wrong most clearly. Once a demonstrator is forcibly resisted, he becomes certain who his enemy is. Because of the frustration caused by his inability to solve the existing problem and be­cause of the violence which was prescribed by his own actions, the demonstrator concludes that those in authority perpetrate injustice. Acts of confrontation are forming a citltu.s, and they are being used, though mistakenly, to shore up the speculations of certain demonstrators. 
In conclusion, it must be pointed out that this article has not been an attack on civil disobedience per se; certainly all demonstrations are not like the one which has been described. No one is even saying that right isn't on the side of the demonstrator. How­ever, if the call for justification of belief arises from man's reason, it is hardly likely that an ultimately verifiable justification will result from an irrational search. Even less will the cause of justice be served. . 
February 14, 1969 
T
HE IDSTORY of the battle between men of good will and the hydra of pornography has been one of attempt5 to preserve what is considered good in society, and to excise the destructive. For this rea­son, it has often been a tragic chronical, because it has been fought on the high plane of idealism, with few participants ever in real agreement about what exactly it was they were fighting. 
HO\vever, picturing the Greek who coined the word porrwgraphos gives an interesting insight into the emotional issues that lie behind the problem of ob­scenity. The epithet means "writing of harlots," and was probably first hurled by an obnoxed, togaed cerebral who had been suddenly and distastefully re­minded of the vulgarities of pre-Christian washroom graffiti. 
Hysterical manifestations of this concern are al­ways with us in this country. Book burnings and picketing of bookshops considered offensive seem to be the most popular tactics of the instant crusades against pornography. But usually they are only local efforts directed against one particular book or book­shop that someone has suddenly found his son un­naturally attracted to. 
The most serious citizens' effort to come to grips with pornography is that of the Citizens for Decent Literature. According to Raymond Gauer, the national executive secretary, the CDL's objectives are to (1) educate the public to the "problem" of pornography, and (2) help stop the flow of it through the law. 
The "problem," according to Gauer, is a social, not a personal one. The interest is in pornography's affect on public, not private, morality. Noting the increase of venereal disease, illegitimacy, and sex crimes in the nation, the CDL claims that the open availability of hard core pornography is a major contributing factor to this rise. They are quick to make it clear that they do not feel this is the only factor. However, they figure they've got to start somewhere. 
Their definition of pornography is ·of necessity iden­tical to that of the courts, inasmuch as lawsuits re­sulting from aroused public indignation are their only weapon. 
T
HE COURTS, in turn, came across with a landmark case in 1957 in Roth vs. The United States. The topic was allegedly obscene advertisements and books which came in violation of federal law by being sent through the mails. 
This was the case in which the Supreme Court set up the definition of the obscene as "material which deals with sex in a manner appealing to prurient in­terest," then defining prurient interest as "a shameful or morbid interest in nudity, sex, or excretion." 
Of course, all this does is push the problem back one notch. How does one go about determining how to apply this definition? 
The test that the Court approved of was the one articulated by the lower court judge who had originally tried Roth. He instructed the jury: 
"The test in each case is the effect of the book, picture or publication considered as a whole, not upon any particular class, but upon all those whom it is likely to reach. In other words, you determine its impact upon the average person in the community. The books, pictures and circulars must be judged as a whole, in their entire context, and you are not to con­sider detached or separate portions in reaching a con­clusion. You judge the circulars, pictures and publica­tions which have been put in evidence by present-day standards of the community. You may ask yourselves, 
THE ISSUE RAISED BY THE CONFERENCE RAGES ON ... WHAT IS PORNOGRAPHY? 
A Horny 

does it offend the common conscience of the com­munity by present-day standards?" 
Since the test is on the effect of the material, Chief Justice Warren noted in a separate concurring opinion, the material must be "calculated" to corrupt or de­bauch. 
And finally, Justice Harlan, in a dissenting opinion, points out that this is still a broad definition, brings up the point that a lot of juries might, under the above test, find Joyce's Ulysses obscene, and so states that, to be declared obscene, the material must be "utterly without redeeming social importance." 
In practice, this has resulted in a situation where obscenity convictions are obtained basically in situa­tions where the material itself was treated and adver­tised by the distributor as hard-core pornography. 
N
OTRE DAME'S Dr. Gerhart Niemeyer takes a more metaphysical approach to the whole business. First of all, he asserts that the only way one can claim that there is no such thing as pornography is to say that there is no such thing as good and bad. There are no social values. 
Customs of society, he stresses, are not rational. They cannot be challenged according to a strict, ra­tionally derived formula. Japanese society until quite recently for example, found kissing illicit and immoral and therefore considered a Doris Day movie quite shocking. To a lesser degree, Americans find the time honored Japanese custom of smacking one's wife around the house just to keep her aware of her station in life somewhat disconcerting. 
At any rate, "I cannot imagine," says Niemeyer, justifying attempts to suppress pornography, "a society which would not -protect sexual intimacy against what it considers lewdness." 
It comes down to the real problem, then, of dis­covering where the society wishes to draw the line. 
First of all, Niemeyer disagrees that something like a university community can exist as an alien structure within a larger society. He makes the point that the university can be taken out of the context of society only insofar as it pertains to the function of the educational institution. And since he feels that ob­scenity is not something subject to rational discussion, only measurement of society's taste, he does not con­sider it an academic question. 
Then, borrowing an Aristotelian concept, he sug­gests that the person who would know best what con­stitutes illicit treatments of sex in a given social context would be the S'f)Odaios-the mature man, the man who loves that which is highest in him. 
There are two basic problems with this, however. It only puts the problem back another notch so that the problem is now finding someone who qualifies as a S'f)Odaios, and beyond that, it is not a particularly democratic concept. 
At any rate, if someone were found to give the 
Dilemma 
by Joel Garreau 

answer, Niemeyer holds, the test question put to him 
would have to be something on the order of "What 
are mothers trying to protect their daughters from?" 
That society is always in the midst of change is a 

truism, he points out. However, there is always a 
critical mass of stability from which this decision 
could be made. And if critics were to claim that people 
only want to be protected from their own dirty minds 
by all this attempt to suppress pornography, the only 
answer would be to concede gracefully its accurateness 
and an inability to understand what is objectionable 
with that. 
B
EYOND the pale of all this manipulation of defini­
tions and tests stand what might be characterized 

as the liberal and the radical positions. 
The liberal position, essentially stated, is that ob­

scenity, like beauty, is in the mind of the beholder. 
Therefore, it decries attempts to limit a person by im­
posing social concepts of what is objectionable on him. 
With this line comes a modification of the meaning 

of the word pornography. While its strict meaning is 
limited to treatments of sex, the more liberal position 
is that obscenity is, in the words of Allen Ginsberg, 
"something dirty that people did to be dirty." All kinds 
of things then can quite possibly come under that label, 
from the Vietnam war as perpetrate,~ by Lyndon John­
son, to Lyndon Johnson as perpetrated by the Creator. 
The radical position requires something of an un­usual view of morality. The claim is made that no such thing as pornography exists, because if the ma­terial in question does no more than arouse the person exposed to it, it has redeeming social value because it felt good to the person who was aroused. This po­sition can get fairly complicated because it denies the usefulness of morality, inasmuch as it is by definition imposed by standards that arise from outside the in­dividual. 
Better than a morality, it is argued, is an ethic in which survival would be the first imperative, or right, that the person must be assured of, and then so on down the line with the right of the person to develop as an individual as the touchstone. This is the ethic upon which is based the justification for doing one's "thing." 
The problem presented by all these theories about pornography is that they are spa\vned by disparate views of what is valuable in society. And this relates back to the problem of the Pornography Conference, why it was called, and what it could have accomplished. The point is that one's view of pornography is de­termined by one's life style, and what one is offended by, if anything. The Conference could have been a vehicle to examine the various ideas about what con­stituted obscenity, trace their origins, perhaps make value judgments, and thereby, perhaps, reflect on the larger issues of the meaning of society and its values, which is what the academic process is all about. D 
CENSORSHIP 
THROUGH HISTORY 
T
HROUGHOUT history the problem of censorship 
has been inherent to nearly every form of cen­
trally organized government. Authoritarians who 
maintain that man is innately weak, a phlegmatic 
dull animal who of necessity must be protected 
from himself, have found themselves pitted against 
libertarians who, on the other hand, defend the 
citizen's right to decide in an atmosphere of free 
discussion what is worthwhile for himself as an 
individual and for the community as a whole. 
According to the Roman historian Tacitus, the first ruler to censor the spoken or written word was Emperor Augustus who ordered the works of Labienus to be burned. Nearly ever major religion has declared certain forms of spiritual teaching to be heretical and has actively campaigned against them. Political and religious control of ideas, how­ever, considerably predates any form of sex cen­sorship. The Victorian era in England ushered in an unprecedented attack on art fcrms felt to under­mine the moral fiber of a populace. 
This attitude gradually spread to the English colonies. In America, Hawthorne's The Scarlet Let­ter was termed a "brokerage of lust." Huckleberry Finn was banned as "trash and suitable only for slums." Before the middle of the 19th century three states, Vermont, Connecticut and Massachusetts, had passed laws dealing with obscenity. In 1873 the Federal Comstock Laws forbade the mailing and in­terstate transport of obscene materials. President Theodore Roosevelt once termed Tolstoy "a sexual and moral pervert." A customs court in 1928 de­clared James Joyce's Ulysses to be obscene, only to have that decision reversed in 1934 by a higher court. 
Among those works to have been banned in cer­tain areas of the world at various times through history include: Homer's OdyssmJ; Cervantes' Don Qu,ixote; De Foe's Robinson Crusoe; Swift's Gulliver's Travels; Voltaire's Candide; Goethe's Famt; Gibbon's Decline and Fall of the Roman Em'flire; Flaubert's 11/ladame Bovary; Stowe's Uncle Tom's Cabin; Hardy's Tess of the d'Urber­villes; Upton Sinclair's Oil; Lawrence's Women in Love; and Sinclair Lewis' Elmer Gantry. Malory's Morte d' Arthwr was accused of being nothing more than "bold adultery and willful murder."· Among the hallmarks of Western thought banned for their rev­olutionary social content ran!c the writings of Rous­seau and Bacon, Montaigne's Essays; Descartes' Meditations; Kant's Philosophy; Darwin's Origin of Species and Machiavelli's The Prince. 
-Phil Kukielski 

February 14, 1969 
HESBURGH (continued from page 16) 
sion activities more than 100 days each year, has 
produced a continued reliance by underlings on presi­
dential decision-making. In spite of greater division 
of authority, officials beneath Hesburgh continue to 
defer decisions to the president. 
Hesburgh thus continues to exercise supreme con­
trol of University affairs. Academic Council and SLC 
decisions in the academic and student realms are re­
ferred to him. The Board of Trustees has thus far 
shown willingness to do his bidding. This is not to say 
Hesburgh is power-hungry. He has initiated decen­
tralization measures. Hesburgh also is not directly 
concerned with every official's actions. His time is not 
spent in negotiations and conferences, and he is some­
what Gaulist in his aloofness from day-to-day con­
troversy. However, the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, 
C.S.C., runs the University of Notre Dame. . 
JOYCE (continued from page 17) 
servation of one administrator who has had to deal with the executive vice president. This criticism, oft :7oiced in interviews made in preparing this story, is illustrated in a meeting of the dining hall subcom­mittee of the Student Life Council with Joyce earlier this year. This meeting took place shortly after the fall food poisoning at the North Dining Hall. One member of the committee commented afterwards "We
' 
came to see Joyce just after 100 students had re­ported to the infirmary. We asked him a number of questions about improving the facilities, but he re­flected concern about one thing and one thing only, "What would all of this cost?" . 
FACCENDA (continued from page 17) 
Council, the moral authority which Faccenda's rela­tionship to the president gives him provides part of the psychological milieu in which the Council operates. 
Continuing on the theme of Faccenda's place in stu­dent affairs, one may observe a trend towards assign­ing him therole of mediator between theAdministration and the student body when problems or crises arise. This role was formerly played by Fr. McCarragher who was still active in it last spring during the trouble over -the suspension of four students for violating the rules of parietal hours. However, since then Faccenda's personality began to assert itself more and more dur­ing the negotiations to form the SLC and during the business over the CIA sit-in. During the trouble over the Pornography Conference, Faccenda appeared ex­clusively in McCarragher's old role. . 
VICE-PRESIDENTS (continued from page 18) 
may previously have had any idea that persons quali­fied for such a project were at Notre Dame. Since ~buster brings home the bacon, he has the influence that ready cash brings. 
Fr. Wilson of Business Affairs is, like Walsh, primarily an executive rather than an innovator or policy-maker. He is for instance in charge of procuring the furnish­ings for the new dorms, the disbursement of salaries the book store, the dining halls, the laundry. He doe~ not exercise final discretion in financial matters, as 

many think; as has been pointed out above, Fr. Joyce 
exercises that authority. 
The position o..E Fr. McCarragher of Student Affairs 
is at present extremely ambiguous and his role is in 
flux. This is because the creation oi the SLC has de­
prived him of his role as chief mediator between stu­
dents who want something and an Administration 
which would like to think a while before giving it. Fr. 
McCarragher formerly held a kind of party boss posi­
tion, distributing patronage in the form of rectorships 
and in general trying to keep everyone happy and 
quiet. The patronage has been lost, and people now 
look to the SLC for reform. Many feel that McCar­
ragher has willingly given up his role as chief politician. 
He was formerly at the center of every controversy on 
campus -an uncomfortable position at best. Now he 
can just sit back and watch the demonstrators go by. D 
ACADEMIC COUNCIL (continued from page 19) 
stricting the SLC. The spirit of conservatism in stu­dent affairs has been engendered by the men of the Administration who formerly held supreme power here, and it is their legacy to those to whom they have yielded power. The constantly changing members of the Academic Council have no such legal, due to the long formal stability of the Council. . 
STUDENT LIFE COUNCIL (continued from page 20) 
that an "attitude of mutual trust'' has developed in the Council, an attitude which is laying the groundwork for the body attaining a firm foundation for action. Riehle sees an opening up of individual opinion in the Council, with administrators, faculty. and students no longer speaking simply as group representatives. Stu­dent Body Vice-President Chuck Nau adds that "Just because we're not passing bills doesn't mean we aren't doing anything.'' Nau maintains that extensive Council study, especially in an area such as student life, is necessary for meaningful legislation. 
SLC development in the future may be patterned after the growth and activism of the Academic Council which last year boldly enacted an open speaker polic; at Notre Dame. The SLC has had to gain footing, and the breakdown in polarization of groups is a most en­couraging sign. However, the SLC still has a long way to go as a legislative body and the final voice in matters of student affairs continues to rest with Fr. Hes­
~~ . 
SUMMARY (continued from page 20) 
of ~our year~ of observation, news reporting, investi­gative reportmg, and off-the-record interviews. Possibly the most significant discovery made in the preparation for this issue was finding out exactly what Fr. Joyce does besides apologize to freshman parents because Fr. Hesburgh will not be able to make it to their son's orientation. The personal influence which he is able to exercise in the area of finances epitomizes the reasons why this article was published and vindicates the method used. . 
Joel Connelly: The Common Denominator 
-t 
A
s I write this column Notre Dame is in the process of cooling off. I expect that by the time this comes out, a face-saving compromise will be in the making to release the film that was so brutally seized in 127 Nieuwland last Friday. We will probably have received an­other "beacon -crossroads -dia­logue" definition of community from Fr. Hesburgh. At Notre Dame the aftermath is always 

predictable to a considerable extent. However, this was no ordinary controversy. There was violence on this campus a week ago and there are disturbing signs that a repeat performance can be anticipated sometime in the future. 
Without doubt the entry of outside police onto the campus, plus their actions in 127 Nieuwland, triggered the combat. You cannot barge into a room occupied by 200 people, refuse to show warrant or identification, seize someone's property, drag a girl down some stairs, and expect to escape scot-free. Chemical MACE does not exactly inspire people to turn the other cheek. Most importantly, the knowledge that law-enforcement officials are themselves brutal and prone to act outside the law is not likely to inspire community confidence. 
The causes of the violence, plus reasons for expect­ing the events of last Friday to be repeated, lie before us. The Notre Dame student body itself does not have either the degree of unity or the political punch neces­sary to keep the St. Joseph County fuzz from this campus. Student government, in spite of the coura­geous behavior of its Academic Commission when under fire, has neither the resources nor the initiative to press for a redress of grievances. As things stand now intervention similar to that at the Pornography Conference is possible at any number of events coming up during this semester. No steps are being taken downtown to investigate what the police did do, includ­ing likely criminal acts such as attacking a girl and Macing a photographer. The issue at the moment is indeed an open one, open to further violence and law­lessness on the part of both students and police. 
We might ask ourselves, then, whether a force exists which can act to prevent further violence. The influ­ence of the University in South Bend community affairs is undoubtedly very great. In a reverse occurrence of the events of last week the Administration has in the past been able to reach into South Bend and close movies and events it disapproved of. Top officials three years ago hounded a local innkeeper into cancelling auditorium rental for the speech of the dissident, tradi­tionalist priest, Fr. Gomar DePauw. In a positive light, the Administration coolheadedness kept Elmer Sokol, his men, his dogs, and his MACE from the campus during last year's ROTC Presidential Review sitdown. The St. Joseph County deputies were again not called in during last spring's major panty raid. 
February 14, 1969 
W 
E thus see that the Administration has great 
power, and due to the University being private property normally can restrain Soutb. Bend's extremists and their storm troopers. Indeed, t.lirough Thursday of last week Administration skill was able to help keep the prosecuting attorney at ·arm's length. Fr. Hes­burgh's assistant, Mr. Philip Faccenda, did an admira­ble job in helping SUAC as heat was applied. 
However, when two minutes of Flaming Creatures was shown without the knowledge of SUAC, the Admin­istration's restraining influence slackened. As South Bend's authorities prepared to act in their usual brutal fashion and made plans for possible invasion of the 
N.D. campus, the pressure which could possibly have stopped them was not applied. In fact, the prosecutor stated that he could not have entered into University property ,vithout authorization. The attitude of the good fathers who preside over the "Notre Dame com­munity" is indicated by Mr. Faccenda's defense of the police actions at Sunday's SLC meetnig. 
What in the long run caused the Administration to back away and allow a potentially violent situation to be realized? I for one do not believe the showina of two minutes of Flaming Creatures was a "breach of honor" of major dimensions. In spite of the .flak en­dured by SUAC officials the cause lies elsewhere. Neither do I buy the notion that the Administration backed away when presented with a warrant. The Uni­versity has sufficient influence in South Bend that Fr. Hesburgh might have stopped the prosecutor from act­ing. The publicity consciousness of top Administrative officials, plus all the propaganda about "Notre Dame as a home for divergent opinion," make moral out­rage an unlikely cause of major outside police inter­vention. 
We are left by elimination with one remaining rea­son for the backing away: financial c0nsideration. Now "pressure" is the most difficult thing in the world to prove and the easiest to deny. Quite obviously the "decent literature" bigots of South Bend did a neat and direct job on the prosecutor. However, where the Uni­versity is concerned, the very· threat of a money squeeze may have sufficed. Notre Dame is increasingly con­scious of South Bend money, and this consciousness alone may provide the reason for the order to cancel the films and the allowing of outside police to invade the campus. On such considerations hinges the fate of free expression at Notre Dame. To put it mildly, money is a major motivational factor in the running of this University. 
In view of the actions of South Bend authorities last week the Notre Dame community can in no way feel secure. Free expression has ·been severely jeopardized. For all the "bring us together" talk orJy one force here is powerful enough to keep the swine away and pre­clude further outbreaks-the Administration. In this situation a further backing away by this force would endanger Notre Dame as an educational institution and center of dialogue. 

Text by Mario Corradi Photos by John Wehrheim 
Above, a student is Maced; right, police flee students. 

W 
HAT HAPPENED last week here at Notre Dame looks like an annoying nightmare that will not be ended for a long, long time. I still cannot believe that police officers entered the University campus unimpeded, penetrated a University building, and confiscated material to be shown in the framework of an academic event. Yet something more has to be added to the picture-the silence of the Administration. As Goldsmith once said: "Silence gives consent." The comment issued by University officials is anodyne and suspiciously indifferent: They had the right to do so! 
This week has been a sedative for the passions. Now everyone would prefer to forget, and everyone is making good proposals: the students will be more attentive in planning future conferences and the Ad­ministration more prudent in giving permissions diffi­cult to maintain. But nobody questions the basic issue. The fact indeed remains that the police had and do have the right to intervene in the internal affairs of the University. The next time the D.A. decides that in the University there are the elements of a crime, the police will be able to enter into the University, break up activities, seize property and arrest people. They have the right to do so! 
,.
; ;, .., 
~: ~i>,.I,\~
•. 

I' < -::, , , ~. 
,,_,,.,,, .. 
silence

• t~~';,. y ~~~~~.. ' 
:4,,,;";-.. ~ .,.--" 
•
gives consent 


If this is the case, then the very idea of the Uni­versity is in serious danger. It is my intention to bring to the attention of the entire academic community the seriousness of such a situation. Now is the time to consider together the implications of the events of the past week. The meaning of the intervention of the police on campus and the resigned attitude of the Administra­tion goes far beyond the quarrel over a pornography conference. What is at stake is nothing less than the survival of the University itself-as a university. 
I confess that for me this intervention is utterly incomprehensible. I was educated in the European uni­versities which are so jealous of their independence and freedom that no policeman can enter the university buildings unless formally called by the president-no matter how grave the disturbance or the crime com­mitted inside the university might be. The governments take pride in defending this right whose rationale is obviously the preservation of academic freedom against any possible external intervention, either political or military. It is very significant that in Western Europe only in Portugal, Spain and Gr~ece has this right been abolished, and that one of the first acts of the Nazi and Fascist regimes was to take over the universities and to abolish their freedom. 
The legislation in the U.S. is different. But this is 

exactly what should be questioned and discussed. Iron­
ically enough, the very afternoon that the policemen 
were exercising their "right" to restore the law by an 
intervention on the University campus, a few buildings 
away Dr. Harris L. Wofford, president of the New York 
State College at Old Westbury, in delivering the keynote 
address at the Symposium on Human Rights and the 
Law, was stating that a law school such as Notre 
Dame's should "work to replace the idea of the law as 
a command with the idea of the law as a question. 
Each law in a democracy should constantly raise 
questions: Is this a rule of reason? Is it good, just, 
true? Does it deserve consent or dissent? Should it be 
changed? Can it in conscience be obeyed?" (from 
The New York Times, Feb. 8). 
The question is: Is it a rule of reason that a uni­versity be no different from any other place in town? Is it good, just, or true that its freedom be exercised and judged according to the ordinary standards? The answer must be no. And the answer derives necessarily from the peculiar character of the university. The im­partiality of research, the broadmindedness that must direct its members cannot be safeguarded unless it is protected against the possibility of interference from outside. The university is at the service of the entire society, but this service requires that it be free to investigate any problem, any matter, any idea without restrictions whatsoever. To make mistakes is part of the dynamics of free research; it belongs to the process of learning. But to choke off mistakes by means of force is to choke off that very process. 
At this point, I imagine, a lot of people would argue the "cultural values" of the specific case of the last week. Let us then consider in concrete what did happen last week. 
T
HE S.U.A.C. organized a conference on pornogra­phy. Why not? If that line of Terence, homo su.m, nil hu,mani alienmn a me puto (I am a man; I consider nothing which is human to be foreign to me), is valid for every man, it should be the guideline of the aca­demic community. Moreover, this particular problem is so widespread in our society that a frank discussion of it would have been beneficial for everybody. The conference, therefore, was neither "inappropriate" (as the Observer so wisely adduced) nor just an "artistic event" (as some bohemians contended). It is absurd to defend the conference on the ground of artistic expres­sion. It is notorious that art is sometimes a hypocritical screen to cover a reality that otherwise would be shame­ful. And frankly it would be ludicrous to say that the art exhibition should have gone on because it was artistic. There is no art in a pictorial representation of a fellatio . . . unless of course there is a tenth Muse who still hides herself in some recondite corner of Parnassus. The art exhibition was plainly what erotic pictures are all about, a document of customs. Those pictures, after all, weren't so different from certain erotic representations on Greek vases or from the frescos of the Pompeian brothel. And, by the way, isn't it bizarre how many centuries are needed by Erotica to become an accepted and respectful form of art? If we had to talk on pornography, we simply had to see pornographic pictures. The same for the movies: it is just self-evident that-by definition-a conference on pornography couldn't have shown a movie on the life, say, of St. Maria Goretti. 
Pornography has to be considered for what it is: a social plague. In this respect it is a problem both nationally and local. Anyone who happens to use the public restrooms on campus has seen on the walls the same pictures which were displayed on the second floor of La Fortune--with the addition of messages, tele­phone numbers and so on. As far as movies go, every student can see the same ones in New York, Chicago or any other big city. But when he happens to go to see them, he goes secretly, with the hope of not being seen by anyone he knows. 
TAsT WEEK was different. No matter how '!morbid" or 
L "cultural" were their indivi~ual motivations in 
going to those movies, the students would have had, 
nevertheless, the opportunity to discuss and attempt to 
understand, apertis verbisJ the problem of pornography 
in our society and in our community. 
This opportunity was lost: to attempt to compre­
hend, last week at the University of Notre Dame, was 
declared against the law. 
One of the major objections I heard against the con­ference was that it was an abuse of "academic freedom." An academic freedom up to "that point" is idealistic, utopian; it just doesn't work. If this is the case, then we have to admit that the concept of "academic free­dom" in this University is very queer indeed! Our students are mature, responsible and free enough to be taught how to kill people ( and receive academic credits for it), but not mature, responsible and free enough to learn and see what pornography is all about. Strangely enough the journey toward "academic freedom" stops at the gate of sex: as soon as the conference was an­nounced the sacred geese began to squawk around the Capitol of the Catholic decency and everything flowed into a ludicrous fracas. The goals of the conference were overlooked and it became a farce--the last act being that indecent hide-and-seek game between the cops and the kids. A few eyes were maced, a few cops injured and a lot of few-letter-words (four for the historians) uttered-with the final, glorious statement of the D.A.: "I will recommend my men because they did not use t.l-ieir guns." 
Then what were the results of the conference on pornography? It revealed some of the structural de­fects of this University: first of all a lack of com­munication between the various "bodies·• of the aca­demic community. Were the University a real com­munity of learning, then there she:uld have been a collaboration among various departments to formulate sociological, psychological and legal conclusions on the problem of pornography in our society. 
B
UT WORST of all is the fact that the Administration did not realize how fecund of productive develop­ments such an occasion could have been. If the adminis­trators, instead of assuming attitudes ranging from initial benevolent condescendence to the final sullen condemnation of those little rascals, backed the stu­dents instead of the police, certainly the gap between them and the student body wouldn't have been widened. The stand of the Administration had detrimental psy­chological effects on the campus. It is significant that, in referring to the events of the last week, it is now said that "the students" wanted to show some movies even when "the University" withdrew the permission­meaning by that that the University is not the students or the faculty, but simply its administrators. 
But it is useless and sterile to recriminate. My hope is to have raised some questions: What is the nature of a university? What is its relationship with the public powers? And-above all-what ought to be the rela­tionship between academic freedom and law? 
••: ', V ' ~ >> ' -,• 
= -... 
The Picture & The Sound 
AN INTERVIEW WITH 
Allen Ginsberg 
Allen Ginsberg, beat poet) paterfamilias of the hipvie 1novenient of the sixties and political activist, was at Notre Danie this past week for the S.U.A.C.­sponsored conference on pornography. SCHOLASTIC Con­
tributing Editor Philip Kukielski and SCHOLASTIC Film, 
Reviewer F. X. Maier met with Mr. Ginsberg and his traveling companion Pete1· Orlovsky just prior to their scheduled appearance at the pornography discussion session 7,ast Thursday. Mr. Ginsberg speaks candidly about his poetry, drugs, politics, personalities and the issue of ponwgraphy. 

Scholastic: You came to Notre Dame for a pornogra­phy discussion. Is there anything that you, in fact, con­sider pornographic? 
Ginsberg: First of all, pornography ain't my word, it doesn't have much meaning. There might be a use for it somewhere, but I haven't found it. It was easier to talk about pornography when the accepted defini­tion was "something dirty that people did to be dirty." If we are going to use that as a working definition, then the action of the D.A. in trying to forbid Fmming Creatures was pornographic. The guy is just doing something dirty to other people. If someone is doing erotic imagery just in order to make money and so gets a whole bunch of ugly people screwing each other and it makes it an ugly scene then that's pornography. 
Scholastic: It is obvious that you hold Blake and Whitman in high regard. What do you find in these men that is influencing what you are doing now? 
Ginsberg: Whitman -the direct statement about the American situation and what a person is in Amer­ica, as distinct from an American Time-Life mass media robot. Whitman manifests personal emotions which are forbidden at Notre Dame or forbidden in a corporate context. Feelings are suppressed by the robotization or the homogenization of our culture, due to the heavy technology or the original sin recommitted when we came here and killed all the Indians. 
Blake picks up on the ancient gnostic traditions having to do with the purpose of man on the planet, whether the senses are real or unreal. Blake relates back to what is ultimately oriental yoga. 

Blake is working in an ancient gnostic; tradition, while Whitman is working in an American gnostic tradition. 
Scholastic: In your opinion, who is the greatest living poet? 
Ginsberg: Ezra Pound. 
Scholastic: But Y<?Ur style is so much different from Pound's. Pound tends to be at times pedantic and opaque. 
Ginsberg: The reason that Pound is such a great poet is that his basic ideas about language and poetry are applicable in so many areas, so that the final ap­plication comes out unrecognizable as Pound, but non­theless is influenced by him. The specific changes he made are these: 1) a shift in the diction of poetry from artificial diction to a choice of words reflecting common speech; 2) a shift in rhythm or prosody to a prosody reflecting rhythms of speech as actually spoken, that is to "break the pentameter." 
Because Pound focused the senses on the picture and on the sound he made people conscious of the ma­terials that they were using, that's why there are many people who come out of Pound, but who don't write like Pound. 
Scholastic: That sounds like an explanation one would hear in a classroom. I wonder why you have succumbed to that sort of thing. 
Ginsberg: This is a little bit more extended, you reach more people this way, but this is a classroom. 
Scholastic: I've heard that you have the power of "natural vision." What is it? Are your visions of Blake like a drug experience? 
Ginsberg: When I was younger I had some experi­ences with Blake that were of an epiphanous nature including auditory hallucinations of hearing his voice and the feeling of lightness and the feeling of bliss like a classical religious experience, as a result of reading certain poems of Blake. Experiences similar to acid [LSD] experiences, but without drugs. 
Scholastic: Do you still have these experiences? 

Ginsberg: Intermittently, fleetingly -from different things, sometimes from chanting I get this. 
Scholastic: In regards to the reading last night, what was the instrument you were playing? 
Ginsberg: A harmonium belonging to [Peter] Orlovsky. It is an English instrument brought over to India in the 19th century and adapted by the Indians with a drone in order to accompany community singing like I was doing last night. 
Scholastic: Some recent articles in the New Yorker mentioned the word "sadhana" in regards to your voca­tion in life. What exactly is a "sadhana"? 
Ginsberg: "Sadhana" is a Hindu word for a par­ticular path or discipline an individual follows. For example, Catholicism or the Franciscan or a Trappist order is a type of "sadhana." 
Scholastic: What is your particular sadhana? 
Ginsberg: Poetry. Poetry is a form of yoga or at least that is what a yogi says. 
Scholastic: I'm afraid I don't know what you mean when you say poetry is a form of yoga? 
Ginsberg: I once had a conversation with a Tontric yogi named Kalpadguharoy, who lived in Venarius in 1962. In the course of the conversation, I said that the thing that I feel is that maybe I should quit poetry and sit and fast or do breathing exercises. He said that poetry is also a "sadhana," like a form of yoga. I said, "Doesn't poetry have to drop behind the void?" You can't be chanting and singing as you go into the great mouth of God. But he said that yoga also drops before thy void. So the general conclusion I came to is that ,.as yoga is an exploration of consciousness, so poetry is a means of examining and becoming con­scious of your own consciousness. In that sense poetry is a sort of yoga or "sadhana." 
Scholastic: What roles do you think drugs play in your life? 
Ginsberg: Mechanical -stored -mind -manifesta­tions. They are catalysts, sacraments in that sense. They are intimately involved in the creative process, but not irreplaceably. One could use yoga or art instead of drugs. Drugs are an anti-brainwash agent. 
Scholastic: What is the "March as the Committee on Poetry"? 
Ginsberg: It's my foundation. I have too much money so I have to channel it out to other hands. There are some starving poets that can't make it with the Guggenheim [Foundation]. 
Scholastic: After the Democratic Convention and more recently, after Nixon's inauguration, young activists have been asking themselves "Where do we go now?" How would you answer that question? 
Ginsberg: I haven't got the answer except that one thing that Herbert Marcuse said in a recent meeting in New York is good. Nobody wants a monolithic revolutionary party for fear it will turn authoritarian. So the whole problem is: how do you organize and at the same time stay disorganized? All the Left is 
February 14, 1969 
wrestling with that problem at the moment. How do you organize a revolution without becoming the very monster that you are fighting? 
Scholastic: What, in your opinion, is the essential difference between the beat of the '50's and the activists of the '60's? 
Ginsberg: No difference. 
Scholastic: What then has happened to people like Jack Kerouac, a central figure in the beat movement, who has subsequently disappeared from the limelight? 
Ginsberg: Kerouac drank too much. He has become a monk in his house, writing and not mixing up with the world, which is very important. Somebody should be doing that. I should be doing that, rather than going around like an idiot showing my egotistical face off. 
Scholastic: Then there is no difference benveen the social revolutionary of the '50's and the social revolu­tionary of the '60's? 
Ginsberg: If a revolution ever takes place, I think it will prove to stem from the same impulse.-His­torically, one could point to the key figure in Kerouac's books, Neal Moriarty, who is also the key figure in Ken Ke s e y ' s acid-revolution-light-show-fre3.k-circus, The Merry Pranksters. The light shows all grew out of Ken Kesey's early experiments with mixed media and with his today-family-dog-acid-test and graduation of acid tests. So there is a continuity of ideas, prac­tices, such as drug taking, but there is evzn a con­tinuity of personnel. Oddly enough, the people on the front line of the march in Chicago were all old beatniks, William Burroughs, John Genet and myself. There is a historical continuity that is so unified it all becomes one field. 
Scholastic: What changes do you feel have been worked on the young people of today as a result of the Vietnam War? 
Ginsberg: Last night I was talking to a couple of high school teachers who told me that their students were ready for anything in terms of awareness. I think the war is a major manifestation of what was wrong in America. America has suffered from mass halluci­nations for decades. The example of hallucinatory, mistaken judgments in Vietnam is obvious to the young­er people. 
Scholastic: What is your opinion of the F1:1gs? 
Ginsberg: Sanders is a very good poet and also a great editor. His magazine was the best magazine in New York for a couple of years during the early '50's. It had as a purpose "total assault on the culture," that was his phrase. Originally the Fugs were a joke on the Lower East Side, but they introduced a high literary and a high cultural revolutionary aspect to rock and roll that influenced Dylan, the Beatles and every­body. · 
Scholastic: Do you know Paul .Krassner? 
Ginsberg: Krassner is a space age comedian. 
Scholastic: Do you have any contacts with ·Terry Southern? 
Ginsberg: Yes, we got tear-gasser. together in Chi­cago. We were walking away from Christ's Cross which had just been tear-gassed by the police. A hundred priests and rabbis were standing around the cross and at midnight it was tear-gassed. 
-0Dp'lJright 1969 SCHOLASTIC 
The Last Word 
0 NCE AGAIN, a last word by the editor-in-chief ends 
the weekly issue of the SCHOLASTIC. This tradi­tional column of commentary and sidenotes has long been a part of the magazine, but at the end of last year we decided to drop it since it didn't seem to mesh with the purposes of the magazine as we then saw them. But after eight months of publication, we began to see that the magazine might do more than we were doing, with­out losing the -forcefulness and unity of a one-topic presentation in every issue. So we've brought back some of the old features like Movies, Magazine Rack, and The Last Word, and added some new ones like News and Notes and The Week in Review, while still retaining the idea of one main story introduced and described visually by the cover. 
This week's cover story is the result of eight years of observation by two of the campus' most experienced news reporters. Joel Connelly had been executive editor and associate editor of the Observer before he resigned from that publication last month. He has since joined the SCHOLASTIC as an associate editor, along with Tom Payne, who began as a reporter for the old Campus section of the SCHOLASTIC and moved up this year to contributing editor and then associate editor. 
Together they have peeked through so many key­holes in competing for the news that they can only squint now upon seeing one another. In this issue they come together for the first time to draw up a very ac­curate blueprint of the power structure at Notre Dame, something which has never been done before and yet is so important in understanding so much of what goes on around here. 
LONG AND DIFFICULT hours were also spent thinking 
and talking about how to handle the events of last week's Pornography Conference in this issue of the magazine. We finally decided to treat two of the many possible issues in a manner that might be intelligible to all of our readers. Mario Corradi, the author of the arti­cle on page 26 which discusses the implications of a forc­ible police presence on a university campus, has been a professor in the department of philosophy for two years and came to Notre Dame from the Catholic Uni­versity of Milan. Next year he '\vill be elsewhere, probably at Yale, so in his story he is quite frank in his treatment of some of the more disturbing elements in this complex affair. On page 22 Joel Garreau talks about the issue that touched off the violence, that of pornography itself, in an article that attempts to give the range of possible opinions on the subject. 

INCIDENTALLY, you are seeing in this issue of the SCHO­
LASTIC something of a first in graphic design. Affec­tionately termed "boffo long-distance layout" by our freaky art editor, Dave Heskin, it essentially involves getting snowbound in New York when you're supposed to be in South Bend art directing a magazine, then calling up your office and saying "Why not lay out the magazine over the phone, Bill?" A pink Football Re­view cover, OK; an electric Christmas cover, OK too. But laying out a 32-page magazine over the phone, especially when one of the parties hasn't even seen one of the photos or stories involved, is a little more than taxing on one's patience (and on the budget). 
THE FALL ISSUE of the Juggler appeared this Monday, 
reliably indicating that we're somewhere in the mid­dle of February. Michael Patrick O'Connor, a contribut­ing editor of this magazine and Our Lady's wandering media critic, did much of the editing himself over the Christmas vacation, despite Brother Gorch's best efforts to keep him locked out of the student center. The magazine this year includes a titlele~s cover, and sep­arate sections of poetry, short stories, art, and essays. Free copies are available in the off-campus office, and when they run out you can buy a copy for a quarter in the bookstore. 
Two GRADUATE STUDENTS came up to our office on 
Tuesday afternoon with the following letter. They asked us to print it in the magazine, but to withhold their names since the substance of their experience was more important than the particular personalities in­volved: 
"A partial glimpse at the complex hypocrisy, double standard, and ignorance that underlie the pornography and censorship issue was provided by the following conversation overheard in the Library canteen recently. Not five minutes after passionately and irrationally at­tacking the Pornography and Censorship Conference ("They should all be thrown in jail.''), a graduate stu­dent (married) turned to another to whisper a typical men's locker-room remark, evoked by a passing mini­skirted girl. Both tittered knowingiy at the remark, glanced furtively to be certain that the nun at the end of the table hadn't heard it. She hadn't." 

Rip up our instructions on self-defense. After all, it's Valentine's Day. 
r--~ 
'¥~/j)

--~ ~ ()
. ,, _jfLe.,4 ~9 ) ~-I -'ll~ p 

~ -~ ~ I rJ
,7 [..Jz=1Y. 
Normally, we insist that every man read the instructions on self­defense that we put in every package of Hai Karate® After Shave 
ii and Cologne. But we've got a heart. So on Valentine's Day, we'd like every woman to tear our instructions to shreds. That way you can give your guy Hai Karate, with some instructions of your own. 
I
~

HaiKarate-be careful howyouuseit. 
©1969 Leeming Division, Chas. Pfizer & Co., Inc., New York, N. Y. 


IT'S UNDERWEAR AWARENESS TIME 
with 
Jockey1' 

LiferE UNDERWEAR 
Tapered Brute 
Shirt 
Torso-:apcred to a T for the s,1mmest. ali cotto11, ncavier fabric. 
S M,L XL ...$1.50 
Classic Brief 
Exclusive tailorm5 
,-r-, I 
ror proper i1:: anc 
:o support a 
man's needs. 
28-40 ... $1.25 
Cox'n Shirt 
Mock turtle neck 
co:!ar, tailored 
' II' I 
no-sag tapeo shoulder and ncd seams, extra long tad, variety of colors. S, M, L. XL ... $2.50 
Tapered Slim Guy Racer 
Trim action tailored, 
• I ~ I
ta pereo ven Leo legs, all cotton broadcloth. 
28-40 ... $1.50 
Hi-Neck Bo'sun Shirt 

New fashion collar line, longer sleeves, heavier ..· fabric, all cotton. ·... ;\ . 
. -~ t 
S, M, L, XL $1.50 

THE OFF-CAMPUS STORE FOR MEN 
LEVI WASH PANTS 
GANT SHIRTS 
THANE SWEATERS 
LONDON FOG JACKETS 
PENDLETON SPORTSWEAR 
JOCKEY BRAND UNDERWEAR 
BOSTONIAN LOAFERS 

Rasmussen's 
130 WEST WASHINGTON 




