Vol. XXIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, October 26, 1889.	No. 8.
To Rev. S. Fitte, C. S. C.
“ That hour fulfilled the dream of many a year.’-'
—Aubrey de Vere.
When first you stood, with joy akin to fear,
Beside the altar of the Christ Divine
And thought, “ The rapture of His priest is mine! ” “ That hour fulfilled the dream of many a year.”
Then to your heart what joy, what holy cheer
He brought! His Body and His Blood refine
Your soul. That soul to Him you now resign Each morn and eve, loving you linger here.
The blessed years have flown—how fruitful, true, Has been your life, God and the angels know.
Your crown is bright and shining as a star;
For you it waits above the sky’s deep blue.
Borne up by Seraph hands your soul shall go, While Heaven’s golden gates wide stand ajar..
H. A. Holden, 91.'
The “Autos” of Calderon de la Barca.
BY MAURICE FRANCIS EGAN, LL. D.
Professor of English Literature in the University of Notre Dame. .
(Conclusion.)
Calderon was born in 1600, either in the beginning of January or February, although his friend, Vera Tassis/ makes the year of his birth 1601. LosHijos de Madrid—Calderon first saw the light in Madrid—gives February 14, 1600, as the day of his baptism. Another work, quoted by Dean Trench, Obelisco Funebre, states, on the authority of the.poet himself, that he was born January 17, 1600. His parents, according to-the chronicles of the .time, were Christian and. prudent people,, who, being of illustrious lineage, gave their children an education in conformity with it. His father held a state office under Philip
II. and Philip III. Don Pedro, the poet, was the youngest of four children. His brother, ; Diego, succeeded to the family estate, his sister entered the Order of St. Clare, and Josef fell in battle in 1645. He learned the rudiments in the Jesuit College of Madrid. Afterwards he studied —some biographers say for five years—philosophy and theology at the famous University of Salamanca. No one can read any play of Calderon’s without being impressed with the deeply religious bent of his mind, and .with the evidence of theological study which each of them displays. To the Summa of St. Thomas he owed all that certainty and firmness in grasping the great questions of life which was the despair of Schiller and the admiration of Gcethe. Well might Augustus Schlegel, who, unlike his brother Frederick, had not accepted the Church, exclaim: “Blessed man! he had escaped from the wild labyrinths of doubt into the stronghold of belief; thence, with undisturbed tranquillity of soul, he beheld and portrayed the storms of the world. To him human life was no longer a dark . riddle.”
When the crown fell from Shakspeare’s dyeing head in England Calderon had scarcely begun to sing in Spain. But the whole chorus of Elizabethan poets, like birds in a glorious May-time, were singing nobly or warbling prettyconceits. He lived to pass the three score and . ten allotted to man by eleven years; while the drama degenerated into spectacular and intellectually valueless shows in Spain, it likewise ’ degenerated in England into the bastard, the soulless, the heartless comedy of the Restoration. He lived to see the Spanish theatre, which he had built, following Lope de Vega, to . a most noble height, become a mere vehicle.for tours de force of scenic effects. And he does not seem to have been conscious of this degradation.
”4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
He even helped it along. Nothing could have been more repellent to his nature than the polished yet open obscenity of the English comedies in vogue in his latter years. He would have been quick to perceive the evil tendency of the wit of Congreve and Wycherly, and to raise his voice against it; but Jie failed to see that the splendid spectacles which he offered to the eyes of the court on the great pond of the Buen Retiro were as ruinous to the intellectual enjoyment of the drama as licentiousness and frivolity. To the glory of this most noble-minded of poets it must be said that no double entente, no vile allusion or coarse pun such as Shakspeare felt himself too often bound to introduce—often making of great passages “sweet bells jangled”—ever appears in the works of Calderon. Yet Calderon was the boldest of dramatists—bolder, because purer and without any self-conscious delight in shocking his audience, than the boldest of the French Romanticists. “The Devotion of the Cross,” a powerful drama, contains scenes which in a less firm and pure hand would have left that sense of despair which we feel at the end of a great Greek play when the Fates have done their work. The impression derived from Sismondi that this sublime play turns on the crime of incest is false; and it is surprising that even the most careless reader could have failed to see that Eusebio and Julia, guilty though they were, were saved from this unutterable crime. And in the scene, as translated by Mr. MacCarthy, in which they are saved, the masterly character of Calderon’s art shows itself. It requires the highest purity of purpose and the aid of great genius to produce the effect of horroi' on the spectator’s mind —the horroi' which the witness of a great crime feels—without vulgarizing the intensity of the horror or degrading the audience by forcing them to sympathize momentarily with the crime. Another Spanish writer possessed this high purpose and this art, though in her case talent supplied the place of genius. Readers of La Gaviota of Fernan Caballero will remember instances of it. It is easy to make an audience thrill with sympathyforpassion orcrime which is the result of passion, and the effects of too many of the romantic dramatists have been produced in this cheap way; but it is not easy to cause the sin to be abhorred while the audience is still in sympathy with those who are on the verge of committing it. Calderon, of all dramatists, was master of the means of producing this effect. Pure as his intent, always was, and thoroughly Catholic as he everywhere shows himself to be, yet he did not hesitate to touch the most secret
springs of passion. A skilful master of stage tricks, he was never misled into vulgar and easy effects. All his situations were planned most artfully; nothing was left to chance, and consequently the interest lies in the action of the drama, not in its characters. Calderon was, a court poet and dramatist, and the result of habitual contact with the. members of the most ceremonious and stately court in Europe is often apparent in his plays: It is, therefore, amusing to read Voltaire’s complaints of the natural and uncultivated nature of the Spanish drama; and Voltaire’s opinion of the Spanish drama is as valuable as his allusion to Hamlet as a “ drunken Dane.” Nothing could be more artificial than the structure of Calderon’s dramas. They are geometrical in their precision; some of them seem to be founded on a scholastic formula; but nevertheless, Calderon probes the depth of the human heart,-and holds in his disciplined hand the key to all his passions. French critics, always having the reverence for their Louis Quatorze imitations of the Greek drama before their eyes, could not appreciate Calderon. They found him too spontaneous, almost savage, because his rules of dramatic art differed from theirs. Dean Trench quotes a critical opinion from a book published in Paris in 1669—Journal de Voyage d' Espagne—in which the complacent French traveller, says:
. “Yesterday came the Marquis of Eliche, eldest son of Don Luis de Haro, and Monsieur de Barriere, and took me to the theatre. The play which had been before brought forward but was newly revived, was naught, although it had Don Pedro Calderon for author.- At a later hour 1 made a visit to this Calderon, who is held the greatest poet and most illustrious genius in Spain at the present day. He is knight of the Order oE Santiago and chaplain to the Chapel of the Kings at Toledo; but I gathered from his conversation that his head-piece was furnished poorly enough. We disputed a good while on the rules of the drama, which in this land are not recognized, and about which the Spaniards make themselves merry.”	'
But the critic of to-day, recalling how Calderon, in spite of his strict rules and courtly elegance, touched the hearts of the common people, will differfrom the French interviewer and thank Heaven that this Spanish pbet triumphed over more hampering regulations than ever bound Racine or Corneille. The boldness with which he handled his motifs and characters excited the ill-nature atfd reckless censure of Sismondi, who finds in “The Devotion of the Cross ” much that would be, if it were there, abominable. Another and more appreciative French critic says:
“On devine sans peine que Julia est lasoeur d’Eusebe; et cette invention dramatique, augmentant d’intensite, irait coudoyer 1’horreur et Pinsoutenable, si Calderon
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	115
n’etait doue de ce vrai genie dont 1’essence est pure. Nous allons le voir, dans une occasion si difficile retrou-ver la moralite qui lui est propre, la sublime pudeur qui ne 1’abandonne jamais. Ses ailes blanches et vierges trempent dans I’orage sans le fletrir, et effleurent la fou-dre sans se brtiler.”
The truth of this last beautiful sentence is often forced upon the reader. The “white and spotless wings” of his genius flutter amid darkness and storm, unsullied and unruffled. In a turmoil of passion and jealousy, such as the “ Physician of his Own Honor,” of which there is a French version, he remains calm, and pure while his hearers shudder with horror. His plays, of which jealousy is the theme, seem to have been torn from a living and burning heart. They are almost unendurably horrible, yet they are wonders of dramatic art: and in the warring of the elements Calderon never changes his plan or loses his grasp. Either the taste of the Spanish court was much less coarse than that of the English, or Calderon’s elevating studies'of the Sttmma must have made him disdain low things; for although Cervantes and, it is said, the pleasant farceur, Triso de Molina, often made allusions which, in any age, would be considered indecent, Calderon’s works are free from these blots.
Senor Hartzenbusch tells us that Calderon was nineteen when he left Salamanca, and surmises that “The Devotion of the Cross” was written before he left the University. In it he expresses the difficulty of pleasing an audience variously composed, in the speech beginning—
“ Copla hay tambien para ti,” etc.
“Take this rhyme along with thee: ■ Since, howe’er the poet tries, Doubtful is his drama's fate, For what may the crowd elate
. The judicious may despise.	.
If you’re seeking for fame’s prizes Try some method less remote, For ’tis hard to cut a coat
That will suit all sorts of sizes.”
Calderon did not despise the applause of the populace because he wrote for the approbation of the knights. He pleased both. He interested the people, in spite of themselves, in the heroism that the Moors had displayed; this was not the least of his triumphs. “The Chariot of Heaven,” his first play, written when he was fourteen, has not come down to us. At the age of twenty-five we find him serving in the Low Countries as a soldier, as Cervantes and Garcilasso, the lyric poet, and other Spanish writers had served. -In 1625 he was still in the army, if his “Siege of Breda,” a military drama, may stand as evidence of his presence at the taking of that town.
Philip IV., a litterateur and a lover of the drama, summoned him to court. In 1630 Lope de Vega acknowledged that his mantle had fallen upon the poet-soldier, and on Lope’s death, five years later, there was no one left to dispute the bays with Calderon. Calderon was a favorite at court. His lines were cast in pleasant places. The light of the courtly glare in which he lived did not wither his genius; it was good for him; he throve in the splendor and flourished. Unlike so many of his brethren, he had no struggles with fate. The spectacular pieces which his position as director of the court theatre in the palace of the Buen Retiro, forced him to prepare, are the weakest and most unsatisfactory of his productions. Ben Jonson’s masques, which were fashionable at the English court at this time, were somewhat similar, but in some respects more meritorious. Calderon, who doubtless felt the arrangement of these magnificent shows a heavy task, avenged himself by torturing the stage machinist. “Circe,” which was represented on the great pond of the Buen Retiro on St. John’s Night, 1635, is accompanied with most elaborate directions which would drive the very modern stage-manager to despair. Here is a sample:
“In the midst of this island will be situated a very lofty mountain of rugged ascent, with precipices and caverns, surrounded by a thick and darksome wopd of tall trees, some of which will be seen to exhibit the appearance of the human form covered with a rough bark, from the heads and arms of which will issue green boughs and branches, having suspended from them various trophies of war and of the chase; the theatre, during the opening of the scene, being scantily lit with concealed lights; and, to make a beginning of the festival, a murmuring and a rippling noise of water having been heard, a great and magnificent car will be seen to advance along the pond, plated over with silver, and drawn by two monstrous fishes, from whose mouth will continually issue great jets of water, the light of the theatre increasing according as they advance: and on the summit of it will be seen seated in great pomp and majesty the goddess Aqua, from whose head and curious vesture will issue an infinite abundance of little conduits of water; and at the same time will be seen another great supplyflowing from an urn which the goddess will hold reversed and which, filled with a variety of fishes, that, leaping and playing in the torrent as it descends, and gliding over all the car, will fall into the pond.” .
This is only a glimmer of the wonders to follow. Calderon spared no expense on these spectacles, and the king seems to have been lavish in his expenditures for adding decorations and mechanism of the newest pattern to. the paraphernalia of the court theatre. Being a member of the military order of Santiago, Calderon entered the field in 1637 to help suppress a revolt in one of the provinces. How long he
n6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
remained in the army is not certain; it is plain, however, that Philip IV. pref erred that he should remain at court. He gave up the pursuit of arms, although he still clung to that of literature, and received Holy Orders. His genius was of so solemn and sacred a kind that he needed not to throw aside his pen to take up the cross. His works had been psalms, and he only needed the added grace of the Christian priesthood to make him a perfect symbol of Catholic art. His life had been calm and happy —or as calm and happy as the life of such a man, whose eyes were fixed on God, and who knew no real contentment not seeing God; could be. On Whitsunday, May 25,1681, he died, no longer a court favorite—for Philip had died in 1665—but revered and loved by the nation as no other Spaniard had been revered and loved. He was buried in the Church of San Salvadore at Madrid. The glimpses which we get of him from his contemporaries are few, but they make us feel that his life was noble and that his work’s reflected it. His relations with Lope De Vega and Cervantes—he dramatized Doh Quixote— were friendly and cordial. Not much is known of his ways among men, but what is known shows him to be a high type of a high and noble people.
With Calderon died the century and the glory of Spain. Lope de Vega had modelled the statue out of rude stone, which Calderon had completed. Out of the national life of Spain had come the strong impulse which gave a new drama to the world, to take its place proudly beside the drama of Greece and the drama of England; which gave a New World to the Old, and drew from this New World those glittering streams that gilded, but could not revive it. Materialism had hidden the cross and dimmed the old Spanish ideal. The body, in its gor-’ geous trappings, had almost smothered the soul;
. Calderon making spectacles for the court, while the enemies of Spain were dismembering her, and her soldiers in new lands sowing the seeds of hatred in the name of God, whom their lust outraged, was a symbol of his country forgetting the ideal of other days, and substituting' for it empty splendor and worthless gold.
Calderon’s fame, though eclipsed for a time, has never died in Spain. On May 25, 1881, the second centenary of this greatest poet of Spain and, after Shakspeare, of the world, was celebrated, with all the pomp and splendor.that religious and patriotic feeling could give it, in his beloved city of Madrid. This city, which he so proudly named as first in honoring God’s Body, had not forgotten to honor his as that of a servant of
God and an inspired singer. In the Church of San Jose,
" Thousands of tapers on the catafalque pointed to an imitation white marble tomb, on the top of which lay a cloak bearing the red cross of the Knights of Santiago, and a canon’s robes and the cap which is still worn by the orders to which Calderon belonged. The cardinal primate, assisted by seven bishops, the royal canons, the rectors of every parish in the capital, and nearly five hundred priests with their banners, crosses, incense-bearers, and choristers in surplices and full robes, assembled for Mass; and in the procession not only the king, infantas and court were present, but delegations of both houses of the Cortes the provincial deputies, the town council, the . civil, military, and ecclesiastical authorities of the capital, the diplomatic corps, and the grandees, judges, scientific and literary oorporations of Spain and of foreign countries.
What other poet has been so honored in our time? What other poet could secure the unanimous homage of all the estates of a whole na- ; tion? Shakspeare has been honored, but not | like this. The representatives of the church—	|
particularly the order to which Calderon be- I longed—royalty, the people of all ranks and j political opinions, unite in honoring him who | gave a new world of thought not only to Castile | and Leon, but to all nations. Calderon de la | Barca belongs to the world. Until a poet greater । than Shakspeare arises there can be none greater	|
than Calderon.	.	|
The Pictures of a Century.
SKETCHED FROM THE EARLY HISTORY OF MARYLAND.	’
BY O. H. .
,	III.
.	( Conclusion. )
When William Stone was appointed Governor of Maryland in 1648 by Lord Baltimore, who perceived that concessions to the Puritans were necessary to maintain his province, an oath of office, securing to all Christians full toleration, was prescribed by the Lord Proprietary who hoped thus to prevent the growing feeling of bigotry. Governor Stone brought with him five hundred settlers most of whom were, like himself, Protestant. The Puritans had increased in number since their first admission into Maryland, and soon after the settlement of Governor Stone’s people," another Puritan colony, under Richard Brooke, had come from England and settled in Charles County. . A report was soon current , among them that Lord Baltimore’s government was about, to be overthrown. —	'
In 1652 William Claiborne and Richard Bennett arrived at St. Mary’s,'and in the name of
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
117
the Commonwealth required the colony to conform to their laws and, saving Lord Baltimore’s rights, to submit to their authority. To this Governor Stone assented; but when they insisted that the name of the Proprietary should be erased from all writs and processes and that of the Commonwealth substituted, he felt compelled to resist. They then seized upon his commission, and removed him and his subordinates from office. They next appointed a council of which Robert Brooke was made president and acting governor. Heseized upon the records, and proclaimed the authority of the Proprietary abolished in the province. Thus Claiborne was once more successful, and the power of Lord Baltimore overthrown.
A treaty made with the Susquehannas at this time ceded to the colony all their territory from Palmer’s Island to the Patuxent, and a large tract on the eastern shore. No sooner, however, were these savages reduced to friendliness than the Nanticokesof the eastern shore broke in, murdering and burning the settlement. By order of the governor every seventh man capable of bearing arms was mustered into service at the expense of the remaining six; boats were pressed, and the entire expedition ordered to meet at St. Mattapany under the command of Captain Fuller. The Puritans of Anne Arundel County refused to join these protectors of the frontier, giving as excuse the inclemency of the season, and the danger to their health of serving during December and January in open boats.
In 1640 the colonists were prohibited by Parliament from commerce with foreign countries, rudely deprived the privilege of free trade which had been secured them by Lord Baltimore. The . Lord Proprietary did not rest inactive under this prohibition, but immediately called the commissioners to answer for their illegal proceedings, while their, agents presented petitions on their behalf to Parliament; but this body, having been dissolved by Cromwell, took no further notice of petitions or petitioners. Suspecting Cromwell’s tendency to monarchical power, Lord Baltimore determined to right himself. He accordingly directed Governor Stone to require all persons to take the oath of fidelity, and re-establish the Proprietary Government in Maryland, which was done in 1654.
When Claiborne and Bennett in Virginia . heard of this they went north, determining to restore the’power of the Commonwealth. They gathered the Puritans in force on the northern boundary, and a strong force on- the south ' threatening Maryland, Governor Stone became
alarmed, and again submitted to Claiborne. He, with Bennett, took possession of the province and issued, in the name of Cromwell, a commission appointing Captain William Fuller Governor. Their next step was to disfranchise the Catholics who had received and aided them when flying from persecution abroad. Catholics and royalists were prohibited from voting for or sitting in the Assembly.. Thus, this body of Puritans—they were the minority of the people —assembled and passed the law that “no person professing the faith of the Catholic Church would be protected in the province,” and that “they ought to be restrained from the exercise thereof.” The same Assembly denounced the prelacy of the Church of England, and passed an act forbidding colonists to take the oath of fidelity to Lord Baltimore. These fanatic refugees from the north, who had been comforted, cheered, and protected when fleeing from persecution, turned upon those who had ministered to them in kindness. Their ingratitude was the first dark stain oh the fair tablet of Maryland’s history.
When Lord Baltimore heard of these proceedings, he sent a special messenger, William Eltonhead, to Maryland with a severe rebuke to Governor Stone for yielding up his authority without a struggle, and directing him to resume it immediately. In January, 1655, the Governor issued commissions to his friends, and raising a force of two hundred men among the people of St. Mary’s, who had remained faithful to the Lord Proprietary, he sent a detachment under Eltonhead and Fendall to recover the records of the province which the Puritans had removed to the house of Richard Preston on the Patuxent, and to capture, if possible, the magazine of arms they had gathered there. In both ventures they. were successful—the records and arms were restored to St. Mary’s.
On the 25th of March, in this same year, the Puritans of ’North Maryland triumphed in a harbor battle, having been reinforced from Kent Island by Claiborne’s men. They put Eltonhead and his servant to death, also Lieut. Lewis and Mr. Leggaft, who had been taken among their prisoners; Governor Stone, another prisoner, was treated most cruelly. Although severely wounded, he was not allowed to write to his wife for assistance. She came at last and nursed him until he recovered, and from the detailed account of the affair which she wrote to the Lord Proprietary; he appealed to Cromwell personally for redress. Bennett had also hastened to England and placed his version of the story.before the Protector; both petitioners
n8	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
were referredtothe Lords Commissioner, Whitelock and Widringto'n. They decided in favor of Lord Baltimore; but Cromwell being busy, the report remained unconfirmed. In this interval the Proprietary appointed Captain Josias Fendall Governor of Maryland (1656); but before he could act, the Puritans arrested him and put him in prison until Cromwell should settle disputes, or confirm the decision of the Lords Commissioner. A month wearied Fendall; he submitted to the Puritans, and having taken an oath not to disturb the peace of the Commonwealth, he was set at liberty. The controversy having- been referred to the Commissioners of Trade, and they having decided in favor of the Lord Proprietary, Baltimore renewed his instructions to Fendall, and sent his brother, Philip Calvert, as Secretary of the Province.
In 1657, the Governor and his secretary, Calvert, extended their authority over St. Mary’s; but Maryland was under a divided rule. The Puritans under Capt. Fuller and his council, governed at Providence, now Annapolis, in the north, while Governor Barber (appointed by Fendall who had gone to Europe), ruled with the friends of Lord Baltimore at St. Mary’s. The chief settlement of the Puritans, however, was Patuxent, where, having possessed themselves of the colonial records and the public seals, they convened, Sept. 24, 1657, and proceeded to confirm the authority of their party.
In England, Cromwell, tired of republicanism, tried to ingratiate himself with the nobility and p-ather them around him. Bennett saw this, and at once tried to win Lord Baltimore’s favor. He at last gained from the Lord Proprietary^ a permit that all who desired to quit the province should do so without let or hindrance. Lord Baltimore further pledged himself never to repeal the law he had made in favor of freedom of conscience. This the Puritans, in order to protect themselves, most earnestly desired.
In 1658 Governor. Fendall returned to the colony bringing with him these pledges of the Lord Proprietary, and calling upon the General Assembly to meet at St. Leonard’s Creek. The Puritans objected.to clauses in the oath of fidelity, and demanded indemnity for all past trans- actions, requesting that they might not be disarmed arid left to the mercy of the natives. These amendments and requests being coriceded by the governor and council, Fendall’s commission as governor was. read arid proclaimed, and another General Assembly appointed to be held at St. Leonard’s the year following, April 27, 1659. . . _	..
Thus, after six years of rebellion, Maryland
. was restored to the Lord Proprietary, and the ascendency of the Puritans ended. Fendall, who had attempted to undermine the power .of Lord Baltimore, when the Puritan influence ceased, by claiming for himself and council the rights of judicial and supreme legislative control, was dismissed by the Lord Proprietary from his office as governor, while Philip Calvert, Lord Baltimore’s brother, was appointed over the province: The people submitted joyfully to the young nobleman who came among them “armed only with the proclamation of the king commanding all his faithful subjects to yield him obedience.”
Fendall gave himself up, and, contrary to Lord Baltimore’s express commands, he was respited by Governor Philip Calvert—a mark of clemency shamefully abused by Fendall who excited new troubles in after years. Of Claiborne, the arch disturber of Maryland’s peace, little further is known. He retired into Virginia, settled a county named New Kent, and in 1666, represented the district in the Virginia House of Delegates.
The colony, under the brother of its founder, having proclaimed Charles II. King, went vigorously to work to repair the consequences of its late dissensions, and devise means for the increase of its prosperity. A mint was established, port duties laid, and regulations for masters of ships adopted. Taxes at the rate of eighteen pounds of tobacco per head, were imposed for proper maintenance of government, and special provision made for soldiers disabled in service of the colony. Among the peculiar taxes levied was that placed upon vessels entering the harbor. If they had “a flush deck fore and aft,” and came to trade in the province, they were required to pay one and a half pounds of powder, and three hogsheads of shot for every ton burden. Even as late as 1745 the form and precise description of vessels is registered, as in the following extract taken from the Patuxent records of Benedict Calvert, Esq., Dec. 1, 1745:
- “ Ship Thames, Masters James Armour and Jo. Stevens, Square built 100 tons, 130 convicts from London, August 21, I745-”	.	•
A goodly company, one hundred and thirty English convicts sent to the Puritan settlement of Maryland. This was but a beginning as later records show. Affairs prospered under the government of Philip Calyert, and two years later, . in 1662, when he was superseded by his nephew, Sir Charles Calvert, son of the Lord Proprietary, and heir of the province, thev population had increased froth 12,000 inhabitants to 16,000.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
119
The number of counties had been enlarged, and St. Mary’s, although still very small, had from fifty to sixty houses. The first Assembly called by Sir Charles Calvert directed a state house and prison to be purchased, and declared the laws of England to be in full force in the colony. The next Assembly, in 1664, busied them-, selves in framing much of the present system • of laws, the rules for conveyance of land in the future, improvement of harbor, the appointment of public notaries, and certain laws for Master and Slave, which traffic had already sprung up in the colony.
The exact date of the introduction of negro o ' slavery is not known. In Virginia, as early as 1620, a Dutch slave ship intending to seek Spanish isles, or hoping to find in this English settlement a more favorable market, touched upon the coast, and the colonists purchased twenty slaves. The Indians, frightened at their color, V	O	7
• called them Manitto.* In Virginia the slaves were kept in ignorance—even the teachings of Christianity were denied them; but in Maryland they were taught religion, and baptised as the children of the family. The first mention of negro slavery in Maryland is found in 1663, but only in 1671 was the act passed to encourage their importation. The distinction between slave and servant was strongly marked. White emigrants unable to bear the expense of the voyage to America, or to maintain themselves upon their arrival here, bound themselves to serve for a limited number of years anyone who would advance them the necessary funds. In time this servant apprenticeship became a considerable trade. Indentures were made to -the captain of the ship, and their unexpired time sold upon landing to the highest bidder, to whom the indentures were then transferred. In the earlier days of the colony they were known ’ as indentured apprentices, but later the name “ re-demptioners” was given them. When their term ’ of service was ended, they became useful citizens, and enjoyed the same franchise as their masters.
The fame of Maryland’s civil and religious liberty went abroad, and many suffering under despotic rule sought asylum in Lord Baltimore’s territory. In 1666 the Assembly passed an act to naturalize and admit to all the rights of citizenship several families from France, Spain and Bohemia. Here, too, by the Chesapeake the gentle, peaceful Friends found refuge and safety. In England, Massachusetts and Virginia the pillory and whipping post awaited them, almost within sight of Plymouth Rock gallows were
* Meaning “black devil.”
erected for them, everywhere, save in Maryland, their simple faith was punished as a crime. It is true that they had some difficulties with the government, arising from their refusal to perform military duty, and their conscientious rejection of oaths, but they were soon relieved from these annoyances, and then Maryland became to them, as she was to all, the land of perfect freedom. Burke, in his history of Virginia, thus speaks of the reception of the Friends: “In Maryland, where the governor and a majority of the people were papists and royalists—a religion and government whose spirit is thought to be hostile to liberty and averse to toleration—they were immediately hailed as brothers, and admitted to all the rights of free men,” while Bancroft has given no more beautiful picture than that of the preacher, George Fox, before the colonial legislature and council, expounding the tenets of his faith.	.
Next to the picture of the occupation of Maryland, joining the tablet recording the superb promulgation of religious freedom, should be placed the colonial groups, with the emperor and chieftains of the Nanticokes assembled on the eastern shore of the bay, to listen to this leader of the Quakers. Sir Charles Calvert, the Governor, should be placed foremost in the colonial group, for he, in the spirit of his tolerant ancestors, attended one of these assemblies. His recognition of these Quaker pilgrims did him all honor, and proclaimed, what his ancestry had ever proclaimed, that Maryland was indeed “The Land of the Sanctuary.”
A Souvenir Volume.—With the approval of His Eminence Cardinal Gibbons, Mr. W. H. Hughes of the Michigan Catholic (Detroit) has undertaken the task of publishing a full and • authentic report of the celebration of the one hundredth anniversary of the establishment of, the Catholic Hierarchy in the United States, the proceedings of the first American Catholic Congress, including the papers read, speeches made, resolutions adopted and the ceremonies attending the dedication of the Catholic University at Washington, November 13th next. The volume will be dedicated to Pope Leo XIII., and to the Catholic Hierarchy and laity of the United States. A noticeable feature in it will be the portraits of the archbishops and bishops of the country, chronologically arranged, and executed in the highest style of the engraver’s art. Major Henry J. Brownson, LL. D., Chairman of the Committee on Papers, of the American Catholic Congress, will assist in editing the volume.
i2o	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

^ublishct) rfirrn Saturban hurins Cmn iTfint at X. 3. tSnibcrsitg.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Notre Dame, October 26. 1889
Staff.
J. W. Cavanaugh, ’90,	H. P. Brelsford, ’91,
H. A. Holden, ’91,
Wm. C. Larkin, ’90,	W. P. McPhee, ’90,
J. B. Sullivan, ’91,
C. T. Cavanagh, ’91,	Joseph E. Berry, ’91.
Silver Jubilee.
On Friday, the 25th inst., the Rev. Stanislaus Fitte, C. S. C., the esteemed Professor of Dogmatic Theology and Philosophy in the University, celebrated his “Silver Jubilee,” or the twenty-fifth anniversary of his ordination to the sacred priesthood. Students and members of the Community united in extending their heartiest congratulations to the worthy Father, and in formal address, and through various tokens of regard, expressed their best wishes for many more years of usefulness in the great work of the sacred ministry. In the evening a reception was tendered him by the students. An appropriate address was read by Mr. R. J. Adelsperger, ’90, who spoke in the name of his fellow-students, and presented an elegant set of Breviaries as a slight souvenir of the day. Rev. Father Fitte responded feelingly in acknowledgment of the cordial greetings with which he was received.
Father Fitte was born Oct. 25,1841, at Dieuze, Alsace-Lorraine, and made his studies for the priesthood at the Grande Seminaire of Nancy. There he was ordained, Oct. 25,1864, by Bishop— ■ now the distinguished Cardinal, Lavigerie, and for'several years was engaged in professional work at the Seminaire. In 1879 he entered the Congregation of Holy Cross, and ever since has occupied, with great distinction, the chair of Latin Literature and Philosophy in the University. In class instructions, in the pulpit and in many published writings Father Fitte has displayed rare gifts of mind, and added greatly to the good accomplished through his efficiency and zeal in the other works of the ministry. The Scholastic unites with numerous friends and well-wishers in hoping that his. years of usefulness may be long.continued and fittingly crowned with the diadem of the “Golden Jubilee.”
The Visit of the Pan-American Congress to Notre Dame.
It certainly augurs well for the profitable result of the Pan-American Congress that the members of that body have seen fit to investigate more than our shops and factories, and have not failed to look upon our educational interests as typified in our leading universities. Thus the members of the Congress last Sat-urday paid a visit to Notre Dame. It was a memorable occasion. After spending the morning in viewing the natural beauties and indus-trial interests of our neighboring.city of South Bend, the afternoon was devoted to an inspection of the University. The various College buildings were suitably decorated, the main building in particular being adorned with the flags of the various States of Central and South America represented in the Congress. A very striking effect was produced by a grand floral arch over the main entrance, surrounded by the flags of the various southern countries and surmounted by the United States and papal flags, while within the arch hung the arms of the Congregation made of evergreen.
At half-past two the big bell in the church rang out its welcome in swelling tones, while the chimes in the belfry mingled their music in the melody. A little later the procession was sighted down the long avenue, and with the cornet band at its head and the Hoynes’ Cadets as a guard of honor, it made a very picturesque sight as the long line of carriages containing the delegates and other distinguished visitors filed up the broad avenues leading to the University.
The Rev. Vice-President and Mr. Clem Studebaker, of the Committee on reception, introduced the visitors upon their arrival to Very Rev. Father Sorin and Rev. President Walsh, who greeted them upon the broad steps of the main University building. The hundreds of students, assembled in the grand parterre, were unable to contain their enthusiasm, and they burst forth with the College cheer in the healthy, hearty manner for which they are noted. After the guests had assembled on the portico, Rev. President Walsh advanced and delivered an address of formal welcome. His remarks were eloquent and singularly appropriate, and were received with the closest attention and enthusiastic applause. He spoke as follows:
“Gentlemen:—It gives us much pleasure to bid you a cordial welcome. With the object which your Congress has in view, and which we are assured that it will realize, it is needless to say that we are in fullest sympathy. Whatever tends to break down the barriers that prevent men or nations from*knowing and appreciating one an-.
2
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
other, is a force that makes for progress; whatever tends to draw together more closely the nations of this hemisphere, is an advantage which no American, whether his home be north or south of the Isthmus of Panama, can afford to be indifferent.
"To you, gentlemen, who represent foreign nations, we trust that the visit with which you honor us to-day will not be devoid of features of special interest. You have seen on all sides during the past month, proofs of the wonderful material progress and prosperity of our Republic; this afternoon it will be our privilege to present one of the many illustrations that might be given of the happy results effected during the course of a single generation by the spirit of the religion of your fathers, independent of State patronage, and unhampered by State interference.' The growth and prosperity of institutions like ours, and the confidence which they enjoy, we look upon as standing proofs that whatever may be said or imagined to the contrary, there is no hostility, no incompatibility between the old Church, whose cardinal principle is authority, and. those modern institutions based on the widest individual liberty. Our aim is to show to the world that true partiotism and religion go always hand in hand; the task which we strive to fulfil is to prepare a generation of citizens who will know how to ‘ render to Caesar the things that are Caesar’s’ without forgetting to ‘ render to God the things that are God’s,’ and our proudest boast is that the nation counts no sons more loyal, none more jealous of her honor or more devoted to her interests, than those who go forth from these walls.
“Gentlemen, in whose veins flows the blood of gallant Spain, you will observe in passing through these college halls that we have not been unmindful of the debt of gratitude which America owes to the land of your fathers. Isabella and other glories of your race are enshrined in the heart of every American; the veneration which their memory inspires is hemmed in by no geographical limits; and from the places of honor which we have assigned them, and in which we aim to perpetuate the memory of their services and sacrifices, they will to-day add their welcome to ours.
“ The flags that float above your heads and the pictured scenes that will greet you, will, we trust, pleasurably remind you that you have no reason to consider yourselves strangers in a strange land; and our highest ambition will be realized if we can flatter ourselves that your visit to Notre Dame has not been the least interesting feature of a trip destined, no doubt, to remain memorable in the annals of many peoples, and to mark the beginning of a new era of international peace, union and prosperity. '
“ Once more we bid you welcome to Notre Dame.”
At the conclusion of Father Walsh’s address, Mr. Eusebio Chacon (Law), ’89, stepped forward and delivered an address in Spanish that surprised and delighted those delegates who traced their ancestry to sunny Spain. They remarked with evident pleasure that it was the first time they had been addressed in Spanish during their long journey through the States. Those capable of judging Mr. Chacon’s speech said that it was admirable both in diction and thought. We give herewith both the original Spanish and an English translation. Mr. Chacon said:
. Con motivo, senores, de la honrosa mision que habeis venido a desempenar en nombre de vuestras respectivas patrias ha querido la nacidn Americana mostraros las grandes y populosas cuidades que en menos de un siglo han nacido, y en menos de un siglo crecieron tanto que no parece sino que con ellas se han venido a realizar los pertentosos suenos de los antiguos.
Citii anos ha que los Estados Unidos, pobres y debiles aun, emprendian su marcha como nacion libre e indepen-diente; y hoy independientes y fibres todavia, pero Uenos de gloria y de poder, yerguen su frente y os saludan, agasajando en vos a todos los demas pueblos de la America.
Y con tales sucesos a la vista; ^uando la prensa Ame- , ricana publica vuestros nombres engalanandolos de mil
carinosos epitetos; cuando toda la republica sale a en contraros dandoos parabienes, no es mas que justo que nosotros tambien os recibamos con los brazos abierto.
Yo no quiero aludir al objeto para que habeis venido a la gran republica del norte. Vos, mejor que yo, sabeis de cuanta importancia son para toda la America las graves cuestiones que en vuestro Congreso se ventilan; pero si estas cosas son de tai naturaleza que tenga de pasarlas por alto, permitidme al menos explayar el en-tusiasmo que en estos momentos me embargo.
Siento hervirmela sangre cuando me pongo a consid-erar que la America Espanola tiene una historia llena de episodios los mas pateticos, y un origen tan novel como sublime. Y en verdad, nacio de un sueno de Coldn; se alimento con el dulclsimo aliento de Isabel; y en breves anos se convertla en panorama el mas hermoso que han visto los tiempos pasados, ni esperan ver los veni-deros. Asi cuando Isabel plantaba el pabellon de los Alfonsos en Granada, Colon plantaba el de la Cruz en Guanahani; y mientras las legiones de Gonsalo pasaban victoriosas sobre los escombros de la rendida Italia, el gran Cortez y elintrepido Pizarro subyugaban las huestes de Atahualpa y Mocteuzuma.
Ascendientes tuvimos que en eso de valor no han ido en saga ni a los guerreros espartanos; y lo que es mas extrano aim, en medio del combate no olvidaban las ciencias’que con la religion de Europa hablan importado.
Vinieron tiempos, sinembargo, en que degenerando en despotismo la monarqula Espanola, era preciso sacudir el yugo que se imponla a los pueblos de America; y asi fue como salieron al campo a combatir por la libertad aquellos denodados adalides que nos dejaron patria, historia, y porvenir.
A vosotros, pues, antorchas de la America Espanola, za vosotros toca la realization de los suenos de Bolivar cuando triunfaba en Venezuela; a vuestro deber incumbe el cumplir con los deseos de Hidalgo cuando morla con Allende. Y cierto estoy que hay en vosotros bastante patriotismo pare no olvidar que toda la America latina veulve hacia vos con ansiedad los ojos, esperando el re-sultado de vuestras deliberaciones, para aprobarlas si son de provecho, ri para rechazarlas si de algim modo perjud-ican vuestro comercio 6 independencia.
Si somos de Mexico ri de Chile, poco importa: lo que debemos tomar en cuenta es que todos somos Americanos. Nuestro origen es identico, nuestra historia ha sido pa-recida, y nuestro porvenir de consiguiente debe ser co-miin. Asi lo que obstruye el progreso de los mexicanos, jamas promovera la dicha de los sud-americanos; y vice-versa todo aquello que sea de provecho para cada una de las repiiblicas hispano-Americanas, no dejara de serlo igualmente para todas.
Para concluir, senores, de nuevo os recuerdo que en esta recinto de la ciencia podeis reposar seguros ae que os hallais como en vuestras casas. Entrad, no vacileis en aceptar la oferta; puesto que todos aqul, como en vuestras patrias, somos hijos de la libertad. .
[Translation.]
“Gentlemen:	■
“Taking advantage of the mission on which you have been sent by your respective countries, the United States has sought to show you its great and populous cities which, though they have only begun to exist, have in less than a century grown to such an extent that it seems that the wondrous dreams of the ancients have at last been realized in them.
“A hundred years ago that strip of land by the Atlantic, known for a time as England’s colonies, poor and feeble as yet, began an existence as a free and’ independent nation; and to-day being free and independent still, but mighty withal, it lifts its head and bids you welcome; and thus together with you making a group of all the nations of America.
“ In view of all this, and the fact that the press of the American Union heralds your names throughout its confines, and recounts your indisputable merit; when, in a word, the whole Republic comes out to meet you, it is but just that we also should bid you welcome to our home.	.
“ I will not refer to the object of your mission in this country. You know better than I how important are thq
122
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
questions with which your Congress is at present dealing. But if these things be so great that I must not refer to them here you will at least permit me to give vent to the enthusiasm that 1 naturally feel at such a moment as this.
' “I feel my blood warm up when I consider that Spanish America has a history full of the most touching pathos, while, at the same time, it has an origin wonderful as it is great. America, in fact, was born out of the dreams of Columbus; it was nourished by the sweet prayers of Isabella, and in a few years became a reality the most beautiful that the world has ever seen. Thus when Isabella was planting the flag of the Alfonsi on Granada, Columbus planted the symbol of the Cross on Guanahani; when the legions of Gonsalo marched triumphant over the ruins of fallen Italy, the great Cortez and the valiant Pizarro subdued the hosts of Atahualpaand Montezuma.
“We had such ancestors, my friends, who were not inferior even to the Spartan warriors, and what is more wondrous still, in the midst of the battlefield they did not forget those sciences which they had brought with them from Europe. The grandest of epics had just been sung, not as Homer sang in the calm nights of Greece, but it was sung to the roar of the guns, when one nation passed away to be replaced by another.
“There came a time, however, when the Spanish monarchy degenerated into despotism, and it became necessary to throw off the yoke with which it was sought to oppress the nations of America. Then it came to pass that such noble warriors as our forefathers immediately sprang up to give us a country, a history, and a future.
“ It is yours, men of experience and learning, it is yours to realize the dream of Bolivar, when he triumphed in Venezuela; it devolves upon you to accomplish the plans of Hidalgo when he died with Alleude. I am sure that there is in you such patriotism as will cause you never to forget that Spanish America turns now toward you with anxiety, awaiting the result of your deliberations.
“It matters not whether we be Mexicans or Chileans; we are all Americans; our origin is identical; our history has been similar, and, as a result, it follows that our future must be common. Hence whatever obstructs the . progress of the Mexicans can never further the happiness of South America, and vice versa, whatever is of interest to any one of the Spanish American Republics cannot but be beneficial to all of them.
‘ " Finally, I will again remind you, gentlemen, that at this seat of virtue and of learning you can rest with the same security as if you were in your own homes. Come, then, do not hesitate to accept our welcome, since we extend to you the hospitality which only the sons of liberty can give.”
After the applause following Mr. Chacon’s remarks had concluded, the Cadets fired a salute in honor of the delegates, and went through the manual of arms. The members of the Congress appeared much interested in the evolutions of the Light Guards.
When the exercises were concluded the'guests were taken to the grand parlor and entertained, and from that on until the hour of departure the time passed all too swiftly for them. They separated into groups and under the guidance of President Walsh, Very Rev, Provincial Corby and members of the Faculty, inspected the many objects of interest which always attract visitors to Notre Dame. They were particularly interested in the Church of the Sacred Heart, so rich and beautiful in its art treasures, and viewed with absorbing interest the historical pictures in the University corridor, representing events ■ in thelife of Columbus, to which President Walsh had referred in his speech. The grand, collection of paintings in Bishops’ Hall was greatly admired, and there was much to interest .them
in the Museum, in Science Hall and other departments. They expressed themselves delighted with all they saw, and again and again spoke of the real pleasure which they experienced in visiting a spot where they felt so perfectly, “at home.”	।
But the two short hours to which their visit	|
was limited soon fled by, and they were obliged	t
to resume their journey. The long procession	-■
was again formed, and to the music of the band	;
and the ringing cheers of the students, the car-	?
riages were driven through the beautiful groves	■
back of the College buildings, along the banks	'
of the lake—where the “fleet,” in their gaily decorated boats, treated the visitors to several “spurts” as they passed—and out through the leafy woods on to the road leading to St. Mary’s which the delegates desired to visit before say- ’ ing “good-bye” to Notre Dame.
Stray Leaves from a Vacation Diary.
by m. o’dea.
IV.—Paris.
August 7 (Continued).—Neai- the centre of the Luxembourg Gardens in one of the music	1
kiosks, the 76th infantry band was playing	i
rEtoile du Nord. I took a programme and a ! chair to rest a few minutes and hear them; then	|
went on to see the fine statue of one of my favor-	t
ite military heroes, Marshal Ney, which stands I on the spot where he gave his pathetic last com- | mand: “My comrades, fire on me!” I returned | on the Boulevard St. Michel to the Rue Soufflot	I
and up to the Pantheon. This imposing edifice	I
was erected as a church, on the site of the Ab-	|
bey of Ste.-Genevieve, to commemorate the re-	|
covery of Louis XV. from a dangerous illness.	|
Many still call it the Church of Ste.-Genevieve,	|
but her tomb is across the street near the ancient	|
Church of St. Etienne du Mont, where Pascal is g buried also. Though its new name is taken from I the Roman temple, this Pantheon is not dedi- | cated to all the gods, but to Great Men. The I revolutionists in 1791 changed it from a church	|
in honor of the patron saint of the city to a	I
temple aux Grands Hommes, and Mirabeau was B the first placed in the crypt. Like several others, however, he has since been depantheonized. The S remains of Voltaire and Rousseau were removed § from here to a suburban field; and the desecrat- ® ing bones of blood-thirsty Marat were taken	S
across the Seine and thrown into a common	£
sewer.	w
I was here before and saw the magnificent O tapestry, the statues, Ste.-Genevieve interceding Q with Attila to spare the city, and the fresco cop- £ ies of Michael Angelo and Raphael, but did not S have time to see the vaults. . A party of foreign gif students were going down when I entered to-day, S and I accompanied them. The first tomb shown w| was that of the late Victor Hugo, at present alon$ Uli
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
123
in a large waiting room; the bier, floor and walls are still strewn with numerous mourning wreaths. Each occupant is enclosed in a large sarcophagus, and placed in one of the niches of the immense stone walls. I think this method is more appropriate in every respect than the crowded and heterogeneous manner of placing statues and tombs in the transepts and chapels adopted in Westminster Abbey. The statues and ornaments on and in the oldest churches in Paris seem to prove that the French are never so wilfully iconoclastic as the English; but there is little opportunity offered here for soldiers or a mob to make headless, handless and noseless statues such as I saw in the Walhalla of England. In the Chapel of Edward the Confessor the visitor sees the decapitated, full-length figure of Henry V. lying on his sarcophagus. If I remember rightly, the explanation is that the head was of silver and it was wrenched off when Cromwell had his soldiers in the Abbey. In Paris also the revolutionists of 1793 cut off the dead head of Cardinal Richelieu, but it was afterwards returned to his tomb in the Sorbonne.
When our guide, a large, pompous soldier, had shown us the principal tombs in the vaults he took us into the large circular gallery and made us crowd together close to the wall while he stood alone on the opposite side. In a deep, rolling voice he began to declaim French military prose and poetry; and from around the corridor, louder, deeper and distinctly his words were returned. He struck the walls sharply and rapidly with a rod and stamped heavily on the pavement. The return by the echo was a vivid imitation of a battle, with us in the midst of it. Some of my lively student companions caught the idea immediately, and to the rifle and cannon explosions they added cries, groans and yells, making the effect terribly realistic. What a queer place for such an experiment. But this is only a weak specimen of the contrasts I find in Paris.
I went outside again to see the lofty Corinthian columns in the portico, and noticed the marks of the musket and cannon balls on the steps and walls. These marks were made, I am told, when the revolutionists of ’48 had their headquarters here, and later by the German shells and the Communists. On these steps Milliere, one of the-authors of the Marseillaise, was shot, and around here the fierce Communist war raged wildest. When the Germans commenced bombarding, in ’71, they suspected that gunpowder was stored here and at the Invalides, and most of their shells were sent to this part of the city. The Pantheon was struck twice, the Church of St. Sulpice eight times, and one shell entered the Law School, destroyed the benches and caused the suspension of lectures. At the College de France a shell pierced into the hall where M. Levasseur was lecturing to a large number of students: no one was injured, and he continued without interruption.
This Latin Quarter is also noted as “the paradise of thousands of studious youths and of
youths who study but little, except the pleasantest means of passing a few years of their life in the wildest forms of Parisian gaiety at the expense of their parents in the country.” Near the Pantheon are the famous schools and colleges: the Sorbonne, the Ecoles Polytechnique, des Mines, de Mathematique, de Mede-cine, des Beaux-Arts, de Musique et de Declamation; the Colleges of Louis le Grand, Bonaparte, St. Louis and Charlemagne; the Pasteur Institute, the Irish College in the Rue des Ir-landais, and numerous others. A few weeks ago invitations were sent to all home and foreign universities to send delegates to assist at the dedication of the new Sorbonne. This explains why I meet so many strange students. In Le Petit Journal I notice: “Des delegations sont allees recevoir hier aux differentes gares les representants des etudiants d’Upsal, d’Edin-bourg, d’Oxford, de Bologne, de Pise, d’Alger, de Montpellier, de Nancy, de Grenoble, et de Lyon. Les etudiants de Liege au nombre quatre-vingt-quatorze, sont egalement arrives.”
From the Pantheon I went to the Musee deCluny on the Rue des Ecoles. This is one of the most ancient buildings in Paris: a part of it, still standing, was built by the Romans (Constantius Chlorus. 2d century), and the remainder by the Monks of Cluny, more than a thousand years later. Since 1843 it has been a national museum of antiquities. Like all the national buildings and libraries in France, admittance is free. One of the most curious collections is the large room full of boots, shoes and slippers. Some of them were worn by former kings, queens and chieftains, and the collection represents many ages and countries. I went out behind the chapel, noted as a chef-I ceuvre of ornamental sculpture, and took a seat in the small, retired garden. Here I discovered a scheme somewhat American in character. One of the jolly Bohemian artists that are seen everywhere in this quarter with their easels, was at work near a cozy seat which I had selected. When I had been seated a few minutes he asked me to come and look at his canvas. I found it a really good oil sketch of a portion of the historic walls and towers behind me, and he had just put myself in the picture. His object was to sell me the painting, but I thought . the price too high and refused. He then commenced to obliterate my counterfeit presentment from the scene, and informed me that the particular seat I had taken belonged to him, and that I should find another. I was rested enough, however, and started to hunt for a good place for luncheon.
Near by, on the Boulevard St. Germain, I found a suitable restaurant, and again I met another party of students. From their talk I ’ learned that one of them was from England, and that he was attending the Ecole Polytechnique here. To him I introduced myself, and we had an interesting chat during our meal. When comparing the English and French schools he
124
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
could not avoid the old, tiresome subject: classics versus science, and to the latter, of course, like myself, he owed allegiance. In Paris, he said, all knowledge is appreciated. The rulers and teachers of the French schools do not, as the English authorities do, force and foster the egotistical opinion of the classical students that their knowledge is greatly superior to that of their fellows in science, The unobtrusive, hard-working mathematical or scientific student is not given less credit and honor than his flashy comrade who aspires to become a novel or song writer. He was a churchman and acknowledged theology as queen, but all recognized studies should be given perfect equality and encouragement.
.(to be continued.)
Obituary.
Rev. Thomas O’Leary, ’74.
The Rev. Thomas O’Leary, of the Cathedral, Fort Wayne, Ind., died suddenly on last Thursday morning, the 24th inst. The deceased was a student at the University from ’70 to ’74, and after several years engaged in teaching, entered St. Francis’ Seminary, at Milwaukee, where he prepared himself for the priesthood. After his ordination, in 1883, he was assigned to the Cathedral Parish, I?ort Wayne, and in that position he labored in the sacred ministry with marked zeal and success, until the dread summons came calling him to another life. The news of his death was a shock to his many friends at Notre Dame, all of whom will fervently pray that the reward of the good and faithful servant may speedily be given him. May he rest in peace!
% Local Items.
—Bulletins!
—Delegates!
—Pan-Americans.
—Mounted Police!
—Whose gun went off?
—The drill was magnificent.
—Those six salutes were rather noisy. .
—“When the leaves begin to burn” sings the small boy nowadays.
—Jackson looks well in a football suit—at least Jackson says so.	.
—There is an unusual number of bicycles around these parts this year.
—“Dicky W.” wants to know why no one here rides a three-wheeled bicycle.
. —B. B. has his hooks out for “gym ” faculty this coming winter. Success to him!
—Company “ B ” did nobly. All honor to Captain Fehr and his gallanfcommand!
—The Juniors are still on the increase; so is their appetite for that Parisian banquet,
—Lemonade, we are sorry to have to say, is still high, speaking from a financial point of .view.
—That bench that has so long been an ornament to the Junior front yard has gone “where the woodbine twineth.”
—The “gym” and reading-room of the Juniors are deserted these days, owing to the interesting football games that take place daily.
—The football team is training; they expect to make a name for themselves this fall and coming spring. We extend them our best wishes.
—Of course the “coppers” attracted the attention of most of the boys Saturday afternoon. One innocent Junior wanted to know what South American country they-were from.
—The football goals on the Junior campus are models of the joiner’s and painter’s art. B. Hugh is the accomplished artist, and the Juniors are under obligations to him for his labors.
—Rev. President Walsh is continuing his examination of the classes in St. Edward’s Hall, and so far he is well pleased with the evidence the Minims give that they are attending to business.	'
—In last week’s number S. Fleming is credited in the field sports with 11 feet running jump; it should have been 17 feet; also with 9 feet 4 inches high kick, it should have been 8 feet 4 inches.
—Very Rev. Father General has the grateful thanks of all at St. Edward’s Hall for a beautiful basket of flowers he sent to the Chapel of St. John the Evangelist. It was sent him for his feast by Mr. Jacob Wile, of Laporte, Ind.
—Larger crowds should attend the football games, and encourage the team by their presence. The players work harder when incited by the cheers and applause of their fellow-students, and everyone should take an interest in the game if only for this reason: Don’t let it be said that you lack college pride. '
—The decorations on the front porch expressed in an artistic manner the thoughts embodied in the beautiful address of Rev. President Walsh—The bond of union of the two Americas. As the various flags floated around the Stars and Stripes in the same friendly manner, so shall our sister Republics of South America cluster around our glorious country, and go hand in hand to prosperity.
—The sixth regular meeting of the Law De- j bating Society was held on Wednesday, Oct. | 23. The question for debate, “Resolved, that | Literature is a more potential factor than Com- I mercein promoting the civilization of mankind,” I was argued very, ably by Messrs. Blackman and I McWilliams on the affirmative, and Messrs. I McKeon and F. Kelly on the negative. The | chair decided in favor of the affirmative. 1
—One. of the most beautiful souvenirs received I by Very Rev. Father General on his patronal 2 festival was the address from St. Mary’s Acad- S emy, Austin, Texas. It is elegantly written on :g tinted paper and enclosed in covers of whited
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
125
' silk. On the front cover is an exquisite watercolor representing the apparition of the Blessed Virgin with the Divine Child to St. Dominic. It is a real gem of art. The expression and coloring of the figures are indescribably beautiful. The whole is the handiwork of one of the teachers in the Academy, and reveals the true artist.
—The third regular meeting of the St. Aloysius’ Philodemic Society was held on the 19th - inst., with the President, Mr. Sullivan, presiding.
The exercises of the evening were exceptionally interesting. A well-written criticism of the previous meeting was read by Mr. McAuliffe. The question, “ Resolved, that Convict Labor should be abolished,” was logically and eloquently discussed by Messrs. Sullivan and H. Bronson on-the affirmative, and-Messrs. Burger and Paradis on the negative.
—The seventh regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was held Wednesday evening, the 23d inst. The meeting opened with a well-rendered piece of instrumental music by Mr. R. Healy, and was followed by a criticism of the 6th regular meeting by Mr. M. Hannin. “Mid-Ocean Cranks” was the title of a humorous reading by.Mr. J. Mc-Philips. A very interesting debate was participated in by Messrs. Cosgrove, Quinlan, Monarch, Boyd, F. Schillo and Healy. The papers showed very careful preparation.
—The visit of the Pan-American Congress to Notre Dame is especially significant from the fact that the great majority of the delegates are Catholics, and they must have been especially pleased to find in the United States such indubitable evidences of the vitality and prosperity of the Church and the schools conducted under her auspices. And everyone must have been impressed by the truth that in education as in religion all that the Church asks for is “a fair field and no favor”; and if in the future as in the. past, she is left free in the fulfilment of her mission, she will contribute yet more effectively to the prosperity and greatness of the Republic.
—Very Rev. Father General visited the Minims on Tuesday, and as usual he gave them some beautiful words of advice. He said: “While I wish to see you all very cheerful and happy during the hours of recreation, I would like to see you very industrious and studious in the class-room. You cannot begin too young to form a habit of earnestness in study. I wish to see . you increase in wisdom and knowledge and in all that will contribute to making you, when you are of age, the happiest and the best men of the country, ready for any position. But nothing will better fit you for a happy future than the spending well these golden days at Notre Dame.”
—Moot-Court.—A regular session of the University Moot-Court was held on Saturday, Oct. 19, Judge Hoynes presiding. The case of the Grand Trunk RR. vs. Peleison came up on appeal. Mr.; McKeon appeared for the ap-
pelee and Mr. Vurpillat for the appelant. The judgment of the lower court was reversed and a new trial ordered. The case of Parker vs. Michigan Air Line RR. was called. Mr. Lane, attorney for the defendant, asked for a continuance for one week, which was granted by the court. Mr. Blessington appeared as attorney for the plaintiff. This case will come to trial on Oct. 26. The Law Class is now taking notes on the Elements of the Law and Civil Law*. Contracts will be taken up by the afternoon class on Friday. The members of the Law Class are indebted‘to their esteemed Professor for a new addition to the Library containing many new and valuable treatises.
—The delegates from the Central and South American States, who honored Notre Dame with a visit on Saturday last, were:
Bolivia—Juan F. Velarde, Melchor Obarrio, Alcibiades Velarde and Mariano Velarde; Brazil—Carlos Silveira Martins and Mario de Mendonca; Chili—Jose Alfonso, Paulino Alfonso, Domingo Pena Toro, Carlos Lanarty; Columbia—CarlosJMartinez Silva and Climaco Calderon, and Martin Amador; Costa Rica—Joaquin Bernardo Calvo; Guatemala—Fernando Cruz, Domingo Estrada Janer A. Arroyo; Honduras—Geronimo Lelaya; E. Constantino Feallos, Richard Villafranca; Mexico—Adolfo Mujica y Sayago; Nicaragua—Horacio Guzman, R. Mayorga; Peru— F. C. Zegarra, Alberto Falcon; Salvador—Jacinto Castellanos, Samuel Valdivieso, Joaquin Arrietta Rossi; Uruguay—Alberto Nin, Henry Dauber.
Attaches, Captain John G. Bourke, U. S. A.; Lieut. Hemy* R. Lemly, U. S. A.; Surgeon H. C. Garrow, U. S. A.; Warner P. Sutton, Edmund W. P. Smith, Edward A. Trescott, T. Jefferson Coolidge, J. H. Fox, secretary to Mr. Flint; Nelson Polhamkes, secretary7 to Mr. Pierra; representing the Spanish American Commercial Union, F. G. Pierra; United States Delegates, Charles R. Flint and Clem Studebaker, Delegate Jose Maria Placido Camano and Secretaries Juan L. Yribas and C. R..Gill, of Ecuador and United States Representative William Henry Trescott.
With the delegates were the following from Chicago: Mayor D. W. Cregier, Gen. George Crook, U. S. A., commander of the department of Missouri, Judge Lambert Tree, Senator Charles B. Farwell, George M. Pullman, Marshall Field; George F. Bissell, Potter Palmer, John M. Clark, Franklin McVeagh and Senore Felipe Berriozabat, the Mexican Consul at Chicago. There were also representatives from Harper's Weekly, Frank Leslie's Illustrated, N ew Y ork Herald,Siew Y ork Tribune, New York Sun, Boston Herald, Philadelphia Ledger, Indianapolis Journal, as well as the different Chicago papers, the Associated Press and United Press.
—Professor Edwards, of Notre Dame Univer- 4 sity, has left Rome bound for Paris and Ireland on his way back to America. He received many attentions from the Vatican authorities and was, while in the Eternal City, the guest of Rt. Rev. Monsignor Straniero. The Pope presented Professor Edwards with a copy of the latest and special edition of the poems written by His Holiness. This edition, printed at Udine, was limited to 100 copies. Each copy is numbered, elegantly bound in white and gold and richly illuminated. This gift of Leo XIII, is destined for the Bishops’ Memorial Hall at Notre Dame. Another interesting book on the history of the Papacy was also offered to the Professor by Monsignor Tripepi, the Papal Historian of the Vatican. Speaking of Notre Dame, I may mention here
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
that ten American Sisters of the Holy Cross, from Notre Dame, Indiana, have just sailed from Naples for the missions in Eastern Bengal. Very Rev. Father Sorin, Superior-General of the Order of the Holy Cross, at the request of our Holy Father and of the Propaganda, sent these Sisters from America to Asia. They are accompanied by one of the Fathers of the Holy Cross from St. Laurent, Canada. Before sailing from Naples the Holy Father sent them, through Monsignor Straniero, a special blessingforthemselves and their new mission.—Roman Correspondent of the “American Catholic Nezus.”
—The football game on the 20th resulted in a victory for the “Browns,” by a score of 12 to 5. In the first half little was done on either side. McKeon covered himself with glory by making the first and only touch-down of the inning, and Prudhomme “kicked it over” in good style. The “Blacks” played hard, but failed to make anything, and when time was called the score stood 6 to o. In the second half both sides did some strong playing. Jewett helped the “Browns” by making another touch-down, and Prudhomme again successfully kicked the ball over the goal. D. Cartier saved the “Blacks’’from a shut out by a. field kick: at the end of the game the score stood 12 to 5. All the old men played well, and did not seem at all “rusty.” Among the new hands there are many promising players, the best being McKeon, A. Larkin, Flynn and Fitzgibbons. These have shown that they are made of the proper material and would doubtlessly strengthen the University eleven. The teams were composed of the following men:
Blacks—Rushers : Fehr (Captain), Flynn, Fitzgibbons, Paradis, Jackson, Sinnott, Pim, E. Coady, Quarter-back ; W. Cartier and Campbell, Half-backs; D. Cartier, Fullback.	•	•
Browns—Rushers: T. Coady, McKeon, A. Larkin, P. Coady, Conway, S. Fleming, Daily, Cooney, Quarterback; Jewett and Dickerson, Half-backs; Prudhomme (Captain), Full-back. A. Leonard acted as referee.
Coilman, Delany, Dorsey, Evers, Elder, J. H. Flannigan, C. Fitzgerald, J. Fitzgerald, A. W. Funke, A. M. Funke, Gerlach, Gale, Garrison, Gnewuch, Gough, Hull, Howard, W. Hasenfuss, Hambaugh, Hack, Hesse, Hahn, Halthusen, Hagus, Heller, Hague, Ibold,- Jacobs, Kearney, Keough, V. Kehoe, L. Kehoe, Case, A. Leonard, J. Leonard, Lenard, Lee, Mackey, Murphy, Maurus, Maher, Merz, Mitchell, J. McCartney, E. McCartney, McDonald, McIvers, E. McKee, McConnell, Neef, A. Neef, Neenan, Otis, O’Neill, Pendleton, Prichard, Quinlan, Quill, Rarig, Robbins, Roper, Riedinger, Roth, Rowsey, W. E. Stanton, F. Schillo, Seymore, Seerey, Sokup, Snyder, Sutter, Spalding, Sweet, Stapleton, Thorn, Tetard, Welch, Weitzel, Wright, Weise, Ward, White, Wertheimer, Zinn.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ayers, Ball, O. Brown, F. Brown, Blake, T. Burns, J. Burns, Barbour, Cornell, Crandall, C. Connor, W. Connor, Covert, W. Crawford, A. Crawford, Croke, Coquillard, Durand, Dench, Elkin, T. Finnerty, W. Finnerty, Frankel, Falvey, Fuller, C. Furthman, E. Furthman, W. Furthman, Funke, Greene, D. Gilkison, Grant, A. Gilkison, J. Griggs, Hill, Henneberry, Hoffman, H. Hendry, Jonquet, Krollman, Keeler, King, Klaner, Kern, Lonergan, Londoner, H. Lamberton, C. Lamberton, Levi, Loonie, Loomis, Maternes, Mattas, H. Mestling, E.Mest-ling, Myers, McGuire, McPhillips, McCarthy, Mayer, Marre, C. Nichols, L. Paul, C. Paul, Pellenz, C. Packard, J. Packard, Pierce, Ronning, Ryan, Seidensticker, G. Scherrer, W. Scherrer, Stephens, Thornton, Trujillo, Vor-hang, Vandercook, Washburne, Wilcox, Wever, Walsh, Weber, Witkowsky, G. Zoehrlaut, Ziegler.
Class Honors.
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Messrs. C, Paquette, Berry, Adelsperger, O’Neill, Fitzgibbons, Cosgrove, B. Bachrach, Herman, Cassin, Paradis, Quigley, J. King, Louiselle, Blessington, N. Sinnott, F. Vurpillat, A. Larkin, W. Larkin, O’Shea, Hummer, Me Williams, Murphy, Bunker, Hughes, Reynolds, McPhee, Mackey, Garfias, Hagerty, B. Hughes, Lane, McKeon, L. Chute, F. Chute, Brelsford, Jewett, G. Cooke, Pim, Morrison, F. Kelly, Cavanagh, Barrett, Ahlrichs, F. Prichard, H. Prichard, Burger, Hoover, Burns, Blackman, Brannick, G. Beckham, Meagher, Tivnen, Hepburn, A. Leonard, Quinlan, E. Du Brul, F. Neef, Maurus, Murphy, J. Fitzgerald, J. Brady, Keough, Wile, Boyd, R. Healy, Wright, Priestly, Otis, Gough, C. Fitzgerald.
List of Excellence.
Boll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Adelsperger, Ahlrichs, Allen, Burns, H. Brannick, Barrett, H. Beckham, G. Beckham, Benz, Combe, Cassin, Cassidy, S. Campbell, Casey, Cavanagh, L. Chute, F. Chute, T. Coady, E. Campbell, Dela Pena, Dorsey, Delany, Dennis, Daly, Davis, Dyer, Dougherty, Fitzgibbon, P. Fleming, Ford, Guillen, Garfias, Gibbons, Hepburn, Houlihan, Herman, Heard, E. Hughes, Hempier, Hoover, Hayes, Hoblitzell, Johnson, Karasynski, Kearns, Keenan, F. Kelly, J. Kelly, Kohlman, Lesner, Langan, Lair, Lancaster, W. Larkin, Lane, Lynch, F. Long, L. Long, Lahey, Leonard, Moncada, Mock, McGinn, McCarthy, G. McDonald, McWilliams, McKee, McPhee, McConlogue, Mackey, Morrison, McGrath, Meagher, O’Neill, O’Brien, Prudhomme, Parker, Powers, Philips, Paradis, Pyplacz, Pim, Portilia, H. Prichard, Paquette, Rebillot, Rose, Reynolds, Rothert, W. Roberts, Schwarz, Scherrer, A. Sinnott, C. Sanford, N. Sinnott, Steiger, Schaack, Soden, Tivnen, Teedins, F. Vurpillat, V. Vur-pillat; G. Cooke, Clayton.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	'
Masters Adler, Aarons, Anson, B. Backrach, E. Bates, B. Bates, J. Brady, T. T. Brady, W. Brady, Burns, Bradley, Baltes, Crandall, Cunningham, Cosgrove, Covert,
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Moral Philosophy—J. Paradis; Logic—Messrs. Cavanaugh, H. Jewett; Ancient History—Messrs. J. Bradley, Dyer, Keough, Maurus, McIvers, Otis, Spalding; French— Messrs. W. Larkin, Berry, F. Neef, C. Scherrer, Allen, D. Cartier, Houlihan; German—Messrs. Maurus, Weitzel, Blumenthal, A. Neef, Krembs, Ibold, E. Garrison, Philips; Latin—Messrs. Adelsperger, Barrett, J. Meagher, Wile; Greek—Messrs. Barrett, W. Larkin, C. Cavanagh, N. Sinnott, Just, Corbett, Maguire, Hyland, King, Crumley, O’Shea, Quinlan; Rhetoric—Messrs. B. Bachrach, Louiselle; Composition—B. Davis; Astronomy—Garfias; Mechanics—Messrs. Mackey, Hagerty; Descriptive\Geometry—M. Garfias; General Geometry— Messrs. E. Hughes, Hoover; Trigonometry—Messrs. F. Neef, P. Murphy; Geometry—Messrs. Boyd, B. Bachrach, Ahlrichs, Hummer, Maurus; Algebra—Messrs. H. .Bronson, L. N. Davis, Boyd, Donohue; Modern History— Messrs. Ahlrichs, Fitzgibbons, C. Fitzgerald, Houlihan, M. Louiselle, J. McCarthy, O^Shea; English History— Messrs. Ahlrichs, Fitzgibbons, Louisell; Latin—Messrs. Brelsford, Just; Botany—J. Just; \Physiology—Messrs. Ahlrichs, F. Powers, Belting, E. Du Brul, Rothert; Civil Engineering—(Theory), M. Reynolds; (Execution), H. Jewett; Algebra, C. Priestly.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
St. Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—A competition or review in Modern History was held by the Second Seniors on Saturday last. All answered well; but those who excelled were the Misses K. Morse, H. Nacey, L: Nester and L. Nickel.
—By mistake Miss Linnie Farwell’s name was omitted from the list of those who took part in the play on Very Rev. Father General’s feast; she took the part of Lady Ethel with much grace. Leona Reeves also deserves mention for the manner in which she introduced the Minims.
—Very Rev. Father General presided the regular academic reunion of Sunday evening. After the reading of the notes Miss L. Ernest recited “Arnold, the Traitor”; she was followed by Miss M. Skancke who recited “The Last Hymn.” Very Rev. Father General then made a few pleasing remarks, as did also Rev. Father Zahm.
—On the 18th of October, the feast of St. Luke, patron of the Studio at St. Mary’s, the pupils of the Art department enjoyed a halfholiday. All attended the Mass at 6 a. m., and many received Holy Communion, after which regular duties were followed until after dinner. The first feature of the afternoon was a walk through the surrounding country, and, needless to say, it was most enjoyable. At four o’clock lunch was served, and appetites sharpened by a walk in October’s bracing air did full justice to the viands. Miss Eliza Allen Starr, whose interest in St. Luke’s special department never wanes, sent a charming letter of greeting to all the pupils; warm thanks are returned for her kind words so characteristic of her deep faith and charity.
Distinguished Visitors at St. Marys.
Thousands have lingered spell-bound over Irving’s pictures of sunny Spain; or, in fancy, have followed his grand processions to tournaments where the flower of Spanish chivalry broke lance or sword in mimic fray. Hours have been spent in imaging the splendors of that court whose lovely queen turned graciously to hear the pleadings of Columbus, and who became the patroness of him whose name America reveres. Color, beauty, romance—all combine to form in those enchanting pages of our great Irving scenes akin to fairy-land. And yet on Saturday last, Oct. 19, it scarcely needed fancy’s touch to imagine oneself translated to the land of the “Cid.”
Just as the last rays of the sun lent a parting glory to the many-colored trees surrounding St. Mary’s, a concourse of distinguished gentlemen,
in grand procession, wound along the river-bank under the bending branches—nature’s triumphal arches—up the broad avenue to the front entrance of the Academy. Mounted police, marshals, caparisoned horses, gaily decorated carriages, flags, etc., gave an unwonted aspect to St. Mary’s quiet groves and walks. No scene of romance was it, however, but a delightful reality—a visit from the members of the International American Congress. Carriage after carriage drove up, and soon the large vocal hall, elegantly decorated, rang with the strains of a greeting chorus, and music—which speaks all tongues—bade the South American delegates welcome. Miss B. Hellman then stepped forward, and in the name of St. Mary’s two hundred and more pupils most gracefully extended words of welcome as follows:
“Esteemed Gentlemen:—We bid you welcome, thrice welcome to St. Mary’s! Friends from a land laved by the same waters as is our own loved country, smiled upon by the same sky, do we hail your coming! The honor of your presence to-day, awakens visions of your fair land—land of the Incas, where from northern point to southern Cape, the shadow of the Cross falls upon charms of nature unsurpassed. Beautiful land of the Amazon, where the stars of night seem reflected from fields of priceless stones, to your sons do we offer welcome! Proud cities have gladly proffered greetings to South America’s distinguished representatives; noted men have considered it an honor to extend their hospitality to the guests of our United States, and we, in our retreat, rejoice that we are privileged to greet the members of the . International American Congress. ... We trust the ob-. ject of your visit to our dear country will be attained; and that not only the material interest of North and South America may be united, but that the bond of charity may be the isthmus joining heart to heart. ’Mid the many memories you will bear with you to your land of brightest sunshine, may there be none but pleasant ones, and may we hope that St. Alary's and her pupils will not be forgotten. Ever shall the honor of to-day be borne in mind and heart, and memorable in the annals of our loved school shall be the day on which we bid you welcome.
With assurances of profound respect, and a prayer that He who holds the world in His almighty hand may bless our glorious Western Continent with peace and union, we have the honor, esteemed gentleman, to welcome you to St. Mary’s, and to offer heartfelt greetings.”
Miss Leahy followed in a vocal selection, “The Day is Done”; the accomplished vocalist received heartiest commendation, and to the vocal class was given the kind assurance that among the recollections of the trip through the United States, none would be more pleasing than the remembrance of their charming singing. Miss L. Curtis then rendered a Spanish serenade which called forth warm congratulations.
Many were the compliments bestowed’upon the young ladies who, despite the fact that trains like time and tide, wait for no man, held the appreciative attention of the gentlemen to the last moment. The distinguished guests then passed through the Academy and church, expressing surprise and pleasure at the many advantages enjoyed by the young ladies of St. Mary’s. In the back parlor, refreshments were in readiness, and everything was done to. show appreciation of the honor accorded by a visit •
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
from men to whom the United States is now extending her bounteous hospitality. All the members expressed themselves as pleased with the reception tendered them, and ever shall the genial visitors from South America be remembered with pleasure.
Their coming wove a gleam of brightness through the woof of the scholastic year that shall not’soon be forgotten, and their presence, just when preparations are in progress to celebrate the four hundredth anniversary of America’s discovery, seems most auspicious, for how can aught but union exist when we look, back to the days when Spanish valor braved the dangers of the New World, and planted that sign which is the glory of Christendom and the ' distinctive mark of the Congregation of Holy
Cross.
The delegates were accompanied by the Hon. committee of Chicago gentlemen, Mr. C. Studebaker, Mr. A. Miller and other prominent citizens of South Bend, several of the Rev. clergy from the University, Profs. Hoynes and Egan, and representatives of the press. Their special train on the Michigan Central was boarded on the Academy grounds, and ’mid waving of flags, the South American delegates departed for Chicago, leaving many pleasant memories of their visit.
Boll of Honor.
[For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, correct deportment and observance of rules.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses E. Adelsperger, Ash, Anson, Ansbach, Bates, Bogner, Bero, Bovett, Byrnes, Beck, Clarke,Cunningham, Collbrann, Coll, Currier, Crane, Curtis, M. Davis, C. Dempsey, Deutsch Dennison, S. Dempsey, D. Davis, M. De Montcourt, I. De Montcourt, Dorsey, Donahue, Ernest, Flannery, Frost, Green, Ganong, Hammond, Healey, H. Hanson, Horner, Holt, Hess, Hannes, Hellmann,’A. Hanson, Hale, Hutchinson, Hamilton, J. Hughes, L. Hughes, Haight, Hepburn, Kasser, Krimbill, Kimmell, Koopmann, Linneen, Leahey, Lynch, Lauth, Lewis, Leavic, McFarland, Moore, K. Morse, McLoud, Maher, Mills, M. McPhee, McCarthy, McHugh, Munson. Mullaney, Marley, S. McPhee, Nickel, Norris, Nacey, H. Nester, L. Nester, O’Brien, Otis, Piper, Pyle, Pendleton; A. Ryan, K. Ryan, Roberts, G. Regan, Rinehart, Rose, Rinn, Robinson, Rentfrow, Reilly, Stapleton, Spurgeon, Schiltz, Shaefer, Skancke, Smith, N. Schermerhorn, Sweet, M. Schermerhorn, Saviers, Tormey, Violette, Woolner, Wickersheim, Wurzburg, N. Morse.
'	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Burdick, E, Burns, Black, M. Burns, Cooke, M. Clifford, Cooper, Culp, Daly, M. Davis, L. Dreyer, B. Davis, L. Ernest, Evoy, F arwell, F osdick, Hickey, Henry, Holmes, L. Kasper, C. Kasper, Levy, Mabbs, Meskill, M.. McCormack, McGuire, Mestling, Moore, Northam, A. O'Brien, O’Mara, Palmer, Patier, Patrick,Pellinz, Philion, Quealy, E. Regan, Robbins, Ruger, M. Scherrer, Shirey, M. Smith, J. Smith, Sweeney, Thirds, A. Tormey, E. Wagner, M. Wagner Waldron, Wood, N. Wurzburg, B. Wright, Young.	:
-	MINIM DEPARTMENT. .	.
Misses L. Adelsperger, Ayer, Crandall, Dennison, M. Egan, Finnerty, Goodwin, K. Hamilton, M. Hamilton, L. McHugh, M. McHugh, Porteous, S. Scherrer, N. Smyth, L. Scherrer, S. Smyth. . ' , .	..	, .	.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
- Advanced Course—Miss L. Curtis.
Graduating Class, ist Course—Miss E. Flannery. ist Class—Miss O. O’Brien.
2D Class—Miss M. McFarland. .	.
2D Div.—Misses D. Deutsch, M. Davis, L. Nickel.
3D Class—Misses J. Currier, C. Hurley, A. Tormey, M. Tormey.
2D Div.—Misses L. Dolan, L. Leahy, N. Morse, M. Piper, I. Stapleton, L. Woolner, B. Wickersheim.
4TH Class—Misses A. Ansbach, J. English, E. Healy, M. Hess, M. Hull, M. Jungblut, E. Linneen, M. McPhee, E. Quealy, A. Regan. .	•
2D Div — Misses M. Bates, M. Fitzpatrick, E. Lewis, E. Nester.
5TH Class—Misses M. Anson, T. Balch, E. Dempsey, A. Gordon, E. Hale, K. Mills, M. McHugh, H. Nester, M. Otis, A. Penburthy, M. Smyth, A. Wurzburg.
2D Div.—Misses A. Adelsperger, D. Davis, C. Ernest, K. Kasser, F. Marley, G. Rentirow, A. Ryan, M. Reinhart, J. Robinson, M. Skancke, A. Thirds, L. Young.
6th Class—Misses E. Burns, C. Beck,' M. Collbran, M. Coll, E, Davis, M. De Montcourt, L. Dreyer, M. Fos-dick, A. Hammond, P. Harmes, H. Hutchinson, S. Hamilton, M. Kelso, T. Kimmel, M. Northam, A. O’Mara, M. Patier, E. Pendleton, H. Pugsley, L. Reeves, K. Ryan, G. Roberts, D. Spurgeon, K. Sweeney.
2D Div.—Misses S. Bernhart, R. Bero, F. Burdick, M. Burns, M. Byrnes, I. Cooke, C. Daly, E. Dennison, I. De Montcourt, M. Frost, M. Haight, H. Hanson, E. Kasper, S. Levy, B. Miller, K. McCarthy, M. McCormack, E. Pyle, J. Patrick, D. Pellinz, K. Reilly, F. Soper, D. Sweet.
7TH Class—Misses M. Ash, K. Barry, L. Black, L. Bovett, A. Cooper, M. Davis, E. Evoy, L. Ganong, G. Greene, M. Hagus, H. Henry, J. Holt, F. Krimbill, L. McHugh, S- McPhee, N. McGuire, F. Murison, L. Norris, A. O. O'Brien, E. Regan, M. Rinn, C. Ruger, E. Schaefer, A. Schrock, M. Wagner, B. Wright, K. Wood.
2D Div.—Misses M. Cooper, B. Davis, M. McHugh, S. McGhee, E. Philion, M. Rose, E. Wagner.	•
8th Class—Misses L. Mestling, E?Meskill, K. Moore, J. Smith, M. Smith, L. Scherrer, G. Shirey, I. Waldron.
qth Class—Misses M. Culp, M. Hickey, L. Holmes, K. Hamilton, C. Kasper.
ioth Class—Misses L. Ayer, G. Crandall, M. Hamilton, E. Porteous. .
HARP.
3D Class—Miss E. Nester.
6th Class—Miss M. McPhee. ■
ORGAN.
Miss E. Healy.
violin.	.
Misses M. Smith, H. Nester, M. Northam, L. Reeves,
'	GUITAR.
3D Class—Miss L. Leahy.	'
6th Class—Misses M. Clifford,- A. Crane.
mandolin.	"
Miss M. Clifford.
• VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
2D Class—Misses C. Dempsey, B. Hellman, R. Kasser, M. Leahy.	.	'	.
2D Div. 2D Class—Misses I. Horner, N. Hale, F. Marley. ' '	• .	.
3D Class—Misses T. Balch, J. English, M. Fitzpatrick, N. Linneen. O. O’Brien, L. Dolan.
2D Div. 3D Class—Misses I. McLoud, M. Schiltz, G; Rentfrow. . .	-	-	’
4th Class—Misses L. Woolner, M. Otis, M. McFarland, M. De .Montcourt, H. Hutchinson, S. Dempsey, C. Beck, C. Haight, H. Nester, M; Collbran, R. Van Mourick.
5th Class—Misses I. De Montcourt, M. Sweet, M, Davis; J. Holt, S; Levy, M. Harmes, J. Robinson, M. Reinhart, F. Soper, M.‘ Schermerhorn, E. Burns, M. Burns. A.'Schrock.J	.	. .