TIME TO THINK OF SPRING VACATION
Weather like wq’ve had these past few weeks makes everyone think of vacationing in a warmer climate . . . and the Campus Shop is ready with handsome, practical new southern wear to make that vacation a fashion success. Drop in soon and look them over.
Cotton Cords....................................  5.95
LaCoste Alligator Knit Sport Shirts.......................8.50
Walking Shorts, from
.4.95
Catalina Swim Wear, from...............................3.95
On the Campus—Notre Dame
NO CARRYING CHARGE
Whether you’re in need of handsome, fashion-wise vacation wear . . . practical clothing for school . . . for any of your clothing needs, in the styles Notre Dame Men prefer, come to the Campus Shop where you find sizes for ALL men . . . and you can charge your purchases the Campus Shop way: Pay one-third in June, one-third in July, and one-third in August. Never an interest or a carrying charge.
ONE OF AMERICA'S FINEST UNIVERSITY SHOPS...
On the Campus—Notre Dame
On Campus
(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf” “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.}
THE GRASS IS ALWAYS GOLDER
The academic world, as we all know, is loaded with dignity and ethics, with lofty means and exalted ends, with truth and beauty. In such a world a heinous thing like faculty raiding—colleges enticing teachers away from other colleges —is not even thinkable.
However, if the dean of one college happens—purely by chance, mind you— to run into a professor from another college, and the professor happens to remark-just in passing, mind you—that he is discontented with his present position, why, what’s wrong with the dean making the professor an offer? Like the other afternoon, for instance, Dean Siga-foos of Gransmire Polytech, finding himself in need of a refreshing cup of oolong, dropped in quite by chance at the Discontented Professors Exchange where he discovered Professor Stuneros from the English Department of Kroveny A and M sitting over a pot of lapsang soochong and shrieking “I Hate Kroveny A and M!” Surely there was nothing improper in the dean saying to the professor, “Leander, perhaps you’d like to come over to us. I think you’ll find our shop A-OK.”
(It should be noted here that all English professors are named Leander, just as all psychics professors are named Fred. All sociology professors are, of course, named Myron, all veterinary medicine professors are named Rover, and all German professors are named Hansel and Gretel. All deans, are, of course, named Attila.)
But I digress. Leander, the professor, has just been offered a job by Attila, the dean, and he replies, “Thank you, but I don’t think so.”
“And I don’t blame you,” says Attila, stoutly. “I understand Kroveny has a fine little library.”
“Well, it’s not too oad,” says Leander. “We have 28 volumes in all, including a mint copy of Nancy Drew, Girl Detective.”
“Very impressive.” says Attila. “Us now, we have 36 million volumes, includ
Stonecutters cut it in stone, woodcutters cut it in wood, seamstresses embroider it in doilies: you get a lot to like in a Marlboro—filter, flavor, pack or box.
ing all of Shakespeare’s first folios and the Dead Sea Scrolls.”
“Golly whiskers,” says Leander.
“But of course,” says Attila, “you don’t want to leave Kroveny where, I am told, working conditions are tickety-boo.”
“Oh, they’re not too bad,” says Leander. “I teach 18 hours of English, 11 hours of optometry, 6 hours of forestry, coach the fencing team, and walk Prexy’s cat twice a day.”
“A full, rich life,” says Attila. “At our school you’d be somewhat less active. You’d teach one class a week, limited to four A students. As to salary, you’d start at S50,000 a year, with retirement at full pay upon reaching age 29.”
“Sir,” says Leander, “your offer is most fair but you must understand that I owe a certain loyalty to Kroveny.”
“I not only understand, I applaud,” says Attila. “But before you make a final decision, let me tell you one thing
more. We suppl}' Marlboro cigarettes to our faculty—all you want at all times.”
“Gloryosky!” cries Leander, bounding to his feet. “You mean Marlboro, the filter cigarette with the unfiltered taste— Marlboro, the cigarette with better mak-in’s—Marlboro that comes to you in pack or box—Marlboro that gives you such a lot to like?”
“Yep,” says Attila, “that’s the Marlboro I mean.”
“I am yours,” cries Leander, wringing the Dean’s hand. “Where do I sign?”
“At the quarry,” replies Attila. “Frankly, we don’t trust paper contracts H any more. We chisel them in marble.” I
@ 1962 Mas Shulman H
■
GLANCES
Our candidate for Dictator, J. J. Pottmyer, appears again this week with “A Discourse on Method” . . . page 7.
The Mardi Gras with its concomitant queens and the current activities of CILA are among the items considered in “News and Notes” . . . page 9.
Larry Finneran and “Dear One”: This success story may be found on . . . page 12.
Our controversial Senate reporter reports on . . . page 10.
Further developments of the Freshman Studies Program are unveiled . . . page 11.
Tom Schlereth, Student Body Treasurer, analyzes and comments upon this year’s Student Government Budget . . . page 10.
The patriotical utterances of one Robert Hope are reviewed on . . . page 13.
Current events “In and Around Town” are presented for our consumption on . . . page 16.
Bridge for you on . . . page 17.
We present a candid view of last Sunday’s talent hunt party on . . • page 18.
The Blue Circle, its dependency and independency, is discussed on . . . page 20.
Messrs. Rhodes and Barton reappear with a reply to Professor Keegan’s view of the American Catholic . . . page 21.
A preview of the coming indoor track meet is seen on . . . page 25.
Mostly odds and ends in this week’s “As We See It” . . . page 26.
The fortunes of the basketball team in its last game are predicted on . . . page 26.
Desiring to awake some interest in the subject, we reprint an article by R. M. Hutchins on college football.. ■ page 27.
Junior basketball star John Andreoli is interviewed on . . . page 28.
We continue Jerry Brady's article of last week, “Community, or the Gift of Tongues” . . . page 33.
Thf SCHOLASTIC u entered m second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School rress Association and the Associated Collegiate l **1; . w represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly dunng the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
4
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Founded 1867
editor-in-chief
THOMAS WEISS
associate editor	•
MICHAEL ZWETTLER
news editor
JOHN McCABE,
Ken Arnold, Joe Caspar, Pete Clark, Jim Wyrsch.
news staff—John Buckley, Vince De Coursey, Dick Maher, Ted Pinto, Steve Stapp, Steve , Stuecheli, Don Wharton.
features editor
TOM HOOBLER
Features staff—Carl Wiedemann, R. E. Me* Gowan, Brian Barnes, Tom Cullen, John Festa, Matt Cosgrove.
sports editor
JOHN BECHTOLD
Bob Chiappinelli, Terry Wolkerstorfer.
sports staff—J.C. Higgins, Frank Hinchey, Dave Fuys, Bob Scheffing, Tom Kistner, Joe Ryan.
copy editor
PHILIP LARRABEE
art editor
THOMAS HANSEN, Patrick Saxe, Robert Sajnovsky. photography—Brian Beck, Wes Clark.
layout editor
STEVE PODLAS
business manager
JAY WARD,
Art Berry, Bob Buckley, Tom Dalum.
ad salesmen—George McGuire, Rich Rogge-veen, Phil Tomber.
circulation manager
JAMES CREAGAN
faculty advisors
DONALD COSTELLO
JOSEPH HOFFMAN, C.S.C.
SELLER’S MARKET: During their senior year, a majority of students, in seeking employment, fellowships, and entrance to graduate school, are obliged to request from the Office of Academic Affairs official transcripts of their undergraduate work. To many of these students it comes as an unpleasant shock to discover that, after investing upwards of $7200 for an education, they are entitled to only one free transcript and are charged a dollar for each subsequent one. As a student often needs several transcripts for various applications, the expense soon becomes inconvenient, to say the least. An admission by the Office of Academic Affairs that the cost of preparing a single transcript even approaches a dollar is an admission of the grossest clerical and bureaucratic inefficiency (which is hardly in keeping with the present policy of cybernetic streamlining). Although most of this year’s seniors have already borne this burdensome tax, there is no reason why it should continue (unless, of course, the profits finance the Office’s coffee breaks). Once again, we suggest that the present academic processes of applications, registration, transcript requests, etc., should not be used as a means of taking advantage of students who are in no position to object.
WELCOME ADDITION: Four issues of the new University “Student Events Calendar” have now appeared and the project seems to be firmly established. Congratulations are due the Class Presidents’ Council and the editors whose work and sponsorship have made this new service a reality. There is definitely a need for such a publication to handle the announcement and calendar functions which for various reasons are necessarily outside the scope of the Scholastic and which have been rather ill-served by our myriad of fantastically cluttered bulletin boards. We hope, though, that the University will soon provide the facilities for expanding the project to make a more extensive listing of events possible and to allow it to supersede the old official University Calendar, which is much too removed from student activities and is, in fact, rarely seen by most. Finally, we would encourage all student groups to take advantage of this new service by submitting their announcements on the proper form to the Student Government office before noon of the preceding Saturday.
INTEGRATION NOW: If the proponents of one of the latest ideas to come out of Student Government have their way, next fall will see the abolition of another of our hallowed traditions: the “Echo Yell.” It seems the plan is to do away with the St. Mary’s section as such, along with the separate stadium sections for the four Notre Dame classes. Instead, there would be one large student section in which both St. Mary’s and Notre Dame students could sit wherever they please. This seems like a fine idea to us. The leavening influence of the fair sex might accomplish what all else has hitherto been unable to do : subdue the general rowdiness (often displayed to our shame on national television) that seems to erupt almost every game in the all-male student sections.
There are only two drawbacks we can see in this. First, the freshmen would be relegated to the end zone to handle the card stunts; and secondly, if a general admission section is instituted, competition for the better seats will necessitate a long pre-game wait for anyone who comes early enough to have a chance to get even a fairly good position.
A SMALL GAP: Now that we have had all night lights for some time, there is just one corresponding benefit that many would like to have on some of the few remaining cold winter nights — all night heat. Those studying through the wee hours, especially in the old halls, often have to bear several hours of discomfort if they fail to plan for the nightly “heat break.” We have heat on sub-zero nights, it is true, so why not simply raise the threshold of warmth?
W. <£ Z.
5
IS IT SOUARE
TO SEE EUROPE
OOMS?
A Munich songfest, a London theatre party, the Lido Club in Paris, the Student Inn in Heidelberg—all are part of American Express’ 1962 Student Tours.
This year, American Express will take students to a Bavarian songfest in Munich; a party at the famous Student Inn in Heidelberg; on a gondola tour of Venice by night; a theatre party in London; a “Sound and Light” spectacular at the Roman Forum; open-air opera and concerts in Rome, Verona and Salzburg; a Swiss fondue dinner; on a visit to the Flea Market, and to dinner and show at the Lido Club in Paris. Does that sound square?
There will be ten student tours in all. These tours are priced from $1132 up, including transportation. Details are arranged by a regular tour escort. You needn’t fuss over timetables and road maps. You’ll have more time to learn, to see things, make friends and have fun.
The tours will leave New York June 8 through July 12 and return July 26-Sept. 5. They last from 6 to 10i/2 weeks. Six tours feature transportation on the new S.S. France. In addition to Western Europe, itineraries include Russia, the Scandinavian countries and Israel.
One group will be led by Notre Dame’s Rev. Michael J. Gavin, C.S.C. Father Gavin knows how to show you Europe. See him on campus for tour information.
If you'd like full information—itineraries, prices, departure and arrival dates—on all ten 1962 American Express StudentTours, mail in the coupon below.
American Express Co., 101 South La Salle Street, Chicago, Illinois Please send me literature on your 1962 Student Tours of Europe.
Name__________________________________________________________
Address_________________________________________________________
City Zone_________________________________State
Also, please send literature to my parents.
Name_______________________________________________________
Address____________________________________________________
City__________________________Zone______State
AMERICAN EXPRESS
TRAVEL. SERVICE
101 South La Salle Street, Chicago, ANdover 3-1718
REPERCUSSIONS
CORRECTION
Editor:
Contrary to Mr. Phillips’ statement in his “Apologia Pro WSND” (Scholastic: February 23, 1962) that “No one has quit WSND permanently because of a difference in agreement in Policy,” we, the undersigned, are certain of at least three who did.
Al Hamilton
(Former Program Director of WSND) Jim Kolb
(Former Chief Announcer, WSND-FM) Walt Doyle
(Former Announcer, WSND)
WHAT'S IN A NAME?
Editor:
Mr. J. T. Phillips states that “our principal concern now is with the program Controversy.” (Scholastic, Feb. 23, 1962) On a recent show, he says, the moderator made some statements that resulted in “real controversy. As of now, we are trying to straighten out this furor and guard against its recurring in the future."
Now really, Mr. Phillips, the name of the show is Controversy. Is this what you are trying to avoid?
Frank P. Doheny, Jr. 317 Walsh
MOOT POINTS Editor:
Last week the Senate considered seven motions during its evening session on Monday. Five of these were of more than a strictly administrative nature, and dealt with matters which are, I think, of interest to the entire Student Body. Mr. Graham’s column, however, concerned itself with only one entire motion and part of a second. Indeed, Mr. Graham left the Senate meeting before the last five motions were even considered. Last week’s Senate Report is another in a I long series of columns which seem to | completely misrepresent the tone | and accomplishments of the Senate. Once again, either through the Editorials or through Mr. Graham’s column, the Scholastic appears to be taking a hypercritical viewpoint of Student Government, and now even of our campus organizations in general. There has been very little attempt of anyone on the Scholastic staff to look into the myriad of activities and committees dealt with by Student Government. For instance, there has been no mention made of the five to six thousand dollars being appro-
(Continued on page 30)
The Scholastic
A Discourse on Method
by Jim Pottmyer
OnCE UPON a time, many years ago, someone wrote a number of lab reports. Unfortunately, he failed to realize the simple fact that physical laws do not apply within a laboratory. However, those students who followed this first experimenter knew that it would be useless to try to convince their instructors that this fellow had made a gigantic mistake and that no data whatsoever could ever be gotten in lab. (Besides, empirical data are somewhat like the emperor’s new clothes in that almost no one cares to admit that he cannot see what is so obviously apparent to everyone else.)
The result of this unhappy state
J----1—;—i____i___i
of affairs is that old lab reports tend to perpetuate themselves. Moreover, so many academic disciplines claim to be scientific these days that the burden of lab reports is too great for any one student or group of students to bear. There is, today, a danger that some of our engineering and science students may graduate without ever having written a report. Indeed, a great deal may be learned by transcribing lab reports; but, lest any of our graduates encounter difficulty the first time they try to write an original report in industry, a few basic rules should be learned.
A lab report is divided into four basic parts: introduction, apparatus and procedure, results, and discussion. Each of these shall be considered separately.
twenty mathematical equations — this looks impressive and, besides, no lab instructor is energetic enough to check over twenty equations. In the event that the mathematical derivation needed cannot be “lifted” from a textbook, all hope is not lost. One should start with well-known equations (e.g. F = ma in a science course or F = ma/gc in an engineering course). Use about ten steps to develop these simple equations into a long, hopeless mess. The final equation desired is usually known. Work backwards from this equation, using about ten steps to develop this into a long, hopeless mess of mathematical terms. The two messes can now be tied together with a statement such as, “It is obvious from the second law of thermodynamics that ...” or “Upon integrating the above equation and observing that boundary conditions dictate that the integration constant must equal ..." It is best if this step occurs at the break between two pages since this will make comparison of the two messy equations difficult.
N.B. A word of caution is in order. Never define mathematical symbols in the introduction. Add an appendix for the nomenclature. This will prevent effective checking by lab instructors.
APPARATUS AND PROCEDURE. This section should be brief and nonspecific. Use diagrams wherever possible.
RESULTS. Results may be presented in tabular or graphical form. However, do not try both presentations unless one is relegated to an ap
pendix (again to prevent anyone checking up). The only physical law obeyed in the laboratory is Finagle’s Second Law: In any collection of data, the value which appears to be so correct that it doesn’t need checking is erroneous. This is a corollary of Murphy’s Law: If something can go wrong, it will. It is best to take no data in lab and to work backwards from the desired results to the data. In the event that no results are available, take as little data as possible. It is well known that one point determines a line, two points determine a curve, and three points determine a sinusoidal curve. If too much data is obtained, it will probably appear as in Figure 1 if plotted in an ordinary fashion. However, by adjusting the coordinate axes and plotting several graphs on one piece of paper, the data can be made to appear significant as in Figure 2.
DISCUSSION. After claiming that the results prove the theory described in the introduction, launch into a full treatment of sources of error. Avoid true statements such as, “Since this experiment was ridiculously long, it had to be discontinued overnight. The trays of sand were removed from the dryers and left on the floor of the lab. B.T.U., the friendly feline laboratory mascot, discovered these and deposited an unweighed quantity of material of unknown moisture content in the sand.” Instead, blame errors on an unsteady power supply or on an unsteady steam pressure — everyone else has considered these major errors so they shouldn’t be overlooked.
INTRODUCTION. This is the proper place for a description of the theory which is to be proven. Usually this can be “lifted” from a textbook. The introduction should contain at least
. i । i t i i I_______________I f_L-J—t_I__I___l i	»
Fig 2	y
March 2, 1962
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
SALUTE: ROGER DAUB
Roger Daub is an Advertising Assistant with Ohio Bell Telephone Company. Here his creative touch helps shape the commercial messages his company presents on local radio and television. Roger is also responsible for sales promotion activities that keep local subscribers informed
about helpful new telephone products and services.
Roger Daub and the other young men like him in Bell Telephone Companies throughout the country help bring the finest communications service in the world to the homes and businesses of a growing America.
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
PREPARATION FOR LENT
Most people don’t associate Mardi Gras with the frozen wastes of northern Indiana, but, nevertheless, Mardi Gras is here along with its belles and balls, Caddies and carnivals.
Mardi Gras, or “fat Tuesday’’ touted as “among the top three college activities in America,” was kicked off at one this afternoon with Las Vegas showman Eddie Blue entertaining until five in the Rathskeller. The North Ball Room, construe the North Dining Hall, will be the scene tonight of the Mardi Gras Ball. Duke Ellington will supply the music from 9:00 p.m. until one in the morning. Keeping in the spirit of the holiday mood, refreshments will include imitation champagne and possibly some imitation imitation champagne.
Father Hesburgh will crown the week end’s two queens during the ball. Miss Janet Greene, from Chicago, a
Janet Greene
One for the week end...
junior at St. Mary-of-the-Woods, will reign as queen of the week end. She will be escorted by General Chairman Jim Smith, of Wheaton, Hl. The Ball queen is Miss Nell Jordan, a Birmingham belle who is a senior at Auburn University. Her escort is Paul Butrus, the Ball chairman.
Tomorrow morning, a twisting party, with music by the Neptunes, will take place in the LaFortune Rathskeller from 11:00 ’til 2:00. Immediately afterwards, “Mr. Piano,”
March 2, 1962
Roger Williams, will give a concert in the Field House.
From the more conventional region of the Field House, the scene switches suddenly far to the other side of the campus, north of the fire station to the Stepan Activities Building where the carnival will finally open. Starting at seven, tomorrow evening, buses will leave every 15 minutes from Fr. Sorin’s statue on the main quad and make a rather circuitous journey past the lake, across the Dixie to pick up St. Mary’s students and then back to the activities building. Monday and Tuesday nights, the trips will be every 30 minutes. Buses will leave ir-regularily from the carnival to ferry those of broken pocketbooks back to the more settled parts.
Sunday morning, the week end will end for many of the dates with 9 o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church and a Communion breakfast afterwards in the Morris Inn. The Mardi Gras, however, steams on to its noisy conclusion Tuesday night when Father Hesburgh will announce the recipient of the Cadillac. A Notre Dame man will get a Corvette, and a St. Mary’s girl will get a trip for two to Bermuda for selling the winning ticket.
Goal for the carnival is $40,000. Half of the money will go to the Tom Dooley Foundation and other specialized charities throughout the Far East The other half of the profit will be allocated for the maintenance of the LaFortune Student Center and for underwriting student scholarship funds.
Chairmen for Mardi Gras are General Chairman Jim Smith, Ball Chairman Paul Butrus, Carnival Chairman Bob Krause, Publicity Director Andy Burd, Business Manager Jeff Kelling, Concert Chairman Mike Sanderson, and Donations Chairman Ron Nahser.
HU AC CONTROVERSY
Last Wednesday, Feb. 28, the Academic Commission sponsored a debate between Michael Harrington and Fulton Lewis in on the House Committee on un-American Activities. Much controversy has surrounded this committee, with some maintaining that the committee is necessary to protect America from the menace of subversive activities while others claim that it creates more problems than it solves.
Harrington, who graduated from
Holy Cross College in 1947, is the editor of New America, an official publication of the Socialist Party-Social Democratic Federation. He was the coeditor of Labor in a Free Society: Arden House Symposium of Trade Unionism,, and worked as a free-lance journalist in connection with the Catholic Worker movement. He frequently contributes to Commonweal, The Reporter, and Poetry on literary and cultural matters.
Fulton Lewis III comes from a line of radio commentators. Twenty-six years old, Mr. Lewis worked as a research analyst for the House Committee and was a witness to the student riots in San Francisco in May, 1960. He later served as the technical director and narrator of Operation Abolition, the controversial movie released by the committee on these riots. Mr. Lewis is the chairman of the Metropolitan Washington chapter
Nell Jordan ... and one for the Ball.
of the Young Americans for Freedom. He has appeared on such TV programs as David Susskind’s Open End, The Nation’s Future, and David Brinkley’s Journal.
A SUMMER IN PERU
Eight students and a priest from Notre Dame will spend the summer in Peru, helping to build low-cost housing in Ciudad de Dios, the City of God, and to improve the social, (Continued on page 16)
9
T
Senate Finance: Two-Part Analysis
by TOM
This is the first in a series of two articles by Tom Schlereth, Strident Body Treasurer, on the finances of the Student Senate. This week he explains the theory behind a Senate budget. Next week’s article will be an analysis of how this basic theory has been realized in the budget passed by the Senate last Monday night.
Student Senate finances have long been held in suspicion by many Notre Dame students who tend to view the Student Government as an oligarchical, elite clique addicted to its own interests and concerned with the welfare of a few.
Fortunately this is not the case and though the workings of the Senate budgets are complex, the actual budget structure is directed at benefiting the majority of the student body.
The budget is basically divided into six categories. The first, the Student Government Fund, includes requests from the four classes, the four college advisory councils (e.g., Joint Engineering Council), the Blue Circle, and the Hall Presidents’ Council. To be alloted to these organizations is 30% of the Student Government Activity Fee for each fiscal period. This percentage, agreed upon by the Student Senate several years ago, is fixed by the present financial policy and is subject to change only by a two-thirds
PHOTO CONTEST
Rules and regulations for the campus wide photo contest may be obtained and entries submitted in the Dome office any day from two till three p.m. The last day to submit entries will be Mar. 14 and judging will occur on Mar. 17.
vote of the Senate. The theory behind such a percentage is to guarantee a sizeable amount of available funds to these agencies of Student Government and yet prevent them from requesting padded allocations that would undercut other aspects of the budget.
A second aspect of the budget falls under the category of the Student Government commissions. These five executive arms created at the discretion of the SBP usually account for the largest part of any budget passed by the Senate. The Academic and International commissions are usually
10
SCHLERETH
budgeted as complete expense and only on a few occasions are they ever credited with income. The Student Affairs Commission has both budgeted expenditures and income and the Campus Pac sales this fall being one aspect of such budgeted income.
The controversial Social Commission activities are usually budgeted to make a slight profit. Certain activities are calculated at a slight loss, but in general the Commission is on an income basis. Likewise, the newly created Campus Clubs Commission has operated on a profit-making scale due to income derived from registration of campus clubs and bus trips to various athletic events.
In addition, the categories of Office Expense (mimeo, postage, stationery, etc.) and Senate Committee Expense are also included in the construction of the Senate budget. With the exception of income derived from mimeo and telephone charges from campus organizations other than the Senate, both of these sections are budgeted as total expense.
National Affiliations form a fifth part of the total budget and this section amounts to reaching a decision regarding how large an expense account (and how it is to be used) is to be awarded to the YCS, the NFCCS, and the NSA. The final area of the budget includes any Special Projects which the Senate wishes to undertake for the coming fiscal period.
The process of constructing the budget includes any Special Projects Committee. In opening weeks of the semester, the various agencies of the Student Government submit budget requests to this committee. These are in turn evaluated, investigated, and a trial budget is reported to the Cabinet which reviews the findings of the Committee and makes the changes it deems necessary. Then the budget is submitted to the Senate for final approval. After Senate approval it then remains the duty of the Student Body Treasurer to carefully watch that all these organizations are kept within their budgets and do not exceed their appropriations.
MARRIAGE INSTITUTE
The first talk in the Marriage Institute Series will be given next Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Late tickets may be obtained at the door or 132 Sorin.
Adqiakam.
$7700 Budget
With the exception of the second semester budget, Monday’s Senate meeting was confined to reports.
Bob Mier, who heads the South Bend Public Relations Committee of the Senate, reported on some of the progress they had made. Mier told of a meeting of his group with City officials and businessmen. An ambitious program was considered, including:
1.	A track meet for grade school students to be run by the Monogram Club.
2.	Tours for Notre Dame students through industrial plants.
3.	A program whereby South Bend • high school students might meet and seek advice from Notre Dame stu- . dents.
4.	A joint Notre Dame-St. Mary’s project of cleaning and opening up certain boys’ camps in the area.
Tom Colleton, Student Body vice president, presented the semester budget with an excellent and concise explanation of the cabinet’s reasons for the various allocations. The budget was passed with few alterations but not before it had been subjected to the close scrutiny of Dave Castaldi and others.
The Senate will spend about $7700 this semester; $5800 comes from the Student Government fee and the rest comes from the reserve of last semester. Major allocations include $1325 for the International Commission, $1600 for the Academic Commission, $1350 for office expenses, $750 for the National Student Association, and $658 for the card stunts (at football games).
A major portion of the International Commission’s allotment will go to sponsoring a Latin American Seminar costing $800. Other major activities of the International Commission are smokers for the international students and an African Seminar. The seminars will of course be open to all students. The Academic Commission’s budget goes for lectures and poetry readings.
The “grant” for office expenses in‘ eludes a $250 telephone bill, $500 for salaries, and $200 for repairs. $665 of the NSA budget is to pay for the expenses of our representatives to the summer congress.
Last week the Senate passed a motion that would move the card stunt section into the end zone. This may mean that a general admission section will be set up for both Notre Dame and St. Mary’s students.
The Scholastic
A NEW DIMENSION IN THE FRESHMAN YEAR OF STUDIES
Dean of Freshmen, William M. Burke, has outlined in detail the proposed Freshman Year of Studies program scheduled to begin in September of 1962. When in operation, this plan, according to the dean, will eliminate the initial week-long orientation procedure, attempt to insure more personal student-faculty relationships, and for the first time in Notre Dame history offer advanced placement options to the brighter students.
Toward this end, no longer will a prospective freshman enter a specific college. Instead he will make a “declaration of intent,” stating the college he intends to enter, and will then commence the “Freshman Year of Studies.” Though not completely a “common year,” the programs of study for the various “intents” are being made as similar as possible. After extensive orientation throughout the year, the freshman will make his final choice of college in May, thus not entering it until his sophomore year.
In noting the problems which have led to the adoption of the new program, Dr. Burke declared that for various reasons most boys come headed for a certain college within the University without adequate knowledge of what is in store for them. This has been found particularly, but not exclusively, true in the colleges of Engineering and Science. Many promising boys who would have adjusted better in another college are then lost to Notre Dame, Burke stated, because they flounder in their mistake until frustration and failure eventually take their toll. By forestalling the final decision to enter a Particular college until the end of the freshman year, the student’s choice will be based on (1) a knowledge of his abilities and the grades they will merit at Notre Dame and (2) a knowledge of what each college and program within that college has to offer. On this second point, Dr. Burke noted that even many upperclassmen still do not know to a full extent what the individual college programs have to offer.
A key to the program’s anticipated success in Dr. Burke’s view is that “we will be on top of the situation more than presently.” In a sense then, Notre Dame will become more personal in its treatment of freshmen, with a full department devoted to them. Close tabs will be kept on each student’s progress. Freed from dealing with freshmen, the deans of the colleges and the department heads will
then have more time for consultation with upperclassmen. In keeping with this, the Dean of Freshmen will have full control over the academic life of first year men from the time they are chosen as part of Notre Dame’s approximately 1500-man freshman class until the August before their sophomore year. At this time the academic reins will be given to the college Deans. The Office of Student Advisor will be eliminated entirely.
Full of almost unbounded optimism about the new program, Dr. Burke is most enthusiastic about the opportunities it offers for closer personal contact with the freshmen. Student counseling will be stepped up and student evaluations will be less limited to the cold facts of “6,” “5,” “4,” “3,” “2,” “1,” and “0” than in the past. Dr. Burke’s office will send out letters
each fall to the freshmen’s parents, inviting them to submit personal background information about their sons. With this information available, Dr. Burke feels his capacity to aid the freshman’s adjustment will be greatly increased. As Student Advisor, Dr. Burke tested this system of seeking information from parents a few years ago and found that it produced much pertinent information which might previously have gone neglected.
On the orientation level, Burke stated that no longer will it be pri
marily a one-week operation when freshmen are literally “talked to death.” Spot interviews of some 50 frosh this year have shown how ineffective this is, according to the new Dean. Instead, the activities of the week will be reduced to a minimum. Throughout the year the Dean’s office plans to make heavy use of campus news media and to hold frequent programs explaining the various academic possibilities. From the approximately 25 other universities polled by Dr. Burke, meetings of under 75 persons were found most effective. One system which he particularly favors is the practice currently employed at Duke and Stanford Universities, that of holding afternoon or early evening “coffee hours” with small groups. Planned speakers would include deans of the colleges, department heads, and professors. On this point Dean Burke commented that since freshmen are no longer admitted to the University by colleges, a healthy competition among deans and department heads
for the members of the class will develop.
Basically, the mechanics of the program will have all frosh taking English, math, theology-philosophy (in alternate semesters), and ROTC or physical education. AB and commerce “intents” will take one social science and one natural science elective as well, and engineering and science “intents” will take two natural sciences — chemistry and physics. Pre-professional “intents” will follow the AB-
(Continued on page 14)
March 2, 1962
11
Model No. C7241 AUTOMATIC STEREOPHONIC PORTABLE
•	4-tube dual channel amplifier.
•	Combined power output of 10 watts.
•	Frequency response 50-15,000 cps.
•	Four speakers: 2-6" and two 3J//' Alnico V PM speakers. One 6" and one 3J/2" speaker in each enclosure. Each speaker enclosure equipped with 10 foot extension cord.
•	Jamproof 4-speed automatic changer with automatic last record shut-off plays stereophonic and monaural 12", 10" and 7" records at 16, 33, 45 and 78 rpm speeds. Intermixes 12", 10" and 7" records of same speed.
•	Balanced lightweight tone arm with compatible turnover cartridge with DIAMOND and Sapphire needles for playing stereo and monaural records.
•	Four separate controls: Bass, Treble, Loudness, and Balance Controls.
•	Operates on 110-120 volts, 60 cycles, AC.
•	UL approved.
•
On Display at NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
A Carpenter Without His Hammer—
— or a surgeon without his scalpel — is something like a student without his book. For books are the basic tools of the student’s trade. Nothing has ever replaced the professor in the classroom, and nothing has ever replaced the main tool of teaching and learning—the book. You may forget, but your books won’t. At 4:00 a.m. before your exams, your professors are getting their much needed rest. But your books are working with you —that is—if you have your own books.
Presumably you are in college because you want to learn. Your books are your tools. Don’t be like the carpenter with a borrowed hammer who must finish his work at the convenience of
LARRY FINNERAN AND BAMBI LAMORTE Will success spoil...?
'DEAR ONE' NEARS TOP TEN
A cocky young man with an intense desire to succeed is rapidly climbing into that exclusive circle of teen-age warblers who hit the country with a strained explosion and then fade into a deadpan oblivion. Larry Finneran and “Dear One” are now climbing quickly into the top “40’s” and “10’s” that inundate radio. Larry himself
the man who owns a hammer!
Penny for penny, page for page, books are the best
’buy” of your college career. We have then. Come inspect them, and buy your own books today.
can’t understand “Dear One’s” success. He doesn’t attribute it to his singing which he modestly describes as “not too good.”
Even though Finneran is still puzzled by it rapid acceptance, “Dear One” was destined for success from the start. It is the musical story of some jilted lover, possibly a teener. It begins with a sort of intonation
from a medieval graveyard, plunks along on a few loose guitar strings, and ends up in a slow, too slow, fade-out of some jilted teenager whispering “Dear One,” presumably as he is falling from the Brooklyn Bridge.
From “Dear One” Larry says he receives a royalty of 7y2 cents for each record and so far “Dear One” has sold over 100,000 copies. He figures to use his receipts to pay his way through school.
But singing he says is not his life. “A lot of singers make it an end, which is bad. There must be a greater responsibility to develop yourself-He plans to devote all his time after college to a movie career.
His first big experience with acting came after his freshman year. Leaving Notre Dame for New York and home Finneran fell in with John Cassavetes, who was then a rising young film producer, and worked with him on a few pictures. One of the successes Cassavetes made with Finneran was Shadows, which was ac-claimed world-wide and brought to
(Continued on page 13)
12
The Scholastic
The Comic Approach
Bob Hope received the Senior Class’s Annual Patriot of the Year Award Tuesday night in recognition for entertaining millions of servicemen. In accepting it, he gave the “troops of Notre Dame” a taste of this morale boosting humor, and thoroughly silenced any doubt that his contribution to our country was truly significant.
Needless to say, the incisive wit that is his trade-mark left the greatest impression; but beneath the casual quips was a true modesty and humility not often found in so renowned a man. His jokes spared no one from Father Hesburgh to Robert Kennedy, but the majority, and often the funniest, were aimed at himself.
The award was preceded by the annual flag presentation by the Senior Class. Speeches by Chairman Dick Meece, Senior Class Vice-President Mark Marquardt, and University Executive Vice-President Father Joyce helped set a tone of modern patriotism to the affair.
However, such serious elements of the subject were quickly replaced by humor. The citation commended Hope for “the real compassion and constructive wit of your contribution to the sense and stability of our American community . . ." And Father Hesburgh, in his introduction, further “warmed up the audience" by pointing out that humor seemed the difference between a a true patriot and the deadly serious super-patriot.
From his first words, there was no doubt that Bob Hope is a true patriot — perhaps the epitome, by Father Hesburgh’s standard. He acknowledged that he might be a good citizen:	. I pay taxes, go to PTA
meetings, play touch football ...” But he insisted that being cited as a patriot for doing something he enjoyed was comparable to rewarding Jackie Gleason for eating. He felt “as out of place as Dean Martin at a milk bar or Bobby Kennedy at a G.E. picnic..."
As for the oft-praised trips overseas: “I did receive a citation for raising the morale of the troops in the Pacific — signed by To jo.”
Towards the end of his too short speech of acceptance, Hope did reveal (reluctantly, it seemed) a serious nature. He earned the respect of all present by transfering the title of patriot to the men beneath white crosses on Pacific atolls. As for himself, he insists, he was a beneficiary, not a giver. He concluded by saying, “I cast a few crumbs on the water and got back a whole bakery.”
—J. Peter Clark
March 2, 1962
"Dear One"
(Continued from page 12)
Cassavetes the Peabody award.
But then after his apprenticeship to Cassavetes he returned to Notre Dame and took up singing, majoring in communication arts with an eye to Hollywood. His big aim is to set himself up as an independent producer.
At present he plays with his group, the Kingsmen at mixers and sock hops here and in Chicago. In Finneran’s accompaniment are Dick Pitassy, piano; Eddie Burns, lead guitar; Mike Griffin, rhythm guitar; Dick Romanowski, bass; Bud Roberts, sax; Gary Chester, drummer; and Bambi LaMorte, female accompanist. Finneran’s brother, Vince, is the group’s agent; and he aids Larry in writing the lyrics and music for his songs.
You’ll find that learning to dance at Arthur Murray’s is quick, easy—it’s fun and costs less. Studios oA-’j open daily 12 noon-11 p.m.
WILL YOU ACCEPT A * HOUK
SHOO
TRIAL LESSON t
MURRAY
• Call: CE 2-3339
ARTHUR
120 East Wayne
ERASE WITHOUT A TRACE ON EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
Touch-type, hunt-and-peck, type with one hand tied behind your back—it’s easy to turn out perfect papers on Corrasable. Because you can erase without a trace. Typing errors disappear like magic with just the flick of an ordinary pencil eraser.There’s never a telltale erasure mark on Corrasable's special surface.
Corrasable is available in light, medium, heavy weights and Onion	/	/
Skin. In convenient 100-sheet /	J /
packets and 500-sheet ream boxes. Only Eaton makes Corrasable.
A Berkshire Typewriter Paper
EATON PAPER
CORPORATION ; TF. ) PITTSFIELD, MASS.
Available at
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE

13
Freshman Studies
(Continued from page 11)
Commerce sequence with the natural science in their case being chemistry. Three entirely new courses, designed for freshmen, will be among the social science electives: Business in Society, Political Science and the Social Order, and American Society. The math and
DR. N. F1ZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
“ CONTACT LENSES Inquiries Invited
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED
' OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
305 S. Michigan AT 7-5477
natural sciences will differ, with the AB-Commerce courses being “terminal,” and the Science-Engineering courses being designed as introductions to further work.
Every effort will be made to keep the freshmen intellectually homogeneous. In other words, there will be different “levels” within each course with all the students in a given section of approximately the same ability. In this way each section should be able to make maximum progress without boring one part of the class while another part struggles to keep up.
For the very superior students, opportunities will be available for accelerated work. In addition to honors sections in all courses, those AB and commerce students with the ability and desire may, upon approval, take the math and science courses of the engineering and science “intents.” Also, for the first time at Notre Dame, incoming freshmen will be eligible for
advanced placement and standing. Under this system a freshman may have a course requirement lifted and be eligible to take an upperclass course in that subject. This advanced freshman will receive six credits in the particular subject, applicable to graduation. A student wishing to take a freshman course in a subject for which he has already received advanced standing does not forfeit the credit he has been granted. To gain advanced placement standing in a subject, a student must be in the upper third of his high school class, have scored a composite 1200 on his morning College Board tests, and have achieved a 3 (out of 5) on the Advanced Placement Tests in the particular subject. The Advanced Placement Tests are national tests administered by the College Board in May and are not related to the afternoon achievement tests which all students at Notre Dame currently take for admission.
Cool, clean Old Spice Aller Shave lotion always gets you off to a fast, smooth start. Feels just as good between shaves as it does after shaving. Rates A-OK with dates.
s n u> UT O NJ
dice
AFTER SHAVE LOTION
14
The Scholastic
a new career
the analytically minded
An analytical mind can carry you a long way in the fast-moving field of electronic data processing. If you have a flair for business...and enjoy solving tough problems... you can discover unique satisfaction in this new career.
Openings are available throughout the country in either Systems Engineering or Direct Sales. IBM is anEqual Opportunity Employer.
The marketing and application of data processing systems is challenging and fascinating. After comprehensive training you help management executives solve problems which include automation of: process control and manufacturing operations, inventory control, document preparation, highway planning, weather forecasting; and complete business
control systems for utilities, transportation, banking, and insurance, to name but a few. New techniques of automatic data processing are making headline news almost daily.
We have a critical need for those who have majored in science, mathematics, and engineering. And we have equal opportunities for majors in business administration, economics, finance and liberal arts with an aptitude and interest in electronic data processing.
It’s a new professional field for both men and women in which earnings are high and promotions come quickly. For more information describing the opportunities at IBM, see your College Placement Director or, if you desire, write or call—
W. F. Wahl, Branch Managei
IBM Corporation, Dept. 882 618-620 N. Michigan Street South Bend 1, Ind.
Phone: CE 2-8251
IBM will interview March 1 better chance to grow ■ ns with a dynamic growth company. &	■ V Bl
DATA PROCESSING
March 2, 1962
'News and Notes'
(Continued from page 9) economic, and spiritual welfare of the people in the area. Their trip will be sponsored by the Notre Dame Council for the International Lay Apostolate.
Juniors Tom Schlereth, Tom Bishop, Barry Baldwin, Bill Moran, Tom Jolie, Phil Fedewa, Brian Boulac, and sophomore Pat Deluhery comprise the group now attempting to raise the $4,000 needed for travel expenses and the summer’s living costs. Working under the official sponsorship of the University of Notre Dame, they are now contacting the various geographical Alumni Clubs, interested individuals around the country, and organizations on campus.
Rev. Laurence Murphy, a Mary-knoll priest and faculty member at Notre Dame, has already secured the necessary permission and finances from the order’s superior to accompany the group as coordinator.
Living at a parish house, the team will have its own daily schedule, including Mass, work, teaching, recreation, and many opportunities to meet with and have discussions with Peruvians of all classes, especially college students.
After they have returned to the United States in August, the members will speak to groups in their home parishes and dioceses, and at Notre Dame and other college campuses.
Also under CILA auspices, a group of eleven Notre Dame students will drive to the vicinity of Mexico City and spend the summer constructing buildings with Mexican workers. Exact destination of this team is uncertain though many requests have reached them. Funds are presently being solicited.
OPEN HOUSE EXPANDED
The 1962 Engineering Open House has been expanded into a new twin show format covering two full week ends in March. The annual Auto Show presenting the newest developments in automotive engineering will begin a three-day stay at the Stepan Student Activities Building on Mar. 16. Two weeks later, from Mar. 30 till Apr. 1, the Industrial Show Week End will occupy the same spot.
Unlike previous years the Open House has included an industrial show to augment the open house of engineering facilities. This new feature will fill 20,000 square feet of exhibit space, and include many professional displays. There is no admission charge to either of the two week-end events.
j.Msw

Note: The hands used here are from the Intercollegiate Competition last Saturday.
Yeah, Bob, you should have been down in the Rathskeller yesterday. A couple of strange kids were kibitzing Charlie bringing in a doubled contract and looked like a pair of the usual yo-yos who don’t know a squeeze from an end-play and seem to have nothing to do but watch. Jack motioned me over as I ribbed Frank about his defense and told that they were looking for a game. None of us felt too confident, so 1/20 cent per point was set, and we dealt out the first hand:
CONTRACT: 6S OPENING LEAD: QH
Q32 54 AK432 653
(Me)	(Jack)
S 54	96
H QJ1087	9632
D 87	QJ109
C K1098	J72
AKJ1084 AK 65 AQ4
I was not too enthused about the bidding, • for they reached slam in spades and it was my lead. Declarer took it in his hand with the king, and led a diamond toward the board. I played my eight and partner took it with the nine. I was puzzled—when partner led a club back and declarer hopped up with the ace, I absentmindedly played the 10. The diamond king was taken, and a diamond ruffed high. After trumps were drawn, declarer got to the board with the trump queen and pitched his clubs on the established diamonds. He quietly explained that he was guarding against a 4-2 split in diamonds by ducking and making one of the diamonds honors one of the two necessary tries to establish and cash the suit. I painfully realized that we were playing with some rough cookies.
CONTRACT: 4S OPENING LEAD: KC
Q76 Q65 AQJ109 54
S 42	53
H K1043	9872
D 832	K5
C AK1098	QJ76
AKJ1098 AJ 764 32
At first, the next hand seemed to be our hand. Despite West’s two club overcall, we bid the spade game. West opened the club king and his partner played the queen. A low club to East’s jack, a heart return and unsuccessful finesse, and a club return found me booked and eventually losing to the diamond king for the setting trick.
CONTRACT: 3NT OPENING LEAD: KH
KQ32 65 K74 942
S 765	J1098
H KQJ10	987
D 65	J1098
C KJ108	Q5
A4 A432 AQ32 AK3
The next hand I card-racked again, and opened one no. With things the way they were, I accepted partner’s invitation to game and West made the normal lead of the heart king against three no. I rapidly calculated eight tricks for the good guys and a diamond split being my only hope for the ninth. If one guy had the spades as well as all the diamonds, I probably had a squeeze. I ducked three hearts, and took the fourth with the ace. Sure I know that you have to give up all of your losers before the squeeze. I gave ’em a low club and when Bozo to my left led a club back and I played a club from the board, the other yo-yo sluffed a diamond, and I ran off a (heart, three spades, one club, and four diamonds for contract. We wouldn’t lose too much now that both sides were vulnerable, but I was determined not to play these cookies after the rubber. Not that I was afraid of those two; I was, and I’m not in- • dependently wealthy.
CONTRACT: 4H OPENING LEAD:
5432 7652 QJ98 A (Continued on page
16
The Scholastic
Of Special Interest. The Presbyterian Players present their own production of The Diary of Ann Frank for the last two nights and it would be by all means worth your while to take it in tonight if you’re left dateless for the Mardi Gras Ball. That’s the lottery for you: but no chances taken here. The production has been capably handled by directress Irene Pyle Millar with the area’s oldest community playhouse. Tickets are on sale at the box office (333 W. Colfax) for a paltry $1.25.
The second of the Grand Opera series at the State Theater will be shown on Wednesday evening at 8:00. The price? $1.00. The Opera? Leoncavallo’s Pagliacci starring, of all people, Gina Lollobrigida — plus the more operatic talented: Tito Gobbi, Afro Poli, and Filippo Morucci.
Want to impress your Mardi Gras import? Show off your cultural development? Take her to either of the art galleries on the two campi . . . Abstract paintings in the Orphic World are on display in the O’Laughlin Gallery . . . And exhibits from thirteen Chicago Collectors are being shown in the O’Shaughnessy Art Gallery. This is the last week end.
The Avon Art Another double feature this week. And nowhere as bad as last week’s bill. Seems like a break in the clouds ’cause a movie with at least a little bit of real art at last appears. Breathless is the industry’s version of the staccato. It lurches along like it were rolling on square wheels, in an effort to tell no story at all. It is, rather, the description of a man (Jean-Paul Belmondo) who amounts to no more than an up-and-coming gutter bum who steals, mugs, kills, and beds indiscriminately — without purpose . . . until death doth reap its own. An existential holiday. But Director Godard attempts in his bizarre, coglike presentation a real look at abstract, movie cubism. . . . which fuses time and space into real-fantasy. Jean Seberg (American) provides the female lead.
The Love Game plays with the above: a bawdy comedy about young love • • . illicit young love. Starring three very funny French people with a very funny, if questionable, French plot. The scene is a rumpled little room in the back of a rumpled little French shop. Jean-Pierre Cassel, Genevieve Cluny, and a bed star.
The Colfax. The King of Kings again ... it will be around for awhile. A technicolor bible story with internationalists Siobhan McKenna, Robert Ryan, and Carmen Sevilla taking the leads. And Philip Yordan must be given credit for rewriting the Bible. It would be senseless to give you a hint about the plot ; • . but the dialogue is very “tender” and a trip to the Colfax this week might mspire you in this the beginning of the Lenten season.
{King of Kings: Week 2 — 8; Sundays 1:30 — 4:45 — 8)
The Granada. Surprise! Lover Come Back just won’t go away. It will be around for yet a third week ... in case you haven’t gotten a chance to see it. Attendance has obviously been good — theaters don’t retain flops. And the attendance has been good because the movie is, as Time says, entertaining, ft’s gay and witty . . . loose and free ... in color and big screen. Doris Day, ftock Hudson, and Tony Randall, too. If you haven’t seen it and you need a lift because your honey is sick for Mardi Gras then by all means make the scene.
{Lover: 1 — 3 — 5 — 7 — 9)
The State. Picture this: Rosalind Russell cast as a Jewish widow and Sir Alec Guinness cast as a wealthy Japanese industrialist. Molly Goldberg I can see • • . Rosalind Russell is hard to take. But Roz and Alec — with just a little dialect trouble — manage to do some kind of justice to the lengthy Spigelgass March 2, 1962
play, A Majority of One, turned moderate length movie of the same name. The story concerns the bigotry of American Occidental toward Japanese Oriental. It is a very warm, very tender, very comic sort of movie. And it is very enjoyable too. Although the recollection of Sir Alec standing atop the Bridge over the River Kwai never quite harmonizes with his silk kimono.
{Majority: 1 — 3 — 5 — 7 — 9)
Washington Hall. Washington Hall will show Shane on its ‘big’ screen at 2:30, 6:20, and 8:30. An excellent picture — one of the best Westerns ever filmed. Denny Madden claims it even ranks ahead of High Noon.
Cinema ’62 will present Loony Tom, the Happy Lover, a short, and The Great Adventure in the Engineering Auditorium Sunday at 3:00 and 8:00.
—John McGuire
'kibitzer'
(Continued from page 16)
S KQJ108	9
H 4	QJ10
D K107	6542
C Q765	J10984
A65 AK983 A3 K32
After Jack’s free raise over West’s spade overcall, I immediately bid game, hoping to get out from under this rubber N-O-W. The opening lead of the spade king dropped the nine, and I greeted the board with a barely audible “Gleep!” The overcall meant that trumps probably didn’t split and the diamond finesse quite likely off, so I stared down one in the face for a while. After remarking to myself that the club king sluff didn’t help the board any ’cause it still had as many spades as my hand, I started at the last words, because stripped of trump, the West hand could be thrown in with the spades; and if I ruffed out a club on the board and pitched a spade on the king and led a spade, West could not fail to present me with my tenth trick, either by giving me a ruff and a sluff with a club or spade lead and a free finesse with a diamond return after cashing his two spade tricks. When the trumps didn’t break, I executed my plan, and after much thought, West led back a club. I trumped on the board and sluffed a diamond from my hand. Since I had just trumps and the diamond ace, I conceded East a trump trick and made.
—Wally
17
"We're from St. Ed's, yok, yok,"
TALENT HUNT
The hunt is ended.
18
The Scholastic
liberty, fraternity, autonomy
If any student were to recall the first person he met when arriving at Notre Dame as a freshman, he would probably recall a well-dressed, polite upperclassman wearing a badge which said “Blue Circle Honor Society.” Furthermore, were that same student to reflect upon his life and activities at Notre Dame, he would be amazed at the sundry ways in which the Circle has influenced both him and his environment.
For examples, the Circle helped execute many of the freshman orientation activities in which he engaged, conducted all the pep rallies in which he took part, and ushered at all the theatrical presentations in Washington Hall at which he was present. In these respects, and in many others, the Notre Dame student owes a great deal to the Blue Circle Honor Society and its members.
However, though the Circle does so much for the student body, it is perhaps one of the most criticized organizations at Notre Dame. Freshmen, after meeting the Circle during freshman orientation, are very likely to hear upperclassmen declaiming the group as “a snobbish clique.”
The snob accusation against the Blue Circle has long been recognized by all concerned with the organization. No other group on campus selects its members through so thorough a series of interviews. And,
since according to its constitution, the Circle may have no more than forty-five members, only a relatively few students out of some five and one half thousand may call themselves “Blue Circle men.” Finally, the snob accusation against the Circle is a result of the organization’s prominent role in student life. Badges, pins, and other external emblems of membership make the Circle man conspicuous at many functions — mixers, rallies, plays, musicals, academic discussions, and parties.
The snob accusation, however, does not fully explain the aversion to the Circle present in the minds of many. Those who consider the group with any degree of seriousness and non-emotional contemplation find deeper and more profound reasons for criticism. The basis of this criticism is the relationship between the Blue Circle and the Student Government.
In past years the Circle has voiced its approval of a more active Student 20
by R. E. McGOWAN
Government, and its leaders have been involved in many projects to promote the growth and power of the Student Senate. As envisioned by some members of the Circle, the organization should function partially as an “executive arm” for the Student Government. An objection to this view is that the Circle, for all its help to Student Government, still functions as a rival power to that organization. The Christmas Caroling Party, to name just one example, might just as easily be run by the Social Commission of the Senate as by the Blue Circle.
Still another point of contention in the Senate-Circle relationship is the feeling of many Circle members that their group is independent of the Student Senate. The general movement of the Circle has been to associate itself with the Administration, making it appear that the group was responsible to the vice-president for student affairs only.
In the office of the vice-president for student affairs there hangs a chart sketching the relationships of various extracurricular activities. The Office of Student Affairs is connected with the Blue Circle by a solid black line; the relationship between Circle and Student Senate is represented by a dotted line. Yet, the Blue Circle is more or less dependent upon
Toward the end of a long Circle meeting.
Student Senate appropriations for activities carried on in behalf of the student body. The University grants the Circle funds only for carrying out missions delegated it by the Administration.
In the minds of many the relationship between Student Government and the Blue Circle is rather nebulous. There exists a faction of the Circle which would like the organization to place itself directly under the wing of Student Affairs. Another faction would prefer placing the group directly under the Student Senate. With Stay-Hall Residence almost a certainty for the future, the Blue Circle must decide quickly what its position in the structure of the extracurricular program will be.
With the advent of Stay-Hall Residence, each hall will become more powerful, and orientation will be placed more and more under the direction of the hall governments. As the need for better interhall communication becomes greater, the Student Senate is destined to take on greater responsibilities. The Circle would then lose certain of its functions, such as the freshman orientation program, for it is considered almost certain that freshmen will eventually be placed in dorms with upperclassmen.
There seems little doubt that the Blue Circle must finally place itself directly under the Student Senate. While the Administration delegates some of its responsibilities to the Circle, the Society receives the brunt of its power from the Senate. Most of the power which the Circle pos-(Continued on page 23)
The Scholl
THE PIOUS AMERICAN:
A SECOND VIEW
by JIM RHODES and ED BARTON
It is Professor Frank Keegan’s opinion that
... too many of today’s Catholics tend to view political opportunities as opportunities for the advancement of their church. Oftentimes, the more pious the Catholic, the less capable he is of seeing the civil rights of other Americans.” He also attributes to Catholics the tendency to act and speak with excessive dogmatism. To this opinion we add the following reflections.
Today’s Catholic experiences, in a synergic oneness, two distinct perceptions that “We are.” The first perception is that “We are Americans” and the second is that “We are Catholics.” The Catholic might feel pride in the successful mission of John Glenn, or die for his country, in the light of the first perception; the other perception would be totally irrelevant to such situations and choices. On the other hand, he might rejoice over the recognition of Rome by Greek Orthodoxy, should that happen, or suffer martyrdom, in the light of the perception that “We are Catholics”; the American awareness would be totally irrelevant to such situations and choices.
The problem to which Professor Keegan points arises only if the Catholic is placed in a situation which could conceivably involve both perceptions as premises upon which action might be taken. Professor Keegan, having considered such possible situations, asserts that too many Catholics would act irrationally and dogmatically upon Premises devolving from the religious awareness. He does not for all that claim that the Catholic should be a Catholic in private and “an American" in public, that is, ’ that he should divest himself of all religious “presentiment” in order to decide when action is demanded. What he does claim, we believe, may be illustrated by the following example.
It happens in America that a Catholic is running for the presidency of the United States. It is also the case that two major issues will be before Congress in tiie congressional session immediately following the election, namely, whether school children should be required by law to salute the flag and whether, in view of a population explosion, nil married couples should be required by law to exercise measures for birth prevention. Public opinion gives an affirmative answer to each question. What is the Catholic’s duty should he win?
If the new president were to act both as a Catholic and as an American, which he can do simultaneously without being schizophrenic, we would find him fighting the birth prevention legislation with all his influence because he is convinced that passage of the legislation would result ln the destruction of the moral fabric of the American People, Even if the measure were amended to exclude Catholics he would oppose it, for artificial birth preven-ton is a crime against Ged’s ordering of nature. No intel-^etual could convince him that he should consider the civil rights or the economic welfare of his fellows as a asis for changing his mind. How can it work for any-°ne’s welfare and civil rights to require him to commit a crime? No ridicule to the effect that he is acting with Xcessive dogmatism could force him to change his mind, °r ultimately, he can act only in accord with what he nows is the law of God, the breaking of which is never
March 2, 1962
required by the common good.
At the same time, the new president would be found to be working to defeat the flag legislation as well. He knows that there are in America religious groups to whom saluting the flag is idolatry. Christian Charity and the exigencies of our pluralistic society demand that every effort be made to protect the religious beliefs and freedom of these groups. It cannot be required by the common good to force them to sin.
Finally, the Catholic would be faced with a decision similar to that which he faced in the recent presidential election. He would be required to choose the better man on other than religious grounds in any normal circumstance. However, if it were the case the Catholic’s opponent believed that the birth prevention measures should be passed, the voter would then also be concerned with the relation of the common good to the nation’s moral fabric, and he might indeed be morally bound to vote against such a man, regardless of whether he was so instructed by the bishops of the Church.
We thus conclude this example by asserting that a Catholic must face situations which stimulate both his American and his Catholic awareness with a pluralist awareness as well. The Catholic is not, however, required to compromise his moral principles if they are at issue.
As we mentioned above, we feel that Professor Keegan accepts and demands that this be a Catholic’s viewpoint. He points out further, however, and quite correctly, that in political reality no question is ever so clearly defined as the example we have just given. In the answer to the Catholic soldier he proposes a list of “shoulds and cans” which would entail massive uncertainty as to what is really required by our norms of morality. (We interject parenthetically that the inclusion of the question “Should a Catholic mayor close houses of prostitution?” in such a list defies our understanding, unless the issue is that of how to most prudently and efficaciously close them.) It is Professor Keegan’s entire thesis that the majority of Catholics would answer these questions without a whit of pluralist awareness and consideration, and that furthermore, Catholics are so politically immature that they look upon every situation with a view toward advancing the interest of the Church. It is the act of answering moral political questions, which are in fact uncertain, with this nonpluralist view that Professor Keegan would define as Catholic dogmatism.
We take exception to Professor Keegan’s position, which we hope that we have not misrepresented. We also admit that we may be providing the very ammunition for our undoing by disclosing our lack of appreciation of the problem considered in the parenthesis above. It would be most instructive if Professor Keegan could explain this particular difficulty, or one which he feels is more suited for illustration.
In support of our own opinion, we must state that no Catholic in our acquaintance would be insensitive to the rights of his feHow citizens. The Catholic’s religious
21
awareness is far from strong enough to overpower his perception that he is also an American; the Catholic loves America and Americans dearly. Nor is the Catholic any more unmaliciously but inconsiderately unaware of his fellow citizens’ rights than his non-Catholic counterpart. Especially in Professor Keegan’s list of “shoulds and cans,” where the non-Catholic’s rights are so obviously at issue, one would find the majority of Catholics considering the question to some extent rather than acting merely upon theological-moral reflex. It is granted that most Catholics would answer as the article indicates, especially if they are pious (which is not to say “especially if they are naive, superstitious, medieval, and archaic.”) One can not conclude from this that Catholics are excessively dogmatic, in the sense that we have defined dogmatic, but only that in an area of uncertainty a Catholic can only act in accord with what seems to him to be the best answer, that is, in accord with what he feels is right. Is something else, other than tact, expected of him?
Further, the most extreme example of political opportunism which we have found is the statement of the pious Catholic to the effect that, “If Mr. Kennedy were elected to the presidency he could win many friends for the Church by his example.” If this is opportunism, it is innocuous opportunism. Even if such a sentiment were a person’s basis for voting we would be no more inclined to level charges of political immaturity than we would in the case of the business man who always votes Republican or of the union man who always votes Democratic.
We do not consider the school aid controversy to be an example of Catholic opportunism. Indeed, we feel that Catholic education can be aided in this pluralistic society without changing one iota of the spirit or letter of the Constitution, and in a way that would see a per capita sharing by Catholic taxpayers in the benefits of general welfare legislation. If this is the goal of the American hierarchy it is conceived in justice; the Catholic asks to receive no more than he gives. He may agitate for this goal without being considered a usurper of the first amendment. We do not condemn Cardinal Spellman for attempting to gain the ear of a Catholic president any more than we condemn Walter Reuther for attempting to gain the ear of a president who is inclined favorably toward labor.
It seems, in fact, that by his very words, Professor Keegan shows that there is not even a motive for Catholic opportunism. He grants that the Church is more or less 22
comfortably nestled in its niche of the American framework, that it has grown in freedom commensurate with the freedom of all other American churches. American Catholics are satisfied to the extent that it would require another persecution of Nero to seriously upset the synergy of the perceptions that “We are Americans” and “We are Catholics.”
We feel, therefore, that Professor Keegan must shoulder a further burden of proof for his charges, which are serious and which should be carefully examined in order to determine their validity. Since our experience directly contradicts Professor Keegan’s, we warn that we can probably be convinced only with results from a great sociological data gathering expedition.
We also feel, as does the Catholic soldier whose letter appeared in the article, that this discussion should be conducted in a way that does not admit of the ridicule of Catholic education and thinking by those who are bigoted or who otherwise lack insight. To accuse Catholic students of “speaking in the archaic voice of 13th century Europe” is understood in our comer as an assertion that Catholic students have no awareness of the problems of a pluralistic society. It is understood in other corners as a concession to the liberal, nebulous THEY (who say what the “top” schools are) that a Catholic university is a stronghold whose motto is “Down with Galileo and Free Inquiry." To accuse Catholics of excessive dogmatism is understood in our comer as we have explained above; it is understood in other comers as a concession that we now realize that there is no such thing as absolute truth and that no one has a right to speak apodictically in matters of ontology. (We are acquainted with an Ivy League student who has been so educated in the liberal spirit of “Free Inquiry” and “Value Free Science” that he is not sure he exists. At least no one can accuse him of excessive dogmatism.) We do not make these concessions, nor should we even appear to make them, as Professor Keegan has done with an unfortunate choice of words in his expression of the problem he sees. Far from this, we should support Father Hesburgh’s description of the Catholic university and its purposes, and tell anyone who wishes to listen that many sciences which involve Catholic “value judgments,” such as medieval political thinking, are archaic only insofar as their grasp of ontological problems is s° superior to our own that we can not even understand their thought, and only insofar as it fails to give answer to problems, such as pluralism, which never arose.
The Scholastic
>
*
'Autonomy'
(Continued from page 20) sesses — in regard to student activities — was delegated to it by the Senate. There exists the possibility that the Student Government may decide to strengthen itself by taking back certain of these powers which it has delegated. It is common knowledge that the Student Trip, now handled by the Circle, is being considered by many persons as a proper function of the Senate. As more and more delegated power is taken back by the Student Senate, the Blue Circle would become less and less of a power on campus. With this possibility in mind, the opinion voiced by certain Circle members — that the Circle is "independent” of Student Government •—becomes more and more presumptuous.
Perhaps the most dangerous view existent in the minds of certain Circle members is the view that the Society should be made a full-fledged fraternity. Certain groups on campus are already well-represented in the Circle’s membership. Particularly conspicuous are the AB college, the Naval ROTC, and, this year, the Glee Club. There is, of course, nothing intrinsically wrong with a member of the Circle belonging to one or more of these other organizations, but the fact that so many of the Blue Circle members are likewise members of these other groups raises the question of whether the qualifications for a “Blue Circle man” are determined by his ability to serve or his acceptability to the “clique.” It Would seem that any movement which tends to separate the group from the student body, such as this movement seeks to do, endangers the future of the Blue Circle even more.
Prom what has been said, it should be apparent that the Circle may be justly criticized on several scores. Yet the organization performs so many oxcellent services to the student body and to the University as a whole that any criticism of it should be rendered °nly after serious analysis. Far too often those students most qualified to render an intelligent criticism of the group fail to do so, in deference to its tangible virtue, while their less lntelligent brethren — many of whom are envious of the “snobbish clique” declaim with obnoxious frequency its relatively few faults. But then aSain, how else can the students in deal with an organization which is such a power in their lives, and yet seeks, apparently, an independence from control by the students and their government?
March 2, 1962
THE NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE’S
SUGGESTED READING LIST
No. 2
Each week in this space, the Notre Dame Bookstore will present a list of books which have been recommended by the various department heads and their staffs as among the most profitable and worthwhile in their field. The purpose of this is threefold: First, to provide the student with a guide for his outside reading; second, to provide a medium for the departments in furnishing this guide; and third, to provide a guide for the Bookstore in its stocking of better books.
THIS WEEK’S FIELD IS
MUSIC
The Listener's Musical Companion, by B. H. Haggin. Anchor, $1.45. Although too subjective in his opinions at times, Mr. Haggin has written a stimulating book which can be of service to all students of serious music. Mr. Haggin has written many reviews for the New York Herald Tribune, the New Republic, The Yale Review, and other important publications.
Men of Music, by Brockway and Weinstock. Simon and Schuster, $1.95. This book gives many interesting facts about composers and their works. The opinions are up to date and quite valid.
Introduction to Opera, by Mary Peltz. Barnes and Noble, $1.50. The best of the books dealing with the important works of operatic literature.
Beethoven, by J. W. N. Sullivan. Vintage, $1.10. A biography which has become a classic in the field.
Music and Imagination, by Aaron Copland. Mentor, 50c. Mr. Copland, the dean of living American composers, takes up the matter of meaning in music and presents an excellent approach to music for the beginner.
Poetics of Music, by Igor Stravinsky. Vintage, $1.10. The Harvard lectures by the greatest of living composers. Interesting, but rather technical for the beginner, and at times shockingly untrue because Stravinsky could never have written some of his greatest music if he believed literally in what he says.
All these books are available at Notre Dame Bookstore
Sign up for
Advanced
Army ROTC...
And right away, you’ll feel better about your Military Obligation...
Because you know, as an officer,
your military service will be a stimulating and rewarding experience. You will enjoy the pay, the prestige, the traditional privileges of an officer...
your military service can pay off handsomely in later life. For example, ROTC can be tremendously helpful when a man starts his climb up the civilian ladder. Success in the executive areas of business and industry comes earlier and more substantially to the man who can lead. Few are born leaders; but leadership can be learned. And Advanced ROTC is a great place to learn it...
you will be contributing to the limit of your potentialities in one of the biggest jobs we face today... you can help keep America so strong the war the whole world dreads need never happen.
During your 2-year Advanced Army ROTC course,
there will be a subsistence allowance of $535. Uniforms and military textbooks are paid for. There is a $117 allowance for your six-week summer camp training, plus travel allowance. And when you’re commissioned, a $300 uniform allowance.
And then, of course,
there is the warm sense of accomplishment you
will feel in June 1963 when the gold bars of a Second Lieutenant are
pinned on your Army uniform.
24
The Scholastic
Ahis evening Notre Dame’s indoor track team makes its first and only Fieldhouse appearance in a meet against the University of Pittsburgh. Starting time is 7 p.m.
In its last outing Pitt slaughtered Slippery Rock, but the Panthers still rank as distinct underdogs because of the superior depth of their opponents.
The greatest Irish strength lies in the hurdles where four men, John Mulrooney, Pete Whitehouse, Jerry O’Connor, and Ed Kelly have all performed ably this year.
Additional strength should come in the shot put event. Carl Ludecke and the recently healed captain, Mike Giacinto, are consistently well over 50 feet on their tosses.
Frank Froelke has been close to topping 14'7" in practice and should provide the home fans with a thrill in this meet.
The main Notre Dame weaknesses
MILER DEMPSEY AND TWO-MILER CARVER
Irish Trackmen Face Panthers Tonite
lie in the mile, 880, and the sprints, where an able successor to Jerry Fitzpatrick has not yet been uncovered.
Last Saturday the Irish placed second to Western Michigan in the Central Collegiate Conference championships in Kalamazoo, Mich.
Winning performances were turned in by Frank Froelke in the pole vault, Frank Carver in the 1000, Carl Ludecke in the shot put, and John Mulrooney in the high hurdles.
Mulrooney had quite a bit of company in the high hurdles event as Pete Whitehouse, Jerry O’Connor, and Ed Kelly grabbed up the second, fourth, and fifth places. O’Connor also took a fifth in the broad jump and Mulrooney finished second in the low hurdles.
Froelke won his event with a 14'%" vault. Teammates Ed Kelly and Mike Terry tied for third behind Froelke. Frank also high jumped his way to a fifth place.
Carver won the 1000 with a 2:16 timing, but tired in the stretch of the two-mile and came in second.
Ludecke let loose with a 53' + throw for his win in the shot. Mike Giacinto, competing despite an injured hand, wound up fifth behind Ludecke.
Other points were racked up by xx?1? Dempsey, fifth in the mile; Kevin Walsh, fifth in the 1000; Dave Hud-£el> fifth in the dash; Bill Yaley, ourth in the two-mile; and Bob n>??V.er’ f°urth in the quarter. Danny
Brien also took a third in the 600 °ut was disqualified.
March 2, 1962
WHITEHOUSE	MULROONEY
HURDLERS FOUR
KELLY	O’CONNOR
25
Cltt AS WE
/ See IT
by TERRY WOLKERSTORFER
Rumor: John Jordan is so convinced that this year’s freshmen are a running basketball team that he will drop his double post offense in favor of the single pivot. . . . Based on the number of participants, drinking is obviously the number one intercollegiate sport — and Notre Dame seems to have won the Chicago Invitational this past week end. . . .
Freshman Bill Boyle is rated by Alex Wilson as the best track prospect in the school’s history, and a possibility for the 1964 Olympics. Normally a quarter miler, Boyle two weeks ago took a third place in the New York A.C. 500. Boyle has size, strength, speed, and loves to work__ The scheduled pre-Easter Old-Timers game could just possibly be snowed out.... Sophomore Laverne Tart of Bradley is expected by Coach Ozzie Orsbom to be Chet Walker all over again....
When John Uelses pole vaulted over 16 feet, he broke the last of track and field’s “unbreakable” barriers : the four-minute mile, the sevenfoot high jump, the 60-foot shot put, the 27-foot broad jump, and the 16-foot vault.
Those critics of Uelses who claim his record should be disallowed because he used a fiber glass pole are roughly analogous to those who think modem home run records should be invalidated because hitters are using whip-action bats. ... Or should they just use an asterisk? ...
Loyola of Chicago is not at all a bad bet to take the NIT title. . . .
The victories of youngsters like Phil Rodgers on this year’s tour and the inability of any single golfer — even Palmer and Player — to win consistently bear out what PGA runner-up Don January had to say last fall: never have so many young golfers played so well so often....
Coming out soon: a Maris-Mantle line of men’s and boys’ clothing.... Look for Mike Lind and Paul Costa to meet in the Bengals heavyweight title fight. . . . Did you know — recommendations by Johnny Jordan got George Ireland his coaching job at Loyola and Frank McGuire his North Carolina spot? ...
The few Notre Dame students who straggled (or staggered) as far as the Chicago Stadium Saturday night seemed to be saving themselves for the Hilton....
SEASON CLOSES AT DEPAUL
Notre Dame’s eagers, frustrated after their recent struggle with the highly regarded Bradley Braves, take on DePaul tomorrow evening in the Blue Demons’ gym.
Last Saturday night before 16,000 some odd fans, including a few survivors from the student trip who managed to float into the Chicago Stadium to make it the largest basketball crowd in four years, the Irish put on a surprising performance against the overwhelming favorites from Peoria, Illinois. Notre Dame, playing their most determined game of the year, almost made good their bid to tarnish the Braves’ mark of 18-4 and their sixth ranking in the national polls of basketball excellence.
Throughout the game, the Irish displayed a balanced scoring attack. Roesler, Matthews, Reo, Schnurr, and Andreoli put together a fine team effort.
The Irish outhustled the Braves under the boards to stop the potent Bradley fast break. Matthews, Schnurr, and Andreoli, working the ball around, set up Reo and Roesler for easy layups. Some of Andreoli’s feeds were truly unbelievable. Yet in the end inept ball handling handed the Braves easy layups and the ball game as the Irish lost 93-87.
The Irish broke a five-game losing streak last Tuesday night, beating Evansville, 99-91.
DePaul and Notre Dame have enjoyed a very lively series since it was originated before the War. The Irish enjoy the edge in this long rivalry 24-12. Another factor in the team’s favor is their impressive win over the Blue Demons earlier at the Fieldhouse 88-80. In that rugged contest the Irish displayed some robust rebounding to control the boards even though DePaul was the nation’s leader in that respect.
DePaul, under Ray Meyer who is a former teammate of Johnny Jordan’s, sports a rugged front line of forwards M.C. Thompson and Dick Cook, and center Bill Debes. All three account for the brunt of the scoring chores since no adequate replacement for hotshot guard Howie Carl has been located. Joe Reuter at 5' 11* resembles Carl in size and possibly accuracy, but he was unable to escape the persistent hawking of Eddie Schnurr at the Fieldhouse.
—Bob Scheffing
Frosh-Varsity Game
For the first time in Notre Dame basketball history, the freshman and varsity basketball teams will meet under game conditions, in a contest
open to the public.
On Saturday, Mar. 10, what John Jordan calls “the best freshman team in at least a decade” squares off against what has been, admittedly, a disappointing varsity squad, in a 2:00
p.m. game.
The First Annual Scholastic Varsity-Freshman Charity Basketball game will feature Armand Reo, Eddie Schnurr, John Andreoli, Karl Roesler, and John Matthews for the varsity, against Walt Sahm, Ron Reed, Jay Miller, Larry Sheffield, and Jim A*' feldt or Pat Dudgeon for the freshmen.
A trophy will be presented to the outstanding freshman and varsity players.
Admission will be 25c per person.
26
The Scholastic
This is the first in a series of debates designed to determine the place of athletics at the college level. "College Football is an Infernal Nuisance” appeared in the October 18,1954 issue of Sports Illustrated. Excerpts from the article are reprinted with the written permission of the author, Dr. Robert M. Hutchins. Dr. Hutchins was President of the University of Chicago when it dropped football in 1939. Currently he is President of the Fund for the Republic. Dr. Hutchins’ views do not reflect those of the Scholastic sports department and are reprinted only because they best summarize the opinions of the critics of the college game. Conflicting views will be presented in later issues.
—John Bechtold
The University of Chicago abandoned intercollegiate football in 1939 because the game hampered the university’s efforts to become the kind of institution it aspired to be. The university believed that it should devote itself to education, research and scholarship. Intercollegiate football has little to do with any of these things and an institution that is to do Well in them will have to concentrate upon them and rid itself of irrelevan-cies, no matter how attractive or profitable. Football has no place in the kind of institution Chicago aspires to be.
Other institutions in the Midwest may have wanted to develop programs similar to Chicago’s, perhaps even drop football, but they were not as free to act as the university was. They all had limitations of governmental or denominational control; they had a different kind of alumni or a different relationship with them; or they were without the financial resources that the University of Chicago commanded. The university, far from feeling a duty to conform, believed that its principal reason for existence 'Vas to criticize and improve upon current educational practices.
The ancient Athenians were as crazy about sport as modern Americans are. So were the ancient Romans and the Renaissance Italians. So are contemporary Britons and Germans. But we Americans are the only people m human history who ever got sport mixed up with higher education. No other country looks to its universities as a prime source of athletic entertainment. In some other countries University athletic teams are unheard °f; in others, like England, the teams are there, but their activities are Valued chiefly as affording the opportunity for them and their adherents to assemble in the open air. Anybody tvho has watched, as I have, 12 uni-March 2, 1962
Voice in the Crowd
versity presidents spend half a day solemnly discussing the Rose Bowl agreement, or anybody who has read — as who has not? — portentous discussions of the “decline” of Harvard, Yale, Stanford, or Chicago because of the recurring defeats of its football team must realize that we in America are in a different world.
Maybe it is a better one. But I doubt it. I believe that one of the reasons why we attach such importance to the results of football games is that we have no clear idea of what a college or university is. We can’t understand these institutions, even if we have graduated from one; but we can grasp the figures on the scoreboard.
Consider the unconscious pathos of a recent address by the president of the College of the Pacific, an address that was thought so successful in justifying football that it was distributed by Tide Water Associated Oil Company, which likes football because people use gasoline to get to the games. After pointing out that philosophy was once the “integrating force” in higher education, the president of the College of the Pacific goes on to say that such an integrating force is missing, and is needed, today. He finds that neither science nor religion can play this role.
He then says: “The curriculum has become diversified; there are numerous electives. Few study the same courses or sit under the same professors. . . . So, in this period of intellectual and social disintegration of the American college, all unite in football. . . . Football has become more than a spectacle; it has become a symbol; it has become one of the great intangibles not only of college but of our American life. Actually, if you want to look at it on a higher level, football has become the spiritual core of the modern campus.”
What a spiritual core! Here is a description of the spiritual contribution of big-time football by the late Jeff Cravath. “Nearly all colleges still playing big-time schedules have been forced into the open market to obtain their raw material. They must bid for the best players — and make concessions to keep them. The fact that the system reduces the boys to perjurers, scalpers and football gigolos is ignored.
“To keep up the pretense of purity and still produce winning football teams is no small job. . . . Colleges, even state institutions, need money to survive. In 99 cases out of 100, the
money must come from wealthy alumni, or in some state schools, from legislatures which are dominated by politically prominent alumni. The alumni demand winning football teams. To get winning teams, colleges must violate the rules they themselves have made.
“A college president must know the corrupt practices that are being used to build his football squad. But if he tries to stop them, he runs afoul of prominent alumni on the board of trustees or board of regents, or alumni with endowment-available money. The president needs that money to keep his school going.”
I agree with Mr. Cravath that the troubles of football began when it became big business. This business, like any other, has to pay. The only paying football is winning football. If you are going to win, you have to have the material; there is no substitute.
You have to get the material, and you have to keep it eligible and happy. In sentencing prisoners who had been convicted of bribing or taking bribes to arrange the scores of intercollegiate basketball games to meet the wishes of gamblers, Judge Saul S. Streit pointed out that one convicted university player in his senior year took courses in music, oil painting, rhythms and dance, public speaking, and physical education. Eight players of another university involved in the scandal were majoring in physical education, and among the courses for which credit was given were handball, elementary swimming, social dancing, football and first aid.
The judge used harsh words: “The responsibility for the sports scandal must be shared not only by the crooked fixers and corrupt players, but also by the college administrations, coaches and alumni groups who participate in this evil system of commercialism and over-emphasis.”
These remarks apply to football as much as to basketball — and perhaps more. A larger number of Americans might participate in basketball, but it is football supremacy that stirs their souls — and sometimes, I fear, corrupts.
When people tell you about the advantages of intercollegiate football, they almost always mean winning football. Even those who think of the game as the spiritual core of higher education would have to admit that the spiritual effects of continual defeats were somewhat dubious. Cer-
(Continued on page 28)
27
‘We Need a Big One’
by JOHN ANDREOLI as told to BOB CHIAPPINELLI
I think that our greatest problem is our lack of a big man. Most people don’t realize this, but, when I’m playing the high post we have three men 6' 3" or under and only two men, Armand Reo and John Dearie or Karl Roesler, of slightly better than average basketball height.
If we had that one really big man, like LeRoy Ellis of St. John’s, to get us the ball consistently, I think we would have had a good season.
Outside of the big man, we have good material and can shoot with some of the best teams in the country. Our defense has been off and on all year, but we have done pretty good jobs against players like Ellis and O’Connor of Canisius. But some, like Rayl and Cotton Nash, just murdered us.
It takes a lot of things to make a winning season — I’ve found that out this year. Before the year started I thought that 15 victories would get us into a postseason tournament, and I felt that we could win that many games.- But things' didn’t turn out that way.
Probabaly the turning point of the season was the Nebraska trip. We went out there with a 2-0 record, but then we lost very close games to Creighton and Nebraska and went into that tough Christmas stretch with only a .500 record. We needed a little cushion when we faced Indiana, St. Louis, Kentucky, NYU, and North Carolina. If we had won those games with Creighton and Nebraska and then followed up with our win over Michigan State, we could have absorbed those five straight losses over Christmas and still have had a fairly good year.
This last game with DePaul is an important one for me. Every year, it seems, we beat them down here and they beat us on their home court. I’d like to win both games this year.
We played well in our game against Bradley. We were really hustling under the offensive boards and got 28
off a lot of shots. Walker got more than 30 points, but even so, I think we could have won if we had held down the other Bradley players, especially Laverne Tart.
We would really have to work to score a point, but then Bradley would come down and score an easy layup. If we could have forced them to shoot from the outside more we could have won because they don’t have a good outside shooter like Garland of Purdue to take the pressure off Walker.
Against Purdue we didn’t play too bad a game. They just got off more shots than we did and beat us.
Right now everybody seems to be looking forward to next year. Our biggest problem — the lack of a big man — should be taken care of. The freshman team has two boys who are 6' 8* and 6' 9* and have good talent. Because of the graduation of our three tallest men, Armand Reo, John Dearie, and Karl Roesler, these boys should get to play quite a lot next year. Because of this, they should develop faster than ordinary sophomores who only get to play a little at a time.
ANDREOLI
Hutchins
(Continued from page 27) tainly the spirits of alumni, local businessmen and newspapers and prospective donors will not be raised by a long string of losses.
To anybody seriously interested in education intercollegiate football presents itself as an infernal nuisance. If all the time, thought and effort that university presidents, professors and press agents have had to devote to this subject could have been spent on working out and explaining to the public a defensible program of higher education we should long since have solved every problem that confronts the colleges and universities of the U. S.	,
Nobody questions the value of exercise, recreation and sport. To the ex- , tent that a university wishes to make opportunities of this kind available to its students, it should do so as a part of its normal expenditures, chargeable to its regular budget; it should not expect intercollegiate athletics to foot the bill. A football squad usually numbers 45. It is absurd to talk as though an institution that spends hundreds of thousands of dollars on this select group, ordinarily the group that needs physical training least, and pays little attention to opportunities for intramural sport, is doing so in the name of health, exercise and recreation. The only exercise for the majority is climbing up and down stadium stairs.
Are there any conditions under which intercollegiate football can be an asset to a college or university? I think not. There are conditions under which it can be less of a nuisance, or a less infernal nuisance. These conditions are hard to bring about and still harder to maintain. If you should succeed, you will do so only with an expenditure of time and effort that could more profitably be devoted to other things. The first requirement is agreement on the part of your constituency that the institution is to be represented by students, and by students who have come to the college in the ordinary way, with no special inducements, and who are staying in college, following the regular curriculum, with no special treatment. The second requirement is even more difficult; you have to find convenient rivals of about the same size, whose constituencies have the same convictions.
The real hope lies in the slow but steady progress of professional football. If the colleges and universities had had the courage to take the money out of football by admitting all comers free, they could have made it a game instead of a business and re-
(Continued on page 32)
The Scholastic
BENGAL BOUTS
With the Bengal Bouts less than a month away the training program for the amateur boxers is really under way. Helping Dominic “Nappy” Napolitano this year by leading the calisthenics is Ross Rosi, a senior, and two time title winner. Amateur fighters have found that the hardest thing to do in the ring is to keep their arms up. To help combat this problem the Bengal candidates do a thousand jumping jacks every night to strengthen their upper arm muscles. They do sit-ups to tighten their midsection and squats to build up their legs.
When the calisthenics are finished, “Nappy” gives fight instructions. Right now he is teaching the participants to jab properly. When he feels
Sailing
Elected as officers of the sailing team for the spring and fall racing seasons at the team’s annual banquet were: Commodore, John Zusi; Vice Commodore, Bob Singewald; Fleet Captain, Hank Chamberlin; Treasurer, Skip Kaiser; and Secretary, Larry Haggerty.
Currently underway is the Sailing Club sponsored series of sailing seminars, held Thursdays at 6:30 p.m. in the Biology auditorium. The seminars feature sailing instruction in three classes: Beginning, Intermediate, and Advanced.
Beginners are taught the basics of sailing; those with some sailing experience qualify for the intermediate course, and are taught racing rules; advanced students learn the tactics of racing.
The seminars will continue until Mar. 22, and are open to the public.
Spring may come soon . . . .
March 2, 1962
they have an understanding of this, he will go into combinations. Ever since the fights and training have been under the direction of “Nappy” there have been no serious injuries. In the past it has been the custom to have someone from the professional ranks attend, but this year the committee was unable to arrange for a guest appearance.
Five seniors and one junior comprise the list of former champions competing this year. Junior Tim Reardon, who won many amateur fights in San Francisco, has a good chance to repeat as a winner. Ross Rosi, Bob Biolchini, Jim Gmelin, Berry Leone, and Brian Richardson round out the rest of the returning winners. These fighters will be challenged by two of last year’s runner-ups, Dick Trujillo, and Mike McGrath. Mike is just a sophomore.
The football team will be represented by next year’s captain, Mike Lind, Paul Costa, Dennis Murphy, and John Slafkosky.
Those who were here last year will remember that the Bouts came in the same week as the mid-terms. This year there will be no trouble since the Bengals will be held the week after mid-terms, and the committee is hoping for a larger student turnout.
from Paradise Lost, The Beautiful World, line 1 •
Special Purchase! golFclubs 5 IRONS - 2 WOODS $32.95
★ RECO SPORTING GOODS 113 N. Main St.
Next Io Oliver Hotel
NICOLA'S
Cracker Crust Pizza
CE 4-6688
Free Delivery to Circle and WNDU Parking lot from 5:00 P.M. on the hour.
•
Restaurant in back at 607 No. Michigan
29
'Repercussions'
(Continued from page 6) priated to our academic and international commissions, groups whose activities even the extremely liberal Mr. Jerry Brady would have to approve of.
It is becoming increasingly evident to me that Student Government, along with other campus organizations, cannot rely on the Scholastic for a fair and accurate treatment of its accomplishments. When your attempts to
DRY CLEAN ONLY SERVICE
COIN-OPERATED TYPE DRY CLEANING
8 LBS. OF DRY CLEANING— $1.50
EACH ADDITIONAL LB.— 20#
LIMITED SPOT REMOVAL
•
PRESSING NOT INCLUDED
STUDENT DISCOUNT NOT APPLICABLE
Returned on Hangers • No waiting • Quick Service
RUBIN CLEANERS
217 E. JEFFERSON
Downtown on the Bus Une
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist
•
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIBS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
A man needs Jockey support Jockey is for men. Made from 13 separate pieces to give the support and protection every man needs
A man needs a special kind of support for true male comfort. And only Jockey builds a brief from 13 separate, tailored pieces to give that support-plus comfort. No other brief has such a firm, long-lasting waistband to hold the brief up for constant support, and no other brief has the Jockey as- * surance of no-gap security.
Get the real thing ...it isn't Jockey S/h if it doesn't have the Jockey Boy. 1*
criticize hinder your ability to be informative, it seems that you are not being fair to campus organizations or to the students themselves.
Chris Buckley
Student Body President Editor:
My attention has been called to an inaccuracy in the Jan. 12 issue of the Scholastic. I in turn direct your attention to Mr. Art Graham’s article, “Bids and Boycotts” on page twelve of that issue.
Mr. Graham, in paragraph six of that article states that “376 preferential bids were given out” for last year’s Mardi Gras Ball. He further states that only “274 bids” were left for general sale. Addition establishes that in Mr. Graham’s opinion 650 bids for the 1961 Mardi Gras Ball were available. These figures present a distorted, if not fabricated, picture of the true situation.
It is conceivable that the inaccuracy is due in part to a misconception of the term “preferential bid.” I use it to denote bids that are reserved and guaranteed for persons who work on Mardi Gras Committees, in return for their services. Such bids are paid for by these persons who receive them. They are not “given.”
There were 730 bids sold for the 1961 Mardi Gras Ball. Of these, 181 were bought by the Raffle Committee as rewards for students selling ten chance books. The number of preferential bids sold was 88. The purchasers of these bids were persons working for the various Mardi Gras Committees and the members of the Hall President’s Council who oversaw the raffle collections in their halls. The number of bids left for general sale was, therefore, 461.
It is difficult to see merit in Mr. Graham’s contention that the “abuse” of preferential bids has been cut by reserving “over 200” preferential bids for this year’s Ball.
May I suggest that in the future Mr. Graham check his sources of information for their accuracy before stating their revelations as facts.
Thomas F. Conneely Chairman, 1961 Mardi Gras Ball Editor:
In reply to Mr. Buckley:
Monday night last week the Senate considered seven motions:
1.	Civil liberties
2.	Election policy
3.	Election dates
4.	Travel policy
5.	Card stunt section
6.	Junior Prom budget
7.	Junior Prom loan
In the Senate column I commented on those motions which seemed con-
The Scholastic
troversial and of interest of the entire student body, namely the Civil Liberties motion and the Election Policy. I do not feel the responsibility to report motions of a noncontroversial nature. Hall bulletin boards are provided for the Senators to report such matters. My reporting of them would be merely dull repetition.
Motions concerning election dates, the Junior Prom budget, and a Junior Prom loan hardly were of interest to the entire student body. The travel policy and card stunt motions would have been reported had space been available, but as mentioned before, these are publicized in the hall reports and in the Informer.
I must disagree with Mr. Buckley that I left the Senate meeting before the last five motions were considered, merely the last two and one-half.
In reply to Mr. Conneely:
When I referred to preferential bids in the Jan. 12 issue of the Scholastic, I meant those bids which are not available to the general student body by
means of the lottery. Paul Butrus, 1962 Mardi Gras Ball Chairman, stated during the Senate meeting of Jan. 8 that 376 of these preferential bids were given out for the 1961 Mardi Gras Ball. I might be inclined to believe Mr. Conneely’s implied figure of 269 preferential bids were it not for the fact that I myself received a preferential bid to the 1961 Mardi Gras. I was neither a member of any Mardi Gras committee nor of the Hall President’s Council and in fact had no connection with the Mardi Gras at all.
Art Graham
KEEP THE COACH Editor:
I have read many letters-to-the-editor in the Scholastic, but last week’s letter by T. McManus takes the cake!
As soon as a team loses a few games, all sorts of excuses and griping pop up. I would like to ask T. McManus this question: Because of
two losing seasons are we to take away all of the credit due Mr. Jordan for producing top teams over the past few years? Perhaps T. McManus would like the job, he seems to know everything about coaching!
While it is true that Mr. Gibbons is a fine coach, I see nothing at all to indicate that Mr. Jordan is not. Occasionally even the best coaches have a slump, I believe they call it the law of averages? Could not lack of material be responsible for the poor seasons?
What the hell is Notre Dame coming to anyway! Every time a coach has a losing season we shout the battle cry “He’s no good, fire him!” Perhaps if “men” like T. McManus would back their teams and quit griping, leave the coaching to the coaches, and properly survey the situation, we might return to the Notre Dame of old and win a few!
Leonard J. Kuberski Student Manager of Athletics
21 GREAT TOBACCOS MAKE 20 WONDERFUL SMOKES! AGED MILD, BLENDED MILD - NOT FILTERED MILD-THEY SATISFY
March 2, 1962
Hutchins
(Continued from page 28) moved the temptations that the money has made inevitable and irresistible. Professional football is destined to perform this service to higher education. Not enough people will pay enough money to support big-time intercollegiate football in the style to which it has become accustomed when for the same price they can see real professionals, their minds uncon
fused by thoughts of education, play the game with true professional polish.
When professional football has reached this point, we shall be able to disentangle sport and higher education. Students can play (or not play) as they wish: their friends may attend and applaud if they like. It will be clear that this is relaxation from higher education, not the main purpose of it. Students will come to col
lege to study. Alumni will believe that this is something a normal, red-blooded, young American can properly do. Donors will understand that they are asked to support the institution, not because it has succeeded in attracting a few boys who are huskier and faster than those representing another college, but because when they give it, their money will be well spent in improving education and advancing knowledge.
A man with Alopecia Universalis* doesn’t need this deodorant
He could use a woman s roll-on with impunity. Mennen Spray was made for the man who wants a deodorant he knows will get through to the skin ... where perspiration starts.
Mennen Spray Deodorant does just that. It gets through to the skin. And it works. All day. More men use Mennen Spray than any other deodorant. Have you tried it yet? 640 and $1.00 plus tax
•Complete lack of body hair, including that of the scalp, legs.armpits, face, etc.
Available at
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
32	The Scholastic
FORUM
COMMUNITY
OR THE GIFT OF TONGUES: II
by Jerry Brady
This is the concluding part of an article by Jerry Brady, Student Body President at Notre Dame in 1957-58. Last week, Mr. Brady contrasted some approaches to student action at the University of California at Berkeley (where he is presently enrolled as a law student) with those here on our campus. He argued for the development of "some atmosphere of concern for the problems of civilization, groups to argue them consistently, and public forums ... in which to argue them.”
"Campus problems with which students are now preoccupied,” Mr. Brady stated, "are too petty or too much outside their control to be the only fit subjects for the dialogue of the community.”
The thought of students trying to do something about their campus or national society makes a lot of Catholics wince. They know we are too impatient to let time heal all wounds and will try to pull down sovereign . _ institutions. As the governor of Alabama said, “These agitators have come here to violate the laws and customs of our people.”
A priest friend tells me Catholic moral theologians have only recently said man’s responsibility goes beyond family and associates to a society he must form in Christian justice. Maybe our elders have not yet been told.
The new participation of the laity in the life of the Church must be another surprise to priest and parishioner alike. It will be hard for many to understand it is the layman who will assume leadership in unprecedented dimension in this century.
I remember arguments put to me when we tried to do something dif-crent four years ago. “You are invading the perogative of the priest!” (Uttered at an aborted meeting in which the academic commissioner and I tried to present our opinions to the religion department). “I have decided and that is that!" (The Senate was trying to present its own plan for
remedying abuses in the Placement Bureau.) “That’s what Notre Dame’s for, detached study. Don’t get embroiled in partisan issues.” (The issue was whether Young Democrats and Young Republicans should be allowed on campus.)
These administrators looked on Notre Dame as a four-year retreat.
I have always thought those who cried paternalism and “We will not grow up until you unleash us from discipline” were myopic, but nevertheless this has been a tremendous barrier to student maturity.
I would prefer to point out how the present climate is coddling social unawareness in the average graduate, and blame this on a lack of a challenging exchange of ideas in the community. People our age still learn when excited by the extremes of an issue, become involved when the battle rages, form opinions and eventually do something. When we are confined to the safe and accepted, this does not
Students waiting to get in to the House un-American Activities Committee hearings in 1960. Minutes later police cleared the hall with the use of clubs and hoses.
happen; in short, the traditional Catholic indoctrination on social responsibility does not work.
Fortunately, from this distance it looks like the winds of change are blowing. Last year your fellow students wrote the excellent “Report on Discipline at Notre Dame” which resulted in significant changes in the discipline. This year you voted for a stay hall residence system which could have revolutionary effect. And I like to think the appointment of the eminent Mr. Schuster opens a new era for the laity, both student and faculty, at Notre Dame.
At the October 25 Senate meeting Father Hesburgh said students “Could create any kind of campus they wanted to create.” It seems time someone took him at his word. To that end I would like to make some suggestions of my own.
My first suggestion — which should please an editor who has been most helpful to me — is that the Scholas
March 2, 1962
33
tic as it is now constituted be abolished. It now tries to have a little news which is either too late or too early, feature and short stories, essays and columns on bridge and chess, cannot do any one thing well and is printed on paper too expensive to suit what is said on it. It is for The Dome and The Juggler to bind and preserve your deeds and thoughts. The Scholastic should be a daily newspaper.
A newspaper is a public forum where students and faculty can engage in argument and react overnight to world and local events. Lectures can be reported in detail for those unable to attend. All the present purposes can still be fulfilled.
I believe this is one thing worth fighting and paying for dispite numerous obstacles. A newspaper is the
“ Whatever solutions are adopted should recognize how a broad base of social awareness and leadership is formed by constant exposure to dialogue on significant matters”
key to a public life in the university without which we are clusters of in-grown groups tied together by Religious Bulletins.
My second proposal concerns increasing the number and character of the speakers who visit the campus and the special interest groups who should be inviting them. I believe that speakers holding nearly all views, particularly extreme ones should be allowed to speak on campus. My reason is basically psychological. It is the rare person who can see the urgency in some social event or institution to be able to identify with and act on it. For most of us this identification only comes when we are struck with extreme views and thrown into a confusion from which we can escape only through careful reasoning. Once this has become part of us we are true converts, and as the English Catholics show, converts who have known the darkness is the light of the Church. The religion department might consider creating a little more darkness in the hope of making converts of all.
J^^OTRE Dame should encourage speakers of divergent views who can argue well enough to plunge students into uncertainty. Speakers from the
34
John Birch Society, Minutemen, NAACP, Black Muslims, Fair Play for Cuba, the Teamsters, SANE, CORE, The African National Congress, Young Americans for Freedom, Student Peace Committee — all those angry voices on the fringes of influence should be heard.
The university will see to it that political and academic luminaries find our podiums; it is the students who must invite the others. At first, for want of a substitute, student government will have to extend the invitation. Hopefully special interest groups will then form to perform this function as well as to advance their cause among the citizenry. One who has seen how an articulate radical group can counterbalance a prevailing viewpoint, as the Fair Play for Cuba Com
mittee did so splendidly at Cal in the early days of the revolution, will not be so quick to cry for reprisals. It is then the university will have to stand up to super patriots.
The third suggestion is a more sophisticated version of the second. Two important figures should be invited to debate an important topic once a month as is done in the Union at Oxford. For example, Senator Dirksen and Mennan Williams on the Congo or Representatives Brademas and Delaney on federal aid to parochial schools. Each would present a paper, followed by two student papers and questions from the floor. It should be broadcast and telecast locally and given extensive newspaper coverage.
My last suggestion tries to define the proper area for activity for students without impairing their vocation. I have never favored demonstrations and picketing although they do serve as a witness to the community. Intellectuals tend to degrade working in the lowest levels of public consciousness and so forfeit this arena to the demagogue and the mass media.
It seems best to concentrate activity in vacation periods or after graduation first and leave school-time activity to follow along.
Most of our students live in cities where slums are choked with deprived
peoples from minority races. It seems to be time the Notre Dame clubs of Chicago and New York, for example, threw themselves into the work to gain equality for these people. At least you students, if not your elders, could work with the Catholic Interracial Councils, the CYO’s, the CCD or interfaith groups in South Chicago or Harlem. Others might substitute a work camp project in the South for the Ft. Lauderdale orgy — assuming that is still the site of the spring ritual — or the last three weeks of summer.
A few should be participting in “Crossroads Africa” which spends two months each summer in work camp projects' in Central Africa. Perhaps someone would work in the migrant labor field with the National Rural Life Conference. After college there are the four lay mission organizations for foreign service and the Lay Volunteers for service in priest-poor dioceses in the United States. Some students should be exploring the ecumenical movement with Protestants our age.
I hope these four suggestions are worthy of Notre Dame. Above all I have intended that they offer something to the intellectual who has every right to reject the current droll leadership conferences and preoccupation with local issues. Whatever solutions are adopted should recognize how a broad base of social awareness and leadership is formed by constant exposure to dialogue on significant matters. In this way, academic principles can be tried out on the facts by intelligent people.
In a recent edition of “Commonweal,” Father Hesburgh said of the Catholic university.
We have then a double task if we aspire to mediation in our times: a full and complete understanding of the theological realities joined to a full and complete knowledge of the world in which we live: a world split by conflicting religions, cultures and races, a world often bewildered by the implications of modern science and technology, a world in the process of doubling its population by the turn of the century, a world of haves and have-nots, . . . This is a very real world. In a true sense, we alone can save it; and yet this too is impossible unless we understand it, deeply and with compassion for its profound misery and confusion.
Mediation is the mission of all of us. Where the university has regular dialogue between Catholic and Protestant theologians, labor-management conferences and symposia on churchstate relationships, students must make a separate contribution.
To form an intelligent socially aware generation of Catholics, vigorous discussion and action during college will always be necessary. Unless, of course, the gift of tongues now comes with each diploma.
The Scholastic
STAY WITH A N.D. MAN
BLUE & GOLD MOTEL
1 BLOCK NORTH OF TOLL ROAD EXIT ON U.S. 31
•
Reservations: CE 4-0136
•
CHUCK SWEENEY, N.D. ’38
LOUIS ANDERSON, N.D. ’38
ARTCARVED DIAMONDS and WEDDING RINGS . . . JEWELRY
J. Trethewey, Jeweler
★
For: Hamilton - Elgin Bulova - Longines and Wittnauer Watches
104 N. Main St	J.M.S. Bldg.
SUMMER JOBS in EUROPE
THE ‘new’ WAY TO SEE & ‘live3 EUROPE
SPECIALIZING IN ‘European Safaris’
For summer jobs or tours write:
American Student Information Service,
22, Avenue de la Liberte, Luxembourg-City, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS ONLY!
CAMPUS CLUBS! ORGANIZATIONS! INDIVIDUALS!
SAVE VICEROY PACKS
A I l\ V PRI7FSI
ENTER THE BIG
of packs collected ... and so on. Eight exciting prizes... all to be awarded on this college campus! Plan to enter ... plan to win. Start saving Viceroy packs today! Ask your friends to help you!
BOX
3rd
PRIZE
prize
TO TURN IN EMPTY PACKS MAY 12th — Between 8 and 5 Entries accepted this date only
RCA-VICTOR Console Stereo Phonograph.. 4 speeds, 4 speakers. AM-FM tuner.
2nd

son PACK OR FLIPOPEN
RCA-VICTOR Portable Stereo Phonograph... 4 speeds,' three speakers.
CERTIFICATES
GENERAL ELECTRIC Clock-Radio Sleep-snooze alarm, muted slumber switch
EMPTY PACK CONTEST NOW!

GET COMPLETE RULES AND TURN IN EMPTY PACKS
HUDDLE