Enjoy both sides of smoking pleasure!
thL hw/diM XMt dUs cl
Graduate to Cavaliers! Light up and fee/ that Cavalier mildness—so light, smooth and easy! Try a pack of Cavaliers today. See if
you don't agree with thousands of smokers who compared king-size Cavaliers with the cigarettes they'd been smoking. Yes . . .
You can’t help but notice — on campus and off — smart smokers are shiftins; to kins-size Cavaliers. Try them and find out what a pleasure smoking can be when the smoke jeels so mild and tastes so good!
Cavaliers sive you the world’s aristocratic tobaccos blended in an extra length. There is no better natural filter! There is no finer source of delightful flavor! Today’s the day. Get Cavaliers get extra mildness where it counts — in the feel of the smoke!
CAVAUERS ARE KING-SIZE W
yet priced no higher than leading regular-size cigarettes!
See why, among thousands of smokers interviewed... S OUT OF 10 SAID
CAVAUERS ARE MILDER!
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.. Winston-Salem. N. C.	i
•Scholastic
Vol. 96 MARCH 11, 1955 No. 16
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Mortiturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate and Sports Editor PAUL FULLMER
Associate Editor FRED C. ECKART &
W JOHN ADAMS  ................. News
ROBERT KAUFMAN .... Assistant News PAUL J. LaFRENIERE ........  Copy
Charles McKendrick ...............
..................... Assistant Copy JOSEPH CONNOLLY .........Features KEN WOODWARD .. Business Manager PETER STURTEVANT..... Photo Editor JIM FITZGERALD ..................
9	_______ Photography Coordinator
JIM GULDE ...... Head Photographer
JOHN P. DEFANT .. Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
NEWS STAFF: Joe Accardo, Buck Harriss, Jerrold Hilton, Jack Hough, Francis Hurley, Ed Joyce, David Kubal, James Lenox, Jim Loeffler, James McDonald, John McMahon, Joe Mocarski, James Murphy, Arthur Price, Thomas Quinn, Dick Rust, Jim Steintrager, Paul Underkofler, Ray Walsh.
SPORTS STAFF: Dave Davin, Bob Early, Kit Eckl, John Glavin, Jim Goethals, Jack Gueguen, Ray Lescher, Joe Madigan, Bob McDonald, Joe Norton, and Bob Parnell.
BUSINESS STAFF: Harry Conlon and Loran Sheffer.
Our Cover: The 1954-55 Basketball Review hits the newsstands today after Johnny Jordan’s five battled through a long 14-10 season. The Irish were almost an ironman quintet, and Scholastic photographers Jim Guide and Steve Fox caught the starters in these fine action shots. Guide gets credit for the composite layout.
Q March 11, 1955
letters

The International Set
Editor:
Imagine! Not a Notre Dame dorm but a bamboo but is your quarters. Not khakis and bucks but a robe and sandals your attire. Not Hoosier but Aga- __ fanese the dialect to be mastered. Home is not 200, but 20,000 miles away. In short, imagine yourself a student away from home and country!
Or, switch the picture: say you are a	i ;
student at ND—but here you are away	, •
from home and country. If things are I tough for the freshman from Iowa, they i are doubly so for you. Room, food, clothes, and jargon are strange; football cheers and pop quizzes hard to ad-just to; friends not so easy to make as w } at home. Some Americans seem only curious about you, others are apathetic, some hostile. And, like most foreign students in this country, you’ve ex-	|;
perienced nothing of American family	•
life.	i
Back in Bangkok or Caracas your '/ folks ask, “What are Americans like?” ’ I It’s hard foi’ you to answer, for you’ve never shared U. S. family life, but remained outside looking in. Now you think, “The year is almost over, but Easter vacation is coming up soon. Will t» I spend two weeks here at school again , \ like at Christmas?”	":
The answer to that last question may depend on your fellow Notre Darners who are going home for two weeks at " Easter. This letter is aimed at them.	I jilt proposes steps they can take to enrich	/' j
the education of both Americans and 1 foreigners at ND.
Here is the situation at ND and what (2" .' can be done about it. There are 140 students from abroad studying here. Most have very little contact with U. S. ; family life. Many spend vacations at school, or save up to stay in a Chicago 11 hotel for a couple of days.	’ !
This means that U. S. students are generally passing up four big oppor- j ) tunities: (1) to make a personal friend	I
from another land; (2) to gain some	,1
understanding of his culture; (3) to do J some vital public relations work for the U. S.—where it counts, among future leaders abroad; and (4) to perform an act of Christian charity for a guy who’s ’ far from home.	j'
What can be done to realize these i opportunities? First, look around you—	।
what students from abroad do you know here? Why not ask one home for a j part of Easter vacation? Parents are usually glad to cooperate. Introduce
(Continued on Page 34)
The Scholastic O
the week
by John O'Brien
Top of the WEEK:
Notre Dame snaps win streak of Marquette . . .
The Big Last One
Well, the Irish basketbailers provided a major portion of the entertainment for the many student trips . . . official and otherwise . . . that hit the Milwaukee trail last weekend. To the surprise of many, the lads came home with a victory over a team that they couldn’t beat in the Feldhouse. This should seem paradoxical to the many prophets of doom who say that playing us on our home floor is like getting caught in a lions’ den . . . not the least of the travellers’ troubles was the blizzard-

; ©
0
©
type weather that struck our fair area Sunday night . . . from what I hear, quite a few arrived a little late for our customary curfew ... if the usually stringent regulations had not been temporarily relaxed, some of the campus sentences might have to be measured in eons. But from all reports, quite a gay time was had by all in the city where Budweiser is anathema . . . although because of this strange malady called Hoosier Hysteria, there almost was one less person writing this beloved column . . . had the dubious honor of being in the barber chair during a game between Nappanee and some other village . . . anyway, the barber who was cutting my hair seemed to have a little wager on the contest. As the score seesawed back and forth, he became more and more excited . . . and when Nappanee won, I thought sure I saw my ear floating toward the floor . . . will let it grow out (hair, that is) for a year and then try to get the zig-zags out of it.
A Daring Move . . .
... by the President of the Student Senate was culminated Monday night . . . an unprecedented attempt to remove the allegedly “do nothing” Student Court judges and to replace them with what the President considered to be “do something” judges . . . your reporter, expecting a bloody fight with catcalls and uninhibited debate . . . free flowing words and vehement “domocratic” expressions . . . went armed with a blunt pencil (so as not to injure anyone in the melee) and a sturdy camera to record some fateful gestures for the avid readers of this journal. But since cries of “not germaine” and “point of order” don’t make very good pictures, I’m afraid our readers will have to be content with a few choice comments . . . funny thing, it reminds me of a guy who
wanted to repeal the law of gravity . . . did an awful lot of legislating, but still couldn’t change what was meant to be. Man, though, them thar guys sure can do a heap lot of talkin’ . . . even if it’s not germaine.
As a public service to our readers, the
WEEK feels compelled to warn you that there is a student police force here at Notre Dame . . . better watch out . . . IGOR is watching you.
Grace
Well, as you have no doubt noticed by now, Grace Kelly is not on the cover of the Scholastic again this WEEK . . . (this, incidentally, is the Flub of the WEEK) yeah ... no more surprises for a while, darn it. By now, all the pictures should have been cut out and stuck up on the wall ... (or maybe some threw away the pictures and put the magazine up on the wall . . . well, psychiatrists have to make a living too.)
The Schemers
Seems that some of the commerce men came up with a new twist for an English class presentation the other day . . . hired a model to help with their skit . . . had rather a tough time finding one in South Bend . . . then they forgot to turn the heat on in the classroom . . . Indiana winters are kinda’ tough on a model in a bathing suit . . . had to borrow an overcoat.
Bottom of the WEEK:
. . . away.
March 11, 1955
J 19 CENTS? I 4G I JUST ENOUGH ’ L T<n DI
I'M
CUTTING
c^lendat'
TO PURCHASE
YOUR
WILD ROOT
CREAM-OlL/y-
SALARY TO 9.9 £ PER
WEEK"
KEEPS HAIR NEAT AND NATURAL— RELIEVES DRYNESS - REMOVES B(jT LOOSE DANDRUFF GET n '
CALLED ME'MISS PIMPLETON?
CHARLIE.

ONLY A CREAM DRESSING GROOMS HAIR THE NATURAL WAY!
I CREAM-OIL
1 hairtomYc
ABSOLUTELY NONALCOHOLIC. WITMONPf NATURAL INGREDIENTS! BUY AMERICAS . T
IMORiTEfJ
"WMKnruui
, ««ons m~,.----
MARCH 11
COLFAX (indefinite run)—The lines have already started forming to feel the pulsating panorama of the life of Marty Maher in his years as athletic director of the cream of the Point’s Long Gray Line. Tyrone Power and Maureen O’Hara turn in commendable performances as they portray the hardships, the griefs, the joys, and the reminiscences of one of the Point’s most revered couples.
AVON (ends’March 16)—Hey, Amigo! It’s The Americano with Pancho Glenn Ford and Senor Frank Lovejoy. Siete Centavos (well, somewhere in that vicinity) will get you a seat. Once you get in, hold on to your seat, bud.
RIVER PARK (ends tomorrow)—Two not too tempting time-wasters hit town for the bored. Knock on Wood with “Bounces” Kaye and Beachhead, with “Curls” Curtis, bud; that’s all.
MARCH 12
WASHINGTON HALL (regular time)—The Raid is for your offing. Match Van Heflin and Anne Bancroft in this one.
THE WOODS (no definite times)—Just about 50 suave sams will be getting an opportunity to polish their techniques as they fight for the “fair” at mixers, meals, and more mixers at the Terre Haute habitat.
MARCH 13
RIVER PARK (ends March 15)—The widely acclaimed nautical venture on the high sea of psychology, The Caine Mutiny, is matched with the not so widely acclaimed Indiscretion of An American Housewife for at least one-half an evening’s worth of entertainment. Jennifer Jones and Montgomery Clift work out that last one.
STATE (ends March 15)—For the third or fourth time, if I’m not mistaken, two good oldies return. Three Coins in the Fountain and Carmen Jones are both great, though, and worth every bit of the time and money.
PALACE (ends March 16)—’The incompatibles are back again: Abbott and Costello Meet the Keystone Kops. Oddly enough their latest take portrays them as frustrated film producers when the flickers flickered. No need to mention the other “occurrences” on the bill—a regular length Silver Star and a short subject called Cowboy. Yippiyiyee.	•
MARCH 15
WASHINGTON HALL (7:30 p.m.)—Rev. Thomas B. McDonough lectures on Sex in Marriage as the 1955 Marriage Institute continues. Question-answer periods will follow the talk in the Hall and the Center over coffee.
MARCH 17
PALACE (through March 24)—Broderick Crawford, Richard Conte and Marilyn Maxwell are the subjects of the not-so-really confidential syndicate expose New York Confidential. For those who aren’t getting satisfaction from the Placement Bureau—please do not resort to the outlets proposed in this time-killer. There are better days ahead, but you wouldn’t think so after seeing the co-feature Treasure at Ruby Hill.
MARCH 18
GRANADA (indefinite run)—The movie the whole campus has been waiting for, but the star the campus has already been introduced to via last week’s unprecedented issue: Country Girl and Grace Kelly. Grace stays high on our card by sticking with the alcoholic defunct Bing Crosby, who also happens to star in this great film. No red-blooded ND man in his right mind will miss this one, even if it is in the middle of mid-terms. You would think the University would know better than to set the exams on the week that South Bend shows its finest movies of the year!
The Scholastic
Editor's Page

No One to Blame but...
Two hundred tickets available . . . only 30 bought by Tuesday night . . . so it looks like this weekend’s inexpensive trip to St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods College at Terre Haute will be a failure. The trip was originally planned as an answer to complaints about the variety of social activity. It will go through as planned for the small group signed up, but response was so poor that it is doubtful that any similar trip will be planned. No particular persons can be blamed but the complaints about social activity variety shouldn’t be so frequent now.
Justice and Justices Upheld
Last Monday night the Student Senate moved slowly and proved its mettle by upholding the right of the two associate Student Activities Court justices, Jack Rosshirt and Bert Millen, to maintain their offices until the end of the academic year. Chief Justice John Houck was removed from office on the grounds that his appointment was unconstitutional, since he is not now and was not at time of appointment by Senate President Joe Daley a Senator, as the body’s constitution stipulates the Chief Justice must be. Here again the Senate must be commended for following the constitution. Senator Jerry Hughes, the choice of Daley as new chief justice, will be the subject of debate next Monday.
The additional question of having a senator as chief justice will be contested next Monday night. Senator Roy Belknap will submit a modem to amend the constitution to allow a non-senator the privilege and right of holding the chief justice’s office. Since the Senate is the lawmaking body, it appears a questionable practice to restrict the post to senators or to even allow a senator to hold the chief justice’s position. The idea of a justice ruling upon any law that he helped make seems entirely wrong. If such a change would be made in the constitution, it could open the way for reappointment of Houck and disqualification of Hughes. This, of course, depends entirely upon the Senate’s action.
Rosshirt and Millen intend to discuss a new concept of the court’s function with the new chief justice when he is appointed. The concept was submitted to the Senate by Daley and approved by that group. It does not require adherence by the court but is merely a recommendation to make the court more active and effective a body. If Rosshirt and Millen find that they cannot accept the new concept, they may resign. Rosshirt said at the Senate meeting that he would definitely resign if he decided the new concept of greater benefit to the student body than his own and if he were unable to carry it out either as a matter of practice or of conscience, since he believes that a court need function only when cases are brought before it. This is the principle upon which the United States courts are based. Because the constitution calls for unanimous agreement of the court, Rosshirt and Millen might feel it necessary to resign from their posts if they are unable to agree with the new Chief Justice on the new concept. Conflicting views would serve to make the court ineffective.
The concept recommended to the court is rather difficult to interpret. Two main points, however, are that the court should strive to educate the Senate and the student body to its functions (this appears more a job for the Senate Publicity group) and to set up and fill offices that would present cases (this, in our federal government, is not a part of the court’s duties, but rather the Justice Department).
Whatever comes of the discussion by the justices, the Senate deserves commendation for its handling of the court problem. It moved slowly and deliberately in making a decision based on logic and justice and not a whim.	•
A notable sidelight of the meeting was the appearance of enough students to pack the amphitheater. More students appeared than did for the tax debates. We hope there will be continued interest in Senate actions.
O March 11, 1955
How About Your Future?
REVERE COPPER AND RRASS
INCORPORATED
. . . representatives will be on your campus March 15 and 16 to describe the employment opportunities open in the Chicago, Detroit, Baltimore, Rome (N. Y.), and New Bedford (Mass.) areas.
Full Time Employment for Seniors
Summer Employment for Junior and Sophomore Engineering Majors
Mechanical Engineers Metallurgical Engineers Chemical Engineers Industrial Engineers Electrical Engineers
Accounting Majors
Business Administration Majors
Marketing Majors
Personnel Administration Majors
Industrial Psychology Majors
. . . in the fields of Plant Engineering and Machine Design, Metallurgical Quality Control, Motion and Time Study, Accounting, Industrial Sales (engineers and nonengineers), Technical Advisory Service, Personnel, and Supervision.
Contact your University Placement Office for further information and for your copy of "WHY REVERE . . . ?"
Visit Revere's fabricating plants through the medium of film in full color and sound—a picture depicting the high points in the processes of rolling, extrusion, and drawing. To be followed by a question and answer period relative to employment opportunities and personnel policies.
Time: 4:00 P.M., Tuesday, March 15
Place: Audio-Visual Center, Administration Bldg.
Revere knows its A-B-C’S Aluminum - Brass - Copper
The Scholastic f -
SCHOLASTIC
i Volume 96, Number 16
Notre Dome, Indiana
March 11, 1955
' © Millen, Rosshirt Retained as Senate Judges; Hughes Appointment to Chief Justice Delayed
After an hour-and-a-half debate the Student Senate Monday night voted to retain two of the present judges of the Student Activities Court while postponing action on a measure that would nominate Jerome Hughes as chief justice, a place vacated by the removal of John Houck on the grounds of unconstitutionality.
In a showing of hands the senators displayed no opposition to the present judges when the final vote was taken.
Opening the issue President Joe Daley presented a recommendation for a four-point policy which received the support of the Senate. The recommendation bore the main points of Daley’s new court plan.
~ Rosshirt, Millen Speak
The plan, calling for education, judicial review, court prestige, and governmental inter-relations, occupied the first part of the Senate debate, as the lawmakers hasseled over passing the four-point plan in its entirety.
Daley, in presenting his plan to the Senate, set forth his reason for desiring a change in court personnel. Daley maintained that, “impersonally, I sincerely Q believe that to have the best court possible, a change of judges is necessary. I know these new men are the best available to do the job, and will best carry out the new plan.”
Before the Senate voted on the removal measure, Millen and Rosshirt expressed their view-points on the issue, each speaking to the Senate for a short time.
Rosshirt to Consider Plan
0 Rosshirt asked time to consider the new plan as he maintained that he was unfamiliar with its contents. Rosshirt promised his resignation if he was dissatisfied with the plan, maintaining that he would not fight something that was “in the good interest of the University.” Millen in talking to the Senate expressed his opinions on the need for a non-graduating court justice. Millen is a sophomore.
John Houck, present chief justice, was
• March 11, 1955
unable to attend the Senate meeting. Houck was removed from his post because the Court Constitution requires that the chief justice be a Senator, a requirement that Houck does not fulfill.
The Senate postponed action on the nomination of a new justice in order that they might further study the Constitutional provision that requires the chief justice to be a Senator. Some of the senators expressed the opinion that such a law is of little value.
Nearly 100 Students Attend
The senators expressed a desire to study this provision, thus putting off the nomination of a new justice until next week.
A crowd of nearly 100 students nudged into the Senate chambers in the Student Center anticipating a display of flaring tempers, but the meeting was quietly run off.
Hughes, Daley’s appointment for chief justice, is the current A.B. senator. Majoring in political science, he hails from East Patchogue, Long Island, N.Y. He served as a class officer for two years and presently is a member of the wing staff of the AFROTC.
Gay Weekend at Terre Haute Beckons Thirty to St. Mary's
Thirty Notre Dame men will depart tomorrow afternoon for a weekend of festivities at St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods at Terre Haute, Ind.
Chainnan Dick Reamer announced that plans had been made for 200 students. He expressed regret that the trip was not better suppoi-ted by the student body, since this was to be the first of a series of trips to nearby Catholic girls’ colleges in Chicago, Detroit and other cities within a 200-mile radius of Notre Dame.
The Group will leave at 1 p.m. from the Circle, stopping on the road for dinner' that evening. The group will then continue on to Terre Haute where they will join the young ladies of St. Mary’s for an evening social. Blind
dates have been provided for the weekenders.
Sunday’s agenda includes a Communion Breakfast in the morning and a mixer in the afternoon. The mixer promises to be quite different from those here at Notre Dame. Sunday evening the St. Mary’s lasses will bid farewell to the Notre Dame delegation which will return to school before midnight Sunday.
LENTEN MOVIES
The Department of English and Student Senate continue to sponsor the weekly movie program during the Lenten season. The movies, all classics, are shown in Washington Hall on Wednesday afternoon and evening. Admission to these films is $.25. Weekly announcements of the titles of the films can be found on the hall bulletin boards.
Juniors Expect Over 200 At Parent-Son Weekend
One hundred and sixty-three parents have acknowledged that they will attend the Juniors’ Parent-Son Weekend from March 18 to 20. Dan Devine, president of the Junior Class and general chairman of the event, expects as many as 200 parents to reply since returns have been coming in very fast. Last year only 175 parents attended the event.
Hotel confirmations are being sent to the parents. The committee expressed regret that not all of the parents could be put up at the Morris Inn but accommodations were not suffiicient.
Sons of the parents who are attending will be sent mimeographed sheets as to the procedure that will .be followed over the weekend. This will give the students a chance to notify their parents of the weekend’s events.
A trio, composed of Notre Dame faculty members, will perform in Washington Hall at 8:15 pan. on Friday.
The performers will be Carl Mathes, piano; Arnold McKee, cello; and C. A. Biondo, violin. McKee is a Fulbright scholar from New Zealand.
9 -
RALPH MARTERIE
Senior Serenoder
Marterie Men Signed For May 13 Ball Date
Ralph Marterie, nationally - known popular band leader and author of the recent hit parade best seller Skokiaan will provide the music for the forthcoming Senior Ball, May 13, it was announced this week by Jim Griffin, Senior Ball chairman.
Marterie has made several previous appearances in the South Bend area and has expressed a desire to play for the Senior Ball. The band leader has gone on record as saying that Notre Dame is one of his “favorite” dance engagements.
Griffin stated that the Ball Committee selected Marterie on the dual basis of his popularity and danceability.
Ticket sales for the Ball null get under way Monday, March 28, and continue through the 29th and 30th, depending upon ticket supply. A total of 650 bids for the Ball will be sold.
All seniors, graduating in June or in August of 1955, or in Januai-y of 1956, will be eligible to purchase tickets. Law students and graduate students will also be admitted.
Griffin and his committee will announce details of the ticket sales at a later date.
The 1955 Ball Committee consists of Griffin; George Shelton, business manager; Chuck Pollnow, decorations chairman; Jerry Bransfield, ticket chaii-man; Mike DePadro, hotel accommodations chairman; Bob Hutchison, dinner dance chairman.
Others on the committee include John McCullough, entertainment chairman; Frank McCarthy, refreshments chairman; John Sennett, Communion breakfast chairman; and Jim O’Shea, publicity chairman.
Bandmen Head 'Down East' For Annual Tour; Chicago to Greet Musicians on St. Pat's Day
The Notre Dame Concert Band will inaugurate its big eastern tour of the United States on April 9 in Dayton, 0.
Before starting its trip east the group will head west to Chicago on March 13 to march in the St. Patrick’s Day parade after which the group will make a preliminary tour of Illinois.
In chartered buses the 55 members of the full symphonic band will roll out of Dayton and off to Washington, Pa. in a double concert appearance scheduled for April 11.
Continuing to Park Crest, Pa. for one concert and on to Wilmington, Del. for two performances the band will stop off April 14 in Brooklyn. Following the concert the band will have the opportunity to see the sights of New York City.
Back on the road April 16, the group
Debaters to Sponsor Tournament April 1-2
Prof. Leonard B. Sommer, Director of Forensics at the University recently announced that the Third Annual Notre Dame Invitational Debate Tournament will take place April 1 and 2 in the Student Center.
Approximately 24 teams are expected to participate in the debate. Each team will have six debates in the tournament, the results of which will decide the four teams to compete in the semi-finals. The finals are expected to get underway at 3:30 p.m. on Saturday, April 2.	■
Permanent plaques will be presented to the top four teams of the tournament, and also to the best individual debater. The next nine debaters will be awarded certificates. The winner of the tournament will receive the Father O’Donnell traveling trophy, which was won by Dartmouth College in 1953 and the Military Academy at West Point in 1954.
Invitations have been sent to Dartmouth College, University of Vermont, University of Pennsylvania, University of Kentucky, Wake Forest College, Purdue University, University of Utah, Merchant Marine Academy, and many other schools throughout the country.
The Notre Dame Debate team has entered eight tournaments this year, taking first place in 5, tying for first in 2, and sagging to fourth in the other tournament. The team has won approximately 170 debates out of 200 in which it has appeared. Plans for the tournament are being handled by Chuck Doherty and Dick Schiller.
will hit Manchester, N. H. for a day and move into Rochester, N. Y. for a performance on April 17. From there, the band will continue to Ingersoll, Ont. for an evening performance April 18.
To wrap up the trip the group will stop at Toledo, O. April 19 and arrive back at Notre Dame on April 20 for the annual Spring Concert which will be held at the Drill Hall or the Palace Theatre in South Bend.
Plans for the tour have been handled by Mr. Lee Hope, band director; John Giambruno, assistant director; and Bill May, band president; with the help of local Notre Dame Alumni Clubs and the Knights of Columbus in the towns on the band’s itinerary.
To please its varied audiences the Concert Band will present a program of music ranging from the gay and romantic melodies of Strauss and foot-tapping marches to music of the contemporary and classical vein.
According to Don Gels, vice-president of the band, and publicity chairman for the tour, the idea for an annual tour of different sections of the United States had been inaugurated in 1924, but was discontinued during World War II. Under Hope it was revived in 1947 and since then the Band has covered more than 2,000 miles every year. Plans have already been made for a tour next year which will cover the southeastern United States. .
Training Tours Announced For Navy Officer Candidates
Initial plans have been completed for the 1955 summer training of members of the NROTC unit at the University.
Designed to give officer’ candidates an opportunity to “learn by doing,” the first cruise, dubbed “Cruise Able,” is scheduled to start June 4 at Annapolis, and to end Aug. 2. Ports of call will be Valencia, Barcelona, and Malaga in Spain, and Portsmouth, Plymouth, Torquay, Sheerness, and Weymouth in England.
All “regulars” in the NROTC unit except sophomores will go on “Cruise Able.”
Sophomore “regulars” will make “familiarity trips” to Corpus Christi, Tex. and Little Creek, Va., for amphibious training.
NROTC “contracts” of the Class of ’56 will make “Cruise Charlie.” Plans for this cruise are not yet complete. Details will be announced later.
The Scholastic
10
i Noted Priest to Speak * On Spiritual Marriage
7 Rev. Thomas B. McDonough will i speak again this year at the Marriage Institute. His lecture, “Sex in Marriage,” will be delivered next Tuesday
| at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall, as the j fourth in a series of seven.
j Last Tuesday, Dr. Louis B. Leone ex’ plained the physical viewpoint of sex | and marriage and Father McDonough . " will give the spiritual aspects, to com-i plete the Catholic viewpoint on this I	question.
The talk’s primary concern will be to $	show “what is allowed and what is for-
) bidden in a Catholic marriage.” The moral questions on sex and marriage ( will be explained in detail, not in a negative approach but rather on the positive side, “built on the psychological purposes of sex.”
9 A' chaplain at the University of Chi-| cago for over six years, Father McDonough has worked on such youth and marriage problems for many years. Be-I sides being affiliated with the Newman j Club at the University of Chicago, he . is chaplain of the Newman Foundation ' at Illinois Institute of Technology, Chicago.
Father McDonough, a graduate in j	theology from Saint Mary’s of the Lake
!	at Mundelein, has likewise served for
i £ six years on the executive board of the । Cana Conference in the Chicago area, as well as being named judge of the diocesan marriage tribunal.
SMC Raises Curtain Tonight On 'Fair Time' Variety Show
St. Mary’s College recently announced the coming presentation of its tenth annual Variety Show, “It’s a FailTime,” to be held in St. Angela’s Hall tonight and tomorrow evening at 7:30 p.m. The theme will be in keeping with the observance of St. Mary’s Centenary.
The show itself will revolve around a day at the fair. It will begin on a midway, and after scenes at the communications exhibition, the wax museum, and silent movie, it will return to the midway. Marjorie Hempel, general chairman of the show, said that there will be particular stress on the musical aspect and variety.
The show was written, produced, and directed by the students. Original music was composed by Peggy Maher. It will be under the direction of B. J. Spada-fore. The script was written by a committee headed by Molly Maloy.
The proceeds will go to the St. Mary’s Building Fund. It will be open to St. Mary’s students and their guests.
House-Hunting Season Moves Into High Gear As Scholars Seek 'Home-Comfort* Quarters
By JOE ACCARDO
The topic of conversation around campus this week seems to be “Where will I live in the fall semester?”. With preregistration just around the corner, March 22 to be exact, everyone is asking his friends the question.
A group of students gathered around the other evening to talk the problem over. The fellows had all done some research on the subject, and came up with what seem to be the most pressing problems for those who are fortunate
ANYBODY HOME?
. . . home did I say?
enough to be on the forthcoming eligibility list.
They all regretted that there isn’t enough room on campus for everyone, but were glad to see that all next year’s freshmen will be closei- to their studying facilities. However, as one young engineer put it, “From the marks I’ve gotten, I expect to live somewhere in the vicinity of Niles.”
One of the main problems seems to be the size of the prospective room. Everyone likes rooominess, but there just doesn’t seem to be room enough foi-everybody’s easy chair and extra drawer space. The freshmen no longer have the problem of how much to bring and how much to leave at home, but are now looking forward to the plush luxury of their upper class friends. The older hands, the sophomores and the juniors, seem to be used to the tight quarters, and don’t seem to mind them.
Another pi-oblem seems to be the location of the residence hall. The well developed legs of the Freshmen may
grow weak when they find quarters in Badin, Howard, Morrissey or Lyons, much closer to the library and the dining hall.
The residents of Badin are looking forward to a nice view for window shopping at the new Romy Hanunes Shopping Center; others just want a view. This may provide an opportunity to dash into the campus barber shop for a quick once-over with the clippers, or grab up a new textbook before lines begin to form.
The Juniors join the Seniors in the exclusive ranks of those sports enthusiasts who overlook the golf course and are near the torso-building facilities of the Rock. Pangbom Hall, one of the beautiful new modern buildings awaiting fall visitors, has been set aside especially for the juniors, who have previously resided in Sorin and Badin, two of the halls which are “steeped in tradition,” from Sorin’s green porch bench to Badin’s now extinct bog. Badin will be for sophomores only next year, while Sorin will still house juniors. Dillon will be the other junior residence hall.
Fisher still is the favorite spot for those Seniors who can’t get into Walsh, For those who like to be near their college, (so they can sleep a fraction longei- in the morning) and those who like to take a quick hop to a nearby controversial urban area, Alumni is the place.
Convenience is also the cry of those who can’t take four flights of stairs, expect mail from Grandma, receive many calls on the phone, or those who have kidney trouble.
Many students are considering living off campus, having considered the advantage of all-night lights, a landlord with a red-headed daughter, or the necessity of a car.
Singles are becoming popular among those with higher averages, but doubles provide the advantage of sharing and saving. “Nothing is more ridiculous than the many frosh rooms with three radios, three record players and three clocks,” one aspiring graduate commented.
The consensus of opinion was that roommates can be troublesome, but who knows, they may have a cousin at St. Mary’s. The carefree attitude of one of the bull session participants was, “Who can tell what my room and roommate will be like six months from now? I’ll be happy if the walls don’t clash with my Grace Kelly picture.”
£ March 11^ 1955
11

Faith
Amid
By HARRY NIEMANN
The Notre Dame student body is again being treated to exciting boxing matches in the form of the yearly Bengal Bouts. Every Notre Dame man is familiar with
these bouts. He knows they provide several evenings of thrilling entertainment. He knows the proceeds from these bouts are contributed to the Holy Cross Missions in Bengal for the continuation of their wonderful work. However few Notre Dame students realize how their money is used in Bengal and how badly their support is needed by the missions there. Let’s look at the setup in Bengal!
Bengal is in East Pakistan. It is located north of the cholera-breeding delta of the Ganges and extends across sun-baked plains into the -wilds of Garo-dom. Dacca, East Pakistan, seiwes as a base of operations for the Holy Cross missionaries in Bengal. The area around Dacca is hilly, wet, and roadless—a good place to begin spreading Christ’s message to His people.
The Bengal territory embraces over 60 million people with 13 million of them in and around Dacca. These people are skeptical of foreigners. They are a gentle people, kind and thoughtful to each other, and they possess great respect foi* their elders. A great many of them are poverty stricken. They work for eight to ten cents a day; famine and sickness are common to them.
The Holy Cross Missions have three dioceses in Bengal. These three dioceses are under an archdiocese that is supervised by Archbishop Lawrence Graner, C. S. C., who still holds the reputation of being one of the best barbers and most eloquent philosophers that ever attended the Moreau Seminary. Out of the millions of caste-ridden Hin
dus, Mohammedans and hill tribe aborigines in Bengal only 40 thousand are Catholics. These people are truly in need of the help given them by the Holy Cross missionaries.
The Holy Cross Congregation in Bengal has 44 priests, 33 Brothers, and 123 Sisters. These missionaries are mostly
Poverty
F
F

from the United States and Canada. They run 27 established mission stations and almost twice that number of outstations.
$
The missionary priest tours his extensive “parish” on bicycle, except in the monsoon season when a boat is required. In order to cover his roadless territory he sometimes travels two weeks to reach his destination. He carries his bed roll with him and sleeps on the unsheltered ground at night. The missionary priest gives instructions, baptizes, settles family squabbles and land disputes, and administers medical care. He is of necessity a jack-of-all-trades.
Indian laymen assist the Holy Cross missionaries by instructing their own people in the Catholic religion. These “catechists” make it possible for the priests to cover their “parishes” by transient tours while maintaining a constant program of instruction. The Bengalese make good Catholics and 22 Bengalese priests are helping to establish the faith among their people.
The Holy Cross missionaries, working hand in hand with the Bengalese priests, have established three hospitals, six high schools, two colleges, and other establishments for the welfare of the people of Bengal. They have also established a seminary that is attended by 37 diocesan seminarians and two Holy Cross seminarians. A University is at present being constructed.
Although the Holy Cross Missionaries have worked in Bengal for over a hundred years their presence there is not permanent. Missions are not primarily meant to convert people but to establish local churches to do the work of conversion. Once the Catholic Church is firmly established in Bengal the Holy Cross missionaries will move on to new

territories.
Accomplishing this job will take many more years; the work to be done is enormous. Notre Dame men can spread the completion of this missionary work by supporting the Bengal Bouts—this year and every year until Bengal is christianized.
The Scholastic
PROGRESS AND DEFICITS
By NORRIS J. BISHTON
TOP: 1923 Statistics. BOTTOM: 1954 Statistics
A university is big business, and ivied walls are no protection from the financial headaches of a big business. Luckily, the only dividends that a university has to show at the end of a year are academic accomplishments, because in the case of most private universities financial dividends are non-existent. This is especially true of the University of Notre Dame where administrators were losing sleep over financial problems way back when the tuition was a sack of potatoes or a couple of shoats.
But over a hundred years have passed since you could trade a sack of potatoes for an education. Notre Dame is no longer a small provincial college in the wilds of Indiana. Instead, it is now a university of national and international renown, enrolling 5,400 students from 48 states and 30 foreign countries. Much of this growth has occurred in the last thirty years and we need only compare some of the figures for 1954 with those for 1923 to get a graphic picture of the University’s development, especially in the area of financial problems.
In this short thirty year span in the 113 years of the University’s history, student enrollment has not quite tripled. Yet the total wages and salaries paid out has multiplied 21 times and the operating budget has multiplied 22 times! Only the donations of alumni and non-alumni (in 1953, 1,329 non-alumni donated more than did 9,184 alumni) to the University, chan
neled through the Notre Dame Foundation, have kept tuition from skyrocketing with costs!
In 1954 the operating budget of the University was $12,000,000. Tuition accounted for only 70% of this budget, leaving a deficit of 30%. This 30% deficit, in reality 30% of our education, was accounted for by careful administration, auxiliary enterprises, and especially donations to the University, channeled through the Notre Dame Foundation. If it were not for the work of the Foundation, it would take a substantial increase in our tuition to balance the budget.
The University of Notre Dame is not a heavily endowed university, having an endowment of only $12,000,000. This does not compare favorably with the endowments of 68 other leading universities and colleges, which range from $15,000,000 to $200,000,000. It must be remembered that the University only has the use of the income from its endowment.
Who is supporting the building program so evident around campus if the University has difficulty meeting its operating expenses? The answer is simple. The building program is being supported by donations to the University, channeled through the Foundation, over and above those which go to make up the deficit in the budget. It should be evident that during the eight years since its inception the Notre Dame Foundation has become a fundamental part of the University.
Next Week: The Foundation Story.
> March 11, 1955
Junior Class Signs Billy May For Prom May 6; Dinner-Dance, Breakfast Complete Weekend
Plans are being concluded for this year’s Junior Prom and the festivities which will follow. It has been announced that tickets will go on sale on March 30 and 31.
This year the Prom will be held on Friday, May 6, featuring the band of Billy May. The band, under the direction of Sam Donaghue, recently completed a national tour and played at the Hollywood Paladium.
The price of a dance bid will be $8. The dance itself, which will be held in the Student Center, is to be formal and corsages will be worn. Decorations will center around the theme of “A Thousand and One Nights." Car permissions for the weekend will be granted.
The weekend’s program will continue on Saturday with a dinner-dance at the South Bend Country Club. Don Gels and his orchestra will supply the music at the affair.
On Sunday, the juniors will hold a
New Musical Program Announced by WNDU
“Sunday Showcase," the second in a series of new programs designed for general student appeal, can now be heard every Sunday on WNDU at 2 p.m.
The new hour-long program reflects the current trend in radio production of presenting, on one show, all types of music that have popular appeal for the entire listening audience. WNDU’s aim is to give the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s the fullest range of musical entertainment.
Hit tunes from movies and Broadway shows, modern jazz, light classics, and popular music will all be heard on “Sunday Showcase.’’
Five minutes of sports news is included in the new show, and five minutes of world news follows at 3 p.m.
The new series of programs that includes “Sunday Showcase” is WNDU’s experiment with a new and different type of programming that stresses variety. If the series continues to be successful, more new programs will be introduced along the same lines.
The first program of the series, “The World This Week,” can be heard Sundays at 8 p.m. This half-hour show, though primarily a summary of the week’s news from the world, national, and local scenes, also features the tops in popular music, sports news, and a business review.
Communion Breakfast which will bring the weekend to its close.
On March 30 and 31 when the tickets are put on sale, students may also avail themselves of accommodations for their dates. Accommodations will be available at the Morris Inn, in downtown hotels, and in private homes in the South Bend area.
Orders for dance memory books will also be taken at the time of the ticket purchases.
In previous years corsages were not a part of Prom attire, but this year the dance committee has decided to add the color of flowers to a dance which for juniors is the biggest weekend of the year.
AB College Will Hold Counseling Meetings
Separate meetings of the freshmen and sophomores in the College of Arts and Letters will be held March 23 and 24 for the purpose of counseling them on the choice of subjects.
A.B. freshmen will meet March 23 at 7:30 p.m. in the Law Auditorium to hear a discussion about the choice of a science course for the sophomore year.
Rev. Thomas E. Lockary, C.S.C., will outline and explain the various science courses from which prospective sophs may choose, and Dr. Otto Bird will outline the general program of liberal education.
Deans, Heads to Appear
A.B. freshmen desiring to major in math, premed, or the general program must declare their majors this spring since they will begin work in those fields as sophomores. Other freshmen in the college will declare a major at this time next year.
The following evening at 7:30 the sophomores in A.B. will meet in the Law Auditorium for a “choose your major” program. Present will be Rev. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, Mr. Devere Plunkett, assistant dean, and heads of all the departments of the College.
After addresses by Father Sheedy and Mr. Plunkett, the meeting will be adjourned and students may talk informally with the department heads.
According to Mr. Plunkett, it is expected that other meetings for A.B. sophomores will be called by the individual departments at later dates.
New History Course To Be Offered in Fall
A new course on “The History of the United States as a World Power” will be offered for the first time at the University beginning next September, according to an announcement by Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., head of the Department of History.
The class will not be just a history class, Father McAvoy said, because its purpose will be “to promote a better understanding of the position of the United States as a world power and a clearer picture of American international relations. At the same time, it will offer some inducement for interested students to take a more active part in public and especially governmental affairs,” he said.
Open Discussion Each Week
“The History of the United States as a World Power” will be directed by Dr. Vincent DeSantis in the fall semester and by Dr. Aaron I. Abell in the spring semester of 1956. They will be assisted by special lecturers from the Departments of History and Political Science. One meeting of the class each week will be devoted to open discussion by the students under the direction of the professor in charge.
Subject matter of the course will embrace the eras of the two World Wars, the Korean conflict and the “cold war.” Special lectures are planned on questions involving Latin America, China, Southeast Asia, European defense problems and their effects on our own domestic situation.	*
While each semester of the course will be a separate unit with three semester hours’ credit, the whole year’s work will be planned as a unit with special emphasis on current affairs.
Irish Club to Hold Breakfast On St. Patrick's Feast Day
Rev. Edmund Murray, C.S.C., rector of Alumni Hall, will be the speaker at the third annual Irish Club Communion breakfast to be held on St. Patrick’s Day, March 17. Father Murray has recently returned from spending three years in Ireland.
Irish Club President Richard Hicks announces that the breakfast will be held in the Morris Inn following 6:15 Mass at Sacred Heart Church.
Anyone interested in attending the breakfast should contact Hicks in 225 Walsh or Tom King in 246 Farley. Admission will be $1.
14
The Scholastic
JOHNNY JORDAN • - • completed his fourth winning season with the Irish last Saturday in Milwaukee, sporting a 14-10 card. His four-year mark at Notre Dame now stands at 71 wins and 28 losses and a winning percentage of .717.
The Irish lost three veteran starters from last year’s stellar NCAA quarter finalists, and had no experienced men to step into the vacancies. Jordan was forced to go with inexperienced sophomores and juniors in his starting quintet. He relied on his All-American captain-guard, Jack Stephens, to carry the squad through the opening games, hoping that the rest of the team would catch fire and help Junior along in the last half. The Irish, however, never were able to cop more than two games in a row all season, but one of these winning duos came in the Christmas Sugar Bowl Tournament. Jordan will take next year’s five back to New Orleans to defend this crown. The biggest win came in the season’s finale when the Irish spanked Marquette’s high-flying Warriors, 85-64.
Notre Dame’s inexperience was especially noticeable in the defensive department, where the Irish were among the top fouling clubs in the nation. The inexperience and lack of the “big man” hurt the Blue and Gold against topflight teams. Jordan, however, pitted his team against the top fives in the East, South, Southwest, Midwest, and Big Ten.	'
Lloyd Aubrey, John Smyth, and Bill Weiman came along well in the latter part of the season, and they should provide a strong nucleus for the 1955-56 edition of the Fighting Irish. Stephens is the only regular who will graduate, leaving Jordan with six of the first seven men back for another fling.
The Irish fortunes have been riding high during Jordan’s four-year tenure. He has had season records of 16-10, 19-5, and 22-3 previously. For the past two years Jordan has taken his ream to the NCAA tourney, and last year he received the Coach of the Year laurels from the New York Basketball Writers’ Association after boosting Notre Dame to the sixth slot in the national ratings.
Six returning lettermen, an eager bench, and a solid freshman team give Jordan the ingredients for another typically tough Notre Dame cage outfit next season. Wait ’til next year!
It’s Teamwork .
That Counts |
JOHN CASTELLANI . . . assisted Johnny Jordan again this year and played an important role in developing the individual squad members. Castellani also handled Jordan’s scouting, following ND opponents throughout the country. He also had charge of the freshman scholarship five that performed in the preliminary games. John has worked for his law and physical education degrees at Notre Dame. This was his fourth year as assistant basketball coach at his alma mater.
16
The Scholastic
Jack Stephens
JACK STEPHENS • • • Junior captained the 1954-55 Fighting Irish. . . . He cracked the all-time scoring mark with a four-year total of 1,314. . . . His 35 points against Marquette in the season finale gave him a share of the Notre Dame individual scoring mark. . . . He racked up 501 points this year. . . . Junior placed on All-American selections from coast to coast. . . . The 6-2 guard rates Holy Cross’ Tom Heinshon and Tulsa’s Bob Patterson as the best opposing players. . . . Rates the Sugar Bowl Tourney win as his greatest thrill. . . . Made the all-tourney team at New Orleans.

LLOYD AUBREY • • • stepped into Dick Rosenthal's high-scoring shoes and moved to a high-scoring year. . . . The 6-5 pivotman was sharp with a right-hand hook or a twisting jump shot. . . . Whipped in 32 points against Northwestern and 30 against Butler in his best performances. . . . Hit 28 in the Marquette upset. . . . One of the top rebounders in the Irish front line. . . . Averaged 17 markers a game. . . . The Holy Cross victory in the Sugar Bowl gets his nod foi- the biggest thrill. . . . Played his prep ball at St. Louis’ DeAndreis High School.
Lloyd Aubrey
Jack Smyth
JOHN SMYTH ■ ■ . was the big man off the boards for Coach Jordan’s crew. . . . John picked up many fouls with his bruising play, but proved to be the third top scorer and an outstanding defensive specialist. . . . Oddly enough, “Smitty” picked up most of his fouls on offense. . . . Broke Loyola of the South’s back in the Sugar Bowl with his board work. . . . John got a big thrill out of the NYU game in Madison Square Garden, his first appearance in the big.arena. . . . Bob Patterson.-gave -“Smitty” the most trouble this year. . . . Played prep ball at DePaul in Chicago.
March 11, 1955
x>?
Weiman
BILL WEIMAN • - - sparkled as the top Irish floorman. . . . His tricky passing and heads-up offensive thinking were vital. . . . Bill played best against Marquette, upsetting their usual patterns with his fast defensive swipes. . . . The 6-2 junior from St. Ambrose Academy in Davenport, Iowa rates Bill Ridley of Illinois as his toughest opponent. . . . Feels the Marquette upset in Milwaukee was definitely the season highpoint. ... A right-hand jump shot and left-hand hook proved to be Bill’s best shots.
JOHN FANNON
. . was the only two-year junior veteran on this year’s squad.
. . . The 6-5 forward played his best game in the rebounding department. . . . Pumped in 22 points against Bradley’s Braves for his top 1954-55 individual effort. . . . Thinks Tom Heinsohn of Holy Cross and Bob Patterson of Tulsa were the best individuals he faced in the 24 games. . . . John developed a driving jump shot in the latter half of the season that increased his effectiveness. . . . Prepped at St. Thomas More’s in Philadelphia.
Jack Fannon

PAUL HORNUNG • • - made a quick switch from the gridiron to the hardwood for the Irish this year and proved equally adept in both sports. . . . The 6-2 sophomore hit his season high of 13 against DePaul while working as Jordan’s all-important sixth man. . . . He moved into action when one of the regulars picked up too many fouls. . . . His jump shot is the most deadly on the team. . . . Thinks the team victory over Kansas State was his biggest thrill. . . . Picks Bob Patterson as the best player he faced. . . . Prepped in Louisville’s Flaget High School.
Paul Hornung

Lee Ayotte
LEE AYOTTE • • . saw extensive relief duty for the Irish this season. . . . Acted as the first substitute for most of the season. . . . Noted for his all-out hustle and spectacular jump shot from the side. . . . The 6-4 soph from Alpena, Mich., hit 13 scores against Northwestern in the first game.'. . . His fielder that pushed ND into the lead over Holy Cross in the Sugar Bowl final rates as his top play of the year . . . The Cross’ Tom Heinsohn impressed Lee with his high-scoring technique. . . . Also a valuable rebounder.
18
The Scholastic £

JACK BEDAN • • • was the skyscraper on this year’s quintet at 6-8. . . . Saw limited action as Lloyd Aubrey’s replacement. . . . Sternest test of the year came in the Indiana game when he faced Indiana’s Don Schlundt. . . . Jack is rough off the boards, but had trouble with his fouling. . . . Coaches rate his hook shot as very effective. . . . Also developed his offensive board work latei- in the season. . . . Participated in “Hoosier Hysteria” at Jeffersonville High School. . . . Got his biggest Ikick when ND copped the Sugar Bowl during the Christmas holidays.
Joe Morelli


STEVE REBORA ... one of the
Jack Bedan
i

JOE MORELLI ... is a six-foot soph who performed at guard for the Irish this-year. ... A top dribbler, Joe likes his jump shot best. . . . Also has an effective set shot from 30 feet. . . . Thinks Captain Stephens is the toughest college player he has encountered to date. . . . Worked best against Wisconsin in the Fieldhouse. . . Got his biggest kick out of playing before the TV audience in the Indiana game. ... Joe played for Philip Schuyler High School. ... He hails from Albany,. N. Y. . . . Coaches rate him as an excellent guard prospect.
two seniors on this year’s young club. . . . The
5-10 guard was one of the smallest members of the five, specializing in alert floor play. . . . Steve has played four years of ball at Notre Dame. . . . His two-hand set shot and driving one-hander make him a constant offensive threat. . . . Steve’s dribbling and defensive play have always been his strong point. . . . Rates Tom Hein-sohn of Holy Cross the best player he has faced this season. . . . Played high school ball with Loyola in Chicago’s Catholic League.
Steve Rebora


All-Opponent Team
Forward			Bob Patterson ...		Tulsa
Forward			Al Ferrari 	Michigan State	
Center			Tom Heinsohn...	...Holy Cross
Guard			.Bob Walczak ....		Marquette
Guard		.....Bill Ridley 			Illinois
ND INDIVIDUAL MARKS
Single Game Scoring_____
Field Goals ____________
Free Throws ____________
ND TEAM MARKS
Field Goals _____ Free Throws _____
Personal Fouls __
.Stephens, against Marquette, 35
Aubrey, against Northwestern, 14
.Stephens, against Northwestern, 19
Against Loyola of Chicago, 37
Against Northwestern, 33
.Against Michigan State, 28
£ March 11, 1955
19
All’s Well That Ends Well
by Bob Ruhl and Dave Davin
Notre Dame, finishing with a season’s record of 14-10, didn’t come close to matching the 22-3 slate of last year’s great team, but the Irish did manage to pull a few surprises.
They rolled over Loyola of the South and Holy Cross to win the Sugar Bowl tournament in December and knocked off scrappy De Paul and highly-ranked Marquette in the last two games of the season.
Coach Johnny Jordan built this year’s quintet around two returning veterans, Captain Jack Stephens and John Fannon, but the three newcomers came along fast.
Sophomore John Smyth, a 6-5 forward, proved a handy man on the backboards. Junior center Lloyd Aubrey was unsteady, but quickly became a big gun in the scoring attack. Junior Bill Wei-man, a flashy playmaker, paired with Stephens to give the Irish a solid floor game.
Notre Dame got off to a fast start in the opening game, whipping Wisconsin’s Badgers, 72-61, on Dec. 4. Wisconsin broke out in front and held a 4-0 lead until Fannon, junior forward, hit a short jump shot. The Badgers held the Irish at bay until John Smyth tied the count at 14-all early in the second quarter.
The Irish then pulled ahead with Stephens leading the scoring punch. Jim Clinton hit a long fielder with four-
seconds left in the half to even the score, 32-32.
The Jordanmen jumped ahead by three points as the second half started on Stephen’s free throw and a field goal by Smyth. From here the Irish moved steadily ahead. Stephens was high man for the Irish with 22 points. Dick Cable, Badger hotshot, hit 31 to lead both teams.
Four days later the Irish hung a
“SMITTY” HURTS THE HOOSIERS
79-69 loss on the Northwestern Wildcats. i Stephens again led the Irish attack withD i 33 points. Notre Dame gained an early j lead, 13-10. The Wildcats fought back « to go ahead 18-15. Three quick baskets I put the Irish ahead again, 21-18.
Northwestern had a four point lead I just before the half, but Smyth and Lee Ayotte combined to knot the score, 37-37.
Stephens hit a long one hander with 3:05 gone in the second half to put the Irish out in front for the rest of the^ game.	■
Indiana’s “Hurrying Hoosiers” hooked | up with the Irish on Dec. 11 in a nation- ; ally televised nip-and-tuck contest that j saw the Hoosiers ahead only one minute. But it was the last minute, and the 1 Hoosiers won, 73-70. Indiana went out	(
in front with only 44 seconds left on a	'
set shot by Hallie Bryant, 69-68. Hoosier Charley Hodson increased the spread to 71-68 with a field goal.	,
Captain Stephens drove the lengthy of the court with only eleven seconds^ j remaining and sank a basket to put the j Irish only one point behind. Two sec- f onds later Hodson and Stephens tussled for the ball, and a jump was called. Stephens got the tap, but the Irish lost the ball.
Notre Dame led 42-36 at the half and held an eleven point margin midway in the first half.
Dick Baumgartner got two more free
20
The Scholastic
throws to clinch the Hoosier victory. Stephens tossed in 32 points for the Irish ^cause and stamped himself an AllAmerican before the nation’s sports fans.
Notre Dame got back on the winning train two nights later in the Fieldhouse by rolling over Loyola’s Eamblers, 8976. Center Lloyd Aubrey paced the Irish attack with 25 points. Midway in the first half the Irish were ahead by 19 points, 34-15. But the Eamblers pulled up within six points at the half, 40-34. £ Notre Dame quickly shot ahead by eleven points as the second half opened and steadily increased the margin to 23 points with five minutes left.
Tough Big Ten Opposition
The Irish ran into a stone wall at Lafayette, Ind., Dec. 15, and the Purdue Boilermakers walked off with a 78-58 verdict. Joe Sexson, Boilermaker leading scorer with 25, put Purdue out ahead 2-0 on free throws. Notre Dame tied the count 6-6 four minutes later, but Sexson hit a basket and the Boilermakers were never headed.
Aubrey, Irish high point man -with 17, sparked Notre Dame’s only rally and brought the Irish within one point of Purdue, 27-26. But Denny Blind’s three-point combination made it 30-26 for Purdue at the half.
Notre Dame invaded Champaign, HL, Dec. 18, to take on Illinois in the first game of the Christmas holidays. But the Irish didn’t have enough and lost, 66-57.
The Irish appeared headed for an upset until midway through the second half. With 12:42 remaining, Notre Dame led 45-39. But for five minutes Notre Dame didn’t score and the Illini forged ahead, 47-45.
Jack Stephens lead the Irish with 20 •
FANNON LAYS ONE IN
points. Bill Eidley bagged 21 for Illinois.
Five nights later Minnesota’s Gophers plastered a 77-66 loss on the Jordanmen in Minneapolis. It was the third straight loss for the Irish and the first time a Jordan-coached quintet had fallen below .500.
The Irish trailed 12-6 in the opening minutes of the first half, but fought back to a 23-21 deficit. Dick Garmaker, Gopher All-American, dropped in twelve points and Minnesota got 13 without return as the Gophers drove ahead, 36-21. Minnesota kept the lead throughout the remainder- of the contest.
Stephens had a hard night battling the Gophers’ sagging-wall defense, but managed to get 18 points. Aubrey also got 18, and John Smyth bagged 17 for Notre Dame.
The Irish tangled with the Loyola of the South Wolfpack on Dec. 29 in the opening round of the Sugar Bowl tourney in New Orleans. Determined to get a crack at the championship, the Irish bowled over the Wolfpack, 66-45.
Notre Dame, starting slowly, didn’t score for five minutes, and the Wolfpack moved ahead. A tip-in by Aubrey and a jump shot by Fannon tied the count at four-all.
Loyola managed to grab leads of 1211 and a final one at 14-13 with 9:03 left in the first half. But Aubrey’s jump shot gave the Irish a 15-14 edge that increased thereafter.
Jack Stephens notched 19 points, 11 of them from the charity line. Bill Weiman, junior playmaker, played his best game to date, stealing the ball and setting up shots.
Sugar Bowl Sweep
Holy Cross, having beaten Bradley in its opening tourney start, couldn’t halt the Irish spirited attack and fell in the championship hassle, 74-69. The game was give and take all the way, with the lead changing hands 15 times.
Tied 29-all at the half, both teams caught fire after the intermission. In the first five minutes the score was tied three times. The Irish took a one point lead, 46-45, midway in the half on Aubrey’s free throw and a fielder by Stephens.
Notre Dame scored seven more points without return to take a 52-45 lead. In a four minute surge of action, Stephens hit 12 points and Aubrey four, while Holy Cross got only a pair of baskets.
The Irish boosted their margin to twelve points at 62-50. But the Crusaders closed the gap to three points, 66-63 and 68-65, in the final minute and a half. Twelve of the final 14 Irish points were free throws as the Crusaders fought and fouled trying to catch up.
JUNIOR BATTERS BUTLER
Stephens led the second-half scoring spree and amassed 24 points.
Stephens and Smyth made the Alltournament team for their outstanding two-night play.
On Jan. 3 Notre Dame toured to the blue-grass country of Kentucky to take on the Louisville Cardinals. Fouls again hurt the Irish and the Cardinals inched by in the final five minutes, 73-69.
Fouls Hurt Again
Trailing most of the first half, Notre Dame grabbed a 53-45 lead early in the second half. Louisville quickly erased this and built up a 62-61 margin.
With all fouls costing two free throws in the final three minutes, Louisville counted with seven free throws and two baskets in the last 2:50 to win.
Two nights later Notre Dame came home to beat the Butler Bulldogs in the friendly confines of the Fieldhouse, 8358. The Irish led 17-16 in the first eight
NICE PASS INTERFERENCE
t March 11, 1955
21
minutes and had the Bulldogs on the run the rest of the game.
Paced by Aubrey’s 16-point barrage, Notre Dame rushed to a 49-33 halftime lead and soon widened the spread to 28 points.
Lloyd Aubrey was high-point man with 22. Stephens had 21.
Notre Dame locked up with New York University, Jan. 8, in the first game of the annual Eastern swing before 15,000 fans in Madison Square Garden. N.Y.U. never threatened after holding a brief early lead, and Notre Dame came away with a 93-74 victory.
Notre Dame jumped out ahead 10-5. The New Yorkers came back to take a 17-16 advantage. John Fannon put Notre Dame in front 18-17 while N. Y.-U. counted only a free throw. The Irish poured in 14 quick points and the Violets were wilting.
Leading 41-32 at the half, Notre Dame continued to increase its lead after the intermission and led by as much as 26 points.
Junior Lloyd Aubrey was the big gun in the Irish attack, netting 21 points.
From New York the Irish headed Boston-way to war Holy Cross and suffered the first defeat to a Crusader team since 1934. And it was a bad one, 93-57, tying the all-time ND loss record.
Holy Cross never was behind, and the Irish could only tie the score once, at 21-all. At one time the Jordanmen went 6% minutes without scoring a point.
John Smyth led the Irish bid with 17 points, Junior Stephens and Jack Fannon each dumping in 13.
An old thorn in the Irishmen’s side could not be removed—Tom Heinsolm. He poured points in from everywhere, eleven from the foul line, hexing the visitors from all over the court for a game leading total of 36.
Aubrey Cracks Record
Back in the Midwest, but not at home, Notre Dame clipped Northwestern for the second time this year, 82-74, and their eighth victory.
Center Lloyd Aubrey set an all-time Notre Dame single game field goal record with 14. And Smyth added his bit with 13 markers in the first ten minutes.
The Irish, shooting 54 percent in the initial half, monopolized the boards throughout. But the game was closei' than the score. The battle raged nip and tuck until the 59-56 mark, and then the Irish forward brigade cut loose.
Aubrey, netting 32 points total, deadly with his graceful hook and outside overhead shots, led the way. Burly
NO OPPOSITION HERE
“Smitty” poured in another 25, helping W | to ice the win.
Wildcat Hal Grant contributed 30	|
points for the host-losers.
On Feb. 5, the Irish returned from } the examination lay-off, went to Chicago	I
and hung another defeat on Loyola,	I
91-83.	’
For the first time in 15 games, junior forward John Fannon didn’t start because of a knee injury. But rangy Jack found himself in the middle of the fray when he later replaced Bill Weiman. £
The Irish hit for 38 per cent of their i shots, and had Loyola been as hot from	|
the court as from the foul line, the	|
results might have been different. In fact, the Ramblers led 42-39 at half time. Aubrey, making a return appearance before a Chicago Stadium crowd led the Notre Darners with 26.
I Paul Hornung, a grid quarterback, | f>iade his basketball debut and scoredxhis * ^tirst two pointer.
Aubrey was again effective with his hook shot and scored 17 the final half.
Two days later, Forddy Anderson and Co. knocked down the doors of the Fieldhouse and scooted out with a 93-79 I victory. It was the seventh Irish loss.
As in the past, fouls played the key role in the loss. Weiman, Smyth, Fannon and Aubrey sat down via the ^whistle. When they did, the Spartans ■ •went to town.
:	Fannon looked ready to take up from
' last year in the first half with 12 quick j points, but State put out the fire.
| Stephens Hits 23
At the half Michigan State led 39-38, * and in the final five minutes they caught up from an eight point deficit to win.
Fabulous Al Ferrari, State forward, :	scored 26 points, including twelve
^straight free throws to lead both teams. He combined with teammates Duane Peterson and Bob Armstrong to control :	the boards.
| Captain Jack Stephens led the Irish I	with 23.
Bradley moved into the local arena I	on Feb. 10.	Notre	Dame	put on	their
best home show	of	the	season,	beating
the Braves 87-63.
THE PATTERNS FORM AS SMYTH PIVOTS
The Irish could do little wrong, their passing accurate, shooting deadly and ^functioning like a smooth, well-knit outfit. Bradley found it next to impossible to cope with the fast-breaking Jordan offense.
Jack Fannon came out of his season slump for 22 points, only one behind Junior Stephens. Besides Bill Weiman’s fancy play making, he added twelve marks to the cause
For the second year, Notre Dame won the Al Feeney Memorial Trophy by beating Butler in Indianapolis 81-71, on Feb. 14.
THE BENCH GETS INTO THE ACT WITH A ROAR
Notre Dame found itself that night when it had a chance at the free line, sinking 17 of 26 foul shots.
Lloyd Aubrey set the pace again, his hook and fading jump well in hand, to the tune of 30 points. Junior Stephens had 22.
Notre Dame went traveling on Feb. 19 to Tulsa, Okla., and walked into a Hurricane, a Golden Hurricane. Tulsa was not hospitable and sent the Irish on their way with a 74-59 defeat.
Inaccuracy held the Irish spotlight as
Aubrey only hit five for 18, Smyth 3 for 13, and Stephens, who fouled-out for the second time in his college career, four.
Tulsa never trailed in the contest, and ND could do little better than tie the score three times. Bill Weiman led the Jordan gang with 17 points.
Hurricane Bob Patterson led the way with 34 points and kept breaking deadlocks with a thrilling fadeaway jump shot.
Two nights later, over in Manhattan, Kans., Notre Dame tamed the Kansas State Wildcats 76-74, and Jack Stephens broke the all-time Notre Dame individual career scoring mark of 1,227.
In the final minutes, Stephens was fouled attempting a jump shot and his two free throws won the game and erased the old record.
It went see-saw all the way, Notre Dame proving better in the foul circle. With the score tied at 58-alI, the Irish went ahead 62-61, and 68-65, led by John Smyth and his twisting jump.
With the Wildcats ahead 71-70, Stephens was fouled, his basket and two foul shots making the difference.
Marquette’s fifth ranked Warriors won the one they had been aiming at since last March 6, and at Notre Dame, 84-74.	.
Bob Walczak, a six-foot guard led the Warriors from the outside with 27 points. Most of it came in the last half when the visitors poured in 59 points.
STEPHENS HITS AGAIN
They hit on 23 of 24 free tosses in this half.
Giant Marquette center Terry Rand could only manage three points, but did dominate the boards. After Fannon and Jack Smyth fouled out early in the second half, the Irish lost their punch and the Warriors rolled.
DePaul Wins in Stadium
In Chicago on Feb. 26, DePaul’s Demons handed Notre Dame its tenth loss, 81-77. It was the first time ND has lost to Ray Meyer’s team since the 1952-53 season.
Ron Sobieszczyk and Ken Jasky shared Demon scoring honors with 20 each. Junior Stephens also had 20 for the Irish.
Notre Dame never led, but Paul Hornung tied it at 38 apiece with a lay-up late in the first half.
Three days later, the Irish got DePaul
in the friendly Fieldhouse and pasted the visitors 72-61, only after a tight battle in which the score was knotted eight times.
Lloyd Aubrey scored 26 points to take the honors, his arching hook and fadeaway jump working very well.
The turning point came with DePaul leading 46-44 and 14:30 remaining. Aubrey hooked and was fouled, ND going ahead 47-46. Hornung laid one in and Aubrey’s jump shot was good.
Irish Gain Revenge
And revenge was ever so sweet when the Irish toured to Milwaukee March 5, met Marquette for the regular season wind-up for both fives, and snapped the nation’s longest winning streak at 22, 85-64. It was Notre Dame’s 14th victory against ten defeats.
Captain Stephens ended his college career by burning the baskets for 35 points and tying the Notre Dame single game scoring record. Stephens scored at will—in, under, and around the Warrior defenders. Aubrey contributed 28 to the Irish cause.'
Stephen’s 35 markers boosted his new three year individual scoring record to 1,314.
The Jordan quintet capitalized on 46 per cent of their court shots and led throughout the game.
ND jumped out to a quick 8-1 lead on the surprised Warriors. Irish fans, however, remembered the early 12-1 lead that Marquette eventually erased in the initial meeting of the two outfits in the Fieldhouse. Jordan’s five increased the margin to a 54-36 halftime lead.
THEY CARRIED THE ATTACK— (left to right): Forward John Smyth, Center Lloyd Aubrey, Captain Jack Stephens, Forward John Fannon, Guard Bill Weiman, and Coach Johnny Jordan.
2 OF THE RECORD 35	|
1
Marquette stormed back to a 65-54™ | score early in the third canto, but the ? Irish called time, regrouped their forces, | and squelched any hope the Warriors might have of carrying their winning | streak into NCAA competition.	।
A slightly altered ND offense gave I Stephens the opportunity to drive for easy lay-in shots. Forwards Fannon and Smyth stayed farther out on the side and didn’t make use of the key for jump shots to any great extent. When Marquette concentrated on Junior, hew would whip passes into “Smitty” and । Fannon for “cinch” baskets.	|
A great victory after a mediocre sea- 1 son, but “All’s Well That End’s Well.”
The Scholastic

Balance. Finesse Spell Potential
By JOHN GLAVIN
“This is one of the best freshmen clubs we have had in years.” These words of praise from head coach Johnny ^Jordan echo the sentiments of all those who have seen this year’s aggregation of frosh prospects.
When the squad of five “iron men,” as they came to be called, reported to assistant varsity and head freshmen coach, John Castellani, they were just five good basketball players just off their respective high school courts. All of them had the ability and willingness to play ball and Castellani wove them ^into a smooth functioning unit. They came a long way under the frosh mentor’s capable direction, and by the end of the season were a vastly improved outfit with good rebounding and excellent ball handling.
Devine Top Prospect
Top prospect on this year’s ball club is Bob Devine, the six-foot flash from West Catholic in Philadelphia. Observers in the East say that Devine is a picture ball player “with a little Gola in him.” Potentially he is one of the best “little men” to come to Notre Dame in the past few years. Bob does everything well and is very coachable. Very quick on the drive, he also has a deadly outside set shot. He is outstanding on defense and works well with Ed Gleason on the switching man-to-man defense. He will be battling for the starting guard berth vacated by the graduating Jack » Stephens.
w The tallest lad on the squad is center Don McNeill, Jr., a 6-6 performer from New Trier High School in Winnetka, Ill. Don has the desire to play ball and improved tremendously during the season. A real tiger off the boards, he is a hustler from the word go. A right hand jump shot is his most potent offensive weapon. If he improves as much by next year as he has this past season, he will be an important cog on the Irish squad.
John McCarthy, a 6-4 forward from Mt. Carmel in Chicago, is the best rebounder on the club. He is a real scrapper and always gives forty minutes of good, hard basketball. Aggressive on both offense and defense, he scores a great deal on tap-ins. He likes to drive and has a good left-handed hook shot. Next year John could give the varsity the extra big man at the forward position.
At the other forward position is Jim Williams from Danville, Ill. He has a nice soft touch and the best jump shot on the ball club. He uses his 6-3 frame to advantage on the boards and along with McCarthy and McNeill, gave the frosh a good rebounding trio.
Casual Gleason is the other guard. The 6-1 playmaker last year led St. Mel High School to the Catholic League title in Chicago. Ed is a real clutch player with uncanny split vision. He is a good driver and has a good outside shot. An all-around ball player, he will be battling for a starting spot next year.
Pressing this top five for recognition and providing tough opposition for the squad was a group of promising frosh candidates under the capable coaching of former Irish star Joe Bertrand. Although they lacked height, the club did a very creditable job and should come into some consideration for varsity berths next year.
Three of the most promising players are Joe Lee from St. Louis, Mo., Mike Benchoff, from Salem, Ill., and Charlie Shane from Wauwatosa, Wis.
Lee was the most versatile playei- on the squad, working both inside and outside. Benchoff, a 5-11 guard, has a good jump shot and is a good defensive man.
THEY HOLD THE KEY — (left to right), John McCarthy, Don McNeill, Jim Williams, Bob Devine, and Ed Gleason.	.
Shane played the other guard position and displayed a neat two-handed set shot.
At the forward positions were John Case, a driving type ball player from Columbiana, Ohio and Jack Eddy, a good rebounder from Gary, Ind. Eddy, at 6-4, was by far the tallest player on the squad.
Pressing this quintet for starting berths were center Tony Palumbo from Cleveland, Ohio, forward Mickey Hayes from Washington, Ind., and Tim Sullivan, a good all-round ball player from DePaul in Chicago.
Other promising squad members are John Rogers from DeWitt, N.Y., Jack Sweeny from Chicago, and Clayton Schnetzer from Cincinnati, Ohio.
Wage Close Battles
This group of freshmen dumped the quint coached by Castellani once in six meetings this year in the preliminary games. On three other occasions they came within three points of nipping their taller foes.
If some of these freshman performers continue to show the ability and finesse they have shown over the past season, they will be a welcome addition to Johnny Jordan’s varsity next year.
March 11, 1955
25
1954-'55 FIGHTING IRISH BASKETBALL TEAM
Official 1954-'55 Notre Dame Basketball Statistics
Season Records
ND 57, Illinois 66
ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND
72, Wisconsin 61
79, Northwestern 69
70, Indiana 73
89, Loyola of Chicago 76
58, Purdue 78
ND ND ND ND
ND
66, Minnesota 77
66, Loyola of South 45
74, Holy Cross 69
69, Louisville 73
83, Butler 58
93, N.Y.U. 74
57, Holy Cross 93
82, Northwestern 74
91, Loyola of Chicago 83
79, Michigan State 93
87, Bradley 63
81, Butler 71
TOP ROW, left to right: John Smyth, John Fannon, Hank Luepke, Jack Bedan, Lloyd Aubrey, Lee Ayotte. MIDDLE ROW, left to right: Trainer Gene Paszkiet, Assistant Coach John Castellani, Bob Jastrab, Paul Hornung, Captain Jack Stephens, Steve Rebora, Tom Higgins, Coach Johnny Jordan. BOTTOM ROW, left to right: Don Barr, Paul King, Joe Morelli, Tim Cusack. Bill Weiman. Chuck Wittenberg, and Manager Tim Porcari. J J	*	s	O */
	No. Games	FIELD GOALS		Pct.	FREE THROWS			POINTS		
		Atts.	Scored		Atts.	Scored	Pct.	Fouls	No.	Avg.
Jack Stephens,.	... 24	429	155	.361	270	191	.707	54	501	20.9
Lloyd Aubrey .	... 24	423	160	.378	120	85	.708	94	405	16.9
John Smyth ...	... 24	368	122	.332	108	70	.648	97	314	13.1
John Fannon .		24	268	76	.284	98	62	.633	92	214	8.9
Bill Weiman ...	... 24	214	65	.304	80	41	.513	91	171	7.2
Lee Ayotte —	... 22	124	41	.331	23	5	.217	30	87	——
Paul Hornung.	... 10	79	27	.342	15	7	.467	8	61	—
Joe Morelli		... 14	13	6	.461	4	2	.500	7	14	——
Jack Bedan —	... 11	19	3	.158	12	7	.583	12	13	—--
Steve Rebora .	... 14	7	2	.286	6	3	.500	8	7	——
Bob Jastrab ...	. 4	6	2	.333	2	1	.500	1	5	....
Paul King .....	... 4	5	1	.200	0	0	.000	3	2	—--
Tom Higgins .	... 2	0	0	.000	2	2	1.000	2	2	
Bill Kearney ...	... 2	0	0	.000	2	0	.000	1	0	—
Hank Luepke .	... 2	3	0	.000	0	0	.000	1	0	-—
TOTALS .......	... 24	1958	660	.335	742	476	.641	501	1796	74.83
Opponents —	... 24	1592	580	.364	845	574	.679	437	1734	72.25
ND 59, Tulsa 74
ND ND ND ND ND
76, Kansas State 74
74, Marquette
77, DePaul 81
72, DePaul 61
85, Marquette
84
64

26
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
SLATE BENGAL FINALS FOR WEDNESDAY
HMame Fannon Captain Of '55-'56 ND Cagers
John Fannon, starting foi-ward for the past two seasons, will captain the
Irish cagers next year, Edward M.
Krause, director of athletics, announced Ahis week.
" John, a junior, has earned two m o n o-grams for his stellar play. An excellent rebounder, he made his mark as a set shot artist. Last
JOHN FANNON
year, against
Na v y and
W’enn, he won the crowds with his ac-
curate long shots.
Fannon came to Notre Dame as a
center, but eagerly accepted a forward job and developed the set shot. Since then he has improved his drive-in finesse, a dangerous key jump shot, and defensive ability under the boards.
He played on the 1954 starting five that went to the NCAA, won 23 of 28 jgames, and numbered such greats as ^Toe Bertrand, Dick Rosenthal and Jack Stephens, this year’s captain, on the roster. Last year’s quint received na-| tionwide acclaim as one of the finest in Notre Dame history.
This past year he received All-American honorable mention from Collier’s magazine.
Fannon will be the only returning two year regular for the 1955-’56 season. Bill Weiman, junior- guard this year, #chas won two monograms but was not a ■^starter last year.
Besides Weiman, center Lloyd Aubrey, and forwards John Smyth, Lee Ayotte, and Paul Hornung, all monogram winners, will rejoin Fannon next year.
John hails from Philadelphia and attended St. Thomas More high school where he received All-Catholic and allstate honors. In high school he broke many of the great Tom Gola’s scoring records.
I ^iarch 11, 1955
Author Schulberg to Get Boxing Award As Heavyweights Promise Most Excitement
By bob McDonald
The 1955 edition of the Bengal Bouts swung into action last night, but plenty of flying leather is yet to come. Tomorrow will be the last night of preliminaries. The semi-finals will be held Monday and the finals on Wednesday at 8 p.m.
The Bengal Bout award winner, Budd Schulberg, will present trophies to the winners Wednesday, and accept the plaque honoring him as the “man who has done the most for boxing in the past year.”
Schulberg will receive the award for his expose of the Palermo-Carbo fight machine and overall work for boxing and fighters.
Besides his columnist work for Sports Illustrated, he has written novels, including The Harder They Fall, and the motion picture script for On the Waterfront.
Schulberg is respected as having one of the clearest insights into the boxing world.
SI attributes Schulberg with triggering the boxing clean-up article.
His latest project is to build a home for retired boxers on a smaller order of the motion picture guild home.
Two Champs Return
Two champions from last year will be back in action, but only one of them will be out to defend the same title he won.
Harry Higa, winner of the 127-pound crown in 1954 will be out to continue his winning ways by winning this year’s title too, but the classy Hawaiian will have to get by his nemesis of last year, John Palumbo. Palumbo was decision-ed by Higa in the finals last year. Also making his presence felt will be Al Stepan, a freshman, and novice champion.
Sal Profaci, last year’s 142-pound champion will fight in the 147-pound class this year, but Tom Queally, a sophomore from Morrissey and novice champion, will provide stiff competition for Profaci. Also making their presence felt -will be Nick Triano, Gene Jordan,
and Tom Sheehan. All three are fine boxers and hard hitters.
Director Dominic “Nappy” Napolitano expects the most excitement to come from either the 167-pound weight division or the heavyweights. Novice champion Pete Noznesky, a sophomore football player, will battle hard hitting Mike Mulrooney, a junior from Eagle River, Wis., in what promises to be one of the best fights in Bengal Bout history. Both fighters are strong and either is capable of knocking out his opponent. Frank Reilly, John Eagan, Dick Murphy, and William Hilvert promise to give both Noznesky and Mulrooney a tough time.
Cabral Leading Heavyweight 1
Returning veteran Walt Cabral, a big Hawaiian, is seeking to win the “big” title, the heavyweight championship, but he will find plenty of competition when he tangles with big, strong, and hard hitting men such ’as Bob Ke]ly, Gene Hedricks, Mike Regan, and Bernardo Giovannone.
The light heavyweight scraps will pro- • vide a show in themselves. Bombing Pat Cannon, last year’s runner up, has served notice that this year he is not to be stopped. Frank Lolli, Bernie Smyth, and John Garland think differently. Each is sure that he will be the champion come the night of the finals. John Boyle, a junior from Dillon hall and this year’s novice champion, could surprise them all.
The 137-pound weight division will be a toss up from start to finish. Dick McVeigh, Richard Plum, and John Reiss will battle last year’s runner up, Jim Connelly.
Tickets for the last night of Preliminaries, the semi-finals, and the finals can be bought from the Knights of Columbus representative in each hall and at the door. Tickets for the preliminaries cost $ .25, the semi-finals S .50, and the finals, §1.00.
27
Fencers to Meet Illinois; Boost 9-3 Season Record
The Notre Dame fencing team will clash head-on with the Illinois squad in a dual match tomorrow afternoon at 2:30 in the Drill Hall.
Coach Walter Langford’s team, presently boasting a 9-3 mark, will have their hands full with the Illini team, who just last weekend placed second to Wisconsin in an All-Big Ten Conference meet at Chicago. This narrow defeat dethroned Illinois from the top spot after a five-year reign as Big Ten fencing champs.
Outstanding Illinois swordsman participating will be foil man, Pete Velasco, who has scored 30 bout victories without a loss in dual meet competition this season. Another notable will be Larry Kaufman, the Big Ten epee champ.
As for the outcome of the match, Coach Langford indicated that “very much rides on the performance of the sabre team in regards to scoring.”
Gymnasts Out For Revenge; Face Navy Pier Tomorrow
The Irish gymnasts will try to snap a four meet famine tomorrow at the Navy Drill Hall. They now hold a losing 1-5 mark. The Irish, however, must match their stunts against a powerful Navy Pier crew who only two weeks ago clipped the Greenshirts by a decisive margin of 62-34.
In the side-horse, parallel bars, and flying rings events, Chicago romped to conclusive victories of 11-5, 10-6, and
CHICAGO CLUB’S INTERMURAL CHAMPS —Top Row, (left fo right): Gus Sheridan, Don Iwinski, Gieran Phelan. Bottom Row, (left to right): Tim Devereux, Ron Auer, Frank Burge, Phil Prassas, and Phil Sheridan.
11-5 to easily maneuver their triumph. Notre Dame scored heavily in the horizontal bars contention, securing a 10-6 victory to supplement their shaky 8%-71/" win in the trampoline.
Reggie Grimm registered a total of 865 individual tallies in the four events that he participated in to lead the Irish brigade. Evie Hatch, however, who ranked second in individual tallies with 858, contributed 14 points to the team total to rank as Notre Dame’s high scorer for the afternoon.
Air Cadets Hold Blue Lead; Cender Garners High Total
The Air Cadets tightened their grip on first place in the Blue League in the Kampus Keglers as they rolled up four points against the Washington, Maryland, Virginia Club, while the second place Detroit Club split four points with the Architects. No change occurred in the Gold League standings, with the Met Club holding the top spot.
Bob Filipiak had the highest three game total in the Gold League with 548. The Toledo Club’s leading bowler also posted the best individual game with a 213.
In the Blue League the Irish Club jumped from fifth to third by turning back the Accounting Club 4-0. The Chemical Engineers dropped from third to fourth in the same shift despite Rudy Gender’s league leading total of 563 for the day.
Last week's varsity bowling meet with St. Joseph’s was called off until a later date.	.
Irish Will Open Season On Stadium's New Turf
By the time that the Notre Dame football team takes the field next year for their first home game, the stadium will be completely resodded with a new turf.
Right now the field is in the process of being completely sterilized and reseeded. The grass used in the past proved to be undesirable and fell easily into a rundown condition, so Universit officials decided to make the needed change.
The job has fallen into the capable hands of Mr. Chet Kelley, head groundkeeper, and his crew who began the long job early in February. They removed ten inches of top soil from the field, and then covered it with straw and sand. At a later date, the Dow Chemical Company of Midland, Mich., will visit the Stadium and spray the field with men-A thal bromide gas which will kill all remaining roots of the old grass and any harmful elements in the soil.
After the sterilization is finished, the laying of the new grass will then be started. When completed, the Irish will possess the most beautiful looking and most durable playing field in the United States.
Chicagoans Nip Howard^ For Campus Cage Title
The Chicago Club copped the annual Intermural Basketball Tournament by defeating Howard, 44-42, last Thursday in the Fieldhouse.
The Chicagoans won in the last ten seconds after overcoming a nine point deficit with a minute and a half remaining. Ron Auer and Frank Burge led the victors with 17 and twelve points^ respectively, while John Hammett garnered 21 for the losers.
The Chicago five earned the crown in the eleven team tourney by coming from behind in three games. In the semifinals, they downed Dillon, 43-39, in one overtime, and in the first round they edged Walsh, 37-34, also in a single overtime.
Mr. Ernest Szekely, director of the tournament, has announced the all-star team.	£
They are: John Hammett and Lou Loncaric of Howard, Frank Burge and Ron Auer of the Chicago Club, Max Olinger and Pat Foley of the Indianapolis Club, Al Bierman and Bill Matthews of Dillon’s afternoon team, Alex Marcel of Dillon’s evening entry, Dick Lynch of B-P, and Bob Moretti of Farley.
In the consolation tilt, the Indianapolis Club ran over Dillon (aft.), 48-31.
The ScholastiC
28
I Irish Capture CCC; * •Milwaukee Next Stop
■ The Notre Dame tracksters retained I their Central Collegiate Conference ■ championship in the Fieldhouse last Sat-Il urday by grabbing three firsts and tie' ing for another for 55% points, far | ahead of Michigan Normal’s runner-up ; total of 31%. Other- team totals were i Western Michigan 26, Marquette 25%, i -Drake and Central Michigan each 18, | ^Bradley 4%, and Wayne 1.
I Tomorrow the Irish thinclads compete in the Milwaukee Relays.
Coach Wilson will enter both a two-mile and one-mile relay outfit in the meet. Bernie Allard will participate in the hierh jump.
, Notre Dame exhibited more depth and team balance than any of the other entrants could match, taking either first, ^econd, or third in eight of the twelve ’•events. Their firsts came in the mile, the 880, the shot put, and a tie in the high jump.
Squires Wins Easily
Flashy Bill Squires was impressive in winning the mile. Choosing to set i the pace, he grabbed the lead on the first turn and built up about a quarter of a lap advantage, which he held throughout the race. No one offered the fleet ^niler much competition as he glided Across the finish line in 4:17:9.
Another winning effort was turned in by Byron Beams in the shotput. Big Byron broke his individual record by four- inches with a heave of 52 feet, 5 inches. He is the only member of the team who has not been beaten this year.
The 880-yard run was a close, nip and tuck race all the way. Al Schoenig won for the Irish in 1:54.0, after turning .•back some tough opposition in the person %f John MacKenzie of Western Michigan. Schoenig started out in front and held the lead until the third lap; then MacKenzie took over. But going into the back straightaway Schoenig came through with his finishing kick which was a little top much for MacKenzie, and the Irish Co-Captain broke the , string about two strides in front.
| The high jump was another close J	event. The field quickly narrowed down
• «to N.D.’s Bernie Allard and Bradley’s r)ick Richardson, who jumps with one shoe off. However, neither boy could go any higher than 6-4, so the event ended . in a tie.
Probably the best individual performance of the day was by Jim Podoley , of Central Michigan. Outstanding 1 in winning the broad jump Podoley also ; captured the 65-yard low hurdles and ! placed a close second in the 60-yard dash ! and the 60-yard high hurdles.
^Larch 11, 1955
splints
Milwaukee’s Auditorium last expect when they ran into
JUNIOR STEPHENS
by Paul Fullmer
The Irish players shuffled around the antiquated dressing room in Saturday night, not quite knowing what to Marquette’s high-flying Warriors, who had plastered a stinging 84-74 tattoo on ND a week earlier. Jack Stephens, the redoubtable Irish captain, climbed into the Notre Dame Gold and Blue uniform for his final collegiate game, and led the team onto the court for the last time. He already had cracked the Notre Dame all-time scoring record, but the individual mark had eluded him all season, after often flirting with the 35-point total. When the deliriously happy Irish carted Junior into the steamy dressing room after the startling 85-64 triumph, he had increased his all-time total to 1,314 and tied Joe Bertrand’s individual mark of 35, with 25 coming in an unbelievable first half outburst against a frenzied Warrior five. Stephens’ 20.9 average in 24 games topped Dick Rosenthal’s 20.2, although “Rosie’s” 506 points in 25 games beat Jack’s high of 501.
“The first time I knew my individual point total in that Marquette game,” Junior
muses, “was in the last minute when Coach Jordan called time out and told me to start shooting. I did, but my last three shots rimmed the hoop and dropped out.” Junior credits an off-hand decision with the Marquette point total. “I just decided to drive, and they kept fouling me. My points weren’t the deciding factor, tho, because Marquette just couldn’t hit.” Maybe the old Auditorium looked like the Fieldhouse and the Irish took the cue.
Irish fans have seen the last of Stephens wheeling down court on the fast break, whipping through the key for an easy lay in, popping in for a jump shot, faking headily under the bucket, blandly arching that lazy long shot, mechanically dropping in a free throw, or grabbing a rebound with a vicious swipe. And they will miss him.
An All-American Selection
Almost every pre-season and post-season All-American selector placed Stephens on one of his first three teams. Junior is not through with the basketball wars yet and is mulling over an offer to make the 25-game swing with the College All-Stars against the Harlem Globe Trotters. Ft. Wayne’s Pistons are also after Stephen’s services and he “will talk it over with them soon.”
Asked to name Four ND teammates that he would like to start with, Junior named “Rosie,” Bertrand, Leroy Leslie, and Don Strassar. He cites Penn’s Ernie Beck, Kentucky’s Cliff Hagen, Holy Cross’ Tom Heinsohn, and Kansas State’s Dick Knostman as the best he has seen in his four- year tour of the country’s hardwood. Frank Ehmann of Northwestern and Dick Garmaker of Minnesota gave Junior the most trouble on defense this year because “they both have shots that are almost impossible to stop.”
Captain Jack predicted a bright season for the Irish back in December, and was a little disappointed with the 14-10 record. “I think we should have done better, but inexperience and the bonus rule hurt us a lot. The Indiana game, was especially tough to lose. If the fellows come along next year and cut down the fouling, they shouldn’t lose more than four games.”
The 6-2 smoothie has played six years under Coach Jordan, two seasons at Chicago’s Mt. Carmel. Jordan tabbed Stephens “Junior” after the Boston Red Sox slugger, Vern “Junior” Stephens, and the monicker has stuck. Jordan doesn’t just rate Junior as “good,” but “one of the best, if not THE best in Notre Dame history, and a real All-American.”
You can’t hardly get them kind no more. .	’
FILTER TIP TAREYTON
Gives You The True Tobacco Taste You’ve Been Looking For!
Chimes to Echo Songs fl] On St. Patrick's FeasK1
The nature of the campus may be dull in its pre-spring bleakness, but on March 17, the predominance of green will brighten it for the day. That day, the men of Notre Dame, will don their emerald paraphernalia and speak with a slight brogue as they celebrate the feast of the patron of the Irish, St. Patrick.
Duplicating a practice which bega^B last year, the Rev. William McAuliffe, C.S.C., director of the Moreau Seminary Choir, will add to the atmosphere, by playing Irish music on the chimes of Sacred Heart Church.
Students returning from lunch and dinner, will hear the strains of hymn’s dedicated to St. Patrick, as well as many of the better known Irish ballads of today.
Last year’s playing of the carols wa‘L® greatly appreciated by the Hibernians and others on campus. This practice on the day of the Irish, may well be, in future years, another tradition of Notre Dame.
The chimes themselves have an interesting story behind them.
There are 23 bells in the collection. Each of them is dedicated to a particular saint. The bells range in size from
Want to travel and study abroad?
LIBRARY and BOOK SHOP
We Sell Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
RW TURBOW
\OPTOMETRIST
-- OPTICAL REPAIRS -
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces”
- EYES EXAMINED —
207 W. Washington
Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
SUNNY ITALY
A Notre Dame Tradition “Rosies”—
Here you’ll always enjoy the
Italian accent on Fine Food
SUNNY ITALY CAFE 601 North Niles Avenue
Tako a university-sponsored tour via TWA this summer and earn full college credit while you travel
Visit the countries of your choice . .. study from 2 to 6 weeks at a foreign university. You can do both on one trip when you arrange a university-sponsored tour via TWA. Itineraries include countries in Europe, the Middle East, Asia and Africa. Special study tours available. Low all-inclusive prices with TWA’s economical Sky Tourist service.
For information, write: John H. Furbay, Ph. D., Director, Air World Tours, Dept. CN, 380 Madison Ave., New York I 17, N. Y Be sure to mention I countries you wish to visit. I
num trotusmms
MMBEraswwmMiMBw
30
The Scholastic
nine to 39 inches in diameter. The ^player must strike the pegs connected wto the bells by a mallet in order’ to produce the musical sound.
The chimes were purchased in Le Mans, France by Father Sorin, the founder of Notre Dame. After adding the chimes to the University’s sound effect, Father Sorin purchased a gigantic bell weighing 15,400 pounds. Six students were needed to ring this bourdon to call the others to Mass. This bell still hangs in the steeple of Sacred Heart \JChurch, but is rung today by the striking of an electrified mallet on the lip of the huge gong.
Five Gain Top Honors In Architecture Contest
Winners were announced recently for the annual Church Property Administration contest held for architectural students at Notre Dame. Manuel Villazun won the $75 first prize in the project, which was the designing of a Benedictine convent. Second place winner David Gallagher, third place winner Charles Millmann, and fourth place winner Richard Malesai’di each received $20 awards. Joseph Shaughnessy placed fifth and was awarded a $10 prize.
‘These entries will be placed in the national contest sponsored by the Church
Property Administration magazine, a Catholic architectural periodical. The designs will be placed on display in Atlantic City, N. J., at the National Catholic Education Association’s convention from April 12 to 15. The announcement of the national awards will also be made in the Church Property Administration magazine.
The purpose of the competition is to focus attention of architecture students on church design, and to encourage inclination toward religious architecture.
The Department of Architecture also announced recently that Anthony Fucillo has been awarded a $25 prize for his design of a swimming pool. The contest was sponsored by the Tile Council of America for the design of a swimming pool to be used by a Hollywood movie star.
EDDIE'S for the very finest STEAKS and CHOPS STEAK HOUSE
602 S. WALNUT
YOUR
Headquarters
FOR
AFTER-SIX Formal Wear
4
MORE DATES
while
Learn the new steps now
PARTY — DANCE EVERY THURSDAY
lesson, you'll be dancing with new sureness and grace. It's tun at Arthur Murray's and there’ll be a world ot dancing tun ahead tor you. Come today to your nearest Arthur Murray studio from 10 a. m. to 10 p. m. for a free dance analysis. Visitors are always welcome.
MURRAY
Ph. CE 2-3339
MORE COMPLIMENTS
MORE FUN
Arthur Murray s pre-season rates are in effect!
OOD dancers are always in demand. You will be, too. once you've had a course at Arthur Murray's. Your expert teacher-partner will show you the famous Arthur Murray Magic Step .vhich makes it easy to Waltz, Fox Trot Tango, Rumba and Samba. From your first
ARTHUR
120 E. WAYNE
^March 11, 1955
31
BELL SYSTEM OPPORTUNITIES
ASSOCIATED OPERATING TELEPHONE COMPANIES
Local and toll service within their territories throughout the country
LONG LINES DEPARTMENT—A.T. & T. CO. Long distance telephone and related services
ALSO
SANDIA CORPORATION (operated by Western Electric Co. for Atomic Energy Commission)
Applied research, development and design on ordnance phases of atomic weapons.
PERSONAL INTERVIEWS
For openings in various positions in all parts of the country for Seniors and graduate students in
Engineering, Physics, Science, and Mathematics Also for Seniors in Liberal Arts and Business Administration
REGISTER NOW at the Placement Office
On the main floor • Administration Building
INTERVIEWS on MARCH 16-17
Even your LAUNDRY
can
Go GREYHOUND!
(At low fares, too!)
That's right! Your laundry case can travel in perfect comfort. Visit or phone the Greyhound Terminal and learn how you can save money (between dates), and time (between shirts) by sending your laundry case by Greyhound Package Express!
GREYHOUND —___
TERMINAL	BTMBI
117 W. WESTERN MB]
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Howr Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
Nationally Advertised Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
GREYHOUN
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE2-1202
South Bend, Indiana
Fish, Steaks, Chops and Chicken
At Prices You Will Appreciate
Our Specialty “Chicken In the Rough" % Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls $1.30
Joe Nabicht’s
Restaurant
213 N. Main Open Sunday
WILBUR JUST WOKE UP TO THE FACT THAT HES IN CLASS*
KEEP Aim FOR A BETTER POINT AVERAGE!
Don’t let that "drowsy feeling” cramp your style in class ... or when you’re "hitting the books”. Take a NoDoz Awakener! In a few minutes, you’ll be your normal best... wide awake . . . alert! Your doctor will tell you—NoDoz Awakeners are safe as coffee. Keep a pack handy!
15 TABLETS, 35c
Phi-Beta
35 tablets in handy tin
NODOZ
AWAKE NE RS
f ®
32
The Scholasti<y
Senate Compromises ^Center Rental Costs
The Student Senate established a new rental rate for the use of the Student Center for hall and club parties at its Monday meeting. Under the new policy an organization may rent two meeting rooms and use the ball room on a nonexclusive basis for a fee of $10 for the first two hours and $5 for each additional hour or fraction thereof. The rental Mor exclusive use of the Center will remain at $25 for the first two hours and $12.50 for each additional hour or fraction thereof.
The approval of this policy followed a lengthy debate and was the result of a compromise motion by Tom Crehan. Dick Burke originally moved that the halls be allowed to use the Center meeting rooms and the ball room upon pay-^.ment only of the $.50 per hour rental Cee for meeting rooms. He argued that the policy of charging the old $25 rate was denying the use of the Center to the halls. Burke’s position was supported by Senator Dick Pollenz and by Howard Hall President Mike Burke.
Election Procedure Changed
Jim Hesburgh, chairman of the physical facilities committee argued that since parties make the Center unavailable to gathers while they are going on, the full $25 rental fee should be charged for them. He also stated that he did not believe that the halls could afford the Center at the $25 rate, and that a reduction in the rate would lead to the Center’s losing money for the year.
The compromise figure of $10 was offered on the grounds that the organization holding a party in the Center should pay for the use of the ball room, but ^hould not have to pay the full $25 rate if they did not wish exclusive use of the Center.
Two changes in election procedure, the introduction of a proposed amendment to the Student Court Constitution, and the establishment of a deadline for the payment of Senate dues also occupied the Senate at its regular meeting.
Under the new election laws, as proposed by Jim Broughton and approved ^y the Senate, a 50-name petition must be filed with the Senate by all candidates for major student government offices in the spring elections. Twenty-five name petitions will be required for candidates in the fall hall elections. Another change moves the election of off-campus junior and senior senators from the spring to the fall.
March 25 was established as the final day for the payment of the Senate activity fee.
diarch 11, 1955
r' penta
ROYAL TYPEWR/TER w FROM ROYAL
mt umm NCI IP M* tuna
Royal Typewriter Co. 309 E. Jefferson South Bend Phone CE 2-3336
Late models.Adjusted for new machine performance. Immediate • delivery. Special rates
The best ball for your game has the exclusive DURA-THIN COVER
Here’s amazing new durability in a high-compression ball. The DURA-THIN* cover provides this great new Spalding DOT® with real scuff resistance ... keeps the DOT uniform and true, even on rugged high-iron shots. The new DOT has a greater compactness for truer, more uniform flight. It’s actually an economical ball for you to play.
And, with all this new durability, new dots still offer the long, long carry every hard-hitter wants.
At school, or on your home course, make your next round a better one with this greatest of all golf balls, Spalding DURA-THIN DOTS.
Spalding
•Trade-mark
N. D. STUDENTS ONLY Tuesday and Thursday T-Bone Steak fcr-r *1.25 ALSO TUESDAY
Spaghetti Dialers $1 Pork Chops $1.11 These are complete dinners with second cup of coffee
Flaaiigo Restaimt
610 N. Mich. Open Sundays
33
Letters
(Continued from Page 4) them to the cosmopolitan crowd you go to school with. Maybe you can help your guest to get a lift or train fare reduction so his travel costs don’t mount too high.
In case you don’t know a student from abroad, any of three sources can give you the name of a student who would like to visit your home town: (1) the NSA Office in the Student Center; (2) Room 233 Walsh Hall; and (3) the presidents of the Chicago, Met (New York), Florida and Gulf States Clubs. Just leave with them your name, school and home address, and dates on which you’d like to be host to a student from abroad during Easter vacation.
Deadline for turning in names to these three agencies is March 23. Plans
must be made. Get parents’ approval soon. Invite a friend, or make your hospitality known to one of the agencies above. As a person, an American, and as a Christian, you’ll be glad you did!
Walt Clemens 233 Walsh
Theater Beater
Editor:
Soon we all shall be plagued by the third ND theater production with the opening of Seventeen. This motley trio of plays are the nadir in imaginative selection for a leading Catholic university. The aptness of the choice and not the excellency of said productions are in question. There is nothing to distinguish these plays from those given in an obscure teachers’ college. Worthwhile and timely drama with themes indicative of a distinctive Catholic men
tality must be presented even at the 1 supposed risk of patronage—if not, then y. the doors must be closed for the dis^ | grace is unbearable. With all the liberal | arts fetish, where is the experimental ! theater?	|
John G. Cziraky	J
1020 N. Michigan South Bend !
Gracias for Grace
Editor:
Congratulations on your cover an<^ ; story about Grace Kelly. Congratula- > tions also on your WNDU program list- ! ing. Now while you are adding more ' interesting and useful articles it might । be a good thing to print the weekly 1 menus from the Dining Hall.	.
Thanks again for Grace Kelly.	।
Ernest A. Kailman	i
123 Zahm

AIRCRAFT
March 14
PRATT & WHITNEY

AERONAUTICAL ELECTRICAL CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
METALLURGICAL MECHANICAL PHYSICISTS
GRADUATES
COLLEGE PLACEMENT OFFICER
for an appointment on
March 14
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRES
A Campus-to-Career Case History
He figures for the future
It’s James Kirchhoff’s job to look ahead. As a Plant Engineer with Illinois Bell Telephone Company, he helps estimate telephone equipment needs years in advance.
For example ... when a new real estate development is in the planning stage, Jim figures how much telephone equipment it will need when it reaches its full growth. His estimate is based on his knowledge of
the equipment’s potential plus forecasts provided him of the area’s rate of development. He then makes a complete report that becomes the basis of plans for the future.
Jim can take a look at his own future, too. In telephone engineering he can see a great many opportunities opening up in the next five years ... ten years. He can pick the one he wants and start working toward it.
Jim graduated from Northwestern University as an E.E., class of 1952. His progress since then is typical of college men who have chosen telephone careers. If you’d be interested in a similar opportunity, see your Placement Officer for full details. There are also openings with other Bell telephone companies, with Bell Telephone Laboratories, or Western Electric and the Sandia Corporation.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
L
*