dou^ ik tht wywwq! RWw in a khz ciqawttil
- <
■1
■ 3
1
1
WINSTON
should I -
like a cigarette
AND DRAWS SO EASY!
ITS SOT REAL FLAVOR!
Winston brings flavor back to filter smoking!

IL J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N. C.

B No wonder Winston has changed America’s mind about filter cigarettes! Winston tastes good — like a cigarette should! It’s got real flavor — the full, rich flavor real smokers want. You’re sure to enjoy Winston’s finer flavor!
B Winston also introduced a finer filter that works so effectively, yet doesn’t “thin” the taste. The fine tobacco flavor comes clean thru to you because Winstons are easy-drawing. You’ll really appreciate Winston’s finer filter!
WINSTON till Q^-dwMQ jjOi&L Ci^O/ldfe!
Scholastic
Vol. 96 April 1, 1955 No. 19
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Mortiturus
Founded 1867
The ARROW points to
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o’clock
jj.ntered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Headquarters for Your Arrow Shirk
Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate and Sports Editor PAUL FULLMER
Associate Editor FRED C. ECKART
JOHN ADAMS .................. News
ROBERT KAUFMAN .... Assistant News PAUL J. LaFRENIERE _________ Copy
CHARLES McKENDRICK ......... ................... Assistant	Copy
JOSEPH CONNOLLY .............Features KEN WOODWARD .. Business Manager PETER STURTEVANT ........ Photo	Editor
4b IM FITZGERALD ...................
___________ Photography Coordinator JIM GULDE _ Head Photographer
JOHN P. DEFANT .. Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Ad-^iress all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
*4 OUT
ARROW GUARDS
NEWS STAFF: Joe Accardo, Buck Harriss, Jerrold Hilton, Jack Hough, Francis Hurley, Ed Joyce, David Kubal, James Lenox, Jim Loeffler, James McDonald, John McMahon, Joe Mocarski, James Murphy, Arthur Price, Thomas Quinn, Dick Rust, Jim Steintrager, Paul Underkofler, Ray Walsh.
SPORTS STAFF: Dave Davin, Bob Early, Kit Eckl, John Glavin, Jim Goethals, Jack Gueguen, Ray Lcscher, Joe Madigan, Bob McDonald, Jim Merz, Vince Naimoli, Joe Norton, and Bob Parnell.
BUSINESS STAFF: Harry Conlon and Loran Sheffer.
* ~
OUR COVER: Today’s the day when pranks are rife and many of us have most likely been on the receiving end already . . . and perhaps on the other end as well. That’s right; it’s April Fool Day. Cartoonist Bob Swanson put his pen to work and came up with this cover drawing symbolic of this day of pranks.
BRIEFLY, THEY'RE COMFORTABLE
One thing every man wants in underwear is COMFORT! And, Arrow has it. Arrow Guards, of fine combed cotton, give firm but comfortable support. They keep their shape . . . give perfect fit where you sit.
If you prefer a short, Arrow offers the Sprinter model with elastic waist-band, or snap-front model shown below. If you like fancy patterns, slip into a pair of Arrow LOVE MATCH shorts (below right), one of several Arrow specialty prints. Arrow Guards, $1.20. Shorts, $1.50. Fine Arrow T-shirts, $1.25.
UNDERWEAR
SHIRTS & TIES ’A CASUAL WEAR ^HANDKERCHIEFS

&April 1, 1955
MANAGEMENT JOBS!
If you’re graduating this year you may qualify for this unusual offer
The opportunity—To join a few men in a training program which will prepare you for a place in management with a growing organization that must maintain the highest type of intelligent administration. It is an opportunity in management operations in the Home Office rather than sales or sales management.
The job—If you are selected to join us, you will spend your first eight months in comprehensive training designed to qualify you as a Company management consultant. You will be trained in procedure analysis, production planning, management surveys, quality control, cost control, conference leadership, public relations, report writing, interviewing technique, and life insurance principles.
The future—Immediately following completion of training you will be assigned to consulting work within our Home Office organization. There you will be expected to develop ideas for the improvement of the day-to-day organization of the Company.
The salary—The starting salary compares favorably with those of other organizations. In addition, all of our personnel receive regular medical and dental examinations and luncheon in the Company's lunch rooms at the Company's expense. We also maintain a well-rounded insurance and retirement program for our personnel and their dependents.
The requirements—Personality, appearance, creative ability and initiative are essential qualities. Evidence of leadership as demonstrated in scholastic and extra-curricular activities is considered important in the selection of qualified men. Although preference is sometimes given to those who hold a graduate degree in industrial engineering or business administration other factors are given thorough consideration.
If the facts in this brief description interest you, make arrangements with your placement office to meet the representative of Metropolitan Life Insurance Company who will be on the Campus April 20. 1955.
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
1 Madison Avenue	New York 10, N. Y.
lettets
Sports Editor Under Fire
Editor:
Since when have such teams as Michigan, Michigan State, Indiana, Pittsburgh, Missouri, and Purdue, which appear on the Notre Dame track team’^-schedule, been regarded as second-rat? competition?
I quote from the column, “Splinters From the Press Box.” . . Notre Dame is willing to compete on a less than first-rate track basis.”
Such a statement can only be viewed as a deliberate insult not only to the Notre Dame track team, but also to these teams ■ on our schedule. Paul Fullmer’s concern over the resurrection of the Notre Dame swimming team is admirable. However, I believe it is about time some reply was made to Paul’s repeatedly unfounded and caustic criticisms of sports at Notre Dame.
Jack Gits 415 Walsh
Always Welcome at
ROCCO'S
Pizza Our Specialty
SPAGHETTI RAVIOLI STEAKS and CHOPS Open 11 a.m. to 12 midnight
Open Sundays 5 to 9 p.m.— For Student Convenience.
537 North St. Louis
0AKWTURB0W
\0PT0METRIST
--- OPTICAL REPAIRS -----
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces”
--- EYES EXAMINED -------
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
Editor's Note: Sports Editor Fullmer explains his statements:
I will first define the terms with whicn trackster Gits takes offense.
First-Rate: Competing only with and BEATING the best.
Less than First-Rate: Competing with the best and beating the average teams.
Michigan walloped the track team, 80-34, and Indiana overwhelmed them, 70-34- The trackmen came back to beat poorly-balanced MSC and Purdue. Then they picked on Michigan Normal, Braa9 ley, Marquette, Western Michigan, Wayne, Drake, and Central Michigan in the Central Collegiate Conference meet. This can't be looked on nationally as ( anything but an appetizer.	'
The crux of the matter lies in the vieiv of inter-collegiate athletics one takes. It is not necessary to play the giants. I think equally well of the foot- . ball team beating Oklahoma, the track ; team winning the CCC, and the Wrest ling Club whipping Findlay College. This . ; is what keeps sport healthy. If you (I compete on your own level and learn something from this experience, then / the time was well-spent and sport has [ achieved its purpose of making the in- J dividual a better person.
Notre Dame is willing to compete on , a less than first-rate track basis (and . I I think this is good) since the scholar- I I ships aren’t available to build a power- * i
The Scholasti^ ’ |
house, although we consistently have outstanding individuals.
I would like my “repeatedly unfounded and caustic criticisms of sports at Notre Dame" substantiated by more than a vague generalization before replying. The SCHOLASTIC coverage afforded the track team through my column on Bill Squires and the long weekly articles shoivs that my remarks ivere not “a deliberate insult not only to the ND track team, but also to these _teams on our schedule.” I bear no grudge against either and am sorry if my words were misinterpreted.
I admire Gits’ avid enthusiasm for his team, but realism should not be clouded by sentimental provincialism.
Let's call a spade a spade.
PAUL FULLMER
Associate and Sports Editor
STUDY IN FRANCE
£ Mr. Jean Vanier, administrator of the Institute of L’Eau Vive at Soisy-sur-Seine, France, will speak to-Ihorrow afternoon at 1:30 p.m. in Ihe Student Center on the possibilities of study in France.
Five ND students are now studying at L’Eau Vive and Mr. Vanier will outline the programs of study now available.
^Athletes in Spotlight Again For Annual Champions' Ball
The Annual Champions’ Ball honoring the members of the football and basketball teams will be held Saturday, April 30, in the Drill Hall, from 8:30 to 11:30 p.m.
The ball, to be held on the same weekend as the Freshman Frolic, will feature the melodies of Don Gels and his band. ^Admission for the dance will be $2.
The Drill Hall will be decorated with an appropriate sports theme to carry out the athletic idea. Tables and chairs will rim the dance floor. Favors will be presented to the girls.
Chairman for the ball is Sophomore Pat Logan. Serving on the committee with Logan are: John Reardon, Jack Moynahan, Jerry Hornback, and Dick Lewis.
SCULPTURE EXHIBITION
The sculpture of Milton Hebald will be on exhibition in the O’Shaughnessy Galleries, beginning on Sunday and continuing through Saturday, April 30.
The sculpture is wrought of bronze, aluminum, terra cotta, and various types of wood.
The Galleries are open from 2 to 5 p.m. daily.
the week
by Jim O'Shea
Top of the WEEK . . .
. . . Florida Club promises free transportation to Fort Lauderdale . . .
April Poolings
Because today is April first, and because I thought I should do something foolish, I have written this column while standing on my head. The picture you see to your left shows how I looked while writing it. I had a devil of a time posing for it, but my efforts were rewarded, because my editor tells me I
look much better that way. At first glance, it may seem as if this picture of me is smiling. This is a false impression. I do not smile often, and I have never.been known to smile while standing on my head. The exercise is very stimulating, however, and I would advise everyone to try it. There is only one drawback. It is very difficult to carry on a conversation while you are in this position.^no o; uiaas ^uop ^snC sfltnqj,,, ,/Atoqouios ^snf ^no omoo I bet the printer goofs that up. He’s always correcting errors that I make on purpose.)
Senate Follies
While we’re still speaking of April Fools, I might as well take a healthy swipe at the group of campus politicians who have just pulled a unique bit of legislation out of their respective sombreros. I refer, of course, to that august political body, the Student Senate.
I do not usually use this column to make pronouncements on politics, and I don’t make a habit of finding fault with the bills that the Senate passes, but this time I think I’ll make an exception. Monday night, men, the Student Senate confirmed the passage of a bill providing that any student who had failed to pay his student activities fee before that time, would be denied the privilege of attending his class dance.
I’d like to make it clear here that I do not deny the right of a student government to tax the students it governs. I merely wish to say that this is a pretty foul way to go about enforcing the tax law. Nothing has been done all semester, and no deadline was set for payment, until last week. Students who did not pay the tax were admitted to Senate parties, dances, and mixers. Now, however, on the night of the opening of ticket sales for the Senior Ball, the Senate decides that those seniors who haven’t paid will not be able to buy tickets.
If you ask me, kiddies, any senior who has spent four years at this university, and who has spent four years looking forward to his Senior- Ball, should not be denied the right to attend just -because the Senate decided that it’s about time everybody paid up. Those seniors who did not hear of the edict, or who did not have a chance to pay over last weekend, are receiving what is colloquially known as the “royal shaft.” They would gladly pay the required fee. They didn’t know there was a deadline (it wasn’t very well publicized). But now, they can’t pay it—the Senate won’t even accept it—and they won’t be allowed to go to the Senior Ball.
Obviously, men, the Senate isn’t interested in revenue, since it won’t accept payment any more. I’m just wondering what the devil it is interested in. Could it be that the boys in office are trying to show us how firm and strong and powerful they are? If so, there ought to be some changes made. I voted for candidates that I thought would use their judgment—not their power—in making laws to govern their fellow students. The judgment of the Senate seems to have deteriorated.
The above does not apply to those intelligent senators who voted against the bill. I would also like to say that my fee is paid, so I’m not just being bitter on my own account.	•
No Sad Songs for Me
The song which I promised from my anti-women correspondents is not yet finished. Because of the great demand for space in which to jap the Senate, I couldn’t put it in, even if it were. I am certain, however, that the boys will have it finished by my next column. (Never fear, girls, we’ll get you yet!)
Bottom of the WEEK ...	.
. . April Fool.
& April 1, 1955
5
^fARLESJ^OiDICK.
by AC CAPP
I'LL FIND ANOTHER CAREER-A BANKER? —OR A COLLEGE PRESIDENT? AN APTITUDE
WNDU
MIKE CHA1JER
A HOURS LATER I YOUR"BRAIN"
NATURALLY.? WILDROOT CREAMOIL MAKES ANY MAN LOOK GREAT"- KEEPS HAIR NEAT BUT NOT (ugH^ GREASY—
REMOVES LOOSE DANDRUFF" -GET WILDROOT CREAMOIL,
ONLY A CREAM DRESSING GROOMS HAIR THE NATURAL WAY!
ABSOLUTELY NON-ALCOHOLIC-WITH NATURAL INGREDIENTS.
BUY AMERICA'S
C*^oTL
whoroot CMM-MHMTMHC
The vernal equinox brings with it much in the way of mental strain as far as the campus scene is concerned. This, of course, is the time of year when we sell ourselves into bondage to our favorite pawn broker in order to gain the necessary kale for the various and nefarious spring weekends. Likewise the ever-present academic axe-men are always willing to slip a torso murder on to your average. And then there are the room choices, with many of us winding up with a cell in the basement of LOBUND.
Relax With ‘Coffee Break’
So, contrary to popular opinion, the Notre Dame man is plagued with much in the way of complexes, tensions, and neuroses. If you haven’t the jingle for a volume labelled “Peace of Soul” then let us suggest a quiet session of sack and a listen to one of the best sessions of sound that WNDU has to offer.
The softest stanza of the radio day comes Monday through Friday from 2:30 to 3:30 in the p.m. The program is your “Coffey Break” and the conversation is supplied by Mike Coffey, the namesake of this most-listened-to interval on your “Student Voice.” The policy laid down by the “Cof” is that anything resembling the so-called “Top Ten” is refused admittance to his rather elite register of records.
‘Old Ones Are Best Ones’
Mike contends that, “the old ones are the best ones.” And a fast trot around the campus at his time of day will lead you to consider the fact that there is a rather formidable following of those who espouse his disk doctoring. Likewise, he plays a fantastic amount of music on his show, sometimes hitting up to 18 records on his stint. He keeps the conversation to a minimum and the quality of the music at a maximum. This, along with his breezy manner of approach has contributed in a large measure to making his show one of the most successful programs to appear over WNDU in recent years.
We recommend him highly and hope that if he doesn’t already rate a twist of your wireless each day, that he soon will. That’s your old emcee, M.C.
—Bill Byrne
YOUR
Headquarters
FOR
AFTER-SIX Formal Wear
WANTED
FOR SUMMER WORKSHOP THEATRE SINGERS (who can act) MUSICIANS (trained amateurs) DANCERS (ballet, etc.)
A limited number of openings available in above categories. No tuition to pay. Successful applicants pay own expenses, but receive liberal education under fine instructors. Workshop is headed by top-flight New York producer-director. Season runs June 1 to August 28, producing ‘‘Oklahoma,” "Bitter Sweet,” ‘‘Girl Crazy” and “Finian’s Rainbow.” Shows produced in beautiful outdoor theatre under professional standards. A superb training ground for those aspiring to professional careers. Auditions in Fort Wayne, Indiana, April 8, 9 and 11. Send complete summary of training and experience plus good photo. Applicants picked for auditions will be advised by mail.
Mail Applications Now
FESTIVAL MUSIC THEATRE 411 Standard Building Fort Mayne 2, Indiana Louis J. Culp. Gen. Mgr.
EDDIE'S for the very finest STEAKS and CHOPS STEAK HOUSE
602 S. WALNUT
6
The ScholastiC '
i’
SCHOLASTIC
Volume 96, Number 19	Notre Dame, Indiana	April 1, 1955
Debaters Cop Victory; aSo to National Finals
। Winning first place with no defeats, Notre Dame walked off with first place in the Midwest District Debate Tournament held at Purdue University last i weekend. Eighteen schools from the | four-state area of Indiana, Ohio, Illinois and Michigan competed to represent District 5 in the United States National Championship at West Point, April 21-j^3. In second place was Northwestern University which matched Notre Dame’s . undefeated record. Augustana College, I Illinois Normal University and Wabash College rounded out the successful quin-| tet.
Each school debated three affirmative and three negative rounds on the national question of recognizing the Communist Government of China. Three judges were required for each debate.
Notre Dame, represented by Allan -Riley and Chuck Doherty, defeated the •University of Illinois, Wabash, Illinois I State, Illinois Southern, Lake Forest and the University of Illinois at Chicago in their march to top honors. Doherty and Riley have now won twenty-one consecutive intercollegiate contests. Among the teams which failed to qualify were Purdue, Indiana, Ohio State and the University of Chicago.
, The month of March highlighted the | ^vinning ways of the arguing Irish. Cop-f ping 61 of 80 contests, the debaters won j the championship of the North-South la Tournament, placed third at Georgetown S and fourth at Brooklyn College. Three ■ outstanding speaker medals were added J to the year’s role of awards.
|	ST. MARY’S ALUMNAE
i	Sponsor ‘Pickwick Papers’
£ The Pickwick Papers will be presented at the River Park theater on April 28 under the sponsorship of the South Bend Alumnae of St.
Mary’s College.
Tickets for the English movie will be on sale at the box office at 75^ each; it will have a continuous performance starting at 6:30 p.m.
JOHN O’BRIEN
L-R: BILL MARKLEY, DON BROPHY, FRED CORKILL, BOB SIMKINS, PAT McCARTAN
King of the Airways—and his WNDU men
WNDU Announces Appointments for 1955-56; McCartan to Handle Reins of Local Network
Appointments for radio station WNDU for the 1955-56 school year were announced last night at a staff meeting. Pat McCartan, AB junior from Youngstown, 0., has been named the new station manager. He will replace Dick Beeman, who will graduate this June. Pat is a well-known figure around the WNDU studios, having been a member of the staff for the past three years. His first office at WNDU was that of public relations director during the 1953-54 school year. This past year he has been the key reporter of campus news. He is also renowned for his news show “Five Star Final.”
Jerry Hornback, AB sophomore who hails from Bowling Green, Ky., will take up the duties of program director Jim Bergquist. Jerry has held forth on the 640 spot with his “Relax Show” this past year. He is described by station officials as being “very imaginative.” He has produced several shows this year, including “The Christmas Show.”
Fred Corkill takes over for Jim
Griffin as business manager. During the past year Fred, from Garden City, N. J., has been the station’s traffic manager. He is a sophomore in the College of Commerce’s Program for Administrators.
Replacing Pat McCartan as director of public relations will be Bob Simkins. Bob comes to Notre Dame from Manitowoc, Wis., and is a Commerce junior. Besides his activities at the station, Bob recently directed the publicity for the Bengal Bouts.
Charles Casale will remain as chief engineer, and Bill Markley will retain his position as chief announcer. Station manager Dick Beeman said, “We feel that these two men have done such outstanding jobs in their important positions that they will remain in them for this coming year.” Charlie is a junior in the College of Engineering and hails from West Newton, Pa. Bill is a junior in the College of Commerce and makes his home in Detroit.
Succeeding Fred Corkill as traffic (Continued on page 17)
7
9>April 1, 1955
The Yalta Papers in Retrospect
Several weeks ago the State Department made public the controversial papers of the Yalta peace conference Feb., 1945. Many repercussions were felt at home and abroad; many contradictory opinions were expressed. Most seemed not to solve the “Yalta mystery,” but rather to becloud it all the more.
In hope that some light might be shed on this situation, the Scholastic approached two faculty members, Dr. Boleslaw Szczesniak and Dr. Vincent De Santis, asking them to express their ideas on this monumental occurrence. The report by these two members of the Department of History is concerned chiefly with the international results of Yalta and the diplomacy of the United States in publishing the papers.
Professor Szczesniak feels that the most important result of the publication of the Yalta papers is that the “first positive step towards a return to idealism has been taken.” He believes that it is an indication of a more careful diplomacy on America’s part in the future, and that the othei- conference terms will be published so that secrecy will no longer “hinder and hide” peace negotiations. He is convinced that if Congress would have known all the terms of the papers in 1945, rather than now, it would not have approved their contents and history would be greatly altered.
On the conference itself, Professor Szczesniak holds that it “crossed out the idealism of the Atlantic charter—it was thrown to the winds.” Moral law should be the basis for international relationships; diplomacy is secondary.
He carries the conviction that because of a great over-estimation of Russia’s strength on America’s part, the fate of
BOLESLAW SZCZESNIAK “A Positive Step . . .”
over ICO,000,000 Europeans was sealed, for Russia was allowed to retain possession of the eastern European territory she occupied and was given Far Eastern compensation for her entry into the war against Japan.
The treatment given to Eastern Europe, notably Poland, by the leaders of the Allies, he says, made all the smaller nations insecure; then* fate was being decided behind closed doors.
Professor Szczesniak trusts, however, that the publication of these papers is a step in regaining, for the United States, the confidence of the smaller nations. He likewise hopes that perhaps it will weaken the American partisan policy, in regard to international situations, which Europe does not fully understand or appreciate. In its place closer, more parallel, bi-partisan relations will be established, which might be more advantageous for this country and the world, for there would be fewer policy changes after elections.
Both Professors Szczesniak and DeSantis agree that nothing new has actually been disclosed by the papers’ publication as many previously published memoirs and notes covered most of the topics. The only new development is proof of the indiscretion on the part of the world leaders of that time.
For example, until President Roosevelt’s papers are completely available, it will be unknown just how important a role his poor health played in the conference. It is known that his lack of stamina failed to allow him to consult the various prepared briefs on the Yalta questions before the actual conference.
Whether Roosevelt depended too heavily on his aides is likewise unknown though Professor DeSantis reasons that the common belief—that Alger Hiss was influential in policy-making—is not well-founded.
Professor DeSantis also points out that Roosevelt cannot be blamed foi’ needlessly making compensation to Russia in return for her entry into the war against Japan, when it is realized that it was the professed opinion of the military experts of both the U. S. and Britain that the Pacific war would last for another 18 months. It must be remembered that the atom bomb was untried at the time of the conference!
Nor can it be truly said that what might be considered indiscreet and offensive to the German people now, would not have been so in early 1945, according to DeSantis.
Moreover, he holds that the charge that “China was sold down the river,” cannot be substantiated, for the Yalta agreement was the basis for the Chinese-
VINCENT DeSANTIS . . . gratified
Russian pact the following year, whereby the Russians recognized Chiang Kai-shek’s rule in Manchuria. It was onl£I after Russia broke these terms that the charge was raised.
Nor can F.D.R.’s failure to obtain free elections in Poland be upbraided, < according to Professor DeSantis. The Russian puppet state, “Lublin government,” was then in command and Roosevelt could hardly be expected to gain anything more than a promise.
Though Professor DeSantis is “gratified as a historian to have the papers now,” he is disappointed at the indiscre^ i tion of their release. He presumes that | they were released in spite of the diplo- j matic stir it would cause abroad.
“Yalta has been the ‘whipping boy’ of American politics since 1945. Far Eastern failures and enslavement of Eastern Europe both are blamed on the j Yalta conference,” he states. However, DeSantis is certain that Russia would have gained her present position without Yalta, for she was already occupying, the land and as Molotov stated in August 1953, “Anything we take, we keep.”
DeSantis believes that the Yalta papers will be the tool for the Republicans in the elections of the future as 1 the Depression was fuel for the Democrats in the elections of the past. The : pressure -had been on the State Depart- ' * ment since 1952 for the papers’ release j and now he is certain that they will “make the most of it.”
“It is unfortunate that such a bene£ ficial thing as the papers’ publication was brought about by party politics,” 1 concludes Professor DeSantis. But he maintains that now other peace con- t ference records should be disclosed, for many were based on the Yalta plan and it, in turn, was effected by earlier Big Three meetings.	• |
“Perhaps,” he hopes, “this is the be- I ginning of an entire series of exposes. | But only time can tell.”	•
6
The Scholastic^
University Celebrates ^an-Am Day Sunday
Schoenherr Receives Engineering Award As ASME Observes Diamond Jubilee Year
Pan-American Day will be celebrated at the University for the third consecutive year on Sunday at Moreau Seminary.
A banquet will be held and the principal speaker will be Mr. Frederick B. Pike of the Department of History. Mr. Pike will speak on “Relations Between j£he United States and South American Countries.” A buffet supper and entertainment will follow the talk.
Pan-American Day will be officially commemorated on April 14. It is a day set aside by the Organization of American States to commemorate hemispheric unity.
Twenty-One Nations in Group
~ The organization of American States ^s a body which resulted from a continuous evolutionary process of interAmerican co-operative action that started more than a hundred years ago. This co-operative action has had a formal existence of more than 58 years and has survived two world wars and the League of Nations.
Twenty-one nations, whose representatives originally signed the charter at Bogota, Colombia, comprise the OAS. —These 21 nations, with a combined population of about 275 million people, are closely related to each other by geographical location and historical background. At the same time, they represent the greatest of variety and individuality in their geography and history, their economic life, and their cultural interests.
The fundamental principles underlying the OAS, and the purposes, for ^which it exists are to maintain peace and to promote human welfare through its various bureaus.
ATTENTION GRADUATES
Measurements for caps and gowns to be used for Commencement Exercises on June 5, 1955. will be taken on Saturday, April 2 from 1 to 5 p.m. in Room IB of the Student Center.
Bachelor Gowns will cost $2.85; Master Gowns will rent for $3.35; Doctor Gowns will be $3.85. Rentals will be made on a strictly cash basic.
April 2 is definitely the last date for rentals. Mr. Frank Pattee, Apt. 38B, Vetville, is in charge of all gown rentals.
The American Society of Mechanical Engineers Student Branch at Notre Dame held its commemorative meeting on the occasion of the Diamond Jubilee of the founding of the parent organization, last Wednesday evening. The feature of the program was the presentation of the Seventy-fifth Anniversary Student Award to Gerard E. Schoenherr by Prof. Ben B. Elliott of the Univer-
GERRY SCHOENHERR
Mr. Engineer—1955
sity of Wisconsin, who is vice-president of Region 6 of the ASME.
The award, which was established by the Board on Honors to cultivate student interest in the celebrations being held throughout the year by the ASME, is made to the outstanding student in each college of engineering in which there is a Student Branch.
In making the award, Professor Elliott told the audience of the accomplishments of the society in the past and of its aim for the future. He stressed the importance of activity of engineers, and especially young engineers, in their professional societies. He also asked all the students to carry with them through their careers the motto that has been adopted for- the Diamond Jubilee celebration, “By truth and by service to enrich mankind.”
Schoenherr is a senior in chemical engineering from Rochester, N. Y. He ranks in the upper third of his class and in his first year was awarded the Buras Scholarship. In his junior year he was given the Walsh-Hudson-Cavanaugh Scholarship.
In his freshman year Schoenherr -served on the Dome staff and was active in- the American Chemical Society and the Rochester Club.
In his second year he began working
on the staff of the Technical Review, later becoming co-ordinating editor. For the past year he has served as co-editor. As a junior, he was elected vice-chairman of the Engineering Advisory Board and this year he has moved up to the position of chairman. He is also serving as vice-chairman of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers and as publicity director of the Rochester Club.
Last year Schoenherr served on the Junior Prom Committee, was awarded first prize in the technical essay division of the Student Senate Arts contest, and was social chairman for the Midwest District Convention of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers.
Preceding the award, John Scriba, who will represent Notre Dame at the ASME Student Conference at Bradlev University, April 28 and 29, presented a paper on “Sales Engineering.”
Special guests were: Dean Karl Schoenherr, Assistant Dean Raymond Schubmehl, and the staffs of the Departments of Chemical and Mechanical Engineering.
Law Session Here April 22 To Draw 14 Midwest Schools
Representatives from 14 law schools in the states of Wisconsin, Illinois, and Indiana will attend the seventh annual circuit conference of the American Law Student Association on the Notre Dame campus April 22 and 23, it was announced recently by Dave McGough, associate chairman of the event.
The ALSA operates with the purpose of improving pre-professional preparation.
Highlighting the conference will be the keynote address given Saturday evening by Glen Winters, secretary-treasurer of the American Judicature Society. Winters will discuss the work of the Judicature Society and its task in promoting the efficient administration of justice in the American court.
The program for the conference will include a Labor Law conference on Friday, April 22, conducted by John Broderick, assistant dean of the Notre Dame Law school. Panel discussions will he held on Saturday, April 23, covering various aspects and problems of the law profession.
Bill Fagan is the chairman of the conference, while Dave McGough acts as his assistant. Dick Benne is in charge of credentials, Charles Sheerin will handle accommodations, while Jerry Smith, Pat Foley and Bud Gruger serve as committee members.
i April 1, 1955
9
Two Sylphs . . . “with grace and ease.”
Ballet Glides
An Original Arabian
Into IBashington Hall
The “Don Quixote” Comic Dance	L’Amour Finale . .
10
The Scholastic^
1
The Pnma Ballerina
. . Alfa Liepa and Lois Rubin
£3
1
The first standing-room only crowd of this year’s Concert and Lecture series last Friday night brought the stars of the International Repertory Ballet back again and again for curtain calls.
The first appearance of ballet on the stage of Washington Hall in the memory of many seasoned observers scored quite a resounding triumph.
The performers glided through the first two presentations, Les Sylphides and the Pas de Deux from Don Quixote with even more grace and ease than they displayed in their complete three-hour dress rehearsal imme-diatly preceding the 8 p.m. performance. . . . Then, in the backstage darkness of Washington Hall, Alfa Liepa, the premier danseur, accidently struck his shin violently on ^a bench. Writhing in pain, he made ready to go on stage for L'Amour au Musee—a number with difficult solo dances for both him and the Prima Ballerina, Lois Rubin —Nearing the end of the dance he omitted several of the twirls and was just able to leave the stage.
This sudden turn left the Prima Ballerina for the final number—which she carried—dancing both her own part and Mr. Liepa’s solo, spontaneously and unrehearsed, unknown to the audience.
Watching the performance, it was difficult for one to believe that the company had driven overnight from Pitts-_ burgh, and would return immediately after the show for Q a matinee there the next day.
The cast was thrilled with the audience’s reception. “They’re wonderful!” shouted one of the girls as she came off the stage after her number. The audience seemed to share a mutual feeling for the Ballet’s debut at Notre Dame. Here’s hoping the Concert and Lecture Series Committee schedules more of the same.
Jean Meyers . . . airbourne
FOTO-FEATURE by JOHN
O’BRIEN

s


Honor System Okayed for May 5 Referendum
The Senate voted Monday to stage a special referendum May 5 to determine whether the student body favors the installation of an honor system at Notre Dame next year. Under the plan outlined by the Blue Circle’s Integrity Committee, the system will apply to next year’s juniors and seniors, and voting will be limited to them.
The final decision concerning the adoption of an honor system here will be made by the University administration. The purpose of the May 5 referendum will be to indicate to the administration the sentiment of those who will fall under the plan.
“If an honor system is to be approved by the University, it must have the grass roots support of the student body,” Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., told the Senate Monday.
The motion was made by John O’Meara in his Blue Circle report. Don Sniegowski, chairman of the Circle’s Integrity Committee, presented a brief outline of the proposed honor system.
Under the proposed system violations of the University’s rules concerning academic honesty would be reported by the violator, or another student witnessing the violation, to a fellow student pledged to secrecy, or via the mails. All cases would be judged by the Student Activities Court. Their rulings would be subject to review by the Office of the Prefect of Discipline.
The accused would appear before the Court for judgment. His accuser could be summoned before the court, but would not be brought before the Court at the same time as the accused.
All parties concerned in the honor system would be pledged to secrecy, and trial information will be made available only to those directly connected with the case.
Fr. Fitzgerald Joins Roster Of Federal Mediation Council
Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., associate professor in the Department of Economics, has been added to the roster of arbitrators of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service. His appointment was announced recently by Joseph F. Finnegan, Director of the Federal Mediation Service in Washington, D. C.
Members of this roster are selected on the basis of their background in the field of industrial relations, their specific experience in labor arbitration cases, and because of recommendations of unions and management.
12
Alumni Set April 18 as Universal ND Night; Clubs to Spotlight University Achievements *
On Monday evening, April 18, Notre Dame Alumni Clubs all over the country will celebrate the 32nd Universal Notre Dame Night. The date for the celebration may vary locally in order to take advantage of speakers from the campus in various areas.
The main purpose of Universal Notre Dame Night is, as has been in recent years, to call attention to the non-ath-letic achievements of Notre Dame to the Club’s community. Added to that primary purpose in recent years has been the inclusion of alumni families, the parents of present undergraduates, and friends and benefactors of the University in the observance.
The theme of the 1955 commemoration is the challenge to Notre Dame in the crisis facing all higher education,
Legal Institute Shows How Laws Are Made
The complex process of enacting a federal law was explained by five experts at a Legislation Institute held- here yesterday under the sponsorship of the Notre Dame Law School. According to Dean Joseph O’Meara, the roles of the executive departments, the White House, Congressional committees and interested organizations in framing and influencing proposed legislation were explored. The techniques of drafting legislation also were outlined.
Speaking at the Institute were Frank J. McCarthy, vice-president of the Pennsylvania Railroad; William R. Foley, General Counsel of the House Judiciary Committee; James Rowe, Jr., attorney and former administrative assistant to the President; F. Reed Dickerson, chief of the codification section, Office of the General Counsel, Department of Defense; and James J. Kearney, Counsel for the Reserve Forces Policy Board, Department of Defense.
McCarthy, Foley and Kearney are Notre Dame graduates. Kearney was a faculty member of the Notre Dame Law Association’s scholarship program.
Dickerson, who taught at several law schools before entering government service is the author of Legislative Drafting published last year. Rowe has held a number of government posts and was administrative assistant to the late President Roosevelt from 1939 to 1941.
A question period followed each papei-presented at the Legislation Institute. Students and faculty members also had the opportunity of questioning the speakers at the close of the sessions.
especially private colleges and universities, within the next 15 years.
This theme which is far broader than just the financial implications of growth, permits the Clubs to call on local educators as speakers. These men are all familiar with the many phases of the problem: population growth, teacher shortage, tax-supported versus private^ colleges, and many other issues.
Thirty years ago Notre Dame was fresh from a modest and successful appeal for one million dollars to establish its first permanent endowment, and another million to construct vitally needed buildings.
Alumni who had worked on that campaign learned that the great stature of Notre Dame as an established Catholic university was not known outside^ of its own alumni. And they realized e that the phenomenal rise of the fame of Knute Rockne and the colorful champions whom Grantland Rice had christened the Four- Horsemen in the preceding undefeated fall, would undoubt-ably stamp the University with a completely athletic identity.
The 40 local Alumni Clubs then existing, most of them newly organized, were urged by the president of the Alumni Association through the newly estab- _ lished Notre Dame Alumnus magazine, ' to set a common date in the spring. April 24, 1924 was the day on which the academic, spiritual, cultural, histori- ; cal and other non-athletic phases of . ' Notre Dame would be publicized.
Thirty-one years later, 25,000 alumni in 145 local Alumni Clubs, in all parts f of the United States, and in eight foreign countries, are carrying on this tradition. -------------------------
Notre Dame K. C. to Observe 45th Anniversary on April 24
The Notre Dame Knights of Columbus | . will hold a day-long celebration observ- ' ' ing their 45th anniversary on April 24, announces Richard H. Miller, chairman | of the event. April 22 is the actual anniversary date of the local chapter which was begun in 1910.
The day will begin with a Communion^ Breakfast at 9:15 a.m. in the Faculty j Dining Hall immediately following the 8 o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church.
A buffet dinner will be served at a , । banquet for Second and Third Degree j ;« Knights at the Mishawaka K. of C. meet- * ■ ing rooms at 7 p.m. Mr. James Armstrong of the Notre Dame Foundation will be tentative main speaker. Rev. j Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., is also scheduled to speak.	|
The Scholastic I
u
* Scholastic Sports
TADROWSKI TAKES NCAA EPEE CHAMPIONSHIP
*lrish Close First Week of Spring Practice With Emphasis on Capable Line Replacements
Nifty 'Irish' Junior Cops First ND Title
The Irish will cap their third day of spring practice tomoixow with a strenuous practice session in Cartier Field to end the first week of practice. Coach Terry Brennan postponed opening day until Wednesday due to the unseasonal weather, but then worked the squad hard on fundamentals and play patterns after the photographers left the gridiron.
The annual Old Timer’s game has been tentatively scheduled for South Bend’s School Field on May 14. The Stadium is being re-sodded and will not be ready until fall.
Brennan greeted some 100 candidates Wednesday as he began his second year at the Irish helm. Practices will be held on Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday according to Brennan’s present plans. His tentative backfield of Paul Hornung, Don Schaefer, Jim Morse, and Paul Reynolds ran through patterns in preparation for imminent scrimmages.
Brennan explains that, “A split-T
team has to be strong down the middle at center, quarterback, and fullback.” Schaefer answers the latter requisite, but the other two are thorny problems that have to be ironed out in the 20 £ practices.
Nine returning lettermen will find plenty of competition in the line at the various positions from the fine crop of sophomores and freshmen. According to Coach John Druze, six starting positions are still wide open to all candidates. He said, “The players who show us the best spirit, aggressiveness, and promise will be given the chance to start.”
Both Captain Ray Lemek and Gene Kapish will miss the entire spring prac-£ tice due to bad knees. Lemek is still nursing his weak knee, and the coaches do not want to take any needless chances. Kapish will undergo an operation on his knee during the spring.
The grinding yard-by-yard ground attack that has symbolized the Irish offensive attack is built upon a strong line, opening up the holes and throwing blocks to spring the backs loose. This importance will be put upon these candidates:
Center: Jim Mense, Lou Loncaric, Luke Carribine, and Bob Coyne.
Tackles: George Nicula, Wayne Edmunds, Byron Beams, Joe Bosse, George Groble, and Captain Ray Lemek.
Guards: Gene Martell, Pat Bisceglia, John McMullin, and Frank Epstein.
Ends: Gene Kapish, Bob .Scannell, and Jim Munro.
Coach Druze also expressed his hope that freshmen tackles Pat Dolan, Frank Kuchta, and Bob Gatytus; guard Paul Djubasak; and end Bob Witucki will make strong bids for* their respective positions.
Irish Sailors Set for Regatta
Notre Dame will hold a Pentagonal regatta at Diamond Lake, Mich., next Saturday and Sunday. The teams that are scheduled to sail are: Notre Dame, University of Chicago, Xavier, Michigan State, and Purdue.
Last Sunday the Sailing Club won a contested meet from Purdue, 58-54. Official results will be released later.
DAN O'BRIEN
DON TADROWSKI “. . . Very Happy About It All.”
Don Tadrowski became the first representative of a Midwestern school ever to cop an individual NCAA fencing championship last weekend as he slashed his way to the epee title in the annual year-end tourney at East Lansing, Mich.
The Irish fencers captured a seventh place certificate in a field of 28 teams. Co-Captain Tom Dorwin, with a season record of 27-16, tied for sixth place in the sabre division of the tourney. He posted a 13-9 record while the other Co-Captain, Jim Waters, took tenth place with a 13-12 score. Waters had a season mark of 32-9. It was the fifth time out of the last six years Notre Dame finished in the top ten entrants.
Tadrowski beamed after his thrilling win and remarked, “Well, I’m very happy about it all.”
He said, “The toughest teams were the Eastern ones, especially Cornell, Columbia, and Princeton. Pew of Cornell gave me the most trouble and eventually came in third. But I managed to get by the Midwestern opponents all right.”
The slender fencer said, “I think Bob Westrick, my freshman coach, who started me fencing deserves much of the credit. He taught me most of what I know now.”
Tadrowski, who carried a season mark of 33-7 into the tourney, won by one bout over Columbia’s entrant with a meet record of 22-4. This year was the Chicago junior’s first as an Irish regular.
The first day found Tadrowski tied with three others in the epee event with a 13-3 score. Ignoring the grueling pace, he calmly fought down the line, winning nine out of his last ten matches.
Coach Walter Langford stated after the meet, “The odds of a Midwestern fencer taking a title in NCAA competition are over 100-1, since Eastern schools have greater experience and competitive oppoi-tunities.”
Tadrowski received a plaque for his victory.
Columbia repeated as tourney victor for the fifth time in six years.
• April 1, 1955
Tennis Team Heads For Southern Opener
Baseball Squad Opens Rugged Schedule;
Collegiate Tournament First Stop in South '
Bolstered by three returning lettermen in seniors Wally Clarke, Captain Maury Reidy, and Bill Reale, the tennis team will meet seven different opponents over a span of 13 days.
Clarke, a two-time monogram winner, and Reidy, a triple monogram man, will be the number one and two men in that order as they were during the 1954 season. They were hailed as the top doubles team in the Midwest last year. Reale, the number three netter a year ago and winner of three monograms, will participate as the third man in singles for the Irish and on the second doubles team.
In addition to these three front line boys, the squad also has adequate reserve strength. This depth is provided by senior letter-winner Frank Lynch and junior letterman John Stuhldreher. Sophomores Harry Pagel, Dean Richards, Harry Smith, and Jim Rich will round out the squad. At the present time, Pagel looks to be the most promising of the sophomores.
Consequently, with an experienced front line and good depth, the Irish could develop into a Midwest powerhouse, although Coach Charlie Samson indicated that he will have a much better idea of his squad’s strength after competition with a host of good teams on the long road trip.
The netters will leave Notre Dame on Tuesday and play Marshall College at Huntington, W. Va., on Wednesday. The following day, they will meet Virginia at Charlottesville.
Other teams they will face on the trip are Duke, North Carolina, North Carolina State, Wake Forest, and Kentucky.
Of these teams, Virginia, Duke, and North Carolina will be the toughest hurdles for the Irish to overcome, according to Samson.
Southern Schedule
April 6—Marshall College
7—Virginia 9—Duke 11—North Carolina 12—North Carolina 13—North Carolina State 14—Wake Forest 16—Kentucky
Bowlers Take Fourth in MIBT
The Irish bowling team ended its season last Saturday, taking fourth place in the seventh anuual Midwest Intercollegiate Bowling tournament. Jack Battel was high for ND with an 890 series. Bob Filipiak led the team with a 177 season average.
14
The Fighting Irish baseball team open their 1955 season with the North Carolina Collegiate Tournament at Durham, North Carolina April 7, 8, and 9. The Irish come up against teams like Rollins, runnerup in the NCAA last year, Yale, who has one of the best pitching staffs around, Wake Forest and Duke, who are always tough. Other teams in the tournament include Ohio University, North Carolina, and North Carolina State.
This year’s team will be lacking the experience of past seasons so there will be a lot of “ifs” as the squad heads south. Coach Jake Kline puts it this way, “It could be a pretty successful season if the sophomore pitchers come through and if the upperclassmen show an improvement over last year.”
Sophomore Jim Cusack will probably play first base for Mike Lesso, who will be out for five or six weeks with a badly sprained ankle. But Kline reports, “The infield should be all right despite the losses of Tom Carroll (to the Yankees) and Lesso.”
The outfield will include lettermen Bill Teschke and Jim Twohy, but the other spot is still wide open. Junior Joe Yaeger-and sophomores Bob Nowakowski, Jack O’Drobinak, and John Keller are the leading candidates for the job. However, Coach Kline made it clear that, “If the outfielders don’t come through in their hitting, there’s a possibility of switching some infielders or pitchers out. We simply have to have an im
Mike Thompson
Hurlers Ready for Season Opener—L-R: Ron Mottl, Bennie Cordelia, Bill Roth,	j
Tom Sheehan, Paul Besser, Bernie McClory, Angelo Capozzi, Don Massini, Don	’
Sniegowski, Ed Kelly, John Hammett, and Tom Bujnowski.	;
The Scholastic
$
II
provement in hitting over last year.”
Asked to elaborate on the pitching staff Kline quipped, “I wish I could. It’s pretty early to tell anything yet.” Dick Bunker, a sophomore leftie, is on the top of the mound list and named as the probable opening day starter.
Sophomore Tom Bujnowski, a returning veteran, was the big Irish winner/’ in 1952 and Kline hopes he will regain his old form. If Bujnowski comes through, Kline will have a potent one-two punch.
Senior Bernie McClory, a hard throwing right-hander, “looks very impressive” and will see a lot of action. Two other right-handers, Jerry Spaeth and Ron Mottl, will be used both as starters and in the bull pen. Don Sniegowski, another junior, lettered at shortstop last year, but this season has Avon a ~ regular mound rotation. Leo Linbeck, hefty right hander, will be out for a year with a broken ankle. The only other port-sider on the staff is Angelo Capozzi. He, along with Bunker, will probably see more than their share of action this year due to the lack of lefties.
Doing the work behind the plate will be either Elmer Kohorst, Tommy Pet-tersch, or Hi Lavelle. Of the three, Elmer Kohorst, a big, hustling sophomore, will probably be the number one catcher. Pettersch is the only returning catcher with a monogram, and Hi Labelle just returned to school after serving in the marines.
• Tentative 1955 Baseball Schedule
April 7-8-9 .North Carolina Collegiate Tournament at Durham, N. C.
11	University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
12	Virginia Polytechnic Institute at Blacksburg
13	West Virginia University at Morgantown
14	West Virginia University at Parkersburgh
15	Ohio State University at Columbus
16	Ohio State (two games) at Columbus
20	Northwestern University at Notre Dame
23	Glenviewr Naval Air Station at Notre Dame
27	Northwestern University at Evanston, III.
28	University of Michigan at Notre Dame
May 3 Purdue University at Lafayette
4	Indiana University at Bloomington
7	Great Lakes Naval Station at Great Lakes, Ill.
8	Glenview Naval Air Station at Glenview, Ill.
9	University of Wisconsin at Madison
10	University of Wisconsin at Madison
14	Great Lakes Naval Station at Notre Dame
17	Purdue University at Notre Dame
18	Michigan State College at East Lansing
21	Western Michigan College at Kalamazoo
25	Michigan State College at Notre Dame
June 4 Western Michigan College at Notre Dame
class of nifty-five
Frosh or senior— the fashion curriculum demands AFTER SIX formal wear! Suave styling! Casual comfort!
"Stain-shy finish!" Social "majors," require
Open Outdoor Track
A six-man track squad will compete in the Texas Relays this weekend. The relay team will compete in the distance medley on Friday and then come back on Saturday in the two-mile relay.
High-jumper Bernie Allard and Shot-
•Gymnasts End Season With Win Over Turners
Slamming the door on its ’54-’55 campaign, the Notre Dame Gymnastic Club nearly doubled the South Bend Turners’ point output to romp the locals by a 53-27 count last Saturday in the Drill Hall. Although the meet was slated for three-way competition, Ball State, the third entrant, could not tun-^nel through the unexpected snow from Muncie.
The Irish high point-man for the day was Reg Grimm, who took first place in the parallel bar and side horse events to garner a total of 15 markers. Evie Hatch followed up with twelve points, and Charlie Ollinger gathered nine more for the Irish. Dan Healy also bounced to a six-point first place on the trampoline.
In the season’s finale several Irish iBfaces were seen for the first time. Among them, Mike Cleary, Manuel Ochoa, Bill Brunot, and Dick Prather tallied.
Captain Rocco Tannone was held from action due to a torn tendon in his ankle.
After* facing some of the roughest competition in the area, the Irish squad closed the year with a record of three wins and seven defeats, whipping Northwestern and Kansas State, in addition to the South Bend Turners.
• April 1, 1955
Today in Texas Relays putter Byron Beams will also compete. Bill Squires, who will compete in the relay events, won the Jerry Thompson mile run in the relays last year, but Coach Alex Wilson doesn’t plan to enter him again this year.
Bernie Allard and the two-mile relay team paced the track team on its two-day jaunt through the Midwest last weekend. Both placed second in the K. of C. Relays in Cleveland and the Chicago Relays.
Allard soared 6-7 in both meets, his top mark of the year.
The relay team finished a poor second to Syracuse’s crack outfit, the top squad in the East.
Dick O’Keeffe, Al Schoenig, Al Porter, and Bill Squires comprised the relay team. O’Keeffe ran strong opening legs, but Schoenig and Porter couldn’t hold the pace against the Easterners.
Squires ran the Banker’s Mile in Chicago with only 30 minutes rest. He ran a strong first half mile, but then tired badly. Squires waited for Wes Santee to begin his final lap, and then sprinted the Kansas star to a 4:04:2 Bankers’ record.
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
Nationally Advertised Watches—Diamonds—J ewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE2-1202 South Bend, Indiana
AQUINAS
LIBRARY ud BOOK SWF
Bowl-Off Sunday for Keglers
A position bowl-off Sunday will round out the season’s action for the Kampus Keglers. The annual banquet has been scheduled for April 20.
The Air Cadets, California Club, and Architects share first spot in the Blue league going into Sunday’s action. Toledo maintained its top spot in the Gold league by splitting with Cleveland last Sunday.
We Sell Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
SUNNY ITALY
A Notre Dame Tradition
“Rosies”—
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles Avenue
15
Special Notre Dame Tour to the
University of Hawaii Summer Session
7| Weeks for only $469
Join the Howard Tour
Until this year only college girls were accepted in the Howard Tours, and for this summer’s tours 241 deposits have been already received from coeds throughout the United States. For the first time this coed program is being broadened to include a college men’s group. Ten tour openings are assigned Notre Dame students, and acceptance will be based on a first come first served basis.
The tour price includes airplane roundtrip between the West Coast and Hawaii via either Pan American World Airways or United Air Lines, single room accommodations at Waikiki Beach, all sightseeing on Oahu, excursions in Honolulu, and special visits to Pearl Harbor, a pineapple cannery, a sugar mill, the Royal Palace,
native villages, and many other places of major interest. It further includes a cata-mam cruise, several outrigger canoe rides, a glass bottom boat cruise, a visit to the aquarium, several college dances, plus a formal dinner dance at the Royal Hawaiian Hotel. For farewell there will be a special “luau,” or native feast. Tips, transfers, etc. are also included in price of tour.
The Internationally famous biennial Trans-Pacific Yacht Race from the Mainland to the Islands take place in 1955, thus making Waikiki a great vacation land of gaiety, excitement, and fun. It is a summer members will never forget.
CONSULT:
N.S.A. Office, Student Center or John Mack, 254 Farley
ND Debate Competition Moves Toward Finals O
Twenty-four colleges and universities, representing 13 ’.States and the District of Columbia, kicked off the third annual Notre Dame Invitational Debate Tournament this morning in the LaFor-tune Student Center. Tomorrow afternoon, 75 debates later, the winner will be presented with the Rev. William A. Bolger Memorial Trophy by Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C.	Q
Truly national in scope, the contest’s drawing power extends as far west as the University of Utah, south to Millsaps College in Mississippi, and northeast to the University of Vermont and Dartmouth College. West Point, defending champion, will not compete because of the year’s ban on debate for service academies.
The fourth round will be held today^ at 7 p.m. with the fifth and sixth rounds^ at 9 and 10:30 tomorrow morning. The semifinals at 1:30 will pit the first and fourth, and second and third place teams. The winners will clash in the 3 p.m. final round. All debates will he held in the Student Center, including the final and semifinal rounds.
Prof. Leonard Sommer, director of forensics, extends a cordial invitation to students and faculty to attend any of the contests.
Fish, Steaks, €h«ps and Chicken
At Prices You Will Appreciate ☆
Specialty
“Chicken In the Rough"
% Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey
Hot Buttered Rolls
#1.30
Joe Nabicht’s Restaurant
213 N. Main Open Sunday
Rasmussen
MEN’S SHOP
Main and Washington Sts.
Has Your
AFTER SIX Formal Wear
more men wear
32.50
LIBRARY BOOKS
Victor A. Schaefer, Director of the Library, recently announced that all books which have been borrowed from the main library by students are due next Monday.
If any books are required for the days preceding vacation, arrange- © ments for their use may be made with the head of the Circulation Department. Books may not be withdrawn for use out of South Bend without special permission from the I head of the Circulation Department.
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. TreHiewey
JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. JJ4S. Bldg.
Prof. Harrison to Give Talk On Shakespearean Works
G. B. Harrison, a professor of English i at the University of Michigan, will be ' guest speaker at the third in a series of lectures sponsored by the Department / of English. The talk is to be given I Monday, April 25 at 7:30 in a place yet , to be announced. The subject of his talk will be “The Approach to Shakespeare.” In his talk, Professor Harrison will discuss the scholarly, neocritical, and bibliographical readings of Shake-
The Scholasti^
16
speare. The advantages and disadvantages of these types of study will also •be given.
Many students are acquainted with Professor Harrison indirectly through his text book, Plays of Shakespeare, used by the Department of English.
WNDU Appointments
(Continued from page 7)
^.manager will be Don Urian, a Com-wmerce freshman from Clayton, Mo. He has served in the traffic department this year and is the only freshman to be named as a director of a department at WNDU this year. Jim Meagher, producer of “The World This Week,” will assume the post of news editor replacing Bob Simkins. Meagher, hailing from Rock Island, Ill., is an AB sophomore who worked in the news department ^this year.
Don Brophy, a resident of Essex, Conn., is the new sports director. Don replaces Joe Daley in this capacity. He is an AB junior and was record librarian this past year. Replacing Brophy as the record librarian will be Don Walz, Commerce junior from Indianapolis.
John Banasik, an AB junior from Amarillo, Texas, will be the new head production engineer.
Successors have not yet been named feto several other jobs. The men occupying these posts at the present time are: Ray Kennedy, Sales manager, and Larry Buckley, continuity director. However these posts will be filled before the end of the school year.
WNDU, which observed its eighth birthday this past St. Patrick’s Day, has grown from a small experimental station into a real student service. The first broadcast originated from a room Din Walsh Hall. From Walsh the studios were moved to the rear of Washington Hall; from there to the press box in the Notre Dame .Stadium; thence to the Field House; and finally to its present, spacious and modern site in the tower of O’Shaughnessy Hall.
WNDU exists not only as a training service for students interested in the field of broadcasting, but as a service to other students in progressive programming. “We feel that we can’t force ^educational programming on the student body. We try to integrate educational value with entertainment in such programs as: ‘Focus;’ ‘Speaking of Books;’ ‘The World This Week;’ ‘B B C,’ and ‘New Dimensions in Poetry,’ said Station Manager Beeman. “On the basis of Pat McCartan’s radio experience and ambition, as well as the promising staff that make up WNDU, we are confident that radio will be better than ever next year,” Beeman added.
April 1, 1955
gives you the full, rich taste of quality tobacco and real filtration, too!
PRODUCT OF </£ Jwnttuean Ju&zar-umuiaw
N. D. STUDENTS ONLY Tuesday and Thursday T-Bone Steak fa, only *1.25 ALSO TUESDAY Spaghetti Diners $1 Pork Cheps $1.10 These are complete dinners with second cup of coffee
Flaaiip Munit 610 N. Mich. Open Sundays
r- RENT A
ROYAL TYREYYRJTSR
FROM ROYAL *
nu
faimr
trnna
to student*
Late models. Adjusted for new machine per-
Royal Typewriter Co. 309 E. Jefferson South Bend Phone CE 2-3336
formance. Immediate ® sm awn defivery. Special rates
17
Conference Discusses ILO Objectives Here; Labor Secretary Mitchell Spoke at Luncheon
Educators from six midwestern states are meeting here today with Secretary of Labor James P. Mitchell and other officials to discuss American participation and objectives in the International Labor Organization.
“The Colleges Look at the ILO” is the theme of the conference which includes economists and labor relations specialists from Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin, Ohio and Kentucky. The sessions are being held in the Morris Inn under the sponsorship of the Department of Economics in cooperation with the U. S. Department of Labor.
Secretary Mitchell gave the principal address on “United States Participation in the ILO” at the conference luncheon today. J. Ernest Wilkins, assistant secretary of labor and U. S. government representative on the governing body of the ILO, discussed American objectives in the organization at the morning session.
Also scheduled to address the conference today were W. L. McGrath, president of the Williamson Heater Co., Cincinnati, employer delegate to the ILO; George P. Delaney, international representative of the AFL. worker delegate; and Dr. Edwin E. Witte, of the University of Wisconsin, who will speak on “The Relation of U. S. Labor Standards to ILO Standards.”
Other educators who participated in a panel discussion at the close of the campus conference include Dr. Fred Witney, Indiana University; Dr. Alma Herbst, Ohio State University; and Dr. W. Ellison Chalmers, University of Illinois.
Established in 1919 in Geneva, the International Labor Organization has 70 member countries, each represented
Commerce Breakfast Set For Sunday at Morris Inn
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, will celebrate Mass at 8 a.m. in the Alumni Hall chapel Sunday, for the intentions of the Commerce Forum. The group will receive Communion in a body at the Mass.
Following the ceremony there will be a breakfast in the Morris Inn with Rev. Hesburg presiding as the main speaker. The Forum will also hear Thomas P. Bergin, head of the Department of Business Administration and Commerce Forum.
Serving as chairman of the affair is Ed Schneider, who will be aided by Dick Cook, John Dueger, Ron Smith, and Tom Coleman.
18
by four delegates—two from the government concerned, one employer and one worker representative. The essential tripartite character of the ILO has been seriously in doubt since the arrival of the Soviet delegation at the annual conference last June. Protests were made at that time against the seating of the so-called “worker” and “employer” delegates of the Soviet bloc. An investigation is currently underway to determine the extent to which employer and worker organizations in the ILO member countries are free of government control and domination.
Through the years, the International Labor Organization has concerned itself with such matters as the adequate living wage; regulation of working hours; prevention of unemployment; protection of workers against sickness and injury arising from his employment; protection of children, young persons and women; regulation of the labor supply; provision for old age and injury; and the protection of the interests of workers when employed in countries other than their own.
In recent years the technical assistance program of the ILO has expanded greatly. Cooperating with the United Nations, the ILO is concentrating on technical assistance projects which will help to bring about an early increase in the production of goods and services, and thus improve living standards in the underdeveloped countries.
Glee Club to Begin Tour With 'Toast' Appearance
For the eighth straight year the University of Notre Dame Glee Club will kick off its annual Easter tour with an appearance on Ed Sullivan’s television program, “The Toast of the Town,” on Easter Sunday. Thirty-six men under the direction of Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke will sing the Regina Coeli and a medley of Jerome Kern’s songs for the guest spot.
Following its television appearance the Glee Club will appear in six cities on six successive nights giving concerts. Lee Crean, business manager, announces that the Club will appear in Summit, N. J., on Monday, April 11. Then on the following nights the Irish singers will be at Baltimore, Md., Perth Amboy, N. J., Providence, R. I., Easton, Md., and finally will wind up their tour at Columbus, O., on April 16.
The concert itself will consist of some 22 selections including religious, light classical, and popular songs. Among the numbers are the Ave Maria, Battle
of Jericho, La Pastorella, and the Gal-ivay Piper, an Irish folk song. Concluding selections for each night’s per-^ formance will be Notre Dame, We Hail Thee and the Notre Dame Victory March.
Press Club to Give Awards At Annual Banquet April 21
The Press Club will hold its annual awards banquet on April 21 at the Morris Inn, President Dick Mannion announced recently.
Mr. Walter Trohan of the Chicago^ Tribune, a member of the Liberal Arts Advisory Board, is tentatively scheduled as speaker.
Mr. Thomas J. Stritch, A.M., head of the Department of Journalism, will present the following awards to members of the Press Club: The J. Sinnot Meyers Burse for merit in editorial writing; the Hugh A. O’Donnell Gold Medal for Journalism to a senior of the Department of Journalism who has re-, ceived the highest scholastic average' throughout the four-year course; and the F. A. Miller Awards for excellence in practical journalism, five awards totaling $100. Tom Welly is chairman of the banquet.
The Press Club has scheduled another banquet later in the year for all freshmen and sophomores interested in journalism. Details concerning this banquet will be announced later.
Chesterfield Smile of the Week
WHOSE SMILE IS THIS? *
You can win a package of Chesterfields if you can identify the smile when the Chesterfield campus representatives, John Vuono and Jack Coyne, call on you. If you know the answer and have your own pack of Chesterfields, you will win two free packs. They’ll make calls at random in the halls until next Tuesday and give cigarettes to the first ten who have the right answer. (*Clue: he’s smiling because he recently received a monogram letter sweater.)
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS
• WHY A MILLION MEN HAVE SWITCHED TO
Only HOLIDAYgives you this Custom Blend Lor Mildness!
Yes, five famous tobaccos skillfully blended into a mixture of unequalled flavor, aroma and mildness. These fine tobaccos, selected from all parts of the world, are blended with a base of cool-smoking white burley... Each tobacco adds its own distinctive flavor and
aroma to make Holiday America’s finest pipe mixture. We suggest you try a pipeful . . . enjoy its coolness, flavor and aroma ... and see for yourself why more and more men who smoke mixtures are switching to Holiday as a steady smoke.
HOU DAY gives you this Heat-Bealed Wrap-Around Pouch!
Holiday tobacco leaves our blending line with just the right moisture content for a cool, no-bite smoke. You can be sure every pouch will be that way when you open it, because Holiday is the only mixture which has the WrapAround pouch. Sealed air-and-water tight, it guarantees you a fresher, cooler-smoking tobacco.
y-'
7

SPECIAL OFFER HSQ
IF YOU PREFER A BLEND OF STRAIGHT BURLEYS
Try Edgeworth— choice cool-smoking white hurleys in the air-tight pouch. America’s finest pipe tobacco.
- *
V
Get this new polished aluminum stem “Park Lane" pipe | with interchangeable imported briar bowl and exclusive ■ “dri-dome” which traps moisture to insure a dry, cool J smoke—along with 2 full-sized pouches of Holiday I Tobacco. If your dealer cannot supply you, use this handy | order blank.	I
Name • Address i City____________________________State________________ I
Mail with SI.SO to Park Lane, Laras & Brother Company, J Inc., Richmond, Va.	I
£



a
Put a SMILE in your SMOKING!
You'll SMILE your approval of Chesterfield's smoothness —mildness—refreshing taste.
You'll SMILE your approval of Chesterfield's quality— highest quality—low nicotine.
In the whole wide world no cigarette SATISFIES like Chesterfield
e> Liggett & Mius Tobacco Co.