The Notre Dame Scholastic
555
COMMENT
Had I the literary genius of my aesthetic predecessor- I should now be engaged in composing a “Spring Sonnet,” something to describe this marvelous weather. But not being so endowed I shall have to be content with a humble word of praise for the Indiana weatherman and express the hope that he will continue to be good to all by letting the sun shine every minute of the day.
The first day of Spring is nearly a month away, yet everything seems to indicate that golf knickers will be fashionable before the next weekend. The baseball bugs are already wearing their arms out trying to put a little curve on the ball. It is safe to bet that many bottles of liniment will be bought before the boys get the kinks out of their arms.
It will be- a blessing to have some activity on the campus after looking at the bare trees, dismal classrooms, and the monotonous files of students the dead winter long. Perhaps the weather will snap the boys out of their deep sleep and make them do things.
The Washington’s birthday exercises probably aroused the senior class and made them look forward to bigger and better things. Father Mulcaire, in his address, gave plenty of “food for thought”; he made us realize the responsibility which Notre Dame men have in the world, not only to themselves but to God, to country, and to the school; he ■ impressed upon the 433 graduates that when they have finished college they are only really beginning life. Perhaps he disillusioned some who have looked into the future with optimistic eyes, yet, in an encouraging way he stated that some of the obstacles confronting young Catholic men and warned them of the problems they will have to solve. It was a splendid address and will, no doubt, linger in the minds of those to whom it was given.
Won’t someone please invent a calendar to keep track of the days! From the books of the calendars on the campus now it is easy to see that already the boys are counting the days till—
W. V. B.
[•JuiiiitiniiiiiiiiiiittiitiiHiiiittintiititiiiiHiiiHitmitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiimmmiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiimiiiimiimtimiiiimiim>mim:|T|
I The Notre Dame Scholastic |
I Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi CrasMoriturus |
H	Founded. 1S67	S
EMIL L. TELFEL—Editor-in-Chief
2	Assistant Managing Editor Neil G. Hurley	Managing Editor John E. Bergan	Assistant Managing Editor John A. Kiener	
2		Associate Editors		
2	Edward E. Brennan-	James J. Kearney	Edward R. Brennan-	-
-	Austin Boyle	James Carmody	Paul J. Hallinan	
2	John Pick	William W. Corr	Lloyd Teske .	
=	The Week	Make-up Editor	College Parade	
-	Richard J. O’Donnell	Walter V. Beesley	Daniel C. Williams	
				
2	Music and Drama	Feature Editor	Campus Clubs	
2	Frank E. Seward	James K. Collins	W. Leslie Raddatz	-
				
2		Nezvs Staff		£
* William C. Karl, Neus Editor William F. Fitzgerald, Assistant News Editor
2	John Conley	Anthony R. Schreiner	Lawrence Prybylski	z
2	Myron Crawford	F. Granger Weil	Edmund Stephan-	z
-	Richard Molique	Walter Johnson-	William Knox	2
2	Joseph Degnan	Lawrence Dunda		S
Sports Staff Henry B. Asman, Sports Editor
Cleve Carey	George Belting	T. Edward Garey
James E. McFeely, Jr.	James Kearns	Irving B. Halper
Business Staff
James H. Rorke, Advertising Manager John R. Blanda, Local Circulation Mgr. Andrew McGuan, Foreign Circulation Mgr. Frederick Bauer	Raymond J. Nabei:	John P. Hess
JOHN F. STOECKLEY—Graduate Manager of Publications Merle Baldwin, Publications Office Manager
I Vol. LXIV	FEBRUARY 27, 1931	No. 18
j The Week—Richard J. O’Donnell-------------------------- 556
= A Man You Know—Edtvard E. Brennan-----------------------— 560
i	A Man About the Campus—William Knox-------------------- 561
j	Seniors Present Flag----------------------------------  562
=	Music and Drama—Frank E. Sezvard----------------------- 564
=	Glances at the Magazines—Edward R. Brennan—'----------- 565
E	The Wink_______________________________________________ 568
5	College Parade—Daniel C. Williams---------------------- 569
5	Campus Clubs—W. Leslie Raddatz------------------------- 570
=	Editor’s Page 571
=	Notre Dame Beats Bulldog Cagers—James S. Kearns-------- 572
= Ray DeCook—Irving B. Halper-----•---------------------- 576
;	Splinters From the Press Box—H. B. A------------------- 580
E	Interhall Sports—James McFeely, Jr.-------------------- 582
1	On Down the Line—Cleve Carye--------------------------- 584
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame, Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of All Notre Dame Men.
(3 mill....llllllllll<llllll<ll(ll«<<lll<l<f<llllllllllllllllllll»ll>llll»>IIIHlllll||||l)lllllllllll|lll„l||ll||||llllll,|lllll,l,l,lll,lllll|l..
[■Jimiimiiiiimmitiiimiiiiiiimimimimiimiiiiimiiiiiiiiuitimmiiiiitiiiiimiiiiititmiiiiimtiiimmiituiiimiimtimmmmm
556
The Notre Dame Scholastic
♦ THE WEEK ♦
w ASHINGTON hall has once more justified its name. Seniors have once more listened to patriotic words of exhortation. Notre Dame has again pledged its allegiance to the nation. It struck us, while listening to the speeches of Father Mulcaire, Jack Saunders, and John Sullivan that their talks were almost unique in that they are among the regretably few orations dealing with- loyalty and duty to one’s country that are sincerely felt. They might be contrasted with the ranting and raving over patriotism, and citizenship, and Americanism, that filled the Chicago air in the recent mayorality campaign. In the Washington day program we have truth, logic, and above all, sincerity. In the Chicago farce are distorted facts, weakly based statements, and in most instances, flagrant hypocrisy. This is not a condemnation of one city in particular, for to make such charges against Caponetown, and to ignore other large American cities wherein the same conditions are rampant, would be doing Chicago a grave injustice. But the comparison of the speeches which were heard in Washington hall on Monday morning with those of a similar nature, but greatly different in purpose, that are heard at every political gathering, shows how lacking the country’s leaders are in the essentials required of true representatives of the people.
OUTSTANDING among the past week’s events is the bursting into national prominence of one of the campus literary men. George Mattingly Spalding’s accomplishment is one which should prove a real stimulus to every Notre Dame student who has ever “had a good idea for a story but never the time to write it out.” That five hundred dollars which will shortly find its way into Mr. Spalding’s pocket will linger long in the memory of every English major with literary aspirations. We predict that the postoffice will shortly be filled with manuscripts optimistically mailed to the publishers of everything from The Atlantic Monthly to the True Story Magazine. To those whose hopes are not immediately fulfilled, we might offer a word of encouragement. The winner of the recent Ladies’ Home Journal contest has received enough rejection slips for many of his manuscripts to paper a number of the barren walls of Freshman hall. We feel that making this public is no belittlement of his abilities, for his experiences in this direction are identical with those of every author that has ever had faith in the critical abilities of the publishers. Mr. Spalding’s success is an example of that well known “never say die” spirit. He -has been turning out stories for the past year or more with a prolificity that caused the Scribblers to nickname him “Edgar Wallace.” His winning first prize in the Journal’s contest is but further proof of that old adage, “The only way to learn to write is to write.” English classes may expect to have this barked at them with added ■ gusto during the next few weeks.
? 1' HE editor of this weekly, upon recently receiving an article titled, “Are You Well Dressed?” the Intercollegiate News Service began to consider the establishing of a style page, or column, filled with all kinds of helpful hints as to the propriety of green suspenders worn in conjunction with a white, soup-stained tie, and so forth. The article dealt primarily with evening ensembles for men, that is, for formal occasions. Its most important announcement was that derbies are from now on out as the headwear to accompany a Tuxedo. It seems that the THING is a black Homburg, or snap brim. Even a cap may no longer be worn, that is, if the affair is strictly formal. That swanky top-piece known to style experts as the “Timmy cap,” however, is OK for semi-formal dances, if accompanied by a sheepskin, and Army shoes. Speaking of footwear, we might add that bedroom slippers are no longei- considered the correct covering for the pedal extremities for morning wear. This announcement will undoubtedly have a drastic effect on the attire of the Howard hall boys who tumble out of bed at 7:05, and manage to make the breakfast table by 7:06 .... well, 7:15 anyhow. Furthermore, pajamas may not now be worn as a substitute for B. V. D.s. And before the subject becomes delicate, we’ll conclude by stating that those who are in favor of the inaugurating of a Korrect Klothes for Kollege Kids Kolyum may write in to the editor and tell him so. Just address it to the Scholastic, Mr. Mihan.
HE Camel cigarette company in this week’s SCHOLASTIC advertisement provides authentic excuses for those weak-willed penitents who are by this time searching for legitimate reasons to justify a return to the pleasures of the wicked weed. A surprising number of those recently addicted to the hateful habit of smoking have resolutely clung to their Lenten renunciations. But the Camel contest offers inducements which may wash away the objections of the most strong-willed of Christians. A twenty-five thousand dollar prize is not to be lightly thought of. In the face of the present depression which is being most drastically felt in these parts, there are some men on the campus who would smoke hashish, or whatever that Oriental substitute for tobacco is, if it promised results of a financial nature. The rules of the contest, of course, do not include the necessity of inhaling a pack of Camels once a day. But reading between the lines, we surmise that Mr. R. J. Reynolds expects that every contestant will do his duty by hinting that his inspiration took shape in a cloud of smoke, arising from a contented smoker. It is not on record that anyone who ever appeared in an Old Gold picture failed to choose the carload without a cough variety. So we deduce that all of the hopeful contestants will feed their imagination and genius with Camels, though they have to walk a mile to do so.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
557
PORTO RICANS DEBATE ON CARIBBEAN PROBLEM
O’Meara and Burks Represent Notre Dame Here Tonight.
What gives promise of being perhaps the most interesting debate of the year will be held tonight in Washington hall at 8:00 p. m. A Notre Dame team composed of Thomas O’Meara and James Burke will discuss the resolution: “The United States should cease the policy of armed intervention in the Caribbean,” defending the negative side against a two-man team from the University of Porto Rico. The debate should present more than the usual amount of interest because of the international nature of the topic and the fact that representatives of both nations concerned are involved in the discussion.
The present tour is clearly the most extensive undertaken by the University of Porto Rico, which for the last five years has been sending its representatives to the United States and Canada for an annual debating schedule. The three Porto Rican speakers will remain in this country for well over two months, debating thirty times, six of the debates to be in Spanish. The purpose, aside from the obvious one of forming more intimate contacts with American and Canadian universities, is to contribute in a small way at least to the, interest in and enthusiasm for, things Hispanic. The effort to secure debates in Spanish is to encourage the wide spread knowledge - of the language and to form these student relationships on the basis of a mutual comprehension of the two languages. This feature of the tour is unique, in carrying out the bilingual aspect in such widely removed and different university circles as Northwestern, Yale, and the University of California at Los Angeles.
The Porto Ricans opened the series at New Haven with the students of Yale, speaking in Spanish on the topic of the growing domination of the United States in the affairs of this hemisphere. During the weeks following come a series with eastern, Canadian, mid-west, and western colleges and universities, including such schools as Harvard, the University of Toronto, Michigan, Notre Dame, Uni-
NOTICE!
Opportunities for ten students seeking part-time employment are offered in a letter which has been received by the registrar. Anyone interested may obtain further information at the office of the registrar.
versity of Manitoba, Oregon State, Arizona, and Tulane university in New Orleans.
After concluding this schedule the team will travel to Washington, D. C. to meet three students from the National university of Mexico. This thoroughly international debate, with the representatives of two Spanish speaking peoples meeting in the capital of the United States, will be staged under the auspices of George Washington university. The debate is of particular inter-American interest and will serve to bring Mexico into relations of a forensic character with other universities. This represents the final contest of the series, and immediately following it, the Porto Ricans will sail for the island.
KL C, Initiation Monday
Last Tuesday evening the Notre Dame council of the Knights of Columbus held a meeting in the basement of Walsh hall. The purpose of the gathering was to discuss plans for the initiation of new candidaets, and to pass on the candidates themselves. It was decided that the initiation ceremonies will be held next Monday night at 8 o’clock in the Oliver hotel. All the candidates were approved by the present knights.
Dean Konop of the Law school, was the speaker of the evening, gave an impressive informal talk, in w'hich he related many of the experiences as a congressman from Wisconsin and as a member of the Wisconsin Industrial commission. The use of psychology on the public mind, according to Dean Konop, is a big factor in the wanning of elections.
No Basketball Banquet
George Keogan, coach of the Notre Dame basketball team, announced this w’eek that there will be no banquet for the cage squad this year at the conclusion of the season. Lack of funds was attributed the reason for the change in policy.
SPALDING WINS SHORT STORY CONTEST OF THE
LADIES HOME JOURNAL
AWARDED $500.00 PRIZE
Notre Dame Senior Writes Best Story For Nation-Wide Magazine Contest.
The contest editor of the Ladies’ Home Journal short story contest announced today that George Spalding, a senior in the College of Arts and
George Spalding
Letters at the University of Notre Dame, won five hundred . dollars, the first prize in the competition with his short story, “Running Off.” Mr. Spalding is. an English major at Notre Dame.
Three other stories were submitted by Mr. Spalding to the contest besides the winning composition. All of them were written with a Kentucky locale as the background. The other stories were, “Last Man’s Toast,” a Civil War story, “Soul and Body” a stream of consciousness portrayal of an old woman on her death bed, and “Calls” a negro sketch. “Running Off” is the story of a little boy, who, as the title implies, runs away from home.
Mr. Spalding is from Bardstown, Ky., and since coming to Notre Dame has been a particularly active member of the Scribblers. Before entering the University he was graduated from St. Joseph’s college at Bardstown.
The Scribblers club will meet on Wednesday evening, at 6:30 in Howard hall “rec” room.
558
The Notre Dame Scholastic
WINNERS ANNOUNCED IN SNAPSHOT CONTEST
215 Photographs Submitted to Yearbook Staff.
Snapshot Editor James H. Dubbs, and Dome Editor Paul J. Hallinan locked the doors at 6:30 Tuesday evening, and emerged three hours later with the results of the final snapshot contest, conducted by the Dome. The decisions came after three pipefuls of tobacco, a pack of cigarettes and several cutting remarks.
The quota set by the Dome staff was 200; this was exceeded by 15 snapshots. Of these an unusually large number will be carried in the Dome, in its section, “The Year,” which will give an intimate picture of Notre Dame life, when caps and gowns, headlines, and 77 averages are not figured in.
First prize was awarded for the picture that showed Notre Dame life in most striking manner. Many were considered before an interior of a room was selected, showing nearly every phase of the aforementioned Notre Dame life. The award of three dollars will be sent to Al Stewart, Lyons hall.
Three other pictures were chosen for prizes. For the picture showing the most clever technique, William Koehl of Morrissey hall, and Robert Glaser of Lyons hall, were tied. Koehl’s snapshot was of the steps by the grotto, with a fine, snow background. Glaser’s was “Big Tom,” the huge bell in the church tower. Each will receive one dollar.
The most cleverly staged picture was turned in by Robert Sullivan of Badin hall. His group, “Surgery in St. Ed’s,” leaves one wondering whether the victim of the medicos ever escaped the axe being wielded by the physician in the rear.
Nearly half of the snapshots will be printed, according to the editors. With the first contest, the total number submitted reaches about 350. It is planned to build around the best of these the ten or twelve pages of “The Year.”
The panels will be made up within the next few weeks. After March 18, all those who want their snapshots back may receive them from James H. Dubbs, 13 Morrissey hall.
William Sullivan of Walsh, had the
NOTICE!
There will be a meeting of the Wranglers next Tuesday evening at 6:30 in Room 222 of the Main building, according to Neil C. Hurley, secretary. A paper will be read by J. Edward Phelan, president of the organization. Members are urged to attend.
greatest number submitted. With his huge mobs at the station to welcome the team, he also is mentioned as having photographed the greatest number of people.
Honorable mention is made of the snapshots submitted by Ray Halen, Emil L. Telfel, Thomas Roach, Thomas Sherman, and Francis Tomasi.
Checks have been mailed to the winners this past week by John F. Stoeckley, graduate manager of publications.
CARROLL, TELFEL, HASLEY READ FINE PAPERS TO SCRIBBLERS
At their meeting this week the Scribblers listened to several finely written papers. First, there were two poems, “Shadows” and “Chatterton,” by Joseph Carroll. The first was built around an interesting and rather original conceit, and the second was proclaimed excellent in both substance and technique. Mr. Telfel then read two sketches, “Mrs. Allardyce” and “Obsession.” Both were studies in mood, the first creating an atmosphere of mystery and dread, and the second being a delving into psychology with touches of psychoanalysis. The logic and plausibility of “Mrs. Allardyce” were severely questioned, and the author was hard put to answering the “whys” of the club members. The final paper was by Louis Hasley, an essay entitled “A Plea for Open-Mindedness.” Mr. Hasley attacked academic persons for their unsubstantiated denunciations of Gertrude Stein, E. E. Cummings, Sherwood Anderson, and James Joyce. His main point was well made, but some of the subordinate ideas of the paper led to a lengthy discussion of the merits of James Joyce, his Ulysses, and his attempt at a new language.
COHAN IS GUEST STAR IN BROADWAY “JUGGLER”
Issue to Be Released Tonight; Features Walter Winchell.
Featured by George M. Cohan, premier Broadway show producer, and the Broadway girl drawn by Joseph Lopker, the latest issue of Editor Dempsey’s Jttggler will be released to the campus tonight. Known as the “Broadway Number” this is the fifth issue of the scholastic year.
Many sketches and drawings by Arthur Becvar are included in the art section of the magazine. “Campus Chatter” and “Idle Prattle” again make the usual sly innuendos and outright exposes of campus" life.
Walter Winchell and Mark Hellin-ger, columnists on the New York Daily Mirror are featured contributors to this issue. Well-known as a purveyor of spicy items, Winchell has one of the largest followings ever gained by a columnist in the country. Mark Hellinger is also widely known for his column of interesting tid-bits about the day’s celebrities.
With this array of world-famous talent and the competent work of local members the Juggler's “Broadway Number” is one of the best issues ever to make an appearance on the campus.
Express Office Notice
The students who have packages at the express this week are:
Charles M. Quigley, 414 Walsh hall. J. W. Gosselin, Lyons hall.
Austin G. Rigney, 147 Lyons hall. Matthew I. Cullinan, 336 Walsh hall. Thomas F. Monahan, Sorin hall.
Gerard L. Finneran, 5 Morrissey hall. Eli M. Abraham, 805 E. Corby Street. Edwin F. Cunningham, 56 Sorin hall. James C. Mann, St. Edward’s hall. Kingsley Maloy, 110 Walsh hall.
Thomas A. Conley, St. Edward’s hall.
Once again it is necessary to remind all students that in order to claim a package the express receipt must be presented before the package will be delivered. Express office hours are from 12:30 to 1:10, and all packages must be procured within 48 hours after notification or they will be sent to storage.
i
The Notre Dame Scholastic
559
REPLICA OF ANCIENT CALENDAR RECEIVED
Father Wenninger Receives Ancient Aztec Stone.
The Reverend Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the College of Science, has recently obtained a replica of the Aztec calendar stone which has been the center of much
Aztec Calendar Stone
discussion in recent years. The facts connected with this stone are of interest in that they tend to show something of the civilizations which existed before the white men came to America. The replica of the calendar’ is on display in Room 210 of Science hall.
The calendar stone of the Aztecs represents the best of the known relics of the dead civilizations, and is preserved in Mexico. It represents a sense of time and its division far in advance of any similar knowledge possessed by contemporaries of these people in Europe or Asia.
The Aztecs evolved a year made up of eighteen months of twenty days each. Instead of having one extra holiday at the end of the year as the modern calendar makers would give, the Aztec calendar permitted five holidays which would come between the old year and the new. Every fourth year they added an extra holiday. Every century the “extra day” year’ was reduced to the normal year of 365 days. Further- calculations were made which added the extra day to every fourth century cycle. It is readily' seen that they knew as much about the division, of time as is known today.
Concerning this remarkable calendar stone of the Aztecs, a noted American archeologist has this to say: “It clearly determined, once and for
NOTICE!
> There will be an important s ? meeting of the news and sports S < staff this evening at 7:00 in ?
5 Room 222 of the Main building, s ? The regular 6:30 editorial staff > < meeting will be held in the Pub- ?
s lications office. All members < 5 are required to attend.	s
all, the sequence of the day; the relation of all classes of the population to each other- and to the whole, and set forth not only the place each group should occupy in the market-place, but also the product or industry with which it was associated and the periods when its contributions to the commonwealth should be forthcoming in regular rotation. The stone was therefore not only the tablet but the wheel of the law of the state and it can be conjectured that its full interpretation was more or less beyond the capacity of all but an initiated minority, consisting of the elders, chiefs, and priests.”
PHARMACY CLUB HEARS INTERESTING SPEECH
Anthony Gansauge spoke on “Pink Pills for Pale People” at a meeting of the Pharmacy club held Tuesday evening, February 24, in Chemistry hall. The speech was an abstract of an article by Dr. Arthur J. Cramp, exposing the fraudulent patent remedies found on the market.
Thomas Cody spoke on the value of reading, explaining why the pharmacist should take interest in reading and in developing his cultural side.
The department of pharmacy has received notification of a graduate assistantship in the school of pharmacy at Western Reserve university. One or two students in the pharmacy department of Notre Dame are interested in the opportunity.
iNEW EDITOR-IN-CHIEF <
To assist in determining next < year’s editor-in-chief, the Board > of Publications ruled that the i “Scholastic” next week be edit- < ed by Neil Hurley, and the ? week of’ March 13 by John < Kiener. Each of these men will s be in complete charge for one > week.	<
FINAL DATE FOR PLAY CONTEST ANNOUNCED
Professor Phillips Sets May 1 as Deadline For Entries.
Professor Charles Phillips announces May 1 as the deadline for entries in the playwriting contest for the William Mitchell Memorial award. All manuscripts must be submitted in triplicate to,Professor Phillips by that date. The award, a sum of fifty dollars, is given by Mr. and Mrs. J. V. Mitchell in memory of their son, who was actively interested in this work while in school here. He was a member of the class of 1928.
In proof of the high standards that have been set in this contest in the past, Professor Phillips points out the marked success that previous winners have enjoyed in outside dramatic circles. Basil Rauch, winner in 1929, gained entrance to the Baker School of Dramatic Art at Yale on the strength of his prize winning effort. Since then he has written a play called “This Victory,” which is being produced at Yale this week.
Sullivan, winner in 1930, has been with the Goodman theatre in Chicago since his graduation where he is working at the various phases of the art. Charles O’Malley, second place winner last year, has recently entered his play in-the National Drama Contest in Dublin, Ireland. It is hoped that this year’s contest ■will uncover a new crop of good playwrights at Notre Dame. The contest is open to all students of the University, without any restrictions as to class or training.
Lost and Found
Articles bearing the names of the following have been received by the Lost and Found department, on the first floor of the Main building:
John J. Doherty
Jack F. Fritzer
Dan C. Rodgers
Paul R. Fergus Walter J. Eberhart Francis Henningfield Morris Lerman
Brother Antoninus, in charge of the department, would appreciate it if these men would call at the office.
560
The Notre Dame Scholastic
A Man You Know
NEW COLLEGE MAGAZINE HOLDS STORY CONTEST
Those students who have been so fortunate as to fulfill their language requirement with two years of Latin will no doubt agree with the statement of Rev. H. G. Glueckert, C.S.C., that the study of Latin is as valuable as the study of any modern language. Father Glueckert has devoted himself to the study of Roman authors. Although he no longer teaches at the University during the school year, he
Reverend H. G. Glueckert, C.S.C.
has classes here during the summer sessions.
He was born in Chicago in 1895. Shortly after his birth his parents moved to Columbia City, Indiana, and, a few years later, to South Bend. He entered Holy Cross Seminary in 1908. After spending four years in the Notre Dame preparatory school, he matriculated at the University in 1912. In 1916 he was graduated with the degree of Bachelor of Arts, majoring in ancient languages. Following his graduation he passed a year in the Novitiate. He went to the Catholic university in 1917, and remained there for six years. For- the the first four years he studied theology; in the last two he did special work in ancient languages. He returned to Notre Dame in 1923. He taught Latin in both the Seminary and the University for two years, but since 1925 he has taught in the Seminary only, although he still teaches Latin at the University during the summer sessions.
Father Glueckert looks upon walking as his hobby; he regards a two-
mile jaunt in much the same manner that the ordinary students regards a trip to the cafe. In his opinion a walk to the state line or to some other-distant spot is merely a nice stroll for an idle afternoon. In the matter of reading he does not go very strongly for modern literature; his reading is limited to the works of Roman authors and the modern magazines dealing with the study of Latin.
$50,000 PRIZE CONTEST IS ANNOUNCED BY TOBACCO FIRM
A contest offering $50,000 in prizes was inaugurated on February 25 by the makers of Camel cigarettes, with special announcements in this and other college periodicals. Eight days are allowed for submission of answers, and the contest closes at midnight on March 4.
Prizes will be awarded for the best answers to the question: “What significant change has been made in the wrapping of the Camel package, containing twenty cigarettes, and what are its advantages to the smoker?” Answers are limited to 200 words, must be written on one side of the paper, and are to be mailed to the Contest Editor, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, N. C.
First prize is $25,000, the second, $10,000, and the third, $5,000. Numerous smaller prizes will also be awarded. Judges of the contest are Ray Long, editor of Cosmopolitan; Roy Howard, chairman of the board of the Scripps-Howard newspapers; and Charles Dana Gibson,- internationally known artist and publisher of Life.
The contest is a part of what advertising experts declare the most intensive advertising campaign ever. staged. Practically every daily and county seat weekly newspaper in the country will be used, as well as college periodicals and financial publications. This campaign is to be followed by an aggressive advertising drive using newspapers, magazines, radio and out-door displays as mediums.
College Stories, a new magazine on the news-stands, invites Notre Dame students to contribute short stories, jokes, or works of art, especially those of collegiate character. The new magazine will run monthly contests and cash prizes will be awarded the winners. One hundred dollars will be given for the best short story submitted each month, while awards of fifteen and ten dollars will be given for the most noteworthy art contribution and the cleverest joke received.
John Nanovic, editor of the Juggler last year, is at present affiliated with the staff of College Stories.
Contributions should be mailed to College Stories, Seventh Avenue and Fifteenth street, New York City. All submissions should be signed With the name of the contributor and his class rank, and all contributions should be marked for the personal attention of Lon Murray.
Dean Konop Thanked
Thomas F. Konop, dean of the Law school, announced last week that he had received a letter from Judge J. W. Donovan, of Detroit, thanking the school for the favorable review of his book, Modern Jury Trials, which appeared in the last issue of the Laivyer. Joseph Wetli, a senior in the College of Law, wrote the review.
Modern Jury Trials originally appeared fifty years ago and since that time has been read by lawyers throughout the United States and Canada. Recently Judge Donovan, now nearly ninety-two years old, revised the work.
In his letter Judge Donovan told of his early life on a farm, his preparation for law, and his eighteen years on the Circuit bench of Wayne county. The whole letter was written in longhand by the judge himself.
LIVINGSTON’S TO OPEN
CAMPUS SHOP MONDAY
Livingston’s new campus shop in the Agricultural building, located north of Science hall, will open for business Monday. A full line of men’s furnishings will be carried, including hats, sports wear and dress accessories. Business hours will be from nine until five o’clock every day.
Open house will be held all day tomorrow and a special invitation to all students is extended.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
561
DRIVING NET INSTALLED IN GYMNASIUM FOR USE OF GOLFERS
A Man About the Campus
Winter need bring no sorrow to Notre Dame golfers from now on, for they can practice to their heart’s content in the driving net in the gymnasium. The net is placed under the north stands next to the wrestling room. Its use is not restricted to members of the varsity golf team, but is open to all who desire to use it.
Work is to begin soon to get the University golf course in shape for the coming season. If present plans are carried out, the reconditioning will start early in March and all efforts will be made to have the course opened as soon as possible. The golf schedule for this year is almost completed and will be announced in an early issue of the Scholastic.
DeLAN DERO SPEAKS TO SPANISH CLUB MEMBERS
Professor Pedro de Landero of the Spanish department was the principle speaker at the regular meeting of the Spanish club held last Tuesday evening at 7:00 o’clock in the old Law building. Mr. de Landero spoke on economic conditions in the Latin-American countries, and in particular in Mexico.
He told the members of the club of the great possibilities that exist for young men in these countries. One of the chief requisites for success, however, is a knowledge of the Spanish language. He said that up until recently, companies of the United States gave little attention to this fact when selecting representatives for these countries, and that this was largely the reason for the United States’ loss of business in Latin-America.
Request From Hawaii
A request from distant Hawaii reached the Scholastic office this week. Sgt. Ralph T. Browne of the 11th. Signal Co. stationed at Schofield barracks, is the sender of a postcard asking for a copy of the motto of the University of Notre Dame, and an explanation of its meaning. The card was mailed in Honolulu on Jan. 31st and reached Notre Dame early this week.
Three years ago last summer Bill Gadek wondered what kind of university Georgetown would turn out to be. As he shuffled all his entrance slips he was, no doubt, a little anxious to find out. A few months later however, he was headed, as so many other easterners were, toward a mid-western university with a rather mushy campus. Influenced by a group of Notre Dame students from Perth Amboy, New Jersey, Bill spurned Georgetown for the offerings of Notre Dame.
His ambition to become a man of medicine has stuck. An account of his progress in the science school should explain, in case you happen to have the least bit of intelligence, about how possible it is going to be for him to realize that ambition. There is a society around here called the Academy of Science. Since it is a scholastic activity, three and a half more hours are needed to make it half-way clear to you. It is an honorary organization. Honorary organizations are composed of groups of meritorious workers. I don’t suppose you know what meritorious workers are and I, for one, am not going to bother explaining. Any student, or person registering in the College of Science can get in the Academy. Fortunately the majority of them never come close to it. The first step, you see, involves an eighty-five average. (I didn’t think your interest was going to last.) Bill got eighty-five averages all right, but that’s only half of it. Before the Academy will even open.its eyes the required average must be kept for three consecutive semesters. For the next three years Bill maintained the standard and by the time junior year dragged around he received his key and became a permanent member. This year he is the senior who, after four years work, has become the president of the Academy of Science. Usually that’s the way things work out.
But listening to the reading of what often turns out to be rather original papers is not his idea of outside experience. He has something more valuable. During the summer he gets some handy information from a physician with whom he performs medical tests. He finds dissecting a delight. (For the rest of the inter
view I pulled my legs in under me.) This year he became an assistant “lab” instructor in comparative anatomy. His application to Cornell’s
William V. Gadek
medical school ought to be a joy to the registrar.
He is almost, but not quite, the utter scientist. If the rector who knew him in Corby sub last year had anything to say, he would probably call him a maniac. Last year the boys had a time of it down there. As a result most of them are only fairly happy in other halls.
Last year Bill became secretary of the New Jersey club. This year certain political machinations caused his defeat for the presidency of the club by one vote. He was awarded the vice-presidency as a consolation prize. His own vote, by the way, would have tied the election. At Christmas time he was chairman of the Jersey club’s dance given successfully at Newark. This year he became a member of the Blue Circle.
His tastes are ordinary ones. When he reads he doesn’t care about the author. If the contents are not interesting he lays the book aside for something that is. He can see a movie and, for some unearthly reason, enjoy it. When he goes, four or five others go with him and make an event of it. It may be safely said that science alone obsesses him. If his plans go right he will live in New York and practice his profession in New Jersey.
562
The Notre Dame Scholastic
SENIORS PRESENT FLAG
Father Mulcaire Stresses Solemnity of Ceremony in Acceptance Speech
Loyalty to God, Your Country, and School, Most Important in Life, He Says.
The annual presentation of the flag by the senior class on Washington’s birthday took place last Monday morning at 10:00 o’clock in Washington hall. In so doing the class of 1931 perpetrated a tradition inaugurate thirty-five years ago by the class of 1896.
The members of the senior class met in the Administration building and there grouped themselves according to their respective colleges. From there they marched in a body to Washington hall. In the procession, the College of Arts and Letters came first, headed by their dean, the Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C.; following them came other colleges led by their respective deans: the College of Science, headed by the Reverend Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., the College of Law, led by Dean Thomas Konop, the College of Engineering, with the Reverend Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., and lastly the College of Commerce, led by Dean James E. McCarthy.
In Washington hall the program began with the audience singing the Star-Spangled Banner. John F. Sullivan then gave his Washington day address which was followed with the Washington day ode delivered by John A. Scharbach, John F. Saunders, president of the senior class of 1931, pledged the loyalty of the class to God, country, and Notre Dame, and then presented the flag which was received by the Reverend Michael A. Mulcaire, C.S.C., vice-president of the University.
Saunders Presents Flag
In presenting the flag to Father Mulcaire, Mr. Saunders said, “We convene here today not alone because
traditions are held sacred here at Notre Dame, but also because we wish to renew our pledge of allegiance to that flag, the banner of our glorious nation, as evidence of the fact that we, the class of nineteen hundred and thirty-one, still retain that same loyalty to country that the pioneer Notre Dame men possessed and displayed eighty-seven years ago.”
“Notre Dame patriotism in peace,” Saunders continued, “is not less great than in time of war. Just as the memorial door at the entrance of the Sacred Heart Church is now a very part of the great edifice so too is devotion to God and loyalty to country a part of the very nature and substance of every real Notre Dame man.
Father Mulcaire Stresses Loyalty
In his remarks following the presentation of the flag, Father Mulcaire commented on the sacredness and significance of the ceremony as a memorial to the men who have represented Notre Dame in the wars in which our country has participated.
“No one can ever sit through this exercise and join hands, as we do today, with that gallant band who have gone before us and redeemed with the very life blood to pledges they made upon this stage, can call it a mere formality,” Father Mulcaire said. “This service not only witnesses the consecration of you young men to the high ideals and holy loyalties to which you have pledged yourselves this morning, but it is a memorial to the men of other classes who have sat in this same hall and pledged the same loyalties and have nobly and heroically redeemed them.
“I remember them myself. I can almost see this even now, as they sat here 14 years .ago today looking forward with high hopes and light hearts to the day of their graduation which never came for them. They were light-hearted, happy lads that day, perhaps not fully conscious of
the significance of the loyalties they vowed. But when the call to arms came to redeem the pledge of patriotism they had made upon this stage, they went forth to battle and to death fired with a love of God and country and Notre Dame that has brought them to glory everlasting.
“A Solemn Ceremony”
“The ceremony at which you assist this morning is too solemn in its significance and too freighted with holy memories ever to fall short of the high purpose for which it was established,” Father Mulcaire continued. “It is indeed a solemn occasion when 453 young men standing as you are this morning on the threshold of a new life and about to leave forever the protecting influences of home and school which until now have surrounded you, publicly consecrate yourselves to the high ideals which loyalty to your God, your country and your school imply.
In concluding he pointed out to the class that its members were not assuming new obligations, but rather, perpetuating old ideals and traditions fostered by Notre Dame toward God, country and self.
■ “You are going into a world of political corruption and plunder,” Father Mulcaire warned them,” and you must stand forth as the embodiment of a true patriotism which places the welfare of your country above personal ambitions or private gain. You are going into a world in which the high ideals of purity, honesty and uprightness for which your school stands are not always the guiding principles of men’s lives; into a world where expediency rather than principle is the only rule of conduct and it will require courage of heart and strength of will to be faithful at all times to the ideals which you carry with you into the world.”
Father Mulcaire concluded, saying, “Because I feel sure that you will redeem your pledges of loyalty to God, your country and your school when called upon to do so, I am happy to accept this flag from you this morning as an evidence of your sincerity today and an assurance of your fidelity in the years to come.”
e Notre Dame Scholas
563
Washington Day Address
John F. Sullivan in his Washington day address pointed out that the principles of liberty, national isolation, religion and morality as expressed by George Washington in his farewell address, are the criteria of the seniors’ conduct, and that these principles could be maintained only in the spirit of sacrifice and faith in which they were instituted.
Preservation of Liberty First “Our first concern,” Sullivan said, :is for the preservation of our liberty.
The unity of government which constitutes us one people is the main pillar in the edifice of our- real independence, of that very liberty which we so highly prize. Since our liberty is conditioned by our existence as a unit, we must interest ourselves in the preservation of our government. We must take steps to safeguard that which is requisite for freedom.”
If Washington were living today he would probably say: “Be not Republican; be not Democrat; be not Socialist; be American,” Sullivan pointed out. .
“Since Washington has left us the guides by which to preserve our liberty, it is our obligation to hand down to posterity that which he gave us—freedom. In view of Washington’s regard for religion and morality, it is highly appropriate that the University of Notre Dame, an institution founded on these very principles,” Sullivan said in conclusion, “should consider the commemorating of Washington’s birth a yearly service of great import. And we, the Class of 1931, add our humble tribute to the name of Washington.”

Washington Day Ode
By John Alexander Scharbach, ’32
Out of the past to summon with salute The dead long fallen mute:
Out of the past to catch a golden ray To light our needful day:
You rise to us, 0 father, and your name Beams for us an unclouded sun— The name of Washington.
No glare of garish fame Hath seared that name, But clear, refulgent, from it flows A light that grows and grows, As with the pulsing of a radiant heart With visioning elate.
Not cries of death, Nor gasp of victim’s breath
Strong hands our pride of him, great Washington, Who, battle done, To freedom fevered men his counsel gave, Quiet and firm and grave, Pouring, as molten steel in moulds is poured, The nation’s new young life. His vision soared Above, beyond, confusion’s blinding dust Wherein, unshackled, sudden thrust, Our fathers struggled even yet to see The bright horizons of true liberty.
Out of the chaosed night
To sun-filled fields of peace he led America new-fledged, to pastures fed By running streams of light.
Steady and clear his sight
As watchman who beneath prophetic ray Of star-beam ever sees the sure eternal day.
Shouting vain praises from the war-burned throat This is our treasure now, 0 leader strong,
Of battlefields, hath made you great.
Not proud, aloof, apart,
Where despot eagles float,
You stand, 0 leader,—but among us near, Cherished, revered, and dear.
To warrant freedom’s peace he came to war. With sight and foresight of the conqueror Who self has conquered first he lifted high Against the tyrannous sky The shining banner of a freedom treasured Beyond the richest gifts king ever measured. The bold believing eye .
That sees
In winter’s ice-wrapped trees
Spring’s bloom secure—
Such was his eye, steady and clear and sure. From steadfast ordered mind his stern command Sprang to uphold each challenging hand— Command to fight, command to work, to toil, To save, defend, protect the sacred soil.
And this the burden of our prayer
And song.
Your spotless name,
Your high enhaloed fame, And our great need of you:	•
Your voice we need again, clear in command;
We need your hand
Steady and firm and true;
False voices call across our sunbright day;
We go astray.
Not by the brazen trumpet’s blare
Nor by the rocket’s light
Shall we from danger’s tempting paths be turned—
The garish byways that you spurned—
But by the ordered counsel of your mind:
So shall we find
Peace and soul-profit that your soul divined.
Out of the past to summon, to salute
One dead—Oh, be not mute
Leader and father to our cry, but live Again among us, and your counsel give.
§
3
564
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Music And Drama
After reading Mr. Heitger’s review in Scrip of John Balderston’s play, “Berkeley Square,” I wish to say a few words in defense of the author and the play. The title of the review, “Peter Standish, Egocentric Relativist,” besides being contradictory to the substance of the criticism, implies a penetration which the criticism does not possess. “A fetish for dramas characterized by a nice distinction between the real and the unreal” is mentioned as being “firmly rooted in the world of the theatre,” and then this “nice distinction” is promptly disregarded. How the production. of two plays—“Berkeley Square” and “Hotel Universe”—can firmly root a fetish in the theater is more than I can see, and these are the only two plays of their sort. “The Return of Peter Grimm” is out-and-out spiritualism, and “Thunder in the Air” is fantasy.
Is “Berkeley Square” a hallucination on the part of Peter Standish its hero? Of course not. The whole story is absolutely incompatible with any such idea. The only way it can be explained is by the theory of relativity. Now I realize that this is only a theory as yet and that it may be disproved at any time. If it is disproved, then “Berkeley Square” becomes an impossible nightmare, but until it is so rejected we possess a beautiful and possible play. Mr. Heitger, always careful to avoid any definite instance, forgets entirely that the Peter Standish of 1784 has stepped into 1928 and has left definite proof of his being there, such as tearing out the electric light switches and the like. To avoid this, he perhaps has Peter living the double personality, or at least alternating between them. This idea, too, must be discarded, for the double personality is impossible simultaneously, and each Peter lives in the period into which he has stepped the full twelve or fourteen days without interruption.
The play is concerned with two events: the Queen Anne room in Berkeley Square, October 23, 1784, and the same room, October 23, 1928. (The room as a four-dimensional object—length, width, breadth, and time—may be referred to as an event.) The space is the same, though this fact in itself means nothing, and time is the variant. From
some frame of reference, however, these two events are simultaneous. Limited by present-day knowledge of these matters, we can use for the reference-frame only the mind of God. Balderston, too, subscribes to this point of view, and has his hero explain it thus: a man rowing down a rivei* passes a grove of maple trees, and then around a bend in the stream he comes to a field of clover. He cannot see the trees at this latter point, for they are in the past. The field of clover he can see, for that is in the present; and what he cannot see around the next bend is in the future. A man in the sky above, in a plane, however, sees these three places at once. “Real time is nothing but an idea in the mind of God!” As God regards the universe, there is just this present. An event never stops happening. Of course, people die, buildings fall to ruin or are torn down, but back there in the past, our past and their present, these people are living their lives. And all this—from the creation of the primeval nebula to . the destruction of the complex universe—God sees by a single act of His mind as the Present. And this, not some hallucination idea, is the only explanation, valid or invalid, of “Berkeley Square.” There is one other point—the interchange of souls of the two Peters. This is inexplicable, but we who know so little of “the mystery of the _ human soul and its brief passage on this earth” cannot find proof nor disproof of it in this life.
These few words will not mean much to one who has not read or seen the play (and perhaps not much to one who has), but there was no space for a resume of the plot in this column. Mr. Heitger predicted that “Berkeley Square” will not live beyond a decade. Well ... .
COMMERCE MEN!
Dean McCarthy announces that notebooks in Marketing 13, Ocean Transportation, and World Markets, may be procured any day at his office in Sorin hall.
BLACKSTONE DISPLAYS TRICKS AND PLEASES STUDENT AUDIENCE
Harry Blackstone, magician extraordinary, entertained the students last Friday evening with two per- • formances in Washington hall, both of which were attended by capacity crowds. Supported by his cast of assistants, the famous conjurer reeled off trick after trick in rapid succession, each one as mystifying and as unsolvable as the one preceding it. With more than the ordinary magician’s showmanship, Blackstone held the continual attention of the audience as he changed handkerchiefs into spirits, took off the ears of rabbits, shot at eggs which turned into ducks, and made jacks look like queens. The fact that these tricks were done with unusual speed and dexterity undoubtedly enhanced the performance to a great extent. During the evening Blackstone made some unbelievably rapid changes of costume on the stage itself, which, of course, were too quick for the audience to follow.
Blackstone talked to his audience continually, and the conversation which he carried on with some of his own men, whom he had stationed in the rear of the hall, was well-timed and witty. Towards the close of his performance, the magic man executed what was probably his best bit of illusion in making a live bird in a cage disappear into thin air. He performed the trick twice; the second time the cage was held by a student, but the result was the same. It has been said that even some of the men working with Blackstone do not know all the intricacies of his act. He is on a tour at present which will take him at first east, and then through several of the southern states.
JUNIOR PIN COMMITTEE TO MAKE CHOICE SUNDAY
According to plans announced by Leonard A. Donoghue, chairman of the pin committee, the selection of the junior pin will be made Sunday morning, March 1. Several competing jewelers and the committee will meet at that time to settle the matter. The description of the pin has not been divulged. Donoghue adds that further announcements will be made in the near future.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
565
SALE OF INVITATIONS TO CLOSE SATURDAY, MARCH 7th
Glances at the Magazines
Michael Brown, chairman of the senior invitations committee, announces that no orders for commencement invitations will be taken after Saturday, March 7.
The underlying theme of the photography this year is: “The New Notre Dame.” As usual the graduate will have a choice of covers. One type will be of blue leather with a gold background; the other of white cardboard with a gold background.
Besides the list of graduates the invitations will contain a complete list of the committees on the various campus activities. The Reverend Thomas Lahey, C.S.C., is helping the committee in the choice of printing and paper. The work is being done by the Charles H. Elliott company of Philadelphia.
The sale of the invitations has in-cerased rapidly in the last few days. Those who have not as yet seen their hall representative are urged to do so immediately. Payment must be made upon ordering. The representatives are Michael Brown and H. P. Shean, Walsh hall; J. Dunne, F. Dit-toe, K. Fishleigh, Sorin hall; R. Snyder, Lyons hall; J. Deeb and Carl Cronin, Badin hall.
COMMITTEE SELECTS KEY FOR PRESIDENTS’ CLUB
The key which will become the permanent identification of the members of the President’s Council has been chosen by the committee appointed by President Deeb at the last meeting. The key is a unique one, bearing the inscription “President’s Council” over a distinctive type of N. D. monogram with the symbolic gavel through it. The various clubs donate these keys to their presidents in appreciation of his services.
Action on these keys will be taken as soon as possible, but on account of the incomplete roster of the Presidents it is requested that each president register with Joe O’Hora, recording secretary, on any of the members of the key committee: Ted Lee, chairman; Howard Maloney, Al Stepan, Dick Botzum, and Ed Cunningham in order to obtain a complete list of members and to facilitate matters in the ordering of the keys.
Paul Rosenfeld, who for seven years was music critic of The Dial, is the author in Scribner’s of “European Music in Decay,” an appreciation especially of the work of Igor Strawinsky. After a preliminary treatment of the immediate predecessors of Strawinsky—Debussy, Strauss, Bloch, and Mahler—Mr. Rosenfeld considers the decline of the Russian composer of “Petrushka” and “Le Sacre du Printemps,” from the pre-war- days when the composition of those two ballets established him definitely as the leader of the new, contemporary music, up to the present when all the life seems to have gone out of his work, all the spontaneity and instinctiveness of his early genius to have deserted him. European music today has reverted apparently to classicism. But in reality it is neo-classicism, and not strict classicism that has been set up. The classicists were engaged in constant search for form and style, exercising all their imagination and inventive faculties to experiment with worthier and more satisfactory forms. The neo-classicists, however, are satisfied to hark back to Bach, Mozart, Handel, and others, and borrow their “stuff,” doing nothing more creative than rehabilitating the forms and manners of the masters. This process has resulted in more than one direct steal from the classics.
Strawinsky has certainly developed more control in his music since the war,—also more elegance and subtlety. But on the other hand his more recent works exhibit less inspiration, less rythm and color. His ideas and themes partake of a monotonous sameness, and he has become altogether too rigid an artist.
Mr. Rosenfeld thinks that very possibly the musical torch may pass to America, where the art is in the bud, and where for the first time are some great musical potentialities.
With all the discussion recently as to who should or should not receive consideration for the Nobel prize in literature, a list of all the winners since the inception of the award in 1900 may be of interest.
1901—Sully-Prudhomme, French poet. 1902—Mommsen, German historian.
1903—Bjornson, Norwegian dramatist and novelist.
1904—Mistral, Provencal poet, and Echegary, Spanish playwright.
190-5—Sienkiewicz, Polish novelist.
1906—Carducci, Italian poet.
1907—Kipling, English poet and novelist.
1908—Eucken, German philosopher.
1909—Selma Lagerlof. Swedish novelist.
1910—Heyse, German novelist.
1911—Hauptmann, German dramatist.
1912—Maeterlinck, Belgian dramatist. 1913—Tagore, Indian poet.
1914—No award.
191-5—Rolland, French novelist.
1916—Heidenstam, Swedish poet and novelist.
1917—Gjellerup	and Pontippidan,
Danish novelists.
1918—No award.
1919—Ppitteler, Swiss poet and novelist.
1920—Hamsun, Norwegian novelist.
1921—France, French novelist.
1922—Benavente, Spanish dramtist.
1923—Yeats, Irish poet and dramatist.
1924—Reymont, Polish novelist.
1925—Shaw, Irish dramatist.
1926—Deledda, Italian novelist.
1927—Bergson, French philosopher.
1928—Undset, Norwegian novelist.
1929—Mann, German novelist. ■
1930—Lewis, American novelist.
The list appears in Professor Phelps’ “As I Like It,” a monthly feature in Scribner’s. He also lists some of the conspicuous omissions: Tolstoi, Ibsen, Strindberg, Mark Twain, D’Annunzio, Croce, Rostand, Chekhov, Barrie, Housman, Synge, Francis Thompson, William James, Henry James, Conrad, Galsworthy, Wells, Schnitzler, Edith Wharton, Bennett, and Chesterton.
566
The Notre Dame Scholastic
MRS. ELLEN R. JOLLY PRAISES UNIVERSITY
First Woman to Receive Degree Sees Many Changes Here.
“No queen who ever sat on a throne in Europe was ever more proud of her kingdom than I am of my degree from the University of Notre Dame,” said Mrs. Ellen Ryan Jolly, the first and only lay woman ever to receive a degree from Notre Dame, in an interview7 granted to a Scholastic reporter during her short visit here recently.
On June 6, 1914 while Mrs. Jolly was attending the convention of the National Federation of Catholic Societies in Toledo, she received an invitation from the Reverend John C. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., to come here to collect data in order to •write a book which was later published under the title, Nuns of the Battlefield.
Mrs. Jolly, whose home is Pawtucket, Rhode Island, entered the University some time later, and in 1918 received her degree of doctor of laws. It was under her suggestion that President Wilson signed the “Nuns Monument Resolution,” permitting the erection of a statue in memory of these noble women who lost their lives in the Civil War. The pen which signed this bill was presented to the University by Mrs. Jolly.
Since her first visit she has noticed many changes around the campus. Commenting on the new buildings Mrs. Jolly said: “I always admired the policy of the University in naming the buildings after the men of yesterday, who to a great extent are responsible for the development of Notre Dame.” She was very much impressed, she said, by the Washington Day exercises last Monday. The publications, especially the Scholastic, and campus activities ■were also highly praised.
At the conclusion of the interview, Mrs. Jolly remarked: “In my estimation Notre Dame is the queen of all universities; she towers far above them all.”
Mrs. Jolly is the mother of two former students, John Ryan Jolly and James Ryan Jolly, who were in the class of 1917.
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, Feb. 27—SCHOLASTIC editorial meeting in the Publications office, 6:30 p. m.; general staff - meeting, 7:00 p. m.; debate, Notre Dame vs. University of Porto Rico, 8:00 p. m., Washington hall, subject: “Resolved: that the United States should cease the policy of armed intervention in the Caribbean”; Juggler issued.
SATURDAY, Feb. 28—Track meet, Notre Dame vs. Iowa, 1:30 p. m., gymnasium; movie, “Brother,” 6:40 and 8:15 p. m., Washington hall.
SUNDAY, March 1—Masses, Sacred Heart church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m.
MONDAY, March 2—Knights of Columbus initiation; track meet, Notre Dame vs. Syracuse, Syracuse, New York.
TUESDAY, March 3 — Wranglers club meeting, 6:30 p. m., Room 222, Main building; Scholastic news “cubs” meeting, 8:00 p. m., Room 338 Morrissey hall; Spanish club meeting, 7:00 p. m., old Law building.
WEDNESDAY, March 4—Scribblers’ meeting, 6:30 p. m., Howard “rec.”
THURSDAY, March 5—Spectators’ club meeting, 8:00 p. m., Journalism room, library.
Notre Dame Wins Debate
Seventeen thousand radio listeners, according to accepted statistics, heard the radio debate between Notre Dame and Kent College of Law, Chicago, on Sunday, February 15. Letters from this audience, requested at the time of the discussion, containing criticisms and votes on the debate, indicate Notre Dame as the favorite by odds of four to one. On this basis authorities at station WLS, Chicago, over which the debate was broadcast, have definitely awarded the decision. The question, “Resolved: that the various states should adopt compulsory insurance” was defended by Charles Hanna and William’ Kirby, and because of their capable presentation, Notre Dames’ record in this field of activity is still without defeat.
ENGINEERS TO CONVENE
Institute and Engineers’ Club to Hear A. T. & T. Expert.
A special joint meeting of the Notre Dame Engineers’ club and the Notre Dame student branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held on March 16 in the lay faculty dining hall. The speaker of the evening will be an executive from the Cleveland division of the American Telephone and Telegraph company, and his talk which is to be illustrated with films will be confined chieflly to the use of cables and the problems encountered in changing from overhead to .underground transmission.
The arrangements for the meeting, which was similar to that held last year, were made through the courtesy of L. R. Scheck, chief testboard man of the South Bend repeater station. In addition to preparing the program, Mr. Scheck plans to have a delegation of twelve men from the Chicago, Cleveland, and Detroit divisions attend the meeting.
A regular meeting of the student branch will be held on next Monday evening at 8:00 o’clock in Badin hall basement.
A public invitation has been issued to the students of the Commerce school, as the subject of discussion will be “Economic Aspects of Engineering.” The talk will be presented by Mr. L. B. Andrus of Indianapolis.
CAPT. WEIR COOK TELLS A.S.M.E. OF WAR THRILLS
Captain H. Weir Cook, vice-president of the Curtiss-Wright company of Indianapolis, was the speaker of the evening at the regular meeting of the Notre Dame branch of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, held last Wednesday in the library.
Mr. Cooke spoke of his wartime experiences, relating come intimate anecdotes of the aviation service explaining the various hazards encountered by those engaged in that department. He also spoke on the present day aspects of flying, em- , phasizing the rapid strides made, in comparison with the progress, made . by other modes of transportation.
At the close of his address he answered the numerous questions on subjects relative to aviation, put to him by those present.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
567
SPECTATORS HEAR BOYLE
Speaker Contrasts Poe and Mangan as Stylists.
Austin Boyle, a senioi- in the College of Arts and Letters, and member of the Scholastic and Juggler staffs, addressed the Spectators club last Thursday night on the subject, “A Comparison between Edgar Allan Poe, the American, and Clarence Mangan, the Irishman.” Mr Boyle pointed out that both of these men were geniuses, although their genius was expressed in two different modes of writing. Both of these men were dipsomaniacs, but in Mangan the affliction was much more devastating and saddening. Poe’s writings were much more polished than Mangan’s, and showed the work of a conscious artist, while Mangan wrote merely to get worries off his mind. For all the sadness of Poe’s life, Poe was never so downhearted as Mangan, who throughout his life suffered from real or imaginary sadness. Mr. Boyle concluded that although Poe was a greater stylist and appealed more to the intellect, Mangan perhaps had the greater natural talent and a great appeal to the heart. This talk precipitated a heated discussion among the members of the club, especially concerning the validity of the statements of some of Poe’s biographers.
Mr .Alfred Stepan, president of the Spectators announced that at the next meeting, elections of three new members to the club will take place.
CHAMBERS IS ELECTED TO HEAD MINING CLUB
Frank Chambers, a senior, was elected president of the Notre Dame Mining club at a special meeting held last Tuesday evening in the Rose Marie tea room. As their honorary president members chose Professor K. B. Smith, head of the mining school here. Elected also were Charles Cashman, vice-president; Frank O’Connor, treasurer; and James Baker, secretary. A three week tour of the mining districts of northern Ontario and Quebec during the summer was discussed. All freshman mining engineers or anyone interested in mining engineering is welcome to join the club. The next meeting will be held Tuesday, March 24.
Campus Opinions
Question: “Do you think that the rental fee for caps and gowns is too high?’’
Timothy E. Benitz, Sorin hall, senior, and president of the S. A. C.— “Two dollars for the rental of a cap and gown is not too much when the rental of other costumes is considered. Perhaps this fee might be reduced somewhat if some campus organization could finance the purchase of a large number of caps and gowns, and then rent them each year to the seniors with a profit smaller than that charged by a costume company, and yet with a large saving to the members of the senior class. This plan has worked successfully at a good many other schools.”
Raymond S. Disco, Off-Campus, senior—“It is obvious that two dollars is too much. In fact, if it were necessary to use the cap and gown on many occasions, it would be cheaper to purchase a complete outfit.”
Benedict L. McShane, Sorin hall, senior, and president of the Chicago club—“This is the time of the year when most seniors are raising a howl at the outrage of charging two dollars for the use of cap and gown. ‘Outrage,’ ‘robbery,’ and ‘racketeer’ are their favorite expressions, yet they are merely ‘griping’ from force of habit. The seniors have faith in the honesty and integrity of their president and the cap and gown committee, but they must ‘gripe’ about something and the cap and gown is the goat this time.”
Marcelino Garza, Sorin hall, senior—“I think that charging two dollars for the cap and gown would be all right if we didn’t have to pay again in May. Two dollars should be enough for both occasions. Many of the fellows complain about it because their financial standing is not very high at this time of the year.”
John Paul Jones, Sorin hall, senior—“I believe this price is a little too high for one day’s rental. The fee, I understand, was little more than half of this in recent years, and based upon the worth of the outfit, it was a very substantial, and I may say, excessive dividend. Conditions being as they are in the country, such an increase is unreasonable and unwarranted.”
CHARLES HINES TALKS TO COMMERCE GROUP
Lays Cause of Depression to Building Industry.
Charles M. Hines, vice-president of the Edward Hines Lumber Company of Chicago, talked to a group of commerce men last Friday afternoon in the north room of the library on the subject, “The Lumber Industry in the United States.”
Mr. Hines laid the immediate cause of the present depression to the sudden drop in building operations in 1928. “People began to realize that the cost of building was increasing enormously and all of a sudden they stopped building,” Mr. Hines said.
Mr. Hines told the group that there is enough growing lumber to fill demands for the next sixty years, “but aftei- that time there is no telling what we can rely on unless the government does something to remedy the present system of logging and reforesting.” “At present,” Mr. Hines continued, “we leave a tree standing about every four hundred feet and in this way nature takes care of reforesting in its own way.”
Having had wide experience in the various branches of the great lumber organization founded by his father and having worked from the lumber camp to an executive office, Mr. Hines was well qualified to speak of the opportunities offered to young men in the future of the lumber industry. He said, “There is always room for a bright college graduate in the lumber field.”
Mr. Hines is vice-president of the Chicago Retail Lumber Dealers Association, a member of the Executive Credit Corporation, director of the Madison-Kedzie Trust and Savings Bank, member of the advisory board, Phillips State Bank and Trust Co., Chicago.
Hanley to Address Chemists
James Hanley, a senior chemical engineer, will speak on “The Hydrogenation of Oils” at the next meeting of the Chemists’ club, to be held Wednesday evening, March 4, in Chemistry hall. The remainder of the meeting will be given over to a discussion of business matters.
568
The Notre Dame Scholastic
♦ THE WINE ♦
Hats off To Joe McTrampus, He spent his week-end On the campus.
$17.76
(Vague Recollections of a Washington Day Pageant)
It was winter at old Valley Forge, and while the British were off somewhere listening to Bernard Shaw on politics, there was a lull in the American camp. So there were three men, Marius, Shorty, and a third unknown (according to some historians he was Richard T. Castle-bratt, jr., Harvard ’33), and these three were laughing, joking, and rolling dice in the snow—on Christmas eve, too. Imagine.
“Brr,” said Marius, “I wish this cold spell would let up.”
“0 dang,” swore Shorty as he missed his point. The third man nudged his comrades. (If he had only said something, historians would know if he were the Castle-bratt of Harvard ’33). All looked up and saw General Washington approach. His eyes were went to the ground, following a trail of bloody footprints. He bumped into Marius, who rose up and said, “I say, General, can’t you see where you’re going?” Washington scowled and said, “Ah-ha, the trail ends.” The men wanted to know what trail.
“These blood stains as from feet unshod—what signify they, eh?”
“Oh, them,” said the men, “Why, we’ve been going barefoot. Just having a bit of fun. Gosh, you can’t expect a feller to—”
“Fools,” thundered Washington. “Suppose the British heard of these carryings-on. They’d think we had some discipline over here. I’ve half a notion to make you all wear your long woolens the rest of the campaign, or send you home. And how would you like that, huh? Your mothers can go barefoot and be darned, but this, gentlemen, is any army!”
“Washington is right,” the culprits murmured and began to sneak away. But Shorty stopped them, crying, “All right, George, but how come you are barefoot?” The men stared. Yes, it was true, what Shorty said,— but it was treason.
“What!” roared Washington in tone so awful that an Associated Press reporter dashed up and began taking notes. Shorty pointed to Washington’s bare feet and said, “You’re not wearing shoes either.”
“Whippersnapper,” said George, “certainly I am wearing shoes.”
Shorty was about to insist, but Marius took him aside and told him the story of the cherry tree. “So you see, Shorty, you must be wrong. He would never tell a lie.” Shorty was all apologies at once. “I didn’t understand,” he exlaimed, “I guess it only seems that you haven’t shoes, sir.”
“That’s right, son.” General Washington was pleased with the apology, and became jovial. “Let’s celebrate the Yuletide,” he suggested.
“Let’s,” cried the men. So George (my, he was a great man) clapped his hands and lo, the snow disappeared as
if by magic, palms were set up, settees placed, and Paul Whiteman with his band entered and sat down in the background. Roark Bradford (in blackface) and Paul Robeson appeared as servants playing banjos. Whiteman struck up an accompaniment, and Mildred Bailey hopped into a hoop skirt and chanted “Yankee Doodle,” encoring with a chorus from the “Second Little Show.” Meanwhile Washington and his men were drinking mint juleps, suh, and calling one another Colonel.
The songs done, Colonel Washington presented Miss Bailey to his men. “Miss Bailey, my men,” he said, and my men devoutly kissed the hem of her er-er-garment. Miss Bailey dropped a curtsey. Shorty (that oaf) stooped to pick it up. “Tsk,” said Mildred. Shorty blushed. “Pardon me, I read kerchief,” he explained gallantly. “Sure, kid,” said Mildred.	.
Washington made his farewell address: “I am about to make the long journey into the Great Beyond. But ere I bid adieu to these earthly shores there is one final message that I would, leave you. I need not tell you to remember the Maine. Experience has taught you that. But I would impress upon you that if ever one of you is in trouble, he can get in touch with me through Joe Rickey at the Empire State building. And don’t forget, Marius, to remember me to your folks.” Saying which, he staggered back and was quickly hooked to a wire cable sus-	,
pended from above. (An excellent opportunity for the theatre to resurrect the long wires that used to whisk Little Eva to her Happy Home Up Yonda.)
“May I come, too?” said Miss Bailey. And when Washington agreed, she also was hooked up. “Wait’ll Martha Washington hears about this,” said Shorty as the pair began to ascend slowly. Higher and higher they < mounted while those below wept big salty tears. But before he disappeared, Washington caused a commotion by removing his powdered wig.
“Say, that is not General Washington,” the men protested. “A British spy, maybe.”
“Nay, nay,” said Washington.
“I have it,” announced Shorty, “that man is—”	<
“Frank Carideo!” shouted Marius.	i
“You have guessed my secret,” Frank shyly admitted.	j
“Carideo, rah, rah, rah, rah.” The men cheered, and	i
the Associated Press reporter (where had he been) rushed j up. “Nice going, Frank,” he called. “Any statements?”	'
“Yes,” said Frank, “tell them to punt.” He disappeared into the wings. And with him, Mildred. Whereupon, ' Roark Bradford went out for more drinks, and Paul Whiteman went dolefully in. search of another soloist. “Mildred’ll probably join an Uncle Tom’s Cabin troupe now,” he cried.
A monument was immediately erected upon that spot, and in its shadow our three heroes resumed their crap game. They were joined by Paul Robeson.	•
“This weather- isn’t so bad now,” said Marius.
“This is swell,” agreed Shorty as he made his point.
“By the way,” demanded Robeson, “who is this Frank Carideo?”
• __
See you next week unless the editor fires us by that time.	—The Weary Bumper.	•

The Notre Dame Scholastic
569
COLLEGE IAEAII
YALE
Down at dear old New Haven, the natives were startled recently by weird radio messages coming from seme unknown station. The programs were introduced by persons going by the oddly familiar names of Will Sunday, Ted Snoozing, and Graham Cracker. It turned out that the three broadcasters were Yale students who had taken over an electrical plant and erected an illicit broadcasting station. Messages from prominent Yale professors were heard over the air, in words that college professors don’t generally use. New Havenites were getting a large kick out of the whole affair until the radio commission stepped in and declared the station anathema.
We have heard of these fellows who work their way through school, but a certain Yale student takes all the prizes for labor after learning. He spends three and a half hours a day travelling to and from the university, has a job that takes eight hours of his time daily, and finds enough time to go to classes, study, and pass the exams with a high average. It is rumored that he finds time to sleep now and then.
The Yale university debaters put our football team to shame. Not content with confining their argumentative activities to this continent, they spend the summer touring South America.
That famous graduate of Yale, Rudy Vallee, who several weeks ago was beaned with a grapefruit in a theatre by a Harvard man, is a generous soul, after all. When he learned that the student had been fired from Harvard, he immediately sent a letter to Cambridge authorities, requesting that the offender be re-instated. Nothing like that womanly instinct!
PRINCETON
That freshmen at Princeton university prefer a Phi Beta Kappa key to a varsity “P,” consider beauty the most essential attribute for the ideal girl, favor participation in extra-curricular activities, and come to Princeton primarily for an education are facts revealed in the annual questionnaire submitted to the new men by The Daily
. Princetonian, undergraduate newspaper.
In voting the Phi Beta Kappa key more desirable than a major athletic letter by a vote of 330 to 228, the classmen of ’34 reversed the decision made by the 1933 group last year, though following Princeton senior classes which for years have consistently voted the scholastic award more valuable than the athletic insignia.
A meagre 21 votes were cast negatively regarding participation in extra-curricular activities, while 553 men
voted “yes.” The Princeton Triangle club, dramatic organization, apparently is considered the most worthwhile activity, with 203 men signifying their intention of competing for it. Tennis came second with 161 votes, while The Daily Princetonian ranked third, with 138 votes.
In a class of 632 men, only 470 answered the question, “Do you drink?” Of this number, 259 answered “yes” and 211 “no.” Some 324 smoke, while 250 do not.
The university’s name attracted many, with 276 men stating that they came to Princeton primarily to receive an education, though 232 came because of “Princeton’s name and reputation.” One hundred and sixty-six listed “contacts and social advantages,” and 105 “family tradition.”
Eighty-nine different answers were received to the question, “What qualities do you consider essential in the ideal girl ?” Beauty led with 389 votes, followed by brains with 282, personality 172, and good figure 121.
Football was favored overwhelmingly as the sport to watch, receiving 379 votes, almost five times as many as hockey, which took second place. Baseball ranked fifth with only fifteen supporters. Football rated second as the most popular sport to play, tennis leading by a wide margin of 122 votes. Golf, hockey and baseball followed in the order named.
COLLEGIANA
The new “blind date” bureau at Kansas Aggies . . . they really believe in the commercialization of sports at Kansas . . . Down at DePauw, students are giving up mustaches . . . the fire hazard was too great . . . freshmen at the University of Holland must enter all buildings through the windows . . . just the opposite of the Sorin system . . . Cornell’s discovei-y that women are the mental equal of men . . . and the fact that Cornell undergrads rarely date Cornell women . . . maybe there’s a connection . . . Benny Friedman’s new job as coach at Yale . . . and the wise one that said that Benny was now Albie’s Irish Rose . . . Queen’s university, Canada, is responsible for this witticism: “Efficiency in a co-ed is that quality which enables her to make up her mind and mind her make-up at the same time” . . . Rochester university’s new ruling that there shall be no eight o’clock classes . . . the professors decided that it was much better for the students to sleep in bed than in the class room . . . the beardgrowing contest at the University of Illinois, with 2,500 contestants enrolled . . . the local barbers and druggists are panicky, but Illinois will not stop the contest.
570	The Notre Dame Scholastic
(AMIIJ CLUB J
TABLOID
Above appeai-s a photograph of one of the local clubs at its last meeting. These men are, of course, now all dead, as has been their club since Christmas. The picture is interesting principally because it proves that there once were city clubs on the campus.
The small man with the sour expression in the middle row (third from the right) is the member who paid his dues. Next to him in a white shirt is the man who intends to steal the three pennants that will serve as decorations at the club’s Christmas dance; this will run the bill for decorations up to §245.50. The dark person who is standing third from left is the club treasurer. Only last w’eek he was shot by a fellow gangster. In the middle is the president who is smiling as he thinks of the members that voted for him. In his hand is a cigar (Refreshments—§150). Kneeling in front is the innocent member who will offer at the next meeting to buy stationery for the club at a much more reasonable rate than the officers seem able to get it.
The man with the hat in the back row is the campus -clubs editor of the Scholastic who wishes that he always had a big picture to run on his page so that he would not have to write so much.
By the way, the member in the back row (the one with the pleading look) is the man who cannot dance but who joined the club on account of the activity that it sponsors on the campus.
WASHINGTON AND NAPOLEON
At the last meeting of the FRENCH club, the Reverend Conrad Hoffman addressed the members in French. His
topic was, “Washington and Napoleon: A Comparison.” In his talk he showed the essential difference between the two great generals. Most stressed was the fact that Napoleon always fought for personal reward and glory while Washington worked only for his country.
AT LAST
Bears, during the winter months, hibernate. When Spring arrives they come out of their long winter’s sleep. Thus last week, with the approach of warm weather, did the CLEVELAND club arouse itself to call its members to a long-delayed meeting in the old Law building.
Easter is only about five weeks, off and the CLEVELAND club may sponsor another dance.
ADVANTAGES, RATTLESNAKES
The SPANISH club at its last meeting heard Professor Pedro de Landero discuss the opportunities offered in South America to the man that knows Spanish. Another speaker was Brother Innocent, C.S.C., who spoke briefly of his experiences with rattlesnakes in New Mexico.
/
ALLITERATION
Speaker at the last meeting of the, PHARMACY club was Anthony Gansarge; his alliterative topic, “Pink Pills for Pale People.”	,
Thomas Cody spoke of the need of a cultural background in the making of a good pharmacist.
Th e Notre Dame Scholastic
-571
EDITED’/ PAGE
o
CENSORSHIP VS. FREEDOM
The editor of the Daily Cardinal, Wisconsin undergraduate paper, in a recent editorial took exception to the statement of the editor of the Stanford Daily opposing censorship of the humor magazines in the various colleges.
The Wisconsin editor strongly favored some form of supervision, believing that in no other way could obscene language and art be entirely eliminated.
Mr. Tschudy, editor of the Cardinal, went to say, however, that there was probably little good accomplished by censorship, as the writer of any obscene or scurrilous wit only disguised it by writing the same thing over in slightly different form. So the question seems no nearer solution than before.
But aside from the difference of opinion between these two editors, the humor magazine situation has been a bone of contention for some time. Only recently was the board of editors of the Harvard Lampoon taken to task for printing a sketch of the so-called scrubwomen’s banquet, relating to a situation some time ago at Harvard which caused some little trouble. And last year, at a large midwestern university, the fun book was banned from publication by the university for the issuance of a more or less sexy story about a marble statue. For the last few years, another large institution in the south has constantly been in hot water about its humor magazine, each editor being questioned for supposedly licentious material appearing in his book. And many other schools have added their troubles to the list.
There has been a recent trend toward the more intellectual type of humor, which will possibly tend to overcome the troublesome , stories and sketches which sometimes appear in our college fun magazines. It is necessary for the editor of every humor magazine to keep abreast of the times, and by keeping a higher tone of humor, the real purpose for which the magazines are published need not be sacrificed, and those who wish to read between and under the lines may still do so.	'
SCHOLASTIC STANDINGS
A well known Notre Dame man once remarked, in speaking of football, that when anything is defended it usually needs defense; and he was undoubtedly correct. He then proceeded to criticize the critics who supposed they had found something wrong with the most popular of American sports. The judges, he claimed, were not competent to judge; his defense had turned into an offense.
Like football, the term “scholastic standing” has of late ben the cause of considerable discussion. A university claims that it is of a higher “scholastic standing” than is a neighboring university because in the recent rating of colleges it received a capital “A”, as compared to the other’s small “a”. Let that be as it may. That the comparative superiority of one college over another can be expressed in such symbols, however, is open to dispute; that such ratings are of any practical value at all is likewise questionable. Getting down to the application of the discussion of “scholastic standing” we have this much to say: Notre Dame, like nearly all other universities of distinction, receives its share of criticism, concerning the much abused “scholastic standing.” Now it is not our purpose to defend the educational standards of the University; they don’t need defense. We prefer, like the distinguished gentleman spoken of above, to take to the offensive. It would be interesting to make a detailed study of the curricula of some of the gossipy, finger-pointing institutions who appear to have nothing to do but find fault with other universities. The number of students who were dropped from these schools because of low scholarship, might be worth finding out. That the result would compare favorably with that o.f the accused institutions is most doubtful. That their standards of necessary scholastic attainment are faultless might also be questioned. The whole story simmers down to the old case of the judges being unable to judge, either because they are prejudiced or because they are ignorant of vital circumstances necessary for a decision. But as long as there are colleges there will be people who find fault with them, so what’s the use ?
1
•572
The Notre Dame Scholastic
o
♦ SPORTS ♦
Notre Dame Beats Bulldog Cagers
Butler Netmen Fall By 27-19 Count For Second Loss In Fifteen Contests
Baldwin, Gavin, Play Brilliant Floor Games As Norb Crowe Takes High Point Honors.
Notre Dame’s varsity basketball team wrote “Finis” on the home cage season last Saturday night with a decisive 27 to 19 victory over the highly touted Bulldogs of Butler university. This finale was easily the • outstanding performance of the Keo-ganites on the home court this year. Led by Norb Crowe and Johnny Baldwin, they played a heady, brilliant game to turn back a fine Butler effort. These two men led the Blue and Gold in scoring with seven and six points respectively. Making his last home appearance, Joe Gavin also turned in a fine exhibition.
Scoring three points in the first minutes, Davis gave Butler a lead that they held through most of the first half. Crowe rang the scoring bell for Notre Dame with a free throw on Chadd’s foul after six minutes had passed. He added a fine field goal a minute later on an out-ofbounds pass from DeCook to bring the locals within a single point of the leaders. Butler countered with three points to take a seven to three lead with the period just half gone. Baldwin dropped a shot from far out on the floor and DeCook tied the count with a hook shot from the side. Chadd scored from long range for the Bulldogs but Crowe’s second basket evened the game again. DeCook and Davis matched free throws to knot the score at ten apiece and at this point Notre Dame gained its first lead. Newbold plucked a Butler pass out of the air and scored from close range. The Blue and Gold were never headed for the rest of the game. Johnson, entering the game in place of Burns, who left on fouls, boosted the home team’s total to 14 at the half, and
Norb Crowe
ler defense. Johnson dropped a free throw and Chadd chalked up a basket to make the score 15 to 13, with Notre Dame still out in front. The Blue and Gold cagers were controlling the play by a neat bit of ball handling and some clever floor work. Taking none but the sure shots, Notre Dame stretched their total to 19 on the shooting of Johnson and Newbold. Butler crept up within a single point as Miller and Chadd scored five points between them. At this juncture, Gavin entered the game, and as the Butler defense moved out in an
Butler reached 11 on the strength of Tacket’s charity toss.
Opening the second half, Notre Dame elected to play a safe game in an attempt to break up the tight But-
attempt to get the ball, he used his superior speed to put the game on ice for the Keoganites. After Crowe had scored a free throw, the tiny Gavin raced down the sidelines on a long-dribble and cut for the hoop and scored. He added another point with a free throw when he was fouled by Proffitt on the play. Just to make matters more sure, Baldwin duplicated Gavin’s play with a scoring jaunt down the center of the court and then took a long pass under the basket for the final marker. Butler’s lone comeback effort netted them a single point on Davis’ fourth free throw.
The superiority of the Notre Dame quintet was apparent after they once got under way in the middle of the first half. Baldwin’s passing and defensive play brought long rounds of applause from the stands as did Newbold’s work in controlling the ball. Davis and Chadd contributed heavily to the Butler total and played a fine defensive game.
The box score:
Notre Dame (27)				Butler (19) G		F	P
	G	F	p				
Newbold, rf	2	0	2	Miller, rf	1	1	1
Gavin, rf	1	1	0	Davis, If	1	4	0
Crowe, If	2	3	2.	Withrow, If	0	0	1
DeCook, c	1	1	1	Tacket, c	0	1	3
Schumaker,	c 0	0	0	Wolf, c	0	0	0
Baldwin, rg	3	0	2	Chadd, rg	3	1	2
Burns, 1g	0	0	4	Proffitt, 1g	1	0	2
Johnson, Ig	1	2	1	Chickad’tz, 1g 0		0	0
Totals	10	7	12	Totals	6	7	9
Referee—Schommer (Chicago).
Umpire—Kearns (DePaul).
The Notre Dame Scholastic	573
The CAMELS | are comings
Camelixtchi^e in which a signif change has recently been made
$50,000
REWARD
for the best answers to this question:
What significant change has recently been made in
the wrapping of the Camel package containing 20 cigarettes and
what are its advantages to the smoker?
Wednesday Night
Tune in the Camel Hour on N,B.C* Network
9.30 to 10.30
8.30 to 9.30
7.30 to 8.30
6.30 to 7.30
Eastern Time . Central Time Mountain Time Pacific Time
Ocer Stations
WJZ.*BZA. WBZ,WHAM, KDKA.WJR, UGAK. KYW.W LW.WKVA.WSJS.KUR.
U J AX, W FLA, VIOD. WREN.
11.15 to 12.15 10.15 to 11.15 .
9.15 to 10.15 8.15 to 9.15
Eastern Time Central Time
Mountain Time Pacific Time
Ocer Stations
W II aS. w sm, W SB. VIMC. WAPI, w jdx. WSMtL KrttS, WTMJ, KSTC, W EtlC. URI. WHIP, KPKC, UOAL ROA, RSL RTAR.KGO,KECA. KFSD.KG*.ROMO. KIIQ.KFAB
First Prize. $125,000
Second Prize, #10,000 Third Prize, #5,000 For the five next best answers . #1,000 each For the five next best answers . #500 each For the 25 nex t best answers . #1OO each
Conditions Governing Contest:
1	Answers limited to 200 words.
2	Write on one side of the paper only.
3	No entries accepted that bear a postmark later than midnight, March 4,1931.
4	Contest open to everybody except employes and executives of R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company and their families.
5	In ease of ties, the full amount of award will be paid to each of the tying parties.
« It is not necessary to buy a package of Camel cigarettes in order to compete. Any store that sells cigarettes will permit you to examine the Camel package containing 20 cigarettes.
All communications must be addressed to Content Editor— R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, Winston-Salem, N. C-
Judges:
•
CHARLES DANA GIBSON famous Illustrator and Publisher of "Life”
•
Rov w. Howard
Chairman of the Board, Scripps Howard Newspapers
•
Ray Long
President, International Magazine Company, and Editor of "Cosmopolitan”
9
And Staff
Contest open only until MIDNIGHT, MARCH 4,1931
(Winners will be announced as soon as possible after contest closes)
574
The Notre Dame Scholastic
ILLINOIS TRACKMEN WIN DUAL MEET AT URBANA BY NARROW MARGIN, 5144
Final Event Determines Winner; Quigley And Wilson Star For Gold And Blue
Coach Harry Gill, the wily Illinois mentor, seems to have produced another fine track team down at Urbana this year, judging by the 51 to 44 surprise win he scored over the strong and favored Notre Dame thin-lies, in a dual meet held at the Illinois school last Saturday. The meet was interesting throughout and was not decided until the running off of the broad jump in which the “Illini” placed first and second to clinch the victory. Two new Illinois Armory records were set up in the course of the afternoon when Woolsey of Illinois cracked the existing record in the mile run and the powerful quartet of baton-passers from Notre Dame broke , the old record in the mile relay.
Individual high scoring honors went to Lee Sentman, flashy Illinois star, who turned in first in the 75-yard high hurdles and the broad jump for a total of ten points. Captain Cave of Illinois took a second in the dash, a third in the hurdles and ran an excellent quarter on the relay team. Quigley and Wilson were the outstanding Notre Dame performers for the afternoon. Quigley took a first in the 880 and a second in the mile for a total of eight points while Wilson garnered a first in the quarter, • a second in the half, and ran his usual fine race in the mile relay.
McCormick of Notre Dame started the hostilities for the afternoon by winning the 75-yard dash in the good time of :07.8. Captain Cave of Illinois and his teammate, Hampton, took sesond and third, respectively, to all but even matters up for the event. Sentman showed his class as a superior hurdler by beating Captain Johnnie O’Brien of Notre Dame in the event, thus gaining revenge for the defeat handed to him by O’Brien down here in last year’s meet. Roy Bailie, who was counted as a sure point winner in the event, was unable to run, due to an injury he received last week in practice.
Alex Wilson, Notre Dame’s famed
middle-distance runner, found little opposition in the 440-yard dash, and won the event handily in 52 seconds flat. Kelly of Notre Dame finished second, a full fifteen yards ahead of his nearest Ilinois rival. The 880-
Joe Quigley'
yard run went to Joe Quigley, stellar Blue and Gold performer, who crossed the line ahead of his teammate, Wilson and Asper of Illinois completing the half-mile in 2:02.5.
Woolsey, a new star in the ranks of “Illini,” justified the confidence placed in him by stepping off a very fast mile and breaking the old Illinois Armory record for the event. Woolsey finished not more than a foot ahead of Joe Quigley who “kicked” the entire last lap to come from last place where he had been pocketed by Illinois runners.
Gene Howrey assumed the lead at the start of the two mile grind and
maintained his advantage throughout the whole race. He finished with a good sprint to win by nearly thirty yards.
A third was the best that “Nordy” Hoffman was able to garner in' the shot put against the tosses of Burma and Wineland of Illinois, Burma shoving the sixteen pounder 45 feet one inch to win the event. Brill and Brantford of Notre Dame failed to place. In the pole vault, McDermott, one of the Big Ten’s best, elevated himself to the height of 13 feet 4 inches to win over Johnson of Notre Dame, and Lennington of Illinois, who tied for second at 13 feet. Johnson was in great form but split his hand going over 13 feet and was forced to retire for the afternoon.
The high jump saw Darling of Notre Dame ,and Barron Jamison of Illinois all deadlocked for first place with leaps of six feet. In the deciding event of the afternoon, the broad jump, Lee Sentman took his second first place of the day to win over his teammate, Duncan; and Gough of Notre Dame. Gough, a sophomore, made the best jump of his career but was able to take no better than third. Roy Bailie, who is capable of well over twenty-three feet, was handicapped by his ankle injury, and failed to qualify for the finals in the event.
The mile relay turned out as expected when Coach Nicholson’s stars ran an excellent race to shatter the existing record and hung up a new one of 3:23. Wilson, Kelly, Mac-Beth and Scanlon represented Notre Dame in the event and all turned in fine performances.
Summaries:
75-Yard Dash —Won by McCormick (ND); Cave (I), second; Hampton (I), third. Time :07.8.
75-Yard High Hurdles—Won by Sentman (I); O’Brien (ND), second; Cave (I), third. Time :09.4.
440-Yard Dash—Won by Wilson (ND); Kelly (ND), second; Hollingsworth (I), third. Time :52.
880-Yard Run—Won by Quigley (ND); Wilson (ND), second; Asper (I), third. Time 2:02.5.
One-Mile Run—Won by Woolsey (I); Quigley (ND), second; Evans (I), third. Time 4:22.8 (new Illinois armory record).
Two-Mile Run—Won by Howery (ND); Petefish (I), second; Tock-stein (I), third. Time 9:49.
The Notre Dame Scholastic	575
Pole Vault—Won by McDermott (I); Johnson (ND), and Lennington (I), tied for second. Height 13 feet.
High Jump—Darling (ND), Barron (I), and Jamison (I), tied fox* first. Height 6 feet.
Shot Put—Won by Burma (I); Wineland (I), second; Hoffman (ND), third. Distance 45 feet, 1 inch.
Broad Jump—Won by Sentman (I); Duncan (I), second; Gough (ND), third. Distance 23 feet, 2% inches.
One Mile Relay—Won by Notre Dame (Wilson, Kelly, MacBeth, and Scanlon); Illinois (Dickinson, Hollingsworth, Cave, and Bertlesman), second. Time 3:23 (new Illinois armory record).
Football Relay Loses
A quartet of football men representing Northwestern university defeated four Notre Dame stars in a special football relay race held in Chicago last Monday night. The Wildcat stars won by only one yard in the four hundred yard race. The runners, wearing grid suits instead of track outfits, covered the distance in :44.3. Johnny O’Brien, Marty Brill, “Cap” Kaplan, and Nick Lukats carried the Notre Dame colors.
TOURNAMENT TO BE HELD
Will Decide Campus Champs in Handball and Squash.
Beginning .Monday, March 2, the annual handball and squash racquets tournament will be held in the field house courts. Each hall may enter as many men as care to sign the entry blank posted in each of the halls. February 26 has been set as the deadline for entries.
Pairings will be announced on Saturday, February 28, and the entries will fight it out for the individual hall championships. The hall winners will contend later for the University crown. There will be both single and double events in the handball division, and men may enter the singles or the doubles, but not both. Names of the winners of each game must be posted on the bulletin board in the front of the gymnasium. All games must be played on or before the date specified by the directors of the tourney.
Squash racquets is rapidly coming
to the fore as one of the leading and most popular games of the indoor season. It is interesting to know that Coach Knute Rockne, up to the time of his illness, was the leading squash player on the campus.
Daniel D. Halpin, senior manager, says: “In the construction of the stadium plans were made for 14 additional squash courts, which from all appearances will be used considerably in the next year or so, if the present growth of popularity is an indication of what we may expect in squash racquets.”
White Sox Sign Frosh
When the Chicago White Sox arrived at their spring training camp, included in their roster was a young pitcher by the name of Johnnie Intle-kofer, prominent member of last year’s Notre Dame freshmen outfit. Intlekofer, who is a resident of Long Beach, California, was considered a likely prospect for this year’s varsity nine but decided to commercialize his efforts, and signed a White Sox contract this winter. According to Manager Donie Bush, Johnnie shows promise of developing into a creditable “big timer.”
1 I 1
s I i I 1 I i I
I a I
I I I 8
I
I I 1 I I
s
3 I
I
I s
1
3
YOUR EYES
Have them examined every year
QCCASIONALLY we hear someone boast of the extreme long life of his glasses — as
though it were something of which to be proud.
Our eyes are changing constantly, and the best
experience proves that the ophthalmic correction provided by lenses usually requires changing
8 I
I 3
every eighteen months to two years. To wear । glasses longer than that means that the eyes are | being forced to adjust themselves to the glasses, | instead of the glasses being an aid to	the eyes. |
_	3
L^MONTREES	I
J I	3
102 W. Washington St.	|
222 1-2 S. Michigan St.	’
3 t
——i———
1	Buy Your Kodak Film	[
i	and have them DEVELOPED	1
[	at the NEWS STAND in the	I
(	Notre Dame Cafeteria I
1	When in town visit our store	j
]	with a complete line of Photo-	1
j	graphic Supplies	i
I	Schilling’s Photo Supply	|
1	329 S. LaFayette Blvd.	i
South Bend, Indiana	I
j PHOTOSTAT COPY SERVICE	j
CJiIllililIliilililillliitilllllllitillillttlltltitlllllllltllttllllltillliiiitlllltlllltllliiliiiiiliilitiilitittiiiiQ
-576
The Notre Dame Scholastic
+•——-—»—-—-—-—■—-—-—•—■—>4>
| Residence	Office J
| Phone 3-4041	Phone 2-1067 *
!	I
| Dr. Edgar S. Lucas	1
1	Dentist	f
i	i
I	702 J. M. S. Building	I
I	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA	|
*-------------------------—♦
WHERE NOTRE DAME MEN MEET
“Always in the Crowd”
Excellent Sandwiches
Hot and Cold Drinks
■ Hot Chili Hot Tamales
Ice Cream Candy
Delicious Malted Milks
KEWPEE HOTEL HAMBURG
327 N. Michigan St.
RAY DE COOK, PRIDE OF MISHAWAKA, EARNED REGULAR BERTH AS SOPH
Relieved Coach Keogan Of Greatest Worry By Filling Shoes of Colrick
Mishawaka, Indiana, has two native sons in the athletic world of whom she is particularly fond. One is Freddie Fitzsimmons, star pitcher on John McGraw’s New York Giants. The othei' is Coach George Keogan’s high-point man, and Notre Dame’s nomination for the center position on the All-American basketball team— Ray DeCook.
Yes, Ray was born in Mishawaka, in that part of the city known as Belgium Town. “Born and reared there for about the last twenty years” is the way Ray puts it. When he reached high school age, he promptly entered Mishawaka High school and surprised the home-towners by making the varsity basketball squad that winter, while still a freshman. He won his letter playing center and forward.
The second year of high school competition found Ray confining his efforts to the center position, and to this day he has maintained that job. In his senior year, Ray captained the Reds and displayed splendid qualities of leadership. To conclude his high school athletic career, Ray took to the cinder path and won an additional letter as a quarter-miler. Then came graduation.
In the fall of 1928, Ray decided to enter Notre Dame. At first he intended ' to be a civil engineer but he realized the hardship of taking engineering and playing basketball at the same time; his love for the cage game was so great that he enrolled in the department of physical education. When the call for freshman candidates was issued Ray was among the first to report and was rewarded later in the yeai* by being given the familiar blue sweater with a “1932” across the front.
The long remembered Johnny Colrick was playing center that year, and Coach Keogan’s greatest worry was filling his place. In 1929 Ray returned for his sophomore year, and he filled Colrick’s shoes so well that he not only won his monogram, but
gained the reputation of being the outstanding man returning for this year’s team. When Notre Dame’s basketball team stepped out on the floor for their first game of the
Ray DeCook
1930-31 season against Kalamazoo, DeCook was center and temporary captain. To date Ray has made over a hundred points and is leading the Notre Dame hoopsters in scoring. It has become almost a by-word on the campus this year that “as DeCook goes, so goes Notre Dame in basketball.”
“The biggest thrill I ever got out-of sports,” Ray told us, “was realized just, a short time ago at Pittsburgh. We went to Pitt, out for blood. We were going good that night and took an early lead. Pitt rallied, and there was but ten seconds to go. Due to Norb Crowe’s shooting we were two points ahead. Somehow or other
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Lawry of Pitt got hold of the ball, and standing next to the outside line, took a one-handed shot. While the ball was in the air the gun went off and the ball rolled around and around the hoop and finally dropped in. I went limp. During the overtime I could do nothing. After the game I was sick.”
Between playing basketball and studying to be a coach ( for Ray does intend to coach basketball after graduation) he manages to find some time for his pet hobby—reading. “I like to swim and play golf, but I’d rather read,” he says. Ray is a hard man to find in his room; Mike Koken, his room-mate in Morrissey hall, is kept busy entertaining people who want to see Ray. When you do find him, he’s either studying or reading
a book. Kathleen Norris is his favorite, followed by E. Phillips Oppenheim and Ethel M. Dell.
DeCook has one more year of varsity competition and, with the experience gained in the past two seasons, should gain a place among the greats of Notre Dame basketball history.
Schedule Is Completed
Baseball enthusiasts will be interested to know that a schedule has been completed for this year’s Blue and Gold squad, and awaits only the approval of the faculty board for its announcement. Although the southern trip will be omitted this year, there will be plenty of stiff opposition encountered before the season grows very old.
1930-31 BASKETBALL SCHEDULE
Dec. S—N. D. 26. Kalamazoo 15.
Dec. 12—Northwestern 44. N. D. 29.
Dec. 15—Purdue 34. N. D. 22.
Dec. 19—N. D. 31. Pennsylvania 19.
Dec. 30—N. D. 24. Illinois Wesleyan 17.
Jan. 3—Northwestern 20. N. D. 17.
Jan. 6—N. D. 27. Ohio State 24.
Jan. 9—Notre Dame 29, Wabash 19.
Jan. 13—N. D. 30, Marquette 23.
Jan. 17—N. D. 21, Pennsylvania 20.
Jan. 24—Pittsburgh 28. N. D. 20.
Feb. 3—N. D. 25. Indiana 20.
Feb. 7—-Pittsburgh 35. N. D. 32.
Feb. 13—N. D. 18. Wabash 17.
Feb. 21—N. D. 27, Butler 19.
Feb. 28—Army, theie.
Mar. 2—Syracuse, there.
Mar. 6—Marquette, there.
Mar. 10-—Butler, there.
Mar. 14—Iowa, there.
The POJ^ular cereal!
AND no wonder! Kellogg’s Rice Krispies actually snap and pop in milk or cream. That’s how crisp these crunchy rice bubbles are.
And what a tempting flavor! Toasted rice grains. Packed with taste! Great for any meal.
Ask for Rice Krispies at your fraternity house or campus restaurant. Enjoy with milk or cream. Delicious served with canned peaches.
Try them as a quick lunch suggestion or for a late snack. Nourishing and extra easy to digest. Kellogg’s Rice Krispies are the only cereal so crisp it crackles in cream.
The most popular cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include All-Bran, PEP Bran Flakes, Corn Flakes, Wheat Krumbles, and Kellogg’s whole wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee — the coffee that lets you sleep.
RICE KRISPIES
You'll enjoy Kellogg's Slumber Music, broadcast over WJZ and associated stations of the N.B.C. every Sunday evening at 10.30 E. S. T. Also KFI Los Angeles, KOMO Seattle at 1O.OO, and KOA Denver at 10.30.

578
The Notre Dame Scholastic
«
WILSON TAKES THIRD
IN A. A. U. 600 YARDS
Alex Wilson, recent winner of the “Millrose 600,” fared no better than a third place in the finals of the 600 yard race in the annual A. A. U. championships at Madison Square Gardens, New York, last Wednesday night. The race was won by Phil Edwards, dusky star of the Hamilton (Ont.) A. C. Sera Martin, French Olympic champion, finished second, a few yards ahead of the flying Notre Dame runner.
Clark Chamberlain, Michigan State distance star who won the national cross-country championship last fall,
NOTICE
K. of C. Candidates and Members
The first degree will be exemplified on Monday, March 9th, in the Council chambers of Walsh hall at 8:00 o’clock instead of Monday, March 2nd.
also annexed a third in his race—the two-mile run. He was beaten by Leo Lermond, of Boston. Chamberlain will appear here next week in the C. I. C. meet and is expected to go a long way in the mile run.
INTERHALL RELAY TO BE RUN AT DUAL MEET
An added feature of the dual track meet between Notre Dame and Iowa tomorrow afternoon, in the University gymnasium, will be an interhall relay race with the four freshman halls competing. The plan was given a trial at several of the varsity meets last year and met with great success. Such races are of much interest to the student body in general and the first year men in particular.
Howard, Freshman, Brownson, and Carroll halls will each wear distinctively colored track suits so that they may be identified' more easily. The race will be run over three-quarters of a mile with each team consisting of six men running one lap apiece. Members of the frosh track squad will be ineligible to compete, thus assuring each hall of an equal chance for victory.
CAGERS HEAD EAST FOR ARMY, SYRACUSE GAMES
Meet West Pointers Saturday; Orange Contest Monday.
When Doctor George Keogan sends his ravaging basketeers on to the floor at West Point to play the only game scheduled between Notre Dame and the Army this year, they will be bucking up against one of the best teams in the East. To date Army has lost only two games while recording 16 victories; the defeats came at the hands of Pittsburgh and Columbia. According to Coach Keogan, the Army has the best basketball team that has ever been produced at the military school. Under the capable guidance of Leo Novak, the Kaydets have been sailing along on the crest of the wave, but if Notre Dame has anything to say about it, and it appears that they have, the cadets are going to hit another rough spot. The game which has been scheduled for tomorrow afternoon opens Notre Dame’s basketball relations with West Point and inaugurates the first of a two game series between the
i	Theatre in Chicago	!
e Glance through the theatrical	5
i	section of one of the Chicago	e
1	papers. There are always a	i
1	half dozen good legitimate	1
=	shows at this time of year.	1
|	Pick out the one you like.	1
|	Catch the five o’clock South	i
|	Shore Line flyer out of South	=
|	Bend. Dine enroute if you like.	e
I	Return on the after-theatre	e
e	special	leaves	Chicago at	=
i	11:15;	arrives	South Bend	i
I	1:25.	I
STARTS SAT.
THRU TUES.
Fast, furious, funny! A comedy riot with a cast of real favorites!
BUSTER
KEATON
REGINALD DENNY
SALLY EILERS
In a picturization of the rollicking Broadway stage success “PARLOR, BEDROOM, BATH”


A Metro-Goldwyn Picture
PUBLIX PRESENTATIONS
JOE ALEXANDER vitaphone
Trains every hour on the hour to	=
downtown Chicago.	E
laitaaaaaanaiattaaaaiauMtaaaaaaaiiiaiianaitaaaiiaiiimaaaitiaaaaaaiaaaiaaaaaaaaiaiaiaaaaaiaiaaaaaiiiiitiiMiiaiK]
at the console of our Wonder Organ.
PARAMOUNT
SOUND VODVIL
SOUND NEWS
579
Th
schools. The second game will bring the soldiers to Notre Dame next year. Coach Keogan looks forward to the game next season with much anxiety, and has characterized it as, “one of the greatest games ever to be scheduled at Notre Dame.”
Army, besides being fast and deceptive, also boasts some excellent shots. It must be remembered that the type of basketball played in the East is much faster than mid-western basketball, and the Notre Dame quintet will therefore’ be handicapped from the start. The West Point varsity is composed of Stecker and Kreuger, forwards; Apler, center; Abel at right guard with Stother and Malloy alternating at the other defensive post. Stecker and Kreuger are the scoring aces and have established a reputation for their ability to sink them from all angles. Apler is a pivot man of no mean ability, and once he gets started, he is extremely hard to stop. The guards, Abel, Strother and Malloy are all very fast and very capable of holding down their positions. The Army uses the co-captain system in electing their leaders and this year the honor has fallen to Kreuger and Strother.
After the fates have decreed the
e Notre Dame Schola
outcome of the Notre Dame-Army contest the Fighting Irish move on to Syracuse where they will meet the Orange quintet on Monday evening. The New Yorkers have the same team this year that cinched the national basketball championship for them last season. They are already out of the running as far as the national title is concerned, however, for they have dropped five games so far. Under the guidance of Lew Andreas, president of the National Basketball Coaches Association, the Syracuse five were going full blast until they met their first setback at the hands of Pittsburgh. They went into a sort of slump and by the time that they had regained their former position they had been forced to taste defeat four more times. The last reverse that they met with was handed them by Creighton university. The Blue and Gold engagement with Syracuse also inaugurates a two games series. The second game, to be played next season, will bring the New Yorkers to Notre Dame.
Ten men, headed by Coach Keogan and senior manager Jack Hughes, left last night for the East. The players included Ray DeCook, Bill Newbold, Norb Crowe, Jack Baldwin, Clay
stic
Johnson, Tom Burns, Joe Gavin, Tom Conley, Al Schumaker, and Frank Butorac. Probable lineups for the Army game find Stecker and Kreuger at the forward positions for the Kay-dets, Apler at center, and Abel and either Strother or Malloy, at guards. Representing the Blue and Gold will be Crowe, and either Newbold or Gavin, at forwards, DeCook in the pivot position, and Baldwin and Johnson at guards.
Track Stars Injured
A series of injuries, which befell the Notre Dame squad during the past ten days, has seriously hampered Coach John P. Nicholson in getting his men into shape for the Iowa State meet and future engagements. Roy Bailie injured his ankle in practice early last week, and Brant Little has been unable to get into shape due to an illness. “Dutch” Johnson split his hand while vaulting in the Illinois meet last Saturday but will probably be able to compete tomorrow afternoon. Hopes in the high jump were lessened last Tuesday when Bob Darling spiked himself in practice. The injury is not serious enough to keep him from competition, but will hamper his training.
IVK-O-VAUDEVILLE
VjiUucc
JP HOME OF’LIVE'ENTERTAINMENT'
STARTING SATURDAY
Another Great Show on Stage and Screen Self-crowned king of the underworld, yet the plaything of love.
JACK HCLT
Feared no law—no man—no beast. He was Czar of the Racketeers— But he paid the penalty in “THE LAST PARADE”
His greatest picture to date. With
TOM MOORE-CONSTANCE CUMMINGS
, ---- — ■ -Qn the Stage =	=—
A Great RKO Vaudeville Intact Show With
JERRY AND HER BABY GRANDS
Presenting “Music Wed to Beauty”
CORRINNE TILTON—The Vivacious Comedienne
FIELDS & BELL—A Catch-as-Catch-Can of Comedy
Attend our Sat. Bargain Mat.
25c to 6 P. M.
580
The Notre Dame Scholastic
I
Splinters From the Press Box
THE BUTLER GAME
The final home game of the season left little to be desired from the spectator’s point of view. After an exceptionally slow start, the men of Coach Keogan gave an exhibition not only of offensive basketball, but also some real defensive play. With a four-point lead in the middle of the last half Notre Dame showed some of the things they have learned since the last Pitt game. They retained pos-> session of the ball for several minutes, keeping it moving all of the time, but never working from any definite offensive formation. Following the last game with the Panthers, which was lost because Notre Dame couldn’t retain possession of the ball for thirty seconds, Dr. Keogan drilled his charges hard in this phase of the game. They demonstrated this last Saturday night.
We believe that Joe Gavin is one of the fastest and most clever men in collegiate basketball circles this year. The exhibition “Geever” turned in
during his short time in the game was a revelation. It is seldom that such a polished team as the Butler quintet becomes so disorganized as to allow opponents the number of set-up shots Notre Dame had in the closing minutes of that game. And this, to our mind, was due almost entirely to the lightning-like dribbling, passing, and faking of the brilliant little forward. He was given plenty of assistance by Jack Baldwin, who played the entire game and who was the chief cog in holding the Notre Dame machine together in the early part of the game when the Bulldogs had the upper hand.
ILLINOIS 51; N. D. 44
And again the Illini was returned victorious over the Blue and Gold. Only once in nearly twenty years has Notre Dame been able to conquer the Urbanions—and that last year in the local gym. This year, Coach Nicholson’s squad was favored by some to take the measure of their opponents, and a “post mortem” seems to indi
cate that they would probably have done so had it not been for an injury to Roy Bailie early last week in practice. Roy severely bruised his ankle when he hit a high hurdle and the injured member become so swollen and stiff that he could hardly walk. Coach Nicholson had depended on Bailie to score heavily in the broad jump in view of the fact that he had leaped 23 feet already this year in practice. With the injured ankle, he could hardly get into the air and consequently failed to qualify for the finals in the event. Gough, a sophomore, acquitted himself nobly in his first varsity competition and turned in the best jump of his career, but it netted him no better than a third when the brilliant Sentman surpassed the 23-foot mark by two inches. A first for Notre Dame in the event would have turned the tables of victory.
THE C. I. C. MEET
The Central Intercollegiate Conference track meet a week from tomorrow will present some of the finest races of the indoor season. The mile run, in particular, seems to be an open affair with five of the na
The South Bend Clearing j
House Ban^s	j
Invite Your Patronage	I
HELLO MEN!
SMITH’S CAFETERIA
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
I	UNION TRUST COMPANY	|
i	CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK	I
I	CITIZENS TRUST & SAVINGS	I
1	BANK	1
I	FIRST	NATIONAL BANK	j
I	INDIANA TRUST COMPANY	|
I ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SAVINGS 1 |	BANK	I
i ST. JOSEPH LOAN & TRUST I j	COMPANY	I
I AMERICAN TRUST COMPANY |
B...nuu»»n».nu».»m.m............ ...........   ...................................
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
The Home of Quality
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame
The Notre Dame Scholastic	581
tion’s outstanding college distance men entered.
Schwartz of Western State Teachers, the Walter brothers of Marquette, Chamberlain of Michigan State, and Sivak of Butler, make up a field, any man of which may crack a record whenever he runs. Each of these men have done better than 4:18 for the mile within the past two years, and practically every one of them was on the Track and Field Honor Roll for 1930.
The record for the mile in the Notre Dame gymnasium is 4:21. With these men running next Saturday, it seems almost impossible that Kennedy’s mark will stand.
The 65-yard low hurdles should be another interesting event. Roy Bailie will be top favorite to retain his crown provided he has recovered from his injury by that date. Johnny O’Brien will have plenty of competition in the high hurdles but has been going good lately and should be able to give Notre Dame five points. Johnny was unable to compete in the Conference meet last year due to an injury suffered the week before.
IOWAN TRACKSTERS HERE
N. D. Meets Stiff Competition; Wilson Expected to Star.
A group of sturdy tracksters from Iowa State college will do a bit of dashing around Notre Dame’s gym tomorrow in an effort to hand Coach Nicholson’s harriers their second consecutive setback. That they will meet with a lot of opposition is assured by the quality of the local team’s recent performances both in practice and in the Illinois meet a week ago.
Featuring the Notre Dame performers wTill be Alex Wilson in the half-mile run. Wilson will be the outstanding man in the field, on the strength of his record breaking run against Butler two w’eeks ago. Gene Howery will be back on the local track in an effort to lower the school record that he established that same day. His competition will undoubtedly be stronger tomorrow, however, as one of the country’s best distance runners will face the barrier in the form of a Mr. Putnam. This runner
has a mark of 4:223 in the mile event and is reported to be equally dangerous in the longer ■ race.
The Ames school will pin its hopes on several other stars in the shorter races and in the hurdles. Captain Johnny O’Brien will be forced to the limit to win from the visiting timbertoppers as both Hager and Soults have turned in excellent time. Hager is especially well known for his work out doors and in the 120-yard high sticks in which event he has a record of :14.6. Plenty of competition is promised the Gold and Blue sprinters but if Bill McCormick and his mates are in the best of shape they should pick up most of the points in their events. Notre Dame’s record-cracking run in the mile relay at Illinois last week makes them a top heavy favorite for that event.
Iowa State 'will rely on its strength in the field events to offset the home team’s advantage on the track and if they score as heavily in their specialties tomorrow as they have on all their appearances so far this season, it will take the best that the Notre Dame thinlies have to pull out a win in the meet.
»
QiitaioattiaaaaaaiiaitoiiaaiaaaiaaiaiaiiaaaaaaoiioaoaiiiaaiiiiiiiiiiiiatoaoaiaiaBiaiiiiaaatiaaioaoiaiHiiitiitiaaaaaai
Meyer’s Fountain Luncheonette
SANDWICHES
The heart of every sandwich contains the best that can be bought. 5c extra for Head Lettuce and Mayonnaise.
Whole Wheat, Rye
Ham Salad
American Cheese 10c
Baked Ham Kay Cheese. Egg Salad...
15c
10c
10c
or White Bread
Chicken Salad 15c
Swiss Cheese.. 10c
Pimento Cheese 10c
Boiled Ham.... 10c
Peanut Butter 10c
(ajioiiiiiHiiiiiitiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiirttiiiiaitttitiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiaiiaiiiiiaiiBiiiiiiiiiiiainaaiiuiiitiiiaiaiiiiiQ
I Nationally Known $8 to $15 Footwear j |	$2.85 - $3.85 - $4.85	|
I	SHOES AND OXFORDS	I
1 Tan Kid, Black Kid, Tan Calf, Black I | Calf, Patent Scotch Grain, Imported Calf- I j skin. Some of the High-Grade makes are: j
|	Selz, Marion, Herman, Edmonds,	e
e	Osteopathic, Foot-Joy.	E
:	Leather or Rubber Heels! Styles for All I	=
i Men’s New Oxfords I
|	$1.59	|
|	All Sizes! Tan Only!	=
|	Goodyear Welt. Guaranteed Soles. j
=	Rubber Heels.	i
. 10c
I ■	* STORE
Corner Michigan and Colfax
I GIL-BRO’S I
; FORMERLY — U. S. ARMY STORE j | 330 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET I ib........     h
582
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Your Parker
Pocket Pen
plus this handsome bronzed base
Gives You a
Desk Set
When in your room writing your permanent notes or themes, lest your Pen dry out when you stop to refer to texts or notes, keep it in a Parker Desk Base.
No need to buy a complete Desk Set or a special Pen. Your present Parker Pocket Pen is already half a Desk Set.
Base with free taper, which converts your Pocket Parker to Desk Set Model at only $2.50. Or if you do not own a Parker, this Desk Set complete with $2.75 Parker Pocket-Desk Pen, only $5.25, or with Duofold Jr. Pocket-Desk Pen, Guaranteed for Life, only $7-50. At all good dealers. The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wisconsin.
*5 1*7 *10 rarker ^uqfold
PEN GUARANTEED FOR LIFE Other Parker Pens. S9.75 and 53.50
Pencils to match a*l Pens, SS.50 to $S
Interhall Sports
TRACK
With the first preliminary meet in the interhall indoor track season already down in the records, athletes composing the second group are now preparing for the trials to be held for their division next Tuesday evening. Freshman hall won first honors in the meet held Tuesday night when the first year lads amassed a total of 33 points. Off-Campus and the Howard hall teams finished second and third respectively.
Richard DuPuy, Freshman hall star, succeeded in breaking the old interhall record in the 65 yard low hurdles, finishing in 7.5 seconds. The old mark of 7.7 seconds was set by Robert O’Connell, also of Freshman hall, in 1929.
Great interest was evinced in this meet by members of the various halls as is shown by the 119 entries in the events that were held throughout the evening. Those men who were adjudged winners of the first three places are now eligible to compete in the final meet to be held on March 14. An announcement has been made that the personnel of the winning Freshman hall relay team may be changed at the discretion of the coach.
Heavyweight League Standings on Feb. 25, 1931			
	W	L	PCT.
Off-Campus 		_7	0	1.000
Sorin		_5	1	.833
Sophomore		_4	2	.667
' Walsh 		_4	2	.667
Lyons		_4	3	.572
Corby		_4	3	.572
Brownson		_3	3	.500
Howard		_3	3	.500
Morrissey 		_3	4	.429
Carroll			_2	4	• .333
St. Edward’s		_2	5	.286
Freshman			_1	6	.143
Badin 		-0	6	.000
Results
Feb. 18—Off-Campus 30, Walsh 19; Sophomore 15, Lyons 9; Sorin 13, St. Edward’s 8.
Feb. 19—Corby 16, Freshman 8; Howard 16, Badin 6; Morrissey 20, Carroll 15.
Feb. 22—Brownson 15, Morrissey 14; Off-Campus 27, Sophomore 11; Sorin 34, Lyons 11; Carroll 13, St. Edward’s 12; Walsh 11, Freshman 8.
Feb. 24—Corby 30, Howard 26.
BASKETBALL
Sophomore hall lost its chance to blemish the thus far unspotted record of the Off-Campus heavyweights last Sunday. A win would have put the Sophomore team in a second place, tie with Sorin who recorded a onesided victory over Lyons during the past week.
In the lightweight division, the Off-Campus team is following the excellent example set by their weightier teammates in making a clean sweep of their seven games to date. Closely pressing the leaders comes Freshman with a record of six wins and no defeats.
Dorsey of Carroll, who has displayed such spectacular scoring ability in previous games, fell short of expectations in the game with St. Edward’s on February 19, when he registered but one field goal. The Carroll outfit was turned back on the short end of a 31-3 score. A win for Carroll in this game would have found them intrenched in third place, but St. Edward’s shot into that position
Approximately 480 men have taken some part in interhall basketball this season, according to an estimate made by the managerial staff during the last week.
Lightweight League
•Standings on Feb. 25, 1931
	w	L	PCT.
Off-Campus _		7	0	1.000
Freshman			6	0	1.000
St. Edward’s		6	1	.858
Carroll			4	2	.667
Sophomore			4	2	.667
Brownson			3	2	.600
Lyons 			4	g	.572
Corby 		—'	3	4	.429
Badin			2	4	.333
Morrissey			1	5	.166
Walsh			0	5	.000
Howard			0	6	.000
Sorin			0	6	.000
Results
Feb. 18—Off-Campus 24, Walsh 8; Sophomore 16, Lyons 11; St. Edward’s 31, Sorin 11.
Feb. 19—-Freshman 16, Corby 9; Badin 16, Howard 15; Carroll 16, Morrissey 12.
Feb. 22—St. Edward’s 31, Carroll 3; Off-Campus 19, Sophomore 13; Lyons 23, Sorin 10; Corby 25, Howard 21.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
583
PRELIMINARY TRACK
MEET TO FRESHMAN
Relay Gives Win Over Howard and Off-Campus Squads.
Winning five firsts and placing in all but two events, the Freshman hall track team won the first interhall indoor track meet of the season Tuesday night. Sorin, Corby, Badin, Lyons, Freshman, and Howard halls and Off-Campus competed in the meet. The Freshman team piled up 33 points to 28 for Off-Campus, 22 for Howard, and 3 each for Lyons and Corby. -Sorin hall’s entrant failed to place.
Freshman hall scored their biggest sweep in the 440-yard dash when Obergfall, Horan, and Troy took first, second, and third, respectively, and in the 880- yard .run when Troy and Obergfall took second and third, trailing Joe Young of Howard, to the tape.
Finkel of Off-Campus, and Young of Howard, were the individual high point scorers with ten points each. Finkel copped the shot put and broad jump, and Young won both the 880-yard and mile run. Both also ran on their respective relay teams, which
< Interhall Basketball < s	Game Schedule	£
?	Sunday, March 1	>
< Off-Campus vs. Corby; Lyons < s vs. Carroll; St. Edward’s vs. $ > Brownson; Howard vs. Morris- ? I sey; Badin vs. Sophomore; Sorin < < vs. Walsh; no game, Freshman. < ? Wednesday, March 4	?
< Off-Campus vs. Sorin; Lyons < $ vs. Corby; St. Edward’s vs. $ > Badin.	?
s Thursday, March 5	>
> Freshman vs. Brownson; How- > < ard vs. Walsh; Carroll vs. < < Sophomore; no game, Morrissey. <
Interhall Basketball , Practice Schedule
FRIDAY, FEB. 27
Varsity Floor	Apparatus Room
Sophomore	7 p. m.	Off-Campus
Brownson	8 p. m.	Carroll
Sorin	9 p. m.	Morrissey
MONDAY, MARCH 2
Walsh	7 p. m.	Lyons
Howard	8 p. m.	Freshman
St. Edward’s	9 p. m.	Badin
TUESDAY, MARCH 3
Off-Campus	7 p. m.	Sophomore
Carroll	8 p. m.	Brownson
Morrissey	9 p. m.	Sorin
figured in the scoring.
Kelley of Off-Campus, led Condon' and Huller of Howard, to the tape in the 60-yard dash by inches, covering the distance in the fast time of :06.6. Huller ran the second heat of this event in :06.5 but was away to a poor start in the final and took third.
DuPuy of Freshman hall, had his own way in the 65-yard low hurdles. Groves of Off-Campus, took second, beating Grundemann of Howard, by a hair.
The most spirited race of the meet was the %-mile relay won by Freshman hall -with Howard a close second. The lead was exchanged four times, the last time on the final stretch.
The pole vault and the high jump both ended in a triple tie with Franklin of Freshman, and Cusick and Wallace of Off-Campus, in the former, and Melinkovich of Freshman, and Cusick and Wallace in the latter. Cusick displayed versatility in the field events, taking third in the broad jump besides scoring in the above two events.
The teams in group two of the interhall league, Carroll, Brownson, Walsh, Sophomore, St. Edward’s, and Morrissey, will meet Tuesday night and the winners will compete ■with those of group one later in the season.
Summary:
880-Yard Run—Won by Young (H); Troy (F), second; Obergfall (F), third. Time 2:09.
Pole Vault—Won by Franklin (F), Cusick (OC), Wallace (OC), three-way tie. Height 10 feet.
60-Yard Dash—Won by Kelley (OC); Condon (H), second; Huller (H), third. Time :06.6.
Shot Put—Won by Finkel (OC); Zvonkin.(F), second; Robinson (H), third. Distance, 41 feet.
Mile Run—Won by Young (H); Cline (L), second; Brust (F), third. Time 5:07.8.
440-Yard Dash—Won by Obergfall (F) ; Horan (F), second; Troy (F), third. Time :54.2.
65-Yard Low Hurles—Won by DuPuy (F); Groves (OC), second; Grundemann (H), third. Time :07.5.
Broad Jump — Won by Finkel (OC); Conley (H), second; Cusick (OC), third. Distance, 20 feet, 2 inches.
High Jump—Won by Milinkovich (F), Cusick (OC), Wallace (OC), three-way tie. Height, 5 feet, 4 inches.
Three-quarter Mile Relay—Won by Freshman hall (DuPuy, Tobin, Melinkovich, McCarthy, Zvonkin, Obergfall); Howard hall, second. Time 2:31.1.
Down on the Stanford Farm
... pipe smokers
agree with NAVY • HARVARD WASHINGTON
COLGATE
FROM the foothills to the bay” the curling tendrils of smoke from pipes loaded with Edgeworth rise to meet the sunset fire.
In the Stadium before the big games... watching spring football practice ... in the great hall of Encina . . . over on the Row and up on the Hill . . . men of Stanford give Edgeworth the preference over all other tobacco brands.
College men everywhere are turning to Edgeworth 1 In 42 out of 54 of the leading colleges and universities Edgeworth is the favorite pipe tobacco.
To win the vote of so many college men a tobacco must be good. If you’ve never tried Edgeworth, begin today! The pocket tin is only 15^. Or, for generous free sample, write to Larus 8c Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d Street, Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth Is a blend of fine old hurleys, withits natural savor enhanced by Edgeworth’s distinctive eleventh process. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms —“ Ready- Rubbed ” and “Plug Slice." All sizes, 15^ pocket package to pound humidor tin.

584
The Notre Dame Scholastic
On Down the Line
TO HAVE YOUR SLEEP and your breakfast, too]
When a few too many winks have limited your breakfast period—get the maximum nourishment in the minimum time with Shredded Wheat. Two of these biscuits swimming in rich milk are a brain and brawn food that prepare you for the day’s work and lets you start it on time. Shredded Wheat is ready to serve—so there’s no delay whether you eat at a commons, restaurant or fraternity house. And no matter how fast it is put away—it satisfies the inner man. Next time you oversleep (probably tomorrow) make up the minutes with Shredded Wheat.
. . . LON HAYMAN, Syracuse university forward, has averaged 14 points a game this season . . . “DUSTY” COOKE, New York Yankee outfielder, whom MERLE HOAG, Coast League flash, will battle for the left field job, hit only .255 last year . . . New York’s veteran of the fight game, SAMMY SHACK, has boxed in British Columbia, Panama, the Philippines, Japan, China, Australia, New Zealand and England . . . The Phils paid $15,000 for a ball player the other day . . . looks very much like another case of subsidization . . .
. . . RED FABER, who at 42 is the oldest man playing ball in the big leagues, might not have that distinction if it were not for RUBE WADDELL . . . RED and RUBE ,when at Minneapolis in 1911, engaged in one of Rube’s favorite pastimes, long distance throwing . . . RED threw his arm out and that sore limb sent him to the Western League and caused him to take up the spitball . . . and RED says it’s the spitball which has kept him in the big leagues . . .
SHREDDED
__	X
. . . SMEELER, Michigan’s breaststroke star, is credited with breaking the world’s record for the 220 in practice . . . Track men are being rounded up by the Los Angeles A. C. in an effort to cop the Olympic games out there a year from this summer . . . SAM HORWITZ, Maroon football captain, and ROLAND MACKENZIE, one of the best men in the country at backing up a line, are selling neckties on the University of Chicago campus.
. . . JOHNNY DRIVER, coach at West Virginia, says that boxing has become more popular at that school, than basketball . . . LUIS ANGEL FIRPO, the once great Wild Bull of the Pampas, is now selling automobiles ... and HOMER SMITH, the only heavyweight outside of JACK DEMPSEY whom FIRPO (DID NOT) knock out during the South American’s invasion of the United States, is now a policeman in Kalamazoo, Michigan . . . More athletes receive salaries for playing soccer and basketball than all other sports combined . . .

The Notre Dame Scholastic
585
GEORGE L. MILLER
103 North Main Street . South Bend, Indiana

Spring suits and topcoats designed by the leading style authorities and tailored to the highest standards.-
$48 and up
For those men who find trouble in getting properly fitted we offe?~ the same clothing, made-to-meastire at the same prices.
IMPORTED AND DOMESTIC MENS -WEAR
!
586
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Grotto of Notre Dame