This book is not to bo taken from the Library
I ,

The Notre DaW
Scholastic
$3.00 THE YEAR IS CTS. A COPY
NOVEMBER 10 Nineteen Thirty-three
THE SCHOLASTIC is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1865
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
James S. Kearns................
Mitchell C. Tackley..............
...Editor-in-Chief
Managing Editor
Associate Editors JOHN D. PORTERFIELD_____________EDWARD J. O’BRIEN
RICHARD B. TOBIN-------------------JOHN E. CONLEY
Departmental Editors
THOMAS J. STRITCH_________________________________The Week
JAMES T. FITZPATRICK._______________________......College Parade
RICHARD P. PREZEBEL.______________________________Staff Artist
Sports Staff
JOHN D. CARBINE__________________>	„ .
f........... Sports	Editors
EDWARD J. VAN HUISSELING________ J NICHOLAS J. CONNOR_______________HOWARD T. WALDRON
News Staff EDWARD F. MANSFIELD.-----------------------News Editor
THOMAS G. PROCTOR-------------------Assistant News Editor
JOSEPH A. BUCCI---------------------Assistant News Editor
ROY O. SCHOLZ-----------------------.ROBERT F. ERVIN
MICHAEL F. WIEDL--------------------JOHN W. WALKER
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY.--------------------PAUL J. DOYLE
GEORGE P. LEYES------------------------LOUIS R HRUBY
FRANK KELLY
Business Management JOHN F. STOECKLEY----------------------Graduate Manager
Volume LXVII
November 10,1933
No. 8
WELCOME PURDUE
Tomorrow afternoon the Purdue University football squad will meet Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish in Notre Dame Stadium. A large group of students and supporters, the greatest ever to follow the Purdue team to an out of town game will be here for the engagement.
Notre Dame extends its heartiest welcome to these visitors, to the spectators no less than to the football squad. The game will mark the renewal of a gridiron series that should be particularly cherished by both institutions. Such an intra-state rivalry is a natural one, and one that the Notre Dame student body is happy to see continued.
To the visitors: again an expression of welcome, and an assurance that anything that can reasonably and possibly be had to make your visit more pleasant is yours for the asking.
THE FOOTBALL DANCES
This isn’t part of a spend-your-money campaign. The Scholastic is not in the least interested in whether the Notre Dame student body dances or not; that choice is a personal one, to be made by the individual student.
But for those individuals who choose to dance, a word ■on co-operation may not be amiss. Tomorrow night, and again on the night of the Southern California game two weeks hence, student organizations will sponsor informal dances in South Bend. The point we wish to make is that the students who are going to dance on Saturday nights anyway, should, as a point of expediency if nothing else, do their dancing at the Notre Dame-sponsored dances. Profits accruing from these functions go to further student activities; losses incurred at them are made up out of the S.A.C.’s activity budget.
The music at the football dances is comparable to any available elsewhere on the same nights, the permissions available are just as liberal, the price is equally low, and the difference of convenience in the location of the halls is negligible. The fact that the football dances are student-sponsored should be sufficient to draw campus dance-seekers to them in preference to any competing similar dance.
November 10, 19 3 3
WISDOM FROM THE SOUTH
From the Nashville Tennesseean of Thursday morning, Nov. 2, comes the following editorial on Notre Dame during the present “national crisis” of football non-success. We present it without comment, other than a “thank you” to the Nashville editor for his indubitably sound view of facts:
Notre Dame’s Good Sense
The University of Notre Dame’s football teams have been what are technically known as headliners for a good many years past. In the ordinary course of events, Notre Dame wins wherever it goes and it goes everywhere. This year, however, the Fighting Irish have fallen on comparatively evil days and have been beaten and tied with the season only about half the way along. To one observer, at least, the reaction of students and officials at Notre Dame has been such as to emphasize sharply his former opinion that the university taught good sense and good taste along with other things. As a very general rule, at least, Notre Dame alumni have also taken their reverses in the best and sanest of spirits. All in all, it is a most excellent tribute to the university and its sons.
The facts seem to be that the Notre Dame football team this year has done its level best to win by hard, fair, fighting play. When defeat has been the portion, it has been taken for what it was worth. There has been no indication that the Notre Dame ■ football team was not getting a reasonable amount of pleasure out of this season. On the other hand, Notre Dame doesn’t like to lose any better than anybody else in this country, which is not at all. The university authorities have remained utterly sensible. The student body has given the team loyal support, and in general Notre Dame has exhibited its ability to take a few punches on the chin without crying or faltering. It is particularly commendable in Anew of the veritable hysteria of publicity and gossip that has been indulged in by outsiders; including newspapers, periodicals, and individuals. It would have been easily understandable if Notre Dame had fallen victim to the ballyhoo to some extent, but it evidently hasn’t.
One
THE WEEK
By Thomas J. Stritch
All Halloics Eve
The Eve of All Hallows, or as it is vulgarly called, “Hallowe’en,” flipped by with little notice from the campus. There was a lone pumpkin, whittled very neatly into the physiognomy of a man, gracing the Cafeteria counter; but that was the only decoration in the motif that we saw. Aside from it you wouldn’t have thought it was Hallowe’en at all. Nobody rang the bell of the Main Building and ran (and the bell of the M. B. would be a particularly fine one to ring; it has a shrill, high tinkle); nobody bashed cabbages on any of the Hall porches; there wasn’t a single spook around.
But hold. One lone spirit was not willing to let the even go by without doing something— a die-hard, if ever there was one. He armed himself with a candle, after the manner of the grade-school days, and went abroad. He drew dollar marks on a great many of the windows of the Commerce Building, and a great grinning face on the glass in the door of the Architecture Building. But it must have been a sad night for him. You remember Hallowe’en was strangely bright: there was a brilliant moon in a cloudless sky. And the University system of guiding the feet of the "wandering boy with huge lights on the exteriors of the buildings is no doubt very philanthropic, but must be rather discouraging to a man who doesn’t want to be discovered. Still, the candle was a good idea; the stuff is the mischief to remove.
But picture that lonely soul, filled with the spirit of mischief, wandering around a prosaic campus, trying to conjure up once again the magic of Hallowe’en, long ago slain by Henry Ford; then retiring disconsolately to his room just before twelve, wailing the death of old romance.
Alas, for old time piety and faith!
Wheaties
The most significant news of the week to us is the organization of the faculty volley ball league. Frankly, it ought to be a riot. If only the backers of the league could' induce the right men to come out, they could make a lot of money. We wouldn’t for the world miss seeing some of the more sedate dispensers of knowledge playing at volley-ball. But why on earth don’t they build a bowling green on the quad? Play
T wo
ing at bowls is so much more dignified than volley-ball.
But every good normal school instructor must play volley-ball; the body must be seen to.. And volleyball is not too strenuous, yet affords plenty of exercise; calls for team play of the highest order. From the game the faculty will learn how to work together to yank the full senior out of the callow freshman, working together to a common end.
And volley-ball gives us that Columbia touch. All out for up-to-the-minute, open-eyed, on-their-toes, efficient instructors!
Buckets
This is in the nature of a sacred duty. Upon a time, back in the dear, dead days when Howard Hall housed freshmen, there appeared a multitude of black smudges upon the walls of a certain corridor, made by the impact (repeated) of black rubber. The prefect stormed, said they must be off ere St. Swithin’s Day, and the boys secured buckets and brushes and got them off in the good old-fashioned way. The incident was reported in The Scholastic with great gusto; then, after the manner of youth, forgotten about.
But freshmen are still freshmen, human nature does not change, except for the whipped cream on top we are all made from pretty much the same batter, and a startled muse of history caught its tail this week in Dillon Hall when precisely the same thing happened again. What’s more, it happened to the same prefect who had cracked the whip in Howard. This time it was a rubber heel the boys were playing with (thereby giving the prefect a chance to use a perfectly priceless pun, but the wall was just as black as before. And they scrubbed and cleaned until it gleamed. ‘
We are just the instrument of fate. Quod scripsi, scribitur; and it’ll probably happen again. Progress? Bah!
•
West Is West
Of course we had our scouts down to check up on the attendance at the new Mae West picture. The first man in, right after dinner, was a member of the faculty. Then came two giggly school-girls, munching caramel pop-corn. After them came six guys from Sorin Hall, and after that, the deluge.
“Big Game” Juggler To Appear Tonight
By John E. Conley
Jacketed in a cover which might be termed the “spirit of ’33,” the Notre Dame Juggler makes its second bow of the season tonight. In keeping with the football atmosphere, it is dedicated to Coach Anderson and entitled the “Big Game” issue.
The columns have been changed somewhat, and improved over the last issue. “Caf Smoke,” profiting by an extraordinary amount of material furnished by seasonal activities down state, is particularly interesting. Bill Dreux also comes through with some local color in the vicinity of the Loop.
Not to be outdone by the coed institutions of the country, the Juggler presents a page of newcomers. The photography is the result of Joe Durkin’s handiwork, but the names of the models are left to speculation.
Of special interest to all students is a burlesque of certain dining hall characters who act as a fly in the ointment of culinary enjoyment. The caricatures are contributed by Dick Prezebel as are those for keyhole portraits.
Editor Degnan announces that Paul McManus, editor of Scrip, and Clyde Craine have been made associate editors of the humorous publication because of the excellent work they have done. Several other men have also been added to the staff in minor capacities.
Fifteen cents will make the weekend complete for any student by purchasing a copy of the Juggler either for himself or guest.
Notice To Students Holding Old Laundry Coupon Books
Students who are in possession of Laundry Coupon Books issued in previous school sessions are requested to turn them in promptly at the Secretary’s office in the Main Building. The unused value of such coupon books will be credited to the student’s account. Please do not fail to turn the' coupon books in promptly as they are available for credit for a short time only. The above does not apply to Dry Cleaning coupon books which are to be continued in use for student dry cleaning as heretofore.
NOTICE!
Because of the publication of Scrip, scheduled for next Friday, Nov. 17, there will be no issue of The Scholastic next week. The next appearance of The Scholastic will be made November 24th.
The Scholastic
Eriday, November 10
Purdue Pep meeting, gym, 6:30 p. m.
Saturday, November 11
Notre Dame vs. Purdue and Indiana, cross country, 11 a. m.; Notre Dame vs. Purdue, football, stadium, 2:00 p. m.; movie, “Topaz” with John Barrymore and Notre Dame Glee club short, Washington Hall, 6:35 and 8:15 p. m.; Purdue-Notre Dame football dance, K. of C. ballroom, 8:30 p. m.
Sunday, November 12
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, and 8:00 and 9:00 a. m.; Benediction Sacred Heart Church, upper-classmen 7:00 p. m., for freshmen and students of St. Edward’s and Lyons Halls, 7:30 p. m.; Interhall football championship game, Lyons vs. Brownson, Stadium, 2:30 p. m.; Francis Sheed, lecture, Washington Hall, 8:00 p. m.
Monday, November 13
Francis Sheed, lecture, Washington Hall 8:00 p.m.; French club meeting, Carroll Rec., 7:45 p. m.; Bookmen meeting, Law building, 6:30 p. m.; Patricians, Law building, 8:00 p.m.; Collegians’ rehearsal, Music Hall, 6:30 p. m.; Cracow Club meeting, 7:30 p. m.
Tuesday, November 14
Wranglers’ meeting, Law building, 6:30 p. m.; Italian Club, Carroll Rec., 7:30 p. m.; Educational Seminar, Law building, 6:30 p. m.; Symphony orchestra practice, Music Hall, 6:30 p. m.
Glee Club To Appear In Movie Tomorrow Night
In addition to the movie, “Topaz,” to be shown at Washington Hall tomorrow night, an added attraction will be offered in presenting a recently released short of the University Glee Club. The movie short was made by the Glee Club in Brooklyn, N. Y., last July while on -its summer tour of the eastern states.
Indiana Leads States In Representation Here
Indiana, with 460 students, climbed from third to first place in University registration this year, replacing New York, as the leading state, figures released this week by the Director of Studies reveal.
Illinois, with 409, dropped from second to third place, followng New York’s 438. Only two states are not represented: Alabama and Nevada. Ohio takes fourth honors with 164 students.
45,000 EXPECTED TO WATCH IRISH BATTLE PURDUE HERE
Purdue Rally —
In one way this was another week, but the plans formulated by the Rally Committee kept it from being just another week. Purdue rooters arriving tonight and tomorrow will be greeted by gala decorations about the campus and in the various halls, whose occupants have been vying for the prize offered by the S. A. C. to that hall which is most ingeniously and appropriately bedecked. The culmination of the week’s activity will come with the demonstration tonight.
It was previously planned to hold the great Friday night rally preceding the Purdue game in the University Stadium, but due to the inclemency of the weather, Chairman Tony Andreoni and the Rally Committee decided to use the gymnasium. Directly after supper, at 6:30, the parade of students will move from the Dining Hall along the route marked by red flares to the Gymnasium.
Besides plenty of music and cheering there are to be five speakers, Coach Heartley “Hunk” Anderson, Ed Krause, acting captain for the game, the Reverend Thomas Burke, C.S.C., and two prominent alumni: Robert E. Proctor, ’04, of Elkhart, Indiana, and “Tim” Galvin, ’16, of Hammond, Indiana. With such a program, the committee believes that the Purdue rally will attain to if not go beyond heights reached by other great Notre Dame pep meetings.
Without wishing to interfere with the individual plans of the various halls, it has been suggested by the Rally Committee that each hall be represented by banners or other similar displays in the line of march and during the Pep Meeting. Chairman Andreoni was assisted in the preparation of all plans by Don Martin, Tony Pugliese, Michael Wiedl, and Vincent Gorman.
CONTENTS
Editorials ................... 1
“The Week” ................... 2
Purdue Game .................. 3
“Scrip”....................... 4
Francis Sheed ...............  4
Student Trip ................. 5
“News of the Week” ........... 7
Linnet Show................... 7
“Man About The Campus” ....... 8
“College Parade” ............ 10
Navy Game.................... 11
Basketball Prospects ........ 11
“Introducing” ............... 12
Interhall Football .......... 13
“So They S.ay” ...........    14
“N. D. 13, Purdue 0”......... 15
KRAUSE IS CAPTAIN
By Howard T. Waldron
On a cold and dreary day in the late fall of 1923, a great Notre Dame team played the Boilermakers of Purdue and turned them back by
Ed Kkause
Leads against Boilermakers
a 23-7 score. Stationed at a guard berth in the famous line of Seven Mules was a chunky lad named Kizer. Tomorrow that lad, now a famous coach, returns to the Notre Dame-Purdue rivalry on a different side. He brings with him his undefeated Boilermakers, a team that has lost only two games since 1930, and a team that has scored in the last 42 games. These men he pits against the representatives of his alma mater and, loyal to his new school and men, hopes that his teachings will prove a success.
Noble Kizer was a freshman at Notre Dame when Hunk Anderson was knocking them* down for the first team, but tomorrow both will be on the same footing when they face each other as opposing coaches. Purdue hasn’t beaten an Irish team since 1906, from which date the Notre Dame teams have piled up eight wins over the Boilermakers. A victory for the Irish will be more than sweet after their disastrous start and will mean much because of Purdue’s imposing background.
Notre Dame will start this game with a young sophomore center named Harry Pojman, who weighs 190 pounds, playing in place of. Fred Solari and Tom “Kitty” Gorman, the regular snapper-backs who (Continued on Page 17)
November 10, 19 3 3
Thre e
“SCRIP”, EDITED BY PAUL M’MANUS, TO MAKE APPEARANCE ON FRIDAY
QUALITY IS THE KEYNOTE
By Michael F. Wiedi
A distinctly new literary trend is depicted in the initial number of Scrip, literary magazine of the University, next Friday when it graces the campus in a maroon cover. Paul McManus, editor-in-chief of the publication, has moulded essays, fiction, and writings of quality into the quarterly magazine.
“With Bar Rails and Monkeys” by Lawrence Gross is the title of one of the essays. Although a curious heading for an essay, one may form a new opinion abcut monkeys after reading it.
Last year the writing of Mattingly Spalding appeared frequently. Editor McManus wishes to surprise the readers of Scrip this season with a new type of Spalding’s work and therefore withholds the title of his contribution.
Titles seem to usurp an uncanny -position in this issue of Scrip. Robert Monahan, associate editor, presents “Swallows in the Sun.” Last year Monahan characterized “Joe Collich” in a sense that made a particular appeal to all campus readers. In this issue more humor and suaveness is apparent in his “Swallows in the Sun.”
Scrip in previous years has received recognition by many of the outstanding literary critics of the country. Edward J. O’Brien, famed for his selection of short stories, upon many occasions has placed writings which have appeared in Scrip on the best short story list.
Scrip appears next Friday and will be delivered to the various halls in the same manner as The Scholastic on other Fridays. Scrip will appear in the same size as that of The Scholastic. The makeup and design of last year will be followed.
Requiem Mass To Be Said For Paul McGannon, ’07
Tomorrow morning at 8 o’clock there will be a Requiem Mass in the Sacred Heart Church for the repose of the soul of Mr. T. Paul McGannon, ’07. The 9 o’clock Mass on Sunday will also be offered for that intention. Mr. McGannon died suddenly during the summer, apparently stricken with a heart attack. He was a director of the Alumni Association for six years. The Masses were requested by an associate of his in the New York Assembly, who, although he is nonCatholic, knows what a Mass means to a Catholic. He also asked that
Lecturer---
Francis Sheed, noted publisher, will appear before the Notre Dame students in two lectures next week. The first is scheduled for Sunday, Nov. 19, with the second on the following night, Monday, Nov. 20. “The Catholic Evidence Guild” will be discussed the first evening, and “The Modem' Idea of God,” the second.
Mr. Sheed, an Australian of Irish descent, has built up, in a few years, the successful publishing firm of Sheed and Ward in London, England. Only recently he has opened a New York branch of the same company. He is widely known as author, publisher, and co-founder of the Catholic Evidence Guild in England.
He comes to Notre Dame with the reputation of an interesting speaker. And well he might be if experience means anything, for as an apostle of the Catholic Evidence Guild he has sacrificed much of his time to deliver addresses in the streets, parks, and halls of England—explaining and defending the doctrines of our Faith.
St. Vincent Society Meets;
To Sell Linnet Show Tickets
The Saint Vincent DePaul Society held its meeting in Brownson Hall recreation room on Wednesday night. Members of the Society will sell tickets for the Linnets musical show, “Thanks For The Blow.” The proceeds from the production will be donated to the Society for charity work among the poor.
The co-operation of the student body in saving magazines and other forms of literature is improving, according to a report at the meeting. Collection of old clothing, it was decided, will be continued.
Articles discarded by the students reach the poor of the adjacent village, the inmates of St. Joseph’s hospital, and the tubercular camp, Healthwin. The Rev. John Kelly, C.S.C., superintends the distribution.
they be said at a time when many of the alumni were present at Notre Dame.
Mr. McGannon was just 46 years old and had been married last December. Some time ago he was a junior partner of Charles D. Newton. When Newton became State’s Attorney General of New York he appointed McGannon as his deputy. Mr. McGannon has also been counsel to the Milk Investigation Board and to several legislative committees.
First ‘Lawyer’ To Be Issued By McKevitt
The first issue of the Notre Dame Lawyer, quarterly publication of the Law School, will be ready for distribution the latter part of this month. Contained in this first number are articles by local professors and men prominent in the field of law. Thomas L. McKevitt, is editor-in-chief of the Lawyer.
Professor William F. Roemer, Ph.D., of the Department of Philosophy, is the author of an article entitled, “The Catholic Church and Peace Efforts.” His article will be discussed at the forthcoming regional meeting of the Catholic Association for International Peace, to be held here on Nov. 19. It will be printed in pamphlet form and distributed to members at the meeting.
Professor John W. Curran, of DePaul University, writes on “The Lincoln Conspiracy Trials,” dealing with the conflict between military and civil jurisdiction. This question has arisen recently in the case of Lieut. John Henry Cross, of the U. S. Navy, charged with manslaughter while stationed in the Canal Zone. The question of jurisdiction has apparently not been decided.
“Priorities In the Law of Mortgages,”’ dealing with assignments to previous installments which appeared in the Lawyer last year, is written by Professor William D. Rollison of the College of Law. There will be notes, book reviews, and recent decisions by Professors Cain and Earl, of the Law School, and Students Berry, Dunn, Jackson, Kilburger and Editor McKevitt.
Three articles that appeared in issues of last year’s Law school publication have been so greatly commended that they have been reprinted in pamphlet form and given wider distribution. They are: “A Great Opportunity for Lawyers,” by Dean Thomas F. Konop, of the Law school; “The Paradox of Law and Liberty,” by the Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Arts and Letters; and “Legal Pedagogy, Or What Have I?” by Professor Joseph H. Beale of Harvard University.
Professor Beale’s pamphlet will be distributed at the American Law School Association in Chicago next month. This article has induced considerable discussion looking toward a revision of the methods of presentation in the various subjects of law.
Sympathy
The Scholastic staff extends its sympathy to Professor William J. Holton, whose mother died in Chicago last Sunday.
Four
The Scholastic
Chicago Club to Hold Formal November 18
President John Quirk of the Chicago club this week announced plans for the club’s annual fall dance to be held Saturday evening, November 18, the day of the Notre DameNorthwestern football game.
The dance will be held in the Cameo Room of the Morrison Hotel in Chicago. Following the usual procedure for the dance, Quirk and General Chairman John Kiely have ruled that the affair will be formal.
Tickets Are $2.50
Music for the dance will be furnished by a leading west coast orchestra, at present playing at the World’s Fair. Negotiations with the orchestra were to be completed today. Vincent Lopez played for the club’s dance last year.
The price for the dance has been set at $2.50 plus tax. The hours are from nine until one o’clock. Reservations may be made in advance with either John Quirk, 108 Walsh hall, John Kiely, 103 Walsh hall, or with representatives in each of the campus halls. These representatives will be named in bulletins to be posted soon.
Noted Stars Will Appear In Washington Hall Movies
More movies to be exhibited soon in Washington Hall have just been announced. These features promise to be some of the finest productions yet shown. The photoplays scheduled are:
Nov. 11.—“Topaz” with John Barrymore.
Nov. 17.—“I Cover,the Waterfront” with Ernest Torrence and Claudette Colbert.
Nov. 18.—“Double Harness” starring Ann Harding and William Powell.
Nov. 25.—“State Fair” featuring Will Rogers, Marie Dressier and Janet Gaynor.
Nov. 29.—“Pilgrimage” with Henrietta Crosman.
Alumnus Writes
“The newspapers, are doing a beautiful job on ‘Notre Dame.’ Personally I’m not at all broken-hearted about the football team’s fall from the heights. Good thing for alumni, good thing for Notre Dame and good thing for the boys who ought to realize that football, after all, is only a minor part of college life.” —Charles Grimes. ’20 — Providence, R. I.
ANNOUNCE FINAL STUDENT TRIP PLANS; WILL RUN SPECIAL TRAIN
Weekends--
Following is the official University Bulletin regarding regulations for next week’s student trip:
“The Student Football Trip for 1933 will be to the Northwestern game at Evanston on November 18th.
“Those attending the game are to leave on the Student Special on Saturday morning, and must leave Chicago not later than the midnight train after the game. The rector of the hall in which a student resides must receive directly from parents, full authorization for this trip. Automobile journeys are unconditionally forbidden.
“Students will be held strictly accountable for the occupant of the seat assigned to them. Any exchange of tickets will be penalized by drastic disciplinary measures.
“Students whose homes are in Chicago and vicinity may leave for the week-end after their last class on Friday under the usual conditions governing week-ends.
“A student whose home is not in Chicago may leave the University not earlier than Saturday morning. Permission to remain in Chicago will not be extended beyond midnight of Saturday, November 18th. Weekends in Chicago may be had at other times on proper authorizations from home, but not on the occasion of this game.
“* Authorization for this weekend and for any week-end during the year must be by letter from parents to the rectors. Telegrams will not be accepted.” •
Carroll and Morrissey Halls Victorious In Debates
Carroll Hall negative’s win over Brownson affirmative and Morrissey Hall affirmative’s victory over St. Edward’s negative opened competition in the Lemmer Trophy Debates this week.
In the Carroll-Brownson debate Leo Ley, Bernie Burkart, and Richard Meier were given the decision by Rev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C. Clifford Brown, Tom Hines, and Gene Maloy won the decision in the Morrissey-St. Ed’s contest, according to the verdict of the Rev. Leo Heiser, C.S.C., Bob Myers and Dick Baker were outstanding on the losing teams, Brownson and St. Ed’s respectively.
—Beat Purdue—
“Splinters from the Press Box”: Notre Dame 13, Purdue, 0.
FARE, GAME TOTAL $5.35
Final arrangements have been completed for the student trip to Evanston, November 18. Several hundred students and faculty members are expected to be in Dyche Stadium when the kickoff occurs at 2:00 p. m. in the annual Notre Dame-Northwestern game.
The sale of Noi-thwestem game tickets improved noticeably on Wednesday of this week as students learned that weekends to other points than Chicago could be had. Campus rumors had previously given support to a supposed regulation that no weekends at all would be obtainable.
George Shields, president of the S. A. C., has announced the prices and plans upon his organization in cooperation with the Disciplinary Department. Admission to’ the game will be $2.75 and the railroad fare $2.60, bringing the total necessary round trip expense to $5.35. The special South Shore train is scheduled to leave South Bend at nine o’clock Saturday morning. However, the same tickets will be good on any train leaving every hour from Friday afternoon until noon Saturday.
The special will arrive in the Randolph Street station at 11:15. From there, elevated trains may be taken to Evanston. The S. A. C. suggests that students eat in or near the South Shore depot in Chicago rather than in Evanston. Food prices will, no doubt, be high and service slow in the North Shore town.
Round trip railroad fare as well as the game tickets may be purchased at the University Athletic Office.
Tickets for the game can not be bought here after 5:00 p. m., Monday, Nov. 13.
Purdue Football Dance To Be Held Saturday Night
The second football dance of the season will be presented tomorrow night by the senior class in the K. C. ballroom, South Bend, in honor of the Purdue visitors. Raymond F. Waters, chairman, announces that approximately two hundred couples are expected to attend.	-
The Nore Dame Collegians, reputed to be the best campus orchestra in years, will play for the dance. The ticket sale which opened early this week will conclude tomorrow noon. Maurice Rigante is in charge of the sale.
November 10, 19 3 3
Five
Plans Complete For Peace Session Here
Complete plans for the one-day (Nov. 19th) regional meeting of the Catholic Association for International Peace have been announced. The meeting, which is to be held at Notre Dame, will draw representatives from many midwestem Catholic Universities and Colleges.
The main purpose of the Conference is to discuss current world problems, the Catholic principles underlying them, their reference to college training-and national life, and the necessity of education and united action today in the Catholic program for World Peace.
The Conference will open with a High Mass at Sacred Heart Church. His Excellency, John F. Noll, D.D., Bishop of the diocese of Fort Wayne, will be celebrant and will deliver a sermon on Peace. All three sessions which follow will be held in the Faculty dining room.
Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., of the University, will open the morning discussion with a talk on “Peace in the College Curriculum.” A Symposium on “Education and Peace” will be presented following his address.
The afternoon session will feature discussions by the following men: Reverend R. A. McGowan, Assistant Director of the Social Action Department of the National Catholic Welfare Conference; Very Rev. Msgr. J. W. Maguire, C.S.V., President of St. Viator’s College; Dr. Francis E. McMahon of the Department of Philosophy at Notre Dame; and Dr. R. C. Pollock, also of the University faculty.
At the dinner meeting which concludes the program, Dr. Clarence P. Manion, Professor of Law at the University, will act as toastmaster. “Modern Nationalism” and “The Church and Peace” are the subjects of discussion selected by the speakers of the evening.
All sessions of the Conference are open to the public. Reservations for the dinner should be addressed to Rev. Charles C. Miltner, 255 Alumni Hall. All reservations must be in by 10 o’clock Sunday morning, Nov. 19.
Fr. O’Donnell at Mayo’s
The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, left Sunday evening, Nov. 5, for the Mayo Clinic in Rochester. There has been no notable change in Father O’Donnell’s condition, but his physicians want to make sure just how much the infection has been checked.
K. of C. News
By Ray Martin
At the regular meeting next Monday night there will be an exemplification of the first degree for about 35 candidates. As many members as can possibly attend are urged to do so in order that this large assembly can be handled with the proper dignity.
The Council bowling league will begin next Thursday evening, Nov. 16, at 8 o’clock, at the clubhouse of the South Bend Council. The list of teams:
I—Wenz, O’Connor, Ryan, Murphy, G., Frazier.
II—Lovely, Miller, Roach, Kennedy, Connelly.
Ill—Maffei, Honerkamp, Caccia-tore, Church, Schmidt.
IV—Fr. Reynolds,McGahren, Wolfe, Zinn, Glazner.
V—Bocskei, Rogers, McLaughlin, McIntosh, Saurville.
VI—Lannon, Quinlan, Martin, Sexton, Sullivan.
VII—Cassilo, Korzeneski, Hammer, Coyne, Clark.
VIII—McNally, Naber, Murphy, Wm., O’Neil, Von Boecklin.
No. I will play No. II, No. Ill will play No. IV, and so on. Provided all eight teams are fully represented, each team will bowl two games. For the present the charge will be 25 cents a man for the evening. This phase will be discussed at a meeting to be called in the near future. Each score sheet must be saved and will be collected at the conclusion of the second game. If any sheet is destroyed by a team, the scores appearing thereon will be lost, but in figuring the season average, the lost game will be counted as one. AI Phaneuf will settle all disputes, interpret rules, designate alleys to teams, and collect score sheets.
There will be an announcement of great importance concerning the bowling league immediately after the first degree initiation Monday, so it is desirable that all men on the teams be at that meeting.
Military Club To Hold
First Meeting Next Week
The Reserve Officers Military Club will hold its first meeting of the year on Thursday, Nov. 16, at 7:45 in Carroll “Rec.” James C. McDevitt, commandant of the club, will preside.
New requirements for membership, as provided this year by the U. S. government, are as follows:
The applicant must have served either two years as a non-commissioned officer in the National Guard or
Announce Details of Scholarship Awards
The Committee on Scholarships and Prizes will award the Roger C. Sullivan Scholarships foi' the current scholastic year, 1933-34, in January. Applicants must have been students during the schoolyear 1932-33, since the semester grades of that year will be used in determining which applicant has shown the greatest improvement in his academic work during the year. Also, the applicant, to be eligible, must have entered either the sophomore, junior, or senior class of the present schoolyear without a condition or failure.
Application for scholarship must be made in writing before December 19th to the Chairman of the Committees. The three scholarships of $250 each will be awarded to the student applicants in the present sophomore, junior, and senior classes, whose grades, in comparison with those of other applicants in the respective classes, show the greatest improvement in their studies during the second semester 1932-33, when compared with the first semester of the schoolyear, 1932-33.
The Reverend William H. Molony, C.S.C., St. Edward’s Hall, is chairman of the Committee on Scholarships and Prizes. '
Villagers To Hold Dance At Erskine Club Nov. 29
The Villager’s club held their second monthly meeting last Monday evening, Nov. 6, at Peters’ restaurant in South Bend. President John DeWilde announced the Villagers’ Thanksgiving dance which is to be held at the Erskine club house on Nov. 29. Charlie Rollins and his orchestra will furnish the music for the affair.
General Dance Chairman Jack I. Mullen appointed the various committees and their chairmen. Following the meeting during which the new members from Mishawaka were introduced and several graduates spoke, the club members attended the Granada theater as guests of the management.
had three years of R.O.T.C. training in an essentially military school or at a university or had four years of C.M.T.C. training.
Plans for the year, as formulated by the officers will be announced. Mr. Robert Riordan, University Registrar, and Professor Herbert Bott, of the College of Commerce, will again serve as faculty advisers of the club. Rev.-erend Alan Heiser, C.S.C., is chaplain.
Six
The Scholastic
Lie Detector Lecture Given Law Students
News of the Week By Paul J. Doyle
Linnets Will Present Show on Dec. 5,6,7
A “lie detector” proved that Joseph A. Laughlin, president of the Law club, had not told the truth on Tuesday night. A Northwestern University crime specialist, Charles Wilson, bore out this fact by means of the new device used in asserting whether or not a person is telling the truth when he questioned the prexy of the Law Cub concerning a certain number he had selected. In this experiment, the verification of the machine depended on an intentional lie.
The principle by which the mechanical device depicts the truth from a falsehood is based on the respiration and blood pressure of the person subjected to the test. A slight line is traced on a slowly moving graphed paper. A strap similar* to a belt is placed about the diaphragm and also a rubberized cloth is wound about the muscular part of the arm. These are connected to the machine and register the reactions made with the answering of each question.
Used As Last Resort
Approximately 18,000 cases have been submitted to the integrity of the “lie detector.” Of this number about 75% have resulted in the exact manner in which the machine registered. Such cases that are applied to this mechanism are brought forward only after nearly all other methods have failed to give satisfactory results.
Emery Smith, assistant Attorney General, of the State of Ilinois, for the past nine years, and also a member of the faculty of the Northwestern crime department, disclosed the policies of large cities in connection with their elections and the operations that go on within the hallowed walls of the city hall.
As a remedy for this malady, the speaker suggested that the President of the United States take over the work of driving out crime. “Arrest them, bring them to a trial within a day, sentence them, and continue this until the crime wave banishes,” said Professor Smith.
Joseph Laughlin, president of the Law Club, introduced the speakers. About two hundred students and the faculty of the Law College attended the lecture and demonstration of the “lie '’etector.”
Blue Circle Plans
At a meeting held last Tuesday afternoon, the Blue Circle laid plans to have their members meet visiting basketball and track teams this winter, and show them around the campus.
November 10, 19 3 3
Chubby Maxim Litvinov, Russian foreign minister, on Tuesday paid an informal visit, his first, to President Roosevelt at the White House. This opened the conferences which will determine whether or not we are to recognize Soviet Russia.
Ever since receipt of Franklin D’s note agreeing to discuss recognition, Litvinov has maintained a perfect optimism as regards the outcome. Reports of our government’s attitude tend to validate the opinion of the Muscovite. We doubt if Russian recognition will be so easily accomplished.
One of the bones of contention between the nations is the work of the Communist Internationale of Moscow. The aim of this organization is nothing more or less than the overthrow of the existing forms of government in the world.
On the very day Litvinov arrived at Washington this group published a letter to American communists in which it states, “Class feeling has already developed in America and one of the most important tasks of the communist party is to convert this into class hatred and class warfare.”
The Russians argue that they are no more responsible for the Internationale’s activities than we would be for the Democratic party if it tried to gain control in Russian politics. This is, of course, nonsense.
Back of the President’s move toward Russian recognition was the effort to relieve tension in the Far-East war threat. To put forth a friendly arm toward Russia was calculated to make Japan more cautious about attempting annexation of western Siberia.
The result was as expected, but the Japanese then transferred their “affections” to us because of this apparently unfriendly move. To placate the Nipponese, Roosevelt has withdrawn the Pacific fleet for a visit to Atlantic waters—ostensibly to perfect its maneuvers and to allow personnel from the east to visit their homes. The presence of a huge fleet in the Pacific has always been a hot coal-bed under the feet of Japanese statesmen.
Repeal of the 18th Amendment was finally settled this week when Pennsylvania, Ohio, and Utah rounded out the 36 states needed to restore personal liberty.
As the tap dancers, accordion players, piano duetists, singers, quartets, and general entertainers, swing into their second week of rehearsal for
Rev Charles McAllister, C.S.C. He answers the questions.
the forthcoming Linnet presentation, “Thanks for the Blow,” campus interest and comment reaches a new high peak. Everyone is asking: “What is this show about?” and “When is it- to be given?”
The answers to these questions have been made by Father Charles McAllister and Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, co-directors of the revue. Dec. 5, 6, and 7, are the selected dates. The revue, a representation of student talent, is focused specifically at Notre Dame student life.
Musical numbers, specialties, and unusual studies in novelty presentations are included on the program. Such campus singers and actors as Justin Tompkins, John Henry, William Casazza, George Menard, John Ryan, John Egan, Robert Butler, and a host of new lights will appear in the cast.
On the production staff of the show are William Ellis, sophomore, who is supervising the scenery making, Vincent Gorman, junior, who is general business manager, and Michael Wiedl, senior, who is general floor manager and in charge of the costuming.
Father McAllister is technical director of the production and Professor Casasanta is musical director. Several original musical numbers written especially for the show will be introduced in the presentation. The hit song of the revue, “Thanks For the Blow,” a clever character. take off, was written by Professor Casasanta.
Seven
Addresses Economic
Seminar On Hitler
Francis Linton, chairman of the Economic Seminar, presented the paper at the Seminar’s second meeting of the year held Tuesday night in the Cafe Peacock, South Bend. The members of this club meet fortnightly at a dinner down town.
“Heil Hitler” was the title of Linton’s discourse. Hitler’s rise to supremacy, and his power over the German people were analyzed. Linton also explained the attitude of the other European nations towards Germany’s withdrawal from the League of Nations. The Chancellor’s action seems to have emphasized the fact that the world needs a new means of preventing war other than the League.
At the next Seminar meeting, Nov. 21, Ruppel and Smith will present the paper “New Securities Act.”
Sixteen New Members Admitted By Patricians
Richard Ballman, president of the Patricians, presented sixteen new members to the club at its regular session, Monday night in the Law Building. Then the business of the organization was transacted.
Jack Gainer delivered the paper on Seneca and Elizabethan Tragedy. Seneca was shown to be a Stoic philosopher whose method of securing happiness was the subjection of the body to the mind. Critics, however, condemn Seneca for not following his own teachings; at that time he preached poverty, but he was worth some §15,000,000. Gainer also explained why Seneca was more popular with the Elizabethans than were the Greek tragedians. Seneca appealed to the Elizabethans for two reasons. First, he wrote in an elaborate, flashy style, and second, he stressed cruelty and bloodshed in his writings.
After a brief discussion on the paper, the club adjourned until the next meeting, Nov. 20.
Notre Dame, Purdue Bands March at Game Tomorrow
Notre Dame fans will probably enjoy their best musical treat of the season here tomorrow afternoon during the half of the Purdue-Notre Dame football game. The Purdue University band of 125 pieces, including a mammoth bass drum on wheels, will team up with the Notre Dame band of 80 regulars in providing the music and colorful band formations for the afternoon.
^Pabout the ^mPus
________________yzK.
Paul McManus comes from Boston. Boston is a small seaport town along the New* England coast. And Paul
McManus, guys, is the new Editor of Scrip. Yet despite these two disturbing handicaps Mac comes pretty close to being what all ye brutes call a “regular.”
His literary activities got their first blush of approval while he was laboring his heart away at Boston English. The
blush came from a young and alas very comely damosel who used to think Paul was quite the lad that he really is. And lest we should soften to the extent of forgetting this singular Scj'ip-worthy yarn we’ll let you have it now.
Last year Paul happened to have enough of the Mayor Curley about him to take for himself the Chairmanship of the Boston club’s annual Christmas party. And since the Club was going snooty to the extent of Brookline and Longwood Towers — well, the Chairman just had to arm his way into the frolic with one of Boston’s fanciest. So he set out with that rare nervous smile of his and came back with Jane. Jane was very well liked—in fact the fellow members seemed to have a boundless enthusiasm. Yet Mac steered his way past all the suddenly acquired pals with a wave that had a quiet and deliberative insult in it. You can expect anything from a Bostonian who has acquired the frontier spirit.
Anyway, the fellow clubmen had seen Jane. And somehow for weeks they revered Paul with the kindest of admiration and gentle inquiry. Yes, boys, Jane is fine. No, you see it’s rather a long way to have a girl come for a mere prom. All the Bostonians on campus were fighting away their ardor in sportsman-like admiration. Mac certainly had the gift—not that their challenging spirits could be completely subdued. All was going very fine for Mac. That is, for a short
Church Redecoration Reaches Last Stages
The work on the Sacred Heart Church, which was begun in the latter part of June, will not reach completion much before Christmas. Unexpected difficulties experienced in the restoration of the Gregorian paintings have prolonged the work.
By Thanksgiving, however, all the church with the exception of the apse Chapel will have been finished. The only thing that remains to be done in the main part of the church is the staining of the woodwork. The yellow color of the woodwork in the sanctuary is to be replaced with a dark walnut stain to match the pews of the nave and transepts.
In the apse Chapel the retouching of the Gregorian frescoes amounts almost to re-painting. Much of the paint of 50 years standing has cracked and faded, and still more has chipped off in the process of cleaning. Three weeks work will have to be devoted to this job alone.
The church, surveyed at completion, will present an appearance quite different from that of other years. The imitation marble of the side walls has given place to a light-gray finish— providing a much better light reflecting surface. The columns, too, have shed their imitation marble for a shade of caenstone closely similar to the sandstone of the walls.
Viewed at night the new lighting system is seen to combine with the new decorative scheme giving the church an illumination never before possible. New fixtures supplant the old lighting arrangement. Six of these new lighing units line either side of the nave, the two largest are suspended in the transepts, twelve in the sanctuary—six on each side of the altar. The fixtures are of Gothic design cast in bronze.
The original frescoes of Gregori, touched up for the first time in 50 years, and the uniform walnut stain of the wood-work will add to the other improvements in presenting a new, more beautiful, Sacred Heart Church.
while. For one day there came to the campus that solid old New England sheet, The Boston Herald. And strange as Mac liked to think it, the fair Jane was presented to the boys once more. This time as the charming bride of a handsome young naval officer.
Perhaps this accounts for the entertainingly bitter pieces by a certain Sylvester in the Juggler. At any rate, it should make this year’s Scrip the mirror of a twisted smile.
We might add that very little of this is true. Some of it is. And anyway, we thought Mac might enjoy , the story. We did.
Eight
The Scholastic
Select Fourteen For ’33-’34 Debate Squad
Fourteen men were selected last week from a group of 28 trying out, to compose the 1933-34 Notre Dame debate squad. This squad was chosen by Coach W. J. Coyne and competent judges in a series of four comprehensive tryouts held in the Law Building on the question, “Resolved: that a Constitutional amendment making permanent the powers of the President as of July 1, 1933 should be adopted.”
Max Baer, James Boyle, Joseph Be-cek, Eugene Blish, Hugh Fitzgerald, John Heywood, William Kirby, Thomas Proctor, and Robert Schmelzle are the veteran debaters of the Notre Dame squad, while Justin Hannen, Franklyn Hochreiter, Eugene Malloy, Richard Meier, and William Miller are the men added to the squad this year. Four of the debaters are seniors, six are juniors, three are sophomores, and one, Richard Meier, is a freshman.
Mr. Coyne has divided the squad into two affirmative and two negative teams. Negotiations are under way at the present time to schedule debates on Dec. 6 and Dec. 15 with Northwestern and Michigan Universities.
Judges for the tryout debates were: Rev. J. J. Fogarty, C.S.C., Mr. J. E. Armstrong, and Professors D. C. O’Grady, L. F. Buckley, F. E. Moran, E. F. Langwell, S. T. Ronay, and R. B. Riordan.	'
Manoski Reads Paper at Meeting of Cracow Club
The Cracow Club of Notre Dame held a meeting last Monday night at 7:45. Paul Manoski, a member of the club, gave an excellent paper on Polish music treating of Chopin and Paderewski in particular. He stated that the Poles were the first people to use expression in music.
Professor Charles Phillips, faculty adviser to the club, in commenting on the speech, quoted Paderewski and explained his statement, “ ‘No one has ever played Chopin properly’ because Chopin has been mostly interpreted by women.”
The club has changed the dates of their meetings to every first and third Monday nights at 7:30.
Father Geriut and Charles Karn-asiewicz, secretary of the club, spoke to a meeting of the Amalgamated Societies of Poles in Mishawaka last Sunday. The officers of this association requested that the Cracow Club be represented at this meeting.
Novemb er 10, 19 3 3
Hruby Asks Co-operation Of Seniors on “Dome” Photos
Very little progress has been made on senior pictures for the Dome this wreek. Therefore, Editor Hruby is issuing a special call to the seniors to have their pictures taken soon. As the time for taxing the pictures is limited by a contract with the photographer it will be necessary to keep the final date which has been announced.
In order to obtain a good picture for the Dome, Hruby urges the senior - to have his picture taken this week. There will undoubtedly be a great rush during the last week therefore all the photographs taken - in that time will have to be rushed and will not be as satisfactory as ones taken slowly.
The men who have applied for positions on the Dome staff ancT who have not yet heard from the Dome can expect to be called in the near future as work has progressed to that point where assistance will be needed.
Bookmen Hold Meeting;
Ed Murphy Reads Paper
The scheduled meeting of the Bookmen was held Monday night. A report on the club finances and on the new books was made by the secretary, Ed Kilmurry. After a. short business discussion, Edward Murphy read a paper on ex-patriats, or American authors who are living abroad. Mr. Murphy contended that the foreign influence had a decided effect upon their literary work. He concluded by saying that the great American novel will never, in all probability, be written by an American on foreign soil.
In the discussion that followed, President Murphy found few supporters of his theory. Most of the members agreed that geography or environment has little to do with outcroppings of esthetic genius and that life in a foreign country may give a certain perspective that cannot be gained otherwise.
Many Students Attend
Vatican Movie Thursday
An unusual movie, “The Shepherd of the SevenHills,” was presented last night in Washington Hall. The theme of this production is based upon the Vatican City and the activities of Pope Pius XI.
The feature gave a fine panorama of Rome and its interesting historical places. It also showed many interior views of the Sistine Chapel, the Vatican art gallery, and the sacred museum.
Course In Foreign
Education Planned
The Department of Education is offering a new course this coming semester in Comparative Education— Education 226, carrying three semester hours of credit. It will be a study of the educational system of foreign countries, both theory and practice, compared with that of the United States with special reference to those European countries using the schools in their programs of nationalism, notably Russia, Germany and Italy.
This course has not been offered since the summer of 1928, when it was given as a Seminar by the Rev. Francis Cunningham, C.S.C. who will again act as instructor. Father Cunningham made a study of the educational systems of Canada in 1926 and of France, Germany, Belgium and England in 1927.
Although the course is primarily for graduate students, it is recommended as an elective to juniors and seniors who wish to become acquainted with the school as one of the chief agencies of social control in the present day world. There are no prerequisites.
Pharmacy Club Plans
Movie; Open Meeting
William J. Kenney, president of the Pharmacy Club, presided at its regular meeting held Tuesday night in the Chemistry building. Several items of business were discussed and passed upon by members of the organization.
Plans are under way for an open meeting to be held in the hear future. Members of the South Bend Pharmacy Club will probably be invited to attend this gathering. A report was given of the display arranged by the Pharmacy Department at the N.R.A. Exposition in South Bend last week. The club has decided to sponsor a movie early in December. This movie is released by Eli Squibbs & Sons of New York, and features the manufacture of cod-liver oil.
Dr. L. H. Baldinger, head of the Pharmacy Department, addressed the club during the session. He outlined the opportunities which are open to the student after graduation from college.
Mrs. O’Connell Dies
The mother of Ambrose O’Connell, ’07, was buried in Ottumwa, Iowa, Monday morning. Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C., represented the University. Mr. O’Connell was secretary to Father Morrissey, then president of the University, when he was a student. He is now special assistant to Postmaster General Farley.
Nine
Fr. Miltner Talks at Educational Seminar
“Pragmatism and its Educational Implications,” was the subject of a talk given by the Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., to the members of
Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C. “Pragmatism is anti-intellectualism”
the Educational Seminar at its weekly meeting Tuesday evening. The Reverend William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., is conductor of the seminar.
“Pragmatism is anti-intellectualism,” stated Father Miltner, in outlining the history of the movement. Descartes in the 17th century, he continued, pointed the way to total skepticism, as reached later by Hume. To him nothing was but phenomenon. Kant then attacked the subject saying that whatever is universal is discovered by the mind through the appearances of things. Kant, Father Miltner pointed out, was aiming at absolutism.
Quotes Sheldon And James
Quoting Professor Sheldon, Father Miltner said, “Pragmatism is the genus of thinkers called radical empiricists. They make truths subordinate to the beliefs of life.” Empiricism further says that experience is the only source of knowledge. William James calls Pragmatism “a new word for the old way of thinking.”
Father Miltner concluded the talk by stating that Pragmatism is thinking only for the sake of doing, and it makes man, through his individualism, the measure of all things and his mind the highest court of judgment for right and wrong.
College Parade
By James T. Fitzpatrick
Our football friends always told us that there were two reasons for sending the STANFORD eleven scampering over this great continent. Reason one: It built up gridiron interest and therefore gate receipts. Reason two: Intersectional games prove which team is the national best. Why this must be demonstrated is never made quite clear; but enough that the national champion is thus selected.
But yesterday a STANFORD tackle suffering from an injured ankle was sent East. By no stretch of heroics can he play. He was sent because he “deserved” to go.
That sounds as if trips were doled out as rewards for sendees rendered. If this is the case, then the boys surely are underpaid. Three trips for a season’s beating is indeed poor compensation. The Fuller Brush salesmen get better than that.—The Stanford Daily.
A story from the Education Sun reaches us of the meanest man in the world. He is a professor at SYRACUSE, who, while recovering from an appendicitis operation, gave lectures in bed to his chemistry students with the aid of a microphone, telephone exchange and loudspeaker.
While a new school building is being constructed at Harco, Ill., the upper classes are being held in the Red Onion dance hall.
The secret of the UNIVERSITY of SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA’S success! “Rosenberg Doped to Start Tomorrow’s Tilt.” (Headline in Daily Trojan.) Give him an extra shot for us, Mr. Jones—The Daily Californian.
Also from The Daily Cal: The frosh society reporter phoned the ALPHA TAU OMEGA house for social news last night. A pledge answered and she asked him for the dope. The pledge called an upper-classman. The question was repeated. The upperclassman called the house manager. The house manager didn’t know, but he would call the house president. The house president hesitated. “Well,” he said thoughtfully, “a few of the fellows are going to take baths Saturday night.”
Captain Rollie Halfman and Floyd Ronzani, of MARQUETTE, are employed in a Milwaukee brewery and are training on beer with the permission of their coach and team physician.—Purdue Exponent.
Prof. Pettit Writes
Probation Article
“If probation officers and such recreational organizations as these cooperate in reaching delinquent gangs and providing them with the activities they need, I believe that almost every gang could be rehabilitated,” states Maurice L. Pettit, assistant professor of Sociology at the University here and probation officer, St. Joseph County Juvenile Court, in an article which he contributed recently to the Probation magazine, the official bulletin of The National Probation Association.
In this article, Professor Pettit treats of the various methods that might be employed and those that have been employed in conjunction with the rehabilitation of the delinquent gang. The research for his data covers a period of some five years of work in the vicinity of South Bend. This work has been accomplished in connection with the probation department of the University.
Gang Leaders Are Capable
Leaders of “gangs” are capable leaders and have the potentiality of accomplishing much good if the incentive is maneuvered into the right path. Also, if the activities of a youth can be trained correctly in time, the possibility of “gang” attraction will be lessened.
Therefore it is important that communities large enough to foster movements that will handle the problem of furnishing their youths with something profitable. Such organizations as the Boy Scouts and the YMCA’s have played an important part in this work of caring for the younger generation.
In another part of the writing the following statement is found, “The South Bend Juvenile Court is exceptionally fortunate in having on its staff student trainees from the University of Notre Dame. These young men through skillful suggestion interest the gangs in the proposed recreational program to which such an extent that the boys actually request the worker to go with them into the recreational program which it had been previously determined would fit their particular needs.”
French Club
The French Club will hold a meeting at 7:45 Monday night in Carroll Rec. The Reverend Augustine Seguin, O.S.D., will address the club. John J. Ryan and William Ellis are in charge of the arrangements for this meeting.
The Scholastic
Ten
| ATHLETICS
Keogan Sees Tough Season For Cagers
BORRIES’ TOUCHDOWN GIVES NAVY FIRST WIN OVER IRISH
“Every game on our 24 game schedule will be a hard battle.” That is Coach George Keogan’s estimate of of the Notre Dame 1933-34 basketball schedule.
Doctor Keogan believes that the Irish will have another strong team which may lose several games but will win the majority of contests it plays. He does not expect to produce a team of world beaters but he does think that Notre Dame will give every outfit on the schedule a tough game.
Keogan has four regulars from last year’s quintet around whicn the team will be built. Captain Ed Krause, All-American center, Joe Voegele, a forward who was second only to Krause in last year’s scoring, Johnny Jordan who saved several games last year with baskets at opportune moments, and Leo Crowe, a strong defensive guard, will be available to Coach Keogan. Only Captain Johnny Baldwin and Leo Keating have been lost from last year’s team.
Fourteen Home Games
The Fighting Irish will start the season with the distinct handicap of having its captain missing. Captain Ed Krause will not conclude his football activities until Army game on Dec. 2 and will hardly be in shape for the opening hoop game with Kalamazoo on Dec. 4. Other football men who will not be available at the start of the season are Marty Peters, Don Elser and Al Costello.
Fourteen home games many of which are with the leading teams of the country feature the Irish schedule.
During the Christmas vacation, Coach Keogan will take his team to Peoria, Illinois to play Bradley Polytechnical Institute. Peoria is the home town of both Joe Voegele and Marty Peters who will be playing for the Fighting Irish.
The traditional games with Northwestern will be played on Dec. 9 at Notre Dame and on Dec. 30 at Evanston. These games will be the 19th and 20th games in the series between the two schools.
On Jan. 4, the University of Arizona comes to Notre Dame to meet the Irish. Arizona has one of the strongest teams in the Rocky Mountain district and is expected to give the Irish a hard battle.
November 10, 19 3 3
History —
1896—Notre Dame, 22; Purdue, 28 1899—Notre Dame, 10; Purdue 10 1901—Notre Dame, 12 ; Purdue, 6 1902—Notre Dame, 6 ; Purdue, 6 1904—Notre Dame, 0; Purdue, 36 1905—Notre Dame. 0; Purdue, 32. 1906—Notre Dame, 2 ; Purdue, 0 1907—Notre Dame, 17 ; Purdue, 0 1918—Notre Dame, 26 ; Purdue. 6 1919—Notre Dame, 33 ; Purdue, 13 1920—Notre Dame, 28 ; Purdue, 0 1921—Notre Dame, 33 ; Purdue, 0 1922—Notre Dame, 20; Purdue, 0 1923—Notre Dame, 34; Purdue, 7
Totals: Notre Dame, 243; Purdue, 144. Notre Dame xxon 9, lost 3, tied 2.
After a lapse of nine years Notre Dame and Purdue will resume relations on the gridiron this year for their fifteenth meeting since the inception of the drawn out series in 1896. Fifteen games have been played in the span of 37 years, and at this point the Irish boast eight consecutive victories over the Boilermakers. The string began in 1906 with a 2 to 0 win after Purdue had swamped the Blue and Gold on the two previous meetings, 32 to 0 and 36 to 0.
All the contests with the Black and Gold team are so far removed from the present era of Notre Dame that they bear little interest to the student body except for the part Coach Hunk Anderson played in turning back the squad from Lafayette in 1921 when the Irish massacred them, 33 to 0. In that tussle Hunk was the individual star. He made a good share of the Notre Dame tackles and in general played a corking good defensive game. On offense Hunk stole the show from George Gipp, Notre Dame immortal, by scoring two touchdowns, which is a good days work for a guard in any league.
Hunk’s first six pointer occurred when he fell on a blocked punt behind the goal line. His second touchdown materialized when he picked up an enemy fumble and raced 25 yards for a touchdown.
In 1920 George Gipp once again stood out in the contest with the Boilermakers. His toe accounted for three points after touchdown. Standing on his own 30 yard line in punt formation early in the game Gipp fooled (Continued on Page 13)
N.D. OUTPLAYS GOBS
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
A crowd of 50,000 spectators witnessed the most peculiar game of the season last Saturday at Baltimore where the Navy eked out a 7 to 0
Johnny Young
Eighty-eight yards in 22 attempts.
victory over Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish.
It was another case of the winner being on the offensive just long enough to register the points necessary to come out on top. The Midshipmen were pushed and shoved around between the 20 yard lines for three quarters and so completely outclassed in the first half that it seemed only a matter of when Notre Dame would start the touchdown parade.
The parade came; but it was Navy and not the Irish that were the instigators. The net result was a touchdown scored by Buzz Borries from the two yard line.
Statistics prove the Irish superiority in every department with the exception of punting. Steve Banas did the Irish punting, most of his boots taking place in the third quarter from behind his own goal line and into the wind. To increase these troubles were the charging Navy linemen who forced the Notre Dame full back to hurry each kick.
Notre Dame ran 58 running plays (Continued on Page 14)
Eleven
Spartans Hand Irish Harriers First Loss
Introducing...
Wildcats And Irish To Meet Next Week
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
After recording two victories in as many starts, at the expense of Carnegie Tech and Pittsburgh, the Notre Dame cross country squad travelled to East Lansing, Michigan last Saturday where they experienced their first defeat at the hands of the Spartan team, composed of the best in the business, which took the Irish by the count of 19 to 37.
The Blue and Gold were given only an outside chance of measuring State, but they didn't even come that close. The victory was equally impressive as the score indicates.
Michigan State placed men in the first four places. Ottey crossed the finish line first. Hammer, Pongrace, and Bechtould wound up second, third, and fourth respectively.
Leo MacFarlane with a fifth was the first Irish runner to complete the four mile course. Eddie King, winner of the Pittsburgh encounter, placed sixth. Joe Young and Norman Duke were close behind Eddie when they reached for their sweat clothes. A mob of Spartans followed these Irish trotters to capture all but thirteenth position which was taken by Red Grimes of the Irish.
Tomorrow Coach John P. Nicholson’s crew will play host to Purdue and Indiana in a triangular meet that should be closely contested. The Irish runners will have to buck such opposition as Popejoy, Purdue ace, and Charles xxornbostel, the cream of the Big Ten at middle distances. The runners will start with the gun at 11:00 tomorrow morning.
—Beat Purdue—
Weather Delays Finals
In Fall Tennis Tourney
. The much drawn out fall tennis tournament was still in existence early this week mainly because of the icy blast that hit here on Tuesday. At that time the finals in the fall tourney doubles were to be played. In the semi-final round Captain John O’Hanlon and Dick Kelly, varsity aces, eliminated Cashman and Pendergrast, and Wetldon and Fallon, the latter the singles champion defeated Waldron and Waldron to earn the right to compete in the finals with the varsity pair.
—Beat Purdue—
Purdue Broadcast
Stations WBBM, Chicago; WKBF, Indianapolis, and WSBT, South Bend will broadcast the Notre Dame-Pur-due football game Saturday afternoon. Both broadcasts will begin at 2 p. m.
By John D. Carbine
When Hunk Anderson took over the head coach’s job at Notre Dame, he was faced with many difficult problems not the least of which was the finding af a varsity fullback. Joe
Stephen P. Banas
He left at H-0.
Savoldi, Moon Mullins, Dan Hanley and Bucky O’Connor, the ranking fullbacks of the 1930 team had all left school.
After trying out several men at the position, Anderson finally decided that Stephen P. Banas of East Chicago, Indiana was best suited for the job. And Hunk was not wrong in his estimate.
Banas started the season against Indiana in the backfield with Marchy Schwartz, Joe Sheeketski and Charley Jaskwhich. He remained a regular throughout the season and played his best football of the year in the Southern California game. Banas’ twisting, weaving run of 62 yards from his own 35 to Southern California’s three-yard line placed the ball in position for an Irish score. When Banas left the game at the end of the third quarter, Notre Dame was leading 14 to 0. Fourteen minutes later a freshman manager came into the locker room and told Steve that U. S. C. had just kicked the field goal which gave thema 16-14 lead.
Last year Steve alternated at the fullback post with George Melinko-vich. In the Army game Banas played the best football of his career. In the closing minutes of the first half with Notre Dame in possession of the ball on Army’s 35 yard line, Jaskwhich called for a pass by Banas on a fake punt formation. Army linemen crashed through, rushed the Irish fullback and forced him to fade back to midfield and to within one foot of (Continued on Page 20)
1889—Notre Dame 9; Northwestern 0 1899—Notre Dame 12; Northwestern 0 1901—Notre Dame 0; Northwestern 2 1903—Notre Dame 0; Northwestern 0 1920—Notre Dame 33; Northwestern 0 1924—Notre Dame 13; Northwestern 0 1925—Notre Dame 13; Northwestern 10 1926—Notre Dame 6; Northwestern 0 1929—Notre Dame 26; Northwestern 6 1930—Notre Dame 14; Northwestern 0 1931—Notre Dame 0; Northwestern 0 1932—Notre Dame 21; Northwestern 0
Totals: Notre Dame 148; Northwestern, 24. Notre Dame—Won 9, Lost 1. Tied 2.
Tradition of thirty-two years standing will be at stake next Saturday when the Fighting Irish travel to Dyche Stadium to meet the Wildcats of Northwestern. About the only long term tradition of Notre Dame football that hasn’t been broken this season is that of the Northwestern rivalry. Not since 1901 has an Irish team been beaten by the Wildcats and in this instance the margin of victory was_a safety. The Irish will aim to carry through this unbroken record despite their season’s record.
Both teams have something in common. The only win to each record and the only score by each offense was made against the Hoosiers of Indiana. Northwestern won 25-0, while Notre Dame was victorious 12-2. The seasonal record of the two teams is about equal, although both have shown occasional flashes of brilliance. Last week against Minnesota, the Wildcats tossed away a victory by repeated fumbling, while down in Baltimore the Irish steam-rollered the Navy, but made no headway in the scoring column.
Last year the Irish were started on their victory path by George Me-linkovich’s 98 yard run for a- touchdown on the opening kickoff. But the Wildcats weren’t disheartened.
Northwestern’s forward wall is not a big or great one, but at times they have shown plenty of power and charging ability. Al Kawai, former quarterback, is playing at guard and doing a fine job. The star of the defense is Edgar “Eggs” Manske, the veteran end. Manske plays a crashing game and has kept Northwestern in the running with superior elevens this fall. If Manske can be checked, the Wildcat defense will falter. Ollie Olson, the greatest punter in the Conference, and Wally Cruice are the offensive stars. Sullivan, Leeper, and Auguston, lend speed to the running attack. The Northwestern offense will be primarily a passing one with Jens and Manske, the ends, on the receiving end of the play.
Twelve
The Scholastic
Reserves Win Opener From Jordan College
For the first time in the last two years, the Notre Dame Reserve team journeyed from the campus for a football game and returned with a victory to its credit. Jordan College of Menominee, Michigan, was the opponent last Sunday afternoon upon whom the Irish inflicted a 26-0 defeat.
Five thousand excited fans jammed the confines of Jordan field to see the Reserves perform in real Notre Dame style. With a running attack that clicked because of good blocking, the Bees rolled up four touchdowns and stopped every enemy thrust at its line. The entire squad of 22 players saw action with each team making two of the scores.
Al Costello, left halfback, was the high scorer of the game with a touchdown and two conversions to his credit. Costello made his score on a short plunge over center as the first quarter ended. Joe Beach, fast little right halfback, made the second score on an end run that climaxed a march early in the fourth quarter. The last two markers came shortly afterward on runs by Ed Caldwell, quarterback, and Clark, right halfback.
Shrenker And jehle Star
Paul Shrenker and Frank Jehle gave a great exhibition of line play both defensively and offensively against this outfit, which tied the Northwestern “B” team 6-6. Shrinker, playing at guard, opened the holes and paved the way for end runs, while Jehle blocked two of the Jordan punts.
On Saturday, while the varsity tackles Purdue at home, the Reserves will travel to North Manchester, Indiana, to meet Manchester College. A notice of particular interest to the Reserves is the announcement that on Thanksgiving Day they will journey to Rochester, New York, to meet St. Bonaventure’s College.
—Beat Purdue—
Fencers Exhibit Their Skill In Practice With Illinois
Seven members of the University fencing team went to Champaign, Illinois last Friday for a joint practice session with the swordsmen of the University of Illinois. The men who made the trip as the guests of Herbert Craig, the Illinois coach, were: foils, John Caresio, David Ryan, Paul Maresdeck, Louis Grosso and Antelo deLandero. Professor Pedro deLandero, coach of the Notre Dame team, was very pleased with the showing of his men against the Illinois fencers who hold the championship of the Big Ten.
LYONS AND BROWNSON TO MEET FOR INTERHALL TITLE SUNDAY
Illini Avenge Earlier
Defeat By La Raza, 3 to 1
Reversing a previous defeat, the University of Illinois soccer team downed the La Raza club of Notre Dame by a score of 3-1 last Saturday morning at Urbana, Illinois. Earlier in the season at Notre Dame, the La Raza hooters defeated the Illini by a 2-1 score.
The husky Illini were too fast for the clever La Raza players and started on their way to victory early in the first quarter. Rumana, right halfback, scored the first tally on a long low kick from the side of the field. Play during the next period was scoreless, but the Illini solved the opposition’s defense in the third quarter. Priddle and Hayes increased their advantage and gave them more than a winning margin.
The sole La Raza tally came in the last quarter when Carlos Yri-berry, center halfback, sped goalward on a dribble-in shot and booted the ball past the outstretched fingers of the Illinois goalie, McMahon.
This was the third consecutive loss for the Latin-American players who lacked their usual skillful passing attack and put up a raged defense. Part of this poor play may be attributed to a high wind which blew across the field, but it should have hampered the Illini just as much. Leo Brias and Captain Valdes, usually the sparkplugs of the La Raza attack, were held in check by the Illinois team and the Spanish boys failed to function.
The lineup:
LaRaza	Illinois
Benavides -----------G.-------------McMahon
Busqueta ------------RRB______________ Cohn
Valdes (c) ..........LFB........ Schachtman
Bonet ....................  RH._____ Rumana
Yriberry,	M --------CH---------- Strezepek
Creel, E.....................LH___ Forsberg
Hoyos -----------------------RW______ Morse
Gomez _____________________.RF._____Priddle
Yriberry,	C.—CF (c) Anderson
Brias ..................... LF.____ Jackson
Singson .....................LW______ Hayes
—Beat Purdue—
HISTORY
(Continued from Page 11)
everyone, including Rockne, by running with the ball. He wound up 70 yards away, across the Purdue goal line. Performances like this and general flashy play earned him a place on every All-American team that year.
The last game played against the down state team occurred in 1923, the year before the Four Horsemen came into their own.
ARE TO PLAY IN STADIUM
By Nick Connor
A lengthy pass in the closing minutes of the first quarter gave the freshmen from Brownson a 6 to 0 victory over Dillon. By virtue of this win Brownson will meet Lyons for the championship of the interhall league. The play-off will be held in the stadium on Sunday, with the kick-off scheduled for two o’clock.
Prior to Brownson’s victory Dillon lead the first division by one point, but after their setback last week the champions of the Main building forged to the front and finished the season with a one point lead over the Dillon aggregation. In Group II, Lyons found little opposition from the other teams comprising their division, consequently they lead their section by a much greater margin than did Brownson.
About all that can be said of the Brownson-Dillon game is that it was all Brownson. With but one minute remaining in the first quarter, M. Tuck faded back and heaved a 35-yard pass to his brother, R. Tuck, who was standing in the end zone. Four other times during the course of the game Brownson forged deep into Dillon territory but lost the ball on intercepted passes.
Alumni Wins Thriller
In the other game in the first group Freshman hall won on a forfeit from St. Edw’ard’s.
Those who witnessed games played by teams of the second group were treated to three good games of football. Alumni won a thriller from Howard 6 to 0.
The grid teams from Badin and Walsh battled through four quarters of scoreless play, although there were many numerous long runs by the backs of both teams. “Beanie” Cav-endar’s broken field running and the fine defensive play of “Lefty” Dunn featured the game.
Johnny Ffrench’s well trained Lyons eleven proved to be too much for the seniors from Corby, as they fell before the sophomores 13 to 7. Ed Herold playing at right end, led the sophs on defense by making one hard tackle after another that shook the Corby backs from head to foot. On the offense, Lyons was pushed to the front by the ever plunging Dick Schmidt, whose play has been steady throughout the year.
Lyons made both of their scores in the second quarter on line plunges. The seniors’ tally came late in the third quarter when Pahnisani tossed (Continued on Page 16)
November 10, 19 3 3
Thirteen
So They Say
somewhat extensive nose help overhearing their conv
“ ‘Gee,’ one of them
‘Ain’t it terrible about N<
“Standing in the vestibule of the subway the other morning were two young men—with my elbows jammed into their ribs and as their conversation carried on across the point of my I couldn’t ersation.
remarked, itre Dame.
Losing games that way—why, pretty soon they’ll be dropping right out of the league.’
“The other chap was apparently a little more erudite.
“ ‘Can’t win ’em all,’ he remarked philosophically. “That’s the trouble with them colleges. They develop a couple of fellows so they’re really good—and then they let ’em graduate.’
“ ‘Yeh, but Notre Dame is big league stuff,’ the first speaker put in. ‘I never did pay much attention to colleges, anyhow. But Notre Dame—’
“ ‘But Notre Dame is a college you sap. They’ve got a law school and a scientific school and a—well, it’s a college.”
“The first speaker’s jaw dropped. ‘A college? Notre Dame a college? Heck, I thought Notre Dame was a football team!’
. Personally I can’t get as excited over these Notre Dame defeats as do a lot of people. Being a Hoosier myself too, I like to see those Indiana teams come through. But being a Hoosier too, I know that Notre Dame has something besides a football team.
TO THE BIG GAME
NOTRE DAME vs. ARMY
Round Trip to $0X10 New York . . .	—
Follow your team to the big game, by Greyhound Bus. Congenial crowd—comfortable, cushioned chairs — schedules conveniently timed. You’ll save money and have a pleasant, scenic trip.
Go Together
Get the whole crowd together! Save money by chartering a Greyhound bus— direct to the Stadium.
GREYHOUND
UNION BUS DEPOT 133 S. Lafayette Tel. 3-8283 Campus Agent ~ ART SANDUSKY 155 Alumni Hall Phone: Off-Campus Office
It has a fine tradition for college work and scholastic attainment; it has broad-minded, deep-thinking professors; it has a fine background of educational achievement.
“And if it should perchance, lose a few of those followers who have adopted it because of athletic prowess, that might be all right too. Your real Notre Dame alumni take a pride in the football team, of course—but your real alumnus realizes, too, that there’s something bigger and finer than that —something that will endure long after football is dropped entirely.”— Ford Frick in the New York Evening Journal of Nov. 1, 1933.
,	—Beat—
“One desperate heave into the biting air, one perfect sweep around an end, and tonight there flashed the word to America’s fighting ships and seamen everywhere that Navy had beat Notre Dame 7 to 0.
“It was the sailors’ greatest gridiron triumph since Army was last beaten in 1921.
“This defeat was the third on successive Saturdays for Hunk Anderson’s green-shirted men, without a point being scored in that time. It was a tortuous day for a team that could do everything but score touchdowns.
“It was a magnificent display of power that kept the sailors on a desperate defensive.” — Edward J. Neil (Associated Press in the New Haven Register of Nov. 5.
—Purdue—
“A man bit a dog this afternoon. That is to say that the Navy football team licked Notre Dame for the first time in a series of seven annual football games. And that is news.
“..........The naval cadets then stood off a furious sustained fight which for pressure and sullen power exceeded anything that any crowd is likely to gaze upon this year and defended their lead to the close.
“. . . . Notre Dame was great until the resistance hardened. Then the resistance was greater than they were.” —Westbrook Pegler in the Chicago Tribune of Nov. 5.
—Beat Purdue—
“The Notre Dame backs hit fast and hard, and it took from four to five Navy players to pull them down time and time again. They have a beautiful blocking line and coordinate for first down after first down until they begin to smell a touchdown. Then the tension asserts itself and the mechanical mistakes begin.
“Instead of playing cool, collected football they are trying too hard, both for themselves and for Hunk Anderson.”—Edgar E. (Rip) Miller, Navy Coach, in the Chicago Tribune of Nov. 7.
NAVY GAME
(Continued from Page 11)
and 24 passes from scrimmage for a grand total of 412 yards and piled up 22 first downs; while Navy had possession of the ball only long enough to run off a total of 28 plays, forward passes included, for 62 yards and four first downs.
The third period, the most fruitful for Navy, found the sailors in Irish territory throughout. Harbold kicked off to Devore who returned the ball 17 yards before he fumbled bn the Notre Dame 47-yard mark. On the second Navy play, Gordon Chung-Hoon skirted the left end for 20-yards before being downed by Captain Ray Brancheau on the 15-yard stripe. A bad pass from center set the sailors back on the 34 and ended their first of three scoring threats.
After an exchange of punts gave the ball to Navy on the Notre Dame 37, Clark provided the turning point of the struggle with a coffin corner kick that eased out on the Irish 5-yard line. Steve Banas booted into the wind up to the 32 where the ball hit and rolled back toward the Irish goal before Banas downed it on the 15-yard stripe.
Mazziotti Recovers Fumble
Clark moved through center for a yard and followed this up with a pass to Borries who was hit hard on the 2-yard line. Clark crashed center for another yard. Buzz Borries circled the end on the next play, was out in the clear, but fumbled as he crossed the goal line, Tony Mazziotti recovering for Notre Dame on the one-half yard line.
Banas once more kicked through ''the arms of the onrushing linesmen out to his 17-yard line. Baumberger tossed a pass to Borries on the second play for a first down on the two-yard line. Borries took the ball on the next play and circled his own left end for a touchdown. Bull (not too much emphasis on the “bull”) was sent in for the expressed purpose of kicking the extra point which he did with Lee holding the ball.
The quarter ended a few moments later and with the start of the final period Notre Dame made its biggest threat to score. Leonard intercepted Baumberger’s pass on the 18-yard line to start the march. Banas’ first pass was no good, but his next heave, this one to Pilney, made it first down on the Notre Dame 49-yard stripe. Banas failed to hit his mark on the next two passes but Johnny Young caught his third one for a first down on the Navy 26. Andy Pilney sneaked through left tackle for 11 yards and another first down.
The next three plays gained only four yards. On fourth down, Navy
(Continued on Page 15)
Fourteen
The Scholaslic
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
N. D. 13, PURDUE, 0
For the first time this season we think there is reason for explaining a pre-game forecast. We’re picking the Fighting Irish to beat Purdue tomorrow by a decisive margin.
On some of our past predictions of Notre Dame games, we have discovered that the campus reaction was that, because it might violate tradition, we would not pick the Irish to lose. Such a view on today’s forecast would be completely inaccurate.
We have never seen a team that has faced continued adversity with better spirit or more staunch courage. Those qualities always carry a reward. When they are coupled with real football ability, the reward inevitably turns up in the form of a victory.
The present Notre Dame team has demonstrated real ability — they pushed Navy around as no other team has done this year. But a series of bad breaks—that’s what they were —prevented an Irish triumph.
It is an ill wind that blows no good and a long lane that never turns and it is unbelievable that a fine football team will go through six games without breaking loose sometime. We think it’s due tomorrow.
It will be a tough fight. It will take courage but the Irish have that. Ability, and they have that too. The right plays, and they have plenty of them. And a world of support, and the student body will furnish that. So we’re back where we started: we hope, feel, and believe that Notre Dame can and will beat Purdue.
—Beat—
NAVY NOTES
There is a Santa Claus! Just ask ■ a midshipman. We’re not trying to belittle the Navy victory; they had a good team, a" fighting team, and an alert team. But when any eleven, outscored in first downs 21 to 4, wins a football game, they must admit that the old gentleman of the chimneys had something to do with it.
From the Notre Dame offensive angle: Johnny Young certainly was the ball-carrying luminary of the day. But how about Nick Lukats’ blocking? No back could amass 88 yards without some help. If it wasn’t the left halfback doing the blocking, who was it? Not that the others didn’t help.
Henry Pojman was certainly the most unsung hero of the afternoon. Breaking into his first varsity game under the strain of knowing he had to make good because the two other centers were injured, the sturdy soph
omore pivot man played flawless offensive football the entire second half.
—Purdue—
SCORECASTS
Last week: 19 winners, five losers, four ties. The teams that fooled us by winning when we picked them to lose, and the scores of their games, were as follows: Navy (7-0), Tulane (7-0), Yale (14-13), St. Mary’s (13-6), and Vanderbilt (9-6).
Our record for the season now stands: 111 winners, 34 losers, 18 ties. The average is still .681. That is figured with the ties counted as losses. For this week, 31 more guesses:
NOTRE DAME 13, PURDUE 0.
East
Army 14, Harvard 0.
Syracuse 13, Brown 7.
Colgate 20, Ohio Northern 0.
Navy 13, Columbia 7.
Princeton 14, Dartmouth 6.
Fordham 13, New York University 0.
Holy Cross 7, Manhattan 0.
Ohio State 13, Pennsylvania 6.
Georgia 13, Yale 0.
, Pittsburgh 13, Duquesne 7.
Mid-W est
Carnegie Tech 7, Michigan State 0.
Marquette 7, Creighton 0.
Kansas State 13, Iowa State 0.
Northwestern 7, Illinois 6.
Chicago 13, Indiana 0.
Michigan 14, Iowa 0
Nebraska 20, Kansas 0.
Oklahoma 14, Missouri 0.
Wisconsin 7, West Virginia 0.
South
Georgia Tech 13, Florida 7.
Tulane 13, Mississippi State 0.
Alabama 14, Virginia P. I. 0.
Duke 20, Maryland 0.
Tennessee 13, Mississippi 7.
Vanderbilt 7, Sewanee 0.
Far West
Oregon State 7, Oregon 0.
St Mary’s 14, College of Pacific 0.
Southern California 13, Stanford 0. California 6, Washington 0.
Washington State 20, Idaho 0.
—Beat Purdue—
NAVY GAME
(Continued from Page 14)
expecting a pass, Pitney started around left end, but lateraled to Banas who advanced to the four-yard line for first down, goal to go. Here the Navy defense stiffened and that paralysis once more engulfed the Irish attack. On fourth down, Andy Pilney ran wide around right end but was thrown one yard short of the
final line.
The lineups:
Notre Dame (0) Vairo 		T.K	Navy (7) 	 Murray
Krause		...LT.			 Brooks
Wunsch		—LG.			 Zabriskie
Gorman 		„C			 Harbold
Schiralli 		-RG			 Johnson
Roach		—RT			 C. Clark
Devore 		_RE...„		 Miller
Bonar 		-QB			 Wilcox
Lukats		T.H		 Walkup
Young 		RH		 Chung-Hoon
Banas 	 Navy 		_.FB			 W. Clark -0 0 7 0—7
Notre Dame —	..............	.0 0 0 0—0
Touchdown—Borries.
Point after touchdown—Bull (Placement)
Substitutions: Navy—Borries for Walkup. Baumberger for Chung-Hoon, Schact for Zabriskie, Burns for Johnson. Lambert for Brooks, Lee for Wilcox, Bull for Miller.
Notre Dame—Solari for Gorman. Mazziotti for Bonar, Pilney for Lukats, Elser for Banas. Davis for Devore, Peters for Devore, Pivarnik for Schiralli, Michuta for Roach, Layden for Young, Millner for Vairo, Leonard for Wunsch, Pojman for Solari, Brancheau for Young.
Officials: J. E. Keekan (Pittsfield), referee. G. H. Lowe (Lafayette), umpire. H. A. Fischer (Columbia), head linesman. E. E. Miller (Penn State), field judge.	,
Takes this opportunity to announce to the men of Notre Dame that we now have a complete line of Fall and Winter haberdashery. We have inaugurated a new system of student service, with Mr. William Tourney, ’35, in attendance every afternoon from two until six o’clock. Won’t you please come in and look over our new Fall accessories?
ARROW MITOGA SHIRTS
ARROW SHIRTS
INTERWOVEN HOSIERY
ARROW TIES
COMPLETE LINE OF SWEATERS AND JACKETS
MUNSING UNDERWEAR
HICKOK BELTS-BRACES
We realize that some men are rather timid about passing through a department store to the men’s department in the rear. For their convenience a separate door to this shop is located on the alley.
Ellsworth’s
November 10, 19 3 3
F if teen
On Down The Line
si y ii ti s< h
L s< t]
li
P
c<
O' to
U
It ‘]
By Nick Connor
HOWARD JONES, U.S.C. coach, claims that JACK ELDER is the fastest man that he has ever seen in a football uniform ... To encourage kicking field goals, the NEW YORK GIANTS' have moved the goal 'posts up to their original position on the goal line . . . SLIP MAuIGAN, rates his halfback, GEORGE WILSON, as the nearest approach to George Gipp that he has ever seen. . . . PRIMO CARNERA loves to give
imitations of large animals, such as the lion, elephant, and the bear. . . . BOB z^^-^rvE rates Les Lindbergh as the greatest Illinois back since RED GRANGE. . . . When football is over JOCK SUTHERLAND, Pitt coach, coaches the BOXERS AND WRESTLERS. . . . Drop kicking, according to Fritz Crisler, Princeton mentor, is almost a lost art. ... In seven games the Boston Redskins have amassed a 257 5-7 average of yards gained from scrimmage.
—Beat—
In the Illinois-Michigan game of 1924, Red Grange made four touchdowns in 12 minutes. ... AL MON-

THE OFFICIAL ROUTE
s S' c<
‘1 P f.
c a n t< E h
to the
NOTRE DAME NORTHWESTERN FOOTBALL GAME
NOV. 18th
For more information call Mr. C. W. Veach, city passenger agent, phone 3-3111.
TEVERDE of Mays Landing, N. J. is a veteran of 107 full length marathons and now has entered another race as candidate for the state assembly. - - • Against the Army last week, JACkw BEYNON of Illinois, completed 12 out of 17 FORWARD PASSES for li>3 yards. . . . PURDUE has scored one or more touchdowns in 44 SUCCESSIVE GAMES. . . . Catching punts was the lesson of the week at Northwestern. . . . BUCKETS GOLDENBERG of the Green Bay Packers is the leading scorer of the pro league with 42 POINTS. . . . OHIO STATE has dropped the double wing back formation in favor of a MODIFIED PUNT FORMATION. . . .So far this year the greatest single day’s performance is held by DUaNE PURVIS of Purdue, who carried the oval 130 yards from scrimmage in 20 attempts.
—Purdue—
So far this year MORRIS HARVEY college has lost six straight games, have failed to score and the opposition have registered 158 POINTS. . . . Thirty-three “sweet young things” have turned out of first call for tryouts on HARTSHORNE’S GIRLS’ FOOTBALL TEAM. . . . PAUL PARDONNER, ace dropkicker of Purdue, is capable of kicking with either toe. ... In the last five games the TULANE football team has FUMBLED 39 TIMES. . . . Oregon State’s defense has clicked this fall largely because of the backing up ability of NORM FRANKLIN, triple threat halfback, . . . GLENN CUNNINGHAM of the University of Kansas, is the leading candidate for the JAMES E. SulLIVAN medal, awarded annually to the outstanding American amateur athlete. ... The BOSTON REDSOX recently gave outright releases to JOHNNY HODAPP AND TOMMY OLIVER. ... In the recent game between Southern Cal and U of California, COTTON WARBURTON won the game by a long run, nearly lost it by a fumbled kick on the five yard line, and saved it by a tackle.
—■Beat Purdue—
INTERHALL
(Continued from Page 13)
a pass for 30 yards to McCarthy, who scampered the remaining 15 yards to the goal line.
SPECIAL ROUND TRIP RATE
This special round trip rate is effective going to Chicago from the noon of Friday, November 17 to the noon of Saturday, November 18, and good returning any time up to midnight , , of Sunday, November 19.
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE AND SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
The following are the final			stand-	
ings of the	interhall league:			
Group I.	w	L	T	Pts.
Brownson 			 3	0		s
Dillon 			 3	1	1	■ 7
Freshman	.	9	9	1	
Carroll 			,0	1	2	2
Morrissey			 2	2	0	4
St. Edward’s ...		 0	5	0	0
Group H.	w	L	T	Pts.
Lyons 			1	4	0	1	9
Walsh 			 2	1	2	, 6
Badin 			 2	1	2	6
Corby 					 2	2	1	5
Alumni			 2	3	0	4
Howard 			 0	5	0	0
Sixteen
The Scholastic
PURDUE GAME
(Continued from Base 3)
are injured. Pojman played the entire second half against the veteran Butch Harbold of Navy and gave a very creditable exhibition. Tomorrow he can look for plenty of plays over center for Purdue will try him out thoroughly in the hope that his inexperience may make him the weak spot in a veteran line. Ray Brancheau, the veteran blocking half of the Irish, is almost definitely out of the fray with a bruised rib. His place will be taken by hard-driving Johnny Young, the boy who gained 88 yards against Navy on 22 running plays last week. Bonar or Maz-ziotti will start at quarterback with the rest of the lineup unchanged.
It will be left tackle against left tackle when the referee calls the rival captains out to toss for the opening kickoff. Ed Krause, the Irish All-American basketball and football star, has been appointed captain for this contest by Coach Anderson, while William “Dutch” Fehring, the Purdue left tackle, is the Boilermaker captain. Both men played against one another last year on the basketball court, but this is their first meeting on the gridiron.
Paul Pardonner, the ambidextrous passer and capable kicker, will do the signal-calling for Purdue. Par-donner'is a fine field general, an exceptionally good blocker and a reliable pass receiver, besides being the best drop-kicker in college ranks. In his three years of varsity play, Pardonner has made 26 out of 28 attempts at points after touchdown, with either foot, and of the two that he missed one was called back because his team was offside and the other hit the cross-bar and bounced short.
Duane Purvis, the Big Ten javelin throw champion, is a 200 pound kicking ace of the Boilermakers. Coach Kizer has developed a special pass play to take advantage of the long passing ability of this powerful right halfback. His running mate will be Jim Carter, another triplethreat ace. While Fred Hecker, who has been injured, will do the plunging from the fullback post. Sport writers refer to these men as the “dozen threat” backfield because each one is a triple-threat man—a passer, kicker, and runner.
The Irish had plenty of power in their attack against the Navy, but they cannot allow it to go rampant in midfield and stop when they approach the goal line of Purdue because they can never penetrate this veteran outfit unless they fight all the way down and back. The Black and Gold have had a good year so far and aim to continue their tradition for scoring and break the Notre Dame jinx of the past over the Boilermakers.
N ov ember 10, 19 3 3
Come out to the OLDENBERG INN for food that is famous for Quality and Quantity CHICKEN AND STEAK DINNERS (Try the Chicken and Noodles, Reasonably priced.)
Phone us (4-2091) and we’ll send a car for you—no charge for transportation for parties of four and over. Make the week-end perfect by dining at the
OLDENBERG INN, on the South Michigan Road
make your
F HOTEL SHERMAN
1700ROOMS-1700 BATHS
Ln the Heart of the Loop zn CH IC AGO
Seventeen

INSURING FINE TOBACCO FOR



Not many smokers have seen a fine tobacco plant in full bloom, so we show you this picture. Only a few of these fine plants are permitted to flower and to produce seed. These carefully selected seeds reproduce the following year the "Cream of the Crop” for your Lucky Strike, for tobacco must be grown from seed.each year. This careful breeding of fine tobaccos explains why Luckies maintain the same fine, uniform quality from year to year—so round and firm and fully packed—free from loose ends.
ALWAYS thejfinest tobaccos
Always the finest workmanship
Always Luckies please/
INTRODUCING
(Continued from Page 12)
the sidelines. There with Army men rushing, him, he heaved a beautiful 45 yard pass to Hugh Devore who was standing in the end zone.
In the third quarter his punting was responsible for the final Irish score. One of his punts went out of bounds on the Army one-yard line. Ken Fields went behind his own goal line to kick but his punt was blocked and Jim Harris fell on the ball for an Irish touchdown.
In the early part of this season, Banas was unable to play because of a hip injury. He has now, however, apparently found himself again. He played almost all of the Navy game last week and his passing was a feature of Notre Dame’s attack.
Banas came to Notre Dame from Catholic Central High of Hammond, Indiana. While at Hammond he played football, baseball and basketball. He was captain of football and All-Indiana interscholastic fullback for two years..
Last Chance!
MIDNITE THIS SATURDAY WE SEAL THE BOX containing your coupons for the N. D. blanket drawing
•
Stop in anytime—have one of our famous All-Steak Hamburgs, and fill out a ticket. Use the blanket (you may win) at the Northwestern game!
yHERE’S
Energy
FOR YOU!
ALL STEAK HAMBURG HUT
Owned and operated by N. D. men. 510 NORTH MICHIGAN ST. (Next to the Packard Agency)
DANCE
sponsored by
HOLY NAME SOCIETY
•
St. Joseph School Gym Hill St. and Colfax
•
TUESDAY, NOV. 14 8:30 p. m. Admission 25c
HAVE you the energyit takes to take things on the run? Eat Shredded Wheat!
Just step into your favorite campus eating place anywhere, any time, and Shredded Wheat will be waiting for you. Waiting to fill you with all the vital
When you see Niagara Falls on toe package, you KNOW mw bare Shredded Wheat.
THE VITALLY DIFFERENT FOOD
SHREDDED WHEAT
A pratect «f NATIONAL BISCUIT COMPANY “UiMeda Batea*”
elements found only in whole wheat.. .the proteins, vitamins, minerals, carbohydrates and bran your body demands for natural energy. For Shredded Wheat is 100% whole wheat with nothing added, nothing taken away.
Order two of these golden brown biscuits for your next meal. They’re ready cooked, ready to eat. And real money-savers. Just pour on plenty of milk or cream and top with your favorite fruit. An energy food—something you’ll like—something you’ll keep bn liking!
Established 30 Years Lemontrees
OPTOMETRISTS 222 Ja South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
•
Patients all over the world.
A bird’s-eye view showed the way
Telephone engineers recently found the best route for a new telephone line by taking a bird’s-eye view of their difficulties.
The territory was heavily wooded, spotted with swamps and peat beds, with roads far apart. So a map was made by aerial photography. With this map, the best route was readily plotted, field work was facilitated.
Bell System ingenuity continues to extend the telephone’s reach—to speed up service—to make it more convenient, more valuable to you.
BELL SYSTEM
__I TELEPHONE HOME AT LEAST ONCE A WEEK... I_ | REVERSE THE CHARGES IF THE FOLKS AGREE I
Now If Your Eyes Require Glasses
they will be properly prescribed, correct in styling to be inconspicuous — yet enriching your personal appearance. Always painstaking craftsmanship — regardless of the amount you prefer to expend, and unvarying quality of materials so you may find Better Vision with Greater Comfort.
•	REASONABLE
•	DEPENDABLE
•	PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES
DUPLICATED IN OUR
OWN LABORATORY.
Phone:Office 4-5661 "Residence 3-4041	X-RAY
DR. E. S. LUCAS DENTIST	
702 J. M. S. Building	South Bend
Opposite Oliver Hotel	Indian*
THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY -LEMNONIER LIBRARY-NOTRE DANE, LOCAL
’'When I think of milder cigarettes nowadays, I always think of Chesterfields.
"Because Chesterfields are milder. They’ve got
like that word
plenty of taste and aroma to them but they’ve got mildness too!
"I smoke Chesterfields all day long—when I’m working and when I’m not, and there’s no time when a Chesterfield doesn’t taste milder and better.”
t
Chesterfield
the cigarette that’s MILDER
M5	the cigarette that tastes better
© 1933. Liggett & Mnas Tobacco Co.
