HOW'S YOUR
SLACK
WARDROBE

Slacks form the foundation of

a

university man's wardrobe . . . and we invite you to inspect our fine slack selection. You'll find all the popular fabrics in slim and trim university styling. Choose from a wide selection of colors including the handsome deep-tones. Whether it's for dress or everyday wear, we have the slacks you need and want.

* Cotton Chino Slacks.. 4.95
• Dacron & Cotton Slacks 6.95
Worsted Slacks
15.95
^GILBERTS

JUNE
JULY
AUGUST M
NO CARRYING CHARGE
WE'RE HERE TO SERVE
YOU

Our stocks of quality university
stvlcd
clothing and accessories are complete, our store personnel is well trained and qualified to fulfill your needs, and last, but certainly not least, your charge account is open.

Buy the things you need NOW and one-third in June, one-third in July one-third in August of 1964 . . . and pay no service or carrying charge of
pay and
vou
anv
kind! The Campus Shop way to buy is here for you to enjoy . . . why not stop in soon and let us serve vou?
ONE
OF AMERICA'S FINEST UNIVERSITY SHOPS

^GILBERT'S


OnCanqras
MsMnan
(Author of Rally Round the Flag, Boys and Barefoot Boy With Cheek)
BOOM!
| SCHOLASTIC
The Student Weekly of the University of Notre Dame
Vol. 105 October 25, 1963 No. 5
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Today, foregoing levity, let us turn our keen young minds to the principal problem facing American colleges today: the population explosion. Only last week four people exploded in Cleveland, Ohio —one of them while carrying a plate of soup. In case you’re thinking such a thing couldn’t happen anywhere but in Cleveland, let me tell you about two other cases last week—a 45-year-old man in Provo, Utah, and a 19-year-old girl in Northfield, Minnesota. And, in addition, there was a near miss in High Point, North Carolina—an eight-year-old boy who was saved only by the quick thinking of his cat, Fred, who pushed the phone off the hook with his muzzle and dialed the department of weights and measures. (It would, perhaps, have been more logical for Fred to dial the fire department, but one can hardly expect a cat to summon a fire engine which is followed by a Dalmatian, can one?)
But I digress. The population explosion, I say, is upon us. It is, of course, cause for concern but not for alarm, because I feel sure that science will ultimately find an answer. After all, has not science in recent
years brought us such marvels as the maser, the bevatron, and the Marlboro filter? Oh. what a saga of science was the discovery of the Marlboro filter! Oh, what a heart-rending epic of trial and error, of dedication and perseverance! And, in the end, what a triumph it was when the Marlboro research team, after years of testing and discarding one filter material after another—iron, nickel, tin, antimony, obsidian, poundcake—finally emerged, tired but happy, from their laboratory, carrying in their hands the perfect filter cigarette! Indeed, what rejoicing there still is whenever we light up a Marlboro which comes to us in soft pack and Flip-Top Box in all fifty states and Cleveland!
Yes, science will ultimately solve the problems arising from the population explosion, but meanwhile America’s colleges are in dire straits. Where can we find classrooms and teachers for today’s gigantic influx of students?
Well sir, some say the solution is to adopt the trimester system. This system, already in use at many colleges, eliminates summer vacations, has three semesters per annum instead of two, and compresses a four-year-course into three years.
This is, of course, good, but is it good enough? Even under the trimester system the student has occasional days off. Moreover, his nights are utterly wasted in sleeping. Is this the kind of all-out attack that is indicated?

I say no. I say desperate situations call for desperate remedies. I say that partial measures will not solve this crisis. I say we must do no less than go to school every single day of the year. But that is not all. I say we must go to school 24 hours of every day!
The benefits of such a program are, as you can see, obvious. First of all, the classroom shortage will disappear because all the dormitories can be converted into classrooms. Second, the teacher shortage will disappear because all the night watchmen can be put to work teaching solid state physics and Bestoration drama. And finally, overcrowding will disappear because everybody will quit school.
Any further questions? © 1003 Max si.uiman
Tom Hoobler
. . . editor-in-chief Dick Stranger
. . . managing editor Brian Barnes
. . . business manager Mel Noel
. . . news editor Terry Wolkerstorfer
. . . sports editor James Devlin
. . . features editor Larry Sicking
. . . layout and art editor Jack Pope, Joe Wilson
. . . copy Tom Keane
. . . circulation
Tom Nahm
. . . advertising Brian Beck, Pat Ford
. . . photography David Barrett, Jim Callero, Jim Clare, Brian Jorgensen, Frank McConnell, Bill Smith, Mike Walusis
. . . contributors
Frank O’Malley
. . . faculty advisor John Anton, Al Basso, Tom Bettag, Jim Boland, Ray Burke, Al Dudash, Bob Edler, Geary Ellet, Jim Finch, Sam Goodwin, John Gorman, Mike Hoyt, Jim Komasinski, Rex Lardner, Rick McQuaid, Carl Magel, Bill O’Grady, Bruce Palka, John Phillips, Jack Quine, Jack Rowe, Joe Ryan, Gary Sabatte, Frank Smith, Steve Stuecheli, John Twohey, Rick Weirich, Joe Weiss, John Whelan
. . . staff
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during’ the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all * manuscripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, i Indiana. AH unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
Yes, one furthei question: the makers of Marlboro, who sponsor this column, would like to know whether you have tried a Marlboro lately. It’s the filter cigarette with a man’s world of flavor. Settle back and eniov one soon.
OFFICE OPEN:
Sunday, 1:30-5:30,7:30-12:00; Monday, 1:30-5:30, 7:30-12:00; Tuesday, 7:30-9:30; Wednesday, 1:30-5:30; Thursday, 1:30-5:30; Friday, 1:305:30; Saturday, not open.
4
The Scholastic
EDITORIALS
Academic
Open House
The new Memorial Library is at the same time a show place and the center of educational activity at the University. The value of the former certainly is subordinate to the latter, but we should not ignore the library as an appropriate symbol of the advancement of the University. As current and future purchases swell the volume of our collection, making it more than just the biggest college library building, it will become a bigger attraction to University guests. We disagree with the policy that denies admission to the tower to anyone other than the faculty and students of the University. The view of the campus from the top floors is distinctive, offering a unique picture of Notre Dame and the surrounding area. There seems to be little reason for barring University guests as long as their conduct is appropriate and does not disturb those working in the library.
Facilities of the library have been made available to the students of St. Mary’s College, subject only to the restriction that they may not borrow books without sufficient reason. In the event that source materials are not available at St. Mary’s, a letter from their librarian will secure borrowing privileges for the women students.
It was originally announced that the tower areas would be restricted to the faculty, graduate students, and seniors. The library personnel have not seen fit to enforce this or, perhaps, have abandoned this rule in favor of a more relaxed policy which allows the undergraduate student to profit from the private study areas near much of the primary source material that he will be using. We think it would be a serious mistake to bar undergraduates from the area. There does not seem to have been any mistreatment of facilities or distracting behavior that would justify such restriction. Should there be, it would be necessary to restrict the use of the library in the future, but as long as there is not, the sources and facilities should be made readily accessible to as many as is possible.
Mickey Mouse
Between flirting with the opponents’ cheerleaders and the St. Mary’s students in the north end zone, the University cheerleaders do an adequate job. They have visibly slipped, however, to a ridiculous level when they engage in such childish displays as counting points on the scoreboard with inane imitations of archaic worship ritual.
Their way of indicating the score last year by handsprings was truly unique. It is, granted, a little hard on cheerleaders lacking some coordination, but it is not something copied from our neighbors in the Big Ten. Why not find something distinctly ours rather than invoke the commonly ridiculous?
October 25, 1963
5
buttons-down a student
of Oxford
From prof to frosh knowledge gets around... and the latest is the new Decton oxford by ARROW. Take Decton, ARROW’S name for a shirt blended of 65% Dacron* polyester and 35% cotton, give it an educated new oxford weave and you have the equation for America’s most popular wash-and-wear shirt.
Authentic University Fashion from the famous button-down collar to the button and pleat in the back, it’s tapered to trim body lines. White, colors and stripes to choose from. In long sleeves as illustrated $6.95
*DuPont T.M. for its polyester fiber
our
extensive selection
of other ARROW styles to complete your wardrobe for college or career.
^GILBERT'S
PELTZ MUSIC HOUSE features all types of musical instruments
GUITARS —$15.95 and up
also TENOR GUITARS, UKULELES BANJOS, MELODICAS
423 So. Michigan Streel AT 9-4430
DRkWTURB0W \PPTOMKTRIST
GLASSES REPAIRED “Bring in the Pieces”
CONTACT LENSES INQUIRIES INVITED
EYE EXAMINATION
OLIVER HOTEL
207 W. Washington — Phone CE 4-S777
COVER
Artist Jerry Oertling emerges from the depths of the Art Department with a creative interpretation of Saturday’s SMC Hootenanny.
6
The Scholastic
Letters ...
PROTEST Editor:
It is unfortunate that two of the articles in last week’s Scholastic contained “facts,” inferences and considerations which were untrue, unfair, or at best irrelevant. I refer to your editorial (“Who’s Who”) and the article on Student Government finances, (“Realism and Responsibility”). In these two articles I found 11 such points.
(1)	It seems unfair to say our decision to remain in Who’s Who was “perfunctory, hasty or rash.” It was considered in two meetings of the Policy Committee, and for over an hour in the Senate. Paul Tierney and Mike Willsey gave the report of the Blue Circle on Who’s Who. The debate, in the words of the Scholastic reporter Al Dudash (who was there) “brought out the best in the Senate . . . and would greatly enhance the effectiveness of future Senate meetings.” How can you call it hasty?
(2)	You give as a reason for dropping out of Who’s Who the “fact” that it is simply a “shoddy, money making scheme” of some people in Alabama and substantiate this by stating that they sell the Who’s Who book. I would ask how you know this is their only motive for running Who’s Who and would point out that one need not purchase the book.
(3)	If one goes through the list of colleges in Who’s Who he would find at least fifty colleges as large as ours and many of equal academic rank. For example, Boston University, Annapolis, Georgetown, Rutgers, Catholic University of America, and others.
(4)	You infer that the same recognition by a Notre Dame Who’s Who would accrue to the seniors because they would be chosen by the same people. People give recognition on the basis of the award itself and not because they know who chose the winners. The Who’s Who award has a meaning to those outside the University because they know of National Who’s Who.
(5)	Your criticism that our decision was “invalid” because “students had no chance to express themselves” seems unfair. It would be quite impossible to conduct a referendum on every issue. Some things (such as Who’s Who) require an immediate decision and it would be impossible to wait until the full Senate were elected.
(6)	Our decision to stay in Who’s Who is not, in point of fact, “irrevocable” or “permanent.”
(7)	Your statement that only seven
of the seventeen members of the Stay Senate were elected is incorrect. Eight of the sixteen members were elected last May and the other eight were elected to be stay members or officers by last year’s full Senate. All (save one) had been elected popularly the year before and one was elected by the Hall Presidents. None, not one, was “appointed,” as you say. In the second article on Student Government finances, some of the difficulties are: (1) In point of fact, we no longer receive funds from the University for minor sports.
(2)	Mardi Gras funds are, and always have been (as you suggest they should be) separate from Student Government funds.
(3)	Only one of the first two Victory Dances lost money. Victory dances have shown a profit.
(4)	It is grossly unfair to say that the student administration has “gleefully” slid further into debt. We are further in debt, true, but there are none of us who are happy about it, unconcerned about it, or less determined to eliminate this debt. Much of the centralizing and controlling work of the Student Senate (the wisdom of which Al Dudash questions in this week’s “Senate” Column) has been concerned with precisely these problems and how to eliminate this debt.
Those of us in Student Government have welcomed the coverage and criticisms of the Scholastic this year. We know only too well how much internal work has to be done to “put our house in order.” In the future, however, in the interest of truth and objectivity, we would hope you would feel free to consult us at any time to check your information and to obtain our consideration on any matter.
Tom O’Brien
Student Body Vice President
We did, in fact, call the Student Government office last week for the information about the stay senate. The only person of authority in the office at the time was the President of the Senior Class, Bruce Tuthill fa voting member of the senate), ivho gave us the information we cited in the editorial.
As for the article on student government finances, the information for the article was gathered by the authors from the student government books, and from an interview with Professor William Slowey, who supervises the accounting club that audits student government books.
In point (1) of Mr. O’Brien’s letter, the quotation from Scholastic senate reporter Dudash’s article refers to the
attitude which prevailed during the debate: "... the striking characteristic of the decision was that it was largely the result of persuasion of Senator by Senator, a rarity at most past meetings.”
We stand by our statement that Who’s Who is "basically a rather shoddy money-making scheme.” The dictionary defines "shoddy” as "vulgarly pretentious,” which perfectly sums up our opinion of Who’s Who. However, we admit that we do not know that selling the book is the only motive of the Alabama group for running Who's Who.
In the latest edition of Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities that the Notre Dame library owns (1956-57), there are 657 schools listed as members. Of these, only a handful (few other than the ones listed by Mr. O’Brien) are of equal stature with Notre Dame. The Big Ten schools, Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Chicago, Holy Cross, all refuse to let their good names be associated with Who’s Who. —ED.
CLUB TEAM Editor:
We would like to thank the Scholastic for its continued fine coverage of the growth of rugby and the Notre Dame Rugby Club. There are, however, several points that the article of October 11 brings forth, and that need further elucidation.
To begin with, the proper title is. the Rugby Club. A club is a collective group pursuing a common goal with achievement emanating from within the group, and is generally a selfgoverning organization. The Rugby Club is such a body, and as such is administered by a group of seven players, The Rugby Council, moderated by Mr. Kenneth Featherstone of the Architecture Department, and advised by Mr. David McKee of the
(Continued on page 27)
THEATERS
AVON—"8’A" week nights 6:15, 8:40 p.m.; Saturday 6:15, 9:10 p.m.; Sunday 5:30, 8:30 p.m.; on now, thru next week.
COLFAX—"20,000 Leagues Linder the Sea," 1:00, 3:30, 6:00, 8:30 p.m.; on now, thru next week.
GRANADA—"The Running Man,” 1:00, 3:00, 5:10, 9:20 p.m.; on now thru next week.
STATE—"The Terror," 1:00, 3:55, 6:50, 9:45 p.m.; on now, thru next week. "Dementia 13," 2:30, 5:25, 8:20 p.m.; on now, thru next week.
WASHINGTON HALL—"The Hook," 6:30, 8:15 p.m., Saturday.
October 25, 1963
7
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES SALUTE: ERNIE NIPPER
There are nearly ] 5,000 pay telephones in Chicago’s Loop. It is Ernie Nipper’s job to see that the revenue from these busy phones is systematically collected. Ernie (B. A., 1956; M.A., 1959) is a Public Telephone Collection Manager with Illinois Bell in Chicago.
To accomplish this immense task. Ernie has a staff of 10 collectors. He supervises their training and sets up procedures for them to follow to best accomplish the collections.
Before his promotion. Ernie was a Manager in Hyde Park and supervised employees in a 195.000-customer exchange. His work there quickly convinced his management that he could handle the tougher job he has now.
Ernie Nipper, like many young men, is impatient to make things happen for his company and himself. There are few places where such restlessness is more welcomed or rewarded than in the fast-growing telephone business.
8
The Scholastic
FILM SOCIETY BEGINS SERIES
The Student-Faculty Film Society will present the filmed version of the 1962 University Theater production of Hamlet this Sunday, October 27, at 3 and 8 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. No admission will be charged. The cast includes Richard Cavanaugh, who won a Fulbright scholarship largely on his performance in this play, John Patrick Hart, and David Clennon.
HOMECOMING II
A dance, “Homecoming H,” formed to handle the students unable to get bids for the Homecoming Dance, will be held in the LaFortune Student Center. The dance, with tickets at $3.50 per couple, will last from nine until one; the Lettermen will provide the dance music. Dance tickets will be sold from seven to nine on October 29 in the Coke Bar of the Student Center. Ticket purchasers will be able to get late permission and car permissions.
BISHOP EXCLUDES N.D.
Bishop Pursley of the Ft. Wayne-South Bend diocese recently announced that the South Bend Catholic Young Adults will not be .allowed to admit Notre Dame students to its activities. The policy statement was issued through Father Zimmerman, diocesan chaplain for the CYO and CYA of the diocese.
The CYA is an organization which is designed to provide a Catholic environment in which young Catholic adults of a diocese can congregate. Its activities are religious, educational and social. With this in mind, the CYA has, in the past, welcomed Notre Dame students with open arms. The CYA claims that this interaction between the Notre Dame student body
and the young Catholic adult population of South Bend does a great deal in improving relations between the town and the University.
The Bishop, however, takes an opposite stand on this issue. He believes that the Catholics of the town and of the Notre Dame student body each have their own religious and social outlets, that there is no great need for them to participate in conjunction with each other.
In an interview with Fr. Zimmerman the Scholastic attempted to discover the particulars which led the Bishop to make this policy statement. A familiar problem on the Notre Dame scene, underage drinking, proved to be the main reason for the pronouncement. Since many CYA social activities are held in places which have convenient bars, a few underage students have taken advantage of the facilities and, as a result, given the CYA a “black eye.” Fr. Zimmerman also expressed the fear that a great influx of Notre Darners into the local CYA chapter will result in the CYA losing its identity and becoming instead just another outlet for the students.
Thus far, however, the South Bend CYA has not taken the decree lying down. Mike Pauwels, president of the South Bend CYA, points to the fact that ND students are of great financial benefit to the organization. By supporting the social events, the students have provided the CYA with money which they can use to extend the activities of the club. Pauwels believes that while the CYA shouldn’t cater to Notre Dame students, it should certainly be open to them.
The actual result of the Bishop’s announcement — last weekend the CYA sponsored a dance and freely invited the Notre Dame student body.
YCS PLANS WEEKEND
On the weekend of October 26 and 27, the Young Christian Students of the University are holding a Study Weekend. The theme of the weekend will be “The Ecumenical Council and the Layman’s Responsibility.” Representatives of many Midwest colleges and universities are expected. The Study Weekend will consist of a series of lectures, interspersed with group discussions in fields of student concern, particularly lay action and campus life.
The weekend will begin Saturday morning at 9:00 with a talk to be given by the noted author, Donald Thorman, setting the tone for the two days. His talk will deal with the Lay Apostolate and what a true commitment to it means in terms of living one’s life. Following Mr. Thorman’s talk, the first series of workshops will be held. After the workshops a fully participative Mass for the entire group will be held in Keenan-Stanford Chapel. The afternoon workshops will begin at 2:00, following lunch in the North Dining Hall, and will adjourn at 3:30, in time for everyone to listen to the Notre Dame-Stanford football game. They will then attend a picnic on the banks of St. Joseph’s Lake, and relax until the evening session begins. At 7:30 that evening the main talk of the weekend will be given by Father Harden, who teaches an open theology course at Western Michigan University. This course is one of the few in the country taught by a priest on a secular campus and given for credit to both Catholic and non-Catholic students. Father Louis Putz, C.S.C., moderator of the Notre Dame YCS, will then give a Bible vigil, after which the students will be free for the evening.
Sunday morning at 8:30, partici-
October 25, 1963
Modern Sculpture
Band at Pep Rally
pants will attend Mass at Sacred Heart Church, followed by a brunch at the Morris Inn. This will be the last activity of the weekend.
The central activity of tile weekend is the workshops. Among topics to be discussed are 1) liturgy — how to implement the reformed liturgy; 2) the student vocation; 3) student involvement outside the campus; 4) opportunities for student ecumenism; 5) lay missionaries. Fr. William Hegge, O.S.C., will give a talk entitled “Keeping Abreast of the New Theology,” and Professor Thomas Broden will speak on “Interaction of the School with the Community.” Many of the talks will be given by graduate students or professors from the campus. Besides, Dave Ellis, Student Body President, will give a talk on “Effective Student Government,” and Tom O’Brien, Student Body VicePresident, will speak on “The Student Community — Three Facets: Faculty, Students, and Administration.”
The goal of a Study Weekend such as this is to acquaint the layman with the various facets of the ecumenical movement and to try to show how students can do their part as individuals and groups in working toward the success of this movement. Through the various workshops, the student should acquire knowledge not only of the mechanics of the movement, but also of its spirit.
BAND MARCHES ON
After the incidents at the pep rally before the Southern California game, it was rumored that the band would no longer lead the prerally marches around campus. A clarifying notice circulated by Student Body President, Dave Ellis, and Blue Circle Chairman, Paul Tierney, explained that the band wanted to continue the tradition of leading the rallies, but that they couldn’t march if the students broke into their ranks and tried to take their instruments. The student body displayed its desire to pre
serve this custom by the absence of incidents at the UCLA rally last Friday.
FORSYTH LECTURES ON FLANNAGAN
Mr. Robert J. Forsyth of the University of Minnesota lectured on the works of sculptor-artist John B. Flannagan last Friday. The topic, “John Flannagan and the Development of Modern American Sculpture,” was presented in conjunction with the Art Gallery’s current exhibit of Flan-nagan’s works.
Mr. Forsyth spoke of five major periods in John Flannagan’s creative life: the period of paint and wood, the early stone period, the first Irish period, the second Irish period, and his successful American period. Born in 1895 in North Dakota, Flannagan died by suicide in 1942 after an unhappy life marked by “poverty, shame, fear, and drink.” He was one of America’s first progressive sculptors, a “loner” in his rejection of the traditional school. His primary medium was stone, but he was also noted for his drawing and woodcarving.
Mr. Forsyth teaches the history of art at the University of Minnesota, where he is working toward his doctorate degree. He has been associated with the works of John Flannagan for about ten years. Speaking without notes but using projection slides, Mr. Forsyth interpreted the trends in the sculptor’s style through a chronology of his life. He commented that Notre Dame was among the first to have a good retrospective exhibit of Flannagan’s works.
CILA ACCEPTS APPLICATIONS
The Council for the International Lay Apostolate held meetings the three nights of October 14,15, and 16, for the purpose of acquainting interested students with the work of CILA and in particular its Latin-American summer projects. During the three night sessions colored slides
and movies of last summer’s work in Mexico and Peru were shown. Notre Dame students who had participated last summer lectured briefly and answered questions.
About seventy or eighty applications for next year’s projects were expected as a result; interviews will be conducted to determine who will be selected. Though primarily interested in motivation, the selection panel hopes to find students with special skills that could be of value to the CILA projects: architecture, music, art, athletics, auto mechanics, plumbing, or brick laying are examples. Knowledge of a foreign language, Spanish especially, is helpful but not necessary.
The committee hopes to make the selections before Thanksgiving, so that the boys that will be going can get to know one another and learn something of the customs of the country and the work that they will be doing. About nine Notre Dame students will work in Peru and about thirteen in Mexico. All members leave Notre Dame shortly after graduation and remain with the team until the project is terminated in the third week of August. Transportation, medicine, toys, film, tools, religious articles, and financial support is obtained from interested friends, students, and campus groups. CILA hopes to spread the experience of this Latin-American summer work around as much as possible, therefore as many new men as possible will be taken.
For those who are not selected for summer work, there are plenty of other CILA projects in the local area: work with Mexican migrant farmers in South Bend, bimonthly social work in the Westville Mental Asylum, the book drive, and a big brother program for incoming foreign students.
CARD STUNTS PLANNED
The disorganization of the card stunt section at the U.S.C. game
10
The Scholastic
Eric vonKuehnelt-Leddihn
Four Winds
originated in a broken amplifier. The loss of the sound system made it impossible for all but a few of the freshmen to hear their instructions.
There were no card stunts at the U.C.L.A. game because of the lack of an amplifier system again and because the card stunt people want to save their resources for a really big show at the Homecoming game against Navy. For the Navy game the committee plans pregame stunts such as Purdue had when Notre Dame played them. These special displays will require the freshmen to be in their seats by 1:00 for the Navy game. In addition, there will be stunts during the time-out periods and then a big half-time show complete with Navy’s middy sinking into the blue.
SMC SPONSORS HOOTENANNY
“Casper Goes Collegiate” is the theme of the St. Mary’s Student Council activity scheduled for this Saturday. Girls from St. Joseph High School, St. Mary’s Academy, and Holy Cross School for Nursing are also invited to join in the fun. From 12:00 to 3:00 Saturday afternoon there is a choice of three activities at St. Mary’s. There will be a record hop in Reignbeaux, folk singing in the Club House, and bridge or other card games in the Social Center. In all these areas television sets will be placed so that everyone can watch the N.D.-Stanford game. During the afternoon raffle tickets for a week in Bermuda for two will be sold for a quarter apiece or five for a dollar.
In the evening at 8:30 p.m., the folk singing duo, Ian & Silvia, the vocal trio, the Phoenix singers and Notre Dame’s Four Winds will give a Hootenanny at Stepan Center. There will be no chairs provided and therefore students are welcome to bring blankets and sit on the floor. It is a “dutch treat” affair.
AFRICAN STUDENTS CHOOSE N.D.
Six students from African nations
October 25, 1963
are currently enrolled at Notre Dame under the African Scholarship Program of American Universities. Students studying under the program have been chosen with an eye to the long-range manpower needs of their countries; placement and the course of studies for nearly 800 African men and women in over 200 schools have been planned accordingly.
The group includes Thomas Eche-wa, a junior chemistry major from Nigeria; Samuel Iwobia, a Nigerian sophomore majoring in mechanical engineering; Eliud Ndirangu, a sophomore pre-professional student from Kenya; Callisto Madavo, a junior liberal arts student from Southern Rhodesia; George Padambo, of Ny-asaland, a freshman pre-medical student; and Claseinde Sawyerr, also a pre-med freshman from Nigeria.
USSR—AN ATHEISTIC MONASTERY
Eric vonKuehnelt-Leddihn, of Innsbruck, Austria, described the Soviet government as “one gigantic failure,” in a talk based on impressions he received during a six-week visit to the Soviet Union this summer.
He told his Sunday evening audience in O’Shaughnessy Hall, in his speech “Intellectual Freedom in Soviet Russia,” that communism was “like a colored light projected and thrown against an object.” He described the Russian people as most vividly displaying two things: they are basically antistate, which he attributes in part to their Catholic and Orthodox past; and they are a gifted people, gifted especially in the humanities, primarily literature. Literature, he pointed out, has played a tremendous role in Russian history, a notable instance being the 1917 revolution. VonKuehnelt-Leddihn said it would be difficult to express the Russian feeling for literature to Americans. It is a common example to see a crowd gathered around a new book display in a bookstore window, similar to American crowds who gather
to look at new model car displays. j
Despite this great love for liter- j ature and humanities, he feels that i art and architecture are frozen in the i nineteenth century, in the same Si- i berian pond as the ideals of com- j munism.	!
The antistate feelings have been	।
suppressed, of course, but vonKueh-	j
nelt-Leddihn cited events to show they	;
are emerging. Dostoyevsky’s, The Possessed, he called “the strongest indictment of communism.” That such antistate literature is allowed to seep through state-owned publishing houses is indicative that the state-employed printers are lax in their communistic ; views. “Worker,” a glorified term in ; 1913, is now an undesirable status. j When the lecturer asked a group of j doctors why they struggled so hard j to attain their positions only to re- i ceive less pay than a worker, their	|
reply was “Who wants to be a simple	I
worker?”	J
Although the chief propaganda	I
topic within the Soviet Union is	space	j
travel, the people don’t talk about it ; because they are simply not	inter-	|
ested. There is more concern for	|
foreign aid, in a negative way. Rus-	|
sians realize that while many of their J countrymen are hungry, their govern- | ment is feeding many millions of | foreigners. This has caused reaction | against Negroes in Moscow since they I are major recipients of Soviet aid.	1
Religion has been lost to approxi-	I
mately three quarters of the popula-	J
tion; yet vonKuehnelt-Leddihn feels that it is merely latent, that the peo- | pie are anxious to be “talked out of” I their atheistic views. Atheistic prop- I aganda is abundant. He cited the case i of a scientist who suggested that all	|
Russians be given telescopes so that	|
they would be able to see for themselves that there wasn’t any White- £ Bearded-One in rhe heavens. This has | been their instrument, to associate | with religion a ludicrous^ misconcep-	|
tion which they can easily exploit.	|
(Continued on page 32)	1
11	j
on other eampnses
• A professor at Michigan State University has a solution to the problem of stifled social life. In a recent announcement, this horticulture expert reports development of a “100 per cent female pickle.” He is now engaged in a project to produce the same results in a muskmelon. Watch for further advancements at “Ziggy’s.”
• Paradigm,, the University of Rhode Island's literary magazine, was censored recently because certain passages in a story were deemed “not suitable for publication in a university-sponsored magazine.”
University President Horn and an advisory council, after much deliberation and discussion, came to unanimous agreement that certain passages from the story “Ballin” should be deleted. Questioned as to whether the council thought the words were obscene, he said that “obscenity didn’t come into it at all.”
The Rhode Island Student Senate passed a resolution condemning the university administration’s handling of the case.
• “Two primitive myths about religion in the United States have caused much of the conflict over religion in the public schools,” Dr. Franklin H. Littel, University of Chicago profes
sor, told an audience at the University of Texas recently.
Dr. Littell, author of “From State Church to Pluralism,” stated that the two main myths are that there exists a reputedly “historical” separation between church and state, and that the United States was a Christian nation in the 18th century.
“American history simply does not support these myths,” the Daily Texan editorialized. “For one thing, several of the early colonies had established religions and enforced religious intolerance; also, government aid to church endeavors has existed since long before the revolution of 1776. As for the alleged ‘Christian’ nature of the founding fathers, documented surveys indicated that about 5% of the 1776 residents of the U.S. were Christians.”
• One more aspect has been introduced in the recent struggle to rationalize birth control, this one by Robert K. Anderson, of the University of Minnesota. In his article titled “If Not Population Control . . . Then What?” he contends: “It is very fine and Christian to argue that suffering ennobles man, but it is evil and unChristian to have in one’s hands the means for alleviation of some of this
suffering, and then to willfully refuse to give it [to those who suffer].”
“There are sins of omission, as well as those of commission; in not helping our neighbor, we are hurting him. While the ignorant native has no choice as to whether to do good or not, we do have a choice.”
The Church-sanctioned method of birth control, he continued, results in “abstinence that is not a virtue, for it is not based on a willful moral choice; the Catholic Church has made their choice for them through political pressure against birth control education. There can be virtue only where there is freedom of conscience.”
• A week ago Lucille Caruso, a coed at DePaul University, forgot that it was Friday and bought a hamburger. She was just about to eat it when it dawned on her what day it was. A frugal person by nature, she started yelling through the cafeteria, “Any non-Catholics around?”
• Xavier University has begun an official crackdown on “drink and drown” parties sponsored by nonaffiliated fraternities. The faculty Student Welfare Committee stated that complaints had been received concerning a particular “drown,” although the nature of the complaints was kept confidential. Further opposition to the parties claims that they destroy Xavier’s good name, and, since members of both sexes attend and imbibe, they are a possible source of social and moral disaster.
feiffer
it is nue fop A G^IOVE CRITICAL EVALUATE OF THIS SEAFOUG TV REM
RUMBER OME' the Hunnel brwkleh '
SHOW.
IT IS MOT THE OS that is important IM THIS PROGRAM SATHER IT IE THE COMPLEX PELATiOWHIP OF THE TWO HEROES THE VlElOER IS CORPELLEP TO ASK: 00 Cm LIKE EACH OTHER. WM 7 LOOULO PAVIP PREFER TO lOORK l;J RElU pork7 woulp Chet prefer [WASHINGTON7 WHEN CHET SEEMS PEfRESSEP EM EVENTS WE IWRW, MOT BECAUSE OF THE EVENT, BUT BECAUSE OF ITS EFFECT OU CHET.
PAVIP becomes wcREASim IM 10E WANT To SHAKE HIH.'PAW? PAW.' WE MLP LIKE TO CfM OUT "po'm mot noft) sap chet
IS 7 HELP HIM FOR HEAVENS SAKE/HELP HIM'" AMP WKD EITHER CHETOK. PAVIP IS AIaM 0M HOLIPAH WE FEW mo. OF WHAT IMIORTAMCE ARE (aJORLP AFFAIRS owe the human INTEREST IS REMOVER?
6EC0U0,LET UE LOGIC AT THE WALTER CRONKITE SI0W. URUKE CHET AW PAVIP, CROMKITE POES MOT USE THE REM AS A BACK6R0URP. CROUKlTE IS THE MEWS. HT MM WEEP LMK AT HIM TO KNOW THAT IT WAS HE WHO SENT UP GLENN, SCHJRRA AMP CARPENTER-AMP IT WAS HE 10HO BROUGHT THEM POWN SAFELY
WHILE HUMTLET AMP BRINKLEY MAKS'THE MEWS LESS IMPORTANT BECAUSE OF THEIR PERSOMAU INVOLVEMENT WITH IT, CRONKITE
IMPORTAMT
BECAUSE HEPEISN5 TO ASSOCIATE WITH IT.
CRONKITE IS OUR HERO. THE MEWS AROUMP HIM 15 A SOCIAL CLIMBER. Therefore viet mam 16 IMPORTANT WHEN CROMKITE SAMS $0, NOT WHEN VIETNAM SAMS 50. CROMKITE KNOWS. TROST CROMKITE.
WHILE EACH OF THESE SHOWS HAS ITS OBVIOUS MERITS, OUE CAM WOT HELP BUT FEEL THAT A MERGER WOULP IMPROVE THE OUALIM OF BOTH. CROUKlTE, PERHAPS, PLAGUE THE FATHER ROLE, HURTLED AUG nm his Sombre amp wittt SONS. EACH O^ERVIMG WORLP AFFAIRS Bq HIS OWN LIGHT AMP 6AHM5 A PEEPER KU010L66E OF HIS PLACE IM THAT WRLP AS THE TELEVISION SEASON PROGRESSES.
OUTlL OUE PM-A TALL
72
The Scholastic
TAR. Martin Luther King, Jr., leader of the nonviolent freedom struggle in the South, came to South Bend last Friday evening to give a fund-raising speech at the Stepan Center at Notre Dame. His appearance was sponsored by a specially organized South Bend Citizens’ Civic Planning Committee. The other speakers, in their introductions to King’s speech, made his position as a leader quite dear; they referred to him as a “twentieth-century Messiah,” the moral leader of the United States of America,” and a spokesman for the Negro race in America.
Dr. King began his speech by pointing out that continued support of the Negro’s fight for equality is necessary, and that the money raised by rallies such as this one is a tremendous help to the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, of which he is president. He then launched into a summary of the history of the Negro in this country, from his arrival in 1619 (before the Pilgrims) as a slave, to his emancipation in 1863, to his present position of legal but not actual freedom. King claims that the Negro was brainwashed from the time of his emancipation — he was not recognized as a person, and was encouraged to keep the idea of himself as an Old Black Joe. But the circumstances of our times, the advances in the economy and culture, and the wars have caused the Negro to reevaluate himself, and come to
At this point King shifted to a world scale and pleaded for world brotherhood. “The world has shrunk to a neighborhood — now we must make it a brotherhood or we will die together as fools.” He reflected upon his trip to India, and the pathetic conditions of the masses there, and commented that “whatever affects one directly affects all indirectly. No man is an island.” King said that we will never be a great nation, and that the world will never be a great world, until we get rid of the idea that there are superior and inferior races. It has been sociologically proven that there are no superior or inferior races. King placed the reasoning of those who hold ideas of superiority on a par with this syllogism:
God made all men in His image God is certainly not a Negro A Negro is not a man
As for the idea that the Negro isn’t culturally ready for freedom, King challenges that the results of segregation are being used as an argument for its continuation — it is the fact of segregation and discrimination which causes much of the crime and ignorance among Negroes. It has been proved in many great individuals that the Negro is capable, that given a chance, he can rise up to the highest levels. The segregation that keeps him down is “a new
BROTHERS OR FOOLS
by Richard Weirich
feel that he is a somebody. The new idea is that the mind is the standard of the man, and the new Negro is willing to struggle, sacrifice, and even die to be free. The idea of “separate but equal” was debunked in the Supreme Court case of Brown vs. the Board of Education (May 17, 1954), which stated that separate facilities are inherently unequal. On the basis of this decision, and the changes that have been made as a result of it, King maintains that segregation is definitely dying — the only issue is “how costly the segregationists will make the funeral.”
form of slavery.” The challenge is to rise up and see that “racial segregation is morally wrong and sinful.”-(It is sinful in both the North and the South.) “It is a cancer in the-body politic which must be removed! for moral health.” Segregation is; wrong because “it is based on human laws in conflict with the divine. Time will not work the problem out, as has been shown over the last 100 years.” The “people of ill will have used time more effectively than those of good will.” We must help time —
(Continued on page 33)
October 25, 1963
13
Vietnam: The Polities of Partition
by Dave Grophear
V i e t - C o n g, counterinsurgency, Diem, Nhu. To the everyday American these have become part of the list of semantics which denote the war in Viet Nam. Monday night in a program sponsored by Pi Sigma Alpha, the national political science honor society and the Committee on International Relations, the complex problem of this small southeast Asian nation was discussed before a small but intelligent group of students and faculty. The speaker was Mr. Stewart Hannon, a member of the Agency for International Development (AID), home on leave from South Viet Nam for briefings in Washington before his return to that trouble spot. •
Mr. Hannon’s first objective was to make clear the official U.S. position. Firstly, the security of Viet Nam is important to the U.S. — it is the stopgap against communism for all of Southeast Asia — and as a consequence w’e will offer all the help necessary to keep the communists out of South Viet Nam. Secondly, Viet Nam is politically unstable; the U.S. deplores the suppression of minorities by the present Diem regime. Following this, Mr. Hannon set the geographical and military stage on which this war is acted. Viet Nam has not one, but many frontiers which border on communist territory. Secondly, Viet Nam is exceedingly rugged country — indeed Mr. Hannon who has seen much of the world says it is the roughest terrain he has ever encountered — which is infiltrated by divisions of the communist Viet-Cong. Were Viet Nam to be represented on a topographical map, and concentrations of the Viet-Cong noted in red, the map would contain an amazing number of red patches scattered throughout the whole country. The government with the help of 14,000 American military “advisers” has organized resistance both by manning strategic hamlets placed throughout the country and by a standing force of troops.
Having set the stage thus, Mr. Hannon now posed the question to be asked and answered in South Viet Nam: “How did we get ourselves into this morass, and how are we to get ourselves out?” As with all other considerations in Viet Nam, this is a complex question. To set the historical background of how we got in briefly, between 1950 and 1954, Southeast Asia was just breaking out of a colonial state, and the U.S. — supporting a lesser evil against a greater one — supported the French in their efforts to keep Viet Nam a colony. However, independence was gained, resulting in communist infiltration and an eventual division of the country along the 17th parallel, giving the industrial north to the communists and the agricultural south to the Diem regime. The situation then went from bad to worse, and in 1955 America saw the necessity for extending aid to South Viet Nam. Since then the U.S., through the use of too orthodox — too American — policies has succeeded in doing comparatively little in Viet Nam.
The American people, sticking to
the old American tradition of getting things done in a hurry, want a quick settlement. This has led to such impossible promises by the State Department as: “The war in Viet Nam will be won or completed by 1965.” The American people fail to realize that the war in Viet Nam is a longterm situation. We are fighting the Viet-Cong, a group of guerilla fighters which can be easily reinforced at any time by any necessary number of troops from Red China and/or Soviet Russia. Consequently, victories in Viet Nam are only relative; years
of work can be reversed just by strategic Viet-Cong reinforcement. In addition, forces of the Viet-Cong can easily slip across the border if need be, and can just as easily return. And, although the Viet Nam problem is primarily politico-military, the problems of land reform, agriculture, industry, public works, public health, and education are also serious. Despite the fact that new schools are being built and other conditions improved, the harvest of these fruits must wait. Another American failure has been our reluctance to use force, for the average American seems to feel that somehow any display of power is wrong. The same has been true of our failure to use propaganda. Also we Americans tend to deal in high standards; we want to give the people a high material plane of living when most of the people do not have any plane of living at all. We try to conform the people to our concept of what they should want, and, having these concepts firmly fixed in our own minds, it is difficult to find out just what the people want. We have the moral advantage insofar as our
Christian philosophy is right, but we have failed to toughen our principles and tactics as the problems get tougher.
As Mr. Hannon said, nobody is happy about the situation in Viet Nam. His opinion is that now America must hold Viet Nam, doing all that we can to effect a solution. We must be patient for Viet Nam will not be won in a year or two years. It is a long-term process, but America must wait unless we want to give up the whole of Southeast Asia to communism.
14
The Scholastic
RICOEUR AND MARCEL
By Dr. Frederick Crosson
IN the last few weeks, the Notre
Dame community has had the opportunity to hear two prominent representatives of contemporary European philosophy: Paul Ricoeur, professor of philosophy at the Sorbonne, and Gabriel Marcel, one of the most distinguished Continental thinkers. They spoke to us in an idiom and from a background to which most of us are strangers. How many were impressed, or stimulated to further reading and reflection, would be impossible to say, but no one could doubt the earnestness and passion of Ricoeur, the commitment and humanity of Marcel. It was, in fact, typical of their philosophical convictions that neither of them philosophized in a detached and impersonal manner.
Ricoeur’s conference was technically the more difficult. The task he set himself was to sketch the outlines of a philosophical description — phenomenological analysis and clarification — of the will, understood not as a faculty but as a fundamental dimension of our experience of ourselves and the world (or, better, of ourselves-in-the world).
He began by remarking on the threefold structure of the “I will”: on the project that I form, the .that which I decide to do, as the correlate of decision; on the pragma or that which is to-be-done as the correlate of action; and on the situation or given context of these two as the correlate of consent.
Focussing attention on the first of these, he attempted to distinguish the unique and specifying notes of decision: for example, the imperative (rather than indicative) manner in which the project designates what is to-be-done; the categorical mode of the designation, unlike that of hope or desire; the particular future character, temporally prospective and yet unlike that of mere anticipation.
A widening of the field of reflection uncovered another essential element: the implication of the self. Although the project presents itself as a future to-be-done, this meaning is inseparable from an "I decide,” which constitutes the aspect of responsibility in our decisions. And fi-
October 25, 1963
nally, this element leads to another, that of motivation, which can legitimately (though incompletely) be thought of as the cause of our decisions.
In logical language, we might say to summarize that decision is a function of three variables — I ... to do this . . . because. If a value of any of these variables is lacking, then the function yields no value, i.e., there is no decision.
In all of this analysis, strewn with examples but still difficult to follow, the undercurrent of Ricoeur’s development was toward two basic theses. The first of these is properly phenomenological: the insistence that although in the field of willing I am an actor, an agent, and not an observer, it is stll possible to have a descriptive analysis of the acts and their essential structure.
The reason why such analysis is possible is that although decision is not achieved through a kind of committee discussion “within my soul,” although consciousness is not a Cartesian sphere of inner lucidity, still the objects of my experience in the world reflect on themselves the meanings elicited by my acts of deciding. The imperative to-be-done aspect of things is not something pinned-on to a purely cognitive apprehension of it. I do not see the apple and couple its image inside me with the desire to eat it: with the decision, it presents itself as to-be-eaten.
In phenomenological language, this
means that volition is a mode of intentionality, a mode of access to the meanings of things themselves, and is not to be confused with introspection. In scholastic language, this is the doctrine that the act is specified by its object.
The second basic thesis is ontological: the contention that the analysis of volition and its relation to the nonvoluntary (desires, habits, the unconscious, etc.) reveals the impossibility of conceiving of consciousness (or the soul) as belonging simply to another realm of reality — the spiritual, or that of subjectivity, or the “inner” world. The attempt to conceptualize the self as that liberty which is a stranger to nature and necessity, as that elan which must always overcome the inertia of the body, ignores that fact that the project and its preparation are always articulated against the background of the world (as action is always in the world).
Moreover it is through the body as the functional organ of volition that the project is possible to consider and that action can be inserted in the world. Human liberty is a receptive initiative, a dependent independence, whose logical contrary is not slavery but creation.
Pressed by time, Professor Ricoeur barely alluded to one of the most suggestive and least elaborated of his themes — the image of the “text of life.” Referring to the discipline of (Continued on page 30J
15
ELECTORAL COLLEGE: WHAT IN ’64?
by Joe Wilson
“In vain thy Reason finer webs shall draw,
Entangle Justice in her net of Law . . ”
—Pope
Essay on Man
A ccording to one of the most basic of democratic principles, the will of the majority is the rule. Unintentionally, however, the framers of the Constitution provided for unavoidable future violations of this basic principle by the foundation of the Electoral College. By this provision of the Constitution Article n, Section 1, a man may be elected to the Presidency without a plurality in the popular elections. Three times the most popular candidate has failed to win a majority in the Electoral College. In 1824 John Quincy Adams was elected by the House, no candidate having received a majority; in 1876 Tilden won 50.94% of the popular vote, beating Hayes by 3%, but still lost by one vote in the Electoral College; Cleveland won 96,000 votes more than Harrison in 1888, yet Harrison gained sixty-five more electoral votes than his opponent.
Indeed, the members of the Constitutional Convention never intended any element of the “unfair” for our electoral system. The College was, in fact, the result of a compromise between powerful interests during the formation of the Constitution. The difficulty of colonial communication and the resulting uninformed electorate led the constitutional framers to reason to the necessity for an electoral college system. The College was supposed to incorporate a freedom from legislative interference with the semidemocratic virtue of indirect popular participation.
The make-up of the Electoral College follows the organizational style of the most essential branches of our government in that it is representative. The different parties nominate electors (who may not he holders of
any federal office) at their state conventions. On the day of the Presidential election, the voters of each state elect to the College as many electors as the state has Representatives and Senators in the Congress. In December the electors meet and vote in a place prescribed by the state legislature. Customarily voting for the nominee of their party, they give him all the electoral votes of their state.
Lists of the votes, certified and sealed, are received by the President of the Senate. In a joint session of Congress January 6, the votes are counted. If it should happen that none of the presidential candidates has a majority, the House, with one vote to a state, chooses the President from the three highest candidates.
For the 1964 election there will be 535 members of the Electoral College. This means, of course, that a Presidential candidate must have 268 electoral votes to win the election.
There has been (and will be) much speculation on the outcome of the 1964 election; much of the noise and confusion will come from the expectation that, as in 1960, there will be a close popular vote in the election.
Looking back on the election of 1960, we find many states which were won by a thin popular majority — these states could go either way in ’64 and possibly throw one candidate or the other completely out of the running in the Electoral College while he loses by only a slim margin in the popular vote.
President Kennedy, in his recent tour of the western states, showed his awareness of this situation by paying special attention to those states in which he had won or lost
by narrow margins. He lost California, for example (worth 40 electoral votes to the 1964 winner), by .6% in the last election.
Republican National Chairman William Miller spoke of this problem when he was here at Notre Dame last year. He felt, at that time, that many of the states lost by Nixon were lost in the large cities due almost solely to inefficient and inadequate organization of the Republican party on the local level. Pennsylvania, for example, was lost by 2.4% to President Kennedy. He claimed that the intense Republican program in effect since that time would eliminate most, or all, of that margin and probably give Pennsylvania’s thirty-two electoral votes to the Republican candidate.
Goldwater supporters claim, and Kennedy advisors fear, that there is a conservative trend developing in the western states. Experts have surmised that Sen. Goldwater could make a real dent in the “Solid” South. Thus, barring any real political advances by Kennedy backers, it would be possible for Goldwater, if nominated, to beat the Democratic candidate by the transfer of about 100,000 votes. (Changes in representation due to the new census are not taken into account. All statistics used are from the election records of 1960.)
In the South (Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, and Virginia) an additional 100,000 votes, or the transfer of 50,000, would be all that was needed to give the Republican candidate an additional 53 electoral votes from four states. Added
16
The Scholastic
to the states taken in 1960, this would total 92 southern electoral votes.
Just taking one of the close bigstate races into consideration — that of Pennsylvania — the records will show that the transfer of some 50,000 votes (out of 5,000,000) would give another thirty-two votes in the Electoral College to Mr. Goldwater.
Thus, in this hypothetical situation, President Kennedy would be defeated and Mr. Goldwater elected with an electoral vote plurality of 86 (again using 1960 records); 100,000 of 70,000,000 voters (about .15%) could change governmental administration.
This is the dilemma centered about the Electoral College: President Kennedy, in 1964, could easily win the popular election by merely increas-
gestion of a totally democratic election; the popular vote will elect the President directly. Objections come from smaller states, which would lose their “advantage” of the two senatorial votes, and from southern states where voter participation is low.
Party opposition has been the primary obstacle to the much-voiced plan for presidential election by districts. One vote for an elector from his home district and one for each senator and representative at large would be cast by the voter. But majority parties like the grab-all-and-run practice now used in the states.
The “Lodge-Gossett” plan is another example of indirect democracy: each candidate would share in the electoral vote of each state in proportion to the popular vote of that
ing his 1960 vote in a few northern and eastern states and still lose the Presidency to the Republican candidate.
Each election the Electoral College question comes up. Over a hundred attempts by Congress to change or abolish it pay tribute to the difficult nature of the problem.
Generally, there are four methods of reformation debated. One of these is simply a method in which the Electoral College would be eliminated but “electoral” votes would be given on the basis of a state’s popular vote — somewhat like putting today’s customary policy of party-line voting into law, making it automatic (and accomplishing very little).
Opposite to this idea is the sug-
state. This plan has many advantages and adherents. There is, however, one serious flaw — records of popular voting show that, with the present trend, we would rarely have a Republican President under this system. This boon/catastrophe (choose one) would weaken, if not destroy, the two-party system.
Any final solution of the Electoral College problem must have three phases: first, to be democratic it must make sure each voter’s ballot is equally represented; secondly, states, whether judged by area or by population, must be represented according to fair proportions; and finally, our government must not be weakened by the imbalance or impotence of our two-party system.
October 25, 1963
17
HOMECOMING QUEEN
The 1963 Homecoming Queen will be elected early this week by preferential ballot in each of the halls. The winner will be announced during the Homecoming Dance on the evening of November 1.
BONNIE McATAVEY	JOAN LANGFRIED
18
The Scholastic
MARY BETH FINAN	CONNIE BECKWELL
JOY LARRIVEE	CANDY LEE
October 25, 1963
19
John Steinbeck's Curiosity About America
By Gary Fitzgerald
20
The Scholastic
a bum always a bum,” . V/ says John Steinbeck on the i opening pages of his latest book, Travels With Charley. Thus, in 1961, the writer of Grapes Of Wrath, Tortilla Flat, Cannery Row, and many novels, tries to find the initial im; petus that sent him off around the United States in a makeshift trucktrailer dubbed Rocinante, accompanied only by his dark blue French poodle, Charley. He goes on to say, “I had not felt the country for twenty-five years. In short, I was writing of something I did not know about, and it seems to me that in a > so-called writer this is criminal.” | I must confess here at the outset I that before I got to these words in J	the first three or four pages of the
j	book I felt a little apprehension of
1 even reading it. After all, who cares I if John Steinbeck, or anyone else, j packs his dog and his typewriter into j a motorized Conestoga wagon to go I wandering up and down the length j	and breadth of the country? I re-
1	called the power of his earlier works,
i and wondered why in hell Steinbeck ; decided to do something like this.
* But, last year, as I saw the book ,	soar to the best-seller lists (a buyer’s
J	guide I always abhorred), I became
;	a little interested. Along about
;	Thanksgiving I heard my then-future
;	brother-in-law (whose judgment I
"	respect) remark that he would like
to read it. Following this, I bought ;	him the hard-cover edition for Christ-
mas. Then I waited rather anxiously for his verdict, since I felt I had a little more at stake than my ability as a Christmas shopper. When I saw him at Easter, he told me he enjoyed the book. Then, about a week after I got married, as my wife and I were waiting for our plane to leave for Europe, she picked up the paper-back edition to read on the plane.
As it turned out, neither of us read ;	it until I pulled it out of the suit-
■	case on a Sunday afternoon in Paris.
While Lisa went off to one of the in; numerable art galleries, I found my-i self with no desire to see what every
tourist seems obliged to see in Peiris. I suppose I could have seen some of the things that ex-GIs told me I should see in Paris, but then again I had only been married one month and wasn’t really bored with my life. But that’s another story. At any rate, I went down to a sidewalk cafe and began to read Travels With Charley.
I suppose this background seems a little unnecessary and irrelevant, but I think the fact that I did read the book, this book about America, outside of the United States, had some bearing on my judgment about it. Sitting there at that cafe, across from the Gare Du Nord, amidst bars, sweet shops, bakeries, and, above all, the French people, I felt terribly alien and a little imposing. But, then, as I began to read of Steinbeck’s trip up through the rolling hills and apple orchards of the New England that is my home, I felt like handing someone the book and saying, “Here. Read this. This is the way it is in my country. You’d like it over there.” And suddenly I was homesick for the States. And yet, after I finished the book and we drove through France, through Versailles, and on out to Normandy, I hoped that one day a Frenchman would care enough about the land and record the beauty that is his country, to record it in a way that no bumbling guide-and-map-laden tourist ever could.
Steinbeck thus began with a grandiose plan to rediscover what he had lost in the intervening twenty-five years he had devoted to making money, but he had sense enough to accept the fact that he would hardly fulfill what he set out to do. Soon after he left his home, Long Island, New York, he “. . . pulled Rocinante into a small picnic area . . . and got out my book of maps. And suddenly the United States became huge beyond belief and impossible even to cross. I wondered how in hell I’d got myself mixed up in a project that couldn’t be carried out.”
But he made an effort. He went up
through New England, lingering there longer than he felt time permitted, and then made a huge circle around the whole country itself. It is not pertinent to relate in detail here the towns, the cities, and the states that Steinbeck visited. Nor is it really pertinent to relate his impressions, for they are the impressions of one man, granted, a man who has spent a lifetime trying to unravel the mystery of his country’s people, but still only one man. What is important is what he conjures up in the mind of the reader. I don’t mean the places he saw, for that only amounts to saying, “Hell, I know that town. I’ve been there. I have an aunt that lives there.” What is important are the people that he talked with, ate with, argued with, people who rented hotel rooms to him, people who kicked him off their property, hitchhikers he picked up. They’re not important because they are the people he remembered, but because they are no different than the people we meet when we buy a pack of cigarettes or who sit next to us at a baseball game.
There is another thing that Steinbeck saw that affected those people he met in Vermont, Texas, or Montana. In New Orleans, Louisiana, he watched a group of white women jeering and blaspheming a six-year-old Negro girl who was beginning her first week of school. “Theirs was the demented cruelty of egocentric children, and somehow this made their insensate beastliness much more heartbreaking.” This was the false note in a trip where Steinbeck saw people hating and loving, but out of a calm, deliberate conviction. And when he left New Orleans he knew the trip was over.
The point I wish to make here is, of course, a hope that you will read the book: not because it was a best seller; nor because it was Steinbeck; least of all because I recommend it. If for no other reason, because it may stir some remembered day, answer some question, crystallize an opinion. I don’t think Steinbeck tried to force anything more than that.
‘ October 25, 1963
1
}
21
Excellence: Stanford — Notre Dame
Thirty-six years ago, Knute Rockne’s Four Horsemen — one of the most devastating backfield combinations of all time — ran wild against Stanford, 27-10, in Notre Dame’s only Rose Bowl appearance. Last Saturday, under threatening skies in South Bend, Hugh Devore turned loose a few horses of his own, as 14 Irish backs galloped all afternoon through and around a weak UCLA line. The effect — 27-12 — was just as devastating.
Notre Dame’s total offense approached 400 yards, and four touchdowns for once took the pressure off the steadily improving defense. Quarterback Frank Budka directed all four scoring drives, scoring one touchdown himself, passing to Joe Kantor and Jim Kelly for two others, and handing off to Bill Wolski for the fourth. He also completed seven of ten attempted passes for 86 yards, and John Huarte hit on two more to bring the total yards gained passing to 96.
However, it was the running backs — a plethora of them — who gained 282 yards and dominated the game. For the fourth straight week, the Irish came up with an additional running
threat to surprise their opponent: Joe Kantor against Wisconsin in the opener, Ron Bliey in the Purdue game, Bill Wolski last week against Southern Cal, and Paul Costa and Charlie O’Hara Saturday against UCLA. None of these five was listed as a starter when the season began.
Costa, who as a sophomore ran too high and went down too easily, was running lower, harder and faster against the Bruins; well enough, in fact, to gain 49 yards in seven carries for a seven-yard average. The wing-back reverse, which gives him momentum before taking the handoff, seems made for Costa, and likely to become a prominent part of the offense.
Even more spectacular was O’Hara, who carried only four times — but for 54 yards. A runner of considerable potential, he was a sometime-starter in past seasons, but was always shackled by injuries. If, hopefully, he stays healthy, Charlie O’Hara will be another potent weapon in Hugh Devore’s well-stocked arsenal.
Never, perhaps, has a college team had so many good running backs; besides Kantor, Bliey, Wolski, O’Hara,
and Costa, Devore also used Joe Farrell, Pete Duranko, Alan Loboy, and Tom Mittelhauser in an endless parade. Even defensive star Bill Pfeiffer, this week’s winner of the Knute Rockne Award, carried the ball, ripping off 19 yards in two carries. Denny Szot, John Huarte, and Bill Zloch all spelled Budka on offense, bringing to 14 the total number of Notre Dame offensive backs who played against UCLA.
Last Saturday’s game also brought to the fore the ingenuity of Devore and his coaching staff: recently, he has come up with a-trick-a-week to perplex Notre Dame opponents. Against Southern California it was the inside belly series, against UCLA the wingback reverse.
Obviously, Devore is taking his mission as “interim” coach seriously; he is a man dedicated to winning football at Notre Dame. His astute football mind and an outstanding rapport with the players are enabling Devore, in his own manner, to make a most significant contribution to excellence at Notre Dame. Though it may be excellence in the form of an 8-2 or 7-3 football record, this excellence
22
The Scholastic
ought to be just as desirable as that of the academic variety. It will be interesting to see what Devore devises when the Irish meet Stanford’s player-scholars tomorrow at Palo Alto.
Stanford University has become, in recent years, a Western school with an Ivy League aura about it; its academic efforts, under President J. E. Wallace Sterling, have been impressive. With enormous funds at his disposal, Sterling — a master schemer — has projected Stanford into its own era of “academic excellence,” and as a result, Stanford has the dubious distinction of being — as Time magazine once suggested — “the Harvard of the West.” Though cross-bay rival University of California contests the honor hotly, Stanford graduates and students glibly assume the distinction. A conversation with a Stanford student is likely to evoke a typical reaction: “Harvard,” he will assert, “is merely an Eastern Stanford.”
All is not bliss in Palo Alto, however. Although Stanford has proven itself academically proficient, its athletic teams have bordered on the incompetent. The academicians could hardly care less, but it is a fact which Old Reds — Stanford alumni — lament. Basketball fortunes seem to be on the rise for the Indians, but football, the favorite of the old grads, has been in a downward spiral for years.
In the past five seasons, Stanford has won only 13 of its 50 football
games. This season the Indians beat lowly San Jose State in their opener, but then dropped consecutive engagements to Oregon, UCLA, Rice, and Washington. The net effect of Stanford’s grid misfortunes has become increasingly severe: attendance has decreased noticeably and with it, football revenue. The Bay Area press, with memories of the great Pop Warner teams still vivid in their minds, have hardly been sympathetic. Open mockery of Stanford — as well as California and the Forty-Niners — is now commonplace reading in Bay Area homes.
Like Notre Dame, Stanford has a new coach this year. At the conclusion of last season, the disgruntled old grads decided that “athletic excellence” was long past due. A movement to oust Jack Curtice — a Duffy Daugherty style humorist — succeeded, and after a celebrated try at luring Wayne Hardin from the Naval Academy failed, Sterling announced the signing of John Ralston, 1962 head fooball coach at Utah State.
To the Stanford family, the hiring of Ralston meant that big time football was far from dead at Stanford. Ralston, whose Utah State teams led the nation in rushing offense in 1960 and in scoring and rushing defense in 1961, was best known in California as a spirited recruiter. This was a talent the alumni respected; hence, Ralston got the job with the implicit ultimatum, recruit and win.
So far, he has found the going rough: one victory in five starts has hardly placated the alumni. Though his troubles have been many, Ralston’s major problem is threefold. Clark Weaver, his number one quarterback, is injured, and there has been no adequate replacement; the huge Stanford line, reputedly the bulkiest in the country, has proven slow and awkward; and the Indians have fumbled . . . and fumbled . . . and fumbled.
The fumbling has raised considerable consternation in San Francisco area press circles: Ray Haywood, sports columnist for the Oakland Tribune and a relentless critic of the football impotence displayed by the “two citadels of culture” (Stanford and Cal), recently remarked: “It is a pleasant surprise to see a Stanford back make yardage, even without the ball.” He goes on to chide: “Stanford athletes . . . are now more accustomed to carrying books than footballs.”
All indications would seem to be that Moose Krause has finally scheduled a “breather,” even if by accident. But don’t bet on it. Last year, a confident Michigan State squad played the Indians at Palo Alto and absorbed a stinging 16-13 setback. For the Irish, who haven’t whipped Michigan State in seven years, this is an excellence of its own peculiar kind to be envied — and respected.
—Gary Sabatte
October 25, 1963
23
Of pride, dedication and courage
When I saw him for the first time this fall, he stood in street clothes on the sidelines of Cartier Field. He looked strangely out of place there, and as he watched Notre Dame’s final scrimmage before the opening game with Wisconsin, Don Hogan seemed lost in thought.
And with good reason, since he was already coming to grips with the most difficult decision of his life: to play, or not to play.
Don Hogan had many reasons for wanting to play, dating back to the time—just ten months ago tonight— when few people thought he would live, and fewer still thought he would walk, run, or play football again. They failed, however, to reckon with his pride, courage, and dedication— for Don Hogan is an extraordinary man.
Notre Dame Coach Hugh Devore was the first to call the hospital after the accident, inquiring about Hogan’s condition; and as soon as he was able to receive visitors, his teammates traveled from South Bend to Chicago in a steady stream. “They were so good to me, I just knew I had to be a part of this team,” he remembers. “I couldn’t let them down.” And so the struggle began.
He had missed an entire month of school—including first semester exams —and his doctors and friends urged him to take a semester off. But Don Hogan had to prove to the world— and even more, perhaps, to himself— that he could make a comeback: “I guess I thought that if people saw I could make it in school, they’d think that maybe I could make it in football, too.”
He proved his point dramatically, doing so well on his make-up exams, and his second semester work that by June he was on Dean’s List in the College of Arts and Letters.
Physically, progress came harder. With his leg still in a brace, he began working to strengthen his broken left arm. It developed slowly, but eventually even surpassed his good right arm in size and strength. Meanwhile, though, Hogan was coming to basketball games in a wheelchair and to spring football practices in an electric golf cart—waiting impatiently for the moment he could discard his leg brace and begin his comeback in earnest.
With the beginning of vacation, Don Hogan committed himself totally to one goal: playing football for Notre Dame in 1963. He rode a bicycle twenty-five miles a day through the streets of Chicago, lifted weights with his leg, and ran, and ran, and ran.
Hogan’s rehabilitation program suffered occasional setbacks, however. One evening in early July, Don asked his father to watch him run. “I ran a real fast lap, and then asked him how it looked. He told me it looked lousy, that I’d been dragging my leg. I hadn’t even realized it, and I knew I’d have to start all over again, learning to run the right way. I was really depressed.”
As the summer wore on, Hogan continued to work — as much as eight or ten hours a day. By August, however, he realized that his progress was slower than he had expected. He became discouraged, and a phone call to his high school coach, Frank Salerno, brought help. “I’d work out all day, and then go over to his house after dinner. He’d work me until I was dead tired, and then work me some more. We practiced running, cuts, fakes, and starts, and I started to feel that I was getting back in shape again. I felt much stronger.”
Picture Day, the opening of fall practice, was a living hell for Don Hogan. “Everybody was looking at me and asking questions. I felt like I was on display in a glass case. You want to say the right thing, but you don’t know how.” He got a reluctant okay from his doctors and parents, and at last ran in dummy scrimmage. Still not satisfied, he asked Coach
Devore for contact work. “I just didn’t feel like a part of the team. I wanted a chance to prove myself, but Coach explained to me that he was responsible for anything that happened to me, and that, in conscience, he just couldn’t let me have contact yet. But I snuck into some scrimmages when he wasn’t looking, and got in at least a few plays.”
The pressure on Don Hogan kept building up. Football previews across the nation asked, “Will Hogan come back?” and there was a story on him at least once a week in South Bend or Chicago newspapers. Mail continued to pour in from thousands of wellwishers. Hogan got so irritable that he quarreled with his parents and with his girl; he was beginning to feel that the problem must be resolved somehow.
Never in his entire life had Don Hogan watched anything from the sidelines; never had he failed to accomplish, by sheer hard work and determination, anything he had set out to do. The thought that he might not be able to play this season overwhelmed him, a brutal blow to his pride and determination.
After a long talk with Coach Devore, considering both the reasons why he should play and the reasons he should not, Hogan decided to take a year off. It was a painful and courageous decision, because he had to admit to himself, and to his friends, teammates, and fans, that his nine months of hard work had been in vain — that he had failed.
“I just decided,” he says hesitatingly, “that I owed it to the team and the students to give them two more seasons of my best efforts, not one and a half. I don’t like to do anything halfway; if I play I want to be the best running back on the team, and I knew I couldn’t be fully effective this year.”
Even though he is more at ease, now that his decision has been made, Hogan still misses playing. “I miss it so bad, I feel all empty inside. I know I could have helped the team this year. I still try to do what I can, giving Bill Wolski and some of the other young players hints about how to run, things I picked up last season. And those guys know I’m watching them.”
They do indeed. And Notre Dame’s victory over Southern California was as much Don Hogan’s doing as anyone’s. When Frank Budka pushed through the crowd to give Hogan the game ball, it was a fitting tribute to a man who has the great competitive spirit which has come to symbolize Notre Dame football.
—Terry Wolkerstorfer
The Scholastic
i
j
i i i i
i
i i
3
J
J
I
SCOREBOARD
CROSS-COUNTRY: Captain Frank Carver won top individual honors and five Notre Dame runners were among the top ten finishers, as the Irish won the Notre Dame Individual Meet last Friday afternoon. Carver posted a new course record of 9:14, cutting eight seconds off the old record set last year by Loyola’s Tom O’Hara. Michigan’s Chris Murray finished a close second with a time of 19:15, followed by Allen Carius of Illinois and Bruce Burston of Western Michigan, clocked at 19:30. Other top Notre Dame finishers were Bill Clark, Bill Welch, Mike Coffey, and Ed Dean.
This afternoon, Coach Alex Wilson’s harriers meet perennial crosscountry power Michigan State in the last home meet of the season.
SOCCER: The Irish hiked their record to 5-1 with a 2-1 win over Ball State Friday. Sophomore Mariano Gonzales continued his scoring as he contributed the first tally. Hernon Puentes scored the other point and was credited with an assist on the first goal. Herman Friedmann, converted to fullback, led a staunch Notre Dame defense.
INTERHALL: Sunday’s games set up a three way tie for leadership in the Eastern division, where Breen-Phillips, Farley, and Zahm all have 1-1 records. Keenan and Stanford have 1-0-1 records, and Cavanaugh has lost both of its games.
Morrissey has made a quick bid to take the championship in the West with victories over Off-Campus and Sorin; Alumni-Walsh has won its one game against Howard-St. Ed’s. Dillon has come up with a 0-0-2 record, Badin and Howard-St. Ed’s have both lost one and tied one, and Off-Campus is last with one loss.
Last Sunday Keenan won over Farley, 6-0, and Zahm over Breen-Phillips, 18-6. Cavanaugh fell to Stanford, 6-0, while Badin and Dillon fought to a 6-6 tie. Morrissey beat Sorin, 6-0, and Alumni-Walsh whipped Howard-St. Ed’s, 12-0.
SCHEDULE
Cross-Country
Oct. 25, Michigan State at Notre Dame, 4:00 p.m., Burke Golf Course Soccer
Oct. 26, Notre Dame at Lake Forest Interhall—Oct. 27
Zahm vs. Keenan, 1:00 p.m.
Sorin vs. Alumni-Walsh, 1:00 p.m. Stanford vs. Farley, 2:15 p.m.
Off-Campus vs. Howard-St. Ed’s, 2:15 p.m.
Zahm vs. Cavanaugh, 3:30 p.m. Morrissey vs. Badin, 3:30 p.m.
October 25, 1963
The Young Coaches
Most juniors and seniors remember George Sefcik as the spunky halfback running-mate of Angelo Da-biero, as one of the Mighty Mites, as a quiet and well-spoken instructor of freshman physical education.
After a year of coaching at Notre Dame High School, Niles, Illinois, Sefcik has returned to the campus as a graduate student — and the chief coach of Notre Dame’s freshman football team. Working with him are four assistants who comprise a staff which is unique in a number of ways: it is probably the youngest coaching staff in college football; each coach played for Notre Dame; and each coach is teaching only freshmen who play his particular position.
The general supervisor, Sefcik is assisted by backfield coaches Norb Rascher and Scotty Maxwell. Both graduated this past June, and both are now in their first year of Law School. Rascher, a quarterback himself, is working only with the freshman signal callers, while Maxwell works with the halfbacks and fullbacks.
Brian Boulac, also a 1963 graduate, is in charge of the ends and is now working on his master’s degree in education. The interior line coach is Don Lawrence — a 1959 graduate who played professionally with the Washington Redskins.
Because the coaches are nearly the players’ own age and are able to work closely with them, demonstrating as they teach, the freshman team has a very distinctive spirit this year: the players hustle during every minute of
practice, and have so much enthusiasm that they chant cheers while scrimmaging the varsity.
“We’re teaching the freshmen mostly fundamentals,” says Sefcik. “Because all of us played at Notre Dame, it’s easier for us to teach the offensive system. We have a number of boys who are outstanding, but as a result, it’s difficult to single out any of them this early in the season. I’d say, though, that we have several excellent varsity prospects, including Jim DeLula and Alan Page.”
As far as quarterbacks are concerned, Coach Rascher feels that none on this year’s freshman squad is outstanding at this point. “We have a good, solid quarterback corps, but no one special. Some are good runners, others accurate passers, but none is the complete quarterback.”
Sefcik and Lawrence have also been busy scouting future opponents for the varsity, and their freshmen, in dummy scrimmage, run through the plays of Notre Dame’s next opponent — even wearing the jersey numbers of key players. This gives the varsity coaches a chance to polish their defenses for the coming game.
Although George Sefcik appears easygoing, the freshman players know he is a demanding perfectionist. Sefcik and his young coaches are molding the players of 1964-65-66 to varsity stature. He feels that their work may speak for itself in coming falls.
—Rex Lardner
25

THE RIGHT
COMBINATION
i^TTTE’RE working right now to find the right com-
* * bination. We know we’ve got a lot of individual ability, but we’ve got to come up with a team that looks best as a unit.” So says Johnny Jordan, who on December 2 will open his thirteenth season as Irish head coach and who smilingly admits that the 1963-64 outlook is “pretty good.”
Jordan has reason to smile with seven monogram men returning, a forward line which averages a shade over 6-7, and one of the best guards in the nation on a team which, barring key injuries, will be ranked with the best in the country.
An air of optimism is evident in this year’s practice sessions. No one is willing to say it, but the national championship is in the back of everyone’s mind, and could be the stimulus which will catapult Notre Dame basketball into national prominence.
Jordan feels that the right combination depends on “replacing (John) Matthews and (John) Andreoli not so much as individuals, but as members of the team.” Replacements, fortunately, will not be hard to find. Larry Sheffield, whose 16-point average and adroit ball handling last season led to All-American consideration before he was bounced off the team by a departing faculty member, will take over Matthews’ role as the team playmaker. Ron Reed, who last season averaged 14.2 points and collected 12.3 rebounds a game through sixteen contests, will replace Andreoli up front.	'
Jordan will alternate a tight single pivot with last season’s 1-3-1 offense to take advantage of the team’s great overall height and allow the squad to concentrate on ball control. The tight pivot puts both forwards in close to the basket where they can concentrate on rebounds and short jump shots.
The center will be 6-9 Walt Sahm, who ranked fifth in the nation last season with 16.8 rebounds a game. Six-foot-eight Larry Jesewitz and Jay Miller will help Sahm under the boards. Miller has been hampered in practice by a knee injury but is expected to be ready for the opener.
More seriously injured is junior Pat Dudgeon with a broken wrist. Captain Dick Erlenbaugh and Sam Skarich round out the list of returning monogram winners and both should see considerable action through the season. Sophomore forward Bucky McGann is also expected to bolster the Irish attack.
Christian Brothers College of Memphis, Tennessee, will open the twenty-four-game schedule for the Irish, on the day following the Syracuse trip. The Irish play Indiana at Fort Wayne and then entertain Bowling Green and Valparaiso at home before leaving on their Christmas tour.
Jordan feels this tour could make or break a successful season for Notre Dame. “We play six tough teams on the road and if the team can handle that, they can handle anything.” Whether that “anything” includes the NCAA playoffs will be known sometime early next March.
—Joe Ryan
Ron Reed, who averaged 14 points and 12 rebounds a game during the first half of last season, returns after a semester of ineligibility.
TYLER JR.’S
PICKS OF THE WEEK
PITTSBURGH AT NAVY: Jolly Roger Staubach’s soundings of the Panthers' defense will find it too deep and too strong. In such rough seas, the Middies will flounder. The Game of the Week.
MICHIGAN STATE AT NORTHWESTERN: George Saimes and State's awesome line have graduated; Tommy Myers and Northwestern are well schooled, and anxious to avenge last year’s catastrophe.
OHIO STATE AT WISCONSIN: The Buckeyes were walloped by Southern California's speed and passing last week, and Wisconsin’s similar offense will make this game little more than a facsimile of that slaughter.
RICE AT TEXAS: The Owls are eyeing an upset. The Longhorns, however, couldn’t give a hoot, and their Number One machine will continue to gain momentum.
OREGON STATE AT SYRACUSE: The Beavers, never a big team, now also lack the finesse of Terry Baker. Jim Nance and the huge Syracuse line will prove overpowering.
WEST VIRGINIA AT PENN STATE: The Mountaineers are well balanced, but won’t be able to scale the piqued defenses of Penn State.
OTHER GAMES:
Minnesota over Michigan
Air Force over Boston College
Illinois over U.C.L.A.
Nebraska over Colorado
Georgia Tech over Tulane
Dartmouth over Harvard
Last week: 11-1, 92%. To date: 33-14-1, 70%.
‘Letters’
(Continued from page 7)
Economics Department. Even the coaching is handled by the players themselves, and by no “individuals.”
The team that weekly takes the field represents the Club and the University, and they have always been something in which both groups could take pride. They are rightfully the Notre Dame Rugby Team.
The Notre Dame Rugby Club
RUDENESS Editor:
It was my opportunity over the past weekend to be exposed to what I feel was an uncalled-for rudeness. My friend and I had out-of-town guests come in for the weekend and following tradition we showed them the campus. Our new library was one of the main highlights, of which I thought we were to be duly proud. Pride is one of the least things I now feel.
We went to the 13th floor to show our dates the campus and the city from one of Indiana’s highest buildings (I might add that other couples had the same idea). Within three minutes of our arrival, the manager, an elderly man bluntly informed us, “You boys know that you are not allowed to have dates here; get out.”
If a directive has been issued on this, I feel that it should be posted for all to see in the library proper. How would this action have affected parents if they had been out of sight, but within hearing distance? Are they also banned? As long as this is the circumstance, why not keep our nonCatholic visitors out of Sacred Heart Church?
I feel that there is no place for discrimination on campus, much less in either of these buildings.
D. Hamilton Off-Campus
COMMENT ON MOVIES Editor:
Most students on the Notre Dame campus have, on at least one occasion, patronized an on-campus movie with the hopeful intention of enjoying a good picture. This intention is seldom realized, however, because of a certain group of loud-mouthed “gentlemen” who find it necessary to display their sub-freshman qualities throughout the show. Most of these offenders are surprisingly enough upperclassmen. Not all of them are, however. There exists a certain class of freshmen who attempt to throw off their unwanted social bonds by creating a disturbance loud enough to match anything that their well-trained and experienced upperclassman rivals can devise. In doing so, however, he only shows his ignorance more.
Anyone who was fortunate, or more correctly, unfortunate enough to attend “Return to Peyton Place” recently, can easily understand the prevailing situation I am referring to. Because of the shouts, whistles, pants, and claps of this group of supposedly intelligent college men, it was almost impossible to understand any of the dialogue much less enjoy the movie. Most of these outbursts were over things which, for the most part, hardly deserved such vulgar displays. I must admit that there were, however, many instances in which several
McDonald studio
Complete Portrait Service
SENIORS
GRADUATE SCHOOL AND JOB PLACEMENT PICTURES FOR APPLICATIONS 12 for $7.50
Choose from six proofs • 116 W. Colfax Ave. CE 2-2003
highly suggestive things were said, but this was the exception rather than the rule. Most of the lines which seemed to cause the greatest deal of disturbance were neither suggestively humorous nor offensive in themselves, but were so, however, in respect to the various connotations applied to them by a seemingly sex-starved group of individuals. I myself can offer no excuse for the conduct of this group and I doubt that those guilty can do sc either. Not only was their behavior that which is unbecoming to a Catholic gentleman, but they succeeded in preventing others from enjoying themselves.
Notre Dame is primarily a Catholic institution directed by certain standards of religion, tradition, and rationality. In my estimation this group of movie muckrakers in no way lives up to any one of these three standards. If they don’t wish this type of education, let them attend a school such as U.S.C. I am sure that after last week Mr. Murray will be more than happy to find that someone fits into his idea of the typical Notre Dame man.
Ray Oakley, 356 Sorin
RUBIN CLEANERS
217 E. JEFFERSON Downtown—on the Bus Line
★
Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 40 Years!
■A
•	The Finest in Dry Cleaning
•	Expert Shirt Laundering
•	Complete Laundry Service
October 25, 1963
27
Senate • • •
A brief 1%-hour organizational meeting was held by the Senate last Monday, with no main motions being considered. Rather, new Senators were introduced, and the tone of the meeting was one of “a glance at a typical Senate meeting” — minus motions and debate. The new Senators may get a radically different view once debate begins, but since this meeting was to serve as an introduction to them, this article will attempt to convey a picture of the “general outline of a Senate meeting” by reporting on it
The newly elected Senators were first introduced to the body. SBP Dave Ellis mentioned their duty of posting reports on Senate meetings for their hall members, and they received forms for choosing their preference among the Welfare, Policy and Finance Committees. The five Freshman Senators (and these alone) were informed that their voting privilege becomes effective only at the meeting following the next one.
All Senators present received a Guide to Parliamentary Procedure. Study of this, combined with a common-sense approach, should help the new Senators (and a few of the old ones) in implementing greater efficiency at Senate meetings.
The meeting proper consisted of reports and subsequent discussion. The President’s report welcomed the new Senators, and explained the questionnaire on the Voice which students received last Tuesday. A proposed general policy on the Voice was also presented for the Senators’ examination, in preparation for the vote on it at the next regular Senate meeting. The Vice-President, Secretary and Treasurer declined to report at this meeting.
The Academic Commission reported that the Student-Faculty Lecture Series schedule is almost completed, with the general topic being the impact of modern science, from the viewpoint of theology, political science, etc. The International Commission reported a banquet to be held in cooperation with the South Bend Christian Family Movement, to introduce foreign students to family life in the U.S.
The Student Affairs Commission is compiling a handbook for the students on classes, important Administration figures, and campus life in general. The Social Commission reported a profit of $200 on the last Victory Dance, estimated the Peter Nero loss at $1600, and optimistically predicted a $3000 profit on Homecoming.
An interesting note was made concerning Homecoming H. The Student Center is sponsoring the dance, since no “campus-wide” group wished to do so. Father McCarragher’s general policy makes it technically illegal for classes, halls, and geographical clubs (some of which would presumably have run such a dance) to sponsor campus-wide dances. The apparent paradox of having the Center (campus-wide group?) run a dance, while not allowing a class to do so, was mitigated by having the Social Commission “co-sponsor” the dance by receiving half the profits. Since no written policy exists, the Policy Committee will attempt to define it for future similar situations by policy legislation this year.
There was no Campus Clubs’ report at this meeting, and the four Class Presidents’ reports pertained to touch football leagues, parties, etc. One note of special interest here, however — Dr. Carberry will speak Nov. 4 in the Engineering Auditorium on Administration-Student Relations.
The Welfare Committee’s report explained that group’s realm of investigation (student hours, the laundry problem, etc.). The Policy Committee mentioned its examination and codification of Student Government procedure regarding student life and its upcoming revision of the Constitution. A question was raised concerning possible control of the content of flyers distributed on campus, with specific reference to the poor taste of a recent Met Club flyer. This matter was added to the areas of consideration of the Policy Committee.
The Finance Committee reported extensive cuts being made on this year’s budget requests. The year’s resources of $21,000, minus the debt of $11,000, leaves $10,000 to satisfy budget requests of $21,000. Chairman Dave Ellis expects these requests to be cut to “about $14,000, reducing the overall debt to $4000.” These measures are still in committee, however, and will face Senate action following that, perhaps at a special appropriations meeting this Monday.
Space precludes specific mention of the Blue Circle, Hall Presidents’ Council, NFCCS, NSA and YCS reports, which follow the Committee reports. All the foregoing reports are usually considered in the first hour of a meeting, with motions and consequent debate consuming the remaining time. The importance of upcoming motions, both in policy and appropriations, indicates that the next two Senate meetings would merit especially close observation by the Student Body.	—Al Dudash
PaperbMate FREE FILL
The biggest pen bargains going are at the big fall Paper Mate Free Fill. Come in —choose the color and style Paper Mate pen you like best—get an extra refill freel
available at
THE NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
LOUIE'S
Homecoofced Italian Foods
Free deliveries to campus 937 SOUTH BEND AVE.
CE 3-0324
28
The Scholastic
Freshman Year
On October 29, the Mechanical Engineering Department of the College of Engineering will hold an “open house” for engineering intent freshmen, and any other freshmen that might be interested in this particular area as a possible career. This meeting will begin at 7:30 p.m. and will feature a general discussion of the entire area of Mechanical Engineering by Dr. Edward W. Jerger, chairman of this department. Present will be members of his faculty, along with outstanding undergraduates in this program. There will be a question and answer period, followed by a tour of the Mechanical Engineering Department. I strongly recommend that engineering intent freshmen attend this meeting in order to hear at first hand the course requirements and the job opportunities for this area of study. As a matter of fact, it seems to me that an engineering intent freshman should make it a point to visit all of these “open houses,” since he will be required to make a decision in May regarding his area of concentration once he is admitted as a sophomore in the College of Engineering.
About this time each year freshmen begin to receive the results of class tests and many of you are beginning to wonder whether or not you are studying efficiently and budgeting your time intelligently. This is a major problem in any college for the first year students who suddenly begin to realize that the freshman year is not the thirteenth grade of high school.
In order to help freshmen to set up an intelligent study program, I would encourage those of you who might need this aid, to report to Room 250, Administration Building at 4:00 p.m., on the following days:
Breen-Phillips Hall—Monday, October 28
Farley—Tuesday, October 29
Stanford—Wednesday, October 30
Keenan—Thursday, October 31
Cavanaugh and Off-Campus Students—November 4
Faculty members from the Freshman Office will be present to help interested freshmen set up an efficient study program. This meeting should run approximately 40 minutes. Should a student from a dormitory fisted for a particular time not be able to attend because of a previous commitment, he would be welcome at any time convenient to his own schedule. The dormitory breakdown is used simply to avoid overcrowding.
William M. Burke, Dean Freshman Year of Studies
We can get it for you -whotesatet-—
We’ll send you one full-size MENNEN SPEED STICK DEODORANT free (but only one per person—our supply is limited) if you send us the coupon below with only 25$ for postage and handling.
You’ll enjoy the clean, fast, neat way—the man’s way—to all-day deodorant protection. MENNEN SPEED STICK, the man-size deodorant, goes on so wide it protects almost 3 times the area of a narrow roll-on track. Goes on dry, too—no drip, mess or tackiness.
So be our guest—send for yours today.
MENNEN FOR MEN
MENNEN
FOR MEN
SPEED STICK
THE MENNEN CO., Box 200 SS, Morristown, N. J.
Gentlemen: Send me one free Speed Stick. I enclose 25c for postage and handling.
NAME.
ADDRESS.
CITY____
.ZONE STATE
LAST CHANCE SENIORS
1.	You have till October 31 to come in and list the three activities you want in the 1964 Dome.
2.	You have till October 31 to check your picture.
3.	If you haven’t had a picture taken, do it now. The latest possible date for pictures to be accepted is November 6. Bring the picture to the Dome office.
Requirements for the picture: 1) It must have a glossy finish. 2) It must be 2!4 by 316 inches. 3) It must have a spotlight background. 4) No over-the-shoulder poses. If any questions, come to the Dome office.
DOME OFFICE HOURS: Monday-Friday, 3:00-5:06.
October 25, 1963
29
Ricoeur and Marcel
(Continued from page 15) hermeneutics (usually thought of as interpretation of the Scriptures), he characterized it as the study of the meaning of meanings, and proposed that a hermeneutics of oui' presonal history was possible and desirable.
Psychonanalysis represents one form of such a discipline, but certainly not the only one. An alternative form, of course, would not simply deny the reality of a second level of meaning in our lives (as some critics of psychoanalysis do), but would seek another principle of interpretation, e.g., not the unconscious. but divine providence.
The address of Gabriel Marcel, "Science and Wisdom,” was delivered to an overflowing audience in Washington Hall. It exemplified neatly the
description which Marcel has given to his thought (“Christian Socra-tism”), for not only was it remarkably like a Platonic dialogue in veering off constantly into apparent digressions, but it focussed on a central Platonic problem, the relation of wisdom to scientific knowledge (cf. the Meno).
After a rapid historical summary tracing the “decline of wisdom” in the modern period, Marcel questioned whether the term “wisdom” is understood to designatte a real and valuable knowledge today. In particular, he questioned whether a popularized notion of science did not have the effect of denigrating any form of knowledge which was not factual and demonstrative.
Distinguishing between “scientism” and the scientist, he suggested that there is a wisdom of the latter, characterized by his humility or caution about his knowledge and its limits, by the coopera
tion which is both necessary and valued among scientists, by the “sense of a center” or standard of truth which we only approximate, and by the awareness of “being in the same boat” with the simple man, say a peasant.
He attempted to indicate the decline of wisdom by citing examples of the devaluation of things which previous ages had set apart from measurement by scientific standards — the sacredness (in a natural sense) of life, the independence of our emotional and spiritual life from the criteria of functional normality, the rights of the parents in procreation over the needs of the state.
Marcel’s remarks were deliberately and typically problematic — the questions were clarified, but no final answers were forthcoming. As an example of philosophizing, however, and of philosophy as a way of living, it was an impressive and moving experience.
on L°f'°N THa,
No dripping, no spilling! Covers completely! Old Spice Pro-Electric protects sensitive skin areas from razor pull, burn. Sets up your beard for the cleanest, closest, most comfortable shave ever! 1.00
<n
30
The Scholastic
Highlander Motor Lodge & Tony's Restaurant 112 Bypass ELKHART, INDIANA ★
— 42 Rooms — ★
Phone: JAckson 3-4780
MAKIELSKI ART SHOP
SINCE 1911
PICTURE FRAMING
ART SUPPLIES
COMPLETE SELECTION OF ART SUPPLIES FOR THE ARCHITECTURAL AND FINE ART STUDENTS
•
117 NORTH MAIN ST.
South Bend, Indiana
233-2409
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist
•
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
MM
When the occasion calls for casual clothes, how can a Notre Dame man impress his girl and not depress his wallet? It's easy with the traditional look in sweaters from Michaels & Mann. Sue, Pat, and Hank all realize that this camel sweater will make any Notre Dame man proud during a comfortable, casual evening. This cardigan sweater comes in the popular six-button style and is made of Shetland wool priced at $12.95. When . you try on this one, also check on the wool and mohair zipper-style sweaters. These are available in cathedral and snowflake patterns at $17.95. Check them all and become the traditional man at Michaels & Mann, one block south from the bus stop on the same, sunny side of the street.
Tour I.D. immediately opens a 6-month charge account
Michaels & Mann
.■■=7.-.- : 1 n C. V. =7
118 S. MICHIGAN STREET
NEXT DOOR TO OFFICE ENGINEERS
MM
October 23, 1963
31
“Glance”
ERASE WITHOUT A TRACE ON EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
Touch-type, hunt-and-peck, type with one hand tied behind your back—it's easy to turn out perfect papers on Corrasable. Because you can erase without a trace. Typing errors disappear like magic with just the flick of an ordinary pencil eraser.There’s never a telltale erasure
mark on Corrasable's special surface.
Corrasable is available in light, / medium, heavy weights and Onion	fa
Skin. In convenient 100-sheet packets and 500-sheet ream boxes. Only Eaton makes Corrasable.
A Berkshire Typewriter Paper
EATON PAPER CORPORATION •*£} PITTSFIELD, MASS.
BLv JUST ARRIVED!
DELIVERY
FOR DELIVERIES AT THE CIRCLE AND BEHIND FARLEY
New (Radio Controlled) units To Deliver your PIZZA within Minutes and SIZZLING HOT TOO!

Delivered on demand — PIZZA, HOAGGIES, \ PRESSURE COOKED CHICKEN
PIZZA MOBILES
FASTEST & HOTTEST DELIVERY IN TOWN
FRANKIE'S |
1003 N. Notre Dame Avenue ' CE 3-1115
(Continued from page 11)
There is thought control in the U.S.S.R. The professor mentioned that Western philosophy was not openly available and extremely difficult to obtain. The protection of the concept of dialectical materialism is carried to such an extreme that, for instance, the Theory of Relativity, a clashing concept, has resulted in a ban of Einstein’s works.
VonKuehnelt-Leddihn described Russia as a monastery, an atheistic monastery whose members are not asked to take vows of obedience, but forced to; where puritanical existence is enforced, for instance sex is a hushed subject; and whose ideas are protected from the outside world of the West. Yet he predicts great hope for Russian emergence, quoting a Russian author who wrote at variance with Russia’s monasterial principles: “If my brother were to be shot to the moon and he should die, I would be unashamed to go to the garden and cry, but be careful not to disturb the nightingale, who is delighting a pair of lovers nearby.” Eric von Kuehnelt-Leddihn feels that the human element, in the long run, will prevail in Russia.
MYTH YIELDS REALITY
Caroline Gordon, distinguished novelist, short story writer, essayist, critic, and lecturer, spoke last Thursday in the Memorial Library auditorium. “No Snake Has All the Lines” was the title of her lecture.
She has had a long academic career teaching courses in creative writing and fiction. A Catholic, she is married to author Allen Tate.
Her lecture was the first event in the new auditorium and many members of the English department attended because of the prominence of the speaker. The lecture was about the forces of good versus evil; she illustrated that the forces of evil are more attractive than the forces of good in the world today by retelling the story in the book The Snake Has All the Lines. In this story, the little boy was discouraged because in the school play of Adam and Eve the snake steals the show. Miss Gordon decried the prominence of evil and thought that if myths which always portrayed a hero conquering evil were told to grade school children they would realize that good is much better than evil. She then recounted the story of the nine labors of Hercules to prove her point.
32
The Scholastic
‘Brothers or Fools’
(Continued from page 13) “the time is always right to do right.”
In campaigning for strong civil-rights legislation, King noted that his opponents are correct in charging that you can’t legislate morality. But you can legislate behavior. “The law can’t make a man love me, but it can keep him from lynching me.” Dr. King asserts that there are basic problems in the North as well as the South — it’s just that in the North the segregation exists under cover, while in the South it is in the open. Specific problems are employment discrimination, educational discrimination (which leads to unemployment due to lack of ability) and housing.
To achieve his aims, the Negro must act. The method King recommends is nonviolent direct action, which has worked so well for him in the South. (Fr. Hesburgh, speaking in an interview on WSND as a member of the president’s civil-rights commission, listed substantially the same aims for the Negro, and noted that the nonviolent resistance has helped their cause much.) The end does not justify the means to the mind of a leader such as King. He notes that this faulty philosophy can be seen in communism and such systems; for his struggle, King orders his followers to maintain a love of their enemies.
At no time in his speech did King state a specific action which should be taken, but at a press conference earlier in the day he mentioned several. He will remain adamant that Birmingham hire 25 Negro policemen. There is already an allotment in the budget for 20 new men, so he feels the demand is reasonable. If it is not heeded, demonstrations will be renewed. King also backs the idea of a “sacrificial Christmas” — rather than buying gifts at Christmas time, the idea calls for donating the money to the cause. King stated that this would help spiritualize Christmas, which is too commercial anyway. In the local vein, King was asked about the problem of de facto segregation in the schools. His reply was similar to Fr. Hesburgh’s: solve the housing problem and this one will vanish.
King’s statement of the role of God in the whole affair sums up his philosophy. He believes in a personal God working with and through man to achieve His ends. But this God has given man a free will, and will not change the social situation without man working.
1. Excuse me, sir. I’m conducting a poll for the college newspaper.
I wonder if I might ask you a few questions?
Be my guest.
2. In your opinion, what are some of America’s most significant achievements in the past 50 years?
Huh?
3. Let me put it this way. During the last half century what new ideas have led to important benefits for the American people?
Well, uh — there’s the two-platoon system.
4. I’ll rephrase the question. Since 1912, what developments can you think of that have made the lot of the working man easier?
Now vou’re getting trickv. j	O O	J
5. Give it a try.
Well, speaking off the top of my head, I might say stretch socks.
I’m sure everyone would agree they’ve been useful. But isn’t there something with a bit more social significance that comes to mind?
There certainly is. There’s Group Insurance, the principle of which is to help
provide protection for those who need it most and can afford it least. Pioneered and developed by Equitable, it has proved most efficacious. Today, the working man and his family enjoy a broad spectrum of protection provided by Group Insurance. For that reason, I would most emphatically suggest its inclusion among the significant achievements. But I still think the two-platoon system is pretty important.
For information about Living Insurance, see The Man from Equitable. For information about career opportunities at Equitable, see your Placement Officer, or write to William E. Blevins, Employment Manager.
The EQUITABLE Life Assurance Society of the United States
Home Office: 1285 Avenue of the Americas, New York 19, N.Y. ©1963
Tom Hoobler. ..
The Last Word
<^ne of the most interesting half-serious proposals we’ve heard lately comes from a student who has sung, acted, and danced on the stage of the University Theater, but is presently disillusioned with the state of the theater at Notre Dame. He claims that there is no real outlet for students in the fields of writing, directing, or choreographing. The suggestion he made is for an annual student review like those put on by college clubs in other universities. The Princeton Triangle, for instance, produces a spring show that gives road performances throughout the East.
The production here would be written, directed, and choreographed by Notre Dame students, with faculty help and advice. St. Mary’s could easily be included, depending on the willingness of their students, faculty, and administration. With any imagination and creativity at all, the production could be one of the high points of the year.
We are happy to report a defeat of “art for profit’s sake.” Last weekend, a group of art students — led by a nun, although most of the students were undergraduate — organized an art “show” for the football weekend tourists. We have it on good authority (from some of the nonparticipating art students) that the works exhibited in the show were hastily prepared to be sold at high prices to the supposedly undiscerning tourists. Signs were prominently placed on the path to the stadium, directing patrons to the show. However, the football fans showed they had more taste than expected. They didn’t buy any of the paintings exhibited in the show. For now, at least, Brother Conan retains exclusive rights to the tourist trade.
We attended the first lecture in the New Library Auditorium last week. (An account of the talk given by Caroline Gordon can be found elsewhere in the magazine.) The auditorium is fully as lavish as the rest of the library, and certainly a much-needed addition to campus facilities for guest lectures. The only problem at the first lecture was that the planners had neglected to supply the auditorium with a podium for the speaker, and a table had to be found, delaying the lecture for some fifteen minutes.
The president of a student organization that tried to reserve the library auditorium for a symposium it is planning showed us the letter he received from the Director of the Library, Victor Shaeffer, in which it was stated that the auditorium will not be available for student functions. This seems a shame, since the library is supposedly intended to serve the students, and that such a policy concerning the use of the library will only be harmful in that it prevents the library from being a center of intellectual fife on campus. We would like to see a reconsideration of this ban on student use of the auditorium.
The most significant statement of the week was made by Tom O’Brien, student body vice-president, when he was asked by Walsh Hall Senator Joe McGowan what was the purpose of the questionnaire concerning the Voice, that was circulated last Tuesday. O’Brien answered: “That isn’t anyone’s business.”
When pressed, O’Brien admitted that it might be someone’s business, but certainly not the business of the students who answered the questionnaire or of the senators who passed it out and.tabulated the answers.
Two STUDENT PUBLICATIONS that haven’t made an appearance yet have scheduled publication in the near future. The Lejjrecliaun, campus humor magazine (but nonsupported by the administration) is supposed to be out by the end of October. Editor John Lee Marlow (CE 3-6344) welcomes contributions by budding humorists.
The Juggler, formerly the campus literary' magazine but this year expanding into other areas of interest, is scheduled for publication in midNovember (or later). The format will also be different than in previous years. Layout Editor John Pesta has made a few radical, and some minor, changes that will hopefully contribute to a more attractive, if not more readable, magazine. Notices are now on the hall bulletin boards, inviting contributions from students with various interests.
Jim Shay, the Chairman of the Patriot of the Year award, informs us that Hugh Devore got three write-in votes.
The Scholastic
Pardon me if I sound as if the executive position I’ve landed deals with the whole future of the world.
It does.
Certainly, there’s no organization today conducting more vital business than the business of the United States Air Force. And very few organizations that give a college graduate greater opportunities for responsibility and growth.
As an Air Force officer, you’ll be a leader on the Aerospace Team—with good pay, a 30-day paid vacation each year, educational opportunities.
How can you get started? For many, the best way is through Air Force ROTC. But if you missed out on AFROTC, or if there’s no unit on your campus, you can still apply for Air Force Officer Training School. This three-month course leads to a commission as a second lieutenant in the United States Air Force.
For more information about Air Force OTS, see your local Air Force representative.
U. S. Air Force
p
SHOES BY JARMAN
STANDING ON OUR OWN THREE FEET
Research, Manufacturing and Operations form the solid base upon which OT&E has built its strength. Today, OT&E is the largest of the many Independent telephone companies that supply a substantial share of America’s e ver- gro wing communications needs. By conducting our own research, manufacturing our own communications products and operating our own telephone system, OT&E contributes to the communications progress of the whole nation.

GENERAL TELEPHONE & ELECTRONICS
730 THIRD AVENUE, NEW YORK 10017	'
GT&E SUBSIDIARIES: Genera! Telephone Operating Companies in 32 states • General Telephone & Electronics Laboratories • General Telephone & Electronics International ■ Genera! Telephone Directory Co. • Automatic Electric ■ Lenkurt Electric ■ Sylvania Electric Products