Athletes Of The Year 


Notre Dame's Student Magazine 

sEvent Of The Year 
• 
IC Vol.128, No.22 April 30,1987 
Chan es Under ,The Dome 




Conterts 

April 30, 1987 Volume 128, No. 22

Scholastic 


The Transition Game 
By Steff aine Keller 
Scholastic's News Event of the Year is the passing of 
6 
the presidential torch from Father Hesburgh to 
Father Malloy 

The 1986-1987 Female and Male Athletes of the Year 
16 
By Terry Lynch 
17 
Molly Sullivan blazed the way for her fencing team's 1987 National Championship and, in the process, picked up her second consecutive Scholastic Athlete of the Year honor. 
By Ed Jordanich 
On the gridirron, the basketball court, and the track, Notre Dame's Tim Brown made his opponents this year see red. 

8/ A Matter of Principle 
By Tripp Ba.ltz 
On May 7 the Board of Trustees will again meet on the subbject of divestment and discuss a possi­ble reassesment of its policy. 
11 /Affecting Change 
After months of preparation, three student reports are ready to be presented to the Board of Trustees. 



Sports 
27/ Scoreboard 


Student Life 
20/ Turned On Again By Sara Harty 
Thanks to the work of two Notre Dame juniors, the 'Voice of the Fightin' Irish' can now be heard in every dorm, clearer than ever. 


Departments 
4/Week in Distortion: Hell Week '87 5/On Other Campuses: Coke Adds Life 19 /Music: Best Bands 25/Movies: Sucess Succeeds 28/Final Word: Good-bye And Many Thanks 
Cover graphic by Tricia Brienza. Photos by MattBradley and Allan Lim 
Scholaatic magazine is published weekly during the school year except during examination and vacation periods at Notre Dame, IN 46556 and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $20.00/year and back issues are available at $1.00/copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors anci editon and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or student body. Editorials represent the opinion of a major­ity of the editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. Scholastic is represented I: nationally by CASS student advertising, Inc. Ji 
c 1987 Scholastic magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part witnou~ ,;ermission is prohibited. 
_J 

Scholastic 
Vol 128 April 30 1987 No. 22 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Morit11rus 
Founded 1867 
Editor: Kathleen McKernan 
Managing Editor: Mark Dillon 
Business Manager: Cathy Coffey 
Editorial Staff 
Sports: Marty Burns Departments: Mike Farnan Student Life: Sara Harty News: Steffanie Keller Copy Chief: Bob White 
Production 
Graphics Arts Manager: Patricia Brienza Photo Manager: Allan Lim Systems Manager: Lawrence Pravecek Production Manager : Amy Weber 
Business 
Administration and Circulation: Matthew Bradley Controller: John Harper Advertising Manager: Dave Marcantuono 
Issue 22 Staff 
Layout: Jim Doerfler Sue Serrato 
Photography: ND Sports Info Diane Dutart 
Art: Tim Letscher 
Distribution: 
Mike Hoban 

"I GOT A POSTCARD FROM MIAMI" "I GOT A POSTCARD FROM TEXAS" "I GOT A POSTCARD FROM HELL!" 

"Greetings From Hell", Series 1, the b~st of the Life in Hell comic strips from the last five years now in postcard and notecard form. 
• 
Postcards -16 designs for $10 

• 
Notecards -16 designs for $_18 with envelopes included (like a greeting card but you write the message inside) 


Introductory offer with this ad. Expires 6/1/87 
L. Barry/M. Groening '87 Calendar now $4 (includes P & H)! Collector's item! Expires 12/31/87. 
Send check or money order to: 
Life In Hell 
Attn: Order Dept. P.O. Box 36E64 L.A. CA 900 


Coke Adds Life 
Edited by Steve Sparks 

Penn State study concludes that drug use is on the rise amidst conflicting reports based on other surveys 

Cocaine use has increased significantly 
in colleges across the country in recent years is the conclusion of a study conducted by Kevin Charles, assistant directer of Pennsylvania State's Total Alcohol Awareness Program. The Weekly Colle­gian, a Penn State University student news publica­tion, also reports that although studies conducted by the University of Michigan Institute for Social Research and other national research institutes have found · that overall drug abuse has declined since_ 1980, narcotic use remains a major problem on the Penn State campus. At Penn State in 1986­87, there was one suspension and four dismissals on drug charges. According to another campus investi­gation, favorite student activities while high on drugs are listening to music (such as reggae band Bob Marley and the Wailers), talking, playing gui­tar, going to museums, and conducting campus investigations. 


The definition of .. hoosier" · was recently asked to be changed in the next edition of the Webster Dictionary by Senator Dari Quayle (R­IN). The College Press Service attributed Quayle's plea to the Indiana University Hoosiers' winning of the NCAA basketball championship; "Whereas Indiana University's basketball team displayed the real meaning of the word 'Hoosier,' therefore be it resolved that a Hoosier is someone who is quick, smart, resourceful, skillful, a winner, unique and brilliant." Webster's Third New International Dic­tionary, however, defines "hoosier" as "an awk­ward, unhandy, or unskilled person, especially an ignorant rustic." Webster President William A. Llewellyn rejected Quayle adding that the defini­tion should not "be taken to mean that inhabitants of the state of Indiana are inherently awkward or rustic or anything like that." But, if the shoe fits .. 

Over 1,500 condoms were distributed 

to students of the University of Pennsylvania by school officials during Condom Awareness Day, reports the University of Pittsburgh's Pitt News. But the condom handout also sparked controversy. Members of Delta Kappa Epsilon fraternity operated a booth promoting ·"Cqndiment Aware­ness Day" that featured everything from ketchup to tabasco sauce. "Our action was a move to point out the ridiculousness of the situation; to think that an undergraduate would arrive at a university without an awareness of the condom as an available method of birth control," said the fraternity's house manager. 
The festival was part of an educational effort that included lectures, films, workshops and small group discussions on sexually transmitted diseases. Plain brown envelopes, containing a small package· that explained "Condoms Are. 'In',"· were dispensed to students as they walked on the campus. Each package contained a sample prophylactic. "We have a whole generation of college students that has grown up without ever having to look a condom in the eye," said Christie Lyman, a social worker at Penn's Student Health Service, which co-sponsored the project with the Office of Student Life. How do you look a condom in the eye? ¦ 
Scholastic 

Hell Week '87 



Coyle and Keegan combine to compose a week of distortion 
By John Coyle and Mike Keegan 


Yes!!!! Hell week '87, The Final Hurrah, spon­sored by those crazy administration guys is finally here. But, Notre Dame's hell week isn't associated with eating goldfish, drinking from taps, or even "thank you sir, may I have another?" No, hell week here has nothing to do with physically abusing your body or someone else's. Ours is of higher standing. We're talking mental and emotion.al anguish, the kind of stuff that brings permanent scars. Final exams have arrived. 
It is that time of year when everybody needs a lit­tle extra help. We don't know how we would possibly be able to bear this torture without the help of our trusty friend, The Survival Kit. Without fail, just before exams, it arrives at your dorm room door ready to relieve the pressures of academia. Packed with a variety of treats, this old friend provides you with the courage to face any exam, no matter how clueless you are. 
How many times has it been three hours before an exam and you still haven't cracked a book? You need help. You can't turn to yourfriends because they have reservations on the same sinking ship. Just then you reach for it, the knowledge hammer (Thank God your parents spent the extra buck!!) Desperately clutching your yellow and orange tool, you nail your­self five times on the head, the legal dosage. Sud­denly, Einstein's Theory of Relativity makes sense. Reading Plato's Republic becomes as easy as strolling through the comics on a Sunday morning. 
However, as your brain capacity swells, worry begins to set in. How are you going to be able to expend so much energy without getting tired? You need food, but, not just any food, brain food. (No, not· fish, we need something cool, something Reggie Jackson would eat before hitting a homer.) About to go delirious with hunger, you search your room for 
April 30, 1987 
that half-eaten Snickers bar you threw behind the couch last semester. 
Then it appears like a gift from the heavens, a pack of sunflower seeds. The filling, good tasting, fun to eat, energy.boosting food every college stu­dent reaches for when looking for a quick pick me up. With sunflower shells flying onto your roommate's bed, you think "I'm going to ace this mother!" 
If the hammer and the sunflower seeds just aren't doing the job (we know this is a rare occassion), here are some more tips to help you survive exam week. Although these may not cause your G.P.A. to rise through the roof, the hints will help you keep your sanity. Hey, as your parents always said 'grades aren't everything!'

First, if things are looking really desperate, push your roommate out the window and get yourself a 
4.0. It only takes a few minutes to forge a suicide note, and, what the hell, roommates are disposable. No employer is going to care who you lived with in college. 
Second, if you live on the first floor and thus plan one is not a viable option, you can always wear mir­rored glasses to the test and follow the old adage "a wandering eye is better than a wandering hand." But remember, don't sit next to your buddy who's wear­ing the same glasses. 
Third, purchase twenty dollars worth of copy cards, find Eugene, tell him you're missing the notes for the last day and were wondering if you could 

. borrow his notebook for a few minutes. Well, you know that to do with the notebook. 
Finally, pull a Norm and decide that there is too much emphasis· placed on grades and not enough .on beer, and head to Bridget's. 
Well, we've gotta go price copy cards and beer. We are trying to decide what's more important, to raise our G.P.A. or our B.A.L. These moral dilemmas are tough, twenty bucks of useless notes or four cases of Milwaukee's Best. You're going to have to decide for yourself. Try hitting yourself on the head with the hammer. That should help. II 
.s 
News 






The Transition Game 
Scholastic's News Event of the Year is the passing of the presidential torch from Father By Steffanie Keller Hesburgh to Father Malloy 


Scholastic traditionally names an athlete of the year. This year, a new tradition is beginning. For the first annual News Event of the Year, Scholastic has chosen the presidential succession from Father Hesburgh to Father Mal­loy for the obvious impact it will have on the Notre Darne commun­
ity.A
s Notre Dame students tear down their lofts and pack up the things they have accu­
mulated during the school year, another member of the Notre Dame community is "cleaning out his room" as well. His task is a lit­tle more difficult than putting a couch into h.all storage or shipping home the . many possessions a senior can amass in four years at Notre Dame. As Father Theodore Hes burgh prepares to retire from the office of university president, he must remove 35 years of belongings from his office in the 


\1 /'
ly \ ~ ;t 
Administration Building to make way for his successor, President­elect Father Edward "Monk" Mal­loy. 
"I just got all the books out of my office and all the knick­
-l<ilacks. They're all in my office over in the library on the thir­teen th floor," said Hes burgh. "I've moved everything I can move, except a few odds and ends, per­sonal things. In general, the bulk of the stuff is moved and shipped over there." 
"He has been in the process of 
moving out the many things he has accumulated over the years, some to his new office in the library and some to the archives," said Malloy. "When he finally moves out, there's a need to do some plaster­ing and painting and that will hap­pen over the summer. I will move into his office when that is com­pleted, some time over the sum­mer." 
Hesburgh's tenure as president began when Father John Cavanaugh chose him as his sue­
.cessor in 1952. Hesburgh first announced his intention to retire · in 1981, but agreed to remain as president for five more · years when a committee determined that 
no Holy Cross priest was ready to assume the post. According to the by-laws the University adopted when it changed over to lay gover­nance in 1967, the president had to be a Holy Cross priest. 
The second search for a succes­sor to Hesburgh officially began in the spring of 1986. Thomas Car­ney, then chairman ·of the Board of Trustees began to solicit input from faculty, students, alumni, and members of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. A nominating committee was formed at this time to begin the selection process. The committee met as either a full or partial body· twelve times, inter­viewing candidates and obtaining input from a variety of sources before recommending Malloy as the next president last fall. 
Malloy, who will become Notre Dame's 16th president upon his inauguration on September 23, was associate provost of the University before being elected to a five-year term at the November 14 meeting of the Board of Trustees. At that time, the board also approved 
Malloy's recommendations that Father William Beauchamp succeed Father Edmund Joyce as executive vice president and that Timothy O'Meara continue in his role as provost. Since that time, many preparations have been made for the transition from Hesburgh's administration to Malloy's. 
"W ' b .
e ve een meetmg on a regu­lar basis," said Malloy. "He has 

Scholastic
6 




News 

identified things that I need to know that I wouldn't necessarily have gotten around to asking him. We've had long chats on numerous occasions. He sends me stuff all the time." Malloy said that he and Hesburgh had spent about four or five days at Christmas togeth~r talking about issues related to Notre Dame. "It's been a combi­nation of occasional conversations, a few regular meetings and a lot of correspondence," he said. 
"We've been meeting regularly for five years," Hes burgh said. "He's been in every important meeting we've had in the past five years. Whenever he has something he wants to talk about, we get together but I leave that up to 
him." 
Hesburgh said he believes that Malloy is well prepared to assume his new position. "He knows all about the state of the University. He knows infinitely more about the presidency than most riew presidents coming in, certainly more than I knew." 
In addition to his meetings with Hesburgh, Malloy has been mak­ing his own preparations for the presidency. "Father Beauchamp and I have peen meeting this semester with the faculty in each department, the college councils, open forums in each student dor'­mitory and with all the other units of the University such as student affairs and athletics," Malloy said. "We've been spending a.lot of time doing tliat and also doing some. planning with the offic_ers in the next administration." 
These meetings with the incom­ing officers of the University have resulted in plans to establish four task forces: teaching, residential­ity, alcohol, and marriage, family and other life . commitments. "We're getting one on minority students rea<Jy," said Malloy. "We're going to be looking at ·an those questions. They aren't the 
April 30, 1987 

1,· 
only priorities, but they are a good start." In addition, Malloy said that he and the officers of the next administration would be having a series of meetings for five days this summer "for more sustained planning for this year and the years ahead." 
As for the rest of this year, farewell festivities for Hesburgh abound. On May I, Student Government will be holding its student celebration in honor of Hesburgh and Father Joyce, his executive vice president for 35 years. On May 9, Hesburgh will give his valedictory on satellite television as part of a special _pro­
gram: titled "A Notre Dame Moment." The longest presidency in Notre Dame's 144 year history will officially end after com­mencement exercises on May 17. 

"By general agreement, I will be responsible after graduation," said Malloy. "The day after gra­duation is the president's dinner for the staff and the Tuesday after graduation is the president's dinner for faculty.He usually gives a talk at each of the dinners. We both agreed that it would be appropriate for him to do that." Malloy said that Hesburgh would leave after those dinners. and "although he'll be back for a cou­ple of events, he'll come back not as president, · but as president . emeritus." 
"I have to make a retreat up_ in the North Woods after the faculty dinner," said Hes burgh.· "Then I have to go to. Moscow and give a talk on religion and peace. The Nobel Prize winners for this year, the International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War, are having their annual meeting in Moscow and they asked me to speak." Hes burgh said he would return to Notre Dame for several meetings after giving his speech in Moscow. "Then, hopefully in early June, i'll take off for the West, schedule completely unscheduled." 


Malloy's schedule, however, will be crammed with the activi­ties and preparations which come along with his new title. On Sep­tember 23, Malloy will become the first Notre Dame president to be inaugurated in a formal ceremony. In the past, the presidency had been a religious assignment of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. A 

J

19-person committee has been I I 
.,I

formed to plan the ceremonies. There will be no classes held on that day, although Malloy said "The reason for that is so that peo­
,·

ple can go to the festivities, not so 
i

they can take off." ¦ ) 7 
.· -...: -•-· --· -----'· ...... -· ·,· ......_ •. -·-~-"·-· .. --..._......._ .. : ~~-. 
·~ ---­
·---------­






AMatter of Principle 
By Tripi) Baltz 

On May 7 the Board of Trustees will again meet on the subject of divestment and discusss a 
possible reassessment of its policy 
hen the camera crews were 
packed away and the report­

ers were rushing off to tell the world about the new president of Notre Dame, little was dis­cussed about another item on the Board of Trustees' November agenda. Next week, the limelight will be on that issue, the University's investments in South Africa. 
The board announced at the November meeting their intention to "completely reassess" the University's investment policy in May. A reassessment of Notre Dame's stance couldn't come at a more crucial time, according to members of both sides of the divestment debate. 
Recent unrest in South Africa indicates that relations between blacks and whites have further deteriorated since the board last met in November. Giant corpora­tions such as IBM, Coke and American Express have been joined by other companies halting their principal business operations in the embroiled country. Shortly before the November meeting, the 
U. S. Catholic Bishops called upon Catholic institutions to divest totally from South African invest­ments. 

Despite these developments in the divestment debate; Father Oliver Williams, a member of the board's ad hoc committee on South African investments, said he believes the board will again put off the decision at the May 7 meeting. 
He bases his· opm1on on a recommendation from Rev. Sul­livan, author of the Sullivan Prin­ciples. The Sullivan Principles are rules · protecting the rights of blacks along with whites in the workplace. Notre Dame has divested from companies who do not adhere to the principles. "Sul­livan asked those universities (who have not divested) not to make any move until after May 31," said Williams, a professor of manage­ment. 
"I suspect since . Notre Dame has been on Sullivan's bandwagon," added Williams, "(the board) will wait until after May 31. 
May 31 is the deadline Sullivan set in 1985 for the dismantling of apartheid. Sullivan has said he will call for a total economic embargo of South Africa after this date if apartheid has not met its end. Since Notre Dame has consistently followed Sullivan's guidelines the approaching deadline is sure to be the most pressing concern the board will discuss at next week's meeting. 
Even if the board again puts off reassessment . of .the University's stance, the Executive Committee and the administration are empowered to divest indepen­dent of a meeting by the Board of Trustees. Therefore, according to Father Richard Zang, investments officer for the University, the University may still divest after 
Schoiastic 


News 

Sullivan's delivers his new recom­mendations at the June 1 press conference. 
"Divestiture does not depend upon the Board of Trustees," added Zang, who constantly reviews portfolios of. the com­panies in which Notre Dame has invested and who do business in South Africa. If Zang finds a com­pany stepping out of line with the Sullivan Principles, he refers the violation to an administrator. 
If the deadline passes and Sul­livan calls for total economic embargo, Zang said, "It is cer­tainly very likely" the Executive Committee and the administration will discuss the possibility of divestment. "They don't have to wait until October," Zang added. "They can do it before the general board." 
The Anti-Apartheid Network at Notre Dame waits with the rest of the world to see if Sulltvan plans to stick by his guns after his self­imposed deadline has passed. "I think he's serious," said Margarita Rose, chairperson of the campus Peter Walshe, a member of the Anti-Apartheid Network. Rose, a South African investments com­graduate student, said she feels mittee and director of African companies who signed the original studies at the University, said he Sullivan Principles have "not been hopes Sullivan "is a man of effective m dismantling integrity and keeps his word." 

apartheid." "The principles have been superceded," said Rose. She said because of further deterioration of relations between whites and blacks, "it is no longer adequate to do business as usual in South Africa." 
Williams, however, said he believes Sullivan will settle for less than the total abolition of the apartheid laws if there is some sign of a major bre2.:,through in black-white relations. 
"He hopes not to make the call 


Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
presents a Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre production of 


by William Shakespeare Directed by Reg Bain 
Washington Hall Tonight through Saturday April 30-May 2, at 8:10 p.m. Sunday May 3, at 3:10 p.m. 
Tickets: $6 main floor, $5 balcony $4 Students & Senior Cit., Thurs. and Sun. Washington Hall Box Office, Noon -6 p.m. Weekdays MasterCard and Visa Orders 219 239-5957 




News 
for total withdrawal," said Willi­ams. Williams met with Sullivan on April 8 in New York. "He called a meeting for forty university presidents," said Williams. Notre Dame President Father Theodore Hcsburgh sent Williams in his stead. Sullivan plans to hold a press conference on June 1 in Washington, DC to let the world know what he intends to do, according to Williams. 
Williams said he believes Sul­livan has not made up his mind. "He has stressed he is a preacher, not a scholar or a businessman. He works through prayer directed at God. He is hoping against hope." One breakthrough Sullivan may be hoping for is that representatives from the government will meet with major black union leaders. Williams said Sullivan also sees hope if the blacks are afforded some representation in the upcom­ing May 6 election. 
There exists no hope for pro­gress in any of these areas because of the contemporary situation in South Africa, according to Walshe. Developing incidents of unrest since last fall and recent crack­downs on the press and resistance leaders have contributed to an atmosphere Walshe calls "steadily more oppressive." The leaders of the current regime are "not prepared to negotiate," said Walshe. 
"If Notre Dame is to retain any credibility at all, it will vote to di vest," said Walshe. He said the University has the responsibility to stick to the language of the board's policy statement on South African investments. "It's stated very clearly in that report," he said. The statement, in the Policy Statement of the University of Notre Dame on South African Investments, empowers the Execu­tive Committee and administration of the University the power to divest from all holdings "a) if in their judgment those companies doing business in South Africa arc not influencing the dismantling of the system of apartheid, or b) should circumstances warrant this action because of further deterioration of conditions in South Africa. 
Faced with the Sullivan dead­line, the South Africa to be dis­cussed by the Board of Trustees next week is a hotter pressure cooker than it was in November. With no university presidential selection on its hands, the board will have more time to stew over the issue of South African divest­ment. II 

Remember those long, slow-moving lines at North Dining Hall during finals? A short walk back to South Dining Hall During finals week could alleviate this problem and save you time and frustration. Let's not make ,this tension-filled week more unpleasant than it already is. 
--A reminder from your Student Senate-­

Scholastic 

' ... -.•:~ ·-.-•• ~. ~ . • .. ·-..-_~.._ --. . .... ·_·:: r--·,--,-':<. ·:[) ...... ~-: /-·. . ._: -. ,------· ·. __-... ·, ..--.~:::~:;:':~·:'.-'··?:' /-.~:~:,.~~----~:~:,~\ ,.·
•.. c·' . 





Affecting Change 
By Bob White 
After months of preparation, three student reports are ready to be presented to the Board of Trustees 
Next Thursday, st~dents will present three maJor reports to the Student Affairs Com­
mittee of the Notre Dame Board of Trustees: Intellectual Life, Residential Life, and International Life. The reports are "produced, written, and presented by stu­dents," said Bruce Lohman, coor­dinator of student reports. Loh­man is the first person to hold the position of coordinator. "Usually, the student body president is responsible for this himself," said 
Lohman. 
The reports are presented twice a year to a committee consisting of 15 members of the Board of · Trustees. "The student body president has an invitation from the trustees to bring material to them at both meetings (in fall and late spring)," Lohman said. "The president serves as a conduit for this process. Reports can be requested or any student working through the student body president can say that an issue is 
April 30, 1987 
important and that a report should be done on it." 
Lohman said he approached Anthony Earley, chairman of the student affairs committee about the topics of this year's reports. "I told him the reports we wanted to do and he agreed, so we went with them," Lohman said. 
Of the three reports to be presented next week, the topics of intellectual and residential life have been addressed before. The goal of the new reports is to "stimulate the broad conversation of these topics because it's not tak­ing place now. I hope focused reports come out of these," said Lohman. International life is a topic which has not been presented before. Sister Jean Lenz, assistant vice president for Student Affairs, said the board "should be very interested" in the topic because many of the members "deal internationally all the time." 
Students have produced trustee's. reports for more than 15 

years. "They are the most decisive way that students can affect change at the University," said President-elect Father Edward "Monk" Malloy. The expanded LaFortune Student Center, reno­vation of Stepan Center, the crea­tion of the Student Senate and Hall Judicial Boards were some changes that resulted from the recommen­dations of these reports. 
11 



News 

How the reports will be presented 
The student reports to the Student Activities committee of the board of trustees will be given on Fri­day, May 7, 1987. The order of presentaion will be as follows: 
Brief Introductions 
Small Reports (includes a Student Senate resolution regarding divest­ment, unit budget contrql and a review of the increase in the stu­dent activities fee) 
The :presentation of the Student Reports. Each presentation will be 
Not all reports result in action by the board. Some recommenda­tions which have not yet been acted upon include the creation of senior townhouses, the construc­tion of an overpass on U.S. 31-33, and the installation of cable t. v. in all the dorms. 
According to Lenz, these ideas could still be approved if the stu­dent communit:,l demonstrates a continued interest in them "They 50 minutes, consisting of a seven minute oral introduction, 38 minutes for questions, and five minutes for any conclusions. The International report will be presented first, followed by intel­lectual life and residentiality.. 

Presentation of a report compiled .by Greg Andres and Mary McCarthy on past student reports to the board of trustees 
Presentation by Pat Cooke and Laurie Bink, current student body president and vice president 
(the board committee members) often start hearing something ten years before and then they hear the next chapter and the next chapter until they think they get enough information, and then they say 'this is the time,' " Lenz said. "They are very interested in policy that would be important to the present and future of the Univer­sity." 
INTELLECTUAL LIFE 
"Intellectual life is a serious concern for any university that is committed to excellence," said Doug Wurth, chairman of the Intellectual Life report. The com­mittee found this picture very disconcerting · because although Notre-Dame "1-.ias-inaiiy l5right"arid dedicated students, this is a dif­ferent set of qualities from an intellectually currious student. They stated, though, that this problem is not specific to Notre Dame. 
Lohman said he saw this report as "a picture of how Notre Dame intellectual life stacks up to peer ins ti tu tions." The committee 
would accomplish this through a 
group of senior students applying 
to graduate schools as well as 
recent graduates, transfer students 
and professors who had taught at 
other universities, he said. 
The report discusses three topics which influence undergra­duate life: admissions, freshman year of studies, and student­faculty relations. Wurth said, its purpose is to show the "primary importance" of the intellectual life to any university and how it is "in need of repair" at Notre Dame. 


RESIDENTIAL LIFE 
"The residence halls don't have a lot of discussion said Lohman. "That's the center of student life on campus. What we want to do is 

spark discussion in this area." .Malloy shares this interest in dorm life. "I am interested in dorm life. That's why I live in a dorm· that's why I've been trying to p;omote the importance of dorms· that's why we are going to have 'a com­mittee on residentiality." Malloy's administration has identified the need to establish a task force on residentiality as one of its priori­
ties. 
12 
Scholastic 





News 

This will be Scholastic's last issue of the year. Scholastic wishes you a safe, and restful, yet profitable, summer vacation. To the graduating seniors, Good luck. To everyone else, 
The report on residential life covers three main areas: rectors/hall staff, women's roles at Notre Dame and hall structures. The committee evaluated the role of the rector and R.A.s through both official university statements and the personal opinions of rec­tors, assistant rectors, R.A.s and students. "The committee is look­ing at the description of their roles (in du Lac) and addressing specific areas of concern that have sur­faced during the committee's investigations in order to make concrete recommendations," said Pat McCauley, chairman of the committee. 
The section on women's roles focused on the quality of residen­tial life for women at Notre Dame. In the hall structures section, the committee examined "the stay-hall system and how we can better meet the needs of some specific individuals without forcing them into the only other alternative, moving off campus," said Bob Daley, chairman of the hall struc­tures report. " I see our report not so much as something the board is going to act on this year or even next year, but we think it plants a seed in· the trustees' minds for them to consider," Daley said. 
INTERNATIONAL REPORTS 
"My committee discovered that we could not just include foreign students at Notre Dame; we had to look at the whole international dimension," said Ronnie Karam, chairman of the International Reports. You have to talk about Notre Dame's prestige abroad and how it can play a role on the inter­national scene. On campus, Notre Dame needs to increase interna­tional awareness and then to integrate the international dimen­sion." 
The international report com­mittee examined financial aid and services for foreign students. Areas it addressed included the number of foreign undergraduates and how to attract more foreign students. "With more aid, you would get more quality students," said Karam. "This (excluding of poorer foreign students) just doesn't go with the Notre Dame image of peace and justice." 
The committee also found problems of adaptation among foreign students. "They have to adapt a new language, new cus­toms, and a different way of life;" said Karam. "Most go through this transition very well. What we are advocating is helping them have a smoother transition between their countries and Notre Dame." 
The three major student reports, as reports have done in the past, make suggestions to the board, in addition to simply reporting the situation. But with suggestions, there's the question of their pertinence to board deci­sions. Student reports have far­reaching effects, said Lohman, that may not be felt until years after an initial student report is made. And Lohman added, "There is a fine line in writing trustee reports between giving concrete tangible suggestions on a large and small scale and giving them a picture of what's going on, which is intangible." ¦ 



Sports 



·Athletes of the 

eir way through super seasons in 86-87 
On the gridiron, the basketball court, and 
the track, Notre Dame's Tim Brown 
made his opponents this year see red. 
By Ed Jordanich 
After Notre Dame's 61-29 destruction of 
SMU last November, Irish head football 
coach Lou Holtz made the comment that his 
star flanker, Tim Brown, had earned "two 
desserts." Brown accounted for 235 all­
purpose yards that day, including a decisive 

April 30, 1987 

Year 
84-yard touchdown reception. 
Brown, however, feasted on more than the Mus­tangs ·in 1986. His brilliant performances on the field, coupled with successful indoor and outdoor track seasons, as well as a remarkable Bookstore Basketball -showcase, have earned him a legendary status that few athletes in the rich tradition of Notre Dame sports have enjoyed. For these reasons Brown has been chosen Scholastic's 1987 Male Athlete of the Year. 
No longer will Brown be referred to merely as "Notre Dame flanker" or even "All-American." Heading into his senior season, Brown is being touted as a 1987 Reisman Trophy candidate. This is a label he does not seem to mind wearing. 
"At the beginning of last year the coaches told me they thought I could be an All-American," said Brown, "and I reached that goal. I came back after Christmas break and all the Reisman talk was flying around. It must be a possibility or there wouldn't be the publicity about it. Since I'm a candidate I want to think in terms of winning the thing. I know if I play good football, the rest will take care of itself." 
Besides being named the Most Valuable Player for the Irish last year, Brown was selected for first-team All-America honors by Associated Press, United Press International, The Sporting News, and Football News. The 6-0, 192-pound flanker from Dallas, Texas, averaged 14.8 yards every time he caught a pass, ran with a handoff, or returned a kick. His 
176.1 all-purpose yards per game placed "him third nationally in the final NCAA statistics. 
It was Brown's kickoff returns that created an excitement and expectation that highlighted every game last fall and drove opposing coaches crazy. A 27.9-yard average put Brown third nationally in the NCAA statistics and set him on top of the all-time Notre Dame kickoff return yardage list. A 95-yard 
continued 011 page ·17 _ 

Sports 


Sullivan, continued 
her to give the school a harder look. 
Fencing coach Mike DeCicco has been trying to build a women's program to rival the men since women were first admitted on campus for the 1974 season. He is familiar with the kind of negative recruiting talk that Sullivan heard. DeCicco can list a host of eventual All-Americans since 1974 who have eluded his grasp with that kind of talk -some who were lured away as late as the summer and the end of their first semesters on campus. 
Sullivan, however, broke that unlucky string for DeCicco by sticking with the program and becoming the first woman to earn a grant-in-aid from the University for fencing. "As we begin showing results, it's going to be more difficult for other coaches to lure kids away by that kind of negative recruiting," said DeCicco. The acqms1t1on of women's coach Yves Auriol before Sullivan's cham­pionship sophomore year was another piece that fell into DeCicco's puzzle. Auriol has posted perfect reg­ular season records in his two years at the helm of the women's team. 



"Molly's mere physical presence on this campus has helped recruiting women," said DeCicco. "How do I know that? The number of people who have inquired into the program has gone up each year. Recruiting's been a lot easier." DeCicco and Auriol have narrowed a batch of 12 top recruits interested in Notre Dame down to six. Of those six, three have already been accepted to the University .. Choosing among a sizeable group of women recruits is a luxury that DeCicco has never enjoyed. 
For Sullivan, the possibilty of the Olympics next year is a real one. Currently she is involved with a heavy schedule of national and international com­petitions that points the way to Seoul next year. Even in the off-season, Sullivan practices every day under Auriol, who has her working on defensive skills in the hope that she will develop into a more complete fencer. Her aggressive, overpowering style has taken her far, but Auriol's guess is that better point control and a better defensive game will take her even farther. 
Even in the face of the individual records and goals, Sullivan remains a team player. Only a few hours after winning the team championship, Sullivan organized a victory celebration for the team at a local pizzeria. "I was really glad· we won the team this year," said Sullivan. "Last year was different because it came down to me trying to win for myself. This 
continued on page 18 
Scholastic 



Sports 

Brown, continued 
return for a touchdown against Air Force and one that went for 96 yards at LSU were two of Brown's favorite plays last season. 
"The thrill of the chance to go all the way for a touchdown really gets me going," said Brown. "It's my favorite opportunity because everything is' right there in front of me. It just seems so natural." 
Next year Brown will also return punts for the Irish, and while it's not a job he particularily rel­ishes, it was a punt return that Brown points to as the biggest play for him last year. A clutch 56-yard run with a punt against USC set the Irish up for their thrilling last-second field goal and 38-37 win over the Trojans. 
"I can't think of a better way to end a year," said Brown. "I had played well for four or five games, but we just couldn't get over that hump and win a close game. It was the last time I touched the ball last year and I'm glad it helped us win. That game meant a lot to last year's team and it helps our team now also." 

Brown played in last Saturday's annual Blue and Gold scrimmage, but it was one of only two scrimm­ages he played in this spring. Brown has brought his winter success on the indoor track outside and has shown his speed and grace are not confined to the football field. 
Brown set a school record with a time of 6.32 seconds in the 60-yard dash during the indoor season and posted two meet records as well. He also quali­fied for the IC4As in the 60 and ran a personal best :30.92 in the 300-yard dash. This spring Brown has run the 100 and 200 for the track team and has quali­fied for the IC4As in both. He hopes to get down to a time that would qualify him for the NCAAs in the 
200. He has run a :20.98, while the qualifying time is :20.7. 
April 30, 1987 

Brown became the first Irish player to be tabbed .first-team All-America by both AP and UPI since 
linebacker Bob Crable in 1981. · 
"Track isn't hurting me in any way," said Brown. "I'm staying in shape, the meets are very challenging and a real workout. If I thought I were losing some­thing by running track, I wouldn't. Football is my sport." 
It certainly is. Brown's ability to find seams in opposing coverages last· season made the crossing pat­tern one of the best weapons in the Irish offensive attack. Time after time Brown would catch a ball in 
continued on page 19 
17 



Sports 
Sullivan (left) attacks Harvard's Christina Perkin in last March's 
Sullivan, continued 
year, I could fence for the team as well, and it was a lot more fun." At the end of the season, Sullivan's teammates elected her captain for next year. 
"What surprised me about Molly was that she didn't even feel down after finishing third in the individuals," said Decicco. "Ten minute~ after her bout she was talking about how much better the other two girls who had beaten her were." 
The amount of attention focused on the fencing program at Notre Dame surprised Sullivan. Throughout high school, fencing was something she kept to herself. "It was really personal to me," says Sullivan, who also won the '86 Scholastic Female Athlete award. "When I came out to Notre Dame, I was amazed at the coverage the program got. People would come 
18 

up to me and say, 'Oh, you're Molly the fencer.' I hated that, and 
' 
I'd always want to say, 'No, I'm Molly the person.' I'm only now just starting to get used to it." 

ND Sr.orts Information NCAA Championship. 
DeCicco sees another side of Sullivan that sometimes annoys him. "Molly has the tendency to go overboard on the one thing that occupies her attention at the moment. If she's got a big meet coming up, she'll let the books slide, and if she's got three tests, you won't see her in practice for a week or two. She can do both, but she doesn't have to do both the 
way she sometimes does it." 
Even success has its drawbacks. Sullivan's awards and achieve­ments, not to mention all of the faraway trips to fencing tourna­ments around the world, left her with a jealous younger· sister at one point. "All she saw in me was all the things I was winning and places I was going. But after she spent some of the summer with me here, she told me, 'Oh my God, you work all the time.' Now she's my best fan." ¦ 
Scholastic 

---~~-~---~-~~ -~ ­


Sports 

Brown, continued 
the middle of the field from quarterback Steve Beuerlein and watch defenders grab for air as he piled up the extra yardage. 
As. an open field runner, Brown was at his best last year. Used often in the backfield or on a reverse Brown rushed for 254 yards in 59 carries. Especiall; effective out of the wishbone, he ran for two touch­downs and also caught two touchdown passes coming out of the backfield. 
When Brown was not using his elusiveness to slide away from would-be tacklers, he sped past them for long sideline receptions from Beuerlein. Bringing the boinh back into the Irish offense, Brown's game­breakers -included a 77-yard touchdown catch at Navy and the aforementioned 84-yard strike that provided the turning point in the SMU game. 
If the All-America receiver had a disappointment last year, it was the same one _shared by Irish fans everywhere. The 5-6 record was softened somewhat 


Allan Lim 

Brown is known as an out-of-this-world football player, but he often reaches the stratosphere over · the basketball court as well. 
by the vastly improved play and organization against 
the nation's toughest schedule, but :with every last­minute defeat the frustration grew. 
"Playing good football and still losing was tough," said Brown. "A losing season always is. I think it just wasn't meant to be." 
Brown will likely return to Dallas this summer where he will take some classes, run, lift weights, and undoubtedly hear quite a bit of Reisman talk. 
"I just want to come back in good shape and ready to play," said Brown. "I'll sit down with coach Holtz and my position coach at the beginning of the season and set some new goals. I don't have anything to do with what people say about how I play. I'll just concentrate on playing good foootball." 
Brown's performance in 1986 will draw him some extra attention in 1987, and following up an All­America season is often difficult. But next year's defenses will have their hands full when this talented athlete comes back fo-r seconds and thirds on Satur­day afternoons. II 
Student Life 






Turned On Again 
By Sara Harty 
Thanks to the work of two Notre Dame juniors, the 'Voice of the Fightin' Irish' can now be heard in every dorm, clearer than ever 
I 
l, L
i 
ast Friday, the residents 
of Holy Cross Hall who 
turned the dial on their 
radios to 640 AM actually were able to pick up· a signal This marked one of juniors Mike Thes­ing and John Rogers biggest achievements. The two student engineers accomplished a large part of the necessary work that put WVFI back on radios all over campus. 


"It's just been a hobby with me since sixth or seventh grade. In eighth grade I built a remote con­trol car that was pretty high tech. I've spent a couple of summers installing satellite dishes and car stereos, that type of thing," said Thesing. Rogers said, "I . guess I would say that I've always had a technical aptitude, just from the hobbies that I've chosen." 
What is unusual about these hobbies is that Thesing and Rogers have taken their natural inclina­tion for the technical and brought those talents to Notre Dame. The 
20 
student body now benefits, many unknowingly, from their work. 
Mike Thesing, an engineering major, is the chief engineer at WVFI. He has worked at the sta­tion since the beginning of his sophomore year doing general repairs and maintenance. He designed the new studio and helped to design the new broad­casting system. 


John Rogers is a psychology major. "As a DJ, I started fixing things around the station that I 


Student Life 

saw needed to be fixed. I've worked at the station since fresh­man year. I was the assistant sta­tion manager for the last two years until I gave that up to become (the assistant chief engineer)." 
George Molnar is the Assistant Chief Engineer at WNDU. He said, "The new system was designed by Thesing and myself working as a team. We have the bulk of the work done. There are one or two refinements that we 
want to make, but the big project is virtually finished. By August it'll be primo." 
Molnar said that Thesing and Rogers take care of most of the station's engineering needs. Mol­nar serves in whatever capacity is needed, often as a consultant. The three worked closely in the install­ment of the new system. Most of the actual laying of some eight miles of cable in the steam tunnels was done by contracted workers. There was a great deal of work to be done in the studio itself as well nected to LaFortune, work that Thesing, Rogers and Molnar shared. 

Station Manager, Kara O'Neil, said, "We provide the best music we can in a progressive format that can't be found anywhere else. WVFI is geared towards the stu­dents. We try to keep the students informed as to what's going on on campus whether it be sports, news or whatever. Our goal is just to be a station for the students run by students." 
This goal is aided by the work that Thesing and Rogers have done. Thesing said that about $65,000 worth of the latest tech­nological equipment for WVFI's type of broadcast has been installed which has enabled all dorms to pick up the station's sig­nal. For the first time WVFI has become truly accessible to its audi­ence. ¦ 

Topics: Apartheid and Racism 
Women United for Justice and Peace Friday May 1, 1987 .The Peace Institute 
3:15 p.m. Anti-Apartheid Network Administration Building steps Student Government 
21


~D~. fvfey:_1_~--=-----(J_______ 
Notre Dame & Saint Mary's 

THURSDAY 
FILMS: 
"Bugs Bunny Film Festival" Engineering Auditorium 7, 9, 11 p.m. $1 
THEATER: 
"Macbeth" Washington Hall April 30-May2 
8:10 p.m. $6 and $5 senior citizen and student discounts 



I 
i 
I 
I 
:l 
1: 
LECTURES: 
Robert Eskridge "From Rococo to Revolution" Annenberg Auditorium 
7:30 p.m. 
MUSIC 
"History of the Theory of Music" Medieval Institute 
"The Dream of the Rood" Saint Mary's Women's Choir Saint Mary's Notre Dame Collegiate Choir Moreau Hall Little Theatre on Saint Mary's Campus 
· 8 p.m. 
FRIDAY 
FILMS: 
"Everything You Wanted to Know About Sex" Engineering Auditorium 7, 9, 11 p.in. $1 
SPECIAL: 
"Student Appreciation Day" Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 10% off many items including sportswear and novelties Student I.D. required 


Scholastic

Compiled By Charlie Buckley and Mike Farnan 
Final Student Body Mass With Father Hesburgh and Father Joyce ACC Arena 
4:30 p.m. Followed by picnic on South Quad 6 p.m. Special Presentation 7 p.m. Live Entertainment 
SATURDAY 
FILMS: 
"Everything You Wanted to 
Know About Sex" Engineering Auditorium 7, 9, 11 p.m. $1 
SUNDAY  MONDAY  
THEATRE  MUSIC  
"Macbeth"  Carlos Valdez  
Washington Hall  Recital  
3:10 p.m.  4 p.m.  
ticket prices see April 30  

Making that long car trip home after finals week? Don't get stuck on the road! Have your car checked out at AL VELDMAN STANDARD 
COMPLETE CAR CARE 
405 DIXIE WAY SOUTH BEND 
North of Saint Mary's on the same side of the road ~
~,,~

PHONE (219) 272-5558 AMOCO Ask for Richard or Mark ~f8' 
Michiana 
TICKETS TO THESE EVENTS MAY BE PURCHASED THROUGH: 
Ticketmaster: (312) 659-1212 Ticketron:. (312) TIC-KETS Hot Tix Booth: Half'i)rice "day of performance" tickets to theater, concerts, sporting events and other attractions (312) 977-1755 

· Theater Tix: (312) 853-0505 Curtain Call: 24-hour information line with performance schedules (312) 977-1755 Jam Concert Line: For complete concert information (312) 666-6667 



LAST CHANCE 
Next Year's Scholastic At This Year's Price 
News Sports 
Reports th::it go beyond the box scores
Digs beneath the !:iurface of campus and and headlines to give sports fans a

national stories, giving readers a detailed look at current issues. unic:·Jc picture of the Notre Dame sports community. 
Student Life 
Columns on the latest music, film and 
literature, and stories which focus on 
student Jif estylcs. 

Subscribe Now­
-------------------------------·----------------------------------------------·-----------­
Please send ____ years of Scholastic to: 
Name ------------'--------------------­
Addrei,s ------------------------------­
City ________________ State _____ Zip _______ 
Please make checks payable to: Scholastic Magazine LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is a check for $18.75 x __years=$____ 
j: 
~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
L~-
24 Scholastic 

By Matthew Bradley 
Tax season is past, and gone with it is another one of those JJ:ureaucracies. Gone are those . forms; gone too are those offices where lots of people are employed but few seem to work. What a timely coincidence to see the release of a film that takes place within such a bureaucracy. But this one does work -it works to make the movie an entertaining comedy worth seeing. 
The Secret of My Success stars Michael J. Fox as Brantley Foster, a kid from Kansas who comes to New York City to take on the business world. He is not an over­night success. But in only a couple of week!l he makes his way from the mailroom to the boardroom. 
After arriving in New York, Brantley finds himsel_f unem­ployed and his college degree is useless. So he calls on his distant uncle, Howard Prescott (Richard Jordan), the head of one of the biggest corporations in the world. Through this connection he lands a job in the Pemrose Corporation mailroom. 
Brantley · quickly learns about the bungled workings of the com­pany. And when an office becomes empty, Brantley moves into it, and into the boardroom, posing as Carlton Whittfield, junior executive. 
April 30, 1987 
Success Succeeds 
Michael J. Fox makes the unbelievable almost seem likely in '"The Secret of My Success" 
Success does not come smoothly for Brantley as he is seduced by his Aunt Eva, the boss's wife, and as he falls in love with Christy Wills, a beautiful junior exec\ltive who is the boss's mistress. What follows is an antic comedy in which success does eventually come to Brantley, but not in the way you would expect. 

The film is made enjoyable mostly by the performance of Michael J. Fox. He brings with him the range of skills and emo­tions that we've seen before in his roles in the TV series "Family Ties" and in the 1985 movie, "Back to the Future." For a moment, Fox treads dangerously close to letting Brantley be just an extension of his TV character, 
· Alex P. Keaton. But Fox makes Brantley his own person: older and· less of a brat. We believe in his determination and ability to succeed, all on his own. 
Another fine performance is given by Margaret Whitton ("9 1/2 Weeks") in the role of Eva Prescott. She brings life to the· unoriginal role of neglected cor­porate wife. Her lust for her nephew may be a bit much, but that doesn't seem to matter in this comedy of reality' taken to an extreme. 


Jordan and Helen Slater ("Supergirl," "Ruthless People") are only halfway successful in their portrayals of Howard Prescott and Christy Wills. When we first meet Howard, he is the in-control, bursting vein boss. Later, he is too air-headed to fig­ure out the obvious Brantley/Carlton double-identity. These two performances don't seem to fit the same character. 
The overall entertainment that this film provides is due to the work of director Herbert Ross ("Footloose," "The Goodbye Girl") and the screenwriters. It is heartening to think that major financial decisions really are made on a roof top jogging track and that a top executive's dog ate his homework. The· scene in which Brantley conducts his neighbors' love-making is a hilarious work that must be seen to be enjoyed. 
Are we supposed to believe such a climb to the top could hap­pen? . Of course not. But it's a nice thought -and it's a nice movie. By taking a lighthearted look at the hard world of Manhattan busi­ness, "The Secret of My Success" 
succeeds; ¦ 

Best Bands 

i 
i 
Don Seymour tells all who's hot and who's not 
By Don Seymour 
ow about a totally arbitrary

H
iist for my last column? 
The 5 Best American Bands Work­ing: 
l} R.E.M.: Forget Madonna~ Huey Lewis, and Bruce. After four solid albums, these guys are the real kings of American music. They can do no wrong -at least not now. And they put on great live shows. 
2) Los Lobos: These guys deserve to be superstars. They are what Bruce can only pretend to be now -true working men's musicians. Theirs is some of the richest, emo­tional music you can buy, and they still live in East L.A. 
3) Oingo Boingo: As I've said before, Danny Elfman and crew are the most underrated band in America. They're party monsters that lace their stuff with lots of social invective. 
4) Husker Du: Okay, so they're in a slump. You still can't beat their sonic power. An<:t their intelli­gence sets them apart from most of the American underground. 
5) Replacements: My adventure pick. I was very impressed by Tim, their last album. It's music that holds you captive until the last note. 
The 5 Best British/Irish Bands 
Working: 
26 
1) U2: With The Joshua Tree out, is there any doubt? Sure, they're overplayed, but sometimes that means a band is very good. Look at the Beatles. Their "troubled" image bothers me a bit. I don't want them falling into the Mor­rissey syndrome of being too sen­sitive for their own good. But then, I listen to the album, and I don't care anymore. 
2) UB40: These guys have been cranking out reggae on par with Marley for the better part of a decade now. Labour of Love and Rat in the Kitchen are two of the best reggae albums I've ever heard. They have done more for the popularizing of the genre than anyone else. They are already the world's best-selling reggae band. Maybe now we can crown them the world's best reggae band. 
3) Style Council: Their new album is weak, but this is still a very strong outfit. Paul Weller is a mas­ter at jazz-infected pop, and his lyrics are more searingly political than anything you'll hear in the United States. It gives his music bite. 
4) New Order: Simply the best dance stuff around. For those who are still caught up in funk, you've never heard so much power and invention from bass, synth, and guitar as these folks from Man­chester pack into each record. And their lyrics put those by Ready for the World to shame. 
5) Elvis Costello: With the Attrac­tions, he's a band. And let's face it: he's a legend. No one, except Woody Allen, has been as prolific in the last ten years. Few can match his intelligence. He is truly the marvel of the recent rock era. 
Remember -these are just my opinions. No nasty phone calls, please. Have a good summer. And a good life. II 


Scholastic 

Scoreboard 

Irish Head Into Home Stretch 
BASEBALL -Today the Irish start their final stretch of the 1987 spring season with a doubleheader at DePauw. A Saturday twinbill at home against Xavier will be fol­lowed by home-and-home single games with Northwestern, Sunday and Monday. Notre Dame travels to Evanston, IL for a l p.m. Sun­day contest before its finale at Jake Kline Field against the Wild­cats on Monday at 3 p.m. 
Last week the Irish were 2-3. Freshman pitcher MIKE COFFEY picked up the win in a l 0-1 vic­tory over Bethel and TOM SHAW went the distance in a 5-2 decision ovef St. Louis. CHRIS FLYNN's three-run homer provided the game-winning RBI. 
WOMEN'S TENNIS -Coach MICHELE GELFMAN's squad hopes to finish on a strong note after a tough weekend in Bloom­ington, IN. Notre Dame lost to Indiana 9-0 on Friday and then suffered a 5-1 defeat against Michigan State on Saturday. The ruckus from Saturday's crowd at Indiana's Little 500 Bicycle Race canceled the doubles matches against Michigan State. 
ALICE LOHRER was the lone winner for the Irish over the weekend with an impressive win at her No. 3 singles position. The victory upped her record for the year to 7-6. 
MEN'S TENNIS -Winning 26 of 27 matches in a quadrangular last ~eekend, the Irish head into their 
April 30. 1987 
final week of play with a 22-11 record. In addition to shutting out DePaul and Butler 9-0, Coach TOM F ALLON's team downed Malone 8-1 to cap off Saturday's competition. 
Home matches this Saturday and Sunday with Michigan State and Kalamazoo will mark both the end of the season for the Irish and 
the end of an era for its coach. Fallon, who has guided the netters since 1957, will conclude his career as tennis coach on Sunday. 
LACROSSE -Notre Dame heads into the final week of its regular season with a possible NCAA berth on the line. Also at stake is a perfect Great Lakes Conference record that the Irish could capture with wins over Michigan State and Ohio State Wednesday and Satur­day. 
Both games will played on the road, as the 5-4 Irish try to avenge last year's 12-11 loss to the Spar­tans at 4ome and stop Ohio State's four-game winning streak. 
Ohio Wesleyan, the nation's second-ranked Division III team, spanked coach RICH O'LEARY's club last Saturday, 17-5. The Irish rebounded behind JOHN McLACHLAN's four assists to dismantle Wittenberg on Sunday, 26-1. 
TRACK -The Midwest Catholic Championships come to the Mono­gram track on Cartier Field this weekend as Notre Dame ho·sts this event and competes in its final home meet of the 1987 spring sea­son. Coach JOE PIANE expects Marquette to provide a tough chal­lenge in a _meet h1s Irish have won four of the last five years. 
"Marquette is always a tough team to beat and they have a lot of talent in many areas, especially in the distances," said Piane. 
COACH OF THE WEEK 

TOM FALLON 
Fallon, .Notre Dame's tennis coach for 31 years, will end his tenure this Sunday in a match against Kalamazoo. Highlighted by 


10 20-win seasons and a National Championship in 1959, Fallon's career record stands at 516-210. "It's certainly going to be to be an emotional day for me on Sunday," said Fallon. "I've had ari abso­lutely wonderful experience at Notre Dame. I have so many great memories that are v~ry special to me. Perhaps what I'll remember most are the many fine student­athletes I've had the opportunity to work with. I'll miss them all. I've been fortunate to have some talented playe_rs here at Notre Dame. The success I've had has to be attributed directly to them." 

Good-bye And Many Thanks 
Father Hesburgh reflects on 35 years as president of Notre Dame 
W
hat does one say as the final word after 35 years in the office here. I guess it might_ best be "Good-bye and Many Thanks." 
It is impossible to portray 35 years of memories in one brief column. Just try to imagine 35 graduations, 35 Opening Masses, 35 Junior Parents Weekends, 35 annual addresses to the faculty, 35 sets of academic council meetings, 35 annual ROTC Reviews, 35 sets of Universal Notre Dame Nights across the land in more than 25 cities and across the world as well, 35 sets of residence hall masses and assorted discussions, 35 sets of class officers, 35 Scholastic editors 
-maybe a good point at which to 
stop. Someone once said that life is insults, and a sense of gratitude for favors large and small. Most especially, thank God for the daily inspiration of the Holy Spirit, the opportunity to offer Mass each day, to pray the Breviary and the Rosary, to visit the Grotto, and to sense always the overarching pro­vidence of the good Lord and His Blessed Mother. 
Thank God also for long gen­erations of great students who became even greater alumni. Thank God for so many priestly and lay associates, especially Father Ned Joyce, who shared the vision of a great Catholic univer­sity and helped to make it come true. Thank God for the legion of generous benefactors who kept new buildings and new programs 


just a matter of "showing up." Well, I've shown up at all the above annual affairs, and many more as well, without missing once. Also, each one almost always involved another speech. 
Thank God for good health, a cast-iron stomach, a gift of gab, a generally optimistic and unflappa­. popping· up anew like mus.hrooms 
across the beautiful campus. They 
are truly co-founders with Sorin. 
There are a few things remem­bered with pain rather with pride: the failures, especially the human ones; the sudden death of good and promising people; the occa­sional minor scandals that only 
prove that we seek the ideal in a very imperfect world; the years of the student revolution which had its good points, but not when violence and incivility overwhelmed the reason and civil-· ity that so beautifully characterize our university world or should; the general run of Indiana winters only made bearable by the coming of spring. Again, one might go on and on, but, on balance, the good memories always overcome and outlast the bad ones. One might hope that the same might be true of our own lives, that the good in us-may ultimately overshadow and overwhelm the evil. 
All of which now leads me to beg the pardon of anyone whom I might have offended or hurt dur­ing these long years, even if unin­tentionally. Life is too short to leave enemies along the way. It is so much easier to _make friends and to bridge across the gulfs of misunderstanding, if at all possi­ble. 
If the choice were possible, would I do it all over again? Let me say ~hat I'm happy that I don't have to do it all over again. Once is enough, especially when multi­plied by 35. And 35 is too much, as my good successor will find out if he lives to the year 2022. My real final word is to wish him Godspeed all along the way, how­ever long it stretches. 
ble nature, a non-violent ten­dency, a readiness to forgive and forget, the skin of a rhinoceros for personal affronts and subtle 

--f~k/./~(_?~­
Scholastic28 (/ 



Life In Hell 

' 
* 
t:Wtt?'Ji#MttM@M 

HcAR.o THAT WlSe OL.'? laH'::lMe '? PLE:iJT~, la)E: BEr. AIJO"'TH82.ES A REAS0I\.I, 
ScKoot.. 1s Gooo. SC.Hoot.. ,s IMF"O!c!..TAtJT, SCHOOL.S PR.E:PAe.eS: ~OU 'E=oR. Tut:: Fv1"vl2E. B~ S1tr1is>E, QUIET!.'::, 1tJ NeAT ~ows Fo12.. Loi-JG PE.e.,oos oF TIME: CX>1iJG E:XAcl"t.'1 WI-\AT YOv AllE 
TOt..D 1,J SCHOOL, '='<XJ ARE AAl::PAQ1~G, TO SlT Qu1ETL~ HJ t-JEA.r Rows;' FoR. L..OiJQ, PE.R.100.S OF TIM€. D01.J(; El0\l11.':1 WHAT C::,OI) ARETOL.D AS Ai,J AOUL-T, 
Ai-lO RE.ME.MS.E.~: 
fj

·1 I= \,Cl.I S"TA,a 1..i SC:KOOt.. 'Foli!. ~E.Ai;!S AiJO ':11:All.~ ~U'Lk DI.IA-, (i:oll. Al.lMl~E) , G) 
~~ l\loQrr i.xiet:,.:iG FEJIQ~ ~ f/ 
PRE.PAR£ FOR DISAPPOINT~E'MT 
'TI-IAT 0S R1C:,HT, WORI< IS tJOT' AL.t.. GRAV~ At.JO Sor.l\JS P()INTS. A. r 1-\0 r..\1:: ,Ji'S IT CA,..) 8€: F!ZVST£'AT1 tJ G,, DEG.r;?AOliJG, At.JO DOWtJ~IGHT 1lh:S0"1~. 00 ~OV lr:NQW WHAT ,t,p 8VS:11JE:SS LEAoE:~S Ht:WE TO SA':, A8ovr THIS? 
"TOUGH 81:A,JS PAL," i\41.l\C: AQolrr iT.
' 
IF "°" tA,J ,_ite,flo "°1,IR £:v~T~l•..aC 1"1~ ~"•\4.·CaO ,,..oulM "'C:I W•nt"1" llu,aG, S• WH1t.M. 
C-HAPTEtc '2: 
WMAT l!l~D 
Of WORK 

DO~OU REJ.\LL'-' WANT TO PO FOR THE: RE.ST OF ~UR LIF£? 
Doo.l'i TAKE 1'1-IIS QvEST1oa.) L.IGHT!.~. 'THE Ao.lS:WE~ C.OOLO VE:RY 1.u&.LL Al=FEcr !:,OVR, E,o..>T1£E: l=uTll~E. 
DO !::IOI.I TAKE: PU:As11e.E 1,J At>c:>1,J(:, UP (01.,UM,.J 
11.~'l"E~ COL.VJV\N OE" 
MEA.J1,-l(;J..E,SS: t,111,.,.8€2S, l"T'"~+'---'-l..lc!-'-1 O~ IS ~OUR. I~ OF Q Go::o Tl"-IE UlAc,1,JG, 
T!-ioi:!OOGH ""011..iTA1..:l~ 0 I= SuRl:Avc~TlC 
G1Ba,~1S:K? 
DO '::loll 1::..i.1011 VTl'e~L.~ '°'l>JO~S:S HEAl/'1 MA-lllAI, L-ABOR., oe WOl.1\..D ':Joi.I RATHE.R. SlT o..i ~011e. Burr BE.t-11..ic, A OEti:: 
foR. t7EcAO€S WHIL-e ':louR. /m:~IE:S HA12DE,.J AlllO 'jovP. r-\LISc.1.kS 


L.:::::::~~~o Tv~rJ To MV s: H ~ 
Do ':lov WA.JT TO ulOet:. 
1.J ~ 01=r=1c.f: i=vl.l. o F D~lllOl)S, Bl rre.~. l.ll;;l2vovS I.IJQ.EC.t:S \.ll~O ALt. 12ESlc.JT' EAc.~ OTI-\E R, 012. \uOULD ~CN 
Its) ~ WliJCi'Cll,vl.-E.S, li?OOM \i) l't'H ..io OIS'ieAC.Tlo..lS ANti· SE vJATC.ttE.D I?.~ A SE.c.1.1~1i'1 CAMEil!\ '?' 
DO ~OlJ !:.l'J.JOl.:I 
BE.1.Jl:. BuL.L.1e.o s~ Sl::VeR.AL. SMAL.L.. 
Bosses oR. 
WOUt..D ;OU tcA-ntE.R SE Sul-1..\E:D 8'::1 0rJE 616 Boss? 
A~E. 1:101..1 ...i1L.L.1.JC:, To (:,l\/1: UP AL.L. ~OU '2 'jOIITH. F Ut. 
Ol2EAMS AND 

SoAR1.i6 AMB1T10rJS' Fol2 A BoR1..iG, 
BuT Scc.cJ~I: .JoB, 0~ WOUL.0 \:IOV l<?AT'HE.Q. R.E.FRA1.J 
~ROM SE.L.L.lrJG ~­ArJo s:P&Jt> 11-lE: l?E-!.,­OF ljOv~ (.\ t=E uloli!,:1.i(:, 
A~ A S€12\E-S o~ Wcl/2."T\i LE:<;~, MAli!G IIIIAI, Jose; wl-n-\ I.lo i=i.JTueE 0,J 11-tE: SLl,f-\ (~Al'JCe 
T\iP,i So"-\1:vP.', 110cJR.. LUC):: WILL. JJ\ Ui!AWI..OVS L'j C:\1A.J(,E? 
:TME-'SEC.RET:~ 1 
0 

@t A t H iiW!a&MWi-#t\ii.t@i 
nistributrd by Acme Features Syndicatr 



50 CENT 12 OZ., 65 CENT 16 OZ. AND $1 24 OZ. DRAFTS 
SUMDAY, MONDAY AND TUESDAY 
AND 
I 
ED RI 
s 
WEDNESDAY. THURSDAY AND FRIDAY 
~z 
~ 0 
s ~->-­
~ . 

U.S. 31 ;::: rn
~ 
~ 
;= e:.
s· 
.. = 
...,., .... 
(ll >
rn 
r-­

3rd St. =· 
IJQ 

2nd St. ~ ~ 
H.I.'s 

Front St./U.S. 31 


