■ V
Irish Mile Relay; L. to R.: Capt. Roy, Tupta, Fehlig and. Schiewe—- They set records at Butler and Chicago Relays.
V '	-	'
Volume 75 Number 19 March 27, 1942
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 18 67
Top Of The Week:
Successful voyage by H.M.S. Pinafore!
Bully, Bengal Bouters!
Glancing over our Bengal Bouts program, we find inscribed thereon three words, jotted down during the course of the festivities. The words are: “blood,” “Kelly green,” and “window.” “Window,” as we remember it, refers to that high-principled gentleman who robbed the Bengal Missions of 40 cents by making an illegal entry into the Field House. ’Tis said he is a first cousin of the prankster who recently blew up an orphan asylum in Mishawaka.
And “blood”—blood came up eight different times during the evening, to say nothing of what came up dunng the grudge battle. The “most gory” rating goes easily to the Quinlan-Haley bout, but we’re hard-pressed to pick the runner-up. All those scars the warriors (good word, eh, “Scoop?”) exhibited Sunday and Monday convinced us that no punches were pulled. Speaking of “Scoop” reminds us that we owe him a tribute for his fine work in putting on-the Bengals, so, unashamedly, we call this next paragraph
A Tribute to "Scoop" Scanlan
Notre Dame’s own Mike Jacobs came through with a dinkum bonzer job of publicity (Yes, Gifflesbury, seven years in Melbourne, and two in the Bush Country) . Let’s run over the high points: that extra on St. Patrick’s Day; those up-to-the-minute bulletins on every prominent tree, and last, but not least, the mysterious “Apol” notes that were found Saturday night on the dinner plates. This last touch smacked of genius — just enough’ to pique the imagination and send us scurrying over to the ringside, at very little expense to the management. Really dinkum bonzer, Scoop.
"Monotonous, Isn't It?"
You’ve heard about that group of WPA workers who were hired a couple of years ago to. chase English sparrows from Philadelphia, Pa. to Trenton, N. J., and back again? The Engineering department has developed a game that’s
almost as interesting, only it’s done with water. By mistake, somebody left a steam-condenser pump going all night last week, and by the next morning the busy little mechanism had sucked 400,000 gallons of water out of St. Mary’s lake, and spewed it into St. Joe’s._Enough water, one of the professors calculated, to supply his house on a lavish scale for the next six years.
It has not yet been announced when the water will be pumped back.
A Kettle-Pot Story
After the last issue of this magazine, Don Petersen, president of the band, dropped us a friendly note. Don was a little disappointed in the two pictures that went with the band story. In the first place, it seems that the band drawn up in formation on page 17 really belongs to the U. of Illinois, instead of to us. But you can’t charge the staff with an error there, Don. If you look at the picture again, you’ll notice that we very cleverly refrained from committing ourselves.
And you should kick about that ten year old picture of Joe! Why, we even see some hair peeping out from underneath that fancy cap. That’s a sight nobody except the Oldest Resident can remember having seen in real life.
Odds and Ends
(From a certain green-colored newspaper, to fill in this space.)
Whether spring in Russia means a nazi blitz against the reds or vice versa is a vital question.
The Philadelphia, Pa., zoo contains 2,600 specimens of 750 species of anL mals. They are said to live longer in this zoo than in any other zoo in the world.
♦
Thus far, we have been approached by several campus organizations- regarding class elections, platforms, and candidates. We appreciate the power of the press, and our own enviable position. But we are wary and aloof, and cautious. Well, anyhow, as yet the plums are very small and green, as yet.
’ *
Sorry,.still no bottom of the week!
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103. Oct. 3. 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Thomas V. Powers, Editor
Don Heltzel............Managing	Editor
William Scanlan..........-..^Promotion John Dinges..............Sports	Editor
^ylaama Baader..............Art	Editor
Tom Clemens.......Administration	Editor
Dan Downey...............Campus	Editor
Ed Drinkard........Staff Photographer Leo Lee............Advertising
Frank Kiener.............Advertising
John Lynch................Photo	Editor
Rev. C. M. Carey,-c.s.c., Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate l”ress. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE _ SCHOLASTIC is published thirty-three times during the schoolyear at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to Editor, 228 .Walsh Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Ind.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Buillding: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p.m.
IN THIS ISSUE
PAGE
NEWS
ADMINISTRATION
Bengals Net $800.................. 3.
Universal N. D. Night.............  3
CAMPUS
Election Results.................. 7
College of Plumbing................ 8
SPORTS
Golf Course Opens................ 20
Irish in Cleveland Relays........-19
FEATURES
The Upper Bunk....................22
The Week ..........—.............. 2
College Parade.................... 6
Man About The Campus.....___.'....13
Introducing ...___„_________.-.___17
Scoop'n Splinters.....-----...... 18
What About Sports? „1.......2.....18
Echoing Fame ..„________________  27

Newd.
Bengal Bouts Please Fans;
Missions to Profit
A hasty and somewhat inadequate report on the Bengal Boxing Bouts, held last week in the Notre Dame fieldhouse, reveals that all those in attendance were treated to an exhibition of courage and skill seldom before witnessed here on the campus. From the very first bout in the preliminary skirmishes to the final fight in the heavyweight division on Saturday night, student interest was evident, and well repaid. It is regrettable, however, that more students failed to take advantage of this sole occasion to witness a boxing exhibition by talent from the student body. The Scholastic editors, and those who promoted the show, feel that the efforts of the young men on the program were worthy of greater interest and support than the final attendance indicated.
“Scoop” Scanlan, promotor of the bouts, estimates that the Bengal Missions will receive approximately $800 from the Fighting Irish charity efforts.
Universal N. D. Night
Slated for April 17
The nineteenth annual Universal Notre Dame Night will be celebrated on April 17 this year. Universal Notre Dame night began back in 1924 when the first celebrations were held on the same night by all of the Notre Dame alumni and city clubs and other organizations connected in any way with Notre Dame. This year, there will be 94 such meetings, besides the program to be held on the campus.
The event this year will be highlighted by a program to be broadcast over a national hook-up. The feature that is to carry the program is the weekly “Meet Your Navy” program which will come to the campus for that Friday night’s performance. The talent will be drafted from both the ND students and the Navy to make up the program of music that is the feature of the broadcast.
Both the students and the V-7 trainees will make up the studio audience. The two speakers will be Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University and Admiral John E. Downes, U.S.N., commander of the Great Lakes Naval Training Station at Great Lakes, Ill.
Father Leo Ward Has Unique Position at U. of M.
Saturday, a fortnight ago, the Michigan Academy of Arts and Sciences at the University of Michigan held its annual sessions which this year featured two Notre Dame men, one a member of the present faculty and the other, an alumnus from Kalamazoo, Mich. The professor, Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C. and the alumnus, Richard Baker, Ph.D., both attended the meetings of the section on philosophy of the Academy. Father Ward has been a regular member of that section for the past several years and at several of the annual meetings has been a program speaker. At the meetings last year, he was elected chairman to preside at the philosophy section’s meetings held Saturday.
His association . . . significant. . . .
The major portion of the program this year was given over to speakers from Michigan State University, Wayne University at Detroit, and the University of Detroit. The section also celebrated the centennials of two of America’s greatest philosophers, John Fiske and William James, both born in 1842, and both having contributed remarkably to America’s culture and thought.
Father Ward’s association with the University of Michigan is significant in more ways than one: this association together with the resumption of football relations between the two schools recalls the fact that, like Notre Dame, the University of Michigan owes its founding partially to the efforts of a Catholic priest. While one Rev. Gabriel Richard was yet a pioneer priest at Detroit, he had envisioned a general system of state education which included institutions of higher learning.
Monologist Packs Washington Hall
Lennon Kelly
An anticipated pleasure was fulfilled Friday night in Washington Hall when Cornelia Otis Skinner, nationally known monologist, gave her dramatizations before a packed house of Notre Dame students and faculty.
Gales of laughter greeted her. . . .
Miss Skinner, the daughter of the late great actor Otis Skinner, presented six original monologues, and encored with a patriotic poem by Ben Hecht.
Gales of laughter greeted her imitations of dialects and provincialisms. She mimicked such diversified characters as a Philadelphia housewife, a Broadway chorus girl, and a petulant old crone. One of the most hilarious impersonations was of a Nebraska matron being presented to the king at the court of St. James.
Uncanny is Miss Skinner’s ability to conjure up several unseen but realistic characters in the minds of her audience. This she has done also on the air, for radio listeners have applauded her pathos, humor, and satire concerning typical American lives.
There will be no issue of the Scholastic the next two weeks. The next issue will appear April 17. Happy Easter!
Lenten Portrait
Italian Work This Week's Subject .for Lent
.	Roy J. Grumbine ‘	.
where he was born in. 1510, that of Bassano, Italy, but his real name is Jacopo ’
. . da Ponte. Departing from the methods of his masters and guided by his own genius, this famous Italian developed a manner of coloring, and designing peculiar to himself, and copied all his objects ; from nature. He excelled in the painting of landscapes, and he chose as his sub-
■ jects Scriptural scenes as the one we find - here. ; ‘. - -j :	-
As models Bassano used his wife and children, and their-servants; creatures he ? knew Avell, thus explaining the accepted
. fineness of all his figures. Although this composition is not grand er dignified/ it is distinguished by its force and truth.- '
In 1917 the late Rev. John W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., then- president of the University, obtained from . Monsignor . Marois,. Vicar General of Quebec, 136 paintings, bought in Rome from the noble Braschi family, kinsmen of. Pope Pius XL Some of the pictures belonged at-one time to Cardinal Fesch, an uncle of. Napoleon I, some of them to the Capuchin monks of Benevento, and the rest to the Sciarra-Colorina family. Among the 74 paintings selected to adorn the walls of the Notre Dame galleries is the one pictured above: The Agony of Christ in the Garden, by Jacopo Bassano.
The creator of this masterpiece is . better known by the name of the town
4	-	' .	\	’
As ever his color is brilliant and natural, and his touch free and spirited.
The tone of this picture is dark,. but the darkness is relieved by the trees, fences and rocks which supply the relief for the figures. We see Our Saviour, praying in Gethsemane, prior to His deliverance by Judas to the people. In the upper left hand corner an angel appears to Christ, holding a chalice. In the foreground. are the three disciples — Peter, James, and John — asleep. In the distance, to the right, the mob is approaching, with clubs and torches. The slumbering disciples in the foreground are illuminated by light from an opening in the clouds around the angel.. .
Holy Week Services
SACRED HEART CHURCH
BY ORDER OF THE PROVINCIAL ’	Rev. Leo Gorman, Master of Ceremonies	•
PALM SUNDAY	.
STUDENTS’ SOLEMN MASS—8:00 A. M.	.	•
Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, Celebrant.	.	Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, Deacon
■	. Rev. J. L. Carrico, Siibdeacon
.	.	' -PASSION	. ”
Rev. Thomas Kelly	Rev. Charles Carey . .
. (Chronista)	(Petrus)
.	Rev. Henry Bolger	Seminary Choir
(Christus)	(Turba)
WEDNESDAY TENEBRAE—7:30 P. M.
.	LAMENTATIONS				
1.	Chorus .	-	2. Rev. Joseph Maguire .	' LESSONS	3.	Rev. Edward Keller
4.	Rev. John C. Burke		7.	Rev. John O’Neil
5.	Rev. Lloyd Teske		8.	Rev. Richard Grimm
6.	Rev. John Haley		9.	Rev. Provincial
HOLY THURSDAY, Solemn Mass—7:00 A. M.
Rev. -Thomas A: Steiner, Celebrant	Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, Deacon
Rev. Francis Cavanaugh, Subdeacon
.	MANDATUM—2:00 P. M.	. \
(Ministers same as for Solemn Mass.)
’	-	.	TENEBRAE—7:30 P. M.	.	'
LAMENTATIONS'
Prof. Langford to Give Talk on Latin America
There will be two meetings of the Open Inter-American Affairs Discussion. Group within a period of five days. The first one will be tonight, from 7:1-5 to 8:00 p.m., in Room “B” of the Law Building. The program will consist of three five minute talks and 30 minutes of discussion. The speakers will be: Hugo Trilling, “The United States Becomes Predominant in Latin America”; Vincent Hogan, “Yankeephobia”; and Bill Scanlan, “The Good Neighbor Policy.”
The second meeting will be next Tuesday night, March 31, from 7:15 to 8:00 p.m., in Room “A” of the Law Building. The program-will consist of one 30 minute talk and 15 minutes of discussion. The speaker will be Mr. W. M. Langford, “A Summary of United States’ Policy in Latin America.” Mr. Langford is a professor of Latin American history here in the University.
There will be another meeting of the group on Friday, April 10. The time, place and program will be the same as of the first meeting above. The speakers will be three Latin Americans, Francisco Repilado, Peter Robles, and Rafael Al-ducin. The title of each man’s talk will be, “Objective Criticism of the United States in Latin America.” Each speaker ■will make his criticism from a different point of view: Mr. Repilado from the economic, Mr. Robie from the cultural, and Mr. Alducin from the political.
1. Chorus , ■	2. .Rev. Francis Boland
LESSONS.
. 4..- . Rev. Henry Heintskill	,	~
5.	Rev. Richard Sullivan	..	. •
6.	Rev. Joseph Powers •	; '
3. Rev. James Trahey
7.	-. Rev. William. Craddick
8.	Rev. Raymond Cour -
9.	Rev. Provincial
GOOD FRIDAY, Solemn Mass of the Presanctified—8:00 A. M.
Rev. Louis Kelley, Celebrant	Rev. George Marr, Deacon
Rev. Henry Glueckert, Subdeacon ,	..
..	PASSION	. -J x _
’	Rev. Bernard Mullahy ,	Rev. Roland Simonitsch
(Chronista)	(Petrus) .
. Rev. Walter Mclnerny .	'	Seminary Choir .
* (Christus) .	. ,	; (Turba) ‘
CHAPTER—2:00 P. M.; .STATIONS—3:00 P. M. TENEBRAE—7:30 P. M. .	■
- LAMENTATIONS. ,	<	.. .
1. Chorus	2. Rev. George Baxter ’	.3. Rev; John H. Murphy -
;	‘ LESSONS - ■	\ . : • .
4.	Rev. Roman ■ Ladowski
5.	Rev. Joseph'Fiedler
6.	Rev. John P. Lynch
7..	Rev. Joseph - Kehoe
8.	Rev. Alfred Send
9.	Rev. Provincial
HOLY SATURDAY: Services begin at 6:00 A. M.—-Mass at 7:30 A. M.
Rev. Philip Moore, Celebrant.	Rev. Howard Kenna, Deacon
.	..	' Rev. Charles Mahoney, Subdeacon . ■
.	Paschale Praeconium: Exultet—Rev. Gerald McMahon	’
' Prophecies by Seminarians of Moreau Seminary '
Brother Boniface Presented...
Brother Boniface, C.S.C., sacristan of Sacred Heart Church, ordered his helpers to work on mid-morning of Sunday, March 8. The net result of their efforts was the annual display of sacred vessels and vestments viewed by hundreds in the sacristy of the church throughout the afternoon and early evening.
Highlighting the exhibition in the minds of many was the first public display of the Centennial vestments, just completed by Notre Dame’s Pastor Villa-floreof Corby Hall. (See Scholastic, Feb. 27, 1942), Bishop O’Hara’s conse- . cration vestments and the cloth-of-gold vestments and copes presented to Notre Dame by Napoleon LU. Others were ' made by French nuns in China, and some prize winners in the World Exposition in St. Louis in 1904, received pop-eyed ; attention.	-
Then there was the glitter of the highly-decorated chalices, ciboriums, and - monstrances.	.
After hours of folding and packing ' the vestments were back in their places • and the 30 student onlookers were back in their halls well satisfied with vest-. .ments/	*
’	. -	5
COLLEGE PARADE
By ROBERT LeMENSI
"'Got something in your eye?
No, I’m just trying to look through my thumb’.”
While I am counting to ten, he comes out with this one:
O.K., I’ll talk. Yes, I did it and I’m not sorry either. Anyone would have done the same thing. You’ll have to admit, though that, stuffing the corpse in my laundry bag was an original idea. All right, don’t rush me and I’ll tell you how it happened.___
I’m walking peacefully to my room the other day when this lug stops me and says, “Say, you, why don’t you put some humor into that column of yours?” I look at him for a minute; I can’t decide whether to ignore him or push him over the wire fence, but then I think of a better comeback—If you can do any better, you’re welcome to try.
“Just gimme a chance,” he says. I figured that this was as good a time as any to settle things. I grab him by the collar and tell him he’s going to work immediately. He seems willing enough so we go to my room. When we get there, I haul out the files and tell him to get humorous. I sit at the typewriter ready to take down all he finds.
The first thing he picks up is a Northeastern News. In about two minutes he starts chuckling and says, “Here’s one you should print:”
“Said the rabbit to the snake: ‘We certainly know how to multiply.’ Replied the snake to the rabbit: ‘I’m a tricky little adder myself.’ Not bad, hey?” He doesn’t even see me hold my nose because he’s now buried in a Cornell Widow. He hauls out one joke but I tell him that the Scholastic can’t print ones like that. Finally he breaks out in a big smile and hands me the magazine, pointing to this one:
“The New Income Tax Form
“a. How much did you make last year? b. How much do you have left?
c.	Send b.”
Next he grabs for a Navy Log. He is quiet for about five minutes so I peek over his shoulder and read the title of the article he is reading. It’s, “Not a Ghost of a Chance” or “Thorne Smith comes to life in the story of a young test pilot and a beautiful gal named Honey.” I tell him we’ll never get the column written at that rate. Reluctantly he turns the pages, then he puts that Log aside and picks up another issue. “Say, here’s a good one.
‘No, I can’t see you on Thursday, I’m going to be operated on, and I’ll be sewed up for the rest of the week’.”
I get up and significantly open the window and the transom but all is lost on him. The Rutgers Anthologist heldxhis interest. “Ha, ha, this is a scream; they have a good one in here from the Pelican. This’ll kill you.
‘Where are you going with all that sandpaper?.
I’m taking it to my grandfather. He has gooseflesh on his wooden leg.’
I don’t say anything but just type it out. He starts pulling old issues out of the files. The first one he picks out is the Colorado Dodo. After a couple of minutes he starts laughing so hard he almost has a fit. I finally manage to quiet him and find out what caused the outburst. This is it.
“Why are you mailing all those empty envelopes?
I’m cutting classes in correspondence school.”
By this time I’m more than a little disgusted. I decide to give him a couple more chances. I give him plenty of time. He goes through some Green Ganders, a Maroon Bee, a Princeton Nassau Sovereign, and finally comes out with this' “stinko” which has run the rounds of almost every college humor magazine.
I don't care what they say about camels, I'm damn thirsty.
“Him: If you promise to keep it dark, I’ll’tell you something.
Her: I promise, shoot.
■Him: You’ve got a wonderful parlor’.”
1 won’t deny that I probably would have thrown him out at this time even if he didn’t say anything else. But, so help me, he dug his own grave.
“Say, O’Connell,” he says, “I can’t figure you out. Here you’ve got piles of jokes and humorous stuff and you insist on passing off that original drivel on us. You could really make the ‘Week’ a popular column if you’d put in some of this stuff. You’ve got more material here than the guy who writes the ‘Parade,’ I bet.”
So maybe I lost my temper. Anyway, now I know what they mean when they say a Webster’s Collegiate Dictionary is a handy thing to have around. I really don’t think Popeye could have done better with a belaying pin; His skull cracked just like an egg. At first I was panicky . but then I calmed down and thought about putting him in the laundry bag. I still think I’d have got away with it if he hadn’t bled so much. Well, that’s all there is, so do what you want with me, but first give me that “coke” you promised me if I’d talk...
6
Og*M'P>uA, NcmA
PRIMARY ELECTION RESULTS
PHIL KEEN
JUNIORS
SOPHOMORES
FRESHMEN
' President: Kralovec, Tallett Vice-President: Murphy, Murray Secretary: Warner, Johnson Treasurer: Hickey, Tierney
A star-studded senior ballot brought over 400 prospective seniors to the primary .polls to record the closest vote in several years. A definite split ticket resulted from the closeness with no party having a decisive majority.
Chuck Kralovec, last year’s heavyweight Bengal champ, emerged the winner in an amazingly close election for the presidency. All four candidates were less than 20 votes apart. Jack Tallett, first baseman on the baseball squad, won the other place on the final ballot, accounting for 102 votes, six behind Kralovec. Harry O’Melia’s 100 votes just missed the coveted second spot. Jack Finnigan, was just two votes behind him with 98 tallies.
In the office of vice-president, Irish George Murphy of St. Ed’s, football captain for the coming season, added another victory to his credit in nosing out John Murray by the count of 115 to 113. Both men will be on the April 15 final ballot. Bob Walsh, who recorded 94 votes, was among the leaders till the last few ballots.
Dillon’s Jack Warner was the only . decisive winner. Leahy’s star halfback piled up a vote of 149 to receive the number one position for secretary. The other finalist will be “Bullet” Bill Johnson, star sprinter of the track squad. Johonson garnered 98 votes defeating his fellow track ace, Jim Delaney, by five votes.
Popular Ed Hickey, campaigner from the confines of Dillon, collected the highest vote of the primary elections when he defeated the former Howard mail man, , Paul Tierney, by ten votes. Running on the same ticket with George Murphy, Hickey totaled 164 votes.
Distribution of the votes in respect to parties was in favor of the quartet of (Continued on page 31)
President: Doermer, Pyne
Vice-Pres.: Vignola, Gibbons, Patterson
Secretary: Stumpf, O’Connor
Treasurer: Curran, Lynch
Three hundred and ninety-one sophomores went to the polls last Tuesday to elect two students for each office. These contestants will then meet each other again in the final elections on April 14.
Morrissey’s Dick Doermer lead all .candidates for the presidency in recording 151 votes. Henry Pyne also placed on the final ballot with 102 votes. The extensive campaigning of John Anhut during the Bengal bouts netted .him third place.
Frank Vignola, running mate of Dick
Doermer, placed highest in the office of vice-president. Jim Gibbons and Charles Patterson fought each other down to the last vote for the other spot in the finals. The last ballot gave Patterson an important vote resulting in a tie at 78 votes each.
Jn the competition for secretary of next year’s Junior class, Frank Stumpf of Morrissey won first place on the April ballot with 129 vote. Bill O’Connor’s 91 counters edged out Jim Platt for the runner-up spot.
Frank Curran, sensation of the recent basketball campaign, totaled the biggest return of the elections. The “Badinite” received 163 votes, leading his nearest rival for the office of treasurer, John Lynch, by 61 votes. This is one of the highest individual votes ever recorded a candidate in the primary elections.
Herb Melton, chairman of the current elections, announced that the unusual tie in the vice-presidency will necessitate the placing of the three high men on the final ballot. .
President: Cusick, Grumbine
Vice - President: Crowley, Conway Secretary: Reagan, O’Shaughnessy Treasurer: Cudigan, Crowley
The first in a series of three important primary election days came to a close last Monday night after 266 freshmen voted for their prospective sophomore class officers. The two highest candidates for the presidency, who will oppose each other in the finals on April 13, were.Frank Cusick with 114 votes and Roy Grumbine with 77. Cusick is one of Frank Leahy’s star right ends.
In a close fight for top honors in the vice-presidency, Jack Coriway matched vote for vote with Tex Crowley before being defeated. Both winners, who are fellow N’.R.O.T.C. men, will battle in the finals.
Another close, vote occurred in the fight for the office of treasurer. Bill Cud-digan’s 76 votes'nosed out Bob Crowley’s 65. Paul Cartwright placed a close third, less than ten behind.
Jim Reagan broke up a possible monopoly of the offices by the' “Actionists” when he defated Don O’Shaughnessy by eight votes. As a result of this victory, an exclusive two party final election is foreseen. All possible offices have a representative of either Frank Cusick’s “Actionists” or Roy Grumbine’s “Progressives.”
In recording a vote of 266 the freshmen more than doubled the number of votes cast in their frosh elections. An even greater number might have resulted if all of the ballots could have been considered eligible. Due to the late presentation of their party to place their names on the ballot, a group of aspirants from Breen-Phillips hall were declared ineligible.
The South Bend Junior Symphony will give a performance in Washington Hall Sunday afternoon, according to an announcement this week. Included in the personnel of the orchestra are'several Notre Dame students, majoring in music.
7
PREXy TOM WALKER OF COLLEGE OF PLUMBING SAYS MAJOR IN ENGLISH IS REQUIRED FOR DEGREE—PH. D.
DAVE CONDON
Normally, students consider this University as divided into five colleges. However, in a magnificent suite of offices in Alumni hall exists the headquarters of the University’s sixth college—the Alumni hall college of plumbing.
According to the special bulletin released by the school of plumbing, the original charter was received from the Pottawatomie Indians, and subsequently renewed by the Cleveland Indians. Credit for the college’s revival goes to certain professors residing in Alumni hall.
In conducting an investigation, Scho-
Dean H. Connors and Publicity Agent
lastic officials were unable to contact Harry (Don) Connors, dean of the college, or J. Leonard Prindible, director of studies for the plumbing college. Both were out of town, reportedly arranging for the 1942 convention of Indiana master plumbers, to be held in Washington hall this summer.
Scholastic's representative finally tracked down Harry Tom Walker, president of the college, who received the journalist in his office on the third floor.
Said Professor Walker, Waukegan Professional College of Plumbing, ’08, Ph.D., Mishawaka College of Pine Arts and Plumbing, ’13: “Our school is one of the most famous plumbing colleges in the country. In the last graduating class we turned out about 25 master plumbers and 15 apprentice sanitary engineers.”	“
President Walker’s filing cabinet, where are kept all back issues of the Plumbing School Bulletin and the Police Gazette, yielded the following information :	•
Among the courses conducted are: History of the Blow Torch; Seminar in Plumbing; Problems in Advanced Plumbing; Psychology of Plumbing (which includes special work in forgetting your tools so that you have to go back for them, which is a great advantage when the plumber is receiving pay on the hour basis); Development of Plumbing; and
History of Plumbing from Nero to 1942.
According to the president, laboratory classes are conducted in the steam tunnels and the association is greatly perturbed over reports that the steam tunnels might be used for air raid shelters.
Glowing with pride, Walker remarked: “If I do say so, our students are the
... this for everyone named Harry
best in the country. We endeavor to teach them to take pride in their work, and show them that they are artists. In fact, one of our requirements for a Ph.D. in plumbing is that the man be an English major. Although that has no practical value, it proves to us that the student has perseverance—a perseverance to pursue even the most useless of tasks.”	■
The college has handled some notable contracts, including a recent job by Ham (C. J.) Kirby, who, in view of his position as editor of a campus publication, Scrip, serves as publicity agent for the Plumbing College. (Here Walker was quick to point out that the Plumbing College in no way approves of the infamous publication headed by Kirby, but in view of his affiliation with the college, they must reflect an attitude of toleration.) The president reported that “Mr. Kirby recently settled the plumber technicality over in the Infirmary, although we believe that he has .experienced some repercussions. Another prominent member of the college, Harry Walter Heekin, recently represented the plumbers down in Cincinnati. Although he was an exemplary student, Heekin failed last semester in The Short Story of Plumbing. Jack Busse, Ph.D. in
plumbing, is now on a fellowship at California.
. In commenting on recent legal difficulties of the school, President Walker-stated, “A certain student formerly affiliated with the Alumni hall plumbingcollege was expelled for cribbing in an exam. Mr. Harry (Mole) Coleman was a constant source of anxiety. Dean Connors caught him cheating—he brought a monkey wrench to class in the mid’ semester tests in The Short Story of Plumbing, and that, of course, cannot be tolerated. Furthermore, Mr. Mole has been giving constant and ill-founded criticism of the college, and when the last grades were posted, Mr. Coleman was not entirely satisfied with his 23% in History of the Blow Torch. We deemed it advisable to expel him.”
Then the president continued. “As a . group, plumbers are exceedingly honest and trustworthy. Mr. Coleman’s lamentable action is the first bit of dishonesty we have detected since Prof. Prindible caught Harry Larry Kelley hiding a radiator in his pocket during an examination in Problems of Advanced Plumbing.” (Editor’s Note: Every member of the Plumbers’ College assumes the prefix title, “Harry” for reasons which we are unable to say).
“Moe” Coleman—Dick McHugh
It appears that following his expulsion, Mr. Mole formed another school of plumbing. The Alumni hall corporation took the matter to court, and Justice Samuel Topper ruled: “The rival faction has no grounds for the establishment of a school of plumbing, and, whereas the Alumni school, party of the first part, has generally been proved efficient, trustworthy, and responsible, the rival school shall, ipso facto, (a Latin phrase lawyers use when they don’t know, what comes next) from this date, for all eternity, be abolished from the campus of the University of N. D.” Following that decision, Justice Topper’s next words were, “See what the boys in the back. room will have.”	.
In conclusion, the president pointed with pride to the school’s many accomplishments, from the . signing of Dick McHugh. as Manhattan representative, to the contract of installing hot and cold water jets on the pipes in* the church . organ, which was efficiently handled by Dean Connors. .
8
LOCAL CIVILIAN DEFENSE GROUP MAY INSTALL AIR RAID SIRENS AND CAMOUFLAGE THE GOLDEN DOME
TED WEBER
From the office of the director of dome defense comes the latest communique telling of the impending installation of sirens, the air raid type, at strategic points on the campus. This is all in accord with the most modern and approved air raid precautions, another example of which will he the establishing of canteens in the dining halls, the Rockne Memorial, and the field gymnasium. The golden dome will eventually be painted a sombre gray, and camouflaged professors will teach invisible classes.
Though the aforementioned are at the present only possibilities, Notre Dame is not taking the war lightly. Already civilian defense work is being conducted under the direction of the Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C., Notre\pame’s representative on the St. Joseph county defense committee. Under this committee first aid, fire and gas groups have been training since shortly after the Pearl Harbor disaster, so that a like disaster will not be experienced here, should the war move inland.
.... will direct Interhall program
The most notable step towards preparedness has been the formation of first aid classes, taught by Professor Robert Ervin of the Biology Department. The classes, composed of members of the religious, community, meet once a week for a period of 16 weeks. Attending the two hour classes are ten representatives each from Moreau Seminary, Holy Cross .Seminary, Dujarie Institute,, and the '
Community House. '
More likely to affect the student immediately is the consideration now being given to a plan of compulsory calisthenics for all students. Inasmuch as these will be morning exercises, attendance will not be based on the honor system. To- complement the work of the program, the committee-on interhall activities is planning the expansion of the interhall athletic program. Members of this committee are: Father Burke, chairman; Mr. Frank Leahy, athletic director; and
Mr. John Scannell, director of the interhall program.	’
The Brothers agree to serve in several capacities as specialists. Brother Borromeo will teach a class on the methods of combating fires caused by incendiary bombs. He has himself taken training in this at Purdue University. Brother Rob-
___the most notable step—
ert plans to keep all utilities of the University intact during any emergency, maintaining electrical service, heat and communications. From the summit of Science Hall Brother Pius, the weather man, will be on the look-out for approaching planes. He will have as an assistant Brother’ Meinrad, who will work from his penthouse atop Badin. St. Joseph’s lake will, as usual, be guarded by Brother Coleman.
Eight Students To Speak At Mid-West Conference
Eight student speakers from Notre Dame will take part in the Mid-West Conference of International Relations Clubs, to be held at Ball State Teachers College, Muncie, Ind., on March 26, 27, and 28.
On the program of the conference, which is sponsored by the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, will be three papers by members of the Notre Dame Economic Roundtable, which is the student organization representing Notre Dame at the conference. The three speakers and their .topics are: Roger Young, of Providence, R. I., “The Jap Threat to
Human Rights”; Charles Kralovec, of La Grange, Hl., “How Can the United States Understand Latin America”; and John Ryan, of Denver, Colo., “The Jap' Threat to India.”
Saturday morning of the conference Notre Dame’s Panel Discussion group on Inter-American Affairs, made up of five South American students, will present a program of short speeches on phases of Inter - American relations. Members of the group are: Eduardo Alcayaga, of Chile; Ramon Araujo, of Colombia; Clarence Finlayson, of Chile; Mark McGrath, of Panama; and Rafael Alducin, of Mexico City.	‘
Student Travel Bureau
Established on Campus
With the approval of the prefect of discipline a Notre Dame Travel Service has been established on the campus. This travel bureau consolidates and coordinates all phases of student transportation, namely, airplane, train and bus. The purpose of the service is to provide for the student body an economy and convenience in traveling.
The establishment of this bureau is particularly opportune in view of the recent ten per cent increase in railroad fare. The Notre Dame Student Travel Service is able to offer transportation at lower rates than were possible even before the 10 per cent increase. This financial advantage to the students at Notre Dame is feasible because of the group movements to and from the campus. The
bureau will also insure the best equipment and service at these lower rates.
The convenience to the student is attained by a centrally located office where students may purchase transportation at convenient hours. Until this location is definitely decided upon, the Travel Bureau is presently operating in room 265, Dillon Hall. Tickets, reservations and travel information may now be secured at this temporary office. Similar travel bureaus are established at other universities throughout the country in order to provide the many advantages possible to the students of these universities.
9
JUNIORS, SOPHOMORES SPEND HECTIC MOVING DAV
DAVE CONDON
“Moving daze” came to Notre Dame, and after ten minutes Cavanaugh, Alumni, and Dillon halls looked as if they had been hit by earthquakes, cyclones, typhoons, Joe Louis, the New York Yankees, and three blocking backs from the Chicago Bears.
As a whole, however, moving was carried out with a minimum of fatalities from the time the one and only’s picture was removed to the new sardine box until the last locker had been safely transported. With the exception of a few minor items, nothing was reported as missing except that “abundance of Notre Dame trucks” that were supposed, to aid the movers. As it was, a few trucks did brave the tire shortage and venture out onto the campus.	-
No one was disappointed about the moving unless it was J. Q. O’Connell,, whose visions of a re-enactment of the Oklahoma land rush burst before his eyes. In fact, O’Connell died hard and was lined up in front of the dining hall at 5:30 Monday morning with his trusty shooting iron, which was to be fired as a signal foi' the opening of the rush. No one showed up but two night watchmen and Bob LeMense, which accounts for O’Connell firing three- shots with his blunderbuss.
Life in Morrissey, Lyons, and Howard was extinguished peacefully as the gentlemen took up abodes in the aforementioned Dillon, Cavanaugh, and Alunmi halls. By late Monday evening Morrissey, Lyons, and Howard appeared as ghost villages. Today, only spooks play tag in the famed fourth floor of Morrissey, but it has been promised that should Notre .Dame ever be invaded a local Paul Revere will be drafted to hang lanterns in Morrissey tower. So watch—one if by land, two if by sea. -
Several casualties were reported during the moving processes, including broken lamps, windows, fingers, and toes. The problem of crowding into the halls was solved by propping all doors open—when someone entered by the front door, it necessitated someone else leaving by the rear egress. .
The difficulty of crowding “so much into so little by so many” was ‘ solved as several juniors dusted off their copies of Six Lessons from Madame La Zongd, and traded.them for Fourteen Ways of Packing Sardines. (Ed note: “The-Scholastic press still has a few. copies of F. W-. O. P S., which will be given as book dividends with the next issue of the ‘Script of the Month’ club.”) -
Life in the halls will return'to normal . around the turn of the 25th century//
10	■
when it is expected that all students will be more or less settled. Meantime, in the newly adopted soph apd junior residences, all was peace and quiet and roses, with the chapels hanging out the “standing room only” signs for the first time
BADIN'S UNDERWORLD RULED BY BERTELLI. MURPHY
Badin, in spite of being bogged down on all sides by spring mud, is staying in the headlines these days. At last it has been discovered why that sophomore half has produced so many Bengal bout-ers. It seems that, by belonging to one of two gangs which carry on nocturna.1 raids against each other, the fellows have become hardened in battles that make the Bengals look about as tough as a .Vassar badminton match.
As things stand now, the fourth floor holds the spotlight, with the thugs divided into the North Side, headed by “Biff” Bertelli, and the South Side, defended by “Red” -Murphy. The main North Side “toughies” are: Jim Torpy, Jack Henchy, Cy Desmond,, and Jack
. Troy, while the South Side “slugs” boast of such personalities as Bud Ahern, Sam Papa, Dick Boyle, and Bob McAuliffe.
The affair started when “Angel” Ber- . telli began admiring the careers of John Dillinger and “Baby Face” Nelson. Actually, the many touchdown passes “Ac-
. Pictured above as they finished their thesis are seniors John Gilbert, Tom Gesselbracht, Bernard Brehl. In the Heat and Power Lab they watched an engine run 60 miles an hour for 3,000 miles—a -steady ’vigil of 60 straight hours. Object: to determine the change in heat gKen up to the radiator as affected by engine age. Standing at left is Prof. F. N. Brown, supervisor.
in history.
So that is the story of the Notre Dame mass migration, and, despite the fact that the Gold Coast has gone-off the gold standard, and Cavanaugh is more crowded than a tanktown theatre when a wild west “pitcher" . is shown, all are happy.
Except J. Q. O’Connell, who missed three shots at Bob LeMense.
curate Angelo” threw last autumn were merely practices in the higher science of tossing “pineapples.” He has exhausted the library’s supply of volumes on criminology, till now the biography of every New York racketeer has become a part of him. Something had .to happen. It did. One night when the Badin lights were low, Bertelli organized his gang and raided the South Side. Bud Ahern, chief squealer for the opposing ruffians, bore < the brunt, of the attack with a general mauling terminated by a cold shower. “Rough Red” Murphy, after a strategic retreat, retaliated, the next night with means too riotous to mention.
And so. the feud in Badin’s gangland . goes on with skirmishes occurring at frequent intervals. Due to intriguing on the prefect’s part, the belligerents have never-been able to fight a decisive battle, but they plan to effect a winner by a free-for-all disguised as a basketball game.	'
Band Members Make Final
Preparations for Tour
C S. Coco
The University Band room is a beehive of activity. Everyone is putting his best foot forward as final preparations are under way for the biggest trip of the season. All arrangements have been made and the itinerary is complete:
April 4, leave South Bend on “The New England States Express,” NYCRR, 4 p.m.
April 5, Easter Sunday, concerts at Milford, Mass., matinee and evening.-
April 6, concert at McAlpin Hotel Ball Room, New York City.
April 7, concert at McAlpin Hotel Ball Room, New York City.
April 8, concerts at Scranton, Pa., matinee and evening.
April 9, concerts at Wilkes-Barre, Pa., matinee and evening.
April 10, concerts at Johnstown, Pa., matinee and evening.
April 11 and 12, evening concerts at Altoona, Pa.
April 13,: return to campus via the Pennsylvania RR.
The personnel of the concert band specially chosen for this occasion is:
Professor Joseph Casasanta. conductor.
CORNETS—John Ffedrotty, Mishawaka. Ind.: John Sheedy, Indianapolis, Ind.; Richard Bechtold, Grand Rapids. Mich, • Andrew McKay, Algonquin, III.; Jack Wbelfle,. Lynbrook, N. Y.; William Ne-her, Lyons, III.; Dick- Matlavish, Christopher, III.: Jack Williams, South Bend, Ind.; Ken Kehl, Chicago, Ill.; Charles Lyden, Carbondale, Pa.; Jack 'Schouten, Keokuk, Iowa; John Mann,- Lowell. Mass., alternate.
BARITONES—Robert Heil. Uhrichsville, Ohio.
1035 NEW STUDENTS. .. .
will descend upon the Notre Dame campus on April 15, when the Navy takes over Lyons, Morrissey and Howard Halls. And though these young men are to be with us for but a month, we should like to exert every effort to make them feel that they are an essential part of Notre Dame life, cooperating and participating in every phase of campus activity. It is no easy task to achieve this goal within 30 days. Therefore a concentrated effort on the part of local organizations will be necessary, if the new Navy men may hope to experience an adequate portion of Notre Dame life and lore and traditions. If we are to make them part of us, we must present Notre Dame to them. How can this goal be achieved best? That is the purpose of this notice to all organizations and their heads. Let each organization ask its membership: “What can we do to acquaint the new Naval group with our activities, thereby entertaining, as well as enightening them? The SCHOLASTIC will gladly act as a clearing house for all suggestions.
secretary-treasurer of band; Louis Burns, Washington, D.C.; Hewlitt Fagan, Bath, N. Y.
HORNS — John Fleaka, Youngstown, . Ohio: James Murphy, Emigrant, Mont.: William Carney. Carbondale, Pa.; Dan Gentile, Waterbury. Conn.
PICCOLO—Stanley Litizzette, Helper-, Utah..
OBOE—Ralph Thorson, Chatfield, Minn.
TUBA—Joe Hrachovec, White River, S. Dak.; John O’Connell, Geneva, HI.; John Kirby, Washington,' D.C.; William Herber, Fort Wayne. Ind.; James Bryan, Bay St. Louis, Miss.Emmett O’Neill. Rochester, N. Y.
TROMBONES—John Frye, Merrill, Wis.; Tom Horak, Cleveland, Ohio; Ray-Piecafsky. Argo, Ill.: Earl. Dean, Cristobal, Canal Zone; Paul Larson. Indianapolis, Ind., alternate. -
John Nolan—Don Petersen
CLARINETS—Don Petersen, Escanaba. Mich.. president of band; Roger Brown, Lake Geneva. Wis., business manager of band; Gus Stuhldreher. Akron, Ohio; John Ven Benten. Beech Grove, Ind.: Bart Ramsour, Joplin, Mo.; Paul Dehmer. Queens Village. L. L, N. Y.; James Finneran. Floral Park. N. Y.; Walt Bauchman, Idaho Falls. Idaho, alternate.
E-FLAT. ALTO SAXOPHONE — John Nolan. Chillicothe, Ohio, vice-president of band: Ken Kempf, Blue Island, Ill.; James Cooney, Milford. Mass.
B-FLAT TENOR SAXOPHONE — Carl Coco. Lake Charles. La.; John Boyle. West Hempstead, N. Y.: Vito Cappello, Brooklyn, N. Y.; John Behr, Oneida, N. Y.; Phil Holzberger/ Jamaica, L. I., N. Y..	’	' .	•
DRUMS—Robert Herrington. Indianapolis, Ind.; Chuck Reynolds, LaGrande, Ore.; - Bob Rihm. Knightstown. Ind.; Chuck Cavanaugh, Cumberland. Wis.; James Ford,' Alhambra, Calif-; Phil Keen. Honesdale. Pa., alternate.
Blarney Castle Is Setting For Casey Balt April 10
That typically Irish interest—the Blarney Stone—will have a prominent part at Casey’s Ball, the all-school formal dance sponsored by the Notre Dame Council No. 1477 of the Knights of Columbus, on the night of Friday, April 10 -at the Palais Royale.
A picturesque replica of the surroundings of the Blarhey Castle in County Cork, Ireland, will be arranged by Robert Raaf, senior from Walsh Hall and chairman of the decorations committee in collaboration with Reggie Flynn, head of arrangements. An authentic piece of- the Blarney Stone taken from the original grounds of Blarney Castle, County Cork, Ireland, will have a prominent position at the Ball.
Blarney Castle is noted for its stone which is the object of travellers from all parts of the world. The Castle is located five miles northwest of the City of Cork on the Great Southern Railway. Its population is around 700. The Castle was built in 1446 by Cormac McCarthy. The stone is kissed because of a belief that it will give to those who do, the power of the “sweet, persuasive, wheedling eloquence” so perceptible in the language of the Cork people. To kiss the stone one must kneel and lean out beyond the edge of the wall, for the original 'stone wall which once bore the date 1446, is fastened to a buttress several feet below the top of the wall.
It is commonly believed that the Blarney Stone legend originated because the first owner of the Castle delayed its surrender in medieval times by promises and flattery. According- to a survey of St. Mary’s College students, many Notre Dame men need not kiss the stone to' acquire proficiency in the use of complimentary speech, but they do agree that the presence of the Blarney Stone at the Casey Ball will tend to make the Notre Dame lads feel more at home.
Proceeds of the Ball go to the Rt. Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., military bishop of the U. S. armed forces, for the Mass Kit fund, General Chairman Paul Kashmer has announced. Bids, which are priced at $3.00, may now be obtained at the K.-C. club rooms in the basement of Walsh Hall, or from the ticket chairmen Jim Danaher, 210 Morrissey or Ed Hickey, 251 Dillon. Dancing is from 8:30 to 12:30.	...	~	'
■Committees for the Casey's Ball include;
Musics—Ed Roney, chairman; William Binet. Leo Linck. Jack Gilligan. Thomas Nolan. -'Arrangements—Reggie Flynn, chairman; John H. Moran, Bob Hartman. Thomas Rolfs. George Schneider, Robert Heil.
Publicity—William Scanlan, chairman ; ’.Robert: (Continued on page 26)
if
LATEST ISSUES OF "JUGGLER" WERE BEST, SATIRIZED "ESQUIRE" MAGAZINE; MET WITH SUDDEN DEATH!
RICHARD POWERS
(This is the second and final article on the history of the Notre Dame Juggler. In his first article, Mr. Powers wrote of the founding of the magazine and its early history, comparing it in some instances to the New Yorker.—Ed.)
The most sticking feature about the later issues of the monthly is the excellence of the art work and cartoons. Prez-ebel’s caricatures of students and of stage and screen stars were very fine and sharply observant. The work of such other editors as Becvar, Lopker, Gerry Doyle, “Obie” ‘ O’Brien, and Vincent Fagan, who was with the Juggler from the start, brought the standard of the magazine to a very high plane among other college organs. It was not only the cartoons that were superior- but the little
Harry L. Flannery
decorations throughout that helped to improve the magazine a great deal. Much of the humor was worn thin from overuse, and Joe Miller would probably have been ashamed of some of the jokes. But one thing can be said for the jokes and that is that if they were bad they were never cheap: they were just bad. The Juggler never took the easy way of vulgarity and tawdriness which was very often to be found in the other college monthlies. Whether the jokes of the Juggler were good or bad his irrepressible spirit scampered through the pages just the same, the epitome of good humor and youthful freshness. What satire there was in the magazine was never malicious or mean and was never intended to hurt, merely to poke fun. The
habits of the students, various disciplinary difficulties, the food, movies and the popular writers of the times, Hemingway, Stein, etc., who were just coming in and who were followed by a train of aesthetes, were the usual butt of the . satire. As a note of sophistication, the night life of Chicago and the various amusements were discussed in a separate column. Such touches seemed to broaden the scope of the Juggler but at heart it was a local paper with knowing remarks and tongue-in-cheek humor, laughing gently -at the vicissitudes of student life.
The last few issues of the Juggler were probably the best ever to come out. These contained the finest art work, clever verse and shrewd satire, and a veneer of smartness that was wise and all-knowing yet pleasant. At times cartoonists’ services were borrowed from prominent magazines to fill in space when contributors were lacking. In one of the last issues in 1934, the complete format of Esquire was borrowed and a clever satire of that magazine resulted. Especially notable was a long poem called Down at the Bend which was a sarcastic sketch of South Bend and its inhabitans. Some years before a Home Town Edition was turned out which ' also satirized the typical “Home Town Paper.” Such clever invention and nut in students was given a natural and harmless outlet which the Scholastic of today cannot supply for lack of space as well as difference in purpose. Many of the contributors of the old Juggler have since become prominent on the campus or in the outside world. Vincent Fagan is now in the Department of Architecture; Harry Flannery is a CBS announcer; Vernon Rickard played with the Duncan Sisters and acted the priest in the film The Spirit of Notre Dame; Joseph C. Ryan is now a professor here; the late Wilbur McElroy, once art editor, won fame as a painter; Professors Norbert Engels, Louis Hasley, and Thomas Stritch were all once contributors as well as Robert Cahill, now assistant manager of athletics, and James Armstrong of the Alumni Association. Other editors were: Lester Grady, Joseph McNamara, now assistant attorney general in Indiana, and John Nanovic, once editor of Street and Smith magazines.
Jim -Kearns, at present a columnist of the Chicago Sun, was with the Juggler in its last year. At the time of the change in administrations, in 1934, the last editor was Bryan Degnan, after . which the publication of the Juggler was discontinued. A few last murmurs of it
were heard in the Scholastic afterwards in the section called “In the Juggler Vein,” -which was only a pitiful shadow of the former healthy spirit of the merry Juggler. For a few years after its sudden demise, a very unhumorous section called “Dumb Dome” appeared in the last pages of the regular Dome for 1934. This too disappeared and the campus has been lacking a humor maga-
Kearns ... A Juggler with the "Sun"
zine ever since. In these times a revival of the sparkling freshness and collegiate humor of the old Juggler would be impractical, since even now production of Scrip and Dome is being curtailed. Perhaps, after World War II has done its worst, the Juggler may perform again and refresh the students who come after us.
Harrington Elected
Vincentian President
The Notre Dame Conference of the St. Vincent de Paul Society held its annual spring election of officers at a recent meeting. President-elect for the next scholastic term is genial Robert Dennis Harrington, junior engineer from Hillsboro, New Hampshire. His executive assistants include:
Co-vice-presidents, Gail Fitch and Bill Maccani; secretary, Vincent Lackner; custodian of clothes, Paul O’Connell.
The Vincentians will carry on their work of charity in their new headquarters in Walsh Hall, having relinquished the long-established office at 23 Lyons Sub to the incoming sailors. Students who find locker space at a premium after the current “doubling-up” migration are reminded to save excess clothing for the next Vincentian clothes drive which is being planned for some date shortly after Easter.’
12
Edward Joseph Sullivan
Why Jim O’Neal changed his tune from “St. Louis Woman” to “Sidewalks
of New York” is quite a mystery. But for
JIM O’NEAL
all those attending the Senior Ball in a few weeks, the answer may be partially forthcoming.
Trying to get information- out of Jim O’Neal as to his accomplishments is like talking to the wooden
Indian outside the cigar store. At- least the Indian kept silent, but Jim made every effort to divert the subject to
something else or someone else. It is this modesty that makes the president of the senior* class so popular among his fellow students. Whether he be associating with the raincoat boys of Alumni hall or slumming with the Sorin subs, the prexy keeps an even keel. A good criterion of the unanimity of his popularity came with the voting for class president when Jim, like a good politician, heard from all districts and more than held his own
in all three junior halls.
The political campaign of last spring will be a long remembered affair not only in the. mind of the winner of the office but also in the memory of everyone that voted. The famous slogan “For Whom the Bell Tolls” backfired and played the requiem tune for its genius, Bob Coleman. Any day after his defeat we expected to hear of the despondent Bob taking leave.of this earth. Such were the bitter tides of battle. Everytime you turned around a blotter -with another candidate’s name, greeted you in the face. One of the candidates of the upper financial bracket went so far as to give away a sample of chewing gum. It was against all this “political pressure” that Jim came out on top. He could surely be likened to Winnie Churchill who offered his backers nothing but “sweat, blood and tears.” So Jim offered his followers nothing of “candy, gum or blotters,” but simply a square deal. It was this same “Square deal” that we broke in upon the other day and saw how a “Square Deal” can reap a fine harvest. They say that Jim was rejected from the • navy for being color blind. But he didn’t seem to have any symptoms of his old disease when we last saw him counting
out a bundle of green cabbage with his roommate Jess DeLois.
However, this accumulation of the “wherewith” has a good explanation, since it was simply the returns for invitations sold for graduation. The two brothers were gathering it in big bags to ship away to the printers for' the bill. But we have a good tip that Jim has been lately seen looking up the latest on printing presses and has been gathering the soles of old shoes to use for leather bindings. The roomie partnership of O’Neal and DeLois dates back to four (Continued on page 28)
CAS Poll Finds Student
War Aims Materialistic
Richard Powers
Results from the poll on “The Students Attitude toward the War,” conducted by the CAS among some 140 students, have finally been tabulated, obtaining a cross-section of the uncertain and even erroneous viewpoints which some students hold in regard to the war. With this cross-section to work upon, CAS, whose aims are benefit of the Notre
Dame student, hopes to correct this viewpoint and direct student opinion into the channels of Catholic principles.
In answer to the first question of the poll, “What do you think is the issue of the war?” 60 students, on their first choice, thought that the issue was a commercial one, that is, control of the . world markets; 13 thought it was an economic issue, and threatened the American Way of Life; 33 looked at the war as a battle of ideologies, democracy vs. totalitarianism; 15 concluded that it was a struggle between Christianity and materialism.
On the second choice, the results leveled off somewhat, the score being 26, 22, 38, and 26 for each of the groups respectively. Fred Hoover, director of the CAS poll, seemed to think that replies to this and other questions indicated a strong tendency on the part of students to view the war merely from a material point of view, without much attention to the destruction of spiritual values involved. This conclusion was further borne out by the replies to the second question: “In view of the increasing materialism pervading the United States, do you think that even an. American vic; tory might endanger your (an individual Catholic’s) faith?” Only 38 answered
“Yes” while 80 of the students responded “No.”
However, the replies to .the third query, “In any event, what should a Catholic do to combat this materialism?” were more encouraging and seemed to indicate that students had some idea of what a force the Church could be in society. In general, the results were that prayer, Catholic action, and good example on the part of Catholics, were recognized as the three most powerful methods of combatting materialism. On the last question, regarding what students, as students should do now, 12 said that they should forget the war until they themselves are involved; 14 that they should forget the war and study for their degree; 85 said that they should use the war as an incentive for more work and a changed attitude towards daily occurrences; and two advocated immediate enlistments as. a patriotic duty.
In order for all students to air their opinions on the war and their relation to it, CAS plans to hold an open forum to which all students are invited, to be held sometime after the Easter vacation in Washington Hall. Members of the faculty are’, also invited to attend the forum but the whole proceedings are to be conducted by students chosen as speakers from various campus clubs, such as the Wranglers.
There are two main objects for this forum, according to Mr. Hoover: the first is to stimulate thought concerning the war among Notre Dame men, as students and as Catholics; the second is to arrive at a clear concept of a just peace among the nations and perhaps even bring this about through the participation of Catholic students in this war who will have this concept outlined in their minds. To enable the student to arrive at these conclusions, three or four speakers will present different aspects of the war in a Christian light. The first speaker will perhaps review the results of the poll. The next may discuss the dangers of the war to Catholicism -while a third will try to formulate a correct attitude . which Christians should maintain during the war and after. Finally, a fourth spokesman will summarize the conclusions drawn and indicate the principles upon which a just peace may be laid.
CAS believes, from the results of the poll, that very little real thinking is being done by students and that a good deal of it is fallacious. Through this forum CAS, hopes to stimulate student thought on an all-important subject, to straighten but their viewpoints, and to crystallize and formulate their opinions on a just peace. All students are urged to attend and take part in this forum on a question which means a great deal to every Christian.
13
NOTRE DAME SPORTS
r ii.	■ i— i——	-.—	■■ —i	—-
FAST ACTION IN BENGAL FINALS
WINS NEW BOXING CROWNS
JACK DINGES, Sports Editor
Seven new Bengal Bout champions were crowned in the Fieldhouse Saturday night as the eight final fights proved that the real winners had survived the Three days of preliminaries.
Thus ended another successful Scholastic promotion of the Bouts for proceeds for the Holy Cross Missions in Bengal, Dacca province, India. Chairman
There was excellence and disappointment, of the effort was Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., faculty advisor of the magazine while William (Scoop) Scanlan, the man who makes the “Splinters” fly, handled the promotion end.
Despite the excellence of the evening’s performance, the backers of the Bouts were somewhat disappointed by the poor attendance at the finals in which 16 boys went “all out” for victory.
Repeating his performance of last year, Paul Malloy had cinched his 120 lb. title before the night of the finals . and fought Alex Kobek, a South Bend Golden Gloves, champion, in an exhibition match, after winning his Bengal title for the third time. There was no decision in this, the first bout of the evening, but it was very close to a draw anyway. Paul was pressed harder by Kobek than we have seen him in three years .'of fighting. Malloy’s aggressiveness was challenged and some of his blows seeihed afflicted by a hook that brought them up
14
short of the mark. However, we’ll still put our money on Paul in a good fight.
Undefeated Joe Mahoney, 127 Lb. Winner
Dan Canale’s 127 lb. title went to Joseph Mahoney, Ashtabula, Ohio, and Off-Campus student, whose long, straight left hand punch to Gene O’Brien’s head added greatly to his victory. O’Brien carried the fight to Mahoney at times but the latter was able to take care of himself and make fine defensive use of his gloves to ward off the loser’s blows.
Sam Atwater, 135 Lb. Champion
Red haired Bengal veteran Tommy. Spencer, from Indianapolis and St. Ed’s - A.C., lost his 135 lb. title bid to Freshman Sammy Atwater but he did turn in a performance that won him the Huddle-donated Sportsmanship trophy as a result of one of the best fights of the evening. Sammy started things in the first round but Tom maneuvered him into a corner and gave a drubbing. After that action ended Spencer fell in the ring and stayed down for a nine count coming up to again carry the fight to Atwater. Both boys mixed it up and the first round ended with Atwater working-well with a long left to the head. In the second round Spencei* drove Atwater to the ropes; Atwater tagged Spencer with a left and right; both boys exchanged lefts, Spencer taking one to the head and then driving Atwater to the ropes again and then taking three hard ones on the face.
Spencer started fast in the last round but Atwater worked well in the clinches; Spencer hit him a good one on the head and both boys traded long blows with both hands, after which Atwater moved' in on a tired: antagonist as the round ended.	-	. -
Kermit Rousseve, 145 Lb. Titlist .
Somehow the Kermit Rousseve - Jack • Padon 145 lb: bout reminded one of that, famous picture of the Dempsey-Firpo fight; the lean, bronze Rousseve lashing at the wide, crouched Padon presented . a moving picture of action. In the open- _ ing found Padon was more aggressive but Rousseve, haying the'longer reach,
was able to land more punches. Padon took a hard left to the head to open the second round; Rousseve came in but Padon tied him up nicely, and both boys took each other’s blows easily and not much damage was done. At the bell Padon .was blocking a Rousseve rush. Both men came out fighting in the third round, Padon taking a left and right to head and body and coming back with a hard right; they clinched and Padon caught a left to the head. Padon blocked Rousseve nicely and landed a left to his head but looked tired, taking lefts to head and body and blocking some of Rousseye’s best attempts with his gloves. Both boys looked tired as the fight ended and the judges decided for Rousseve.
At this juncture the Dillon-St. Ed’s grudge battle was settled by, of all things, a pillow fight. Jack Elder, N.D. athletic hero and secretary of the Illinois Athletic Commission, was introduced and presented the Sportsmanship trophy and the RECO hall trophy which was awarded to Badin.
Quinlan Wins 155 Lb. Crown
A mild looking,. wiry, blond fighting Irishman named Farrell Quinlan started out very slowly against Ted Haley who had things pretty much his own way for the first two rounds of the 155 lb. bout. Quinlan danced around Haley repeatedly as Ted lashed out the bouncing-figure and little damage resulted from the. few blows landed in the first round. In the second round, Haley was still aggressive and Quinlan slipped to the canvas after taking several blows to the head. Quinlan went on the defensive and swung wildly as Haley moved in for the kill bn a groggy opponent. That blond boy, however, recovered enough to send a couple of good punches into the Haley countenance but Haley kept coming- in and' the round ended in a clinch.
Haley missed with a looping punch as the third frame opened and the boys mixed it up on the ropes taking and giving a lot right above your scribe’s precious portable. Both boys were tired; Haley gave one in the stomach for two . in the face and then took two more in rapid succession and went to the ropes groggy; • both boys were very tired and . .Haley looked out on his feet with Quinlan hitting, at will: Haley went down for a nine count and Quinlan looked too tired : to stagger to a neutral corner as. Haley : came up to . take, some more punches which dropped him again as the round
ended. Ringside opinion was that it was a mighty good fight, and had Haley gone a little easier in his second round blitz he might have carried that advantage on, and his hand instead of Quinlan’s be raised in victory.
165 Lb. Crown to McNamara
Cavanaugh Hall’s curly haired, sleepy
looking- David Dean almost went
to a
Padon
seve.
V
V- -
Referee Quinlan,
Elder, Waters, Trainer
Above: Bengal Champs Mahoney, Malloy, Rous-
McNamara, and Padon.
Atwater, Kelly,
Left: Camera stops one of Kermit ’ Rousseve’s high rights in 145 pound championship match.' He
Below: Conferring after the -Bouts, Promotor Scanlan, Jack Elder, Frank Leahy, Editor Powers, Boxing Instructor Dom Napolitano.
won from Bill (right).

165 lb. title as he and Bill McNamara of Walsh hammered their way through the bloodiest fight of the evening. Dave was a bit short of reach and took a few in the face as the bout started but kept in there despite the long left that Mac continually fed him.
In the second round Dean took several hard ones to the head but plunged on and had McNamara on the ropes sending two to his head until Mac came back to meet Dean’s left and right until he in turn sent some hard blows to Dean’s head which left the Wisconsin boy groggy. The two traded long blows to the face and both were; tired and bleeding as the round ended. .
A thrilling third round opened with Dean burning into McNamara and receiving a clout in the mouth and getting a left ana right to the head for a long left he shoved into the McNamarian stomach. Dean was working on Mac’s face and stomach, and both boys were bleeding again. McNamara revived and they traded lefts to the face. Dean was more aggressive but McNamara got him

on the ropes. Dean drove off as McNamara let him have two lefts to the face; both boys were tired; Dean punched at McNamara’s face and brisk action occurred as the fight ended. It was a bloody battle and the audience loved it as the foot stamping showed; McNamara was' the winner.
Waters, Lightheavy King
Approaching the previous fight in violence was the 175 lb. bout which went to clean cut Chuck Waters of Chicago as -he won a victory over long haired Dick Ames of St. Paul. First round action was moderate and maned by considerable clinches with Waters more aggressive and demonstrating a good looping left which he sent to Ames’ head.
Ames started the second round furiously with Waters getting away nicely, both boys doing a bit of wrestling.
Neither was hurt but Waters landed ' his punches well and took Ames’ offering on his gloves in nice fashion. Waters landed a good right on Ames who returned it. Waters got Ames on the ropes but Dick replied with some good long punches to Waters’ head.	.
(Continued on page 25)	...
15
"Pic" Honors Faught, Singer
Bob Faught and. Cy Singer were the Notre Dame net standouts to be given honorable mention recognition in an AllAmerican basketball poll conducted by Pic, the national picture magazine. The mythical squad selectors also mentioned several eagers that faced the Irish quintet during the past campaign to the honor roll. Among the more prominent were Kotz, the Wisconsin scoring wizard, who was named to a first team forward berth. Honorable mention was given Schumacher and Gerard of Michigan State and ominous Otto Graham of Northwestern.
The first team’s personnel included K'otz and Burras of Stanford at forwards, Phillips of Illinois and Gerber' of Toledo at guards and Goleb of L. I. U. at center.
Leahy Gives Lowdown On T Formation Plan
Bill Boss
Following two days of mud and snow the 1942 Irish football brigade trotted on Cartier Field for their initial performance before the newsreel cameras last Thursday. Some 55 candidates gave Frank Leahy an idea of what potentialities the squad that will play the toughest football schedule in Notre Dame history come next fall will have.	.
From the lads that sprint daily over the cinders from the Fieldhouse locker room Leahy will have to pick 11 men to make the coming season a real Victory campaign. Competition "will be severe with a gruelling 11 game slate ahead. Judging from past performances and experience the varsity will be: ends—Jack Barry and George Murphy; tackles—Lou Rymkus and Larry Sullivan; guards— Bob Dove and Harry Wright; center— Walter Ziemba; quarterback — Angelo Bertelli; halves—Dip Evans and Creighton Idler with either Clatt, Mello, Cowhig, or David, all Frosh bombers, clog-. ging the fullback vacancy.
A Power Backfield
Irish hearts will race next fall as never before when the great parade of Irish backfield aces swing down the chalk lines. Not only has Notre Dame the most rugged schedule ever but it also has one of the greatest crops of backfield material in years. Unlike former secondaries spiked -with a diminutive sparkplug like Andy Pilney or some lanky grease-hipped back the current conclave of ball luggers is laden with rolling weight and unparalleled driving ability.
From a quartet of freshman backs, assistant coach Milt Piepul, fullback specialist, is attempting to produce a bucking back blessed with speed and power. The novices, Clatt, David, Cowhig and Mello are yet to be tested but grueling scrimmages during the next few weeks will unveil the most promising plunger. This being accomplished the Irish secondary should lack nothing.
The conversion of All-American Bob Dove and Harry Wright to guards may prove to be the correct formula for a fine line nucleus but these boys, competent as they were in their old surroundings, have still to work in the new positions and show that they are durable enough to withstand the shocks at the center of battle. The left flank is another questionable office with Jack Barry the only returning veteran. John Yon-
CAPT UACK ELDER Sprinter.
Bouts1 Referee Elder as he appeared in the 1929 "Scholastic."
aker who seems to be the dynamo’s logical substitute is hindered by an injury which will probably keep him inactive for a short time. In this case' Bill Huber, another frosh picket, will be runner-up to snag skirting backs on the left side of the front wall.
Lowdown on "T"
As the Irish grind for their second successive undefeated campaign behind closed doors Coach Leahy attempted to enlighten the wondering nation about his much discussed T plans when he wrote in the current issue of the Notre Dame Alumnus: “We have no argument with the newspaper writers, nor are we going to say we were misquoted. The fault in the published reports lay not so much in what they said as in what they neglected to say. To put the matter briefly, we do plan to use a different T than we used here last year.... and we also plan to hang onto the tried and true Notre Dame shift. In going to the so-called Stanford T, we are not changing from the Rockne System—we are merely going back to what he liked years ago.
“We are disturbed,” he continued, “at these reports that we were dropping the Notre Dame system, for this would not be true even if we did discard the shift. As most of you know, the familiar shift always started from the T Formation.... It seems to us that our material being what it is, an experiment with the T-for-mation in spring practice will certainly be in order. If our experiment should be successful, and should we decide to go along for a year or so without the shift, we do not feel that this would constitute any condemnation of the shift. It would simply mean that our material is better fitted to the T-formation.”
Here we have the summation of a great football story. Whether or not Coach Leahy finds the T adaptable to the current squad will be known next September when Little Davey Eldrige leads the charges of Georgia Tech’s Rambling Wreck from Atlanta to South Bend territory.
Eight Irish in Marines
The adoption of a new system may not - be the only problem that ■will confront the nation’s finest coach. For last week eight very important members of the legions of Leahy were inducted into the United States Marines. The lads that swore under the Devil Dog insignia were: Lou Rymkus, Angello Bertelli, John Yon-aker, Bob Dove, Tom Brock, Larry SuRi-van, Bob Webb, and Wally Ziemba. At present there is not much chance of these boys having to leave school but should Stukas start stinging and Ack-Acks ringing near American soil these boys will be summoned for service.
16
INTRODUCING |
BY JOE PALMER
It was during this past winter, and a hay ride was being given by the lassies across the road for their guests from Notre Dame. Suddenly, some one spied some porkers lolling in a distant pasture, and immediately came up with the cry, “Oh look! Piper City!!” That remark was directed to only one person in the hay-mow, to Piper City’s staunchest supporter, to baseballer and all-around-good fellow, Mike Kelly. (In case you’re inter-
ested, Piper City is a hamlet in central Illinois. It numbers some 653 souls.) Today, our job is to tell you a little something about Mike, and, having known him for some time, it will be neither difficult nor unpleasant.
Mike's Dad—All State
Mike comes by his athletic abilities quite naturally. His dad was picked on the all-state professional basketball team, when he played forward for Piper City. On the same team from Piper City was an uncle who made the allstate selection as a guard. And next' year will bring to Notre Dame another and younger member of the Kelly family, Jim, and, from what big brother has said, Jim will be plenty good in baseball and basketball.
When next May 10 rolls
around, Mike will be the proud possessor of a sheepskin for four years of work in the College of Commerce, with a'major in . business administration. And that term “work” isn’t used blindly here, either, for Mike is a good student and won’t have to shy away from anyone when they start comparing scholastic averages.
Next October, he will begin training in the V-7 unit of the Naval Reserve, will take his training at Northwestern University. After the war—well, things are pretty indefinite, so we won’t make any rash predictions, now.
Mike started his athletic competition at Notre Dame in his freshman year, - earning his numerals in both basketball and baseball. In his sophomore year, he made the varsity baseball squad, and
last year (his junior year) he finally came through the battle with the longed-for monogram. He showed Coach Jake Kline plenty of stuff behind the platter.
Big thrill of his years at Notre Dame came last year at Ann Arbor, Mich., when Mike caught his first full game for the varsity. After that first one, a lot more active duty followed. This year will see more real action, and we’ve got our spare changes on him.
During the summer months, Mike has held various jobs in Piper City and in neighboring towns, and he has gained much valuable experience by playing ball with various teams in the district.
There didn’t seem to be much that was definite as far as other hobbies were concerned, but Mike does enjoy good dance music (Dick Jurgens preferred), especially in the right company. While yours truly was in Kelly’s room on the fourth floor of Walsh, he made a definite attempt to worm a few inside facts from Mike and roomie Jim Rice, carrot-topped Phy-Ed man and Bengaleer of note, but there seemed to be a conspiracy against this column. Several times, actual threats were made as to what would happen if we dared to give out any personals, so
we won’t say much. But, if you know the-last name of the sports editor of the’ Chicago Tribune, and if you know the corresponding last name of a noted Eng- ' lish professor-priest here on the campus, you’ll stand an excellent chance of knowing the last name of the St. Mary’s damsel who will make Illinois Mike’s heartpit-a-pat a good bit faster when the Senior Ball rolls around. In fact, you might even say that the last names of the three people are identical.
(O.K. Jim Rice. We’ll let you alone, but it seems a shame to let such interesting items go to waste. By the way, is she still campussed.) .
Add a note of variety: Mike is an ardent exponent of and a recognized champion at “Shuffle-Shaker,” the dining hall’s salt-shaker game—(you know, the one where you toss the shaker across the table and try to make it stick on the edge of the table....) According to one philosophic observer, that’s the game that freshmen avoid because it looks high-schoolish and that seniors love because it makes them feel like freshmen again. Anyway, Mike’s a champ at it.
How many of you can lay claim to having anyone named after you? Well, this fellow from Piper City can. Word was received here recently that Al McGuire, former science student from Clarksburg, W. Va., has become a proud papa, and the young one has been blessed with the name “Richard Michael McGuire.” The two first names came from Al’s former chums, Dick Green, senior from Sorin Hall, and Mike. Some class, eh?	- ’
Two Handball Tourneys Memorial Indoor Season
Climaxing the memorial recreation season, two handball tournaments are drawing to a close. this week in the Rockne Memorial. A meet, staged for the entire student body is in the middle of festivities while the Commerce Forum struggle is just getting under way.
In the intra-school meet, Clearjr and Roeser, two juniors, and White, a freshman, are favored to finish high. White and Roeser are' scheduled to come to blows in the semi-finals; while Cleary is in the other bracket and won’t meet either man until the finals. However, the stage can be stormed by other contestants if any of these men lets up in the -least.	: >
When these tourneys are completed, which should be Sunday, the recreational activities will be restricted to outdoor sports, softball, golf, and tennis and the activities concerned with the. interior of the Memorial will be closed. -	.
17
JPLINTERr
FRCM TFE PCEIT BOX ---- - ■	—	-- --- BY BILL SCANLAN
BENGAL TROPHIES WELL PLACED
Trophies presented by Jack Elder, the Illinois Athletic commission’s genial secretary, were well placed after officials watched the impressive group of battlers compete four nights._The Huddle’s Sportsmanship award could have gone to no more deserving battler than red-headed Tom Spencer of St. Ed’s A. C—. There are some ringside stalwarts who contend, however, that the St. Ed’s A. C. pillow-brigade should have received the trophy for being merciful to the Dillon pillow-swingers, winners of the highly-coveted St. Mary’s College student directory.... Badin was away ahead in entries in the 1942 competition, and grand-slammed into the title by placing four men in the finals, to capture the Reco Company’s Hall trophy.
IRISH RELAY TEAM KEEPS ON WINNING
Members of that all-time Irish record-smashing mile relay team of Capt. Ray Roy, Gene Fehlig, Dick Tupta and George Schiewe will soon be the official time-keepers on the campus after winning so many medals and watches. — That quartet, aided when injuries hamper full capacity by Sophomore Austin Jones, have annexed the Butler and Chicago Relays as well as the Central Collegiate Conference crowns already this season.... Latest feat was snagging the Chicago Relays title last Friday in 3:19.2, bettering even the 3:20.9 established by Villanova’s great Millrose and Penn A. C. mile champions.
VERSATILE BILL MAHONEY MAY LEAVE
Don’t be surprised if William Patrick (T-Bone) Mahoney, the nation’s youngest track coach sensation, suddenly provides another campus surprise by joining the army or navy.__Mahoney, the 25-year-old coaching phenomenon, had as his guest on the campus last Saturday, Greg Rice, who had won the Chicago Relays two-mile run the night before.... Rice, by the way, sprinted the last quarter mile of that race in 63 seconds.... A pair of common names, John Smith and John Murphy, may be the future record-smashers for the Irish track forces... Smith finished second at the Chicago meet, competing unattached as a freshman, to Fred Wolcott, ex-Rice Institute ace, who tied the world record at 60 yards in :07.2... Whitey Hlad, No. 1 Midwestern hurdler, finished third.... In the 50-yard high hurdles, Wolcott also equalled the world mark at :6.1 with Hlad second and Smith a close third.... Murphy ran -third in the •50-yard dash.
SORIN MARBLE TEAM GETTING INTO SHAPE '
Sorin hall, the tradition-showered hall next door to the Sacred Heart Church, soon will hang out the challenge sign to all rival hall marble teams on the campus:.. r Chief stalwarts of the Sorinites are John Gilbert, Lawrenceburg, Ky.; John (Slip) Madigan, Susquehanna, Pa.: Ed Kirchman’, Bay City, Mich.; and Norbert Moore, Bolivar, N. Y.... All are engineers whose chief problem is keeping Coach Gilbert from picking up his marbles and rushing into the sub whenever he loses.... Practice began last week.
GREG RICE EVALUATES OLLIE HUNTER
Just about the top notch evaluation swung toward anxious Ollie Hunter, Howard Hall’s current whiz of the Irish track team at the Chicago Relays last week when . Greg Rice, Notre Dame’s unchallenged greatest trackman of all time, congratulated Ollie saying, “Hunter, you’re much better as a junior than I was.”... . What a glorious future looms ahead for Hunter if he improves according to schedule.... The Notre Dame junior lost to Joe McCluskey, one of the nation’s top two-milers, by a foot at ■ the Chicago tournament, and finished fourth. . T
BERTELLI KEY TO IRISH SUCCESS	?
Coach Frank Leahy at the Bengal Bouts championships Saturday night re-affirmed reports that, the success of Notre Dame’s shift to the T-Formation depends upon the . skillful adaptation of Angelo Bertelli, the passing star, to the quarterback and ballhandling post.... Bertelli, according to Coach Leahy, has the needed ability.... Things we thought we’d never see: Sports Editor Jack Dinges promenading down Alumni-, Dillon “avenue” arm-in-arm with two beauties, twins and models for a Chicago advertising agency.... There are rewards even for those who do take the count in Bengal ■ Bout competition. . :	‘. .	-
■18 ■	■	< \ .	■ ' j	-A ■’
| WHAT ABOUT SPORTS? t
"Red" Lonergan
Japs or no, cinders will keep flying as Southern California develops another championship track team. Southern Cal’s fame is as widespread as Hitler’s promises only we would rather hear about Southern Cal. It’s the life ambition of any track coach to win at least one N.C. 4A. track meet or to coach one Olympic star. However, Dean Cromwell of Southern Cal has done a little better than this. He has won merely nine of these fine meets and has produced 12 champs for the famous games.
He comes from Turner, Ore., where he was born some 63 years ago. He was in every track event in his high school, Occidental Prep. He entered Occidental . College and must not have done himself much good, scholastically speaking, for he was captain of every athletic team the college had. He made Jack Armstrong look like a piker.
After he graduated, he did some barnstorming in track but he finally ended up at Southern Cal as dictator of football and track. He has been, there ever since but after five years he dropped coaching football to spend all his time on track. Instead of attempting to train the boys to run in some specific way he let his pupils find their own styles. , He believes, that there are as many ways for a miler to run as there are milers. He observes the technique of each man and actually duplicates it himself so that he may better understand the difficulties. This takes a long time and takes, a lot of work, but a study of Southern Cal’s records will show that it works. Usually Southern Cal starts its season slowly but ’ at the end it finishes swiftly.
It is our opinion that entirely too few track coaches recognize the value of letting an athlete keep his own natural way of doing a job and helping him by improving his style. Too many great ath-
• letes in every sport have been ruined by a coach demanding a complete change of style. It. takes a long time to bring about the change and then make the man
. a steady winner. Such a change has . often led to a loss of self-confidence and in many cases caused athletes to lose their skill entirely. The “Maker of Champions” claims that moderation in train-
_ ing and slow development are invaluable in having athletes at their peak at the right times and keep them from burning: out.	.	'
IRISH MILE-RELAY TEAM, FRESH FROM CHICAGO WIN, SET FOR NEW RECORD AT CLEVELAND K. C. TONIGHT
FRANCIS CARVER
I
With all the power and drive which has accounted for its seven major relay championships in less than two seasons, Notre Dame’s great mile relay team last week reeled off the fastest time in the history of the Chicago relays,’ winning permanent possession of the Frank Knox trophy, a. sterling silver bowl awarded any school winning the event twice in three years. Cheered on by 15,000, the largest indoor track gathering of history, the Irish were clocked in three minutes, 19.2 seconds, which is also an all-time ' Notre Dame indoor record as well as the fastest time turned in by any collegiate quartet this year. George Schiewe ran an anchor lap of 48.5 seconds.
Notre Dame’s great flying horsemen of track, Captain Ray Roy, Gene Fehlig, Dick Tupta, and George Schiewe hold the following championships: Drake Relays, Central Collegiate Conference indoor (twice), Indiana State, and Butler Relays. In the Central Collegiate and Butler Relays it was the mile relay, the last event on the program, which won the meets for the Irish. Tonight the Irish are. gunning for the Cleveland Knights of Columbus feature mile relay, with Austin Jones, flashy sophomore from Brooklyn, replacing Captain Ray Roy, quarter mile whirlwind, who is still on the ailing list from- an infected wisdom tooth. Jones, a very dependable performer, won the quarter in the Marquette meet here at : 53.1 while the other quar-' ter milers were dropping a close race to Fordham in the Milrose games.
But it was not all the mile relay team at the Chicago. relays, because Oliver Hunter, also flying the colors of the fighting Irish, pounded out the most brilliant performance of his career, failing by a stride to nose out the veteran Joe McClusky of the New York A.C. Although he was nowhere near his illustrious predecessor Greg Rice who won
the event in 8:53, Ollie was clocked in 9:13, the fastest time made this year by a collegian. Running third most of the way Hunter -with a 6:51 mile and a half was only four seconds off the pace. After . the race Greg hailed Ollie as the greatest collegiate two miler in the country and said that while he might not be able to - run that fast every week, he willat'least have the psychological advantage of knowing that whenever he gets into a race at that pace he can stand it. Going into the race Ollie had two ambitions— to beat Fred Wilt, his arch -rival from Indiana, and keep from being lapped by Rice or Gil Dodds—and he scored on both
. counts. .	. -.
Hunter is the Drake Relays and repeating Central Collegiate two mile ‘ champ, and has placed second twice in the National Collegiate Cross Country Meet, losing the first time to Gil Dodds, the boy who has been pressing Rice and McMitchell all this year.
Completing the second indoor season under Notre Dame’s own Bill Mahoney, one of the youngest college coaches in the business today, the thinlies of the fighting Irish have .vaulted to the recognition of being one of the best .squads in the country. It is acclaimed by many as the best track team ever to grind around the laps of the fieldhouse and Cartier field.	.
____Jumpin' Keith came through-------
Mahoney’s theme of training his men matches that of Frank Leahy—work and plenty of it. “The more work you have under your belt, the better you can go out there and show the other fellow how it should be done.” His boys like it and -they bring results. Going into the Butler Relays Notre Dame .had never taken a
relay at the meet. But when this year’s meet was over, Notre Dame had taken the championship plus avenging the lone loss of the season to Michigan and trimming the best the Big Ten had to offer. Jumpin’ Keith O’Rourke came through in the high jump, with Jim Delaney another champion, flinging the 16 pound shot 50 feet 11 & inches and the mile / relayers winning their event with 3:31.4.
The last indoor test comes tonight in Cleveland; The mile relay team, Keith O’Rourke, the freshman hurdler Johnnie Smith who placed third behind Wolcott and Hlad in the National A.A.U. meet, big Jim Delaney, and freshman sprinter • Murphy are entered for Notre Dame.
Impressions of a Locker Room
The smell of a hardware store and -hospital combined.... towels in a bulging pile at one end.____green lockers.____	■
long rows of benches..,. old newspapers rustling under hurrying feet.... scales . with their open honesty staring.________ bottles—big bottles. — One Gallon, Solution No. 54, Antiseptic, N. F.... Citrb-carbonate.... boxes having their entrails pulled out.... Spalding, Size 12._______halfclad figures stretched out full length oh . the benches. — handlers standing over them wrapping layers of tape over their hands. — “Dick! Where are those keys?”’ , “Who are the seconds, Scrap?”___________“George you’re getting to look-more like- a Filipino everyday”.... a robed figure lightly bouncing on both feet occasionally flailing out at an imaginary foe.____________“All right, come on, let’s go.”... “Who’s first?” .... “Ready?” .... “O. K., let’s go” . — “Lots o’ luck kid”..:. r “Put that towel around his neck”.... silence;.... one figure, stirs.... “Must be a big crowd—wonder who’s winning?” Soon know. .'. . one long roar like a roll on a kettle drum.... “Here they come”... “I lost”. — “Sorry kid”.___________________“Boy he had me going on that left hand”... “What size trunks, 32?”.... “Come on—get into them”______________________________________________________________________ “I wasn’t as good as last night . was I?”.... “Sure you were kid”.________“he made me laugh—he had me going on that left jab—I couldn’t get off”.... “You were great you were forcing the fight all the way”.... “Hope ’Obie’ wins”.____ Two at a time they skip out; two at a time they slump in.— “Better take a look at my brother’s eye, Doc—he’s got a cut”.... “About 20 minutes our fight will be over”._______________________________“Yeh”_“It’s only a mouse —I just looked at it in the mirror”.____ “Glad ours is over”.... “Put your shoes on and walk around a bit”.______________“That’s O.K.”___________________________________“No go ahead—you’ll feel better”.... “‘Boy, you stunned me once, Ames”___________________________________“You stunned me plenty”.... “I lost a tooth out there somewhere”.... ,
- “How come no mouthpiece?”.... “Can’t _ breathe with ’em”.... “How many to go?”. . . . “Fightin’ the last one now”. —
“Where’s that tape?” “Let’s start putting some of this stuff’ away”. — “Here '
they come”. . . . “Who won?”. . . . ‘	’
’ “George”.... “Feel all right, Mike?”.... / ’
“Sure, I’m O.K.”.... “Lernrne at thoser '
showers”.___“Nice fight kid.” •	.. ,
1942 Grid Schedules > :
After considerable juggling to ‘ suit ~; wartime, needs, revamped 1942 Notre ,	;
Dame football schedule was. announced . this week by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh,/ , C S.C., chairman of the athletic board’ of control. Seven home games are now . '/ on the card for the Irish. ;	.	- ;?://;
(Continued on page 22) J ;	-
‘	' /- / ' -	/;//J9
ATTENTION WEATHERMAN! NO MORE RAIN, PLEASE!; Diamond Candidates Prep NOTRE DAME'S FAVORITE GOLF COURSE IS OPEN For The Coming Season
JOHN POWERS
'•For the rain it raineth every day.” Thus sang the Chekhov players in Washington Hall a few weeks ago to a chorus of “you can say that again” for each and every student of Notre Dame was inclined to believe it. However, if you would listen to Father George Holderith, C.S.C., varsity golf coach, the rains are at an end for he announced this week that the William J. Burke University
(iiimitiiitiiii'titiiiittttiiiiiiniimiiiiittttimittmiiiiiiitstiiiiiiittiiiiititiiiiiiiistmiiiiiitiiitiiiiiiitimiiiiiniiitiiiiittiiiiiiimiiHiiifMtHiiiiitniiii
golf course would officially open today, March 27, weather permitting.
Yank that golf bag out of the corner, shake the dust from it, wipe the rust from your niblicks and mashies, peel the extra chips from your golf balls, and make a bee line for that golf shop to get your ticket. Father Holderith requests that you brush up on your golf etiquette: “Please observe the rules on the back of the score card. Above all, when you lose a ball don’t back up the rest of the players while you hunt for that two-bit ball.” He added with a sing-song voice: “Don’t forget to replace your divots.”
Greens and fairways are in good condition and have been nursed carefully throughout the winter. Even the frontispiece of the scorecard has undergone a change. It .presents a recent panoramic view of the campus taken from the golf course by Harry Elmo, with an inset
of the log chapel to signify the great change which has taken place in 100 years.
Although the course is opening today for general play, the University golf squad will he out there conditioning and limbering up for the season which will get underway when Purdue meets the Trish here April 18. The complete schedule is unavailable at present since it has ‘
yet to be approved by the Board in Control of Athletics. Five of last year’s lettermen are back: Captain Billy Wilson; John Conroy, university champion; Bill Fisher, Gene Fehlig, and John Harrington. Other members of the team are Tom Nash, Bill Moorhead, a southpaw; Jack Hedges, Paul Malloy, and Mel Wilke.
Students who are planning to swelter under the Indiana sun during the summer semester will be repaid in no small way when they see the cream of the nation’s collegiate golfers in action during the week of June 22-27, when the National Intercollegiate Golf tournament begins at the South Bend Country Club. Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C. is chairman of the N.C.A.A. tournament committee, representing Notre Dame, the host college. Early in January he met with Chick Evans, chairman of the golf committee, and together they smoothed out the details of the meet.
Three major problems—two perennial headaches and one unique one—continue to face Coach Jake Kline as he reviews his prospects each afternoon in the Gym. The two old problems which confront the Irish baseball mentor are in the form of “the Hoosier dilemma” — the weather, and settling on the nine most promising baseballers out of the crop now working out in the Fieldhouse. The new problem has to do with arranging a suitable schedule for the season.
This latter dilemma, which mainly consists of working out a schedule for the summer* semester, has arisen to serious proportions due to the fact that many of the other Midwestern schools have either decided against the three-semester plan or else are still in the undecided state. Coach Kline, however, has submitted a schedule for the approval of the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics, and by the end of next week a definite schedule for the season should be forthcoming.
Dismissing the weather situation as inevitable, the major current problem of Coach Kline lies in grooming his candidates for the opening of the season. Since graduation and service in the armed forces have depleted the ranks of Irish veterans, the Notre Daine mentor is particularly watching the promising crop of sophomores now under his tutorage.
"Cash on Hand"
The infield, with second-sacker George Sobek the. only veteran returning to his position, appears to be the major problem confronting Coach Kline. Third base, with Campagna gone, will probably be handled by one of two up-and-coming . sophomores—Carlin, or Grant or Kralo-vec, a junior. At short field, Fred Gore seems to have the inside track, with sophs Downey and Vignola close behind. Jack Tallett, who hit one of the longest balls ever hit in an exhibition game at the Indiana state prison last year, must be conceded a slight edge at first, but sophomores Hickey and Moore cannot be counted out.
The battery, with Captain Bernie Crimmins receiving, appears fairly well set. Behind Bernie will be Kelly, Bowers, McNamara and Hiller for relief. The mainstay of the hurling staff will probably be Bob Metzger, followed by Fischer and Dudley, all of whom performed brilliantly on occasion last season. Sophomores Smullen and Trimborn will also be given the test this season.
The Irish outfield will also hold its own this season if material means anything. Andy Chlebek, Bill Stewart, Frank
20
Sanfilippo, John Milliman, Bob Madden, Omer Sturm and Bob Casey provide material for a potentially powerful outer garden.
Daily practice, until such a time when the weatherman (don’t tell the Japs) gives the Klinemen the break they are waiting for, consists mostly of defensive drills. Batting practice cannot be initiated until outdoor drills begin.
Coach Kline has been assured of able assistance with his freshmen nine this season, with the announcement that Mike (when I was a small boy) Hines has been secured to handle the yearling nine. Hines, who is well known in campus circles for his football and hunting ability, has participated on the diamond since early days in high school, and should prove a valuable aid to the Irish coaching staff.
K. C. Bowlers Place I Oth
At Cleveland; Plan Tour
The K. of C. bowling team went into tenth place in the team standings with a score of 2786 at Cleveland last Saturday. Led by Cy Tlusty with 637 the team put together games of 957, 878, and 951 for their 2786 actual total. Bud Gans had 565, followed by Tom Fourmy 556, Captain Jim Fayette 544, and Tom Halligan with 486. With but two more weeks of the tournament left, the “Casey” boys stand a good chance of remaining among the leaders. The K. of C. National tournament drew 485 teams this year for a-new record.
Toppling the maples for games of 177, 210, and 219 Tom Halligan went into sixth place in the singles event. Cy Tlusty led the tournament in the high singles game actual with 263. As the K. of C. tournament is not conducted on a handicap basis, all of the above scores are actual pin fall.
In a match last Friday evening at Lorain, Ohio, before an audience of several hundred, the K. of C. team was defeated in a close match by the Lorain All-Stars' 2774 to 2740. The All-Star team was comprised of Hank Andoraka, ranked as 11th best bowler in the country, who had a high actual series of 618; Alex Black, ranking 32nd in the U. S. with a 607 series; and three other star bowlers from Lorain. Cy Tlusty and Bud Gans led the Irish with series of 594 and 566 respectively.
Friday afternoon in Cleveland the team bowled the Champions from Western Reserve University. Because of adverse alley conditions that led to poor scores, the “Caseys” defeated W. R. U. 2476 to 2289. Bud Gans and Tom Halligan led the attack with series of 553 and _ 524 respectively.
28 N. D. Marines for MacArthur form a "V" around Lt. J. W. Crain.
The team will bowl two exhibition matches this Sunday at the Bowl-Mor against two outstanding teams from South Bend. The first match against . Kamm’s will be at 2:30, while the second against Hackett’s All-Stars will be at 7:30.
Shirts, Sport-coats, Topcoats ...
—tweeds, Shetlands, flannels, and homespuns. Your choice of these fine cloths ready-made or tailored, priced $35 to jSStf $60. Harris tweed coats, hand loomed, only $37.50.
The three-button, single-breasted Brooks coat is still in high favor with college men. We have it in any cloth you select; also slacks to match or contrast. -
NEWS ITEM: The closing restrictions prescribed by new regulations for ready-made clothing go into effect April I, but do not affect tailor-made or made-to-measure clothing until June I.
PARKER-WINTERROWD 115% - I VTVz North Main Street (Upstairs)
Visit our upstairs shop or see our campus representatives:
CAPTAIN PAUL LILLIS	LARRY KELLEY	NEIL J. MCCARTHY
321 Alumni Hall	334 Alumni Hail	115 Sorin Hall
During Easter vacation the team will travel through Michigan, bowling against Michigan State, Michigan, Central State Teachers, and the University of Detroit. Anyone desiring matches with this team is to contact Edward P. Reidy, manager, Alunmi Hall.
JOHN T. KELLEY
It's not every day the "Scholastic" gets a letter like, the one from . . . not an-
; (Continued from page 19)
However, here’s the schedule as of this week: . ,	.	.= .
Changes were made in the card to provide games with the Great Lakes team and the Iowa Naval Cadets, the
English major seeking publicity, either." Heavens to Betsy, we editorially gasp. This, man is fundamental. There is no hedging here. Apparently his girl (no shrinking violet,. we. venture) was-not among the chosen ten and things have come to a head. There s a sound thrashing in store for someone and before things get out of hand I (uneditori-ally) just want to make it clear that I'm a new man on the staff. (20/100 Snellen) ’
I say this in all seriousness. "Not Sean O'Sylvian" is upon us. Just you wait. One by one the members of the "Scholastic" will drop out of sight only to come to the.
latter to be coached.by the great Bernie Bierman. The Wisconsin opener has been advanced a week ahead of the previous date, arid the Trojan game has been shifted from the air-raid conscious west coast to Notre Dame. The Cleveland Chamber of Commerce has sought to have the Yellowjacket-Irish game.moved
to Cleveland’s municipal stadium and
-	.	.	- •	।	। • l j- the exact, setting for the Great Lakes
surface of Badin Bog a few days later with a note pinned to their chest reading. tilt is still uncertain..
"Beauty Contest eh?" or perhaps "Junior Prom! Zounds." . .	.	.	’
What’s to be done? Abdication? And be hounded for the rest of our days with . the thought that any moment a man with a false beard may sneak-upland drop for- .. maldehyde in our Postum? Even now I hear footfalls on the roof. Hisssssst. . . .! .	•
Off, ambiguous cloak! Put up thy sword, wraith-like avenger! A clever ruse, con- -cealing your identity. But we are aware. We recognize the fidgety script; the dangling participles. The game is up! We give you the lie! It is you. . . . YOU. . . . ALBERT , ABRAHAM PLOTKIN. .	.	.	.
Sept. 26—Wisconsin, there
Oct. 3—Georgia Tech, here
Oct. 30—Stanford, here
First Class
Shoe Repairing
James McAllister
Three or four nights ago a student entered the library in search of a certain issue of the "Constantinople Blade," or some equally obscure publication.	.
"Am I wasting my time?" he asked the boy in charge of the periodical room.. . '
Watch Repairing
Jim Warner ’ All work done promptly . and at reasonable prices.
Next to the HUDDLE ■
DOBBS GETS THE CALL FOR EASTER
22
Oct. 17—Iowa Naval Cadets, here
Oct. 24—Illinois, there
Oct. 31—Navy. (Annapolis) here
Nov.' 7—Army, at New York
Nov. 14—Michigan, here -
Nov. 21—Northwestern, here
Nov. 28—Southern California, here
Dec. 5—Great Lakes Naval Station, here or Chicago
Make this your headquarters for
JEWELRY GIFTS f
★
Guaranteed Watch and Jewelry Repairing
BLOCK BROS.
CORNER MICHIGAN WASHINGTON
"Hah?” questioned-the, courteous attendant. ' - ■ ,	.
.Do you have the magazine here in your library?-'repeated .the. student.-^ "•
"Oh shoah! Wadel I go look in the catalogue.".. r , - :
A quarter of an hour crawled away. ' - : ,	‘	.
;	-	-'J- A - -.‘-'A '
Heah itis.'con.Bl.-Lib. 345*OOh. 776. ok.32 7odo; To,the fourth pbwerl'^
- The funeral will be at nine tomorrow. . .	i / , • ■
This happens three times a day.'It can be. curbed; I will appreciate, anyfsug- !-gestions:	.	-'-.A.-	;
I eat in the Faculty Dining Hall, with the rest of the.men in.Sorin. ,I, like to linger' over my coffee and so I find myself one of the last to leave the table. Usually about. ? twenty-two minutes past the hour.as I reach for my topcoat on the bannister I am reminded! The East Hall is just getting out. I dash down the-remaining steps and find that the East entrance to the cafe is blocked, (I may still-be a few "feet ahead of the horde) so I turn and sprint madly for the West entrance. This proves a trap consistently. In fact I have to do no more than entertain the plan and.the West doors promptly -fly open and a new menace is introduced. You just don't empty those, two halls in a . : trice, so.to kill time I sit down on the little stone ledge midway between them, l am usually joined by a janitor or somebody's mother who can't.find Breeh7Phillips, and .. . . although it's very clubby I can't keep it up much longer.. It is especially pressing-in • • the evenings. My. rector insists that I start, attending night prayer. And 1 know,'my =. '. "beached fish" story won't carry at all.	'	. .	.	•	. - •;
PATRONIZE "SCHOLASTIC" ADVERTISERS
SPALDING
Golf Equipment
from our
complete stock
Balis......:....45c	to 85c '
Bags...........from $1.10 up
Canned Tennis Balls, 3 for $1.50
Tennis Racquets .$1.95
; We also handle complete McGREGOR supplies.
Boston Shoe Store
SONNEBORN'S
SPORT SHOP
121 W. Colfax Ave.
South Bend, Indiana
to
52525252525252525252525252525252525252525252525252
124 S. Michigan Street
As
Featured
in Smart . Shoes
- that Rtl
Varsity Debate Squad
Ready For Easter Tour
When most Notre Dame men are preparing to return to the “old grind” after a shorter-than-usual Easter vacation, the varsity debate squad and Coach William J. Coyne will be heading for South Carolina. The debate squad will make its annual trip starting on Eastei’ Monday and returning to Notre Dame on April 14. The main objective of the tour will be the Grand Eastern tournament held by Winthrop College at Rock Hill, South Carolina, on April 9, 10, and 11. The debaters will participate in four debates enroute to the tourney and one more on the way back.
Easter Monday evening the affirmative team, O’Dea-LeMense, will meet Xavier
University’s negative team, and the Irish negative, Lies-Meier, will encounter the University of Cincinnati. From there the squad will travel to Knoxville, Tenn., and on Wednesday, April 8, both affirmative and negative will meet teams representing the University of Tennessee.
Registration and practice rounds in the Grand Eastern tournament take place on Thursday. On Friday, actual competition begins. The two N. D. teams will engage in five debates each. Teams will be matched in each round according to the results of previous rounds. A winner is announced at the end of the tournament. Between 50 and 100 colleges and universities from all over the country enter this tournament each year. The tourney is conducted annually by Winthrop College which is a state-operated girls school. Finally on the way home the
N. D. negative team will meet Western Reserve University in Cleveland on April 14 before a group of Knights of Columbus members.
This year’s varsity squad is composed of two veterans and two new men. William Meier is a four year debater, and this is his third year as an “A” debater. Meier is top man scholastically in this year’s senior class and is president of the Wranglers and the Economic Round Table. He is an Economics major and comes from Faulkton, S. Dak. Mark Lies, a junior, moved up from last year’s “B” squad. Lies is from Riverside, Ill., and belongs to the Wranglers and the Economic Round Table. On the affirmative team are two new men, James O’Dea, a sophomore from Lowell, Mass., and Rob-



ONE FOR THE BOOK”
Today's speed-up at school and tomorrow's great per* vading question-mark entitle you to an "all-out", completely relaxing, unforgettable spring vacation this year. And that is the kind we have in store for you at the South's largest oceanfront resort-estate. It is a grand "houseparty" in Florida's golden sunshine, planned by college people for college students—the
INTER COLLEGE SPRING PARTY
WHENEVER YOU CAN COME
FROM MARCH 16 TO AAAY 1
There'll be swimming, golf (no green fees), tennis, surf fishing, other sports . . . dancing, parties, floor shows, moonlight boat rides, beach dinners and "side trips". Your own sort of crowd will-be there helping things along. The special rate of $10 per day per person includes everything - room, meals and all the
romance and fun you can pack into a few long-to-be-remembered days in a sun-blessed tropic paradise beside the Gulf Stream.
Talk it over with Dad and Mother, and your friends. See your travel agent - or write today for details.
HOLLYWOOD BEACH HOTEL
OH THE OCEAN
AT HOLLYWOOD
"GREATER MIAMI’S GREATEST SHOWPLACE'

Brown and whites that lead in popularity again this season. Treat yourself to a pair. Enjoy the lift you get from their handsome Spring-like freshness. Select yours now.-
120 S. Michigan St.
24
SAM'L SPIRO & CO th w- Feature
Manhattan
Shirts, Pajamas, Handkerchiefs . . . Mansco Underwear
Your collar need not be a
PAIN IN THE NECK
Oh. that shirt collar! With most men, that's the most sensitive point. You won’t know how well a collar can look on you until you’ve worn a Manhattan shirt. Because Manhattan makes a collar that looks best on you. We have six different Manhattan collar styles, specially designed for special types.
They’ll fit and stay fit because Manhattan shirts are Size-Fixt* and every collar is measured by hand. The collar is the most conspicuous part of your shirt—make it the smartest by wearing a Manhattan.
WITH COLLARS STYLED FOR A MAN LIKE YOU
ert LeMense, a junior, from Iron Mountain, Mich. O’Dea was chairman of this year’s Sophomore Cotillion and is a member of the Wranglers. LeMense is a Scholastic columnist and a member of the Economic Round Table. Coach William J. Coyne is a professor in the department of economics.
Last Tuesday the affirmative met a team from Stanford University and took the decision in that debate. This weekend both teams are participating in the University of Wisconsin tournament at Madison.
The question used in all the debates this year was “Resolved, That the Federal Government should regulate by law all labor unions in the United States.”— Constitutionality conceded. Official interpretation of the question requires incorporation of all unions, fixing responsibility for unlawful acts, and regulating use of union funds.
BENGAL FINALS
(Continued from page 1-5)
The third round opened with a fast exchange, Waters landed lefts and rights and both swung a lot and missed many times. Waters landed a beautiful right on Ames’ head who slipped in the corner The boys traded hard rights to the face and Ames brought up a neat upper cut but his mouth bled as he took a hard blow in the face, and as the round ended a speck of blood flicked on the writer’s notes. Waters tried to pick up his mouth piece from the canvas with boxing gloves on, gave up, and Referee Georgie Nate, picked up a tooth that left Ames’ mouth a moment before. Waters won the decision.
Kelly Beats Hines
Varsity tackle Jim Brutz and 1941 Bengal 155 lb. champ in big Mike Hines’ corner weren’t -quite enough to abet Mike’s efforts to win the heavyweight crown. The victory went, instead, to George Kelly, a Chicago freshman. The first round was pretty much Kelly’s but Mike came back in the second and showed great aggressiveness although Kelly’s straight left to the face kept the “Kewanna Killer” at a pretty safe distance. In the final frame Mike was showing well, counting in the clinches, protecting his face and landing a fine uppercut and hitting Kelly’s face. The round ended with Mike landing straight lefts and a right to Kelly’s chin but the decision went to Kelly.
* Average fabric shrinkage 1% or less
LOST—Reward for return of a brown Parker fountain pen. My name, Vin- -cent Daigler, is inscribed upon it.
25
(Continued from page 11) Matthews, John Beyerle, James Byrne, Vince Began.
Decorations—Robert Raaf, chairman; Warren Leary, John Bermingham, Vincent Oppenheim.
Patrons—John Fogarty, chairman ; Donald Connors, William Hormberg. Robert Connelly. Ben Mammina.
Programs—Donald Heltzel, chairman : Robert Kehoe. John Greene. Pat McDermott. John Walsh.
Guests—Milt Piepul. chairman; Stephen Gra-liker. John Welch. William Regan. William Syring.
Reservations—Robert Lonergan, chairman ; Robert Baker, William Waldron. Arthur McGrath. Thomas Halligan.
Tickets—James Danaher and Ed Hickey, cochairmen : Paul Rooney. Bill Waldron, George Schwartz, George Jones.
Sports Quiz
1.	What is the highest rate ever paid for fistic labor?
2.	What noted politician has had ring affiliations for a long time?
3.	From what countries did Primo Car-nera and Godby come?
4.	Where did ice skating originate?
•5. When did women swimmers first enter the Olympics?
6. Approximately when was wrestling a perfected sport?
DANCE
Sponsored by
Fraternal Order of Police St. Joe Valley Lodge No. 36
Palais Royale
MONDAY, APRIL 6
Myron Walz’s Orchestra, and His Entertainers
Dancing 9-12
55c per person (tax paid) Tickets available at 423 Walsh Hall
MAX ADLER “ON THE CORNER” Michigan at Washington
It's Adler's for Arrows!
You'll find a huge selection of authentically styled, long-wearing Arrows at Arrow Headquarters. The snappy patterns for spring are here. See them tomorrow.
own some handsome Arrow Gordon Oxfords
The MEN’S Corner
See the New
ARROW SHIRT ENSEMBLES at
for a thin slice of Dad’s Dole. These oxfords are made of sturdy stuff and won’t shrink for they are Sanforized labeled (fabric shrinkage less than 1%). In your favorite collar model. Get a semester’s supply now!
RmsKsn
^ARROW<
FSH1KTS. and TIES!
MAIN AT COLFAX
26
ECHOING FAME
Don Murphy
While all good Notre Dame fans and alumni, real or synthetic, can ramp and rage for hours about the brilliant athletic careers of the Rocknes, Gipps, Pil-neys, and other famous athletes of past and present, few know what these men are doing now.
Ray Eichenlaub, ’15, has been reputed to be the greatest fullback ever to don a Notre Dame helmet. He won letters in
CL/Jy' JOH^SOH
all four- of his college years; freshmen were eligible for varsity competition in those days. It was Eichenlaub who was the unsung hero of the famous Rockne-Dorais passing attack which beat Army in 1913. The story goes that Ray would barrel through the center for sizeable gains and draw the defense in so that Rockne could scoot out for the passes. When the Army squad would spread for the heaves, our hero would again remind them that he was still a member of the little squad of Hoosiers playing their first big game and playing it well.
Besides his football feats, he took enough interest in track to pick up three letters. While attending N.D. he helped earn his way by working in the kitchen, dining hall, and gym. After trying his hand at architecture, he decided to help Uncle Sam and was a member of the
324th field artillery in the first World War. After the armistice, he returned to his home in Columbus and took up the insurance business. Today he heads a large insurance company in Columbus and is a very prominent figure there. He
Spring Vacation this year is BE-KIND-TO - YOUR -CAR -AND -TIRES-WEEK—in other words, go home by Greyhound. It’s your chance to be kind to your pocketbook, too—you don’t need a course in higher mathematics to figure out you’re way ahead at Greyhound’s low fares. The schedules are convenient —the deep-cushioned seats are as rest-provoking as a dull lecture—and the crowd’s sure to be a lot of fun. Yes, sir, the right start for this vacation is Greyhound!
GREYHOUND LINES. Inc.
133, South Lafayette Blvd., South Bend, Ind. Phone 3-8283
was a Big Ten football official for 20 years. In 1940, he was elected president of the Alumni Association. He has'five children, two of whom have attended Notre Dame.	v
H. Clay Johnson, ’32, distinguished
Round Trip Fares
New York$23.73 St. Louis_____________10.30
Boston  :_____________ 25.85 -
Washington, D. C 19.75
Chicago 2 55
Buffalo _____________12.45,
Pittsburgh 10.90
Detroit 5.95
Philadelphia 20.80
Louisville____________’ 9.30
Toledo 4.50
Duluth 16.40
Cleveland 7.15
Cincinnati____________8.85
Columbus__:___________— .7.95
Kansas City, Mo._______15.75
27
himself just recently when he was appointed special assistant to Emil Schramm, president of the New York stock exchange. Clay won the Hering-Keach prize for the monogram student with the best average while he was winning letters in his junior and senior years with Coach Keogan’s eagers. He received his A.B. degree with a magna cum laude stamped upon it. '
With the start of defense activities he became active in organizing the Rubber Reserve Company a Reconstruction Finance Corporation subsidiary, designed to acquire a reserve stock of crude rubber for defense purposes and was made assistant general counsel in charge of that activity. While doing this work, he was associated with Tom Markey, tennis captain of 1929.
It was just last month that Johnson was called back to Washington to become assistant general counsel for the Rubber Reserve Co. for the duration. He has a leave of absence from the New York Stock exchange.
Johnson’s athletic exploits of the present are restricted to handball and tennis matches with Steve Miller, star fullback of ’35, who is assistant district attorney in Washington. .
Notre Dame Bookstore
the real thing”^
EXQUISITE and thoughtful EASTER GIFTS
Notre Dame Jewelry, from $1.50
compacts chains bracelets ’	'
pins
-cigarette cases	j
cigarette lighters
Also -N. D. Pennants—N. D. Pillows Easter Greeting Cards, from 5c:
JIM O'NEAL
(Continued from page 13)
years ago in Freshman hall. The first day they met, Jess introduced Jim to the brothers of all the famous personages of . Notre Dame history. There was a Layden, Crowley, Miller, Gipp and Ca- ■ rideo to be met. To Jim this was seventh heaven meeting all the relatives of Notre Dame’s greats. He recalls how this went on for a full -week, how he had sent let- . ters home recording all his joy of meeting up with such a famous bunch of fellows, before he suddenly woke up to their real names. It seems the only thing he
taste the
quality of
. BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF
Ice-cold Coca-Cola is refreshing ... refreshing as only Coca-Cola can be. In its frosty bottle dwells the
quality of genuine goodness. And taste... a taste delicious, exciting. Thirst asks nothing more.
Pause
Go refreshed
A
A
“You
You trust its quality
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND • •	_	1107 Beyer Avenue.
missed was buying stock in the Golden Dome. This was probably due to lack of funds.
During his vacations, the St. Louis lad has taken several boat trips in the naval reserve and has gone as far south as Panama. Only for this color blindness Jim would now be in active duty, but instead he has received an honorable discharge from the navy. Thus it seems the only alternative is the ever-menacing entrance into the regular army. But before all this comes about, Jim is determined to make the forthcoming Senior Ball, the classic dance of all time.

TH* COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
28
Commerce Forum Calls Off
Annual Trip To Chicago
Dark gloom floated over the Indiana plains this week. The cold wind blowing into the sails of the bronze-plated schooner atop the Commerce Building told of the sorrow that had come to the ward-heelers of Notre Dame’s College of Commerce. The’sorrow: the Commerce Forum’s annual trip to Chicago has been called off. The reason: Pearl Harbor and the fact that many of the industries which have been on the Forum’s official itinerary are now handling defense orders and aren’t conducting rubber - neck tours for the duration. .
Official Chicago losers to Forum calling cards were the Campbell Soup Co., Sears - Roebuck Co., Col. McCormick’s Chicago Tribune, Kraft Cheese Co., and Proctor and Gamble Co., who have been regular stops on the tour for years. Unofficial losers: Hotel Sherman’s Panther Room, The' Blackhawk and The Brass Rail, however, moaned loudest about losing the patronage of visiting Forumites.
Chief gloom - dispenser, Gail Fitch, head of the organization, wasn’t at all poohed by 'the dolorous wind, as he promised: “Because of the loss of the trip, the Commerce Forum banquet will be better than ever before.”
Sports Quiz Answers
1.	Jack Dempsey received $20,000 per minute for the four minutes in which he made Firpo wish he was somewhere else.
2.	James Farley (Big Jim) was head of the New York Boxing Commission for’ a'time. ,	.
3.	Italy and Chile, respectively.
4.	Ice skating started in Holland.
5.	Women swimmers were in the 1920 Olympics.	. -
6.	Wrestling was a perfected sport about 3000 B.C., if the Egyptian tombs aren’t kidding us.
"We’re backing the]
II
up
99
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 South Michigan Street
DRIVE SAFELY AND SAVE A LIFE
Marching right along with the armed forces of this country are thousands of telephone workers.
They work side hy side with the Army and Navy. Wherever the need is communications, you are likely to find telephone men and their trucks and materials.
Day and night the order is for speed and more speed.
They wear no uniforms, these telephone workers, hut men in uniform know how much they are putting into the Nation’s biggest job. They see it first-hand and they know it is first-rate.
Atten ’shun feet!
Here.’s another swell reason why Battalion Browns are the season’s most wanted show style. This one’s Braebum, a bold and gallant wing tip in bootmaker finish;
$9.50
Walk-Fitted Bostonians
Biology Students Visit South Bend Medical Lab,
Bill Clarke
Last Friday afternoon, March 20, a group of biology students visited the South Bend Medical Laboratory on North Main Street, for their first trip of the year. A group of approximately 75 men made the journey under the leadership of Professors J. D. Mizelle and T. K. Just of the department of biology. The students were guests of Dr. Giordano of the Medical Laboratory.
The group met at the laboratory at 4:30 in the afternoon and left at 5:30. While there, they were shown specimens of various organs in diseased conditions and a film showing the effects of different diseases on the human blood. Since most of the biology students have hopes of someday becoming doctors, the experience proved very interesting and enlightening.
Sullivan Now With Dodgers
Billy Sullivan, only Notre Dame stock in the majors, is beginning to get the reputation of a true “rambler.” After ten years of service in the big time Bill has seen action with five combines and will open with a sixth club when he dons Brooklyn Dodger garb next month.
Comiskey Park in 1931 was the first major-league home-lot of the son of the great major league backstop, William Sullivan, Sr.
After three terms with Chicago Billy was shipped to Milwaukee when he clouted a mere .192 for the White Sox in ’33. Charley Dressen was in dire need of a competent infielder and sent for the Irishman to play with the Cincinnati Beds. A year’s stop was all for Sullivan on the Rhineland so he packed and took the bus to Cleveland. He left the infield and attempted to follow his illustrious father behind the plate. Although he rapped the ball for his best percentage, .351, he was involved in a shrewd deal
that saw the Indians get foui- men in exchange for him after the season had elapsed. He was traded to the- Browns where he stayed for two years before going to Detroit in a trade for George Coffman. And now after Sullivan tried to hold out at the beginning of the present semester Del Baker cracked his whip and sent him to the National League champs, the Dodgers, to have and try to hold.
In the course of his many journeys Sullivan has played first and third bases and also caught. Leo Durocher hopes to have him as a strong support for his mediocre catching corps. Best of luck to you William Sullivan, the wandering Gael.
THE
H U D D LH
A Variety of Pipes — A Variety of Prices—
TAKE YOUR CHOICE
Dr. Grabow _______'.__;—$ 1.50
Yello-Bole Regular_______ 1.00
Yello-Bole Imperial ____ 1.50
Kaywoodie Drinkless ____ 3.50
Kaywoodie Carburetor ___ 4.00
Kaywoodie Super-Gran_____ 5.00
Hollycourt _____________ 3.50
Comoy .................. 6.00
Corncobs..._______10c and 25c
Other Makes, $5.95 to $7.95
130 W. Washington Ave.
FILTERED SMOKING
“cuumu'e-.'

GENUINE FILTERS FDRMEDICa PACKED ONLY IN THIS REO & BLACK DOX
66 Baffle Filter retains flakes-slugs and whirl-cools smoke in Medico pipes, cigarette and cigar holders.
ABSORBENT FILTERS'
&for rlanmA
OO

30
VILLAGER'S EASTER DANCE
The Villagers annual Easter Dance will be held in the Indiana Club, Monday, April 6, from 9 to 12. Larry Kent’s band will be on hand. General chairman of the dance is Nick Pappas. Other committeemen are Don Hoover, tickets; John Schindler, music; and Robert Uhl, publicity. Students who stay on campus during Easter are in-’ vited to attend.
forgetting this easy schedule!"
"IMAGINE," said the
Professor,
"Imagine
ME
A TRAIN EVERY HOUR
South Shore trains leave South Bend 30 minutes past the hour from 7:30 A. M. to 9:30 P. M.
In addition, there are two early morning trains and two late evening trains.
For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office 301 N. Michigan St. Phone 3-3111
TO CHICAGO
9 5
Plus Tax
ONE WAY FROM
SOUTH BEND
Lay Faculty Club Elects
The annual election of officers featured the Lay Faculty Smoker held in St. Joseph’s Parish hall last Thursday evening. Herbert J. Bott, head of the department of Foreign Commerce is the newly elected president of the Club. James A. McCarthy, dean of the College of Commerce, is vice president; and Don J. Plunkett, associate professor of biology, succeeds his brother, Devere Plunkett, as secretary-treasurer. The annual Spring party of the Lay Faculty Club was planned for April 8, at the University.
PRIMARY ELECTIONS
(Continued from page 7) O’Melia, Murray, Warner, and Tierney, who compiled 516 votes. Close on their heels were Jack Finnegan’s gang with 469 favorable counters. The current Dillon-St. Ed’s feud came no closer to settlement by virtue of a five man representation from Dillon while St. Ed’s placed two candidates in the final race. Howard hall also "placed a man in the April 15 finals.
The closeness of these primaries has led election officials to forecast a record turnout to decide the final winners of the four offices next month.
University of Texas has been presented with scripts, model sets, costume designs and other production materials used by MGM in the recent motion picture, “H. M. Pulham, Esq.”
Barracks Brown
goes to town
MANSFIELDS
FAMED FOE. FIT, these Mansfield Rangers weremadefor just your type! Brown quarter brogue oxford, with double sole.
$5.95 to $7.50
Max ADLER
"ON THE CORNER"
Michigan at Washington
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
702 J.M.S. Bldg.	South Bend. Indiana.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA.
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT ORTHODONTIST
314 J.M.S. Building Telephone 4-36O>
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER,	M. J. THORNTON.
M. D.	M.D.
Phone 3-2805	Residence 4-1544.
DR. ARTHUR C. EVERLY FOOT AILMENTS
X-RAY EXAMINATION	609 J. M.S. BUILDING.
HOURS BY APPOINTMENT SOUTH BEND. IND. •
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard a. Rose, d.d.s.
Cyril F. Rose, d.d.s.
Peter J. Rose, d.d.s.
623-629 SHERLAND Bldg.	SOUTH BEND-
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Bldg. Phone 3-2574-3L
^^ver 90,000,000 is Basketball’s yearly attendance... tops for any American sport...and this year marks the celebration of its Golden Jubilee. The game was founded by Dr. James Naismith and had its modest start in 1891 in Springfield, Mass.
Such popularity must be deserved
for Cooler Smoking
That’s what millions of Chesterfield smokers get every time they light up...and that’s why these millions are saying Chesterfield gives me more pleasure than any other cigarette I ever smoked.
Make your next pack Chesterfield and you too will
enjoy everything you want in a cigarette...made to . your taste with the Right Combination of the world’s
best cigarette tobaccos.
.	Every time...
Copyright 1942, Liggett & Mras Tobacco Co.	■