Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVI.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER u, 1882. -
10.
In Memoriam.
KEV. PAUL E. GILLEN, C. S. C.
Farewell, dear friend!
Thy face I’ll ne’er see more;
Thy work well done, thy saintly calling o’er
Could inspiration lend
Its gift of song and art of words sublime, I’d strike the lyre to praise those traits of thine.
For fifty years and more,
The Saviour’s Cross you bore,
Nor sullied His. sweet name to whom, but r yesterday, •	.
Thy gentle spirit had been borne away
On angel wings, to meet its just reward, its glories and its triumphs we see,
The great J udge speaketh: “ My Kingdom, thine, come, share for all eternity.”
John S. D. Daly.
Scholastic Philosophy.
[The following is the substance of the address delivered by Prof. McSweeny, Sc. and Ph. D., before “ The Academy ” on the occasion of its organization. We regret that we are unable to give the address in fullj as the learned Professor spoke without notes. We are obliged, therefore, to content ourselves with this abstract. However, such as it is, we, with many others, have thought it deserving of the prominence of a special article.—Ed. Schol. :]
Gentlemen:	.	.
On the occasion of the institution of this “ Philosophical Academy of St. Thomas” I see no more suitable subject to speak upon than Scholastic Philosophy.	.
Now, what is Scholastic Philosophy? It is simply true Christian Philosophy; it is the philosophical lore of all the great men that ever lived; it is the collection of all the principles that were great and grand in the ancient world, as augmented and refined by the light of Christianity; it is the philosophy of the seven wise men of Greece, combined with that of the seventy-seven— aye, of the seven hundred and seventy-seven wise men of Christianity; it is the learned work of a Plato, increased and ennobled by the genius of an Augustine; it. is that of an Aristotle, still sub
limated bv the angelic intellect of a Thomas Aqumas. In short, it is the acme of human intelligence, the epitome of the world’s highest lore.
It is calleci Scholastic Philosophy because it was the philosophy taught in the schools founded by ' Charlemagne throughout his entire realm, when he brought monks from Rome, and from the Island of Saints and scholars, to teach the men of France. But Scholastic Philosophy existed long before the days of Charlemagne—if not as a combined system, at least as Christian principles. For, in the first century it dispersed an entire army of Cerinthians, and pierced through the heart their would-be world-creating demons; it then scattered to the winds of heaven all hopes of a future millennium. Afterwards, it defended the Godhead of Jesus against the Ebionites; it showed the superiority of Christian Theology to pagan philosophy against the Epicurean Celsus; it probed the wound of Emanation, and stopped that putrid Gnosticism which flowed from Simon Magus down to the last of the Manichaeans; it proved to the Romans that Pantheism was Atheism, and that the Pantheon, the church of all the gods, should be transformed into a church of the God of all; it defended the Divinity of the self-sufficient, miracleworking Jesus against proud Arius, invidious of higher honors. It assisted in showing to the Nes-torians the personal unity of the human and the divine nature in Jesus, and consequently proved that the Blessed Virgin Mary was the Mother, not of a man, but of a God-Man.
It pointed out to the Pelagian rationalists the deep, infinite abyss which exists between the natural and supernatural orders; between man’s natural abilities and God’s superadded grace. It terrified Mahomet so much that he made his followers swear that they -would never dispute against Christian giaours. In short, Christian Philosophy, the preamble of Faith, entered the arena for the defence of Christianity and fought heroically, to victory, on a thousand battle-fields. Its argumentative persuasion accompanied an Austin into England, and, hand-in-hand with God’s grace, it followed a Patrick on the green plains of Erin. No wonder, then, that this Scholastic Philosophy reigned victorious for the first fifteen centuries of Christianity, and reigns victoriously still, notwithstanding the fierce assaults of some modern defenders of ancient paganism. .
For, at the renaissance of letters after the fall
146
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
of Constantinople, the Greeks entered the schools of Europe and introduced the pantheistic, platonic, neo-platonic, sophistic, rationalistic and materialistic errors of ancient paganism, which our proud aesthetes of to-day call by the glowing title of renaissance des belles lettres^ and the “ perfection of modern thought;” yes, of that thought which disowns God in His universe. Better, indeed, for modern thought that these old pagan errors, these putridities had not been exhumed, that this iscar-iotic renaissance had never been born.
For my part, I shall ever prefer old and well-established truths to modern errors, however decorated these may be with a multiplicity of enigmatic terms and half-learned sophistry. Hence, I prefer the Scholastic system to any other, for several reasons: xst, because its cosmogony is not opposed to geology nor to the gradual development and decay of minerals, vegetables and animals before the creation of man on the sixth day—or rather, sixth epoch of creation; for we cannot be particular about the earth’s age, since, before the creation of the sun and moon, during the 4th epoch, there was no day. Hence our paleontologists have full scope; they may explain the various fossil remains down to the very, primary stratum, whether by the ordinary method of gradual accumulation, or by the direct and indirect results of cataclystical mutations. 2dly, I like it because its psychology is not opposed to the physiology and anatomy of man, whose various parts, under the influence of the soul, form one nature, as is evident from the mutual lelations of the osseous, muscular, sanguineous, nervous, digestive, and respiratory systems blending into one and forming the body, that living instrument of the soul. But the body in man is more than a mere instrument; it unites with the soul, which is the life-giving, intelligent and substantial principle, in short, the forma sub-stantialis of the “ material ” body. 3dly, I like Scholastic Philosophy because that system alone is in conformity with the science of chemistry; that alone explains,'philosophically^ the difference between a chemical mixture and a chemical compound; that alone explains the substantial change which occurs in the primitive elements when I mix HO2, hydrogen and oxygen, two highly-inflam-mable gases, which, after the electric spark, wonderfully produce, not fire and light, but water, differing much from its inflammable constituent elements. 4thly, I like that system because it alone - explains the constituent principles of primitive atoms. For, common effects must have common causes; hence extension and materiality, common to all atoms, must have a common principle in all atoms. This principle is called materia prima. Also different effects, the 65 different chemical atoms, must have different causes, different determining principles, called forma substantiates ; hence, each atom is composed of “matter” and “form,” as man is composed of body and soul. 5^4yj I love the Scholastic system because my learned, eminent, and much-revered lecturers in the Eternal City, Cardinal Zigbari, Profs. Satolli and Liberatore defended it with honor.
In the Scholastic Philosophy, reason is not opposed to faith, but rather guided thereby. Man’s finite knowledge is not therein opposed to the Omniscience of God. Man himself is considered as one substance, composed of matter arid spirit. Ideas have their objective reality. But, since the days of Cartesius, when even the revealed word of God was subjected to the approbation of man, when objective existence was taken from ideas and not ideas from objects, when man was divided into two phenomenical parts,—namely, thought and extension,—since then, I say, modern thought has run riot. For on one side we find Locke and Condillac with their materialistic followers in England, France and America, building up another Babel, trying to place matter on the throne of God and to expel God and Spirit from Heaven and the Universe. On the other side we find the transcendentalists of Germany trying to create their own God; for God with them is an abstraction, an idea without object or subject, a mere void, an airy nothing. Thus has terminated the omniscient reason of modern rationalists and French revolutionists who placed the Goddess of Reason on the altar of Notre Dame. One sect has ended by placing matter and the very mud of earth on the throne of Heaven, the other, Fichtean Sectarians, have styled themselves so many gods, and blasphemously tried to transform the true God. into nothing’. This is the result of so-called rea-son without faith, of Philosophy without revelation. This is modern thought, but erratic thought.
By these modern errors I am reminded of the Chinese Tao of Lao-Tseu, of the errors of the seven Indian Schools, and of those of the Major and Minor Schools of Greece. But here, owing to the advanced hour, I cannot delay on the aberrations of Ancient Philosophy since it lost sight of the revelation of God to Adam and to the Prophets, for, as Bossuet says, Ils ont adore toutes choses comme Dieu execute Dicu lui meme.
For the present, let me conclude by recommending to you the profound study of Philosophy, which is nowhere more erudite or rnethodical than in the great summa of St. Thomas, of whom the adage is, Tot miracula fecisse quot articulos scrip-sisse, and whose works are specially recommended, as well by Protestants as by Catholics, as well by Leibnitz as by our own present Pope Leo XIII, who may justly be styled the greatest philosopher of this nineteenth century.
Finally, let me place before you the words of Bacon: Philosophia obiter libata a Deo abducf penitus hausta reducit ad eundem^ which may be translated—
“ A .little learning is a dangerous thing;
Drink deep, or taste not of the Piaerean spring.”
Half-learned men may be atheists; but truly learned men, never!

Adhere rightly and unhesitatingly to truth, but, while you express what is true, express it in a pleasant manner. Truth is the picture, the manner is the frame that displays it to advantage.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
*47
The Hanging Gardens of Babylon.
We live in an age of incredulity; what cannot be seen, heard, or taken into the hands and examined, is set aside as unworthy of notice. Especiallyris this so of historical truths, and in particular of those facts related by the ancient authors. Remote periods are now looked upon by many persons as being fabulous and doubtful. Homer, Romulus and Scmiramis are classed among the mythical personages. If we did not have a standing memorial to the contrary, even the Egyptian Pyramids themselves would be classed among the things that had no existence outside the workings of some fer* e	o
tile imagination.
But we must accept something as fact outside of our own knowledge; therefore, when many historians relate events or facts as occurring within a short time of their writings, and denied by none, we should accept them as true. Now, the existence of the Hanging Gardens of Babylon is such a fact, and we have no solid foundation to doubt they did actually exist. They were one of the great works that made Babylon so famous; and by these we see, and cannot help but admire, the wisdom and learning of the Chaldeans. They show the advancement made by the Babylonians in architecture, and were of such beauty and magnitude as to be classed by some among the seven wonders of the world.
The city of Babylon was situated on both banks of the Euphrates, in Babylonia or Chaldea. Within the city, and situated on the right bank of the river, was the palace of Nebuchodonosor II. It was surrounded by three walls of great height; the outer wall, built of burnt brick, was nearly 8 miles, or 60 stadia, in circumference; the second wall, faced with enamelled brick, was 40 stadia, about 24,240 ft.; the inmost wall, faced with enamelled brick, each forming a part of a representation of a man on horseback spearing a lion, and a woman spearing a leopard, was twenty stadia (12,120 ft.) in circumference. Within this enclosure were situated the Hanging Gardens, which, it is said, owed their construction to a woman’s whim, the wife of the king, who had them built to please her* and distract her thoughts from her native country.
The gardens were about 400 ft. square and were built on a level with the city wall, which was about two hundred feet high; they were supported by means of several tiers of open arches built one upon the other, these being surrounded by a wall of great' strength. On the top arches were placed immense stones; sixteen feet long and four feet wide, for the purpose of supporting the great amount of earth to be placed upon them. To prevent water or moisture from penetrating into the wall and thereby gradually destroying the building, they covered the stones with a layer of reeds, mixed with bitumen, then two layers of burnt brick, cemented with gypsum, and over this great sheets of lead. A great amount of earth was then so placed upon this floor as to imitate a mountain, in which trees of the greatest size
were planted, as well as shrubs and flowers. Among them were the Oriental planes. Lebanon cedar, poplar, ash, terebinth, elm, tamarisk, cypress, ilex, and sumac; also fruit trees, as plum, almond, olive, peach, lemon, orange, nectarine date-palm, apricot, jujube, pistachio-nut, fig, and pomegranate. Flowers of a thousand dazzling hues were artistically arranged in various parts of the gardens. At a distance, it is said, these gardens looked like an immense pyramid.
Between the arches which supported this mass were elegant, cool rooms, the walls of which were ornamented in a manner worthy of their founder; here were represented, by paintings and reliefs, scenes as they actually occurred; great battles, royal hunts, gardens, fields, lakes, ponds, lions, stags, birds and fish, etc.
[jBesides these rooms there was one which contained the machinery by which the waterwas forced from the river up to the garden for purposes of irrigation, as also to keep the fountains supplied.
Seats were scattered through the garden for the convenience § of the royal inmates when they wished to enjoy the cool air and beautiful surroundings. Seated in this magnificent garden, between heaven and earth, surrounded bn every side by a rich, luxuriant growth of trees, flowers exhaling their sweet perfumes, fountains casting forth jets of water, which fall glittering in the sunshine, like innumerable diamonds as the soft air, heavily-laden with the scent of flowers fanned the cheek, one might imagine he was in Paradise.
But this gorgeous work of man soon vanished by the destroyer’s hand, thus exemplifying that— “ In human works, though labored on with pain,
A thousand movements scarce one purpose gain, In God’s, one single can its end produce.”
D. C. S.
Art, Music, and Literature.
_____Canon Liddon has undertaken to write a biography of the late eminent English churchman, Dr. Pusey.	-
_____Upwards of $50,000 has been subscribed towards the cost of providing the city of Aberdeen with a Museum and Art Gallery.
_____It is announced that Liszt has w’ritten a new Mass, which is to be performed at the end of this month at the Royal Chapel of Vienna.
_____Parkman’s “Jesuits in North America in the Seventeenth Century” was translated into French by the Countess de Clermont-Tonerre just before her death.
—Mr. Tennyson’s new play is called ct The Promise of May,” and is a pathetic drama of rustic life, in three acts. The dialogue is written throughout in prose.
_____The Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts is said to own the finest collection of costumes in the United States. The objects may be painted from at the museum, but are not lent.	‘
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
—The French artist, Bonnat, is at work on a large picture of “ The Martyrdom of St. Denis,” destined for the Pantheon. This work, which has been ordered by the State at the price of $4,000, will figure in the salon of 1883.
—The celebrated Oriental scholar, Father Bol-lig, S. J., is now in London and hard at work at the British Museum, having been employed by the Sacred Congregation of the Propaganda on a new edition of the works of St. Ephrem and of the liturgical collection of Assemani.
—The celebrated French glass painter, M. Nicholas Lorin, died recently at Chartres, his native town. M. Lorin executed some of the finest . painted glass in the cathedrals of New York, Canterbury and Brussels; while, in France, specimens of his art may be seen at Chartres, Bourges, Paris, St. Denise, Troyes, Dijon, and many other places.
—The monument erected by the town of Catania to Bellini is to be inaugurated on the 27th inst.. The composer is represented at the piano, holding in his left hand a roll of music, and striking a chord with his right. On the faces of the pedestal are four figures taken from Bellini’s most popular operas, “ Norma,” “ La Sonnambula,” “ I Puritani,” and “ Il Pirata.”
—The December number of the North American Review is to contain two symposiums, one on the Health of American Women, by Dr. James R. Chadwick, Mrs. Elizabeth Cadj- Stanton, and Dr. Dio Lewis; and the other on Success on the Stage, by John McCullough, Madame Modjeska, Joseph Jefferson, Lawrence Barrett, Maggie Mitchell, and William Warren.
—A curious proof of the prevalence of the English language throughout the globe is afforded by a statement in the “ Newspaper and Bank Directory of the World,” that out of 34,274, newspapers and periodicals which were published in 1880, no fewer than 16,500' were printed in our own tongue. Nearly half the remainder were in German, a quarter in French, and a greater bulk of the rest in Spanish. Daily papers numbered 4,020, and the gross circulation of the whole periodical press is estimated at 10,592,000.	.
—Apropos to the question of substituting Roman characters for the German letters, it is said that Bismarck is entirely opposed to it. He says that he can read in German characters in one hour what it. takes him eighty minutes to read in Roman type, and gives a reason therefor: “ The educated reader does not see letter signs but word signs. To him a German word in Latin letters is as strange a phenomenon as a Greek word in German characters would be to you, and compels one to read more slowly, just as does the arbitrary and mutilated mode of spelling lately introduced-among us.” This reason is very true, but it. certainly does not apply in the instruction of German children. .
—Dr. John C.- H. Dielmari, Director of Music at Mount St. Mary’s "College, Emmittsburg, Md., who. died last month at the age of seventy-two,
was the first man to receive in this country the degree of Musical Doctor. It was bestowed
o	o
upon him by Georgetown University, and the diploma was presented to him by President Zachary Taylor. He had, at the time of his death, been at his post in Mount St. Mary’s for more than thirty-nine years. He was a cousin of the well-known Dielmans, of Frankfort-on-thc-Main —Jacob, the landscape painter-, of the Dusseldorf school, Francis, lately deceased, inventor of colored lithographic printing, and Jean, the sculptor, who executed the magnificent bronze statue of Schiller erected in Frankfort, a few years ago.
—A. discussion having arisen between two subjects of Kaiser Wilhelm, about Prince Bismarck being or not being the pivot round which the whole Government, that is the present ministry, revolves, the matter was’ placed beyond doubt by the following typographical feat:
Names of the present ministers:—
Fred. Berg. Lucius.
De StoSch.
De KaMeke.
MAyoach.
De GossleB.
SCholz.
De PuttKamer.
—Indo-Europeau Correspondence.
—“Frescoing,” as practised here, is merely coloring dry vails. Frescoing proper, however, is painting on and in the fresh mortar, in such a manner that neithei' time nor weather will affect it. This is an art understood by few, and seldom practised in this country. Prof. Gregori, who has devoted himself to the ornamentation of Notre Dame University, has made several true frescoes inside, and will make others outside. The Chicago Tribune says of his work: “When their grand scheme of embellishment shall have been fully executed, Notre Dame, as an art repository, will be well worth a pilgrimage from all parts of the American Continent.”—Ypsilanti Sentinel.
Two out-of-door frescoes were painted several years ago—we don’t know how many—on the church front, and to-day they look as fresh as if they had just been painted. They represent, the one St. Peter, the other St. Paul. Another, representing St. Joseph, may be seen at the Novitiate, and preparations have been made for another which is to adorn the front of the Minims’ Hall.
— There is, says the Leeds Mercury, a very good story told about Madame Modjeska. It is so good, indeed, that we hope it will not be spoiled by being contradicted. Madame Modjeska, like other celebrities, is a welcome guest in many London drawing-rooms, and her hosts are only too delighted to show her off—to “exhibit” her, in fact. The other day, it is said, she was importuned to declaim something in her native-language. None of the guests, it was pleaded, knew Polish. She at first declined, but ultimately yielded, and gave a recitation which called forth the plaudits of her hearers. It was left to the imagination of the listeners to realize the incident which Madame Mod-jeska’s eloquence and dramatic action had suggested.-:' The recollection of . the recital would have been long remembered if it had not been that on leaving the presence'of the distinguished actress
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
149
two of her most intimate friends who knew Polish were found indulging in somewhat boisterous mirth at what had just taken place, and it was then divulged that Madame’s recitation, so loudly applauded, consisted of the ordinal numbers from i to 100. After all, no one but a genuine artist could have given to such a subject even the semblance of dramatic interest.
Books and Periodicals.
—67. Nicholas for November begins the new volume in splendid style with a colored frontispiece, by ft. B. Birch, entitled “ Indian Summer.” This is an entirely new departure that will be heartily welcomed. Another prominent feature is the first installment of J. T. Trowbridge?s new serial “The Tinkham Brothers’ Tide-Mill,” which is a live American story about live American boys and girls. Then there is the beginning of another _____________________________ o o
serial, by another favorite, Frank R. Stockton. He writes of boy and girl life in the thirteenth century, and while the story is true to life, it is as fascinating as his charming fairy tales. But the November number is also the Thanksgiving number, and so Miss Sophie Swett has contributed a jolly story called “ All the Plums.” “ Old Mordecai’s Cockerel ” is anothei* amusing Thanksgiving tale, and there is a daintly illustrated “ Grace for a Child ” from Herrick. Miss Eva L. Ogden has written, and Mr. Alfred Brennan has illustrated, a quaint and beautiful poem, covering eight pages, entitled “The Quest,” founded on little Bo-peep’s sheeps’ search for their long lost tails. The pranks and doings of “Tad” Lincoln, the late President’s youngest son, are very entertainingly treated by Noah Brooks, who was President Lincoln’s private, secretary. “The False Sir Santa Claus,” a beautiful and novel form of Christmas entertainment, by the author of “ The Land of Nod,” is printed in this number, with music and complete stage-directions, in ample time for it to be effectively produced in the holiday season; and many other clever poems and bright stories, which we have not space to notice.	_
—As the first number of a new volume, the November Century gives promise of even increased excellence for the magazine during its second year under the new name. Pictorially the November number shows that the Century is as ambitious as ever for the reputation of American wood-engraving, as witness the frontispiece portrait of Florence Nightingale and the full-page portrait of Henry James, Jr., both by Cole; Elbridge Kingsley’s beautiful full-page engraving, direct from nature, of a view in New England woods (accompanying which is a description by the engraver, of his manner of working); the full-page production, by Kruell, of an ideal bronze head which is one of the costly art-treasures of the British Museum; Mary Hallock Foote’s refined and charming illustrations, engraved by Miss Powell and by Cole;
and the many other pictures by well-known artists, some of which have a special interest, as the exponents of a new process of art production. Though the art side of the November Century is so conspicuous, the contents offer striking proof of a tendency to make the literary side of the magazine paramount and of the greatest possible excellence and importance, in travel, biography, fiction, poetry, criticism, and in the discussion of the foremost public questions. The literary articles are, “Venice,” by Henry James, Jr.; “Victor Hugo,” by Alphonse Daudet; “ England,” by C. Dudley-Warner; “A New Profession for Women,” by Franklin H. North; “ The Beginning, of a Nation,” by Edward Eggleston. The poems of the ; number are by Thomas Wentworth Higginson, H. H., James T. McKay, George Edgar Montgomery, Edward N. Pomeroy, and Richard Watson Gilder, not to forget some hitherto unpublished verses by Robert Browning and Henry W. Longfellow, which are reproduced in autograph from a child’s album in bric-a-brac, which contains also a clever satire on Mr. Walt Whitman and Mf. Oscar Wilde, by Helen Gray Cone. The more serious editorial departments treat a great variety of topics.-In the publisher’s department is an account of the “ Century’s New Home,” with drawings of the comfortable and spacious rooms in which the magazines are housed.	.
—The American Catholic (Quarterly Review for October contains many well-written articles. There are four especially, any one of which would be sufficient to make up for all- the others, if defective; but defects are not likely to creep into the pages of the Review. This number opens with . an article entitled “ Origin of Civil Authority,” by Rev. J. Ming, S. J., which is an able exposition of a very important question. The origin, necessity and nature of civil authority are examined, and the salutary effects are pointed out, which authority, derived from God, must produce upon society. The author shows clearly that Macchiavelli con-, ferred no benefit on society by his work, Il Principe, in which he would emancipate the State, not only from religion, but also from God. The Apos-tie of the Gentiles says: Non est enim -potestas ntsi a Deo, “ There is no power but from God”; some of our modern thinkers pretend to know better. “ Cardinal Newman as a Man of Letters,” by J. C. Earle, of Oxford, is a very interesting paper. The productions of the Cardinal are treated systematically, special attention being paid to the poems and novels; of the former, a critic in the Pall Mall Gazette, forty years ago, said that they were the poetry of a beautiful soul. “ Caesare Cantu and the Neo-Guelphs of Italy,” by Rev. Bernard O’Reilly, LL.D., is the biography of a man whose writings and labors during half a century, in the cause of his country, have earned for him a* well-deserved popularity. The life of this man is a living refutation of those who pretend that one cannot be a practical Catholic and, at the same time, a true patriot; no man could be a more ardent lover of his country, nor yearn more unceasingly , for her
i5o	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
liberation from foreign rule, than the subject of this sketch. Of secret societies he had a horror, and would never become an instrument in the hands of a superior unknown to him, even were it to accomplish a high and patriotic design. _ “ The Attitude of Society towards Religion,” the. production of an Oxford graduate, A. F. Marshall, B. A., is an essay we read with much pleasure. The writei* shows that it is to the selfishness and hypocrisy of the grandees, we may justly attribute the present hostile attitude of European mobdocracy towards religion. The remaining articles are: “American Freethinking”; “Superior Instruction in our Colleges”; “Labor Discontent”; “The Coming Transit of Venus”; “England’s Latest Conquest ”; “ Irish Crime and its Causes ”; “ Book Notices.”	'
College Gossip.
. —The Cornell freshmen recently voted $25 to their class nine.
—Amherst’s new library building, is intended to accommodate 230,000 volumes.
—The Freshman class of Harvard has thirty men training for the football eleven, o
—From $20,000 to $25,000 has been subscribed
•for Yale’s new athletic grounds.—Ex.
—Yale still holds the college baseball championship,'with Princeton second, and Harvard third.
—There are twenty graduates of Harvard on the staff of the New York Sun.—Harvard Herald.
—The Harvard Club, of San Francisco, has given to its Alma'.Mater two thousand dollars to found a scholarship.—Blackburnian.
—Since 1848, when Dr. McCosh became its ’ president, Princeton College has received $2,500,000 in donations of various kinds.—Ex.
\	• —Princeton College is to have an Art depart:	ment, and Mr. Prime has promised to give the
college his collection of pottery and porcelain.
1	—Ex-Governor Hardin, of Missouri, has given
i	$19,000 to Hardin College of that State to be ex-
\	■ pended in erecting a wing to the college building.
•	—Concordiensis.	■
•	—On account of the studying done on Sunday,
:	the Vassar Faculty are thinking of changing the
girls’holiday from Saturday to Monday. TheJ/Zr-
:	cellany objects strongly.—Ex. '
—In the more progressive West, Short-Hand ;	has just received a merited recognition by being
•	made a study in the State University of Iowa.
:	—Publishers1 Gazette, Philadelphia.
i	■ —By the will of Hannah Richardson, of Phila-
delphia, $100,000 is given to charitable and edu-
;	cational purposes, $30,000 to the Women’s Medi-
j	cal , College, and $15,000 to the Women’s Hos-
|	pital.—Ex.	:
|	—Edward Clark, President of .the Singer Sew-;
|	irig Machine Co., and one of the trustees of Wil-
" liams College, left the college a legacy of $400,-
000. He was also the founder of Clark Hall, a the college.
—A chime of five bells from the Van Nerschot foundry of Loraine, Belgium, is to be placed on the chapel of Yale.— Concordiensis. If the number be correctly reported, the Notre Dame chime is 27 bells ahead of Yale’s.	. '
—Mr. Halloway, an Englishman, has given $2,000,000 to endow an institution for the higher education of women.—Harvard Herald.
This is a departure in the right direction. We hope the example will find many followers.
—School libraries are greatly on the increase in France. In 1865 the number was only 4,833, and in 1874, 16,648. There are now 25,913. This does not include the teachers’ libraries, which number 2,348, with an aggregate of five hundred thousand volumes.
—Dr. McCosh, in a recent letter on the question of societies in Princeton says, that although at first the Faculty were not unanimous in the suppression of secret, and the establishment of open societies, yet at present they are a unit. This is also true, he says, not only of the parents but of the Alumni and a large majority of the students. — Concordiensis.
—Great efforts are being made to raise the $50,000 necessary to complete the fund for the Mac-alester College, to be built between Minneapolis and St. Paul. It will be under the care of the Synod of Minnesota, and about $85,000 has already been raised.— Cornell Daily Sun.
—The Jury in the Bowdoin College hazing case,-tried at Portland, Me., having returned a verdict of $2,500 for the plaintiff, the defendants take exceptions.—Harvard Herald.
With such a bill of damages staring them in the o	o
face, one would suppose the advocates of college rowdyism, alias “ college spirit,” would settle down, and become decent members of society.
—A communication from the President of Harvard University was referred to, wherein it is advised that some steps be taken for stopping the excess of athletic sports and contests. During the summer, through the munificence of some friends of the college, an art school has been placed on a sure foundation, and Mr. Allan Marquand, of New York, a recent graduate of the College, has been invited to assume its charge.—Home Journal.
—Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes has tendered his resignation as Parkman Professor of Anatomy in the Medical School of Harvard University. At the request of the officers of the Board of Government it will be permitted to remain in abeyance until satisfactory arrangements can zibe . made for permanently filling the Ajacancy, and for the present the doctor will continue with his .lectures to the first class of the school, which is the only one that comes under his. department of instruction. His retirement is not enforced by ill health or the inaptitude sometimes incident to increasing years, but is induced by; his desire to give attention hereafter .more particularly to literary, pursuits. Dr. Holmes has held, the position for more than thirty years.—-Harvard Daily Herald.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	-151
Exchanges.
—Nearly all our old friends of the College press, and many new ones, have visited us this year. Among those that are missing are our old “ Hammer-and-Tongs” friend,— The Brunonian, ।	the Williams Athenceum, the Amherst Student,
|	and The Argo. The last to come are The Vassar
)5 Miscellany, Concordiensis, The Georgetown Col-|	lege Journal, the Coup d'Etat, and Hesperian
Student. Among the new-comers are The North-(	western, The Blackburnian, the Hamilton Col-
lege Monthly, Adelphian, and College Speculum.
—The Illustrated Catholic American, now nearing its seventh year of existence, continues to hold its own in the race of weekly pictorial papers. The number before us—Nov. 11—has five full pages of illustrations, handsomely printed, as usual. Besides editorial, Bric-a-brac, “Fractional »	Currency,” Memorabilia, Boys’ Amusements, etc.,
»	there are two serial stories. The Illustrated Cath-
olic American is no doubt ’ a welcome weekly visitor in thousands of homes, but to be properly 1	appreciated it must be seen in bound volumes.
Price of subscription, $3 a year. Address, 11 Barclay street, New York.
—The Era publishes a timely sketch of “Journalism at Cornell.” The Review—a quarterly, still published—and the Times, newspaper, defunct—were the first literary ventures; then came k	the Cornell Cadet, the title of which was after-
wards changed to the Era. The Aurora Bra.	zileira, conducted by Brazilian students, was a semi-
monthly, and had but a short life; the wave of Brazilian students receded, and with them disappeared the paper. The Cocagne, an illustrated monthly, lived but one year. The Daily Sun was started as a private enterprise in 1880, • but in the following year was given over to the students, who have since had exclusive control of it. The Cornell Review is now a monthly magazine.
—The neat little College Journal, from Milton, Wis., is again with us. Milton rejoices, like most of our sister colleges, in an increased number of students. An additional cause of rejoicing at Milton is the return of its President, W. C. Whitford, who for five years has been Superintendent of ' Public Instruction in Wisconsin, a position that he has held with signal ability, we believe. One of the editorials of the current issue of the Journal is remarkable for the refined, feminine delicacy with which homely truths and sage advice is presented. The College Journal editorials have always evinced good taste, and scholarship of no mean order. The articles on “ American Politics ”
• and “The Mystery of a Tone” are well-written; the exchange department is unexceptionable. *
—The ■ Monmouth College Courier is a neatly arranged and handsomely printed paper; among a ■ pile of exchanges the matter, too, would pass muster, as being not below the average of literary productions in other papers. Whatever excellence
the Courier possesses as a whole, however, is not a little marred by the manner in. whicK the exchange editor allows himself to forget gentlemanly principles and show a somewhat soured temper to various of his contemporary college . editors. The snarling tone of his remarks about -the Scholastic, in particular, must have been noticed by everybody; for or. against, he could never allude to it with the ordinary courtesy'’of-a gentleman. He assumes a similar discourteous manner in his allusions to the Vidette-Reporter _ and to Oberlin, in the last issue of his paper. It has been said that no man is a gentleman to his valet, and that you cannot know a man until you live with him. Such close contact is not neces- . sary in the case of the Monmouth gentleman. A man’s character will often betray itself under ordinary circumstances, and one point in that of the editor of the Courier is plainly evident. Besides, he does not attempt to' disguise his ill nature. Alluding to the objection of a subscriber to the Vidette-Reporter, he says:“ That man ought to do several things. He ought to have more , sympathy with the Vidette, which has hardly recovered from the fatigue occasioned by its last year’s ‘tussle’ with the Faculty of Notre Dame. He ought to go to Oberlin, where he would always get into his little bed by ten o’clock, or be /
. invited to make the faculty a visit. He ought to have more sense.” So ought the Courier man. Allowing the truth of his premise that the VidetteReporter was able to engage in a “tussle” with 11 the Faculty” of Notre Dame it was to the VidetteReporter's credit, even, if it did get worsted, which we do not undertake to determine; what we do . know, and have not the least hesitation in. asserting, is, that at one time the Courier engaged.in a five months’ “ tussle ” with the Scholastic and was badly beaten by one who was not a member of. . the Faculty at Notre Dame, and that, after a lapse of a year or more, the Courier man seems to have “hardly recovered from the fatigue” of ' that \ “ tussle.” If a man is beaten, honestly beaten, in . a discussion in which he has done his best, it is no discredit to him; and even when he betrays'ill temper in the heat of discussion, as the Courier man certainly did toward the close of. that one, it may be pardoned, but this continued manifestation of sourness and ill-will can hardly be excused. A person with a morose temper should not go into society to inflict his idiosyncrasies upon those ‘ whom he meets there; he should either, make up his mind to deport himself as a gentleman or. absent himself altogether. We have borne with . the Courier, man’s. peculiar . idiosyncrasy so far; -but the sneaking insinuation in his last number is -a little too much. The peculiar relations of the Faculty to the Scholastic were stated very clearly a year or two ago, and we do not think it . necessary to go over them again to satisfy the curiosity of every new Tom, Dick and Harry that is inducted into college editorial boards; less still for those who, through envy or for some other motive, would detract from the credit of our contributors.	.	.
*52
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
WK UWE SCUD WK
Notre Dame, November 11, 1882.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Sixteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DANE SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, .S/.^o fer Annum. Postpaid. r
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber .fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
—We are pleased to announce that a special class of Vocal Music has been begun under the direction of Brother Anselm. It is taught on three days in the week, from 5.30. to 6.30 p. m. The only conditions for admission are, an ordinary voice and good conduct. We know that there are many good voices among the students, arid'not a few more than ordinarily good. The organization of this class affords these an excellent opportunity to cultivate a talent which cannot but prove useful and agreeable to them. At the same time, the members of the class,'while deriving personal advantages, have it within their power to make their temporary home here at Notre Dame still more attractive to' themselves and their fellow-students.
above all others is intemperance; because it makes us forget our obligations to God, to society, and to ourselves. He gave several illustrations of the
O	.	-
evils resulting from intemperance, showing how young men are led along, step by step, from an occasional glass to over-indulgence, and its consequent record of shame and degradation. A young man’s only hope of salvation was to start out with the firm resolution to be ix'man undci all circumstances, and to avail himself of the means of self-security—total abstinence, if necessary; and it was always sure, and often necessary. The truth of this is evident in the fact that among so many who start out distinguished for ability, and with good resolutions, so few come to the top. You can lead a horse to water, but you cannot make him drink; but you cannot lead a person into temptation with the same result. People may drink without going to excess, but it is a dangerous experiment, and in this connection he blamed parents for makins' their children familiar with the bland-ishments of the wine-cup. Therefore, even though total abstinence in sc is in no sense obligatory or a virtue, yet, in view of the great evils wrought in society at the present day by intemperance, and inasmuch as they—the youth of the country—were now fitting themselves to form part and parcel of the society of the future, they owed it, as a duty to their fellow-men, to make the sacrifice and become total abstainers; and the sacrifice thus made became a virtue. And, after all, it was but little they sacrificed: an irritant poison, as all experienced chemists pronounced- alcohol to be. The Rev. lecturer then, by allusion to its various effects, demonstrated the poisonous nature of alcohol, which, therefore, like other poisons, should be subject to the direction of an experienced physician. It might be, perhaps, that social customs would oppose them in their efforts to remain total abstainers. But such customs depend for their existence upon the encouragement which they receive from the youth of the present day. It remained only for them to assert their manhood and self-respect, to prove themselves before the world true men, men acting according to the dictates of their Godgiven reason and not following their animal appetites. The impression that people who take the pledge betray weakness, is a false one. It shows true strength of character—it shows that they are masters of their own actions, and mean to conquer their passions ere it is too late.
The. lecturer was listened to with great attention, and the frequent happy hits were loudly applauded. At the close of the lecture, 93 names were enrolled on.'the Total Abstinence list.
—On Tuesday evening we were favored with an eloquent discourse on temperance, in the Rotunda, by the Rev. Frederick Wiechman, of Warsaw,.Ind., whose fame as a lecturer on Total Abstinence is already widespread. ..The lecturer truly said that the one particular sin which stands
—A letter lately written to The Monitor, of San Francisco, sets forth a fact which, though regrettable indeed, yet deserves all the publicity it can possibly receive. It is a truth which goes without the saying, that our colleges, especially Catholic colleges, are sufferers from bad;debts; and nowhere is this truth more applicable and morekeenly
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

felt than here at Notre Dame. We are informed that the aggregate of what is owing to our Uni-versity here amounts to more than $80,000! If all this were paid in, -with interestfor twenty years or more, how soon would all needed improvements be here effected. How soon would the grand Dome appear upon our main building ; how soon would our western wing be added: how soon would our Science Hall be erected! In one word, Notre Dame would no longer be as it now is, in-complete, but, as befits its title of University, the various buildings for its different departments would appear throughout its ample grounds. Does not this give an idea of what Notre Dame might be, did she but receive her own? We might here say, also, that a few weeks after the great calamity of the 23d of April, 1879, when more than one half of Notre Dame was in ashes, Father Sorin, the Founder of the Institution, who knew best how many school-bills had for vears remained unpaid, deemed it his duty to call upon his former pupils for the payment of these outstanding _ debts. The call was made, and in return came the munificent sum of $15! But the letter which we have taken from The Monitor expresses this truth better than any words of ours.
Editor of the Monitor :
•Dear Sir :—A few days ago, an old pupil of an institution well known to us visited his Alma Mater which he had not seen for twenty years. He recalled to the Superior that some disagreeable circumstances had prevented him from paying, at his departure from college, a balance remaining on his school bill. Giving the Superior his address, he begged him to be kind enough to forward him the bill, adding the interest for twenty years, which he would pay immediately. This gentleman is at present connected with a large commercial house in New York.
Here is a model debtor, whom it would be well to meet often, and by whose honesty our colleges and convents would find themselves greatly benefitted. Among all the institutions having business with the public, those which have the most to' suffer from bad debts are perhaps Catholic educational institutions. People persuade themselves too easily that the debts contracted towards a college or a convent are nothing, and they always suppose these institutions to be sufficiently above their business to be able to support, without difficulty, these breaks in their finances. Besides the exterior management ,of a large house, the purchases, which naturally are made by the wholesale, are, for. minds little clear-sighted, so many proofs which confirm them in their opinion. They do not think of the struggles that these institutions have to make to maintain themselves, nor do,they consider that the balances which remain each year to the debit of the parents are always considerable. An embarrassment in the financial administration is the result, and, let us say it, perhaps also an unfavorable reaction on many of our institutions. Virtue and the spirit of sacrifice flourish in our colleges and convents, God knows it, and the population feels it. But perhaps we draw too largely upon these two agents,—powerful, without doubt, but incapable alone of doing all, at least in the actual condition of things. With the virtue and the spirit of sacrifice there must be another factor: money is a necessary article, and the least that our educational institutions can ask is, that the parents who have their children instructed, recognize, by their fidelity in paying their school and board bills, the benefits which their children receive; they would thereby help the instructors to extend the sphere of the good they desire to do. There always remains to their debit something which they can never repay, because that something is not to be measured by the amount of gold and silver paid, and that is the paternal and maternal care which surrounds their children, and the interest and love lavished on them.
Obituary.
THOMAS J. MURPHY, B. S., ’75.
Again, it is our sad duty to record the death of one of Notre Dame’s bright Alumni, Thomas J. Murphy, of the Class of ’75, who departed this life at his home in Ravenna, Ohio, Friday, Oct. 20th. At the time of his decease he was but just entering upon his 30th year. He first began his career as a student at Notre Dame in September, 1870, and for five years he devoted himself assiduously to those studies which would fit him. for his chosen profession. In June, 1875, he graduated with distinction in the Scientific Course, receiving in addition a “First Honor” Gold Medal, and other medals for proficiency in special branches.. After leaving college, he was given the • direction of the St. Columba’s Schools,in Youngstown, Ohio:-but the arduous duties attendant upon this charge impaired his health, and he was obliged to relinquish the position. In the autumn of 1880 he entered the St. Charles’ Seminary, near Baltimore, with the intention of studying for the Sacred Ministry—the one great end of all his efforts,—but his enfeebled health again compelled him to return to his home, this time to die.
While at Notre Dame, Mr. Murphy was beloved by all who knew him, both Professors' and students. All of his former Professors, and many fellow-students, still at the College, are. unstinted in their words of praise for him, and express- the deepest regret at his sudden demise while yet in early manhood. The afflicted relatives of the deceased have the sincerest sympathy of all at Notre Dame in this their hour of trial. May he rest in peace!
Personal.
—John C. Dunlap, ’65, is a prominent railroad contractor in Wisconsin.
—Frank McOsker (Com’l), of ’73, is bookkeeper for Millington & Hurd, Randolph street/' Chicago.	.
—John N. Osher (Com’l), of ’Si, is. chief clerk in the large establishment of Reisser &? Reitz, Chicago, Ill.	-
—AV. P. Nelson (Com’l), ’72, has succeeded his father in business, and may be found at his office, N0.141, Adams street, Chicago.	3
—F. X. Claffey, ’74, is soj’oufning at Niles, Mich., and earning for himself a brilliant reputation as a first-class instructor of youthful aspirants to literary distinction.	-	1	-
—Rev. J. A. Zahm, C. S. C., lectured last.Sunday evening in the Church of the Holy Angels, Boulevard, Chicago. The subj'ect.- of the lecture
’ was “ Science and Revelation,” and was treated in . a masterly-manner.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
—Mr. Jos. Gibbons, of Denver, Col., paid us a flying visit last week. He was much surprised at all he saw, and said that all the boys in Colorado would be here if they only knew what kind of a place Notre Dame is.
—We had the favor of a call, last week, from an old-time friend of Notre Dame, Mr. Peter Donnelly, of Michigan City, Ind., who accompanied a niece to St. Mary’s Academy. Mr. Donnelly is always a welcome visitor.
—Henry Newmark, of ’78, who has been travelling in Germany, has returned to the United States and writes us from New York. Henry wishes to be remembered to all his old schoolmates and teachers, and says he will probably visit Notre Dame in the course of the year.
—Mr. Laurence Kehoe, of the Catholic Publication Society Co., New York, accompanied by his gentlemanly agent, J. D. Hammond, paid a flying visit to the College, last week. Though their stay was brief, yet they found time to visit the principal points of interest, and expressed them-selves'agreeably surprised at all they saw. We hope they will soon pay us another and a longer visit.
—Rev. D. A. Tighe, ’69, is now the popular and energetic pastor of the Church of the Holy Ansfels, Oakwood Boulevard, Chicago, Illinois. Within the past few years Father Tighe has built, under the most trying difficulties, three churches, and one of the handsomest parochial residences in the diocese. The Church of the Holy Angels is pronounced by all who have seen it a little gem, and a real ornament to the beautiful boulevard beside which it stands.
—Mr. G. D. McPhee, of Denver, Col., spent a few days with us last week, visiting his son, Master Willie McPhee, of the Minims. During his stay here he made a detailed examination of everything, and expressed himself as more than pleased with what he saw. Mr. McPhee is one of those genial gentlemen whom it is a pleasure to meet, and who will always receive a hearty welcome whenever he caii find time to revisit the many friends he made during his short stay at Notre Dame.
Local Items.
—Peezl etree.
—The Upstart!
—Did you vote?
—-Who lost the boot?	-
—Let us change bur boxes.
—Have you joined the Temperance Society?
—Mike was troubled, last week, by politicians.
. —He directs his letters now to “ The Palace.”
—Competitions next week in the Commercial Course.	.
—The members of the. Crescent Club have purchased a new piano.
—Prof. Gregori is at work on a portrait of Mr. -Cunjmerford, of the Senior department.
—“ We don’t take any scratchers in these carriages ! ” o	-
—They thought he was going to stab him with that umbrella.
—Plans are being drawn out for a beautiful park in front of “ The Palace.”
—Lost:—A two-dollar bill. The finder will please leave at the printing-office.
—After sampling the Campaign cigars of both parties, he decided not to vote.
—B. Thomas has opened a store in the Minims’ play-hall, and ye small boy rejoiceth.
—The fear of seeing the rebel debt paid was what brought Crehoor into the Republican party.
—“ A long pull, a strong pull and a pull all together!” is to be the cry from now until Christmas. •
—Ye “local” had an interesting rencontre with a politician who desired to vote, riot wisely, but too well.
—A friend asks: “ Why is it that in our Moot Courts the accused is always found guilty?” We give it up.
—The members of the Reading Club are indebted to Mr. C. D. McPhee, of Denver, Col., for favors received.
—Gregori’s paintings have been returned from the Cincinnati Exposition, and may now be seen in the Green Room.
—The Seniors return thanks to Father General for a magnificent painting of the Blessed Virgin and Child, by Carlo Dolci.
—A Conversation at the Polls:—“Are you twenty-one ? ” “ N-n-no, n-not quite.” « Well, you cawn’t quite vote.” Exit Jim.
—We are glad to see our genial cicerone, B. Francis Assisi, around once more, and attending, as of yore, to the duties of his office.
—The Curator of the Museum returns thanks to Mr. J. C. Larkin, of Pottsville, Pa., for a contribution to the Cabinet of Mineralogy.
—The members of the Junior reading-room are under obligations to Masters Livingston, Goldsmith, Wile and Devine for favors received.
—On dit that the Telescope should be put in order. It was very much missed during those early morning observations of the comet.
—A mistake was made last week in stating the text used in the Junior Law Class. All of Blackstone is studied, and Kent’s Lectures on Real Property.
—It is said that the walls of our beautiful church are already splendidly decorated, and do not require the addition of such superfluous ornaments as hats, caps, etc.	,
-—Our friend John got up too early one morning . last week. . He said he wanted to see the comet; but he couldn’t come-it. (One of the typos inserted this last remark.)	.
—The Seniors have taken their cue from, the Juniors and are now actively at work fixing up

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
.155
their reading-room. We hope to see it in a short time one of the best rooms in the place.
—Among the welcome visitors last week was Mr. Edward Fenlon, of Leavenworth, Kansas. Mr. Fenlon hopes that his young son Eddie will soon have recovered his health, and be able to return to Notre Dame.
—A literary and musical soiree will be given in the. Rotunda on the festival of St. Cecilia, Nov. I	22d. The regular celebration of the-day has ob-
tained a special transfer to the 14th of December, when the grand spectacular Drama, “ If I were a King,” will be produced with brilliant and unwonted effect. .
—It has been remarked that the “ Angels of the Sanctuary ” should take an active part in the singing on Sundays. Thev give general edifica-00	J	^00
tion by their religious deportment, thanks to the care of their energetic Director, but, at the same time, they could certainly prove of great assistance to one of the choirs.
—A grand vocal and instrumental concert will be given this (Saturday) evening by Prof. Thorpe and wife, of Philadelphia. They come, bearing the most flattering testimonials from eminent personages throughout the United States who. have heard them, and we have every assurance of a rich treat in store for all who attend.
—The sixth regular meeting of the Sorin Lit-o	o
erary and Dramatic Association was held on Monday evening, Nov. 6th. Essays were read by the following young gentlemen: Masters G. Costigan, B. Lindsey, W. Rea, W. Moss, J. Wright, PI. Schmitz, G. Walsh, AV. Stange, AV. AVelch, J. Kraus, E. Thomas and R. Papin. Masters G. Schmauss and Schicker were proposed for membership, and were admitted.
—The 4th regular meeting of the Junior Archconfraternity was held Sunday evening, Nov. 5th. Rev. President Walsh delivered the ten-minutes’ instruction. Papers were read by Masters M. Foote, C. Porter and M. Dolan, who took respectively as their subjects, “The Doctrine of Purgatory, ” “ The Sign of the Cross,” and “ The Life of St. Theresa.” After the appointment of essayists, the meeting, on motion, adjourned.
—The sixth regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Association was held on Nov. 1st. Masters PI. Metz, B. Rothschild, W. Plan-navin, C. Cavaroc, J. Henry, T. McGrath and J. Devereux gave readings from various authors; Masters W. Berthelet, F. Schillo, F._ Fishel, P. AArarren, E. JVile, A. Brewster, L. • Gibert, H. Goldsmith, J. Livingston, H. Hibbeler, F. Kengel, J. A7". O’Donnell, J. AAralsh and J. Nester delivered declamations.	'
—Father General has presented the Minims’ study-hall with a magnificent copy in oil of Carlo Dolci’s famous painting of “ The Virgin and Child.” The picture must be seen in order to be appreciated. There is an indescribable beauty and sweetness in the face of both Motherland Child, and every feature so vivid and lifelike that one
would fancy they could speak. The Minims return their sincerest thanks to their kind patron for this additional proof of his love for them. .
—The 4th regular meeting of the Columbian Literary Society was held Friday evening, Nov. 3d. The proceedings consisted of the reading of an essay by Mr. AAr. Raymond, who took for his subject, “Conceit”—a debate: “Are the Irish People Justified in Declaring Themselves an Independent Nation ? ” • Messrs. Marlett and Morse took the affirmative, and Messrs. Brown and Farrell defended the negative. Three judges had been appointed: Messrs. Conway, Blackman and Fenlon, who gave their decision in favor of the affirmative. After the appointment of essayists and debaters, the meeting adjourned.
—One of the most valuable donations to the College Library has been, made lately by Mr. George Mason, President of the Excelsior' Iron Works, Chicago. It is a magnificent copy of “The Legend of St. Ursula and Her Companions, with Illuminated Miniatures taken from the Church of St. Ursula; at Cologne.” The volume is richly-bound in satin and gold and altogether forms a costly gift. Apart from the literary and historical excellence of the work, the illuminated miniatures are in themselves a treasure and would prove a valuable addition to any art collection. The Directors of the Library are very thankful to the generous donor.	'
—The second meeting of the Academy of St. Thomas Aquinas was held AVednesday, Nov. Sth, when the election of officers took place, which resulted as follows: Arery Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., Supreme Director; Rev. T. E; AValsh, Honorary President; Rev. S. Fitte, Director; Rev. J. A. O’Connell, Promoter; Prof. McSweeny, Assistant Director; A. Zahm, President; M. E. Donohue, AUce-President; M. T. Burns, Recording Secretary; AAr. H. Bailey, Corresponding Secretary; Chas. A. Tinley’, Treasurer; F. W. Gallagher, and N. Ewing, Censors. A vote of thanks was returned to the Rev. Director for his kind suggestions and favors received. He then made a short address to the Society, after which the meeting adjourned. A meeting will be held next Wednesday, when the adoption of a Constitution will be considered.	.
—The eighth regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was held on Nov. 4th. Master J. Smith was proposed for membership, and unanimously elected. Masterjos. Courtney read a fail’ criticism on the exercises of the previous meeting. The Second Moot Court was then held, the case being S. C. P. A., vs. Thomas Sclorrman. The Attorneys for the Prosecution were Masters M. Dolan, G.. Shaeffer, D. Taylor, and H. F oote. The lawyers for the Defence were M. Foote, Jas. Courtney, and E. Dillon. Master Jos. Courtney acted as Clerk of the Court, Masters ■ Jeannot and Ackhoff acted as Sheriffs. After the arguments the case was given to the Jury; after an absence of 15 minutes the Jury returned and rendered the verdict, “ Guilty.” Public readers for
!56
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
this week are C. Porter, H. Foote, G. De Haven, Geo. Schaeffer, J. Courtney, M. Foote and A. A. Browne.
—The following works have been added to the University Library: Constitutional History of England, William Stubbs, D. D., 3 Vols.; History of the United Netherlands, John Lothrop Motley, 4 Vols.; Life and Death of John of Barneveld, Motley, 2 Vols.; The Rise of the Dutch Republic, Motley, 3 Vols.; History of the United States of America, by Richard Hildreth, 6 Vols.; History of Greece, by Prof. Dr. Ernest Curtins, translated by Adolphus William Ward, 5 Vols.; History of Rome Under the Empire, by Chas. Merivale, 7 Vols.; A Popular account of the Ancient Egyptians,!)}' Sir J. Gardiner Wilkinson, 2 Vols.; History of the Ancient Egyptians, by George Rawlinson, 2 Vols.; The Sixth Oriental Empire, or the History of Parthia, by Rawlinson; Prescott’s Conquest of Peru, 2 Vols.; Philip the Second, 3 Vols.; Ferdinand and Isabella, 3 Vols.; Conquest of Mexico, 3 Vols.; History of the Queens of Scotland, Agnes Strickland, 8 Vols.; History of Troy, S. W. Benjamin;'Early Rome, W. Ihue; History of the Gracchi, Marius, and Sulla, A. H. Beesly; History of the Early Empire, W. Capes; Rise of the Macedonian Empire, A. M. Curteis; The Greeks and the Persians, G. W. Cox; The Roman Triumvirates, Merivale; Rome and Carthage, Smith; The Age of the Antonines, W. W. Cape; T7ie Quarterly Review^London, 1809-1869, 126 Vols.; Biblia Sacra Quadrilinguia Veteris Testanienti,-Volumen 1, continens Geneses usque ad Esthe-ram; Volumen 11 continens Jobum usque ad Malachiam^ Lipsiae, MDCCLI; Biblia Sacra Quadrilinguia Novi Testament! Grieci cum Versi-onibus Syriaca, Graeca, Vulgari, Latina et Ger-mani accuranteM. Christiano Reineccio SS. Theol. Baccalaur. Lipsiae, MDCCXXXXVH; The Philosophy of the Schools, Fr. Harper, 3 Vols.
Boll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
' Messrs. Armijo, Ashford, Arnold, Brady, Browne, Becerra, Castenado, Cavanaugh, A. P. Coll, G. Clarke, Cogh-lin, Conway, Clements, T. Carroll, Clafl'dy, A. J. Coll, J. Donohue, Delgado, Jas. Delaney, Dickerson, Flynn, T. Fenlon, E. Fenlon, Fleming, Fitzgerald, Farrell, Freeze, Grever, Guthrie, Grange, J. Gallagher, Godfroy, Gooley, Heffernan, Jones, Johnston, Kane, Kolars, Koehler, Kuhn, Kavanaugh, Larkin, Lease, McEniry, W. McCarthy, J. McNamara, T. McNamara, Molloy, Mullen, C. Murdock, S. Murdock, Morse, Nelson, Noble, Noonan, O’Dea, Orchard, O’Neill, Otis, O’Reilly, O’Brien, H. Porter, Pour, Parrott, Pillars, Peery, Peters, Quinn, Ratterman, Rodgers, Ruger, Ryan, Solon, Stover, C. Smith, Seitz, Stull, Saviers, Spencer, G. Smith, E. Smith, Terrazas, Wheatley, Whalen, Whitwer, Yrisarri, Zahm.:	, .	.
. JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Austin, Ackhoft] Brice, Browne, Berthelet, Bacon, Brewster, Braunsdorf,’Curtis, Cavanagh, Crawford, Chirhart, Droste, Danielson, Devereux, Dolan, Dorenberg, Dillon, De Haven, Dunn, Dwenger^ Duffin, Eisenhauer, M. Foote, H. Foote, Farrelly, Feridrich, Fishel, Goldsmith, Grathaus, Gerlach, J. Hetz, Hagerty, Hornaday,
Hibbeler, Hess, Herrmann, Halligan, Hannavin, Holbrook’ Hagen, Jeannot, Kahman, Kerndt, Kengel, W. Keegan, J-Kelly, M. Kelly, Livingston, Lund, Leffingwell, McCawley? Mug, T. McGrath, Muller, McGordon, McDonnell, Morris? McCartney, D. O’Connor, J. P. O’Donnell, Ohnick, Peery? Peters, C. Porter, Robb, Ryan, Reach, Schott, Schillo? Schaeffer, Seegers, Shannon, Talbot, Taggart, Terrazas. Violette, • Warren, Worcester, Waggoner, Wilkinson, W-Wright, Whitman, Walsh, Zaehnlc, Zeigler, Fogerty.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	•
Masters Ackermann, Adams, Beall, Bunker, Bannantine, Burlingame, Chaves, Colwell, Cummings, E. Costigan, G. Costigan, Chirhart, Dirksmeyer, W. Dyer, J. Dyer, Devereux, W. Devine, A. Devine, Hopkins, Huestis, Hynes, Johnson, J. Kelly, Kraus, Keeffe, Kane, Luther, Landenwich, B. Lindsey, C. Lindsey, McNaughton, E. McGrath, J. McGrath, McGordon, McPhee, Morrison, Moss, Metz, Nester, F. Otis, T. Otis, Pick, Papin, D. Prin-diville, Quinlin, Rea, Roberts, Rebori, Spencer, Smith, Stange, Sommer, Schmitz, G. Stamm, F. Stamm, Schmauss, Schicker, Thomas, Unger, Whitney, W. Walsh, E. Walsh, Welch, Winsor, C. Young.
Class Honors.
[In the following list may be found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Messrs. Sturla, Freeze, Neeson, Drover, Kimmel, Ratter-mann, Koehler, J. McNamara, Campbell, Seitz, Ryan, Lease, Marlett, O’Brien, Wheatly, Saviers, O’Reilly, Grever, Rhodius, Spencer, S. Murdock, C. Carroll, Coll, Gall, Hausberg, Wile, Jas. Courtney, Ohnick, Kerndt, Farrelly, Livingston, Seegers, Schillo, Hibbeler, Grathaus, Wilkinson, Pick, Fehr, P. Warren, Holbrook, Fishel, Schaeffer, Lund, J. McGordon, J. McGrath, P. Yrisarri, Berthelet, Goldsmith, Coover, H. Foote, Metz, Mason, Danielson, Hagen, Brewster, Rhodus, Zaehnle, W. Henry, Cavaroc, Duffin, McCartney, Reach, J. Kelly, Hatt, Peas-lee, E. Yrisarri, Kane, A. Terrazas, Hagerty.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned.in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the courses named—according to the competitions, which are held . monthly.—Director of Studies.]	.	'
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Reading and Orthography—Mr. Deinhart; Grammar— Messrs, Simms, Whalen, Hess, Smeeth, Bacon, Gerlach, J. Smith, Reach, Lund, P. Yrisarri, Munce, Kerndt, W. Henry, Berthelet, Grange, Reid, Nelson, Pour, Parrott, Neeson, Warren; Geography and History—Messrs. Peters, Hagen, Violette, Dorenberg; Arithmetic—Messrs. Rhodus, Peters, A. Terrazas, Herrman, C. Carroll, Stull, M. Keegan, Farrelly, Allan, Muller, W; Hetz, Ryan, Hagen, Hibbeler, Holbrook, Wilkinson, Kerndt; Penmanship ------; Algebra—Messrs. Whitwer, H. Smith, T. Fenlon, E. Fenlon, E. Yrisarri, Brady; Latin—Messrs. O’Reilly, Burns, J. Keegan, Fleming; Greek—Messrs. Otis, G. H. Smith; Geometry—Mr. W. Mug.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Beall, Bunker, Bannantine, G. Costigan, E. Costigan, Cain, Coad, Cummings, Devereux, W. Dyer, W. Devine, A Devine, Harris, Hynes, Hopkins, Hewitt, Huestis, Johnson, Keeffe, J. Kelly, Kraus, Luther, Landenwich, B. Lindsey, C. Lindsey, .Lare, J. J. McGrath, Masi, J. McGrath, Morrison, E. McGrath, Moss, McGordon, McPhee, McNaughton, Nester, F. Otis, A. Otis, Papin, W. Prindiville, D. Prindiville, Quinlin, Roberts, Stange, Spencer, Smith, F. Stamm, G. Stamm, Sommer, Thomas, Shicker, Unger, Welch, W. Walsh, E. Walsh, Winsor, Whitney, C. Young. .
...	, . ..	. J For the Dome. .
Mrs. Mary Coleman, Washington, D. C...... . .$20.00
Jose Chaves, Belen, NewMexico........... 10.00
Master F. Stamm, Milwaukee, Wis.......... 5.00
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Saint JHary's Acabemy.
One Mile TVest of Notre Dame University.
—Amon? other esteemed visitors, our kind O	7
benefactor, Mr. Donnelly, of Michigan City, has been welcomed this week.
—Mrs. Howard Stanfield paid a flying visit to St. Mary’s on Sunday; also Major and Mrs. Burke, and daughter, of the United States Army.
—There is a fail- prospect that the -St. Mary’s Parisian .Dinner will soon come off, as pupils are constantly entering. Mr. and Mrs. James Duff, from Denver, Col., have placed their little niece in the Minim department.	.
—Miss Fenlon, Miss Lonergan and Miss Thomas, of Leavenworth, Kansas; Mrs. Blackman, of Paris, Ill., and Mr. Barrett, the Landscape Artist, from West Brighton, Staten Island, are on the list of visitors.
—The Rev. T. J. Jenkins, of Louisville, Kentucky, paid a most welcome visit to St. Mary’s, on the Feast of All Saints. The young ladies had the pleasure of listening to an excellent discourse from the learned and reverend gentleman, at High Mass.
—The graceful writer and esteemed'friend of St. Mary’s, Miss Frances Howe, accompanied by her cousin, Miss Margaret Kelly, of Cleveland, Ohio, passed Wednesday and Thursday at the Academy. “The Saint of Genoa,” in The “Ave Maria ” of Oct. 28th, is from the terse and fluent pen of Miss Howe; it is the first of a series of articles. A profound knowledge of human nature, united to a lively and beautiful faith, mark every passage. It is well worthy of perusal.
The Light-Bearer.
Happy the Florist, gleaning from the, sod A -wisdom all too delicate for words!
Taught by mute flowers of “ order, Heaven’s first law,” His are delights to sensual hearts unknown.
Joy, too, is his, who, from gigantic leaves Of Nature’s ponderous volume, reads of times Ere mankind lived on earth; he is, as it were, Companion of those angels who beheld This mighty globe, before her Eden bowers Were garnished for the sinless human race.
He, too, who measures wide, siderial space
“ Where Deity geometrizes,” there
To read the lesson that the Seraphim
Have conned, entranced, since chaos first awoke
To echo God’s command, “ Let there be light,” . Knows happiness well-nigh akin to heaven’s;
But not all these inherit such a bliss
As his, who guides the plastic, youthful mind Through Nature’s wonders “ up to Nature’s God.”
The educator in the universe
Is God’s Light-Bearer; on the eager soul	- ’
He turns the rays to which meridian beams	.. .. .	1
Are but the glow-worm’s torch. Those beams will die ; . \ But truth’s clear light shall never be obscured. ■
O faithful guardian of the forming mind,	. . . .
Thou art the Florist of immortal blooms I	;	’
- .	•	' M.S-
One Life to Live, One Aim to Life.
The late poet laureate of our own beloved -America, who was pronounced by the renowned Cardinal Manning as the greatest poet of the age, embodies our theme in his grand “ Psalm of Life,” when he sings— -	O	'	-	•
■	“ Act, act in the living present:
Heart within, and God o’erhead.”
In this we discover the significance of our theme, “ One life to live, one aim to life.” Our good intentions and purposes must, like the clear rays of the sun, seek their destination with direct simplicity. The industrious bee takes no circuitous route to her hive. When laden with her sweet treasures, she follows an air line to her bower. She should be our model.
The honey of a holy and exalted resolution is in our possession; rectitude of principle, earnestness of purpose and humility of heart will securely bear us to our destined goal. They will anchor us safely in the storms of life, and will teach us- howto avail ourselves of every propitious breeze, so that we .shall glide joyfully and fearlessly, securely and victoriously, to the end of our career, like
“ The gallant, gallant barque That sweeps through storm and sea, • . Like the arrow to its mark.” ’	_
Impressively sublime is the inference to be drawn from the exclamation of the. pagan Titus, when he cried out, “ My friends, I have lost a day!” It is one which‘should make us tremble for
“ Our slighted graces, and.our wasted hours.”
We, who live with the long line of Christian centuries spread out for our example and edification, should lament that too many of us not only lose days and years, but even a lifetime, without one regret. ®
Here we see the plan which the adoption of a pure and earnest purpose requires us to follow; we see the aim which’ it exacts of our fidelity. Experiments will do for the patent office, for chemists, for speculators, and would-be-philosophers, but not for Christians, so far as Ethics are concerned. We have but one life to live, and we cannot risk a failure. The Infinite Wisdom, which furnishes a clear and infallible guide to the conscience, is made evident when we reflect upon the fact that hearts,	.
11 Like muffled drums, are beating Funeral marches to the grave,”	.
and that unsuccessful there for once, we are unsuccessful for all eternity.
Our aim is now before us. It is to make the voyage of life as completely conformable to the . designs of our Maker, as possible. We have but.
THE N.OTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
one life to live. We can command no time but the present, and we have no security that the future will remedy the faults of the past; consequently our application to make the best of every moment must be untirinsf. Our aim must be to invigorate the soul, and to prepare it for the life beyond the grave. -	.
If the old masters could afford to spend years on a single work of art that they might conquer a celebritj* to last through time, shall we not willingly concentrate our energies to win that which is far greater, the success of eternity? The sweet seclusion of our Convent-school, where we have been for many years united, has given us our celestial passport, if we may be allowed the expression, in habits of order, perseverance, economy and industry.
With the knowledge of science we have imbibed that which is of far greater importance, namely, the spirit of obedience to truth. If loyal to the inspirations of this spirit—if, to the best of our ability, we continue to spread the good influence which we have here incorporated and made a part of our own souls, then shall we, who are here so happily united, meet with a joy infinitely augmented, where “ faith is lost in sight ” and science has no more a name, since we shall quaff of the infinite fountain of truth, and that forever.
A. H.
Obituary.
It is our painful duty to chronicle the death of Mrs. Sumner, which sad event occurred at Trappe, Talbot Co., Md. Her daughter, Mrs. V. S. Williams, for a number of years directed the Minim department, of the University of Notre Dame, and subsequently was engaged as teacher with the Sisters of the Holy Cross. Mrs. Sumner had the happiness of seeing several of her children devote themselves to the cause of religion. Two of. her sons were consecrated to the Sacred Ministi-y, and a daughter, Mother Ignatius, of the Convent at Vicksburg, became a Sister of Mercy. Full of years and merits, the soul of the deceased appeared before God at midnight of the nth of October. May she rest in peace!
Boll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Clarke, Dillon, Feehan, Wiley, Wright, C. Donnelly, Johnson, Laffer, Sullivan, Shickey, ' Walsh, Todd, Duffield, Dunn, Gove, M. Heneberry, Mohl, Owens, O’Connor, V. Reilly, J. Reilly, Semmes, E. Slattery, Van Patten, Crawford, Rulison, Lancaster, Sawyer, Adderly, Munger, Wallace, Heckard, Stackerl, Daily, Coakley, Williams, Clifford, Unger, Madole, Taylor, O’Connell, Black, M. H. Ryan, McCoy, Adams, Chirhart, T Slattery, H. Hicks, Rettig, Legnard, Donnersberger,
Hagan, Newton, Commerford, Gavin, L. Hawkins, Babcock, McGinn, Mooney, Kirkham, Schmauss. 2d Tablet —Misses Fox, M. Campbell, C. Campbell, Barlow, M. A. Ryan, Hoag, Beal, Bathrick, Call, Keenan, Pease, Knott, Richardson, Ramsey, Wood, L. English, Dickson, Hunt, Cox, Harrigan, Leydon, Anderson, Durphy, M. Hawkins, Fenlon', Murphy, Kolb, Hunter, McCauley,. B. English, Donahue, Hughes, McCarten, Pampell, Foster, O’Neill, L. Heneberry, King, Eldridge, Shull, Dolan, Spotwood.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Dignan, Dillon, Coogan, Nevins, Considine, Howlett, Grist, Donnelly, Richmond, Schmidt, Shephard, Johnston, Hibben, B. Haney, Halsey, Malbceuf, Wallace, Luna, Best, Chaves, Mary Otis, Ducey T-Haney, Snowhook, Spencer. 2d Tablet—Misses Spangler, Morgan, Rodgers, Ewing, McGrath, Van Horn, Coyne, Robinson, Browne, Alexander.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Barry, English, McGrath, Burtis? Mattie Otis, Prescott, Schmauss, McKennon, Lindsey, Westfall, Paul, M. Ducev, Chapin, Wallace.
Class Honors.
[The following young ladies named have received 90 or over in their standing in class in the past week.]
Graduating Class—Misses Clarke, A. Dillon, Wiley, Feehan, Fox, Wright.
ist Senior Class—Misses Johnson, M. A. Ryan, C. Campbell.
2D Sr. Class—Misses Lancaster, Gove, Call, Mohl, Keenan, Pease, Semmes, E. Slattery, Ramsey, Duffield, Spangler, Barlow, V. Reilly, Richardson, Rulison.
3D Sr. Class—Misses Heckard, M. Ducey, Munger, Wallace, Danforth, Dickson, Hunt, McCoy, Anderson, Madole, Clifford, Daily, Stackerl, Sawyer, Coakley, Cox, O-Connell, L. English, Taylor, Black, Pick, M. Hawkins, Durphy, Williams.	’
ist Preparatory Class—Misses Foster, Chirhart, Rettig, Hughes, Dillon, Considine, Coogan, N. Hicks, McCauley, Donnersberger, B. English, G. Legnard, Commerford, C. Ducey, Howlett, .N. Donnelly, Grist.
2D Prep. Class—Misses Richmond, Van Horn, Moshier, Kirkham, Rodgers, Fehr, Schmidt, Hibben, Ewing, Drover, Shull, A. English, Fisk, Eldridge, J. McGrath, Hintz, Schmauss, Shephard, B. Haney, Mooney.
Junior Prep. Class—Misses M. Coyne, Best, Chaves, Alexander, T. Haney, Brown, Sawyer, Campau, Robinson, F. Castanedo, Mary Otis, Sullivan.
ist Junior Class—Misses B. Snowhook, J. English, Barry, Burtis, Mattie Otis, J. McGrath, Prescott.
2D Junior Class—Misses Spencer Lindsey, Westfall.
FRENCH.
ist Class—Misses C. Lancaster, M. Feehan,
2D Div.—Misses J. Reilly, A. Castanedo, M. Campbell.
2D Class—Misses Barlow, Fox, Leydon, Semmes.
3D Class—Misses Wallace, Beal, Sullivan, C. Donnelly, Call, Shickey, M. A. Ryan, Taylor, L. English, Owens, Pease, Malbceuf.
4TH Class—Misses Bathrick, Dunn, E. Slattery, Coakley ^A. Duffield, Crawford, Mohl, Fenlon, Laffer, O’Connor, Ramsey, Wood, Anderson, Cox, M. Hawkins, Durphy, Babcock, Hunter, N. Hicks, Pampell, Morrison, Snowhook.
5TH Class—Misses Campatf,Paul; Robinson, Otero.?...
.	-' german. -	'
ist Class—Misses A. Dillon, E. Mohl.
2D Class—Misses Van Patten, Todd, Keenan, M. Chir-hart, Pick, Unger, Fehr, Hintz, Grist.
3D Class—Misses C. Ducey, L. Wallace, M. Ducey, •N. Hicks, Considine, Coogan, Drover, Spangler, McGrath.
4TH Class—Misses Johnson, Bathrick, Daily, Danforth, Munger, C. Sawyer, Heckard, Richardson, Black, Stackerl, Hughes, Shull, Adams, King, Harris, T. Slattery, Donnersberger, O’Connor, Hagan, N. Donnelly, T. Haney.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
159
“ St. Nicholas is above anything vie produce in the same line.”—London Times.
ST. NICHOLAS
FOR	'
YOUNG FOLKS.
pARENTS who desire entertaining and wholesome read-x ing for their children, and young folks who enjoy accounts of travel and adventure, historical incidents, stories pictures, household amusement and harmless fun, will find these in St. Nicholas, which is recognized by the press and public, of both England and America, as The Best and Finest Magazine for children ever printed. The new volume, which begins with the November number and opens with a colored frontispiece, will be much the finest ever issued, and the attention of all parents and all reading young folks is invited to the following partial list of attractions:
The Tinkham Brothers’ Tide-Mill, a new serial story by J. T. Trowbridge, formerly editor of “ Our Young Folks,” and author of “The Jack Hazard Stories,” etc. The Story of Viteau. A historical novelette of girl and boy life in the 13th Century. By Frank R. Stockton, formerly assistant editor of St. Nicholas, author of “ Rudder Grange,” etc. The Story of Robin Hood. An account of the famous yeoman. By Maurice Thompson, author of “The Witchery of Archery.” The StOry Of the Field of the Cloth-of-Cold. By E. S. Brooks. To be illustrated with many remarkable pictures. A Brand-New Notion, a capital and novel 1 play. By William M. Baker, author of “His Majesty, Myself," etc. Swept Away. A serial story of the Mississippi floods of 1S82. By E. S. Ellis, formerly editor of “Golden Days." Elizabeth Thompson. A biographical paper regarding this celebrated painter of battle-scenes. Illustrated with pictures prepared for St. Nicholas by Miss Thompson. VVhere was Villiers ? A thrilling story of the Russo-Turkish war. By Archibald Forbes, War-Correspondent. The Boyat the White House-. An accountof the life of “Tad” Lincoln. By Noah Brooks, author of “The Boy Emigrants.” Comedies for Children, a fine series of juvenile plays. By E. S. Brooks, author of “ The Land of Nod,” etc., and including A Christmas MaSque: The False Sir Santa Claus. Pje-pared expressly for holiday times.
There will be short stories by Louisa M. Alcott, and many other well-known writers for young folks; papers on home duties and recreations, out-door sports, occupation and instruction for boys and girls, with popular features and departments.
Price, $3.00 a year; 25 cents a number. Subscriptions should begin with the November number. The succeeding issue, “ The Wonderful Christmas Number,” will have also, a colored frontispiece and many unusual attractions.
The CENTURY CO., New-York, N. Y.
“ Perhaps the most judiciously edited magazine in theivorldP —The Nation, N. Y., Sept., 1882. "
The CENTURY
For 1882—83.
------- V
The twelfth year of this magazine—the first under the new name, and the most successful in its history, closed with the October number. The circulation has shown a large gain over that of the preceding season, and The CENTURY begins its thirteenth year with an edition of
140,000 Copies.
The following are the leading features :	.
o	o
A New Novel I>y AV. D. Hb'vyells, to succeed this author’s “ Modern Instance.” It will be an international story, entitled “ A Sea Change.”
luiLe in tlie Tliii-teea Colonies, by Edward Eggleston,—the leading historical feature of the year, to consist of a number of papers,-on such topics as “ The Beginning of a Nation,” “ Social Life in the Colonies,” etc., the whole forming a complete history of early life in the United States. Especial attention will be paid to accuracy of illustrations.
A Novelette of* Mining- ILife, by Mary Hallock Foote, entitled “The Led-Horse Claim,” to be illustrated by the author.
Tlie Point ol'View, by Henry James, Jr., a • series of eight letters from imaginary persons of various nationalities, criticising America, its people, society, manners, railroads, etc.	.
Tlie Cliristian League ofConnecti-Cut, by the Rev. Washington Gladden. An account of practical cooperation in Christian work, showing how a league was formed in a small town in Connecticut, what kinds of work it attempted, and how it spread throughout the whole State.
‘•Rntklei’ Grange Abroad.” by Frank R. Stockton, a continuation of the droll “Rudder Grange” stories, the scene being now in Europe.
The New Kra in American HouseBuilding, a series of four papers, fully illustrated, devoted to (1) City Houses, (2) Country Houses, (3) Churches, (4) Public Buildings.
Tlie Creoles of* Louisiana, by Geo. W. Cable, author of “ Old Creole Days,” etc.; a fresh and graphic narrative, richly illustrated.
My Adventures in Znni, by Frank H. Cushing, government ethnologist, an adopted member of the Zuni tribe of Indians. Illustrated.
IlfiiSi ten toil Papers on tlie National Capital, including “The Capitol,” “The Supreme Court,” “The White House,” etc.	•	.
Missions of’Southern California, by “H. H.”; three or four papers of an exceedingly interesting character, richly illustrated.
Miscellaneous.
Further work is expected from E. C. Stedman, Thomas Hughes, Joel Chandler Harris (“Uncle Remus”), Charles’ Dudley Warner, John Burroughs, E. V. Smalley, H. H. Boyesen, and a long list of others. Entertaining short stories and novelettes will be among the leading features of The Century, as heretofore, and the magazine will continue its advance in general excellence.
The subscription price is $4.00 a year; 35 cents a number. Subscriptions should begin with the November number, and to enable new subscribers to commence with the new series under The Century name, we make the following
Special Offer.
A year’s subscription from Nov., 1S82, and the twelve numbers of the past year, unbound, $6.00. 2k subscription and the twelve back numbers bound in two elegant volumes with gilt top, $7.50.	. '	-
The CENTURY CO., New-York, N. Y.
i6o
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
University of Notre Dame.
St. Mary’s Academy.
St. Joseph’s Co., Ind.
"This UNIVERSITY was founded in 1842, and char-tered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana, in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees. The College can be easily reached from all parts of the United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the great Western and Michigan Central; the first two passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at Niles with the railway between that city and South Bend.
The College buildings are massive and commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.
The University affords every facility for acquiring a thorough knowledge of
CLASSICS,
’ MATHEMATICS, SCIENCE,
LAW, MEDICINE, MUSIC.
To such as wish to devote themselves to Commercial pursuits, Notre Dame gives a more thorough business training than can be obtained in any purely Commercial College.
THE COMMERCIAL COURSE
has always received the most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commercial Faculty of the Institution.
In all the courses, the best systems of teaching are adopted and the best authors for each branch selected.
New Students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalogues, giving full particulars, will be sent free, on application to the President.
THE MINIM DEPARTMENT.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in the primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. The personal neatness and wardrobe of the pupils receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Board and Tuition—$125, per Session of Five Months.
Drawing, Vocal Music,'Violin, and Piano, free in this Department.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T.'E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
AND SCHOOL OF
DRAWING, P AIN TIA G and SCULPTURE.
(Notre Dame P. 0., Indiana,)
Conducted by the Sisters of the Holy Cross.
In the Academy the course is thorough in the Preparatory. Academic. and Classical grades.
Tne institution possesses a complete set of chemical and philosophical apparatus, choice and extensive herbariums of native and foreign plants, and a library of some thousands of volumes.
No extra charges for German or French, as these languages enter into the regular course of academic studies
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
on the plan of the best Musical Conservatories of Europe, is under charge of a complete corps of teachers, eleven in number. It comprises a large Music Hall, and twenty-eight separate rooms for harps, pianos, and organs. A thorough course for graduation in theory and practice.
Esthetics and Composition —A large Musical Library in French. German. English, and Italian Semi-monthly lectures in Music, Vocal Culture, Chorus Singing and Harmony.
THE SCHOOL OF
DRAWING, PAINTING AND SCULPTURE.
is modelled on the great Art Schools of Europe, drawing and painting from life and the antique. A choice Library of the Fine Arts in English, French, German. Italian, and Spanish is connected with the School of Design Graduating pupils who have passed creditably through the. Academic or Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medal of the Department.-
Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in Conservatory of Music, or in the Art Department.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rules of the institution.
Fuli paiticulars of three Departments given in Catalogue, for which address
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. 0., Ind.
L S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 7, 1881, trains will leave South Bend, as follows:
GOING EAST:
232 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.50 a.m.; Cleveland, 2.33 p.m.; Buffalo, 8 05 p.m.
11.23 a.m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 10.10 p.m ; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
9.27 p m., Atlamic Express, over Air Line. Arrives st Toledo, 2.45 a.m ; Cleveland, 7.05 am.; Buffalo, 1.10 p.m.
12.38 p.m.. Special New York Express, over Air Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.40 p.m. Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo, 4 am.
635 p.m. Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, 10.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 1.45 a.m.; Buffalo, 7 25 a.m.
GOING WEST:
2.32 a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 3.25 a.m. Chicago, 6.10 a.m.
448 a m Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.45 a.m. Chicago, 8.20 a.m.
7 40 a.m., Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte, 8.44 a.m. Chestenon, 9.40 a m.; Chicago, 11.30 a.m.
1.17 p m, Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte 215 p.m.; Chesterton, 3.10 p.m.; Chicago, 5.00 p.m.
. 426 p.m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5.18; Chesterton; 6.07 p.m.; Chicago, 8 p.m.
F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Genl. Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
W. P. JOHNSON, Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
P. P. WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup’t., Cleveland.
JOHN NEW ELL, Gen’l Manager, Cleveland.