
October 18, 1974. 

Bethlehem Steel's
. . . 

LOOP COURSE,
Management · .Training Program, 
, has opportunities for young men and women with · . . technical and business backgrounds who wish to acquire the management skills to make them leaders in operations, shipbuilding, or mining management. · 
Our representatives-will be here on 
Nov.12 13 
Let's talk about it. 


.-. . . An equal opporlunity . employer 

/ 


Editor 
James Gresser 
Art Director 
Bill Weyland , 
Production Manager 
John Phelan 
Managing Editor 
Sally Stanton 

News Editor 
Jane Thornton 
Arts Editor 
Katy Sullivan Sports Editor · Bill Delaney 
Assistant Art Director 
Thomas Waldoch . 
Business' Manager 
Sarah Bartzen 
Advertising Manager 
D." C. Nokes. 
Circulation Manager 
Paul DeBacco 
Staff 
Mike Karels, Steve Slater, Jean deSmet, Dave Beno, Peter Fitzgerald, Ron Rundstedt, Karen Higgins, Tara Carey, .Mark Lupino, John Kenward, Mark Ondash, Dave Dreyer, Connal McGee, Don Pausback, Laureen Goers, John· Harding, Mike West, Mike Sarahan, Mark Hopkins, Larry Stanton, Regina Fink, John Whalen, Mary Digan, Tom Birsic, Eileen O'Grady, Jim Wiehl, Michael Casey, Sue Rohn, Jack Pizzolato, Bill Gonzenbach, Bill Brink, Frank Coughlin, Neil Gillispie/ Leo J.: Mulcahey, Don Reimer, Deborah DeLorenzo, L. Bums, Kathy· ·,. · McElroy, Dave Miller, Andy. Winiarczyk, .. Jorge Lopez, Mike Zengel, Dan Adler, Gil . Zachary,' Theresa Stewart, Annemarie· · Sullivan,Rick Odioso, Tom -McHale, Jusy Robb,. Tom Moskow, Bob Kissell.. Art & Photography Mike Madden, ·Ed Brower, Ted Kerin, Bill Foglia, ,Joe Kuspin, Tom Burke. .• The opinions expressed .In the SCHOLASTIC· are those of the authors and editors of the · SCHOLASTIC and do not necessarily. represent the opinions of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or the. student body. Second class postage paid' at Notre Danie,' Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services,· 360 · Lexington· Avenue, New York; N.Y. 10017. Published fortnightly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods; the SCHOLASTIC is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notni' Dame, · Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. and back numbers are available .from the SCHOLASTIC. Please address all manu-. scripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556; All unsolicited material becomes the '· property of the, SCHOLASTIC. ' " ..... 
... 111111.11111 Volume 116, No. 4 October 18, 1974 Notre Dame, Indiana  
HEADLINER  
22  The Student Athlete -·· Examining the dual world of · the student athlete at ND;  
FEATURES  
4  Fran de Marco -masters.  Learn how· to dance from one of the  
8 10 16 20  Autistic Children --·• The· bizarre world of children withdrawn from everything.' . . . ' . Human Sexuality -.. Dealing whh the paradoxes of .sexual codes at Notre Dame. -· .. ' ' Catholic History -. Reinterpreting -the . history of the Church in America. . . ..... Wo~ld Food Crisis -·­" . we must adjust our needs and wants, and even undergo voluntary starvation..." • • , ·, • ~· .••.. • I • ' • • Interview -.-Gordon Lightfoot talks about his music and ·the success-_·of ·his career. ·  
25  Basketball Ticke~ ~--Eiplaining · the· price student season basketball tickets.  hike  in  
28  From the Sideline{-·. . Coach Pagnaon the.syndrome of playing for and. against Notre Dame.  
·REGULARS  
..,  12 13  People at ND. People. Behind ND.  
18  Coming DistracJions . .·  
18  Week in Distortion.  
19  Record Reviews.  
27  Irish Sport Shorts.  
30  The Last Word.  
Illustrations: Photos on 4, 5, 12, 25 by Chris Smith /  Photos on 12, 15, 21, 22,  . .i  

copyright© 1974 Scholastic/ all rights . 23, 24, 26, 27 by Ed Brower / Photo on 28 by Bruce Harlan./ Artwork _on 6 reserved / none of the ·contents' may be re-· by Torn Burke/ Artwork on 9.by_Nan· Smith /.All other artwork·and cover 
by Weyland. -. , . . . .
produced without permission. · 

The. Queen of Dance Is Alive 
J 
''A-one-an-two-an-three--.


F c;:r•:•=,:,1;~~~1\:JK•' 
an-four." The queen of dance is ·alive and well and reigning in LaFortune 

. .--~ ~~ Ballroom every Monday night .from 7 to 9 p.m. To the tune of the Nofre Dame Fight Song, her eager subjects polka around her in a large, rhyth­mically moving circle. . . · · Miss Fran de Marco is .the regent and her followers consist of anyone willing to pay two dollars for an evening of Arthur Murray-like in­.. struction. From the polka, .which is the opening dance of the night be~ cause it is easy to learn· and will "build confidence," Miss de . Marco leads her dancers in a. six-step move­ment called touch rock and rolL The earnest learners stumble, make mis­takes, but ·Fran (she prefers ·.the familiar) ·assures thein that;her ex­ample will pull them through a.nd make little Gene Kellys of them all. To the overzealous ·.. student who tries: to pass on his newfound ta.lent, Fran ·warns "one teacher!" . Our Monday ev'ening Prima began· her career in New York where she frained with the .Arthur. Murray Studios. From that great city she tapped her toes to. Cleveland where she acted. in every capacity, includ­ing supervising, interviewing; · and dance directing, again for · A_rthur Murray. ''Cleveland paved· the wa.y to· Chicago. and there Fran worked in· "the· second · largest of Arthur Murray's~ empire of 468 studios." Again she ·was a · dance directress and retained that position for twelve years., . Professional . dancing' . ca.me next,· eight ·years ·spent with a part­ner\ dancing. in "th.e finesf resort~. in • the Midwest." Now Fran is ·here. 'She brings with. her what she refers to as. the "epidemic'' of touch dancing,· which· is spre_ading thr·ough. all the major universities in. the U.S. Fran. feels, and Notre Dame1does too, that we 
are ·fortunate ·to have her as our 
teacher. She intends to make us No; 
1 in touch dancing as we· are in 
some other things (or were; ah, the 
Sugar Bowl!). Notre·Dame is to be 
the first in the' nation with a teles 
vised student· participant show, one 
which will be sponsored by local 
merchants. This means, Fran gently 
reminds, :that "the students ·will be 
the floor show<" -~ . 
Thus,. Fran,' armed. with ~. mega~ 

phone 'which makes a, signal noise 
like the .cry of asealin childbirth, 
leads students· in the "art, hobby, 
and sport," which she feels dancing 
to: be. ·. Her assistant;.-i:me Partlip 
Sarda, whirls arid twirls, her; .and 
novices glean valuable skills. "Next 
week," she proinis_es, "I'll· teach you 
to Cha-Cha.". ''Like they Cha~Cha 
in San Francisco and Paris,· and 
Rome, I'll teach you .to Cha-Cha." 
And, so, ·she will. "One-two-three, 

Cha-Cha; one-two-three, . Cha-Cha." 
. . -'-Katy ·sullivan 

_ OCTOBER 18, 1974 
' 
i _:_,,.·_, .>.. -~ 


·: L.:,· 
•;,,•, 
. '-_~;\;~~).\'• 
!,.:'<1•.,:/·. 
;;;., ~ 

Searching for the Hidden Child 
Betsy Dwyer, a '74 Notre Dame graduate in General Program, was a resident assistant in Badin and a writer for the Scholastic. She is now working at a home /or autistic children in West Chester, Pa., and writes of her experiences there. 
"Schizophrenic and autistic chil­dren are the last remnant of inde­pendent people left in the world."-DesLauriers 
June ... it is seven o'clock when the three therapists climb the stairs to the night nurses' station. ''All is well," the woman says. "The chil­dren are still asleep ..." and then she goes home to bed. . The next . thirty minutes have · become a spe-· cial awake-ritual for us. Few words are spoken'-mostly comments on the report cards left by the evening staff. Our beings seem absorbed into that first cup of fresh-perked coffee. Strange how it never seemed much of a treat uritn this job. . . The therapist's thoughts may be any­where,· but most likely, he/she is projecting the day, wondering what will come and knowing that he/she must be awake to catch it all. It is time. The cups are collected. · We share a joke or two. Then each goes off to awaken his/her children to the morning. "Good morning, Peter!" -a kiss is given, a stroke on the cheek, Peter's eyes are open, but he doesn't turn over or make any movement. He is hypnotically twirling a thread· on his pajamas. Nothing exists except that thread. 
"Good · morning, · Scottie!" He clings tightly to the sheets and screams all the way to the toilet and back. Timmy is prancing around the room on his toes. Occasionally he stops and takes the therapist's finger mechanically to itch his hand or tickle his feet. He makes no eye contact. She is part of the furni­ture. The therapist moves to the next room. 
"Good morning, Stephen!" He re­sponds: 
"Channel 48. Time for the morn: ing news ..·. brought to you by Kel.: logg's best to you each morning." 
The counselor still talks to Ste­phen while he dresses even though Stephen continues his broadcast. 
These children are among the stu­
· dents a( Greenway House, a resi­dential research center for autistic and schizophrenic children, ages two to ten. It is sponsored by the Deve­reux Foundation .and opened, this summer, in West Chester, Pennsyl­vania. It is directed by Doctors Austin M. DesLauriers and Carole Carlson, his wife. It is also the place where I am training as a coun­selor-therapist. 
Although it received little public recognition until the early 1960s, autism· is not a new affliction among children. These children were not identified as a separate group until 1943_ when Leo Kanner, an Ameri­can child psychiatrist, was the first to describe the syndrome of Early Infantile Autism. . The word autism stems from the Greek word autos, which means self. Into this self these 
· children have creatively or bizarrely withdrawn from everything and everyone. 
Primarily, autistic children do not communicate. Many are nonverbal, some echolalic. They can remain :ab­sorbed .with shiny or spinning ob­jects for hours without. moving. They might manifest their days in self-stimulating activities such as twirling, flapping, finger-twitching, rocking:.or running in a circle end­lessly. Autistic children often ap­pear immune to pain ·due to such self-mutilations as biting .or banging their heads against concrete or metal. The child 'is unresponsive to all affection or commands. 
What causes such unawareness? There are numerous _schools of thought and no· one definite cure, as of yet. Some say th.at the children are born autistic and. that·. it .may be attributed. to a _biochemical or neurological disorder. Ot_hers, such as Bruno Bettelheim, take a. psycho­analytic approach. Behaviorists, such as U.C.L.A.'s Ivar Lovaas, rE?­ject causal explanations and treat the. present with sh.ock treatments. DesLauriers and ·carlsofr, in Your Child 1s Asleep, propose. that th~e children are sleepy children~ delayed in their development,· and. must be awakened to their environment on a physical, sensual and emotio~al level. . At Greenway House: .. 
These children are not physically crippled and whatever physia"log­ical, neurological or physiochemi-· cal etiologies may be postulated for their disturbances, is ·1ess im­
•portant · than the psychological 
manifestations of disturbances in these children. It is the amelio­ration, modification, and treat­ment of such disturbances that remains·• the central focus of the Center's :program. 

Desiaurie~s' method of treatment . is called theraplay. Not to be con­fused with play therapy, which uses objects and toys to help the thera­pist observe and understand the child's behavior; theraplay uses only the counselor _as its point of contact. ,with the child. The coun­selor must intrude• constantly. and persistently in a playful· and excit­ing way into the child's. self-stimu­lating world, enticing him .to come out. 
.The child is led to find pleasure . in human contacts ... to discover his own body and its functions ... to derive pleasure in his own ac­tivities, accomplishments, initia­tives .and spontaneous problem­solving behaviors ... theraplay is a way of growing up for the child in a human world thatc is not .frightening. even though it is de­
•. mantling. and challenging. 

Greenway House is a-sensuous. place. The therapist must recall and re­enter heri;childhood, bringing with her -, the insights and confidence she has garnered in her adulthood. The therapist ·also must allow the child to .teach her to be tender-and-see things· a~ew. In the child's world there are no clocks to· punch and no pressures. ·-There are· -moments to stop and watch and-celebrate a fuzzy brown · caterpillar, .a sprig of cWild mint, gathering ·chestnuts with a bucket,.overalls.and barefeet, finger painting, dew on the _morning grass, a tickle of wheaf-weed on the neck, two pumping on aiswing, fresh peanut butter and .jelly· sandwiches , .. Greenway is surprisingly a place of laughter. One has to be able to laugh at some of its absurdities. Otherwise .... 
The job can result in a good deal of frustration and disgust. In this field countless questions are raised which have no answers. There_ are no solutions and definite time tables 
-of progress cannot exist. Vomit or smeared feces, followed by the child's grin of fiendish delight are not uncommon occurrences. ·con. a bad day one might be close to tears or screaming at him.) Yet, this prim­itive behavior is a part of the whole pathology which we are striv­ing to cure. Thus the child is rep­rimanded sternly, talked to and cleaned up. .Then the day's play must be resumed. The child must witness his therapist's anger and disgust. Yet, he knows that he will not be rejected. He will test her again and again to prove that her response will be consistent. In time he might trust her. In his own time; .. 
The job can also bring deep joy. Peter is a good example of this. Gradually, by September, Peter was· beginning to respond. Playing on the grass, I decided to make a third attempt to teach him to· fly-balanc­ing his stomach on my knees with outstretched hands interlocked with mine. Singing a· Peter Pan song to him, I began to notice a funny crin-: kling of Peter;s lips and behind them a shy tooth and space peeked out. When he landed on the grass I heard a strange, buzzing-grunt type C>f noise that soon built up into a tinny, awkward kind ·of giggle: His eyes kept shining and his. giggle im­proved. · It ·seemed to be the first time he had laughed! There were hugs fo~ all! (It helps the therapist to occasionally recall day one's re­
sponse.) 
September . . . seven-thirty a.m. 
"Good morning, Peter!" He does not wait for her now, but rolls over smiling to receive a delighted kiss and hug from his therapist. 
"Good morning, Scottie!" 
"Guy-ee ..." he screams gleefully with bright eyes and arms out­stretched for a hug. 
"Good morning, Stephen!" Walk­ing up to me, Stephen sorts and col­lects his words with difficulty. 
. ''Good moming, Betsy" and he takes my· head in his hands, reach­ing up for a kiss. No, they are not cured yet. (Someone will probably smear today!) But .they . are re­sponding... 
I remember my first weekend of ND-SMC at· a freshman barbecue. Some sophomores from Alumni Hall shared homemade ·chocolate chip cookies with ·me and· some friends, and made us feel at home." Over one guy's bed was a banner which read: "He who appreciates the littlest o~ things will someday . be rewarded with the greatest ofthings." 
· Perhaps that ought to be painted over Greeirway's bright. red front door. 
_;_Betsy Dwyer 


Sexual Can be Human 
Recently, one. of our. gracious lady administrators asked me if I would 

' write a few words on what · she· said had ·come to be called around here "the problem of human · sexu­ality." "Actually," she said, "I hate 
_the phrase. I see. human sexuality as something glorious, and not as a problem at all." I understood what she meant; but, for myself, I am not inclined to write an essay cele­brating the joy of sexuality. (Inci­dentally, why do all ofus insist .on specifying that the sexuality we are talking about is human sexuality? What other kind of sexuality could we be possi_bly concerned about mak­ing rules for? Animals • deal with their sexuality according to their in­stincts, with the. possible exception of the celibate (hah!) Darby O'Gill. It's a personal hang-up, but I always feel silly using the phrase "human sexuality.") ­
Like other gifts of creation, sexu-· ality becomes good or · bad for us, 

· depending on how it is used; for the indiscriminate, its use can be as dull as mud, or as flat as champagne with the bubbles gorie. Ifthere is a problem of human s_exuality, it is because of the necessity of restraints that people must· impose on their . sexual behavior. Most decent people agree, I think, that self-restraints are necessary; otherwise all of_ us could grow sick on spectacles like those that maddened Lear: "The wren goes to't, and the small gilded . fly / Does lecher in my sight. Let copulation thrive!" But why, . students ask, should such restraints · be . made : into the substance of a rule? I think of a former tenant of one of the campus dorms who -was churlish enough to give • a party celebrating his fiftieth victory of lust over virtue in the room where he lived. (Off-campus triumphs, one must suppose, · were notched on a separate belt.) This victory celebra­tion was not just a rumor heard by rectors; later, the bounder, when asked, confirmed the fact he had so ·honored his own doubtful achieve­ment. 
· To cite · another instance of re­straints overturned: I have known some pavement princesses from Chapin Street who, on cold winter nights, have sought the warmth of dormitories on this campus.-It was not Avon products-they were ·ped­dling from door to door. 
The sexual athlete is not reformed by rules, and regulations can hardly prevent_ Chapin Street from coming to college. But must a Christianity, in caring for itself, depend only on the good taste and judgment and vir­t.ue of its undergraduates to discour~ age the ways in which human beings are shabby? Leaving .. the grosser offenses aside, I think that a place where students live. and work and grow up should have, among its other comforts,· a · certain kind of moral tone~ Life is always difficult for the young. More thari at any 
-other age, they are unsure of them­selves: of the decisions they must make, of the directions their lives must go in. The decisions affecting our moral lives must be -private ones; but a dormitory is riot a pri­vate place. Secrets are not well kept in dormitories. I ·can -guess, or imagine, what my neighbor is doing; and-: I am not free· of his suspicions about me.· (I am speaking now in generalities; what happens: in the lives of the truly discreet,'_orily the voyeur and the house dick can know 
.for sure. Voyeurism and house · dickering themselves are among the very sick sins.)_: .·. 
In t~e semipublic life of a dorm, then, a student has a right not to be incessantly offended by the behavior of others,. be they noisy, drunk, boorish, or aggressively horny. A student has the right to freedom from .peer group pressures that de­mancl: -y01:.tive got to get . d~nk, when all you really want to do is study; you've got to be boisterous, when all you really want to do is 
I_: 

by Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
sleep; and if you really want to be cool; you've got, to make efforts at•a sexual· touchdown,·· when all you really want to do is make sweet­talk to· baby (Does the phrase date me?). I have been in college dorms in the East where there a,re no house rules, and the freshman student must compete with the seniors. at successful seductions; the kid feels , he has lost his right to·· be decent. There are many ways in which a dorm can becom~ a zoo, and lechery is one of -them. Virtue may some­times bite the dust on the weekends at Notre Dame, but without rules, it could be worse. I think if there were no rules, students coming· to the campus from their Christian homes, schools and religious·tradi­tions, would· despise ·the· place for its permissiveness. . 
There· are those opinion-makers who believe that sexual experimen­tation is part of the growth process, ·but if. this is so, a-crowded little dormitory room is :not very suitable . for use as· a laboratory. I think'.that young men' and women have a right to be educated in a moral · climate that · respects their personal free­dom; not the freedom to choose in important ways between right and wrong, but".the freedom not·to have 

.. decisions forced upon them that they are not prepared·to·make; freedom if you will, to be· virtuous; freedom from that moral ·conditioning ·that makes young-adults uncomfortable with'·their virgini_ty; freedom from seduction into· self-destructive ads. . Is it paternalistic for Notre Dame to insist on rules requiring nioral decency in the dorms? Perhaps so; but if your tradition is a.0Christian one, I don't think yoii hav~ to be • 
_ apologetic about cert~iri · kinds ·oi paternalism. Besides, the Decalogue should not be judged as aMosaic outline of the -arbitrary 'Yhii:ps . of a despotic deity. It reflects .th_e. ancient wisdom and distilled experience of men and women who have lived to-
gether generation after generation. Adultery is wrong because ·it wrecks homes, destroys marriages, and vio­!ates one's. sense ·of fidelity to. com­mitmenfa of love, honor, and family life. Fornication is wrong because it exposes couples fothe ruin of ex-plaiting .and .being exploited. Chil­dren are begotten from such unions that couples _are not ready to accept or take care of. Their choices are these: an unwanted marriage, or a recourse to adoption agencies, or a child growing up fatherless, or a consultation . with . the abortionist. All human. behavior has conse­quences; the . consequences . of hu­man intimacy . can be a price in human. suffering that. is simply tragic, · · . . . · . 
Cannot. a university in a practical. way (that is, with rules) discour­age a kind · of conduct that you would not expect yo~ parents to pt.it up with in·the home you share together?. You recognize .that their opposition conies from their · love for you. Their prohibition is a way of saying: "I do not approve of what you propose to do, though I know, if you want to, you will do it anyway. But must you ask us to condone your folly by insisting. on doing it under our roof, in the· bed­rooms we have furnished for your happiness?" 
Principles of concern can be ar~ ticulated by universities as wen as by parents. I think you are· old enough and mature enough to accept those principles which are protective of people and.values, and defend the community against the selfishness of •those·· who• don't· give·· a damn about this place, its people, or its traditions. That 'is what a rule is all about:. it tries to· protect· people and values·.. and the· community it­self/' Even when.it is couched nega­
tively as "Thou shaU not . . ." it tries to affirm ·a·. truth that needed saying. . .. ... •.• ·.• '.. . . One important truth· I want to 
.. , ... • .·. . . • 

affirm right n·ow:, it ismy faith in 
ness to_ college life that tempts stu­
dents to believe that all types of ex­
· plorations and searches are licit and commendable. These quests for ex­perience sometimes lead to mere .un­pleasantness, like hangovers. Some­times they lead to tragedies,. like hospital rooms · and . psychiatric wards. Rules become necessary, at least for their directive force; rec­tors need them as a credential. for the accountability _to which they can hold their residents. Some stu­dents come . here as children; they may grow up· quickly, or not at all, in the · college atmosphere. God knows, the University wants them to grow up, and whatever rules there are should be shaped accordingly. One immature student out of control can be aheadache for a· rector. A dozen of them, grouped together in a section or on a floor, can create chaos. Rules are the discipline needed as a corrective .to students who won't or can't disciplinethem­selves. 
I think that the University must deal gently with students who err (as I would judge it) in the ways they . use their sexuality, especially those whose innocence prevents them from knowing that they have strayed, morally speaking, onto the dark side of the moon: The Univer­sity administrator who must deal 
·. with discipline is riot the hanging ·. judge . in· a redneck town. I think .· students would bE;.,surpr.is~~to know 

how often the,,.,.Deari o{: Studerits--,.shouldn't require counselling to shelters. culpr~fs·;;caugh{'; iii1~rimes'"'-@q:w that rapii~~\vrqng. But if you for whic~ _they}b_~i?.Me ans,~•fa~~~~f~tudents[rg~t~£not to~ qui~k to the CIVIi autp9r1tie~~; ',Ther!f~1,; t:_,o;;;thr~ t~e~; a~Jl;,r, not If you versity, .~s. far as"I-~~ap:~s~/}~ ~SJI•.r;vant: 'it?'<-~~) ll:.1£~ristian . ed~ca~or. ally not ·interested m. rl}forc1rtg t!1~ ;,Y~t .~ven m~z:c;t¾ne1:ds to deliver a penal. code; it would!:~ot{'f~t;.,e#.i.-.¥l.9R"i~ thf\~~~i;~~ionally,just to ample, turn student~\OY~~;\t,~Yt}}~p[;<>yeet ~~-s~qIEtJkind. of class. sec~lar. arm. J5;1;,. ·tpef:~f,f~~~~~.<>.!' ~?,~/S'::{i\';!lj111k/tlia!_,.1J1.1<ekhandlmg of moral ha~1tat~p3ftfn9~1~~0}f)'}:R1:P~1:1-a?f ?ff~esj~,9W,1 P.r' left to the rector, 
pohceman\tq,,Ioc1¢up,an:;;upperclass~ not-to""l,the>d!=!anr of students con­man cbrittll3uting;to, the'"delinque'ilcy' ·2stilting,Jvith 1a'.{bb'ok of rules, though of a }~i~di;, ~~}>~P}[!.t~~lijf si~f\ :,he ,1?!?~t.ffe·1g{wise, decent, com­
teen7year-oJg ~girl,· though the,Um~ ;; pass10nate man: But the rector of 
_,,. /' '\..·• -f. ;,..., I•'-' ,., , ., .. ,,.. • . ,.,··, .. ··•. ·'· • 
Ytr~,ity,'%o~lfl b~ 7sp~f!?:Ht~i~~~a.J2;I~!f~;}J~ll\~sJ~~~er or mo,ther to th~ 
helper healing the offender. (Some­
times, in dealing with students, they 
help or heal us, being more at peace 
with . their. sexuality than their ac­
cusers are.) 

Notre. Dame, I think should .take t_he therapist's role in. the handling of discipline. That is :why I grow restless with attempts to draw up a code of penalties that matches every moral offense with its appropriate punishment, even though students demanding to know what sanctions they may expect .from us, would force the University into the legal dilemma of being a judge handing down sentences, rather than serving as a· teacher ministering to their growth. It is not always easy to know. all the •norms. of decency in sexual behavior, since there .are still some principles that reputable theologians disagree with: among themselves. Nevertheless, I think students should be held accountable for their actions, and counselled, if necessary, until a point of. recon-. ciliation is reached between them and the Administration. This may mean talking till the cows come home, but in an eyeball-to-eyeball encounter, you must sit there until · somebody blinks. The student will probably complain that the Univer­sity is forcing its morality on him, but we never promised him a· rose garden; There may be a few offenses. that seem gross enough to merit automatic suspension; a student 
the decency of the men and. women <ftfuf to_,~1;1chlantg~t,~~~~ ,~!,VJ fti:1py~:l.·°'~m.11~~7(/,,·\ · :· ~.. . of. N.o~.re ..· D.am.e_..· . ..... -.1_.?.," .. ...····. ~~ci·u··....~t! ..· .. ...~ ..s.-.·.··.:,·s·,·h,ou b.·~
Bo.·th.. . . on . ·!_.nj.'I , ~I.1caJ: ... 'of.;la·· .. ... ...o····n.·.··;,.·.~t,.1····~·.·.h.'.. '1f.·J.·1:1::: ..;;,.·I;.'.e··•c···t·?·r ... ld ·.gifted m the
off campus, I have respe_cted· ~,£~f _,1no~en.t:.lf 'KN1 :·,;r:·,}f<,;~?CH://· ,1.~rt;~ofs_cot,n~tE;~]ng, or they should 
Christianity_.J:_some_of,;;Y.9~,Ji~e~~5~1~~::~~~fff4:X~.i~k,{~e~~~·r~~~~-Jl~!:5.0n~:~•~':h_o~;they.1!!,. lapsed from faith and Church, you must treat sexualAm1sbeliav10rw.1th~can:.:deleg~tet:):!J.is1j1;~sp,ons1b1hty .. As live without decadence, the ·bea~ty the rilercy characteristic of ~ church the key fi~es -!n hall life, rectors of. the mo~al ·life, with compassion rather than with the justice typical can . hold students ac~untable for for. the underdog and reverence ;for of the civil court. Courts· deal with their actions more easily _than any-yourselves. offenses in order to puri'ish them; a one else. With their. special oppor-. 
But sometimes, there is. a headi-church· deals .with. an offense as· a tunities for knowing .the students, 
they · are the administrators best 
equipped to admonish, correct, pun­
ish, while being constantly loving, 
preserving · the Christian heritage, 
teaching the offender. The human sexuality rule,· then, could be expressed as simply as this: The residence halls of Notre Dame · art the on-campus homes of· the University's undergraduates 'and graduate students. In our Cath­olic tradition, sexual intimacy is considered as a right· to be exer­. · cised by married people. Good taste, common sense, and sensi­.tivity to the rights and feelings of others would · also suggest that sexual intimacy is grossly out of place on the campus ·or in ·the dorms where unmarried people live. Students will be held ac­countable to their rectors for sexual misconduct that seems harmful fo themselves, scandalous to their fellow · residents, con­temptuous · of the good order of the hall, or oblivious to the moral­
ity of our Christian heritage. 
It's a poignant little statement, missing half the bases, I'm sure; but we do the best we can when asked by our lady administrators. 
As an ex0 rector, I believe in the rectors' ·roles as pastoral persons, as educators, and as counsellors, with an effectiveness that someone viewed as a mere policeman could never have. Through them, Notre Dame can say to her students and alumni: "There are principles of morality we still believe in," with­out stirring up the controversies that divide the place every time the University holds a student to ac­countability. 
Perhaps the student will never see what he has done wrong or how he has misused his sex1:1ality. He can be invited to reflect, and he can be reasoned with, but perhaps he will never say: "Yes, my offense is clear to me, and I am sorry." But though he (or she) doesn't under­stand or agree with the rector's 
op1mon, ·maybe he·. can be macle to feel he was dealt with Jn love, and 
. not through ajustice he believes to be arbitrary and discriminating; Maybe he can submit himself to the discipline of blind obedience by com­mitting himself not to offend again,· even though he doesn't know why he shouldn't, if h~ can get ~away with it. This . is not totally a bad lesson in a world most of us don't understand in-its demands upon us anyway. This is the best statement _I c,an come up with, even for a gracious lady .administrator. There are ob~ vious points .r have missed, of course; but ·· to tell the truth, I haven't been paying much. attention to the discussion on the "problem of human sexuality" up 'fo. now.. But from now on,· you can bet I will. But it was only lately that you asked my opinion.· Always . remember, Mrs. McCabe, when you asked by opinion, the final word was love. 

Examining American Catholicism 
On Friday and Saturday the fourth ·and fifth of October a con­ference was held at the Center for Continuing· Education. This confer­ence, "The Reinterpretation of American. Catholic History," at­tracted over loo historians from all over the country. According to Jay Dolan, a , professor at Notre Dame and. one of ·the organizers of the conference, the purpose of the con­ference was twofold. Its first aim was. to emphasize a new method of interpretation of American Catholic History. The primary focus of the conference was to show the beliefs and ideals of the actual faithful and to study their interaction with so­ciety, in departure from the gener­ally practiced method of research through the biographical study of important individuals or a study of the hierarchy and its achievements. The second purpose of the confer­ence was to encourage and promote further research by scholars in the field of Catholic Studies. ~ The or~ ganizers. hope that the cross-fertili­zation produced by the conference will aid in the exchange of informa­tion and result in the mutual ad­vancement of work. . 

The topics covered at the con­ference included Catholics and the Left, .the ethnic. basis of the immi­grant · Church. in America, the his­tory of the hierarchy of the Ameri­can Catholic Church, and the theo­logical development of the Church in the U.S. There were also talks 
. .
' ' ' 

on various new methodological de­velopments which can aid schoiars in determining the dominant char­acteristics ·of particular Catholic· communities and, from these, enable scholars to draw a fairly accurate demographical picture. of the typical individual of that particular com­munity. For example, a talk was given on a study where baptismal-
records were combined with an 
analysis · of city directories and 
census records: From .the results it 
is possible to determine the occupa­
tions, family size,. residence·· and 
many other characteristics of .. ·the 
individual faithful. in these· early . 
periods. .. Through these pictures 
scholars are then· able· to determine 
what social forces led to certain de­
velopment in the Church. 
As-a. simple scholarly event, .the 
conference would be worthy of note, but it is also important to examine the motivation behind the confer­ence, and in a larger sense behind the study of Catholic history as a whole. Why.is it important to· know what Catholics· did in the U_.S. dur­ing the middle age of ourcountry? It is easy to give the standard reply that without a knowledge of the past it is impossible to understand the present and utterly hopeless· to 
attempt to forecast the future. How-· 
THE. SCHOLASTIC 

ever upon interview this reply is invalidated by those in attendance at the conference, for they claim that history cannot be used as a tool _ to forecast specific events in the future. _It can only show trends and indicate the general direction in which a society is heading. The general feeling at the conference . was that it is important to under­sta.nd religious history so that we can understand why religious in­stitutions are as they are today. 
_In this day of rapid change, es­pecially among. organizations, it is important to ·have · something Jhat people_ can grasp in order to provide a foothold and a guide. Religious in­stitutions are one of the things which can be used for this, but_ that is not the ultimate purpose of re­ligion. In,the final analysis religion is a private matter between man and his God. _This theme of religion as a matter -of individual faith is an idea which the conference seemed .to emphasize. -The prevailing attitude of _the delegates was that there is a ~tro_ng trend in American Catholi­cism today toward the recognition of the freedom of the individual and 
a . growing, degree of. tolerance · for his beliefs. The·Catholic or Univer­sal . Church in -the U.S. has had a history -of -tolerance for this view and since· the time of Vatican II this tolerance is -slowly changing into ac­tive support. It seems that there is a· strong .drive toward· the recogni­tion of individuals -and their views and thatthere should be, and is oc­curring, . an . acceptance of differing viewpoints in Church. circles. The idea of strength and unity through the diversity of the Church was one of the main points of emphasis of the conference. The Church must be alive to the needs of. -all indi­viduals -arid be. able to . find a place for all believers within itself. ­
There is a strong feeling that the crisis of. the.60's which we have all been reading so· much about lately; was more than simply the rejection of an immoral war or a feeling of impatience with the nations slow~ moving ,political . apparatus. The hypothesis has been, proposed that the unrest was not due to the -re­jection of. any preserit. set of values, but rather due to a reexamination of them, especially those of a spiritual nature. Certainly there has, been a strong. upsurge of religious feeling · 
OCTOBER 18, 1974 
and interest in the United States. This is witnessed by groups as di­verse as the Jesus people, The Di­vine Light Mission, or even viewers of The Exorcist. Many of the people in attendance at the conference feel that this interest will continue and grow. If this hypothesis proves to be correct their studies will prove to __ be invaluable _ in enabling_ the Church to cope with and understand the forces of change. 
For the last .hundred years the Church in the U.S. has not been a highly active motivational force for social ·change in accordance with Christian ideals. Rather the institu­tion itself has changed and adapted to accommodate itself to a changing cultural milieu. A narrow view has been encouraged and the Church has been essentially conservative in its actions. Historically this has been necessary, for the Church in the United States; while·strong numeri­cally, has had little popular support 
"The particular streng~h of the Church in the U.S. is its ability to adapt ... in times of change." 
and indeed there was much preju­dice working against it. Today the Catholic Church is securely estab­lished in the U.S. and has a respected place in society. This should enable it to take a more active role. in so­ciety. The security of its position enables it to speak out with a moral force that -people _will heed. Its statements are listened to with re­spect and the worry about. strong statements jeopardizing its very ex­istence has been eliminated.· 
The Catholic Church in the U;S. is well equipped to. handle diversity. As shown at the conference it has had to accommodate itself to people of a __ wide variety of nationalities, each with differing views. Each im­migrant community operated in a semiautonomous · way for years ·in order to _best-serye its members. Today -this trend ·is continuing all the way down to the individual level. In most,other countries where the Church has been e~t_ablished it has been to a homogenous population. The particular strength of the Church in the U.S. is its ability to adapt in order to give the best aid to the faithful in times of change. This is the real meaning of the Chur_!:!h's Catholicity. 
As anyone reading the news­papers can tell, Catholics are slowly stepping into the forefront of the fight for justice in America. Many of the people involved with the anti­war movement, the civil rights is­sue and welfare rights organizations have been · Catholic. These people have been acting not out of personal 

' feelings incidental to their faith but rather out of a deep conviction that this is the correct way to bear wit­ness to the way of life shown in the gospels, in today's society. This has been individual action motivated by deep faith. This policy of individ­ualism is where the_ Church in America _seems to be heading. _The realization that faith is a matter of personal call and that· each person must discover his owri beliefs and act accordingly is grow~ng stronger. This is not to say that the Catholic Church is moving from its image of large . communities _to simple' cells or small prayer groups, but rather that it is coming to the realization that there is room for both types of people within_ the organizational structure. There is always going to be a need for an organization and buildings-because not everyone is highly motivated and theologically skilled_ enough to set up smaller units to search out the truth. Many peopie, _maybe even the majority, feel that large group service is the finest way to reach unity with their God, but there is -a feeling that the Church is becoming ready and even eager to acco~modate more and more people who today 'are seen as out­side the mainstream of Catholic life. This is not meant to infer any re­jection of·the institutions of Catholi­cism as they exist today, but is just an expansion of them. The Church has room for all who believe in the -divinity of Christ and the way each person interprets the social aspects of the gospels is important mainly to themselves: This is where· the strength 'of -the Ain-ericari Catholic Church is based. It comes from a unity of diversity and an acceptance. of all. 
-Chris Cannon 




[P8ol>l~at·No ··· 
....v'_ . ..._,__ ,. ,•,,-:.' ,...,~-~--•--•~------•'"'-,.,._.,,,..,...:...:;.~..--..,,~•~-~ -~ ---••~ . 



One recently. instituted establish._ ment that has been receiving con­siderable ink and publicity in re­cent weeks is Darby's Place. The brainchild of Rev. · Robert Griffin, Darby's Place is located in the Las Fortune Rathskeller and _is open to patrons in the w:ee hours of the morning. The idea behind Darby's is to fulfill. the Notre Dame commu­nity's need for an early . morning place to belong. One visit to Darby's will give the_ visitor a feel for the unique concept involved with Hem­ingway's "clean and well-lit place." It can be whatever those who fre­quent itwish to find. Solitude, social interaction, study, personal expres~ sion, arid rest can all be found at different . times and · in different places at Darby's. One ·may find a guitar player performing for him­self. and others or · a student stretched out with a· bo6k. In either case they've made the place their own. Father . Griffin and Darby O'Gill .are· _often· referred to as the proprietors· yet they seem best de­scribed as regulars, for Darby's is one place that se,ems truly to belong to whoever wishes to frequent it. 
.. Notre Dame football has always been known to . possess a certain style and quality that is distinctive of the Fighting Irish, .and no one is working harder to preserve. that im­age than this year's leprechaun, Pat­rick Murphy.· Pat, a Cavanaugh Hall resident, earned the leprechaun job vacated by Danny O'Hare last 

spring by taking part in competi­tion among dozeris of interested ap~ plicants. Although a natural for the position· Pat never really · thought'. seriously about trying out until some. friends spurred him on with a ·few, words of encouragement. The only· qualification that was necessary to. enter into. the competition was a height under five-seven, but to win Pat had to be capable of performing( a good Irish ·_ jig and a lc)t of calis-· thenics. Contrary to popular belief. it is not necessary to be a true: Irishman although in Pat's case it didn't hurt. His grandparents are from Ireland and as a result he was already familiar with the I1~ish jig, an important factor in the competis tion. Earning the leprechaun's posi­tion has been a positive experience · for Pat in that he: loves to meet people and .enjoys. traveling. One,, adjustment he finds hard, however, is learning to keep' smiling• and· per­forming when ·the team is losing~ · That part is difficult, but for Pat it is ari important part of the position. He is an important reflection of Irish spirit and determination, and there~ fore his efforts provide a key factor in the makeup of Notre Dame foot­
ball. 

The renovation· of the Senior Bar is in full swing; and the man direct-. ing the efforts is senior Ray Capp. Many will remember Ray as a candi~ date in last year's student go"'.ern­ment elections. His thinking at that time was along the lines of aservice~ oriented·platform, and his··preserit level of activity . demonstrates a· clear· consistency. Since last spring Ray hasbeen involved in student ac­tivities: ·as the Campus-Life Com­missioner, a Logan : Ceriter volun­teer,' and currently he is serving as Chairman of the · Senior Bar Reno­vation Committee. Ral arid a crew of able volunteers· began ·work on the :bar over a month ago; ·over that ·period he has put iri an average of well over six hours a: day~ "When we got her the place' was Just a mess," he commented., The· group had fo begin by. tearing down every:. 
.thing ·and-· startin.g' from· scratch. The entire inside 'is"being reccin~ structed, requmng an 'enormous amountof manual labor,> which is justthe sort'of thing Ray enjoys the . most. "I.would love to be' a carpen~ ter," he quips: "Actually'the· biggest hassle isn't the labor -but :the red tape involved with the renovation." Ray stressed the importance of the positive attitude and the cooperation displayed by the many people who volunteer their time: as being ·the key factor in the project. "People is what the Senior Bar is all about and working with people is what the renovation is abql}t," stated• Capp. The work done by Ray, ·and his vol­unteers is by no means near comp]e..: tion, but-the place is shaping up; and with a continuation of the same spir­it and determination should' evolve into a magnificent success. · 
-Tom Birsic 
THE. SCHOLASTIC 


:_ ii,


Al Sondej--­
. . 
An. Acf of· Love
'
. . . , 

·If ·you. were told about a group whose members' were all equal, but in which 6 % of' the members·share in'one-third of the total benefits-of the group,. you: might think that .something was 'wrong. • You might reason-•tha1: since'. all members are equal; that any 6% should reap at most· 6% . of the total benefits'. Wollldn'Lthat be right?. Shouldn't that top.6% redistribute their share with the other 94%? Well, 'that's .the . way '"AI Sondej' (pronounced "Suriday")/ a-1974 graduate of ND, . reasoned· things out when. he looked . 
·at the group called mankind. 
He' saw a world with rapidly diminishing resources· and a rapidly growing population.' 'Of, that ·popu-· lation · 6%:·was wasting much of these'precious resourceslon luxuries whiie: half didn't ·everi have enough to eat. He' felt that something had to: be done to<even out: that im­balance,_ esp~ci~lly :conside'ring how interdependent we of'the U. S. (the toP:'6%) are'with the rest of the 
. worid. · ·, "What's( going· to change this• is an a.ct of"love> Love to me is'·giving"··something to·· somebody arid not :expecting'anything back in return." So, Al Sondej is working in the microcosm ofND to make us aware of this situation and to give us the opportunity to change it with a donation. He stands.in front .of ·the North Dining.Hall at lunchtime and collects donations for CARE, Cath­olic Relief Services and UNICEF in a plastic milk containe~ to the .cry of, "A:penny buys six cups of milk, a 
-
dime buys sixty." During dinner he collects outside .the South Dining Hall, this time. using the formula with. three bowls .of porridge, ·.· in­stead of six cups of milk. He says_ that every dollar. donated works twofold_:_it means one mo~e dollar for people in underdeveloped coun­tries and. it. represents one less dol­lar's worth of resources used by us. In the first 25½ days cif collecting, he had collected $2,018.11,.or. more than 600,000 bowls of· porridge. 
·Using the idea that less consump~ tion here saves more resources for use elsewhere, Al has cut down his own consumption to the point where· he can fully. support himself with what _he gets paid for working from seven· till ten o'clock every night in the North Dining Hall. He !hies in a rented house· near campus which he shares with'threeothers who are all· current .undergrads at ND. He does· not receive any compensation from the organizations.for which.he collects,· nor does he keep· any por­tion of the money collected. When he · is not workirig or collecting, he is ·researching the world situation and the ·different relief organiza­tions to determine which·· are the most efficient. 
Al first became involved in this sort of work due to the work of Tom Hamilton who organized • Students for Biafran Relief at the time of the Biafran crisis, and later, the group Students for·· World ' ·concern, founded to ra_ise money for Bangla­desh. He worked for these and vari~ ous other organizations,· notably 
~ .'...~ '. ;.-. . . 
last year's Lenten CARE collections, 
in the last few years here. When he 
graduated last· ·May, this· work 
seemed so important to him that he 
made it a full-time job; 
After graduation he spent three 
weeks of on the spot research ·of 
different• relief;: organizations .. in 

New· York. Then he returned.to ND where he was a staff member of the . Notre Dame ·Sports Ca.mp •for the 
summer. While• here,·he continued 
researching and finally chose CARE, 
CRS, and UNICEF as the:organiza­
tions · for ·which: ·he: would 'f collect; 
This. was decided "because. of the 
relative ·efficiency 'of ·these'. organiza7. 
tions:. . . .. . . . 
·'·Even though he, · himself; is coin:.. 
mitted to this idea; ·he does not try 
to push''it ·on others;_'He sees his 
role as one of making the facts clear 
and allowing others to ·make their 
own value -judgments (this· is the 
reasoning behind his ;simple inilk 
and porridge approach):·-He·never 
puts down anyone ·else's life-style; 
just asks 'that they question iL In 
this vein, he asked that he might be 
able to write an address to the ND 
community and have··u .included in 
this edition of Scholastic. If is this 
presenta.tion of the facts of world 
conditions which follows.· 
· Today, ·there are over. 3.8 • billion 
people in the world; :More than· two 
billion are malnourished. It has been 
estimated that one-third of the 
deaths in the world today are at~ 
tributable to starvation· or· malnu­
trition,· that is 20 million per year 
or 2,300 per:; hour. · Furthermore, 300 million children have irrevers­ible . brain damage and retarded physical growth due_ to protein de­ficiencies (and many more are severely affected from what we con­sider mild diseases). Around two billion people never receive medical care from a doctor, and over 810 million adults are illiterate. Also, two billion have a total annual in­come of $200 billion, which averages out to only $100 per-capita for half of mankind. Global military ex­penditures ·exceeded that total last_ year with the U. S. spending two: fifths of the sum. Urban population grows· at a rate of· five to eight 

.· percent annually (most of which is due to rural-urban migration), and inadequate sanitation and water supplies· as well ·as unemployment result. These are some of the factors which make socioeconomic develop~ ment ·in underdeveloped countries 
(UDC's) difficult. The Gross World Product is cur­rently $3 .trl.111.0 n and i·ncreasi·ng at a rate ,of· $120 . billion -each. year. 
The .u.. S... Gross ·Nati·onal· Product l·s,$1 tr1·111·on,-__ w1·th the average per capita. income for Americans being well over $4,000. This 6% of the world's population is doing 33% of the -_world's consuming. Yet, •as Lester .Brown of the Overseas De­velopment · Council .recently said, "Total-u:s.< assistance to poor countries__with two billion people is only moderately larger than the NYC welfare program, and.most of the former; is. loans requiring re-: payment." If is ;important to note that consumption~ involves produc­tion and distribution, which in turn result in: 1) the usage of a finite supply of resources, often in an un­recyclable process; 2) restriction of needy people :of ,the UDC's from access to .;the resources that are consumed; and3) the creation of pollution and the breakdown ,of life-sustaining ecological systems.in the environment: 
Currently, 130 _million people are born and 60 .million p~ople di_e an­nu~lly;, this a net annual increase of 70 millic:m people (8000 every hour) ·or_ a +2%world population growth pendency, education, and future fertility and unemployinent prob­lems. 
Sociological evidence indicates that birth rates will decline if basic social needs are satisfied-a reason­able standard of living, an assured food supply,· a reduced infant mor­tality rate, literacy, and health service~if motivation.. for smaller 
_.families is provided. Parents in the 

· UDC's are forced by their living conditions to depend upon their off• spring, . and · not upon _ their re-._ sources, for socioeconomic security . in. their old -age; hence the high fertility rate to overcompensate for the high infant and child mortality rate. There is about a 50% chance for a newborn to reach five years of age in theUDC's. 
' 
. With these conditions in mind, I 
-· 
believe_ tha_t the humane thing to do is 'to support agencies that help the needy two-thirds._ The more money that is donated to such causes,. the
.. . . -· --­
less money_ can be used on goods

· • . whose ·production· and dist_.ribution involve· the'. waStin_g o_f ·_ finite re-. sources, and the unnecessary crea.,: tion_of pollution and the breakdo~ of ecological cycles: The only way that 1 see that this world could be rid of poverty, starvation, disease, ignorance, and overpopulation is for each person in the developed coun:.. tries(DC's). to relate to the people in the UI?C's as our parents related to us-out oflove. ltshould ~appen; it is up to us. . . · _, The reason that I chose to co_l-. lect for CARE,,CRS; and UNICEF is 
The basic .objectives of these or­
ganizations ·are:_ .1) ·to improve the 
health a·nd nutrition of the most 
vulnerable sectors of the population 
-that ,is children and infants. and 
pregnant and nursing women; 2) to 
educate the people in production and 
consumption of foods of high nutri-· 
tional value, as well as public sanita­
tion and facility construction; 3) to 
stimulate their own food production 
so that the ·recipient country be­
comes self-sufficient with regard to 
food and nutrition programs; 4) to 
promote community participation 
and strengthen institutions which 
maintain self-help; and 5) to set up 
family planning programs upon re­
quest of the recipient nation's gov­
ernment. This applies only to CARE . 
and UNICEF.·. (I. am.. ilot familiar 
with their policies as regards abor-: 
tion yet, but I am attaching to_ each 
money. order. from the.· students' 
donations a request that no:money 
is to be used to._support-suc:t:i activi~ 
t· "f th .. . t).
-1es, 1 ey-ex1s. -. -, .. •, . 
· 
. . ,These self-help programs, ~hich f th b . f th .
orm,-e as1s or, ese organ1za­t· d" t d "th "'eed· g
ions, are .coor. ma e ·WI_ ..., m programs, in _accordance with P.Ls 
480. T~is. is done· by__ distributing food on a conditional basis and is used as an incentive (except for the emergency relief programs where the traditional_ dole-type_·feeding is used)-for: partidpation ·in self-help programs., For: . example, . mothers and children are given ,food at' cen­.ters -where _they learn hygiene, nu~ 
-trition,. and, (in the. case of .the children) . reading-• and · ::writing; and the men work on -commu­

that these organizations are, to my --nity projects. Although. the levei 
knowledge,. most efficient in aiding the.neediest people in the UDC's in Asia, Africa, and Latin America. These organizations are able to op­erate so extensively_on_ such a small ·budget :because: l)_ U.S. P.L._ 480 regulates the allocations of surplus farm commodities . to voluntary organizations concerned with the UDC's; 2) money goes a lot further in the PDC's; and.3) self-help part:-_ nership agreeni~nts are structured around a matching process by whi~h the·. recipient . government . supplies 

·rate.. About five-sixths .of .this -in~ ... $2:50 worth of resources and labor · 
crease occurs in the UDC's, where in exchange for $LOO worth of com­
40 , to 50% ,of , the popula~ion : is modi ties, trained personnel, .and 
under age fifteen. . This poses de~ technology. · · of technology.used in _these self-help programs is not as high as.in.those of other agencies, such as darri con­struction; these programs are more acceptable _. because ; they .. provide more .. of. the. basic fundamentals; such .as well irrigat~on and di_tch ·• ­digging. Again, it's upon the concept of self-help ,that these-:i1on~profit, non".' discrim~natory,_mpther :-an9 :-. 
_child.,:-centered organizations are based. , ; :.·: '.·,_, 
, CARE-stands. for Co9perativ'e for. American· •Relief .Everywhere, and works in 36· UDC's. Its.budget last year wasjust over $14-million, and was funded primarily from contribu­tion~. ~ade. by the Aineri~an'. and 
,, THE. SCHOLASTIC 


Canadian pubUc. CARE provided $91.5 million.worth ofaid in terms of goods and services benefiting 33 million people through its food, self~ help; health, and emergency pro­grams..Thus, for every dollar do~_ nated, $6.46 worth of aid was given. Shared cost partnerships involved education,. food .· pr9duction, water sources, nutritio·n education, family · planning, rural electrification, road construction,. and low.cost housing. Emergency and disaster aid in the form of food and medicines · took place in the· drought areas of sub­Sahara Africa, the flood areas of 
OCTOBER' 18, 197 4 Bangladesh, India, the Philippines, and the. Nicaraguan earthquake.. ·. 28 · million people were fed· ·at scheduled programs; 27 million were school children, .and two million were .disaster victims. Three. million benefited from health and self-help development assistance. Further­more, self-help programs increased food production ,for .300,000. ·school kitchens,. nutrition and . mother­child centers serving ·well over ½ 
million children were con·structed or equipped, while ..446 primary schools and 64 secondary schools for almost 60,000 children were built. MEDICO, 

an affiliate of CARE, treated 500,000 
patients and trained nationals who 
will treat millions in the years ahead 
in the "treat and teach" programs. 
Again, all this and more was accom­
plished with only $14 million on the 
part of CARE .. 
CRS stands for Catholic Relief 

Services and works in 72 UDC's; Its 
budget last year was about $6 mil­
lion and was funded primarily ·by 
contributions made by the Ameri-· 
can public. CRS provided $138 mil­lion worth of aid in terms of goods and services, benefiting 20 million people. Eleven million people were . fed at scheduled ·programs with foodstuffs valued at $59 million; 
12.5 million pounds of clothing val­ued at $17 million was distributed in 46 UDC's, and two million pounds of medical supplies worth $8 million was distributed in 59 UDC's. This and more was done by CRS with $6 million. 
UNICEF stands for United Na­tions International Children's.Emer­gency Fund and works in 111 UDC's. Its budget last year was around $81 million, iand was funded primarily from government contributions. In 1972, · 168.· million pounds .of food were distributed to health centers in 19 UDC's as well as for the emer­gency areas of·Afghanistan, Bangla­desh, and the Sudan. 11,000 nutri­tion and food centers, 15,400 medi­cal .centers, 25,000.schools an"d train­ing centers, 500 women's clubs, 800 child welfare and day care centers, and 100 village youth .centers were equipped.· Furthermore, stipends were pro:vided for. 218,000 profes­sionals, . which included 11,000 vil­iage youth leaders trained to. en­courage. a slowdown of ·rural,urban migration. Also, pure drinking water and healthy sanitationwas providedto prevent the spread of disease in 70 UDC's, as well as the founding of mother-child health centers. sup~ porting family planning in 27 UDC's. This, and more, . was accomplished with $66 million. on the· part of 
UNICEF. . . . . I would like to thank yoti, the student body, for your conUn_uous suppo_rt of these efforts. It ~s really impressive to see people like. your­selves care for people that· you'll never see or get thanked by. -Mike Feord and Al Sondej 
The :Food Supply· Crisis:·-_--­-A Matter of Life al1d De_clth 
~•r suggest that we are thieves in a way. If. I take anything. that I do not need-for my own immedi­ate use, and keep it, I thieve it · from somebody else . . . In India we have got three_ million · people having to be 'satisfied on one meal a day, and that meal consisting of unleavened bread containing, no · fat, and a pinch'of salt: You and I have no right to anything that ·we ,really have until these three · million are clothed and fed better. You·'and I ought to know.better, and we must'adjust our needs·and wants, ·and ·even undergo volun­tary starvation in order that they may be nursed, fed and clothed;" 
Mahatma Gandhi, All Men Are Brothers, p. 130. 
. . 
-' When Gandhi wrote these words, he was primarily 'co·ncerned with the epidemic :'starvation that Ms people were undergoing, through no fault of their own. Countless mil~ lions have died there and the rad­ical life-style which Gandhi espoused seemed only the ramblings of <a desperate leader. -But the intricacies of world 'food supply resources, as Gandhi well knew, -are questions of not·only scientific dilemma but more ·importantly of human dignity and morality among the world family, if there can be such :a thing. For to~ 
_day, whether one is moral or not, one cannot escape' the inevitable fact of a world in misery/a world torn not by war but by hunger, a _world of starvation, a wodd majority, the Third World. -­
· · Today, there.· are approximately ?;8 billion . people on Ear_th, afigur~ 

1 
l 
.. . ' 

which is moving· quickly towards 4 the terrifying hell that presently billion and by the year -2000 will exists in that area as well as reach at leasL7 billion..With a cur-others.· Not onlydo they not have· 
. ___ . ....·· ­
.,, .., 

rent population of 205 million peo-food between seasons, but when the ple, the· United .·'states-constitutes season -came this year, it produced about 11/~9 of'trie)total number of nothing._ The resulf · is inevitable humans anywhere.! Yet in 1974, as disaster in the form of naturalgeno~ in 1973, the '-¼~efican people are cide. 
;"•.· 
-:,

eating, wasting, buying, but most This is the story in just Africa importaJtiy,_ po)sessing 80% of the alone where 800 million are living world's/food supply, a figure which and dying. There are countless other is movi,ri{ qt1ig~ly to 90%. This --examples in India, Latin America, supply ir,attaine,? _in this ~ountry and Asia. Even in the U.S., people ­and other fortunate countries, but starve to death. In his book Har­
,-, ;_-~ ;_ :, , . p . . ' 
the resour~es comr f~<>.T;~!l_over the vesting 'the Jf]arth, Georg -Borg­w~r!d· Th_erefore'. . E?fe~!~11thout a strom claims .that · of the . 450-500 cr1s1s of demand fo~fooil supply, million people who are starving (not over 70%/of. the w<_>);id's~e~ple are to mention the others living under getting le~~:tJ-1111'! ~~rci of ithe world's minimum requirements), 15-20%. of food. Ethi£ahsta~aardsflput aside, them live .in the U.S. Some of his this is pl~i~ly no( a situation which other• statistics are . a:larming as
:;;~;z:~~?!'.::::.i'.:·:,n:~ ,;:::f.f:t:;:;~:~7{Ef:w;; 
consider the present pibblem. In malnutrition.. A -figure like that 
.I , i 11 •

central Africa and Bangladesh, only shouts outrageously to anyone, 
,. I VJ 

to mention the worst areas, the food Christian or otherwise, who can of the peopl~ de~ends on the success honestly ·say that, as a person, it of their stibsistence fathiing and does not bother him/her. It is ob­their ani~i\s~f;\F'.or aniinals, th~y 'Viously clear that the majority. of need. grau};; ~r,}d · fee~. ,1)or · _their the world's people are livjng at less farms, theyc,need ·ram and water: than what they need-arid they have And if thelraiA comes, th~1-e is" the no power 'to gain)t or ;demand it. questi~n of\~!1ikther the P~Sple can One recent exception to that was store enough 'Jood to · 1ast until the .the.·· · overthrow of Emperor Haile_ next season~!~his is whe~~ star~ Selassie iri Ethiopia. The hunger and vation usually:occurs-between sea.:. famine in Ethiopia are representa­sons when fri~d has run oh\ and · tive of all centra:l Africa, and Ethio­thousands a~~f~terally witho~t nu~ pian military officials felt that the trition. But~is~~ar, as last'It.yea~ Emperor was ignoring 'the problem. and others, the Sahelian drollghtin That. was seemingly one way to try Africa coupled with the uncontrolled -to say. something to the rest. of the populationexplosion, brought about world. . . -.. . 
. t· :. 

Some have said that-population control; is the answer. This may have some undeniable truth, but it will tak;e, by conservative estimates, at least 30 years before it has an effect, if the measures are taken worldwide immediately. This is not feasible. In addition, even if it did work, the fact that 80% -of the world's people are living with 20% of the world's food is an issue to reckon with ultimately.· 
Why does such an imbalance of injustice take place? In an inter­view iri 1971, Julius K. Nyerere, President of Tanzania, an African · Third World country, said: "Just as water from the driest. regions flows into the plent.iful ocean, so wealth . flows from the poorest nations and individuals into the hands of those nations, those individuals who are clearly too wealthy. A man who can afford only one loaf of bread a day contributes ·to the profit accruing to the owner of the bakery despite the fact that the owner already has more money than he knows how to use: And the poor nation· which · sells its p~imary com~odities on the . world market in order to buy ma-· chines for development finds that the prices it obtains and the prices it has to pay are both determined by forces of the free market in which it is a pygmy fighting against giants." With the scale of geopoli­tics already• tipped against ·it, the starving country has little to lo·ok forward · to in world trade and is even· the. victim of· systematic exploitation, echoing the ccy of some of America's poor in the face · of capitalism. So how do we begin to control the situation? Do we feed the nations, teach them, ignore them? , How can they develop prop­erly, and what role should we play? And more importantly, how can we make sure that the -_world gets its fair .share of world food instead of 20% . among' over 2/3~ of • civilization? 
: ! • • 
What is the U.S. doing? 
This country is sending food, how­ever small and despite the pressures and tyranny of U.S.-Russian grain deals. This distribution is carried out by various agencies, most no­tably CARE and Catholic Relief Ser­vices as well as some mission com­munities. But what we have today is more than just a neighbor in need. The. food supply crisis is quickly becoming a--matter of life or death for most of the world community. 
decisio~ must be reached by each of us. _Students going 'to the_ dining hall can frequ~ntly_ see one ·example of this personal decision in Al Son­dej, an ND graduate who collects, rain 'or shine, ·for CARE arid· lives voluntarily ori a fi~ed low income. There is some movement among stu­dents to effect the dining halls and skip meals, as well as instituting meatless days for · everyone. It is becoming more apparent that we are 'going to have to change our life­

And in the midst of that ghastly· ·.style somewhat to deal with' the 
ultimatum, there is the argument of · morality, --of-whether we can 

rightfully eat in the U.S. as we are accustomed to, while others starve, as Gandhi brought up, without being "thieves." Indeed, the Notre Dame student may feel that it is a situa­tion of which one cannot gain con­trol. What can and should the in­dividual and the University do? As Father Hesburgh said to a recent meeting of concerned students from the Program for Non-Violence, CILA, and faculty members from Notre Dame and St. Mary's, "I don't think we should all pack up for Bangladesh tom.orrow." In his ·new book; The 'Humane Imperative: A Challenge for the Year ·2000, · Fr.­Hesburgh . takes the problem _ of moral consideration and the im­pending crisis _arid .c_:on~ludes that some ,sort of answer, , some sort of 
problem. ·-· 
.. . 

But beyond a personal witness and campus organization,· what should the U.S. government, as world· lead~ er, dc:i in the face of this injustice? We currently spend 63 times more tax moriey on our military, not to mention foreign aid armaments· ·to Chile, · South Vietnam, Turkey; etc., than we do' on aid to hungry de­·. veloping countries. • There is a ques­. -tion of priorities which must be clarified if anything is to happen on a worldwide scale; An economic factor like this one is perhaps most important. As the Chairman of the UN delegation of Lethosos, a hun­gry African country,· remarked: "The developing countries do not ask for charity, but for a readjust­ment of the terms ·of trade and aid . in such a way as to bring prosperity to all. It is within the power of the advanced countries to redress ·or aggravate the situation, which is a matter ·for action -: and not merely good intentions and -pious: resolu-
The next time a magazine· p°icture or television screen shows the. faces of those who are 'suffering:. like . a glimpse into the. inferno; consider the possibility that we may, as 

_Americans and as·· human • beings; have to bear some responsibility for that in the future, if i:iof·immedi­ately. 
-Dave Dreyer 

Coming Distractions 

lUUSIC 
Oct. 23 -Chicago Symphony String Quartet, Library Auditorium and Lounge, 8:15 pm. Oct. 26 -The Jackson Five, in concert, ACC, 8 :30 pm. Tic~ets .$7.00, $6.50, $5.50. 
CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION . . o.ct. 21 -AAUW & NOW Dinner and Lecture; speaker ---:-Liz Carpenter.· Oct. 23 -Symposium on Pyelonephritis. Oct. 26 -Graduate-·Record Exam, Engineering Audi­

; torium, 8 :30 am. . . . Oct. 27-31 ---:-IEEE -Information Theory. 
ART 
Notre Dame Art Gallery . Through Nov. 24 -Bill Kremer; a one-man show of 

· · recent .. ceramic art sculptures by a member of the Notre Dame Art Department, Gallery 1. Through Nov. 15 -Opus Donatelli. 100 enlarged photographs by Clifford West · of the Renaissance · scultpure Donatello's pulpits in the Medici Church of San Lorenzo, Florence.. Gallery 3. · Through Nov. 24 -Minor White, the internationally known teacher and photographer, demonstrates his mastery in .capturing the spirit of American life. Gal­lery 2., 
St. Mary's Through Oct. 28 -Eugene Atget, Paris Photographs. From the International Museum of Photography at George Eastman House; Main Moreau Gallery, 12-:-5 daily. Through Oct. 28-Sr. Cecilia Ann Kelly, "Configura­tions of Form"; drawings on display in Hammes Gal~ lery,. 12-9 daily. Through Oct. 28 -Paintings by Harriet Rex-Smith, 12-9 daily, Little Theater Gallery. 
;~. ~--... -, ,. c-•. --.--.-_,. '<-----,--',.. -~" -: ~-:<"', '"J :'.', ~ '.,_•__ ,, 
tWeek'.:ln Distortion· 

Through Oct. 28 -Watercolors by Gertrude Harbart, 12-9 daily, Photo Gallery. 
FILlUS Oct. 19 -"3 in the Attic," Engineering Auditorium. Presented. by the IEEE. , 
Oct.. 20, -_21  - "The  Graduate,"  Engineering Audi­ 
torium.  
Oct.  22, 23  - "8½," Engineering Auditorium.  Pre­ 

sented by the Cultural Arts Com~ission. : l\lORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUl\1 (232,;,6954) ­Oct. 19 -Karate Expo. Oct. 20 -· Aerosmith in concert. Oct. 25 -Bob Ralston, organist for the Lawrence Welk band,, in concert. Presented by the Hedman Organ Co . Oct. 26 -South Bend Symphony Orchestra with John Browning, guest soloist. . Oct. 29 -Live television coverage, Ali-Foreman fight .. Nov. 1-'Bill Anderson, in concert. · 
·sPORTS 

Oct. 19 -Army at Notre Dame, 1:30. 
.Oct. 22 -Soccer: "B'' vs. Bethel, 7:30 p.m. Oct. 23 -Soccer: "A" vs.. Grace, 3 :00 p.m. Oct. 26 .:_ Miami-at Notre Dame, 1:30. 
OTHER DIVERSIONS 
Oct. 21 -David Halberstan, author of "The Best and 
·. the Brightest,'~ Library Auditorium, 8 :00 p.m. Oct. 25 -Nov. 3 -Midsemester Vacation, beginning af­ter last class Friday. · · 
SPECIAL NOTE: 
WSND presents the_ National Lampoon Radio Hour. On FM, Thursdays from 11-11 :30 p.m. (88.9 me); on AM, Mondays from .10-10 :30 p.~. (640 kc). 
·' ' 
:•.~,:.,>:.·_._._("''-: 
J?rom Rags . .. The Observer, October 10, 1974; "... Stephens, insisted that the in­crease.. in basketball ticket prices is necessary to meet the rising costs of the department. 'This is not a price­gouging operation,' he _stated." 
.. ~ To Riches The Observer, October: 10, 1974: "... Hesburgh also ·announced dur­ing his address the institution of Endowment Fund C, a fund _to be used by faculty members for experi­mental · academic projects 'and not requiring annual outlay. This fund is being instituted through surplus athletic income. Drawn from past years' athletic profits, this fund will 
start at 2.5 million dollars." 
This afternoon we visited Dino­saur National Park. We didn't see any dinosaurs,_ but .we sure saw a 

nice park. 

I don't know where the dinosaurs were, There .weren't ·any dinosaur tracks or dinosaur turds around, so apparently they've been gone for-a long time. I'm not sure. . 
l did see some bales of hay behind the Dinosaur Nation.al Park Main­tenance Building, so . maybe they'll be back soon or they're just-sleeping 
or something. . . . . . I sure am sorry we didn'_t see any dinosaurs. We _were saving. stale bread and everything.: · · 
The authorities are pleased to an-. 
•nounce the ·inceptions of the Intra­Quad Kafkan Bus Service. Depar­tures are at 2:20, 3:25, and 4:30 from the front door of O'Sliaugh­nessy Hall with stops at various in: · ~ohn A. Harding 
tervals in the North, South, and Main Quads. Riders must be punc­tual as 0the buses do not wait, and they should find themselves walking with the tedium of those days, those interminable times before the ser­vice was started for the benefit of all students. Do not miss it! 
·.' 
All parties interested in attending the carnival and patronizing its con~ cessions, are well advised to note the availability · of express transporta­Uon to the event, !!_lis year to be held at Golgotha. The · service is offered by Charles Baudelaine, whose Mod~! A will be awaiting all passengers at the circle near the main gate at 
4:55 PM, Friday afternoon, the 18th .of October. 
-L. Patrick Burns Leo J. Mulcahey 
· THE SCHOLASTIC 



I . , 

Approximately one year ago, Rolling Stone ran a review of Bonnie Raitt's third album, Takin' My Time: The article restated her long-time preference for performing in concert rather than on record, repeated her desire for reaching her audience_ in person rather than through the various public relations devices, and reaffirmed her aversion to obtaining a "hit record." 
One year and one album later, Bonnie hfis altered her aforemen­tioned cree_d in one respect; With the recent release of Streetlights, her distaste for a "hit record" has quite apparently evaporated. Bonnie even defends her conversion to commer­ciality quite unabashedly in her per­formance of Allen Toussaint's '!Suc­cess": , · 
:When should one change his mind and jump the fence for the dollar sign It's a sad thing , · It's a -bad thing but so necessary . . That this cold world forces values 
to 
become monetary 

While her lyrical logic is certainly refutable, ·it may .not be. all that heartfelt. It is quite probable that her defection from her traditional approach was not out of lust for money, but due to Warner Bros. dis­illusionment with her album sales. · ·Although Bonnie has banished her beloved blues, as well as jazz and straight rock; from this album, much of her style remains. Hence, she pro­duces a pleasant, if ·not affecting performance on a number of selec­tions. . Particularly praiseworthy is her rendition of John Prine's "Angel_ From. Montgomery," which employs a dobro-style guitar and cowboy har­monies surrounding her vocal to ef­fect a· realistic country tinge. Also notable isthe.title ·tune, mainly due to Bonnie's convincing vocal. The most moving · song on the album, though, is "Everything That Touches You;11 featuring Ms. Raitt's 
.---. . 
mournfully pretty singing matching the melancholy mood. 
The most significant aspect about this ·album is Bonnie's ability to overcome material which is either impotent in· the first place or ·over­arranged to sound like Carole King pop-soup music. (Mostly due to pro­ducer Jerry Ragsvoy.) In each in­stance, her vocal expertise prevents disaster, breathing life into the limp tunes and establishing her vocal identity over music which could have ,otherwise easily, buried her in a barrage of brass and back-up vo­cals and a slew of strings. 
· When ' Bonnie Raitt decided to make this album, it involved not only casting aside the past that had made her· famous;· 'but it also in~ eluded adapting to various new styles of music and carrying the burden of less-than-first-rate .ma­terial. • Content-wise, Stre_etlights may well be her 'worst album; yet in .an another senie it is. her most important, because regardless of the quality and diversity of the music, Bonnie· can handle it through the brilliance of her voice. 
-Patrick Small 
Two things I heard recently have left me much encouraged about the future of John Lennon. 
Item One: The· case involving John Lennon's fight to stay in America is now tied up in .the Fed­eral District Court which means Lennon has ·at least another year to stay., The reason for the ,delay. in deportation? Lennon's lawyer found _118 cases of aliens allowed resident status with convictions "at least as serious", as his client's. •Or as ·Lennon put it: "There are nar­cotics dealers. that've been allowed to stay. Murderers, rapists, multiple convictions for dope,· heroin, ·__ co­caine. What the hell.· I'll. fit right in." . 
Item Two: His new album, "Wall_s and Bridges" -which is a sheer joy. 
It contains no less than: "Bless 
You," a most unusual lovesong to 
his separated spouse Yoko that 
rates easily with McCartney's '.'Yes­
terday" or Harrison's "Something"; 
"Whatever Gets You Thru the 
Night," performed with assistance 
from Elton John, which probably 
will give Lennon his first number­
one single as a solo artist; and a 
whole mess of other stuff that will 
serve to rem.ind you why half of us 
had his picture in our purses and the 
other half of us walked·around con­
stantly combing our bangs. 
· After ·the unsurpassed "John 
Lennon/Plastic Ono Band" album, 
Lennon's solo ·career ranged from 
spotty ("Imagine")· to downright 
awful ("Sometime -in NYC"). · His 
new album holds· the same position 
in his career as "Abbey Road" did 
for· the Beatles in relation' to the 
earlier "Sgt. Pepper" album: "Walls 
and Bridgesll may not be as "pr(?­
found" as "Plastic Ono Band" but 
it's a whole lot prettier. 
Every tract is filled with excel­
lence on all sides (no pun intended), 
The production by Lennon is bril­
liant. The musicianship on•·the 
album is better than I've heard on 
anyl'ex-Beatle'' album (it obviously 
was a labor of love to everyone· in­
volved). Lennon has·· never sung 
this well before in his life. Maybe 

what. I'm trying to say 'is, "A · splendid time is guaranteed' for .all." 
I suppose I could get real analyt.: 
ical like college reviewers ·some­
times do and prove how much I 
know about the Beatles and music 
but anybody who's turned on. a 
radio the past ten years already 
knows what I'm talking about. This 
album and the latest releases by his 
three former· colleagues prove the 
Beatles don't need to· get back to­
gether. They're already here. · 
John Zygmunt 

Talking With 
. . . . 

Go(don Lightfoot 
Gordon Lightfoot is important in the same way Woody Guthrie is im­portant. Someone recently said of the one hundred and three songs which Lightfoot has recorded no less than twenty have· a chance to continue in the folk·tradition, which means· some of the songs. we heard him sing last Friday night might be 
.sung by people for hundreds of years to. come. . No one can be sure of things like 
that, though. However,· in spending last Friday waiting· for, looking at, and . · talking to Lightfoot, I d·is­covered several things I think are for certain. · One,· he is_ a brilliant performer, which must be apparent to everyone. But also the man is musically a. perfectionist It is not unusual ior him to work eighteen hours· or more. on. a three-minute song. .The . sound system was checked out extensively in rehearsal and. even during the concert Light­foot was not above stopping in the. middle of one of his best songs to improve upon ·the.system again. 
When I talked to him for about 
· ten minutes after the show about his music, the impulsive,· loose per­former became ·very serious when discussing his music. The. way I'll remember· the interview is a· party­like scene in the dressing room sur­rounding us, while he stared di­rectly into my eyes quietly telling me some hard-learned truths about music.· , H;e is one of those. people you're glad to meet. Finally, I must thank as much as I can • Rob Kilkuskie and John Amantea without whose patience 
20 

and great efforts this interview 
would never have. taken place. 

Scholastic: You've hinted in previ­ous interviews. that it's harder. for you; now you've reached a new level of success with the m1:1ss audience... 
Lightfoot: The problem with· this · particular situation we· are iri now is we are faced with the :resp?nsibility to · produce a product which is· not inferior to the iast one which· we had out, you know. So there is a great deal of sorta, like what you might call pressure 'to produce ·a very good product this time; which I'm attempting to do~ We've 1been able to buy· two or three months time due to .the fact there's been two hit singles on that album. The riew album was to have come out in November but it's been put back about three months, so· I have time to really try and do a· good job. And that's what I'm doirlg. now. We've recorded· already but we intend to record again in December. We'll have some more _songs by t_?at time; 
Scholastic: Why do you. think that people like Joni Mitchell and your­self who were doing . some of the best work around for years are getting this sort of audience reac­tion now?· 
Lightfoot: Well,. hit singl~ are bonuses. We always had an audi­ence, we've always had a good audi­ence but having a: hit single really helps a great deal to build it up and ·the album. You know, it's' better 
than being at 98 with an anchor. 
Scholastic: After the success of Sundown · · you're · having trouble putting in a new album? 
Lightfoot: There is no trouble ,at . all. As a matter of fact, the album 
-:--is completed, we have already m_ade a dozen tracts and all we intend to do is take out a little insurance policy and perhaps put down four ·or five more tunes. · 
Scholastic: Noel Coppage. in Stereo Review subtitled his review of your career, "WiH Your Grandchildren Be Singing His Songs,". · songs · like "Early Morning Rain," "The Way I Feel," "For Loving Me." , 
Lightfoot: If they do I hope they , sing. them in tune. · 
Scholastic:· When you write a song what do you · look for in it · before you'll put it on an album? 
' 
Lightfoot: I look for. a mood which people can relate to. 
. . . 
Sch~lastic: · You've · said before (that) most c:if your songs are auto­biographical. ·Do. you feel you have to write that .way? 
·Lightfoot: I_ reJ~te :indirectly to personal experience. 
Scholastic: What sort of attitude do you take into performances b~fore and during?-. 
Lightfoot: I enjoy it. That is, the . best part of the whole job is to step 
. THE SCHOLASTIC 

out on a stage in front of a· good receptive audience of people, such as we had here, and do the best job you can do. Whether you be tired or wiped out or whatever it is, just go out and do what you think is a more than adequate job. You can never give the audience less than they expect. That is · a theory · I learned frorri Albert Grossman years ago. When you're out there you do the best you can do. It's like playing sports or anything you're doing, the same thing. 
Scholastic: Some of your songs like "Too Late. for Praying," "Ode to Big Blue" and "Circle of Steel" seem to -reflect more of a personal philosophy on. life. 
·.. 'l 

Lightfoot:,They're social . songs. They're s_ongs about ... well, when you want to·talk aboutsociety you should think about the whale, 'cause the . whale is .. a very endangered species, that's being hunted to ex­tinction by the Japanese at. this point, .who have it as part of their regular .diet. · Whale .steaks are on every menu in Japan; if they don't get thei~ whale steaks, they, if you know 
changed. And as a result the whale is becoming extinct. As far as I know, the Japanese are the only people that are still hunting them. The North American society stopped hunting .them around 1967 or 1968 or thereabouts. The Russians still .take a certain amount of whales, but they've also cut down, and ... but three or four species of whales really have been completely obliter­ated from the face of the earth. It's a shame.· 
· Scholastic: What songs or albums are you proudest of in your career? 
Lightfoot: I. think there've ·been about three or four albums that have really been good, that have been .. really solid. · I had two on United Artists that are good.. And in terms of consistency of product, the two on Warner Brothers. 
Scholastic: Finally, any future plans, musically or. otherwise? Do you think (as Lightfoot hinted in concert) that you might take off for a year? 
Lightfoot: It.could very well be, but you know. If I feel that I'm not getting into it. I enjoy performing and the favorite part of the whole business is to play. Playing con­certs is just really very enjoyable business, you know. There's a pos­sibility as time goes by that I might perhaps stop writing. But I'm not going to stop playing. I'm going to play maybe· like 25 or 30 times a year, irregardless if I record or write or whatever it is. Writing's the hardest part of the whole job, really. It's very difficult to bework­ing with .a nebulous sort of a ... type of work, when you're writing. 

· A very nebulous kind of job, you're dealing with unknowns all the time. It's like algebra or mathematics. It's a difficult gig to handle. I've been doing it so long that it becomes a ... The more songs you write the more difficult it becomes .to think· of new subjects that you can become involved in, you know.. And I can only do it for so long, you know. You have like ten or.eleven albums out on the market and it's a lot. of writing. .For · every song. I've . re­corded there's been about two or three that have been filed away. 


The Life· of the Student,Athlete 
! 
There.are 428 student athletes at_ they are the ones who go through only a few freshmen start;the load the University of Notre Dame. This the motions for four years in the at-on these students is very hard." is roughly 6½% of the undergradu-tempt to hang on to their· scholar-,, Emil T. · Hofman, · Dean· of the 
: -ate population. ,While this ..percent-ship. The lucky few that can adapt .. Freshman Year of Studies, echoed age is very small, their. actions on and make the grade must now make Joyce's sentiments. "The freshman the playing fields have built· for the other step --academics." student-athlete has a_iull''academic ­Notre Dame her ·outstanding repu-· Two years ago, the NCAA adopted program that is very challenging, tation. the freshman rule, an economically .an extracurricular activity which 
Behind this reputation are some motivated -• move · by the group -to is very time-consuming and· very very impressive statistics: over help the smaller college athletic tiring. The overall freshman pro­95% of the football team graduates programs compete on a higher level gram to me is terri~ying. 'How an in four year, over 40% .of the stU" than in the past. Many argue against _eighteen-year~old youth, cari carry dent a_thletes • go on to graduate the rule, citing among other reasons · -on these two programs equally is work, and Notre Dame ranks second ·the fact tha_t the student -athlete mystifying to·me,· and I -have great behind the Air Force Academy in cannot adequately make the ·grade admiration for these·, ineri'. I would total NCAA Scholar.:Athlete Hall of in both endeavors. Father Edmund rather have these students establish Fame Awards. _ Joyce, executive vice-president of themselves -academically · first, ··'be~ 
"I believe that there is a place for the University, has continually fore participating in a varsity sport. academics, and a place for athletics, fought against the rule· since· its in-Pressures from varsity' competition and both·. can· be done well," notes ception. "The academic · pressurgs can be very tough, and· from two Fr. Hesburgh whenever he is asked put additional hardships on. the -directions such as the student ath­about his views on the stud_ent. ath-freshmen;" observed Fr..Joyce. "If lete receives,·. can_ be too i:nuch for lete. "We have here ~(Notre 'Dame freshmen develop into starters, the , many. The task of the student ath­an atmosphere conducive to athletics . problem is greatly compounded, for. lete is very difficult, and in making and also to academics. Academia . they have to immediately step into-· demeaning , remarks about them, certainly is stressed above the other,· · a complicated system: EVE:!_1 though ·-many people· don't realize what the but a successful mix for the stu­dents of today is required in today's · world." 
The · pressure under which the Notre Dame ·-student lives. is_ even:'· more intense for the du Lac athlete. Many, if not· all, were all-city and .. state through high school, ·had tre-:. mendous strain placed upon them, · and were supposed fo be immediate · stars at Notre Dame. 

"Perhaps the critical, point of an athlete's career ~t Notre Dame is that first week . of practice," re­marked Academic Athletic Director· -Dr. Mike DeCicco. ·"Here all tlie high school All-Americans are sud­denly swept up in the vacuurri -of · . what is commoniy<referred to as .•· college athletics. The young recruit finds ninety othe~ athletes with identical cred_entials, all vying for .... , . . ­the twenty-two starting positions on the · team. :Many-cannot:. handle it; {:f::::i:~:~·::.>}d.!° '. . .. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
I_ 

stude11t athlete undergoes." While many can_, speculate about ·what happens on a day-to-day basis in the life of football players, no one can articulate the situation better than the players themselves. "Our days are surely compact, with .no time fo do ,anything else but ·eat, sleep, go to class and to practice," noted junior fullback Tom Parise. "There are many days when I'd like to be sitting near the lake and en­joying life, but most of the students don't really realize what we go thrc_mgh." The football program at Notre Dame is -geared-to excellence. and execution on as well as off the field. This means that practice will be tough and long; plays will be com­plicated, and team meetings for as­signments and discussion will be necessary. There is practice each day at Cartier Field, behind the Ace,· beginning at 3 o'clock and lasting.. approximately until 6:30. The teameats collectively (common­ly called training table) in the North Dining • Hall, where. discussions are held over din_ner. They then return to the ACC for films of their play, and also that of the opponent for the · upcoming -week. By -the time the _showings are.completed and-the discussions are finished, it is a little past_ 8: 00 p.m. Student athletes as_ a rule arrange their classes to end at 3 o'clock, so that they can make practice , on time. This five-day-a­week routine plus the viewing of · films on Sunday of Saturday's game presents . a .picture of the weekly activity of every football player. This. hectic pace also exists for the basketbail and hockey, player. It is even more frantic for the _hockey player, due to the length of his sea­-son. How do they do it, and why? The 'academic program Notre Dame offers is a key reason why ath-
OCTOBER 18, 1974 

letes come here. "Thereisn't a better place to get an education than here at Notre Dame," said kicker Dave Reeve. Andy Rohan, a senior center, said that out of all the schools that recruited him, Notre Dame offered the best degree. "It just came down to the point where I wasn't going to get anything different from the schools, so I chose Notre Dame for its academics." Junior punter Tony Brantley chose Notre Dame for its record of academic greatness. "Some of the other offers were very tempt­ing, but Notre Dame .had much more going for it.". 
The course of study available for 1.he student athlete here at Notre Dame is also one of the major rea­
· "Academics certainly stressed above the other ... but a successful mix 
is -required for today's world." 
Engineering. _From that number, over a third ,are on Dean's List, many more having a G.P.A. of 2.6 or better. "We definitely attract a quality student athlete here at Notre Dame," observed Dr. DeCicco. "Our intention of graduating these young men in_ four years is difficult to achieve, but. with the material we have to work with our job is made much easier." __ 

The recruiting process is closely ·attached to DeCicco's office. "When a coach begins his .recruitment of an athlete he gives me ·all his vital information, and we request-his grades, -his · college. boards (or ACT's) and some recommendations. I have a complete dossier on the student, and from that I can tell, sta­tistically speaking, if he can make the grade in academics. For fresh­men, we look at his proposed major, and can offer him advice on what to -do with it. Many of our student ath­l~tes _tend toward business, in the 
-sales -.and management -parts. We never discourage a student from pur­suing a career in medicine, but we also tell him that if he doesn't have the credentials to make a successful go at it, then there is'no use wasting his time pursuing it. All in all, we are here to 'provide help for those students who need it." 
The major area of-assistance that DeCicco's office provides is the tu--· 
torial program available to the stu­dent athletes. Tutoring in ·math, languages and the other sciences is coordinated under the. auspices of· DeCicco. "The student athlete is the greatest eternal optimist I've ever met, and he's thelast guy I'd ever ask how school is going. If the stu­dent ever-has any problems, he can come see me, and we can work out a program for him. Everyone isn't strong in all subjects, and it is .the student who is having a tough time that we're here to· help." Several graduate and doctoral students have been the nucleus of DeCicco's tutor­ing program, and Dennis Hophinser, in his last semester of doctoral work in math, has been with the program for ·the past three years. "When I first started tutoring,· it simply was a matter of economics. I couldn't afford to eat, so when the opportuni­ty to earn money arose, I grabbed it. Over the three years though, working with DeCicco and the guys has been a very pleasant and· grati­fying experience. The response I've received. over the years has v11ried, but if a guy r~ally needs the help, and is willing to put in the work ·required, . he should do all right. As we try.to tell them,. with the proper 

attitude, they can achieve their aca­demic goals: successfully. "The tutoring program in math, for example, is coordinated along the lines of. one meeting a week with eight or so freshmen, going · over homework, ·. quizzes and old tests. Questions are discussed and answers are formulated. If any additional help is needed, we have individual sessions at free times. If a guy is hurting in an area, ·we make. sure he attends." · ·. The student· athlete's response to the program is varied, but · as a 
"Five days a week. 
films,' meetings ­how· does the student-athlete cope?" 

lete what he is ·at Notre Daine," offered Fr. Joyce. "Over my twenty~ five years at Notre Dame, the ma­turity of these fine men in their abiUty to handle themselves _has . really impressed me. rt. is critically group the reaction was very favo:---important to be able to grow with 
able. "I've used the program, ·and it has helped me in a few areas in which I was weak," commented tackle Steve Niehaus. "They were always there to help you out." 
Basketball guard . Ray Martin agreed with Niehaus.· ."There were 
. many times when I really was down on my studies,· but the tutoring helped me pull through al}d ~epre-. sent Notre Dame -something I always dreamed about." 
. Athletes come and go .over· the . years, but the pressures are· always there, and with each year come new ones. "Self-discipline is the key, I believe, that makes the student ath­
these inen in the trying ·times they 
go through, but the excitement of 
watching a student athlete develop 
from his freshman h to senior year 
gives us a moral reward for our 
efforts." 
A careful allotment of time makes 
or breaks the student athlete accord­
ing to football·· coach. Ara Parse­
ghian. "There is a definite limit in 
the time we .have to prepare to be 
physically ready for our opponents. 
The athlete, because he is pressed, is 
forced to be a very disciplined indi­
vidual. There are only so many hours 
between games; it is . nearly ,im­
possible for the coaching staff t_o do 
everything we want to do. -The stu­
dent athlete must go to class and 
succeed academically in· order ·to . 
participate in our · progralll. If lie 
fails academically, we have no use 
for-him." · · 
I do not by any means wish to 
imply that the student athlete only . participates .in sports and studies. ·. On the contrary, the athlete is just like any other studentAs· one foot­ball player put it, "You'd better -~e­lieve we'll ·· make sometime to have .fun if we want to. Life's not all studying and playing football.· We 


only have Sundays off, and that's just enough time to enjoy our­selves." 
Many of these students were very candid in their opinions about the Notre Dame "mystique." One foot­ball player felt very. disillusioned with the University because its statement concerning the student­faculty ratio was way. out of pro­portion·. "All I heard continually was that the ratio was seven to one, and 
. I was really · 1ooking forward to going to school',,, he said. "When I came .here and found out what was actually going on, I ·felt pretty dis.:: gusted. I actually don't know if I'd come here if I had it to do all over again." 
Some questioned the validity of the policy of required courses out­side their major. "We're forced to take two philosophies and theolo­gies, and a few other courses that we have no need for," observed a basketball player. "I know that all students have the same complaint, but I wonder if the Uni_versity ever listens to our feelings on important matters concerning us." 
Overall, the gripes of the student athletes are identical to those of the average student at Notre Dame. "I'm just an ordinary student who happens to play football," said line­backer Pete Johnson. "I don't expect any extra favors, or· go looking for them either." Basketballer Billy Pa­

terno concurred with Johnson. "I'm a unique pers.on with my own ideas, and. many people don't realize that. If everyone would only treat us with . the same courtesy he extends to his friends, then we'd have a great rela­tionship with the other students." 
The student . athlete at Notre 

Dame can succeed ·only if he can 
handle the pressures of the class­
room and the playing ·field. Over the 
years, Notre Dame athletes have 
gained national recognition for the 
school in both realms. Father Hes­
burgh is right. We can have ·excel­
lence in athletics as well as ·aca­
demics. 
-Bill Delaney 

The Cost of Basketball 
The f oilowing is an interview ivith Fr. Edmund Joyce, Executive Vice President of Notre Dame and Chair­man of the Faculty Athletic Coun­
cil. It was announced on Sunday, October ·13; that a compromise agreemmit had been reached be­tween· Pat McLaughlin, Student Body President and Fr. Joyce. The agreement allotted 1800 cushioned seats at $22 and 3500 bleacher seats at $18 to the students at basketball games. 
Q. Is it true that no charge is made to the undergraduate students for football tickets? · 
A~· Yes,· that is quite correct. I realize that there is an occasional rumor to the effect that there is,an athletic ticket fee included in· the tuition, charge. The rumor is false. 
OCTOBER 18, 1974 Q. Why then must the students pay for basketball tickets? 
A. Because .the financial situation_is quite. different when it comes to football and . basketball. If the A.C.C._ contained 60,000 seats and we. were able to fill. it for. each home .game with .largely paying customers, then I think we would_be happy ·to give .the undergraduates free tickets to the basketball games. 
Q. .Do we conclude_ then that the 
A.C.C. 
is dependent upon basketball gate receipts to cover·the cost of its operation? 

A. 
It is dependent upon gate re­ceipts from various events, includ~ ing. basketball. · Without these. re­ceipts. the building would be a heavy 


· drag on the, overall University budget. The A.C.C. management works hard at schedulin'g revenue~ producing activities so .that the building is not aburden on the Uni­versity-and consequently on the student_ body. · 


Q. Why was the A.C.C. built? 
A. For the follC>wing reasons: 
1) To provide fieldhouse facil­ities for the varsity sports of basketball, track, ice hockey, wrestling, fencing and so forth.· 
2) To provide much needed space for physical _education classes, intramural competition and gen-· eral · athletic activities for the student body atlarge: 
3) To provide an arena large enough to attract top-notch per­formers to entertain the Univer­sity and South Bend communities. 
. . 
4) To provide space for large imi­versity functions, such as com­mencements. 
5) To accommodate the athletic department offices.. 
Q. If the above are the purposes of the A.C.C., why is it that we find it being used for sundry other events such as the Mobile Home Show, a . 
dog show, Cavalcade on Wheels, etc.? 
A. For two reasons: (a) the net revenue from these events helps to cover the building overhead; (b) the South Bend citizens made sub­stantial financial· contributions toward the construction of the 
A.C.C. In turn, we contribute to the economy of South Bend by bringing in such events. 
• 
Q. This gives rise to ane>ther. ques­tion: Is the A.C.C. completely owned by the University? 

A. 
Yes, it certainly is. 

Q. 
What would· be the consequence of elimination of all non-University use of the building? · 

A. 
It would put the burden of fi­nancing it directly on the backs of the students. It would become an­other cost of· education. Since the operating budget for this facility is around $800,000 a year, we would have to charge every student $100 a year · to help cover costs. Right now, the building is costing the 




." ~{&t~f~tf~~k 
.t~ 
students nothing, but is · lighted, heated and maintained for their pleasure. I wonder how many stu­dents have appreciated· this fact. 
Q. Getting back to the question. of student basketball ticket prices, were you surprised at the reaction of the student body last week-to the announcement of the price increase? 
A. Yes, I was. Two dollars a· game for lower arena seats and a dollar and a half for the upper arena seats seemed to be a modest claim on a student's . entertainment budget when you consider that a movie is even more expensive. Furthermore, both prices represented a 50% dis­count on regular ticket prices. 
Q. Why did you lower the prices after the student reaction was made known? Was it for fear of a boy­cott? 
A. It certainly was not the fear of a boycott. A substantive case easily could be made for the price increase and· I believe it would have been accepted by ·most of the students. 
No increase in student ticket prices had been made in six years, yet the cost of operations (particularly fuel cost) had risen dramatically. Even so, however, I thought Pat Mc­Laughlin and-the other student leaders did have a legitimate com­plaint about the 100% increase in ticket prices with little or no pre­vious warning. · Under these cir­cumstances, we decided not to make th'e total increase effective until 1975-76. Thus, the price increase will be in two stages rather than one. 
Q. Is it necessary to have· a quota on basketball · tickets for Notre Dame and St. Mary's students? 
A. I am afraid so.· The alternative to this would be to sell student tickets at undiscounted prices. · 
Q. Is it true that football · revenue has been more· than sufficient to cover the cost of all intercollegiate sports, club ~ports and intramural sports? 
A. Yes. ~ 
Q. What happens to the net surplus from athletics each year? 
A. This so-called "surplus" is taken as general University income and is used to defray educational expenses of various sorts. It has the effect of keeping the tuition charge to the 
. student lower than it . otherwise would be .. 
Q. Will you explain thaf a little more fully? 
A. I suppose few students, or. fac­ulty for that matter, realize the financial· benefits they· receive from 
:the popularity of the Notre Dame . football team. · It is obvious that · 
·most colleges and universities have 
extensive athletic programs for 
. their students. This is normal and healthy. It is also fairly expensive. · Some schools have little or no in-:: come to cover this heavys expense . which means, at least in the case of. private institutions, that the cost has to be passed along .in the form 
. of higher tuition rates. Notre Dame · is fortunate that it doesn't have this problem. -Bill Delaney 


Quote of the week: After Notre Dame's tough 10-3 victory over R:ice, Fullback Tom Parise com­mented on his fine play over the week, and including the two tough games versus ·Michigan State and Rice. "Put it this way," says the lovable Parise, "if you don't do well in the games, you . can look forward to-the coaches putting you on a jet to . Zaire, Africa, to be a sparring mate _of Ali's." Thanks for those wonderful words of reason, Tom .. 
. The Irish Hockey Team, always a 
very democratic group, chooses its 
captain . in a .general election each 
fall. Paul Clarke, a sophomore de­
fenseman from Scarboro, Ontario, 
was elected by his peers, along with 
Pat-Conroy and Les Larson. Clarke 
is perhaps the first sophomore in the 
history. of .Notre Dame athletics to 
be captain of a major varsity sport. 
Good. luck in the upcoming, Paul; 
your_. teammates couldn't h ave . chosen a better man for captain. 
Keeping with the cover story of this · issue, the student-athlete at Notre Dame is a very busy and di­versified .-person . indeed. Halfback Eric.. Penick, who. was -. hurt last spring before the · Blue-Gold game, has greatly brightened the life of ·a 14-year-old niot9rcycle accident vie, tim..The boy, Steve Singleton, lost his leg in a collision,·· and was put on the same: flcfor of ·st. Joseph's Hospital ":'ith_Penick. They became friends, and Eric was determined to help the• boy's family in helping to pay tp.e medical bills. A fund spon­sored by the football team, student 
OCTOBER 18, 1974 
governmenj:, and the Observer was at their own expense; to play power­set up for Steve. Many hundreds of house Chica.go Lions for the bene­dollars were raised, and it appeared fit of the American Cancer Society. that Penick's friend was to have. the With only one day of practice artificial limb he needed. . · against the Lions' four weeks, the 
As is always the case in our Irish came from behind to gain a bureaucratic system, agencies al­very respectable 19-19 tie. ways have-the bad timing to come -This year's Irish squad is a mix up with · monetary . solutions. The of .seasoned veteran~ and eager welfare department of South Bend rookies. With the usual heavy grad~ wrote Eric last week,. saying that .uation last May, the Irish must $621.00 was needed for Steve to again . rebuild and ·adjust to .new have his artificial· limb. Eric is try­. players, whether in the scrum or in ing to raise the money needed, but the backfield. he needs help. If you can offer any The Irish have learned from their assistance at all, get in touch with mistakes in the three games played Penick. He's willing to help, and we this fall. · "The backs -are really should too. playing well," remarked .team cap~ 
·tain Larry. Casey, -"and finally the . · Field hockey -:-that's the new · scrum began .fo really follow the sport being organized among the play · better, causing overlaps and Notre Dame women. Miss Astrid . cornering after: the scrum breaks. Hotvedt, the new teacher in the We are working much better as a physical education department, spe-totar _offensive and defensive unit." cializes in. field hockey and has· re-· .. In past weeks Michigan, Purdue, ceived the green light to start a · and South Bend. have provided the team. A 15-woman team is planned, Irish _with the opportunities to with two home and two away games learn their weaknesses. These weak­against Michigan teams already nesses apparently were not enough scheduled. The game itself is similar for the Irish to lose, as ND defeated to ;ice hockey, lacrosse and soccer in Michigan, Purdue and South. Bend. that the. basic objective is to score The .remaining contests on the Irish in the opposition's ·goal; -with a schedule include perennial powers goalie,· defense and a line offense. Palmer ·College, Chicago Lions, and The women have a lot of enthusiasm· . · ever-psyched John. Carroll. for the sport, so we're sure to -hear more. about women's field · hockey . · This s~ason · the Notre Dame rug­this season. · · by team hopes to rep·eat its feat of 
one year ago -go undefeated and 
For most Notre Dame athletes, · win the Midwest · -·championship. the season does not start until the. With the start, ND.hag three games fall opening: of school. .Not so for into the season, their goal is not a the Irish rugby squad. On July 20. dream. many ND ruggers flew into Chicago, --Bill Delaney 
27­

Notre Dame has won her share of athletic contests ·in the · past. It has caused extremes of. feelings to­wards her. Those that love the school cherish· the winning tradi­tion, and those that root against us are joyous when we know defeat. Every . opponent we play gets emo­tionally · charged when they hear Notre Dame. Mentally, they .rise to their highest· knowing an "upset" leads to instant notoriety in the sports world: 
Conversely, being Notre Dame· on the field becomes difficult for the players. Jt means through tradition and pride · and past performance, excellence is expected every time! Anytime we win, it further perpet~ uates the myth that we have all the talent. and all the size. It•causes great pressure upon players to con­stantly face opponents at their high­est pitch. It is impossible to react at. one's highest pitch every week throughout the season. The burden of expected success deadens victory and lessens .the next possibility for it 
The skills and talents of today are widespread so··: that.· no , one · team dominates for any length oL time. Though this change may be. tr.ue as time has passed, the change in ex­pectancy of excellence· has not. Sev­eral years back, I recall Notre Dame students and their eagerness causing an electric. atmosphere on campus. They,. and . the· players, would . zero in on a specific challenge. Even with 

From the-·· Sidelines 
by Tom Pa,gna · 

the losses, townspeople and student total atmosphere, ·truly desired ath­body writhed through the train de­letic success; not at any cost -but pot and airport displaying a natural with class. Success had ·been the enthusiasm. In past years our buses identity linked with South Bend and were greeted by almost the· entire Notre Dame. enrollment -win or lose. Football In the late 60's there ·was univer­was very important then because it sal turmoil and the college campus tied people together ·in a common · was the most .frequent place for bond. It was a boon to the spirit voicing rebellion. The war, the· po­and tradition of the Notre Dame litical scene, the economy, and the community. Things were .. unified in racial strife,. plus other social· prob~ feeling and in purpose.' The economy !ems relegated . competitive sport of South Bend benefitted .from this to a lower· level of interest: Though also, fans.· and students understood this· is understandable enough --'-it and appreciated the 'pride involved is not necessary, for then we grow with being "Notre Dame." . . close to losing a binding value worth 
Times have changed; fashions and keeping. Notre Dame's power to vogues have altered. There are more bind together · in a great common things to do for players and studen ts ·· bond, is her strength. Athletics now,· than to get so caught up· in represents one of the tiny elastic that electricity. Winning gets taken strings that· helps hold it together. 
. for granted -·but therein · lies the I often pray that "enthusiasm" dilemma. , You can never take for for real effort and competitive in­granted anything that comes from tercollegiate' sports never dies. · I effort and sacrifice, and that noble know there are times it must dwin-· virtue, "enthusiasm."· . die because of human· nature, but 
. Syndrome means a composite of · apathy is a form of inhumanity that symptoms clumped together. Maybe ·spreads into all of social _life once the symptoms · of . ·"success· being it has a -foothold. · taken for granted," "the. many out-In 1972 .the ·orange Bowl saw us 5ide interests," ·"the sophistication taking a severe loss versus Nebraska·. of people that feel it's not fashionable This served us later as the incentive today fo be Gung Ho," "the players, for success ·in ·197~: Notre Dame self-imposed pressure and/or · com­people were exuberant with the re.. placency from previous success," all sults. "When. things go . wrong. as add to this syndrome. they sometimes will," people are· 
I have witnessed both extremes in severely critical. "He· should have my time here. We have only tolook done this, :they · should have done back• to 1964 to recall a ''hungry to that." "Why. don't they?" .· We lost win" campus town and ·.team. The to Purdue in. •front ·. of 60,000 coaches! ' own ·destiny. · casting success, but being .. men 
For the price of a ·ticket anyone Over the years, this simplicity has · . enough to face any disappointments. gets to be a critic. .This. does not refined into a more powerful·· Purdue, for all of us on the football mean an expert,· just a critic wliose · thought. That people will do what • staff and team, was a great disap­loyalty becomes. ·tarnished. We've they normally think about staggers pointment. There is, however, a fan­had good days ·and .will again. If the mind because "Energy follows tastic will that evolves in the wake "our tradition''. has value, I would thought." -What one thinks about, of such losses; it closely resembles 
· desires, prays for (and these are · man's worldly plight striving to all thought forms) increases the overcome rather than "copping out" chance for the reality of those -we have collectively pledged our thoughts: The American Dream has path of least resistance. Whatever
"You are rapidly , 

perhaps .become muddled and pos-our plight during the entire season becoming what , 
sibly faded, but that any dream ex--we have collectively ,pledged our ists· is· still a source. of power if the best effort regardless of problems,
yo~ are going to be." 

·dreams ·have value. We try, with obstacles, and syndromes. · great . candor, to explain to our At the •heart of it all is this mem­young men the fantastic benefit from orable quote of Sophie Tucker's re­
. unity of effort and thought. We try garding finance but appropriate for urge boosteiito back .it with loyalty to follow .this .with · physical effort winning and losing -'-'I've been and enthusiasm.'.We imagine.victory rich and I've been poor; rich is bet­
beyond wins and losses. Such unity with a precise outcome, .by :fore~ ter!" AMEN!! ' 
can offset all other variables, plus unity is the gairi -more than the 
--. ·­

score. I am never ~raid -of -sounding· 
. . 
. . .

"corny" because· things · that are . . 
. 

corny have been · timeworn, and grains· of truth surround anything 
C<M1MIT 
that survives the test of time! I· reflect often on· a few rays of 
YOURSELF TO lFIE 
relative truth that -athletics · has taught to myself ·. •and countless . . 
PRIESFHOOD? 
others. I suppose my first gHmpse of Why be a priest? Certainly. in times as difficult as these we live in. being a priest is a lot harder today than it was in
such· relativity came as a boy -while 
years past. .

cleaning out the stalls of a riding 
And committing oneself to anything for any amount of stable. This is not the most mean­time seems to be one of the conflicts of our modern age. But · the priesthood is a challenge. A big one. . . ·
ingful work nor the-highest· paid or 
· Tod_ay, more than ever before in history, men and women,pleasurable. It was_ while struggling young and.old, are searching for religious meaning, for to -lift a full shovel.of the "clutter" withdrawal from isolation and alienation to joyful community 
experiences, for Good News in the midst of discouragement
you would normally find in a horse 
and hope in the place of pessimism.stall that I read the·engraved motto The Paulists are trying to minister to these needs. As a of an ·old English farmer across the -: contemporary religious community serving the American· 
people, our.mission is to comm1.i'nicate the love of Christ
barn's main beam: 
to people. · . . . · . "Yozi are ra'[iidly becoming what Every Paulist is a missionary:' in the pulpit or the parish you are going to be!" house ••• on campus or in ~he inner-city. : . with the spoken 
• or the printed word .•• he is co111munlcating to people. _His
The · -full ·impast of that . really 

· mission is.to all of'Amerii::a. His message Is love: the love of 
dawned on me. when I became ·in~ ,.,, . Christ for all people:-:_.··.·:·: .. ·_: . . · ' · _·,;:·· It isn't easy but the· Paulist welcomes commitment. -.
volved with athletes· and an .athletic 
· • Welcomes the challenge. If you are Interested in the Paulist .
team. }I realized •the truth of. "You 
. way of life, send for the Paillist Papers: . . . 
become What'.you do.'.' Those that eat too much become fat! If you lie 
Wri~~···~;'.PAUUSF . . 
.:.... you become a good liar! If you study -,-.you'll become a serious . student '-. and·if .you pray:~ your chances of piety are·increased. Very 
FA1FIERS --­
simply, ea~h· man has a hand in his 415 W[ST 59TH ST.,NEW YORK,N.Y.10019. 
OCTOBER 18, ·1974 ·• 29 

Nickie's is kind of a nice place. their. meaning and turned into ab­1y sure, perh_aps it is because they. 
It's good if -you want to be alone, surd noise. are numb. They·have heard so much 
but not by yourself; or if you don't empty r!J,etoric all their:-lives ab·out 
feel like talking but you're not sure I haven't· been. able to get their social concern that those words no 
you want silence. conversation out of· my .. head: for longer have meaning : .for them. 
. A couple of Mondays ago, I was weeks now. It seemed to· me to -be .Every day for years they have heard 
suffering from the should-auld-ac­indicative of an extremely unfortu­how many hundreds of people died 
quaintance-be-forgot blues, perhaps nate situation in our country and, :in Vietnam. They have heard words 
a little prematurely,, so I figured it more specifically; at Notre Dame. like peace and wve bandied around 
would be good to drop in.· The place That situatio_n· is ·the corruption of so much that the terms become in-
has a terrible intensity for me when language. . sipid cliches, . 
I sit at a little table and look at all We live in a time when the Presi­At Notre Dame, we are constantly 
the faces I didn't know four years derif of .the United States can lie bombarded by words. It would be 
ago and may never know again .. and, when he· is. found out, feel no interesting-to count. how many of 
Around one o'clock, four seniors, · compunction to be• morally respon­them we are exposed to on an aver­
whom I also recognized as being sible for his words; he simply calls age day; perhaps it is because of 
resident assistants, came in and sat the lie ."inope~ative." We: also live the sheer number of them that we 
down at a table not too far from in a time when one article on the have grown lax in our responsibility 
mine. Evidently they had just fin­·fron~. _page· of the paper: tells how to language. But the need we have 
ished working on a project or_ some­. basketball ticket · · prices , must be to. communicate is -a great one, 
thing· and decided they would go . raised to meet the. financial needs of rooted in the depths of our .being, 
out for a little relaxation after a the . athletic department, while an: . and .it is the greatness of this need 
hard night's work. It was late, and other story on the same page says that makes its corruption so ·harm­
I guess they were feeling a little there is a tremendous athletic in-, ful.'· 
giddy, because they kept bringing come. surplus: 

up this joke about a craving for We can alsoread,-over our plenti-W:hen you think about it, a per-
conversation. ful if not, exactly tasty lunch, h<>w son's time is really vecy: valuable, 
Someone would say, "Talk to me, thousands of people arou-nd the ·and it takes a lot of nerve,for one 
talk to me," and all the others would · world die each day from starva-person to ask another. to :listen to 
laugh. tion. And _then we can read how what. he has to ·say. It· should be 
"Just a little conversation. · some students demand more steak done carefully and responsibly. This 
Please." . More laughter: in the dining halls. :. . _. . .. idea pertains even ·more to . people 
Another motif .that could be re­As a good English major, I have in 'positions of authority: . adininis­
lied on for a laugii was to mock.out nothing but respect-for paradox and trators, roommates, and so.;on;·, 
the course all the first-year RAs juxtaposition; but.tlike to see them iAs you have probably:told your­have to take. The coursi{ is asemi-explained and -backed up by solid self by now, it also pertains to edi~ . nar course and, according to · these , thought. Unfortunately; the 'corrup-tors who in such a long succession four people, it's:-riddled wifhs*h . tion ,of language·-\ve hear today is :. of words claim .such a. prestigious empty phrases as, "what I h~ar you not a powerful, careful use of words . position as the last one; The irony 
saying," .. ~•where you're . _coining but rather an abuse of them. scares me.-too. ·. ·:·. , ,. · · 
from,". and that all-time . favorite, ·Recently, .. Fr;· Griffin .wrote an , I guess it's time for;.all of~us-to 
"where .you're at;'' · · articie for Thi/Observer in which he think about what we say or write. 
Well; they went on for over an lamented the fact that freshmen Then we:could go on to meet the 
hour and I .realized that .they never. this year don't discuss the problems need for communication; but· do· sq. . really talked about anything. Their of our society with the same fervor, with· a new . awareness. of: the conversation focused almost entirely passion and concern of many pre-. responsibility. we take on when we . on ways words were stripped of vious classes. rhough I'm not exact-break the ·silence . 
·------------·------·----•-·-·-....:.~~ 
·. "Brautigan is good for you." 
-Bruce Cook, The National O/Jsen·er 
"He makes some of us feel he's 
· · found a better answer to being alive here and now than we have." 
-Anatole Broyard, 
The New York Timer 
··RICHARD·· BR IlIIGAN 
H~klilne
··.··Monster.· 
AGothic Western 
· · The loi1g-awaited major work of fiction from the author of Trout Fishing in · Amen·ca and, most recently, The . 
·· .. Abortion and Revenge :;; · ofthe Lawn 
u::,. .·9t·• • . A Book-of-thc~Month C: • ·
/.-·.· Club ~ltcrnatc 
.c: 
.•: Sclcchon ·
0
-, 
. . . 85.95 • SIMON AND SCHUSTER .
0 
0 
.c: 
n. . .-~ 
Capri 

Restaurant 
·Fine Dining and Liquor Store 
Reasonable Prices!· 
-: 
1357 N. Ironwood Phone: 234-0088 

Welcome 
Parents-Students! 
MEN! -WOMEN! 
JOBS ON SHIPS! No experience required. Excellent pay. Worldwide travel. Perfect sum­mer job or career. Send $3.00 for information. 

-SEAFAX, Dept. G-12, P.O. Box 2049, Port . . Angeles, Washington 98362. 
EARN UP TO $1200 a school year hanging posters on campus in spare time. Send name, address, phone and school to: Coordinator of Campus Representatives, P.O. Box 1384, Ann Arbor, 1\11 48106 . 
. . . . 
Want your· family tO know wha.t's really· happening at ND? · 
send them 

SCHOLASTIC 
and get news analysi~, in-. 
>. -.-­

depth sports, the Jugglei and the Football Review. For only_ $5.00 
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC .. NOTRE DAl\lE, INDIANA 46556 · 

Please send me a subscription to SCHOLASTIC for · ...... years at $5.00 a year. I am enclosing $.......................... ·:......:.~i.:~...~ ..CASH . · 
. :·~ . 
···"·:············CHECK 
{ . 

Name .............................................. · ..... ·............. ·................ ­
: Address ......· ..................... · ........... :.· ... ··.... · . .' .. · ................... . 
city .·: .....· ....... ·....... ·.. ··,·.· ..... >-····:·········'·· .... · ·.... ·...... · 
·.State ..................... .........: · .:_ ..:.:····· ...·.':zip ..... ·. ·. ·' ·....... ·' · 


