	Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.	
Vol. XVI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER 4, 1882.	No.^
Shakspere Versus Dime Novels.
A. Ballad of Thing’s Beautiful.
What the spell in the rimpled rill is Who can tell? or the charm of roses?
What the secret hidden in lilies,
Or in the song the nightingale knows is?
What power holds us when evening closes
The eyes of the day, and veils his face, And lays on his heart two sunset roses?
The beauty thereof, the unspeakable grace.
He that made marble all but speaking,
Bartered all that ruder men treasure,
To win for himself this pearl of his seeking,
To crown Art queen of his heart’s high pleasure.
What drew him, and draws us in our measure.
To bow to the might of a perfect face,
And make of its memory a life-time’s treasure?
The beauty thereof, the unspeakable grace.
He that in silver-clifted Colonus
Sang, and his holier head who chanted	•
The songs that the world’s fair morn have shown us And he to whom myriad souls were granted, And he of Florence who trod undaunted
The halls of Dis and the terrible place:
What is the charm in the songs they chanted ?
The beauty thereof, the unspeakable grace.
But fairer far than lovely faces,
With bonds that are stronger to bind than the golden Bonds that are woven of all the graces
Of Art and Song, are the pure hearts moulden
Like to that Heart wherein is holden
The whole wide world, in a sacred place;
And they hold us, too, by the same chains golden, The beauty thereof, the unspeakable grace.
ENVOY.
Now, the beauty of these and their grace have birth In the splendor that beams from God’s high place, And falls on the thousand things of earth,	-
• The poem, the flower, the heart, the face, Endowering them with this sum of their worth:
The beauty thereof, the unspeakable grace.
Inigo Deane, S. J.
—Catholic World.
There is a difference between politeness and etiquette. Etiquette can be defined, classified, formulated. You can tell young people to take their soup from the side of their spoons; to eat with their forks; not to make a noise in eating, and all these and.countless more such injunctions are important. But I would rather eat a hundred dinners with my knife than laugh one malicious laugh at some one else who did so.—Cardinal Manning.
Nowadays the pestiferous influence of dime novels is spreading a degradation, aye, a moral and mental contagion which naught save the combined efforts of all true lovers of humanity can thwart from causing the dissolution of society and the downfall of literature. Youth devour these incentives of corruption, old age looks on with complacency. “ Something is rotten in this State of Denmark.”
In our age there is a revolution in the souls of men; the ideal portraits of perfect bliss in this vale of sorrows are, by novelists, portrayed as capable of realization; reason runs riot, and fiction is taken for fact; young men learn their mistake too late, when the bliss of home is destroyed; and, in the hour of affliction, maidens see that this fiction was all a dream; the now-pallid face of the midnight lamp will then become bedewed with tears; for the youth of this age will be the men and women of the next, and as they sow, so shall they reap. If they sow destruction, thev will reap dissolution, not for time alone, but, alas! for the long ages of eternity. “ Youth, like the softened wax, impressions take.”
“If those be good, their morals will be bright;
If bad, they will be darker than the shades of night.’’
Then, what must be done to prevent this corruption of society and this degradation of literature? What, save the introduction of a nobler standard of thought,—the introduction of the standard works of the great thinkers of the world. Parents are the most effectual friends of their children^ and should prove themselves as such; teachers are but the foster parents of intellectual thought. Every youth who respects himself will keep respectable company. During his collegiate career his books are his companions; in his lonely retreat, in future days, they are destined to be his solace. Life is too short to waste it wading through the entire length of a dime novel, for the sake of one or two original ideas which may possibly be obtained therefrom, though, as a general rule, the majority of them have scarcely an original or good idea. Thus, novel-reading is a loss of time, at least. And time, eternity’s seed, is too good to waste on such malicious inanities.
Keep the company of the frivolous, talk or dispute with them on subjects of their choice, and you will soon become as frivolous as they; badinage will soon take the place of seriousness; fancy
130	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
will sit on reason’s throne, and the man; will soon dwindle into the child. Such is an established fact. On the contrary, converse with the deep thinkers of the world,—with the Shaksperes, the Miltons, the Augustines, the Thomas Aquinases, the Bossuets, the Fenelonsj the great writers of the age, and with the learned; scientists,—arid you likewise will become one amongst them. The mind of man will take the shape of the mould in which it is cast. Young- man, mould thyself! Let not thine intellect be a scientific deformity, nor thy will a moral ruin.
Legislators, who punish those ’that poison the body, forget not those who poison the soul! Be your laws on this point not dead letters, so many standing records of -unprincipled inactivity. Librarians, who scatter broad-cast those seeds of dissolution, fear at least the laws of God, if you dread not those of man! There are enough standard works expunged of their contaminating dough. Their sale will ensure you an honest and an honorable livelihood. Sell food for the hungry, but not poison for the sick. The suicides of Paris are mainly owing to this decadence of the press. -- Liberty of the press is good; but liberty is not licence. Why may not there be a special court of judges who could distinguish bad books from good ones ? For the sake of their country’s youth, let them “ assume a virtue if they have it not.” When we consider the fact that at an average io or 12 novels a week go forth to the public, and that each edition has often ten thousand readers, when we consider that they are yearly piled up and given as the sorry . heritage of parents to children, imagination alone can portray their millions of depredations in this land.
True, a few good novels may be useful to beguile a weary hour, to excite a generous sorrow for another’s pain, to inure the mind to the “ luxury of woe.” But, at the same time, heaits become cold by them and consciences seared, for, it is a well-known fact that, mentally, habitual novel-reading is destructive of real vigor; and, morally, it enervates true Christian sympathy and genuine kindness. Even from a literary point of view, these dime novels are of an inferior caste. Compare one of these vermiform crawlings with the loftiness of a Shakspere. In which of them will you find such a variety of vocabulary as in Shakspere, who has 15,000 different words of pure Saxon condensed into one volume? Again, in no novel will we find such intensity of thought, such brevity of expression, such intimate searchings of the human mind. Truly, of this great dramatist we must say, “ Each change of many-colored life he drew,
• —Exhausted worlds,’Sin'd then-imagined new.” ■ 1 . A few of Shakspere’s sentences may bear - the stamp of levity, and' ‘require -‘refinement to suit our age, but we can easily overlook them when we consider that he had to deal with the-low-life and the vitiated tastes of a corrupted London. audience,— the audience of that “ Babylon on the Sea.”
The order of liis plays is a matter of secondary consideration, arid would require an entire volume of"dates and ’figures to justify, any re.
marksZ At present, suffice it to call attention tq.that sublimity of thought, that grandeur of expression, arid-that purity of diction which characterize’ the great works of this immortal poet. What dime novelist can equal. Shakspere in wit, in style, in grandeur? Simply, none. • .Why, then, do we see every- house,’fevery young man and young woman furnished with dime novels, and not with a Shakspere? We can’-only answer in Shakspere’s own words: “ ‘The timb is out of joint.’ ‘I can a tale unfold.’ ‘Oh, Hamlet! what a falling off was there!’”	P. F. McSweeny.
Robert Morris.
Of all who participated in the great struggle for independence there was not one, perhaps, who. deserved more credit and received less than Robert Morris. This distinguished financier was born in o
Lancashire, England, Jan. 20, 1734, and died in Philadelphia, May 8, 1806. When 13 years old, he came to America, and before he was 15, was placed in the counting house of Charles Willing, a merchant of Philadelphia. At this early age He demonstrated his ability for financial and commercial affairs, for five years later he entered into partnership with the son of his employer, and, at the beginning of the Revolution, this firm was more 00	■*
largely engaged in commerce than any firm in Philadelphia. From the beginning he zealously embraced the American cause, and, in 1765, he signed the non-importation agreement, in consequence of which his business suffered seriously.
From that time until after the war we find him an important actor in all committees of finance and management, always moving with forethought and prudence, always acting with firmness and. despatch. He was a delegate to the first Continental Congress and one of the signers of the Declaration qf Independence.
The war had by this time fairly begun, and though men were to. be had in tolerable numbers, “ the one needful ” was lacking.
But the patriots were not to be daunted by any difficulties; the right men were found for the right places, and if a few more men like Robert Morris had been found, we may reasonably suppose that many of the trials and difficulties which so nearly proved disastrous to the young nation would have. been averted. At this time he was largely employed in managing the fiscal affairs of the country. The condition of the American cause for the next few years is well known; the army reduced to a.handful .of ragged and half-starved-patriots, the trea’sury.emptyy and.sueh an erapf depression • and- hopelessness., pre valent as^ can hardly be conceived.- .- .	■	. - ..	.
. “ Those were' the times that tried men’s souls.” • Napoleon’s retreat from Russia has been portrayed • in vivid , color’s by the best historians of modem times.- Leonidas and his Spartan band have been extolled to the skiesa.by all writers, ancient and-* modern.. But these, events in history dwindle into
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. .	131
insignificance when we compare them to Washington’s retreat from Long Island, the British flushed by success tracing his troops by their bloodstained tracks over the frozen ground, and, at the same time, harassing the enemy and even gaining brilliant victories; or, with the winter at.,Valley Forge, where the American army suffered such untold miseries, and the American cause seemed so hopeless. At this time Mr. Morris was not idle: when his own funds gave out -he interested others and started a bank by means of which 3,000,000 rations of provisions and 300 hogsheads of rum were forwarded to the starving army. We lament but extol him who rushes on to the cannon’s mouth and dies a glorious martyr to his country’s cause; we admire Kim who boards the enemy’s vessel sword in hand and gains a brilliant victory; we praise those who spend their lives enduring the scorn and ingratitude of the world for the benefit of their fellow-beings; but what shall we say of him who, with unstinted liberality and unerring judgment, bestows the earnings of a lifetime upon a hopeless though just cause, when,.by so doing, ingratitude and actual want stare him in the face. Especially must we admire Robert Morris in this respect, as the rule for Colonial capitalists at that time was to make as much as possible out of the hard times and depression attending the war, and by buying the then almost worthless Colonial currency, most of which was afterward redeemed for its face value, amass many fortunes.
In 1781, Congress recognized his worth, and he was unanimously elected Superintendent of finance; . and by subsequent resolutions of Congress he was invested with almost the entire control of the financial affairs of the Government. In short, during the ten years that followed, this function of the administration was altogether in his hands; and it may be said that it was through his exertions that the country was redeemed from a desperate state of public indebtedness after the war. “ But,” you may ask, “ what was the reward and the end of this singularly great man who had spared neither wealth nor endeavors and had so materially served his country?” Had the cause for which he had done so much been totally lost, he could hardly have suffered a worse fate, for the most unbearable estate to a once wealthy man is poverty; and the basest of faults, either national or individual, is ingratitude. In 1780, when he was doing all in his power to aid the cause of freedom, the firm of which he was a member was accused by Congress of having had fraudulent dealings to the detriment of the Government; but after a strict investigation he was entirely exonerated from the charge. How many meirwould have considered their services at an end, and -how/few,like.Robert Morrisj would; have redoubled their exertions for a Government which had suspected them of dishonesty! History records but few similar acts. Nor was this all; we find him, while holding offices under . the Government, constantly being refused aid from higher authorities to carry out his plans in regard to the fiscal affairs of his country.
- And, finally, when he had succeeded in bringing
order and credit out of chaos and debts, his services were ignored and another received the praise. But this alone would not entitle him to such prominent notice as he deserves, for many have gone down to their obscure graves unnoticed and even unrewarded by a selfish and unappreciative people; -but-the height.of ingratitude and.selfishness was reached when, at an old age, he who should have been reaping the benefits of .his patriotic and self-sacrificing deeds; he who had time and again succored the starving army at his own expense; he who had furnished nearly everything necessary for the closing campaign of the war; he-who had issued his own notes to.the amount of 1,400000 dollars, at a period when Continental currency was worthless and nothing else could save the nation’s credit; he who had become poor in the service of his country, was imprisoned for debt! Had Washington himself been imprisoned it would scarcely have been more to be wondered at. However, it is but human nature illustrated; we admire the dashing spirit, while we spurn the patient, and oft-times truly noble, with contempt.
Had Arnold died at the battle of-Saratoga his many faults would have, been forgotten and-his name would have gone down in the memory of future-generations almost on a paralell with him who is called the “Father of our Countiy.” But when an unprejudiced and accurate generation shall read aright the history of the nations they shall place at the head those deserving merit, not alone those who, insensible to fear, have won renown on the field of battle, but especially those whose purity of motives is equalled only by. their skill in acting,—and prominent among these shall be the name of Robert Morris.
C. C. Craig, ’85.
Books and Periodicals.
Eclectic Manual of Phonography: A Complete Guide to the Acquisition of Pitman’s Phonetic Shorthand, with or without a Teacher. By Elias Longlev. Cincinnati: Robert Clarke and Co. 1S82. 141 pages. 75 cents.
This is a practical book,’by a practical man. Mr. Longley, its author, has been a reporter for thirty-five years, and to-day holds a distinguished place in the front rank of the profession. His system is that of Isaac Pitman, the inventor of Phonography, slightly modified by the addition of a few of the most useful devices invented by other phonographers and which have stood a thorough test in actual reporting. The most important of -■ these is the use of Pitman’s s/zozz-hook on the lefthand, side of perpendicular, and under-side of straight strokes, as an equivalent to the doublelength curves, and also very useful in phrasing. The vowel scale is that adopted by Isaac Pitman fifteen years ago, and now used by him, which brings the phonographic alphabet into harmony with the ordinary English and other modern alphabets. Mr. Longley has acted wisely in sacrificing the prejudices of his early training in
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the old vowel scale, which Benn Pitman and Graham still retain; for undoubtedly th'e new one is the best, and must in time supersede its unnatural and rather clumsy predecessor. What justifies the author’s claim to eclecticism is, besides the adoption of Mr. Munson’s /er-hook, the retention of the old forms for PF and T, and the PF-hook on Nand M (still used by Benn Pitman, Graham, and Munson), the object in retaining them being “the restoration of harmony among American phonographers, and unity in the style of writing by those who will hereafter study the art.” We ’ hope Mr. Longley will succeed in bringing the present and the rising generation over to the truth and beauty of the phonographic scheme as perfected by its inventor, but we candidly think he has made a great sacrifice by the retention of the old W and F signs. Shaded strokes are necessarily a clog to speed; we therefore think Isaac Pitman’s new light lines a decided improvement, not to speak of the utility of the old characters in their new signification, where they save a stroke in hundreds of words of less frequent occurrence than the letters W and T. The objection that Mr. Pitman’s new signs for PF and Fdo not admit of the initial hooks has no weight, because initial hooks are superseded by an equally good device, the double-lengthing of the consonant-stem for R, and and the PF-hook on L. Then, again, the use of the PFhook on N and M necessitate shading of the stem to distinguish it from the 7?-hook—no slight objection, besides which Pitman’s H takes the back-hook, while the old characters and Mr. L.’s cannot. In other respects Mr. Longley is cl liefly in accordance with Isaac Pitman. Unlike Munson, he has judiciously avoided changing the logograms, so that writers after Pitman can, with very little trouble, read the Eclectic notes, and vice versa.
In reviewing D. L. Scott-Browne’s Manual, a few weeks ago, we gave its author credit for an improvement that we now see belongs to Mr. Longley, namely, a device to add a third vowel to a diphthong without lifting the pen, which we said was “of itself worth the price of the book.” We find it on page ioo .of Mr. Longley’s Manual, which antedates Mr. Browne’s by three years. ’ Mr. Longley’s Manual is compact and practical, with nb rubbish in it, and the student that takes it up can rely upon it.
—The Catholic World for November is at hand, and, as usual, bright and seasonable. It opens with an article entitled “ God or Nothing,”—a review of an article that appeared in MacmillaiHs for August. The subject is the old vexed question of Liberalism, and a defence of the Belgian system of education; but Oswald Keating, D. C. L., shows that that liberalism is only, the first step to libertinism. “Our Lady.*of Lilacs” is an entertaining episode of the Reign of Terror; The “ Salvation Army, of Great Britain” is an able article by Henry Bellingham, M. P. This “ Army” is one of a hundred and one discordant sects, offshoots of the Reformation, that are cordially hating one another while they are linked together
by the one single bond of hatred to Rome. The Salvation Army practically agree with Catholics in one thing: that Christ is the Head of the Church of God; but the Queen is the head of the Church of England. “ The Comedy of Conference”; “ To a Water-Lily,” a sonnet; “A Real Barry Lyndon,” are readable papers. The author says that Thackeray must have read and studied the memoir of “Ti-ger” Roche before writing “ The Memoirs of Barry Lyndon,” one of his most striking and historical novels. “ Oxford and Cambridge ” is an interesting article, showing the change that has taken place in institutions that exerted a great influence in moulding the thoughts and sentiments of the nation. The other articles are “Mr. Bancroft’s New Volumes”; “In the Next House”; Monks and Nuns of the “Reformation”; “The Festival of All Saints in Vienna”; “ Catholic Elements in English Life and Letters ”; suffice it to say that-this is from the pen of John Mac-Carthy; “ Puy-en-Velay”; “ The Letter Book of an Irish Viceroy.” The review department of the Catholic 'World is by no means the least interesting and instructive.
Scientific Notes.
—A Chinese coin, 3,000 years old, has been found by gold miners digging in a claim at Cassiar. It is supposed to have been left there by Chinese mariners, wrecked on the coast, long before the Christian era.
—Some French chemists have succeeded in solidifying-petroleum, in which state it burns like tallow. This, solidification is effected by adding . to distilled petroleum 25 per cent, of the purified juice of plants belonging to the family of the Eu-phorbiacece. .
—Sir W. Thompson has invented a cheap dynamo machine which promises to furnish the electric light at less than one-tenth its present cost. He has removed the. iron from the armature, and brought the field magnets close together, thus increasing their efficiency. As it costs only one-fifth as much as the cheapest of its rivals, another long step has been made: towards the general adoption of the electric light.--London Weekly Register.
—The Belgian Academies offer a prize of 3,000 francs for the best essay on the destruction of fishes by the pollution of rivers. Competitors will be allo wed till Oct. 1, 1884, to send in their papers.
. Among the topics suggested for treatment are the investigation and indication of practical means for purifying the waters issuing from particular iridus-' trial works, so as to render them compatible with • the life of fishes without compromising industry.
—Geological examination of the delta of the Mississippi now shows that for a distance of about 360 miles there are buried forests of large trees, one over the other, with interspaces of sand. Ten distinct forest growths of this description have been observed, which, it'is believed, must have succeeded each other. Of these trees, known as'the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
bald cypress, some have been found over twenty-five feet in diameter, and one contained 5,700 rings; in some instances too, huge trees have grown over the stumps of others equally large. From these facts, geologists have assumed the antiquity of each forest growth at 10,000 years, or 100,000 for all. .
—The French astronomers who have just arrived in New York city, on their way to Florida to observe the transit of Venus, intend to apply in their observations the photographic method, known since the transit of 1874 as the American method, and which, it is believed, will give more trustworthy results than any other plan yet devised. The French have sent out seven other ex‘ peditions to various parts of the world to observe the transit, and astronomers have also started from the other principal European countries and from the United States for the same purpose. The transit does not occur until December 6th, but it is requisite that the observing stations should be occupied as early as possible, so that everything shall be in perfect working order when the important day comes.—Home Jozirnal.
—Sir John Lubbock’s opinion confirms or endorses the conclusion long since put forth by some of the most eminent astronomers, namely, that there are now in the solar system, or firmament, many dark bodies—that is, bodies which now emit no light, or comparatively little. He points out, for example, that in the case of Procyon the existence of an inyisible body is demonstrated by the movement of the visible star. Another illustration which he cites relates to the notable phenomena presented by Algow, the bright star in the Head of Medusa. This star shines without change for two days and thirteen hours; then, in three hours and a half, dwindles from a star of the -second to one of the fourth magnitude; and then, in another three and a half hours, reassumes its original brilliancy. According to the view entertained by Prof. Lubbock, these changes must be regarded as indicating the presence of an opaque body, which intercepts at regular intervals a part of the light emitted by Algow.
—Various experiments have been made for months past with the “ electrical phonograph,” as it is called, the result appearing to show the success of the contrivance for composing and reproducing tunes which are played on the piano. Each key has a separate wire connected with it, and the touching of a note on the piano makes an electric contact which lasts as long as the note is depressed. The wires pass to a series of revolving toothed wheels, and the passage of the current through a particular - wire brings 'the corresponding wheel in contact with a moving band of paper, and continues to chipoff bits of paper as long as the current is passing. The result is that, after a piece has been- played, the band of paper is marked with holes and slits corresponding to the notes. To reproduce the music, the paper- is passed between a metal rod and a number of springs, each one connected with a note on .the piano-forte.
When any hole or slip is opposite ^ certain spring, contact is made with the metal rod, a current passes through the corresponding wire, and, acting upon an electro-magnet, it strikes the same key whose depression had originally cut the hole in the paper.	-
College Gossip.
—The register of Cornell University gives 350 entrances this year.
—At Lafayette College eleven Sophomores were recently expelled foi* hazing Freshmen. A lone hand for the Facuity.—Niagara Index. '
—A bicycle club has been formed by the students of Lehigh University. A uniform is to be adopted and club drill practised.—Oberlin Review.
—Hamilton College has been made the recipient of $50,000 for the erection of a new scientific hall. The donor, for the present, remains incog.—Niagara Index.	'
—Mr. F. Leon Chrisman, President White’s stenographer, intends to give private instructions in phonography shortly to a limited number of. pupils.— Cornell Szzn.
—Some of the Faculty at Yale reserve the right of marking lower than zero, by means of minus signs, when the ignorance exhibited by the students is too abysmal.— Oberlin Review.
—It is stated that the financial condition of the University of Pennsylvania is rather low. A large sum of money was borrowed last year to pay the salaries of the professors.— Cornell Sun.
—Much feeling has been aroused among stu- ’ dents at Williams College because of President Carter’s command to the Sophomores to pass their once rejected resolution allowing Freshmen to carry canes.— Oberlin Review.
—From some moneys left at the disposal of his executors by the late Count Eyre, of Manchester Square, London, £20,000 are to be given for the founding of bourses for the education of ecclesiastical students for the various dioceses.in England and Scotland.	.
—Scott’s “ Marmion ” is about as fit for a schoolbook as Byron’s “ Don Juan,” or Pope’s “January and May,” but the Canadian school authorities will rather have their impressible scholars wade critically and analytically through mental filth and -moral impurity, than comply with the- wishes of the Catholic Archbishop. They probably adopted the work without examination, and now retain it out of bigotry and obstinacy.—Ypsilanti Sentinel.
_____Among the most prominent benefactors of education was Johns Hopkins, who bequeathed $3,000,000 to found the Johns Hopkins University at Baltimore. Asa Packer gave $3,700,000 to Lehigh University, and $30,000 to Muhlenberg College. J. C. Green presented Princeton with 750,000. The gifts of Ezra Cornell and H. W. Gage to Cornell University aggregate more than $1,000,000. Ario Pardee has . given more than
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
$500,000 to Lafayette College since 1864.— Campus.
—The Sophomores of Lafayette College, Easton, Pa., have made a great improvement over the old way of hazing. They treated the Freshmen, some time ago, to a severe hazing, and a bitter feeling between the classes resulted. On Monday nieht, however, they invited the Freshmen to a reception and dinner in Pardee Hall, and there the feud was settled and the students became the best of friends. Now, let the giving of a reception and dinner be substituted for hazing and cane fights in all colleges, and the young men will win o	O’	J o
more respect, both from the public and from their associates.—New York Sun.
—The following list, condensed from local colO	1
lege papers, includes the best winning records on Field-day at Yale, Harvard, Columbia and Williams :
The following, which we clip from the Ncvjs, are the best Yale records, from first meeting, 1872 to 18S2. 100 yards, 10 1—5 sec.; 220 yards, 22 sec.; 440 yards, 53 1-2 sec.; One-half mile run, 2 min., 6 1-2 sec.; 1 mile run, 4 min., 37 3-5 sec.; 120 yards hurdle-race (10 hurdles); 1 mile walk, S min., 13 sec.; 1 mile bicycle, 3 min., 27 1—2 sec.; 2 mile bicycle, 6 min., 56 sec.; running high jump, 5 ft. 3 1—2 in.; standing broad jump, 9 ft., S in.; running broad jump, 18 ft., 5 1-2 in.; throwing hammer (16 lbs.), 73 ft, 10 inches.; pole leaping, 8 ft., 3 3-4 in.; putting shot, 34 ft., 2 in.; throwing baseball, 356 ft., 2 1-4 in.; kicking football, 157 ft., 2 in.
The winning record at the Columbia College field-sports this year were as follows: 100-yard dash, 10 4—5 sec.; mile run, 5 min., 22 3-5 sec.; running high jump, 5 ft., 1 in.; throwing hammer, 87 ft 11 in.; bicycle race, two miles, 6 min., 33 1-3 sec.; 220-yards dash, 25 sec.; putting the shot, 32 ft, 6 in,; quarter-mile run, 53 4-5 sec.; half-mile run, 2 min., 20 sec.; running jump, 19 ft, 9^ inches.
At the Harvard field-sports (Oct. 25) there were but two entries for the half-mile run. Winning time, 2 min., 21 sec.; one hundred yards dash, io)£ sec.; one-mile run, 5 min., 12 sec.; quarter-mile run, 59)4 sec.; running broad jump, length, 18 ft.; running high jump, 5 ft., A/2 in.; 220-yards dash, 2514 sec. At the Harvard fall meeting, Oct. 28, the hammer (weight not given) was thrown 67 ft.; 100 yards dash, 11 sec.; running high jump, 5 ft., 3 in.; mile-run, 2 min., 8 sec.; running broad jump, 18 ft.; mile run, 5 min.; 17^ sec.; pole vault, 7 ft., 10 in.
The following is the Williams College record:
-Running broad jump, 18 ft., 9 1-2 in; Prize, Silver Medal. Throwing hammer, 9 1-2 pounds, 93 ft.; Silver Cup. Putting shot, 16 pounds, 30 ft.; Silver Cup. Running high jump, height, 4 ft, 10 1-2 in.; Silver Medal. Kicking football, distance, 127 ft., 3 1-2 in.; Gold Pencil. Five miles “ go-as-you-please,” 33 min., 34 1-2 sec.; Silver Cup. Throwing ball, distance, 366 ft; Engraving. One hundred yards dash, 11 sec.;.- Silver Medal. vOne-mile walk, 9 min., 14 3—4-isec.; Cane. One half-mile run, no time taken; Silver Medal. Two hundred and twenty yards dash, 25 1-2 sec.; Silver Medal. Bicycle race, one half-mile, 1 min., 40 1-2 sec.; Silver Cup. Three-legged race, 56 yards, 7 sec/; Silver Medals. One hundred and ’ twenty yards race, 13 3-4 sec.; Silver Medal. One quarter-mile run, 1 min., 1 sec.; Silver Medal. One-mile run, 5 min. 22 1—4 sec.; Clock. Rope pull, best two in three. ’85 and ’86 teams ofrfifteen, won by ’85 in two straight
’ pulls; Meerschaum pipe.
The following are some of the records made in a late field-day contest at Dartmouth. Throwing hammer, 62
ft., 6% in.; hundred yard dash, 11 sec.; putting the shot, 31 ft., 9 in.; hop-skip-and-jump, 40 ft., yz in.; 220 yards run, 26^ sec.; half-mile run, 21 min., 20 sec.
For comparison -with the foregoing, we append our own best tvinning record on Founder’s Day, which we find condensed and ready at our hand in the Cornell. Daily Sun of Oct. 24:
100-yard dash, 11 sec.; 1 1—8 mile dash, 6 min.; running jump, 17 ft., 2 in.; running hop-step-and-jump, 38 ft.; standing trippie jump, 29 ft., 7 m.; running high jump, 4 ft., 6 in.; high kick, 7 ft., 4 in.; three-mile race, 20 min.
Exchanges.
—The Clionean Argus says: “ From early childhood to the ‘ twilight of old age ’ we exert an influence, good or bad, as the case may be, over those with whom we associate.” So we do, but how many there are who seem to totally forget that such is the case!	'
— The Wheel, the official “ organ ” of the By-cicle Touring- Club in America, has been rotating in our direction for the past few weeks. The Wheel comes from P. O. Box 444, New York, and may therefore be called a “ boxed Wheel.” Perhaps Charles Leland (Hans Breitman), the “Father of Bycicling Poesy,” will write us a contribution on this new theme. The cranks of The Wheel are rotated by Fred Jenkins and Chas. E. Pratt.	.
—We have received four copies of No. 5 of The High School Monthly, published by the Cleveland High School boys, Cleveland, Ohio. An editorial item says: “ This number will be sent to a number of puzzlers who arc’ not yet subscribers,”—which will perhaps account for the number of copies sent to us. The Monthly is a sprightly little paper. “ Wheel Writing,”—not in circular form, however,—shows that the High School boys are also under the influence of the “ wheel mania ”—we have it rather bad ourselves, one would judge, by the number of “ wheels ” circulating round the University. .
— The Polytechnic—J oily Poly—is out for October, unchanged in appearance, because it thought itself so handsome that it needed no change,—unless the absence of the man with the dog and gun, at the head of “ Sporting Notes,” may be called a change. Iphigenia’s “Amor Omnia Vincit” is a passable specimen of humorous verse, and Jack Minot’s “ Sun-bonnet” a superior one. Poly’s exchange editor gives the Scholastic a bit of advice that is impracticable—just now, at least. At some future day, perhaps, it may be acted upon. We quote: ,	.
“ Our old and valued friend, our E. C., [what is that?] the Notre Dame Scholastic, now appears, and we examine it "with pleasure. ’ We only wish it had an outside cover to add still more to its neat appearance. We append passages from a remarkably sensible editorial in the last issue,” etc.
We commend the last sentence to the consideration of the exchange editor of The Oberlin Review, who thinks the Scholastic contains little of interest for the general reader. As regards the cover: No, Poly; we are so diminutive that we are afraid to go under cover,—afraid we might get
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
lost, and couldn’t find our way out again; or if we did, that it would be at the wrong end, with a sheriff’s attachment. You monthly and semi-monthly fellows should take our wee^-ness into consideration when suggesting a budget of expenses. .	-
— The Wheelman is a new magazine of So pages, published monthly,' in Bostbii' in the interest of byciclcrs and bycicling. The print, paper, and general make-up of the magazine are pat’	terned after The Century. The leading article of
the first number, “A Wheel Around the Hub,” was published in Scribner's two years ago, and is now reproduced entire, illustrations included, in a very creditable manner. The Wheelman aims to be a first-class illustrated magazine on wheels, and '	from the manner in which it starts out it is evident
|	it means to make a handsome run, unless its career
I	is stopped by a “ header.” It contains sketches of
bycicling experiences by enthusiastic wheelmen-[	writers whose imaginations “ run on wheels,” so
?	to speak,—accounts of tours through America,
England and other countries, and essays of a literary character—all bearing on “ wheels,” of course* It is surprising to what an extent the bycicling ■	mania has reached among people of every class.
The wheelmen spin some good yarns—pretty “ tough ” yarns some of them, but of so elastic a character that the action of the “lye” is hardly perceptible. A wicked Pennsylvania M. D.— who runs on Sunday, like his watch—tells among other things how, in spite of the Sunday law, he ►	procured an “ eye-opener ” for a fellow wheelman
who had his optics closed by a low-hanging branch of a tree; he wrote out a prescription—R. Sp’t’s
।	Vini Gallici [we can’t give the quantities, as our
printer has not the antediluvian characters used by the medical fraternity], Tr. Card. Comp., Sympi, Aqua Distillata, etc.,—one-half of which was to aid the surgeon’s vision, the other for the relief of the patient. G. M. Garland contributes a good article on “Second Wind,” interesting to athletes; Chas. E. Pratt, author of “ A Wheel Around the Hub,” one on “ The Tariff Question” as it affects the wheel; and Col. Albert A. Pope, of Columbia _ Bycicle fame, one entitled a “ Plea for FailTrade.” This Boston Pope is, of course, infallible on the wheel question. The magazine is published by the Wheelman Company, 608 Washington Street, Boston.
i	—The Virginia University Magazine for Oc-
tober is a splendid initial number for a volume.
' There is at least one talented and hard worker— we don’t know how many more—on the new edi?	torial corps of the Magazine. “ Selections from
Patience, or The Impatient Starvelings,” is immense, —a	J- .= A_-,
!	—“ high, cockalorum on the Pohs Asinorum ” .
. production. We can imagine the first of the two .	conjunctive authors, X. Tennyson Quackenbos,
1	V. V., as, in all respects, anything but a .
J	.	’ “ Conceive me, if you can,
*	A cram night and day, young man,
' A dyspeptical type -•	-
. :	‘	’ Ot learning o’er-ripe— ■ ’ . ' - '
•.	• _ J You could-knock,me down with a fan;
Who thinks professor’s whims •
As sacred as solemn hymns;	.
Who loves not his dinner,	•
But ever gets thinner
Both in his body and limbs.”
We should rather suppose him one of the chorus of students at the college boarding-house, who sing: “It is clear that Spartan fortitude alone retains its zest;
To accommodate our stomachs we have done our level best. We’re not quite sure if all we do doesn’t make the matter worse;
In addition to our hunger we have got the keeper’s curse. You hold your paunch like this {attitude), You hold your paunch like that {attitude),
By hook and crook you try to look both, healthy, -well and fat {attitudd)”
Presto, change:	.
“You must lie upon your bed with a towel round your head, and devour your calculus,
And frantically try to understand the boring syllabus. And everyone will say, .	.
As you walk your studious way, If this young man expresses himself in formula to me, Why, what a very formidably formulated youth this formulated youth must be!”
The second of the conjunctive authors, O. Wilde Dusenbury, P. P., is probably the author of the following Boarding-House song, which we find adorning the pages of “ The Impatient Starvelings”:
“ If you want a receipt for that popular mystery - -Known to the world as boarding-house hash, Take all the ingredients in natural history, Mix them together without any splash.
The remnants of day before yesterday’s dinner, Debris of turkey, or mutton, or ham,
Cold water in plenty to (make the stuff thinner) Head of a bullock or horns of a ram;
Then carrots and turnips (the dirt still adhering), Pepper to season and give it a spice;
Potatoes (that food to the Irish endearing); = Plenty of onions, and cabbage and rice; ' .- ..
Okra, tomatoes, and dried Lima beans, And what was left over from yesterday’s greens. Bread crumbs, and other tit-bits from the table, Salt, mustard and vinegar (if you are able), Flavor with any ingredients you choose, ■ And add enough catsup to give one the blues; , Take of these elements all that is fusible, Melt them all down in pipkin or crucible, Set ’em to simmer and take off the scum, And a Boarding-House Hash is the residuum.
Chorus of Famished Students.	‘
Yes! yes! yes! yes!
A Boarding-House Hash is the residuum.”
The essays in this number of the Magazine are very good. “ The Fate of the Alchemist,” “ Christianity and Stoicism,” “A Conversation,” and « Fitzwilkins’ Fate,” show careful writing. - “ The Rosebud” is far above the average of college poetry. The exchange editor gives our immortal “ Roll of Honor ” a whack. He says:
“The Notre Dame Scholastic, the most liberal and intelligent of all qur Catholic exchanges, and a paper of which any college might be :proud, is' nevertheless a little too full of Rolls of Honor and of compliments to' the professors.”	’	;	.
In lieu of an answer, we will quote “The Impatient Starvelings ” again:	’
“ Terrible Tom was a very* bad boy, Who gave his professors much annoy; He never attended a lecture at all, But played at pool—called fifteen ball; He drank mean whiskey and ran up big bills. And when last heard from was in the Black Hills.”
How will that do ? .
136	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
w
Notre Dame, November 4, 1882.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE -DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Sixteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the sue--cess of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
. Old Students should take it.
Terms, Sr.po per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers,, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the. Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
—Mr. Henry W. I. Garland, editor of The Catholic Telegraph, departed this life at Cincinnati, on Tuesday morning, Oct. 31st. Though still young—he was but 32 years old at the time of -his death—he had gained for himself an enviable reputation in the literary world. He had been a frequent contributor to the newspapers of Cincinnati, and other periodicals, as well as editing The Catholic Telegraph, to which position he succeeded Rev. Father Callahan, in April, 1880. A dispatch to the Chicago Times says: “ It is not too much to say that, for his age, Mr. Garland was the most brilliant journalist in Cincinnati; he had a pen of lightning-like rapidity, and he was able to dash off at short notice an article on almost any given subject. Next to controversial theology, for which he found a vent in the paper he edited, he delighted most to write on art subjects; he could speak and write in a number of foreign tongues; his linguistic abilities extended even to modern Greek. He was a wonderfully fascinating conversationalist. By nationality, Mr. Garland was an Englishman, he being born at Lynn, Norfolk County. The family of the deceased are staunch adherents of the Church of England, and it is believed that a brother of Mr. Garland is a minister in that body. Mr. Garland himself became charmed, and then convinced, by the writings of the English controversialists on the Catholic side,— especially Cardinal Newman—and he finally became a convert to the Catholic Church.” In his death the Church has lost an able defender, and the literary world a bright and shining light, but never were words more sincerely uttered than these: “May our loss be his gain!” He died after having had the happiness of preparing his soul to meet its Creator—having received, with the most edifying dispositions, the last sacred rites and consolations of religion. May he rest in peace!
—As previously announced, the students’ Retreat began on Sunday evening and closed on Wednesday morning, the Feast of All Saints. All the Catholic students participated in the various exercises with edifying attention and recollection; and on the last day of the Retreat crowned their good work by receiving Holy Communion in a body. All seemed anxious to further the object for which these exercises are intended, namely, to draw down upon themselves the blessing of Heaven; and, whilst yet at the beginning of the year, to commit to His hands, to whom they owe all that they have and are—to entrust to the protection of God the work before them and by which they intend to fit themselves for the pursuit of their vocation in life. Since the beginning of the year, the College authorities have had nothing but words of praise regarding the general deportment of the students; and, judging from the manner in which they followed the exercises of this retreat, they have reason to believe that the students of ’82—’83 will not fail to reflect credit,-both upon themselves and their Alma Materby their good conduct and attention to study. ;
Organization of “The Academy.”
The “Academy of St. Thomas Aquinas,” the new philosophical society, was organized Thursday evening, Oct. 26th.- Many of^the Faculty weie' present, among whom were Rev. President Walsh, Rev. Fathers Zahm and Stoffel, Rev. Father Fitte, Professor of Philosophy, Prof. McSweeney, Prof, of Logic, and others. . President Walsh opened the meeting with a brief address, explanatory of the object for which the Association was founded. He said that this was not intended to take the place of any existing literary society, but to hold a position peculiarly its own. Each of the societies already formed has an object proper to itself ; the special end of the new organization is the cultivation of a love for philosophical inquiries, and, at the same time, to furnish a means for its members to carry into practice—or rather, perhaps, to prepare, in I special manner, for the proper use, in the future, of the lessons they learn. at college. Father Fitte followed in a few, well-chosen remarks, giving rules by which the members were to be guided ip their essays and debates, the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
faults which were to be avoided and the beauties to be cultivated. They should first establish “ the point,” i. e., define the question in a clear and precise manner. Everything that would violate clearness and conciseness must be eliminated. Another dc-•	feet to be avoided was “ an excessive bent towards
i	fighting.” There should be no childish exhibi-
I	tion of skill in arguing. All argument must be
j	conducted through a sincere love for truth and a
desire to obtain sound and. useful knowledge. A ;	third defect was to prefer sophistry to true Logic.
I	This was the worst of ail, and the special character-
i	istic of Lucifer, and all heretics. In general, they
I	should adopt, as their motto, the words of St. Au-
j	gustine: “ In neccssariis unitas, in dubiis libcrtas, in
i	omnibus charitas.” Father Fitte’s remarks were
।	‘ listened to with attention, and made a deep impres-
)	sion. Prof. McSweeney then arose and delivered
i	an address on Scholastic Philosophy. ■ We re-
gret that we have not space in this number for the production of even the substance of his beautiful address. We shall endeavor to give it in our next.
On the conclusion of Prof. McSweeney’s address, the meeting adjourned, to meet again this ( Saturday) evening, when the election of officers will take place and measures be adopted for- the formation of a constitution. We congratulate the voung gentlemen of the Senior and Junior years upon the formation of this society, and they have our best wishes for its success.
Fathers Lemonnier and Gillespie.
“ ’Tis sad, ’tis sad to number o’er The faces glad and gav. Which we have loved; some smile no more Around us as they did of yore; ”
and, as year after year passes onward, the more deeply do we feel the loss of those whom the grave has hidden away from our sight forever.
Since the memorable fall of 1874, when the leaves change, and the skies glow as if catching the hues of the departing flowers; when the keen, subtle chill in the morning atmosphere reminds us that winter is at hand, two scenes come up vividly before the memory of those who resided at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s in those days: they are the death-bed scenes of two priests of the Holy Cross; one was thirty-five years of age, the other forty-two. Both were in the midst of a career of marked usefulness, and they were called away from earth with an interval of exactly two weeks between their deaths; the first died Thursday, Oct. 29th, the iast Nov. 12, 1874. One was the Rev. Father Augustine Lemonnier,. President of the University of Notre Dame, and founder of the Sci/or.ASTTC, the other, Rev. Neal Henry Gillespie, the editor of The “Arc Maria” and first manager of our college paper.	■
Father Lemonnier was born beneath the sunny skies of France, studied in his native land and in Italy; read- law, but forsook the prospects of a lucrative practice to embrace the most noble of all vocations, that of the -priesthood. About twenty years ago he came .to America with his
uncle, Very Rev. Edward Sorin, the present Superior-General of the Holy Cross. With all the ardor of a deep enthusiasm, kindled by warm love for his faith and his vocation, Father Lemonnier entered upon the work of Christian education which he found before him in this new field of action. Nobly did his young, true life respond to the demands of God upon him. While he captivated all by the superiority of his manners and acquirements, more signally did he enlist the warm and lasting affection of those confided to his charge in the University by those sterling qualities of mind and heart which the more trying and intimate relations of pupil and mentor are calculated to bring into exercise, to stimulate and purify.
The history of his short, but beautiful career is deeply engraven in many a brave, true heart who from him learned the secret of a worthy success in the unflinching practice of Christian principles. The name of Fathei' Lemonnier is the synonym of all that is pure and good; of all that is just and holy. The words uttered when death had struck its chill into his heart are indicative of his perfect detachment: “I brought nothing with • me into this world; I cany nothing with me away from this world; I ask for nothing but the grace of God.” The bronze statue of the Immaculate Conception which rises above his revered ashes was erected by the young gentlemen of the University as a memorial of their love for him, but the best monument is the high principles of virtue which his example had built up in their young souls.	.
Rev. Father Gillespie was American bom, the first graduate of Notre Dame, and his theological studies were pursued and completed in the- Eternal City. It was his happiness to be in Rome in 1854, when the great dogma of the Immaculate Conception was defined by the glorious Pio Nono.
Father Gillespie’s name has been identified with Notre Dame almost from its first institution. He was the only son of Mrs. M. M. Phelan, a lady widely known for her numerous charities, her deep and unaffected piety, as well as for her wide circle of distinguished familv connections. He was also the brother of Mother M. Angela, of St. Mary’s, and Mrs. Judge Ewing, of Lancaster, Ohio. From these facts we infer the bright future that the world held out for him, and which he relinquished for “something better,” to use the significant words of St. Stanislaus.
After being several times chaplain at St. Mary’s and employed in other arduous and responsible positions in the Congregation of the Holy Cross, Father Gillespie’s fine literary abilities found free and congenial scope in the editorial chair of The “ Ave Maria” which he occupied for years. While engaged at this responsible post, he contracted the malady which cost him his life. -
Father Gillespie’s social virtues, his ready wit, his breadth of mind and versatile acquirements, united to a generous and charitable heart, made him beloved by all who had. the good fortune to form his acquaintance. To his devotion and piety St. Mary’s owes her Santa Casa, or holy
138	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
House’’of Loretto. By him the model was brought from Europe, and through his exertions the edifice was erected. Now it stands as his most significant monument. Beneath its quiet shelter, after his holy and edifying death, his remains reposed for two days and nights, and from thence they were carried to their final rest in the calm cemetery of Notre Dame, side by side with those of dear Father Lemonnier. Ever fresh and sacred shall the memory of both remain. May they rest in peace. *	M.
Personal.
—Hon. W. C. McMichael (Law), ’74, paid the College a visit on Thursday. Mac’s old friends are always glad to see him.
—Mr. Michael Falvey (Com’l), of ’80, has fitted up a neat grocery store, and is now doing business in his own name. Success, Mike!
.—Mr.-Mark Falvey (Com’l), of ’82, is in the grocery business with his father, and promises to be the leading business-man of Winamac, Ind.
—James A. Taylor, of ’72, is a candidate for Representative of the^th Senatorial District of Chicago. Jim, in days of yore, was a good St. Ceci-lian, and we wish him every success.
—F. H. Grever, ’82, is happy and prosperous at Cincinnati, Ohio. He writes, expressing the great pleasure he takes in reading the Scholastic, and the sincere affection lie still retains for his Alma Mater.
' —Mr. Henry Steis, writing from his home, Winamac, Ind., regrets that, owing to circumstances over which they have no control, he and James Falvey will not return until next session, and perhaps not until September next.
—We had the pleasure of a visit from Mr. D. R. Leeper, the Democratic candidate for County Auditor. Mr. Leeper is a neighbor of ours, and has, at different times, proved his friendship for Notre Dame. He has the best wishes of the Scholastic for his success.
—Mr. Jeremiah Falvey, of ’73, has just served two very successful terms as County Auditor. His friends regret that the law prohibits him from running a^ain, as he would even get a “third” term, being the most popular and efficient officer of Pulaski County, Ind.
_____T. A. Dailey,. ’74, editor of the Winona (Minn.) Herald, was united in marriage to Miss Ella B." Davison, of Somerset, Mich., on Tuesday, Oct. 24tli. The Scholastic tenders/ its'congratulations and best wishes for a long and happy life to its former -editor and his bride. The year is right, this time, Tom.
—A welcome visitor during the past week was the Rev. T. J.-Jenkins, of the diocese of Louisville. He is the author of tfi'e little work, “ The Judges of the Faith and Godless Schools,” lately noticed in these columns, and has been a frequent contributor to the Catholic press of the country,
notably to The “ Ave Maria? We hope the reverend gentleman will soon recover his health and be able to resume the labors for which his talent and zeal so well qualify him.
Local Items.
—Retreat!
—P. O. Box 1289.
—Send in your items.
—Did you see the comet?
—Another comet has been discovered.
—The waiters now appear in uniform.
—The 400th student was booked on Tuesday.
—Monthly Bulletins were sent off last Wednesday.
—Gray’s Elegy is a favorite poem with the Juniors.
—The St. Cecilians have had an exciting Moot Court.
—The Retreat was preached by Rev. Father Hudson.
—The public readers during the Retreat gave entire satisfaction.
—Prof. Unsworth will lecture before the Crescent Club, at an early date.
—The St. Cecilians return thanks to Father Hudson for favors received.
—The Professor of Physics has actually shocked his pupils several times, lately.
—The Preps, took an extra long “ constitutional” on Wednesday afternoon.
—Several subscriptions for the Dome have been received, too late for notice this week.
—A fine, large room in the Infirmary building has been fitted up for the Class in Physiology.
—The game of “ Rugby ” played on the Seniors’ Campus last Wednesday, was unusually exciting.
—The Seniors return thanks to the Prefects, for the hat-racks which have been placed in the study-hall.
—John Nester, of Saginaw, Mich., heads the Junior subscriptions for the Dome with twenty -five dollars.
—Lost.—a gold stud with amethyst setting. The finder will please return to Frank E. Henderson, Jr. ’	‘	>> ,
■-—B.-Alfred and his men have laid a fine; cement walk between the two study-halls. • Next the printers, eh?
—A beautiful landscape painting in oil, by Cre- -pin, the famous French artist, has been added to the art gallery.
-—Life-size busts of Homer, Cicero, Demosthenes and Socrates, have been placed in the Le-monnier Library.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
139
—To-morrow, the 23d Sunday after Pentecost, Missa de Angelis will be sung; Vespers, of a Confessor not Bishop.
—The competitions in the Preparatory Course, which were postponed on account of the Retreat, will be held next week.
—The regular weekly recreation was, in consequence of the Festival on Wednesday, trans-
;	ferred to Friday, this week. '
—We call attention to the “ records ” made on Field Day at-other colleges. They will be found in the “College Gossip” column.
—Several new utensils for the culinary department have been procured, all made on the premises by B. James and his assistants.
—One of Oregon’s paintings on exhibition at the Art Exposition in Cincinnati, has been purchased by a connoisseur of that city.
—Prof. Edwards returns thanks to -Master Hegenbarth, of the Preparatory department, for several specimens of Nevada silver.	.
—An addition has been lately made to the laundry-building. This structure is now one of the completest of its kind in the country.
—The fine appearance and gentlemanly deportment of the pupils of the Manual Labor School reflect credit upon their zealous Director.
—Rev. P. Moran presented the Juniors with a set of Donahods Magazine for their reading,	room, for which they return their sincere thanks.
—On last Saturday evening, the members of the Athletic Association were the guests of the Crescent Club. A very enjoyable time was had.
—A freshman, by mistake, recently shaved off one side of his moustache, and has been in the most distressing condition ever since, because he cannot discover which side it was.—Ex.
—A fine steam-radiator has been placed in the hall of the Palace. It is, indeed, a thing of beauty and, utility. The princes, however, are requested not to climb up and sit upon it.
—The Juniors received several donations during - the week, from members of the Facuity and fellow-students, for their new reading-room. To one and all they return their sincere thanks.
.	—Prof. Ackerman has added miniature portraits
of President Walsh, Father Shortis, ’49, and Very Rev. E. B. Kilroy, D. D., ’56, to the pictures already painted by him in the St. Cecilia assemblyroom.
—Prof. Gregori has the thanks of the directors of the Lemonnier Library for several studies and sketches, of his-paintings j-and also:for.,a large -photograph of Montalembert, the, famous French writer.	.
—The Juniors’ reading-i oom is the' coziest apartment in any building on the University grounds. When the decorations are completed it -will resemble an art-gallery,-with its fine collection of pictures and bric-a-brac. .	.	.
—We noticed several Juniors running the bases
on the Excelsior baseball grounds on last Monday. We would be pleased to publish the time made .-by the runners. We heard that several beat Anson’s record, 16 seconds.	.	.
—The 5th regular meeting of the Columbian Dramatic- Club was held Oct. 25th. Messrs. J. R. Marlett,’ J. Browne, H. Morse, J. Conway, T. Fenlon, G. Castanedo, D. Saviers and J. Grever gave readings from British and American authors.
—Hallow-Eve was celebrated in a particularly lively manner by the Minims this year. The usual “ducking” for apples was entered into by all. The barrel of apples, provided by Brother F rancis, after contributing to the fun. was soon disposed of by the 81 Minims.
—The most beautiful of all the presents received by Father Sorin on his name-day was a large oilpainting of an ancient Spanish crucifix. The picture was the work and gift of one of the graduates of St. Mary’s Academy, who is now engaged in teaching the fine arts at San Antonio, Texas.
—Mr. Eugene Yrisarri has presented to the Agricultural department of the Cabinet of Curiosities several large calabashes from Albuquerque^ N. M., also a large ear of Indian corn, surrounded by five smaller ears which bear a very striking resemblance to a human hand, all growing upon one stalk.	,
—The reception given by the Juniors on the occasion of the opening of their new readingrooms was a grand affair. Many distinguished visitors were present. Instrumental and vocal music, games of various kinds, refreshments', etc;, served to make a very pleasant evening and. one long to be remembered.
—One of the best specimens of the photographic art it has ever been our pleasure to see, is a large cabinet of Mr. Reuben Springer, of Cincinnati. It was presented by that gentleman, with his autograph, to Prof. Edwards, on the occasion of his late visit to that city. It is the work of Landy, an artist of whom the Queen City may justly feel proud.	.
—The 5th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Association took place Oct. 20th. C. Currier, J. V. O’Donnell, and O. Farrelly were elected members. Recitations were given by F. Kengel, W. Hanavin, W. Berthelet and C. Cav-aroc; declamations by F. Shull, H. Metz, F.Fishel, J. Devereux, L. Gibert, J. Henrv, P. Warren and E. Wile.	”
—Our friend John says that there is an insurmountable difficulty in the way of the construction of our cement walk, inasmuch as it would have to cross the track of a certain barouche, which makes its daily rounds in the neighborhood of the printingoffice. We think, however, that by means -of a draw-bridge, or perhaps greater amount of cement being placed at the point of transition, all difficulties would be removed.
—The ceremonies at the High Mass on All Saints’ Day were of a very impressive character. The Mass was sung by Rev. Father L’Etourneau,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
with Fathers Franciscus and Moran as deacon and subdeacon. Mr. Sullivan, C. S. C., acted as Master of Ceremonies. The acolytes were Masters Gerlach, Hibbeler, Halligan, McGordon and Dillon. The sermon was preached by Rev. Father Hudson, and was an eloquent production.
•	—Father L’Etourneau is busily engaged in
making extensive and much-needed improvements about the Novitiate buildings. A new wing, 104 feet long, has been added, which will afford to the inmates manv conveniences of which they had been hitherto deprived. Fine gravel walks have been laid throughout the grounds, and.many other alter-
O	O'	v
ations and additions made, the nature of which we have not as yet learnt, but which, it is said, will greatlv .enhance the beautv of the site.v *
—To our Correspondents:—We have to make the amende honorable for an item which appeared in these columns, last week. Prof. L- wishes it to be distinctly understood that he has voted the straight Republican ticket, ever since he came of age to vote. He may have been lionized by his own party, but he has never Tylerized. However, we must say, that it is well known that, on one occasion, the Prof, was elected to office by Democratic votes: perhaps this fact gave rise to the item of last week.
—We visited the telegraph room a few days ago and found quite a large number at the sounders, some reading, others delivering. Mr. M. O’Dea, Bro. Celestine’s assistant teacher, although a voungman, is an old electrician, havingfor several years been in active service as a telegrapher with some of the railroad companies. He is also a printer, and has seen service in newspaper offices as a writer and proof-reader; so.that,.all in all, his advice and direction, being the result of experience, is likely to prove valuable to his pupils, Mr. O’Dea was engaged in the office of The Catholic Columbian, at Columbus, Ohio, previous to his coming to Notre Dame. •
—In turning over- some old papers we came across a slip giving statistics of the age, weight, etc., of the competing crews in the race on last Commencement-day. They are as follows:
Wm. Arnold, 1st Geo. Tracy, 2d.... Jas. Marie tt, 3d.... F. Kuhn, Capt 4th T. Kavanaugh, 5th F. Devoto, 6th.... R. M. Anderson,
Cockswain.....
Total.........!
iS 20 iS 20 21
158
I4O l6o
190
170
1.50
134
W. McGorriskjist. 1E. A. Otis, 2d.. jVandcrhaden, 3d. C. Pierson, 4th.. ■M. McCue, 5th... iMcEniry, Cap 6th. |J. A. McIntyre, I Cockswain......
102 Total
—The text studied in the Junior Class of the Law Course is the following: Blackstone’s Commentaries on Real Property; Kent’s Lectures, Nos. 52 to 65 inclusive, and Nos. 67 and 68; Parsons on Contracts; and Byles on Bills. This class is held for one hour on Monday, Tuesday, Friday and Saturday, and for two hours on Wednesday. At each alternate hour, i.e., during three of these
class hours, the students are questioned by their Professor on the lesson assigned: and during each class hour, succeeding the recitation hour, the Professor lectures on the subject-matter of the preceding lesson, frequentlv referring to leading cases and collateral authorities on the subject under consideration. The members of the Senior class are expected to attend the lectures of the Junior class. The Senior class is held on five days a week. The Moot Court will not be in running order till next session.	•
—A match game of baseball was played on last Wednesday afternoon, which resulted as follows:	•
BLUES.
Pick, c................
Metz, p............-....
J. Smith, s. s.........
Sells, 1 st b..........
Kerndt,. 2d b..........
J. Kahnian, 3d b.......
Dwenger, 1. f..........
Ludwig, c. f...........
Cane. r. f.............
o.
R. I! WHITE STARS.
5
O. R.
o 1 2
1 o
o;
21 jF. Kengel, c.. oiD. O’Connor, p... 3hT. McGrath, s. s... 2'J. Henry, 1st b. 11,J. Nester, 2d b.... 2;iF. Brice, 3d b. 3J-1M. O’Connor, 1. f.. ojj. McDonald, c. f.. 3:4. Rhodus, r. f.
3 I I
O 3! 1 o 1
1
3 1
3
4
! 9''Total
11
1
Total...................
The White Stars may depend upon little Tobe, for he is the captain of this nine. He must, by all means, be called the best captain around here.
—The 7th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was held Oct. 24th. The principal business of the meeting was the holding of a “ Moot Court.” The case on trial was the S. C. P. A. vs. M. Mc^re. The lawyers for the prosecution were Masters A. Browne, D. Taylor and M. Dolan. The defence was conducted by M. Foote, Jas. Courtney and J. Fendrich; the sheriff was represented by Mr. H. Dunn, with Mr. AV. Jeannot as Deputy Sheriff; Master FI. Foote acted as clerk of the court. The witnesses and jury were taken from the members of the Association; nearly every member had something to do with the trial. The lawyers did very well, and the witnesses showed great coolness in the “ cross examinations.” After the closing address of the prosecuting attorney, the case was given to the jury. After half an hour’s absence the jury returned and rendered the verdict, “ Guilty,” whereupon the Judge fined the prisoner according to the statutes of the Association. The trial was • very interesting and lively. Public readers for this week are, A. Browne, D. Taylor, G. Schaeffer, Jos. Courtney, F. Johnson, J. Fendrich and H. F ootc.
—The Library Association gratefully acknowledges the receipt of the following gifts: Prof. A. J. Stace, Little Lives of Great Saints, by J. O’K. Murray; Catholic Pioneers of America, Murray; Catholic Flowers from Protestant Gardens, edited by Jas. J. Treacy. E. Kitz, Esq., of Indianapolis, Tnd., Schlieman’s Discoveries on the Site of Troy; Charles E. Starr, U. S. A., Fleurange; Artemus Ward, His Book; Manual of Military Engineering; Davies’s Shades and Shadows; Andrews’s Manual of the Constitution; Milton Briggs’s AV estern F ar-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
mer and Stock Grower; Question of Anglican Ordinations; Erlcourt; Miles’s Stock Breeding; Trial of AV. Belknap; The United Service, a Quarterly Review of Military and Naval Affairs, Vol. i, 1S/9. F-ev- Father Toohey, The Works of William Shakspeare, edited by Charles Knight, Illustrated by Gilbert, 2 Vols.; Spencer’s Synthetic Philosophy; Carpenter on Alcoholic Liquors; Summa S. Thorme, 8 Vols.; French, German, Spanish, Latin and Italian Languages Without a Master, by A. FL Monteith; Miscellaneous Works, German and English, 7 Vols.
Roll of Honor’.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Anderson, E. Bailey. W. Bailey, Bowers, Brady, Browne, Bolton, Becerra, Castenado, Cavanaugh, Coll, Carroll, T. Clarke, G. Clarke. Coghlin, Conway, Celia, Campbell, Clements, T. Carroll, Claffey, M. Donohue, J. Donohue, Dickerson, Eisenhauer, N. Ewing, Eaton, Fogerty, Flynn, E. Fenlon, T. Fenlon, Fitzgerrell, Fitzgerald, Farrell, Freese, Gall, Greever, Guthrie, Golonski, Grange, J. Gallagher, Godfrey, Hofstetter, Heffernan, Hatt, Jones, Johnston, Kane, Kolars, Kimmell, Koehler, Kuhn, Kavanaugh, Larkin, Lease, H. McCarthy, McEniry, Monoghan, McErlaine, W. McCarthy, J. McNamara, T. McNamara, Molloy, Mullen, McIntyre, C. Murdock, S. Murdock, Morse, Magoffin, Nelson, Neeson, Noonan, O’Dea, Orchard, O’Connor, O’Neill, Otis, O’Reilly, O’Brien, H. Porter, Pour, Parrott, Pillars, Peery, Peasle, Peters, Quinn, Ratterman, Rogers, Ruger, Ryan, Sturla, Solon, Stover,' C. Smith, Seitz, Stull, Saviers, Spencer, G. Smith, E. Smith, Tinley, Terrazas, Veale. Walsh, Wheatlev. Whalen. Whit-iver, Vrisairi, Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackhoff, Brice. Browne, Berthelet, Bacon, Brewster, Curtis, Cavanagh, Coover, J. Courtney, Coghlin, Caveroc, Chirhart, Cain, Devereux, Dolan, Doren-berg, Dillon, De Haven, Dunn, Eisenhauer, M. Foote, H. Foote, Fehr, Fendrich, Fishel, Goldsmith, Gibert, Grat-haus, Gerlach, Hagerty, Hibbeler, Hess, Halligan, Helle-bush, Hannavin, Holbrook, Hagen, Johnson, Kerndt, Katz, Kengel, J. Kelly, Lund. Mug, McGrath, Mason, Miller, Metz, McGordon, McDonnell, Morris, Murphy, D. O’Connor, M. O,Connor, J. P. O’Donnell, J. V. O’Donnell, Peery, Pick, C. Porter, Robb, Ruppe, Reach, Schott, Schillo, Smith, Schaeffer, Seegers, Taggart, Taylor, Talbot, Terrazas, Turnock. Warren, Worcester, Wilkinson, Wright, Whitman, Walsh, Yrisarri: Zeigler, Fogerty.
0	7	1	7	/ O 7 O J
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackermann,'Adams, Beall, Colwell, Cummings, E. Costigan, Coad, Chirhart, F. Dunford, Dirksmeyer, W. Dyer, H. Dyer, J. Devereux W. Devine, A. Devine, Hopkins, Huestis, Johnson, J. Kelly, Kraus, Kellner, Kane, Keeffe, Luther,, Landenwich, B. Lindsey, C. Lindsey, E. McGrath, J. McGrath, J. J. McGrath, Morrison, McPhee, C. McGordon, Metz, Nester, F. Otis, Papin, D. Prindiville, Quinlin,[Rea, Rebori, Spencer, Stange, Schmitz, G. Stamm, F. Stamm, Schmauss, Schicker, Thomas, Unger, Whitney, W. Walsh, Wright, Welch, Winsor, Young.
V 7	7	O 7	7	7	O
For the Dome.
Amount already acknowledged...................$1080
Rev. 2k. B. Oechtering, Mishawaka, Ind......... 15
Francis Nester, Saginaw, Mich................. 25
John Nester “	“	................ 25
J. Aloysius Kelly, Washington................... 5
A Friend......................’................. 5
Filius Maria;................................. 100
A Friend of Mary.............................  100
A Child of Mary.................................. 10
Saint TFlary's Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Danie University.
—The first of the series of lectures on the General History of Music was eciven to the St. Ceci-lian Society. Subject,—“ Music Among the Ancient Italic Peoples.” These lectures form part of the theoretical instruction in the Music department.
—At the Academic reunion, Misses N. Hicks, B. Johnson, M* Hawkins, and C. Campbell read selections from well-known authors; several visitors were present. The absence of Very Rev. Fa-.
- ther General always takes away the interest, his approval being the height of the pupils’ ambition.
—After High Mass, on Sunday last, a Triduo in honor of St. Teresa was begun, and closed on Tuesday morning. At Vespers, Rev. Father Shortis delivered a panegyric of St. Teresa, and. explained why the Catholic world are united in prayer on the Tricentennial anniversary of this, great saint of the Carmelite Order.
—On Tuesday, 24th, Mother M. of St. Angela -gave a most instructive lecture to the pupils- assembled in the study-hall, on Art in general, and. the “ True Art of Painting” in particular, showing the difference between true artistic subjects, and their treatment in design, coloring, and accessories, when compared with the sensualistic daubs, of materialistic so-called art.
—The lovely surroundings of St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind., so often described by tourists who compare its charming views to those of foreign lands; editors who see it alwavs under one aspect as they visit but once a year, and then on Commencement Days, these write elegant articles on the “Exercises,” bright eyes, merits of the prizes gained, and the bright hues of “ melting June.”. True, St. Mary’s wears a joyful look on such occasions, her grounds being filled with pleasure-seekers and happv parents who, coming from the dusty cities, enjoy themselves in the free air. Old friends, seated on the rustic benches, talking of the events of the busy world, gayly-dressed ladies who take possession of the croquet-grounds, while post-graduates and former pupils seek the shady nooks so well remembered, awaiting- the bell that still makes their hearts leap- in expectation as on that most memorable day of their own triumphant graduation. So, the editors and gentle- . men of the press, chattingand smoking together, find this aspect delightful. The casual visitors, on the contrary, praise the seclusion and rest, as they express it, “ of another world.” Artists, and. lovers of nature admire all its season-varied views of opening spring, full-blossomed summer, gorgeous-hued autumn, and dazzling icicled winter; especially when a glowing sunset seizes every reflect-, ing point for miles around, turning the ice-bound tree-trunks to pillars of apparent variegated marble, and every leafless branch to huge sprays of brilliant gems. It is at such a time Notre . Dame stands supreme, the last point resplendent
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
in nature’s ^rand illumination, when the sinking sun has left to evening’s shade every other gloriously gilded object. All these scenes are beautiful. But « St. Mary’s by moonlight ” is still more impressive. As seen from the upper windows of the Art wing of the Academy, the views are singularly beautiful; all is transformed. For miles around, prairies and cultivated farm lands, defined to the eye by the lighted homesteads, show the undulating soil of the lovely landscape. The distant forests appear like a low chain of mountains, and the darkened horizon enhances the bright foreground. But the greatest transformation is around the high bluff of the Academy grounds. Looking from above eastward, its groves become dense woods, here and there the moonbeams, shining through the interstices of the branches, show, glimpses of the parks and scenes beyond, giving the idea of hills and dales, and a perfect labyrinth of winding paths according as the waving branch-divisions of the trees open and close, changing continually the lights and shades of this view. The rosary-circle laid out years ago by Mr. W. Phelan, St. Mary’s great benefactor, who planted those massive old cedars and maples, now so thick they would almost remind one of those which sheltered many a patriot during the Revolutionary war. The line of tall -pines, the winds, sighing lullabys to the birds sleeping secure in their nests, standing like watch-towers round a fortification, carry the mind to other lands. The river in its windings gives full eftect to light and shade, as the moon shines full on its wavelets, tinging their crests with a burnish of silver, or as
O 3	-	#	'
a thick cloud enshrouds her brightness and the waves seem to purple and muffle, themselves from the sudden gloom, until, emerging from the dark veil, she floods with renewed splendor this lovely scene of kaleidoscopic beauty; for the clumps of the trees on the banks and across the river show then their autumnal foliage in mellowed tints, unknown to sunlight. The low banks, covered with thick underwood, guard one of those graceful curves which take the river out of sight ere it glistens again in the distance, like a chain of silver. Looking to the north, it is easy to see those banks were once high bluffs. A few years ago the missionary priest, in his birchen canoe, skimmed these solitudes, seeking the lonely wigwam of the dusky savage. How joyfully he rowed his frail bark, chanting the “Ave Maris Stella” lighted through the devious turns by the same moon which now gladdens our hearts! the same “lesser light ” which the great Creator placed in the firmament in the beginning, and’lights the world ever ‘ since. ..	’
Welk is this blessed spot named/ St.; Mary’s! Its peaceful inmates rest secure in-the* presence of the Holy. One, “whose Heart watches” in the facsimile House of Nazareth, our dear Loretto, where burns the Tabernacle light. ..Oh, if it could be given to human eyes to witness- the glories of this earthly haven, certainly , they would cry ' out, as the Apostles of old: “ Lord, it is good for us to he here!”	' '
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Exccllpncg—Misses Dillon, Wright, M. Campbell, C. Campbell, Fendrich, Johnson, Laffer, M. 2Y. Ryan, Sullivan, Shickey, Walsh, Todd, Hoag, Beal, Call, Duffield, Dunn, Gove, M. Heneberry, Keenan, Knott, Mohl, Owens, ■ Pease, V. Reilly, J. Reilly, Richardson, Semmes, E. Slattery, Van Patten, Rulison, Lancaster, L. English, Sawyer, Adderly, Munger, Wallace, Heckard, Stackerl, Danforth, Daily, Dickson, Coakley, Clifford, Unger, Pick, Madole, . Hunt, Cox, Taylor, O’Connell, Harrigan, Leydon, Black, M. H. Ryan, Fenlon, McCoy, Adams, Durphy, Chirhart, T. Slattery, N. Hicks, Rettig, Harris, McCauley, B. English, Legnafd, Donahue, Hughes, Donnersberger, Hagan, McCarten, Newton, Pampell, Foster, Commerford, Myers, L. Hawkins, Eldridge, Hintz, J. Shull, Drover, Maginn, Mooney, Gallagher, Dolan, Kirkham, Schmauss, Spotword. 2d Tablet—Misses Clarke, Feehan, Fox, Wiley, O’Connor, Barlow, Williams, Kolb, H. Hicks, Anderson, Hunter, Castanedo, L. Heneberry, Gavin, Babcock, Murphy, M. Hawkins, Crawford, Ramsey, O’Neill.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses J. Spangler, Dignan, Dillon, Morgan, Coogan, Nevius, Howlett, E. Donnelly, Grist, Richmond, Gale, Shephard, Johnston, Hibben, Moshier, Van Horn, B. Haney, B. Halsey, Malboeuf, Luna, Best, Chaves, Mary Otis, Browne, Alexander, T. Haney, Snowhook, Spencer. 2d Tablet—Misses K. Ducey, Considine. Fehr, Ewing, Schmidt, McGrath, English, Coyne, Robinson, Otero; Keifer.	.	*
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses J. English, J. McGrath, Mattie Otis, Prescott, Lindsey, Westfall, Paul, A. Schmauss, M. Ducey..
SCHOOL OF DRAWING AND PAINTING.
DRAWING.
•	HONORABLY MENTIONED.
ist Class—Misses M. English, Fox, Lancaster, C. Campbell, Fendrich.
2D Class—Misses Van Patten, Beal, Rulison, H. Hicks, Richardson.
2D Div.—Misses Harrigan, Ewing, Owens, V. Reilly, Spangler, Pease, M. Dillon, M. A. Ryan, M. H. Ryan, Barlow, Otero, Williams, Gavin.
3D Class—Misses Daily, Knott, Shickey, Anderson, E. Slattery, Pick, A. English, Richmond, Unger, Walsh, Shephard, Madole, A. Duffield, Johnson, E. Hawkins, M. Hawkins, Hoag, Durphy, T. Slattery, Otis, Fehr, Coyne, J. Duffield, Grist, Stackerl, Dolan, Costigan.	'
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
Miss A. Rulison. .
OIL-PAINTING.
ist Class—Misses M. English, Fox, Lancaster, C. Campbell, Fendrich.	’
2D Class—Misses Van Patten, Beal, C. Donnelly, Rul-isbn, H. Hicks. •
2D Div.—Misses Harrigan, Ewing, Richardson, Owens, V. Reilly.	.
3D Class—Misses Spangler, Pease, Clarke, Heneberry, , M. A. Ryan, M..H. Ryan,JBarlow, Otero,’Williams, Gavin, Wood. -	c	n j.
< - GENERAL - DRAWING.
nF. _ ' -	; • ' - -
—	\ SENIOR DEPARTMENT. J
Misses Dickson, Danforth, Johnson, Donahue, Hunter, Black, Hunt,.Gallagher, Drover, Rettig, Adams, Mooney, McGuire, .Shull, Kolb, McCarten, O’Connell,. Donnersberger, Munger, C. Sawyer, McCoy, Heckard. .
’ :	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Nevius,- Schmidt, Howlett, Morgan, Moshier, Mary Otis, Rodgers, Browne, Fehr, Dignan, Gale, Sullivan, Coyne, Chaves^ Van Horn, Morrison.

I
/
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
*43
A Most Attractive Book for the Holidays.
The Household Library OF CATHOLIC POETS
FROM
CHAUCER TO THE PRESENT DAY:
Edited by ELIOT RYDER.
The Only Work of its Kind in the Language I 1!
Price: Subscription Edition, faith an .
admirable portrait of Chaucer P) - - $5 00 Cheap Edition, post free, - - - - - 2 00 Address
JOSEPH A. LYONS, Publisher,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
PRELUDES,
An Elegant Volume of Poems,
By MAURICE F. EGAN.
Published to Aid in the Rebuilding of Notre Dame University.	-
Price, postpaid, -	-	-	-	$1.00
Address
PETER F. CUNNINGHAM & SON, Philadelphia, Pa.
qq
to
Uj
We continue to act assolicitor s for
Q UI
patents, caveats, trade-marks, copyrights, etc.,for the United States, and to obtain pat—— ents in Canada, England, France, Mub g Germany, and all other countries.
^masaaJI Thirty-six years’practice. No charge for examination of models or drawings. Advice by mail free.
Patents obtained through us are noticed in the SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN, which has

the largest circulation, and is the most influential newspaper of its kind published in the world. The ad vantages of such a notice every patentee understands.
This large and splendidly illustrated newspaper is published WEEKLY at $3.20 a year, and is admitted to be the best paper devoted to science, mechanics, inventions, engineering works, and other departments of industrial progress, published in any country. Single copies by mail, 10 cents. Sold by all newsdealers.	.
Address, Munn & Co., publishers of Scientific American, 261 Broadway, New York.
Handbook about patents mailed free.
Crowned With Stars,
An Exquisite Volume of Poems in Honor of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Queen of Heaven,
BY
Eleanor C. Donnelly.
Published to-Aid in Placing on the Dome ,of?the New .
• , .. University of Notre Dame, Indiana, a Colossal Statue of the Blessed Virgin Mary,	-
•	- Crowned with.Twelve Stars. -
Price, -	-	- . gilt, $1.25; plain, $1.00.
Address STUDENTS’ OFFICE, ‘ /	.. Notre Dame, Indiana.
WHO IS unacquainted with the geography of THIS country WILLSEE BY EXAMINING THIS MAP THATTME
CHICAGO, ROCK MID APACIFICR’T Calls the attention of travelers to the central position of its line, connecting the East and the West by the shortest route, and carrying passengers, without change of cars, between Chicago and Kansas City, Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, Atchison, Minneapolis and St. Paul. It connects in Union Depots with all the principal lines of road between the Atlantic and the Pacific Oceans. Its equipment is unrivaled and magnificent, being composed of Most Comfortable and Beautiful Day Coaches, Magnificent Horton Beelining Chair Cars, Pullman’s Prettiest Palace Sleeping Cars, and the Beat Line of Dining Cars in the World. Three Trains between Chicago and Missouri Biver Points. Two Trains between Chicago and Minneapolis and St. Paul, via the Famous
“ALBERT LEA ROUTE.”
A New and Direct Line, via Seneca and Kankakee, has recently been opened between Richmond, Norfolk, Newport News. Chattanooga, Atlanta, Au- gusta, Nashville, Louisville, Lexington, Cincinnati, -
Indianapolis ana Lafayette, and Omaha. Minneap- ■ ‘ , olis and St. Paul and intermediate points.
- AU Through Passengers Travel on Fast Express Trains.
Tickets for sale at all principal Ticket Offices in the United States and Canada.
Baggage checked through and rates of fare always as low as competitors that offer less advan-tag°* '	-	.
For detailed information, get the Mapa and Fold-era of the ■	*
GREAT ROCK ISLAND ROUTE, At your nearest Ticket Office, or address
. R. R. CABLE, E. ST. JOHN, Vice-Pres. A Gea’I M’g'r,	Gen'ITkt. APau.4gL
CHICAGO.
144
THE NOTRE DAWE SCHOLASTIC.
University of Notre Dame.
St. Mary’s Academy.
St. Joseph’s Co., Ind.
'“This UNIVERSITY was founded in 1842, and charA tered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana, in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees. The College can be easily reached from all parts of the United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the great Western and Michigan Central ; the first two passing within a mile ot the College grounds, and the last connecting at Niles with the railway between that city and South Bend.
The College buildings are massive and commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.	'
The University affords every facility for acquiring a thorough knowledge of	*
CLASSICS,
MATHEMATICS,
SCIENCE,
LAW, MEDICINE, MUSIC.
To such as wish to devote themselves to Commercial pursuits, Notre Dame gives a more thorough business training than can be obtained in any purely Commercial College.
THE COMMERCIAL COURSE
has always received the most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commercial Faculty of the Institution.
In all the courses, the best systems of teaching are adopted and the best authors for each branch selected. -
New Students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.	.
Catalogues, giving full particulars, will be sent free, on application to the President.
THE MINIM DEPARTMENT.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in the primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. The personal neatness and wardrobe of the pupils receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges. •
Board and Tuition—$125, per Session of Five’Months.
Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano, free in this Department.	_
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
K«v. T. E. WALSH, C. S. C..
Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
AND school of
DRAWING, PAINTING and SCULPTURE.
- (Notre Dame P. 0., Indiana,)
Conducted by the Sisters of the Holy Cross.
In the Academy the course is thorough in the Preparatory, Academic. and Classical tirades.
The institution possesses a complete set of chemical and philosophical apparatus, choice and extensive herbariums of native and foreign plants, and a library of some thousands of volumes.
No extra charges for German or French, as these languages enter into the regular course of academic studies.
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
on the plan of the best Musical Conservatories of Europe, is under charge of a complete corps of teachers, eleven in number. It comprises a laige Music Hall, and twenty-eight separate rooms for harps, pianos, and organs. A thorough course for graduation in theory and practice.
Esthetics and Composition—A larae Musical Library in French, German. English, and Italian Semi-monthly lectures in Music, Vocal Culture, Chorus Singing and Harmony.
THE SCHOOL OF
DRAWING, PAINTING AND SCULPTURE.
is modelled on the great Art Schools of Europe, drawing and painting from life and the antique. A choice Library of the Fine Arts in English, French, German. Italian, and Spanish is connected with the School of Design. Graduating pupils who have passed creditably through the Academic or Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medal of the Department.
Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in Conservatory of Music, or in the Art Department.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rules of the institution.
Full particulars of three Departments given in Catalogue, for which address
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. 0., Ind.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 7, 1881, trains will leave South Bend, as follows:	'
GOING EAST:
2.32 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.50 a.m.; Cleveland, 2.30 p.m.; Buffalo, 8.05 p.m.
11.23 a.m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 10.10 p.m ; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
9.27 p m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.45 a.m ; Cleveland, 7.05 am.; Buffalo, 1.10 p.m.
12 38 p.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.40 p.m. Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo, 4 a m.
635 p.m. Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, 10.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 1.45 a.m.; Buffalo, 7.25 a.m.
GOING WEST:
2.32 a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 3.25 a.m. Chicago, 6.10 a.m.
448 a.m. Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.45 a.m. Chicago, 8.20 a.m.
. 7.40 a.m., Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte, 8.44 a.m. Chesterton, 9.40 a m.; Chicago, 11.30 a.m.
1.17 p m, Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte 215 p.m.; Chesterton, 3.10 p.m ; Chicago, 5.00 p.m.
426 p.m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5.18; Chesterton, 6.07 p.m.; Chicago, 8 p.m.
F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Genl. Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
W. P. JOHNSON, Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
P. P. WRIGHT. Gen’l Sup’t., Cleveland.
JOHN NEWELL, Gen’l Manager, Cleveland.