
PlSQE-Q^SUSW£IV>/iQVfiy'S> VlVbQ^Sl-^Sy^O^lTvWs-
*T*X’n*
Vol. XXXI.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, July 2, 1898.
No. 36:
Class Poem.
Commencement Oration.
RAYMOND G. O’MALLEY, ’98.
THE RT. REV. MAURICE F. BURKE, D. D., ’66.
(V/1 Vk SEEN through mists of hope, thou sad-browed Day,
^=4^° That ends fore’er our trivial time of play, That speeds to fears the veiled Future holds, Stout-souled, we greet thee at the thorny way!
The fleet-winged moments pass in flight to be Wan ghosts of joys Time lends Eternity, Bird-song and bloom, the peace of purple eve, ’ Unmindful lapse, as rain within the sea.
All lesser things beneath one high command
Obey the master that divinely planned,
Make straight the crags and fens along His path, And never falter, nay, nor understand.
But Men, who build the nations, rule these too, Called once to life, shall never die; they view This world, if wise, but as a homeward road, Whose weary length in haste they still pursue.
Yet few march' up against the fading sun,— They stray for gauds, and thus belated run,— Till night-tide falls when no one longer Toils, And suffered years of pain are all undone.
Lay not .to these, dear God, their childish deed: They know not what they do; they may not heed Thy comeliness upon the dawn-touched hills,—
From smoke of. hell their eyes are all unfreed.
Not so with us—we leave this holy place
' With lamp-lit feetj because of saving, grace Poured out upon us with Thy sacred blood, But oh! his loss, who halts along our race.
HIRTY-TWO years ago I had the honor of being an ‘ alumnus of Notre Dame. The year 1866 is memorable in the annals of the University. The q great statue in honor of Our Lady, whose name it bears, was erected in that year on the-old building, which was afterwards destroyed by fire, and blessed _ amid solemn and imposing ceremonies. Archbishops, bishops, ecclesiastical. dignitaries and a vast concourse of people from all parts of the country assembled here for the occasion. The great Archbishop Spalding of Baltimore preached the sermon, and among the distin- -guished prelates present, I remember, were the venerable Bishops Timon of Buffalo, Henni of ^Milwaukee, Rappe of Cleveland, and Luers of .
Fort Wayne. This year, therefore, I take it, was the beginning of that great celebrity that Notre Dame has since attained throughout the world, and the first of those memorable events in its history, since so solemnly and magnifi-: cently commemorated, and notably the Golden Jubilees of the University and of its saintly1 : founder.	- .
Notre Dame had then all the elements and promise of a great future. It had at the time for its President the Rev. Father Dillon, a man of varied knowledge and practical experience,’
and of that noble, hospitable and generous nature characteristic of his race and nation-ality. Its Vice-President was the late Very Rev. Provincial, the amiable, humble and never-to-be-forgotten Father Corby, whose loss his numerous friends throughout the world have recently so sincerely mourned. The only distinction I ever attained while attending this institution was to have had the privilege once
610	NGTRE DAME
or twice of being placed by his side at the able of honor, as I think we used to call it , and which I felt to be the proudest occasion of my life. We had here learned and distinguished professors in all the branches of science and letters—men of various nationalities, such as Professors Stace and Lyons, typical American scholars- and gentlemen whom everybody’ loved. Frenchmen like Fathers L’Etourrieau and Lemonnier, men of habitual native dignity who inspired all who knew or met them with admiration and respect. And who that ever knew him will forget Professor Zanders? who seemed to care for nothing except things German, and who would listen to no other language from his pupils whether they knew it or not; and the only way out of the consequent embarrassment was to learn the language at once—as they did of necessity if they remained with Professor Zanders. Our prefect, or master of discipline, was Brother Benoit—one of the most remarkable men I ever knew. never saw such eyes in any man. They seemed to be ever looking at everyone of us at the same time, and so piercing that they almost penetrated to one’s heart—they were veritable-X-rays. Whenever Brother Benoit fixed his eyes on you and exclaimed. “ Oh, my good fellow!” there was no doubt of what he meant. And his face!—well, it would require the power and language of Thomas Carlyle to describe it. The spiritual director, Father Granger, was a saint that would have been an ornament and an honor to any religious community in the world. One rarely meets in the course of life so holy a man—a man of wonderful spiritual discernment, who was always taken up with the things of God. Father Granger will ever be remembered as a man of holy memory.
But the one to whom we all looked up with supreme respect, and with a sort of reverential awe, was Father Sorin, the venerable founder of Notre Dame. He was, as it were, the very centre and life of the institution, and who, like the patriarchs of old, walked with God and was perfect in His sight. He seemed always absorbed in his life-work, and to have had a prophetic vision of its growth and success. His kindness, gentleness, thoughtfulness towards others and urbanity of manners won all hearts; and that self-restraint, moderation, patience, and discretion, so characteristic of him, im- . pressed everyone who came in contact with him as a man of God and one especially raised up to be a model and instructor of youth. He was indeed all this, but he was more; he was
SCHOLASTIC.
the founder of this great seat of learning— a Catholic University in. the true.sense of the word, as we behold it’today in all its magnifi-cient expansion and completeness, where Chris- . tian faith and science, spiritual and intellectual culture, “ evolution and dogma,” meet in harmony; and where physical science and scientific investigations are not divorced from metaphysical, moral and theological truth. We behold, therefore, in this institution another evidence of the work and action of the Church throughout all the Christian ages; and from which I take occasion this evening to show very briefly that the Catholic Church has ever been pre-eminent in the advancement of learning and in the development and culture of the human mind.. And in what J shall have to say I will endeavor to follow the advice of an illustrious English churchman, that, in treating matters of this sort, we should “ keep from rash contrasts and from rash disparagements which provoke overwhelming rejoinders; rejoinders which derive their, power, not from intrinsic force and reason, but from their rhetorical truth and justice, as answers to exaggeration and overstatement.” .
As Catholics we have always believed that there can be no true learning dr advancement that is not based upon a foundation of truth, as contrasted with what St. Patil calls “the profane novelties of words and oppositions of knowledge falsely so called.”. The Church has ever been the -patron .of- all true learning and of every manner of intellectual culture; and submission to her teachings in matters of faith . has never been an obstacle to the attainment of * knowledge, nor has it limited the range of the human mind in its researches after truth, as is _ shown by the experience of the.most famous scholars; but has kept them from funning astray and wasting their energies in vain speculations which infallibly lead to error and unscientific conclusions whenever in contradiction to the revealed word of God. Scholars and benefactors of the human race have always found in the teachings of the Church and mysteries of the Christian faith the inspiration, encouragement and guidance that led them on to the highest flights of the imagination and to those marvellous intellectual achievements, the enduring monuments and evidences of which stand out in every Christian land the wonder and admiration of mankind, with the character and seal of religion upon them bearing testimony to the influence of the Church in the cultivation of the human mind.
-	NOTRE NAME
Go down into the Catacombs of Rome and see the rude beginnings of Christian art. in those subterranean galleries and chapels of the first centuries, and there read the beautiful lap-, idary inscriptions and verses of Pope Damasus and others. Visit the ancient basilicas and places of Christian worship of a later period, and notice the advance of culture and art. Visit the galleries and museums of the capitals and historic cities of Europe, the public and national libraries with their infinite treasures and stores of learning and illuminated manuscripts and invaluable copies of ancient and modern classic literature. Visit those celebrated-monasteries of our religious orders that „ everywhere are made the repositories of ancient - and modern learning and the. nurseries of science and art, whose schools and scholars have been famous in the world for over twelve -hundred years even to our own day. Look into Westminster Abbey, the Cathedrals of Canterbury. York, -Lincoln and Durham; the Cathedrals of Cologne, Strasburg, Seville,Amiens; of. Milan, Florence, Orvieto, Siena, Pisa—all of incomparable beauty and grandeur. Stand at the tomb of the Apostles in St. Peter’s at Rome, that grandest temple ever erected to. the worship of God, arid look up into that wonderous dome of Michael Angelo; visit the Vatican hardby in all its glory and stately magnificence, that world of art and treasure-house of unequalled masterpieces of human genius; wander through the halls, and galleries, and chapels of that ancient palace of the Popes, and look in admiration at those immortal creations of Michael Angelo,. Raphael, and other masters. Visit the world-renownd seats of universal learning,— Oxford, Cambridge, Paris, Salamanca, Rome, Bologna, Padua, the Alma Mater of Christopher Columbus .and Amerigo Vespucci. Visit Florence,that monumental city of the Middle. Ages, the Athens of Christendom, the cradle of modern letters, science and art, the birthplace of Cimabue and Giotto, the creators of modern painting, .of Dante, the greatest of Christian poets, and the father, it may well be said, of Modern European literature, of Leo X., one of the most illustrious patrons of learning of all time, of Michael Angelo supreme in sculpture, and architecture;—and need we ask who or what gave inspiration and encouragement to the Christian saints and scholars who have left us those indestructible monuments of intellectual power and achievement? Let us hear what an eminent English Protestant writer, has to say on this subject:	. ■
SCHOLASTIC.	.
“ From the rough attempts of the catacombs, - ' or the later mosaics in all their roughness, so ' instinct with majesty and severe sweetness of . the thoughts which inspired them—from all . these ‘ feeble and earnest attempts to body forth what the soul was full of—Christian art passed with persistent, undismayed advance through the struggles of the Middle Ages ~ to the inexpressible delicacy and beauty of Giotto and Fra Angelico, to the Last Supper _ of Leonardo, to the highest that the human mind ever imagined of tenderness and unearthly majesty of the Mother and Divine Son in the Madonna of San Sisto. And the same with poetry. The poetry—of which the Christian theology was full from the first—	.	.
wrought itself in very varying measure, but with profound and durable effort, into the ... new mind and soul of reviving Europe, till it . gathered itself up from an infinite variety of sources—:history, and legend, and scholastic argument, and sacred hymn—to burst forth into one mighty volume, in that unique crea- . - \ tiori of the regenerated imagination of the . . South—the eventful poem—which made the ’ Italians one, whatever might become of Italy—	?
the sacred song which set forth the wonderful fortunes of the soul of man under Godss government and judgment, its loss, its disci-	?
pline, its everlasting glory—the Divina Com-	.
media of Dante. Whence this inexhaustible ; fertility and inventiveness, the unfailing taste .. and tact and measure, the inexpressible charm	,	. ;
and delicacy and considerate forethought and	"	“
exuberant sympathy? .Whence that Italian . splendor of imagination and profound in- - - -sight into those subtle connections by which	-
objects of the outward senses stir and charm	]
and ennoble the inward soul? What was the : discipline which wrought all this? Who was it,	7
in those ages of confusion which followed the ' fall of the Empire, that sowed and ripened the ... f? , seeds which were to blossom into such won- : - |? drous poetry in the fourteenth century, into -. such matchless bursts of art in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries? Who touched in £ ?! those Latin races the hidden vein of tender-
ness—‘the fount of tears’—the delicacies and’ -YCSS? courtesies of mutual kindness, the riches of art . > and the artist’s earnestness? Who did all this—	:
I do not say in the fresh Teutonic invaders, but in the spoiled and hardened children of an exhausted and ruined civilization? Can there be any question,” he says, “ as to what produced	';
this change? It was the conversion of these ■ races to the faith of Christ. Revolutions of ■ :
6i2	Notre dame scholastic
a character like this do not, of course, come without many influences acting together; but the cause of causes which made other causes fruitful, was the presence of the Christian Church in the hour of distress with its message, its teaching, and its discipline.”
And yet there is nothing so constantly in evidence against the Church as what is called •	the darkness of the Middle Ages! Could there
be anything more unreasonable and unjust? A time during which the Church had gathered up all the elements of learning and civiliza-. tion, and that too while she was rising up out of the decline and fall of an empire that was once in unequalled power and glory, till at length in its unspeakable corruption it reached the ultimate point of decadence and depression, and fell a prey to the savage hordes of the
. North. In the midst of all this devastation ■ and ruin of ancient civilization, and struggling, as it were, for existence with these barbarous ■	and destructive powers, and when she alone
had to re-create society out of this awful social dissolution, and at the same to bring these :	fierce and formidable barbarians under the
:	influence of the Christian religion and into the
unity of the faith, is it any wonder that those j	ages should be wanting in that enlightenment
;	which shone forth so resplendently at a later
i	period? Is it not ungrateful and unjust to those
! .	world-renowned benefactors of the human race,
so rich in knowledge, in virtue, and Christian i	faith, who flourished during that.creative period
' .	of modern civilization? Throughout all the
Middle Ages there were great and illustrious j	thinkers and scholars, .many of whom have
:	never been equalled in the course of succeed-
i	ing ages. Men of transcendent genius, lofty
i	and magnanimous characters—epoch-making
i	men like Charlemagne, the Christian restorer
I .	of the fallen Empire; like Alfred the Great,
‘	who may be called the father of his country,
•	- and the founder of the University of Oxford,
and one of the most perfect characters to be I.	found in the pages of universal history; like
'■ , St. Louis of France, of whom Hallam writes:
“That excellent prince was perhaps the most eminent pattern of unswerving probity, and I	Christian strictness of conscience that ever held
s	the sceptre in any country; ” like St. Francis of
i ' Assisi, a typical character of the Middle Ages, ;	a model of every Christian and moral virtue,
i .	_ of whomzMatthew Arnold thus speaks:
;	. “In-the beginning of the thirteenth century
;	. there appeared in Italy, to the north of Rome
;	inthe beautiful Umbrian country, at the foot
of the Apennines, a figure of most majestic power and mien,—St. Francis. His century is, I think, the most interesting in the history of Christianity, after its primitive age; and one of the chief figures, perhaps the very chief, to which this interest attaches itself is St. Francis. And why? Because the profound, peculiar instinct which enab.led him, more than any since the primitive a^e, to fit religion to popular use. He brought religion to the people. He founded the most popular body of ministers of religion that has ever existed in the Church. Prose could not satisfy his ardent soul, and he made poetry. Latin was too learned for his simple, popular nature, and he composed in his mother tongue—in Italian. The beginnings of the mundane poetry of the Italians are in Sicily at the court of kings; the beginnings of their religious poetry are in Umbria with St. Francis. His are the humble upper waters of a mighty stream—at the beginning of the thirteenth century is St. Francis, at the end is Dante.”	.
Great Churchmen and scholars, like St. Anselm of Canterbury, St. Bernard of Clairvaux, and Venerable Bede, the father of English history; great theologians and philosophers like Albert the Great, St. Thomas Aquinas and St. Bonaventure; great creative artists like Giotto, scientists like Roger Bacon, immortal poets like Dante and Petrarch; great popes like Innocent HL, of whom Frederick Harrison has this to say:—“In genius, in commanding nature, in intensity of character, in universal energy, in aspiring designs, Innocent HI. has few rivals in the long series of the Roman Pontiffs, and few superiors in any age on any throne in the world.” And speaking of the century of this great, pope, among beautiful things,he says: “This age which was so fertile in new political ideas and grand spiritual effort, was no less rich in philosophy, in the germs of science, in reviving the inheritance of ancient learning, in the scientific study of law, in the foundation of the great Northern universities, in the magnificent expansion of the architecture we call Gothic, in the beginnings of painting and sculpture, in the formation of modern literature both in prose and verse.” In fact, I may say, we have very little to boast of that has not come down to us, in some measure at least, from the Middle Ages. They who take a narrow-minded, superficial view of things, and who read history in the light of traditional prejudices; they who have an irreligious veneration for the intellectual powers of those
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
who have abandoned Christianity and become its enemies; those who measure the advancement of the human race by a dreary, withering materialism, and who consider that progress consists in the accumulation of wealth and in the means of wealth, in the cosy comforts and pleasures of life, and with an estimation of learning fitted wisely to the attainment of these ends, can see, of course, in those ages only darkness, ignorance and superstition. But throughout all that period there were not only light, learning and true Christian faith and a steady progress, according to the times,toward a more perfect civilization, but an aspiring tendency, great and far-reaching intellectual movements; and if at times there was darkness on the face of the earth, the spirit of the Lord was moving over the waters of confusion, and everywhere the traces of a divine superintending Providence and power. And through the struggles of the Middle Ages, after laying deep and broad the foundations of European civilization, so great is the progress of the Church in science, in letters, and in every department of learning, that it would appear that the human mind had reached its highest flights and attained the limits of perfection beyond which it could not reach in the age and under the especial patronage of Leo X. for whom “A Raphael painted and a Vida sung,” and.for whom Michael Angelo “hung in air on St. Peter’s the dome which Brunelleschi carved.”
The sixteenth century and the later progress in civilization is only the natural growth, development and extension of the work of the Church and of Christian scholars of an earlier period. The invention of printing by Guttenberg and Faust, the invention of the telescope and the development of the astronomical theories of Copernicus by Galileo, which set the world moving, the explorations and discoveries of the great navigators, Marco Polo, Christopher Columbus, Amerigo Vespucci, Sebastian Cabot, Vascada Gama, .Diaz and Magellan, who were all loyal Catholics, were the very foundation, the historic origin of the later intellectual and material progress of the world. And from the sixteenth century to the last years of the nineteenth: century the Church has continued the progressive- march in which she has led the nations on from the beginning, building up everywhere institutions of learning, and spreading the light of Christian civilization to the ends of the earth. She has given to the world during the past, four
hundred years some of the most illustrious . masters of human and divine knowledge— scholars who have been in the foremost ranks of all the progressive scientific movements of modern times. Her religious orders of educators, her universities and schools are unsurpassed; and her academies for the education of young ladies are unequalled in the world today.	’	\
I might go on, but time will not permit me. : t I can not conclude, however, without referring .. to the great teacher of the Church who now so t . 4 gloriously occupies the Chair of Peter—one . .. among the scholars of the world, and without a	/
parallel in our time as a patron and munifi- . D . ■ 'cent promoter of learning,—the worthy sue-cessor of so many illustrious predecessors in .	'
the Apostolic See who lived and labored for the civilization and advancement of the nations. . 4; ’ Not to go beyond the limits of our theme; that \	/:
is, to say nothing of what the great Pontiff . < has done for the whole human family by his ,	/
unceasing interest in all the great and burning questions of the day; of his statesmanship \	.
and diplomacy in his civil and political rela-	\	>
tions with all nations, that have made a new	.. 4 -i
epoch in the history of the papacy; who with-	\
out a vestige of temporal possessions has brought all the powers of the world to recog- . '	. .
nize and honor, as perhaps never before, his . < moral and personal sovereignty as the head of ? ; the Universal Church; to say nothing of the ' struggles and friendly contentions with foreign \ ~ governments for the civil and religious liber- L <4 ties of the Church, and the ever-successful issue of his negotiations; of his agreement and ; .*D sympathy with the new constitutional7 forms -ON of government and established institutions of ' ; .4 every land; to say nothing of those numerous : . encyclicals of graceful and classical Latinity ' OjNj addressed to the Christian world on every .. subject pertaining to the spiritual and tem- . poral interests of all peoples, his apostolic - '-~NOO solicitude for all the churches, and those fre- / quent and solemn appeals to bring all into the : unity of the one fold of the Great Shepherd and Bishop of souls, Leo XIII. stands out the 4 4-?-40! unique and foremost patron of universal learning and advanced civilization.	- ON:
What has he not done, that was possible, to 4 promote every branch of hunian and divine knowledge? He has established great universities in different lands; lie has, so to say,. •	-4>44
re-made the theological schools of Christendom, ; >. 4 4 4D4 has encouraged in the most practical and effec- ,
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
five manner the study of Christian philosophy throughout the world, and established in the Eternal City an academy for the especial advancement of this science of sciences. He has founded chairs in the great colleges of Rome for the higher study and culture of Greek, Latin and Italian classic literature. He has appointed a permanent commission of the most eminent members of the Sacred College for the promotion of historic studies, and invited to Rome the students and scholars of
The Social Influence of the Novel. -
EDWARD J. MIN GEY, ’98,
HE spirit of our age demands achievement. Man, the lord, the master-spirit of creation, moves steadily on to that time when mind will have conquered matter and nature’s secrets be disclosed. In the tur-
Europe and other countries, and thrown open to them the secret archives of the Vatican, and established therein a school of palaeography to enable them to read to advantage the records and ancient manuscripts of those invaluable literary and historic treasures. He has restored the ancient Leonine Tower in the gardens of the Vatican, and erected it into an astronomical observatory which has already taken a first place among the foremost observatories of the world. He has restored and brought to light paintings and works of the great masters that have been hidden from the world for centuries; and his name shall be enrolled for all time among the greatest of his predecessors for his monumental works and restorations in painting and architecture for which Rome is so singularly celebrated. He has encouraged, patronized, invited to Rome and raised to the highest honors of the purple churchmen and scholars of great and immortal fame of every nationality. The Sacred College of Cardinals, I may add, which the Roman Pontiffs have associated with themselves in the government of the Church, dating back in its perfect organization for over a thousand years, is the most distinguished and famous body of scholars in the world.
Looking back, therefore, through the centuries, and tracing the growth and progress of learning and culture throughout all the Christian ages, we find the Church in the building up of educational institutions and in the advancement of knowledge, without exaggeration or overstatement, the one power and chief instrument above all others; and we can point with pride to her loyal and devoted disciples and scholars in every age and in every land, pre-eminent in all the great epochs of human progress and mental development, and who have left behind them to all future generations the proudest monuments of human genius and memorials of the creative power and intellectual supremacy of the Catholic Church.
moil and confusion of life’s contest he has labored; centuries stand as milestones along the way of his advance; and now through the mist of oncoming years there looms up a bright "vision of success, and the goal seems almost won. He has brought the force of his intellect to bear upon the needs of humanity, and from the darkness there sprang light. The waters and the winds obey him. He has harnessed the cataract and snatched the mountain torrent from the freedom of its rocky gorge to bear the burden of his . yoke. The torn and pillaged earth feels the touch of the masterhand, and yields. A chained and belted world throbs and echoes to the tread of man. And yet there is something greater, mightier than he; something that plays upon his emotions, and bends and fashions him at will. Amid the marvels of a century, when men have ceased to wonder and stand amazed, there has arisen a power whose shadow falls like the fall of night, casting a gloom over the lesser things around, a dread force, potent alike for good or evil,— that hydra-headed monster—the press. The creature of his intellect, a mere product of his genius, it has usurped the place of its creator, and presses a heavy hand upon the upward movement of the race. A shaper of the destinies of nations, the champion of right, and, more often, of might, the field of its labor broadens with the hour; and the chief of its ministrants, the first and foremost in the vanguard of its armies, stands the novel.
The child of a monstrous growth, product of thought, and thought producer, its pages teem with another life, whose touch is but the forerunner of the mind’s disease and death. Its mission is that of the treacherous sands that writhe and heave in perpetual agony, seeking whom they may devour. To few is it given to probe the mystery of its inner self, and live. Like a poison instilled into our blood, the novel preys upon the mind, and deprives us of God’s best gift to man—our common-sense. Breathing an atmosphere ephemeral and deadly, devoid

NOTRE DAM.
of any wholesome or saving quality, the constant reader of fiction strays at length from the path of duty and of honor. He turns his back upon the world, its misery and sin, and passes a life, destined for great and noble deeds, in vain and empty pleasure with the creatures of his dreams. The offspring of intellects for the most part narrow and undeveloped, the novel of today cannot of necessity exercise an influence other than harmful upon a credulous and untaught people. Striving to maintain its place in the struggle for existence, it caters to the depraved tastes of its readers, holds forth false doctrines, and presents distorted views of life and morals. Love, it teaches, is involuntary, irrational and founded on sentiment alone. Marriage is the last aim and end of man on earth. Celibacy and monasticism are to be regarded as little less than crimes. And, as an inevitable adjunct, recourse must be had to the portrayal of the failings of man’s weak nature, a searching out and gloating over vice in its most horrible aspects.
The tendency of the day is toward the material, and, in a certain phase, the movement is commendable. We are a staid, matter-of-fact sort of people, given not overmuch to the making of theories. Intensely practical, keen and energetic, our watchword is Reality, our cry Facts! Facts! This influence, however, this craving after the actual and the real, that permeates our intellect and forms the undercurrent of our lives, has been deflected from its legitimate channel. But all sense of honor and decency has not departed from the race. In the bottom of our hearts there still lurks a cherished love- for the time-worn ideals that have withstood for ages the assaults of the foe. Try as he will man must seek the good. With an irresistible force, the iron hand of his nature drives him to it. There will, there must come a time when men will arise in the cause of right, and throw off this yoke of realism, his slavery that presses upon us.
Much of the evil, however, that has arisen from an indiscriminate use of the novel has been offset by the good resulting from careful and judicious reading. Nothing can be more productive of wretchedness and misery, of false, refinement and discontent, than an imagination overdeveloped and running wild without check or rein. And yet, when directed aright, it is the fruitful source of the deeds of man that are greatest and best. It is the breeze that fans the vital spark into the fierce flame that burns in the hearts of heroes. Ardor and
’ SCHOLASTIC.	615
enthusiasm are the children of its growth, breathing into the souls of men a love for all that is noble and generous and good. Centuries have witnessed the workings of its might, laboring under the influence of a spirit that never rests, that peers through the fog and the mist of future ages, discerning the vision of a fairer, a better life beyond. The tread of marching millions re-echoes from the blood-sodden battlefields of freedom where legions fall and rest content to die for country and for God. The trackless wilds resounding to the strokes of the woodman’s axe; the bone-strewn paths that lie along the wastes of glistening sands whereon some messenger of faith had passed to death; the island shores that breast the farthest waves of ocean, and rear aloft their sunlit cliffs, crowned with the rude, unfashioned figure of the cross,—all bear testimony to the majesty of man, yearning, striving, searching after fountains of perpetual light, and scaling the walls of the world to write his name in the firmament of heaven. The imagination, working under the influence of the novel, governed and controlled by reason, has done all this, and more; for, like a thorn that rankles in our hearts, it pricks us on in the struggle of life. It wages bitter war against content, and dying leaves a legacy of hope behind.
The novel should not, in fact, can not, be removed from our midst. Its presence is to be regarded not as a necessary evil that must be endured, but rather as a mighty force for good, turned aside from the path of its destiny, and perverted into a terrible instrument of evil. The widespreading channel of popular thought and emotion, it has gained too firm a hold upon the world to be swept away at will.
There is no censorship of our press, and it is America’s glory that the spirit of our race will tolerate no attempt at coercion. But let there be a censorship of truth and decency. Let passion yield to judgment, and judgment not hesitate to brand the sullied leaves that reek, and smell, and breathe corruption of a living death. But it is not always thus. There is a brighter, nobler side that bears the touch of nature’s hand and strikes an answering chord of sympathy in every heart. Hero, martyr, poet, priest—all have felt the glow that fires a soul, and drives men on to seek for glory and immortal fame. The morning sun looks down upon their labor, and, at evening, sinks beneath the west, and leaves them foiling, striving, and alone, forging a link in the golden chain that binds man to an eternal God. ‘
6i6
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Influence of the Drama.
WILLIAM F. SHEEHAN, ’98. _
MID the chaos of human life art, after religion stands supreme as the beacon-light of the true, the beautiful and the good; for art in its
noblest meaning is the reflection of the divine. Literature, painting and sculpture play their own powerful part amid the rushing and roaring of the huge and noisy
world; but from the beginning literature has had the noblest, the strongest, the most lasting influence upon all civilized nations. From
- time immemorial poetry has been the truest and loftiest interpreter and consoler of life, and what can be for man a higher aim, a more lasting good, than a knowledge of life, since that knowledge inevitably leads to the Source of all life and the Bestower of all good?
It is my purpose to trace one of the great streams of literature in the mighty river of the world’s written art, and endeavor to discover what influence this has had in the field of a
people’s life. This great stream is the dramatic literature, and the vast field of its action is the theatre. A wonderful influence it undoubtedly has exerted; but let us examine wherein its effect lies, and try to discover if it has always remained true to its noble calling.
The. drama can not be brought forth from pure sentiment as the lyric can. The clash of human passions and interests on one another, that show human hearts in action, are the materials of the drama; In this form of literature description is replaced by the direct expression of passion by the characters represented, and thus mimicry is a prime essential of the-drama;-Man is naturally a mimic. When he enters vividly into the situations and passions: of others he involuntarily puts on a resemblance to them in his facial expressions, gestures and carriage of the body. Even.the youngest' children delight in mimicking the actions of those around them. Thus it is that
the drama affords the most natural and forcible
expression of thought even to the uneducated, and consequently its influence must be broader and deeper than all other forms of written art.
- The drama in: its . highest stages is perhaps the greatest effort of human genius. To be a true and lasting1 success the dramatist must have a-profound-and practical knowledge of
human nature in all its phases and the human heart in all its changes. The power of condensed expressions and the art of painting by a line the inmost and most intense feelings of the heart are indispensable. The skill of the novelist is required in constructing a plot to rivet the attention of the audience, the delicate eye of the painter in producing stage-effect and arranging scenery, and the eloquence of an orator in declaiming the finished work. Besides, the dramatist must be a profound philosopher in order to fathom the depths of the human heart. Combine the skill of a novelist, the delicate touch of a painter, the burning words of an orator, the golden wisdom of a philosopher, and then what an ennobling, heart-stirring and beneficent effect the work of a truly great dramatist will have! If the drama could be held to this high ideal what a mighty force the stage would be in the world!
The drama is not a new institution. It has long -been a mighty lever for influencing public thought; moving the minds of a nation up to high ideals of art and morals when directed by the guiding hand of reason, but stunting the moral and artistic sense of a people when it panders to the lower instincts of human nature.	.
The passion of the Greeks of old for their national theatre is well known, and the matchless perfection of their great dramatists proves to what an extent the drama is capable of rousing the human mind. In their great tragedies their ancestral heroes stood before them in spirit on the stage, and acted their noble deeds before the very eyes of the nation. What could be a more powerful, a purer, a nobler incentive to culture, to patriotism and morality than this visible concentration of all that was greatest in their history! The great epics of Homer were undoubtedly a source of lofty inspiration for the Greeks; but their very vastness and loftiness were too great for the popular mind to grasp. : The drama was more closely allied to the life of the whole people, and in this respect it was the most intensely national of all forms of poetry. It chose from the epic its most heart-stirring episodes, and brought them in actual dialogue before the mind of the spectator. Therein lies the great power of the drama. How immense is the effect oFthis concentration! How marvellous the personation with which it is attended! Imagination assumes the actual form of beings; that which was before only conceived is now realized. The airy visions of the past are
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
clothed in flesh and blood, and the'powers of acting, scenery, and stage-effect come to add to the pathos of the incident, to multiply tenfold the charms of poetry. That was. the high position of the tragic stage among the Greeks; that was their great national teacher; that was the forum where all ranks met, where the immoral and uncultured, swayed by pure and pathetic sentiments, divested themselves of their ferocity and callousness; where the highborn dispensed with artificial and effeminate feelings. Here all classes were moved by the deep moral pathos of ^Eschylus or Sophocles, swayed with the eloquence of Demosthenes, and softened by the lyric fire of the chorus. This stage surely was not established for the pleasure of the senses. Its aim and end was intellectual and moral pleasure; and how well it accomplished this noble purpose among the frivolous Athenians history shows.
When we consider that the drama in ancient times was the sole organ of public opinion, and exerted the combined influence of our newspaper, novel, and, to a great extent, of our pulpit, we can see what a powerful factor it was in the life of the people. Nobly indeed did it fulfil its responsible office, and it left to succeeding generations a type for veneration.
Far back in the history of England the germs of the English drama show us for-what purpose the dramatic art should be used.' In the Middle Ages .those quaint and rude Miracle Plays and Moralities avowedly aimed at forming public opinion and fastening the minds of the people on high ideals of Christian duty. What can be a more forcible proof for. us that the true function of the drama is to hold up high moral and intellectual ideals than the opinion all primitive peoples had of the stage? . How often do we not hear people say that we are in an age of. enlightenment and culture, and that the end of the nineteenth century is a period of advance in every line of knowledge! But where is our advance in the drama if we regard the theatre merely as a place of amusement, where we may listen to all kinds of stupidity and even immorality providing the play is full of sensation? No, we can not call that an advance; it is a retrogression dangerous to the individual and injurious to society. These old dramas of our .ancestors were certainly not great works of art, if they were art at all; but the foundation upon which they were built was certainly formed of solid material.
It is necessary to mention only the name of Shakspere to show that the drama can exert
617
an immeasurable influence for morality and culture. The sublime poet of humanity infuses his great soul into us when reading his mighty lines; but when his dramas are presented on the stage, and interpreted by a genius like Edwin Booth, our very being thrills with the passion of the characters. We enter into the spirit of the poet; we imagine anew the whole action, and are not content to perceive but to create the characters and their passions afresh. We enjoy the shades; the purposes, the commotions of the human heart into which the master-spirit pierced. While the tragedian acts Hamlet or Macbeth we act Shakspere, and, identified with the poet, we produce in our minds a second birth of his stupendous offspring. Great and good is the effect of a powerful soul upon the world; but when the inspired words of a Shakspere come to us in the most concrete and eloquent manner, must not their influence be increased tenfold!
Americans are pre-eminently a people of action, and, as a consequence, the theatre has many attractions for us. We are extremely fond of shows, pageants and spectacles; but is the true function of the drama recognized and adhered to by us? Do we not look for exciting situations at the expense of art and morals? for gorgeous spectacles instead of solid thought?	'
The first great reason for believing that our drama has a baneful influence is the heterogeneous character of our stage. Tragedy, melodrama, sensational drama, light comedy, farce, vaudeville, - burlesque, extravangaza, comic opera, and many other types of modern plays, distract the public in such a manner that they are not able to separate the good from the bad. What wonder that the public, with its attention frittered away by so much downright nonsense, should fail to be affected by the solid humor and pathos of Shakspere! Art and mammon are entirely incompatible, and while the latter rules, the drama can have but little influence.
More deplorable still is the vulgarity and obscenity of many of the French translations and adaptations with which our present stage is deluged. Surely “ the mirror is not held up. to nature ” when these plays set before young people false notions of the prevalence and enormity of crime. Influenced by the eloquence of the actor and the winning smiles of the actress, many of our young public are led to believe that vice is not a frightful thing, but only an inconvenience. Do we not see this
6i8
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
deadly principle reviling the sacredness of the marriage-bond, glorifying divorce, and allowing the basest criminals to escape from justice on this mimic world of the stage? Since these glaring immoralities are the daily traffic of our -stage, what wonder that the drama of the present is said to be a detriment to the theatregoers, actors and actresses!
There are men that have gone too far in saying that the theatre of our day has nothing but an immoral influence on the public. Puritanism has had its advocates in every age; but such fanaticism must also go the way of every ignorance. Have we not the poetic dramas of Shakspere on the stage yet, and have we not a Henry Irving to interpret them? Have we not some solid comedy with us yet, and have we not a Joseph Jefferson to make us enjoy a hearty laugh? Finally are there not a few modern dramas of moderate merit that show real sparks of human interest? Certainly we are not in a great dramatic age, nor do we possess1 many powerful actors; but while there are such gleams of life there is hope of regeneration.
Wonderful indeed is the influence of the drama when it is directed in its proper course; when it “ holds the^mirror up to nature.” No other form of literature is so natural to man; nd other combines the power of so many of the arts. The concentration of attention that the drama so forciblv effects awakens our latent feelings to nobler and to better things. It has one immense advantage over other forces for good,—it charms while it instructs; it allures while it elevates. It has an influence over those who would not listen to didactic arguments. Have we not seen its noble influence on the Greeks; and why should we, a Christian nation, not use it for a far higher purpose than the ancient, pagans did? If we would follow the advice given to us by Shakspere would not the theatre be a pure source of moral and intellectual pleasure? The love of the drama seems to be founded on the deepest, the most universal, noblest principles of our nature. It exists now and always has existed. Stimulants may be applied to the senses; the powers of genius, the magic of art and the fascination of beauty may be perverted so as to lead to the destruction instead of the elevation of the human soul; but let us hope that this blot on the modern theatre will be wiped out by the moral sense of the people and the honest criticism of the press., Then, and not until then, will the. drama be possessed, of its former power and glory.
The Influence of Newspapers.
FRANK EARLE HERING, ’98.
HE earth is man’s; he has girt her breast : with ? circlets of steel; he has bound her ocean with the fading wakes of argosies; he holds the keys to her hidden treasures, and when he wills the desert blossoms. What limit can be set
to his ambition! His progress leaps before the measured step of Time. The silent centuries have voice to sound his praise.
But there are limits to his might; and whether he lags or not the constant years overtake him and lose him in the desert of the Past. Time carries few memories; for only moral forces live. Men in every clime and every age have striven after God. The Chaldean shepherd that lay beside the flock, and peered into the vault of night, and worshipped silently; the cave-men that crept into their lairs and gazed through the primeval trees upon the evening star; the Inca that during his night vigil saw the moon swing over the Andean crags, bowed before a power infinite— these struggled up to God. Today the dust of Guatama, the Buddha—powers for good—is scattered over the fields of India; the bones of the Chaldean shepherd fertilize the plains of Ur; and the ashes of the Inca are sealed in some mighty mausoleum in the stillness of the Andes. Death is the scourge of sin, and oblivion the mockery of Time.
A century from now we shall be dust. The sympathetic eyes, the hearts dominated by hope, the intellects we honor, will be no more. A new generation will fill our places. We of today shall be as remote to them as the time of Washington is to us. Few of our names will be remembered: “The dead past buries its dead.” What does it matter where we sleep? Do the elements that war among the Himalayas respect Buddha more than the humblest mendicant? Are the mighty harmonies that rock the Andes sweeter than the song of the modest thrush that bends among the cedars over there at evening? The awful mystery of death is over us; and when God calls us we put aside our task and swell the silent multitude that wends its way towards His eternal throne.
If it were not for this grim Cerberus, portentous at the exit of dife, moral reckonings
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Would be less frequent. The corteges of death are warnings to the living. They are reminders of the leprous spots of sin that lurk in every soul. They turn the mind’s eye inward where it broods upon the principles of life—the soul and God.
What are the worthy ends of life? What •men should we honor most? What is the notoriety of Croesus’ wealth compared to the name of Plato? “Seek knowledge, for in it there is eternal life.” What a sublime faith had Socrates! Pagan philosophy furnishes no sentiment so pure and strong as this—“ Man can not know the good and not do it.” The bitter erudition of Schopenhauer shows pitiably beside this trust. .
The importance of today' is lessened on the morrow; individual action is lost in the complexity of national life, and Government fades in the perspective of centuries. Fame is illusion. Who are the high priests of Isis? Who sculptured the human-headed bulls of Assyria? What do we know of Homer? What will the far-off future care for us ? The preacher had sounded truly the depths of life when he cried: “ Vanity, vanity, all is vanity!”
Do not underestimate life; but emphasize the transcendent cause for being. It is the highest happiness of the individual and the race. The manner in which this end is to be effected is the concern of all of us, but it is pre-eminently the duty of some. These men are world-builders; they are the teachers of mankind, the immediate instruments of God. Dramatists, poets, novelists, journalists—they are consecrated to the noblest ideals; they are the builders of principles; and whether we know them as Shakspere, Dante, Thackeray or Greeley, they are inspired by the essence of charity.
It is wellnigh impossible to guage the value of the drama. No judge refuses Euripides, Shakspere, Moliere or Goethe places among the great teachers of the world. The sentiments of the drama, vivified by natural impersonation, sway the will through the feelings. It is intensely personal; it creates quick action. But it has limitations. Its compressed thought wearies untutored minds, and the sequence of action is so rapid that many of the subtler touches are unfelt. The essence of the best modern drama is characterization, and the creations are composites of national traits. This limits in certain directions its influence. Falstaff may be misunderstood by a typical Russian, as Faust is at times by an Englishman.
619
The novel is the natural successor, in point of development, to the drama; and yet it is relatively new. It is capable of weightier influence, for its public is greater; besides, its moral force is more energetic; it is the product of a more widely spread civilization.
When the time is ripe for new forces to exert modifying influences those forces are forthcoming. The complexity of our national life is marvellous. So many new considerations are forcing attention that detailed literary exposition is impossible. Our population is dispersed so widely that the drama can reach only a limited number. Events succeed one another so rapidly that the important questions of one month are lost to the memory of the next. A medium was necessary to utilize the possibilities of the telephone and telegraph, therefore the newspaper was forthcoming, and this force is most potent where there is most freedom'of speech.
Freedom of speech is one of the most highly prized prerogatives of nations. In proportion as it has been accorded by constituted authority, progress has been constant and stability of government favored. The history of individual liberty is so closely interwoven with the right of free speech that in order to trace the evolution of one it is necessary to study the other. Freedom of action and thought is characteristic of the Teutonic race. Tacitus remarks with admiration the sturdy self-sufficiency of the Germans; and the successive developments of representative government, from the Witangemot held in the forests of the Elbe to the deliberations of our own congress, voice the same instinctive confidence in that form of government.	'
The mixed settlements in America’s early history brought into close relation peoples whose national characteristics were fundamentally different. In religion, customs, temperament, there was nothing that foretold ultimate cohesion—unity. But there was a single factor that eliminated all differences and furnished a foundation for co-ordinate action: this was a principle of individual liberty, and its sub-limest expression,—the Declaration of Independence,—is shared in by all civilized peoples.
Criticism also is a germ of political forces. The great political parties in American history owe the propagation of their principles to the manifold efficiency of newspaper criticism. Jefferson understood this when he permitted the National Gazette, edited by Phillip Freneau, a clerk in his department, to attack the Federal
620	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
administration. There has been one notable attempt in our history to limit the freedom of the Press, the Sedition Law, and the penality was the death of the Federal party; for although this was legal, it violated the implied obligations of the Consitution.
The newspaper has been the most powerful' agent in our national development. It has partly supplanted and partly supplemented the drama and the novel. -No one may. deny that Harriet Beecher Stowe’s novel strengthened Northern prejudice against slavery, but the editorials of the Liberator, written by William Lloyd Garrison, were much more potent in effect. They aroused an indifferent North to an apprehension. of duty, and they united •	various party interests in the support of a
great principle.
Who can measure the influence once exercised by the New York Tribune? Who can deny to Horace Greeley a place among the heroes of the civil war? And when liberty obtained throughout our great land, what agencies were so powerful as the press in concealing our ‘ national scar and in mitigating the pangs of unconquered pride?	,
But imperfection marks everything created by man. The most wonderful work of art has '	flaws; the fullness of beauty is lurking just
beyond our touch. All human exertions are relatively good; for the proportion between good and evil is ever changing. The degrada-'	tion of the drama during the reign of Charles
IL to a great degree lowered the moral tone of England; Zola’s misconception of the functions of the novel has pushed on France to lower depths in the slough of realism. The press is subject to' perversion fraught with weightier consequences; for its influence is j	greater. Editors destitute of experience criti-
.	cise rashly the financial policy of government;
;	and those ignorant of the usages of inter-
national law, the noble provinces of arbitration, ;	would appeal to arms in every difference.
।	Excessive, misdirected patriotism is more dan-
|	gerous than indifference; over-confidence in
'	our strength may lead to humiliation as great
i	as that experienced by France in 1871. Love
f	of country is not confined to the radicals. Paris
- plunged Troy into war, and he loitered at the banquet while silent Hector fought.
.	Today we are in the midst of war. Whatever
may be the international propriety of our interference, the action of our government has the sympathy of the people. It is a source of - national pride that America, is the first to war
disinterestedly for the cause of humanity. Whether facts confirm our opinion or not, we	*
at least think we are battling for humanity.	i
This is the achievement of the newspapers. j The action of the executive and the congress i has been hastened by the sentiment , of the press. The Crusade against Spanish colonial > misgovernment has been preached by the press. | It is the educator and the teacher of the mass of the people.
Christian morality is not relative; the standard is not subject .to man’s adjustment—it is of God. But this does not mean that ideals are fixed. The expanding of- a nation spiritually entails a broader view of the divine fitness of things. What will be the end of the press? Tomorrow only knows; but this may be asserted: education and worth are essential for its continued life. .	..
There is a conservation of energy in the world of ideas; there is a component of forces. The energy is the sun of all intellectual creations; the component is the distance they will carry mankind. In the balance between good and evil which shall be greater? Will the ultimate line that represents the work of all journalism slant up or down?
If Guatama, if Socrates, were alive they would teach as they did in the dim past: only the great principles shall live. Is not the greatest lesson in life a realization of this truth? No human thought is without its influence. The function of the journalist is determined. Today he is paramount in the world of ideas. How shall the opportunity be improved? A hundred centuries hence, when our age is confused with that of Rameses, time will hold the balance; men will read the result.
Valedictory, 1898.
THOMAS A. MEDLEY, ’98.
T has been so ordained that the bridge o’ between youth and manhood shall be ur crossed by our class with a serious sL farewell. The ties that bind us to Notre /dLr Dame are not the instinctive feeling a v man has for his birthplace; but they are as the roots a great tree sends out, which when broken give forth sprouts that afterward grow in likeness to the mother tree. It is this likeness that makes our college life so valuable! it is this likeness that marks the brightest
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
621
phases in out personality; for, after all, our University’s chief aim with the undergraduate is not to fill his memory with facts, but to develop his mind and form his character.
How' often have we heard men ask, what value has a college education in everyday life? How often are Presidents Lincoln and Jackson, who are called self-made men, held up to us-in proof that education is not even necessary in public life? Yes, we answer, Lincoln and Jack-son were great men; but Clay, Webster and Jefferson, whom we call educated men, were greater. All men are self-made; but history shows that educated self-made men are the leaders in this world in almost every case from the days of Alexander the Great to Napoleon. However, let us see in part what a college education is, and why it is valuable.
A college training is the apprenticeship of a better learning. The greater use we make of this apprenticeship, the easier will be our road., to higher education, and the more we acquire of that higher education, wherein the development of the moral element in our character is necessarily included, the happier we shall be and the nearer we shall come to that which God intended we should be. Therefore, it is the intention of Notre Dame to send out men whose labors for God and humanity will completely overthrow the work of unbelievers. Faith and perseverance have been the constant counsel of our professors. And now that we, the Class of ’98, have learned the philosophy and wisdom of these two words we regret most deeply the parting that is about to take place between us and those that for four years have been pointing out to us the tree of knowledge, and bidding us have faith and perseverance that' we msy taste its fruit.
We do not claim wisdom, but we are here this morning as a proof that we have, in some degree, fitted ourselves for the acquisition of wisdom- hereafter. It is not in the power of a •college to confer wisdom—it trains and develops. The Latin, Greek and natural sciences we learn here will probably by many of us never be resorted to in after-life, but the influence they have on our character, in developing our minds, and in sharpening our intellects, is inestimable. The study of languages more than anything else broadens our views. They carry into our souls the beautiful thoughts of other peoples, of other centuries; and if we study them rightly, we can choose the things that will be most useful to us and infuse such good into our own manners, customs and con
ceptions of things. Indeed the training we receive at college works only as an incentive to higher thoughts, to higher life, to a better knowledge of the things of God—to happiness.
True education leads to happiness. The greatest pleasure the human soul can have on earth or in heaven is the contemplation of the Creator, and the better educated we are the nearer we can come to a knowledge of God; therefore, a college training, which develops the mind for such contemplation and knowledge, is the most valuable possession a man can have. A college education trains us for the future. We are the men of the future; and the greater our intellectual accomplishments, the greater our future will be.
A university training, then, prepares both . the mental and physical natures of man for after-life. Its common counsel is, in the language of Solon, to “know thyself.” Its value is that it urges man to strive after the real goods of life. It points out to him true happiness, and teaches him how to love and what to love. It defines for him what genuine love is; and as all things are possible to the honest lover, and as man increases in wisdom and virtue only in proportion as he loves, we may rightly say with Lanier:
“Man’s love ascends
To finer and diviner ends, Than man’s mere thought e’er comprehends.” Gentlemen of the Faculty:—If in afterlife fortune will have favored us we must look back to you as the efficient cause; and if we fail it will be because we heeded not your teaching. The efforts you have made for us can never go unrewarded. And now that you have fitted us for the battle of life we promise you to come back with honor from every field. In hope and love we bid you our sincerest and most heartfelt farewell.
Classmates:—Now that we are about to take our place among the alumni of the University we feel the sadness of a farewell. The mystic future stands out before us,—what will it be? It will be whatever we make it. Great responsibilities are laid upon us today. Let us receive them gladly, and resolve that wherever we are placed, we will always work in the cause, of humanity; and when our course is run may we be worthy of that most precious approval of Notre Dame, “Well done.”
622
NOTRE DAME SCHGEAS1IC.
wew sen».
Notre Dame, July 2, 1898.
jpubltsijcli tbtrg JSaturbag baring tErrm Eime at S. Snibrrsitg.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind
Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address:	THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Hall. The program . was well arranged and very creditably rendered. Two or three of the vocal numbers were exceptionally good. Brother Marcellinus and his co-laborers are heartily to be congratulated on the proficiency of their young charges. The entertainment was repeated at St. Mary’s, where the boys received royal hospitality. It was a pleasure to have St. Columbkille’s pupils on the grounds even for so short a time, and the pleasure was enhanced by the thought that the youngsters liked to be here.
The Board of Editors.
ELMER J. MURPHY, ’97;
PAUL J. RAGAN, ’97; • FRANK	J. F. CONFER,	’97;
FRANK E. HERING, ’98;	THOMAS	A. MEDLEY,	’98;
WILLIAM SHEEHAN,’98; RAYMOND G. O’MALLEY, ’98; EDWARD J. MINGEY, ’98;	FRANK	W. O’MALLEY,	’99;
JOHN J. DOWD, ’99;	JOHN F. FENNESSEY,	’99;
LOUIS C. M. REED,	/
FRANCIS O’SHAUGHNESSY, \	61 S‘
^he most important feature of the gymnasium is the athletic room on the first floor This is the largest room — unobstructed by pillars and devoted entirely to athletics—of any gymnasium in the country. The room is 100x165 feet; the walls are 25 feet high and without windows, the light coming through skylights in the roof. This roof is circular and is supported by arches that span from wall to wall. The floor is earth, and the room is bounded by a running track ^hich has eleven laps to the mile. The size of the room, it being much larger than a baseball diamond, will permit of basket-ball, tennis, baseball, hand-ball and track-athletics.
^R. O’Malley’s “Bits of Colored Glass,” which for a long time delighted the readers of the Ave Maria, have been done into book form by D. H. McBride & Co., under the more prosy caption, “ Thoughts of a Recluse.” The author has included in his volume many new gems of thought and miniature essays on art, literature and beauty. His style is strikingly epigrammatic, and accordingly the book will afford delightful reading for all lovers of this artistic form of literary expression. “ Thoughts of a Recluse” might be regarded as a prelude:, it is surely an evidence of strength and beauty in thought and style. There is a grim sense of humor pervading the whole book, and yet the underlying thought is often of great importance, great weight, great gravity. His pert way of putting things tends to make the idea not only humorous but strong also. And so the book makes interesting and instructive reading. These “ Thoughts ” have been arranged under seven headings—social life; parents and children; art, literature and beauty; love and friendship; charity, obedience and humility; patience and sorrow; God and religion,—a wide range of subjects well treated.
^hrough the kindness of the Rev. President Morrissey the pupils of Saint Columbkille’s School, Chicago, spent two pleasant days at Notre Dame on the 21st and 22d inst. It is a rare treat for city youth to breathe pure air and see nature lighted up with a sunshine unladen and unbefogged with smoke; and these lads knew it and took advantage of it. They romped up and down the campus, played ball, swam, climbed trees, let their voices out; in fact, enjoyed themselves in every possible manner. And to show that it was not all play with them, and that they were by no means dull boys, they gave a musical and. elocutionary entertainment in Washington
The Daily Scholastic.
^hat The Daily Scholastic was a delight to all at Notre Dame during Commencement week need not be said, and many hopes were expressed that the contemplated class of journalism be instituted in September, and the daily issue of our college paper become permanent. Equally kind was the reception given to it abroad by friends and exchanges. We have room here for only a few greetings, clipped during the hurry and distractions of the commencement season:
In one of the issues of The Daily Scholastic—a.paper published by the students of-the University of Notre
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
623
Dame during commencement week—reference was made to a course of journalism to be established next year. This is a decidedly important step, one that w.e have long wished to see taken by some Catholic institution. There is urgent need of .at least one high-class daily newspaper for Catholics in this country. Later on there will be a demand for others—numerous others. Their success will depend upon having .trained men to edit them, and the training should be thoroughly Catholic as well as practical and complete—Ave Maria.
* - .
* *
The Notre Davie Scholastic, which is the best Catholic . college paper in the country, has become a daily. Here’s your English Catholic daily at last!—Catholic Citizen, Milwaukee.	-
* * .
■ This is truly the age of journalism. No. 1 Vol. I. of The -Daily Scholastic, issued by Notre Dame University, has just reached us. Those familiar with the Notre Dame Scholastic and the splendid work of its board of editors will welcome this new publication under the able management of the same editors.— St. James School Journal.
' ' ■ * ; * * •
The Daily Scholastic, printed at Notre Dame University during commencement week, is an interesting little publication. No doubt it has received a cordial welcome from students, alumni and friends. Success and congratulations!—Niagara Index.	=	.
The Notre Darned Scholastic came out double size Wednesday, and the enterprise that prompted this enlargement and the filling of its pages in an interesting manner was fully appreciated. It was a decided novelty, and proved a success.—S. B. Times.
• * • . * *
The Notre Dame Scholastic has adopted a journalistic departure in the shape of a three-column folio daily for commencement week, the first issue being Monday. It is bright and newsy, and, like its weekly senior publication, is clean in a typographical way.—South Bend Tinies.
. * * • . .
Under the caption: “South Bend’s new Daily,” the S'. B. Tribune says:-
The Tribune finds pleasure in extending a welcome - to South Bend’s new daily, the Scholastic, a Notre .Dame publication which appeared for the first time on Monday. For many years the weekly Scholastic has been a welcome visitor to the office of the Tribune. The first number of The Daily Scholastic promises to be as interesting as its elder companion. It is replete with university news, and will be in great favor among the faculty, students and visitors at the great university. The Tribune . presumes that the venture is at present a temporary one for commencement week, but hopes it will be resumed when the fall term of the University opens.
. ■ • - * * ■
»To all our friends much thanks! ’We, too, hope that The Daily Scholastic may be resumed next session, but it is at least comforting to know that if it does not reappear, it will not be because either the sympathy or the: appreciation of . our friends was lacking..
The Fifty-Fourth Commencement
OME good-byes are never spoken;
J they linger in the sacred places of the heart, for the lips quiveringly -refuse them expression.. It is not unmanly to feel genuine sorrow
when^Zzwzz Mater is left behind. Those who have profited most through her kindly care, never, say good-bye: they go into the world for a little while, to bring their share of honors to delight her with. Some of the sadness of this parting is shared by Alma Mater, and today her lecture rooms and dormitories and campus are silent,—brooding over memories. A week since and all was expectation; the one about to be graduated felt the pleasure of a finished lesson and awaited his reward; the junior felt the near-by dignity that comes to the senior; even the minim rejoiced out of sheer pleasure at the delight of others. Today the few minims who are to stay at Notre Dame during the vacation recall occasionally the names of their absent playmates; but for the most part they are content to fish, swim and worry the Brother; truly memories are fleeting, but the great moral works endure.	.
Sunday morning, June 12, saw the initial scenes of Commencement. At eight o’clock Solemn High Mass was Celebrated by the Rev. President Morrissey, assisted by Rev. James J. French as deacon, and Rev. Martin JI Regan as subdeacon. Leonard’s Mass.with the Agnus Dei from Concone’s was sung by the choir. The services were impressive, and the decorations of the church had the beauty of simplicity. Over three hundred lights gleamed around the altar. An added impressiveness was given to the service by the feeling that it was the last Sunday of the college year.
Rev. James F. Nugent, LL. D., ’95, of Des Moines, Iowa, preached the baccalaureate sermon. Notre Dame had enjoyed Father Nugent’s words before, and was prepared for a scholarly, but practical discourse. The attention given to the sermon was a tribute worthy of its excellence.
The concrete figures used in expressing the thoughts were so subtly and forcibly interwoven into the discourse that it was-a. real, artistic pleasure to listen to the speaker. The meaning of Commencement was touched upon, and then the qualities essential to success were named, and their most striking attributes developed. He said in part;	’
624	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
1 want you to ask yourselves two questions: What have we to do? and what are we to do it with? The first . answer you can undoubtedly give, and you would, say we must achieve success. To the question, what must we achieve it with?—the answer you must give is that you must do it with the weapons that you have been forging and casting in this school for the last few years. You must use these weapons in the battle of life, and this battle you must fight single-handed and alone. -
But in the great battle of life you must consider that there is only one soldier engaged, one battle, one tremendous strength, one cause, and if you fail and fall in that, so far as the individual is concerned, the battle is lost, the cause is gone. The cause is success, and if you lose that battle of life your destiny is at an ;end.
Education is your force and your guide, but you must not lay too much stress upon the mere fact of education. There are thousands of men in the world who were educated and have failed, and there are thousands who were not educated and have succeeded. Common-sense was their substitute for education. You must keep , on working.
The word Commencement is the best word to designate this period in your college career. This should be the time when you really commence in earnest to study and to work. Let no man tell you that education alone will tame your hearts, or that if you are educated you will be necessarily good men.
You are going forth this morning to commence the great battle of life. If I were to tell you all of the future I might discourage you. It is truly said that the veil that covers our future was woven out of the mercy of Providence. If men could see all the horrors of war, there are few who would criticise the hesitancy of a ruler to plunge a nation into such strife and misery.
But there is plenty of chance for the man of buoyant hope and youthful strength and manly courage. Other men have succeeded, and we can all succeed. If we fail it is no one’s fault but our own. There is no room for the weakling. The men that are the rulers to-day are not the men of genius; they are the hard workers, the determined men, the men of true virtue and strength.
At two in the afternoon Benediction was given. The graduates had been made happy by the news of successful examinations, and joined with glad hearts in the solemn services.
Sunday evening the University Band gave a concert that did just credit to Prof. Preston. The audience, composed of the faculty, alumni, visitors from South Bend and students, expressed their pleasure in the artistic interpretations by hearty applause. The Stabat Mater was especially good, and it alone would have justified Mr. F. Marion Crawford’s assertion . that ours is the best college band in the country.
- Monday and Tuesday faculty and students were busy with examinations; nevertheless, they found time to welcome parents, friends and alumni that/arrived on every train. Tuesday evening the examinations were virtually over, and all were prepared to enjoy the band concert. A pleasant novelty was . introduced
that met with hearty approval: the band visited each of the buildings and played a piece characteristic of the students it serenaded.
The examinations ended at 9.30 Wednesday morning, and the most zealons student felt that he could abandon himself to the diversified pleasures of Commencement with a free conscience. The natural beauty of Notre Dame has contributed much to her renown, and the fairest touches of nature have been given to the lakes and their setting. Under the successful superintendence of Father Regan interest in aquatic sports has been created and maintained. No form of exercise is more beneficial than rowing, and the well-muscled backs and arms and deep chests of the members of the Boat Club bear witness to this assertion. It is peculiarly fitting that the first entertainment offered to the old students who return at Commencement should be the boat races. Boating is distinctly a college sport; and the exhibitions of strength, endurance and strategy displayed by the crews, the partisanship of the students for the colors worn by their hallmates, the unadorned beauty of our lakes, and the influence of music would awaken the slumbering love of any alumnus for his Alma Mater, if such a thing were necessary. The sight that met the old students when they reached St. Joseph’s Lake Wednesday morning was an inspiriting one. The crews were in their places ready for the starter’s pistol, and the students lining the shore greeted their predecessors with cheers. It was a pretty tribute, and was fully appreciated. Among the alumni were grey-haired men who had been famous in their student-days for athletic prowess. These.took a kindly, critical ' interest in the races, and the individual members of the crews exerted themselves to win honored approbation.	:
The course was three lengths of St. Joseph’s Lake, starting at the west end and finishing at the boat house, there was a stiff wind blowing from the east, and the first and third lengths were rowed against its strength. There were three races, the contesting crews representing Sorin and Brownson Halls.
The races started promptly at 11 o’clck. The Sorin crew started from the south flag, while the Brownson crew had the lucky north course. Sorin and Brownson first crews got away oh even terms, but Sorin gained a length which it lost on the turn. On the last two lengths Sorin gained, and won by two and one-half lengths in 4.15, which is very fast under the circumstance. Brownson rowed a plucky race.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Brownson second won the next race by a half length in 4.33 4—5. The race was one of the prettiest of the day. ”
In the third race the crews were on even terms until the last hundred yards. At this point Brownson forged ahead and won by a length. Time, 4.42. During the last race the wind died down and the boys , made nearly . their best time. Miss Dreyer pinned the 'medals upon the jerseys of the winners.
Mr. Francis Earle Hering acted as starter. - The judges were Brother Leander, Hon. W. P. Breen, and Col. W. E. Hoynes. The following are the crews:
Brownson—Blue Silver Jubilee O. Tong.......... F. Bauwens....... E. Guerra........-
' T. Dooley...... .*.
G. Lins..........
J. Wolverton (C). Tuohy.......•. .. .
Minnehaha.
G. Cypher (Capt.).
A. Berry..:.....
S. Boyle........
A. Kangley...... R. Garza.........
. J. Koehler.-....... Tuohy...............
Brownson J. Sanford....... B. Metcalf....... J. Van Hee(C.).... G. N. Burg....... F. J. Thacker....
.No. i...
.Nd. 2...
.No. 3....
.N0.4.L-
N0.6______ Stroke.'.. Coxswain
..... No. 1.... ... .-.No. 2. . .. ... .'.No. 3.... . ...No. 4.... ....No. 5.... ... Stroke....
... .Coxswain.
3D Race. ...No, 1....
... - No. 2.. ....No. 3.... ..... Stroke.. ... .Coxswain.
Sorin—Yellow Golden Jubilee ....... R. Fox
----P. Kearney ----J. Kraus
........A. Fehr .....C. Niezer ... E. Rahe (C.) .....J. Mullen
Evangeline .....J. Myers .....T. O’Brien . M. McCormick .... E. McConn ... .G. Stulfauth .J. Landers (C.)
........F oley
Sorin ......C. Foley W. Morris (C.l .P. Duffy ......V. Welker ......J. Mullen -
Wednesday afternoon in the parlor Mr. John Hummer presented to the University a Memorial in behalf of the Alumni. The Memorial is . beautifully decorated and is intended to commemorate the esteem in which the late Very Rev. William Corby was held.
The sterling qualities of the old Provincial and famous chaplain of the Civil War are set forth after a manner that makes this Memorial a model of its kind. After the presentation speech by Mr. Hummer, the President of the University accepted the Memorial in a speech of marked feeling, especially while recalling some of the noble traits of Father Corby, the man everyone loved. Mr. Hummer’s speech was as follows:	.
“Away from his Alma. Mater, the old student pauses now and then in his mad rush for wealth and power to take a look backward to his days at Notre Dame, and to live over in fancy that
memorable period of his life. While he thus , meditates, his memory pictures the scenes^of long ago. He sees again the beautiful grounds, the stately buildings, the placid lakes; he beholds the venerable Father Sorin in. his daily ' walks, with a gracious greeting for everyone; the humble Father Granger, the brilliant Father -Corby, the lovable Father Walsh, the sturdy, warm-hearted Brother Paul, the gentle Brother -Celestine, and numerous other faithful souls,r . now gone, who worked together to make Notre Dame the great institution that it is today; He . loves that picture. He guards it jealously, and -. is unwilling to believe that the passing of the years has wrought changes in the home of his youth, or thinned the ranks of its people.
“When after years of absence he returns to . the sacred spot, and looks around him in vain
for the faces that he knew, his heart for the moment is sad. But sorrow is soon changed to pride as he beholds the evidences of prog- . ress and prosperity. - He sees the University of today, the buildings more numerous and . imposing than ever; on every side increased facilities for carrying on the-great work. He finds, also, in place of those who in his day, with rare ability and wisdom, guided the Uni- * versify in its upward course, and who in their . time seemed indispensable; men of like ability.
and learning, with like devotion to their cause, carrying on the campaign of true education with the same zeal and spirit of self-sacrifice, ever abreast of the times, profiting by the ? treasured counsels of their predecessors, arid , quick to grasp and develop new ideas,—their . whole aim and ambition the development of. an educated, Christian manhood.
“The members of our association who' attended the Commencement exercises a year •ago, remember the cordial,.welcome extended to them by Father Corby. Their visit appeared to give him great pleasure. His health seemed fair; his face bore the same cheering smile they had known of old, and not one of them thought that that greeting would be the last. Aret before the year was half over the sad news went forth that Father Corby had passed away. . The message brought sorrow to the association; each member felt that he had suffered the loss of a personal friend. Their sentiments have found expression, and the old students are here today to lay at the tomb of their friend a modest but heartfelt tribute of love. - .	-
“Who that knew Father Corby can ever forget him! How strikingly attractive was his personality, how beautiful and eventful his\ ?
r
626	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
life! Always faithful to duty, we see him in his early manhood performing the sweet labors ■ of his sacred office and training the mind and heart of youth. When his country is in danger and the call to arms is sounded, we see him leaving his comfortable home and cherished friends, and hastening to the front to carry religious consolation and encouragement to those who are fighting their country’s battle, and to succor the wounded and dying. We follow him from day to day, from battlefield to battlefield, to the Seven Pines, Antietam, Fredericksburg and Chancellorsville. He is ever at his post, tireless and fearless, the idol of the soldiers. Finally, we behold him standing on the rock at Gettysburg, amidst the deafening roar of battle, his arms and eyes uplifted to Heaven, commending his brave Irish Brigade . to the protection of the God of Hosts.
“The war over, we see him ■ again in his college home, surrounded by his friends and co-laborers, industrious and happy, moving ever higher in his community, reaping new honors as the years roll on, until at last, when the final call goes out to him, it finds him standing at the head of his Order in America, the Provincial, loved and respected everywhere, enjoying the evening of a life well spent and crowned with honors richly deserved.
“Nature did much for him. His strong and healthy body, his face bearing the stamp of seriousness, courage and strength of will, yet softened with an ever-ready smile; his ringing voice, his gift of oratory, his fund of wit and humor, his ability to attract and handle men, his energy and capacity for work, his keen foresight—all fitted him in a remarkable degree for the career that he adopted. By his pure, noble, patriotic and successful life, Father Corby built for himself a fame that will endure always, wherever Christian heroism and unselfish devotion to the good of mankind are known and appreciated.	.
“On behalf of the Notre Dame University Association of Chicago, I present this humble tribute to his memory. Its words come from the heart. Let it be placed where it may in the future, with its silent eloquence give testimony to those who may chance to read of the love of the old students for the memory of the friend of their youth, the scholar, the soldierpriest, the faithful servant of God.’’
At 2 p. m. the Laetare Medal .was presented to Hon. Timothy E. Howard, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Indiana. The formal presentation was made by Rev. President
Morrissey in the St. Cecilian lecture room before members of the faculty and guests of the University. The custom has been to make the presentation on or near Lmtare Sunday, but gratifying circumstances permitted a digression this year, and enabled many of Judge Howard’s friends among the visiting alumni to see him honored. No greater distinction than this medal can be conferred by Notre Dame,. . and it is pleasing to see her honor one of her own students, and one so worthy of her.
Judge Howard in accepting the Medal spoke as follows:
When I consider the many eminent men and women to whom the Ltetare Medal , has been awarded—poets artists, orators, warriors and statesmen; men of science, literature and philosophy; when I consider, too, that the custom of giving this medal is an American adaptation of the example of the august Father of Christendom in bestowing the golden rose annually upon some noble lady who has deserved well of the Church and of society; so that the recipients of the golden rose and the Lastare Medal are associated as kindred bands of superior men and women, set apart as marked by high attainments in Christian excellence; and when I realize that I have been invited by my Alma Mater to take my place as a member of so distinguished a company, I can but feel how great is the honor conferred and how unworthy the recipient.	-
Ever partial to whatever I have tried to do, since the first day I entered these sacred precincts, now nearly forty years ago, Notre Dame has added to all her favors this crown of honor.
One reason only can I find why I should be so selected for this distinction. I have seen this noble University grow from a struggling but ambitious academy to a great seat of learning. I have known as dear friends all the devoted men of God who have wrought the great work; it has been my great privilege to partake with them in the toils and trials which have under Providence brought about so miraculous a growth;^and now on my unworthy head this dear Alma Mater wishes to place this mark of her affection that I may before the world represent the many modest, untiring and devoted men, living and dead, who have here wrought so well and brought this to pass, that the tender plant that was set here in the wilderness in 1S42 has developed info the magnificent tree of 1898 under whose branches so great a multitude of American youths has sought shelter. As representing those holy workers who have sought no honor for themselves, I accept this Laetare Medal, and will wear it for them before the world.
May the great University of the West go from year to year, still doing the good work appointed to her from the beginning; sending forth her crowds of generous and trained Christian youth; that our beloved America may more and more be blessed in the higher, brighter and purer life of her citizenship by the quiet studies and noble teachings of Notre Dame.
The closing exercises of St. Edward’s Hall opened at 3 p. m. The program was varied,

628
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
consisting of selections on the piano, guitar and mandolin as well as recitations and chorus singing,_and we can say in all sincerity that the success of the entertainment was not short of remarkable. In elocution, Masters Weber and J. Abercrombie, and in music E. O’Connor deserve special mention, as, indeed, does everyone on the program, for they all bore themselves with the ease and grace of gentlemen, and performed their parts in a manner worthy of much older amateurs. The excellence of the entertainment was proof— were proof needed—of the patient and thorough instruction given to the students of St. Edward’s Hall, for it is no easy task to fit boys of their age to give such an entertainment. It must be a great pleasure to their parents to see the progress their sons have made; and to know how well they are cared for and instructed must be compensation for the few month’s deprivation of their company. Right Rev.- Bishop Rademacher, who presided over the exercises, said that St. Edward’s Hall was the best school for boys in the country; and certainly if the students follow on the lines laid down for them they should develop into cultured, Christian gentlemen. The exercises today mark the close of a very successful year.	-	' .	-
The fame of Notre Dame Athletic Teams is spread so widely and has been justly the source of so much pride to her students, old and new, that an opportunity to see a game of baseball between the Varsity and the South Bend Greens was taken advantage of by everyone. The game was the most exciting one played on our athletic field this year. At the beginning of the ninth inning the score was 4 to 4. South Bend; was retired without a run, and the Varsity won its half by timely hitting. It was a fitting close to;the season’s work; and although we advance no claim, no university has a better title to the championship of the West for ’98 than Notre Dame. The game saw the end of Captain Powers’ college ball playing, and he received handsome testimonials from his student and South Bend admirers.
Wednesday evening the Bachelors’ Discourses were given in Washington Hall by . members of the graduating class. These were followed by the Oration of the Day, delivered by Rt. Reverend Maurice F. Burke, D. D.,’66, After an overture by the University Orchestra, Mr. Edward J. Mingey opened the discourse on The Factors of Public Opinion by speaking about “The Novel:” Mr. Mingey has a natural
force of expression that brought clearly into relief the logical divisions of his theme. He showed the moral possibilities of the novel when entrusted to authors of sound ethical principles, and the degradation it has wrought when its functions have been misinterpreted. The next number was a violin solo by Mr. Michael McCormick, accompanied by Mr. J. Vick O’Brien. The artistic interpretation merited the repeated encores it received. Mr. William Sheehan followed with the second discourse, “The Drama.” Mr. Sheehan has a clear, scholarly pronunciation, that displayed his carefully written discourse to advantage. The thoughts were presented in an original manner. The history of the drama was traced from its crude beginning to its culmination in Shakspere, and its subsequent perversion. Mr. Mr. Sheehan’s effort showed discriminating research, and deserved the hearty applause it received. The University Mandolin Orchestra followed with “The Golden Dome March,” composed by Professor Preston. The last of the discourses, “ The Newspaper,” was given by Mr. Frank E. Hering. The speaker contended that only moral forces will live, and that the ultimate fate of journalism rests on . the moral efficiency of journalists. The University Quartette closed the students’ part of the program with a song. '	'
It was late when Rev. President Morrissey introduced the Orator of the Day, Right Rev. Bishop Burke; but the applause that greeted the distinguished Churchman, voiced in no uncertain way the anticipated pleasure of the audience. He spoke as follows:
“ I take great pleasure in accompanying to this platform tonight the distinguished Churchman who is to deliver the closing address of the evening. The announcement of his name on the printed programs which you hold in your hand is the formal introduction of the Rt. Rev. Prelate to this distinguished audience. I wish, however, to take advantage of the opportunity offered to give expression to the great pleasure which the faculty and students of the University feel in presenting to you tonight one whom Notre Dame feels honored in claiming as one of her sons. The Rt. Rev. Maurice Burke, Bishop of St. Joseph, Mo., was once a student at Notre Dame, and him I present to you tonight.”
After the introduction our Rev. President took occasion to thank the guests of the University for their appreciative interest in the work done by Notre Dame. Bishop Burke by
NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
629
way of introduction meandered delightfully through the Notre Dame of his student days, and paid delicate honors to many long since dead. The speaker’s easy conversational manner gained immediately the heart of his audience, and his scholarly discourse benefited them. He denied the right of historians to call the Middle Ages the Dark Ages, and he proved that these centuries were the most productive, from a standpoint of creative art, that the Christian Era can show. As the -Church was the sole instrument of enlightenment, Bishop Burke’s premise followed naturally, that the Middle Ages were the period of her most active, creative and assimulative forces in the world of art. The eulogy of Dante was one of the most appreciative and comprehensive bits of criticism imaginable. The discourse which we print in this issue was a fitting close to the pleasures of the day.
At 8.30 o’clock Thursday morning Washington Hall wss filled with students and friends of the University. Right Reverend Bishop Rademacher, D. D., of Fort Wayne and Right Rev. Maurice F. Burke, D. D., of St. Joseph, Mo., occupied the seats of honor. The exercises were opened by the University Quartette, which sang “ Home, Sweet Home.” The graduating class was seated on the stage, and after the song Mr. Raymond G. O’Malley stepped forward and read the class poem. It is a creation of deep thought, and is graceful with subtle feeling. Mr. Thomas A. Medley followed with the Valedictory. Its manly simplicity appealed to all, and made the partings of the graduates more subdued than they might have been otherwise. Mr. Medley’s soft Kentucky pronunciation and susceptible temperament made him an ideal Valedictorian.
When the curtain rose a few minutes later Bishops Rademacher and Burke, the President and Faculty occupied the first row of chairs on the stage. Rev. Vice-President French, assisted by Rev. M. J. Regan, read the names of those on whom degrees and honors had been conferred. Bishop Rademacher handed to the favored student his diploma or honor, or pinned on his breast the merited medal. When the last medal had been awarded the Commencement of ’98 was at an end, and the graduates had assumed the responsibility that falls to the alumni of cherishing and advancing by their efforts the fair name of our University, and of returning year by year with honors meet to give to the one that has nurtured them in the fields of knowledge.
CONFERRING OF DEGREES.
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts in course was conferred on Thomas Hennessey, Notre Dame, Ind.; William Montavon, Notre Dame, Ind.; Thomas A. Medley, Springfield, Ky.; Michael J. Oswald, Notre Dame, Ind.
The Degree of Bachelor of Letters was conferred on Edward J. Mingey, Philadelphia, Penn.; Raymond G. O’Malley, Cresco, Iowa; Michael R. Powers, Adams, Massachussets; William F. Sheehan, Hancock, Mich.; Francis Earle Hering, Notre Dame, Ind.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science was conferred on William C. Kegler, Bellevue, Iowa; Hugh C. Mitchell, Edna, Texas.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science in Biology was conferred on William W. Fitzpatrick, Paris, Texas; Charles J. Piquette, Detroit, Mich.; Edward B. Falvey, St. Joseph, Missouri.
The Degree of Master of Laws was conferred on James Shaw Dodge, Elkhart, Ind.; Francis J. F. Confer, Altoona, Pennsylvania.
The Degree-of Bachelor of Laws was conferred on Ferdinand H. Wurzer, Detroit, Mich.; Joseph E. Corby, St. Joseph, Missouri; Michael James Ney, Independence, Iowa; Edward J. Mingey, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
Commercial Course.
Diplomas were awarded to Timothy C. Harrington, Richmond, Indiana; John E. Koehler, Chicago, Illinois; Louis M. Fetherston, What Cheer, Iowa; Adam J. Kasper, Chicago, Illinois; Thomas C. Nolan, Tiffin, Ohio; Eugene A. Sheekey, Braddock, Pennsylvania.
Prize Medals.
The Quan Gold Medal, presented by Henry Quan Esq., of Chicago, for the student having the best record in the Classical Course Senior year, was awarded to Michael J. Oswald, Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Mason Medal, presented by George Mason Esq., of Chicago, for the student of Carroll Hall having the best record for the scholastic year, was awarded to Albert J. Krug, Dayton, Ohio.
The Breen Gold Medal for Oratory, donated by the Hon. Wm. P. Breen, ’77 of Fort Wayne, was awarded to Louis C. M. Reed, South Bend, Indiana. .
The Meehan Gold Medal for English Essays, presented by Mrs. James Meehan, of Coving
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
630
ton, Kentucky, was awarded to Francis Earle Hering, Notre Dame, Indiana. .	;
The Ellsworth C. Hughes Medal, presented by Mr. A. S. Hughes of Denver, Colo., for the best record in Mathematics, was awarded to William C. Kegler, Bellevue, Iowa.
The Rademacher Grand Gold Medal, donated by the Right Rev. Bishop of Fort Wayne, for Christian Doctrine in Brownson Hall, First Course, was awarded to St. John O’Sullivan, Louisville, Kentucky.
The Medal for Christian Doctrine in Brownson Hall, Second Course, was awarded to Vincent D. Dywer, Anderson, Indiana.
The Medal for Christian Doctrine in Brownson Hall, Third Course,.was awarded to Michael J. Flannigan, Minneapolis, Minnesota. -
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Carroll Hall, First Course was awarded to Charles N. Gifsch, Chicago, Illinois.
SPECIAL COURSES.
The Barry Elocution Medal in Brownson Hall, donated by the Hon. P. T. Barry, of Chicago, was awarded to Jerome J. Crowley Chicago, Illinois. .
The Commercial Gold Medal for the highest standing in Senior year was awarded to Timothy C. Harrington, Richmond, Indiana.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
The Sorin Elocution Gold Medal was awarded to Lawrence K. Weber.	.
The Elocution Gold Medal was awarded to John J. Abercrombie.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine was awarded to Charles J. Kelly.
- The Gold Medal for Composition was awarded to Fritz M. Weidman.
- The Gold Medal for . Politeness was, awarded to Francis W. Ebbert. .	-	.
The Gold Medal for. Letter-Writing was. awarded to Grover C. Davis. .	.	.
. The Gold Medal for Penmanship was awarded to Wallace. W. Hall. .	.	,
The Gold Medal for Improvement in Man-, doliri was awarded to. Jasper H. Lawton., .. x .The Gold Medal for Excellence in Studies, was. awarded to Miles E. Flynn.
The Gold Medal for Vocal Music was; awarded to Paul H. McBride..	.
The Silver Medal for Composition, was. awarded to Thomas J. Butler.
? ' The. Silver .. Medal for Improvement_in-
Composition was awarded to Oscar F. Fleischer.
The Silver Medal for Penmanship was' awarded to Louis L. Abrahams.
The Silver Medal for Letter-Writing was awarded to John J. Cunnea.
The Silver Medal for Improvement in Letter-Writing was awarded to Grover D. Strong. .	-
The Silver Medal for Improvement in Vocal Music was awarded to Alvah C. Bosworth.
The Silver Medal for Improvement in Penmanship was awarded to Edward L. Manion. .	.
The Silver Medal for Vocal Music was awarded to Francis J. Phillip.
The Silver Medal for Christian Doctrine was awarded to Philip J. Dougherty.
First Honor - Awards.
[First Honors are awarded to students of Sorin and Brownson Halls who have attained an average of at least 90 per cent, for scholarship and deportment during the scholastic year. The First Honor awarded for the first year takes the form of a diploma; that awarded for two years of satisfactory work is a gold medal. This 'medal may be renewed from year to year.]
SORIN HALL.
First Honor Gold Medals were, awarded to Edward J. Mingey, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, (renewal); Thomas A. Steiner, Monroe, Michigan (renewal); Julius A. Arce, Arequipa, Peru, South America (2d renewal); Eugene A.. Delaney, Lykens, Pennsylvania (2d renewal).
First Honor Diplomas were awarded to Michael J. McCormack, Memphis, Tennessee; St. John P. O’Sullivan, Louisville, Kentucky. - ;
.	BROWNSON HALL.
First Honor Medal was awarded to Francis O’Shaughnessy, Newhall, Missouri.
First Honor Diplomas were awarded to Joseph. . A. Baloun, Canton, Ohio; Vincent D. Dwyer, Anderson, Indiana; Timothy C. Harrington, Richmond, Indiana; Edward W.. Hubbard, Auburn, New York; Stephen B. Pickett, Toledo,. Ohio; Arthur T. Simpson, Dallas, Texas..
Deportment Prize Medals.
. [Gold Medals for Deportment are awarded to pupils' of-Carroll and. St-. Edward’s Halls, who Have spent two. full years at Notre.Dame, and whose deportment during, the whole time has been, unexceptionable.] .	, .
; : CARROLL HALL.
Gold Medals for. Deportment- were awarded
NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC.
to William F.Dinnen (renewal),William H.N. Maher (renewal), James E. Morgan, Arthur H. Mueller, Thomas J. Murray, Thomas C. Nolan, Thomas E. McCarthy.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
Lawrence K. Weber, James A. Van Dyke, Francis W. Ebbert (renewal), Lawrence A. Hart, Kenneth E. Casparis, John B. Ervin, Ralph N. Van Sant, Louis W. McBride.
[Silver Medals for Deportment are awarded to pupils of Carroll and St. Edward’s Halls, who have spent two full years at Notre Dame, and whose deportment has given general satisfaction.]
. CARROLL HALL.
Silver Medals for Deportment were awarded to Elmer J. Berger, John S. Putnam, Hugh St. Clair Ward.
'	ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
Wallace W. Hall, John L. McBride, Lynn J. Griffith, James D. McGeeney, Gerald J. McCarthy, George A. Wilde, Percy J. Manion.
Deportment Certificates.
[Certificates are awarded to those pupils of Carroll and St. Edward’s Halls who have followed the courses of the University at least two terms, and whose deportment during the whole time has been unexceptionable.]
CARROLL HALL.
Certificates of Deportment were awarded to Herbert Bloch, Glenn W. Barrett^ Michael J. Crowley, Joseph A. Clyne, Otis P. Carney, George F. Dousett, Henry S. Fink, Joseph H. . Furlong, Arthur M. Gibbons, Nicholas J. Hogan, Lorenzo Hubbell, Laurence H. Luken, Walter P. Mueller, John P. McSorley, Frederick P. Schoonover, Henry A. Britt, Andrew W. O’Malley. .
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
Certificates for Deportment were awarded to William J. Butler, John A. Bernero, Paul T. Bortell, Charles E.Bortell, Francis J. Caruthers, Henry O. Downer, Henry Donahoe, George H. Ebbert, Walter J. Dessauer, Albert Fuchs, Carl Fuchs, Frederick J. Fogarty, Hugh W. P. Huleatt, Benjamin J. Houser, John A. Hinsey, Jeremiah M. Hart, Thomas C. Jackson, Robert E. Leclerque, George Leisander, Elmer R. Lockwood, Alexander M. McFarland, Edward McGeeney, Belford C. McMaster, Rollin J. McMaster, E. Cullen Nye, F. Bertram Nye, Francis J. Phillip, George P. Phillip, Wilson R. Robbins, Edgar J. Sinnott, David J. Topper, Robert W. Williams.	. -
Premiums.
SORIN HALL.	-	, _
Atherton, C.—1st Premium in Industrial Drafting; ..
Arce, J.—ist Premium in Industrial Drawing, 2d in ;
Geology, Premium in Mineralogy and Dynamo Electrical -
Machinery.	.	_
Brown, E.—2d Premium in Logic and Literary Criti- , • cism, Mention in 2d Latin and ist German. -
Brucker, S.—3d Premium in Literature.	.
Byrne, J.—2d Premium in 2d Greek and 2d Geometry, . ist in Physiology, Mention in Elementary Physics.
Campbell, E.—ist Premium in Piano, 3d in English History, Mention in Literature.
Carney, A.—Mention in English History.	=
Cornell, F.—Mention in Elementary Physics.
Confer, F.—Mention in Literary Criticism.	.
Delaney, E.—ist Premium in Industrial Drawing, Logic, Astronomy and Analytical Mechanics.
Dowd, J—Mention in Belles-Lettres and English History, Premium in 3d French.	.
Duffy, P.—ist Premium in ist Grammar. "	-
Fehr, A.—Mention in 3d Algebra, ist Premium in
Mandolin."	'
Fitzpatrick, W.—Mention in Logic and Advanced Botany, 2d Premium in Human Anatomy, ist Premium in ist German.	-	"	. .
Flynn, J.—ist Premium in Land Surveying.
Foley, C.—Premium in 2d Geometry.
Gibson, N.—Mention in Organic Chemistry.
. Geoghegan, W.—2d Premium in Industrial Drawing, ist in Analytical Mechanics and Geology.	„
Grady, W.—Mention in Industrial Drawing, Premium in Bacteriology.	-
Hanhauser, G.—Mention in 5th Latin, 3d Premium in Rhetoric. .	•	"
- Hay, E.—Premium in Mechanics.
Hering, F.—ist Premium in Economy.	"	.
Johnson, J.—3d Premium in Zoology.	. .
Kegler, W.—2d Premium in Industrial Drawing, ist _ in Descriptive Geometry and Comet, Premium in . Railroad Surveying.	_	»	. •
Kearney, P.—3d Premium in English History. '
Kraus, J.—2d Premium in Rhetoric.	j
Landers, J.—Premium in 3d French.	.
Medley, T.—Mention in ist Latin and ist Greek, 2d.
Premium in Belles-Lettres.	-	’
Mingey, E.—ist Premium in Mental Philosophy and-’ Belles-Lettres, 2d in ist Latin and Economy, 3d in Elocution.	' . .
Monahan, W.—Mention in Literary Criticism. -; J Morris, W.—Mention in General Descriptive Chemistry. •_ ? ' Murphy, W.—Mention in 2d Latin.	• .	" \
McConn, E.—3d Premium in Physiology, ist Premium-/ > ; in Mandolin. .	!	. .
McCormack, M.—2d Premium in Literary Criticism, , Mention in English History.	'	' C /Z^
McGinnis, J.—Special Mention Ln 3d Latin and 2d. ;; . • Greek, Mention in 2d Geometry and Literary Criticism, /<
Niezer, C.—ist Premium in-Roman History.	/.
O’Brien, J.—ist Premium for Comet.	.
O’Brien, T.—ist Premium for Trombone.	r
O’Malley, F.—ist Premium in Literary Criticism.	■
O’Malley, R.—2d Premium in Moral Philosophy; Men- 7 . ", tion in Economy. .	'////;,,
O’Sullivan, St. John—Premium in Mythology, 1 st Pre//

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
632
mium in 3d Latin and Literature, 2d in Elementary Botany and Advanced Christian Doctrine.
Pulskamp, E.—ist Premium in Industrial Drawing and Mechanics.
Piqudtte, C.—1st Premium in Organic Chemistry and Human Anatomy, 2d in Advanced Botany.
Reed, L.—1st Premium in Literary Criticism.
Rowan, J.—Mention in Elementary Botany and ist German.
Ragan, P.—ist Premium for Piano.
Sheehan, W.—Mention in Moral Philosophy and Belles-Lettres, 2d Premium in Economy.
Steiner, T.—2d Premium in Industrial Drawing, Astronomy, Analytical Mechanics and ist French, Mention in Logic, ist Premium for Cornet.
Stuhlfauth, G.—3d Premium in Industrial Drawing.
Walsh, E.—ist Premium in Elocution.
Ward, F.—ist Premium in English History and ist French.
BROWNSON HALL.
Barry, H.—Mention in 7th Latin, 2d Premium in Modern History, 3d in Elocution.
Bohner, G.—ist Premium in Artistic Drawing, 3d in Composition, Premium in 7th Latin.	.
Bouza, F.—3d Premium in Artistic Drawing, 2d for Piano, Premium in, 2d Christian Doctrine.
Bouza, J.—ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic and Clarinet.
Baab, C.—3d Premium in Industrial Drawing.
Burg, G.—ist Premium for Piano and Penmanship, •3d in 3d Christian Doctrine, Premium ist in German.
. Berry, W.—Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Berry, J.—Premium in 5th Latin.
Bauwens, F.—Premium in Mechanics.	„
Burns, T.—ist Premium for Mandolin.
Baloun, J.— ist Premium in 2d Bookkeeping, ist Grammar and Special Orthography, 3d in ist Arithmetic, Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Barry, R.—2d Premium for Mandolin, Mention in 2d
Christian Doctrine. .	:	.
Bommersbach, A.—3d Premium in 3d Grammar. - .
Corby, C.—3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Crowley, J.—2d Premium in Literature and 3d German, ist in Vocal Music,. Mention in Advanced Christian Doctrine.	,	-	,
Cavanaugh, J.—ist Premium in Phonography.
Crunican, A.—Mention in Modern History and 2d
Christian Doctrine..	, .	.	,
Crumley, H.—ist Premium in 4th Algebra, 3d in 7th
Campbell, J.—Premium in Geography and History.
Dominguez, R.—Premium in Trigonometry, ist Premium in ist Algebra and Mandolin. :	'
Dalton, W— ist Premium in Modern History.	_________
Donahoe, M.—ist Premium in 2d Geometry, Mention ,	Jennings, A.—ist Premium in ist Grammar. .
in Modern History and 2d Christian Doctrine.- ,	Jackson, E.—ist Premium in Elementary Physics. -
. Dooley, T.—Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.	Jerrell, P.—2d Premium in Vocal Music. .	.
Donavan, J.—2d Premium in Composition. .	-	Kellner, G.—ist Premium in Mandolin.
Dwyer, V.—2d Premium in 2d Greek and .Elementary	Kuppler, G—Mention in 7th Latin, 4th Algebra and
Physics, ist in 2d Christian'Doctrine and 3d French, Modern History. -	'	\ ■
Mention in ist Geometry. .	. .. .	.	,	. . Koehler, J.—3d Premium in ist Bookkeeping and 4th
Devine. M.—Mention in'1 st Grammar.	/ German, Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine. -
Dillon, T.—Mention in Literature, 3d Premium in Kasper, A.—ist Premium for Violin and Vocal Music
English.History. .	7 5' :^/-;-,-/g ?	. Kangley, J.—;ist.Premium in ist Arithmetic and ist
Duperier. A.—Mention in Advanced Christian Doc- . Grammar, 2d in: Special Orthography.	■	-	.
trine,. ist Premium in Elocution..	ggg / g’g, Lins’ G—2d Premium in. Zoology, Premium in Ele-
Darst, Eist Premium in Mandoling	gnenta	Mention in 4th German.
Daly, M.—2d Premium in 7th Latin. /	^	. Metcalf, B.—Mention in Rhetoric.
Dwyer, T.—Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Doherty, P.—2d Premium in 6th Greek, 3d in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Diskin, P.—3d Premium in 4th Algebra.
Ensign, C.—Mention in 4th Algebra, 3d Premium in Modern History, ist in Rhetoric.
Fetherston, L—ist Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine and Phonography.
Farragher, J.—2d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine, Mention in 7th Latin.
Farley, J.—Mention in 7th Latin and 2d Christian Doctrine.	.
Fleming, C.—2d Premium in Violin, Mention in 2d Bookkeeping/ Composition and Advanced Christian Doctrine.	.
Funk, R.—Mention in Industrial Drawing, ist Premium in General Descriptive Chemistry, Premium in Trigonom.
Flannigan, M.—Mention in 5th Latin, 2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Fogarty, J.—ist Premium in Sth Latin.
Guerra, H.—ist Premium in ist Geometry, 2d in 2d Algebra, Premium in Mechanics. .
Glynn, H.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic, 3d in 2d Grammar and Special Orthography, ist in 3d Christian Doctrine.	.
Graham, T.—2d Premium in 3d Algebra and Composition, Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine.
’ Gainer, E.—ist Premium in Piano and Vocal Music, Mention in 2d Geometry.
Garza, R.—ist Premium in Violin, Premium in Mechanics.	.
Hoover, H.—2d Premium in Industrial Drawing and ist Geometry, ist in ist Algebra. -	. _
Herbert, M.—Mention in Industrial Drawing.
Harrington, H.—ist Premium in ist Bookkeeping.
Hubbard, E.—2d Premium in ist Bookkeeping, ist in Composition and Clarinet.'
Heinemann, J—2d Premium in 3d Latin, 2d Algebra and Elocution, ist in Physiology and Mandolin, Mention in ist German. '	.	■
Hagerty, J.—Premium in- Geography and History, Mention in Penmanship and 2d Christian Doctrine.
Hunter, Samuel—2d Premium in 2d Reading.
Hunter, Shapley—Mention in 2d Reading, ist Premium in Mandolin.	.
Hunter, C.—Mention in Penmanship.	.
Howell, J.—ist Premium in Phonography.
Hermann, W.—Mention in 5th Latin, 3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.	, . ’
Hesse, J.—3d Premium in 2d Bookkeeping, ist in Mandolin, Mention in Arithmetic and Composition.
. Hennebry, J.—ist Premium in 3d Arithmetic and ist Reading, 3d Premium in ist Orthography, Mention in 3d

NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
Mulcrone, C.—Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine, ist
Premium in Phonography. •
Murray, J.—Mention in 5th Latin.
Morrison, D.—Mention in ist Arithmetic.
Morales, M.—Premium in Penmanship.
- Mulligan, J.—Mention in 2d Arithmetic.
McCallen, F.—Mention in Literature and Mandolin.
McNichols, F.—Mention in Composition.
McDonald, A.—Mention in Rhetoric and 2d Christian
Doctrine.
McCollum, F.—2d Premium in Elementary Botany.
Naughton, J.—3d Premium in Phonography.
Otero, H.—Mention in 3d Arithmetic, 1st Premium 2d Reading and 2d Orthography.
Odena, F.—2d Premium in Vocal Music.
O’Reilly, J.—1st Premium in 7th Latin, Mention Composition.
in
in
O’Shaughnessy, M.—2d Premium in 4th Algebra, Premium in Christian Doctrine, Mention in Rhetoric.
O’Shaughnessy, F.—Mention in 5th Latin and Literature, 2d Premium in 4th Algebra and English History, 1 st Premium in Advanced Christian Doctrine, Premium in Spanish.
O’Connor, J.—1st Premium in 5th Latin, 3d Premium
in 2d Christian Doctrine, Mention in 5th Greek. Pickett, S.—Mention in Rhetoric. _ Posselius, J.—2d Premium in Artistic Drawing. Reuss, C.—ist Premium in ist German.
Reed, R.—2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Reising, J.—2d Premium in Piano, Premium in Latin.
Revels, H.—ist Premium in Industrial Drawing.
7th
San Roman, J.—Mention in 2d Grammar and 2d Reading, 2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic. -
Sullivan, S.—2d Premium in 3d Grammar.
Scheubert, C.—1st Premium in Artistic Drawing.
Sauer, L.—Mention in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Shiels, J.— 1st Premium in Advanced Christian Doct.
Sherman, H. — 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic and 2d
Orthography.	'
St. Louis,-V.—Mention in Penmanship.	*
Schwartz, N.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar, 3d in 1st Arithmetic and Special Orthography.	.
Schermerhorn, C.—Mention in English History.
Simpson, A.—2d Premium in Artistic Drawing, 3d in 1st Bookkeeping and 2d Christian Doctrine, 1st in Rhetoric and Phonography.	.
Smogor, F.—2d Premium in Industrial Drawing and 1st in 7th Latin.	-
Sullivan, J.—1st Premium in Elementary Botany and English History, 2d in 2d Geometry, Mention in Literature,Premium in German.
Tomlinson, C.—Mention in Industrial Drawing and ist Grammar, Premium in Electrical Engineering.
Tong, O.—Mention in Industrial Drawing, ist Premium in Vocal Music.
Thacker, F.—Mention in Composition.	.
Tuohy, J.—Mention in Rhetoric.
. Taylor, J.—Mention in 5th Greek.	"
Thams, J.—Mention in 2d Grammar.
Vogt, C.—ist Premium in Composition.
Wieczorek, L.—Premium in Penmanship.
Watterson, T.—ist Premium in Artistic Drawing. ; . • Wilson, R.—ist Premium in 7th Latin, 3d in 2d Christian Doctrine, Mention in 3d Algebra.
Woolverton, J.—2d Premium in 2d Bookkeeping, ist in Vocal Music and Phonography.	.
Ward, J.—ist Premium in Vocal Music and Mandolin.
Wilson, G.—3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Wagenman, E. —ist Premium in Mandolin.
Wilson, R.—Mention in ist Algebra.	-	.
CARROLL HALL.	.
Burch, T.—Mention in 2d Geography. -	'	*
Bloch, H.—3d Premium in ist Arithmetic and Special Orthography, Mention in ist Grammar.	....
Britt, H.—Mention in 3d Grammar.	' .
Brann, A.—Mention in 2d U. S. History.	. - ;
Barrett, G.—2d Premium for Violin and 2d Geography,	. ,
3d Premium in U. S. History.	J - > ~
Beardslee, G.—Mention in 2d Arithmetic.’	. • ~
Beardslee, L.—2d Premium in 7th Latin, 2d in ; .
Rhetoric.	f ;
Bligh, M.—Mention in 2d Arithmetic, 2d Premium in . 2d U. S. History.	- .	; . . ;
Bellinger, W.—Mention in ist Grammar.	'	.
Brice, W.—Mention in "Arithmetic, 2d Premium in 2d <
Reading.	'	'	‘
Brown, H.— xst Premium in Composition, id in . 3d French, Advanced Christian Doctrine, 2d Geometry -and 2d Algebra, 3d in 5th Latin. '	"
Becker, A.—Mention in 6th Latin, xst Premium in 4th German and Mandolin.
Berger, E.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic, 2d Grammar and 3d Christian Doctrine, Premium in Penmanship. .
Buck, G.—xst Premium in xst U. S. History, 3d in 2d Grammar.	.	. ’
Carney, O.—Mention in xst Arithmetic and 6th Latin, .. '; xst Premium for Mandolin. ,	•
Caruthers, J. — xst Preminm in- 2d Arithmetic, 3d;/-in xst Geography.	.	. -
Clement, A.—Mention in 3d Grammar.	.
Clyne, J.—Mention in 3d Christian Doctrine.	5	. <
Crowley, M.—xst Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine, ;
Mention in 3d Arithmetic, xst Reading and Orthography.
Condon, T.—Mention in Christian Doctrine.	-	..
Curtis, P.—xst Premium in 4th Algebra, 3d in 2d , >
Christian Doctrine and 7th Latin.	.	„
Coquillard, A.—Mention in 5th Latin.	... ,
Coquillard, J.—2d Premium in Piano and 2d Gram- ..
mar, 3d in 2d Arithmetic, Mention in Penmanship; " ~ :
Cowie, G.—3d Premium in xst Reading, Mention in xst Orthography.	. - I”
Davidson, A.—Mention in ist Bookkeeping and Penmanship.	' .	,1
Dinnen, W.—Mention in Christian Doctrine and Latin. ' it £5.
Dousett, G.— xst Premium in 2d Reading and 2d
Orthography, Mention in 2d Geography.	. - ?
Edgarton, A.—xst Premium in xst Orthography, 2d . in 2d Arithmetic, Mention in xst Reading.	< /	; • >
. Ellwanger, R.—Premium in 7th Latin, Mention in 4th ' ; :
German, 2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine. / ;
Elitch, C.—3d Premium in 2d Geography, 2d in l ist .
Grammar.	-J A
. Ernst, E.—Mention in 2d Arithmetic, Mandolin,, xst Reading and Orthography.	.	,
Fink, H.—3d Premium in xst Grammar arid 3d Algebra,	-
xst in 2d Christian Doctrine. .	’ \ f
Furlong, J.—Mention in xst Reading, xst Orthography,. xst Geography and 3d Algebra, 2d Premium in xst U. S. ■ ; History and 3d Christian Doctrine, Premium in 6th Latin..	..
. Ferstl, W.—xst Premium in 2d Geography and ist .	-
Orthography, 3d Premium in 2d United States History Mention in xst Arithmetic, Premium in xst Reading.	'

3
^55

*534
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Frank, L.—2d Premium for Mandolin.
Friedman, A.—ist Premium for Mandolin.
Fleming, H.—22d Premium in Piano, ist Premium in Penmanship.
Flinn, F.— 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic and 3d Grammar, Mention in ist U. S. History and 3d Christian Doctrine.
Flynn, A.—Mention in Christian Doctrine, ist Reading and Orthography. ’	’
Girsch, C.—Mention in Physiology, ist Premium in Advanced Christian Doctrine.
Garrity, L.—Mention in ist Arithmetic, ist Premium for Vocal Music, 2d in Special Orthography, 3d in 2d Christian Doctrine, Premium in 8th Latin.
Garrity, M.—Mention in ist Reading and ist Orthog.
Green, E.—Mention in 2d Geography.
Hanner, J.—Mention in 2d Arithmetic and 3d Grammar, ist Premium in 2d Geography, 3d in 2d United States History and ist Reading.	'
Hinze, C.—4th Premium in ist Arithmetic, 2d in Special
Orthography.	-
Hickey, W.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar.
' Higgins, W.—3d Premium in Special Orthography.
Hogan, N.—3d Premium in ist Grammar.
Holmes, G.—3d Premium for Piano.
Hunter, A,—Mention in Reading and Orthography.
Hubbell, L.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar, ist Orthography, ist Geography and United States History, Mention in ist Reading.
Joyce, J—Mention in 2d Arithmetic.
Juretich, J.—Mention in 2d Grammar and Penmanship.
Kasper, F.—Mention in ist Geography and U. S.
History.	-
Kasper, G.—Mention in ist Grammar.
Kasper, R.—Mention in ist Reading and 3d Christian Doctrine.
Kelly, L.—Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine. #
Krug, A.—ist Premium for Piano, 3d in Advanced Christian Doctrine, 2d in 5th Latin and 2d Geometry.
Luken, L.—ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic, 2d Grammar, ist Reading and ist Geography,3d in 3d Christian Doctrine.	•
Land, W.—Mention in ist Grammar.
Leach, G.—Mention in Special Orthography.
Leffingwell, C.—Mention in ist Grammar.
Mulcare, J.—Mention in 5th Latin, 4th Algebra, Composition and 2d Christian Doctrine.
Moxley, G.—Mention in ist Reading. .
Morgan, J.—3d Premium in ist Arithmetic and 2d Christian Doctrine, ist Premium in 7th Latin, Mention in ist Grammar. -.	•	.
Morris, J.—Mention in Arithmetic and 2d Reading, 2d Premium in 2d Orthography.	■
Mueller, A.—Mention in2d Geography, ist .Premium in Mandolin. .	-
Mueller, W.—Mention in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Murray, R.—3d Premium in Rhetoric, Premium in Phonography.	.	..
Morrissey^ J—Mention in Advanced Christian Doct.
Meagher, L.—ist Premium in Mandolin.
. Murray, T.—2d Premium in 5th Latin, Mention in 6th Greek and Advanced. Christian Doctrine.-
. McCarthy, Eugene—3d' Premium in 3d Algebra, Mention in 8th Latin, Composition and Advanced Christian • Doctrine. : .'; ' • j • ■	:
; McCarthy. Emmett—4th Premium in ist.Arithmetic, . /' Mention in 8th Latin. 1 t V	.	..
< . McConnell,. H?—ist Premium -for Piano and ist
Geography, 3d Premiumin ist United States History.
McDermott, C.—Mention in 8th Latin, 3d Premium in 4th Algebra.	■
McDonnell, A.—Mention in ist United States History.
McLernon, J.—Mention in 2d Arithmetic, 3d Premium ' in ist Geography.	.	.
McMahon, O.—3d Premium in ist Arithmetic and
Mandolin.	■
McNaughton, J.—ist Premium in ist Reading, Mention in ist Geography.
McSorley, J.—Mention in ist Grammar and Penmanship, 3d Premium in 4th Algebra, ist in 7th Latin.
MacSheehy, C.—Mention (in 3d Grammar and Penmanship.	.
Nast, E.—4th Premium in ist Arithmetic, 2d in ist .
United States History, Mention.in ist Geography.
Naughton, T.—3d Premium in Piano, Mention in 4th Algebra and Composition.
Nolan, T.—3d Premium in 4th German, 2d in Phonography, Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Ordetx, G.—Mention in 2d Reading, 2d Premium in
Mandolin.	•
O’Malley, A.—2d Premium in Violin, Mention in 3d ’
Christian Doctrine.	.
O’Brien, F.—Mention in 5th Latin. ,
Petritz, F.—ist Premium in Piano, Special Orthography and 7th Latin, 3d in 4th Algebra and 2d Christian Doctrine, Premium in 4th German.	’
Padden, D.—Mention in 2d Bookkeeping, 3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine. .
Phillips, A.—Mention in 3d Christian Doctrine and
Penmanship.	’	j
Pulford, C.—Mention in Rhetoric.
Ryan, J.—3d Premium 2d in United States History, 2d in ist Arithmetic.'	.
Richon, A.—2d Premium in Piano, 6th Latin and 2d Geometry, Mention in Composition.
Seaman, R.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic, ist in 2d ■
United States History.	-	*
Sibley, W.—2d Premium in 7th Latin.	•	!
Smith, J.—2d Premium in 2d Orthography.	i
. Slevin, J.—ist Premium in 6th Latin,-3d in Composition
and 2d Christian Doctrine. .	,
Sheekey, E.—Mention in ist Bookkeeping.. .	-	।
Schmitt, A.—ist Premium in Piano, 3d in 7th Latin. >	(
Shea, W.—2d Premium in 5th Latin, Premium in 3d •
French, Mention in Advanced Christian Doctrine.	(
. Scheftels, F.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic and 2d ' t Geography, 3d in ist Orthography, Mention in ist | Reading.
Swan, E.—Mention in ist Arithmetic.	.
Von Albade, W.—ist Premium in 3d Grammar, 2d in ist Arithmetic and ist Orthography, Mention in ist Reading.	-	.	'
Weidman, G.—3d Premium in.ist Reading.
Ward, H.—3d Premium in ist Arithmetic.
Werk, E.—ist Premium in Violin, 6th Latin, 6th Greek, Composition and 3d French, 2d in 3d Algebra.
Welch, F.—Mention in ist United States History, 3d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
~	- ’V / . J —------------- -■	-	'	~
-	st. edward’s hall. .	|
Abercrombie, J.—Premium in Arithmetic, Orthography I Grammar and Elocution. '	.	|
.	Abrahams, L.-—-Premium in Arithmetic, Grammar and |
Orthography. " ;. L	.	- ' j
J Arnold, W.—Premium in Reading and Arithmetic. .	. h
n d
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC:
Blanchfield, W.—Premium in Arithmetic, Orthography and Grammar.	*
■Bosworth, A.—Premium in Mandolin, Vocal Music and
Arithmetic.	-	_
Butler, T.—Premium in Arithmetic, Orthography and
Vocal Music.	.
Butler, W.—Premium in Arithmetic, Grammar and
Geography.	-
Bortell, P.—ist Premium for Piano, Premium in Vocal Music and Arithmetic.
Bortell, C.—Premium in Grammar, Vocal Music and Piano.
Bernero, J.—Premium in Grammar, Arithmetic and Orthography.
Clarke, R.—ist Premium in Arithmetic and Grammar';
Premium for Guitar and Reading.
Casparis, K.—Premium in Orthography, Geography and
Piano. .
Cunnea, J,—ist Premium in Orthography; Premium in
Arithmetic and Grammar.	•
Caruthers, F. — Premium ' in Grammar, Christian
.Doctrine and Vocal Music.	' “
Cressy, C.—2d Premium Geography; 3rd Premium in ist Orthography; Premium in Arithmetic and Grammar.
Dessauer, W.—ist Premium in ist Arithmetic; 2d Pre-
mium in Orthography; 3d Premium in Geography.
Dougherty, P.—2d Premium in Arithmetic and Ortho-
graphy; 3d Premium in Grammar.
Downer, H.—Premium in Arithmetic, Reading and
Christian Doctrine. '	‘
Donahoe, H.—Premium in Arithmetic, Orthography and Piano.
Dyer, G.—Premium in Arithmetic Reading and Gram.
Davis, G.—ist Premium for Mandolin; Premium in
Arithmetic Grammar and Orthography.
Deldine, C.—Premium in Orthography and Arithmetic
Day, F.—Premium in Orthography and Reading.
Ervin,- J.—Premium in Reading, Orthography and Arithmetic..
Ebbert, F.— ist Premium for Violin; Premium in
Grammar Arithmetic and Elocution.
Ebbert, G.—Premium in Grammar, Arithmetic and
Vocal Music. '
Fuchs, A.—Premium in Arithmetic, Piano and Vocal
Music.	,	.
Fuchs, C.—Premium in Orthography, Reading and
Violin.	■
Fogarty, J.—ist Premium in Arithmetic; 3d Premium in Grammar; Premium in Penmanship.
Fogarty, F.—ist Premium in Grammar; 2d Premium in
Arithmetic; Premium in Geography.	'
Frane, F.—Premium in Reading and Orthography.
Frost, B. — 3d Premuim in Grammar; Premium in
Orthography. .
Fleischer, 0.—Premium in Arithmetic, Grammar, Peri-' manship and Violin.	.	• -
Flynn, Miles.—ist Premium in Arithmetic; Premium in Geography Orthography and Grammar.	.	.
Flynn, Milton.—Premium in Grammar, Arithmetic and
Reading.	’	.
Fleming, S.—Premium in Arithmetic, Orthography.and
Vocal Music. .	.	_
- . Guilbault, M.—Premium in Reading, Grammar and Arithmetic.
Griffith, L.—Premium -in Reading, Arithmetic and
Grammar.	.
Hall; W.—2d Premium’in Arithmetic, Premium inGrammar and Piano.'	'	.	. . .
Hart, L. — Premium, in Arithmetic, Grammar and Mandolin.
Hart, J.—Premium in Arithmetic, Reading and Orthog.
Hinsey, J.—Premium in Arithmetic, Grammar, Piano and Orthography. ’	.
Huleat, H.— 2d Premium in Grammar, Geography and Arithmetic.	'
Houser, B.—Premium in Grammar, Arithmetic and Orthography.	_
Jonquet, M.—Premium in Grammar, Arithmetic and Geography.	_
Jackson, T.—Premium in Arithmetic, Grammar and Orthography.
Kelly, C. — Premium in Arithmetic, Grammar and .
Piano.	-
Kirwin, T.—Premium in Arithmetic and Piano.
Lawton, J.— Premium in Arithmetic, Gramrhar and Geography.	.
Lockwood, R.—2d Premium in Arithmetic; Premium in Orthography and Mandolin.
Leclerque, R.—Premium in Grammar, Arithmetic and
Orthoraphy.	"
Leisander, G.—Premium in Arithmetic, Orthography and Reading.	*
Manion, P.—Premium in Orthography, Grammar and Piano.
Manion, E.—Premium in Arithmetic, Geography and Orthography.
Manion, W.—Premium in Orthography and Reading
McMaster, B.—Premium in Grammar, Arithmetic and Geography.	-
McMaster, R.—Premium in Vocal Music, Arithmetic and Orthography.
McGeeney, J.—Premium in Grammar, Arithmetic and Reading.
McGeeney, E.—Premium in Arithmetic, Orthography and Christian Doctrine.	-	.
—McBride, P.—Premium in Arithmetic, Orthography and Piano. •
McBride, L.—Premium in Arithmetic, Reading and Mandolin.
McBride, J.—Premium in Grammar, Reading and Orthography.
McBride, W.—Premium in Reading, and Orthography.	.
McCarthy, G.—Premium in Arithmetic, Grammar; 3d -Premium in Orthography.
McFarland, A.—Premium in Geography, Orthography and Mandolin.
Nix, C.—Premium in Arithmetic, Grammar and Reading.	.	<
Nye, B.—Premium in Arithmetic, Mandolin and Vocal Music. '	.
Nye, C.—Premium in Grammar, Arithmetic and , ■ Orthography. -
Ninneman, C.—Premium in Grammar, and Orthog.
O’Leary, A.—Premium in Orthography and Arithmetic.
O’Connor, E.—ist Premium in Piano, Arithmetic and , Grammar. .	'	...
Purdy. W.—Premium in Arithmetic, Grammar and .
Piano. J	_
Paul, C. — Premium in Arithmetic, Grammar and .
Music	.	. .
Phillip, F.—Premium in Arithmetic, Vocal Music and Piano. .	.	.	.
. Phillip. G.—Premium, in Geography, Reading. arid -
Arithmetic. :	‘
Robbins, AV.—Premium in Arithmetic and Christian .
Doctrine. '	'	. '	.	'
NOTRE fiAME SCHOLASTIC.
636
Shipley, E.—Premium in Arithmetic, Grammar and Vocal Music.
Strong, G.—Premium in Orthography, Geography, Arithmetic.
Shields, A —Premium in Arithmetic, Vocal Music and Orthography.
Schaus, H.—Premium in Reading, Orthography and Grammar.
Seymour, G.—Premium in Orthography and Reading.
Sinnott, E.— Premium in Arithmetic, Grammar and Geography.
Schonlau, C.—Premium in Orthography and Reading St. Clair, H.—Premium in Penmanship and Arithmetic. Topper, D.—Preniium in Grammar, Arithmetic and
Vocal Music.
Van Sant, R.— Premium in Arithmetic, Orthography and Grammar.	.
Van Sant, L.—Premium in Arithmetic, Grammar and Orthography.
Van Dyke, J.— Premium in' Arithmetic, Grammar, Orthography.
Van Dyke, F.—Premium in Grammar, Arithmetic, Orthography.
Von Albade, W.—Premium in Arithmetic, Christian Doctrine and Orthography.
Veneziani, L. —Premium in Reading and Orthography
Weidmann, F.—1st Premium in Arithmetic and Gram, mar, Preniium in German and Guitar.
Williams, R.—Premium in Arithmetic, Geography and Grammar.
Wilde, G.—Premium in Arithmetic, Vocal Music and Piano.
Weber, K.—Premium in Guitar, 1st Premium in Grammar and Arithmetic, Premium in Elocution.
Weis, E.—Premium in Arithmetic, Grammar and V ocal. Music.
HOLY CROSS HALL.
Barthel, G.—3d Premium in Elementary Botany, Mention in Elocution.
Buse, E.—3d Premium in 5th Latin.
DeLorimier, A.—2d Premium in 3d Greek.
DeWulf, E.—1st Premium in 5th Latin.
Gorski, M.—-ist Premium in 5th Latin, 2d Premium in
. Composition.	-
Heiser, L.—Mention in 3d Latin and 2d Geometry, 1st
Premium in Physiology.
Hennessey, Joseph—3d Premium in Special Orthog.
Hennessey, John—3d Premium in 4th Latin and Phys. iology, 2d in 2d Geometry. .
Long, E.—Mention in 3d Latin, 2d Premium in Roman
History. "	;	,	• . •.
Marr, G—1st Premium in 4th Latin, 5th Greek and 2d
Geometry, 2d in Physiology. ,
Moynihan, P.—ist.Premium in 3d Greek, 3d Premium in. literature. ’	.
Nieuwland, J.—Mention in Logic and Literary Criti-: cism, 1st Premium in 2d Latin, 2d Premium in Advanced Botany.	.	’
^Oswald, Matthias—1st Premium in 4th Latin, 2d in-5th Greek, Mentidn in Rhetoric.	'
Oswald, Michael—1st Premium in jst Latin and ist; . Greek, 2d in Belles-Lettres, Mention in Elocution. : . . : fitter, P.—3d Premium in Elementary Physics.
. . . Sutton, J.—ist Premium m Latin and Composition,
Mention in 2d Geometry.	,
Schumacher, M.—2d Premium in Logic and 2d Latin, 1st in 2d Greek and English History, Mention in Literary Criticism and Elocution.
Sullivan, J.—3d Premium in 3d Algebra.
Szalewski, M.—2d Premium in 4th Latin and 2d . Geometry, Mention in 5th Greek.
Trahey, J.—1st Premium in Logic and 2d Latin, 2d in 2d Greek, Mention in Literary Criticism.
Tierney, W.—Mention in 1st Geometry, 3d Premium in Rhetoric.
ST. JOSEPH’S HALL.
Baldwin, W.—1st Premium in 3d Latin.
Bittner, S.—1st Premium in Special Orthography.
Brogan, A.—Mention in 6th Latin, Elementary Botany, and Literature, 2d Premium in Elementary Physics.
Baldwin, W.—1st Premium in 4th German.
Corley, J.—Mention in 1st Arithmetic and Rhetoric.
Cullinan, J.—4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic.
Dorian, F.—1st Premium in 6th Latin, 2d in 3d Algebra.
Doran, C.—1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic and 1st Reading, 3d in 2d Grammar, Mention Premium in 1st Orthography.	_
Fenton, J.—Mention in 1st Arithmetic.
Guiff, P.—1st Premium in 1st Reading and 1st Orthography.
Kachur, A.—1st Premium in Analytical Geometry, 2d in General Descriptive Chemistry and Elementary Physics, 3d in Industrial Drawing, Premium in Mechanics.
Kelly, James—2d Premium in 7th Latin, 3d in 4th '
Algebra.	■	'
Maloy, F.—Mention in Literature, 2d Premium in Modern History and 4th German.
Maloy, B.—1st Premium in 6th Latin, Mention in Literature.
Meighan, J.—Mention in 2d Arithmetic, 1st Premium in 2d Grammar.	•
McElligott, P.—1st Premium in Zoology, 2d in 6th Latin, 3d in Physiology, Premium in Spanish.
McIntyre, J.—2d Premium in Analytical Geometry, 3d in Industrial Drawing, Mention in Elementary Physics.
McKeever, F.—ist Premium in 6th Latin and 2d
Algebra, 2d in ist Geometry. '
McDonald, A.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar.
Neville, M.—1st Premium in Physics, 2d in Industrial Drawing, Mention in Astronomy and Geology. .
Poulin, H.:—2d Premium in 3d Grammar, 2d Geography, 2d Umted States. History and 1st Arithmetic.
Pieper, H.—1st Premium in 7th Latin, 3d in 3d Algebra.
Power, W.—1st Premium in 1 st Arithmetic, Premium in 1st Reading, Mention in 1st Orthography.
Rinke, H.—3d. Premium in 3d Grammar, 2d in 2d United States History, Mention in 2d Geography.
Schwanz, T.—1st Premium in 2d Grammar, 2d Geog-. raphy, 2d United States History and ist Reading, 3d in ..1st. Orthography.	.	.
Shields, J—Premium in 7th Latin.
". Sherry, J.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar.
Van der Vennet, A.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic. .
Wolf, A.—1st Premium in 3d Algebra, 2d Premium in Physiology.	\
J The Scholastic wishes the students a happy and profitable vacation. :